• ; 4* • ■ -Vs r..', '■ »^_i »*•■*.• • -^ ■•.»* ‘. r> ‘ * »^5.VL-r3 *6 ... ’ ^1T»» *«A ^ «• .“'f ,^* r* •»«• •»..■•' .*•« it -{*■-’ r " t > Vii 1% .•V/- ‘‘'■'■S-j'*. jT-'r; ^ .* I- «* .t . »fci •»■ (« 1 Mi X r**J^ ^'. ,3^3^ *^' ^KING’S College LONDON Library ^ fdieoff 4 l‘57 3 \<COU0 200911292 2 KING’S COLLEGE LONDON LIBRARYTHE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLVIIL VOLUME LIX.BIENNIAL RETROSPECT 9 MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND THEIK ALLIED SCIENCES, FOB 1 871-72. KiNG’S COLllG; hospit,, medical school. EDITED BY ME. II. POWER, DE. SHEPHERD, MR. WAREN TAY, MR. E. B. CARTER, DR. PHILLIPS, AND DR. T. STEVENSON, IHE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLXXIII.I <tt> t^-0 Pow l*^cro , ■i LIBRARY il •j- PBINTED BY J. E. ADLARD, BABTHOIXJME'W CLOSE.CONTENTS I.—BEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. PA&E By Henex Powee, F.E.C.S., M.B. Bond. . . 1 II.—EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. By A. B. Shepheed, M.A., M.B., M.R.C.P. . 33 III.—REPORT ON SURGERY. By Waeen Tax, F.R.C.S. . . . 193 • IV.—REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. By Robeet Beudenell Caetee, F.R.C.S. . . 337 V.—REPORT ON MIDWIPERY AND THE DISEASES OE WOMEN AND CHILDREN. By J. J. Phieeip$, M.D. Bond. . . . 369 VI.-REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. By TaoiiAa SxEYBNSOIf, M.D. Bond., M.R.C.P. . . 433 bVI CONTENTS. VII.—REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA AND GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. PAGE By Thomas Stevenson, M.D. Bond., M.R.C.P, . . 461 VIII.—REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. By Thomas Stevenson, M.D. Bond., M.R.C.P. . . 472 Index . 497EEPOET ON THE PROGRESS OE PHYSIOLOGY AND THE ALLIED SCIENCES, DURING THE TEARS 1871 AND 1872. BY HENEY POWEE, E.E.C.S., M.B. Lond., EXAMINEE IN PHYSIOLOGY AND COMPABATIVE ANATOMY IN THE TJNIVEESITY OE LONDON ; SENIOB OPHTHALMIC SHEGEON TO ST. BAETHOLOMEW’S HOSPITAL. /' The principal treatise on physiology that has been published during the last two years in the English language is the fourth volume of Dr. Elint’s ‘ Physiology of Man,’ which embraces the consideration of the nervous system, and is one of the best, as it is the most complete, ex- positions of the state of our knowledge of nerve physiology that we at present possess. Dr. Bennett adds one more student’s manual to those already existing, which, besides the information usually given in such text-books, con- tains three chapters or sections devoted to practical chemical physiology, to practical histological physiology, and to practical experimental phy- siology. The first of these has been written by Dr. McKendrick, and will probably prove of much service to students. Dr. Nichols has published a manual of physiology applied to social and sanitary science, which, with some errors and eccentricities, contains much thoughtful writing. Dr. Dalton has issued a fifth edition of his ‘ Human Physiology,’ the sections in which on the liver and on reproduction are both ordinal and excellent. Dr. Eutherford has done important service by publishing a series of lectures in the ‘ Lancet’for 1871-72 on experimental physiology, in w iich the principal facts, and the evidence supporting those facts, that ave been made out during the last few years upon the functions and vital properties of muscle, nerve, and gland, are given with great clear- ness and much originality. ihe Sydenham Society has published a translation of the second nf Histology,’ and also the first volume oi Emdfleisch’s ‘ Pathological Histology.’ b ranee has produced but little. The ninth volume of Milne- lKEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Edwards s large work ou ‘ Comparative Physiology,’ which is occupied with the tegumentary appendages of animals, has appeared; Claude Bernard has published a series of lectures on “ Experimental Physio- delivered at the College de Erance, and an excellent course of forty lectures on “ Animal Heat,” by the same author, is contained in the ‘ Revue Scientifique.’ Germany, as usual, has been very active, her activity exhibiting itself in the production of a multitude of papers rather than of complete works; some of these, however, attaining almost the size of a treatise (witness the essay of Schmidt on “Fibrin,” in Pflliger’s ‘ Archiv’). These are published in innumerable journals, rendering it difficult to obtain some, still more difficult to find the time to run hastily through all, and almost impossible to analyse them in such a manner as to do justice to the valuable work and results they frequently contain. The mere record of them would occupy the entire space allowed for this notice of physiological progress. An interesting lecture on “Dust and Smoke” was delivered by Prof. Tyndall, at the Royal Institution, on June 9, 1871, containing statements and detailing experiments, which have since been frequently referred to, as showing the presence of much floating organic matter in ordinary air, and as supporting the germ theory. Bastian* contributes a very important work on the mode of origin of the simplest forms of animal life, such as Bacteria, Torulae, and Vibrios. These he believes he has demonstrated can develop without antecedent spores in organic infusions, and even in solutions of ammoniacal salts, which have been exposed to temperatures supposed to be sufficient to destroy all life. Such development he terms archebiosis. He also maintains that by a process of heterogenesis the higher forms of ciliated infusoria, and even a Rotifer, may dev^elop from the proligerous pellicle of organic solutions. Dr. Sandersonf corroborates Dr. Bastian’s statements in various particulars, and has satisfied himself that, following Dr. Bastian’s directions, infusions can be prepared which are not deprived by an ebullition of from five to ten minutes of the faculty of undergoing those chemical changes which are characterised, by the presence of swarms of Bacteria, and that the development of these organisms can proceed with the greatest activity in hermetically sealed glass vessels, from which almost the whole of the air has been expelled by boiling. Grace CalvertJ contends, in opposition to Dr. Bastian, that when living bodies appear in any solution they proceed from the develop- ment of germs introduced from without or previously present and not killed by the temperature to which they have been exposed. He finds that life is retained by some of the lower forms of animal life even after exposure to a temperature of 300° E., but not of 400°. It may just be noticed that Dr. Blake§ has found certain diatoms growing in abund- ance in water at a temperature of 163° Eahr. * ‘ The Beginnings of Life,’ London, Macmillan, 2 vols., pp. 475 and 640, 1872. t ‘Nature,’ Dec. 14, 20, 27, 1872. i ‘ Proceed. Boy. Soc.,’ xix, 409, 1871. § ‘Month. Mic. Jouru.,’ 1873, 71.ABSORPTION. 3 Metcalfe Joliuson,* speaking of the transmutation of form in certain Protozoa, observes that if an examination be made of some of the green growths on moist surfaces we shall find one composed of a dust, to which the name of Chlorococcus has been applied; another, a green scum on the surface of a liquid, which has received the name of Euglena ; a third, forming patches of dark green slime, is called Oseillatoria ; a fourth, Lingbya; a fifth, Vaucheria; and a sixth, Schizonema. More detailed examination of these separately named products, and a study of their life history, leads to the opinion that they are all stages of de- velopment of some one common source, which he believes to be the Monad. He has himself watched and here depicts the transformation of Paramsecium into Vorticella, and of this into Gallidina elegans. The truth of the doctrine of pangenesis has been put to a practical test by Mr. P. Gralton,t by breeding from rabbits of a pure variety, into whose circulation blood taken from other varieties had previously been largely infused; the results were absolutely opposed to the idea of pangenesis, the animals continuing to maintain in their offspring the purity of the breed. Dr. Bree has published ‘ An Exposition of Fallacies in the Hypothesis of Mr. Darwin.’ Mr. Huxley,’‘A Manual of the Anatomy of Vertebrated Animals.’ Dr. Ord, ‘Hotes on Comparative Anatomy.’ ABSORPTION. In regard to absorption, H. Auspitz ^ has made many experiments on the absorption of solid substances from the serous cavities, using for this purpose starch-meal, the grains of which preliminary observations showed to be easily recognised under the microscope when injected into the blood. The grains were found to be taken up in their solid form. The presence of oil or fat greatly favoured the process of their absorption. The examination of the skin after the infricatiou of starch-meal salve showed the grains to have penetrated into the tissue of the corium, into the subcutaneous connective tissue, and into the muscles connected therewith, but not into the fundus of the sebaceous glands or of the hair-follicles. Neumann’s § researches with mercurial ointment showed, on the contrary, that when this was well rubbed into the skin it penetrated into the hair-bulbs, sebaceous follicles, and for a s ort distance, into the sweat-ducts. He believes it is absorbed from ^ f o'f time in the form of sublimate. HrSi corrosive sublimate pS of toTalf' containiog a mall pro- Genersich,|| m a paper on the absorption of lymph by tendons and lascim, shows that the action of the muscles playsVimportant pLtIn ‘Month Mic. Journ.,’ v, 222; vi, 184 ami 217, 1871. 1 recced. Iloy. Soc./ xix, 1871. ‘Wiener Med. Jalirbiicher,’ N. P., 1871 iii. ^Wiener Med. Wochens.,’ 1871. ‘Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 5 Jabrg, 1870.HEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 4 causing the lymphatics of the tendons to absorb, by a kind of suction- power, the lymph within and surrounding the muscular masses. He ascertained the amount of lymph discharged from the thoracic duct in a given time, both when the muscles were quiescent and when excited to powerful and sustained action by induced currents of electricity, and found that the proportion varied from i : 4-4^ to i : 24-5 in favour of the period when the muscles were called into play. Lesser * corro- borates Genersich’s results, and recommends the insertion of a glass tube into the thoracic duct of fasting dogs for the procurement of large quantities of lymph. He obtained in this way as much as 300 c.c. of lymph in a few hours. Hammarsten t analysed the gases of the lymph thus obtained, and found as much as 40 per cent, of carbonic acid. Nasse:{; investigated the circumstances that influence the flow and for- mation of the lymph. He flnds that ligature of the carotid diminishes the rapidity of the current in the cervical lymphatics, and causes an in- crease in the amount of water and a diminution in the amount of fibrin in the fluid traversing them. Ligature of the veins produced opposite effects. Irritation of the sympathetic, or rather of the vago-sympa- thetic, caused a diminution of the lymph current and augmentation of the coagulability of the lymph. Section of the sympathetic had re- markably little effect. Goltz § has demonstrated, in an interesting paper, that the nerve- centres have a direct and considerable influence on the process of absorption. Popper II has investigated the mesenteric glands of dogs by means of the chloride-of-gold method of Cohnheim and Gerlach. He finds the capsule of the lymphatic glands contains fasciculi of non-medullated nerve-fibres, from which nerves pass off, which penetrate into the sub- stance of the gland, where they form a fine plexus, some of the fibres of which are traceable into connection with the cell-elements. Here and there were found stellate cells resembling ganglion-cells. Dr. E. Klein and Dr. Burden Sanderson,^ in a paper on the normal and pathological histology of serous membranes, describe the arrange- ment of the lymphatics in them. They show how the lymphatics communicate at various points, not only by true stomata, but also by means of protoplasmic processes of the lymph-canal-cells which run to the surface between the endothelial cells with the serous cavity. _ These last they call pseudo-stomata. In a later number** of the same journal Dr. Lavdowsky lays claim to the merit of being the original discoverer of the true stomata, and the same histological feature was observed by Dr. Winogradowtt in the amnion. KohrigJ^; shows that various substances, as turpentine, solution of * ‘ Berichte der konig. Sachs. Gesellschaft der Wisscnsch.,’ 1871. t Idem, 1871. j ‘ Henle uiid Meissner’s Bericht fiir 1871,’ 121. § ‘Pfliiger’s Arcbiv,’ v, i. II ‘ Archives of Medicine,’ v, 46. ^ ‘Centralblatt,’ Nos. 2, 3, and 4, 1872. ** No. 17. ft ‘Rudnew’s Archiv,’ iii, 1871, i. ‘Archiv d. Heilkunde,’ 1872, xiii, 341-388.5 BLOOD. iodide of potassium, &c., can be absorbed through the unbroken skin, especially if applied under pressure. Other papers are by Eichorst (“ Ueber die Eesorption der Albuminate im Dickdarm”), in ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ 1871, 570-662. Heiberg (“ Safe canal system der Schleimhaiite”), in ‘ Nordiskt Med. Archiv,’ iii, 4, and Laqueur (“ IJeber die Durchgangigkeit der Hornhaut^fiir Elussig- keiten”), in ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 37, 1872. BLOOD, The most important treatise that has appeared upon the blood is that of Preyer * on the crystals of the blood, of which the reader will find an analysis in ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal of Anatomy,’ by Dr. Eutherford, and another in the ‘ Medieo-Chirurgical Eeview’ for 1872. Preyer finds haemoglobin in all vertebrates, in one mollusc (Planorbis), two arthropods, and two worms. It is not present in echinoderms, coelenterates, protozoa, or plants. It exists independently of the blood in muscle. The easiest, though not the best, mode of procuring haemoglobin-crystals is to defibrinate dogs’ blood and mix it with one and a half times its weight of cold water. After three hours add a quarter of its volume of rectified spirit. This fluid, if left for a night in a freezing mixture, will be found to contain crystals in the morning, which should be washed with a little pure water. Pure haemoglobin is very insoluble. All the forms of its crystals belong either to the rhombic (man, guinea-pig, and most mammals) or to the hexagonal (squirrel and some rodents) system. All doubly refract light. Haemoglobin gives one absorption band; when combined with oxygen it gives two. He gives its formula as CgooHggoNjg^Fei, S3, O179. It can be broken up into albuminoid compounds, pigments, and acids. M. Brondgeest t found a variable number of colourless crystals in the blood of frogs kept for some time at low temperatures. Their form was, for the most part, prismatic, with very long lateral surfaces and pyramidal extremities, not, therefore, agreeing with any known form of blood-crystals. They are insoluble in water and in ether, soluble in dilute acids and alkalies, and in a 5 per cent, solution of common salt. They are very stable. When dried they may be kept for years un- changed in appearance. They do not form as the blood thaws, but may be seen in the frozen blood. They cannot be obtained from coagulated blood. They are most abundant and best seen in animals that have been frozen into a solid block at a temperature of 4° Cent., and then submitted to a considerably lower temperature. Brondgeest believes them to be derived from albumen. Struve, of Tiflis,J has demonstrated the presence of two colouring matters in blood. One of them is extremely soluble in water and alcohol, but with some difficulty in ether, and not in acids. The ashes contain silicic and phosphoric acids, oxide of iron, and a little alkali. It gives a blue colour with tincture of guaiacum aud turpentine. It appears * I Die Blut-crystalle," Jena, 1871, 263. t ‘Arcliivf. Genecs-en-Naturkunde,’ 1870, 37S. + ‘Virchow’s Archiv,’ Ivi, 1872, 423.REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 6 to be identical with Preyer’s alkaline oxy-haematin or V. Wittich’s lioBmatin. The second kind of colouring matter forms small, dark, blue- black, microscopic crystals, insoluble in water, alcohol, ether, chloro- form, and acids, but readily soluble in alkalies. Prom it hsemin- crystals can be readily prepared. It appears to be identical with Virchow’s hcematoidin. Strassburg’s * experiments corroborate the statements of Pfliiger and Zuntz that on the addition of acids to blood the haemoglobin undergoes- oxidation and splits into bsematin and albumen. Adolf Jarisch f gives the following as the arithmetical mean of four careful researches on the composition of the ashes of the blood of the dog:—Phosphoric acid anhydride i3’32 per cent., sulphuric acid anhy- dride 4'oi, chlorine 3i’43, potash 3'83, soda 42'oi, lime magnesia 0-6^, oxide of iron 8’34 per cent. Dr. J. EichardsonJ; concludes, from his experiments, that the white blood-corpuscle is a cell composed of a cell-wall with contents and a nucleus (or nuclei), which possesses the power of voluntary amoeboid movement, is soluble in water, but is capable of slowly imbibing that fluid and increasing to nearly double its normal size. The cell-wall of the cor- puscle is a membranous envelope, insoluble in water, too thin to exhibit a double contour with a magnifying power of 1200 diameters, but firm enough to restrict the movement of its contained granules. Its exterior is somewhat adhesive, so that surfaces or particles coming in contact with it are liable to become attached thereto. Some phenomena observed lend countenance to a theory that this membrane is dotted with minute pores, which permit delicate threads of the soft protoplasm to be ex- truded, and the edges of which, if the projection still continues during the amoeboid movement, are carried outwards as a sheath to all except the extreme point of the narrow tongue-like process. The material occu- pying the space between the capsule and the nucleus, denominated the protoplasm of the cell (the fibro-plastin of Prof Heynsius), is a soft, jelly-like matter, in which the power of amoeboid motion resides. It appears to be soluble in w^ater and saline solutions in all proportions, and when freely diluted loses its amoeboid power, which, however, is reo-ained in a majority of cases when the excess of fluid is withdrawn. *The laws by which leucocytes take up and part with liquids seem to be simply those of the dialysis of fluids through animal membranes by endosmosis and exosmosis, as studied by Graham, on a larger scale, in 18 • • • 1 JuraszS has investigated the action of bile and the biliary acids upon the blood-corpuscles, and finds that the white corpuscles resist the action of bile better than the red, hence the greater number ot the former in the blood of the hepatic vein. Manassein,|| from the results of numerous comparative measure- ments, finds that the size of the red corpuscles diminishes in septiciemic * ‘ Pfliiger’s Arehiv,’ iv, 4.!;4. f ‘ Strieker’s Med. Jiihrb.,’ iv, 1871. ;J; Piimplilet, 1872. § liuiug. Dissert. Greifswald, 1871. II ‘ Ceutralblutt,’ No. 44, 1871.BLOOD. 7 poisoning during exposure to a higti temperature and to an atmosphere containing an excess of carbonic acid ; whilst they enlarge under the influence of oxygen, and by the action of agents lowering the tempera- ture of the body, as cold, quinine, hydrocyanic acid, and alcohol. The action of quinine upon the white corpuscles ot the blood has been-studied by Geltowsky,* Kerner,t and Binz J All agree in stating that it renders them round, darkly granular, motionless, and unexcitable. Dr. A. Marcet§ maintains that blood is a colloid fluid, but that it also contains 7'3 per looo of diffusible constituents. The proportion of diffusible constituents in serum is 9'25, these quantities diffusing out in twenty-four* hours. The proportion of chlorine is remarkably uniform, being 3'06 per 1000. Blood contains phosphoric anhydride and peroxide of iron in a perfectly colloid state. SchmidtII devotes a long paper to the consideration of the cause of the coagulation of the blood. He considers that, besides the fibrino- genous and the fibrinoplastic substances, a third substance or ferment must be present; this is generated either in the white corpuscles or in the plasma, but not in the red corpuscles. Schiffer ^ demonstrates that no coagulation of blood takes place in the living vessels, even though considerable quantities of free fibrino- plastic substance be injected into them. Boll** finds that, owing to deficiency of fibrinogen, the blood of the foetal chick does not coagulate before the twelfth or fourteenth day, and then only imperfectly. Hzemoglobin can be distinguished by the spectroscope in the blood on the third day of incubation. Kleinff describes the development of the earliest blood-vessels and corpuscles. Boyd MossJJ describes a peculiar ciliated hsematozoon, which he found on several occasions in the blood of the Ceylon deer (Muntjac), and T. B. Lewis§§ describes a peculiar kind of Bilaria as being constantly present in vast numbers in the blood of patients affected with Chyluria. The views of Waller and Cohnheim respecting the origin of pus- globules from the white corpuscles of the blood have met with an opponent in Dr. Duval,|| || who, from the results of his experiments upon the cornea, has arrived at the conclusion that the pus-corpuscles appearing in severe inflammation of that membrane result from the proliferation of the''plasmatic cellules of the corneal tissue, and not from the white corpuscles. Lostorfer^[^ has published some observations on the presence of fungi * ‘ Practitioner,’ June, 1872. t ‘PHiiger’s Archiv,’ v, 27. t ‘Practitioner,’ Sept. 1872. § ‘Nature,’ May 18, 1871. II ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ vi, pts. 8 and o. IT ‘ Centralhlatt,’No. 10, 1872. ** Dubois Ileymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 718. 1872* 4S8 ’ Vienna, 1871; and ‘ Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ 1% ‘ Monthly Mic. Jouni.,’ 1871, vi, 181. §§ Pamphlet, 1872. nil Brovyn.Sequard’s * Archives dePhysiologie,’ 1872, 176. *Hir Strieker 8 Jahrbucher,’ 1871, 451 ; 1872, 96.8 EEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. in the blood of man, showing that the germs of the sarcina ventriculi, or of a fungus which when cultivated is so closely allied to it as to be indistinguishable from it, exist in normal human blood. He has also written a paper to demonstrate the presence in the blood of syphilitic patients of peculiar corpuscles. His statements are endorsed by the high authority of Prof. Strieker, but have met with great opposition in Germany.* * * § Chalvett gives the following analysis of the blood in scurvy:—Pibrin 4 per cent.; corpuscles 63—100 per 1000, instead of 130 per 1000; water 853-5, instead of 779; albumen 72-3 per 1000, instead of the normal 68-7. Laschkewitz J describes the red corpuscles in a case of Addison’s disease, large, pale, and presenting amoeboid movements. Hosier § states that during life the blood of a highly leucsemic patient was alkaline ; it only became acid after death. Hoppe-Seyler || finds that white blood- or lymph-corpuscles contain glycogen so long as they exhibit movements, but when they become rigid they lose their glycogen and contain sugar. Other papers on the blood-corpuscles are by E. Hay Lankester (‘Quart. Journ. Mic. Sci.,’ Oct. 1871), George Gulliver (idem, Jan. 1872), Braxton Hicks (idem, April, 1872), and Norris (‘Transact. St. And. Med. Grad. Ass.,’ 1871). Norris considers that in passing through the capillary walls the morphological elements of the blood obey the same physical laws as soap-bubbles. Mantegazza (‘ Ceutral- blatt,’ 1871, No. 45), Hoppe-Seyler and Mieschen (“ On the Chemical Composition of Pus and Pus-corpuscles,” ‘Mediz. IJntersuchungen,’ 1871, pp. 441). Other papers are—P. Q. Brondgeest, “ Over ongekleurde Kristallen in bet bleed van bevroren Kikvorschen” (on the presence of colourless crystals in the blood of frozen frogs), in the ‘ Nederlandsch Archiv. voor Genees-en-Naturkunde,’ 1870, v, 378, with a plate. M. Preyer, “ Synthese des rothen Blutfarb-stoft's aus seinen Zersetzungsproducten” (synthesis of the red colouring matter of the blood from the products of its disintegration), in the ‘ Centralblatt fur die Medicin. Wissen- schaft,’ No. 10, 1S71. Exner, “On the Development of Ammonia in Decomposing Blood,” ‘ Sitzungsber. d. K. Akad. zu Wien,’ Ixii, 0,363. W. Marcet, “ On the Constitution of Blood and Nutrition of Tissue,” ‘British Medical Journal,’ June 17, 1871. / CIRCULATION. HEART. ARTERIES. E. W. Beneke Tf gives the following as the results of nearly a hun- dred measurements of the arteries of adults: — i. The internal circum- * See for various papers on this suhiect Vaida and Bicsiadecki in ‘Wien. Med. Wochens.;’ Kobiier, ‘Berlin Klin. Wocliens.,’ 1872, No. 18. f ‘Union Medicale,’ 1871, No. 121. X ‘ Die rothen Blutkorperehen in einem Balle von Morbus Addisouii.’ § ‘ Die Reaction des leukiiinischeu Blutes. II ‘ Med. Chem. Untersuch.,’ 486. If ‘ Jalirbiich. f. Kiuderbeilkunde,’ N. F., iv, 380.9 CIRCULATION. ference of the aorta i centimeter above the valves, maximum 58 8 millimeters, minimum 31-0 millimeters; diflerence, 27-8 mm. 2. In- ternal circumference of the descending thoracic aorta 12 cm. below the origin of the left subclavian, max. 407 mm., min. 13-2 mm.; difference, 27'5 mm. 3. Internal circumference of the abdominal aorta 3 cm. above the bifurcation, max. 337 mm., min. i3'2 mm.; difference, 20'i mm. 4. Internal circumference of the pulmonary artery 2 cm. above the valves, max. 58-0 mm., min. 307 mm. ; difference, 277 mm. The smallest diameter of the arterial vessels was found most frequently in cases of chronic pneumonia and tuberculosis. Cyon and Steinmann* find that the rapidity of the current of blood in the veins is nearly as great as in the arteries, and they describe the conditions which lead to variation in the rapidity of the current. Dr. Miescherf conducted experiments to determine what influence section with preservation of certain portions of the spinal cord exercised upon the reflex action of certain nerves arising below the lesion upon tlie blood pressure. He concludes that the centripetal fibres of the sciatic nerves capable of reflectorially increasing the blood jiressure run (in that portion of the medulla which extends between the third lumbar nerve and the last dorsal) either entirely or principally in the lateral white medullary columns of the cord. Again, he finds that in the same region of the cord the centripetal fibres of the left sciatic chiefly run in the right and in smaller proportion in the left lateral column, and vice versa. Lastly, he shows that the fibres of this nature coming from the lower regions of the cord, run in its outermost portion, whilst those that enter at the higher planes run wholly or partially in the neighbourhood of the median plane. Ceradini,! T. Lauder Brunton,§ and Lick,|| have investigated the effects of heat on the action of the heart. A. H. Garrod has published a paper on the construction and use of a simple cardio-sphygmograph; ^ and another on the mutual relations of the apex cardiographic and the radial sphygmographic traces.** The remarkable increase in pressure in the arterial system occurring with stoppage of the respiration is generally accompanied by increased vascular contraction, and MM. Dogiel and Kowalewsky f"!* have shown that in curarized dogs there is also a coincident decrease in the rapidity of the arterial current in the crural artery. Gatzuck’s observations made on dogs show that venesection, especially from the anterior extremities, retards the mean velocity of the current of blood in the carotid and crural arteries and their branches and, generally speaking, the mean pressure also falls, though it occasion- ally remains unaltered or even augments. The quantity and rapidity * Bull, de I’Acfid. des Sci. de St. Petersbourg,’ xvi, 266. t ‘ Ludwig’s Ai'beiten,’ 5th Jahrg. t § II 11 *# tt u ‘11 Mecanismo delle Valvole Semilunari del Cuore,’ Milano, 1871. ‘ St. Bartholomew’s Hospital lleports,’ vii, 216. ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ v, 38. ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ v, 263. ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc.,’ xix, 318. ‘ Ptliiger’s Archiv,’ iii, 489. CeuLrulblatt,’ No. 53, 1871.lU REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of fhe blood discharged powerfully influence the result. When the flow oi hlcod has ceased, both the rapidity of the current and the pressure quickly return to their normal amount. With the diminished velocity and pressui’e of the blood current the frequency of the heart’s beats augments, the sounds (especially the second) are diminished in inten- sity, and the temperature of the body falls 2° or 3° Fahr. M. Nolet,* * * § in investigations made to determine the nature and cause of vascular murmurs, finds that a sound is produced even in a tube of uniform calibre, providing the rapidity of the current be sufficiently great. Thus, in a thick-walled tube of caoutchouc having a diameter of about 2-3rds of an inch (i8’75 mm.), a bruit becomes audible when the rapidity of the current was about five and a half feet a second (1600— j700 mm.). The smaller the tube the greater the velocity required to produce a bruit. G-reater velocity was required with metal tubes than with caoutchouc, in consequence of their greater smoothness. The presence of a constriction caused a bruit to become audible with greatly diminished velocity of current, the sound being produced both before and beyond the constriction, but chiefly beyond. The presence of a dilatation also causes a bruit, but the velocity of the current must be great. The larger the dilatation the greater the rapidity of current required, hence the absence or diminution of murmur in large aneurisms. The sound is most audible at the entrance to the dilatation, and in all cases the bruit is due to the formation of eddies. Dr. Mayerf has investigated the action of strychnine on the blood pressure, and finds that it immensely augments it, which he attributes to its excitant action on the vaso-motor centre in the cerebrum, causing contraction of the smaller arteries, and not to the tetanic convulsions of the voluntary muscles. Ewald HeringJ from his experiments on dogs, shows that moderate expansion of the lungs by insufflation through a canula in the trachea, which is then closed, causes increased rapidity of the heart’s action. He proceeds to demonstrate that this effect is not due to the increased pressure exerted upon the external surface of the heart, nor to altera- tions in the condition of resistance in the difi'erent parts of the circula- tion, nor to difierences in the interchange of gases, nor to any dislocation of the heart’s position, but that it is efected reflectorially through the vagi. The insufflation, he thinks, excites certain sensory fibres of the lungs, and these stand to the cerebral centre of the inhibitory fibres of the heart in the same relation that the fibres of the depressor nerve do to the cerebral centre of the vaso-motor nerves. Both of these centres are in a state of constant excitation, which is lowered by the irritation of the above-mentioned fibres. These fibres are therefore to be regarded as inhibitory nerves for these centres. For other papers see O. Schmiedeberg, researches on the action of certain poisons (muscarin, atropin, daturine) on the heart of the frogi§ * ‘Beitrage aus clem Pliysiolog. Laborat. zu Leitbiii,’ 1871. f “ Studien zur Physiologic des Herzens uiid dei* Blutgofasse/^ Dr. Sigmund Mayer in ‘Strieker’s Jahrbiicber,’ 1872, iii. t ‘ Strieker’s .lalirbiichcr,’ 1872, 37. § ‘ Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 5th Jahrg.EESPIUATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. 11 Eiidinger, “ Ueber die Topograpbie der beiden Yorbofe und die Einstrbmuug deb Blutes in dieselben bei den Fcetus.”* Dr. Grarrodf describes a simple form of cardiograph, and gives the results be obtained from its use. RESPIRATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. Dr. Boldyrew,J in giving the results of bis researches upon tbe histology of tbe mucous membrane of tbe respiratory organs, larynx, and trachea, states, in opposition to others, that he finds mucous glands do exist on the convexity of the cartilages, though they are much flattened and expanded. He agrees generally with Puxy-Axos § in describing the mucous glands as presenting the form of small sacs, some- times divided dichotomously. The excretory ducts are lined by columnar epithelium, the sacculi contain an epithelium in form of the demilune described by Giaunuzzi in the salivary glands. Boldyrew also finds lymphatic follicles, like those forming Beyer’s patches, in the mucous membrane of the larynx. Dr. Sikorsky,II in experiments undertaken to determine the lym- phatics of the lungs, injected carminated ammonia into the lungs of living cats and dogs, which were then removed from the body and frozen, the blood-vessels in the meanwhile being injected with a blue fluid. It was found that, in regard to the deep plexus and in the bronchia, pecu- liar cell-like structures intervened between the ordinary columnar epithelial cells, which were tinted red, and that, either from these or from canals in immediate relation with them, minute vessels ran towards the membrane, and formed a close plexus in the mucosa and submucosa, from which larger vessels arose, that accompanied the bronchia to the roots of the lungs. In the alveoli similar cells and tubes exist, but the plexus is characterised by having many dilatations, and the vessels proceeding from it accompany the veins. Leichtenstern ^ publishes the results of his inquiries into the effects of various conditions upon the volume of the expired air. He first considers the influence of the vagi, and discusses Rosenthal’s views. His experiments agree with those of Rosenthal, and show that section of the vagi, though it greatly diminishes the number of the respirations, does not at once materially alter the absolute volume of air admitted, the depth of the respiration undergoing a corresponding increase in consequence of the excitation of the medulla oblongata by the carbonized blood. After a time, however (some hours), the muscles become fatigued, and cyanosis gradually sets in. He next produced a unilateral pneumothorax ; in a weak rabbit great restlessness and dyspnoea were pro qced , forty-five minutes after, the number of the respirations was n 1 t e above the average, and soon sank below it, clearly on account * t t § II 11 ‘ Journal fiir Kinclorkrankheiten,’ xxix, 402. ‘ Humphry and Turner’s Journ. of Anat. and Phys.,’ 1871. 26s. Brown-&equard’s ‘Archives do Physiologic,’ 1870. 621:. Sitz. bericht. d. Wien. Akad.,’ i86q. ‘Centralblatt,’ Dec. 3, 1876. ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, 197.12 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of rapidly supervening fatigue of the muscles, which ceased to respond to the most violent excitement of the respiratory centres produced by the cyanosed blood. In a strong rabbit similar dyspnoea occurred, but the number of respirations rose from 32 to 48, and gradually to 77, inconse- quence of the greater vigour of the muscles. In both rabbits the amount of air breathed diminished to about one half, even the greater rapidity of the respiratory movements of the stronger rabbit not compensating for the absolutely smaller quantity inhaled. (3) In a third set of experiments the tracheal tube was narrowed so as to diminish the quantity of air admitted; the number of the respirations was imme- diately diminished, their depth was increased, but a smaller volume of air was actually respired. (4) In another series of experiments the effect of the abstraction of blood was investigated. These showed that, as might have been expected, the diminution in the number of oxygen-conveying blood-corpuscles occasioned in the first instance dyspnoea, but the same absence of red corpuscles soon reduced the interstitial changes in the tissues, a less supply of oxygen was needed, and consequently the respi- ratory volume diminished. Ultimately the disintegration of the tissues and the absorption of oxygen was so far lowered that death took place. (5) In the fifth series Leichtenstern injected half a grain of morphia under the skin of the back. This diminished the number of the respi- rations as well as their depth, and, therefore, the volume of the respired air, for the first half hour. Then the number of respirations rose, and after a time and to a certain extent the volume inspired, though not to the normal amount. V. Bezold thinks these effects due to lowered ex- citability of the respiratory centre, but it may also be due to diminished tissue change, just as occurs during sleep. Leichtenstern thinks both causes operate. (6) The effects of section of the spinal cord between the third and fourth cervical vertebra were examined. The number and depth of the respirations were found to be remarkably diminished ; this is owing to diminished metamorphosis of tissue, which, again, Leich- tenstern thinks is attributable to the paralysis of the blood-vessels and lowered blood pressure throughout the system. (7) The effects of cold were examined, and it was found that immediately after exposure, before the general temperature of the body could have undergone any change, the number and depth of the respirations underwent great increase, and this even when the animal was wrapped up in warm cloths, showing it was due to the excitation of the vagi in the lungs. When the cold acted for some time, so that the general temperature sank, the number of the respirations fell gradually below the normal amount, though their increased depth was maintained for some time. (8) Experiments were made on the action of heat on the volume of the respired air, and it was found that the exposure to heat caused quickly a slight increase in the number of the respirations, owing, probably, to excitation of the vagi in the lungs and the cutaneous nerves ; but further augmentation of the heat did not increase their number till it became very high, when both their number and depth increased, apparently because high temperatures augment tissue metamorphosis. (9) And lastly, a series of experiments were made on the volume of the respired air after the cutaneous respira- tion had been suppressed by coating the animal with linseed oil. Leich-13 RESPIRATION AND ANIMAL HEAT. tenstern corroborates the experiments of Lascbkewitsch and Krieger, that death results in these cases from cold, and the phenomena of the respiration corresponded with those observed in cold. Quincke and Pfeiffer* * * § show that with each inspiration the passage of the blood through the left ventricle is accelerated. Schifff maintains that section of the lateral columns of the cord at the level of the first cervical nerves arrests the respiratory movements of that side. He states also that, the lungs and vagi being removed from the body, electrical excitation of the vagi causes contraction of the parenchyma of the lung. LandoisJ and Ceradini§ have experimented on the action of the heart on the respiration. The former finds that some air is expelled with each systole of the heart, the latter that the effect is more complicated. The opposite investigation, viz. the action of the respiration on the cir- culation, has been pursued by Dr. Hering.|| Experiments made in 1865 by MM. Estor and St. Pierre seemed to show that a considerable quantity of oxygen disappears from the blood, even whilst passing through the larger arteries. This statement is, however, contested by MM. Mathieuand D’lJrbain,^ who maintain that there is scarcely any appreciable difference in the amount of oxygen contained in the blood of the carotid and crural arteries ; they have, however, found that when the difference in the size of two vessels is very great the blood coursing through the larger one contains more oxygen and less carbonic acid. In a second paper, in which they give the results of their experiments on the influence of external tempera- ture on the amount of gas contained in arterial blood, they show that in warm-blooded animals the quantity of oxygen absorbed by the blood varies inversely with the temperature of the air they breathe, being in- creased in winter and diminished in summer. This is conformable with the physical fact that the exchange of gases through a moist animal membrane is more rapid at a low than at a high temperature. M. Paul Bert** has studied, in the physiological laboratory of the Sorbonne, the influence that changes in the barometric pressure exercise on the phenomena of life. Wlien warm-blooded animals are suddenly exposed to air so rarefied that it will only support 15 to 18 centim. of mercury, convulsions, followed by death, are rapidly induced, with the appearance of bloody froth in the bronchi. If it be done by degrees, however, they will live in a very rarefied air (12 centim.) for some time, though all ultimately die from asphyxia. Birds cannot live at a lower pressure than 18 centim. The lower the pressure the more oxygen remains unexhausted. Hermann Aubert, of Itostock,'f'f finds that the total amount of car- * ‘Reichert und Duhois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1871. t ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv/ iv, 225. t ‘Berlin Klin. Wochensch./ 1870, 9. § ‘ Annali Universali,’ iv, 587. II ‘ Sitzungsber. der K. K. Akad. zu Wien,’ Ixiv. Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives de Physiologic,’ 1872, 190 and 304. ** ‘Rev. Scient.,’ zde ser., i, 166. tt ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ vi, 1872, xi.M UEPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. bonic acid eliminated from the skin of the whole body in twenty-four hours, at a temperature of 86° Fahr., is about 4 grammes, or 60 grains, whilst the amount of that given off by the lungs is, perhaps, goo grammes, or 13,500 grains. Dr. Bernstein* * * § remarks that no attempt has hitherto been made to construct an apparatus approximatively resembling the conditions under which an exchange of gases takes place in the placenta. He gives the details and a drawing of an ingenious instrument he has constructed with this object in view, and shows that the exchange of gases dissolved in fluids is extremely small. Schifff has made many researches on the influence of artiflcial respira- tion having an important bearing on the preservation of life in concus- sion and compression of the brain and on the circulation. Arthur Eansome,J in a paper on the mechanical conditions of the respiratory movements in man, shows that the clavicles have more upward than forward motion, and move less than either sternum or ribs. The ribs move upwards more decidedly than the sternum, and the upward dimensions of the respiratory movement of the chest, as a whole, are sufficiently accounted for by the upward rise of the ribs, their chord length being taken as radius, their vertebral attachments as centres. The outward indications, as given by the stethometer, are also probably to be accounted for by the simple radial rise of the costal ends of the costal cartilages, the sternal articulation being taken as centre. The extent of the forward indications may be accounted for either on the hypothesis of the ribs becoming straightened in in- spiration or of their being previouslj'^ unbent in expiration. As regards the actions of the intercostal muscles, the external intercostals (i) draw the ribs upwards, (2) separate their anterior ends, (3) straighten them. On the other hand, the action of the internal intercostals is (i) to draw the ribs downwards, (2) to bring their anterior extremities nearer together, (3) to bend them inwards. The diaphragm also bends in the lower ribs. Mr. F. Le Gros Clark§ has also discussed somewhat fully the mechanism of respiration, especially showing the importance of the passive tension of the diaphragm. Dr. Eattrayll enters into some interesting details in regard to the more important physiological changes induced in the human economy by change of climate. He concludes that natives of colder climates, and especially the young, debilitated, and diseased, should leave the tropics, particularly during the rainy season. Even adults should leave them if they lose flesh and strength, and frequent change to more beneflcial climates or higher altitudes is advisable for all who live in them. He concludes also that the primary effects of great changes of climate is on the circulation, the blood being drawn surface-ward by heat and driven inward by cold, hence a difference in the relative * ‘Ludwig’s Arheiteu,’ 1870, 5th Jahrgang. t ‘Centralblatt,’ 1872, 756. j ‘ Proceed, lioy. Soc.,’ xxi, 11. § ‘Meet. Roy. Society,’ May 25, 1871. II ‘Proceed. Roy. Soc.,' 1871, xix, 295.15 DEGLUTITION. activity of the external and internal organs, the function of the skin auo-menting, those of the lungs and kidneys diminishing. The respiration and circulation are both more languid, yet the temperature rises about 2° F. Gr. V. Liebig* * * § contributes a paper on the influence exerted upon the respiration by increased or diminished atmospheric pressure. He finds that residence at high altitudes has a tendency to develop the respiratory power and the strength generally, hence it is useful in all cases of diminished elasticity. For other papers on respiration see Gustav Strassburg.f H. Sanders Ezn, on apnoea and dyspnoea.:]; L. Goldstein.§ F. Kratschmer.H Wolffbey^ finds the arithmetical mean of the tension of the carbonic acid in the alveoli of the lungs to be 3'$6, and the tension in that of the blood to be 3 •4.3 per cent. Clifford Allbutt** * * §§ has contributed a paper on the effect of exercise on the bodily temperature, showing in opposition to M. Lortet that the regulating power of the organism holds good under great variations of muscular exertion, though once or twice low temperatures were noticed, perhaps attributable to some accidental deficiency in combustion. For other papers see Eansome,tt especially Horvath.J;]; DEGLUTITION. The subject of the nerves presiding over deglutition has been care- fully investigated by MM. Waller and Prevost,§§ and they sum up their results in the following words;—(i) Feeble induced currents applied to the central extremity of one of the superior laryngeal nerves after division cause arrest of the movements of the diaphragm in expiration, as stated by Kosenthal, and rhythmical movements of deglutition. (2) Movements of deglutition may be produced by irritation of the central cut extremity (d) of the recurrent nerves; (5) of the vagi, when the irritation was made above the origin of the superior laryngeal nerves ; (c) of the glosso-pharyngeal (at least in the dog and cat, but not in the rabbit). (3) On laying open the buccal pharyngeal and laryngeal cavities, with a view of determining what nerves excite movements of deglutition on being irritated, and the results of dividing the several nerves successively, they found that in rabbits (a) the glosso-pharyngeal * ‘ Arehiv f. Klin. Med.,’ viii, 445. t ‘ Pfliiger’s Arehiv,’ vi, 1, 65. t ‘Maandblad voor Natuurvvetenschapen,’ 1870-71, 113; and ‘ Centralblatfc,’ ij S * J • § “ Ueber Warmdyspnoe,” ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 678. tiJlblatV auf Athmung und Kreislauf,” ‘ Cen- 1 ‘ Pfluger’s Arehiv,’ 1872, 23, “Ueber die Athmung der Lunge.” * See.,’ xix, 289, 1871. ofAna?omj!^,87?No.“^ Human Breath in Health and Disease,” ‘Journal U ‘Centralblatt,’’ i872,'Nos. 45, 46, and 47. §§ Brown-Sequard’s Archives,’ 1870, 185 and 323.** ‘ Ludwig’s Arbeiten,’ 1870. REPOUT ON PHYSIOLOGY. ]G nerve exerts.no reflex influence upon these movements; (I) that the fifth nerve animating the velum palati is the principal sensory nerve presiding over deglutition, since after section of one of the fifths deglu- tition could no longer be provoked by exciting the corresponding half + palati; (c) that the superior laryngeal nerve contributes to the refiex actions of deglutition by its sensory branches distributed to the mucous membrane covering the glottis, the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, the superior borders of the laryngeal cavity, and chiefly by those distributed over the corniculated cartilages ; (d) the recurrent nerve aids in the reflex phenomena of deglutition by its sensory branches. (4) In the cat and dog cough is often observed on electrifying the trunk of the superior laryngeal nerve and that of the glosso-pharyngeal. In the rabbit cough is occasionally observed on irritation of the latter nerve. M._Ebstein* has arrived at the conclusion that the glands of the pyloric region of the stomach, formerly believed to secrete mucus, really produce gastric juice like the true peptic glands, and have an epithelial lining of the same nature. The mucus of the stomach he believes to be formed by the cells covering the general surface. Eriedinger,t as the result of his researches on various classes of anima,ls, arrives at the conviction that the older views were correct, and that, in opposition to the statements of Ebstein, the investing cells of Heidenhain, or delomorphous cells of Eollett, are those which really contain and form the pepsin. See also G-. Schwalbe, J R. Wiedersheim.§ ^ Eick|| regards the peptones as compounds capable of easy disintegra- tion, and as supplying by their non-nitrogenous constituents the com- bustible materials for the muscles and other organs, their nitrogenous constituents being speedily eliminated from the body. Paschutin^ demonstrates that the presence of a large quantity of the products of the metamorphosis of starch, as, for instance, of dextrine and grape sugar, does not interfere with the action of ptyalin on starch. M, Lepine** finds that a ferment capable of converting starch into sugar is widely distributed throughout the body, the only organ in which it appears to be totally absent being the crystalline lens. It is most abundant in the blood, muscles, spleen, vitreous humour, testis, and brain. DIGESTION. The phenomena of peristalsis have been reinvestigated by Gr. v. * ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, No. 6, and ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 1872, i. t ‘Wiener Akad. Sitzber.,’ Ixiv, 1871. J ‘ M. Schultze's Arcbiv/ viii, 92, “ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Driisen in den Darmwandungen, insbesondere der Brunnerscben Driisen.” § ‘ Die feineren Strukturverhiiltnisse der Driisen in Muskelemagen der Vogel,’ Inaug. Dissert., abstract in ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1872, 278. II ‘ Pfliiger’s Arcbiv,’ v, i. % ‘Centralblatt,’ 1871, 372.17 biGESTION. Brake!,* who maintains the existence of both peristaltic and ’ of anti- peristaltic movements, and states that if a loop of the intestine of a cat be pinched a wave may be followed in both directions, travelling as far as to the pylorus and to the ileo-csecal valve at the rate of an inch and a half in a second. The large intestine, the ureters, and the uterus,' exhibit similar waves. H. Sanders Ezn,f in pursuing the same inves- tigation, places the animal in water at blood heat, containing o'6 per- cent. of common salt, and opens the abdominal cavity. The intestine in his experiments was always at rest. After a little while slight wavy movements occurred; mechanical excitation had little effect. Violent movements occurred when the animal was asphyxiated, but these did not occur if the two vagi were previously divided in the neck. Excita- tion of the cut peripheric extremities induced contraction, commencing, for the most part, at the lower extremity of the duodenum and the upper end of the ileum. The right vagus induced the former, and the left the latter. Sanders Ezn observed antiperistaltic movements in one case of diarrhoea, but in all other cases the movements were peristaltic. Dr. Dalton J states that he has arrived at the following conclusions in regard to the sugar of the liver:—(i) Sugar exists in the liver, how- ever rapidly it may have been examined after removal from the body, even in the living animal. (2) The quantity present, under these cir- cumstances, is at least two and a half parts per thousand. (3) The he- patic sugar thus found does not proceed from the arterial blood circulat- ing through the organ, but is a normal product of the tissue of the liver. Gustav Strassburg § gives a modification of Pettenkofer’s test for the detection of the biliary acids in urine, which he states is extremely delicate. It consists in dipping a piece of filtering paper into the urine, to which cane sugar has previously been added, drying it, and then dropping some concentrated sulphuric acid upon it. A beautiful violet tint appears. V. Lair and Masius || apply the term sterco-bilin to a new colouring matter obtained from the feculent contents of the intestines. Its ab- sorption band is precisely limited by the lines b and E. It is soluble in water, alcohol and chloroform, insoluble in sulphuric ether. A very long paper will be found in the ‘ Comptes Eendus’ for May 29, 1871, by M. Payen, on the substances used as food during the siege of Paris. Amongst these blood in the form of blood-puddings, horseflesh, the dried albumen of eggs, and preserved fruits, occupied a prominent position. A. Gusserow ^ shows presence of urea in liquor amnii, and passage of iodine from stomach of mother into urine of foetus. Eor other papers see Leube,** "Weiss,ff Maly.J;|: * ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 1871, 33. f ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 479. I In a paper read before the New York Academy of Medicine, June 15, 1871. § ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 10. || ‘ Centralblatt/ 1871, 369. *# tTT 1 StofFwecbsel des Foetus,” ‘ Archiv fiir Gyutec.,’ iii, 241. Ueher die Eruahrung von Kranken dm-ch Zufuhr des Ernahrimsrs-materials ner anum. ° ^ Glycogens im Thierkorper,” ‘ Sitzuugsher. der Wien Akad. d. Wissenschaft,’ Ixiv, 1871. ‘ Umwandlung von Bilirubin in HarnfarbstofF,” ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 847. 218 llEPOET ON PHYSIOLOGY. A senes of researches undertaken by Q-ustav Meyer * * * § on man and dogs, having for their object the determination of the relative value of ditterent kinds of bread used in Germany, namely, rye bread (Eoggen- brod, Miinehen), white wheat bread (Weizen-brod, Semmel), the Hors- lord-Liebig bread, and coarse rye bread (Pumpernickel), led to the result that, with equal weights of the dry substance, the white wheaten bread was decidedly the most nutritious of the four kinds of bread, since under its use the smallest quantity of faeces were excreted, whilst the largest proportion of nitrogen was extracted in the process of digestion. Next to the wheaten bread in nutritive value was the rye bread fer- nented with leaven (sour dough, Sauerteig), but containing no bran. Then followed the Horsford-Liebig bread (prepared without leaven, but risen or made porous by the extrication of carbonic acid from the bicar- bonate of soda and acid phosphate of lime and magnesia). And lastly, the pumpernickel. When tlxe question of cost came to be considered it was quite a different matter, the white wheaten bread standing at the bottom of the list, and the Pumpernickel and Munich Eoggenbrod occupying the next place. J. Eanket has written an important pamphlet, the general purport of which is to show that during the activity of any organ, not only is the supply of blood to it increased, but there is a diminished supply of blood to the remaining organs of the body, relations which he expresses under the term “functional interchange” (“Punktions-wechsel”), and which have many important practical bearings. _ E. A. ParkesJ has made some further experiments on the effect ol diet and disease on the elimination of nitrogen, and shows that when the nitrogenous food of a healthy man was reduced to one half for five days, and he was then kept for five days more without nitrogen, he was able on the fourth day of such deprivation to do a very hard day’s work. Non-nitrogenous diet appeared to suit him well. The pulse became soft, but not altered in frequency. V. Subbotin § maintains, in opposition to Parkes, Anstie, and other English observers, that when alcohol is ingested in considerable quantity, at least i6 per cent, is eliminated by the bowels, lungs, skin, and kidneys. Dr. Dupre, II on the other hand, shows that at least an ounce of pure alcohol may be entirely consumed in the system per diem, or, at least, that more than this quantity must be ingested before any material quantity is eliminated % the urine and breath. Paalzow.Tf Gen. Pleasanton, of Philadelphia, has a paper on the influence of violet light on the growth of animals and plants.** * ‘ Zeitschrift fur Biologie,’ vii, 1871, i—48. f ‘ Die Blutrertheilung und der Thatigkeitswechsel der Orgaiie,’ 8vo, 187/. t ‘Proceed. Boy. Soc.,’ xix, 1871, 349. § ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, 4. II “ On the Elimination of Alcohol, Eoyal Soc.,” see ‘ Nature,’ v, 274. Tf “Ueher den Einfluss der Hautreize auf den Stoffwechsel,” ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 492- ** ‘Academy,’ March, 1872, 95.19 GLANDS, GLANDS. Hosier* finds—(i) That the spleen is not essential to life. (2) That after its ablation other lymphatic organs discharge its functions, especially the medulla of the bones. (3) That the spleen exerts a direct influence on the development of the corpuscular elements of the blood. (4) That it exerts no influence on gastric or pancreatic digestion. Wedl t finds from his dissections that the bloodpath of the spleen is continuous, the blood passing from the arteries into capillaries, and from these into veins. Stofi" and Hasse | hold the opposite view, and maintain that the blood IS discharged from the arteries into lacunar spaces. Eosenstein§ suggests a new plan for determining whether urea is formed in and by the kidneys, namely, the extirpation of one kidney and analysis of the urine, the diet being the same. He finds that rather more urea than normal is at once excreted by the remaining kidney, showing that urea is not formed in and by the kidney, as it is incredible hypertrophy of the gland tissue could take place in the course of a few hours. II Gscheidlen^ finds that urea is distributed through every tissue in the body except the muscular, in which it is never present. Dr. Salkowski**gives the following as the results of his investigations on the elimination of alkaline salts from the body. In normal condi- tions the urine is the channel through which by far the greater part of the alkaline salts leave the body. The quantity of soda always exceeds that of potash. In febrile states, however, the oj>posite obtains, the quantity of potash increasing to three, four, or even seven times more than in health. The salts of soda appear to be retained in febrile states. In certain affections (typhus), notwithstanding free diuresis, a largo quantity of the alkaline salts are eliminated by the surface of the intestine. In fever there is an augmented disintegration of those tissues that contain a large excess of potash over soda. Hstimowitsch’sft researches were undertaken on dogs which had been kept fasting for eighteen hours. The urine was collected from the ureters, and he found that the lowest pressure of the blood in the blood- vessels under which urine continued to be secreted was about 50 mil- limeters of mercury. _ The relative quantity of the several constituents of the urine varies with differences in the pressure of the blood in the vessels when it is excreted, with the section of the renal nerves, and with the resistance that the urine meets with in its discharge by the ureters. Moreover, probably by its action on the nerves, it causes a dimi- * ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 369. t ‘ Sitzungsber. der Wiener Akademie,’ Ixiv, i. t ‘Centralblatt,’ 1872, 753. § Hem, 1871, 3S3. Sept °^H72°^ P^per on the “Origin of Urea in the Animal Body,” see ‘Academy, 1871, Engelmann.20 REPOET ON PH'^SIOLOGY. nution or absolute arrest of the secretion when the system is fully under its toxic influence. ^ Cyon and Aladoff* corroborate Eckhard’s statement that diabetes occurs in dogs an hour after the section of the inferior cervical or upper dorsal ganglion. They consider it to be a phenomenon of paralysis ot certain fibres passing from the spinal cord to the ganglia, and from thence to the ganglion stellatum through the annulus Vieussenii. They find^vaso-motor nerves for the liver running in the annulus Vieussenii.f KupressowJ inserted a tube into the bladder of otherwise uninjured rabbits, and tried what height of a column of water was required to overcome the resistance of the sphincter muscle. It amounted to 4° centimeters. If, however, the spinal column were divided between the fifth and seventh lumbar vertebrae the pressure required for the same purpose immediately fell to 12—16 centimeters. M. Decaisne§ shows from observations made during the siege of Paris that the milTc of woman has less butter, caseine, sugar, and salts, but more albumen, than natural, when the diet is insufficient. || Boll has given the histology of the lachrymal glands in ‘ Strieker’s Manual,’ Bollet^ that of the gastric glands, Schwalbe** that of the duodenal glands, and Boldyrewft that of the laryngeal and tracheal glands. Gr. LottJJ finds that the uterine glands of the pig, cow, sheep, rabbit, mouse, and bat, are lined with ciliated epithelium. NEEVES. The structure of the nerves has been specially investigated by Eanvier§§ and Tamamschef.|||[ M. Eanvier’s researches were made upon nerves stained with picro- carminate of ammonia, with perosmic acid, and with nitrate of silver. He states that by means of these reagents he has been able to discover the presence of annular constrictions succeeding each other at the dis- tance of about a twenty-fifth of an inch in all nerve-fibres. The con- striction seems to be due to a thickening of the sheath of Schwann, and at this point the white substance or medullary sheath, but not the cylinder axis, is interrupted. About midway between every two constrictions is a nucleus the outer surface of which is in contact or is * ‘ Bull, de PAcad. Imp. de St. Petersb.,’ viii, 90. f See also Eckliard, “ Untersucliungen fiber Hydrurie,”‘Beitrage zur Anatomie und Physiologie,’ vi, 53, and Maley, “Kunstlicbe Umwandlung von Bilirubin in HarnfarbstofPe,” ‘Kolbe’s Journ. f. Pract. Chem.,’ v, 102. J ‘Pfliiger’s Arebiv/ 1872, 291; and ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1872,430. “ Zur Pbysiologie des Blasenscbliess-muskels.” § ‘Rev. Scientif.,’ 2e ser. i, 163. II See also a lecture by J. Emerson Reynolds, ‘ On the Chemistry of Milk,’ delivered before the Royal Dublin Society, May 13, 1871; and Bogomoloff “ On the Composition of Milk,” ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 40, 1871. If ‘ Rollett’s Untersuch. aus dem Institute fiir Phys. u Histol. in Graz.,’ ii, 143. ** 'Schultze’s Archiv,’ viii, i, 128. tt ‘Rollett’s Untersuch.,’ 1871, p. 237. jj ‘ Untersuchungen aus dem Institute fiir Pbysiologie in Graz.,’ 1871, 250. §§ Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives de Physiologic,’ 1872, 129. Ifll ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 38, 1872.SI NEUVES. actually fused with the sheath of Schwann, whilst its inner surface is received into a kind of cup formed of the white substance of Schwann. It would, therefore, seem that each interannular segment represents a cell. He finds, as Erommann and Grandry had already done before him, that the cylinder axis under the action of nitrate of silver pre- sents alternately light and dark striae not distantly resembling muscular tissue. Tamamseheif excised nerve-fibres from the sciatic or brachial plexus and moistened them with serum. He finds that many nerve-fibres are bound together into a fasciculus by a sheath made of flattened cells which can be rendered visible by nitrate of silver, and which probably belong to the lymphatic system. Shortly after removal from the body the cylinder axis breaks up into a series of spheroidal bodies which he terms corpuscula nervea, and which are capable of spontaneous movements. They equal the red corpuscles of the blood in size. Pure albumen undergoes changes of a similar nature. Engelmann* calls attention to certain contractions indicated by wrinkles in the sheaths of nerves, but not accompanied by shortening, when the nerves are removed from a living animal and quickly sub- mitted to the action of induction shocks whilst lying in a weak solu- tion of common salt. Ho wrinkles are visible in naked axis cylinders. Eutherfordf has investigated the varying excitability of the nerves in various parts of their course. He argues against Pfliiger’s avalanche theory, and maintains that the excitability of any point in the trunk of a spinal nerve, whether afferent or efferent, is inversely as the dis- tance of that point from the nerve-centre. SchlischJ finds that stretching the nerves of frogs with a weight of forty grammes had little effect on their excitability, but when the weight applied was greater than this the excitability rapidly diminished. Schiff § has again investigated the functions of the spinal cord as a conductor. He has satisfied himself that the posterior columns convey tactile impressions. W hen divided, no other part of the column can supply their place, and after a few days, when the disturbing conditions have subsided, tactile sensibility is entirely and permanently lost. Dittmarjl concludes, from his experiments on rabbits poisoned with woorara, that a system of fibres exists in the spinal cord which, though they do not belong to the nerve-roots, are capable of responding to the action of direct stimuli, and can transmit the impulses thus generated a ong the spinal cord to the medulla oblongata, where they undergo reflection into motor nerves. V. Willy^ states that it is generally admitted that the degree of excitation of a nerve measured by the extent of contraction of the muscle to which it is distributed augments with the length of the segment of the nerve through which the current is transmitted after tms 13 closed or after it is opened. He finds, however, that this only * ‘Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ v, i. t Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journal of Anat. and Physiol.,’ 1871, 329. t Zeitschrift fiir Biologie,’ vii, iv. J 1 i > 0 § ‘ Centralhlatt,’ 1872, 774. II ‘ Ludwig’s Arheiten,’ 1871. IT ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ 1872, 275.22 HEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. holds good for the -descending current, whilst the converse obtains for the ascending current, important series of researches was undertaken by Fritsch and Hitzig* * * § on the effects of stimulating various parts of the cerebral hemispheres by means of the galvanic cupent. The skull was removed with the exception of that part covering the superior longitudinal sinus in dogs. The irritation of the surface of definite regions of limited extent of one hemisphere called special groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body into action. Thus, irritation of one spot pro- duced contraction of the muscles of the back of the neck, another the extensors and abductors of the fore leg, another the flexors and rotators, others the muscles of the hind leg and of the face. The irritation pro- ceeded principally, if not exclusively, from the positive pole. Heidenhaint investigated the changes of temperature in the brain resulting from excitation of the sensory nerves. He compared the temperature of the brain with that of the aortic blood by the thermo- electric method, and convinced himself that the brain constantly possesses a higher temperature than arterial blood, and that this dif- ference increases considerably on excitation of the sensory nerves. There is a coincident fall in the temperature of the blood traversing the aorta, vena cava, and hepatic vein; this fall is occasioned in some way by the medulla oblongata, since it does not occur if a section of the cord be made just below the medulla. The fall in the temperature of the blood is accompanied by a rise in the pressure, both in the arteries and in the veins, and with an augmented rapidity of the blood-current in both. He attributes the changes in the temperature of the blood to an increased loss of heat from the surface. SchiffJ has continued his researches referred to in the last ‘ Biennial Eeport ’ on the extrication of heat during the functional activity of the nervous centre, and shows clearly that the augmented temperature depends on modifications of the circulation, and is primarily due to the vaso-motor nerves. _Dr. Franz Riegel,§ after repeating the experiment of division of the spinal cord opposite the sixth cervical vertebra and corroborating the fact of the general fall in the temperature of the body that follows that operation, appears to think it may in part be due to paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves leading to dilatation of the vessels and consequent increased evaporation and exposure of the blood to the cooling influence of the air and radiation, but that it is chiefly due to an absolutely diminished production of heat, in favour of which view he adduces various arguments, Fick|| gives an account of a series of experiments he made on the efiects of heating and cooling the blood passing to the vaso-motor and cardiac nerve-centres, and states that, to his surprise, he obtained only * ‘ Reichert uud Dubois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 300. f ‘ Pfliiger's Ai-chiv,’ iii, 504. i Brown-Sequard’s ‘Ai-chives de Physiologic,’ January, March, May, and July, 1870. § ‘ Pfluger’s Archiv,’No. 12, 1872. II Idem, V, I.23 NEUVES. negative results, thougli when such changes were induced in the blood nassine to the respiratory centres very marked effects were observed. _ ^ Ludwig and Owsjannikoff*find that the vaso-motor centre extends in the medulla oblongata from i mm. under^ the corpora quadrigemina to 4 or 5 mm. above the calamus scriptorius and on either side ot the middle line. . . n , For a full abstract of Ludwig and Hafiz’s paper on the vaso-motor nerves of arteries distributed to muscles in ‘ Ludwig’s Arheiten,’ 1870. (See Brunton’s report in ‘Humphry and Turner’s Journal,’ 1872, p. 229.) These experimenters show that the vaso-motor nerves distributed to the arteries supplying certain muscles may have a totally distinct origin and course from the proper motor nerve of the muscle. The biceps femoris, for example, is motorially innervated from the sacral plexus, but its vaso-motor nerves are contained in the lumbar plexus and run with the crural nerve, whence they pass to the branches of the femoral artery. The vaso-motor nerves distributed to arteries supplying muscles are easily exhausted, and when such arteries are exposed to high blood pressure they contract powerfully. , i 1 The question of trophic nerves has been discussed by Schiefferdecker,t Fischer,^ Joseph,§ and Sinitzin.|| _ ^ Schiefferdecker gives the details of a series of six cases of injury of the nerves of the upper extremity. The trophic disturbances were atrophy of muscles, thickening and strong pigmentation of the skin, and augmented desquamation of the epidermis. The finger-nails becarue curved, like talons, with transverse ridges ; the arm covered with Fair, and there was an excessive secretion of sour sweat. The temperature was below the normal. He attributes some of these symptoms to lesion of certain trophic nerves, and others to disturbance in the distribution of the blood supply. Sinitzin shows that after section of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic the conjunctiva and choroid are capable of resisting an amount of irritation to which they would other- wise speedily succumb. It is worthy of particular notice that Sinitzin found the symptoms of impaired nutrition in the eye consequent upon section of the fifth pair of nerves can be altogether abrogated by sub- sequent ablation of the superior cervical ganglion, a strong proof that such alterations and lesions of nutrition are not the direct result of the nerve injury, but depend upon impaired or modified blood supply. Brown- Sequard^ observed gangrene of the ear in rabbits after injury'of one corpus restiforme with hereditary influence on the young. He also observed pulmonary haemorrhages after injury of one side of the pons. Dr. C. Westphal corroborates M. Brown-Sequard’s statements in regard to the artificial production of epilepsy in guinea-pigs. He finds that this condition may be induced by slight blows on the head, and attributes the convulsions to slight extravasations of blood which he finds in the medulla oblongata and cervical and even dorsal portion of the spinal cord. * ‘Ber. d. Sachs. Gesell. der Wiss.,’ 1871, 135. f ‘ Berlin Klin. Wochens.,’ 1871, 160. § ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1871, 721, ^ ‘Gazette Medicale,’ 1871, pp. 14 and 24. X Idem, HS- 1 Idem,161.24 llEPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. distribution of tbe non- Qullated nerve-fibres in the membrana nictitans. He nlaces tbe Enf??membrane in a one-half per cent, solution of chloride of g Id for an hour, next cautiously transfers it to pure water, at the same tliTeSEl^^ ^ bright light for some days, and then brushes olf the epithelium and mounts the specimen in glycerine. He describes four orders of nerves the finest, which he traces to the internal surface ot the capillaries and to the cells of the epithelial investment, are deli- cately varicose and require a ISTo. 9 or 10 immersion lens. • Relieves he has traced the finest branches of certain nerves into the interior of the sarcodic masses forming the chromoblasts of flat flshes where they become connected with the nucleus and pigment- granules. Dr. BealeJ in a paper in the same journal contests this statement. bchobl§ describes the termination of the nerves in the wing of the bat, and states that some form an extremely fine plexus, whilst others end in tactile corpuscles in close relation with the hairs, the former minister, he thinks, to sensations of temperature and pain, the latter to ordinary tactile impressions. Th. Engelmann|| gives the result of his investigations upon the inner- vation of the contractile gland-cells of the frog. He shows that these glands can be made to contract by direct irritation, by various kinds of excitation applied to the peripheric extremity of the divided sciatic nerve, and also reflectorially. Pfiuger^ shortly discusses the objections that have been advanced against his views respecting the mode of termination of nerves in glands. To show the correctness of his statements he recommends the fresh Bubmaxillary gland of the ox or sheep to be taken and fine sections made ; these must be at once teased out with perosmic acid sp. gr. 1003, and covered with a thin glass in a shallow cell. In the case of the liver sections must be made from the fresh gland and placed in watch-glasses filled with Beale’s carmine solution for fourteen days. Each section must then be washed with the above solution of perosmic acid and mounted. Other papers on the nervous system are by Gr. Valentin,** Wundt,ft Bernstein,JJ J. K:6nig.§§ Eichardson,|||| Navratil,!^ Michael Lavdovsky.*** * ‘Quart. Journ. of Microsp. Sci./ January, 1872. t ‘ Monthly Microscopical Journal,’ vi, 285. J Idem, vii, 45. § ‘ Archiv f. Mikroskop. Anatomie,’ vii, i. II ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 1871, 3, and v, 498. If ‘ Ai’chiv fiir Physiologic,’ 1871. *# Positive und Neg. Stromschwankungen als Zeichen gewiss. Zersetzungsstufen der Nerv. und der Muskelmasse,” ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologic,’ vii, no. ft ‘Mechanismus d. Nerven u. Nerven Centra,’ Erlangen, 187 r. jj ‘ The Effects of Stimulation of Nerve and Muscle,’ 1871, Heidelberg. §§ “The Effects of Electric Stimulation of Nerve and Muscle,” ‘ Wien. Akad. Sitzungsbericht,’ Ixii, 537 ; and Humphry and Turner’s ‘ Journ of Auat.,’ 1872, 223. IIII “ Theory of a Nervous Atmosphere,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ i, 1871. HIT “ The Functions of the Laryngeal Nerves,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,' June IS, 1872. *** “ The Termination of the Nerves in the Urinary Bladder of the Frog,” ‘ Cen- tralblatt fiir die Med. Wiss.,’ No. 3, 1871.SPECIAL SENSE. TONGUE. 1" “Bewegungen des Gehororgans,” ‘Centralblatt,’ 1871, 593. S5 Ihlder* finds the nerves of the tongue in birds end in a ganglion-cell. He also describes a special form of bulb of ellipsoidal p- simple connective-tissue investment and transversely placed nuclei. The nerve ends with a well-marked swelling. _ . E. 'Wolferzt arrives at the following results from his conclusions in regard to the innervation of the lachrymal glands : i) The lachrymal is the proper excito-secretory nerve of the gland. (2) The subcutaneus mate has the same but less energetic action. (3) After section of the lachrymal no reflex can be excited through the fifth, but readily through the optic. (4) Excitation of the sympathetic sometimes gives positive, sometimes negative results. (5) The secretion continues after section of the lachrymal and sympathetic (paralytic secretion). (6) Poisoning with woorara excites the secretion even after section of the lachrymal, though less than on the opposite side. Ph. Lussana| adduces fresh evidence, chiefly of a pathological nature, in support of his views respecting the nerves ministering to the sense of taste. These cases show that the lingual in man presides over_ the gustatory sensibility of the anterior portion of the tongue, for in a woman in whom a portion was removed by Prof. Vanzetti, sensation was entirely abolished, though the form, colour, and nutrition of the organ remained unimpaired. But the lingual nerve in man is composed of the lingual proper and the chorda tympani, and there are cases of complete paralysis of the fifth on record in which, nevertheless, the gustatory sense was retained. On the other hand, there are cases of paralysis of the facial in which gustatory sensibility is lost, though the fifth is intact. Hence Lussana concludes that the sense of taste in the anterior part of the tongue is due to the chorda tympani. Dr. Schapringer§ finds that on contracting his tensor tympani, over which he has voluntary control, all notes below seventy vibrations are rendered inaudible. Other papers on the special senses are by Dr. Swan Burnett,|| E. Masch, E. Kessel, and Prof. Eudinger.^ A most elaborate paper, entitled ‘ Etudes d’Anatomie Comparee sur les Organes du Toucher chez divers Mammiferes, Oiseaux, Poissons et Insectes,’ by M. Jobert, is contained in the i6th vol. of the ‘ Annales des Sciences Haturelles,’ 1872. At one of the meetings of the Medico-Chirurgical Society (Eeb., 1872), Dr. W. H. Broadbent read a paper on the mechanism of thought. His theory was based partly on the results of dissection, partly on remarkable cases of loss of speech and paralysis. He considers that the impressions derived from the several senses are conducted by fibres radiating from the crus cerebri and central ganglia to the convolutions * ‘Eeichert und Dubois Eeymond’s Archiv,’ 1870, 238. Honigscbmied, “Ver- breitung der Becherformigen Organe der Zunge,” in ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 26, 1872. t Inaug. dissert., Dorpat, 1871, Abstract in ‘Centralblatt,’ 1871, 838. I “Sur les Nerfs du Godt,” ‘Brown-Sequard’s Archives de Physiologic,’ 1872, 150 and 334. § ‘Wien. Akad. Sitzungsber.,’ l.\ii; and Humphry and Turner, 1871, 4or. II “ On the Functions of the Cochlea,” in the ‘ Medical and Surgical Eeporter, Nov. 4, 7871. ^ ^ ’26 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. of the longitudinal and Sylvian margins of the hemispheres, the inter- vening convolutions receiving no radiating or callosal fibres. In the lormer (or marginal convolutions) impressions are recognised as percep- tions, whilst the perceptions derived from different sources are asso- ciated together to form ideas and become the subjects of thought'in the atter (or intervening convolutions). Now, when it is desired to express these trains of ideas in speech, impulses are transmitted along those medullary fibres of the brain that extend from the supreme centres to the third left frontal convolution. In this the ideas are formulated into words, which are intellectual symbols, the centre selecting, as it were, the sounds appropriate to the expression of the idea. To produce the audible expression of these sounds that centre again in its turn pro- pagates impulses to the corpus striatum, the great co-ordinating motor centre at the base of the brain. In order to speak, a great variety of muscular movements have to be co-ordinated, as those of the chest, larynx, tongue, and lips. The co-ordination is efiiected by the corpus striatum, which acts upon the requisite nerve-nuclei in the medulla oblongata. Lesions at difTerent points of this chain of ganglia and fibres will, of course, be followed by different effects. The sequence of events on Dr. Broadbent’s theory is—the formation of perceptions in the marginal convolutions at the summit of the sensory tract; the combi- nation of these to form ideas and their employment in trains of thought in the convolutions withdrawn from immediate relation with the outer world ; the propagation of excitations to the third left frontal convolu- tion, leading to the selection of certain sound groups ; the co-ordination in the corpus striatvmi of the muscular movements required to produce those sounds ; and finally, the transmission of impulses from the several nuclei of the medulla ollongata to each individual muscle required to be brought into play. Tloegel* describes the fibres of the muscles of Trombidium, a species of red spider, as composed of a number of compartments formed by the sarcolemma on the one hand and successive transverse septa on the other. Drom septum to septum the contents of each compartment are as follows:—(i) A singly and slightly retractile substance, which becomes slightly coloured with perosmic acid. (2) A granule which stains deeply with perosmic acid, and with its neighbours forms a transverse layer of granules. (3) The same as (i). (4) The doubly and strongly refracting substance, becoming deeply stained excepting sometimes near its centre. (3) As (3). (6) As (2). (7) As (i). To which may be added (8), the deeply tinted transverse septum itself. Merkel’sf views as regards the structure of muscle agree in many points with those of Dloegel. He recommends for observation the thoracic muscles of the fly or bee, and states that the phenomena of their contraction may be distinctly seen when the fibres are immersed in albumen. The appearances presented are—first, the terminal disks approximate; the lateral expansion of the fibrils then occurs quite gradually, and is accompanied by a narrowing of the part occupied by the contractile substance. When the contraction is completed the adjoining terminal disks are seen closely approximated; the part occupied * ‘Max Schultze’s Archiv f. Mik. Anat.,’ viii, 69. f Idem, 244.27 SPECIAL SENSE.—TONGUE. bv the contractile substance, which when the “^scle is at rest is only dfmlv visible, becomes marked by a well-defined outline, and to super- £l observation the decrease in length appears to be compensated for hTL increase in breadth. This is, however, by no means the case, but the dimly defined spot representing the position of the contractile sub- stance has become quite disproportionally attenuated, whilst tjie ter- minal disks are not, as might be expected, attenuated, but are actually thickened. It would hence appear that the muscular fibre has under- gone a change in its histological character, and is not a mere shorter and thicker body than when at rest. The change consists in this—that the contractile substance, which in the resting fibre is accumulated^ around the median disk of each muscle-element, leaves this position during con- traction, and becomes applied to the corresponding terminal disks. Hence instead of each element containing as it does, during rest, an entire transverse stria in its middle, it exhibits during contraction one half of this stria at each end. Merkel recommends the chelse ot a crab to bo ituniersed in alcobol; tho alcohol penetrates but slowly, and although it causes the outer fibres to contract, the innermost ones _ are dead, and therefore relaxed, before the fluid reaches them, and sections show all the intermediate stages, Donitz* maintains the old view of fibrils as opposed to the compart- ment theory of the structure of muscle. Wagenerf admits the existence of Hensen’s intermediate band, but maintains there are from two to eight adjoining striae, which, though very fine, are constantly present. He describes the contraction of the muscles of an insect in the following terms : The anisotropal substance with Hensen’s intermediate stria and the adjoining striae shorten and approximate to one another, and then the two isotropal striae, which at first are separated by the broad anisotropal substance, become so closely compressed together that they are only divided by a faint line. DanilewskyJ shows that the quantity of albuminoid compounds in muscle diminishes, though to an inconsiderable extent, in tetanus. The alcoholic extract of tetanized muscle contains more nitrogen than that of resting muscle, which from various considerations renders it evident that during contraction there is an increased disintegration of the muscle- substance. During contraction a phosphorized body (lecithin) is pro- duced. "Warm alcohol withdraws from muscle exclusively the products of its retrogressive metamorphosis. Mohammed Hafiz remarks that the vital properties of transversely striated muscular tissue render it a 'priori probable that its blood cur- rent should present some peculiarities. Opposite conclusions might be drawn from a consideration of the physical and chemical changes occurring during contraction in regard to the flow of blood through the muscles; on physical grounds it would be natural to suppose that less blood would traverse the tissue, whilst the larger amount of carbonic acid eliminated would rather seem to show that more blood traversed it. * ‘Reichert und Dubois Reymond’s Archiv,’ 1871, 434. t ‘ Sitzungsberichte der Gesell. der Gesam. Nat. zu Marburg,’ 1872, 25. t ‘ Centralblatt,’ No. 28, 1872.28 REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. Experiments undertaken by Sczelkow, Ak Schmidt, W. Sadler, and Uenersich, in Ludwig’s laboratory, are opposed to the exclusive adoption ot either ot these views, and show that great variations may occur in the rapidity of the current of blood traversing the arteries of muscles, as well as in its pressure, quite independently of the condition of con- traction or relaxation of those muscles themselves. These experiments tend to show that great powers of contraction and dilatation must be attributed to the arteries distributed to muscles, and in accordance with this is the anatomical fact that the arteries of muscular tissue con- tain a very well-developed circular muscular layer. Mohammed Hafiz’s researches were undertaken to ascertain the course and action of the motor nerves supplying the arteries. Dogs and rabbits were employed in the experiments, which were either in their natural state or poisoned with woorara,_and the following results were obtained:—(i) During tetanic excitation of the spinal cord the circular muscular fibres of the arteries distributed to muscles contract slightly and transiently, and never to so great an extent as the circular fibres of the arteries dis- tributed to the skin and abdominal viscera. The contraction, if any, is very slight in curarized animals. (2) The nerves of the circular muscles are very easily exhausted. This is well shown by the fact that a wound of a muscle, provided no large artery is injured, as a rule bleeds but little; but severe haemorrhage occurs, under the same circum- stances, if the spinal cord be irritated, the amount depending on the increase of blood pressure caused by the stimulation of the cord. The more this augments the more the arteries of the skin and the abdo- minal viscera contract, whilst those of the muscles permit free bleeding to take place from them, the hsemmrrhage lasting as long as the blood pressure is above the normal. (3) Irritation of the spinal cord caused distinctly observable increase in the rapidity of the current of blood through the muscular arteries, as well as by augmented pressure, ces- sation of the irritation being followed by diminution of the rapidity of the current. (4) The circular muscular fibres of the arteries distributed to muscles expand and contract independently of the nerves supplied to them, and probably as a consequence of the direct excitability of their own proper muscular fibres. (5) The nerves of a muscle and the nerves of the artery supplying that muscle seem, in some instances at least, to have a different origin. (6) Erom a medium condition the muscles of the vessels may either contract or dilate; contraction often occurs if the vessel has been long in a state of dilatation, owing to aug- mented pressure. It was invariably observed after irritation applied to the spinal cord, this producing, first, temporary contraction, then dilatation, and finally very strongly marked and persistent contraction. The increase of pressure in the arteries distributed to muscles is, no doubt, in part due to the contraction that occurs in the cutaneous, abdominal, and other arteries, when the spinal cord is irritated. Dr. Marcet observes* that muscular tissue is formed of three different classes of substances ; the first includes those substances which constitute the tissue proper, or the portion of fiesh insoluble in the preparation of the aqueous extract, and consisting of albumen and phosphoric anhy- ‘ Nature,’ May 18.SPECIAL SENSE.-“TONGijE. 29 dride with varying proportions of potash and magnesia; the second class includes the same substances as are found in the tissue proper, and in the same proportions relatively to the albumen present m that class, but existing in solution and in the colloid state; the third class includes the same substances as are found in the two others, a,nd, moreover, a small quantity of chlorine and soda, which, although relatively minute, is never absent. The constituents of this class are crystalloid, and consequently diffusible, the phosphoric anhydride and potash being present precisely in the proportion required to form a neutral tribasic phosphate, or a pyrophosphate, as the formula 2KOPO5 can equally be 2KOHOPO5. Dr. Marcet further believes that flesh contains in store a supply of nourishment equal to about one third more than its requirements for immediate use, this being apparently a provision of nature to allow of muscular exercise during prolonged fasting. .He maintains that the numbers representing the excess of phosphoric anhydride and potash in blood over the proportion of these substances in an equal volume of serum, in the regular normal nutrition of herbivorous animals, appear to bear to each other nearly the same relation as that which exists between the phosphoric anhydride and potash on their way out of muscular tissue ; and he points out that vegetables used as food for man and animals, such as flour, potatoes, and rice, transform jihos- phorio anhydride and potash from the crystalloid or diffusible into the colloid or undiffusible state, and that it is only after having been thus prepared that these substances appear to be fit to become normal con- stituents of blood and contribute to the nutrition of fiesh. A final remark, and one which he considers to be worth consideration, is the fact established by the whole of his investigation, that there is a constant change of rotation in nature from crystalloids to colloids, and from colloids to crystalloids. Petersen,* as the result of numerous analyses of the flesh of sheep, pigs, horses, and oxen, finds that the amount of water varies in these difierent species as much as y36 per cent.; calves have the most per cent.), pigs the least (71'93 per cent.). The proportion of nitrogen varies but little. Thus, the fresh muscle of oxen contains 3'29 per cent, of nitrogen, that of the pig 3*23, of the sheep 3'15, of the calf 3* 18, and of the horse 3 ’48 per cent. The proportions are somewhat different if the fat is first removed, the average for fresh meat, taking all the animals, and the fat being removed, is 3*33 per cent., which equals i3’39 for the dry muscle also free from fat. Dr. H. Weiskef finds that the administration of food poor in lime or phosphoric acid, for a considerable period (six weeks), to goats produced no appreciable change in the composition of the bones, nor was their fragility increased. The animals, nevertheless, lost their vigour, and it was probable that if the use of such food had been long continued pathological appearances would have been produced. On the other hand Dr. Subbotin;]; finds that the kind of food administered to pigeons, calves, dogs, and man, exercises a considerable infiuence on the amount of haemoglobin contained in the blood, highly albuminous compounds * ‘ Zeitschrif t fiir Biologic,’ viii, 166. f Idem, vii, 179. J Idem, vii, 185. ' ’ »REPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. •jf ‘ Proceed, of Roy. Med. and Chir. Soc.,’ vi. No. 8. ■ • ’i.* mcreasmg its amount, pure farinaceous and other non-nitrogenous food diminishing it. Eabbits, on the average, have 8'4i per cent, of hemo- globin, well-nourished dogs i3'8o per cent., man 13'i6 per cent. In anemia and chlorosis it may fall as low as to 4'63 per cent. Prof. Haughton,* in his lectures on animal mechanics, states that according to his experiments the muscles of the arms of a young man accustomed to athletic exercise are capable of raising 94-7 lbs. per square inch of their sectional area. The muscles of the leg are stronger and can lift 110-4 lbs. per square inch of sectional area ; those of the abdomen 107 lbs.; he takes the mean at 104 lbs. A single ounce in weight of the muscle of the human heart will lift 25'576 lbs. through the height of one foot in a minute. Heidenhain,t after discussing the views of Harless, Cyon, and others, respecting the tone of the voluntary muscles, gives the results of his experiments, which have led him to the conclusion that the tone of muscles is simply the expression of their healthy nutrition, and has no relation with their nervous supply. Nigetiet and HeppnerJ observe that Heidenhain long ago showed that the production of acid in acting muscles augments with their tension during contraction. They made experiments to determine whether the same holds good for the other compounds resulting from the metamorphosis of muscular tissue, and, adopting Helmholtz and Eanke’s mode of procedure, that is, comparing the alcoholic with the watery extract (the latter decreasing, the former increasing, during the period of activity), they found that in muscles under otherwise pre- cisely similar circumstances, but of which one was weighted whilst the other was not, the former yielded more alcoholic and less watery extract than the other. Dr. A. Henocque§ states the nerves supplying smooth muscular tissue are distributed in three plexuses—(i) a basal or fundamental plexus, containing numerous ganglia situated externally to the muscle; (2) an intermediate plexus ; and (3) an intra-muscular plexus, situated in the interior of the fasciculi of smooth fibres. The terminal fibres are every- where alike, dividing dichotomously, and ending with a slight enlarge- ment or button, or in a punctiform manner. These swellings are situated in difierent parts of the smooth muscle, often near the nucleus, or on the surface, or between the fibres. M. A. Sawicki|| shows that the quantity of uric acid excreted by the kidney is in relation with the food rather than with the amount of exercise taken. Dr. W. Ogle^ shows that both the right leg and right arm are used preferentially by many animals as well as by man, and in man before any education is commenced. From various observations made on right- and left-handed individuals he has arrived at the conclusion that, like the faculties concerned in speech, those associated with the predominance * ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May and June, 1871. t ‘Pfluger’s Archiv,’ iv—x. t Idem, iii, 574. § Brown-Sequard’s ‘Archives,’ 1870, 397. II ‘Pfluger’sArchiv,’1872, vi.3l SPECIAL SENSE.—TONGUE. of the right hand and leg are due to structural pecuHarities which are located in the left hemisphere of the brain. The grea,ter develop- ment of the left hemisphere he attributes to its receiving a freer supply of blood than the right. ^ .1 • Oser and Schlesinger* state, as the essential result of their experi- ments, that movements of the uterus may be induced by arrest ot the respiration, by rapid hiemorrhage, and by arrest of the passage ol the blood to the brain. They found that the best animals for the purpose of experiment were kittens under the influence of woorara. _ Valentinf shows that the muscles of the embryo possess their true and normal currents with negative variation on contraction long before their development is complete, and so also nerves, which as yet do not appear to possess a medullary sheath, possess the power of transmitting motor impulses, and also exhibit their normal electric currents and negative variation during activity. Hermann^ finds that living muscle offers very much greater resistance to an electric current passing in a direction across the fibres than to one transmitted along them, the proportion being as 7 to i ; in the nerves it is as 5 to I. . Hugo Kronecker, “ On the Laws of Muscular Exhaustion, in the ‘ Monatsberichte d. k. p. Akad. d. Wissenschaften zu Berlin,’ 1870. Eick§ “ On the Change in the Elasticity of Muscle during Contrac- tion.” An important contribution to our knowledge of the physiological effects of severe and protracted muscular exercise, especially in regard to its influence on the excretion of nitrogen, has been made by Dr. Austin Elint,|l as the result of his analysis of the food consumed and urine passed by Mr. "Weston, during a remarkable attempt which this pedestrian made to walk 400 miles in five consecutive days. Although he did not accomplish this task, he succeeded in walking 317-1 miles in that space of time. By the aid of several eminent physicians and scientific men of Hew York, Mr. Weston was subjected to most careful observation for five days before the walk, for the five days of the walk, and for five days after the walk, and the results are given in a series of carefully prepared tables. The general conclusions of Dr. Elint’s inquiry, in this case at least, are decidedly opposed to the observations of Eick and Wislicenus and many modern experimenters, whilst they corroborate the old view of Liebig that the elimination of nitrogen is to a great extent a measure of the waste of the nitrogenized elements of the tissues, and that this is increased by exercise.^ Prof. Humphry’s** lectures, and still more recen-tly published treatise on myology, contains the results of many careful dissections of the muscles of the Cryptobranchus Japonicus, the Uromastix spinipes, * ‘Strieker’s Med. Jahrbiicher,’ 1872, 30. t “ Histological Eesearches,” ‘ Zeitschrift fiir Biologie,’vii, 1871, 105. :|; ‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ part vi, 1872. § “Ueber die Aenderung der Elasticitat des Muskels -wahrend der Zuckuug, ‘ Pfliiger’s Arcliiv,’ 1871, 301. II Pamphlet reprinted from the ‘ New York Med. Journ.’ for June, 1871, or. II See an abstract in ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Jan., 1872. '' ** ‘ British Med. Journ.,’1872. /fREPORT ON PHYSIOLOGY. 3^ Lepidosiren annectens, Dog-fish, Ceratodus, and Pseudopus, with an able exposition of the general relations and arrangements of the muscles in vertebrate animals, Franz Hoffman* discusses and answers affirmatively the question whether fat supplied in the food enters directly into the fat-cells, to he stored up in them. The following references to various papers that were analysed for this Eeport, but which were excluded by the limited space accorded to it, may, perhaps, prove useful to some readers. niSTOLOGT. Bizzozero, “ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der sogenannten endogenen Zellenhildung.”t—G. V. Ciaccio, ‘JSTuove Bicherche sull’interna tessi- tura dei Tendini.’ Bologna, 1872. Pamphlet.—Dr. M. Lipsky, “ Ueber die entzilndlichen Veranderungen des Bj)ithels der Harn-kanalchen.”J— Dr. Adickes, “Zur Histologie des Bindegewebes.” Inaug. Dissert., 1872.—Banvier, “Des Elements Cellulaires des Tendons et du Tissue conjonctif lache (tissue cellulaire).”§—Boll, “ IJntersuchungen ilber den Bau und die Entwickelung der G-ewehe.”|l—Mitchell Bruce, “On the Structure of Tendon.”^—MM. Philipeaux et A. Yulpian, “Sur le mode d’accroissement des os longs.”**—Dr. Stretzoff, “ Beitrage zur normalen Knochenhildung.”tt—Dr. Heitzmann, “ Studien am Kmochen und Knorpel.” —Dr. W. Flemming, “ Ueber Bildung. und Biickbil- dung der Fettzelle imBindegeweben.”§§—V.Ebner,“Ueher die Anfange der Speichel-gange in den Alveolen den Speicheldrusen.”H|j—E. Kyber, ‘ Untersuchungen liber den Lymphatischen Apparat in der Milz,’ viii, ^568.—Dr. Dudukaloff, “Beitrage zur Kenntniss des Yerwachsungs processes unterbundener Gefasse.”^^—Dr. Durante, “ Untersuchungen liber die Organisation des Thrombus.”***—Y, Brunn, “Ein Beitrag zur Kenntniss des feineren Baues und der Entwickluugsgeschichte der lSrebennieren.”ttt—Th. Eimer, “ Ueber dei Nerven-endiguugen in der Haut der Kuhzitze.”J|]:—J. Schobl, “ Das Ausser Ohr des Igels als Tastorgan,”§§§—E. Bindfleisch, “Zur Kenntniss der ISTerven Endi- gung in den Hirnrinde.’‘|l|l|l—A. K. v. Ajtai, “ Ein Beitrag zur Kennt- niss der Geschmacksorgane.”f Dr. E. Elin, “ Zur Kenntniss der feineren ISTerven der Mundhohlenschleimhaut.” ****—J, Gottstein, “ Ueber den fein. Bau und die Entwickelung der Gehorschnecke der Saugethiere und des Menschen.”tttt—Br. Kuel, “ Beitrag zur Kennt- ness der Saugethier schnecke.” * “ DerUebergang von Nahrungsfett in die Zellen des Thierlcorpers,” ‘ Zeitschrift f. Blologie,’ viii, 153. t ‘Strieker’s Jahrbiicher,’ 1872, 160. X In idem, 155. § Brown-Sequard’s‘Archives de Pbysiologie,’1869, 471. II ‘Max Schultze’s Archiv. fiir Microscop. Anat.,’ yii, 275. ^ ‘ Quarterly Journal of Microscop. Science/ April, 1872. ** Brown-Sequard’s ‘ Archives de Pbysiologie,’ 1870,531. tt §§ ITIF ttt §§§ ‘ Centralblatt,’ 1872, 449- U ‘ Strieker’s JahrblicheiV ii, 339. ‘Schultze’s Mchiv,’ vii, 1871, 32. ||l| Idem, viii, 481. ‘Strieker’s ‘ Med. Jahrb.,’ 1872, 150. • *** In idem, 143. ‘ Schultze’s Archiv, viii, 618. ttt Idem, viii, 643. Idem, viii, 295. IIIIII Idem, viii, 453- W Idem, vm, 465. Idem, vii, 1871, 382. fftt Idem, viii, 145. Idem, viii, 200.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE.* A. B. SKEPHEED, M.A., M.B., M.E.C.P., ASSISTANT-PHYSICIAN TO ST. MAEY’S HOSPITAL, ETC. BY A. Diseases oe the Gtenekal System. Inflammation and Suppuration. In tlie course of tlie past two years the Vienna school seems almost to have monopolised the subject of inflammation. Heiberg (‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1871, 7) has made numerous experiments on the process which takes place in the regeneration of the epithelium of the cornea in frogs, fowls, and white rats. He "finds, after scraping off the epithelium from the centre of the cornea with a knife, that the process of new growth is complete in three days, and sometimes, in birds and mammals, even earlier. Erom the observations of Strieker and Norris, those writers had already come to the conclusion that, in the inflamed cornea of the frog, the corpuscles might be transformed during the inflamma- tory process into amoeboid cells. Hansen (ib., 212) carried out the same experiments on the cornea of rabbits and cats, and finds that hand- in-hand with the appearance of young cells the corneal corpuscles change their form, and at last entirely disappear, while their nuclei undergo division. Carraalt and Strieker (ib., 4^8) set up inflammation in the cornea of frogs and rabbits by passing a string through the centre of the cornea and through the sclerotic, and give the results of their observations on the formation of the blood-vessels, which in the former animals took place in frona thirteen to fifteen days, and in the latter from five to eight, after the string was introduced. Genersich (ib., i) thinks, from his experiments, that the so-called fixed corneal cells correspond to true spaces, which communicate by branching canals, and in which the wandering cells can move. ilurante s experiments (ib., 321) were made in reference to (i) the physiological nutrition of the walls of vessels, (2) the change taking place pathologically and anatomically during the process of acute in- ammation in them, and (3) the relation between the inner tunic andREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 34 tlie blood in ligatured portions of vein. He finds that the endothe- lium, the muscle-cells, and the connective-tissue corpuscles, all take part in the proliferation which occurs in inflammation of the wall of the vein; and in reference to the third point, the blood in the ligatured portion remained fluid as long as no changes took place in the endothe- lium, hut coagulated immediately the latter became inflamed. Samuel has made numerous experiments into the results obtained by the injection of various secretions, &c. A reference to his papers will he found below. G-uterbock (‘ Arch. f. Klin. Cbir.,’ xiii, 240) answers the remarks made by Gussenbauer (ib., xii, 811) on his former work regarding the more delicate processes which take place in the healing ot wounds in the cornea by primary intention. Bizzozero (‘ Giaz. Med. Ital. Lomh.,’ 1871, 62) calls attention to the fact, already observed by Buhl, Bemak, Eberth, and others, that in pus, especially when it has been taken from an epithelial or epidermal sur- face, certain large bodies may be seen enclosing a nucleus, and some- times a very large number of cells, unlike the pus-cells, either in their appearance or chemical reaction. He opposes the endogenous develop- ment of these cells, as put forward by the above writers. In the puru- lent contents, mixed with blood, of the anterior chamber of the eye, he has found large cells containing red blood-cells. , Duval (‘ Arch. d. Phys.,’ 1872, iv, 168) strongly opposes Cohnheim s views as to the origin of pus. He holds that the “ plasmatic cells^ 01 the cornea do not remain fixed, but undergo hypertrophy and prolifera- tion, and that the appearances of cells having passed through the blood- vessels in the mesentery is due to the mechanical rupture 01 lym- phatic sacs in the operation of withdrawing the membrane from the Norris (‘Proc. Boy. Soc.,’ xiv, 556) concludes—i. Both white and red corpuscles pass out of the vessels through apertures, which can neither be seen before their ingress into, or after their egress from, the vessel-wall, but only during the period of transit. 2 An essen- tially primary step in the process is that the corpuscles shall adhere, or, more properly, cohere, to the wall of the vessel. 3. These cohering corpuscles shall subsequently be subjected to pressure from within. V Mosengeil, “ Beobachtungen iiber ortlicbe Warme-Entwickelimg bei Entziin- dunee^’‘A?ch. f. Klin. Cbir ’ xiii, 70. Samuel. “Die Subcutaue Wirkung der Secrete,’” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871. 43.1- W;. “ j, • j *90^ Tfl T^iiti'idGs Gift in (Icn feputis^ id. 435* ^ 1871, 1, 473- S’ , gg Bizzozero, “Saggio di Studio sulla cosidctta rirnrik M.?I ..TbeP,th.,o.yof ma... matik” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 155-CONTAGION AND INFECTION. 35 Contagion and Infection. Cliauveau (‘Compt. Eend.,’ Ixxiii, ii6; ‘ Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1871, p. 181) had already (see last ‘Bienn. Eep.,’ p. 35) shown that the con- tagious property in poisonous fluids consists of solid particles held in suspension by them. His experiments were made in the three following sets:— 1. If a poisonous fluid capable by injection under the epidermis of pro- ducing a well-marked and circumscribed local lesion of the skin be mixed with a large quantity of water ; and if this fresh solution be employed for inoculation, the lesion is either not produced at all, or it is produced with exactly the same characters. In a certain number of inoculations, all made under exactly the same conditions, a greater or less number were unsuccessful according to the degree of dilution of the fluid. 2. The solution having been washed and filtered, and the corpuscles thus separated, inoculation with the precipitate was successful, while with the filtrate it failed; consequently, the solid particles alone, i. e. without serum, possess the property of contagion. 3. If a poisonous liquid be covered with a layer of distilled water, the substance in solution in the former is rapidly diffused. Inocula- tion with this water gives negative results. Chauveau has attempted to prove that the same holds good for air : that poisonous substances are not dissolved in it, but suspended in it in the form of small particles. The poisonous substance was put into a capsule standing on a flat disk of glass and covered with a small bell glass or cylinder. The whole was placed on a sand bath heated to 40° C. (104° F.). The evaporated fluid was condensed on the walls of the cylinder, the condensation being furthered by moistening the latter with ether. He made the experiments chiefly with variola and sheep- pox, always with the same result, that inoculation with the distilled fluid had no eff’ect. He also repeated the experiments with the poison of epizootic typhus (cattle plague?) with the same negative results, having inoculated with the water extracted from fluids supposed to he extremely virulent, e.g. the tears, the discharge from the nose, and the matters from the diarrhoea stools. In another and a very long paper (‘ Gaz. Heb.,’ 1871, viii, 638) the same writer concludes from numerous experiments that small organisms do not occur either in the blood or in the pathological products of infec- tious disease. The experiments were made with fresh lymph and the blood and pus of variola, the sheep-pox, glanders, and cattle plague. The specifac poison of an infectious disease resides in its cell-elements. In summing up the paper he lays down that— Among contagious diseases there is a large class of maladies nronerlv called parasitic, due to the presence and the multiplication of minute animals and vegetables (trichinae ; psorosperms of the silkworm, &c.). Ihese are not to be placed among the virulent or poisonous Another class is composed of the septic diseases, which ought to be looked upon as produced by the rapid multiplication in the blood ermen ing proto-organisms, by whose decomposition more or less severe poisoning is set up. ^36 RBPOllT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. Lastly, there is a class, the subject of his present paper, which com- prehends the poisonous affections, distinguished from the preceding by the fact that their intimate cause is to be found only in the granular protoplasm of the new formations. Sanderson (‘Thirteenth Rep. Med. Off. Privy Coun.,’ app. p. 48, and ‘ Quart. Journ. of Micr. Science,’ xi, 323), assisted by Perrier, has further investigated the conditions under which microzymes (bacteria) are developed in various solutions, and in organic tissues and liquids. The experiments are given in full, and lead to the following conclusions, whereas fungi (torula, &c.) may be transmitted from one solution to another by means of the air, such is not the case with microzymes ; there is no developmental connection between the two, and their apparent association is one of mere juxtaposition. If proper precautions, boiling the solution, e.g. Pasteur’s, and rinsing the vessel with boiling water, are taken, the solution may be exposed for a length of time in an open vessel without any development in it of bacteria, while there will occur a free’growth of penicillium. If a drop of ordinary distilled water be added to the solution used, bacteria will be developed in abundance ; but such development will not follow if the distilled water be pre- ^Thi^same'^writer (‘Nature,’, 1873, Jan. 9) relates minutely fifteen experiments made in his presence by Bastian with infusions of hay and turnip He is content to have established, at all events, to his own satisfaction, “that by following Bastian’s directions, infusions can be prepared which are not deprived by an ebullition of from five to ten minutes, of the faculty of undergoing those chemical changes which are characterised by the presence of swarms of bacteria, and that the development of these organisms can proceed with the greatest activity in hermetically sealed glass vessels,^^ from which almost the whole of the air has been expelled by boiling.” ^ i 1 j Lostorfer (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’1871,45Qbasdeve oped organisms resembling sarcina ventriculi from the blood of several healthy persons. He insists that they are not introduced from without, and tries to support his view by reference to cases recorded by Virchow, Zenke?!^ and Cohnheim; as to the occurrence of sarcina m the ^Terrier (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 98) has sarcin® in the Wood of man. rabbits, cats, dogs, and frogs drawn 7“^!^ vosaols and placed under a temperature of 100 He agrees wi Lostorfer as5o the presence of numerous tefraefr™ or in pairs from which sarcina are developed ; and he Suds that the vLwne mnicles coustautlj seen in fresh fa tivatWn.S assume the characters of sarcinm, w.th wWch he holds them llLtian^ft'' ia3) holds that the blood is not the only source of sar^it.” 'refrier^L dispo.^^^ rce r LThe^he prese:ce‘'’:f T phosphate m the fluid in which Ne*p/eu c Gas. Med.,’ .87c, 3a) has found bacteria (iS.CONTAGION AND INFECTION. J37 Ehrenb.) in the blood of four patients affected with erysipelas, and remarks on the diffusion of the poison. Bennet (J. Henry) illustrates, from his own personal history (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, ^37), the fact stated by Paget, that poisonous fluids can exert tlieir influence on the body by imbibition through the skin without any breach of continuity. On several occasions the poison, from post- mortem and uterine examinations, seemed to pass down a hair into^ a hair-bulb; at any rate, a hair was always in the centre of the painful spot. Erysipelas of the arm and chest followed, with considerable con- stitutional disturbance. In a lecture on “Dust and Disease” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,!, 661), Tyndall, after some experiments and observations on the polari- sation of light by fine dust, by the sky and the coarser particles of smoke, referred to the theory as to the parasitic character of contagious disease. He believes strongly in the use of a respirator in infectious places. In one constructed for him the air enters the mouth through cotton wool, and by a light valve, which is lifted by respiration, the expired breath passing out by a second valve. Liveing (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 365) holds that the poison of contagious diseases is an organised poison, each organic particle of which must have a definite period of existence, and then die a natural death, only able to propagate its species during a comparatively short period of its existence. Allowing the difficulty of proving the same for the malarial poison, he yet thinks that its vegetable origin is shown by the facts of the localisation of this poison to certain districts, of the necessary condition of a certain elevation of temperature for its de- velopment, and of the apparent incompatibility of its coexistence with the central part of well-populated towns. It seems as if the congre- gating together of inhabited houses effectually excludes the virus. He illustrates this statement from Eome. Here the central part of the city is perfectly free, at all seasons of the year, from malarial poison, though it abounds in a concentrated form almost within a stone’s throw of those spots which are perfectly healthy. ^ Eimer, “ Beber die Ei- oder Kugelformigen sogenanuteri Psorospermien derWirbel- tbiere, Ein Beitrag zur Enfcwickelungs-geschicbte der Gregariuen und zur Kecntniss dieser Parasiten als Krankheitsursache,” Wurzburg. Bastian, “ Epidemic and Specific Contagious Diseases,” ‘Brit.Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii,400. Id., “TheModesof Oiiginof Lowest Organisms; including a Discussion of the Experiments of M. Pasteur, and a reply to some statements by Professors Huxley and Tyndall,” London and New York, 1871. Condie, “Immunity from the Action of Morbific Agents” (effects of revac- cination), ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 124. HaUier, “ Die Parasiten der Infections- krankheiten, ‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde,” iii, 157. Weigert, “ Ueber Bacterien m der Pockenhaut,” ‘Centralbl.,’ 1871, 609. Lex, “Ueber Fermentwirkung der Bactenen, ib^ 1872, 291. Waldeyer and Cohn, “ Uber Bacterien und Vibrionen,” TTnf* ’ 1"^' 532- Manassein (M.), “ Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Hete und ztm Lehre von der Alkobolisclien Gahrung,” Stuttgart. Manassein (W.), Penicillium glaucum und fiber den Einfiuss T onppp f ®“*wickelung dieses letztereu,” Stuttgart. Sanderson, “On into the Coti k' 1871, i, i. Marcet, “ An Experimental Enquiry Nutrition of Muscular Tissue,” ‘ Proc\ thpUo “ Uutersucbungen fiber die anorganischeu Bestand- S 1. MW f’, .. 425. Kanse. Du roie dosMicrozouir et c.es Microphytes dans le Geiiese, I’Evolution, et la Pn Pans, 1870, pp. 124. Propagation des Maladies/'38 IIKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Inoculahility of Tubercle. Tuherculosis ? Paraskeva and Zallonis (‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 197) give the results of five experiments on rabbits, which confirm Villemiu’s researches. Tu- bercular matter mixed with the food, or inoculated, provoked deposits of the same kind in the lungs. In a sixth experiment on a fisherman, who was suffering from gangrene of the great toe, dependent on obliteration of the femoral artery, they inoculated him with tuberculous matter in the upper part of his thigh. He died thirty-seven days later, and tubercles were discovered in his lungs and liver. Panse, who transmits the notes of these cases, rightly insists on the frequency with which “ tubercles” are found unexpectedly at post-mortem examinations. Biffi and Verga (“ JSTuovi tentativi d’inoculazione del tubercolo grigio,” ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1871, 272), working in the Veterinary College at Milan, inoculated two mules, a cow, two sheep, and two dogs, with grey tubercle taken from human subjects, which was rubbed up in water and injected hypodermically. The place at which the fluid was introduced became inflamed and oedematous. The cow was killed two months, the other animals three months after the operation, but not a trace of tubercle was found in either of them. Sangalli seems to have obtained the same negative results in his experiments on twelve mice. Papillon, ISTicol, and Laveran (“Kecherches experimentales sur I’inoculation de la tuberculose,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 342) have re- peated the experiments of Cohnheim and Prankel on rabbits and guinea- pigs. The results agree with those obtained by these observers, by Cdin, Vulpian, Clark, Lebert, Empis, Fox, Sanderson, andWalden- burg,and distinctly contradict the idea defended by Villemin as to the specific nature of tubercle. Cheesy matter is in all their cases, they think, the first starting-point of the general tuberculosis. The lymph- glands in the neighbourhood of the original wound were always the first to undergo the cheesy change. They have never been able to produce an eruption of tubercles on serous membranes. Bogolowsky (“Beitrag zur Impfung mit tuberkulosen Massen,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871,97) made parallel experiments on rabbits with so- called tuberculous pus, cheesy matter, and miliary tubercle. Both sets had symptoms of fever : the latter ceased after a few days in those inoculated with poisoned serum ; in the rest symptoms of inflammation followed, resulting generally in death. The most frequent appearances found were purulent bronchitis, with circumscribed purulent deposits in the lungs, and sometimes in the liver. Crisp (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 312) vaccinated eight hens twice, and subsequently inoculated them with smallpox matter. Five died in the course of the year, and presented, post-mortem, the appearances of general tuberculosis. ^ Goodhart’s experiments (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvu, 305) on guinea pip and rabbits do not add much to what has already been shown in the inoculation of tubercle by former observers. Nor do the cases he has recorded as occurring in the human subject throw any further light on the presence, together, of miliary tuberculosis and cheesy deposits or pus whatever views may be held as to the connection between the two.TEMPERATURE AND FEVER. 39 The eleventh case, that of a man whose affection seems to have "been probably phthisis ex hsemoptysi, is imperfect. Yet the author relies upon this case as a typical example of a class ‘‘ made up all cases ot acute tuberculosis, where no existing cause in the shape of pus can be discovered.” He thinks that all chronic pneumonic changes consist m part of adenoid formation. , . , n Birch-Hirschfeld (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, ^oi) records eight cases ot miliary tuberculosis occurring after typhoid fever, with a full description of the microscopical appearances found ; and another case ot the same affection (ib. 556) following epididymitis in a soldier aged 24. Mandl, “ Du Tubercule compare a quelques autres Produits pathologiques,” ‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,' xxxv, 823. Fonssagrives, “ Du role de I’Blemeut inflammatoire dans le Production des Tubercules pulmonaires,” ib., 827. Klein, “Quelques Con- siderations sur laTuberculose,” ‘ Th^se de Strasbourg,’ 1870. Moxou, “ Inflammation and Tubercle,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 64 and 153. Temperature and Fever. Pilz (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 414) finds that the temperatures taken in the rectum of healthy children almost confirm the fact found also in adults: that the temperature rises from the first hours of the morning towards noon, reaches its highest in the first hours of the afternoon, and then in the evening begins to sink again. As a rule the elevation is not continuous but interrupted. The greatest rise occurs in the hours from 7 to 8, or even up to 9 a.m. The fall of the temperature begins as Pinlayson had already shown (see last ‘ Bien. Rep.’) almost always at six, seldom at seven in the evening. This fall is generally more sudden than in adults; the difference in temperature amounts in the first hour sometimes to i‘i°. The night temperatures, which are incomplete, agree with those given by Pinlayson. Manassein (‘ Pfliiger’s Archiv,’ iv, 283) subjected rabbits to swinging, the swing making from twenty-eight to thirty double vibrations in the minute. In all cases the temperature fell: its maximum fall being i'2° C., its minimum o'3° C., and its mean o'66° C. The effect was distinct in fifteen minutes, and lasted from half an hour to two hours. The tendency to sleep was very marked. The animals were closely enveloped in wool before swinging, to prevent any fallacy in the experiment of mere depression of temperature from renewal of the air ; parallel expe- riments with and without wool are given. As a more practical experi- ment he injected decomposing matter into rabbits, thus causing pyrexia, and by swinging them afterwards, reduced their temperature even to the normal degree. Prom experiments made on 174 different animals the same writer (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 689) concludes that circumstances that increase the temperature of the body diminish the size of the red blood-cells, as lor instance septicaemic poisoning, exposure to a high temperature, or inclosure in a space surcharged with carbonic acid ; while on the other hai^l breathing oxygen, exposure of the whole body to cold, the administration of hydrochlorate of quinine, hydrocyanic acid, and alcohol, which lower the temperature, cause also an increase in the sizeREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 40 of the red cells. Hydrochlorate of morphia formed an exception, causing diminution of temperature, and of the size of the red cells. This is to be explained probably by the inhibitory influence this drug exerts on the respiration (carbonic acid poisoning). Lastly, acute anaemia (blood- letting from an artery) causes increase in the size of the cells. In a more or less popular paper on the “Effect of Exercise upon the Bodily Temperature” (‘Alpine Journ.,’ 1871, May), Allbutt thinks that in his own case two depressions of temperature—one during a descent, the other during a gentle ascent of lower slopes—were due to lack of fuel. He thinks that with a full and assimilating stomach, good heart and lungs, a warm-blooded animal is not liable to lose the balance of his forces during wholesome exertion. He thinks that the thermo- meter is the best test of the latter in different persons. From his own case he concludes that hard exercise in a mountainous district accele- rates the morning rise, carrying it '2° or ‘^° above the average level of health ; that it also favours an earlier occurrence of the evening fall, it the exertion be ended, carrying it '1° or, perhaps, ‘2° below usual night level; and that any depression during exertion signifies either deficiency of food or inefiiciency of internal work (and see ‘ Proc. Eoy. Soc.,’ xix, 289). Mignot (“ L’abaissment de la temperature comme signe de mort ‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1871, 676), after remarking that Laborde had asserted that the temperature during life never fell below 30° C. (86° E.), allows his observation to be right as far as it has reference to adults. The researches of Eoger, Hervieux and Mignot himself, show that in newly born children, whether affected or not with sclerema, death was pre- ceded by a period of gradually increasing depression of temperature, the thermometer descending sometimes as low as 23 C. (41 4 concludes that a depression of 5° below the normal carries with it a fatal prognosis. He thinks that the fact may be useful in determining death, and suggests that a line should be marked on thermometers made on purpose, at 30° and 21°; and that no certificate of death should be given till the axillary temperature has been proved to have fallen as low as the first number in adults and the second in the newly born. Liebermeister, Virchow, and Senator indulge in a discussion on tem- perature and the means of regulating it: the references to their papers may be found below. 1- ^ i Pudzinowitsch (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 211) gives the results of twelve experiments on the relation of the cutaneous perspiration to temperature in febrile conditions, without any certain conclusions. Vergely (‘Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1871, 489) case of intense headache, accompanied by elevation of temperature. A girl, apd 21, had complained for two or three months of pain m the pad, attacking her at first at intervals, but constant for several days before her pmis- Sion into hospital. The whole head was affected, but espcially the supra-orbital and temporal regions. She complamed also of pain in t le lumbar region. Her pulse was 90 ; but there was nothing n her general state otherwise. The temperature during the first five fkvs reLhed 30-8° 0. (io3°‘6 E.) and40° C. (104° E.), and wappom- panied by irregular and frequent pulse. On the cessation of the hea -TEMPERATURE AND FEVER. 41 ache after seventeen days, tlie morning temperature was 35-4° tpe evening 37*2° (98-9° F.). His remarks on the cause of the elevation of temperature are scarcely precise. Murchison, writing on the “ period of incubation of typhus, relapsing fever, and enteric fever” (‘ St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 23) concludes that, 1, the period of incubation of typhus varies in duration in different cases, in a large proportion of tliem being about twelve days, rarely, if ever, exceeding three weeks, and occasionally being entirely absent, the symptoms in the last case commencing almost at the instant of expo- sure to the poison; that, 2, the period of incubation of relapsing fever is more variable, and, on the whole, shorter than that of typhus, a latent period also not occurring in some cases; that, 3, the period of incubation of enteric fever is most commonly about two weeks, though it may be less, not exceeding one or two days. He suggests that the period of incu- bation may vary according as the poison is introduced by the alimentary canal or by the lungs. Begbie (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xviii, 249) calls attention to the “swelled leg of fevers.” He first sketches the history of the affection from its earliest notice by Burke and Cheyne, in 1821, to the present time, and shows that a swelling of the lower extremity different from ordinary oedema or anasarca has been recognised by various writers as occurring in the advanced stages of typhus and typhoid fevers. It has never been described as a sequela of relapsing fever. From a general view of cases recorded by others, and those observed by himself, he considers himself warranted in classifying them as follows :—i, cases dependent on vas- cular obstruction (a) venous or (i) lymphatic ; 2, cases in which in- flammation of the areolar tissue exists. He gives shortly cases in illus- tration of these three varieties, and refers in conclusion to the treat- ment, which consists in rest, bandaging, anodyne fomentations, the ap- plication of leeches, a general dietetic regulation, and the careful watching of any complications which may arise. Liebermeister, “Zur Lebre von der Warmeregulirung,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 123. Virchow, “Wirkung kalter Bader und Warmeregulirung,” ib., ib., 133. Lieber- ineister, “ Wirkung kalter Bader (i) “ Ein Brief an den Herausgeber;” (2) “ Ant- wort des Herausgebers,” ib., ib., 432. Senator, “Kritisches hber die Lehre von der Warmeregulirung,” ih., liii, iii. Liebermeister, “Nochmals zur Lehre von der Warmeregulirung,” ib., ih., 434. Id., “Untersuchungen iiher die quantitativen Veranderungen der Kohlensaure-production beim Menschen ” (second article), ‘Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 153. SilujanolF, “Zur Eieherlehre (Experiments on the changes in quantity of Carbonic Acid, Nitrogen, and Chlorine, in artificially induced Eever),” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 327. Manassein, “ Chemische Beitrage zur Eieherlehre,” ‘ Cen- tralbl.,’ 1871, 852. Decaisne, “De la Temperature chez I’Enfant Malade,” ‘ Gaz. Med., 1871, 197. Hawkes, “Observations on the Temperature of the Insane,” Lancet, 1872, i, 429. Demarquay, “Modifications imnrimeea a la Tcmnpral-.iirA ‘Centralbl.,’ 1871, 402. Senator, “ Ueher Warmehildung und btoftwechsel im gesunden und fieberhaften Zustande,” ib., 737. Gatzuck, “ UeberIIEPOIIT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE, 4^ deii Einflusa dcr Blutentleevung au£ die Circulation nnd die Temperatur des Korpers,” il>M 833. Ogle, “On the Temperature in certain Affections of the Nervous System, hut especially in Tetanus; with Observations and Notes on the Influence of Remedies upon the Temperature of the Body,” ‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ 1872, v, 71. Nunneley, “ On the Modifications produced in the Temperature of the Body by the local application of Cold and Heat,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 303. Gee, “ On the Heat of the Body,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 271, &c. Bradley, “Effect of Rocking on Temperature,” ib., ii, 725. Squire, “Observations on the Temperature of the Body in Health and Disease,” ib. i, 32. Wilks, “ The Use and Abuse of the term ‘ Fever,’ ” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 10. Jessett, “Cold Water Treatment of Fevers,” ib., ii, 655. Wiuternitz, “Der Einfluss von Warmeentziehungen auf die Warme production,” Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1871, 180, and ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, 170. Infection from Poison of Animals. Terry, “ Wasp-stings (two cases, one of a lady stung in the mouth, the other swell- ing of a leg from foot to knee, from sting in the calf),” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 255. Drury, “Wasp-stings” (seven cases, with treatment), ib., 351. “Death from the Sting of a Bee” (female, set. 55), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 135. Posada-Arango, “ Le Poison de Rainette des sauvages duChoco,” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xvi, 203. Id., “Note sur lbs Scorpions de la Columbia,” ib., ib., 213. Fayrer, “On the Action of the Cobra Poison,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 623. Anderson, “ On the Use of the Bromide of Potassium in Rattlesnake Bites,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixiii, 366. Wright, “On the Katipo or Poisonous Spider of New Zealand,” ‘Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ xlviii, 227. Sylrofliohia. In a preliminary article on tlie pathology of hydrophobia Eudnew (‘Centralbl.,’ 1871,321) asserts that the presence of foreign bodies, straw, hairs, &c., is not, as is generally assumed, an indication of the disease ; that it is by no means constant, and is not a diagnostic sign. He has examined microscopically all the organs in the bodies of dogs which died from or were killed during an attack of rabies. He holds that it, like almost all other infectious diseases, is connected with a pro- found disturbance of all the important organs. He confines himself in this article to the kidneys; in all his cases there was a highly deve- loped parenchymatous infiammation; the peculiarity of which was that both cortical and pyramidal portions were alike affected, presenting all the conditions necessary for the production of uraemia. He thinks it extremely probable that the latter may be the cause of many of the symptoms. A second peculiarity was the degenerative character of the nephritis; in the most advanced and fatal stage of the disease the urinary tubules were completely bare of epithelium, and filled with a granular, fatty, degenerated materia,!. , o • q Allbutt showed to the Pathological Society (‘ Lancet, 1872, 1, 82 ; ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 17) microscopic specimens from the cerebral convolutions, the central ganglia, the medulla oblongata, and the cord, from two cases of hydrophobia. The same morbid conditions, in dif- ferent degrees, were found throughout:—!, evidences of great vascular congestion with transudation into the surrounding tissues ; 2, hemor- rhages of various size, with apparent fibrous exudation ; 3, small gaps due to disintegration of nerve-strands. The spleen was enlarged in both cases. McGill, “ Two Cases of Hydropbobia,” ‘ in Hydrophobia,” ib., 1872, i, S37‘ Elder, Lancet,’ 1871, i, 537- Sainter, “Cliloral “ Cases of Hydrophobia, with remarks,”43 MENINGITIS CEREBRO-SPINALIS. ‘Rrit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, ii. 642. Fothergill “ Case of HydrophoMa Romnrks ” ib ii 264 Ellis, “ Two Cases of Hydrophobia treated by Hydrate ot tSonir’’ib.^l 474. ^Brumwell, » Case of Hydrophobia following the Bite of a Cat,” ib. ii 414. ’Lafont, “ Observation d’un cas de rage ” (five months after bite of mad dog, premonitory symptoms two days, well-marked hydroph^ia, and death twenty- ibiT; honrs later), ‘ Gaz. des H8p.,’ 1871, 542- Bass “ZweiFaUe von Lyssa (with autopsies), ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 217. Auchenthaler, ‘ Em Fall von Lyssa (m <^irl, ffit. 6 years, from bite of cat, two months’ incubation, autopsy),_ Jahrb. f. Kinderkr.,’ i8ji, p. 222. Verri, “ II Cloralio nell’Idrofobia,” ‘ Annali Univ. di Med., vol. 218, p. 340. Hay Fever. Waters (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 4) gives his experience of hay fever as it attacks himself. He found in very hot dry summers he was free from the affection, while he suffered from it most in warm and moist weather. One of his symptoms was insomnia, marked by a peculiar periodicity; no matter what time he went to bed he could get no sleep before half-past three or four o’clock; after that time he slept soundly till seven or eight. ‘ Grueneau de Mussy (‘ Sur la Ehino-bronchite spasmodique ou fi^vre de foin;’ ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1872, ix, 9) insists on its relation to gout. He thinks that hay fever represents a process taking place upon the mucous membrane of the nose and bronchi, akin to certain eruptions observed on the skin of gouty patients. In support of his view he gives ten cases where individuals who had either had gout themselves, or in whose families gouty affections were frequent, were attacked with hay fever regularly every summer, the attacks alternating in part with the attacks of gout. Several times afterwards an exanthem, an urticaria or a pity- riasis appeared on the head, and extended to the cavities of the nose and mouth. Berber (‘ Arch, de Heilk.,’ xii, 555), in referring to Helmholtz’s ex- perience (see last ‘ Biennial Eep.,’ 51), finds the same good effects from the employment of a solution of quinine, but is inclined to look upon the affection not as due to the presence of parasites, but as a neurosis of the vagus allied to whooping-cough. Thompson, “Notes of a Lecture on Hay Fever,” ‘Brit. Med. .Tourn.,’ 1871, i, 58. Feargus, “Treatment of Hay Fever by Sulphurous Acid,” ib., ib., 90. Dengue {Breahbone Fever ; Bhewnatic Scarlatina'). Poggio, “ La Calentura roja observada en sus apariciones epidemicas de los anos 1865 y 1867, Madrid, 1871 (for review and full abstracts from this work see ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xvi, 146, and “Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ 1872, January, p. 151). “The Epidemic of Dengue at Aden, ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 652. Vauvray, “La Dengue a Port-Said et a Aden,” ‘ Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xvii, p. 75. ^Meningitis Cerehro-spinalis. Eulenberg (“IJeber Meningitis Cerebro-spinalis in Eegierungsbezirke Koln ; Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 63) writes on the spread of cerebro- spinal meningitis in the district of Cologne during the autumn and winter of 1863. The affection was of a truly epidemic character; iu all there were forty-two cases of it, presenting the general symptoms44. REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. and course of the disease. Whether it be possible to divide it into several forms, as has been proposed (inflammatory, abortive, apoplectic and paralytic), remains undecided. The author thinks that the variations in the course of the disease should be referred partly to the influence of individual constitutions and tendencies, partly to pre- vailing aflections (“ constitutio anni” of Sydenham.—Itep.). He calls attention to the unmistakable presence, in all the cases observed, of a rheumatic cause and the coincidence of the epidemic with the com- paratively frequent occurrence of “ rheumatic tetanus.” The treat- ment consisted of attention to the individual case, local bleedings, cold applications to the head, and the employment of calomel or narcotics as the case demanded. Kotsonopulos (“ Bericht fiber die in Nauplia im Anfange des Jahres 1869 aufgetretene Meningitis cerebro-spinalis epidemica ‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 6^) gives an account of an epidemic of this affection which broke out in Greece in the winter of 1868-69. Nauplia was attacked earliest and most violently. The first cases were diagnosed as those of pernicious malarial fever, or simple meningitis. After tracing the spread of the disease, the writer describes its symptoms and course ; the affections of the joints frequently preceding the meningeal symptoms ; the injection of the conjunctivse and eyelids at the commencement of the disease, noticed in almost all cases; the remittent or intermittent cha- racter of the disease; the furious delirium, which drove the patients not only from their beds but into the street. Generally speaking, the disease set in suddenly without any prodromal symptoms. The arti- cular pains were almost always present, generally attacking the wrist or knee-joint, or both at the same time. The pain was increased by pressure, the joint was swollen and sometimes red, and fluctuation could be detected. The joint affection began sometimes before the meningeal symptoms, or on the second or third day, and continued throughout the attack. The tetanic cramp of the muscles of the neck and back was a characteristic and, so to speak, a pathognomonic symptoms. Clonic cramps and convulsions occurred in young children. Paralysis of any kind, with the exceptions of blepharoptosis and stra- bismus occurred rarely. Other symptoms on the part of the different organs are given in full. In almost all cases the affection was ushered in by a rigor of varying length and intensity, which often recurred in an intermittent form. But little light is thrown on the etiology of the disease or on its treatment. Of ninety-three persons attacked the greater number, twenty-six, were between the ages of ten and twenty years, and of these the largest number between ten and hfteen. ihe author concludes that it is a specific infectious disease, not allied, as some assert, to typhoid and malarial affections. Eussell refers (‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xv, 302) to the occurrence of seven cases of spinal meningitis, in New York, within three days; three proved fatal. StaAthasren “Ueber Meningitis Cerebrospinalis, mit besonderer Beriicksichtiping der leSeto ‘Diss. inaug Berlin.’ Maier, “Bin Selteuer Fall von Meningitis Cerebrospinalis (female child, set. 6 months) ‘JaS-b f Sder v, 109°. Alix, “ Epidemic de Meningite Cerebrospinale,45 YELTiOW PEVEU. SSt'itrMydik/rfa Cord” (wiman, TeniBini “ Un caso sporadico e fulmiuante di Menmgite CerelMOspmale (gi , ■. yS wi«i autopsy), ‘ Gaz. Med. Ital. Lombard,' 1872, 237. Habersho^ pisease of the Aortic ValvLf Ulceration of the Valves; Acute Cerebrospinal Meningitis, Ossified Aneurisinal sac at the Commencement of the Aortic Valves (man, mt. 45), < Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ N. S., xvii, 440. Intermittent Fever. Boisseau (‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 200) records a case of transitory aphasia accompanying an attack of intermittent fever. The patient, a soldier, set. 21, had suffered from the latter affection in 1866, while m Cochin China. The attacks recurred every three or four days, while he was in Belgium, after the battle of Sedan, and again in 1871. At this latter period, without any paralysis of the face or limbs, the attacks were accompanied by an aphasia which returned at regular intervals. The same thing had happened during the former attacks of ague. Bazin (‘ Gaz. desHop.,’ 1871, 286) gives a case of intra-uterine ague. The mother was suffering from tertian ague at the time of her confine- ment, and gave birth to a female child during one of the attacks. Nearly a month later, and for some time afterwards, the child had regularly every night attacks of coldness and paleness, yawned, and stretched its limbs, and a little later became red and burning hot, its respiration increasing in frequency; it then fell into a sleepy condition, during which it refused the breast; towards morning the heat left it, and it again resought its natural food. At the same time there was great enlargement of the spleen and oedema of the feet, face, eyelids, &c. He calls attention to the latter, which he considers a great aid in the diagnosis of ague in young children (!). Longhi, “Della Malaria e delle Febri Intermittente,” ‘Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 253. Galt, “Description of an Epidemic Malarial Colic which prevailed at Iquitos, Peru, in the autumn of 1871,” ‘Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,’ Ixiii (1872), 368. Senator, “ Ueber die Beziehungen zwischen Febris Intermittens und Recurrens,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 379 (abstracted under latter fever). Curschmann, “ Bemerkungen fiber die Behandlung des Wechselfiebers mit Carbolsaure,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ix. 120. Biebuyck, “Note pour servir a I’Histoire de la Fievre Intermittente en Mexique,” ‘Rec. de Mem. de MM. Milit.,’ xxvi, 60. Donaud, “De I’iode centre la Fievre Intermittente,’’ ‘ Gaz. Hehd.,’ 1871,434. Pasta e Rotondi, “ Sulla virtu Medicamen- tosa del Citrato di Chiniodina,’’ ‘Annal. Univ. di Med.,’ vol. 218, p. 609. Roy, “On the Therapeutical Action of Quinine on Malaria,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 243. Gee, “ The Urinary Phosphates in Ague,” ‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ viii (1872), 32. Yellow Fever. Munro (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 201) gives some notes on cases of yellow fever, which occurred between September, 1868, and January, 1870, in the usually very healthy island of St. Kitt’s. All the evidence he has been able to collect inclines him strongly to the correctness of the “ infection theory,” though he does not reject the idea that it can also originate de novo. He believes, indeed, that the first of the cases he gives probably arose in this way, the atmospheric and bad hygienic con- ditions which surrounded it acting as causes. The first case was that46 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of a boy, S0t. 7 who, two weeks before he was attacked, had been brought to the town of Basseterre from G-renada, at which place, so far as the author could discover, there was no yellow fever at the time. Fresh cases occurred in the neighbourhood of the house in which this patieut died. Ihe disease spread gradually from house to house and from place to place round the whole island. One hundred and eight people in all were attacked, of whom forty-four, or 407 per cent., died. Europeans, and especially those just come out, seemed most susceptible; then the Portuguese, nearly all natives of Madeira. Munro thinks that a “ fiBcal cause” for the disease may be found in the fact that the greater part of the town of Basseterre had been destroyed by fire in July, 1867, which, by burning down the privies, left their pits open, the necessary atmospheric conditions for the production of the fever not occurring till fifteen months later. He gives an account of a number of the cases and tables of the rainfall, barometric pressure, &c. Sullivan, in his “ Notes on the Yellow Fever, as observed at Havana in 1870” (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 304), gives a very full account of its different forms, its symptoms, and its treatment. He remarks that in fatal cases jaundice is as certain after death as albuminuria during life. He draws attention to the means of diagnosing between the true black vomit and deep-coloured bile; linen steeped in the former gives a.histre tres trancMe ; in bile, a green or deep yellow. As to the nature of yellow fever, he considers it a pestilential one, having two distinct phases—one of reaction against the infectious poison, con- stituting sometimes the entire malady, and very like an infectious fever ; the other, of depression or adynamic ataxia, counterfeiting nervous haemorrhagic putrid fevers. Hiron (ib., 1871, ii, 124) gives a long and more or less confused account of the epidemic of yellow fever in the Fiver Plate districts in 1870 and 1871. It had already shown itself at Ascension in the summer of 1869-70, and in April of the latter year had appeared at Buenos Ayres. As far as could be discovered it had been imported into both places from Rio Janeiro, but did not spread far at the time. During the next summer it broke out in both places and at Corrientes. Buenos Ayres has a population of about 180,000. Of these, 100,000 fled at the beginning of the outbreak; of those that remained three fourths sickened and one fourth died. There seems no doubt that the disease was imported from Brazil, most probably aided by insufficient quarantine arrangements. Both Monte Video and Rosario, at which places quarantine was carefully observed, were free from the disease. The writer discusses the effect of the atmospheric conditions. The Italian part of the population, who are the poorest, and inhabit the worst quarters of Buenos Ayres, suffered most, and the affection was especially fatal among children. The post-mortem appearances and the symp- toms are similar to those already recorded, and, as far as treatment is concerned, the writer agrees with Sullivan. Eulenberg (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 174) writes on the epidemic of yellow fever in Rio Janeiro during the years 1869 and 1870. The summers of these years and of 1868 had been marked by great dryness47 CHOLEEA. and absence of storms, and the soil-water stood extraordinarily deep ; at the same time the epidemic was preceded, as in former years, by an epidemic of Dengue, which Nageli and others look upon only as an aborted form of yellow fever. As usually is the case, the poorest and filthiest inhabitants suffered most, the epidemic spread- ing rapidly among the suspected coal-ships in the harbour; 599 patients were treated in hospital between Eeb. 4 and March 18, 1870, and of these 99 (i7'8 per cent.) died. The ‘Pall Mall Gazette’ gives (Feb. 2, 1872, 5 [76^]) the following : —“ In an interesting report, lately issued by the health officer of the port of Charleston, South Carolina, the cause of yellow fever in that city is traced to putrefying organic matter. It appears that the soil on which the city stands is sandy and porous, and consequently well cal- culated to conceal poisonous gases, and that the sewerage is altogether defective. Last year, when the epidemic raged more severely among the coloured residents than it had been known to do previously for thirty years, the health officer shows that during the five hot months, from May I to Sept. 25, only one vessel arrived in port having a case of sick- ness on board, and that case was not yellow fever. The disease, there- fore, could not have been imported. Further than this the health officer states that the condition of the atmosphere last year was like that of 1850, when there was another terrible outbreak of yellow fever as it is possible to find in two different seasons. In both instances Charles- ton was exposed for weeks to intense heat, and this was followed by a deluge of rain.” Johnston, “ Eeport on the Epidemic Fever at Trinidad, 1869,” ‘Army Med. Rep. for 1869, xi, 363. “Report on Outbreak of Yellow Fever at Mandeville, Jamaica,” ib., 389. Ullersperger, “Das gelbe Fieber in Valencia,” ‘Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 1x7. “ Yellow Fever in Buenos Ayres,” ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv. in. Bailey, “ The Nature and Treatment of Yellow Fever,” ib., xv, 44. Anderson, “ Yellow Fever as it occurred in Wilmington, North Carolina, from 1800 to 1872,” ib. xvi, 225. Cholera. Botkin (‘Berl. IClin. Woch.,’ 1871, 389) gives very full observa- tions, made with reference to the symptoms and treatment of cholera on twenty-three male cases in hospital in St. Petersburg. The ob- servations were made during the March and April of 1871. Of the twenty-three, on admittance into hospital, the temperature was below normal in twelve, and of these four died; in seven it was high, and in the rest normal. After entering into the state of the various organs and secretions and the treatment (with large doses of quinine), he gives his opinion that the cholera process is not the result of a local’effect of the cholera-poison, but the expression of an infection of all the fluids of the body. One of his assistants. Dr. Popofi", injected the fresh vomit of cholera patients into the veins of dogs, and obtained a condition re- sembling the clinical_ condition of cholera, together with characteristic c anges mtestinal canal. The disease, according to Botkin, may- be fatal without any profuse diarrhoea, and it is inconsistent to refer the cyanosis the dyspnoea, the cramps, &c., to the loss of fiuid and thicken- ing ol the blood. He uses quinine on the principle of its employment in48 REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. similar infectious diseases, and looks upon it as a prophylactic as well. He holds that in the mode of its development and propagation, in its clinical and anatomical aspects, cholera approaches, on the one side, the typhoid, and on the other the malarial affections ; that just as these two fevers show various modifications in different epidemics, so also types of cholera occur, which can by no means be summed up by the ordinary names of cholera, diarrhoea, and cholerine ; that he and other physicians in St. Petersburg noticed, during the epidemic of the preceding winter, numerous cases of an affection which presented symptoms peculiar to the cholera process, such as diarrhoea, sickness, small pulse, sometimes profuse sweating, pain and enlargement of liver and spleen, scanty secretion of urine, which was sometimes albuminous, and during con- valescence herpes labialis, epistaxis, catarrh of the nose, throat, and bronchi, tendency to diarrhoea, &c. This type was observed in persons of all classes and ages, attacking in many families several individuals ; ib was at first sporadic, but was propagated in an epidemic form a short time before the outbreak of the cholera. He has never noticed that these cases became cases of cholera, but all cholera patients admitted into hospital had suffered for several days with prodromal symptoms, which more or less corresponded with the affection described. He believes he is jus- tified in concluding that this is an independent affection allied to the cholera process; that it is the result of the action of a cholera poison, probably modified by external influences ; that this modified poison bears somewhat the same relation to the true cholera virus as that of bilious typhoid does to that of recurrent fever, or that of abortive typhoid to the true typhoid fever ; and he inclines to the view that the cases noticed by previous writers of gastric and intermittent fevers prevailing during or after epidemics of cholera belong to this form of the affection, in which should be recognised a modification of the cholera infection, an abortive form of the disease. His treatment of these “ abortive” cases consisted in the administration of pills containing carbolic acid and quinine. Paterson (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, i, 473) has made experiments on dogs, rabbits, and mice, with the rice-water stools of cholera patients, in the condition of deep collapse. Some of the experiments were made with the fresh matter, others with the cholera matter in a state of fermentation. No result was obtained in any case. Lawson (ib., 1871, ii, 15) gives some very interesting observations on outbreaks of cholera in ships at sea, which, as he has before laid down, have for their cause the “ Pandemic waves” which “ travel uni- formly from south to north according to definite law.” Wittcke (‘ Zeitschr. f. Epidemiol.,’ iii, 204) gives a sketch of the epidemic of cholera in 1866 at Erfurt, whither it was introduced from Berlin. It broke out on the 23rd July, and was extinguished by Nov. 15. It was the most extensive epidemic that ever broke out in that district, and though it attacked a less number of persons than the epidemic of 1850, the mortality was greater. In the latter year 3819 were at- tacked, of whom 1312 died; in 1866, 1539 died out of 2650 cases. Striking proofs were obtained of its contagion by individuals or in- fected objects. According to Wittcke, Pettenkoffer’s views as to theCHOLERA. 49 relatiou of certain conditions of subsoil water to cholera were not sup- ported by this epidemic ,nor did the directions given by him as to the disinfection of latrines, &c., prove more efficacious. The affection visited several places which had been perfectly free, and spared others which had suffered, in former years. Moore translates (‘ Brit. Med. Chir. Bev.,’ xlvin, 462) a paper by Schleisner, on the cholera in Copenhagen in 1866. Thirty cases of cholerine, suspicious diarrhoea, and cholera remained on board ship in the roadstead, of whom two died; sixty-one, of whom six died, were admitted into the hospital. In the city itself only four cases occurred,^ of which the first died. This immunity of the city, to the port of which 2233 ships arrived between May and December from infected localities, was due to the stringent measures adopted. These the author gives at length—strict quarantine; daily inspection of the ships for the first three days of their stay in harbour; strict regulations as to lodg- ing-houses and inns, as regarded the reception of seafarers, &c.; the formation of a cholera hospital in an isolated position near the harbour ; disinfection of all latrines; special supervision of the city itself by the sanitary police; and of all institutions, orphan houses, schools, &c., by the medical officer of health ; and the removal of the occupants of such houses as might be first attacked by cholera. Thompson gives a report (‘ Army Med. Eep.’ for 1869, xi, 392) on an epidemic of cholera at Thayetmyo, British Burmah, in 1869. A portion of the 76th regiment was stationed there from February, 1868, to April, 1869. At the end of the latter month cholera, which had not appeared before, broke out in a coolie village. In May, it attacked a barrack in which the married soldiers lived, and spread rapidly, till they were re- moved to a more elevated and easily isolated spot, when no further cases occurred. Fauvel (‘Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxvi, 599), read before the Academy some notes on cholera,in which he sketches its march in Europe. In Eussia, where it never entirely disappeared since its importation in 1865, it was still epidemic, at the end of 1869, in several provinces in the centre and the west. It gradually diminished, till it seemed to have disappeared about the middle of 1870. In July of that year it again broke out at Taganrog and Eostow, spread along the shores of the Black Sea by Kertch, Odessa, and Poli, from whence it was propa- gated inwards to the transcaucasian provinces. The rapid extension along the coast coincided as usual with the arrival of travellers from affected parts. It was by no means severe and ceased again at the end of September. In the early part of that month a few cases occurred in St. Petersburg, where it reappeared in February, 1871, and was regularly epidemic. In May it also broke out in Moscow and the neighbouring provinces ; next month at TV^ilna, at Sulwalki, not far from. Koenigsberg, and at Eiga; at Nijni-Nowgorod, and Kazan; and in the south again at Taganrog, where it raged with especial violence, 11,942 people being attacked between June 12 and July 22, of whom 4489 died (ib., 694). At the end of July (1871) it appeared at Koenigsberg (ib., 983); in August successively at Dantzig, Stettin, Berlin, on the 19th at Posen, and on the 29th at Fraukfort-on-the-Oder, and almost at the same time at 4IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 50 Hamburg and Altona, on the Elbe. These places wei’e the most westward limit, as Erankf'ort, &c., were the most southern, of the cholera in 1871. At Koenigsberg 263 5 were attacked, and 1204 died. In spite of rigorous quarantine measures, the disease extended also in the south-east. lu September, 1871, fatal cases occurred in a village on the Bosphorus, and at the end of the month in Constantinople, where 112 died in six days. It also appeared at Glalatz. In a further communication (loc. cit., 1872, series 2, i, 574) > Eauvel resumes his sketch, with especial refer- ence to the outbreak of cholera at Mecca and Medina (Feb., 1872). Barnier (‘ Arch, de Med. Navale,’ xvi, 190) publishes a note on an epidemic in September and November, 1870, in the island of Nossi-Be, in lat. i5'5° south. It was brought by a negro from Madagascar, where cholera was present, on 15th September, to the village of Ambanourou. Next day four people who had been in contact with him, died ; and the affection spread rapidly. The village, the position of which made it easy, was isolated by land and sea; but the quarantine arrangements were broken, and the disease was propagated to Ankarankel and to Hellville, but owing to the strict arrangements did not become general. It was most fatal among the Caffirs, 168 dying out of 204 attacked. Among 200 Indians there were but three cases and one death. Barnier thinks that the idea that this poison is propagated by the air is radically false; and that, however saturated with contagion the air may be in a town where cholera is raging, it entirely loses its deleterious action in a distance of less than a kilometer from the place. Pellarin (‘ Gaz. Hebdom.,’ 1871, 533) gives shortly his experience of an epidemic of cholera in Guadeloupe and other islands of the Antilles, far surpassing in violence any seen in Europe. Nothing was to be noticed as far as atmospheric or even the local hygienic conditions was observed. Nor was the epidemic preceded by any analogous or pre- monitory affections; and he concludes that the history of insular epi- demics proves that they are directly and always preceded by the intro- duction into the island either of patients suffering from the disorder, or articles impregnated with the contagious principle. Mediate or mias- matic contagion is the only mode of propagation of cholera in islands. Eolleston (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 339) protests against the theory that water is the ordinary vehicle, and, so far, the sole cause of cholera.* On the other hand. Dr. Eenzy (“Water Theory of Cholera,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 4^1; ‘ Lancet,’_ 1871, ii, 449, 623 ; ‘Bnt. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 626) finds fault with Eolleston, Cunnmgham, and V Pettenkofer, and attempts to uphold his favourite theory. • Schlomann (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 431) found very great success in the cholera epidemic of 1866, in Texas, from the employment ot quinine combined with opium. Eeichard (ib., 408), in the ^iidemic at Eicra in 1871, found chloral hydrate give good results. Eothe (ib 2a8 from the employment of carbolic acid in the diarrhoea ot infants and in sporadic cases of cholera, thinks it will be of great use in cases of the epidemic disease. Forster (ib. 446) advocates the # The different abstracts given in this report sufficiently confirm this protest which it woSd he well for others beside the writer of a “ leading London political paper” to lay to heart.—A. B. S.51 CHOLERA. burniug of straw • in places occupied by cholera patients, tbe burning to be followed by free ventilation, and the ashes to be employed to disinfect tbe vessels used for tbe reception of tbe stools. He recom'- mends the evacuation after a certain time of the rooms in which patients have been, especially if the peculiar smell of burning does not exist, and a fresh burning and ventilation to be carried out. He had followed out these measures in the war of 1866. Pfeiffer, “Die Cholera in Thiii-in^en und Sachsen wahrend der dritten Cholera- Invasion, 1865-67,” Jena. Zehuder, “Bericht iiber die Cholera-Epidemie des Jahres, 1867,” Zurich. Marsicani, “Sur le Cholera de 1869 en Rnssie,” ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 194. Cunningham, “Report on Cholera in the Bengal Presidency,” ‘Seventh Ann. Rep. of the Sanitary Commissioner with the Government of India, 1870,’ Cal- cutta, 1871. Cornish, “Cholera in Southern India: a Record of the Progress of Cholera in 1870, &c.,” Madras, 1871. Sing, “Hindu View of Cholera,” London, 1871. Fitzgerald, “Epidemic Cholera,” London, 1871. (For review of these four last books, see ‘Ediu. Med. Journ.,’ .xvii, 929.) “The Cholera Outbreak at Secunderabad,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 98. Christie, “On Cholera Epidemics in East Africa,” ib., i, 115. Id., Additional Notes on the same, ib., 1872, i, 573. Carpenter, “The Causation of Cholera,” ib., 1871,0, 771- Sedgwick, “On the Initial Pathology of Cholera with reference to Treatment,” ib., ii, 393. Id., “ On some Physiological Errors connected with Cholera,” ib., 507 (cf. Johnson on this paper, ib., 547, 806, and Sedgwick’s answer, ib., 902). Id., “ On Temporary Glycosuria as a sequel of Cholera,” ‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 63. Carpenter, “Quasi Cholera,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 426. Lowndes, “ On the Treatment of Cholera,” ib., 319. Rickards, “ Case of Cholerine difficult to distinguish from Asiatic Cholera,” ib., 290. Cornish, “ The Cholera at Secun- derabad in May, 1871,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 591. French, “ On the pro- bable Cause of the Post-mortem Muscular Contractions in Cholera, and on the Philo- so])hical Ti’eatment of that Disease,” ib., i, 688. Chapman, “ Cholera Poisons,” ib., 1872, i, 355. Jenkins, “A Chapter in the History of Cholera,” ib., 608. Radcliffe, “ The Prospects of Cholera,” ib., 499. Patterson, “ Treatment of Cholera by Subcu- taneous Injection of Morphia,” ib., 95. Watson, “Lecture on the Diffusion, Patho- logy, and Treatment of Asiatic Cholera,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 141. Murray, “ Cholera, its Diffusion, Pi’ophylaxis, Symptoms, and Treatment,” ib., 175. John- son, “The Pathology and Treatment of Cholera,” ib., 197. Jones, “ Suggestions for the Employment of Nitrite of Amyl in the Collajise and Cramps of Cholera,” ib., 378. Foote, “ Case of Sporadic Cholera, extreme Collapse, Recovery under Eliminative 'Treatment,” ib., 352. Martin, “Intemperance and Cholera,” ib., 198. Munro, “Suggestion as to the use of Calabar Bean in Cholera Asiatica,” ‘Ediu. Journ.,’ xvii’ 327. Budd, “Cholera and Disinfection. Asiatic Cholera in Bristol in 1866,’’ London. Peters, “ On the Origin and Travels of Asiatic Cholera,” ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 113. Tholozan, “Origine nouyelle du Cholera Asiatique, on Debut et Developpement en Europe d’une grande Epidemie Cholerique,” Paris, 1871. Id., “ Duree du Cholera Asiatique en Europe et en Amerique, on persistance des causes ])roductrices des Epidemies Choleriques hors de I’Inde,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 671, &c. Grimaud, “Resultats des Observations faites sur les dernieres Epidemics Choleriques,” ‘Compt. Rend.,’ Ixii, 158. Foley, “Le Cholera chez les autres et chez nous; nouvelle etude Geographique et Biographique, Medicale, &c.,” Paris. Netter, “ Du Traitement de Cholera par TAdministration, coup sur coup, d’enormes quantites de boissons aqueuses” (20 litres et plus dans les 24 heures), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 915. Sain- mont, “Note sur la Nature et sur le Traitement du Cholera,” ib., ii^jo De Pietra ‘^Trattato Pratico sul Cholera,” Palermo. Pacini, “ Sull’ultimo Stadio di Colera Asiatico, o Studio di Morte apparcnte dei Colcrosi,” Florence, 1871. Schneider, “ Cholera in Soerabaya auf Java,” Berlin, 1871. Lewin, “ Bericht iiber die Erkran- kungen an der Asuit. Cholera zu Berlin in Jahre 1871,” ‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 411. Focke, “ Die Cholera nnd die Desinfectiousmittel,” ib., 529. Pfeiffer “ Uuter- suchnngen iiber den Eiufluss der Bodeuwarme anf die Vcrbreitung und den Verlauf Cholera, Zeitsch. f Biol.,’ vii, 263. Hallier, “ Versuch iiber den Eiufluss Cholera-Reiswasserstuhle auf den Reis,” ‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde,;^-^! der der :S LlBRAiiYREPOllT ON PUACTICAL MEDICINE. 52 Weisbsieli,^ ‘ Beschriinlcte Cholern-Erkraiibungen in der Berliner Cliarit^ iin .Talire 1871, ‘ Virch. Arch.,' Iv, 249. V. Kaczowski, “ Bcricht iiber die Cholera-Epidemic des Jalu’es 1866, in Posen,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woeh.,’ 1872, 15. Nedsvetski, “ Zur Miki’o- graphie der Cholera,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1872, 233. Enteric {Typhoid') Eever. Heschl (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 34) is convinced that the capillaries and muscles of the intestinal canal are infiltrated in the same way as the follicles and the sub-mucous tissue, and to this cause he refers the deeper degenerative changes which lead to perforation. He describes in full the microscopic changes found, both in the capil- laries and the longitudinal layer of the intestines: in both the nuclei are enlarged, and in different stages of proliferation. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 144) describes the changes found in the intestine of a man, set. 24, whose bowels had been consti- pated throughout, and who died of haemorrhage on the twenty-seventh day of the enteric fever. The hseraorrhage did not seem to have pro- ceeded from one ulcer in particular, but to have been due to a fungating condition of the morbid material in many of Peyer’s patches nearest to the caecum, corresponding to which were dark-red spongy excrescences firmly attached to the subjacent ulcerated surface. Maclagan (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 865) writes a long paper on the intestinal lesion of enteric fever, and in an appendix gives notes of thirteen cases. He briefly summarises his facts as follows. The in- testinal lesion of enteric fever is specific in character, and may termi- nate in resolution or ulceration. When it goes on to ulceration there are two sets of lesions, primary and secondary, the former an essential part of the disease, the latter accidental, and the result of the inocula- tion of healthy glands by discharges coming from the former. The relative frequency of these two lesions varies in different cases. The extent of the primary lesions bears a direct relation to the severity of the attack, while that of the secondary does not do so, as they are more likely to predominate in cases in which the general symptoms are mild and the primary lesions few. One primary lesion is sufficient to pro- duce, directly or indirectly, many secondary. The discharges do not necessarily inoculate every gland over which they pass ; the longer they remain in contact with a gland, the more likely is it to suffer. The higher up in the intestines the primary lesions are situated, the more numerous, cceteris 'paribus, will be the secondary. Eatal abdominal symptoms are more often the result of secondary than of primary lesions. Relapses are caused by a reabsorption of the poison into the system, probably by one or more absorbent glands which escaped during the primary attack. Constipation is to be regarded as a source of ultimate danger. No one suffering from enteric fever should go more than two days without a stool. Allbutt (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 547) draws attention to cases occurring in practice, in which the patient, without the existence of any organic disease, loses flesh till he becomes a living skeleton. He thinks this marasmus may be often traced to a prior attack of enteric fever. He gives six cases which bear more or less upon this view; and53 ENTERIC (typhoid) EEVER. believes that tlie innutrition consists in the lack of digestive powers over fats. In the absence of any pathological proof at present, he refers the cause to a permanent degeneration of the mesenteric glands. Gueniot (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 301) records a case of hmmatoma of the rectus abdominal muscle in a man of 22 recovering from typhoid fever. Kraft-Ebing (‘Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 613) gives two cases of suppuration in muscles after typhoid fever. The first was that of a man, set. 24, convalescent from typhoid, in whom a fluctuating tumour appeared, corresponding to the same rectus muscle. The writer believes that there was here a rupture of the degenerated muscle, followed by hsemorrhagic infiltration ; that the latter set up inflammation going on to suppuration ; and that had not incision been made through the skin, &c., the pus might easily have found its way into the peritoneal cavity. In the second case, a man, set. 22, died of pneumonia on the forty- third day of a severe typhoid fever. At the autopsy the whole left psoas muscle, from an inch from its origin down to Poupart’s ligament, was changed into a tumour, which on being opened gave exit to ill-smell- ing pus, mingled with blood, blood-clots, fibres and cell-tissue. The in- ternal iliac and a portion of the transverse abdominal muscle were also of a yellowish-red colour, and contained partly fluid, partly clotted blood. The microscopical examination of all these muscles showed the fibres infiltrated with a cloudy, granular, highly refracting material, the striations partly destroyed, no amyloid degeneration, or rupture (Bruchspalten). The author concludes that suppuration may occur in typhoid fever, from haemorrhage into muscles, and that this depends, as Zenker has shown, from antecedent degenerative changes in the fibres. Clement (‘Lyon Med.,’ viii, 649) records a case of typhoid fever in a man, aet. 22, followed by complete right facial paralysis, with paralysis of the orbicularis and loss of electrical contractility; paralysis of the sensory portion of the trigeminal, the glosso-pharyngeal, auditory, hypoglossah and olfactory nerves ; and paralysis both of movement and sensation in the limbs. He refers the origin of the lesion to the medulla oblongata. Gluge (‘Bull, de I’Acad. Med. Belg.,’ v, 613) records the following as a rare termination of typhoid fever. A boy, set. 6 years, convalescent irom the disease, was attacked a month after its commencement with peritonitis, and very considerable purulent effusion, which made its way out by the umbdicus. The child recovered and the opening had closed a month later. Latham (‘Lancet,’ 1871,11, 81) concludes from his own experience (I) that almost invariably the disease (typhoid fever) proceeds from a special poison contamed in the alvine excreta. (2) That this poison is directly introduced into the alimentary canal, either in the food or, most generally, in the water drunk. (3) That it is not yet proved that the poison IS contained in, or is disseminated by, the exhalation^ rom rains, privies, &c., or that it can be absorbed into the system through breathing air contaminated with such exhalations. He describes an outbreak of typhoid fever at Harston, near Cambridge,REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. treatment of typhoid in 125 cases (82 males and 43 women). 01 these 51 and suggests, (i) that every evacuation, as soon as passed, shotdd be disinfected with carbolic acid. (2) That no surface-well water or pump-water, whether boiled or not, should be used in a district where there are any cases of typhoid fever, but that all drinking water should be obtained from some spring not liable to contagion. He points out the importance of not giving solid food till the temperature of the patient at 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. has remained, for two days at least, about the normal point, when we may be sure the ulcers have healed. In a long “ Inquiry into the causes of Typhoid Eever, as it occurs in Massachusetts” (‘Second Annual Heport of State Board of Health of Massachusetts,’ 1871, p. no), it is concluded that “it is exceedingly probable that a rich and fertile soil on which decompositionable sub- stances are retained near the surface by any cause, whether a clay subsoil, or a ledge of rock, or a protracted drought, is a soil favorable to the production of this special disease.” N. Eatcliflfe (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 760), inquiring into the outbreak of fever at New Barnet, found the sewage arrangements of the road, in which individuals were attacked, two of them fatally, to consist of four large cesspools for thirty or forty houses, or more. Two of these cess- pools were open and two covered, the two open ones receiving the overflow from the latter, the fetid sewage ultimately finding its way by open trenches into the river Lea. Mayo (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 492) describes an arrange- ment of the same hind in a village near Oxford, in which an epidemic of typhoid fever had broken out. The inhabitants seem to be most filthy in all their habits. At the back of a house where the worst cases occurred ran a ditch into which the people of the hamlet threw all their slops. The drinking water of this cottage was obtained from a pump opposite. A drain, made of rough stones, brought the slops from two other cottages, and passed close to this pump, the distance from the centre of the pump (which stood over its well) to the middle line of the drain being two feet six inches. Lissauer (‘Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 266) gives his experience of the anti- pyretic (cold water) and the expectant treatment of typhoid, during the late campaign, at Metz, Compiegne, and Eouen. Under the former he lost 6 out of 97 (i. e. 6-i8 per cent.), and under the latter ii out of 46 {i.e. 23‘9i per cent). At Eouen, from the unhealthy position of the hospital, 5 out of 13, treated on the expectant plan, died. The cases treated with cold water were severe throughout; those treated on the other plan were in great quantity lighter cases, so that the averages of mortality under the two can scarcely be compared. _ The bath was employed three times a day in those cases only in which the tempera- ture rose above 41° C. (105-8° E.). In the majority of cases two baths in the day were sufficient, especially if combined with large doses of quinine, 'tie gives the temperatures of six cases in full, together with a chart of each. , , -r,.., ^ j The cold-water treatment is also supported by Bohm and Michel, and by Binz and others, reference to whose papers will be found below. ^Scholz (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 176) gives the results of the cold-water55 ENTERIC (typhoid) FEVER. five (four men and a woman) died. The patients were of all aj^es, between lo and <o years. The temperature of the bath was according to ao-e <o°—68° F. (io°—20° C.), and the period of immersion five to ten minutes, with the addition afterwards of cold applications. Drugs were orfven but rarely: castor oil in constipation, the tinct. ferri per- chlor. in hsBinorrhage from the intestines. The latter contra-indicates immersion in cold water, on account of the absolute rest necessary for the patient, but not the use of cold applications. The paper contains a full account of the sequelae noticed, and the author adds that he has found the cold-water treatment most successful in the acute infectious diseases (scarlet fever, measles, diphtheria, erysipelas). Popper (‘ Oestr. Zeitsch. f. Heilk.,’ No. i) obtains the same good results from this treatment. Of twenty cases of typhoid, one only died. The body was only half immersed in cold water for ten to fifteen minutes, the rest of the body sprinkled with it, and cold compresses used afterwards. The bath was employed twice a day. Liebermeister, “Notiz betrefEencl die Epidemie in Andelfingen vom Jahre 1839,” ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ ix, 245. Virchow, “ Kriegstyphus und Kuhr,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 1 (abstracted under typhns). Heine, “ Ueber die Behandlung der Blattern nnd des Abdominal-typhus,” ib., liv, 217. Weiser, “Zur Hydrotherapie des Ileotyphus,” ‘ Wien. Med. Wocb.,’ 1871, No. 22. Bohm and Michel, “ Beobachtungen iiber die Kaltwasser-behandlung des Abdominal-typhus im Kriege,” ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 596. Billiard, “ Traitement abortif de la Pievre Typhoide par I’emploi du Seigle Ergote, ‘Bull, de I’Acad de Med. de Paris,’No. 35, p. 845. Morache, “De i’emploi de la Cr&sote a I’interieur dans le Traitement de la Pievre Typboide,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871,394. Temoin, “ Sur le Traitement de la PievTe Typboide,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ 82, 128. Leube, “ Mittheiluugen iiber die Typhus-Epidemie in der Pestung Ulm im Winter 1870-71, und ihre Behandlung im dortigen Barackenspitale,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 583. Holzner, “ Epidemische Erkrankuugeu in der Praparenden- Schule zu Preysing im Juli, 1870,” ‘ Zeitschr. f. Biol.,’ vii, 306. V. Pettenkofer, “Typhus und Cholera und Grundwasser im Zurich,” ib., vii, 86. Wohlrab, “ Einige Palle von Verbreitung des Typhus Abdominalis durch das Wasser,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk., xii, 134. Pfeifer, “Statistik der Typhus-Abteilung aus dem Reserve-Lazareth Weimar,” ‘Berk Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 105. Schonheyder, “Beitrag zu eiuer Charakteristik iiber den Typbus bei der Cernirungsarmee vor Paris,” ib., 103. Strube, “ Beitrag zur Nosologic der wahrend der Belagerung von Paris bei der Maasarmee beobachteten Typhns Epidemie,” ib., 355. Pinckelnburg, “ Ueber das Auftreten der Dysenteric und des Typbus uuter der Belagerung.sarmee vor Metz,” ib., 369. Hjalteln, “ Pythogenic Pever in Reykjavik during tbe Summer of 1871,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 710. Pergus, “ On the Sanitary Aspect of the Sewage Question, with Remarks on a little noticed cause of Typhoid Pever and other Zymotics,’ ib. ib., 717. Taylor, “Notes of a Recent Epidemic of Typhoid Pever, and its Mode of Propagation,” ih., xviii, 124. Galton, “ Perforation of the Bowel in Typhoid Pever through a Diverticulum Ilei” (boy, set. 12), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 103. Maclagan, “The Bowel-Lesion in Typhoid Pevei-, its Natm-e and Treatment, ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, i, 75. Id., “The Convalescence from Typhoid Eever,” ib., 536. Rolleston, “On Typhoid or Enteric Pever in Indian Gaols,” &c., ib., 1871, 1, 7. De Renzy, “The Dry-earth System of Conservancy,” ib., 287. Id., “ On the Extinction of Typhoid Pever in the Millbank Prison by the disuse of the Thames Water,” ib., 1872, i, 787. Binz, “The Antipyretic Treatment of Typhoid Pever at the Seat of War,” ib., 1871, i, I47- Andrew, “ A Case of Typhoid Pever complicated by Hsematuria and Prostatic Abscess, leading to Extravasation of Urine” (man, mt. 35, autopsy), ib., ii, 712. Sutton, Case of 1 yphoid Fever with High Temperature, the bath unsuccessful, large doses of quinine quickly followed by a fall of temperature” (woman, set. 22), ib., 1872, i, 46. Hayden, “Typhoid Pever, Uraemia, Death,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 63. Nunn, “Suppuration of Knee-joint, Typhoid Fever, Pyannia, Death,” ib., 532.56 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Kemp. “ Lntent Typhoid Fever,Ulceration, Peritonitis, Death” (boy, jEt.ib), ih., ii, 114. (Statistical), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 752. Ortpn, •K hevor (history of outbreak at Newcastle-under-Lyme, in December,1871), lb., 1872, 1, 45Q. Wunderlich, “ Deber Darmblutungen bei Typhus Ahdomiualis unter der Kaltwasserbehandlung,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, 481. Typhus. Virchow (“ Contagiositat dia Eleckflebers ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 134), from observations of the cases of typhus occurring in Berlin in 1871, is more convinced that it is introduced and propagated by direct con- tagion, and does not arise spontaneously. Of the 15 cases observed the exanthem appeared on the third day in two, and on the second day in two also after the first rigor: in several cases the gastric disturbance was so great as to suggest cholerine, especially as mucous “ cholera- fungi” were found in the evacuations (!). He comes to no definite conclusion as to the period of incubation. In one case the facts seem to point to the possibility of infection in the last stage. In another article (‘ Kriegstyphus und Ruhr.,’ ib. lii, 1) the same author writes on the so-called “ war typhus.” He holds that it includes both typhus and typhoid. As diagnostic of typhus he calls attention to the early appearance of a roseolous or measly eruption, generally thickly and widely spread, especially over the face and flexor surfaces of the hands and feet. Petechiae were almost absent in the majority of cases of typhus, and. frequent in those of typhoid. In the latter the eruption was scanty and limited to the upper part of the abdomen and the lower part of the thorax, and only exceptionally general. In relaps- ing fever Virchow has met sometimes with haemorrhagic petechiae, but never a true exanthem. He asserts that the diarrhoea of typhoid is not dependent upon follicular ulceration, but upon the concurrent catarrh of the intestine ; that stress should be laid, not upon the ulcer but the so-called, medullary infiltration of the follicle, inasmuch has no ulcera- tion need occur in some cases, and the so-called typhoid scab represents only a cheesy metamorphosis of the infiltrated elements, followed by thickening and loosening, and in this way a secondary ulcer of the mucous membrane. He draws attention to the fact that both in the American and the Pranco-Germanic war true typhus was extremely rare, while typhoid showed itself in the later stages only of the miseries produced, and then gradually increased in extent and severity. Lyons (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 708, 743) opposes the view of Kolleston, stated in a paper on “ Typhoid or Enteric Fever in Indian Gaols” (ib,, i, 7), and holds that typhus does prevail in India, and the epidemic of fever in Eawul Pindee gaols in 1869 (as also that in 1867), was typhus and not enteric or remittent fever. Chuckerbutty (‘ Ind. Ann. of Med. Sci.,’ 1867, No. 21, p. 107, and 1864, No. 18, p. 122), recorded 32 cases of the disease. Other medical officers have seen typhus in the villages and elsewhere on the north-west frontier. Between January and May of 1869, 563 .cases of typhoid, occurred at Eawul Pindee, of which 84 were fatal. He holds that there can be no doubt of its contagiousness, and that typhus does and must occur under the conditions that will generate it in Europe or other temperate regions. Campbell (ib., i, 408) gives a case, with autopsy, in a man set. 30,57 relapsing eever. which he prefers to look upon as one of acute petechial typhus rather than of cerebro-spinal meningitis. Relapsing Fever. Tennent (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ n. s., iii, 355) gives at some length an analysis of 352 cases of relapsing fever admitted into the Glasgow Fever Hospital between March 16 and Oct. 20, 1870. these cases (17 per cent.) died; one, a man, mt. 45, became affected with paraplegia; a child, set. 9 months, had severe convulsions; the other four died from syncope, the typical form of death in this affection. In three of these four cases, however, there was already existing a chronic disease (mitral obstruction; granular kidneys; bronchitis). Experience seems to show that relapsing fever very rarely proves tatal to healthy persons. The post-mortem examination of one of these three cases showed the presence in the spleen, which weighed oz., of three fluctuating tumours containing sanious fluid, and disorganisation of the spleen tissue. . 1 i i • » Charteris (ib., 347) draws attention to “ Post-febrile Ophthalmia as a result of some cases of relapsing fever. It seems to have been first observed in Dublin in 1826, and in Glasgow in 1843 And 1844* The ophthalmoscopic examination of one case out of 20 showed the vitreous somewhat turbid, with black flocculi floating in it. The optic disc was indistinct, the retinal vessels congested, and the retina ot a dull greyish tint. The pathology of the afl’ection is obscure. Notes of these cases are given. Eobinson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 644) gives an account of the outbreak of relapsing fever, at Leeds, in 1870. The first case seems to have oc- curred on March 31. Out of 361 cases coming under notice, there had been in 219 previous communication with infected persons. Privation due to the dissolute habits of the patients themselves or their parents, existed in 261 instances. Typhus was said to have attacked the family of the first patient simultaneously with the relapsing fever, and typhoid was epidemic throughout the period during which relapsing fever pre- vailed. The mortality from the three diseases in Leeds during 1870 was as follows : From relapsing fever (July—October), 13 ; from typhus, 131, the highest numbers being from May to October; from enteric fever, 182, the highest between July and November. After drawing attention to the fact that former writers had remarked on the relations between intermittent and relapsing fever. Senator (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 379) gives his own experience of an epidemic in Berlin in 1870, which beside numerous cases of intermittent and recurrent fever, presented also some case of a character between the two. The patients seemed to be affected at first with true recur- rent fever, which later on, and not only during the course of convales- cence, yielded to one of a regular intermittent type. He gives six cases, and concludes that (i) intermittent fever supervenes in the course of a recurrent fever, at any rate, after the first attack ; (2) it may appear during convalescence from the latter; (3) and that it is sometimes observed at the end of epidemics of recurrent fever, in dis-58 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINE. tricts which were formerly free from it. And these facts lead him to believe that recurrent fever sets up a special liability to malarial poison- ing. At the same time there is no relationship between the two affec- tions ; on the contrary, the fact that one infectious malady is no safe- guard against another, proves that the two are perfectly distinct. Relapsing fever again made its appearance in London, in November, 1872 (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 895), attacking eight cases, all in the same family—three brothers aged 21, 19, and 3, the mother aged 40, and four sisters aged 16, 12, 7, and 3. Insolatio {Sunstroke). Thin (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 780) describes a number of cases of sun- stroke met with in Shanghai in 1866, at a time when the thermometer registered 96° Eahr. in the shade. He thinks the attack is not to be attributed to great heat alone, but to the glare of the sun, and probably to an atmosphere charged with electricity. All the cases could be directly traced to exposure to the sun’s rays falling on the head or the nape of the neck. The symptoms varied extremely: in the worst case complete coma was followed by speedy death ; in others the coma lasted only a few hours, and was succeeded by complete recovery; in other cases a temporary paraplegia was a common sequela. Sometimes the attack could scarcely be distinguished from the commencement of a continued fever. He thinks that the affection is due to paralysis of the vasomotor nerves of the head, and in some cases of the spinal cord as well. Macdonald (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 289) gives two cases of sunstroke in men aged 63 and 34, the first one fatal. Ilis remarks on the cases sup- port Thin’s views as to the causation of the affection, both attacks having occurred between 6 and 7 p.m., not at the hottest part of the day, but at a time when the air appeared dry, rarefied, and full of electricity. Clapham (ib., 1872, i, 464) publishes the “ particulars of a case of sunstroke recorded by the patient” (the writer). The Acute Exanthemata. Hofmann (‘ Zeitschr. f. Parasitenkunde,’ iii, 103), in a paper on the rational treatment of the acute exanthems, especially measles and scarlet fever, after stating that it would consist in the removal of the causes of these diseases, the contagious nature of which, as Hallier has clearly shown, consists in the presence of true fungi, considers that the latter must be rendered harmless by the administration of remedies capable of killing them, or that they must be eliminated from the body as soon as possible. The former plan—that employed by Binz in typhus (typhoid?)—is impossible in scarlet fever and measles. Hof- mann, therefore, employs the second method, and following Steinfacher, envelopes the patient in sheets wrung out of cold water, and surrounded by a woollen cover or dry sheet. The entire nervous system is in this way powerfully excited, heat withdrawn from the body, and when the temperatures of the body and cloth are equalised, a more or less profuse sweating occurs as a result of the hypermmia of the skin.' On this59 THE ACUTE EXANTHEMATA. increased excretion Steinfacher laid great stress, contending that it eliminated the special poison. To prove the latter position, Hofmann sent the sweat of a child affected with measles, and treated in this way, to Plallier, who reported the abundant presence in it of micrococcus Hofmann has used this plan in numerous cases of scarlet fever and measles, even where the patients were comatose. He found that not only were the febrile symptoms rapidly diminished, but that the con- valescence of the patient was quicker than under other treatment. His own method is as follows:—In slight cases, where the temperature in ano does not exceed 40° C., and when the brain is clear, he envelopes the patient, from the axilla to the hips, in the wet cloth, which is kept on for one or two hours; fresh cloths are applied till the temperature falls to 38° or 38-3° C., which generally occurs in from 2 to 4 days. He then orders a warm bath daily to promote desquamation, and the con- valescence is complete in about eight days. In severer cases, when the temperature is over 48° C., and the patient comatose, he recom- mends the whole body to be enveloped for fifteen or thirty minutes ; the cloths to be renewed after one or two hours. Later on the cloths are left on for one or two hours, twice or three times daily. After removing the cloths the whole body is sponged with cold water, or if the comatose symptoms are well marked, the patient is put into a bath of lukewarm water, and cold water poured over him till slight shivering is produced; and he is then placed in bed. The whole process is repeated whenever the temperature rises. Careful observation of indi- vidual cases can alone determine the temperature of the wet cloths, the frequency with which they should be applied, and other minor points. Ballot (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, 310) gives some tables showing the number of deaths in Botterdam from smallpox, scarlet fever and measles, from 1778 to 18ii, and from 1813 to 1870. He finds during that period that 1. Epidemics of smallpox were slightly diminishing. 2. Those of scarlatina also diminished and were almost disappearing from the table. 3. Those of measles were always increasing. Eleischmann (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,’ iv, 174) gives statistics of the mortality of scarlet fever. As combinations of two exanthems he found scarlet fever and vaccinia ; scarlet fever and smallpox ; scarlet fever and varicella; scarlet fever and measles. He considers the in- cubation of measles to be three days. The same writer (ib., 166) gives an account of an epidemic in the children’s hospital at Vienna, of scarlet fever occurring during variola. Five children between the ages of three and a half and eleven years, one in the pustular stage of smallpox, the other in that of decrustation, were found to have a re- currence of high temperature (103-8° F,), which remained high from two to four days, and in the favourable cases fell. With this were pains in the neck, swelling of the tonsils and mouth. In one case the tongue was very injected and red. Soon after appeared an eruption like that of scarlet fever, either diffused over the whole body or limited to certain parts, as the breast and abdomen. In one case which recovered it was bluish red. Haemorrhagic rings surrounded the still present pustulesREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICRVE. of smallpox. The disappearance of the eruption was followed by a lamellar paling; in the hfemorrhagic case the scales were an inch square. No sequelte were observed. Two of the children died, one of very acute nephritis, while the eruption still existed, the other,’a weak child of three and a half years, from febrile exhaustion. Auchenthaler (ib., 230) gives a case of coincidence of measles and smallpox in a boy of thirteen. Brunton (‘Gflasg. Med. Journ.,’ iv, 27) records the following cases of combined eruptive disease; measles and smallpox in a pregnant woman of twenty-nine; scarlet fever and smallpox in a woman of forty-one, followed by death ; scarlet fever and varicella in a patient of four years. Sansom, “ Case of probatle coexistence of Scarlatina and Variola ” (female, set. 31, with chart of temperature), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 395. Musket, “Con- currence of Scarlatina and Varicella” (child, set. 3 years), ih., 1872, i, 71. Scarlet Fever. Carpenter (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, no) holds that scarlet fever may and often does arise de novo; that it results from incipient decomposition of the blood of vertebrate animals, either healthy or diseased, under the influence of certain conditions of temperature, magnetic state and moisture; that the poison is probably more virulent when produced from diseased material; and that some of the granules contained in blood undergo a certain corpuscular degeneration, and are the exciting agents in the production of the fever, by altering the character of the natural zymosis which is said to be always proceeding within the body. He attempts to support this theory by the histories of various outbreaks of scarlet fever in localities, houses, schools, &c., in the neighbourhood of places where slaughterhouse refuse was stored or used for manure. He believes that the disease would be shorn of its fatal tendency if blood were kept out of the sewers, &c., in fact, if all sanitary regula- tions were enforced. The paper contains an analysis of the preva- lence of scarlet fever in Croydon during the last twenty-two years.* Huber (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 422)° observed during an epidemic of scarlet fever in 1869 a hsematoma in the neck of a child, ast. 6. It appeared as an oval, indistinctly fluctuating tumour, of the size of a hen’s egg, in the left cervical region, corresponding to the course of the glands. It had presented itself ten days after the commencement of the scarlet fever, and had become rapidly larger during the last two days under the use of poultices. He looked upon it as an abscess, opened it, and evacuated about a handful of pretty firm clot, the re- moval of which was followed by a strong arterial blood stream ; the case ended fatally. He refers to another case of the same kind, which had a more fortunate result. He thinks that a hsematoma may be diagnosed from an abscess by the rapid increase of the former in a relatively short time, and by the comparatively greater hardness and indistinct fluctuation of the tumour. * There is an odd coincidence between the letters used in this paper and those employed in Betteiikofer’s resume of his writings on cholera (‘ Zeitschr. f. Biol.,’ Bd. V, 29s), A. B. S.SCARLET FEVER. Cl J. Harley (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ ^(1872), 103 ; ‘Brib. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii 740) writes on the morbid anatomy ot scarlatina and the rela- tion between enteric and scarlet fevers. He gives notes of twenty- ei‘^ht cases, the majority of which died on days ranging consecutively from the third to the fifteenth day, and the remainder on the 17th, 20th, 29th, 33rd, 41st, and 69th days. More or less albuminoid or fatty degeneration of the kidneys existed in six cases, and in these death ocLrred on the 15th, 17th, 20th, 29th, 41st, and 69th days re- spectively. In the rest these organs were healthy. The pathological changes common, with a few exceptions (depending on the time of the disease), to all, were—i. The formation of fibrinous clots in the heart and great vessels during a pyrexial state, at any period of the disease— the commonest cause of death during the early stage of scarlet fever. 2. Marked derangement of the hepatic function as shown by the deteriora- tion of the bile. 3. Gieneralinfiammation of the lymphatic system of glands (ordinary lymphatic glands, tonsils, and solitary glands of the tongue, spleen, mesenteric, solitary, &c.). From these pathological conditions he thinks that ^‘fehris lymphatica is the appropriate scientific dejinition of scarlatinafi and he asserts that from this view one general conclu- sion as to the connection of scarlet fever and enteric fever is inevitable, viz. that the pathological changes accompanying an attack of scarlet fever include all those of the first stage of enteric fever, and are so far identical with them. Whence it follows that the transition from the former disease to the latter is nothing more than a natural pathological sequence, readily determined by any cause which may increase the intestinal irritation. The writer gives six cases of the coexistence of enteric and scarlet fevers, and proposes the term “abdominal scarla- tina,” already suggested to his own mind in writing the article on “ Enteric] Fever,” in Eeynolds’ ‘ System of Medicine,’ “ as the appro- priate definition of a disease which every intelligent practitioner will sooner or later meet with.” (The report of the discussion on this paper will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.’ as above.) Kelly and ISTowlan (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 342) record a case of severe scarlet fever in a girl, set. 3 years, in whom an abscess was formed under the angle of the right jaw, extending down the neck and spreading over the clavicle. This opened spontaneously, and the whole clavicle came away, necrosed only at the acromial end. The patient recovered with unimpaired movement of the arm (I). (‘Path. Soc.,’ Dublin). Meynet (‘ Lyon. Med.,’ viii, 124) records the occurrence of scarlet fever in a child only fifteen days old. Marcbioli, “ Sopra di una Epidemia di Scarlattina,” ‘ Gaz. Med. Lombard,’ i872, 109. Barclay, “Observations on Scarlet Fever, especially with reference to its epidemic character,” ‘St. Georgre’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 167. Copeman, “On Scarlet Fever,’’ ib., 55. Chappie, “ Scarlet Fever in India,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 188. Crocker, “Iron in Scarlatina,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 255. Pyle, “On the Contagion of Scarlatina and Smallpox,” ib., 34. Aldis, “Scarlet Fever for Ten Years (i860—1870) in the Parish of St. George,” London. Hutchinson, “Case of Renal Retinitis, with peculiar History as to Scarlet Fever,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 479. Gueueau de^Miissy, “Sur quelques formes graves de Scarlatina” (three cases), Gaz. des Hop., 1871’ 305. Langicr, “Note sur la Rechute dans la Fievre Scar- latme,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 545.62 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, Hleasles and Rutheln {lluheola). Poss (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 981) gives a case ofrotheln occurring in a man, aged 27. He defines the affection as “ scarlet fever combined, with catarrh, the catarrh being coexistent and coetaneous with the entrance of the scarlet fever virus into the body of the patient, the symptoms of the catarrh at once showing themselves and aggravating what is usually the period of incubation in scarlet fever.” Ills reasons are founded on the similarity of the rash and the period of incubation (in rotheln, 4 days; in scarlet fever, 3 days, with an invasion period of one day). Dunlop (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 464) gives an account of an epidemic of rotheln occurring during the summer months of 1871 at St. Helier’s, differing in no particulars from the affectioTi as generally described. Eleischmann (“ Zur Eothelnfrage,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 30), describes the symptoms given by various writers as charac- teristic of rotheln. He thinks that many of the so-called transitional or mixed forms may be explained by the simultaneous course of two acute exantbems (scarlet fever and measles) in the same patient. From his own observations he looks upon Thomas’s “ large spotted” type of rotheln as an urticaria (erythema urticatum) ; the “ small spotted” type he considers to be a specific affection, in which he seems to lay stress on the absence of the eruption from the face, the absence of peeling and the rapid fall of temperature. Jaccoud, “De quelques Complications et Suites de la Rougeole,” ‘Gaz. des H6p.,’ 187I) 1?r Vezien, “ Kapport sur un Epidemic de Rougeole qui a regne pendant les mois de Fevrier, Mars, Avril, et Mai a Dunkerque,” ‘ Rec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ x.xvii p. 300. Variola and Varicella. It is impossible to do more than pick out a few from the very numerous papers published on variola during the two years past; the bibliography of the affection might be prolonged indefinitely from both French and English papers.* Clemens (‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 281) describes the case of a girl aged 21, in whom the eruption was extremely thick on the left half of the body, and only small on the right half, especially the right face. On the third day of the eruption red spots appeared on the right face and arm, on the fifth day these had become large vesicles of pemphigus. One only was visible on the right leg. These vesicles did not originate in aborted smallpox pustules; they were smooth, filled with yellowish serum, and healed without leaving a scar. Simon (‘ Arch. f.Derm.,’ iii. 242), supplementing his former account of the prodromal exauthem of smallpox (see last ‘ Eeport,’ p. 77)? gives several cases in which it was present. From these it is evident that it sometimes appears as the very earliest symptom, so that it is possible to diagnose the coming affection in a patient who exhibits little or no fever, and few or no subjective pains. The first symptom was a sensa- tion of heat or itching of the abdomen. He refers the characteristic seat of this eruption to the axilla, and the inner and front part of the upper * Capt. Butler gives a good report (“ The Great Lone Laud,” London, 1872, App., <p. 317) of the epidemics of small-pox among the Indians of the Missouri and ^Saskatchewan, especially during the years 1869-70.—A. B. 8.63 VARIOLA AND VARICELLA. arm (the triangle of the upper arm). He answers generally in the affirma- tive tlie question whether this eruption is entirely pathognomonic of a coming variola; but he gives two cases in which, though it was present, the latter affection did not occur, and these he looks upon as eases of variola sine variolis. As to its nature, he places the exanthem in the same category as other vasomotor neuroses of the prodromal stage. G-ubler and Laborde (‘Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1871, 529) describe some of the nervine symptoms of variola. Frequently there was paralysis of motion and sensation jn the lower extremities ; paralysis of the bladder ’ at the commencement and end of the affection, sometimes with cystalgia. In two cases there was aphasia in a young woman at the beginning of a slight attack, and in a soldier on the second day of the eruption. Both cases recovered, in both the movements of the tongue were unaffected, the intelligence was perfect, and the patients referred to the throat, which was not abnormally affected, as the cause of the aphasia. Cartaz (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 200) gives the results of an examination of the brain in 106 cases of smallpox, of which 49 were varioloid, and 13 hgemorrhagic. Of the other 44 albumen was present in one out of 12 men, and in six out of 32 women. It was present in all the haemorrhagic cases. He holds that the albuminuria occurs in the con- valescing stage of smallpox, and in the majority of cases lasts only a few days. Eommelaere (‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med. de Belg.,’ v. 214) writes on the relation between variola and varicella. According to him the poison of variola exhibits itself in three different clinical types—variola, varioloid, and varicella; persons exposed to the contagion of varicella may take variola; and he advises that on an outbreak of varicella recourse should be had to the precautions employed against variola (re-vaccination, isolation, &c.). He enters into the pathological changes found in smallpox. In the cases examined by him there were pustules on the respiratory tract, the vocal cords, near the pylorus, and in the large intestine; enlargement of the solitary glands, spleen and mesen- teric glands, and Beyer’s patches ; extravasation in the liver, kidneys, ovaries, bladder and pericardium, &c.; fatty degeneration of the liver and of the heart muscle. Vulpian (‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxvi, 912) discusses the mode of formation and structure of the pustules in smallpox. Weigert (‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 108) has found bacteria in the skin of several patients suffering from smallpox. Wyss (‘ Arch. f. Derm.,’ iii, 529) has studied fully the anatomy of the extravasations in haemorrhagic smallpox, and purpura variolosa (haemorrhagic smallpox without pustules). The hair and sweat glands seem to be unaffected in both diseases. In the early stages of smallpox he finds that the papules are formed not only by distension of the cells of the epidermis, but also by oedema of the papillae. According to Iluchard (Arch. Glen, de Med.,’ xvii, 348), death in smallpox is due either to septicaemia or asphyxia. In the latter case the pustules may be found extending from the pharynx aud larynx, throughout the respiratory tract, as far as the finest bronchi. Eevillout (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 274) prevents the occurrence ofllEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. * The ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i. 868, has a summary of Lostorfer’s work. Gl< smallpox scars by openiug the pustules with a needle dipped in nitrate ot silver. He gives the case of a lady on whose face he opened all the jiustules but two; cicatrices were left by these two only. Fox, “ The Mortality fiom Smallpox in regard to Sex and Age,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz..’ 1871, i, 538. Breganze, “II Vajuolo Epidemlconel 1870—1871 in Milano,” ‘Gaz. Med. Ital. Lomb.,’ 1871, 221, 1872, 133. Dcll’Acqua, “ Cenni sul Vajuolo e suUa Vaccinazione in Milano,” ib., 25. Poppelauer, “ Reminiscenzen aus den hiesigen Stiidtischen Pockenheil-Anstalten,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 276. Paul, “La Variole consideree suivant les Sexes, les Ages, et les Saisons,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xi, 229. Grieve, “An Analysis of 800 Cases of Smallpox,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 371. Yarrow, “Report of Cases of Smallpox admitted into St. Luke’s Workhouse,” ib., i, 606. Adams, “ An.instance of the Introduction and Propagation of Smallpox in a Community, and its Eradication by Stringent Sanitary Measures,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 125. Jones, “On the Recent Outbreak of Smallpox at St. George’s Hospital,” ‘St. George’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xiv, 229. Brouardel, “ Des conditions dc Con- tagion et de Propagation de la Variole,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xi, 240. Andlioui, “ Reflexions snr la Nature des Varioles observes aux Ambulances de Crenelles pendant le Siege de Paris,” ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 180. Giustiniano, “L’Epidemia Variuolosa del 1871 in Carpi di Modena,” ‘Ann. Univ. di Med.,’ vol. 218, p. 137. Hjaltelin, “ Smallpox Im- ported into Iceland by French Fishing-vessels, stamped out by Quarantine and Sul- phurous Fumigations,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 519, Grieve, “Case of Haemor- rhagic Smallpox, with remarks,” ib., 465. Gaskoin, “ Antiseptic Treatment of Small- pox,” ib., 1872, i, 4. Baumler, “ The Use of Baths in Smallpox,” ib., ib., 45. Barlow, “ On the Exclusion of Light in the Treatment of Smallpox,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 9. Collie, “Lecture on Smallpox,” ib., 423. Jones, “Propagation of Smallpox,” ib., 28. Gayton, “ Haemorrhagic Smallpox associated with Teta- nus” (boy, set. 17, autopsy), ib., 1872, i, 187. Cheves, “Haemorrhagic Variola” (two cases, one autopsy), ib., loi. Ducat, “A Case of Malignant Smallpox,” ib., 791. Aikman, “A Suggestion as to the Causes and Treatment of the Hae- morrhagic Type of Smallpox,” ‘ Ghisg. Med. Journ.,’ iv, 52. Wohlrab, “ Ein Pall von Varioloiden mit partieller Encephalitis im Gefolge,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, 512. Geissler, “ Einige Bemerkuugen iiber Pocken und Vaccination,” ib., 545. Schwenniger, “ Kurze Notiz iiber die VVirkung des Cbinius in dein Prodromalstadium der Variola,” ib., 577. Briquet, “ Sur la Variole,” ‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ x.xxvi, 858. Gueneau de Mussy, “ Le9ons Cliniques sur la Variole,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ I87L 37. Desnos et Huchard, “Des Complications Cardiaques dans la Variole, et notam- liient de la Myocardite Varioleuse,” ‘ L’Union Med.,’ xi, 145 (and cf. ‘ Bull.Gen. de Therap.,’ T. 80, 385.) Lavise, “Variole, Developpement de Vesico-pustules dans le Pharynx, le Larynx, et les Bronches, Mort, Necropsie,” ‘Press. Med^ Beige.,’ 1871, loi. Netter, “Les Ferments Variolique et Vaccinale,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 569. Divet, “ De I’Action Combinee de I’Alcool et de I’Opium dans le Traitement de la Variole Hemorrhagique,” ib., S°S- Heine “ Ueber die Behandlung der Blattern und Abdominal Typhus,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 195. Eisenschitz, “Die Variola-Varicellen- frage,” ‘Jah'rb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 205. Fleischmanu, “Ueber Varicella und Varicellen-Impfungen,” Arch. f. Derm.,’ iii, 497. Syphilis. Lostorfer* (“ IJeber die Moglichkeit der Diagnose der Syphilis mittelst der Mikroskopischen Blutuntersuchung,” ‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb./ 1872, 96, and included under a paper by other writers, ‘ Arch. t. Derm. u. Syph.,’ iv, 115) describes certain corpuscles to be found in the blood of syphilitic patients, and not in others. He thinks that their development is materially affected by temperature, and gives thirteen cases in which the corpuscles were present in all stages of the affection. He purposely says nothing dednite as to their origin, or as to their beingSYPHILIS. 65 infecting organisms. The two papers contain discussions in which Wedl, Strieker, &c., took part. The latter adds a note, in which lie says that, on sending certain test-specimens to Lostorfer, the presence or absence of syphilis was pretty generally diagnosed. Wedl, who elsewhere (‘Allg. Wien. Med. Zeit.,’ 1872, 46) makes fun of the whole subject, declares that he has for some time found the said corpuscles in healthy as well as in syphilitic blood, and looks upon them as fat-cells. Vajda (“Lostorfer ’sche Syphiliskorperchen,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1872, s. 172) improved on Lostorfer’s method by keeping the blood con- tinuously in a moist chamber. His observations were made on the blood of thirty-five patients. He describes the corpuscles at length, and concludes that they occur in syphilitic, leuchsemic, and carcinoma- tous blood more frequently than in healthy; that they are sometimes absent in syphilitic blood ; that they are made up of an albuminoid (s. 200), probably a compound of phloretic acid,* with some combina- tion of an amide, and that they are neither vegetable organisms nor fat-cells. Biesiadecki (“ TJeber die Lostorfer ’schen Korperchen,” ib., s. 172) comes to almost the same conclusions, and says that his colleague Stopezanski looked upon Lostorfer’s corpuscles as granules of para- globulin. Owen Bees (‘Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 1872, 250) considers that the fol- lowing symptoms especially aid the diagnosis in cases of cerebral disease having a syphilitic origin, (i) The paralytic seizure is gener- ally the immediate result of some violent exertion, or of some long- continued muscular efi’ort carried on to fatigue, and the collapse is often so great as to threaten immediate dissolution. (2) The hemiplegic or paraplegic symptoms are very irregular in character; the right arm and leg may be paralysed, the latter scarcely affected, while the left leg has lost motor power; or there may be hemiplegia of one side and anaes- thesia of the other; or loss of sensation may affect only one limb, generally the arm. (3) Pain in the head and tenderness of scalp are scarcely ever wanting. (4) Aphonia has been observed in many cases in the early stage. He believes strongly that mercurial treatment is essential to the removal of the gummous deposits, and gives three cases —one with autopsy—in illustration of his view, which he states as fol- lows .—Syphilitic deposits may, like various forms of malignant disease, be present in the brain-substance, without producing symptoms, or only slightly incommoding the patient. An exciting cause may inter- vene and induce infiamination, which results in deposits made up of the ordinary components of the blood. These are easily absorbed by the iodide of potassium; the symptoms disappear and the patient is con- sidered perfectly cured. But the original syphilitic deposit still remains unabsorbed, and a recurrence is imminent, unless recourse be had to mercurial treatment, in order to effect the removal of the gummous mass. Oser ( Arch. f. Derm, und Syph.,’ iii, 27) describes three cases of extensive syphilitic ulceration of the small intestine. The first was the product of Phloritzin, a substance which occurs in the bark of the apple and other Huit trees, the composition of which is given by Strecker as ^42^24^20 -A-. 13. b. 5REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 66 that of a man, set. 151, who about six months before death became greatly emaciated. He presented psoriasis palmaris, plaques muqueuses, and glandular changes, but his digestion was pretty good. He died suddlenly, and the autopsy showed a greyish-red infiltration of all the iittdstiual,layers, extending from the lower part of the jejunum to the Cfl^ial valve, '’in the middle of the infiltration was a polygonal ulcer, parallel with the length of the intestine, its base formed % the sub- mucous-•1lis8^/6, and with well-defined edges. The peritoneum covering it^'Was injected and oedematous, and contained dilated lymph-vessels, binder the microscope were found numerous round, partly fatty cells. Tlae writer enters into the diflTerentiation between this syphilitic afiec- tion, tuberculosis of the intestines, typhoid, and leuchjemia. The two other cases were those of newborn children, and gave the same micro- scopic appearances as the first. Simon (ib., iii, 537) quotes the views of several authors on the fol- lowing questions :—whether deposits in the liver (gummata) are so fir characteristic of syphilis, that without any further history, or the presence of any constitutional affection, the disease may he recognised ; and whether there are cases in which hereditary syphilis may lie latent for years, even up to puberty, before it is developed. In opposition to Dittrich, who answers both questions in the affirmative, the author con- siders them still unsettled. He gives two cases, from his own ex- perience, as matter for the discussion of these points. Bradley (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 116) gives the case of a child, four months old, in whom a syphilitic eruption was accompanied by the presence of albumen in the urine. There was no history of scarlet fever. The eruption and the albumen both yielded to mercurial treat- ment. He found, later, albumen present in two out of twenty cases of hereditary syphilis, and infers that syphilis may be a cause of granular or waxy kidney ; and that the chronic albuminuria resulting from these changes should be treated with small doses of mercury. Lane, “ Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 267. Berkeley HiU, “Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilis,” ib., i, 305. Buzzard, “ Clinical Records of the Therapeutic Value of Iodine in the Treatment of Syphilitic Nervous Affections ib., i, 339, Lee, “On Contagion (Syphilitic),” ib., i, 47f- Berkeley Hill “Early Syphilis,” ib., ii, 599. Eo.x (Tilbury), “ Primary Sore on the Lip of a Child, ib., 1, Hutchinson, “Report on Vaccino-Syphilis,” ib.,_ 11, 143. Watson, “ Ptosis, Mydriasis, and Hypermmia, with Aiimsthesia ot the left side of the 7?m a Syphilitic Patient” (female, set. 22), ib., ib., ii, 676. Jeaffreson, “Syphilitic Ptosis and kraplegia,” ib., 1872, i, 252. Pollock, “ Case of Paralysis m a Syphilitic Sub- iect treated by large doses of Iodide of Potassium: cure, ib, ib., 1, 255. Dowse, “Syphilitic Growth of right Cerebral Hemisphere ” (woman, set. 33, autopsy), ib., ib., i cio Pairlie Clarke,* ‘Case of Icthyosis Linguae” (in a syphilitic subject, male, ffit q8) ib, 1872, i, 648. Lockbart Clarke, “ Case of Syphilitic Disease of the Brain, complete paralysis of right arm, partial paralysis of right leg, aphasia ®t. 47). ib i 677 Bristowe, “ Softening of the Brain following Syphilis, death (male, at. 22’- thickening of membranes and of right posterior cerebral artery, the latter occu- pfed for an inch of its length by a cylinder of adherent fibrine, softening of antenoi part of left optic thalamus, left crus cerebri, and posterior part of outer wall of 1 ip lentricle) ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 826. Hulke, “Syphilitic Stricture ot Rectum, &c. fwoman mt. 2:;, with autopsy), ib., ii, 79- Venning, “The Modern iMatment of Syphilis/’ based on the evidence adduced before the Committee appointed to luquiiPELLAGRA. 67 into the Pathology and Treatment of the Venereal Disease, published in 1867/’ ‘St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 77. Caspari, “tTeber die subcutanen Sublimat-Injectionen bei Syphilis,” ‘Deutsche Klin.,’ 1871, 21. V. Sigmund, “Zur Beurtheilung der Subkutanen Sublimat-Injectionen gegen Syphilis,” ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 36 and 37. Id., “Ueber die Besehneidung bei Syphilis der Vorhaufc und Eickel,” ib.. No. 21. Schwimmer, “ Casuistische Mittheilungen aus dem Gebiete der Syphilis,” ib.. No. 45. Hill, “The Iodides of Ammonium and Sodium in Syphilis,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 724. Parker, “The Modern Treatment of Syphilitic Diseases,” London, 5th ed. Chorin, “ Ueber den Nutzen der Schwefel-Thermen zur Ermbgli- chung einer MercurieUen Syjjhilis-cur,” ‘Arch. f. Derm, und Sypb.,’ iii, 109. Pick, “Einige Bemerkungen zum offenen Brief des Dr. Oborin’s,” ib., ib., iii. Llunggren, “ Ueber Syphilis des Gehirns undNervensystems,” ‘ Ai'cb. f. Derm. u. Sypb.,’ 1871, Bd. i'h 8- .333> 509! 1782, Bd. iv, s. 254. “ Ueber die Unterscheidbarkeit des Blutes Syphi- litischer —I. Strieker, “Beitrage zm'Pathologie des Blutes; II. Kobner, “Unter- suchungeu iiber die Unmoglichkeit der Diagnose der Syphilis mittelst der Mikro- skopischen Blut-untersuchung,” ‘Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph.,' 1872, B. iv, 275, 293, and ‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’1872, 96. Hennig, “Erhebte Lues, Muskelleiden,” ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderkr.,’ 1871, p. 320. Schuster, “Bemerkungen iiber die Art der Einwii’kung der Aachener Schwefelthermen bei Hydrargyrose und bei Syphilis,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 164. Paliai’d, “Chancre a siege insolite,” ‘Lyon Med.,’ ix, 37. Hutchinson, “ Report on two cases in which Syphilis was communicated in the practice of Vacci- nation,” ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ xxxvi, 317. Id., “Syphilis from a scratch on the band made by striking the knuckle against an opponent’s tooth,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 14. Fox (T.), “ Unusual fonn of Eruption in a Child, attributed to Syphilis: mercurial treatment: cm-e,” ib., 1871,^613. Stokes, “Syphilitic Laryngitis: trache- otomy twice, recovery ” (woman, set. 30), ib., ib., 339. James, “ Syphilitic Diseases of the Throat,” ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1872, i, 28. Bradley, “Notes on Syphilis, with an Appendix on the Unity of the Syphilitic Poison,” London, 1872. Pellagra. Gemma (“ Delle dermopatie Pellagrosa,” ‘ Annal. Uuiv, di Med.,’ eexvii, 31) describes the skin affections occurring in pellagra, dividing them into the transitory ones, showing themselves in the spring time, and the chronic, which have a regular or irregular course. The first are nearly always of the erythematous type, running on into the wrongly so-called erysipelas pellagrosum. The eruption appears most frequently on the backs of the hands, spreading from thence over a large part of the forearm, sometimes on the backs of the feet, the face, and the upper parts of the breast, all of them places exposed to the sun. The skin is more or less reddened and swollen, and the affection may last from a few days to some months. With the increased tempe- rature at the commencement of summer the condition of the parts affected undergoes certain changes. Itching is never present. After the eruption has lasted some time the hand has a white shining appear- ance, desquamation commences in large scales, the skin below appears atrophied, has a white cicatrised look, and feels velvety. Sometimes the erythema comes out in patches, or in papules closely crowded to- gether, and here and there confluent. More advanced stages are met with in which the redness is much deeper, and the patient complains of the burning pain, though in many cases of the worst kind cutaneous sensation is abolished. Large vesicles and pustules occur, succeeded y scabs and by desquamation, and by a pigmentation lasting a longer or shorter time. In other cases, again, the vesicles stand so thick together that the affection deserves the name of eczema pellagrosum.6S REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. The treatment of the lighter cases consists in keeping the parts affected from the sun, and in the severer to apply, night and morning, an oint- ment composed of olive oil, laurel vrater, and acetate of lead. In the chronic forms of the eruption occur—(i) Branny desqua- mation or larger scaling of the epidermis, taking place not only as a consequence of an antecedent erythema on the exposed parts, but on the covered portions of the body also, sometimes extending over the whole of the latter, and consisting in an hypertrophy of the rete mucosum, in which the nails also take part. (2) Pigmentation of the skin (Lentigo or Chloasma), remaining for several years. (3) Cracks in it, extending to the rete mucosum. (4) An anaemic or sallow appearance. (3) Livid spots on the lower extremities, noticed only in women. (6) (Edema of the skin. (7) A livid colour of the lips, already noticed by Strambio in cases of pellagra. (8) A shagreen roughness, accompanied by atrophy of the skin. (9) Purpura haemor- rhagica, with the symptoms, in some cases, of the haemorrhagic diathesis. (10) Lichen miliformis. (11) Separation of the epithelium of the mucous membrane of the tongue and mouth, in the worst and latest stages of the disease, generally accompanied by diarrhoea pellagrosa. (12) Onychogryphosis, partly spurious, from disappearance of the fat under the bed of the nail, and partly true, from hyperplasia of the latter. (13) Atrophy of the skin, accompanying general atrophy, in the last stages of the affection. Maas (‘Berk Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 363) gives two cases of so-caUed sporadic pellagra occurring in children, set. 13 and 13, whose parents presented the history of syphilis. Gfemma (** La pellagra dei lattanti e dei bambini, Gtaz. IMed. Lomb.,’ 1871, 349) describes this affection as it occurs in young chil- dren and in children at the breast. They present a roughness of the skin, especially on the forearms and cheeks, with a brownish colour, deepen- ing as they grow older, dry and generally livid lips, watery eyes, slight oedema of the lower eyelid, a red or pale tongue, with enlarged papillse. In addition to symptoms of general innutrition, catarrh of the bronchi, diarrhoea, &c., there is a peculiar form of dyspnoea, something like that of asthmatic patients, vulgarly called bellowing (mantesament) or wheezing (buffament) by the Lombard women. There may be sleep- lessness or a lethargy, out of which it is difficult to rouse them. In one ease the author noticed symptoms resembling the delirium pella- grosum of adults. The general cause seems to be hereditariness and, beyond doubt, feeding with maize. The treatment consists ot half- gramme doses of chloride of iron in the course of the day, as ffing as diarrhoea continues, and afterwards arseniate of quinine, cod-liver oil, warm baths with chloride of sodium, animal food, with omission of the maize. Eighteen clinical cases are given in illustration. Other papers are— Eniod “ Traite de la Pellagre, d’apres des Observations recueillies en Italic et en France”’ Paris, 1870. Balardini, “ Progressi della questione della Pellagre dopo ranno ’iS:;^ in Italia e in Francia, e conclusioni sulla etiologia, sulla profilassi et sulla cura di tale malattia,” ‘Ann. Univ. di Med.,^ ccxvii, 70. Gpinma Sull Arsenico nella Cura della Pellagra,” ib., ccxv, 564. Strina, “Casi di leUagia69 LEUCHiEMIA. curata col metodo Lombroso in Tornaco/’ ib., ccxvi, 559. Strarabio, “Intorno alia cura della Pellagra,” ib., 17. Cristina, “ Pellagra con Tuberculosi curata coll’ Acido Arsenicoso,” ib., 190. Manzini and Dotti, “Dell Arseuico nella Cura della Pellagra e della Paazia,” ib. 69; and see a very long paper by Lussana (“ Sulla Cause della Pellagra), ib., 1872, 351, with discussions on the same by Balardini (ib., 189) and Doinbroso (ib., 221,35 0* Lombroso, Studi Gliuici ed Espcrimentale sulla Pellagra, Bologna, 1871. LeucJicemia. Salkowski (‘Virch. Arch.,’ 1, 174, and lii, 58) has made some curious clinical researches into Neumann’s ease of uncomplicated leuchsemia lienalis (cf. Neumann, ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xi, i). In his last communica- tion he gives the following analyses of the urine; its quantity varied, in the course of ten days, between 560 and 1440 cubic cm. The proportion of urea varied Ijetween io’42 and grms., averaging 19-358 grms. The proportion of uric acid varied between "646 and 2‘o85 ; its mean ii-io8. Its proportion to the uric acid was i: 17*4, showing marked increase in the amount of the latter. A little albumen was always present. There was no lactic acid ; slight traces of formic and other volatile acids. The author, in conclusion, draws atten- tion to the fact that Leyden has several times tried galvano-punc- ture of the spleen, with the only result of causing its temporary enlargement. Eeincke Centralbl.,’ 1871, 222) gives the appearances found post- mortem in a patient suffering from advanced leuchsemia lienalis. The retina was beset with numerous small haemorrhages, increasing in number towards the periphery. These were rounded and prominent, and present in all the layers of the retina. Eed globules occupied generally the outer portion, and white cells almost alone their centres. The optic nerve was normal. He considers that there is, in these cases, a simple extravasation of leuchaemic blood, and does not agree with Leber in looking upon them as lymphatic new growths. Wood (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Science,’ Ixii, 373), in a paper on the “Eelations of Leucocythsemia and Pseudoleuksemia,” desires to show that there is a “ third form” of the latter disease, a splenic variety, which he thinks has been formerly described under the names of tumours of the spleen, splenic cachexia, &c., and he gives the following case, which he holds is sufficient to prove the point. A man, set. 30, serving in the army in Virginia during the rebellion, had suffered severely from camp-diarrhoea or dysentery. In 1870 he was taken with a dragging and heavy pain in the back and left side, believed for the next two months to be rheumatism. During the succeeding two months he rapidly lost flesh and strength, and in August came under observation. He was then very thin and weak, though able to walk ; the skin was pale, the abdomen enlarged, spleen and liver extremely so, with slight ffidema of legs; there was no increase in the white cells. In October he died. The spleen, at the autopsy, was eight inches long, flve and three quarters broad, and nearly lour thick ; the liver was also much enlarged ; the lymphatics of the thorax, abdomen, and axilla were much increased in size. The writer proceeds to discuss the question whether t ere is any change in the marrow of the bones peculiar to leucocy-70 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. thiemia, and gives three other cases, which presented hyperplasia of the medullary cells. AValdeyey, ‘Diffuse Hyperplasie des Kiioclienmarkcs, Leukamie,”‘Virch. Arch.,’ Ju. Neiimnnn, “ Kcrnhaltige Dlut-zellen hoi Leukainio und bei Neugehoreueu,” Avcly d. Heuk., xii, 187. Id., “ Ein ncuer Pall vou Lcukuemie niit Erkrniikung des Knochenmarkes,” ib., xiii, 481. Hosier, “ Die Pathologic und Therapie der Leukamie,” Berlin,i872, 283 (reviewed ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 359). Earaes, “Case of Leucocytlijemia,” Dubl. Journ., li, 388; ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 653. Ward, “Leukaemia Lym- phatica ” (man, set. 24, with autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872,^577. Patchett, “ Leucocy- thsBinia, gi’eat hypertrophy of spleen, constant deposit of uric acid in urine ” (woman, set. 23, death from fractured base of skull, autopsy), ib., ib., 682. Microcythemia. Under the term 3Iicrocythemia, Vanlair and Masius (‘ Bull, de 1’Acad. Med. Beige,’ v, 5^5) describe a morbid state characterised by the presence in the blood, in considerable numbers, of red cells (microcytes), distinct from the ordinary blood-cells. One case, that of a young woman attacked soon after her first confinement, is given in full, and the paper, which enters at great length into the symptoms, the exami- nation of the blood and urine, &c., seems to be based upon this ease. The symptoms are described as pains over the epigastrium and spleen, hypertrophy of the latter, atrophy of the liver, remittent jaundice, tem- porary aphonia, and paralysis of the limbs. A sister of the patient was said to have presented the same train of symptoms some years previously. Progressive Muscular Atrophy ; PseudoMuscular Hypertrophy. Martini (“ Zur Kenntniss des Atrophia Musculorum Lipomatosa,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 641) has examined the muscles of a patient who died of this affection, both in the fresh state and after hardening in chromic acid. He observed in the striated substance round or oval fissures, at first small, which either had a central position, singly.; or in pairs, or were distributed over the transverse section of the primitive bundle to the number of ten or twelve. The fissures increased from atrophy of the striated substance or the unchanged septa, till at last tubular fibres, analogous to. the muscles of insects, were formed. Their contents consisted of a homogeneous protoplasmic mass (serous, as opposed to simple atrophy). This observation disposes of the view that in progressive lipomatosis no other change takes place but increase or decrease in thickness of the muscular fibres. The same change (serous or tubular atrophy) is found to take place in other cases, in which the muscles become atrophied through pressure of new and growing tissue (fat, sarcoma). Eulenburg (‘Yirch. Arch.,’ liii, 361) records three cases, m which the affection first showed itself in three sisters successively in the eighth year of their age. They were the only children of healthy parents, who do not seem to have presented any hereditary affection, and were them- selves quite well up to this period. He gives a full account of cases, and compares with them the report by Meryon (‘ Haz. des Hop.,’ 1854, No. 127) of the occurrence of the affection in four brothers, and another,71 MUSCULAR ATROPHY. by bis own father (‘Dent. Klin.,’ 18,56), in two brothers. He believes that the pathological origin of the disease must be looked for in some congenitally defective formation of the central nervous system, probably in the cells of the grey substance of the spinal cord. Vogt (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 265) contributes a case of progressive muscular atrophy. The patient, a man, had lived a hard life, and had suffered from ague and a severe attack of typhoid. The disease had not made any advance for the last year and a half. The treatment con- sisted of good nutrition. He gives a summary of seventeen cases occur- ring in the period 1863-71. Of these, thirteen were men, two women, and two children. He refers the origin of the affection to severe labour in the majority of cases, to exposure to cold and wet, and in two cases to typhoid and ague. Generally speaking, the muscles of the ball of the thumb were first affected, then the deltoid, biceps, triceps, &c. The same rule seems to hold for the frequency with which these muscles are attacked separately. The abdominal muscles and the diaphragm were not affected in any case. No case improved; one only was stationary. Gombault (‘Arch, de Physiol.,’ 1872, iv, 309) publishes a case of pro- gressive muscular atrophy, accompanied by glosso-labio-laryngeal paralysis, in a woman, set. 38, under the care of Charcot. The autopsy showed pigmentary degeneration of the nerve-cells of the hypo-glossal nucleus in the medulla oblongata, &c., sclerosis of the anterior pyramids and antero-lateral columns ; disorganisation of the anterior grey sub- stance in parts, yellowish colour of the muscles of the face and upper extremities, many of the fibres having lost their transverse strise and undergone granular degeneration. The case confirmed the connection already pointed out by Charcot, between rigid contraction of the joints, which existed in this case, and sclerosis of the lateral columns of the cord (and see ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 641). Knoll (‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1872, s. i) describes a case of paralysis pseudo-hypertrophica in a boy aged 13 years. He was the only child of healthy parents, and no history could be obtained of any former affection. The muscles of the lower extremities and the lower portion of the trunk as high up as the last rib, were much enlarged, while those of the upper part were of the normal size, and especially showed no signs of atrophy. The apparently hypertrophied muscles were not weak and flabby, as other observers have noticed, but tough and hard. This condition was explained by the microscopical examination of a portion of muscle excised from the left gastrocnemius. The muscle fibres were found to be separated by broad tracts of fibrous connective tissue, poor in cells, and interpersed with fine nuclei. This interstitial tissue contained no lat, either in the form of cells or drops. The fibres themselves showed marked differences in their diameter. The majority of them were of moderately normal calibre ; some were less than the normal, others again exceeded it considerably. No relation could be made out between their size and that of the masses of interlying connective tissue. The transverse and longitudinal striation of the fibres was well preserved, but delicate, and the distance between the former unusually small. Separate fibres, especially the thicker ones, often split up into two equalUEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. n parts. (To show that these appearances were not due to any mode of preparation, he made various comparative researches on muscle from a boy who had died of acute inflammation of the lungs.) The muscles examined showed no granular or fatty appearance. He refers to other investigations in cases of progressive muscular atrophy, in which a simple, non-fatty degeneration of the fibres has been found, and he thinks that upon these grounds a sharp distinction between the two forms of disease can be drawn. He believes that the connective- tissue induration of the muscle represents an earlier stage of the affec- tion ; that the fatty infiltration of the muscles, like the lipomatosis occurring after the division of nerves, is one stage of the same patho- logical disease. But the development of fat is no essential symptom of the affection, and Duchenne’s name of paralysis pseudo-hypertrophica is, therefore, still the most convenient. The affected muscles reacted with a weak induction-current as healthy ones: with a strong current, only feebly, and without power of locomotion. A long disquisition succeeds on the contractions occurring in paralysis pseudo-hypertro- phica, and on the secretion of urea. As to whether the disease be a primary affection of the muscles, or due to an affection of the central nervous system, he thinks cannot as yet be decided. Duchenne (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 634) publishes a note on the patho- logical anatomy of pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis in five more cases, which only confirm his former researches. Barth, “ Beitrage zur Keniitniss der Atrophia Musculorum Lipomatosa ” (man, ast. 44, autopsy), ‘Arch. d. Heilk,’ xii, 121. Tillaux, “Atrophic Musculaire Consecutive aux Congelations,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 80, p. 226. Banks, “On Progressive Muscular Atrophy” (three cases, one death, autopsy incomplete), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 2. Pepper, “Clinical Lecture on a case of Progressive Muscular Atrophy,” ‘Philadelph. Med. Times,’ 1871, i. No. 18 (quoted in ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871). Auerbach, “Bin Pall von wahren Muskelhypertrophie” (man, set. 21), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 2.^4. Down, “ Case of Paralysis, with apparent Muscular Hypertrophy,” ‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxi, 24. Id., “ Case of Pseudo-hypertrophic Paralysis," ih., 29. Chapot-Duvert, “ Atrophie Musculaire Progressive, gu&ison au moyen des courants continus,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ t. Ixxi, 134. Orsi, “ Cenno sulT Ipermegalia Muscolare, Paralitica, Progressiva, e Storia Clinica di uno caso della stessa,” ‘Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 117. Butliu, “ Condition of the Muscle in Pseudo-Hypertrophic Muscular Paralysis,” ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ viii (1872), 124. Greenhow, “Case of Progressive Muscular Atrophy,” ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v (1872), 210. Davidson, “On Pseudo-Hypertrophic Muscular Paralysis” (three cases, with photographs, &c.), ‘Glasg. Med. Journ.,’ iv, 289. Diabetes. Zimmer (“ Die Hachste IJrsache des Diabetes Mellitus‘ Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 41) quotes the experiments of !^:mard, Pavy, &c., to show that the production of sugar from glycogen js increased in the liver by great congestion, in the muscles by contraction, and in the whole body by large venesections. The mode of working in all these cases he finds in the larger amount of water acting as a ferment upon the glycogen of the different organs. The same process occurs in artificial diabetes, only in larger amount and for a longer time. In Bernard’s experiment of pricking the floor of the fourth ventricle, in division of the splanchnic nerve in destruction of the upper cervical ganglion, or extirpation of73 DIABETES—EHEUM ATISM. the solar ganglion (Klebs), the same result occurs. In all thep is paralysis of the contractile elements of the blood-vessels m the liver; and in all these he sees the same action of the water, the same fermen- tation of the glycogen, the same swelling of the liver cells, which he believes to be at the bottom of what may be distinguished as two forms of artificial diabetes, the one produced by paralysis of the vessels, the other by changes in the nutrition of the cells, of the liver. In the same way he explains the occurrence of diabetes in men. In autopsies of these cases the liver is frequently found filled with blood. ^ Salinger Beitrag. zur Diagnose des Diabetes JMellitus, ib., holds that the nature of a disease is identical with its seat in any given organ to which it may be referred, and, therefore, the mucous mem- brane of the digestive organs is the original seat of diabetes. So long as arterial blood contains no sugar, none can be abstracted by any of the organs, nor, consequently, taken up by the veins or lymphatics. If, however, sugar be found in the vena cava and right ventricle, it must have entered by the thoracic duct and the capillaries of the small intestine; consequently the intestinal mucous membrane is the only seat of the formation of sugar (!). Kratschmer (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 8) concludes from his researches into the action of opium and morphia in diabetes, that patients affected with this disease easily bear large doses of opium ; and that not only is the secretion of sugar considerably diminished by the drug, but even arrested for a shorter or longer period. The same result follows the use of morphia. Donkin, “ The Skim-milk Ti-eatment of Diabetes and Bright’s Disease, with Clinica Observations on the Symptoms and Pathology of these Affections,” Loudon, 1871, pp. 317. Bouchardat, “ Eaux de Vais dans la Glycosurie,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 421. Duhoue, “De I’Odeur Acide de I’Haleine comme signe Diagnostique du Dia- hete,” ib., 802. Salomon, “ Geschichte der Glycosurie von Hippokrates bis zum Anfauge des 19 Jahrhunderts,” ‘Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 489. Sedgwick, “ On Temporary Glycosuria as a sequel of Cholera,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 63. Nicol, “Case of Diabetes Mellitus under Milk-treatment: death” (boy, set. 15, the autopsy showed slight atheroma of the aortic valves and aorta, fatty liver and (probably) kidneys, slight milkiness of the arachnoid, other organs normal), ‘Brit. Med. Jouni.,’ 1871, ii, 64. Smith, “Case of Acute Diabetes, with Clinical Remarks” (boy, set. 16, no autopsy), ib., ib., 728. Donkin, “ Further Observations on the Skim-milk Treatment of Diabetes Mellitus,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 603. Pyle, “ Cases (two) of Diabetes,” ib., 1872, i, 718. Balfour, “ On the Treatment of Diabetes by Lactic Acid ” (seven cases), ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 333. Gueneau de Mussy, “Etudes sur la Traitement de la Polyurie,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 389. 'Rheumatism. Ferber (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 80) gives the further history and autopsy of a boy whose case he had already recorded (see last ‘ Deport,’ p. 99). The patient suffered from joint-afiection, chorea and heart disease. The attacks of rheumatism were repeated frequently, accom- panied hy a cluster of enlarged cervical glands, such as occurs in spinal meningitis. The brain and spinal cord were not examined ; the pericar- dium was completely adherent; the valves were deficient, and the muscle fatty. He gives a case of the same kind still under treatment. The patient was a boy of two years and eight months, whose fatherREPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 74 had had rheumatism, and whose grandfather had sutFered from convul- sions and paralysis. In May and September of 1868 the child had had two attacks of eclampsia. In April, 1869, there was swelling of both his leet, with fever. This was followed by choreic movement of the hands and face, and head symptoms. By the end of May the child was com- pletely well. The same attack occurred a year later, and at this time a rasping murmur was heard over the heart, disappearing soon after- wards. The patient was well again by the middle of May. The author looks upon this case as one, not of simple articular rheumatism, but of meningeal affection. Andrew (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v. 229) gives the case of a boy, set. 16, in whom a wide daily range of temperature in rheumatism was asso- ciated with disease of the heart, vegetations on the mitral valve, and infarction of the spleen. Handfield Jones (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 636) gives a summary of five cases of acute rheumatism, treated with drugs. He concludes that the affection has no fixed period of continuance, but is on the contrary subject to very considerable variations. These, he thinks, depend on the quality of the individual system, by which also the choice of remedies should be guided. He gives alkalies in cases where the urine and sweat are acid; where the pulse is small and the patient weak they are injurious ; in such cases quinine in full doses is very often of great service. Blisters, which are valuable agents in relieving pain, do not curtail the course of the disease; in some cases they add to the nervous irritabi- lity. Purgatives should always be given at the outset, and when the tongue is foul, &c. The subcutaneous injection of atropia is generally the best remedy for the pain. Foster (‘ Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1871, ii, 722) gives an account of articular pains, resembling in all particulars those of rheumatic fever, observed in two diabetic patients, to whom lactic acid had been administered. Esmarch (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 422) employs ice continuously till all the symptoms of acute rheumatism have disappeared. He records four cases in which it was used with the very best results. He lays stress on the difference between this employment of ice and cold applications, asserting that the latter may, from the continual change of cold and warmth, make the affection worse. Both (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ liv, 375) gives an account, with plates, of the autopsy of a pig, six months old, which eight days before death was seized with loss of appetite, and symptoms resembling those of so- called malignant erysipelas. The free edges of the tricuspid were thickened ; vegetations were present on the other three sets of valves; both hip-joints, the right knee, and left shoulder-joint had increased fluid, and thickened and hypersemic synovial membranes. He concludes from the alterations found, that this was a case of recurrent valvular endocarditis combined with recent inflammation of the joints.* Pox, “ On the Treatment of Hyperpyrexia, as illustrated in Acute Articular Eheu- luatisin by means of the External Application of Cold, London, 1871, pp* 7^'' Anderson, “Cerebral Kheuinatism” (3 cases, no marked post-mortem appearances), ‘ Hrit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,1,529. Gillard, “The Treatment of Acute Rheumatism. * Might this not be a case of pyaemia ?—A. B. S.75 SCUllVY—RICKETS. ty Morpliia Injection » ib., ib., 118. Rnlge, » On Rheumatism," ‘ Med. Times and Gaz,* 1871, ii> 185. Moxon, “ Case of Cerebral Klieumatisra treated by CJold Bath (man, rot. 23, highest temperature 106-2°, recovery), ib., ib., 243. Sutton, “ Case of Rheumatic Rever with Moderately High Temperature, successfully treated by Haths ^ (I’-irl, mt. 16, first attacdc, mitral systolic bruit, highest temperature, 1044 ), Lancet, 1872,1, 46. Ogle, “Severe Case of Acute Rheumatic Fever" (man, mt. 23), ib., r87i, i, 44>;. Id., “ Several Cases of Rheumatic Fever,” ib., ib., 682. Silver “ Case of Rheumatism treated with Veratrum Viride," ih., ib., 193. Weber, “A Cf^e of Hyperpyrexia (heatstroke) in Rheumatic Fever, successfully treated by Cold Baths and Affusions,” ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v (1872), 136. Russell, “Case of Rheumatic Pericarditis and Pleurisy (girl, set. 12, affected with chorea); “A Case of Double Pleurisy” (boy, set. 15), each with very slight rheumatic development, ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, i, 487. Fox, “Case of Acute Rheumatism, Death” (negro, set. 27, autopsy, highest temperature ioS’3°), ‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iv, 403. Southey, “ Acute Rheumatism with Cerebral Symptoms and High Temperature (105-5 ) ycated unsuccessfully by Cold Affusion” (man, set. 35, autopsy), ‘Lancet, 1872, ii, 562. Russell, “ Death from Obstruction of the Pulmonary Artery in the course of Peri- carditis occurring during the fifth attack of Acute Rheumatism,” ih.,_ib., 7°7- Scurvy ; Fur pur a, ^c. The greater number of writers on scurvy during the last two years are to be found among the French, who seem to have had good reasons to observe the affection during and after the late war, at Paris and elsewhere. Hayem (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 227) gives a sketch of the affection based on forty cases; he recognises a primary and secondary form, the latter occurring after typhus, tuberculosis, &c. He also gives a note of eight autopsies (and see ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 127, ib., 157). Chalvet (‘Union Med.,’ t. xii, p. 525) finds the blood of scorbutic patients is more fluid and paler than normal, resolving itself into an ex- tremely dense, small clot, with an unwonted amount of serum. Becquerel and Rodin had found an increase in the number of red cells ; but Chalvet finds the reverse. The amount of water and albumen is increased. Legi-oux, “ Le Scorbufc,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’viii, 97. Verneuil, “ Du Scoi-but Compli- quent les Lesions Traumatiques,” ib., 149. Bucquoy, “ Le Scorbut, a I’Hopital Cochin pendant le Siege de Paris,” ib. 321. Lasegue, “ L’Epidemie de Scorbut dans les Prisons de la Seine et a I’Hopital de la Pitie.” ‘Arch. Gen.,’ xviii, 5. Leven, “Une Epidemie de Scorbut Observee a I’Hopital Militaire d’lvi-y pendant le Siege de Paris,” ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 431. Laboulbene, “ Sur I’Examen Microscopique du sang dans le Scorbut Observe a Paris en 1871,’’ ‘ Compt. Rend.,’ Ixxii, 411. Poncet, “Observation d’Hemophilie: autopsie” (boy, set. 16), ‘Rev. Med.,’ 1873, i, 41. Legg, “Four Cases of Hffimophilia,” ‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’vii, 23. Ward, “Case of Purpuric Fever” (with autopsy), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 647. Id., “Seven Cases of Scurvy,” ib., ii, 397. Brigstocke, “Cases of Hmmophilia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, ii, 122. RieJeets. Ritchie (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 9) observed the morning and evening temperature of eleven children affected with uncomplicated rickets for eight days. The bulb was placed in the rectum for five minutes between 9 and 10 a.m. and p.m. The ages of the children ranged between 10 months and 3 years. The mean result thus obtained was 99’^3° for the morning and 97-44° for the evening. Fleischmann (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 50) treats of rachitisREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 76 with especial reference to the pause in the development of the teeth. On the average a month, to a month and a half, occurs between the appearance of the several incisors, and two, to two and a half months, between that of the several canine and back teeth ; so that the twenty- milk teeth are appearing up to the end of the second year. Generally after the eruption of the incisors, between them and the first back teeth, the first symptom of rickets is shown in the cessation of the tooth development. This is followed by the other symptoms, and the later teeth are cut before they are fully formed. Grunhut and Jay, “ Three Cases of Rachitis in Children,” ‘ Ainer. Journ. of Ohstet., &c.,’ 1871 (August), p. 317. Parry, “ Rachitis” (case of coloured hoy, 03t. 9 months, with autopsy), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 427. Id., “ Ohservations on the Frequency and Symptoms of Rachitis, with the Results of the Author’s Clinical Experience,” ih., Ixiii, 17, Addison's disease. Laschkewitsch publishes (‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1871, 425) the follow- ing;—A strong and well-nourished man of 45 suffered from excessive weakness, palpitation, dyspnoea and headache. He was extremely anaemic, the mucous membrane of his lips, &c., livid, his hands and feet oedema- tous. His red blood-corpuscles were found to be paler and larger than normal, and underwent certain changes of form, becoming club or worm- shaped. Processes were protruded from them and again retracted. Lastly they broke up into fragments. The addition of weak acetic acid accelerated the phenomena. Heat and electricity made no difference. The patient’s condition improved in the course of a month under tonics ; the numerical proportion of the red cells increased; they became intensely coloured, but still retained the capability of undergoing change in form. Three months later the patient returned with bronze colour- ation of the face, neck, nipples, scrotum, &c. Tuckwell (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ 1871, 73) gives a case of Addison’s disease in a woman set. 31, with a full account of the post- mortem examination and the microscopic appearances found in the capsules. The latter were enlarged, hard and nodulated, on section toughly fibrous, with a dull white s-urface studded with small bright yellow spots. There was very great increase of connective tissue about the supra-renal plexus, the semi-lunar ganglion, and great splanchnic nerve. He opposes at length the views of Eossbach,* and in his con- clusion on the nature and pathology of this disease agrees with those of most English writers on the subject. ^ Payne (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 281) records a case of Addisons disease in a man aet. 32, in whom the softened and broken-down capsules were accompanied by a sooty colour of the genitals only, at any rate to any perceptible degree, and by a deposit of pigment in the connective-tissue cells of the pia mater covering the medulla oblongata and first two or three inches of the medulla spinalis. nnUniT. » Identity of Addison’s Disease and Degeneration of the Gastric Tuhules,’ ‘Phil. Med. Surg. Rep.,’ 1871, xxiv, 473- Churchill, ;<Effects of Ether Spray upoii the Skin in Addison’s Disease,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 317. Quam and bilver,. * Cf. last Biennial Report,’ p. 87.77 ANIMAL PARASITES. » Addison’s Disease ” (man, mt. 24, capsules cretified), ib., 280. Finlayson, On a Case of Addison’s Disease” (man, ajt. 33), ‘Glasgow Med. .Tourn., 111, 433. Marshall, “ Case of Bronzed Skin, chronic disease of the membranes of the brain, perforation of the skull, abcesses of the scalp, death” (male, mt. 63, autopsy), 35 S- Moore, “ Case of Bronzed Skin without Disease of the Suprarenal Capsules, Dubl. Quart. .Tourn. ’ li, 80. Russell, “ Hereditary Bronze Colour of the Skin simulating Addison Disease,”’‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 57. Nicholson, “Addison^s Disease (boy, set. 14, autopsy), ‘Brit. Med. Joiirn.,’ 1872, ii, 121. Merkel, “Em hall von Bronce-Haut ohne Nebenuieren-erkrankung,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ x, 205. Exophthalmic Goitre. Galezowski (“Etude sur le goitre Exophtbalmique,” ‘Gaz. des. Hop.,’ 1871, 425) gives a general sketch of the atfection, claiming for Demours the first description of it in 1818. He considers the afiiection to be a nervine one, accompanying lesion of the sympathetic nerve, such as Lancereaux and Peter found in one case in the hypertrophy and hypersemia of the inferior cervical ganglion. He thinks the pro- trusion of the eye is due to the contraction of the small muscles in Tenon’s capsule, supplied by that nerve. Emmert (“ Historische notiz fiber Morbus Basedowi, nebst Referat fiber 20 selbst beobachtete Palle dieser Krankheit,” ‘ Arch. f. Ophthal.,’ xvii, 203) gives the first description to an Englishman (‘ Col- lections from the unpublished writings of the late C. H. Parry,’ 1825). Meyer (‘Berk Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 468) gives four cases of this affection in females in which good results were obtained by galvanizing the cervical sympathetic. Hutchinson, “Cases of BasedoVs Disease” (four females), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 538. Patchett, “ Exophthalmic Goitre, unusual severity of symptoms, ulcer of cornea, cured” (woman, set. 27), ib., ib., 827. Animal Parasites. TJdhe (‘Yirch. Arch.,’ lii, 439) gives a table showing that of 87,111 pigs killed in the duchy of Brunswick, from Easter 1868 to 1869, six only were found to have trichinae. Petri (ib., 440) gives another table of all the pigs (5688) slaughtered at Rostock in 1870: one only was found afiected (cf. last ‘Report’). In the ‘ Second Annual Report of State Board of Health in Massa- chusetts’ (1871) may be found (p. 46) a report on “ Trichina Disease in Massachusetts.” The history and symptoms of the affection are given, and an account of outbreaks of it in 1870, one in Saxonville and the other in Lowell. In the first, three out of a family of six, who had eaten underdone fresh fried pork, were attacked, two boys, set. 14 and 19, and their sister set. 17. The eldest boy died with symptoms of typhoid fever. In the second case—badly reported—a mother and four children ate portions of raw smoked ham {i. e. not even slightly cooked, as the father took it) and became affected. Living trichinse were found in fragments of the ham examined. As to prevention—a tem- perature of 150° to 160° E. is fatal to the trichina. Pickling may and does probably render the pork harmless, smoking does not. Uncooked pork muscle, i. e. the lean portion (for trichinso are not harboured in the fat), can never be eaten with safety.f 78 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. aa epidemic of ' observed in the eyes. The patients bad a peculiarly fixed stare/with at any rate at first, perfectly free movement of the eyeball. The latter decreased as other symptoms of the presence of the trichinm in the muscles of the eye showed themselves. Simultaneously occurred obsti- nate mydriasis, which the author refers to paralysis of the third nerve (the short root of the ciliary ganglion). Maurer (“ Eine Trichinosisgruppe aus Eayern,” ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ viii, account of an outbreak of trichinosis, rare in the south oi Q-ermany, at Erlangen. Almost all the cases could be traced to one butcher’s shop. One patient, already'afi'ected with phthisis, died; and the post-mortem inspection proved the presence of trichinae. Zenker (“ Zur Lehre von der Trichinenkrankheit,” ib., 387) puts together the above case of Maurer’s with other autopsies of cases of trichinosis occurring in Bavaria (three in Wurzburg, and two in Erlangen). In opposition to the vulgar opinion, he holds that the rarity of the aftection is due to the small quantity of raw flesh eaten, not to the rare occurrence of afiTected pigs. The latter is contradicted by the frequent occurrence of trichinie in rats. In opposition, too, to the views of Leuckart, Pagenstecker, and others, he considers these animals as alfected secondarily, and as a consequence of affected pigs in the same neighbourhood. Erom materials gathered in Saxony, Bavaria, Wiirtemberg, and Austria, he deduces certain averages as to the fre- quency of trichinae in rats. At the same time he sees no reason to doubt the truth of KUhn’s observations, that these trichinous rats are eaten by pigs.* Ttie author concludes by giving certain veterinary advice which may conduce to the prevention of trichinosis among rats. Eeeb (‘Eec. de Mem. de Med.,’ xxvii, 31) gives two cases of hy- datids of the brain, the first in a boy set. 5 years, in whom the most marked symptoms were a left-sided chorea, and affections of the sight accompanied by dilated, uncontracting pupils, and atrophy of the optic nerve. A prominence was gradually developed on the right parietal bone, becoming soft and pulsatile, then gradually disappeared. Later on the tumour again appeared, increased in size, with fluctuating con- tents. It was twice punctured, seventy-two grammes of liquid being removed the first time, and seventy the second. Convulsions of a tetanic character set in some time before death. At the autopsy were found three communicating cysts, one subcutaneous, the second between the bone and the dura mater, and the third, larger, in the * The taste of these animals is as varied as that of the higher ones who devoiu’ them. The pigs of Estremadura are said to eat locusts; and, according to Eord (‘ Murray’s Handbook for Spain,’ 1869, part ii, p. 176), the Duke of Arcos shut up his pigs in places abounding in vipers, on which they fattened. Of “ ces petits jambons vermeils” the Due de St. Simon (‘ Mem.,’ x.v, 30) writes with infinite gusto, “ Ces jambons ont un parfnm si admirable, uu gout si releve et si vivifianfc, qu’on est surpris; il est impossible de rien manger si exquis.” Cobbold (‘ Brit. Med. Jouru.,’ 1871, ii, 394) draws attention to another entozoon (Stephanurus dentaius) found in the hogs of America and Australia.—A. B. S.79 DISEASES OF THE NEllVOUS SYSTEM. posterior lobe of tlie right hemisphere, surrounded by a thin layer only of brain substance. This further communicated with the lateral and middle ventricles, and terminated in a vast pouch in the posterior lobe of the left hemisphere. Numerons hydatids were found through- out the cavities. The whole brain, including the central ganglia, was more or less softened. Tlie second case is that of a boy, set. i8, who after frequent attacks of intermittent fever suffered from aciite supra- orbital neuralgia. Hemiplegiai, followed by coma, occurred, and tour days later he died. Post-mortem, the whole right hemisphere was found to be destroyed by a large cyst filled with hydatids. As in the former case, it was surrounded by a thin layer of brain substance, but was compressed by the skull bones. Zuber (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 730) records the occurrence of two hydatid cysts in the lung of a man, aged 22. The symptoms were those of acute tuberculosis. Rupture of one sac took place into the pleura and was followed by death. Hirschberg (‘ Perl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872) removed cysticerci from the eye of a woman and of a boy. The ‘ Lyon Me'd.’ (x, 341) quotes a case recorded by Armour (‘Detroit Review of Med.’), in which portions of taenia solium were passed by a child three days old. Dickinson, “Three Cases of Trichiniasis after Eating Home-fed Pork,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 446. Huber, “ Einige Notizen liber Echinococcus Multilocu- laris,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 269. Frommaun, “ Zur Casuistik der Trichiniasis,” ib., liii, SOI. Fagge and Durham, “On the Electrolytic Treatment of Hydatid Tumours of the Liver,” ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, i. Giraud-Teulon, “ Cysticercus Ladriqiie (C. cellulosai) dans le corps vitr4” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 12. Surmay, “Tenia Mul- tiple,” ib., 900. Leidy, “ Taenia caused by the use of Eaw Beef (T. medio-canellata),” ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 293. Preston, “A Lumbricus discharged through an Abscess about the Hip-joint” (boy, set. 13), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 777. Welch, “The presence of an Encysted Echinorhynchus in Man,” ib., ib., 703. Vegetable Parasites. Richter (‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenk.,’ iii, i) finds, on examining the central portion of warts, an extremely large number of micrococci in and between the epithelial cells, and on placing them in a solution of ammonia and sugar obtains numerous and largely branched mycelia. Hallier (“Des Parasiten des Infections Krankheiten,” ‘Zeitschr. f. Parasitenk.,’ ib., 157) publishes the results of his experiments on the faeces of sheep which died of foot-and-mouth disease. Tuckwell (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ viii, 125) writes on the ringworm of cattle and its communicability to man. li. Diseases of the Nervous System. Hysteria. Charcot ( Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 55^) gives a lecture on two cases of hysterical contraction of the limbs, one, a woman aged 40, representing the hemiplegic type, the other, a girl aged 21, representing the paraplegic type of the afiection.llEPOUT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 80 Jamieson (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 29) gives a case of “trance” in an hysterical girl, aged 16 years. In a clinical lecture on supposed cases of hysteria, Fuller (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 610) draws attention to the necessity of noting carefully all the symptoms, and mentions two cases of supposed hypochondriasis or ^steria, in which the symptoms during life, and the immediate cause of death, were due in one case to abscess of the brain, in the other to a small aneurism causing erosion of the spine. Tilt (ib., ib., 690) attacks the views with regard to hysteria held “ by men who own they know nothing about diseases of women;” quotes the opinion of Chambers, EusseU Eeynolds, and Handfield Jones, &c., and thinks that to understand rightly hysteria, catalepsy and epilepsy, “the diseases of the ganglionic nervous system” should be studied. Eosenthal (“ Ueber vasomotorische Innervationsstbrungen bei Hy- steric,” ‘Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 182) records a fresh case of analgesia with no loss of the sense of touch, in an hysterical girl. He refers to the fact that in hysterical patients the ansesthesia and analgesia are regularly distributed according to the limits of cutaneous nerve-terri- tories established by Voigt, and gives an interesting case illustrating certain changes in the vasomotor system. A young woman, aged 23, had suffered from hysterical and cataleptic attacks which had ceased for two years, but returned again in consequence of a blow which set up inflammation in the left mamma. These attacks were accompanied by a fall in the temperature of the hands from 93*9° E. to 87°, and in the pulse from 72 to 65; by paleness and coldness of the fingers and nails; loss of consciousness and convulsions. The attack lasted from a quarter to half an hour. On the return of consciousness the pulse and temperature rose again; there was positive, as well as subjective, feeling of warmth, redness of the nails, and cutaneous perspiration. The time just before these attacks was marked by hypersesthesia, which was rarely noticed on days which were free from them; it was present in various parts of the trunk, more frequently on the left than the right side ; sometimes in the left upper and right lower extremity. At the onset and termination of the attack there was anassthesia. Eeflex movement could be excited in the hands and fingers, while the patient was still unconscious, and her pupils not acting, and were sure signs of her soon coming to herself Morphia injections were employed, and recovery was complete on the return of the catamenia after their absence for several months. Ferguson (‘ Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 78) records a case of hysteria in a young girl, from whom loi pins and needles were removed from the arms and legs. Hodges, “ Hysterical Closure of Eight Eyelids cured by Galvanism,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 378. Eazin, “ Observation d’Apbasie Hysterique” (in a pregnant woman!), ‘ Gaz* des Hop 1871, 446. Corlieu, “ Anestbesie Musculaire et Cutanee Occasionnee par un Kefroidi’ssement, ou Nevrose Cataleptiforme Hemiplegique,” ‘L’Union Med.,’ xii 376. Walcber, “Observation de Nevrose Cataleptiforme simulee,” ib., ib., 436. Kraft-Ebing, “ Ein Beitrag zur Erkennung und Bebandlung der Hysteriscben Lali- mung-en” (hysterical paraplegia cured by electricity), ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 1:20 Silver, “Hysterical Ptosis,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 117. Aitcbison, “A Case ol Feigned Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, ii, 120. Foss, “Notes of a Fatal Case of Hysteria ” (girl, ast. i9> autopsy), ib., ib., 9.81 CHOREA. Chorea. Handfield Joues (‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1872, i, 24) records five cases of chorea ; in one girl £et. 7 years, and two, set. 13, in each of whom the aftection lasted six weeks ; in a girl of 18, in whom its dura- tion was doubtful, and in whom there was a curious mingling of motor and mental disorders; and in one boy set. 10 years, in whom its dura- tion was about eleven weeks. These cases illustrate the following points, (i) The tendency of chorea proper—motor centre disorder— to be attended with an analogous state of the emotional or of the intel- lectual centres ; (2) its liability to occur in a modified form, and to be complicated with quasi-epileptic attacks ; (3) the absence of rheumatism or definite endocarditis in all the cases; (4) the varying duration and causation of chorea; (5) the certainty that the same remedy is not suitable to all cases ; (6) the increased excretion of urinary solids which not unfrequently occurs in chorea. Butlin communicates to the ‘Lancet’ (1871, ii, 576, 606) twelve cases of chorea in children between the ages of 7 and 10 years, treated with sulphate of zinc. Gray and Tuckwell (ib., ii, 778) give a series of eighteen cases, six under the observation of the former, and twelve under that of the latter. In none of these was any special treatment adopted from the first onset to the complete disappearance of the symptoms, calculated to influence the nervous system. Good diet, the better hygienic conditions of the infirmary, and peppermint water were the only means employed. The cases show well how remarkably chorea is liable to vary in its duration. The most protracted case in Gray’s list lasted twenty weeks, the shortest six weeks; the longest of Tuckwell’s cases seventeen w^eeks, the shortest six weeks. The average duration of Gray’s six cases is ten weeks and one day ; of TuckwelTs twelve cases, ten weeks and three days. These averages have a remarkable identity with the results obtained by the use of various drugs. Gray finds the average of seven cases, taken at random, and treated with arsenic, steel, &c., to be ten weeks and two days. The mean duration of eight cases treated in succession by Tuckwell with arsenic in gradually increasing doses, after Begbie’s plan, was ten weeks and six days; the longest case lasting sixteen, the shortest seven weeks. Hillier puts the mean duration of thirty cases at “ about ten weeks.” See gives sixty-nine days as the average dura- tion of 117 cases. Buzzard (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 342) showed to the Clinical Society a female ast. 25, with atrophy of the right side of her face, alter chorea. Spender, “Two Cases of Severe Chorea rapidly Cured bv Arsenic,” ‘Brit Med Journ., i87j> n, 429- Andrews, “ Case of Chorea with Mitral Regurgitation, treated by Conium (hoy, set. 12), ib., 1, 612. Lane, “Chorea arising from a blow,” ib., .. foUowing Acute Rheumatism,” ih., ib., R27. Ogle, Tliree Cases of Chorea (two girls, pit. 14 and 19, and a hoy, mt. 18), ‘ Lancet,’ 18^, f Rickmson, ‘On Chorea,” ib., i, 504. Hughlings Jackson, “ Remarks on a Case of Chorea m a Dog.’’ ib., 1872, i, ,48. Radcliffe, “ Case of Clonic Spasms, occunmg only when the patient (girl, set. 21) attempts to stand,” ib., ib. 6KEPOirr ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 8;J E'pilepsy. Brown-S^uard (‘ Arch, de Physiol.,’ 1872, iv, 204) has arrested the fits of epilepsy which have been provoked in guinea-pigs, by section of a portion ot the spinal cord, or of the sciatic nerve, by irritating the throat or larynx by carbonic acid gas. The strength of the gas must be such as to be almost insupportable by the experimenter, and must be injected with a certain amount of force. Injection of tlie gas simply into the nose of the animal is insufidcient, though the case may be different in the human subject. The author has also verified the experiments of B-osenthal, that pulmonary insufflation arrests tlie epileptic attacks provoked by strychnine. At the same time he looks upon the explanation given as absolutely false, and thinks the arrest to be due not to superoxygenation of the blood, but to the mechanical irritation of the air upon the branches of the vagus distributed to the bronchi, and to the nerves of the diaphragm. The same results followed the same experiments made on pigeons and a duck. The same writer (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 466) communicates to the Societe de Biologic the experiments he has made to determine the path followed by irritation, which has been set up by section of the sciatic nerve, in order to reach the upper part of the spinal cord, and produce attacks of epilepsy. Section of the nerve, high up, and especially removal of the nerve, constantly produce epilepsy. But section of the cord immediately above the origin of the nerve does not do so. This unexpected fact makes him think that the epileptic symptoms are not due to section of fibres of the sciatic, but rather to section of fibres of the sympathetic contained in the sciatic nerve. He therefore attempted to divide the tilaments of the sympathetic passing to the sciatic, but the task was difficult, and the results transient. On the other hand, section of the last dorsal and first lumbar roots, which furnish sympathetic filaments to the sciatic, did produce epilepsy. He thinks, therefore, that artificially produced epilepsy is probably due to section of tlie sympathetic nerve. Westphal (‘ Berl. Kliu. Woch.,’ 1871,448) has repeated and confirmed the experiments made by Brown-Scquard on guinea-pigs with reference to the artificial production of epilepsy (see last ‘ Report,’ 107). Another interesting and new fact is shown by these experiments—that a blow on the head may set up in guinea-pigs the same epileptiform condition as direct injury to the cord, or section of the sciatic nerve. Immediately or soon after the blow an attack of general convulsion, or a series of attacks, occur. At this time there is no “ epileptogenic zone of skin, by irritating which even slightly general convulsions may be provoked ; four or five weeks later, however, a cutaneous zone may be found, irritation of which provokes at first certain reflex movements, and later the epileptiform attacks. This zone has the same position near the angle of the lower jaw—as in Brown-Sequard’s experiments, and its local sensibility is diminished. The epileptiform condition lasts from one and a half to two or more months, and gradually disappears. A female guinea-pig, which had been rendered epileptic by a blow, gave birth to two youug ones, in whom, on irritating the “ epileptogenicEPILEPSY. 83 zone,” incomplete but well-marked convulsions could be provoked. In all the experiments the same lesion was found, in the medulla oblongata, or upper cervical region of the cord, small haemorrhages, generally into the sac of the spinal dura mater, less frequently at the base of the brain. According to Brown-Sequard, the essential lesion is more pro- bably that in the spinal cord than the medulla oblongata. Whether this spinal-cord-epilepsy, produced artificially in guinea-pigs, occurs in the human subject, cannot be decided at present. He refers to some- thing resembling the “ epileptogenous zone ” in some cases of epilepsy in men. In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper (ibid., 6i6), V. Langenbeck remarked that epileptic convulsions do sometimes occur in the human subject after injuries, especially injuries to the head, and related a case of the kind occurring in a man set. 44. (And see discussions in the ‘ Societe de Biol.,’ ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 641.) Martin (‘Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1871, No. ^3) gives a case of epileptic fits in a man who had had an injury to the lower part of the thigh; the fits disappeared on the removal of some loose bone. The ‘Lancet’ (1871, i, 356) quotes the opinion of Vance, of New York, that two well-marked groups of epilepsy may be formed in accord- ance with the appearances found with the ophthalmoscope ; the one characterised by %per£emia, the other by anaemia of the retina. “ As the brain is anaemic during sleep, it is natural to suppose that the occurrence of sleep would be a predisposing cause of the fits in the anaemic form, whilst in the congestive form they would be most likely to take place during the day.” Bromide of potassium and depletion are, according to him, indicated in the congestive form ; quinine, iron, and strychnia in the anaemic. ’ _ Lutz (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871,212) employed bromide of potassium in ten cases ; in three patients no attacks occurred after six months ; in two others the cure was longer; five were still under treatment. He began with one to three grains, daily increased to ten to twenty grains. He found it successful in a case of nocturnal incontinence in a girl of 18, and in nervous headache. He thinks that he found the best results from a combination of the drug with bromide of ammonium. Magnan “Epilepsie Absinthique,” ‘Compt. Rend.,’ Ixxiii, 341. Bu.ssi^re « De la Guerison des Neoroses Coiivulsives, du meillenr mode d’administration du Bromure de Potassmm” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 501 (three cases of convulsive neuriis cured with the 8jrup of H Mure.). Huppert, “Ein Fall von Balkenmano-el hei einem Epileptischeii Idioten,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 243. Auerbach “Ueber uf handlung der Epilepsie, nebst Krankenvorstellung,” ‘Berl. Klin Woch ’ iSvr" 422. Handfield Jones, ‘‘Epilepsy and other Nervous Alfe;tion •reSW from the E.xcessive Use of Alcohol.” ‘Pr.,>o+;f_o_. esuiLuig^iroin Epilepsy 1871, ii, 540. PetirMai,’’’ ib 18 2 i TC’“Remarkable Cases of ‘Le the condition called^ Epilepsy'^’*’ ‘Lancet’ ^8^2 Nature of Seizures of Fifty Years? stSi„g^Xtd ^b^^ “Epileptiform Moir, “ Remarks on a Case of Epilepsy and Delirium Tremens,”‘ib.^T.’, 464? Vanej84 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Injury of the Head, followed by Delirium, Epileptiform Convulsions, and Aphasia” (man, ajt. 27), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, ii, 97. Hemiplegia and Aphasia. Perroud (‘Jjyon Med.,’ viii, 65) attempts to verify by statistics Brown-Sequard’s assertion that the left hemisphere is the centre of in- tellectual and animal life, the right that of organic life. The number of hemiplegic patients observed by himself being too small for his pur- pose, he presses into service a note of Charcot, published in the ‘ Journal de Physiologie,’ in 1868, containing the history of 27 cases of hemi- plegia, in which death occurred in the course of a few days after tlie sudden attack. They were all complicated with bedsore of the thigh of the paralysed side, and this “lesion of nutrition” depended, in 16, on lesion of the right hemisphere (sores on the left side), and in 11 on lesion of the left (sores on the right side). Perroud gives an analysis of 70 cases of chronic hemiplegia observed by himself during the last four years, in 32 right-sided, 38 left-sided. Of the former, 24 had no trouble of nutrition, 8, i. e. one fourth of the cases, had. Of the latter, 26 had none, and 12, i. e. one third of the cases, had. Pieber (‘ Klinische Studien iiber die Brown-Sequard’sche Spinal- lahmung,” ‘Wien Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 166, &c.) records four cases of spinal hemiplegia, with muscular paralysis on one side and anaesthesia on the opposite side. He thinks these cases are more common than is generally supposed, and as overlooked when, as is often the case, sen- sation returns, while the paresis remains. He gives (ib., 173) a tabular arrangement of the four cases. Verneuil gives (‘ Bull, de 1’Acad, de Med.,’ Jan. 1871) an account of the case of a man, set. 46, in whom, after being thrown from a cart, only numerous contusions could be found, but who presented symptoms of violent delirium, right hemiplegia, and cerebral compression. He died fifteen days later, and the autopsy showed complete rupture of the two internal coats of the left carotid, with a clot in its canal, extending into the branches of the Sylvian artery. There was extensive softening of almost the whole middle lobe. Broadbent (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 145) has published an important paper on the cerebral mechanism of speech and thought. His object has been, by means of the light thrown upon cerebral physiology by cases of loss or derangement of speech, to construct a theory of the subject stated, and to connect this with the facts of cerebral structure, so far as they are at present known. The paper opens with ten cases, the autopsies of which are given as fully as the histories of all. These cases, so far as they bear on the question, are entirely corroborative of the view which assigns a close functional relation with articulate speech to that part of the upper edge of the fissure of Sylvius which forms the posterior end of the third frontal convolution of the left hemisphere. The writer criticises cases which may seem to bear on the other side of the question, and states that this part of the hemisphere is not the seat of a “faculty of language,” but simply a part of the nervous or cell- and-fibre mechanism, by means of which speech is accomplished, which mechanism may be damaged elsewhere, above or below this particular85 HEMIPLEGIA AND APHASIA. node. In the cases distinguished by Bastian, Hughlings Jackson, W. Ogle, Sanders, &c., as amnesic or amnemonic, and ataxic or aphasic, the lesion has occurred at different points. Broadbent quotes his eighth case in illustration. Here, while the object seen no longer evoked the appropriate name, the name and the object presented to- gether were recognised as pertaining to one another; the channel between the visual centre and the mind (the intellectual centre) was interrupted. The same condition occurs in severance of the auditory ])erceptive centre from the intellectual centre. Spoken words have lost their meaning to the patient, and he will have no idea whether be is saying what he wishes or not. Both as to mental condition and seat of lesion these cases would be different from amnesic and aphasic cases. The author states at some length the result of his own observations on the course and distribution of the fibres in the cerebral hemispheres. He enumerates the convolutions which have no direct communication with the crus, central ganglia, or corpus callosum, the said convolutions being latest in order of development, and constituting the diflference between the human and quadrumanous brain, “ withdrawn, so to speak, from the outer world,” and “receiving the raw material of thought from the convolutions on which sensory impressions impinge, and em- ploying for the transmission outwards of the volitional product those convolutions which are in communication with the motor ganglia and tract.” He adopts, with modification, the theory of Bastian (“ On the Muscular Sense and on the Physiology of Thinking,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1869, May), giving it an important extension, and applying it to the facts ot cerebral structure. After considering the two distinct aspects in which words may be considered—i, as motor processes, 2, as intel- lectual symbols—aud expressly stating that reading and writing have been kept out of sight for the sake of clearness, and the mechanism of thought as sufficiently explained in the consideration of that of speech, he gives the following as a reswme of his theory : (1) Words, as remembered sounds, will be represented by cell-groups at the summit of the receptive side of the nervous system, which, for reasons given, is supposed to be situated in the marginal convolutions of the hemispheres. (2) From these cell-groups, when definitely formed, impressions will be transmitted to a cell-area in the superadded convolutions, to which also impressions conveying to the mind the various properties of ob- jects indicated by the words will be transmitted ; all these impressions are associated, and the word is employed as the symbol for the result- ing idea of the object. (3) Almost simultaneously motor cells in the corpus striatum are grouped for the production of articulate words, under the guidance of the remembered sound, in response to eff“orts at imitation, which are at first more or less parrot-like. The cell-groups for spoken words once formed are however, employed almost exclusively in intellectual expression. (4) Ihe receptive cell-groups for remembered sounds will be found in the marginal convolutions of the two hemispheres, which are symme- trically associated by the corpus callosum, and the cell-groups for spoken sounds will be found in the two corpora striata; but the absence of86 llEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. comimssural connection between tlie superadded convolutions of the two hemispheres permits ot the predominant, if not exclusive, educa- tion of the left hemisphere for the verbal expression of the product of intellectual action, as has been revealed by pathology. This is an efferent process, and does not imply the exclusive use of the hemisphere in thought. (5) 1’he outlet for intellectual expression in spoken words, which are motor acts, is necessarily in some part of the marginal convolutions in relation by fibres with the corpus striatum, and pathology has shown the point to be the left third frontal gyrus. (6) The left third gyrus being the outlet for expression, the left corpus striatum necessarily takes the lead in the production of spoken words, but a way round exists, probably, from the left to the right third frontal gyrus by the corpus callosum. Thus, speech, though tem- porarily embarrassed by damage to the left corpus striatum, is reco- vered ; whereas, if the cortex of the left third frontal convolution is damaged, or its fibres, both to corpus striatum and corpus callosum, cut through, speech, having no other outlet, is lost. Bristowe (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 122) read a paper on cases illustrative of the various forms of impairment or loss of the power of speech. Considering aphasia under three heads, he gave first four examples of that form which is due to a mental defect, independent of any affection of the organs of speech (amnesia, amnestic aphasia). All these four cases had hemiplegia of the right side. Though in these cases the lesion was on the left side of the cerebrum, he yet affirms, with Trousseau, that aphasia in some instances is obviously the result of disease of the right hemisphere, and holds that the dependence of aphasia on disease of a particular convolution, whether on the right or left side, is at present very far from certain. As an illustration of the second form of aphasia, in which the patient, without any mental defect, or paralysis of the organs of speech, loses the power of speech absolutely, he gave a case in which he had succeeded in teach- ing a person to speak (cf. ‘ Trans. Clin. Soc.,’ iii, 92). He thinks that cases of this kind lead to the conclusion that speech, when once acquired, is a purely reflex phenomenon, similar to the acts of deglutition and respiration; that there is some ganglionic centre intermediate between the cerebrum (which thinks and wills), and the nuclei of the motor nerve of the fifth, the portio dura, and the hypo- glossal nerves, and that aphasia is due in these cases to disease of this co-ordinating centre. The third form was illustrated by a case in which the nerves of speech were paralysed, either from disease aftecting some of the trunks, or their nuclei of origin. Samt (“Zur Aphasiefrage; ” ‘Arch. f. Psych.,’ iii, 751) gives the post-mortem appearances found in the brains of two aphasics. He con- cludes with the assertion that it is impossible at present to localise the centre of speech, and idle to discuss the possibility of its unilateral seat. Hammond (‘ New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, i) defines aphasia as “ a condition produced by an affection of the brain by which the idea of language, or of its expression, is impaired.” He then gives a brief summary of the literary history of the afiection, from 1798, whenTTRMrPLEGIA AND APHASIA. 87 Cncliton described it, to the latest period. He rejects the theories of Dax and Broca, and believes “that the organ of language is situated in both hemispheres, and in tliat part which is nourished by the middle cerebral artery; and that while the more frequent occurrence of right hemiplegia., in connection with aphasia, is in great part the result of the anatomical arrangement of the arteries, which favours embolism on that side, there is strong evidence to show that the lett side of the brain is more intimately connected with the faculty of speech than the right.” Histories of fourteen cases of aphasia, which had come under his obser- A'ation, follow; and from these he concludes that in all of which hemiplegia formed a feature, the aphasia was of the ataxic form, while when there was no hemiplegia, the aphasia was amnesic. In the one the individual was deprived of speech, because he could not co-ordinate the muscles used in articulation ; in the other, because he had lost the memory of words. He thinks that this point has not been noted before, and that the phenomena indicate very clearly the seat of the lesion and the physiology of the parts involved. When the grey matter of the lobes, which presides over the idea of language and hence over the memory of words, is alone involved, there is no hemiplegia, and no diffi- culty of articulation. If the corpus striatum, or some other part of the motor tract is attacked, the lesion is followed by hemiplegia and ataxic aphasia; and if amnesic aphasia is also present, the hemisphere is like- wise involved. Bristowe (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 21) records the case of a woman, set. 48, in whom the left corpus striatum with the brain substance between it and the island of Reil was entirely destroyed by a clot. Dur- ing life she had complete motor hemiplegia, temporary aphemia, and slight amnesia. Baginsky (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 428) records two cases of aphasia, in men set. respectively 42 and 40, in consequence of disease ot the kidneys, and discusses at some length the relation of the two diseases, and especially the anatomical seats of the aphasic lesion. Simon (‘ Casuistisclie Beitrage zur Lehre von der Aphasie,’ ib., 537) writes a very interesting paper with eases of the affection. He allows that the lesion is to be found in the third frontal convolution, though not always on the left side, and thinks that the faculty of speech probably resides in both, though we are in the habit of using only the left. His last case is that of a man who was thrown with his horse, and, attempting to get into his saddle again, was found to have complete aphasia, and a small wound in the head. Death followed later from meningitis, and a splinter of bone was found impinging on the third left convolution, with softening of this end of the third convolution, and the island of Eeil. Hughlings Jackson (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 72) gives a minute report of the case ot a healthy girl, set. 17, in whom a right-sided convulsion was followed by defect ot speech, trom which she recovered. The convul- sions did not resemble those which occur in hysterical women, and was like those occurring in brain disease; and he infers that there must have been some pathological process, as yet unknown, in the region of the corpus striatum.REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 88 The same author (ib., 1871, ii, 430) reports two cases of the power of siugiug existing in two aphasic boys of the ages of ten and eiglit years. Bacon (ib., 488) reports the case of an idiot boy, set. 12, with strong family history of physical degeneration, who, scarcely able to use a single word, has a certain capacity of humming tunes. Down (ib., 1871, i, 832) records the case of a man set. 28, who had right-sided hemiplegia, with unaffected speech, and an aortic obstruc- tive murmur. A week later he became speechless, and two days after- wards died. The autopsy showed,.in addition to the aortic disease, a softened cavity of irregular shape, and of about the size of a hazel nut, in the anterior lobe of the left side of the brain. Nicol, “Shfting and Recurring partial Hemiplegia in a Patient suffering from Bright’s Disease” (man, mt. 30), ‘Lancet,’ 1871,^,397. Ogle, “Case of Epilepsy and Hemiplegia, probably syphilitic” (woman, aet. 33), ib., 540. Id., “Hemiplegia, probably from softening of Embolic Origin” (woman, aet. 45), ib., ib. Clark, “ Peri- pheral Hemiplegia” (man, aet. 30), ib., 1872, i, 254. Owen, “Epileptic Hemiplegia” (girl, aet. 17), ib., ib., ii, 744. Heaton, “Alternating Hemiplegia, with Clinical Remarks,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 498. H. Jackson, “ Hemiplegia in Patients the subjects of Congenital Syphilis,” ib., 1872, i, 526.. Bristowe, “ Reflex (?) Hemi- plegia,” ib., ib., 610. Lockhart Clarke, “ Incomplete Hemiplegia of the Right Side with partial Aphasia,” ib., ib., 638. Ogle, “ On Dextral Preeminence,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 279. Wrany, “ Hemiplegie und Aphasie mit Hemichorea in Edge von Endocarditis,” Oesterr, ‘ Jahrb. f. Paediatrik,’ 1872, i, 12 (see under Dis. of Circula- tion). Greenhow, “ Plugging of the Left Anterior and Right Middle Cerebral Arteries, Extensive Disease of the Frontal Lobe of the Left Hemisphere, and Softening of a Patch of Cerebral Substance in the Centre of the Right Hemisphere of the Brain, aortic valves incompetent and studded with flbrinous vegetations, mitral stenosis, aphasia. Hemiplegia, first of Right and subsequently of Left Side” (female, aet. 27), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 18. Robertson, “Observation on Aphasia, with Cases,” ‘ Glas. Med. Journ.,’ iii, 229. Anderson, “Clinical Memoranda,” No. i (case of aphasia with right hemiplegia, recovery), ib., iii, 446. Obernier showed a patient suffering from aphasia, ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 321. Sharpe, “ Case of Amnemonic Aphasia,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 589. Druitt, “ Clinical Notes of the Varieties of Imperfect Speech produced by Brain Disease,” ‘ Med. 'fimes and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 34. Lush, “ Well-marked Aphasia without Paralysis, recovery,” ib.,ii, 523. _ Dalton, “On Aphasia” (discussion of Hammond’s paper), ‘New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, 19. Proust, “ De I’Aphasie,” ‘Arch. Gener. de Med.,’ xix, 147. Glover, “Uncomplicated Aphasia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 684. H. Jackson, “Voluntary and Automatic Move- ments,” ib., ib., 641. McCarthy, “ Fracture of the Skull iu Broca’s Region, Paralysis of the Right Side, loss of power of speech, death, autopsy ” (clot occupying portion of frontal lobe, corresponding to the interior and posterior part of the frontal convolu- tions, and very closely bordering on the central lobe, diseased blood-vessels). Lancet, 1872, ii, 706. SypercBstliesia and Neuralgia. Anstie, “ Neuralgia and the diseases that resemble it,” London, 1871- Althaus, “On Neuritis of the Brachial Plexus,” ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 143. Chapman, “Observations on Dr. C. B. Radcliffe’s Theory of the Genesis of Pam,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 765. Anstie, “On the Pathological and Therapeutical Relations of Asthma, Angina Pectoris, and Gastmlgia,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 11, 530. Id A Cas6 of Neuralgia of all Three lirauches of the Fifth Nerve, ib., ib., 684* Handfield Jones, “Clinical Lecture on Hyperesthesia,” ib., ib., 369. Holden, “ Some Notes on Neuralgia and its Treatment,” ib., i, 639. _ Smith, “ Galvamsin m Neuralsria” ih 1872, i, 139- Wilks, “On Sick Headache,” ib., ib., 8. “Report on the Treatment’of ^Sick Headache,” ib., 12, &c. Chapman, ‘‘The Pathology and Treatment of Neuralgia and its Kindred Disorders,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1872,1, 151. Porchei,NEUHAT>GIA. MENINGITIS, ETC. 80 “Contributions to tlic Clinical Ilistorv of Hyperfcstbesia,” ‘ Amcr. Journ. Med. S<d.,’ Ixi I os Cleborne, “Headache,” ‘New York Med. Kec.,’vi, 309. Meiere, “Treat- ment of Sciatica,” ib., 175. Notlmagel, “ Schnierz und cutane Sensibilitats-Storungen,” ‘ Vrcb. Arch.,' liv., I2i. Peter, Nevralgie Diapliragraatique et faits Morbides Con- nexes,” ‘ Arcti. Gen. de Me'd., xvii, 303. Sorbets, “ Deux cas de Nevralgie Cervico- bracbiale Nocturne, ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 566. Senne, “De la Migraine,” ‘ Union Med.,’ xi, 423. Meningitis ; Hydrocephalus ; Haemorrhage. A writer in the ‘ G-az. Med.’ (1871, 412, &c.), on the treatment and prophylaxis of tubercular meningitis, says that in a practice of thirty years he has seen between eighty and ninety cases, and in that time counts two as recovering from the confirmed disease. Fleming (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, 443) thinks he had to deal with a case of unequivocal tubercular meningitis in a girl set. 2^, recovery from which may have been due to the use of iodide of potassium. MacSwiney (ib., 1872, 339) exhibited a specimen showing tubercle over the projecting portions of the cerebral convolutions, taken from a boy, set. 15, who five weeks before had become suddenly incoherent. An epileptiform convulsion followed in a few minutes, and occurred again ten days later. There was dull, persistent pain in the head, general ansesthesia, a quick pulse, and sluggish, dilated pupils. Sperling (‘Centralb.,’ 1871,448) has made injections between the dura mater and the arachnoid over the convexity of the brain in rabbits with the following results:—Eight days after the injection of fresh blood it began to be organized into a connective-tissue membrane, which was complete after two to three weeks. After the latter period new blood-vessels were found in the new membrane, which agreed in all characters with the membrane of pachymeningitis. The organization of the blood occurred over the convexity of the brain, on the inner sur- face of the dura mater, without any adhesions to the arachnoid. The formation of the new membrane was due to the organization of the fibrin contained in the blood. That this was so was shown by the fact no new formation was found after the injection of defibrinated blood, which was completely reabsorbed. Injections of iodine and other irri- tating fluids was not followed by any new formation. In some cases the dura mater was found thickened, in others there was pus. Arndt (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 42) records two cases of so-called hydro- cephalus externus, due to the accumulation of serum between the dura mater and the arachnoid. This accumulation was the result of “ chronic- internal pachymeningitis,” causing the formation of thick and tough false membranes, which bound down the dura mater. This afi^ectiou is not to be confounded with Hygroma of the dura mater. Thompson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 154) records the occurrence of intracranial osteophytes in a servant girl, set. 23, with dilatation of the ventricles and increased fluid, amounting to seven ounces, and soft- ening of the white substance. Ho tubercles were present anywhere. Bierbaum, Pathologische Physiologie der Meningitis Tuberculosa,” ‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 261. Id., Semiotisch-diagnostische Analyse der Erscbeinungen bei der Menin- gitis tuberculosa, Joiun. _ Kmderkr.,’ Ivi. 324. Neureutter, “ Fractura Cl ana Sanata, 1 achymeningitis interna chronica. Hydrocephalus und Tuberculosis90 ■REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEOTCTNE, liei eincm .Talive nlLen Knaben,” ‘Oeaterr. Jahvb. f. PascUatrik,’ 1872, i, 123. Broadbeiit, “Cases of Acute Cerebral Disease, with Autopsies” (1, Sero-purulent ettusiou into ventricles of brain, obscure symptoms; 2, Basic tubercular meningitis), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 376. Heller, “ Ein Fall von Hydrocephalus Exter- nus,”, ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 207. Gant, “ Case of Apoplexy Treated by Venesection,” ‘Lancet, 1871, ii, 577. Hugblings Jackson, “Remarks on the Difficulties in the Diagnosis of the Causes of Apoplexy,” ib., 1872, i, 505. ’Whitcombe, “Meningeal Apoplexy ” (male, set. 51), ‘ Brit. Med. Jouru.,’ 1872, i, 27. Foot, “Apoplexy, Ex- travasation of Blood at the Base of the Brain, Cylindroid Aneurism of Fourth Stage of Vertebral Artery (male, aet. 60), ib., ib., 424. Rittmann, “Die Vorliinfer der Apoplexie und Syncope,” ‘Wien. Med. Ztg.,’ 1871, 60. Stille, “Simple Acute Meningitis” (man with chronic tubercular phthisis, death from coma and collapse, no tubercles, only injection of meninges, with pus and lymph on pia mater of con- vexity of brain), ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 419. Buttenwiesen, “Function und Adspiration eines Chronischen Hydrocephalus mittelst der Spritze von Bresgen,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 301. Schmid, “ Zur DifEerentialdiagnose von Apoplexie und Embolie des Gehirns,” ib., 305. Korber, “Des Cheyne-Stokes’sebe Respirations-Phanomen bei einem an Meningitis Tuberculosa leidenden 9 Monatlichen Knaben ” (no autopsy), ib., 600. The Ophthalmoscope in Diseases of the Nervous Syste7n. Bouchut (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 97) gives the following as seen in cases of acute affection of the brain and spinal cord. Optic hypersemia and venous stases in the retina, coinciding with congestion of the meninges or thrombosis of the sinuses. Optic neuritis, with or without exudation, the result of meningo- encephalitis. Papillary oedema diagnostic of cerebral compression. Tubercles of the choroid always accompanied by tubercles of the meninges or the viscera. He gives three cases with autopsies : _ I. Girl, set. 2; tubercular meningitis and general tuberculosis; during life almost entire disappearance of the optic papdla, which pre- sented a uniform red colouration masking its outline ; dilatation of the retinal veins ; no choroidal tubercle. 2. Girl, set. 8 ; double optic neuritis and miliary tubercles of the choroid; general tuberculosis. 3. Girl, set. 3 : atrophy of both optic nerves, as seen with the oph- thalmoscope ; a tubercle (scrofulous tumour,—Eep.) of the cerebellum, the size of a hen’s egg, and two the size of nuts, at the surface of the right cerebral hemisphere ; enormous quantity of fluid in the lateral ventricles; no miliary tubercles anywhere. . ^ Socin (“ Beitrag zur Behre von den Sehstorungen bei Meningitis ; ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 476) records two cases, in a man, set. 31, and a female, set. 37, in whom, suffering with meningeal symptoms, the same sort of appearances in the optic disc were observed as in children with tubercular meningitis. Broadbent (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 216) records a case of dropsy of the sheath of the optic nerve in meningitis. The patient, a girl, jst. 10, had complained of headache for a fortnight. She had vomited lay in a state of torpor with her eyes half closed, the pupils large and sliieffish, the right rather larger than the left. She had well-marked taches cerelrales. The optic discs were well defined, of a dusky pink91 ABSCESS OF THE BRAIN; ETC. colour, striated by vessels, and bad a white spot in the centre. The retinal veins were large, the arteries small. She died thirty-six hours after her admission. The autopsy showed turbid fluid with translucent granulations about the interpeduncular space; injection of tlie pia mater, optic commissure and tracts. The nerves presented large super- ficial vessels along their entire length. Close to the eyeball they swelled out into a kind of bulb, due to distension of the outer sheath of the optic nerve by fluid. There were no tubercles in any of the other organs. Fiilnkel, “Weitere Beobachtung von Tuberkeln der Chorioidea” (girl, a3t. 6, general miliary tiibercnlosis, tubercle observed in the cboroid five months or so before death), ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872,4. Manz, “Ueber Seh-nerven Erkranknng bei Gehirnleiden” (Hydrops vaginm n. optic.), ‘Dent. Arch.," ix, 338. Hnghlings Jack- son, “Eemarks on the Routine Use of the Ophthalmoscope in Brain Disease,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 52,i;-. Bonchnt, “Dn Diagnostic de I’Hydrocephalie par I’Ophthal- moscope,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 345. Abscess of the Brain; Softening; Mmbolism ; Tumours. Taylor (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 527) found the left vertebral artery completely filled by an embolic clot, in a man set. 68, who two months belOTe his death had fallen so as to injure his chest. He com- plained of numbness of the right arm and leg, but had perfect motion. He had also paralysis of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Jastrowitz (‘Arch. f. Psych.,’ ii, 389, and hi, 162) has studied the hereditary character of nervous diseases, taking as his starting-point the occurrence, pointed out by Virchow, of a diffuse encephalitis in new- born children. In the two years preceding his article he examined the brains of a large number of children who had died with head symptoms (tetanus, trismus, &c.). The result in all the cases showed an encepha- litis agreeing completely with Virchow’s description ; hypersemia of the meninges and white substance, comparative paleness of the cortical substance, whitish-yellow spots in the white substance corresponding to places in which the fatty change was most advanced in the cells of the neuroglia. He gives a full account of the changes found; the spinal cord was scarcely, if at all, aflected. To decide the question whether this so-called encephalitis was a pathological condition, he then ex- amined the brains of apparently healthy newborn children, who had died from other causes. Of 80 which he examined, 7 were foetuses of five to seven months, 37 children from that period to the age of one (extra-uterine) week ; 12 from one week to five months; 4 from five to nine months; 5 from nine months to three years. All the 37 children presented_ the changes described in the brain. In foetnses the fatty degeneration of the cerebral substance was general; in children it was partial. The first child that presented no change in its brain was five months old. Irom these and further premises, for the study of which the original article must be referred to, he concludes that this fatty metamorphosis in the brain is a normal process, consisting in changes in the young celk of the neuroglia. He discusses at some length the etiology of the affection. Elam ( Lancet,’ 1871, i, 747) gives a table of the chief differences02 ItEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. between general and partial ncute idiopathic cerebritis. He considers the diaposis ot the disease not difficult. It ditters from the apoplectic lorm ot sottenmg, in the absence of aphasia and paralysis, as well as other general teatures of progress ; from the convulsive form, in the absence ot epileptiform attacks at the beginning, and the greater con- stancy and duration of the convulsions when they do occur; from the delirious form, by the mode of invasion which is never by delirium, and by the less marked character of this svmptom throughout. Fleischraann (‘ Wien. Med. Woch./ 1871, No. 6, &c.) records a case of cerebral tubercle in a boy let. 2 years. The tubercle liad commenced in the left thalamus, as a hard, rough, cheesy mass, which extended into the left cerebral crus ; here it had completely destroyed the fibres of the inner surface. The symptoms were exactly those described by Afanasielf (ibid., 1870, No. 9) in section of one cerebral crus. Thev were partial paralysis of the left oculo-motor nerve ; dilatation of the pupd, which was unaffected by light; paralysis of some of the facial muscles of the trunk and extremities of the right side; tremor of the right hand ; increased cutaneous sensibility of the right side, with the exception of the head ; ophthalmia ; hypermmia of the retina, choroid, and optic disc of the left eye; incapacity of retaining stools or urine; abnormal fluctuations in temperature. Cordier (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 583) records the case of a boy of 12, suffering from caries of the ribs and empyema, in whom three quarters of the left cerebellar lobe had been destroyed by a “ tuberculous ” {i. e. “ scrofulous,”—liep.) tumour, without giving rise to any symptoms. Hughlings Jackson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 328) publishes a case of tumour of the middle lobe of the cerebellum iu a boy set. 5. The tumour was a “ tuberculous” one, of the size of a billiard ball. The diagnosis was grounded on (i) the enlargement of the head, with- out any evidence of rickets ; (2) blindness (double optic neuritis) ; and (3) a reeling gait. Perhaps ot the three the last was of most value, though by itself it would only point to a tumour under the tentorium. Prom time to time the boy had convulsive seizures of a tonic character, during which he was conscious. Broadbent (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 476, 622) related to the Clinical Society the history of two cases, in one of which there were two tumours just beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the median line—one in the lower half of the pons, the other near the lower end of the ventricle. The patient was a man set. 46, whose symptoms during life were slight weakness of the right limbs, marked paralysis of the left side of the face, not involving the orbicularis oculi; lateral deviation of both eyes to the right, with double loss ef vision; loss of sensation over the area of the right trigeminus; difficulty of deglutition and indistinct articulation. In the second case, a man set. 6^, gliomatous tumours were found in the occipital lobe, and iu the posterior ascending parietal convolution of the right hemisphere. He had convulsion and paralysis of the left half of the body. Hutchinson (ibid., 185) writes on a case of supposed cerebral tumour in a man set. 27, alive at the time of writing.93 TUMOUllS OF BRAIN. Evans (ibid., 1872, i, 366) refers to the oecurrence of an hydatid cyst protrudinf^ from the under surface of the cerebellum in a boy set. 17,^ who in addition to rheumatic endocarditis had headache, dimness ot vision, and a staggering gait. , . . • • n . Pullar (ibid., 312) records a case of the same kind in a girl aet. 4* The cyst, the size of a pigeon’s egg, lay upon the crus cerebelli of the left side. She had periodical headache, tremors oi the limbs, and later was in a semi-unconscious state, from which she was easily roused. (And see this Eeport, under “ Animal Parasites.”) Janeway and Teakle (‘ New York Med. Eecord,’ vi, 403) give a description of tumours attached to the dura mater. Edes (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 87) gives three cases of morbid growth connected with the nervous system, all occurring in women, whose ages respectively were 83, 60, and 71. In the first there was a gliomatous tumour of the cerebrum ; in the second a round-celled sar- coma of the cerebellum ; and in the third there was sarcoma of the semilunar ganglion of the sympathetic, varying in character from a cellular to a fibrous structure. Reynaud, “Accidents Cerebraux Survenus Consecutivement a une Tumeur blanclie Cervicale, mort et autopsie” (boy, £et. 17), ‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 265. Fagge, “ Embolism of the Left Middle Cerebral Artery of more than six weeks’ standing, yellow indnration of the corpus striatum, with surrounding white softening” (woman, set. 25, right hemiplegia with aphasia), ‘Rath. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 13. King, “Aneurism of the Aorta associated^ with Fracture of the First Rib, and Embolism of Middle Cerebral Artery,” ib., xxiii, 70. Haslewood, “A Case of Disease of Right Internal Ear, and resulting Abscess in the Brain” (male, set. 40), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i. Broad- bent, “ Disease of Temporal Bone, abscess in temporo-sphenoidal lobe of brain opening into ventricle, prolonged suppuration in ventricles,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,' 1871, ii, 377. Draper “Abcess of Brain, Aphasia,” ‘New York Med. Gaz.,’ July, 1871, 76. Blanquique, ‘Tumeur de la Glande Fineale, epancbement abundant, hernies du cer- veau a travers la dure mere,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 532. Broadbent, “Tumour in Left Half of Floor of Fourth Ventricle, with Tumour in Cerebellum ” (gliomatous, girl, set. 2), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 'jjo. Vilkiuson, “Malignant Disease (glioma) of the Eye, Brain, and Cranium” (boy, mt. 2^), ‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxiii, 220. Arnott, “Scrofulous Tumours in Brain and Testicle, from a case in which the elbow- joint had been excised two years previously,” ib., 5. Hawkes, “Case of Tumour of the Brain, apparently of the Nature of Encephaloid Cancer,” ib., 32. Stocks, “Tumour of Brain” (medullary, man, set. 22), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 137. Thomas, “Cerebral Tumour” (degenerated dermoid cyst P), ib., ib., 437. Lydall, A Case of Bony lumour in the Substance of the Brain” (woman, a3t. 36), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 524. Manning, “Two Cases of Medullary Cancer of the Brain ” (men, mt. Oo and 50; with autopsies), ib., 1871, ii, 321. Deane, “ Case of Ossitic Deposit under the Dura Mater (man, set. 22, autopsy), ib., 1872, i, 147. Spinal Affections. Hallopeau (“Etude sur les Myelitis Cbroniques diffuses,” ‘ Arcb. Uen. ue Med.,’ xyiii, 277, &c., xix, 60, &c.,) gives tbe following classi- fication of the diflerent forms of chronic myelitis. It is scarcely possible to abstract the article with justice.IIEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 91. " Of the grey sub- f Prosrcssive muscular atrophy, stance. \ Infantile paralysis. Parenchy- matous. m o Diffused. « Of the white sub- stance. Posterior. < Primitive (progressive locomotor ataxy). Secondary (ascending degenera- tion in cases of compression of the cord, partial myelitis, &c.). ^ Anterior. ' Primitive (Charcot’s cases). Secondary (descending degenera- tion in cases in which the motor fibres are injured, either in their ^ spinal or cerebral portions). 'In disseminated' patches. General. -j Peripheral (mye- )- lo-meningitis). Round the epen- ^ dyma(central). ^ These may involve the cord throughout its length, or occupy a portion only more or less extensive. Witli Vulpian he considers the first stage to he irritation and inflam- mation of the nerve-elements, e.ff. the nerve-tubes in tabes dorsalis, the spinal ganglion-cells iu muscular atrophy. The greater number of patients affected with diffuse myelitis are persons under the age of 40. Exposure to cold, and paralysis of muscles from over-use and over- fatigue, are frequent causes ; others are wounds, alcoholism, syphilis, tumours, severe fevers, the puerperal state, malaria, caries of the ver- tebrae, inflammation of the meninges, and parenchymatous scleroses. Diffuse myelitis is constantly found in paralysis of the insane, and it has been observed in chorea and in tetanus. It is almost always partial at its first commencement, aud spreads gradually. The parts where the inflammation takes place are swollen, the meninges injected and thickened; the medullary tissue at first softened, then hard and shrivelled, containing abnormal spaces, generally filled with serous fluid. The interstitial myelitis is essentially characterised by the pro- liferation of the cells and nuclei of the neuroglia. The inflammation in central myelitis is accompanied by proliferation of the cellular ele- ments of the central canal. The roots of the nerves, especially the ante- rior ones, are often found atrophied; more rarely there has been observed a true sclerosis of the peripheral nerves (hyperplasia of the connective tissue with atrophy of the nerve-fibres). In caseswhere the greysubstance is affected the muscles are atrophied. These changes in the latter in con- nection with diffuse myelitis have for twenty years been described by Duchenne as “ general spinal paralysis.” Generally the affection begins suddenly with pains in the dorsal region, from which they extend to the limbs and thoracic walls, presenting at times exacerbations, cramps, aud peripheric contractions. Sometimes, however, these pains are absent. A remarkable irregularity is shown by the malady in its evolution, with alternations of amelioration and aggravation. TVo forms, descending and ascending, may be distinguished according to whether the upper or lower extremities are first paralysed, though no law can be laid down95 SPINAL APPECTIONS. as to the order of succession in the attacked limbs. Electrical contrac- tility is diminished or abolished in the aftected muscles, very soon after the onset of the paralysis, and they are usually the seat of the same fibrillar contractions observed in progressive muscular atrophy. After the general sketch of the disease, he proceeds to discuss the different varieties of it, and its diagnosis, giving some cases in illustration. The article concludes at last (xix, 191) with its treatment. Charcot (“ Des troubles trophiques musculaires consecutifs aux lesions de lamoelle epiniereet dubulbe rachidien,” ‘ Graz, des Hop.,’ 1871, 458) divides irritative spinal lesions into two groups. In the first, the nu- trition of the muscles is not directly modified; and the pathological change is limited to the white substance, or, at most, to the region of the anterior horns, leaving the multipolar cells untouched. This is the case in a more or less degree in the different forms of sclerosis. The second group comprehends the affections of the spinal cord in which the nutrition of the muscles is affected to a greater or less extent. This group is again subdivided. The first division contains those affections which occur as deposits, or dififused, acute or subacute, of both white and grey substance, but especially of the latter. They are usually followed by profound disturbance of the electrical contractility, and rapid muscular atrophy; as seen in acute myelitis, in spinal apo- plexy, and in certain cases of fracture and dislocation of the vertebral column, which produce irritation of the cord, partial at first, but having a tendency to become general. In the second subdivision the lesions are limited to the grey substance of the anterior horns, where they are very circumscribed to oval patches of motor cells. Here the neuroglia is more opaque and thickened (inflamed), and the nerve-cells are in different degrees of atrophy. The latter are the starting-point of the lesion. Infantile spinal paralysis (ib., 465) is the most perfect type of this subdivision ; and it is very probable that in this disease a subacute process of irritation attacks all at once a large number of nerve-cells, and deprives them suddenly of their motor functions. Pro- gressive muscular atrophy presents the chronic and gradual form of the same change. He recognises two forms of the affection; one, proto- pathic, in which the nerve-cell tissue is primary; the other sympto- matic, in which it is secondary, the former causing a much more fatal prognosis. The spinal paralysis of adults and general spinal paralysis (Duchenne), the pathology of which is less known, are probably due to the same kind of change in the motor nerve-cells. As to muscular lesions resulting from affections of the medulla oblongata, but little work has been done. Still, judging from labio- laryngeal paralysis, &c., it is probable that the motor ganglia of the floor of the fourth ventricle are the seats of change. Bourneville, “ Hemorrliagie de la Moelle ^piniere,” ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, No. 40. Peter, “ MJniugo-myelite,’’ ‘Gaz. des HSp.,’ 1871. 461. Clemeut, “ Amyotropie Secondaire (case of a man, not dead, with symptoms of what .laccoud describes as 1 rogressive nervous atrophy,” but which the author refers to acute spinal racnin- I Med.,’ viii, 504. Tihbits, “Case of Myelitis” (man, rnt. 22, autopsy), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 537. Prommann, “ Ein Fall von Wirhelcaries mul Degeneration des Riickeumarks” (man, cot. 58, with autopsy and plate), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’96 REPOllT ON PllACTJCAL MEDICINE. p ”■ 1 “ U«bcr eiu Eigentliumliches Verhalten Secundiirer Degeneration des Ruckenmarks (w.th plate), < Arch. f. Psych.,’ ii, 374. Schiile, “ Weiterer Beitrag /an Hirn-Uuckemnarks-bcleroae,’’ ‘ Dent. Arch.,’ viii, 223. Kelp, “ Hirnsklerose,” ib.. Multiple Sklerose des Hirns und Ruckenmarks,” ib., 478. Otto, Casuistischer Beitrag zu Multiplen Sklerose des Hirns und lliickenmarks,” ib., 531. hibstein, “ Sclerosis Medullm Spinalis et oblongatse als Sectionsbefund bei einen I'alle von Sprach- und Coordiuatiousstorung in Armen und Beinen in Polue von lyphus Abdominalis,” ib., 595. Infantile Paralysis. Damaschino andSoger (‘ Q-az. Med.,’ 1871, 457) commence their long paper by tracing the history of the affection and the suggestions made by different authors as to its cause. Heine (1840) andDuchenne (1855) referred its origin to the spinal cord, though they had no pathological evidence of disease in the latter. Bouchut placed the anatomical seat of the lesion in the muscles, and the disease among the muscular paralyses (myogeniques). Cornil in 1863, and with Laborde in the fol- lowing year, gave the result of their anatomical investigations, and the later writer recorded a second case also ; their example was followed by Prevost and Vulpian in 1865, Olivier in 1869, Charcot and Joffroy in 1870, and in this last year also Parrot and Joffroy. Damaschino and lloger themselves had opportunities of a full examination of three cases in 1868, 1869, and 1871, of which they now give full reports. The first case was that of a boy aged two years, who for two months had suffered with paralysis of the left arm with atrophy of the deltoid—a consequence of hemiplegia occurring after dysentery. Paraplegia set in during measles, of which last affection the child died. The second case was observed in a boy set. 2^ years, who for six months had had paraplegia, with atrophy and deformity of the left leg, less marked in the right. He also died of measles. The third case was that of a boy of 3 years, who had paraplegia and paralysis of the muscles of the left back for thirteen months before he died of broncho-pneumonia. The symptoms during life and the pathological appearances were similar in all three cases. The changes in the muscles were of the ordinary character, consisting of fatty and fi.broid degeneration of the fibrillse. In the spinal cord the writers found the same lesions of the grey sub- stance and the anterior and lateral columns, differing, in the three cases, only in its seat; in the first case, in two places, the cervical and lumbar enlargements; in the second, chiefly in the latter position; and in the third case, in the same region, but on both sides. The mic- roscope revealed changes in the vessels, thickened walls, prolife- ration of their nuclei, atrophy of the ganglion-cells and their pro- cesses, as well as of the nerve-fibres. There was also thickening ol the connective tissue (sclerosis), especially marked in the third case. These facts lead the authors (ib., 578) to the conclusions that the lesion of the spinal cord is essential and primary, and that the pathological appear- ances found justify their use of the term “ spinal infantile paralysis” (“paralvsie spinale de I’enfance”). The lesion they consider to be a myelitis', especially of the anterior grey substance, of which the atrophy of the nerves and muscles is the consequence.97 PARALYSIS AGITANS. Rinecker (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 627) gives the autopsies of two cases, which difter but little from the preceding. lu the second of the two the anterior and lateral columns, as well as the nerve fibres and ganglia, were atrophied, and in both the peripheral nerves. Rosenthal (‘Centralbl.,’ 1872, 176, quoted from ‘ Oestr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilkunde,’ 1871, No. 52) contributes a paper towards the clinical andanatomical knowledge of spinal infantile paralysis. French writers (cf. ‘Centralbl.,’ 1870, 540) had especially called attention to the atrophy and malformation of the anterior horns of the spinal cord in this afiection. Rosenthal, instead of looking upon the atrophy of the nerve- cells as the primary cause, considers the dilatation and thickening of the vessels, which he has observed, and which are the signs of an active participation of the latter, as a pathological process which results further in secondary growths and destruction of the grey substance. In oppo- sition to Dnchenne, Rosenthal finds that the motor power of paralysed muscles improves without any return of excitability by faradisation or galvanism. If within the first six or nine months from the commence- ment of the affection the electrical excitability be completely lost, the prognosis is not for that reason unfavourable.* Hitzig u. Jiirgensen, “Zur Therapie der Kinderlahmung,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 330. Earwell, “Infantile Paralysis and its resulting Deformities,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 249, &c. Vulpian, “Anatoinie Patliologique de la Paralysie Infantile,” ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 9. Ball, “De la Paralysie Infantile,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 185. Simon, “Eine besondere Form der Kinderlahmung dureh encephalo-malacische Heerde,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 103. Paralysis Agitans. Murehison and Cayley (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 24) give the details of a case of paralysis agitans, the spinal cord- of which the latter examined, after hardening in chromic acid, and staining with carmine. I. The cortical or connective tissue layer of the cord appeared thick- ened, and presented an increased number of nuclei. 2. Irregular tracts and patches of connective tissue, thickly nucleated, passed from the cortical layer into the substance of the cord, the reticulum of which was inuch thickened. These patches were most frequently met with near the exit of the posterior roots of the nerves, which themselves did not appear altered. 3. The place of the central canal was an oval tract, crowded with cells of various shapes and sizes, the majority having the character of leucocytes, none presenting the character of the normal epithelium of the canal. This oval tract occupied not only the site of the canal itself, but also that of the surrounding central substantia geiatinosa. 4. The capillaries of the grey matter, and to a less extent the white, were distended with blood ; and here and there were small points of extravasation. 5. Through the whole cord, chiefly in the grey matter, were small deposits composed of leucocytes or exudation cells. ihe first three changes were due to a chronic, the last two to an acute, process* Jofiroys account of the morbid changes in these cases (‘Gaz. des cases of* Bernhardt remarks, “ Damaschino also observed in two Torus in the vessels of the anterior oria-inal qffpnfin f f uchenne seem inclined to look upon these changes as the original affection” (cf. Dnchenne, ‘ Elect. Local,’ 1872, p. 409). 798 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Hop.,’ 1871, 602) is very similar. In all there vras proliferation of the epithelium completely filling up the central canal; great proliferation of nuclei in the neighbourhood of the ependyma; pigmentation of the nerve-cells, especially those of Clarke’s columna vesiculosa ; and a large quantity of amyloid corpuscles. In the third case there was a sclerotic patch of connective tissue in the neighbourhood ot the pons with dilated vessels. The conclusion to which the writer comes is that the seat of the lesion in paralysis agitans is to be looked for in the cord. All three cases occurred in women. Chvostek, “ Enceplialitis der Gebilde des r. Ammonshorns mit dem Ausgang in Sclerose, Paralysis agitans der linksseltiger Extremitaten " (man, at. 44), ‘ Wien.^ Woch.,’ 1871, No. 37. Bastian, “A Case of Paralysis Agitans ” (man, set. 51), Brit. Med. Journ.,’t87i, ii, 698. Locomotor Ataxy. Hreenhow and Cayley C Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 14) record a case of locomotor ataxy in a man set. 57, with a microscopical examination ot the cord, showing atrophy of the posterior columns. Pollard, “Locomotor Ataxy, commencing suddenly, and disappearing under treat- ment, with remarks” (man, let. 64), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, h 43i- ARhaus, On the Pam of Ataxy and its Relief,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ., 1871, i, 5°2- Spillmann, Traitement 4e I’Ataxie Locomotrice,” ‘ Gaz. Hebd., viii, 3^9" Tetanus. Clifltord-Allbutt publishes (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 27) short notes of four cases of tetanus, with an examination of the spinal cord in all. Lockhart Clarke and Dickinson report on the same specimen, and the pathological results are as follows :-i. DiminiAion various degrees and situation in tbe cord. a. Haimorrhage m two o Zm visible to tbe naked eye. On microscopical examination: 1 oielt distension of the blood-vessels in both white and grey matter, with o“as onal exudation and disintegration of tissue around them “Toto“v^‘GaVS^sTf H) ^v?s‘trmicroseopical examination of i87i.i.c46),MileBCBrit.Mei^ 1871, i, 154). Lawrence (ib., 303), Croft ^,^,3 ) mit Glykosuric,” ib., x, 103. ivoenio,99 LEAD POISONING. Studle, ‘ Arch. cl. Heilk,’ xii, 549- Maccall, « Tetany,” ‘ Glasg Med. Jonrn ’ ui, 4.?9- Black » Notes of a Fatal Case of Tetanus Treated by the Calabar Bean, Bnt. Med. JournV 1871, i, 220. Bearden, “Notes of a Case of Idiopathic Tetanus, recovery” (man, set. 25), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 321. Lead Poisoning. Kussmaul and Maier (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 233) give the following case:—A man, set. 35, a house painter, had suffered for several years from chronic lead poisoning, showing itself in an anaemic (bluish-yellow) colour, emaciation, dyspnoea, constipation, and abdominal pain, and towards the end of life in attacks of colic, with dyspnoea and slow pulse. During the second attack, which ended fatally, and was accom- panied by jaundice, he was constipated, and vomited matter richly tinged with bile; this was followed by profuse diarrhoea, and later by collapse. The temperature was only slightly above the normal at any time. He had no paralysis or brain-symptoms. The following is a summary of the appearances observed at the autopsy : general and great emaciation, marked rigor mortis of the muscles and heart nine- teen hours after death; a certain amount of jaundice ; great distension of the stomach; chronic catarrh of the mucous membrane of the stomach, intestines, and ductus choledochus ; fatty degeneration of the glands of the stomach; slight fatty change of the muscular walls of the stomach, especially at the pylorus; atrophy of the mucous mem- brane of the jejunum, ileum, and upper part of the colon, in which both the stroma and glands shared ; atrophy of the intestinal villi, the glands of Lieberkiihn, the solitary glands, and Peyer’s patches; marked development of the submucous'tissue of the stomach, and even more so of that of tlie intestines, from proliferation of the areolar tissue, and thickening of the sheaths of the vessels ; this was shown especially in the smaller arteries in the narrowing of their calibre, caused by the large amount of fat-cells deposited in the distended net- work of this layer; fatty degeneration of the muscles of the intes- tines, especially in the small intestine; pigmental degeneration (pig- mental atrophy) of the muscular fibres of the heart. The brain, espe- cially its cortical substance, showed slight periarteritis ; there was proliferation and sclerosis of the connective-tissue septa of the small ganglia of the sympathetic, especially the coeliac and cervical; these glands were hard, the circulation in them affected, and their nerve-cell elements diminished. The authors consider that the changes found in the absorbent apparatus account for the chronic dyspepsia, the anmrnic colour, and the malnutrition of the patient, and contrast their case, in its different bearings, with those recorded by Tanquerel des Planches and others. Hollis (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 9) gives the case of a looking- glass silverer, ast. 26, in whom mercurial and chronic lead poisoning appear to have existed side by side. The origin of the lead is found in the tinfoil used in silvering. ^ Garrod ( Lancet, 1872, i, i), in a clinical lecture on lead-poisoning, gives a remarkable case of the disease in a gentleman, the cause' of which was traced to the presence in the snuff, which the patient tookREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 100 largely, of particles of lead. He thinks that the mixture of the snuff containing certain of its soluble salts acts slowly on the lead case in which the snuff is packed. The patient had lived for many years in Calcutta, where other cases of the same kind had been observed. Other papers on nervous diseases are— Laycock, “On the Influence of the Nervous System on Diseases of the Organs and Tissues,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 31, &c. Durrant, “ On Vertigo as a Symp- tom,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,i, 88. Gu^neau de Mussy, “fitudes sur la Sensibility Reflexe,” ‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 344. Mantegazza, ‘Dell’azione del dolore sulla Di- gestione e sulla Nutrizione,” ‘Gaz. Med. Ital.,’ Lomb., 1871, 45. Hammond, “A Treatise on Diseases of the Nervous System,” 2nd edit.. New York, 1872. Eulen- burg, “ Lehrhuch der Functionellen Nervenkrankheiten auf Physihlogischer Basis,” Berlin, 1871. Handfleld Jones, “Cases of Neurotic Disorder with unduly large Urinary Secretion,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 13 • Ogle, “ Two Cases illustrating the Diagnosis between apparent and real Intracranial Disease,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, j, 853‘ Moxon, “A Case of Intracranial Disease cured by Iodide of Potassium,” ib., ii, 851. Pieber, “Ueber eine noch nicht beschriebene Form von Anomalie der Bewegungsbe- schriinkung,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 41. Anderson, “Rare Form of Spinal Irritation,” ‘ Glasg. Med. Journ.,’ iii, 31. Hutchins, “Spinal Irritation,”_‘New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, 1871, Oct. 2. BYinherg, “Ueber Reflexlahmungen: eine ex- perimentelle Studie,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 491- Bumke, “Ueber Reflex- lahmung” (two cases of traumatic paralysis), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ In, 442. Burow, ‘ Die Parese der animalen Nerven,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 600. Ogle, (i) “Some- what unusual form of Paralysis” (woman, set. 39, paralysis of extrenaities, affected speech, twitching of muscles of face, intelligence intact, white atrophy ot optic nerve); (2) “ Paraplegia in a Boy, set. 7, connected with Curvature of the upper part of the Dorsal Region of the Spine;” (3) “ Paraplegia of some standing, suddenly becoming worse,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 39- Reincke, “Em Fall von Paralysis Asceudens Acuta” (man, set. 33), ‘ Deut. Klin.,’1871, 210. Bernhardt, Beitrag zur Lehre von der Acuten Allgeiiieiuen Paralyse” (man, mt. 29), Berl. Klin. Wocli., 1871 t;6i. Chalvet, “Paralysie Ascendante Aigiie” (man, ait. 27), Gaz. des Hod’’ 1871, 369. Barwinkle, “Ueber ein prognostich wichtiges Symptom der tra^mat. Lahmungen,” ‘Arch. d. Heilkunde,’ xii, ?*36- Westphal, “Zw^^^ von Armlahmungen nach Luxation des Oberarmkopfes, Leri. K m. Woch., ^^187 , 5 • Bernhardt, “Beitrag zur differentiellen Diagnose der Radialsparalysen, ynch. Arch ’ liv 267. Panas, “De la Cause reelle de la Paralysie reputee Rhumatismale du nerf radial,” ‘Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxvi, 963. Althaus, “On Neuritis of the Brachial Plexus,” ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 145-^, ^Wilt- lahmung voa Arm-nerven durch Kriickengebrauch, Deut. Arch., ix, 125. Wilt shhS “Facial Paralysis from Fright,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, b 231. Russell, “Three Cases of local Paralysis; in two accompanying disease of the central organs of the nervous Sour of CeJbrum," - Path. Soc. Tra™./K.., ”■ f Kinderheilk., 283. ivioxon, j-aunuiuj, Wseher “Ueber Trophische ^ Mnni^re “Note pour servir a I’Histoire de la Pathologie du nerf OlfactJ, t’ aS ’ V U 3Sr Noyes, “ Paralysis of the Fifth Cerebral Nerve,’ ‘Nmv Y?yh k“ / Vi J 23, Seelis^.aier, " Ein Fall von Lalnnnng dos Accosaom. Wdl....,(EDEMA GLOTTIDIS, Aj i'j G '3 G L/ LARYNGISMUS LlL,.: h L. r I I A Medical scHooiim ISMUS^ ETC. ' U' UllO 1 « Arpl, f Psvch ' iii, Beck, “Spindle-celled Sarcoma connected with the Pos- ,e*S^a'bS’Ne™ ” “4m. Path. Soc..’ xxii, ,8. Emmingl.aus, “Uebar l.alb.dt pr PeXhtsatrophie” ‘Dent. Arch.,’ xi, 96. Handfield Jones, “Epdepsy and other Nervous AifLtions resulting from the Excessive Use of Alcohol,” ‘Practitioner 1872, Eeb. Wilks, “Alcoholic Paraplegia,” ‘Lancet, 1872, 1, 320. Lockhait Clarko, “Alcoholic Paresis and Paraplegia,” ib., 427. Moxou, “A Case of Paraplegia lasting five years, electrical anesthesia, question of_ malingering (boy, et. 18), ib., 11, 7. Benedikt, “ Nekroscopischer Befund bei einem geheilten Fall von Paraplegie, ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1872, No. i, &c. Gray, “ Sudden Decrease m the Frequency of the Pulse during Disease as a sign of approaching Cerebral Coinphcati<m, But. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 94- Mitchell, “On the Growth of the Nails as a Prognostic Indication in Cerebral Paralysis” (two cases), ‘Amer. Jonrm Med. Sen, Ixi 420. Edes “Morbid Growths connected with the Nervous System; Cerebrum,Cerebellum, aud Semilunar Ganglion of the Sympathetic,” ib., 87. Meade, “Extensive Deposit of Lymph on Serous Membranes (of brain in hoy, set. 6 years, with fractured parietal bone &c.) in nineteen hours,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 13- Dowse, “ Cerebro-spinal Arach- nitis, with CerehrakDisturbance ” (woman, set. 25, autopsy), ib., _i872,11, 9. Charpy, “De la Definition Anatomique et Physiologique de la Paralysie Generale, ‘Lyon Med.,’ ix. 78. Howden, “An Analysis of the Post-mortem Appearances in 235 Insane Persons,’’ ‘Journ. Ment. Sci.,’ 1871, 84. Wright, “Insanity Dependent on Consti- tutional Syphilis,” ‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 1095. West, “On some Disorders of the Nervous System in Childhood,” ‘Lumleian Lectures,’ 1871. Tigri, “Sulle Anomalie e sulle Malattie del Cervello e parti annesse, come causa prossima della alienazione mentale; resultanze degli studi anatomic! eseguiti nel corso di’ 20 anni, publicati per guida del dissettore di queste necroscopie,” ‘ Ann. Univ. di Med.,’ ccxvi, 523. Ron- cati, “L’Ai'senico contro le Malattie Nervose,” ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomh.,’ 187^2, 9. Bailly, “Des Paralysies consecutives a quelques Maladies Aigues,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 93. c. Diseases of the Bespiratory System. (Edema Glottidis, Laryngismus, ^c. Boelt (‘Eeo. de Mem de Med. Mil.,’ xxvi, 43) gives the following case:—'A soldier, set, 29, had two years before had. an attack of dyspnoea, which lasted two hours, and was followed by oedema of the neck and face. On May ii, 1870, he had another suffocative attack. He had been revaccinated on the 4th; on the loth his conjunctivse were slightly injected, next day the dyspnoea com- menced, with a feeling of diflB.culty in swallowing. There was con- siderable oedema of the velum, epiglottis, and aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The parts were scarified and sponged with a solution of nitrate of silver, with great relief. Later, oedema of the right hand and upper lip was succeeded by oedema of the right foot and lower lip. The symptoms disappeared, and the patient recovered. In the absence of any cause to be discovered in an affection of the heart or kidneys, Boelt ascribes the sudden occurrence of the oedema, which was unac- companied by any symptoms of inflammation, to hypersemia due to paralysis of the vascular branches of the sympathetic nerves. Russell (‘Glasg. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, iii, 209) reproduces an already published case of laryngeal obstruction, preceded by erysipelas, in a wciman set. 21. Tracheotomy was performed, but the obstruction still exists and the patient still wears the eanula. He gives a second case of the same kind, occurring in a female, set. 18, attacked with typhus. Nothing abnormal was revealed by the laryngoscope about the epiglottis or vocal corcis. The laryngeal obstruction became so severe that tracheotomy was performed, and the patient was relieved. Later, the obstruction still re-REPOllT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 10^ maining, a laryngeal mirror was introduced tbrougli the opening in the trachea, and shosved that the latter was closed below the rima glottidis by swelling of the mucous membrane. Introduced in the usual manner, the mirror showed the epiglottis erect, the cords widely separated, and a circular fleshy tumour with a dark central spot like that seen from below. He looks upon both as cases of laryngitis resulting in per- manent stricture of the submucous tissue below the rima glottidis. In the second case there was undoubted constitutional syphilis. Johnson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ i8^i, i. 469) arranges cases of spasm of the larynx in the following groups;—(i) Hysterical laryngismus ; (2) laryngismus stridulus in children ; (3) laryngeal spasm, due to pressure on the pneumogastric or recurrent nerves, by aneurism or other thoracic tumour; and (4) that produced by the presence of a foreign body, or the inhalation of irritating gases or dust, or by inflatn- mation of the laryngeal mucous membrane. He gives the case of a girl, set. 22, who suflered from the first cause. Chloral was prescribed in doses of ten grains every six hours, and the laryngeal stridor ceased. The aphonia which accompanied it yielded to galvanism. Havratil (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 394) gives the result of his experiments on five dogs and a cat, as to the function of the laryngeal nerves. He finds that the superior laryngeal has no influence on the motor function of the larynx, and the spinal-accessory nerve none on the muscles of the vocal cords. Tait, “Laryngismus Stridulus,” ‘Dublin Journ.,’ li, 117. Mackenzie, On the Differential Diagnosis of Chronic Inflammations of the Larynx ” (simple chronic inflammation, laryngeal phthisis, syphilis, cancer of the larynx). Lancet, 1872, i, 7. Veale, “ On the Movement of Mucus in the Trachea and Larynx, ib., 187/, i’i, 121. Eogers, “Acute Laryngitis, Tracheotomy, Kecovery’’ (in woman, get 2^) ib ib., ifjg. Mackenzie, “Constriction of the Trachea, Syphilitic Deposits in the Liver and Kidney” (man, set. 39), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 33. Norton, “Epithe- lioma of the Larynx” (man, set. 62), ib., xxiii, 43. Simpson, “ Clinical Lectures on the Use of the Laryngoscope,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 41S- Bergeret, T^che- otomie non-croupale : Contribution a I’histoire des affections du larynx, Lyon Med., vii, CQ. Fieher, “Vortrage liber Laryngoscope,” ‘ Wien. Med. Ztung., ^1871, 359. Kehn, “ Chloralhydrat gegen Spasmus Glottidis,” ‘ Jahrh. f. Kinderheilk., iv, 130. Diphtheria and Croup. Letzerich (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 187) continues to insist upon his favourite fungi as the origin of diphtheria. After the entrance of the spores into the blood and lymph a secondary constitetional disorder, according to him, diphtheritis generalis, is set up. The patients my die rapidly of collapse, or a febrile state may suddenly occur, with head- ache, abdominal pains, nausea, apathy, constipation, with some tyiya- nitis. The urine is diminished in quantity, and often yntains albumen and casts made up of masses of the fungus (!); the lumbar region is tender on pressure. Convulsions often occur in children up to the age of five years. His treatment consists in the use of a warm bath for a oLrter^of an hour, followed by continued applicyions ot hnseed-meal To^c^ tTihelumUv regioi; a teaspoon or dessert-spoon of lime- water every half hour, and in protracted cases quinine. fcaSr paper (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, a,.) he gives the results of i.8103 DIPHTHERIA AND CROUP. further experiments, in continuation of his former papers on the pro- duction of diphtheria by specific spores. _ He fed rabbits ot ditferent I acres on tlie cultivated fungi, so as to eliminate all diphtheritic exuda- tion. The symptoms produced were loss ot appetite, malaise, increasing inability to swallow fluids, elevation of temperature, diarrhoea, or, in the older animals, obstinate constipation and almost complete sup- ' pression of urine. The animals were killed, and the post-mortem I appearances were, on the whole, as follows: Hy pereemia of the stomach, ulcers in it and in the duodenum, which was covered with whitish masses ; hypersemic kidneys, and in some cases albuminous urine. Microscopic examination showed the presence of the peculiar I spores and filaments in white masses, and in other parts, even among the glands of Lieberkiihn, in the tubules and pelvis of the kidney, in the ureters, and in the urine. No symptoms followed the swallowing I of penicillium glaucum, nor were its spores found in any ot the organs ! examined. He concludes that, through the destruction of the mucous membrane openings are made into the blood-vessels, lymphatics, &c., by which portions of the fungus make their way into the circulation, ‘ setting up a general disorder, which has its special seat in the kidneys, where the spores and filaments are developed to an enormous extent. The same origin and course of symptoms and microscopical appearances he finds in the diphtheria of children. The latter name he would apply I to the local afiection of the fauces, and that of diphtheritis to the secondary I symptoms. In reference to Grohe’s experiments with other fungi, he believes that the peculiarity of the diphtheritic fungus is that, while other spores must be artificially injected to produce like symptoms, the former makes its own way through the tissues which it first destroys. In a third paper (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 493) he discusses the physiology of ciliated epithelium and the development of the exudation in croup and diphtheria. On mucous membranes with smooth epithelium the exudation is thick and closely adherent; on others with ciliated or cylindrical epithelium it is creamy and easily stripped otf. He holds that croup and diphtheria are not identical, though they may be de- veloped side by side, and may pass from one into the other. Oertel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 242) writes an extremely full and very long paper on experiments made in reference to diphtheria. 'With the same view he makes use of several very instructive autopsies made on human bodies. According to him diphtheria causes con- stant capillary haemorrhages, most numerous in the subepithelial and submucous tissues, next in the pleura, pericardium, diaphragm, dura mater, and in the capsules of the lymphatic glands, and again in the brain and spinal cord, in the sheaths of the nerves, and in the large organs. Micrococcus is developed and proliferates in the diseased mucous membrane and extends into the blood, into the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and over the whole body. i. Am- monia and other chemical irritants set up a pseudo-membranous inflammation in the larynx and trachea. The writer made this experi- ment on fifteen rabbits, and caused an inflammation agreeing in all its symptoms with croup as it occurs in the human body, and becoming fatal through suffocation. There was no aflfection of the other organs.104 EEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. The fungus was found on the surface of the membranes, but nowhere else, and inoculation with it gave negative results. 2. Inoculation in the trachea of twelve rabbits with diphtheritic membrane taken from men caused death in five by suffocation, in three by the constitutional infection. ^ The post-mortem examination showed, not only diphtheritic inflammation in the larynx and trachea, but also numberless hjemor- rbages in the most various organs, especially hsemorrhagic inflammation of the cervical and axillary glands, capillary ecchymosis, and dege- neration of the muscles. The kidneys were swollen and livid, both cortical and medullary substances exceedingly hyperiemic, with ecchymosis here and there. 3. Inoculation with diphtheritic membrane under the skin and in the muscles, iu five rabbits, gave the following results:—The wound was covered with grey slimy deposit, the muscles and connective tissue around and about it boggy and ecchymosed. The kidneys were highly hypersemic and swollen, 4. Inoculations with decomposing animal substances gave altogether different results to those of diphtheritic membranes. 5. The diphtheritic poison introduced from men into animals, reproduced in them and increased, may be inoculated into other animals, even those of different zoological classes, and into different tissues and organs, with the same diphtheritis of the wound, and severe constitutional affection. Oertel concludes that the local disease begins in one spot of infection, and from it extends over the body. He insists upon a sharply marked separation between croup and diphtheria; the latter can provoke a croupous inflammation; the former never passes beyond the limits of a local inflammation. Hartmann (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 240) refers briefly to three views—(i) that cronp and diphtheria are identical; (2) that the latter is only an ad- vanced stage of the former; (3) tliat the two are distinct affections, the diphtheria being a blood disease, exhibiting its local effects in the fauces and larynx, just as the typhoid process is localised in the intestine. He holds that croup always precedes diphtheria (p. 246) ; that in the former the raucous membrane is intact, while in the latter it is destroyed. Classen (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 260) gives an analysis of 153 cases of diphtheria treated by him at Eostock, from October, 1862, to the end of March, 1870. Thirty-seven were fatal : 27 from suf- focation, from extension of the affection to the respiratory organs, 2 from capillary bronchitis after tracheotomy (a third case of tra- cheotomy, in a child, recovered), and 8 from exhaustion or blood- poisoning. Thirty-eight were under the age of 10 years, 26 between 10 and 20, and 31 over 20 years. He considers the so-called false membranes to be only dead mucous tissue, and he has been unable to find any of Letzerich’s spores, &c. He discusses at some length dif- ferent modes of treatment, and publishes what he thinks a unique case of affected vision in a boy, set. 13, after diphtheria, due probably to hsemorrhage into the sh.eath of the optic nerve. Hutchinson (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 13) gives three cases of paralysis of tbe ciliary muscle from diphtheria. The cases are peculiar and easy of diagnosis, the patients generally children. The defect of sight, usually inability to read, comes on suddenly, always after convalescence has seemed to be established, and disappears in a month or six weeks.DIPHTHERIA AND CROUP. 105 Kraft-Ebing (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 123) gives the following contribution to paralysis occurring after diphtheria. A man, set. 30, sulFering from the affection, was attacked in the course of a few days with a progressive paralysis gradually extending to all the extremities, leaving the bladder and rectum intact. The paralysis was accompanied by cutaneous and muscular anaesthesia. In the course of four,or five months the symptoms disappeared. At the end of abdut twenty weeks the contractility of the muscles was lost to faradisation, but normal to galvanism. He looks upon the case as another proof of the peripheral origin of the paralysis in diphtheria. (Cf. Buhl, “Einiges fiber Diphtherie,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 361.) Giiterbock (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 323) records five cases of subcutaneous emphysema occurring in diphtheria without tracheotomy. He agrees completely with the views of Virchow as to the mode of its occurrence, and with Traube considers it a symptom of interlobular emphysema of the lung. It is rare, much rarer' than that which takes place during or after tracheotomy. The five cases, like those given by Sachse, Bartels, and Hueter, terminated fatally; while in eight cases of emphysema of the skin after tracheotomy three recovered. Kersey (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 366) describes an outbreak of diphtheria (forty cases) in "West' Kent, without any apparent cause. Some cases occurred near thC lesser Stour, others oh ground nearly a hundred feet above, and a mile from the river. Eour terminated fatally. One case is given at length, in which the membrane was extensive, albumen present in great amount, and there was paralysis of the pha- rynx and of accommodation, followed, during convalescence, by paralysis of the extremities and of the muscles of the neck and back. Greenhow described to the Clinical Society (ib., i, 488) a case of diphtherial paralysis in a female, set. 26, treated successfully with faradisation. Underhill (ib., 323) exhibited five trache® on which tracheotomy had been performed for membranous croup in children, a thick layer being present in all. Tracheotomy does not seem to have been successful at the Children’s Hospital, Birmingham, having been performed eight times between Sept. 1870 and Feb. 1871—twice for croup following scarlet fever, and once for diphtheria, once for oedema of the glottis fol- lowing gangrene of the tonsils in enteric fever, and four times for mem- branous croup, in each case with fatal result. G. Buchanan (ib., 217) holds that tracheotomy is admissible only in the sthenic form of these diseases, when other treatment has failed, and the tendency to death is from apnoea rather than exhaustion, and before the vital powers are lessened by the struggle for breath. A clear indication for the operation is a well-marked and increasing drawing-in of the costal cartilages and intercostal spaces, with a moderately good pulse. He gives, in full, a case in which the tube was removed on the eighth day, in a boy of six years and he adds a table (cf ib.,310) of thirty-nine cases in which he performed tracheotomy—fourteen in croup, twenty-four in diphtheria, and one in which a chicken-bone had lodged in the glottis ; twenty-six were fatal; nineteen of the operations were in children under four years, two of which were successful; and twentyIIEPOIIT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. 106 in children four years and over, eleven of which were successful; two thirds of the whole, therefore, were fatal. Cooper .Forster (ib., 309) records a case of successful tracheotomy in a child ot eleven months lor croup. [He adds a case in which he per- formed tracheotomy in a man, aet. 80, with malignant growth in the larynx.] Bell gives (ib., 369) a successful case of tracheotomy in a child of seven months for croup. Cordier (‘ Lyon Med.,’ ix, 92 ; and see discussion on this paper, ib., 106) gives three cases of diphtheria, two fatal, in boys set. 7, and one in a girl, set. 5, on whom tracheotomy was successfully performed, and the canula removed on the tenth day. Olivier (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 85) publishes two cases of croup; one was in a girl, set. 7, in whom tracheotomy was performed in extremis, and the canula removed after seven days. The daily tem- peratures, &c., are given. The other was in a boy, set. 4, who also recovered after tracheotomy, the canula being removed on the thirteenth day. In this case there was laryngeal paralysis. As to other means of treatment in diphtheria, Schiitz (‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 31) uses a solution of bromide of potassium with bromine (gr. vj to 5iv) for pencilling the larynx and for inhalation. Brasch (‘Ber. Klin. Wochr,’ 1871, 551) gives glycerine of iron in- ternally and carbolic acid locally. Under this treatment the mortality was 20 per cent., while under the employment of nitrate of silver and mercurials it was per cent. Heifer (‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 229) obtains good results from the use of carbolic acid. Bouchut (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 326) uses injections of a mixture of coal tar and tincture of saponine {coaltar saponine), and induces the children to allow it by giving sugar water in the same syringe. He gives a case (ib., 582) where an emetic had good effect. Laserre (‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxv) found, when he was called in early enough, that keeping the patient in a warm bed and in a heated chamber, and the administration of diaphoretics, brought about successful results. Bouchut (‘Bull.’de Therap.,’Ixxxiii, 373, and cf. Ixxxii) records notes of five more cases treated by emetics (tartar emetic). In three of the cases tracheotomy was proposed, but either rejected or deferred ; four cases recovered and one died from lobar pneumonia. The tartar emetic caused vomiting of the false membranes. The children were five years old or younger, and the medicine was given in doses of one to two grains, according to age, in two ounces of sugar-water. On days when it was not given as an emetic it was employed as a “ counter- stimulant.” A grain was dissolved in two ounces of water, and two teaspoonfuls given every two hours. Thick soup or bread soaked in water or sugared wine was the nourishment given, and but little drink, so as to prevent the purging effects of the tartar emetic. Vaneschi, “ Zur Frage liber die Traclieotomie bei Lai-yngitis Diphtheritica,‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 163. Muhsam, “ Ueber Diphtheritische Labmungen,” ib., 21. Both, “ Lympbatische Wucberungen nacb Diphtheritis ” (female, sat. 53, with107 THE RESPIIlATOllY MUllMUR, ETC. 4. ^ Arr'h ’ llv Moos, “ Ein Pall von selbstandiger Diphtlieritis ,o , ; Arch Schiiller <‘Primarer Croup iler Nasenschleimlmut, Jahib. t. KindeiiieiiK., v, 33 Bouclmt’ “Traitenient clu Croup par l’:fimctique,” ‘ Gaz des H6p., /8.72> “On the Medical Treatment of Diphtheria/’ ‘ Glasgow Med. Journ., in, 219. Balfoui, “Chlorine-water in the Treatment of Diphtheria,” ‘Edm^Med. Journ. 313. Menzies “On an Epidemic of Diphtheria observed at Naples m 1^1, with an attempt’ to determine the common origin of Cerehro-spinal Fever, and Diphtheria.” ih., xviii, 217. “ Quinia in Croup.” ‘Amer. Journ. Med Sci ’ Ixi =08. ^Murchison, “Case of Diphtheria, with extension of the Mem.brane to the’Bronchial Tubes ” (man, mt. 24). ‘ Path. Soc. Trans./ xxii, 35- f ful Case of Tracheotomy in Croup” (boy, 7, removal of the tulm on eighth day), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 5.5i- Greenhow, “Paralysis alter Diphtheria (man, £Et. 32), ib., 1872, i, 538. Giacchi, Natura e Therapia deU’ Angina Dilterica, loppi, 1872; pp. 23. The Mespiratory Murmur, ^c. Stone, in a valuable paper “ On .^Egophony” (‘ St. Tbos. Hosp. Eep.,’ 1871, 187), observes “that a pure musical vibration within the limits of the ordinary speaking voice is not transmitted at all, either through consolidated lung or through a layer of pleuritic fluid; but that the same note, when vocalised and modified by the addition of vowel sounds, immediately passes through the media at a changed pitch. He found that the e and 1 sounds, which Helmholtz obtained with great diflSculty in his experiments, and only by reinforcing the extreme high harmonics at the expense of the fundamental notes, were exactly tbe sounds on which aegophony was most distinct, whether in a living lung or an india-rubber bag containing water. He concludes that aegophony has for its cause the fact “ that the layer of fluid, while it stops the larger and coarser vibrations of the ground-tone, lets pass the finer and closer undulations of the high harmonics.” In reference to the peculiar mode of respiration first described by Cheyne, and later by Stokes, C. Brlickner (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 155) writes on what his father had taught twenty-two years ago as pendulum- like respiration. He notices it especially in children affected with tuber- cular meningitis. After the pause the patient breathes at first almost inaudibly, but with gradually increasing force, till the highest point is reached, the respiration gradually falling till the pause again recurs. The latter generally lasts as long as the sum of all the respirations be- tween two pauses. The number of respirations varies in difterent patients, sometimes only 6—8, in others 20—30. According to the elder Bruckner, the symptom is caused only by the presence of watery fluid within the skull, and the son has also noticed it in cases of the same kind only. Merkel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 424) records a case in which the same phenomenon was present. The patient, a man, set. 44, was first seen in the autumn of 1866, extremely anaemic, and suffering from haemor- rhoids. His arteries were rigid. At the end of 1869 he had an apo- plectic fit, followed by left-sided paralysis. His respiration at that time was at first superficial, and increased in depth, but not in frequency, till it developed into a well-marked dyspnoea. This condition lasted for108 UEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 30—45 secoudis, aiid was succeeded by a complete pause of 20—30 seconds, during which, the pupil was contracted and initnovable, and again, the same round of symptoms was repeated. He never lost con- sciousness. He was again seen in November, 1870; the peculiar respiration was still present, and a month later the patient died. The autopsy is given, but neither it nor the writer throw any further light on the cause of the phenomenon. The case is noticeable on account of the long period dnring which the peculiar form of respiration had lasted. "Waldenburg (“ Die Manometrie der Lungen, oder Pneumatometrie als diagnostiche Methode,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 541) describes a manqmeter to measure the pressure of inspiration and expiration in diseases of the lungs. The instrument proves what is already known, that in the normal state the pressure of expiration is stronger than that of inspiration, the former averaging between 70 and 180, or even 200 millimetres, the latter between 60 and 12'Q. The average of the expira- tory pressure in men is 8o—120, of the inspiratory 70—100 ; in women the expiratory is 30—80, the iilspiratory 40—90. In emphysema the inspiratory pressure is normal, the expiratory greatly diminished, this insufl5.ciency of expiration depending on the lessened elasticity of the air-vesicles. On the other hand, in the 'early stages of tuberculosis the pressure of expiration is normal, while that of inspiration is abnormally low; iu the later stages, however, the expiratory pressure is also dimi- nished. These facts may be used in the differential diagnosis of disease, In cases of stricture of the trachea both pressures are diminished. K5rner (“ Beitrag zur Lehre von der Tuberculose,” ‘ Wien. Med. Ztung.,’ 1871, 189) refers to the detrimental influence exerted by small development' of the respiratory muscles of the neck upon the course of affections of the apices of the lungs. The defective inspira- tion leads to defective supply of arterial blood, and this, again, aids the cheesy degeneration of bronchitic or pneumonic products. He thinks that the fever which occurs during the process of cheesy change and softening is produced by the reabsorption of dead rnatter, and that it usuallv persists in proportion to the extent and density of the indura- tion which surrounds the cheesy deposits and the vomicsB. Brown-Sequard (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 6) gives the following results of his experiments on guinea-pigs, &c, Crushing or wound ot the pons Variolii caused numerous ecchymoses, and even real apoplexy in the lungs, generally most marked on the side opposite to that ot greatest lesion. The influence is exerted mainly through the spinal roots ot the sympathetic nerve. Anaemia of the lungs, from ^^sm 01 the blood- vessels, also results from injury to the pons, ffidema of the lung appears principally after injury to the medulla oblongata. According to Eanvier, the parts of lung thus changed contain a good deal ot serum and the minute blood-vessels are filled with white, and free from red corpuscles. He states as a new fact that emphysema of the lungs “ can appear when not a single respiratory movement takes place alter an irritation of the base of the brain, either by crushing or cutting. He draws attention to the frequency of pulmonary changes dependent on brain-influence. Of 188 cases of organic disease of the brain, re-MEDIASTINAL GEOWTHS. 109 corded by Cnlmeil, there was a morbid condition of the lungs, especially inflammation, in more than 6o, i. e. in i out of 3. Whitehead {‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxn, 82) showed some peculiar sputa “ hawked up” after eating by a woman, set. 24. The sputum consisted of tenacious, gelatinous-looking ma,sses more or less elon- gated, of ragged outline, and non-tubular, and ot delicate, transparent, membranous laminee, varying in.size from _that of a minute flake to square inch, and streaked with irregular reticulations. Ibe microscope showed that both were almost entirely made up of stratified squamous epithelium, with a few mucous corpuscles. These characters favour the opinion that the specimen consisted of mucus yielded by a catarrhal condition of the pharynx or upper part of the oesophaguSi Baas; “ Experimenteller Beitrag Aiifkliii-uiig derErage ulier deh Entstehungsort \ind die Entstehungsart des sog. Vesiculai-Athmens und der Rasselgerausche, Arch.’ ixi ^i6. Lippe, “Grenzen des norraalen Bronchialathmens, ib., 5^5* “ Zvvei Beobachtungen von Cheyne-Stoke.s’scben Bespirations-pbanomen bei Lun^n- afiectionen im kindlichen Alter,” ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 432. Leven, “Des diverses formes d’Aaphyxie au point de vue physiologique et patholog^ue; baz. des Hop. ’ 1872, 68. Bourgeois, ‘De la Congestion Pulmonaire simple, Pans. Bohden, “Der Zvveckmassigste Geradhalter,” ‘Deri. Klin. Woch., 1871, 236. Watts, Inha- lation for Diseases of the Lmigs,’ London. Mediastinal Growths'. Virchow (‘Archiv,’ liii, 444) describes a peculiar mediastinal tumour (Teratoma myomatodes). The patient, a man, set. 22, had been under observation for about two months. He had been indisposed for some weeks, and complained of shortness of breath and pain in the right thorax. On percussion there was dulness from the third right rib downwards, extending in an oblique line backwards to the angle of the scapula. No respiratory murmur was audible over this region of dul- ness. The general condition of the patient became gradually worse, with febrile symptoms from time to time. After four or five weeks a painful prominence began to be developed at the junction of the carti- lage and bone of the left rib. In about five weeks, when death occurred, this tumour had reached the size of a small fist. At the same time the dulness on the right side became greater in front as well as behind; the liver was pushed down. For some time there was oedema of the right side and part of the abdomen, which gradually disappeared. Death occuiTed from increasing dijBflculty of breathing. The diagnosis made was an encysted exudation in the anterior portion of the pleura. The tumour on the third rib was considered to be a “ cold abscess” or an enchondroma. The autopsy showed an elastic tumour, which had de- stroyed the anterior part of the third rib. Instead of any pleuritic exudation was found an enormous tumour, which occupied the greater part of the right thorax, and extended some way over the middle line to the left. The right lung was pushed backwards and upy^ards, the heart to the left, and the liver downwards. The latter was greatly en- larged, and contained various hard nodes, some imbedded in its sub- stance, some prominent on its surface. The spleen was enlarged, and presented on its upper surface several vesicles, about the size of a wal-REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 110 nut, and containing bloody fluid. The kidneys were also enlarged, and contained the same kind of nodes as the liver. On account of the ad- vanced decomposition it was impossible to make any further examina- tion of these three organs. The mediastinal tumour was 20 cm. long, 21 broad, and 13 thick, adherent to the right lung, the pericardium, and the large vessels. The left and larger portion of it was almost com- pletely solid, richly vascular in parts, but distinctly fibrous. In the fibrillar intervening substance were numerous spindle-shaped cells, like those of spindle-celled sarcoma; but the chief mass consisted of obliquely striated spindle-cells, containing one or more large nuclei. The older elements were striated throughout their whole thickness, the younger only on the surface (Virchow’s Myoma striocellulare). Their derivation from normal muscle was impossible, as the cells had double prolongations, like the branched muscle-cells of the heart. The right and smaller half of the tumour consisted of small cysts, about 23 cm. in diameter, containing on their inner surface small outgrowths and vesi- cles, like those found in proliferating ovarian cysts. In many places the cysts were confluent. In the middle of the tumour was a cavity, 25 by 13 cm., which was surrounded by a leathery wall and enclosed hair, small plates of epidermis, cholestearin, and fat. Other cavities were lined with ciliated epithelium. In the neighbourhood were small scattered portions of hyaline cartilage, with a thick perichondrium, ex- tremely like the cartilages of the bronchi, though no connection between the two could be made out. In one place the tissue was finely spongy, and in the meshes were roundish, granular, nucleated cells, like gland- cells, the stroma being made up of sarcomatous round and spindle- cells. In the tumour on the rib were cysts, striated muscle-cells, and patches of carcinoma. One patch, the size of a hemp-seed, consisted of round alveoli made up of elastic fibres, like foetal lung. This tumour was entirely surrounded by perichondrium, and was not connected with that in the mediastinum. The variety of elements entering into the formation of this growth points to a foetal origin. The ciliated epithelium and cartilages in the large tumour and the elastic fibrous network in the small “recall so vividly the organs of respiration that the mind is compelled to think of an aberration of particles, which originally belonged to bronchi and lungs.” Still, there is a difficulty in holding this view in the face of the fact that the greater part of the large growth, and the whole^of the small one, was developed during the latter part of the patient s life. We must therefore, especially with regard to the tumours in the ab- dominal glands, consider it as a “ heterochronous, metastatic gro\vth. The paper concludes with remarks on dermoid cysts of the mediastinum and their possible starting-points, and on lympho-sarcomata (thymus, bronchial glands, skin). ... ^ „ s , Gueneaii de Mussy (‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 462, &c.), writes a long paper on “ Bronchial Adenopathy in the Adult.” He looks upon this afi^ection of the bronchial glands as secondary, and following lesion in organs traversed by the lymphatic vessels which feed them; under the influence of constitutional predisposition they acquire such development as to become the predominant element in the disease; in some cases they"mediastinal growths. Ill to be attacked primarily, for instance, as in children, “ tubercles be present in them while absent in the lungs. And in children - ^ ^ 1 ii 15 _• fV»oY^ m fliA Q.nnlf, in resembling hooping-cough, and dyspnoea; abnormal sensibility about the seat of the affected glands, in the interscapular or subclavicular space, with spontaneous pain there, due probably to the intercostal nerves, and consequently to be looked upon as reflex. The expectoration is little in comparison with the cough; sometimes bronchitis is a compi- cation, or even in some cases the starting-point of the adenitis. ^ He sketches at some length the plan he follows in percussing out the limits of the gland enlargement, whether in the neighbourhood of the trachea or the bronchi, and the alteration caused in the voice and the respira- tion. In addition to these signs, the character of the cough, the dyspncea, the depression above the sternum during deep inspiration, the respiratory sibilus often audible at a distance, and the attacks during which the cough and dyspnoea become more violent, all draw attention to the bronchial glands. These latter attacks, according to Eonssagrives and Eilliet and Barthez, are to be attributed to a rapid congestion or some temporary movement of the glands. As the disease advances symptoms of compression and strangulation show themselves, and death occurs either from this cause or from breaking down of the glands and their rupture into the trachea, bronchi, lung or pleura, where they sometimes set up pneumothorax, and in other cases into the oesophagus or mediastinum. He speaks shortly of the differential diagnosis from consolidation of the lung, from aneurism and other mediastinal tumours ; and as to prognosis, though he allows that the affection is almost always fatal, yet he thinks he has seen cases in which it has retrograded. He has noticed it as a complication in bronchitis, pneumonia, pleurisy, whooping-cough, measles, and typhoid fever. The paper concludes with the histories of six cases. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 68) showed specimens of lymph- adenoma from the mediastinum aud kidneys from a woman act. 21. Bennett (ib., 70) also showed a growth of a same kind from a girl set. 17 ; and Payne and Clapton (ib., xxiii, 270) record a case of mediastinal and intra-cardiac tumour, also like lymphadenoma, but having a greater preponderance of cells (lympho-sarcoma). Clarke (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 10) records the following:—A mason, set. 30, had been perfectly well up to six weeks before his admission into hospital; at that time, after lifting a heavy stone, he noticed a swelling in his neck and complained of dull aching pain down the right arm, dyspnoea, dysphagia, and partial aphonia. The chest and arms, espe- cially the right, were very oedematous, and the superficial veins were much enlarged; there was some flattening below the left clavicle; defi- cient movement and dulness of whole of left side, back and front; and on right side, below clavicle to fifth rib. The patient died of exhaustion a fortnight later. At the autopsy “ a large solid mass of a carcinomatous nature” extended over the whole of the upper part of the thorax, closely connected with the left lung and adherent to the right pleura; the left112 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lung was contracted and adherent to the growth. The mediastinal g anas were much enlarged ; several masses of cancer were present in the liver and pancreas. Risdon Bennett, ‘Cancerous and other Iritrathoracic Growths, their Natural History and Diaposis, pp. 190, London, 1872. Horstmann, ‘Drei Falle von Mediastinaltumor, Inaug. Diss., Berlin. Pohn, ‘ Beschreibung eines Falles von DermOidcyste des Mtidiastiniim anticum/ Inaug. Diss., Berlin, Pleurisi/, ^c. Huss (“ TJeher deh anderseitigen pleuritischen Schmerz,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 242) attempts to find an anatomical explanation for those cases in which pain occurs on the side opposite to that affected with pleurisy. Laennec first described cases in which the pain was felt else- where than on the affected side. Andral challenged the correctness of these observations ; Wintrich has also been unable to confirm them. Various writers have, however, noticed the same occurrence, without being able to give any explanation of it. Gerhardt, in a case observed by him, in which, the patient complained of pain on the left side near the sternum, while the pleuritic rub was to be heard on the opposite side, assumed the existence of anastomoses between the intercostal nerves in the anterior mediastinum. Huss attempted to support this view by investigating the anatomy of eight sterna, and in one of them did find some such connection between the nerves of the two sides. Handfield Jones (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 139) gives a clinical lecture on a case of effusion into the left pleura, in an engineer, let. 19, on whom paracentesis was performed on the twentieth day after his ad- mission into hospital, about eighty-six ounces of fluid being removed. The patient had ascites at the same time, which had also nearly dis- appeared on his discharge. In some remarks on the case the lecturer allows that the presence of weak and distant breathing on the affected side should not cause a postponement of the operation, such as was occasioned here, “for lung-sounds can penetrate through a notable thickness of fluid.” Eedenbacher (‘Deut. Arch.,’ ix, 240) records the following:—A boy, set. 6, previously healthy, had been for four weeks suffering from abun- dant and increasing effusion in the right pleura. He had been treated with quinine and iron, but had rapidly lost flesh. Paracentesis was then performed. More than two pints of pus were removed, with im- mediate relief to the patient. The cavity was washed out twice daily with lukewarm water. The canula was taken out on the fourteenth day. A month later the patient was greatly improved in health, and there was no difference, either in measurement or respiratory murmur on the two sides. Paul (“ De la Thoracentese, comme methode de traitement de la Pleu- resie Aigue,” ‘ Bull. Gen. deTherap.,’ Ixxxi, 83) publishes eight cases of acute pleurisy in patients between the ages of 21 and 56, in which he practised paracentesis with success. They were dismissed well in from two to three weeks later. After remarking on certain precautions to be taken, he asserts the perfect harmlessness of the operation, and, as an aid in prognosis, insists upon the fact that when the fluid readily coagulatesrLEUEISY^ ETC, lU after Its exit, it may be pretty certainly assumed that the effusion will not reoccur, or if it does reoccur will do so in so small a quantity as to be soon reabsorbed. Bebier gives a lecture (‘Graz, des Hop.,’ 1871, 349) on a case of pleuritic effusion on the left side, in a man, mt. 26. His views are nearly the same as Paul’s. The dangers caused by the effusion he considers to be displacement of the heart, and the hindrance thus placed in the way of its functions, the slow asq)hyxia resulting from com- pression of the lung, the long-continued fever and suppuration, with its tendency to tuberculosis, and the deformity caused in the thoracic walls. ^ He also discusses the objections brought against the operation, and gives the following as indications for it. It is necessary in cases where the effusion does not yield to ordinary remedies, and where it increases; when the patient is too feeble to wait for any length of time the absorption of the fluid; when the opposite lung is attached with bronchitis or any other affection preventing its full and normal working, and when there is any reason to suppose a tendency to tuber- culosis. As regards the period at which the operation should be per- formed, jt is ordinarily the ninth or eleventh day of the affection • in general it may be delayed until symptoms of inflammation have snb- sided. An exception is to be made in cases of necessity, when it should be performed on the fourth day of the effusion. Bouchut (ib.,503) describes the different modes of operating incases ot pleuritic effusion, from the earliest times. He himself prefers Dieulafoy’s aspirator. Evans (‘ St. Thom, Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 69) reviews the literature of paracentesis thoracis, and gives tables of cases observed by diflerent by hmself He insists upon an early evacuation of the eftused fluid, and inclines to the view that the sudden death by no means_ uncommon in cases of pleuritic eflusion, is due to coagulation of blood m the pulmonary artery. 01 Various pap^s discussing the propriety of tapping in pleurisy and empyema by Mler Priestley, tofglas PowelCanf be loend in the first volume of the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.’ for i8,r The »f ttis subject are auffloient proof of the interest taken by Ereiich writers in paracentesis ^ cffSTon'en ttekKdf™^ of pleuritic imrformed The patient die3 ion, and the autopsy revealed a large “ abscess” in thp Ipff 1 ^i • i M' 1 T\/r^j les Epanchements dela Ple'vre ” ‘Epp flp the right extremities ^Thnr-in f 8REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 114 Some days later, after a rigor and persistently higli temperature, the efiusion returned, and another operation removed 2100 grammes of opalescent fluid containing a few flocculi. A drainage tube was kept in the wound after a third withdrawal of pus; the opening was enlarged and the cavity washed out with iodine and alcohol, the para- lysis of the right side gradually disappeared, but the patient died at length of exhaustion. At the autopsy the left pleural cavity formed an enormous purulent sac; the heart contained only recent clots ; the left corpus striatum was softened, and two branches of the middle cerebral artery were obliterated by a compact mass of the consistence and colour of wax, the blood-vessels being completely healthy. He looks upon this as an embolus detached from one of the cavities of the heart, and supports his theory by the fact that about the time at which the apoplectic flt occurred a gangrenous patch appeared on the right foot, due, probably, to the same cause. He remarks on the rarity of this case, and is able to And only two other similar ones. The first is recorded by Potain (‘ Bull, de la Soc. Anat.,’ 1861, 39)’ . this case, that of an elderly woman, who was attacked suddenly with hemiplegia during an acute attack of pleurisy, and died in twenty-four hours, the anterior cerebral artery was found obliterated, and the heart contained old clots. The second case was published by Robinson (‘ Army Med. Eep.’ for 1869). Here, in a soldier, ^t. 22, also suffering from pleuritic effusion, paralysis of the left side, occurring about two months before death, was connected with softening of the right corpus striatum. Eenault (‘ Union Med.,’ xii, 291) records the case of a man, let. 27, under the care of Besnier. The patient had effusion on the right side, and died suddenly in his bed. The autopsy showed a large fibrinous clot, completely filling the right auricle, extending into the ventricle and pulmonary artery. The cerebral arteries were perfectly healthy. Besnier, who had purposely deferred an operation, concludes that in ail cases in which there is considerable effusion, on the right side as well as the left, thoracentesis ought to be performed- as promptly as possible. Death was due in this case, he thinks, to general arrest ot the circulation caused by the large clots in the_ right heart. Hayden publishes CDubl. Quart. Journ.,’lii, 49) ^ record of four cases of diaphragmatic pleurisy, together with the particulars of mx cases already published by^Andral in his Clinique Medicale. He concludes that the affection is characterised by . j- I Sudden and severe pain in either hypochondrium, extending in the line of the costal cartilages, generally likewise down the corre- sponding side of the abdomen, occasionally upwards to the tip of the shoulder, and aggravated by movement of body, full breathmg, coug , *^^2.^S^allow and thoracic breathing, dorsal decubitus, and compa- rative freedom from pain in that state of rest. v i. j i / Absence of febrile action in mild cases uncomplicated by general nleuriHs, pneumonia, perihepatitis, or other form of acute inflamma- tion; and^in severe cases, whether complicated or not, symptoms of colkp^e^r^iai complete suspension of respiratory sound in the base ofPLEURISYj ETC. 115 the luug ou the affected side, and faint frofctement, or rustling sound, audible with respii’ation. 5. Inability to swallow ; nausea and vomiting of occasional but rare occurrence, and confined to the most aggravated cases. 6. Displacement of the diaphragm tipivards in recent cases attended with suppurative infiammation, but downwards when the antecedent iu- fiammation has proceeded to the formation of pus. 7. Eesistance of the symptoms to active treatment, and yielding to dry cupping, the use of belladonna and opium internally (! Eep.). All his four cases recovered. Wolff, “Empyema TraumaticuiV' ‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 219. Muller, “Ueber Em- pyema necessitatis pulsans ” (with case of a man, set. 24; pleurisy of left side, tapped and washed out daily; recovery), ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 37. Quincke, “Zur Bcbandlung der Pleuritis,” ih., 65. Parona, “Due Casi di Empiema vantaggio- samante curati con ampia apertura,” ‘Gaz. Med. Lomh.,’ 1872, 41. Lahoulhene, “ Plcuresie purulente suivie de Pyopneumothorax, guerie au moyen de la Thoracentese et du lavage de la Plevre ” (girl, set. 7; seen three years afterwards; the only abnor- mality to be found at that time was slight depression of the left thorax and slight prominence of theycapnla; the case is given at fearful length—fourteen pages), ‘Bull. Gen. de Th&ap.,’ Ixxxii, 97. Id., “Note sur I’Elevatiou de la Temperature centrale chez les Malades attciuts de Pleuresie aigue, et auxquels on vient de pratiquer la Thoracentese,” ‘Gaz. des Hdp.,’ 1872, 1178. Bouchut, “ De la Thora- centese par I’Aspirations pneumatiques dans la Pleuresie purulente,” ib., 529. Id., “La Jeune et la Vieille Thoracentese,” ib., 681. “Thoracentese,” ib., 337, and cf. ib., 445. _ “ Observations pour servir a la question du Traitenent de la Pl'eur&ie purulente,^ ib., 522. Chaillou, “Quelques Observations de Pleuresie traitees par le Thoraceiitese’_’--(i) girl, mt. 18, left side, recovery; (2) girl, ret. 22, left side, sudden death; (3) gu-1, set. 16, right side, recovery; (4) man, mt. 68, left side, death; (5) man,^ set. 30, left side, death; (6) boy, mt. right side, recoverv; (7) man set. 45, right side, recovery; (8) woman, mt. 36, double, death; (9) man, mt. 40’ recoveryno autopsies in any of the fatal cases; ib., 444. Jalabert, “Deux faits pour_servir a THistoire de la Pleuresie purulente et de TOperation de rEmpyeme par 1 Incision, lb., 473. Pernet, “ Epanchenient Pleuretique, Thoracentese, Mort” (iroman, set. 42, death twenty-four days later from syncope), ib., 340. Spirt. Empyeme, Thoracentese, Drainage, Amelioration” (man, mt. 27), ib 3'll Diijardm-Beaumetz, “Eedexions sur un cas d’Empyeme,” ib., 810. Roger “Docu- ments pour servir a I’Etude de PEmpyeme,” ib., 627. Salomon, “ Pleuresie purulente traitee par la riioraceutese et les Injections au Nitrate d’Argent,” ib., 667. Rinaldi Deux cas de Pleuresie purulente, Punction et Injection lodee, Guerison,” ib., 844! Pleuraux,” ib., 721. Behier, “Pleuresies a %anchemeuts modeles, Thora^ntese avec Trocarts capiUaires et Aspirations; Appareils divers” mV“Operation de I’Empyeme par une Methode mixte,” ib tXn ” T Effusion marked by very Foetid Expectora- A?",’, n ih 7. Axford, “ Thoracentesis with Admission of All (boy. mt. 4, full expansion of lung later), ib., 1872, i, 498. Liveing, “ Empyema Paracentesis, drainage-tube worn for three and a half years” (man mt 20^ iW^J’ KT,"' perfoming the Ope,ai of Dmuage’’Scet’ iSf" > Paracentesis and subsequent f ^871,11, 219. Chaplin, “A Case of Paracentesis Thoracis in uhich a laige opening ivas successfully employed ” (in a boy, mt 12 pleurisv left side, empyema, recovery), ib., ib., 428. Thompsofi, “ A Case of P;othora; ” (man mt 43, paracentesis, recovery), ib., 1872, i, 114. Williams (C. T.), “Case of Empyema lapped, great improvement from Drainage-tube ” (man mt 281 ib 78^2 411. Kamskill, f wo Cases of Pneumothorax treated by Aspiration ” ib 18'll ii ,59;. Thompson, ■ Clinical Lcctnre on a Case of Pnenmotta” (cm— in’con-’ nectmn „.th cavity, fihrons degeneration of Inng in n man, mt' jT”, ib°llEPORT OtJ PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 116 Ijiiffan, “ Observations illustrative of the Use of Dieulafoy’s Pneumatic Aspirator,*^ ‘ Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ liii, 202. Pitzinaurice, “Cases of Effusion into the Chest,” ib., lii, 388. Julkn (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 357) thinks that the indication in suffocative capillary bronchitis is obviously to get rid of the mucous material as speedily as possible, and restrain the hypersecretion of the membrane. Eor this he has very successfully employed the sulphate of zinc and tincture of sanguinaria. Of the former, he gives to a child, £et. 6 to 18 months, doses of one half to a grain, and from five to ten drops of the tincture every two or lour hours; but when called at a later period and the malady threatens suffocation, he gives as much as from three to thirty drops of the latter, at intervals of one half to two hours, regardless of vomiting. He quotes the case of a man whom he found in a state of collapse, and to whom he applied his treatment with success. Isaakson (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 466) has studied the changes in the vessels in emphysema. He finds them much smaller than normal, stretched instead of winding; several in places granular and cloudy, filled with thrombi and not allowing the coloured injection to pass. After the injection of silver solution, the normal appearance of endo- thelium was absent in the earliest stages; here the vessel-wall was finely granular, lined with white blood-corpuscles, which were the starting-points of coagulation and complete thrombosis of the canal. These portions underwent fatty changes and entirely disappeared. He considers this destruction of the vessels to be the primary stage of I^ancet,’ 1871, ii, 745) describes an instrument which he has used with the best results in emphysema, and which, by the_ simple action of a pump, withdrawing air at the end of each expiration, increases the abnormally lessened expiratory power in this aflection. _ HArtcl r‘-Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 301) records a case occurring in bronchitis and bnvphysenia. considers to bp. far from uncommon. De Savignac Gen. de Tlieraj.., _ . „117 BRONCHITIS—ASTHMA—WHOOPING-COUGH. inent of tho Syrup of Peter Lamouvoux), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 510. _ Local Bleedina in the Dilated Eight Ventricle of Chronic Bronchitis,” ‘ Hint. Med. Journ., 1872 i 128. Greenhow, “Lungs from a Case of Cured Phthisis, Death from Capillary Bronchitis, Cavities lined with False Membrane in both Lungs, Prolifera- tion of Interlobular Connective Tissue, and great thickening of the Pleura (man, ajt 20), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 47. Wilks, “ Bleeding in Emphysema and Bron- chitis ” (woman, £ct. 60, relief), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872,!, 88. Leyden, “ Tyrosin in Sputum_ (o-irl, with putrid bronchitis), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 239. Neureutter, “ Bronchiektasio mid hochgradiges Emphysem als Compensation bei oinem sieben Jahi' alten Knaben, ‘Oesterr. Jahrb. f. Paediatrik,’ 1872, 18. Bronchial Asthma. Leyden (‘Zur Kenntniss des Asthma Bronchiale,’ Eostock, 1871) describes a peculiar expectoration occurring in bronchial asthma. It is scanty, very tenacious, and transparent. It contains a mass of fila- ments and flakes, some very marked from their thickness and yellow colour. They are brought up from the flnest bronchi, and contain in their meshes granular mucus-corpuscles, and generally a large quantity of very beautiful and peculiar crystals, of an elongated octahedral form. The largest are visible under a power of 300 diameters, the smallest under one of 600, Crystals of the same kind have been described by Friedreich in croupous bronchitis, and they are probably identical with those found by E. Neumann in the medulla of the bones. In the blood of leuchaemic patients Leyden thinks that these crystals may act as mechanical or chemical irritants on the peripheral ends of the pneumogastric in the mucous membrane, and provoke reflex contraction of the muscles of the small bronchi. Weber, “Dag Aubree’sche Geheimmittel gegen Asthma Nervosum,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 217. Lessdorf, “Asthma Nocturnum Periodicum. Morphium Injection Palli- ativmittel; Comprimirte Luft Eadicalinittel,” ‘Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 15. Anstie, “ On the Pathological and Therapeutical Eelations of Asthma, Angina Pectoris, and Gastralgia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 550. Gaskoin, “On the Treatment of Asthma,” ib., 1872, i, 339. Thorowgood, “A few Eemarks on the Treatment of Asthma,” ‘Med. Press and Circ.,’ 1872, i, 27. Whoo])ing-cough. Stefi’en (‘Jahrb. f. Kiuderkr.,’ iv, 427) confirms the good results obtained by the employment of quinine in whooping-cough, as first pointed out by Binz, and verified by Breidenbach. In the majority of cases he found it work speedily and readily, failing only in a few. He employed pretty strong doses, half to one gramme in the twenty-four hours, in children from two to five years. He gives two cases in full. In a case of a child of three years, who could not be got to take the drug, he used injections for the purpose. In three days nine injections, containing altogether two grammes of quinine, were given, with allevia- tion of the symptoms. MaeCall (‘ Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ 1871, iii, 162) during the winter of tound ulceration of the frsenum linguae in iii out of 2^2 children attacked with whooping-cough, or in about 44 per cent. The aftection varied in degree from a mere abrasion to a deep fissure with a grey or yellowish surface, and often bleeding during or after aREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 118 paroxysm. lu 105 out of the iii it was situated in front of tlie fra3num; in four out of the other six its varying position was accom- panied by some abnormal disposition of certain teeth. He considers it to be due to the rubbing of the tongue against the latter in the act of coughing. He looks upon it as a valuable diagnostic sign in cases in which the cough is not heard at the time when the patient is seen. Prestwick, “Cod-liver Oil in Wkooping-cougk,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 812. Murray, “Extract of Nettles in Wkooping-cougk,” ib., 1872, i, 539. Grantham, “Effects of tko V.aponr of Ammonia in the Treatment of Wkooping-cougk,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ iS/j, ii, 323. Pnemionia. Eevillout (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 273) discusses the question whether pneumonia is a disease having a defined course and type, and whether it be true, as Jaccoud affirms (‘ Traite de Pathologie Interne,’ Paris, 1871, ii) that it cannot be abridged a single hour. He looks at the affection from the point of view of other diseases, e. g. albu- minuria, syphilis, &c., and concludes that the holding of any such view transforms the physician into a fatalist (“ transforme en un Musuhnan dans le sens Arabe et precis de cette expression ”). Parquharson (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 988) brings forward ten cases in support of his view as opposed to those of Trousseau, Hughes Bennett, and Sturges, which convince him of a special lowering of vitality which almost invariably attends extension of infiammation to the apex of either lung. In some remarks on the treatment of pneumonia he gives a single case in which he thinks aconite cured an extremely doubtful {Sep.) case of the affection. Eitzmaurice (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ lii, 386) concludes from his own observation that pneumonia in children and infants, and in some cases in which chest symptoms are absent, is often mistaken for other ailments, as dentition, worms, &c. He considers the law as laid down by West that if the posterior part of the chest is free from a consider- able amount of crepitation the infant is not suffering from any serious lune disease, to be inaccurate. His own experience leads him to believe that simple hepatized lung is oftener found in other parts of the chest. “ Bv keeping the ear perseveringly to the chest, when exhaustion takes nlai (after crying, &c.), the hurried breathing facilitates the discovery of tubular breathing, the first sign of pneumonia generally observed in the child.” Blistering is, in his opinion, the sheet-anchor in this disease; and dressing with mercurial ointment he finds, excludes the air more effectually than simple dressing. He gives four cases to niustrate his position. The fourth case, which he seems to have looked upon as croiip, he “cured” by giving large doses of decoction of "TtnrCes (“The Etiology of Pneumonia,” ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ V 13 O writL on the general infiuence of the weather upon the so-called inflammatory diseases of the chest. Taking the average of ten years « Croupy cougk and laryngeal stridor are ^oi-e frequently tkan is generally ad- mitted tkc to-erunners of simple brouclutis in ckildieu. A. B. .119 PNEUMONIA. /i8r'7 66) tlio higliest number of deaths in England from bronchitis occurs in the middle of Jannarj, while for pneumonia it is neaxdy two months earlier, e. at the end of November. As regards the influence of temperature, it would seem that cold does not necessarily afiect the pneumonia rate, but always and markedly the bronchitis rate, lor instance, a low temperature towards the end of October, and again in the middle of November, 1869, is followed by a bronchitis rate greatly in excess of the average, while pneumonia, though not unaffected by the change, is only slightly so, and remains to the end of the month much under its average. Then, with excessive cold and_ a north wind, it rises considerably. Again, extreme cold in the middle of January, 1867, is followed by a large increase in the rate of bronchitis, while pneumonia actually decreases in the same time, and to the end of the month remains below its ten years’ average, the direction pf the wind being north-west and south-west. His data show that rain increases the rate of bronchitis out of all proportion with that of pneumonia. During the rains of the monsoon in India the latter disease shows a remarkable decrease. Wind is favourable to pneumonia, chiefly, if not altogether, when its direction is northerly or easterly. The writer shows that these facts are generally confirmed by a comparison of years of high and low mortality. Popoff (“ Experimente liber Lungenentziindung,” ‘Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1871, 553) injected ammonia into the lungs of dogs narcotised by morphia, in order to set up inflammation. No symptoms of pyrexia occurred under these conditions, the morphia diminishing the tempera- ture (Strieker and Albert). The blood pressure was increased in all cases immediately after the injection. In dogs which had not been narcotised there was an increase of temperature, lasting for twenty- four hours. Lebert (“Heber die Yeranderungen der Kdrperwarme in der primitiven acuten Pneumonie,” ‘Deut. Archiv,’ ix, i) after a full and exhanstive paper on the temperature of pneumonia, gives the following among other conclusions:—The affection may occur with slight and even no pyrexia; there are no so-called critical days ; double pneu- monia, as well as being more dangerous to the patient, has a longer course; lobar pneumonia, if accompanied with diffuse bronchitis (by no means to be confounded with broncho-pneumonia), has slow conva- lescence ; a pneumonia may, much more frequently than is generally supposed, have a protracted, subacute, or even chronic course, without any necessary result in true tuberculosis, though it may frequently tend to shrinking of the lung and bronchiectasis. In a sixth of the" cases observed by the writer no crisis occurred. Hayem (‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 399) records the following case in which death occurred suddenly during convalescence from pneumonia. The patient was a woman, ^t. 49, who had passed safely through a simple inflammation of the right lung, and at her own request had been allowed to leave her bed. During the day she went to the closet, but ^ere cried for help, and was found on the floor in a state of syncope. Replaced on the bed, she was very pale, her extremities cold, her re- spiration anxious, but she was still conscious. She had had no oedema120 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. of tlie legs, but after death varicose veins, which had been overlooked during life, were discovered on them. In addition to the signs of the lobar pneumonia in course of resolution, and. some signs of old lung- mischief, there were found seated upon and extending from the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary artery into its difterent branches a number of clots, non-adherent to the walls of the vessels, and showing impressions of venous valves. Clots of the same kind were found in the varicose veins, especially on the right side ; the walls of these vessels were per- fectly healthy, excepting the usual changes found in such veins. Except when they were entangled, among the valves, &c., the clots lay quite free. The emboli in the pulmonary artery were evidently por- tions of these clots, formed without any phlebitis during the pneumonia, and detached by the muscular exertion when the patient got up from bed. Hayem refers to a case of the same kind which had occurred in the practice of Tardieu in 1868. But in the latter the varicose veins Avere inflamed, and were felt as hard cords, and easily explained the coagulation which led to the same fatal result. Moxon (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 38) describes a peculiar form of pneumonia in a syphilitic subject who was killed by fracture of the cervical spine. The lower half of the left pleura was much thickened and coated with recent firm lymph; the lung corresponding to this portion showed a state of grey fibroid change, with diminution of bulk and hardening and darkening of the tissue. This state afiected nearly all the lower lobe, and spread with an irregular border into the upper. The right lung showed large patches of thickening on its lower half. The vocal cords were thick. The liver was enlarged, lardaceous, and contained cicatricial patches like those on tlie lung. The spleen, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules were also lardaceous. No symptoms of chest disease seem to have occurred during life, nor is any micro- scopical examination of the new tissues mentioned as being made after death, but Moxon concludes, from the presence of marked general syphilis, that the pleurisy and pneumonia were syphilitic. Green (“ Interstitial Pneumonia,” ib., xxiii, 39) records the appear- ance found in the lungs of a man let. 60, who suffered from chronic bronchitis and died of an acute attack of that affection. The right lung was adherent, its pleura thickened and soft. There was no consohda- tion or caseation, but the lower lobe looked like a piece of sponge, and was made up almost entirely of dilated bronchi and fibrous tissue, per- fectly lax and soft. The left lung was, like the upper lobe of the right, pigmented and tougher than natural. The kidneys were slightly indurated. The microscope showed a growth of fibro-nucleated tissue round the bronchi and blood-vessels, affecting also the alveoli. Brouardel (see ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 493) draws attention to the very rapid formation of interstitial pneumonia and of false membranes, which reduce the size of the lung and form an obstacle to its expansibility, and consequently the harmlessness of early, and the danger of late, paracentesis. Strohl (‘Union Med.,’ xi, 134) has been using for some years the neutral acetate of lead in cases of pneumonia. He was casually led to do so in 1841 in treating a woman who, in spite of bloodletting,121 PNEUMONIA—IIYPERTKOPIIY. antimony, and blisters, had a return of the affection on going back to work too soon, and in whom a recurrence to the same treatment was impossible. Eapid recovery followed the exhibition of the lead in doses of five, increased to fifteen centigrammes, in the day. He next applied it to cases of the disease in old and feeble people, in whom the heroic treatment above mentioned had had no effect or could not be resorted to; and lastly, he employed the drug in cases of pneumonia occurring in all ages. He publishes in full 14 out of 33 cases. The mortality was over 10 per cent. The average period of the pneumonia, dating from the commencement to the cessation of the physical signs, as revealed by the stethoscope, was io'23 days. Papillaud, “Du Traitemenfc de la Pneumoiiie,” ‘Gaz. MM.,’ 1871, 312. Hosier, “ Ueber biliose Pneumonie und dadurcb complicirfcen Typhus recurrens,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ X, 266. Alt, “Ueber die Behandlung des crouposen Pneumonie mit Veratrin” (with curves of pulse and temperature of three cases, besides one in the text; twenty-one cases given altogether), ib., ix, 129. Weigand, “Zur Pneumoniefi-age,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 6. Liebig, “ Behandlung der chronischen catarrhalischen Pneumonie mit erhohtem Luftdruck,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 20. Moxon, “Acute Interstitial Pneumonia,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 779. Williams, “Pneumonia,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, i, 121. Bead, “ Oxygen in Diseases of the Lungs” (sixteen cases of phthisis, acute and chronic pneumonia, and chronic bronchitis, in which the gas was used regularly, and for a sufficient time to warrant the drawing of a conclusion as to its effects), ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 382. Brown Induration and Hypertrophy. Delafield (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 95) records his observations on “ pigment induration” of He lungs, based on twenty autopsies, in which he found this change in connection with disease of the heart. The lungs are small, their lobes adherent to one another and in part to the costal wall; the pulmonary pleura thick and opaque. On section the lung-tissue is resistent, very dry, containing scarcely any am, blood, or serum. The microscope revealed (i) new pigment (2) hypertrophy of the walls of the air-cells, (3) dilatation of the capil- laries,_ and (4) a marked increase of cellular elements within the alveoli. An analysis of the cases shows that mitral stenosis is almost always accompanied by pigment induration of the lungs; that simple mitral insufficiency causes it in nearly half the cases; and that aortic disease causes it in one fourth. A full analysis, with tables, is given of the post-mortem appearances in the other viscera, &c. Eindfleisch (‘ Centralblatt,’ 1872, 65) writes on the muscular tissue ° 11 j bronchi, which becomes much hypertrophied in the so- called brown induration of the lungs. He describes a peculiar and distinct layer of circular muscular fibres as surrounding the smallest bronchi, forming a kind of sphincter where they open out into the infundibula; these circular fibres send loops into the openings of the latter, which are also surrounded by smooth muscular fibres. These fibres may be easily made out in the normal lung by those who have observed them in the hypertrophied condition. Hyperfopbie und epiMblen HepatUu.IIEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. m Gangrene and Abscess. Senator (“ Ein Eall von Lungenabcess mit allgemeinein Haut- empbyseni,” ‘ Vircb. Arcb.,’ liv, 278) publishes a case of abscess of the lung supervening on pneumonia, breaking through into the subcuta- neous tissue and causing general subcutaneous emphysema. The latter came on suddenly and with great rapidity, and was due, according to the patient, to violent crying out. The autopsy revealed a cavity in the posterior part of the left lower lobe, about the size of a fist, and filled with purulent fluid. The pleura and layer of muscles which limited it were ecchymosed, rotten, and boggy. A sound could easily be passed from it in several directions into the pleural cavity. Salkowski (‘Berl. Elin. “Woch.,’ 1871, 169) writes on this rare and little known afi'ection, and gives a case, occurring in Leyden’s clinique, in which abscess followed an attack of croupous pneumonia of the right lower lobe. The patient was an ill-conditioned man of 49, who had been a drinker. The dulness cleared up with all symp- toms of a crisis on the eighth day; next evening a fresh attack of pyrexia occurred, with tearing cough and abundant, thick, puriform, sputa. On the fifteenth day shreds of lung-tissue were found in it under the microscope, which gradually increased in amount and in size, reaching the length of an inch. A month after the first commence- ment of the affection these shreds were found for the last time; the sputa altered in character, became muco-purulent, and lastly dis- appeared. About the same time the thorax sank in, the general condition of the patient improved, and on the fiftieth day he left able to work. The diagnosis of lung abscess is based especially on the sputa; the temporary presence of shreds of lung-tissue, the absence of signs of decomposition or fungus spores, prevent its being confounded with gangrene; the accompanying symptoms leave out of question the possibility of phthisis, in which affection, also, the elastic fibres may be found. The treatment consisted of inhalation and exhibition of car- bolic acid, quinine, cod-liver oil, and wine. Waring-Curran (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 669) gives a somewhat doubtful case of abscess of the right lung bursting through the diaphragm and umbilicus. The boy is still alive; in February, 1871, he had typhoid fever, followed by pneumonia; in September, 1872, a swelling ap- peared under the edge of the ensiform cartilage, which, four days later, “ had moved, and was lower down, to the right, in the sheath of the rectus muscle.” Next day this swelling burst and gave exit to an enormous quantity of offensive pus. Leared (ib., 1871, ii, 47) records the occurrence of gangrene of the right lung in an intemperate man, set. 49, who had fallen from a height of eif^ht feet into the water, and had been submerged twice. He quotes two cases as occurring after immersion in water out of four iases of gangrene of the lung recorded by Stokes, and a case mentioned bv Lankester in which gangrene followed the repeated dashing of cold water over a woman poisoned by opium. Death occurred in Leared s case thirty-five days after_ immersion. The temperatures taken were remarkable for sudden oscillations.123 GANGRENE—CANCER—PARASITES^ ETC. Browne ('Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,!, 141) publishes a case of gangrene of the left lung in a religious and melancholic lunatic. The first°symptom seems to have been haemoptysis after a_ severe attack of pleuro-pnenmonia. The writer has noticed this lesion in 3 out of about 600 lunatics whose bodies he examined post mortem. In all the previous mental derangement was melancholia. His experience does not agree with that of Cruveilhier, who directed attention to the frequency of gangrene in epileptic patients, nor with that of Trous- seau, who intimates that amongst the insane it is sometimes due to inanition. Burman (ib., 195) was moved by Browne’s paper to examine the records of such cases in the Devon County Lunatic Asylum from 1845 to 1869. He finds that gangrene of the lung was the cause of death in 14 out of 1325 deaths during that period; 11 were males and 3 females; in 4 cases both lungs were afiected. The form of mental disease was in 4 cases mania, in 3 dementia, in 3 imbecility, in 2 general paralysis, and in 2 melancholia. In 3 cases only is it recorded that there was refusal of food, and only i of the patients was an epileptic. Anthracosis; Cancer ; Parasites, ^c. Mayet (‘Eev. Med.,’ 1872, i, 69) records the following;—A miner, a)t. 48, had had a morning cough for two years, and had been unable to work the last six months ; the signs on auscultation, &c., revealed the presence of emphysema, chronic pneumonia, and probable coal-infiltra- tion. The autopsy showed the lungs immensely enlarged, the left having seven lobes and the right five. They were strongly adherent posteriorly, largely emphysematous, intensely black, and very hard and resisting. There were no cavities in them anywhere. On section the tissue was tough (sclerosed) and infiltrated with particles of coal. The bronchial glands were enlarged and in parts infiltrated with the same. Besides slight increase in the volume of the heart there was no abnormal signs in the other organs. In a discussion which followed the reading of his paper (see ‘Lyon. Med.,’ viii, 796) he promulgates the opinion that the coal-particles were introduced, not through the respiratory, but the digestive organs (!) Eoss (‘ Dubl. Quart. Jouru.,’ li, 93) writes on the diseases of the lungs affecting those who work in dusty atmospheres. He gives five cases, with four autopsies. Merkel (“Zur Casuistik des Staubinhalations-krankheiten,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 207, and ib., ix, 66) gives a series of observations of lung affection caused by the inhalation of various kinds of dust. The first case is that of a man whose occupation consisted in rubbin®' pieces_ of iron with sandstone. His symptoms were those of phthisis. ^ The autopsy showed a cavity in the anterior lower third of the right upper lobe, communicating with a bronchus ; the lung- tissue of a greyish-black colour, indurated and shrunken. The colour was_ due to the presence of pretty large particles of oxidized iron, especially round the bronchi. The diagnosis during life rested on the occurrence in the sputa of the same particles, sometimesEEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 134 free, sometimes enclosed in cells. In the second case the patient was working in an ultramarine manufactory, and had presented a few weeks before death the symptoms of typhoid. After death the lungs were found filled with foreign particles, but there were no signs of enteric fever. The third case was one of siderosis. The patient, a man of 29, had worked for six years in a gold-leaf manufactory, and had inhaled the fine particles of oxide of iron. Tor the last seven years he had ceased to work at his trade. The post-mortem examina- tion showed, in addition to a cavity about the size of a fist on the left side, shrinking, induration, and colouration of the lung-tissue by the particles of iron. The fourth case was one of anthracosis; here were found, besides the pigmented condition of the lungs, cheesy pneumonia and general tuberculosis (lungs, kidneys, and intestines). The case comes under Traube’s phthisis melanotica. In the fifth case, in which no symptoms had been observed during life, the subject, a workman in an ultra- marine manufactory, presented cavities of various sizes, filled with a bluish-black fluid mass, made up of coal-particles, cholestearine, fat- crystals, &c. Risdon Bennett (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 76) records the occurrence of secondary scirrhous or fibro-cancerous infiltration of the connec- tive tissue of the lung in a woman, set. 42, six months after the removal of the left mamma for the same affection. _ She suffered with symptoms of acute bronchitis. A microscopic examination of the sputa revealed nothing special; and she died as if from syncope. Arnott (ib., 231) gives a case of epithelioma of the heart and lungs in a woman, set. 30, secondary to epithelioma of the clitoris. Sparks (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 13) publishes a short note of the post- mortem appearances found in a case of primary cancer of the lungs. The patient, a woman, aet. 22, was supposed to have died of pleuro- pneumonia. There were nodules of encephaloid cancer in some false membrane on the right pleura and in the lower lobe of the right lung. The lower two thirds of the left lung consisted of a mass of ence- phaloid nodules, one of which was as large as a man’s fist. The growth extended towards the middle of the body, pushing the heart far over to the right It projected also into the left pleura, and had infiltrated tlie diaphragm, so that nodules projected on its under surface. No cancer was found elsewhere. , n ■ Waters (ib., 26) found the right lung the seat of scirrhous cancer in a man. He was said to have been quite well up to about twelve weeks before death. He was then seized with pain in the right side of the chest and dyspnoea, attended with cough and expectoration ot white frothy sputa. Two weeks later his head, neck, and upper extre- mities became oedematous. The mediastinal glands were greatly en- larged and scirrhous throughout. PI, J 4.-J Lebert (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 23), gives three cases of hydatid cvsts occurring in the lungs. The first case is that of a man, set. 40, whose earliest Symptoms, in the autumn of 1869, wer e those of tuber- culosis. Half a year later, during an attack of varioloid, there was found some consolidation of the upper lobe of the left lung. In May, J870 he spat up hydatid cysts, and again in October, since which time125 CA^CilR—PHTHISIC. he got better aud was still alive when Lebert wrote. In the second case, a girl of 23 presented a fluctuating tumour in the left hypochon- drium, which was supposed to be hydatid of the spleen. In the third case pneumothorax occurred from perforation of the echinococcus cysts through the pleura. During life this case had also been looked on as tuberculosis. Lebert makes some remarks on the diagnosis and etiology of the rare occurrence of primary echinococcus of the lung. The seat is generally in the lung-tissue. In the case recorded by Zuber (*Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 73°)j ^ man, tet. 22, one of two hydatid cysts burst into the pleura and. so caused death. In this case also the symptoms during life were those of tuberculosis. Bird (quoted from the ‘Australian MedicalJournal,’ ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 23) has published a paper on the disease, which seems to be more frequent in Australia. The most common site of hydatids of the lung is the base of the organ. There may be no symptoms, and when they do occur they are those of mechanical pressure or irritation. According to the author, the rarity of visible venous engorgement distinguishes the case from one of intrathoracic cancer. One tapping, followed by bromide or iodide of potassium and kamela, are generally successful. (Ho light is thrown by any of these writers upon the origin of the hydatids in primary echinococcus-cysts in the lung; they seem to con- tent themselves with the fact that it is most common in places where the drinking water is polluted by the excreta of dogs containing the ova of teenia.—Bep.) Phthisis. Condie (“ On Spurious Consumption,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 389) distinguishes a tubercular and a non-tubercular phthisis, which may be very easily confounded. In both there is the same progressive and extreme emaciation, cough, expectoration, debility, hectic fever and night sweats. Their physical signs are also alike. But as regards prognosis it is essential to recognise the difierence, and to do so atten- tion must be paid to the constitution, predisposition, hereditary tenden- cies, and sputa of the patient. In tubercular disease of the lungs the sputa, in the early stages at least, consist most commonly of a white frothy mucus ; later they become consistent and glairy, and of a darker hue. They are intermixed with small whitish particles of a cheese-like appearance—broken-down tubercular matter—and not unfrequently with distinct masses of a well-defined puriform character. The non- tubercular afi'ection occurs somewhat suddenly, in most instances after exposure, with acute bronchitis or pneumonia. Moxon ( Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 66) finding in the same lung patches with iron grey centre, but surrounded by zones which difiered in character, believes that the case proves the identity of “ grey and yellow tubercles. He assumes that these patches grow from within outwards; that the central is the older portion, the peripheral the most recenh The outer zone of one patch presented grey (miliary) tubercles; that of the other ‘‘ larger, opaque, yellowish-white tubercles of the most scrofulo-pneumonic type.” Both kinds “ were seated in the proper136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. pulmonary tissue, and not especially about the ends of the bronchial tubes.” Fox (E. L.) (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 463) reviewsNiemeyer’s assertions, and opposes them generally. He holds that chronic pneu- monia, when it is found associated with miliary tubercle, is not connected with it as cause and effect, and that the tubercle is only developed in cases in which the patient has previously had the tuberculous taint of constitution. Further, he insists that it is not unusual to find general (miliary ?) tuberculosis without pre-existing cheesy degene- ration. Sommerbrodt (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, i6j) has made experiments on dogs to test Niemeyer’s theory as to the effect of haemoptysis in causing phthisis. The blood drawn from the carotid artery of the animals was injected through a wound in their trachea, and they were killed at periods varying from one hour to twelve days after the operation. Some of the experiments and the post-mortem results, as well as the microscopical appearances found in the lungs, are given in full. Both catarrhal and croupous pneumonia followed the injection. At the end of a very long paper the writer comes to the conclusion that his experi- ments show that the presence of blood in the kings—haemoptysis—can provoke a catarrhal pneumonia in subjects predisposed to phthisis. In a note (p. 195) he quotes a case of Waldeyer’s, who found in the lungs of a suicide who had divided his trachea, and died three or four days later, the characteristic cells of catarrhal pneumonia in certain portions of the tissue to which the blood had found its way. Korner (“ Beitrag zur Lehre von der Tuberculose,” ‘Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 189) disagrees with Hiemeyer’s views on cheesy pneumonia and tuberculosis. He thinks the distinction between the two is simply artificial, and cannot be supported by anatomical facts, inasmuch as the two results are almost always found together. In addition to this Hiemeyer is unable to say why cheesy pneumonia leads to the develop- ment of tubercle in one case and not in another. Korner adopts Rokitansky’s views as to the anatomical relations of tubercle, and puts forward the following theory as to its origin;—The normal elasticity of the lung can be preserved only by full respiration, and this needs well- developed inspiratory muscles. The latter are ill-developed in patients of the so-called phthisical habit, and here the deformity is secondary. But, on the other hand, it may be acquired, from anaemia, &e. _ In either case the apex of the lung obtains less than normal respira- tory power, and becomes relaxed. Korner concludes that this collapse leads to abnormal pulsation in the vessels, to changes in the circulation in the vasa vasorum, and thus to altered nutrition of the lung-tissue. Kennedy (‘Dubl. Quart. Journ.,’ li, 106) opposes Niemeyer’s views on phthisis, supporting the old theory of the pathology and course of the disease. (It is, perhaps, well that the author admits at the very commencement of his paper that his “ remarks have been put together somewhat hurriedly.”—_ _ According to the ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.’ (xlvii, 545) Skoda also criticises the doctrines of Niemeyer. He seems to think that observations, both127 PHTUiSIS. ou the living and the dead, compel the admission that, whether before or during tuberculosis, haemorrhage is bronchial and not intra-alveolar. All he can admit is that haemorrhage may produce serious consequences in a tissue already diseased; for instance, on the internal surface of a cavity, where a little blood may remain and contribute to irritation. He argues that blood itself is not an irritant to the tissues, as is proved by the ease with which blood is absorbed in bruises. Chronic pneumonic exudation is not to be confounded with tuberculosis.* Hmmoptjsis is a symptom of the latter, or of the morbid state which predisposes to it. Duhrssen (“ Ueber intermittirende Eieber bei chronischer Lungen- schwiudsucht und chronischer Lungentuberculose,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 613) holds that a regular intermittent pyrexia occurring in the course of a chronic phthisis, and in the absence of any other cause, denotes absorption of cheesy products. The occurrence of such pyrexia in a doubtful affection of the lungs probably points to a tuberculous origin, and means directed against the fever have but little effect. . Paul (“ Conferences cliniques sur la Phthisie,” ^Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 517 ; 1872, 282) does not add much to the literature of phthisis. Ide refers to a peculiar discolouration of the skin, similar to that found in Addison’s disease, which commences on the forehead, and spreads from the eyebrows down to the mouth, and might be confounded with the affection mentioned, or with the chloasma occurring in connection with uterine disturbance. C. T. Williams (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 95) gives some account of a thousand cases of phthisis seen in private practice, with the object of deducing the amount of influence which the conditions of age, sex, family, predisposition, and origin, exercised on the duration of the malady. The patients belonged chiefly to the upper and middle classes, and each case was at least one year under observation; 625 were males, and 375 females; 41 per cent, of all the cases were attacked between twenty and thirty, 2^ per cent, between thirty and forty, 19^ per cent, under twenty, and 13I; above forty. The average was greater among females than males. Family predisposition was traced in 48 per cent, of the patients ; nearly half of the cases had only brothers and sisters affected. The commonest origin in 315 cases were pleuro-pneumonia (143) and bronchitis (118). Hmmoptysis was present in 57 per cent, of the patients; 198 died after an average duration of life of seven years, eight months, and three quarters; of the 802 living, 72 per cent, have regained their health sufficiently to follow their occupations, 28 were still iuyalids. The author then discusses the views of different writers, and his own statistics ou the conditions which influence the duration of the disease. The same writer (ib., Iv, 233) enlarges on three grounds for form- ing an opinion as to the selection of proper climates for consumptive patients :~i- The alleged immunity of some localities from the disease. 2. The existence in certain localities of atmospheric conditions the reverse of those under which the disease was contracted. 3. The ascer- * It is simply tiresome to read papers by many writers—of what nation it matters not no two of whom either agree about or define their meaniuar of “ tuberculosis.” —A, B. S. °llEPOM ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. taiued^ results of certain climates on similar cases. He then gives £t statistical account of of the above looo cases who at one time or another were submitted to the influence of warm climates for periods varying from one to eleven years. He gives a short description of the climates of difierent places, and concludes that, comparing the deaths of those who wintered abroad and those who did not do so, there was an extension of four months and a half in favour of the climate cases. Condie (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 119) discusses the question of the contagiousness of phthisis, and gives three cases which seem to give more or less probability to this theory. The third case is that of a previously healthy man who died of consumption nineteen months after his wife had succumbed to the same disease. To the question whether it be proper for consumptives to marry, C. J. B. 'Williams (‘Brit.Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 164), E. Barnes (ib., 191), and H. Bennet (ib., 295), agree with "Virchow in giving a nega- tive answer. Tait (‘Dubl. Journ.,’ lii, 317) wishes to substitute the term for the muscular irritability often seen in patients suffering from chest affections, and first noticed by Graves and Stokes. These writers described the appearance, after percussion, of a number of little tumours exactly corresponding to the number and situation of the points of the fingers where they had struck the integuments of the chest. They continued visible for a few moments and then subsided, but could be again made to appear by repeating the percussion. Their appearance seemed to be due to the contraction of muscular fibres, in consequence of the irritation of the blow (factitious urticaria of Gull, &c.—JRejp.). Tait gives short notes of 117 cases in which he noticed the phenomenon, and a table of 90 other observations in which it was present. Only 26 of his 117 cases died, and he finds one comfort in the fact “that the majority of practitioners have no very accurate notion of how many cases of consumption there are which recover—get well as absolutely as do cases of measles.” (The writer gives no physical signs in the majority of the cases, and hints only slightly at the post-mortem appear- ances in two cases (53 and 55). The whole paper is most careless and dogmatic.—Bep.) Ludwig, “ Im Oberengadin entstandene todtlich verlaufene Phthisis,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 494. Hirsch, “ Beitrag zur Casuistik der galoppirenden Luugenschwiud- sucht (kasige Pneumonie),” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 187^, J98. Pilz, “Ein Fall vou chronischer Pneumonie mit Gehirntuberculose und Ektasie der Speiserohre,” ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 433. Van der Corput, “ Nouveau mode de Traitement de la Phthisie au moyen de i’huile de Foie de Morue saponlfiee par la Cbaux,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ 80, 205. Perroud, “ De quelques Phenomenes uerveux survenant dans lo cours de la Phthisie Pulmonaire,” ‘ Lyon Med.,’ ix, 6. Mayet, “ Inflammation des Follicules clos de I’lntestin dans la Phthisie,’ ib., 33. Boudant, “ De la Phthisie aux eaux de Mont-Dore,” ib., vii, 439. Tyson, “ Cirrhosis and complete Atrophy of the Left Lung, Cheesy Deposit with Miliary Tubercle throughout the Eight Lung” (man, mt. 26), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 163. Id., (i) “Phthisis, Cavity at Apex k each Lung, disseminated Miliary Tubercle and Cheesy Deposit” (boy, ost. 19); (2) “Phthisis, Cavities, Cheesy Deposit only” (girl, ast. 25), ib., 429. Hutchinson, “Phthisis diagnosticated by aid of the Microscopic E.xamination of the Sputa” (boy, set. 19, with autopsy), ib., 153. Condie, “Tubercular Pneumonia,” ib., 365- “ Hconioptysis iu Coiisumptive Patients/^ ib., Ixiii, 97* Hectic Fevei, ib.,PHTHISIS CAHDIAC MHllMUllSj ETC. 129 ib., 365. Simons, “Climate and its relations to the Production, Progress, Ameliora- tion, and Cure of Consumption,’’ ib., ib., 82. Bennet (J. H.), “ On the Treatment of Pulmonary Consumption by Hygiene, Climate, and Medicine, in its connection with Modern Doctrines,’’ London, 1871. Moxon, “On the Varieties of Tubercle, and the relation of Tubercle to Inflammation,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 64. Hartsen, “ Two well-known Symptoms of Phthisis) Eemarks on their Explanation,” ib., ii, 586. Allbutt, “Phthisis as a Neurosis,” ib., ib., 613. Bussell, “Acute Pulmonary Con- sumption,” ib., ib., 526. Williams (T.), “ Case of Contractile Phthisis causing remarkable Displacement of Organs,” ib., ib., 732. Ogle, “ The Action of Sulphate of Quinine upon the Temperature in Pulmonary Phthisis ” (no proportionate modifi- cations of respiration, pulse or heart beat, accompanied the fluctuations), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 9. Piiilipson, “ Eeport of a Case of Phthisis Pulmonalis, accompanied by Ulceration of the Larynx and Plastic Exudation into the Trachea and Bronchi ” (man, aet. 30), ib., i, 855. Bradbury, “Notes of a Case of Phthisis ab Hsemoptoe (?), with Eemarks,” ib., 1871, ii, 602. Broster, “On the Treatment of Phthisis Pulino- nalis by Glycerine and Indian Hemp,” ib., i, 47. Peacock, “ Clinical Lecture on Hmmoptysis,” ib., ii, 875. Bradbury, “Case of a rare form of Pulmonary Hemor- rhage, with brief Eemarks,” ‘Brit. Med. Jonrn.,’ 1871, i, 35. Id., “On the Prognostic Value of Hemoptysis,” ib., ii, 259. Waters, “ Clinical Eemarks on the Treatment of Hemoptysis,” ib., i, 247. Jamieson, “ Subcutaneous Injection of Ergo- tine in Hemoptysis, ib., 587.” Eames, “ Hemoptysis in advanced Phthisis,” ib., i, 433. Cotton, “Notes on Consumption,” ib., i, 192. Law, “Lungs and Larynx of a man, et. 44, wbo died with Phthisis Laryugea,” ib., 342. Green, “ Aneurism of a Branch of the Pulmonary Artery in a Phthisical Lung,” ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 37. Powell, “ Some Cases illustrating the Pathology of Fatal Hemoptysis in advanced Phthisis,” ib., 41. Squire, “ Part of the Upper Lobe of Left Lung, where two years ago signs of Tuberculosis had been arrested by Quinine; also Enlarged Kidneys and Ulcerated Ileum, with large Mesenteric Glands from the same child,” ib., xxiii, 35. Greenhow, ‘‘ Lungs from a Case of Cured Phthisis; Death from Capillary Bronchitis; Cavities lined with False Membrane in both Lungs, Proliferation of Interlobular Connective Tissue and great Thickening of the Pleura,” ib., ib., 49. Gueneau de Mussy, “ Observations de Phtbisie latente,” ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 296. Perroud, “ Influence de laVariole sur la Phthisielatente,” ‘ Lyon Med.,’viii, 371. (And see under “Climate.”) D.—Diseases of the CircwlaLory System. Origin of Cardiac Jilarmurs, ^c. Jacobson (“ TJeber Herzgerausche,” ‘Berl. Klin. ‘Wocli.,’ 1871, 588) remarks that even experienced auscultators find a difficulty in ascer- taining the precise coincidence of a mnrmur with a certain period of the heart s action. The usual attention to the pulsation of the carotid, or to ^ the heart’s impulse, is hardly precise enough in the absence of a simultaneous proof obtained by hearing and feeling. To remedy this defect he has invented an instrument, through which the movements of the artery are transmitted by a lever to an electro-mao-- netic clockwork. The motion of the latter gives an audible sign^, which may thus be compared with the normal or abnormal sounds of the heart. The use of this instrument, is said to be as easy as that of the ordinary sphygmograph. Giese (“ Versuche fiber die Entstehung der Herztbne,” ‘Deut. 1871, 393) has repeated and confirms the experiments of Bayer on the mode of origin of the first sound of the heart. He made use of fresh calves hearts, in which he removed the left anricle so as to expose the mitral valve, and also cut away the aortic valves. Into the 9130 EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. aorta he introduced a tube ten feet long, with a stopcock. On opening the latter water poured into the ventricle and closed the mitral valves. The stopcock was so constructed (see the original paper) that after the valve had closed it opened again of itself. Auscultation was made with a stethoscope dipped in the water, but not resting immediately on the heart. In this way a weak and dull sound was heard on the closure of the valve, beginning, but not ending, sharply, and in no way whatever like the first sound heard in the living body. In insufficiency of the valve the sound was not heard. In another series of experiments on the semilunar valves a clear clapping sound was obtained, exactly like that of the second sound of the living heart. The conclusion he draws is, that the closure of the mitral valves (during life) does appear to produce a sound, hut that this sound is not that of the full first sound of the heart, and that the coming together of the valve plays only a secondary part in the production of the real first sound. ^ Poore (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 118) intensifies the cardiac sounds by placing the patient on his back on a wooden bench, applying the end of a stick between the third costal cartilages, and balancing the sounding- box of a guitar, with its aperture towards the thorax of the patient on the other end of the stick. Hyde Salter (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 151) calls attention to the existence of auricular pericardial friction, and gives four cases, in three of which, a man, jet. 21, and two women of middle age, a friction-sound was audible at the inner extremity of the third right intercostal space; in a fourth case, in a woman set. 29, the same murmur, resembling a pre- systolic one, was limited to a point on the third left rib, about an inch to the left of the margin of the sternum. The autopsies of two, whose death was due to nrsemic pericarditis, are given, in proof of the correct diagnosis. In one the left auricle was covered and roughened with Ivmnh, which was confined to the surface of the auricle; in the other, the sound extended down over the ventricles and became general, as did the pericarditis. Attention is strongly drawn to the presystolic cha- racter of the sound. In the first case (ib., 251) Salter noticed a curious phenomenonOne morning the pulse beats and respirations were exactly equal, s8 ; next day there were two beats to one respira- S! :nTth"e Ly fo'llo’wing th/pulse ^ats, without „ with the respiration, came regularly in couples. The former ^ec ^ liarity he had noticed in a few other cases, one of which^ he gives, and he thinks that the explanation of what he ‘ nneumal synchronism” is to be found in an accommodation of the Lspiratory^movements, perhaps without any consciousness on the part onhe patient to the movements of the heart. In both cases recorded there was probably adherent pericardium, or adherence between it ^nd the lung. ^He gives two further cases, to illustrate the occurrence of “ arkussy ('Gai. des H8p..’ 1871. 133) gives a clinical lectre on^/case ofUrtic insufficiency. Here tbe diartohe n«r V ^ m cyrnrhiallv feohlor while a loud systolic murmur was developed, became aperture of the valve was gradually togT^eS and cl“ vegetaLns. and a gradual etenoms tak.ng131 ORIGIN OF CARDIAC MURMURS^ ETC. place. His diagnosis was confirmed by the post-mortem appearances found. Barclay, in some “ Eemarks on Pre-systolic Cardiac Murmur ” (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 283, &c.) inclines to the view that it is one of regurgi- tation, not of obstruction. He gives the case of a boy, set. 18, still alive, in whom, without any history of rheumatic, and only of scarlet, fever, a very distinct harsh grating murmur was heard at the apex of the heart, distinctly terminating in the first sound, while the interval between the second and first sounds was preternaturally long. Under the influence of digitalis, this interval became more striking, and it was found that a short soft murmur began almost immediately after the second sound, terminating immediately before the harsh murmur commenced. At the base only the harsher murmur could be heard. He reviews at some length the mode in which the sounds of the heart are produced, and the opinions of different writers on this particular murmur. His own explanation (p. 394) is as follows:—The mitral valve is transformed into a ring, prolonged into a funnel-shape, with a thick inflexible margin, the two flaps being more or less adherent to each other. The thickened ring stands almost permanently open, and the first effect of ventricular tension is to drive blood through the valve, not to close it. But as contraction goes on, the blood presses on the sides of the funnel and impels them against each other, and thus the click of the valves is delayed, because not the edges but tlie sides have met, not the earlier tension but the later contraction of the ventricle has closed them. As soon as they meet they must more or less arrest the backward current, and we have thus the explanation of the circumstance that the murmur runs up to, and terminates in, the first sound. This, too, explains why the interval before the first sound is longer than usual, because the closure of the valve has been delayed, and. the first sound has been thus far postponed. He holds (p. 354) that the thickening of the walls of the auricle, never reaching that of the walls of a thin ven- tricle, is rather due to a krge quantity of blood being driven back into it than to any obstacle to its onward flow; that with no means of closin'^- the entrance of the pulmonary veins, the auricle, in contracting, must empty itself backwards if any obstacle to its onward flow exist; and that (p. 395) the pulmonary congestion and haemoptysis, as constant with this as with the ordinary mitral systolic murmur, is due to this backward flow of blood upon the lungs. _ Balfour (ib., ib., 714) opposes at some length Barclay’s views, uphold- ing the generally accepted rhythm of the presystolic murmur Davies, in a former paper read before the Royal Society (see last Beport, p. 148), had assumed—(i) that the four openings of the heart during the time the blood traverses them are circular in form • and (2) that the area of each orifice is unchanged—constant—during systole and diastole. In another paper (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 109) he support of his assumptions, based on the to his theory ^ and others, and meets certain objections made ‘ 1 Nuovo metodo per limitare la regione cardiaca,” . Lomb., 1871, 261) has marked out with needles the posi-IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 132 tion of the heart in a number of bodies. He holds that the assertion that in enlargement of the left ventricle the heart is increased vertically, and in that of the right ventricle is increased in breadth, is not strictly true. The ‘Lancet’ (1872, i, 149) contains an abstract of a lecture by Duchek, in which he discusses the origin of the bruit du diahle. This murmur is modified by the strength of the pulse in the carotids (moments of reinforcement) and by acceleration of the respiration. He holds that it is due to the vibration of the half-opened valves in the bulbus of the jugular vein behind the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, and requires for its production a rapid circulation of blood and a normal pressure of the blood in the thorax. If the latter is increased by valvular failures, emphysema, &c., the murmur is not heard, and hence the general view that this murmur excludes insufficiency of the mitral. Allbutt (‘St. Gfeorge’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 22) writes on the effects of overwork and strain on the heart and great blood-vessels. He gives the following as the order in which the chronic morbid changes seem to present themselves for consideration:—(i) Dilatation of the right heart, (2) dilatation of the left heart, (3) in reason, if not in time, hypertrophy of the left ventricle, or both ventricles, (4) chronic inflammation of the aorta and aortic valves, (3) dilatation of the aorta, (6) incompetence of the aortic valves, with (7) further compensatory hypertrophy of the left ventricle, (8) loss of compensatory hypertrophy, with consequent rapid failure, and often with consequent mitral regurgitation. This order of succession may be complete, or may present these variations among others, that after the fourth stage the inner coats of the aorta may and often do give way, or aortic incompetence takes place. He meets with simple dilatation and hypertrophy so constantly in patients who have been subjected to over-exertion that he places them together, unhesitatingly, as' the beginnings of mischief. He further examines into the facts which bear upon the above assertions, giving sphygmo- graphic tracings of different cases. In several cases he has been ternpted to attribute phthisis to hemorrhage into the lung; it is at least remarkable that many of those suffering from pulmonary phthisis seem to have enjoyed good health up to the time when froin some cause or other hemoptysis occurred (cf. ‘ Med. Times and Gaz., ^^Stone'^(^Hew York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 36) feels quite certain that a large proportion of diseases of the heart may be warded off or very much miti- gated A large proportion of heart diseases arise from inflammation, Ihich occurs mostly in the young, and a much larger number than is supposed begin purely as functional derangements which it not relieved lead on to dilatation, insufficiency of the valves, and all the consequences of obstructed circulation through the organ. He lays stress^pon not waiting for a friction sound or murmur, lor instance in the rheumatism of children, but exhibiting drugs at once. His remarks on functional derangement contain nothing new. , . , , 1 1 Snelling (ib., 6)-gives short notes of twenty cases in which the sub- clavian beuLs-murmur was heard. He gives a table in which the casesORIGIN OF CARDIAC MURMURS, ETC. 133 are analysed, and concludes that in certain cases, “ when the deposition of tubercle is too slight to give rise to physical signs the murmur, taken in connection with emaciation and cough, may be looked upon almost as pathognomonic” of phthisis. Gray (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 94) refers shortly to three cases occurring in his own practice, of phthisis, strumous diarrhoea, and bron- chitis after measles, in which death from coma was preceded by a fall in the frequency of the pulse. Brunton (‘ St. Barth. Hosp.Eep.,’ vii, 216) has made several experi- ments on the effect of temperature on the rabbit’s heart while it still remained in the body, sometimes leaving all its nervous connections untouched, and sometimes dividing the vagi. These experiments were made by narcotising the animal with opium or chloral, and laying it in a tin vessel well padded with cotton wool. The vessel was double, and by pouring hot water into it, the temperature of the rabbit was gradually raised. The belly of the animal was also covered with cotton wool, sometimes with an india-rubber bag containing hot water. To make respiration easier, a canula was introduced into the trachea, and the inspired air passed over warm water. The pulsations of the heart were counted by pushing a fine needle through the thoracic walls into the heart, so that it vibrated with each pulsation, and connecting its outer end by means of a fine thread with the lever of one of Marey’s cardio- graphs. By this means it is possible to count the pulsations, even when the heart is beating at the rate of 470 in a minute, as it did in one case. The temperature was taken with a thermometer in the rectum. He gives a table, from which it is seen that the heart beats more quickly as the temperature rises till it reaches its maximum, and then becomes slower, and finally stops. The increase in the number of beats is not the same for each degree of rise in the temperature, and the number of beats at the same temperature, and also the same amount of quick- ening for each degree of rise of temperature, differs in different animals. The upper limit at which the heat stands still varies in different animals, but in the stronger ones it is between 113° and 114° P., or even above it. In some of the experiments the power of the vagus was tested from time to time by irritation with an induced cur- rent, and from its persistent power the writer concludes that in the rabbit, and probably other mammals’ hearts, a temperature suffi- ciently high to produce stoppage of the heart does not paralyse the vagus or the inhibitory apparatus through which it acts. He is inclined to reject Weikart’s hypothesis, that death from heat is due to coagulation of blood in the vessels, and to agree with Bernard in th ^h ^ cause in impairment of the muscular power of the heart by Habershon (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 333) writes on the relief of nocturnal dyspnoea arising from disease of the heart, and groups it into three Classes. In the first class are cases of failing power of the heart’s action from loss of blood and from sudden shocks to the nervous sys- ^ cases the action is feeble and often irregular, and the consists in the administration of nourishment, the proper use of stimulants, and afterwards the employment of steel, with nar-134 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cotics if sleeplessness or pain be present. In a second class the cardiac disease consists in imperfection of tbe mitral valve, and its necessary- results ; here the treatment is to be directed to the lungs, liver and kidneys; narcotics have only a transient benefit, often folio-wed by increased distress. In a third class the dyspnoea is produced by failing muscular power of the heart, due to degeneration of its muscular fibre, atheroma of the vessels, idiopathic anaemia, disease of the aortic valves and dilatation. Here stimulating narcotics should be used—spirit of chloroform, camphor, senega, ammonia and Indian hemp. The paper contains suggestions as to the general dietary regulations to be fol- lowed, and concludes with the writer’s experience of various drugs employed by himself. Hering, “Ueber den Einflnss der Athmung auf den Kreislauf,” ‘ Wien. Med. Jahrb.,’ 1872, 37. Kolisbo, “Beitrage zur Kenntniss der Mecbanik des Herzens,” ib., 87. Beneke, “ Ueber die Lumina der Arterien, deren grosse Verschiedenheifc und deren Bedeutung fur die Entwicklung von Krankheiten,” ‘ Jabrb. f. Kinderkr.,’ iv, 380. Jacobson, “Ueber Herzgerausche,” ‘Berl. Klin. Wocb.,’ 1872, i. Lender, “Zur Bebandlung Cbronischer Herzkrankb.,” ib., 1871, 260. Garrod, “On the Mutual Eolations of the Apex Cardiograph and tbe Radial Spbygmograpb Trace,” ‘ Proc. Roy. Soc,,’ xix, 318. Jaccoud, “ Indications de la digitale dans les Affections Cardiaques et du Traitement de TAsystolie,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, S- Morgan, “ Cardiac Lesions consequent on Syphilitic Cachexia” (guramata in heart), ‘Dublin Quart. Jonrn.,’ lii, 42. Fothergill, “The Treatment of Heart Disease,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 776. Wilks, “ Note on the History of Valvular Diseases of the Heart,” ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xvi, 209. Shapter, “ Notes and Observations on Diseases of the Heart and Lungs,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 522, r872, i, 7. Williams, “On Triple Sounds of the Heart,” ib., 1871, ii, 788. Gairdner, “ Clinical Observations in the Glasgow Royal Infirmary” (Vanishing murmur), ib., 1872, i, 334. Johnson, “Heart Disease,” ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 790. Silver, “On Functional Regurgitant Bruit,” ib., i, 361. Gray. “ Unilateral Ansethesia without impairment of Motor Power, occurring suddenly in the subiect of Heart Disease,” ib.. 246. Laccassagne, “Des Complications Car- diaques’dans la Blennorrhagie,” ‘Arch. Gen.,’ 1872, i, 15- B. W. Foster, “ Digitalis and Heart Disease,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev.,’ xlviii, 214. Embolism, Thrombosis, ^c. Wrany (‘ Oesterr. Jahrb. f. Paediatrik,’ 1872, 12) gives the case of a boy £et. 0, in whom endocarditis was followed by hemiplegia, aphasia, and* hemichorea. The autopsy showed fatty degeneration of the heart, disease of the mitral valve, adherent pleura on both sides, pneu- monia of the right upper lobe, oedema of the lung, embolism of the left middle cerebral artery, with consequent softening of the corpus stria- tum and lenticular nucleus; infarcta of the kidneys and spleen; hminorrhagic erosions in the stomach, and catarrh of the large in- ^ Murchison Q Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxii, 119) records the case of a girl, mt 14 who had for years suffered from chorea, with mitral deficiency. While Ivine in bed she became suddenly unconscious, and had occa- Xnal muscular twitchings of the right limbs. The right pupil was contracted, the left dilated, both immovable. In addition to vegetations on the mitral valve were found embolic masses in the spleen and Mdnevs and the left vertebral.and left carotid artery were much dis- tended, ’ hard, and completely blocked by a pale, firm, easily detache135 EMBOLISM, THROMBOSIS, ETC. clot. No embolisms of the minute vessels such as have been described after death from chorea were found. . Bernhardt (‘Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 241) publishes the following very interesting case:—A boy, mt. 19, had sufiered for some years with severe headache and vomiting, which occurred regularly every three or four weeks. Later he had rheumatic pains and palpitation. One mornino-, in spite of the headache, he went to work, but an hour later was compelled to take to his bed, and almost immediately afterwards became completely paralysed on the left side, without any loss of con- sciousness, pain, or other antecedent symptoms. Auscultation gave the signs of insufficiency of the aortic valves and stenosis of the mitral (absence of the aortic diastolic sound, and marked presystolic murmur). After death the right middle cerebral artery was found completely blocked by a firmly adherent body which extended into the artery of the corpus cailosum. The left middle cerebral artery was blocked, but not completely, in the same way. The whole of the brain substance was amemic, the greater part of the lenticular nucleus and posterior half of the corpus striatum on the right side was in the condition of yellow softening. The mitral valve was slightly thickened, and had an open- ing of the size of a cherry-stone in its anterior curtain. The aoitic valves were adherent, atrophied, and dragged downwards, and on their surface corresponding to the defect in the mitral valve was a chalky, irregular, warty body, 2^—3 cm. long, covered with fresh _ coagula, which almost blocked the opening from the aorta. (A plate is given.) Both kidneys, especially the right, contained infarcta; the branches of the renal artery were completely obstructed by bodies similar to those in the vessels of the brain. Bernhardt remarks shortly on the case as it bears upon the diagnosis made, and refers to a case recorded by Moxon (see last ‘ Report,’ p. 160). Luneau (‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 34) gives two cases in which the left vertebral artery was obliterated. Both cases occurred in the clinique of Proust, within a few days of each other. The first patient was a woman, set. 68, who five months before had had an apoplectiform attack, followed by hemiplegia, from which she completely recovered. On the day of her admission into hospital she suddenly felt a weakness of the left side, and lost all power of speech, though she preserved her con- sciousness. On admission there was incomplete paralysis of the left side of the face and body, with hypersesthesia of the arm and leg; com- plete aphonia and dysphagia ; the intellectual power was perfect; the tongue was pushed to the left side, and its movements embarrassed; the velum was completely insensible, and the muscles , of the pharynx also paralysed. She passed her urine involuntarily ; on the seventh day she died. At the post-mortem examination the basilar and right vertebral arteries were atheromatous, but their canals free. The upper end of the left vertebral was obstructed by a slightly decolourised clot, distant about half a cm. from the basilar. The posterior and inferior cerebral arteries were also obliterated. Charcot examined the portions of the medulla oblongata nourished by these arteries, and the left lobe of the cerebellum, and found them in a condition of ischaemic softening. The left kidney alone showed any trace of infarctus, and in spite of any136 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. evidence gained elsewhere, tlie author concludes that the original cause must have been embolism. The second case was that of a man, aet. 63, who had been much addicted to drink. On the evening before his admission into hospital he was suddenly attacked with vomiting and inability to swallow. On his admission there was general muscular weakness, but complete intelligence and liveliness. There was complete loss of power to swallow, though the velum contracted well. There was tremor, but no paralysis of the upper extremities, slight hypermsthesia of the lower; he tottered if he attempted to stand, and showed a tendency to fall towards the left side. Next day he died. The valves of the heart were found thickened and atheromatous, as also the arte- ries at the base of the brain. One centimetre from its opening into tlie basilar the left vertebral artery was completely obstructed by deco- lourised, yellowish clot. No traces of infarctus were found in any of the abdominal organs. Charcot remarks on the cases, that the symptoms observed were extremely similar to those seen in labio-glosso- pharyngeal paralysis. King, “A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with Extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening” (man,03t.32), ‘Path. Soe. Trans.,’ xxiii, 63. Id., “ Aneurism of the Aorta associated with Fracture of the First Kib, and Embolism of Left Middle Cerebral Artery ” (man, 03C. 42), ib., 70. Molliere, “ De I'Embolie des Arteres Mesenteriques, etudes critiques et bibliograpbiques,” ‘ Lyon. Med.,’ viii, 691. Ramskill, “Thrombosis of Right Iliac Vein, Embolism of Pulmonary Artery, Sudden Death ” (man, set. 35), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 660. Merkel, “ Cheyne- Stokes’schen Respirationstypus mit Pendel-bewegungen der Augapfel. Rheumatische Endocarditis; Encephalitis in Folge von Emholie der Arteria fossae Sylvii dextra” (girl, set. 22), ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 201. Schmid, “ Zur Differentialdiagnose von Apoplexie und Embolie des Gehirns,” ib., 305. Cohnheim, “Untersuchungen fiber die Em- bolischen Processe,” Berlin, 1872, pp. 112 (reviewed, ib., 316). Pericarditis. "Wilks (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvi, 196) writes on adherent peri- cardium as a cause of cardiac disease, and discusses the different views held by Hope, Corvisart, Barlow, Chevers, &c. He holds it probable that loose cellular adhesions have no appreciable influence on the action of the heart, but that the thickened pericardium of a carti- laginous consistency, investing the heart closely, arising from an inflam- mation at an early period of childhood, does lead to obstruction of the circulation, and then to dropsy, after the manner of heart disease. The condition of adherent pericardium cannot be regarded as a rare one. Ble gives six cases in which death was apparently due to this affection, and is almost inclined to offer the proposition, that in a well-marked case of disease with cardiac symptoms in young persons without any valvular bruit pericardial adhesions may be fairly expected. In older persons, of course, we should look rather to degeneration of muscular tesue ’ Of the cases recorded in this paper, five were males, aged re- spectively 21,9, 12, 26, and 24; the other is that of a girl, aged 16. The symptoms common to all were dyspnoea, cyanosis, dropsy; in none was any bruit heard; in all the pericardium was universally and closely adLrent. (The first case has been recorded already by Barlow, ‘Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ser. 3, xi, 437--^%^ )137 PEHICARDITIS MYOCARDITIS, ETC. Glover (‘Lancet,’ i, 893) records the case of a girl, set. 12, who had complained of pain in her left side for two or three weeks. Her tem- perature seven days before death was loi . No physical signs seem to have been made out. The autopsy showed the pericardium distended with pus, and purulent lympb adhering to its inner surface. Fremy, “ Pcricardite. Epaiichement de Serosite purulente. Ponction avec I’Appareil du Dr. Dicidafoy, Guerison” (man, mt. 21), ‘ BuP- Gen. de Therap.,’ t. 81, p. 125. Thiriar, “ Pericardite, avec Epaiichement considerable et brides adhesives, suite d’Affections Rhumatismales” (boy, mt. 16, autopsy), ‘Presse Med. Beige,’ 1871, 32. Heaton, “Rheumatic Pericarditis with Effusion, Recovery” (man, set. 21),‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 96. Thorowgood, “Pericarditis with Effusion, Death” (hoy, set. 10, autopsy), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 682. Diseases of Myocardium ; Heart Aneurism, Sfc. Quain (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 391) thinks that affections of the walls of the heart have been somewhat neglected in the attention paid to valvular affections. He holds that clinical study of the former teaches that—(i) the really serious effects of heart disease result from hyper- trophy, or from dilatation, or from a combination of the two ; (2) valvular diseases may exist up to the close of a long life without ren- dering the subject of them conscious of their presence; (3) it is possible to refer to cases in which, valve disease having existed without causing any inconvenience, something occurs which damages the condition of the muscular walls, and serious disturbance is the result; (4) there are cases in which some additional mischief occurs to valve disease already existing, and this mischief is remedied by the supervention of further compensatory hypertrophy ; (5) the converse of the last class is seen in cases of valve disease in which the heart walls fail and the disease pro- gresses ; (6) cases occur in which valvular disease—i. e. incompetency— is caused by dilatation of the heart. Enlargement of this organ may depend—{a) on an increase in the muscular fibres, the exact change being still unknown ; (5) on an increase in the connective tissue, due to chronic interstitial inflammation or hyperplasia; (c) on an increase of fat, not to be confounded with fatty degeneration. The causes of enlargement of the heart may be classified as—agencies acting through the nervous system, as overstrained excitement; agencies acting mecha- nically, as severe and repeated muscular exertion, obstructed circu- lation, pregnancy ; agencies originating in disordered conditions of the nutritive functions of the heart, as chlorosis, ansemia, good living with insufficient exercise, Bright’s disease, adherent pericardium. The author proceeds to discuss (ib., 426) the systemic effects of enlarge- ment, and the relation of heart disease to phthisis and renal disease, and the second lecture concludes with the diagnosis and treatment of it. In simple muscular hypertrophy, repose, and the administration of aconite; in connective-tissue hypertrophy, if diagnosed in its early stage, remedies likely to subdue the inflammation in which it origi- nates ; and in fatty hypertrophy, treatment calculated to prevent the formation of fat, are recommended ; and to obtain compensatory hyper- trophy, iron and digitalis. In a third lecture (ib., 459) he enlarges onREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 138 fatty degeneration and rupture (see under that head). He then describes aneurism of the heart, the walls of which are formed of the thin and altered cardiac walls, all the layers of which may be detected near the base, but in many cases over the rest of the wall the muscular layer has disappeared. Occasionally bony plates are found in the sac. This affection seems to occur with nearly the same frequency at different ages, but always with a marked preponderance of males in the cases collected. It may originate in inflammation, fatty degene- ration, or the bursting of an abscess. The lesion is most frequently seated at the apex, and is not accompanied by any special symptoms. Fothergill also discusses (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 236) the subject of hypertrophy and dilatation. As to its mode of origin, “as some name must be used to cover what we do not know, hypertrophy may be called a trophic action of the cardiac ganglia,” by which the heart resists dilatation. He thinks that in time it may be possible to demonstrate that it is the consequence of an increased blood supply to the muscular structure, dilatation of the coronary vessels, and secondary elongation of the heart-fibres. Thompson (“ Distrain of the Heart,” ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Eep.,’ v, 119) records three cases, to show that dilatation of the heart is not always a chronic disease, but may arise suddenly and from an accidental cause. Two of these occurred in men, set. 23 and 28, and the other in a girl, set. 19. The post-mortem appearances are given in the first two cases, the last one recovered. He has seen seven of these cases altogether, and of the whole number three made a good recovery, the constitutional disturbances passing away, though the heart remained permanently injured. Smith (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 597) showed to the Pathological Society of Dublin the heart of a young man, set. 22. He had caught cold some time before his admission into hospital; oedema of the feet, general anasarca, and cyanosis followed. The area of prsecordial dulness was increased; there was no murmur, but the first sound of the heart was doubled, and ultimately the action of that organ became strikingly vermicular. The left half of the tongue became swollen, and the patient died rather suddenly. The pericardium contained half a pint of serum; there was no recent pericarditis ; the heart was much dilated, but its valves were normal. The right auricle was much en- larged, but not hypertrophied. Wagstaffe (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 12) records a case of fibrous tumour of the heart. The specimen had been lying in pickle for fifteen years before it came into his hands. The patient from whom it was taken was a female child, set. 3 months, which seems to have died from convulsive fits. At the post-mortem it was found that the peri- cardium was distended with a quantity of pinkish serum. The heart was greatly enlarged, its shape elliptical, the apex nearly as large as the base and on one side of this, towards the right ventricle, the muscular structure appeared to be thinned, and presented an almost tendinous appearance. The cavities of both auricle and ventricle were dimi- nished by the projection into them of the septum, in which could be felt a tough inelastic mass. On cutting down upon this it was found139 DISEASES OF MYOCAUDIUM; ETC. to be a pinkish-white tumour, fully the size of ben s egg, lying between the muscular layers of the septum, which it had dissected from one another from base to apex. This distension had given rise to the thin and tendinous appearance of the heart-walls when seen from the outside. Wagstaffe discusses shortly the structure of this tumour, and remarks on the rarity of simple tumours of the heart. Payne (ib., 125) gives the autopsy of a woman, let. 41, who presented during life the signs of malignant disease of the liver. Within the right auricle, in tlie corner of the appendage, was a small nodule of new growth the size of a pea, projecting into the cavity among the trabeculie ; a similar nodule was found in the apex of the left ventricle. These masses were of a whitish colour, and on microscopical examination presented very definite cancerous structures. Inside the iliac veins, just at their junction, but more in the left than in the right, was a mass resembling a blood-clot, but of a peculiar pinkish colour and spongy texture. Sections of pieces hardened in chromic acid showed a network of organized tissues enclosing areas of red blood-corpuscles. There were further considerable masses of undoubtedly cancerous growth in various organs, especially the liver, in the lymphatic glands, and the lumbar vertebra. The author remarks on the rarity of cancer of the heart, and holds that in this case it cannot be clearly decided that there was any mechanical transference of the disease from the veins to the heart. Goodfellow (ib., xxiii, 53) publishes the case of a man, let. 48, who for some months before death had suffered from palpitation, dyspnoea, and pain in the cardiac region, which gradually increased in severity. There were symptoms of valvular affection produced, as was found after death, by vegetations on the aortic valves, and ulceration of the one corresponding to the anterior fiap of the mitral. Between them was an aneurismal sac, of a conical form, passing upwards between the posterior wall of the aorta and the left auricle, which it compressed; it then curved forwards, and terminated in a rounded end projecting into the pericardium. Its walls at this part were as thin as tissue-paper, quite transparent, and evidently on the point of giving way. Murchison (ib., 54) gives a case of aneurism of the left ventricle in a woman, set. 63, the subject of contracted kidneys. At the inner edge of the mitral valve, and slightly behind the posterior flap, was a pouch in the muscular wall, which would have admitted a cherry ; at the bottom of this was a rounded opening, the size of a pea, which led into a sac as large as a small orange situated in the posterior wall of the left ven- tricle, and in the intraventricular septum. It protruded slightly into the right ventricle. At its upper and back part the walls were formed by thickened pericardium. Townsend (ib., 96) describes an aneurism of the left ventricle in a healthy man, 83t. 42, who died from the effects of an accident. Here there was at the apex of the ventricle a bony tumour very much resembling, both in appearance and size, the half of a hen’s egg. In sawing through it a cavity was found opening by a small circular orifice into the left ventricle, and containing blood. Crisp (ib., 87) records the occurrence of three abscesses in the left140 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cardiac wall, in a child set. 4 years, who died from pyaemia. He also adds a table of forty-two cases of the latter disease, to be found in the ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.’ Coats (‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iv, 433) records two cases of cal- careous infiltration of the muscular fibre of the heart. In the first case the salts of lime, probably composed entirely of the phosphates, had been deposited in the fibre in the form of minute round granules, giving the appearance both to the naked eye and under the microscope of fatty degeneration. The patient, a man who died of fever, presented signs of chronic bronchitis and emphysema, with probably some syphi- litic taint. In the second case, one of relapsing fever and pyasmia, the muscular fibres were converted into cylinders having a considerably crystalline texture. The lime salt was deposited in a minutely granular form, and consisted in great part of carbonate of lime, which effervesced on the addition of hydrochloric acid. Endocarditis. Peacock (“ On the Prognosis in cases of Valvular Disease of the Heart,” ‘St. Thom. Hosp. Hep.,’ 1871, 233) regards incompetency of the valves as a more serious defect than obstruction, and incompetency of the aortic more dangerous than that of the mitral valves. On the other hand, obstruction of the mitral is apparently a more important defect than constriction of the aortic valves. He reviews the general questions of diagnosis and treatment at some length. Fagge (“On the Murmurs attendant upon Mitral Contraction,” ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Hep.,’ xvi, 247) writes with special reference to the pre- systolic murmur. The paper contains histories, more or less full, of sixty-six patients, arranged in three groups ; seven in which the mur- mur was heard during life and mitral contraction found after death, forty cases in which the latter condition was found without any pre- systolic murmur being heard, and nineteen in which the murmur was heard but no autopsy made. He gives also two cases in which a peculiar murmur was audible, and in which he diagnosed mitral contraction. Heiberg (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Ivi, 407) refers to a case of ulcerative endo- carditis published by Winge, and described by him as “ mycosis endocardii.” The patient, a man ast. 44, had bad an ulcer on one of his toes, pains in his joints and rigors. The autopsy, which Heiberg gives, showed vegetations on the valves of the heart, and the microscope revealed the presence of numerous fungi in the vegetations, and also in the emboli found in the renal and other arteries. Winge referred their probable origin to the ulcer on the toe. Heiberg records a case of the same kind occurring in his own practice, in a pregnant woman, set. 22. During life she had rigors and pains resembling rheumatic pains. She had also sores on the sacrum. After death, in addition to these gangrenous ulcers, the autopsy showed ulcerative endocarditis of the mitral valve, with thrombi containing fungi; infarcta of the spleen and kidneys, with metastatic abscesses in the latter. He looks upon the fungus as Leptothrix ; but Virchow, in a note to the paper, though141 ENDOCARDITIS. accepting the main facts, does not agree with this view. Inoculation experiments were made from both cases, but without any results. Miiller (‘Dent. Arch.,’ 1872, i) describes the case of a woman dying from mitral insufficiency, in whom after complete cessation even of the slightest respiratory movement the heart-sounds and the pulse in the carotids could he distinguished after the lapse of seven minutes. Pulsation was perceptible in the jugular veins fourteen minutes after the last sign of breathing. In addition to the mitral mischief, the autopsy revealed tubercular meningitis of the base of the brain. Simon (‘Perl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 437) gives the case of a boy, set. 16, who suffered five weeks before death with dyspnoea, palpitation, rigors, convulsions, and loss of consciousness. The area of heart’s dul- ness was increased, the heart-sounds muffled, but unaccompanied by a murmur. Shortly before death there was an eruption of petechim. At the autopsy were found the following.-—Numerous extravasations on the pia mater ; numerous points of red softening in the brain, most marked in the left temporal lobe ; several arteries corresponding to these places were found blocked with emboli. There was sero-fibrinous infiammation of the pericardium, which exhibited numerous ecchymoses and miliary tubercles. On opening the left ventricle was found an “ aneurism of the mitral valve,” which is described in full in the text. There were numerous ecchymoses on the pleura, and several embolic infarcta in the myocardium, both kidneys, mesentery, &c. Whipham (‘Trans. Path, Soc.,’ xxii, 117) gives an interesting case of diseased tricuspid valve in a man, set. 55. Its free edge, as well as the chordae tendinese, were ragged and eroded from ulcerative processes. The valve was thick, opaque, of a dull red colour, contrasting strongly with 'the transparent and glistening appearance of the mitral. The other post-mortem appearances were pleurisy and bssmothorax ; disin- tegration of the right lung; cirrhosis of the liver; coarse and con- gested kidneys. In the absence of any origin for blood-poisoning, the writer thinks that pysemia was the cause of ulceration of the valve and of the pneumonia. Peter (‘L’Union Med.,’ xii, 662) gives a very full lecture on aortic insufficiency. After giving the physical signs of the affection, he insists that it is generally a disease of the aorta, and not of the heart. The pain behind the sternum, the angina pectoris, and the sudden death, which often accompany it, point to the disease of the vessel, not to the incompetent valves. He divides cases of aortic insufficiency into two classes, those with and those without diseased aorta, the latter being by far the most common. The disease consists in the 'atheromatous degeneration and the infiammation of the coats of the vessel, with their consequences. Old age, abuse of drink, and gout, are the chief origi- nating causes. The other form of aortic insufficiency is caused by affections such as rheumatism, &c. The role which the aorta plays can be easily recognised by the pain and angina caused by the participation in the mischief of the cardiac plexus, by the hard radial pulse, and the arcus senilis, and especially if there have been antecedent gout or chronic alcoholism. After remarking on the sudden death which frequently occurs in the affection, and the shares taken in the mechanism of it byREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 142 tlie disease of the aorta and the cardiac plexus, he speaks of the morbid series termed by angina, aortitis, and aortic insufficiency, and in con- clusion he holds that the hypertrophy which generally follows in- sufficiency is not to be looked on as a compensatory and helpful process, but as a complication of the worst kind, aggravating the patient’s condition. lliegel (‘ Deut. Arch.,’ viii, 129) in a case described by him, recog- nised the symptom to which Duroziez first drew attention as found in aortic insufficiency—a double sound in the femoral artery. In this case a double sound, not a blowing murmur, was audible in both femoral arteries. With Traube he thinks it is characteristic of a very advanced stage of insufficiency; at the same time an elastic state of the arterial walls, and great hypertrophy of the left ventricle, are necessary re- quisites for the production of the symptom in question. Consequently, it is better heard in young people with healthy vessels and true hypertrophy of the left ventricle, while it disappears, or is diminished, in extensive atheroma of the artery and fatty degeneration of the heart. Paul (‘Union Med.,’ xii, 716) writes a very long paper on stenosis of the pulmonary artery after birth, its symptoms and complications, and the pulmonary phthisis which frequently succeeds it. The paper is based on twenty-seven observations. He discusses the modes in which it may occur, the almost constant secondary hypertrophy of the right ventricle, the insufficiency as well as stenosis of the pulmonary valves, and the affections of other valves of the heart which may accompany it. Its characteristic symptom is a systolic, more or less rasping murmur, heard over the origin of the pulmonary artery, and in its direction. Cyanosis is not a consequence of this stenosis. Pepper, “Ulcerative Endocarditis, Embolism of Kidneys’' (man, aet. 30, no autopsy), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 431. Padova, “ Endocardite Ateroinatosa, iusufficienza e stenosi della mitrale; essudato pleurico recidivante; access! d’asma accompaguati da furor uterino in donna di 68 anni,’’ ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 197. Balfour, “ Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Heart, (i) On the Murmurs and other ])hysical signs distinctive of Mitral Stenosis,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 431. Beveridge, “Case of Direct Mitral or Presystolic Murmur” (girl, a3t. 17, autopsy), ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 353. Habershon, “ Heart Disease ” (two cases—i, man, aet. 30, with aortic insufficiency, &c.; 2, boy, aet. ii, with mitral obstruction and insufficiency, embolism), ib., 710. Hayden, “Cardiac Hypertrophy, Pericarditis, Mitral and Tri- cuspid Constriction and Inadequacy, Aortic Obstruction and Reflux ” (man, aet. 23), ib., i, 91. Sieveking, “ Case of Hypertrophy of the Heart, with Double Tricuspid (?) Murmur,” ib., 62. Allbutt, “Tricuspid Regurgitation” (man, aet. SS- autopsy), ib., 63. Fitzgerald, “Visible Pulsation of the Arteria Centralis Retinae in a Case of Incompetency of the Aortic Valves,” ib., ii, 'J2^. Johnson, “A Lecture on Disease of the Valves of the Heart,” ib., 1872, i, 34- Duckworth, “Case of Heart Disease with Loud Musical Murmur, which passed away,” ib., 1871, ii, 667. Gray, “ Endo- and Peri-carditis without Affection of the Joints, following Subacute Rheumatism, after a five weeks’ interval of obscure febrile symptoms,” ‘ Med. Times "and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 41. Powell, “ Case of Mitral Obstructive Disease (funnel mitral) terminating fatally’ with cerebral complication; with remarks on this form of heart disease,” ib 20R Salter, “Double Aortic Murmur, Bulging of Axilla from Hypertrophous Elongation of Heart, Absence of Regurgitant Pulse,” &c., ib., 539. Loomis, “Interesting Cases of Cardiac Diseases,” ‘Nevv York Med. Rev, vi, 328 Sp^rks. “ Disease of Tricuspid and Pulmonary Artery Valves, without Affection of the Lett143 RUPTURE OP HEART. Heart” ('man rot. 27, probable congenital stenosis of pulmonary artery), ‘Lancet, 187 f ii 12 Tranbe, “Ueber den Doppelton in der Cruralis bei insufScienz der Aortenldappen,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1872, 573- “Retrecissement de PArtere pulmonaire ” (man, set. 36, rheumatic fever ten years before), Gaz. vui,_43i. Peacock “ Extensive Disease of Heart of long duration, Obsiructive and Regurgitant Disease of the Mitral Valves, and Obstructive Disease of the Aortic Valves” (boy, aet. 17), ‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ x.'dii, 59. Id., “ Obstructive and Regurgitant Disuse of the Aortic Valves and Eegurgitant Disease of the Mitral, Albuminuria, Bloody Tumour of Thigh” (man, mt. 20), ib., 61. King, “ A Case of Aortic and Mitral Valvular Disease, with extensive Infarction of the Spleen and Cerebral Softening (man, mt. 32), ib., 63. Kelly, ‘‘Acute Chorea associated with Valvular Disease of the Heart ” (girl, set. 9, vegetations on tricuspid and mitral), ib., 95. Black, ‘‘ The Relative Frequency of Disease between the Eight and Left Sides of the Heart, &c., ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 253. Hupture of Heart. Quain, in his third Lumleiau lecture (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 459) discusses fatty degeneration of the heart and rupture. Out ot 88 cases of the latter, 63 occurred in persons over 60 years of age, 33 between 60 and 70, and 24 between 70 and 80. The two sexes are aflected with equal frequency.* Out of 100 cases death was sudden— i.e. within one or two minutes—in One patient, however, lived eight days, one six days, one three days, and five lived over 48 hours. The seat of rupture in 100 cases was 76 times in the left ventricle (45 in its anterior wall) ; 13 in the right ventricle (9 in its anterior wall) ; seven times in the right, and twice in the left auricle; four times in the septum. The heart had undergone fatty degeneration in 77 ; in 6 it was “ softened in one case the rupture was due to the bursting of an aneurism, in one to an abscess. In 12 the heart was said to be healthy or not examined, but in most mention is made of endocarditis or changes in the coronary artery. Barth (‘Arch. Gen. de Med.,’ xvii, 5) bases a paper on “spontaneous rupture of the heart” upon 24 cases recorded in the ‘ Bulletins de la Societe Anatomique’ during the forty years between 1826 and 1863. Of these 7 were men and 17 women. (3nly two were under 60 years of age, the rest were between the ages of 60 and 84. The following were some of the apparently determining causes of the rupture:—■ Vexation or anger, an over-large meal, brandy taken in the cofiee, the effort of getting into bed, and in five cases the effort of defecation. In the majority of cases death was sudden. In all the cases, without exception, the rupture was in the left ventricle; in nine cases it was situated about the middle of the heart, in four near the base, and in eight near the apex; its average length was about 2 centimetres, with generally irregular ecchymosed borders. In one case only is the heart stated to have been healthy, but in this case the coronary arteries were ossified and diminished in calibre. In all the other cases the heart pre- sented circumscribed infiltrations of blood, ecchymoses, and soft and * This seems more like the truth than the statement made by some other writers, according to whom rupture of the heart is more common in males than females. Tlie abstracts in the text show twenty-one cases in the latter against twelve in the former.—A. B. S.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. lU flabby muscular tissue; in most of the cases it was covered by an abnormal amount of fat, and the fibres of the muscle had themselves undergone fatty change. The arteries, in the cases in which they were examined, were ossified, or contained calcareous plates in their walls. In one case the mitral was affected ; in a great number of cases the aorta was diseased. Barth looks upon the interstitial haemorrhages into the walls of the heart and the fatty change in its muscle as the two principal pathological facts of the affection. He mentions, as rare occurrences, ruptures of the heart from the presence of a coronary aneu- rism and of hydatids. He thinks it probable that the rupture occurs at the commencement of the systole, when the heart has to exert its greatest amount of energy. The most characteristic phenomena of its occurrence are syncope, a feeling of suffocation and anxiety, and of very violent pain at the lower left portion of the sternum and mammary region. Death occurs, not from the loss of blood, but from compression of the heart by the effused blood. Treatment of rupture of the heart is, of course, useless ; but, in the way of prevention, something may be done by carefully watching old people, in whom the hard radial artery suggests disease in the cardiac capillaries, by recommending moderation in the use of alcoholic drinks, regular diet, abstinence from fat-forming materials; moderate exercise, without muscular effort or fatigue. Should any symptoms arise which threaten partial rupture of the heart the patient must be kept in bed, and drugs administered which diminish the action and so favour the gradual cicatrization of the muscular tissue (! ? Bep.) Notes of the cases are contained in the body of the paper. Vedie (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 145) gives a case of rupture of the heart in a woman affected with dementia, whose age is not given, pro- bably due to degeneration of the muscular fibres. Here there was a rent in the anterior wall of the right auricle. No murmur had been heard during life, though there were vegetations and insufficiency of the aortic valves. She died suddenly, after being in a prostrate condition for twenty-four hours. Thompson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 635) records the following:—A gentleman, set. ^6, had been in good health and actively employed up to twenty-four hours before he complained of pain. He had retired to bed well, but towards morning he died. In this case there was a rupture an inch long in the anterior wall of the left ventricle, close to the apex. The muscle had undergone fatty change.* Beck (ib., 803) gives a case of rupture of the left ventricle in a man, £ct. 71, in whom the muscle was also fatty. He fell down speechless and apparently senseless, about twenty minutes before he died. Matthews (ib., ib.) publishes the case of a man whose age is not given who had suffered for some time with symptoms of valvular disease. He died suddenly, and at the post-mortem examination a hole was found at the base of the left ventricle, about the size and shape * It wouldLc well if others in the same position as this writer would place on record as he has done here “ cases in general practice.” In England, a,t least, the publication of cases, not always well and briefly reported, as these are, is too much confined to the consultants of large, especially metropolitan, hospitals.—A. D. b.llUPTUKE OF HEART. 145 of a farthing, completely plugged with a black clot. “ This hole was apparently the result of ulceration (! Rep.), and must have existed for some time, as the edges were completely rounded off, and the plug of clot adherent,” In the case recorded by Wiltshire (ib., 1872, i, 290), a woman, £et. 57, who had during life presented symptoms of ulcer of the stomach, suddenly died. In addition to the ulcers in the posterior wall of that organ, a rupture, three quarters of an inch long, was found in the right ventricle. The muscle was markedly fatty. Hughes (ib., ii, 41) gives a case very like that of Thompson. The patient, a man of about 36, had been in his usual health, and had worked hard all day. At midnight after retiring to bed, he complained of nausea, and of pain “ as if his liver was being torn to pieces.” Soon after he died. The autopsy showed a rent, half an inch in length, in the wall of the right ventricle, about midway between the apex and base, close to and parallel with the longitudinal sulcus. The walls of the heart, though not examined microscopically, were soft and thin— probably fatty. Lowe (ib., 524) also gives a similar case occurring in a woman, set. 66, who after going to bed in her usual health, woke with sickness and vomiting, and died about seven hours later. Here the rupture was found in the left ventricular wall, immediately to the left of and parallel to the sulcus, and measured about three quarters of an incli in length. The substance of the heart was soft and flabby, and pale in colour. Watson (ib.,'’ 659) publishes a case of rupture, to the extent of an inch, in the wall of the left ventricle, parallel with the sulcus. The patient was a woman, set. 71, and the muscular tissue of the heart was pale and flabby. Westcott (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, ^554) records a case in which the symptoms of nausea and vomiting, though as in some other cases they might have been premonitory (?) of the mischief in the heart, are doubtful from the fact that the patient, a man, set. 6^, was more or less a drinker, and the rupture might have been the result of the vomiting {Rep.). In this case the heart showed the following appearances: on the wall of the left ventricle were three longitudinal fissures, the lowest extending through the entire thickness of the wall, and mea- suring rather over a quarter of an inch in length : internally the rupture extended to three quarters of an inch. Some of the musculi papillares were ruptured, and the microscope proved the fatty deeene- neration of the muscle. ^ Sherman (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 345) publishes the case of a man in Whom, alter being crushed between two railway cars, the heart was lound ruptured in three places. N'eurosis of the Heart. Nunueley ( Lancet,’ 1871, i, 228) groups cases of palpitation of the eart lor convenience, and in the absence of any scientific classification, 10146 REPOUT ON PllACPlCAL MEDICINE. as follows—(a) cases occurring in persons free from structural disease of the heart, or of any organ having a nervous connection with it; whether (i) in the young, in whom degenerative changes have not com- menced, or (2) those in middle or advanced life in whom they made considerable progress; (b) cases of distinctly reflex origin; (c) pal- pitation associated with structural disease; (d) due to mechanical dis- placements of the heart; {e) palpitation as a prominent symptom in certain conditions of blood—ansemia, gout, exophthalmic goitre, ex- cessive smoking or tea-drinking; (/) cases, of which he gives three examples, two with autopsies, characterised by the occurrence of pal- pitation in definite attacks of sudden access, and by the proportion which is observed between the perversion of the heart’s action, and the patient’s sensations, and by the evidence of disturbed innervation of organs connected with the heart. They form the transition, as it were, from palpitation to angina pectoris. He discusses (ib., 266) the treatment of palpitation, which consists in the removal of the imme- diate cause, regular hygiene and diet; tonics—iron, arsenic ; diffusible stimulants and anodynes; local applications, snch as belladonna, Althaus has advocated the application of the galvanic current to the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves in their conrse, and Waller their compression in the neck by the thumbs ; Nunneley thinks these two methods deserve study. Moinet (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 608) discusses the pathology ot angina pectoris, and concludes that it is a paralysis occurring in and dcpendino" upon a weakened heart, as no other theory can account for the symptoms and history of the disease. As to treatment he recom- mends, during the paroxysm, diffusible stimulants and opium, hot brandy and water, sinapisms to the feet, and placing the hands and feet in hot water; and generally tonics, galvanism and bleeding. Under the term of “irritable heart,” Da Costa (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. Ixi 11) describes a form of functional disorder which he observed in upwards of three hundred soldiers during the American war. The men had been for a longer or shorter time in active service, and com- plained of inability to march, on account of dyspnoea, dizziness, palpi- tation, pain, and a feeling of oppression and tightness in the chest. In numerous cases there was a history of some _ disturbance of digestion. Thouffh the men seemed to be in good condition, this derangement ot the heart’s action was very chronic, and the heart itself became in time hypertrophied. In addition to the palpitation, an almost constant symptom^was the sharp paroxysmal pain at the heart; there in- creased frequency of the pulse, much affected by position, &c., a hard and ierky pulse,^disturbance of the -nervous and digestive fujiptions Both sound^ of the heart were equal and short, sharp and metallic, but generally unaccompanied by a murmur; when the latter ^^YS^’^the Ls usually systolic. The causes of the affection are analysed, the writer enumerates certain preceding conditions of ill malarial fevers diarrhoea, hard field service, long marches. The pre Swsfng causes may be misuse of tobacco and spirits, venereal excesses, dispo g Z „ Da Costa looks upon the affection as tSSu S a disordered’ innervation on a heart rendered irritable byCARDIAC NEUROSIS—MALFORMATION, ETC. 14t over-action and excitement. As regards treatment, rest is tlie first requisite; digitalis, aconite, veratrum viride, gelsemium, belladonna, are all used with success, the latter especially in irregular action of the heart. Generally the course of treatment requires a long time. Mazza (“Del Cardiopalmo ISTervoso e del suo pin congruo tratta- mento,” ‘Ann. Dniv. di Med.,’ ccxv, 3) writes on nervous palpitation. He describes it as preceded by various nervous disorders—hemicrania, singing in the ears, and such like. Its chief symptom is the altered action of the heart. The access of palpitation is accompanied by pulsation in the carotid, swelling of the jugulars, &c. The length of the paroxysm varies greatly, sometimes extending over several days, generally occurring in the night. The differential diagnosis is based on the absence of any signs of organic disease in the heart and large vessels, the simultaneous presence of other symptoms of nervine dis- turbance, and the alternation of normal action of the heart with palpi- tation. The cause is to be found in anything that produces abnormal irritation of the organ; the misuse of stimulants ; cachectic diseases, especially those of the uterus, &c. The prognosis is more or less favourable. The treatment is mainly hygienic and dietetic. The writer prefers the sulphate or citrate of quinine in combination with carbonate of iron and bismuth. Green (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 613) records a case of disturbed cardiac innervation in a man, set. 47. Congenital Malformation of the Heart, ^c. . (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 337) publishes a case, occurring in Traube s clinique, of congenital stenosis of the aorta, complicated with aortic insufficiency, and adds some remarks by the latter on sclerosis of the aorta. The patient was a man, set. 38, and the post- niortem examination gave the following results :—enormous enlargement of both sides of the heart; the valves, with the exception of the aortic, healthy. The latter were insufficient, two of them adherent, thickened on their tree edge; the ascending aorta was dilated, but its walls were not thickened; the arch was of normal dimensions. At the point of entrance of the ductus Botalli, there was complete stricture of the aorta, with very great thickening and calcification of the walls and an opening which admitted only a very fine probe. Above and below this narrowed portion there was well-marked sclerosis, especially ! where the large vessels were given off. The corresponding SaSd mammary, epigastric, &c.) were enormouslf ffiiatedthe thoracic aorta was about its normal size, the abdominal narrow in proportion. Traube offers a new theory as to the origin of r5eJTt ToTnXic^^ Was most writers do He illltraS^SL movement of the blood stream, u; ^ condition of the pulmonary vessels pasla^e o?1re°bLnTr ®?^ ^l^®^there is great obstruction to ?he whn7T^ fLa ■ 1 them; and from the cases of drinkers, in whom the increased tension of the aortic system is due to the con»feEPORT ON PEACTICAL MEEICINE. 148 traction of the smaller arteries. He sketches the role which the white blood corpuscles play in this retarded blood movement, and supports his theory by quoting Eanvier and Cornil (‘Arch, de Physiol.,’ 1868, t. i), according to whom the white blood corpuscles are found within the protrusions as well as on the free surface of the internal coat, in endarteritis. Kelly (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 93) records the case of a child, cet. three months, which had been cyanotic from birth. A loud systolic bruit could be heard all over the thorax, but most distinctly at the apex. The child generally had a convulsive attack every morning. At the autopsy the aorta was found arising from the right ventricle, and the pulmonary artery from the left. The right ventricle was hyper- trophied, the ductus arteriosus closed, the foramen ovale open. The valves of the heart were healthy, the bronchial and coronary arteries given off normally. Pye Smith (ib., xxiii, 80) gives a case somewhat similar. The patient was a male child, 14 weeks old when it died, in whom there had been persistent cyanosis since birth. The heart was large for the age. Externally it scarcely appeared ill-formed, the apex being formed by the left ventricle. The right ventricle was hypertrophied, and half as thick again as the left. The septum was perfect. Arising from a short conus venosus on the right side was the aorta, with three ppfect semi- lunar valves, and two coronary branches ; it next gave ofi an innominate, carotid, and subclavian branch, shewed an open ductus arteriosus at the usual point, and then turned down to the left side of the chest. The orifice and the whole of the aorta were small, but nowhere con- stricted. The pulmonary artery arose from the left ventricle, with valves larger than those of the aorta; it was enormously dilated, as was also the right auricle, which was hypertrophied as well. There was a cribriform opening in the foramen ovale. The writer makes some valuable remarks on the origin of this not very rare abnormality. Dyce Brown (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 677) relates a case of stenop of the pulmonary artery, followed by tubercular phthisis, occurring in a female, mt. 25. Both her parents had died of phthisis. Prom the age of two years it had been noticed that she was cyanotic. About the af^e of 23, she began to have a cough, and died at last of profuse hemoptysis. There was a very loud systolic bruit during life. The autopsy showed slight enlargement of the heart, hypertrophy oi the right ventricle, atrophy of the left; slight thickening of mitral and tricuspid valves; closed foramen ovale; stenosis of the right conus arteriosus, with a hard and distinctly cretified nm all round The pulmonary valves were normal. About half an inch from this contracted orifice, to its right, was a triangular opening in the septum v^- triculorum Both lungs contained miliary tubercles and cavities. He refers to Lebert’s remarks on stenosis of the pulmonary artery (see ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ 1870, Jan. i.). Peacock » Cases of Malformation of the Heart”—(i) entire obliteration or atresia of the orifice and trunk of the pulmonary artery; cyanosis; death from cancrum oris fhov set 2i) • (2) great contraction, or stenosis, of the pulmonary artery; defect m thc^septum^of the ventricles and aorta, arising equally from the two cavities; no149 MALFORMATION OP HEART ANEURISM. ductus arteriosus, but that vessel replaced by two small branches connected with the aorta; cyanosis (boy, sot. 17, with plate), ‘Trans. Path. Soc., xxii, 85. Kelly, Mal- formed Heart, defective Septum Ventriculorum” (girl, a)t. 6), ib., 95. ^ King, “Mal- formation of the Heart associated with Caries of the Right Mastoid Bone, and Abscess in the Right Cerebral Hemisphere” (boy, a)t. 4, open septum, stenosis of aorta, dilatation of pulmonary artery, no ductus arteriosus), ib., xxiii, 83. Smart, “ Stenosis of the Pulmonary Artery from Endocarditis in Fmtal Stage, increased by Endocarditis after Puberty, death by Phthisis” (boy, mt. 18, incomplete septum), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 288. Broadbent, “A Study of a Case of Heart Disease, probably Malformation” (woman, mt. 31), ib., 1872, ii, 830. Jullien, “Maladie Bleue,’ ‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii,391. Sutherland, “Case of Morbus Cmruleus” (girl, mt. 13), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 526. Mackey, “Cyanosis, Murmur with the First Sound of the Heart, Patent Foramen Ovale” (female child, mt. S months), ‘Brit. Med. Journ,,’ 1871, ii, 666. Aneurism^ ^c. Balfour (‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 704) records four cases in illustration of some difficulties in the diagnosis of aneurism close to the heart. In all the cases a pulsating tumour was present, with a systolic or double murmur at the base of the heart; but on post-mortem examination no aneurism was found, and only some slight valvular mischief in some cases, in others retraction of the lungs. He calls attention to the importance of these cases in relation to the diagnosis of aneurism in this situation, especially to the points in which they differed from aneurism, viz.:—(i) the entire absence of all the subsidiary phenomena dependent upon pressure on the neighbouring organs; and (2) the fact of the isochronous pulsations being less forcible than those of the heart. (x. Johnson records the case of a man, set. 33, in whom aneurism of the aorta was diagnosed by the aid of the laryngoscope (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 720). The diagnosis was borne out by the appear- ances found post-mortem. At the back of the transverse aorta there was a shallow pouch an inch and a half in diameter, communicating with an aneurism about the size of a walnut, which pressed backwards on the trachea just above its bifurcation, and nearly filling its canal; the cartilages were eroded. The posterior wall of the aneurism was mainly composed of mucous membrane, in which was an ulcerated opening a quarter of an inch in diameter, and plugged only by a clot of fibrine. The symptoms during life were dyspnoea, dysphagia, and tracheal stridor; the latter was heard also over the upper dorsal spinous pro- cesses, when the voice had a loud bronchophonic character. Crisp (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 106) records a rare case of aneurism of the right coronary artery in a man, set. 63. He had been formerlv a great drinker; twenty years before his death he had fallen into the Thames,^ and was with dilficulty resuscitated. Since then he had had palpitation of the heart. In December, 1870, he had haemorrhage trom the stomach; three months later he died suddenly. At the autopsy the pericardium was found distended with blood, which came Irom a small orifice opening into an aneurism on the commencement of e first branch of the right coronary arter^L It was the size of a small wa nut, and passed back between the root of the aorta and the auricular appendix; its walls were very thin. The coronary arteriea150 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. were atlieromatous. The writer gives a table of 12 cases in which this description of aneurism was found; its most frequent termination is by- rupture into the pericardium. Barth (‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 253) gives a case of dissecting aneurism in a man, set. 57. After a motion of his bowels he was suddenly seized with paralysis and loss of sensation in the right leg, accompanied by severe pain in the chest. During the succeeding days the pains appeared in the right leg, and also in the left. The right leg was cold. Dour days after another motion, death occurred somewhat suddenly. The autopsy showed about three pints of blood in the left pleura, into which projected a large tumour, the size of a child’s head. The left ventricle was hypertrophied, but there was nothing else abnormal about the heart. The sheath of the aorta and pulmonary artery within the pericardium were infiltrated with blood. The commencement of the aorta was atheromatous. In the lower and middle part of the arch was a rent through the internal and muscular coats, about 4 cm. broad. Close by and for 10 cm. along the thoracic aorta, the sheath and mus- cular coats were hollowed out by a large effusion of blood. The latter communicated through a rent in the sheath in the highest part of the arch with a collection of coagulated blood under the pleura, bulging into the left pleural sac, and slightly into the posterior mediastinum. The writer explains the pain in the right leg by supposing that the dis- sected portion of the aortic wall was pressed against the opposite wall, Bomewbat in tlie fashion of an alternating valve, and so temporarily hin- dered the outflow of blood to the body. Other papers on aneurism and disease of the aorta are; Tirifahy, “Anevrysme de la Crosse de I’Aorta,” ‘PresseMed. Beige,’ 1871, 109. Vallin, “Observation d’Anevrysme de I’Aorta, ouvert dans la bronclie gauche, ‘Eec. de Mem. de Med. milit.,’ xxvii, 310. Duchamp, ‘ Anevip’sme de l Aorta, ‘Lvon Med.,’ viii, 326. Heath, “ Sacculated Aneurism of the Ai^h of the Aorta siniulating Aneurism of the Innominate Artery,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,^ xxu, 95. Croft, “Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta; cured Popliteal Ane^ism, ib.,_7oo. •Williams, “Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta bursting into the (Esophagus, _ih., 102. Morris, ‘Aneurism of Abdominal Aorta which had burst behind ^the peiito- neum and subsequently into the peritoneal cavity,” ib., 104. Whipham, Dissecting rnem-ism of th^first potion of tie Arch of the Aorta,” ib., 113. Hawkes, ‘‘Rupture Tm^ of Brain” ib., 114 Biiumler, “Case of Aneurysm of the In- • I ’ Arfprv -nressiun- on the ri°-ht Pneumogastric and Recurrent Nerves, ib., Sd Embolism S le^ZlZ Srebral Artery,” ib. 70. Ledliard, :;C-e of sudden :riht lac” history of syphilis), ‘ Dublin Jour m,’ hi 36 Foot giving rise , .o,, j,o. Moxon, “Sudden death from Sub- Abdomen, Med. Times and (I ..^ 7 > > « Case of Aneurism of the acute piicanlium ; temporary improToment under tl.e ^"‘Vlodldf ■ B'it Med. Journ ■ .87. use of M d' “ 1 casT uf Aneurism of the Aorta simulating peripaneut pateucy of lh:iorti‘ti;es| with au^p^151 ANEURISM—AEPECTIONS OE THE MOUTH, ETC. Woodniau. “Aneurism of the Alclominal Aorta presenting unusual Features (solely ffit. 52, gangrene of right leg two years before), ih., ii, 380. Egan, Aoitic Aneurism,” ib., 1872, i. i 00. Browning, “Eupture of Aorta within the Pericardium (man, mt. 34), ib., 661. Lincoln, “A case of Aneurism of the Arch of the Aorta treat;i by Electrolysis,” ‘New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, 127. Moxon and Durham ‘ On a ease of Abdominal Aneurism cured by Compression of the Aorta (man, ‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 213. Bryant, “A case of Abdominal Aneurism ti^ated by Distal Pressure ” (man, mt. 30), ib., 225. Habershon, “ On some Obscure Forms of Abdominal Disease, i. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta simulating spinal disease. 2. Aneurism of the Aorta both in Chest and Abdomen; rupture; symptoms resem- blino- those of renal calculus. 3. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta at the Loeiiac Axis”: gastric symptoms; pain in the testicle; rupture behind the peritoneum, ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Reports,’ xvi, 389. Domville “ Case of Aortic Aneurism (man,_ mt. 40), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 287. Sparks, “Intrapericardial Rupture of the Aorta in a Boy of 16,” ib., 13. Sebrotter, “Case of probable partial Obliteration of Aorta (man, mt. 28, still alive), ib., ib. Waters, “ Clinical Lecture on Thoracic Aneurism (three cases, and another already published), ib., 1872, i, 247. E. Diseases oe the Organs oe Digestion. Affections of the Mouth, Pharynx, and Salivary Glands. Isainbert (‘Gaz. Hebd.,’ 1871, 7^7) gives a sketch of scrofulous (pbaryngo-scrofulous) angina. It is, according to him, characterised by a slight degree of ulceration, or only erosion, of the follicles situated especially at the back of the pharynx; syphilitic ulcerations, on the contrary, commence on the velum, pillars and epiglottis before attack- ing the posterior wall of the pharynx. The scrofulous ulceration may, however, spread to these parts, and to the orifice of the Eustachian tube and the arytenoid cartilages. They are indolent and unaccom- panied by any swelling of the cervical glands. They are yellow, rough, and covered with muco-purulent matter. In the worst cases the whole mucous surface is obscured by a greyish deposit, the breath is foetid, and yellow pointed pustules like small boils are visible. It is not always easy to distinguish the scrofulous and syphilitic lesions of the pharynx, though the diagnosis is generally easy in extreme eases ; but the treatment which cures those due to the syphilitic poison only aggra- vates the scrofulous ulcers, which are healed by tonic and anti-scrofulous remedies. Adhesions of the velum may follow their cicatrisation, and must be remedied by surgical means; the deafness which often succeeds, and is due to obliteration of the Eustachian tube cannot apparently be cured. He recommends iodide of iron, general tonics, cod-liver oil, and local applications of tincture of iodine, either alone or with opium; sethereal tincture of iodoform; solutions of chloride of zinc, or concentrated chromic acid; inhalations of a powder composed of iodoform and lycopodium; and in cases in which the ulceration is accompanied with haemorrhage, the local use of perchloride of iron. In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper in the Societe Medicale des Hopitaux, Lhbbe strongly opposed the term “ scrofulous ’ as applied to the affection, on the ground that scrofula is not a disease, but a diathesis. Lubanski (‘ Lyon Med.,’ viii, 426) writes upon “ Ulcerative angina,” which complicates ulcerative stomatitis in soldiers, and is more pro-REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 perly called “ pseudo-membranous stomatitis.” lie had occasion to observe the affection as it occurred in an epidemic of “ ulcerative stomatitis” in a portion of the garrison at Lyon during the late war. Of twenty cases five presented well-marked ulcerative angina, in two of which the stomatitis was absent. The patients’ condition was generally good, but they complained of pain in swallowing; examination of the throat showed one or two more or less extensive yellowish patches on the pillars of the fauces and the tonsils. He lays great stress upon their yellow colour ; they were seldom grey or blackish like the deposit in diphtheria. The underlying ulcerations were only slight, not sur- rounded by any swelling or induration of the mucous membrane, and with no tendency to spread. The affection never extended beyond the isthmus of the fauces; generally it was unilateral. The pain was only slight. The submaxillary glands generally took no part in the dis- turbance, though sometimes they were only slightly swollen. The breath was always foetid. The patients continued their occupations throughout the affection ; there was no pyrexia; in one case only were there slight febrile symptoms at the commencement. The length of the angina depended on the treatment; generally all symptoms disap- peared at the end of a fortnight. Change of air and diet, gargles, and the application of nitrate of silver, were the means employed. Crisp, “ Cancer of the Tongue and Simple Stricture of the (Esophagus ” (female, at. 64), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 128. Bristowe, “ Cancer including Pharynx, Larynx, neighbouring Lymphatic Glands and Lungs” (woman, set. 48), ib., 132. Bradley, “ Adhesion of the Velum Pendulum Palati to the Posterior Wall of the Pharynx; loss of the epiglottis, syphilis,” ib., xxiii, loi. Thorowgood, “Salivary Calculus removed from the Orifice of the Parotid Duct,” ib., 103. Arnott, “ Macro-glossia or Congenital Enlargement of the Tongue,” ib. 109. FaiiTie Clarke, “Hypertrophy of the Tongue,” ib., iii. Id., “ On a Case of Unilateral Atrophy of the Tongue,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 91. Stroppa, “Faringite ed esofagite flemmonose con sup- purazione delle tonsille ed edema acuto della glottide ” (the last the cause of death, man, set. 47), ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1871, 277. Decaisne, “Paralysie du voile du palais, application de sangues, guerison” (woman, set. 98, with simple angina), ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 278. Heidenhain, “ Ueher die Wirkung einiger Gifte auf die Nerven der (Jlandula Submaxillnris,” ‘Pfliiger’s Arch.,’ v, 40. Handheld Jones, “Treatment of Acute Tonsillitis with Belladonna,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 12. Id., “Case of Pseudo- tonsillitis,” ib., 504. Laseque, “ Stomatite erythemateuse,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 81. Packard, “ Report of a Case of Tonsillitis associated with Parotitis; Laryugo- Tracheotomy, death” (boy, set. 4I years), ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixiii, 404. Priestley, “On Cancrum Oris,” ‘Brit. Med. Jomm.,’Ji, 577. Dujardin-Beaumetz, “DesTroubles de la Secretion Salivaire,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 211. Affections of the (Esophagus. Porro (‘ Annul. TJniv. di Med.,’ ccxvii. 421) records a case, with plates, of congenital atresia of the oesophagus, the lower part of which communicated with the trachea. A newborn female child, after beginning eagerly to suck, was suddenly seized with cough, choking, and regurgitation of the milk. The introduction of a sound proved the condition of the tube. The child lived two days. The upper portion of the oesophagus was found to terminate in a blind end 2^ cm. below the glottis: from the blind end a bundle of muscular fibres wasAFFECTIONS OF THE OBSOPHAGUSj ETC. 153 continued along tlie posterior wall of the trachea to the bifurcation: here there was an opening between the lower portion of the oesophagus and the trachea. Some traces of milk were in the stomach, which must have found their way thither through the trachea and the open- ing. There was but slight expansion of the right lung. Pagge, “A Case of Simple Stenosis of the CEsophagus followed by Epithelioma” (male, mt. 84, oesophagus in upper part rather less than an inch in diameter, dilated to inch at a point 4i inches from cardia, thence gradually narrowed till it admitted only an ordinary lead pencil, epithelioma of dilated portion), ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvii, 413. Clapton, “ Cases of Stricture of the iEsophagus” (two, one autopsy, both males, mt. 51 and 55), ‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 177, and see Bristowe’s report of the first case, ‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxii, 134. Demarquay, “Eetrecissement de Tcesophage’ (in a hoy ast. 15, who had drank a glass of potash-solution; the catheter by which he was fed seems to have passed through the softened oesophagus, a com- munication being found post-mortem between the latter and a large empyema), ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 36. Greenhow, “ Cancer of the OEsophagus, with a Fistulous Opening into the Trachea” (man, set. 59, epithelioma), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 129. Thorow- good, “Cancerous Stricture of the CEsophagus” (man, set. 64, epithelioma), ib., xxiii, 115. West, “On Syphilitic Constriction of the (Esophagus and Pharynx,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 291. Lowe, “On Gastrotomy,” with case (of a woman, mt. 51, in whom the autopsy showed schirrhus of the oesophagus), ib., 1871, ii, i2x. Affections of the Stomach. Plint (‘New York Med.Tlec.,’ vi, 40) publishes a paper on the patholo- gical relations of the gastric and intestinal tubules, based mainly on the researches of Handheld Jones, "Wilson Pox and Fenwick. Hilgendorf and Paulicki (‘ Virch. Arch.’ lii. 1^3) found extensive ulceration of the mucous membrane of the stomach, with purulent embolic deposits in the liver, in an ape (‘Cebus Apella ?’). The animal had had diarrhoea for some time. Ward (‘Brit. Med. Journ.’ 1872. i. 183) records the occurrence of medullary sarcoma of the stomach in a man, aged 53. He had no actual pain, but a little uneasiness after taking food, and vomited at intervals a small quantity of dark foetid, not foeeal, fluid. There was no pain anywhere on pressure, nor was any tumour perceptible. A large fungated growth was found in the interior and posterior wall, occupying part of the lesser curve of the stomach, as well as the pyloric half. The pyloric oriflce and greater curve were free, so that food could readily pass. The cardiac section of the stomach was not dilated, and its walls were not perceptibly thickened. Microscopic examinations of the growth showed small round nucleated and granular cells imbedded in connective tissue. Afideck (‘Edin. Journ.’ xvii, 1104) gives two cases of dilatation of the stomach, in which the method of Kussmaul (see last Eeport p. 168) was employed. In both cases there was evidence of stricture of the pylorus. Both patients were men, aged 36 and 42. The second case was less promising than the flrst, in that the disease had existed longer, the dilatation of the stomach was greater, and there was (doubtful ?) evidence of ulceration. Both cases, however, obtained great relief from the use of the stomach-pump. The author attaches great importance to the restoration of the urine to its normal quantity and character, asEEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 indicating that the mucous membrane of the stomach is in a healthier condition. In these cases (ib. xviii. 378) the stomach was emptied between breakfast and dinner, at first once a day, then after the lapse of two or three days, and at last dispensed with altogether. Schliep (‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 831) communicated a paper on the same subject to the Clinical Society. The results of the application of the stomach pump had been eminently satisfactory, and appeared in general in the following order:—Vomiting ceased, the pains disappeared, the appetite and action of the bowels soon became better, the general health was improved, and the patient’s weight was increased. He had tried soda, creasote, bromic acid, and permanganate of potash for wash- ing out the stomach with good effect. The patients soon became accustomed to the tube, and there was but little fear of sucking some mucous membrane into its opening. This had occurred only once in about six hundred applications of the pump by the writer, and was followed by no bad consequences. Crisp showed to the Pathological Society (‘Trans.,’ xxiii, 137) a dilated stomach from a woman aged 60, who had suffered for some years from indigestion, flatulence, acidity and pyrosis. Her skin was of a yellowish, coppery tint. She had also commencing cirrhosis of the liver. Habershon (‘ Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvi, 399) records the three following cases :—The first was that of a woman, aet. 47, who had had pain and vomiting after food for a year, and had become gradually weaker. Her feet and ankles swelled, and soon after her abdomen became enlarged. On admission, there was anasarca of the whole of the lower extremi- ties, oedema of the abdominal walls, and ascites. The heart sounds were very feeble ; the urine free from albumen. About a month later she was seized with violent pain in the epigastrium, soon became col- lapsed, and died. At the autopsy the abdomen was greatly distended, and contained a considerable quantity of fluid, of a milky appearance, in the peritoneum. The stomach also was greatly distended with dark- coloured fluid, consisting of serai-digested food and blood. The pylorus was very much thickened; the submucous cellular tissue was an inch in thickness, white, fleshy, and oedematous, without cancerous juice, the thickening becoming gradually less, but reaching nearly five inches from the pylorus. The muscular coat was very much hypertrophied, a quarter of an inch in thickness at the pylorus. Tliere was slight ulceration at one point as large as a threepenny-piece. The microscope showed that “ the greater part of the white tough substance was com- posed of organised flbrous tissue, but in parts the substance was a more delicate tissue, with numerous small, spindle-shaped cells, with very long tails blending in the intercellular fibroid or fibrillated texture.” The mucous membrane itself was not afi“ected. The other organs, ex- cepting the heart, which was small and atrophied, were normal. The case is considered to be one of sarcomatous disease of the pylorus. In the second case, a man, rat. 43, in whom there had been scarcely any vomiting, a large cancerous ulcer existed in the stomach; it reached the pylorus, but the ulceration had removed the obstruction. The growth and’ ulceration extended for three inches at least into the155 AFFECTIONS OF THE STOMACH. Btomacb, and occupied both the anterior and posterior aspect. There were no nodules in the liver itself, but some enlarged glands had ex- erted pressure upon the bile-ducts, and had caused the jaundice noticed durin<^life. In the third case, a man, let. 44, there was the most ex- tensive ulceration of the stomach, by which the pyloric valve was destroyed. For some weeks before death the vomiting, which had existed at first, ceased almost altogether. _ Mayer (‘Deut. Arch,,’ ix, 105) gives a case in which softening ot the stomach occurred during life. The patient was a man, set. 37, who had been at a former period under treatment for stricture ot the cardia. He was suddenly seized with symptoms of perforation^ after b^^ing taken a large quantity of new beer in a state ot fermentation, and black bread. A few hours after the symptoms first set in, the liver dulr^s had disappeared, and in six hours and a half the patient was dead. The post-mortem examination showed a rent, 9 centimetres long, in the fundus of the stomach, with extensive brown softening, the cavity of the peritoneum distended with gas, and the contents of the stomach; the latter covered the coils of intestine in more or less thick layers. Mayer agrees with HofTmann as to the pathological process which takes place, and which the latter writer believes to consist in haemorrhagic infiltration of the walls of the stomach, and their solution from the efiect of tlie acid contents of the organ. Moxon, “ Case of Gout in the Stomach (?) and Phlegmonous Colitis ” (man, set. 39, albuminuria, diarrhoea, contracted kidneys, gouty deposit in joints), ‘ Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxii, 139. Skoda, “Ueber das perforirende Magengeschwiir. Klinischer Vortrag,” ‘ Wien. Med. Zeitung,’ 1871, 97. Heubner, “Ueber einen seltenen Fall von indirecter Magenlungenfistel, in Polge eines Perforirenden Magengeschwiirs’’ (woman, set. 27, autopsy, with engraving), ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 193, Janeway, “ The Cause of Per- forating Ulcer of the Stomach” (woman, set. 34, large old ulcer, with perforation, and haemorrhagic infiltrations in its neighbourhood, embolism of gastro-epiploic artery), ‘New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 427. Crisp, “Fatal Hsemorrhage from simple Ulcer of the Stomach” (woman, set. 62), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 141. Ross, “ A Case of Perforating Ulcer of the Stomach, Recovery,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 81. Tinley, “ Case of Peforating Ulcer of the Stomach, Recovery,” ib., 503. Farrar, “ Case of Ulcer of the Stomach” (?!), ib., ii, 574. Wiltshire, “Ulcer of the Stomach, Rup- ture of the Heart” (see under latter), ib., 1872, i, 290. Heslop, “Ulcer of the Stomach” (woman, set. 36, autopsy), ‘Brit. Med. Jomm.,’ 1872, i, 223. Stewart, “Case of Ploematemesis Treated by the Hypodermic Injection of Ergotine,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 511. Johnson, “Cancer of the Stomach” (woman, set. 52), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 527. Bristowe, “Cancer of Stomach, Liver, Lungs, Lym- phatics of the Thorax, with involvmeut of Left Recurrent Laryngeal, and Paralysis of the Left Side of the Larynx” (mau, set. 49), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 137. Wilson, “ Cancer of Stomach, with Cheesy Deposits in Lungs of later Formation ” (female, set. 46), ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’Ixi, 423. Ziemssen, “Zur Technik der Localbehandlung des Magens, zugleich eine Mahnung zur Vorsicht bei der Anwen- dung der Magenpumpe,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ x, 65. Gee, “Thrombosis of Varicose Veins of Stomach” (man, set. 63), ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ vii, 148. Affections of the Intestines. Under tbe term “membranous enteritis,” Da Costa (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sei.,’ Ixii, 321) describes the afiiection of tbe intestines “ in which membranes or skins are voided.” He thinks it is the discharge of the inner coat of the bowel spoken of by Paulus Egineta; one of the in-156 UEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. farctus of Kaempf; the diarrhcea tubularis, pellicular enteritis, pseudo- membranous enteritis of later writers. The disease is characterised by attacks of abdominal pain, followed by the discharge of moulds or long tubes. There may be but one attack ; more generally the paroxysm is followed by others at varying intervals. The shortest time for an attack to last is, according to his experience, a week. The discharge is preceded by distension, sense of burning, colicky pains, and, at times, a sluggish state of the bowels, and succeeded by a condition of com- parative health. Palpitation of the abdominal aorta is common; be- tween the attacks the bowels are irregular, the patient suffers from disturbance of his general health and nervous system, and irritable bladder, with discharge of large quantities of mucus. He gives the notes of seven cases. The membranous discharge may come away with every movement of the bowels, almost continuously for months, perhaps years. The microscopic examination of the tubes passed shows a transparent, amorphous, basement-substance, here and there indistinctly fibrillated, and having imbedded in it granules, free nuclei, and small, shrivelled, irregular, and rather granular cells. There are not many well-marked epithelial cells, nor white or elastic fibrous tissue cells. The chemical reactions of the membranes do not throw much more light upon them. He discusses the differential diagnosis of the affection, looks upon the prognosis as unfavourable, and suggests rest in bed, ap- plication of hot water to the abdomen, slight purgatives, and an easily digested diet, as most suitable during the attack. The treatment in protracted eases consists in a strict regime, the disuse of purgatives, the steady use of iron, acids, bismuth, injection of nitrate of silver, and the application of the continuous current. Whitehead (“Mucous Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 143) gives an historical account of the same affection. Out of 120 writers on the disease, he cannot refer to any half dozen who have described it by the same name. He considers himself justified in stating that the cha- racteristic discharge from the bowel may be divided into three stages: —(1) Masses of more or less inspissated mucus, having the appearance of jelly. They are perfectly membranous, and contain only the merest trace of albumen. (2) Tubular casts of the gut, which occur as cylindrical sheaths, and also membranous shreds or flakes of various forms, which can be shown to be nothing more than fragments of the tubes in various stages of development. These contain an abun- dance of albumen, but no fibrin. (3) Membranous shreds of lymph, mixed with blood and pus. This form contains both albumen and fibrin in abundance, the latter in a fibrillated form. Middle-aged persons, children, and old people, may be held as liable to the disease in the order in which they are enumerated. It occurs far more frequently in females than in men. Constipation, and the retention of excreta Avithin the system, while it is a consequence, is also an exciting cause of the dis- ease. It is generally observed in persons of a cold temperament and relaxed habit of body, with feeble circulation, cold extremities, and a peculiar whitish-yellow paleness of skin; in those who are apathetic, and wanting in decision and energy in their moral and intellectual cha- racter, though at the same time they possess a highly excitable condi-affections of the intestines. 157 tion of the nervous centres. Women who suffer during menstrual neriods, and those who are victims to membranous dysmenorrhoea, are neculiarly prone to it. It is often met with m women who are either childless, or have ceased early in their married^ life to hear children. The most common existing cause of the malady is the irritation ot the intestinal canal, produced by crude and indigestible articles ot diet The writer discusses at further length the symptoms and the treatment of “ mucous disease.” McSwiney (‘ Dub. Journ.,’ li, 396) writes on diarrhoea, with green stools, in infants. As to their nature and constitution he leaves them still unexplained. He thinks there may be a “congenital functional digestive weakness,” by which a true gastro-intestinal catarrh would he caused, followed by acid fermentation, and the action of the acids so produced perhaps on the bili-verdin. Eosse (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 332) has found the best results from the treatment of cholera infantum with bromide of potassium. The medicine was usually prepared by mixing from twenty to forty grains of the bromide with two ounces of mucilage of acacia; the dose was from ten drops to a teaspoonful according to circumstances. Occa- sionally a drachm of krameria was added to the mixture.^ The food given was the expressed juice of fresh beef, seasoned with cayenne pepper. The ‘ Bulletin de I’Acad. de Med.’ (xxxvi, 322), contains a discus- sion on gastro-intestinal puncture in tympanites, opened by Bouley who affirmed the harmlessness of the operation as practised by veterinary surgeons on animals. Depaul, Piorry, Barth, and others, give their experience of the operation as performed on the human subject, and generally speak well of its results. Beach (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 397) records a case of fatal peritonitis in a woman, set. 32. The autopsy showed general perito- nitis, the appendix vermiformis was greenish-black, and contained a hard ovoid mass made up of oat-hulks; between the external surfaces of the head of the ascending colon, the ileum and the appendix was an abcess tying together these parts of the intestine. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 146) gives a case of the same kind in a girl, set. 18, in whose appendix vermiformis were found three small concretions, the largest about the size of a pea. She died of acute peritonitis due to ulceration and perforation of the appendix. Fonssagrives, “ De la Ponction dans la Pneumatose Gastro-intestinale et Perito- neale,” ‘Lyon Med.,’ viii, 155. Piorry, “Memoire relatif; soit aux Collections de Gaz contenus dans les Cavites Abdominales j Qazo-gastrasie, Qazo-enierasie, &azo- peritonasie {asie, abreviation d.’ectasie), varietes de la Tympanite des auteurs, soit a la Ponction de ventre, pratiquee dans I’intention d’evacuer des Fluids Elastiques,” ‘ Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxvi, 943. Watben, “ On Punctures of the Colon for the relief of Tympanites,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 464. Braxton Hicks, “Abdomiual Puncture in Tympanites,” ib., 526. Brown, on same, ib., ib. Saunders, “Puncture of the Intes- tine for the relief of Tympanites,” ib., 583 (and see Hooke and Wilks on the same ®'ffij®ct, ib., 584)' Chauffard, “Ulcere simple du Duodenum; perforation; peritonite generalisee; mort,” ‘ Gaz. des H6p.,’ 1871, 373* Barclay, “A Case of Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum ” (man, ajt. 56), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 377. Wadham, “A Case of Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum” (man, mt. 51), ib., 230. Kogers, “ Perforating Ulcer of the Duodenum” (man, rot. 56), ib., ii, 159, Tyson, “Ulcerative Disease of158 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. he Large Intestine” (man, ret. 28), ‘Amer. Jonrn, Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 154. Weber, Abscess of the Appendix Vermiform is,” ‘ New York Med, .Journ,,’ xiv, 142. Chambers, “On Obscure Disease of the Cajcum,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 7. Elhott, “Obscure Disease of Ca3cum,” ib., 35. Jackson, “Case of Perityphilitis,” lb., ii, 63. Waldeyer, “Mycosis Intestinalis,” ‘Virch. Archiv,’ Hi, 541. Munch, “ Mycosis Intestinalis und Milzbrand,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, 802. Weiser, “ Ueber die Behandlung des Durohfalls bei Sauglingen,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1871, No. 35. “Diarrea nei Bambini,” ‘Med. Gaz. Lomb.,’ 1872, 30. Gueneau de Mussy,' “Lemons Cliniques sur la Diarrhee Chronique,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 27. Simon, “Diarrhee palustre; sulfate de quinine,” ‘Arch. Gen.,’ xix, 108. Heslop, “Case of Abdominal Intumescence, with Displacement of the Heart, from Feecal Accumula- tion” (girl, ffit. 14), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 647. Intestinal Obstruction. Kiittner (‘ Yirch. Arch.,’ liii, 274) discusses the pathological processes which a portion of invaginated intestine undergoes, before the intus- suscepted part dies and separates, and before recovery is complete. He gives three cases with autopsies, two in boys of 18, and one in a man 34 years old. In all the cases the first symptoms of obstruction were succeeded by diarrhoea : and the- post-mortem appearances in all three showed that after infiammation and necrosis the intestine became again permeable, but death occurred, as it frequently does, from perforation of the intestinal walls and general peritonitis. The following cases must speak for themselves ; they have been arranged according to the classification given by Tagge (‘ G-uy’s Hosp. Hep.,’ xiv, 272 ; and see last ‘Bienn. Eep.,’ p. 172.—Rep). 1. Cases in which the gut is plugged by its contents : Simon, “ Histoire d’une Occlusion lufcesfcinale complete par un Calcul Biliaire, quelques remarques sur le Traitement de ce grave accident,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Th&ap.,' Ixxxi, 178. Meynott, “Impaction of a large Gallstone in the Ileum,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 576. Clarke, “Large Biliary Concretion in the Ueum,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Rev., Iv, 1. Prunac, “Occlusion Intestiuale Produite par 1’Accumulation de Matieres Stercorales. Emploi de la glace iutus et extra,” ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 486. Black, “ Clinical Lecture on Obstinate Constipation and Obstruction of the Bowels,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1871, i, 83. 2. Intussusceptions or invaginations : Greene, “ Invagination of the Large Intestine ” (child, set. 4^ months, autopsy), ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 279. Gray, “ Report of a case of Intussusception” (child, mt. 5 years, autopsy), ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 338. Hunter, “Interesting case of Intus- susception” (child, set. 9 months), ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 349. Crisp. “Intussusception in an Infant” (girl, mt. 8 weeks, autopsy), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 123. Durham, “ Intussusception of the Rectum, with Adenomatous Growth ” (man, set. 44, colotomy, death four days later, autopsy), ib., xi6. Kjelberg and Blix, “Fall af tarminvagina* tion hos et spadt barn ” (female child, set. 11 months, invagination of upper part of large intestine and portion of the small intestine in descending colon, and sigmoid flexure), ‘ Hygiea,’ 1871, 97. Moretti, “Invagimento intestinale, Nota ed osseiwa- zione,” ‘Annal. Univ. di Med.,’ ccxvi, 542. Herz, “ Zwei PaUe von Darminvagination bei Kindern” (i, female, set. 6 months, intussusception of transverse and ascending colon, csecum, and end of ileum, operation, death six hours afterwards; 2, female, set. 7 months, death), ‘ Oesterr. Jahrb. f. Paediat.,’ 1872, i, i. Dubois, “Occlusion intes- tinale, elimination d’une portion d’intestin grele longue de 40 centimetres.” Guerisou, (boy, set. 15), “Bull, de I’Acad. de Med.,’ xxxv, 849. Halleguen, “Guerison depuis dix ans d’uue invagination intestinale avec expulsion de 75 centimetres d’intestin159 INTESTINAL OBSTUECTION. gr^le” (woman, mt. 50), ib., 851. Eogers, “Intussusception” (boy, sot. 7, recovery), ‘New York Med. Rec.,’ vi, 115. 3 and 4. Strictures and contractions : Thompson, “ Congenital Narrowing of the Canal of the Rectum ” (niale, set. 46, autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 635. Bristowe, “ Complete Stricture ot the Upper Part of the Descending Colon caused by a growth of Colloid Cancer. Ulceration ot the Colon and Ileum, and Perforation of the latter,” ‘Path. Soc. Trans., xxiii, 3. Volvuli : Crisp, “Fatal Strangulation from the Twisting of a portion of the Colon” (male set. 62, autopsy), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 1x2. Bell andCroom, “A case of Obsti’uc- tion of the Bowels, attended by Unusual Symptoms, with Remarks” (man, set. 50, twist of intestine above colon, I'upture of intestine, genei’al peritonitis), ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 971. Panas, “Cas d’Occlusion Intestinale produite par le Reuversement d’une Anse de I’lleon sur ellememe. Etablissement d’un Anus Artiflciel, Mort, Autopsie” (male, set. 75), ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 359. Meade, “ Ca.se of Chronic Ileus ” (woman, set. 40), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 261. Thompson, “Clinical Lecture on a Case of Intestinal Obstruction” (woman, set. 51, omental), ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 97. Handheld Jones gives the following cases:—Volvulus in man, set. 55, Twist- ing of Mesentery in girl, set 10; ib., 1872, i, 3. 6. Strangulation: Habershon, “Adhesion and Contraction of the Omentum, the cause of fixed Abdominal Pain, afterwards of Colic and of Obstruction,” ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xvi, 4x5. Heiberg, “Ueber innere Incai’cerationen,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 30. Id., “Nach- trag zu dem Aufsatz fiber innere Incarcerationen,” ib., 282. Tayloi’, “ Intestinal Obstruction from a Kixot on the lower part of the Ileum ” (woman, set. 40 ,• with autopsy and drawing), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ X87X, ii, XX9. Saltei’, “ Strangulation of a Loop of Intestine by Pibx'ous Bands, Death ” (man, set. 69, with autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ X87X, i, xS3. Gay, “ Strangulation of Intestine by a Solitary Baud” (! no autopsy), ib., 233. Southey, “On Two Cases of Persistent Omphalomesenteric Duct, leading to Fatal Intestinal Obstruction” (boy, set. x6, girl, set. 132)^ ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, i, 4x2. Handfield Jones, “Cancerous Stricture of Intestine” (woman, set. 64), ib., 64. Dubay, “ lucarcex-atio Hexmisc Mesogastricse dextx’. in Folge der abnorinen Bilduug des Mesenteriums ” (man, set. 35), ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Ivi, 27X. Dysentery. Bierbaum, “Dysenteria. Erlebnisse aus der Kinderpraxis,” ‘ Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 29. Valentiner, “Storungen der Hautcirculation tind Hauternahrung in einem Falle von Dysenteric,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ X87X, 9. Lutoxi, “Note sur I’emploi de I’ergot de seigle centre la Dysenteric,” ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii, 61 o. Temoin, “ Considerations Generales sur le Traitement de la Dysenteihe,” ‘Bull. Gen. de Tlierap.,’ Ixxxi, 4x2. Habershon, “ Dysentery in China, Chronic Irritation of the Colon, deep-seated pain behind the Spleen, Abscess, Effusion into the Chest, and Death ” (man, set. 50), ‘ Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ xvi,__422. Ward, “Notes on Fifteen Cases of Chronic Dysentery,” ‘Lancet,’ X87X, ii, x6o. Murray, “Recent Specimens of Acute Dysentery from Sedan,” ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, X42. Affections of the Liver. (o) Suppurative Hepatitis—Abscess. Jameson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 569) tapped an abscess in the liver of a Mahommedan, mt. 40, at Hurdui, Oudh, and removed seventy-two ounces of purulent fluid. Lour days later the patient died. The autopsy showed that a single abscess occupied the whole substance of the liver except a small portion of the posterior part of the right lobe.HEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDlCINlI. 160 Its cavity was found capable of coutaiuiug only eighteen ounces of waiter, so rapidly had it contracted. Chunder Eoy (ib., lo) records a case in a Mahommedan, o)t. 30, in whom the introduction of a canula was followed by an even stream of dark venous blood ; the orifice of the canula, which was left in situ, was plugged, but the patient died three days later of exhaustion. The post- mortem examination revealed a large abscess occupying the right lohe of the liver, which was transformed into a uniform cyst, bounded by a wall of hepatic substance not thicker than half an inch. A few lines of hepatic tissue intervened between the point of the canula and the cavity of the abscess. Black, “ Abscess of the Liver, Operation, Recovery ” (man, mt. 31), ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, i, 647. Ward, “ Supposed Hepatic Abcess discharging through the Lung” (man, mt. 56), ib., 681. Moxon, “Abscess of the Liver,” ib., ii, 778. Bennett, “Hepatic Abscess,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 625. Arnould, “ Abces et infarctus duFoie ct de la rate,” ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 4. Gallard, “Lecons sur I’Hepatite et sur les Abc& du Foie,” ‘Union Med.,’ xii, 680. (5) 'Parenchymatous 'Hepatitis—Acute Atrophy. Duckworth and Legg (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ vii, 208) give notes of three cases of acute yellow atrophy of the liver. A girl, ast. 10, had been jaundiced for some days before admission, and after attacks of the most furious delirium, and almost incessant vomiting, died eighteen days later. The hepatic dulness was somewhat diminished. On opening the abdominal cavity, numerous ecchymoses were seen studding the omentum and colon. The liver was adherent by a few old adhesions to the diaphragm ; it did not seem to be shrunken in size. The ccecum and colon were filled with scybalous masses of a pale clay-colour; about an inch below the pylorus there was a small ulcer about the size of a three- penny piece covered by a coagulum of blood. The stomach contained about four ounces of chocolate-like fluid. The bile-ducts contained a few drops of a viscid greenish fluid. The liver was flaccid, and felt doughy ; it was considerably mottled and presented islets of a bright yellow colour, which were continued into the substance of the organ; the acini were quite distinct. The knife was rendered distinctly greasy. In the left lobe there was a light yellow staining of the whole liver substance, and no acini could be made out. Sections of the left lobe showed under the microscope no trace of liver-cells, only an extremely dark and granular appearance, with large and small globules of fat and balls of pigment about the size of a granulation-corpuscle. ^ In the sections from the right lobe a few hepatic cells remained undissolved, but in other respects their appearance was the same. The spleen was soft, the kidneys somewhat degenerated. ^ The other organs were natural. In the other two cases occurring in men, aged 23 and 19, no post-mortem examination could be made. The second of these two was a brother of the girl first mentioned. A noteworthy point in con- nection with other symptoms in the diagnosis of the disease would seem to be the occurrence of severe hepatic pains associated with a temperature either natural or even below the normal. Chamberlain (‘ New York Med. Eec.,’ vi, 265) gives a case of atrophyLIVER—ATROPHY—CIRRHOSIS. 161 of the Hver in a woman aged 22. The symptoms were icterus, black vomit, coma, suppression of urine; death occurred after six days. The liver weighed 2 lbs. 8 ounces. Porter (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 409) gives notes of a case of the same kind in a merchant aged 23, with an account of the post- mortem appearances found. Clements (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 367) records the following;— A girl, aged 17, previously in good health, became jaundiced, and com- plained of drowsiness. She then had persistent vomiting and became delirious, and died comatose. The autopsy showed all the organs healthy except the liver, which weighed only 13 ounces. Not a trace of hepatic cells could be found under the microscope. Goodridge (ib., 609) gives the case of a man, aged 20, in whom acute atrophy of the Hver complicated early secondary syphilis. Here the liver weighed only 30^ ounces, and hardly a trace of hepatic cells could be found. Murchison, “ Jaundice from Gall-stones, followed by Acute Atrophy of the Liver, with Puriform Deposits ” (man, ast. 66), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 159. Moxon, “ Sub- acnte Eed and Yellow Atrophy of the Liver” (woman, 03t. 34, with plate), ib., xxiii, 138. Wadham, “ Case of Yellow Atrophy of the Liver ” (man, set. 28, autopsy), ‘J.ancet,’ 1872, i, 288. _ Sieyeking, “Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver, Death” (man, at. 24, autopsy), ib., ii, 224. Jones, “A Case presenting the Symptoms of Acute Yellow Atrophy of the Liver, Recovery ” (woman, set. 26), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,' 1872, 1, 468._ Zenker, “Zur Pathologischen Anatomie der acuten gelben Leber- atrophie (with plate), ‘Deut. Arch.,’ x, 166. Steiner, »Ein Beitrag zur acuten Atropine der Leber aus Pettdegeneration ” (boy, a3t. 10), ‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk ’ 1T7 (c) Interstitial Hepatitis—Cirrhosis. Olivier J“Memoire pour servir a I’histoire de la Cirrhose hyper- trophique. Union Med., xii, 361) gives a case of cirrhosis of the liver in a man, act 22, a wine-seUer. He had been a hard drinker since the age of 13 ; at the age of 18 he noticed that his belly was swollen • he ^d great digestive derangement, vomiting, epistaxis, and iaundice His hver was enormously increased in size, extending to the umbilicus and to the spleen which was also enlarged. After death the liver was foimd to weigh 2-830 grammes, and was markedly cirrhosed the inter- lobular tissue having undergone considerable hypertrophy. The spleen and kidneys were also increased in size. The writer diseases the fues^ tion of cirrhosis, collecting several cases of the affection in which the hver was enlarged, from other authors. He concludes that hypertrophic cmrhosis is a definite affection, not the first stage of an^iLomnlete cirrhosis It m more rare than the form in which the Hver is Xphie^ Like it, it IS characterised anatomically by chronic proliferation of the 1st; but 1 Bub^tat frllot 11REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 16‘2 observation it is accompanied by an early and profound change in the blood, under the influence of which occur various haemorrhages, and jaundice more frequently than in the ordinary form. Its only cause is excessive alcoholic drink. Cheadle (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 545) gives a clinical lecture on a case of extreme cirrhosis of the liver in a boy set. 18. He had com- plained five months before of debility and wasting, which gradually increased. There was slight enlargement of the liver and spleen; ascites ; oedema of the legs ; wild delirium; paralysis of the right with spas- modic jerking of the left arm and leg, and death by coma. The cirrhosis of the liver was most extreme, the spleen was enormously enlarged and hard, the kidneys were congested, and their capsules adherent. There was an unusual quantity of dark pigment over the surface of the parietal peritoneum about the pelvic region. The boy had been in the habit 01 taking a considerable quantity of drink, especially gin, when at work. There was complete absence of jaundice throughout. Nothing was found in the brain to account for the cerebral symptoms. _ Green also (‘Trans. Path. Soc.,’ xxiii, 133) records a case ot in- terstitial hepatitis and obstruction of the common bile-duct in a boy aged 10. Twelve days before death he vomited, became jaim- diced, drowsy, and screamed at intervals; his pupils were di ated. He died comatose. The brain and thoracic organa were perfectly healthy. The stomach and small intestines contained a very large quantity ot ^^Mox^on*^(ib., i ‘53) describes a case in which suppur^ion took place in syphilitic deposits in the liver of a man aged 29. One of these had onmed a large bile-duct, so that its substance was deeply stained with bile-nigmenk The liver was extensively diseased, having in its upper and middle regions many masses which at first sight had the appearance o?trcLatous tumours decaying in the centre in what appeared to be a fibrous cyst. From these soft were gummata in all gradations down to coinmon depressed TOi'tli paspoiis centi’es. The microscopic character of the sott definite-crowds of’’cells 1-ger in a granular filamentous matrix. One testis showed very c c racteristic gummatous syphylitic orchitis. Eommelaere, “Cirrhose eb P%f“^rescence of 4e Larynx” (man, age not f and Ascites, 231. Handfield Jones, “Case of Cirrb°^ Remarks” (man. Paracentesis Twice, temporary amen ’ 1871, i,’219. Thompson, “ Cirrhosis mt. 34. former ygm-drinker,‘Brit Med. 187^,^, <c&,rhosis of Liver, Ery- of the Liver (man, set. 59), 1^-. ^°7 » > ^ “Incipient Cirrhosis sipelas” (man, mt. a6, &c. TraSa.,- aaiii, <31- ot the Liver and Lnggy Stomach ( associated with Srfofd SsfoAhS Viscera, Chronic Phthisis, and mccrati.n of the Colon” (man, snt. 21), ib., i44-LIVER—ECHINOOOCCIj ETC. 163 {d) Carcinoma. Cases of cancer of the liver are recorded by the following writers:— Headland (‘Lancet, 1871, i, 268) gives a case of primary medullary cancer existing only in the liver, and nowhere else, in a man aged 40 ; Smyth (‘Brit. Med. Journal,’ 1871, i, 421), scirrhous, in liver only, in a man aged ; Simms, (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 135), soft cancer, in liver only, in a man aged 64. Gowers (ib., 143) gives notes of the case of a woman, aged 30, in whom growths of medullary sarcoma were found in the liver, lungs, and mamma. Church, who made a micro- scopical examination of the new tissues, thinks it probable that the disease originally began in the lumbar glands. 'Whipham (ib., xxii, 164) publishes the case of a woman, aged 64, in whom the liver, weighing 77 ounces, contained numerous growths, on an average about the size of a common marble. The microscope revealed an ap- pearance as of gland-tubes lined in some portions, with columnar epithelium, and the writer refers the growth to the columnar-cell epithelioma described by Porster, Cornil and Eanvier, &c. Peris, “Zur Histologie des Lebercarcinoms,’’ ‘Virch. Arch.,’ Ivi, 448. Gee, “ Cancer of the Liver in an Infant,"’ ‘St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.," vii, 143, (e) EcTiinocooci. Murchison (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 129) gives the case of a man aged 43, whose abdomen during life presented a distinctly nodulated or botryoidal appearance, from the presence of numerous tumours. These tumours continued to increase in size, though no signs of any booklet could be found in their contents on puncture. Ascites, en- largement of the abdominal veins and oedema of the feet, preceded death, which occurred rather suddenly. At the autopsy were found two enormous cysts in the liver, one in front, growing down from tlie j surface of the left lobe, and containing an enormous quantity o± hydatid cysts, with a small quantity of thin pus, the entire contents measuring six pints. This cyst had been tapped during life The other cyst was in the back part of the right lobe, and contained be- tween tour and five pints of thin opaque fluid, in which there was bile- pigment and a few hydatid cysts. Numerous smaller cysts were tound in the liver and growing from the omentum and other parts of the peritoneum. Altogether there must have been many hundreds of op® f large as a man’s fist in the spleen, and another still larger in the left iliac region ; another of the size of a large orange, and quite globular, was attached by a narrow pedicle below the umbilicus; and two as large as oranges, and wT/thfck opaque white coats, lay quite loose in the peritonefl cavity in the right The histor°vP7.r foLhe patient's LddeZiS. cemmeted in tw Uttle do^t that the disease ibp -np-m’f iver, and that it was not till alter many vears that the peritoneum was secondarily invaded. II in^^hnii ^^72', 137) records the case of a girl aged ’ punctured a cyst in the liver with a capillary trocar,REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 164 He gives His reasons for looking upon the cyst as a serous and not an hydatid one. The girl got well. Cleghorn (‘Indian Med. Graz.,’ March, 1871, quoted in ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 624) believes that a considerable number of the hepatic abcesses that occur in India are due to suppurative changes taking place in old hydatid cysts. Pagge and Durham, “ On the Electrolytic Treatment of Hydatid Tumours of the Liver, with an Addendum on simple Acupuncture,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, i. Bahrdt, “ Spontan geheilter Echinococcus der Leber mit Abgang der Blasen durch die Gallengange und den Darm” (girl, set. 26), ‘Arch. d. Heilk., xiii, 467- Richet, “ Observations sur les Kystes hydatiques du Foie traitees par le Methode des Caustiques, des larges Ouvertures, et des Injections astringcntes et alcooliques, Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 369. Widal, “ Kyste hydatiques du Foie, Pleuresie concomitaute du Cote droit, Ouverture et Extraction totale du Kyste, Guerison, ib., 457* Dieu- lafoy, “,Du Diagnostic et duTraitement des Kystes hydatiques et des Abces du Foie par TAspiration,” ib., 385. Fox, “Hydatids of the Liver” (in girl, set. 14, treated for six months with iodide of potassium, recovery), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,1, 499. Duckworth, “Case of Hydatid Tumour of the Liver, with Icterus” (woman, set. 25), ib., ii, 179. Hett, “Treatment of Hydatid Cysts by simple Tapping” (with very fine trocL, girl, set. 7), ‘Lancet,’ 1871. i, 257. Dufiin, “Hydatid of the Liver, ib., 1872, ii, 780. Murchison, “Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver (?) aM Peritoneum, in part successfully removed by operation ” (woman, a;t. 29), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 126. if) Affections of the Bile-ducts, ^c. Decaisne (“ Sur un Epidemic d’Ictere esseutiel observe a Ppis;’’ ‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1872, 4; ‘ Gaz. Med.,’ 1872, 45) describes a kind of euidemic of jaundice which occurred in Pans and its immediate neigh- bourhood in the autumn of 1870. He himself had occasion to observe 28 cases, thus attacked, 17 males, and ii females. The symptoms do not seem to have differed much from ordinary cases of jaundice, ihe ordinary period of the affection was about ten or eleven days. McPherson (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 409) records the case, with aiitonsv of a female, mt. 59, who suffered from biliary calculus, and in whom a’fistulous passage extended from the cystic duct to the umbilicus, througb which bile was discharged from time to time. Murchison (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 152) f verv interesting case of biliary fistula in theabdominalwallof a female, get.Vj ^hich bile was discharged. The patient was alive at the time the notes were made. ^ ... Paris,^^i87i, pp- 4 ,xxii, 163. Nunneley, “CongenitalObhteiu- Duct (boy, set. 6 months), ib., xxiii, 152- Moxon, Syphilitic tion of the Hepatic i onenine a Bile-duct” (man, mt. 29), ib., 153. Disease of the Liver snppm-ating ami jen.ng a nue Miirchison, “ Sequel of a 'Thorowgood, “G^-sto^ discharged^ by a Fistulous Opening through the Case in which Gall-stones we e xxii, Id., “ Fistulous Commuinca. Abdominal “^id Col^”' (womanf a>t. 60), ib., 158. Duckworth, ^^C^sefnXi was passed from the Umbilicus,” ib., 157.165 APPECTIOI^S OE THE LIVER AND SPLEEN. (ff) Various. Steffen Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk,,’ v, 47) gives several tables of the size of the liver and spleen in children, from birth up to 14 years of age. Eobin presented to the Paris Academy of Science, March 18, 1872, some observations by Eitter on colourless bile. The author states that in all cases in which colourless bile was found, the hepatic cells had under- gone more or less fatty degeneration. Eoy (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 10) gives a case of rupture of the liver and left kidney in a man, set. 25, the effects of a fall. The liver had three or four rents, extending only a few lines into its substance, on its convex surface. Steiner (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 33.3) writes on the presence of blood in the peritoneal cavity of new-born children from sup'erficial rupture of the liver and spleen. He remarks on the rarity of the affec- tion, giving a case of each, and considers that congestive hypersemia, and not disease of the liver, is the primary cause. Other papers referring to the liver are— Dalton, “Sugar Formation in the Liver,” ‘New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 15. Bennett, “Report on further Experiments demonstrating that Mercury has no special action on the Liver,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, i. Habershon, “Lettsomian Lectures on the Pathology and Treatment of Diseases of the Liver,” ib., 1872, ii, 21. Qumcke, “Ein Fall von Aneiu-ism der Leherarterie,” ‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, ^40! Ward, ‘ On some Affections of the Liver and Intestinal Canal, with Remarks oii Ague and its Sequelae, Scurvy, Purpura, &c.,’ London, 1872. Pox, “On some Abnormal Conditions of the Liver accompanied by Jaundice,” ‘ Brit. Med. Journ. ’ 1872, iij 8. Habershon, “Inflammation of Glisson’s Capsule, Occlusion of Vena Portae, Blood Cyst, Dropsy, Peritonitis” (woman, aet. 34}, ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ XVI, 405 Solowieff, “ Veranderungen in der Leber unter dem Einflusse der kiinst- S"of Pfortader,” ‘ Centra^.,’ 1872, 337- Gee, “ Complete Oblitera- tion ff the Mouths of the Hepatic Veins,” ‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Rep.,’ vii, 144. Bock and Hoffmann, “Ueber das mikrochemische Verhalten der Leberzellen,” ‘Virch. Arch ’ x^^* Casuistik der Missbildungen der Leber,” ‘Deut. Affections of the Spleen. Payne^ (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 278) gives the following case of Modgkin s disease complicated with acute tuberculosis. A boy set 10 had presented during life great enlargement of the spleen, which reached from the seventh nb to the crest of the ilium vertically, behind into the lumbar region, and in front almost to the middle line. There was no increase in the number of the white blood-corpuscles. He became padually weaker and died of exhaustion. The spleen was found to contain numerous tumours of the kind caUed l^phadenoma and S^kidnev “ TheT°'^ c same kind were found^in the liver and in^the aaTUP^TOn Ji^'^P^atic glands throughout the body were affected in the same way, and some of them contained masses of a soft caseous earned It fn occupied the whole of the gland, have tTnu tn tl ! t I f scrofulous. There was, in fact, a distinct transi- f addition there were numerous miliary tubercles in the pia mater and lungs.166 REPORT ON practical MEDICINE. Moxou, “ Case of Acute Splenitis (?) in a Syphilitic,” ‘ Path. See. Trans.,' xxli, 274. Squire, “Specimen of Enlarged Spleen,” ib., 276. Bisch-Hirschfeld, “Der Acute Milztumor,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, 389. Hosier, “ Ueber die Wirkung von Eucalyptus globulus auf die Milz,” ‘Deut. Arch.,’ x, 159. Olga Stoff und Sophie Hasse, “ Einige Notizen iiher die Circulations-Verhiiltnisse der Milz.,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1872, 753. Affections of the Pancreas. Pepper (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 159) gives the following case. A man, at. 45, of very intemperate habits, first noticed haemorrhage from the bowels in the early part of 1870. This recurred from time to time, the last time in August of that year, when there was such rapid haemor- rhage into the stomach and bowels as to prove fatal in one hour. There was no vomiting at any time. At the autopsy marked but not extreme cirrhosis of the liver was found; the stomach and intestines contained a large amount of blood, which had entered them through an opening in the ductus communis choledochus. A probe passed through this open- ing directly entered a cavity in the head of the pancreas, which was filled with fluid blood and clots. Prom a microscopical examination of the head of the gland, which was enlarged and hardened, it was con- cluded that the specimen was a well-marked case of cirrhosis of the pancreas. Affections of the Peritoneum. Habershon (‘Guy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ xvi, 418) gives two cases which show that abdominal pain may be due to old^ adhesions between the stomach and transverse colon. Both become limited in their movements, and whenever the one or the other becomes distended, pain is the result. In the flrst case, that of a man, aged nearly 60, there had been fixed pain in the region of the gall-bladder, without jaundice; death occurred from hemorrhage. Old and firm adhesions were found between the liver, stomach, colon, and duodenum. The gall-bladder contained five irregular small calculi. In the second case, also a man of 60, the same pain without iaundice was present; the patient passed a considerable number of biliary calculi, and digital examination gave the idea that the duodenum and colon were adherent to the transverse colon and to the stomach. The patient recovered. . , , , Giles (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, 1, 447) between gonorrhoea and peritonitis in women. He thinks that the gonorrhoeal matter may readily come into f toneal membrane through the Fallopian tubes. After childbirth or ^ carriage this occurs with greater freedom, and in prostitutes ^^eglected gonorrhoea, though with less facility, may m the same manner lead to Lritonitis. The^disease differs from puerperal peritonitis in its shortei duration and its usuaUy successful termination. He gives a few cases Dob^o? (^b. 475) draws attention to the fact that West in 1858 had nut forwLd a similar view in speaking of acute uterine inflammation ^ Dickinson (‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xii, 287, 296) publishes two very interes^g ^ In one, a boy years of age, a tumour of theAFFECTIONS OF THE PEEITONEUM, KIDNeV, ETC. 167 liiiiibcH' glands occupisd almost the entire right half ot the abdominal cavity. In the other, a girl, aged i years, the left half of that cavity was nearly filled by a mesenteric tumour. A full report of the microscopical appearance of both tumours is given. Vigla, “ Peritonite'granuleuse” (man, set. 21, autopsy), ‘Qaz. des H6p.,’ 18^1, 253. Hm-ard, “ Peritonite chronique” (man, mt. 39), ib., 264. Lange, “ Eigentliumlicber Verlauf einer Peritonitis," ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871_, 74. Id., “Peritonitis mit Pex’iorchitis bei einem 3 Wochen alten Knaben,’^ ib., ib. Egan, “ Peritonitis Meretricium,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ./ 1871, i, 475. Murchison, “Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver (?) and Peritoneum, in part successfully Eemoved by Opera- tion" (woman, mt. 29), ‘Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 126. Id., “Multiple Hydatid Tumours of the Liver and Peritoneum" (man, set. 45), ib., 129. Greenhow, “Loose Tumours from the Peritoneal Cavity,” ib., 241. Southey, “ Old Peritoneal Adhesions interfering with the Rise of the Uterus into the Abdomen at the Fourth Mouth of Pregnancy; Cystitis; Retention of Urine; Distension of the Bladder j Death from General Peritonitis” (with autopsy), ‘ Lancet,’ 1871, i, 610. Affections of the Kidney. {a) Nephritis.—"Wood, writing on acute dropsy, scarlatinal and idio- pathic (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixii, 75), attempts to show that a large proportion, if not all, cases of this kind, are due not to a mechanical im- pediment to the circulation, but to a peculiar condition of the cellular tissue, whereby its natural secretion or exhalation is enhanced, so that the water may be said to be actively thrown or drawn out from the vessels. Prom a review of different cases and writers he concludes—i. That in acute Bright’s disease, whether originating from scarlet fever, arsenical poisoning, or cold, the dropsy is not a result of the kidney disease, but with the latter is dependent upon a common cause. 2. That an irritant poison, organic or otherwise, may give rise to dropsy without any appreciable organic disease. 3. That exposure to cold and wet may produce dropsy, without other disease, and that there is, therefore, such an affection as idiopathic dropsy. 4. That acute dropsy is mostly, if not always, the result of irritation of the cellular tissue. G. Johnson (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ .1871, i, 3),in a “Lecture on the Diagnosis and Prognosis in cases of Bright’s Disease,” insists upon the necessity of a careful examination of the urine in aU cases of deranged health. The urine in cases of the acute affection is usually scanty, of normal specific gravity, more or less blood-tinged, highly albuminous, and contains numerous epithelial and blood-casts, with scattered renal epithelium and blood-discs. The hsematuria of acute Bright’s disease is distinguished from that of renal calculus by the presence of these casts, bmah and large hyaline casts also occur, the latter moulded in tubes trom which the gland-cells have been removed, the former from those whose walls were still covered by them. Another form of tube-cast is tha,t which contains small round cells with compound nuclei (exudation- cells). 1 he appearance of these in great numbers is a less favourable sign than when epithelial easts alone are present. In some undoubted cases _oi acute Bright’s disease the urine, though highly albuminous, contains no blood and. retains its normal colour. When symptoms of the disease have continued beyond a month or six weeks, more or less168 UEPOUT ON PEACTICAL MEDICINE. oil begins to appear in tbe casts and in the desquamated epithelium. Johnson has, however, seen cases of recovery even after the presence of oily casts and cells. The disease is essentially a curable one ; its prognosis more favorable in the young and middle-aged than in the old, and in those who are able to avoid exposure to cold and other bad influences. Among the earliest signs of amendment are a copious secre- tion of urine, paler and of lower specific gravity, and decrease of dropsy. The albumen is usually the last symptom to disappear. If the urine continues albuminous for more than six months the prognosis is more doubtful, but such cases do get well. Scanty secretion of highly albu- minous urine, frequent and distressing vomiting, dropsical elfusion into the serous cavities, are all symptoms of grave though not fatal import. Eecovery sometimes occurs, in the acute disease, after the most formid- able symptoms of uraemic poisoning have been present. Grull and Sutton publish ('Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 273) a paper on Bright’s disease with contracted kidney (arterio-capillary fibrosis) in which they arrive at the following conclusions:—(i) There is a diseased state characterised by hyalin-fibroid formation in the arterioles and capillaries. (2) This morbid change is attended with atrophy of the subjacent tissues. (3) It is probable that this morbid change commonly begins in the kidney, but there is evidence of its beginning primarily in other organs. (4) The contraction and atrophy of the kidney are but part and parcel of the general morbid change, (j) The kidneys may be but little if at all affected, whilst the morbid change is far advanced in other organs. (6) This morbid change in the arterioles and capil- laries is the primary and essential condition of the morbid state called chronic Bright’s disease with contracted kidney. (7) The clinical his- tory varies according to the organs primarily and chiefly affected. (8) In the present state of our knowledge we cannot refer the _ vascular changes to an antecedent change in the blood due to defective renal excretion. (9) The kidneys may undergo extreme degenerative changes without being attended by the cardio-vascular and other lesions charac- teristic of the condition known as chronic Bright’s disease. (10) The morbid state under discussion is allied with the conditions of old age, and its area may be said hypothetically to correspond to the area vasculosa.” (ii) The changes, though allied with senile alterations, are probably due to distinct causes not yet ascertained. Johnson, in a paper read before the same society (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, ii, 688; ‘Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 882), strongly opposes the views of these writers, and maintains that the appearances noticed by them are due to distension of the coats of the vessels by the reagents ^^Eo°berts (‘ Brit. Med. Joum.,’ 1871, ii, S21) opposes Dickinson’s view that the abuse of alcohol is not one of the most important causes oi Bright’s disease, and gives a table of the proportional number of deaths from intemperance, from diseases of the kidney, and diseases ot the liver in different districts. 4.1 u Bradley (ib i, n6) relates the case of a child, four months old, covered with syphilitic psoriasis, whose urine was higlfiy albuminous, and whose facef arms, and legs were cedematous. The microscopeAFFECTIONS OP THE KIDNEY—NEPHRITIS. 169 i- revealed the presence of numerous epithelial and granular casts. All the symptoms disappeared under the employment of mercury. He looks upon the case as one of syphilitic renal dropsy. Johnson (ib., 1872, i, 256) publishes a clinical lecture on a case of chronic Bright’s disease in an intemperate woman, set. 46, who died of rapidly fatal apoplexy. He gives some engravings of the thickened arteries from the kidney and the subcutaneous tissue. A large portion of the right hemisphere on a level with the lateral ventricle was exca- vated by eifused blood; the outer margins of the corpus striatum and optic thalamus were partly broken down by the clot, and the blood had passed through the torn septum into the left ventricle. Broadbent (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 103) gives a clinical lecture on a case of renal disease ending in apoplexy in a woman who two years pre- viously had had a left-sided hemiplegia during pregnancy. She was again pregnant at the time of her death. The autopsy showed con- tracted granular kidneys; an enormous heart, weighing 19 ounces with healthy valves, and muscular hypertrophy of the minute arterioles. A clot lay to the outer side of the right corpus striatum and thalamus, and had torn through the fibres passing from them into the hemisphere. It extended along nearly tbe whole length of the ganglia, but did not turn round the anterior end of the corpus striatum. Its upper part was on a level with the intra-ventricular surface of these bodies. Infe- riorly it was separated by a very thin stratum of nervous matter from the fissure of Sylvius, the source of the bleeding being probably the small branches of the middle cerebral artery here penetrating the brain substance. Moxon (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 637) records a case of extreme granular degeneration of the kidneys, without hypertrophy of the heart. The subject of it was a man, ^t. 72, whose death was due to an accident. He thinks it very probable that some atrophic kidneys commence in a congenitally imperfect structure, and supports his view by an opinion of Virchow s (‘ Krankh. Greschw.,’ Bd. i) as to the continuation into later life of ^'partial foetal degeneration. Murchison (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 177) records a remarkable case ot fatal uraemia from atrophied kidney in a footman, aet. 18, of temperate habits. Ten days before admission into hospital, having been previously healthy, with the exception of pain and swelling in the throat with dysphagia five years before, he was seized rather suddenly with pain at the pit of the stpmach, palpitations and dyspnoea on exertion. Pive days later he complained of shivering and pain in the loins, and after that became very drowsy. On admission he presented no sign of chronic disease, no notable ansemia, no oedema. There was nothing abnormal to be discovered in the lungs ; no eruption. His temperature was 9 <5-4° P. The urine drawn off by a catheter was colourless, limpid, sp. gr.‘^ioo7, and contained a small trace of albumen. The drowsiness and thi amount 5 temperature remained below normal. On the „ ^ hospital he died comatose, after one or two fits organs were found healthy except the kidneys, of which the nght weighed ii oz. and the left | oz.^ The psu es w ere adherent, and the microscope revealed the ordinaryl70 REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. characters of granular contracted kidney. The hlood from the cerebral sinuses and veins contained urea. Stohr (‘ Deut. Klin.,’ viii, 467) employed transfusion in three cases of urssmia. In the first case death was imminent, but the patient lived thirteen days after the operation. The second died in sixty-four hours, and the third in six hours after the transfusion. In the first two the urine passed after the operation contained blood-colouring matter, but no blood-cells. Finney (‘Dub. Journ.,’ lii, 245) showed cirrhosed kidneys from a man, set. 20, who had passed urine in such large quantities as to sug- gest at first the possible existence of diabetes. Stewart, “Notes of a Case of Inflammatory Bright’s Disease; Fatal in third stage” (man, ajt. 3t), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, ii, 94 (and c£. ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvi, 1093). Ackermann, “ Ein Fall von Parenchymatose Nephritis mit Retention der Cylinder in den Nierenkelchen und in Nierenbecken ” (man, set. 20, with plate), ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 298. Dujardin-Beaumetz, and Hardy, “Note sur uu cas d’Uremie,” ‘Union Med.,’xiv, 130. Moxon, “Case of Gouty Granular Kidneys and Irruptiye Pneumonia; Fatal by Acute (Edema of the Larynx and Lungs,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 217. De Giovanni, “ Pneumonite e Nephrite” (three cases), ‘ Gaz. Med. Lomb.,’ 1872, 261. Lambert, “Ophthalmoscopic Diagnosis of Bright’s Disease,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 321. Gueneau de Mussy, “Ftude sur le Traitement de quelques Alhumin- uries,” ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 473. Handheld Jones, “ Clinical Lecture on instances of Successful Treatment of Degenerative Disease of the Kidneys,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, ii, 151. Morris, “On the Use of the Turkish Bath in Albuminuria,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 193. Bradbury, “Remarks on a Case of Bright’s Disease,” ih., 1872, ii, 37. (h) HcBmaturia,^c.—PQ.yj (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871,1,66) read to the Clinical Society notes of a case of paroxysmal hsematuria, and exhibited specimens of the urine. The patient, previously in good health, was seized, after exposure to cold, with nausea. His urine was the colour of porter, but after rest in bed gradually became normal. Exposure to cold eleven days later brought on another relapse. During the paroxysms the urine contained coloured granules and crystals of oxalate of lime, but no casts or blood-cells. He insists on the case being distinct from one of ordinary hsematuria. , • „ <: Stevens (ib., ii, 323) gives a case of “intermittent hsematuria of more than twenty years’ duration in a woman set. 75- Di'vsdale, “Haimaturia ending fatally” (male, set. 73, autopsy), ‘Med. ftess and Circ.,’ 1872, i, ^6. Harley, “Endemic Hsematuria of the South-Eastern Coast of Africa,” ‘Med.-Chir. 'Trans.,’ liv, 45. Ogle, “Hsematuria” (man, set. 61), ‘Lancet,’ 1871 ii, !i40. Cohbold, “On the Development of Bilharzia Hsematohia, together with’Remarks on the Ova of another Urinary Parasite (the so-called Tricluna cystica of Dr. Salisbury), occurring in a Case of Hsematuria from Natal,’ ‘ Brit. Med. Journ., 1872, ii, 89. Couto, ‘ Hsematuria eudemica dos paizes quentes,’ Bahia, 1872. (c) HypeTtTopliiBd Kidneys—Sydatids, ^c. Rosenstein ( Viich. Arch ’ liii, 141) has made experiments on dogs and rabbits, with a view of proving whether compensatory hypertrophy really takes place in one kidney when, from some cause or other, the other kidney ceases to perform its functions. At the same time his experiments throw some light upon the share which the kidneys take 111 the formation of urea. He starts with the fact that the size of the171 H/EMATUlilA—HYDATIDS; ETC. right Jdduey to the left is, si^eaking generally, as i'i2 to i. The animals bore the extirpation of one kidney well on the whole; on removal of the other they died with uraemic symptoms. The second kidney, though removed a long time after the first, was not always liyj)ertrophied, and when it was so the enlargement bore no propor- tion to the period between the two operations. The increase was chiefly in weight, not in an alteration in the glomeruli and cortical substance. When the animals ate well, as they frequently did, after the operation, the amoimt of urea excreted on the second day was almost the same, and from this fact Eosenstein concludes that the kidneys take no share in the production of urea, inasmuch as it is impossible to conceive that the remaining kidney could in so short a time take on an increased pro - cess in the work of excretion. Perl (ib., Ivi, 305) sums up his paper on the same subject as follows: — (i) The physiological growth of the kidney is essentially a hyperplasia ; the vessels alone undergo a true increase in size. (2) The compensatory enlargement is a true hypertrophy. (3) The various elements of the organ take a different share in this hypertrophy, the convoluted tubes and their epithelium are most concerned in it; the straight tubes, as well as the Malpighian corpuscles, apparently not at all. Shepherd (‘ Lancet,’ 1872, i, 646) records the occurrence of hydatids in the kidney in a man, set. 51, in whom the disappearance of a tumour in the left flank was accompanied by the passage of the cysts per urethram. Sawyer, ‘ Floating Kidney, its Causes, Diagnosis and Treatment’ (all in women), Birmingham, 1872. Perher, “ Zur Pathologie der beweglichen Niere,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 95. Jago, “Movable Kidneys,” ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1872, ii, 328. Longuet, “ Case of Hydatid Cyst of the Right Kidney simulating Ovarian Cyst,” ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, ii, 713 (quoted from ‘Mouvement Medical,’ of Kov. 9). Eherth, “Myoma Sarcomatodes Renum” (female child, sot. 17 months), ‘Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 518. Moi-ris, “ Cyst connected with the Left Kidney, associated with Medullary Cancer of the Liver, Lungs and Left Kidney” (man, set. 69), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 171. Trotter, "Encephaloid Disease of the Kidneys ” (man, set. 30), ib., 173. Heywood Smith, “Unnatsiral Extension of Kidney” (left, weighing 9 pounds, from a woman, set. 27, suffering from pyonephrosis and calculus), ib., 174. Pye-Smith,. “Stricture of the Ureter and Dilatation of the Kidney, apparently of Traumatic Origin ” (man, set. 24), ib., xxiii, 159. Whipham, “Lymphadenoma of the Kidney” (woman, set. 43), ib., 166. Leared, “Renal Calculi of Cystic Oxide” (from woman, set. 30), ib., 165. McCarthy, “An Account of some Renal Calculi of Unusual Shape found in the Left Kidney of a Woman who died of Cancer of the Uterus,” ‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 263. Other papers referring to the kidney are— Unruh,“Ueher Blutungen in Nierenheeken und Ureteren bei Pocken,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ XIV, 289. Eherth, “Ueher die Muskeln der Niere,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1872, 225. Lipsky, “Ueher die Entziindlichen Veranderungen des Epithels der Harncanalchen,” Wien.Med. Jahrh.,’1872,155. Prescott Hewett, “Ruptured or Lacerated Kidney from a Railway Acculent,’’ &c., ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 722. Chunder Roy, “Rupture of lyer and Left Kidney” (from fall), ‘ Lancet,” 1871, i, 11. Rovida, “ Intoruo all’origine ei cilindri dell ™na, ’ ‘ Gaz. MeL Lomb.,’ 1872, 285. Letzerich, “ Ueher Nephritis '-vr^i t’ ''ji’ch. Arch.,’ Iv, 324. Browning, “Diphtheritic Albuminuria,” Rnt. Med. Jornm., 1872, ii, 95. G. Johnson, “Ciinical Lecture on Dropsy,” ib., 1871, 11, 723. Taylor, “A Case of Acute Dropsy without Albuminuria,” ‘Med. Times 5”,,. V’ “ Zur Wirkung der heissenBader bei Hydrops,” ‘ Jahrh, f. Kinderheilk.,’ iv, 317. j r >In REPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Analysis of Urine, S{c. Wernicli (“ TJeberpostmortale Harnansammlung,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1871, gives the results of certain experiments. He removed the urine by noeans of a catheter in a number of women a quarter or half an hour before death ; at the autopsy he found from 30 to 30 grammes of cloudy urine in the bladder. In one case in which death took place almost while the operation was being performed, and in which the bladder apparently contained not a single drop, over a table-spoonful was with- drawn with a catheter eight hours after death. Falck (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 282) finds from experiments that urea injected into the blood of dogs is passed unchanged with the urine in the course of the following hours. In a third section (s. 313) he gives a full historical review of researches into the physiology of urea. Seegen (‘ Pfiuger’s Arch.,’ v, 359) opposes the views of Briicke, Kiihne and others, as to the presence of sugar in normal urine, and decides from his own experiments that none is present in the healthy state, and that continued excretion of even very small quantities is accom- panied by all the symptoms of diabetes. The same writer (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 469, and cf. ‘Cen- tralbl.,’ 1872, 68), while considering that Trommer’s is the most delicate test for sugar, asserts that its delicacy only holds good with a watery solution of sugar. For this reason he filters the urine through animal charcoal, which retains most of the constituents of the urine, more especially the colouring matters and uric acid, these substances pre- venting the precipitation of the suboxide when it is formed. Having filtered the urine several times till it is completely colourless, he washes the charcoal on the filter with a little distilled water, and to this water, when filtered off, he applies Trommer’s test. In this way he can detect o‘i per cent, of sugar. For quantitative analysis this filtration cannot be performed, as the charcoal always retains a certain quantity of sugar which cannot be removed again by washing. Barclay (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 117) writes on the chemical relations of urates and phosphates. Years before, he had been puzzled by the presence of phosphatic deposit in decidedly acid urine. In a case which he now records of severe diarrhoea the neutral urine contained a turbid floccu- lent deposit insoluble by heat, but dissolved by acid in combination with heat, insoluble also by acid without heat. The_ microscope showed the presence of globular, highly refracting urates, with some crystals of oxalate of lime. ,1.1 Wanklyn (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 133) shows that, though the strength of the urine in health is subject to great variation, a certain relation is maintained between the mineral matter (salts) and the organic matter existing in the urine. In five specimens of healthy urine there was never a larger proportion of organic matter than 17 times as much as the mineral matter. In disease, on the other hand, the proportion of organic matter is increased. _ n • %’aube (‘ Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ 1871, 333) gives the following as dif- ferential tests in deciding whether blood contained in urine has come173 ANALYSIS OF THE URINE, ETC. from the kidneys or the ureters. In the former case (t) the microscope shows in the urine rings with colourless contents, and a double or single outline smaller than normal blood-cells. The altered blood- corpuscles do not occur in haemorrhages from the ureters. (2) The colouring matter of the blood-cells is soluble in urine, and the_ latter exhibits dichroismus, on account of the solution in it of haemoglobin free from oxygen. The first appearances are explained by the fact that the blood-cells have lingered some time in the so-called tubes of Bellini, G-enerally cylinders also occur, composed of blood-cells in rolls, the diameter of which proves them to be true casts of the same tubes. Laborde, “Augmentation de TUree dans certalnes Maladies,” ‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 522. Fowler, “Quantitative Analysis of Urea,” ‘New York. Med. Journ.,’ xvi, 277. Maly, “Zui- Bestiminung der Harnsaure,” ‘ Pfluger’s Arch.,’ vi, 201. Salkowski, “Die Bestimmung der Harnsaure,” ib., v, 210. Gaetbgens, “ Zur Frage der Ausscbeidung freier Siiurendurch den Harn,” ‘Centralbl.,’ 1872, 833. Seegen, “Ueber eine Methode, minimale Mengen Zucker in Harn mit grosseren Sicberheit nacbzuweisen,” ib., 68. Manassein, “Ueber Quantitative Bestimmung des Zuckers in diabetiscben Harne nacb dem Unterschiede im specifiscben Gewichte des Hams vor und nach der Gahrung,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ x, 73. Liborius, “ Beitrage zur Quantitativen Eiweissbestimmung,” ib., 319. Treskin, “Die Veranderungen des Harnes bei liingerem Verweilen in der Blase,” ‘ Centralbl.,’ 1872, 147. Jaffe, “Ueber den Ursprung des Indicans in Hams,” ib., 2. Soborow, “ Ueber die Kalkausscbeidung im Harn,” ib., 609. Mehu, “Etude sur une Urine a Sediment violet,” ‘ Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ Ixxxiii, 260. Lebon, “ Sur la Xanthine et sa recherche dans les Calcus vesicaux,” ‘ Compt. Eend,,’ Ixxiii, 47. Thompson, “ Diagnosis by Examination of Urine in obscure forms of Urinary Disease,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 187j, i, 6. Tidy and Woodman, “On Ammonia in the Urine in Health and Disease,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 809. Treskin, “Ueber die Anwend- barkeit der Methode zur Harnstoffbestimmung von Bunsen fur das Blut.,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Iv, 488. Eosentein, “ Das Kohlensaure Ammoniak und die Uramie,” ib., Ivi, 383. Leai-ed, “Eenal Calculi of Cystic Oxide” (from woman, set. 30), ‘Path. Soc. Tx-ans.,’ xxiii, 165. G. AFFECTIONS OF THE SKIN.* General.—Neumann (‘Wien. Med. Zeitg.,’ 1871, 295) writes on the changes found in the involuntary muscles of the skin in cutaneous afiec- tions. In variola he finds always great increase in size, perfectly distinct from the true hypertrophy of the muscles which Derby, Eossbacb, Korner and others, have shown to be present in lichen ruber, icthyosis, elephantiasis arabum, prurigo, and sclerema adultorum. It is impossible to decide whether in these cases we have to deal with an hypertrophy or an hyperplasia; the individual fibres, as well as the rod-like nuclei, are very .much enlarged, and with them the whole muscle. Derby refers this increase in size to increased muscular exertion in pressing out the secretion from follicles with narrowed openings. In addition to this hypertrophy there is atrophy of both muscle-cells and nuclei. Smith (‘Dub. Journ.,’ Hi, 353) gives an analysis of 1100 cases of skm disease treated at the Adelaide Hospital, Dublin, since September, * to be laid to the charge of writers on diseases of the skin. No one but the entomologist can rival them in the smallness of their distinctions: their varieties, like those of insects, are already distinguished by the names of the authors who had the good (!) fortune to describe them ftrst,—A, B. S.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 174 1869. The table includes examples o£ all the common, almost all the less common, and one or two of the rare diseases, such as “alopecia areata, ichthyosis, keloid, leucoderma, moUuscum sebaceum, pemphigus, purpura, favus, urticaria, and one or two others.” (Some of these may be uncommon in Ireland—Bep.) The writer touches upon what he considers to be points of special interest in some of the affections, and gives his treatment. Anderson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 672, &c.) gives an analysis of 11,000 consecutive cases of skin diseases. A few of the more interesting cases are abstracted in the text below. Eeference must be made to the paper itself for his classification of his cases, which are divided into functional and organic diseases, the latter again frequently sub- divided. The most frequent affection of the skin by far was eczema, of which their were 2875 cases ; erythema was met with in 5*^9 5 ecthyma in 97 ; psoriasis in 831 ; acne in 342 ; pemphigus in 16. A few cases of somewhat rare occurrence are described. Gueneau de Mussy (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 413) writes on the symmetrical distribution of affections of the skin, with special ref erence to a case of symmetrical erysipelas of the face occurring in a male patient. He thinks the case confirms the law laid down by Graves (‘Clin. Lect.,’ 2nd ed., ii, 327) that when this affection commences in the median line it is developed symmetrically on each side of it. He commences his paper by asserting that this tendency to symmetry is a law of normal organic evolution which reveals itself often under patho- logical conditions. Lor instance, decay of a tooth on one side is often followed by decay of the corresponding tooth on the other side; the same result occurs in affections of the eye, in gout and rheumatism, in the eruptive fevers, and in several cutaneous diseases. In his case the erysipelas commenced on the back of the nose, and spread to the two sides symmetrically. On the third day it extended over the forehead, leaving two triangular spaces perfectly free. On the left side the trianglG correspond.6d with, an old cicatrix, the remains of a wound which had divided the integuments down to the bone. Ho lesion was present on the opposite side, and yet the erysipelas affected the same portion and dimensions of skin, &c., in the same form as on that side. In seven days the erysipelas had disappeared, and the patient was (“ Beitrag zur Kenntniss des Erythema exsudativum multiforme, Hebra,” ‘Arch. f. Derm, und Syph.,’ iii, 221) treated this affection in 17 women and 2 men. It was preceded by pyrexia, rigors, malaise, and restlessness. It put on various appearances, small or large nodes, patches resembling erythema annulare and gyratuin, or punc- tated spots arranged in circles or half circles. In two cases f ere were bull® and in one pustules. The affection attacked any part of the body and several times the mucous membrane, proceeding to ulceration and loss of tissue. The feverish symptoms were present in almost all cases, lastinfffor 18 days, and sometimes recurring. In one case there was endocarditis and pleurisy, in nine rheumatic symptoms, and in several Wilson^ (^^^^ 1871, ii, 34) gi’^es a case of erythemaERYTHEMA—HERPES. 175 solare, affecting the face and hands on exposure to the sun, in a woman ffit. 38. During the seven years she noticed this symptom she found that her skin was remarkably free from sweat. Wilson thinks the case necessarily recalls pellagra. B^erpes.—Wjss (‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 261) reviews the literature of herpes zoster, and gives the case of a man, mt. 68, who, previously well, was attacked with headache and symptoms of general febrile disturbance. Three days later vesicles of herpes labialis appeared. ISText day redness showed itself about the right eye and forehead, the nose, the right ear and cheek, as far as the border of the lower jaw, and extended to the other side of the face. There was no pyrexia, nor was there increased heat of the affected parts. Two or three days later vesicles of herpes appeared on the right side of the face, the right cornea and conjunctiva. Eleven days after the first symptom the patient became unconscious and died. At the autopsy the vesicles and scabs of herpes were found to be entirely limited to the right side and to the parts supplied by the first branch of the fifth nerve. The latter was broader and thicker than the corresponding nerves on the left side, of a deep grey colour, soft, and with its fibres separated by a greyish-red soft tissue, abundantly sup- plied by vessels. This change was found throughout its course from its entrance into the orbit to its finest ramifications. Traced backwards as far as the Gasserian gangloin, it was found surrounded by extravasated blood, but on the other side of the ganglion it appeared to be ‘normal. The ganglion itself was larger and softer than the left, and its substance was bright red, with a mass of ecchymosis on its inner side. Great increase of cell-growth was found in the cornea and in the layers of the skin. Wyss concludes that herpes zoster is a typical affection of the skin, set up by inflammation of the Gasserian or a spinal ganglion, and of the nerve passing throngh it. Both ganglion and nerve may be only partially effected; this would explain those cases in which only a branch, and not an entire nerve, is found to be the seat of herpes. Sichel (‘ L’Dnion Med.,’ xii, 580) reviews the literature of herpes zoster frontalis, to which, according to him, but little attention has been as yet paid among Erench writers. It has been confounded with erysipelas and certain syphilitic affections (corona veneris). It never passes the median line, and is always limited to one half of the fore- head or face, and always follows the distribution of certain nerves, curiously presenting the form of a fan when it appears over the branches of the mfi’a-orbital nerve. In other particulars his descrip- tion does not differ from that of Hutchinson and other writers in England. The affection is characterised by symptoms of gastric dis- turbance and of hypersasthesia followed by anaesthesia; it is generally accompanied by insomnia and loss of appetite, often by falling off of the hair; generally it attacks persons of a gouty or rheumatic tempera- ment, m whom constipation is the rule. The usual termination is lavnurable. He concludes his paper by giving the notes of three cases. 374) attempts to prove that there is a morbid condition to which he gives the name “ herpetic fever,” under which should be included the majority of cases described as synochial, ephemeral, gastric and other fevers {fievve angioteni^tie and angineUEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 176 lierpeti^ue) ; tliat this morbid condition is characterised by the presence of various herpetic eruptions and by an acute lobular pneumonia, to which the name hei’petic pneumonia should be given; that the whole of the affections named have a common bond in the disturbance of the nervous system, and that in febrile affections the appearance of herpes is almost always a favourable prognostic sign. An account is given (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 399) of a case of herpes impetiginiformis under the care of Hebra. The patient was a woman aged 25, in the ninth month of her second pregnancy. This was only the fifth case Hebra had seen. They all occurred in women at full time, except one, which took place during the course of pregnancy; the first four all terminated fatally. They all resembled one another in beginning in the region of the genitals, in the general diffusion over the body in a later stage, and in the herpetic character (groups of vesicles on the same inflamed base) which they presented. They were all accompanied by fever and rigors. There was no restriction to the course of certain nerves. Broadbent (‘Brit. Med. Jour.,’ 1871, i, 444) relates the ease of a man, aged 39, who presented on the right side of the neck an eruption exactly resembling that of herpes zoster of the region of the cervical plexus, and was at the same time the subject of factitious urticaria. On drawing the back of the finger-nail sharply across the skin there was produced immediately a broad line of elevated hair-follicles; this subsided, and in two minutes was succeeded by a similar line of elevated hair-roots, but this time of a bright red colour, which in four minutes and a half or five minutes had developed itself into a long, smooth, elevated wheal of urticaria, pale, with red margins. In ten or twelve minutes the mark had almost faded again. PcTHpliigus*—BumstGad Jour. IVlGd. Sci., Ixii, 99) i^^coids tliG following case of pemphigus produced by the administration of iodide of potassium. A man, aged 28, with an imperfect history of syphilis, and with ecthymatous ulcerations on his legs, complained, after taking three doses, each containing 20 grains of the drug, of heat and a burning sensation in his face and hands, which were observed to be reddened. Next day large bullae appeared on the exposed parts of Ins body, and the patient affirmed that on three previous occasions he had taken the iodide with the same result. Pson«m.—Buck (‘Berl. Edin. Woch.,’ 1872, 161) treats psoriasis as follows. The patient is placed in warm soap-baths to soften and loosen the epidermis ; the scales are then removed with a soft brush, and the parts attacked by the eruption dabbed with acetic acid, at first once a dav and afterwards as often and as strenuously as the P^ient is willing and able to support the pain caused by the application. The dark colour of the skin caused at first soon disappears, and no scar remains. _ Pollock (‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 683) records a case of psoriasis guttata in n woman Jet. 43. The disease had existed, according to her own acwunt for the last twenty years. She strongly denied the possibility of aTsyphilitic taint. Ten grains of iodide of potassium were given her three\imes a day, and a lotion of equal parts ot glycerine and waterPEMPHIGUS—PSORIASiS—PITYRIASIS. 177 was Icejit constantly applied. On the fiftieth day there was no rash whatever, nor did it return. Piti/riasis.—T. Fox (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 313) showed a man, set. 49, who presented the condition originally described by Devergie under the term “pityriasis pilaris,” in a perfect form. Six months previously he had been attacked with pityriasis rubra, which within a week from its commencement involved the whole body. After a general tonic treat- ment of six months’ duration, the appearance of pityriasis pilaris was produced by the interfollicular portions of the skin gradually assuming a healthy appearance, whilst every follicle remained plugged and dis- tended by little whitish, hard knots, the size of pins’ heads, and slightly larger, which gave the surface, in certain parts, the feel and aspect of a rasp or nutmeg grater. This condition was observed at the hack of the neck, all over the back, over the chest, on the outer parts of the arms. In tracing the disease from the lower limbs upwards transitional stages between pityriasis rubra and pilaris were observed. The disease began to break up into patches by the appearance of healthy islets of skin here and there; at other places were red papules more or less isolated. These latter were seen to be produced by the distension of hair-follicles by plugs of epidermis, which had been shed from the lining membrane of the follicle. The condition found com- pletely confirmed the truth of Devergie’s description. The same winter (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 392) publishes a clinical lecture on lichen ruber with reference to a case occurring in his own practice. A woman, mt. 46, had been well up to the age'^of 38, when she became subject to boils and severe onychia. Two years and a half later an attack of lichen ruber commenced, with intense itching and redness of both eyes. At the end of eighteen months the face began to redden considerably; she complained of excessive debility Aine months subsequently the redness had spread to the head, neck' aud back, and the reddened parts were somewhat scaly. Soon the whole body was afi’ected. The redness was removable by pressure and was accompanied by burning and itching, especially towards eveninff and morning. The patient had sufi-ered for the last year or two from neuralgia inthe_ shoulders and arms, indigestion, and menorrhagia, bhe was admitted into hospital in November, 1869. She was then thin. At various times during the day the skin was the seat of con- siderable itching whenever the eruption was present; this irritation was paroxysmal lasting half an hour or more. The colour of the face was deep red; the skin dry, wrinkled, and indurated, resembling xero- ™ reddened, and covered hj miZte scapula the sk n appeared to be discoloured by a minute sub cutaneous mottling due to the presence of small reddish-brown flattish papules, of the size of pins’ heads, seated at the follicles and thlT^ f ^ exceedingly minute white scales. The front of the whole of mind the mnb hc^^ appearance, except n? hn hr "’7i lower part of the abdomen. On the bak ?L^!h marked; the leg was very ou„h below the knee ; the scales were confluent over the ankle. Tim nUEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 178 arms were affected in the same way. The nails were thin and their roots red. The soles of the feet and the palms ol the hands were free from disease ; the extensor surfaces of the fingers were red, indurated, scaly, and showed a disposition to crack. During her stay in hos^ntal the patient improved greatly in every way, hut had a relapse in May, 1870, from which she again recovered. Dox considers the case to he one of well-marked pityriasis rubra, due to “ a general congestive con- dition, dependent upon perversion of the regulative influence 01 the nervous system.” There was “ active dilatation of the minute blood- vessels, followed by effusion of plastic matter into and about the follicles, hypertrophic growth of the root-sheath, and m some cases ot the papillary layer of the skin.” The treatment consisted of a^aline and bran baths every night, with an oxide of zinc and chalk lotion applied many times a day. The internal treatment was directed to the procuring of sleep, and the regulation of the general functions _ Fruriqo.—Gay (‘ Archiv f. Derm. 11. Syph.,’ in, i) gives with a plate the results of his microscopic researches into the changes taking place in the skin in prurigo. He thinks that the different parts of the skin are more or less affected: the rete Malpighii, the hair-bulbs, sweat-glands, corium, and papillse. The changes in the rete consist of increase in the cells of the deep and some of the middle layers, due probably to proliferation. Their thickness extends also to the horny layer, ihe vessels of the hair-sac are found dilated and enlarged. The erector muscles, the outer sheath of the root, and the papillie, are greatly de- veloped. The sebaceous glands are generally diminished in size, and the cells of the openings horny in character. On the other hand, the sweat-glands are ddated, their cells loosened from the membrana pro- ' pria and their blood-vessels also dilated. The same dilatation is found iM the vesLls of the papillm; the ceUs of the corium are very marked, and are mixed with branched and wandering cells ; the papillse are en- LrgeT In concfusion, he agrees with Neumann, that the erup mn of prurigo is due to increase in young cells and the presence of a flu 6xud.Jxijiou 111 ijliG tissii6 of fliG ptipillsG* i ii rvnno E Wilson (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 34) records the occurrence of a pruriginous eruption in a man, ffit. 3 7. T he papules were of a kind to be^felt rather than seen, and apparently due to congestion and infil- teatn of The vruto co’at of the follielea. The number ot epota never exceeded ten or twelve. On scratching them an angular or square-shaped excoriation remained which dried up mto a thin redd scab The patient had formerly suffered from gout. “The writer (ibid., i, Is) publishes chieiy in the face, a few on the fingers, the whole eruption did not ^Igge Soc. Trans.,’ xxii. 309) f®“***'S J“od S" «ie t^enlth. those parts where the cuticle was179 PBURIGO—SCLERODERMA. rouglieued aud quasi-iclithyotic the epidermic scabs were found to be ar- ranged in the form of dense conical papilla?, which retained their cha- racter in thin sections. In many regions, however, the epidermis was scarcely, if at all, thicker than natural. All the elements entering into the composition of the corium were increased in amount, and supplied by numerous perfectly constructed arterioles. This increased produc- tion of areolar tissue affected also the underlying superficial fascia in very unequal degrees; the fat-cells in it were more or less atrophied. The liver was congested, distinctly hardened and crisp, with a granular fracture. Curran (‘Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 112) publishes notes of a case of seleriasis in a soldier, £et. 29. When first seen he was suffering from a hardness and rigidity of the skin over the whole surface. The integu- ment^ of the face was tightened, brawny, and shining. The skin covering the neck, chest, shoulders, arms, aud legs was similarly affected ; the only parts that escaped were the genitals, and, to a lesser extent, the upper eyelids. His face was utterly without expression. The disease appears to have commenced while he was in Cape Town in 1869, in a small patch on the back of his neck, and gradually extended over the arms, trunk, and abdomen. It produced throughout a feeling of tingling or numbness in the parts on which he lay in bed j there was no evidence of diminished temperature ; friction and baths failed to iiro- du^ perspiration. All forms of treatment were adopted without success Dufour (‘Gaz. Med.,’ 1871, 475) reports at length the occurrence of scleroderma, with atrophy of the hands, in a married woman of 30 which was said to have commenced after an attack of ague. In this again all remedies, whether internal or external, were all biit useless though the patient was reported to be slightly better. He quotes another case somewhat similar, and concludes that there must be cases of scleroderma which are the result of atrophy of the fino'ers. The two following papers are included here rather as curious records than as of practical importance: Hllersperger (“Ein Beitrag zur ethnischen Dermatologie,” ‘Deut Klin., 1871, 188) writes on a case exhibited at Paris by Paul and of jarious persons upon it. It was that of a boy of fifteen, who presented a symmetrical affection of the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet. In these places the epidermis was thickened horny and of a yellowish colour, and was broken by fissures with a whitish-red base. There was nothing in the patientWrnatTon to account for this affection. _ It first made its appearance when the bov was ten years old, and this duration of five years and its svrnmetnm^ istribution must depend upon some internal cause. Bazin^referred it S CastiL in the ■RoTTnm’p concludes that it occurs almost exclusivelv (“ I in S). ^ Arabo-Eomanie raSUHPOllT ON PUACTiCAL MEDICINE. 180 In reference to tliis paper Liicke (“ Zur etlmiscb.en Dermatologie,’ ib., 217) gives a case of tbe same kind (“paculosis” of Grintrac) occur- ring in tbe G-ermanic race. A boy of nineteen bad for eight years bad symmetrical thickening of tbe epidermis on tbe soles of bis feet and tbe palms of bis bands. He looks upon tbe affection as a local one, and obtained temporary relief by removing tbe thickened epidermis, by ap- plications of liquor potassse, by tincture of iodine, and by alkaline baths. ^ 1 T -1 Kobn(‘Wien. Med. Wocb.,’ 1871,^0. 24) writes on keloid. lie shows that Alibert was tbe first to describe this cicatrix-like tumour of tbe skin ; and that tbe name cancroid, afterwards changed to cbeloid, bore no reference whatever to any resemblance to cancer, but to the likeness which tbe peculiar processes in keloid present to the feet ot a crab. Keloid may be described generally as a _ flat prominence, implanted in the skin, sharply defined, raised half a line to several lines above tbe surrounding level, tough and elastic, and in appearance very like an hypertrophied scar ; of a white gbstening colour, m parts ot a rosy red. It is generally painful on pressure; in many cases severe pain exists of a burning or stabbing character; and by means ot this innate pain Alibert and other writers make a distinction between true and false keloid. Its most frequent seat is the skin of the_ upper part of the trunk, the sternum, the mamma, the lateral regions^ot the thorax, the back, and the neck. From his own and Hebra s cases Kohn finds that it occurs in the proportion of one to two thousand ot the other diseases of the skin. The general health is not affected by the disease. Little is known as to its development and course as the opportunity seldom occurs of following it from its earliest to its latest stages At first small brownish-red streaks are noticed m skin, flat’ or slightly raised, resistent on pressure, and sensitive. They may erow very slowly until they reach a certain extent, and then lem Ltiouar/. After a time the keloid may become or undergo the so-called retrograde metamorphosm. and Hebra have seen spontaneous disappearance m a ® ^ to its etiology, very small local injuries or irritations ha\e been trac as the cause-leech-bites, blistering-plasters, and, in Hshino- with a whip. Scars in some cases may also be the oi keloid“ It is not always possible to make a certain diagnosis between the keloid rnrbypertrophied scars. On making vertical sections of the affected skinf^ick masses of fibrous ^ Tiarallel with the surface in the corium, normal layers ot which seem to Fol {‘p“c. Trans.- xxii, 3 y) *owed four t— in size from a small fist to a walnut, which were removed from the ea r'r, T-iiTinicT, Tliev are very common among them, ana of ."W perorations made in the ears for earrings. rSrthey plLe^ a%ense, white, glistening, fibrous appear-181 CHELOID—PAPILLOMA—ELEPHANTIASIS. auce, and under the microscope the structure was that of condensed fibrous tissue. Papilloma.—Gerhardt (‘Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’iv,2 7o) gives two cases of j^apilloma of the skin, somewhat resembling the case of papilloma area-elevatum published by Beigel (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xx, 414). The cases were unmistakably connected with some central nervous disorder. The first case is that of a girl, aged 6 years, in whom papillomata were present over the whole of the right side of the breast, and the whole right arm. The left half of the nose, the left upper lip, a portion of the left cheek, and the skin behind the left ear presented papillomatous swellings. Prom the age of 3 the child had had incomplete epileptic attacks, which became fully developed later. In the second case, a man of 61, the growths occupied almost wholly the right half of the body, especially the axilla. He gives a minute microscopical account of the tumours, which he refers to increase in the papillae, accompanied by melanotic pigmentation of the skin. Both cases also must be ex- plained by the implication of certain nerves; the affection in the second case following the distribution of spinal nerves, while in the fipt it pointed to some such morbid condition as generally obtains in diseases of the base of the brain. Vanlair (‘Bull, de I’Acad. de Med. Beige,’ v, 941; and ‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 292) has made researches into the histology of elephan- tiasis arabum. According to liim the erysipelatous zone, which separates the healthy from the diseased portions, and is characteristic of the first stage of the malady, differs from ordinary erysipelas. It is limited to the papillary zone of the derma ; the morbid change commences below, in the dermatic alveolar zone. There is progressive and j)roportionate hyper- iffasia of the three layers (papillary, connective-tissue, and elastic) of normal derma, with progressive atrophy of the panniculus adiposus Ihe epidermic hypertrophy is consecutive to that of the subjacent vas- cular tissue. The sweat-glands remained, while the hair-foUicles and sebaceous glands had disappeared ; there was interstitial hyperplasia of the nerve-fibres; in the superficial portions of the muscles the longi- tudinal striae were exaggerated, while the transverse were effaced. The lymphatics and glands were unaltered. The subcutaneous veins (sap ena, &c.) were varicose, with their walls hypertrophied in places. He throws no further light on the cause of the hyperplasia. ^ . ^ 489) bas examined into the pathology of the sweat-glands in elephantiasis. He finds that the morbid change commences in sweUing and proliferation of the epi- sweUed un^'"S. 1? obstructed and the sac iX an indisW undergone proliferation degenerate homogeneous, glassy mass, in the middle of which ogeneous circular structures sometimes appear, the smallest re S seen S with structureless. ThJ glands themselves are next seen niled with the same material. The ducts are affected enrliei’ pap°e' “ plate iu Slw Hattute (‘Eec. de Mem. de Med. Milit.,’ xxvi 112) records tliP occurrence of elephantiasis in an Arab, a=t, about a’a, strolg but ol aREPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 183 scrofulous habit, For three years his right foot had increased consi- derably in size (measures of his two feet are given for comparison). It was hard, of the consistence of bacon, and took no impression from the fingers. Its sensation was diminished, there was almost complete analgesia, but not anaesthesia. The patient demanded amputation on account of the inconvenience to which he was put by the affected limb,and the operation was performed. In addition to the histological changes generally found, the amputated foot presented a considerable number of small soft cheesy masses of different sizes, enclosed in a fine mem- brane and situated in the subcutaneous intermuscular tissue. Some of the cysts contained also pus and blood. He considers this “tuberculo- caseous” form of elephantiasis to be not uncommon in Algeria. Anderson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 844) records eight cases of ele- phantiasis arabum, and three of elephantiasis grjecorum. One of the patients suffering from the latter was 'a jyoung Highlander who had never been out of the country; another was a boy set. 12, who had returned from India four years before ; and the third was a girl 8ct. 15, who had come home from Jamaica at the age of seven, about which time the disease commenced on the face. The eruption consisted for the most part of yellowish-red tubercular patches of difierent sizes, the sensation of which was deadened. . MoUusewn.—Balmanno Squire (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 4^) claims to have discovered in molluscum contagiosum spores with rounded angles, which he believes to be the special vegetable parasite of the sebaceous glands, just as that found in chloasma is of the epi- dermis, and that of favus and tinea of the hairs. Duckworth (ib., 98) reminds him that Hardy had already described such parasitic structures. Ferrier (ib., ii, 682) considers the existence of a vegetable parasite to be entirely negatived by the result of his investigations. When the secretion expressed from the follicles was treated with caustic pc^ash and examined under the microscope, it gradually^ became clear, from saponification of the fat, and the outlines of the epithehal cellular con- tents became sharp and distinct. In the secretion so treated, especially the soft central part from the large tumours, he has seen one ov tyro unmistakeable torula-cells in the act of germination, not diff’ering in size or form from those of penicillium. But, in addition, a great many other spore-like bodies were to be observed in the angles of the cells, appa- ■ently multiplying by germination, and even lengthening out into nycelium. They were of various sizes and forms, and had a peculiar lUyCGiiUUJ. -LXTC/J \JS. VMXXWU.W 7 .i. T. J. vacuolate aspect. They might readily be mistaken for true spores; but he has come to the conclusion that they are artificial products ot the action of the caustic potash on the fatty matters. In the contents 0 the follicles, after several days’ maceration in ether, he has tailed to detect any spore-like bodies, nor has he been able to produce any such appearance by treating them subsequently with caustic potash. A or could he find any spores in the small and still firm tumours. Ho has attempted, with the same result, to cultivate the secretion in iasteur s solution. He gives the case of a child, aged nine months, in whom twenty-two molluscous tumours were situated on the lips, cheek, a c183 MOLLUSCUM—HvEMATIDHOSIS—XANTHELASMA. neck, some pedunculated, others sessile, varying in size from a pea to a millet-seed, the largest being on the lips. Two others were situated on the buttocks ; they began to appear at the aged of four months. Some had fallen off of their own accord, and had been succeeded by others. The mother had two well-marked tumours on the left breast, which as far as could be learnt, came after the appearance of those on the child’s lips. She attributed the affection to contagion from a girl, who had “ warts” on the face and body. The tumours speedily disappeared on being evacuated and touched with perchloride of iron. Liveing (ib., i, ii) relates the occurrence of the affection in five chil- dren of the same family between the ages of 5 and 13. In all of them the moUuseum was confined almost entirely to the face. Duckworth (‘Lancet,’ 1872,1,613) showed to the Clinical Society three patients suftering from moUuscum contagiosum. The tumours began three years before in the first child of a healthy woman ; she was next affected about the face and breast; and the second child presented numerous tumours shortly after birth. Lastly, the grandmother, who had slept with the eldest child, and had often nursed the baby, became affected. Alterations in the secretion of the shin.—Wilks (‘ Giuy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 1872, xvii, 215) records the presence of hasmatidrosis in a woman, set. 35, affected at the time with tetanus, which proved fatal later on. The supposed blood-stains yielded, on chemical examination, a little iron, but unlike the true colouring matter of blood, were quite insoluble in water and alkaline solutions; nor could any coloured solution or blood-corpuscles be procured from the stains. _ Anderson (‘ Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 707) gives a case of the same kind in a girl set. 14 (See ‘ Journ. of Cutan. Med.,’ i, 328). The parts implicated were the arms, the front of the chest, and legs. The hsemorrhage occurred from round erythematous patches, one on the brow; one on the chin; one on each cheek; four in a row on the front of each arm ; two on each upper arm; and two on each forearm. A similar arrano’e- ment was_ found on the sternum and legs. One of the most marked peculiarities in the hsemorrhage was the suddenness of its invasion generally at ii a.m. each day. The writer considers it to have been a case ot vicarious menstruation. Berger (‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 187,, No. 7) and Wiedemeister ( Virch. Arch., In, 437) give cases of ephidrosis unilateralis in men ased respectively 28 and 30. In both the sweating occurred on the left X««^eZas«ta.-Hutchinson (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 171) writes on xanthelasma palpebrarum with special reference to Addison’s belief that It was usually associated with disease of the liver. He sums up his con- clusions as follows :—It nejev occurs in children, but is fairly common in the middle and senile periods of life; jaundice and enlargement of the liver amlT nf precedes the appearance of the patches, SfLo ^ tint rather than yellow; however great the enlargement of he liver, it may subside’ and the patient recover perfectly; attacks of ’^^tkout any jaundice, in some of the cases • the affection occurs more frequently in females than in males, in the184 REPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. proportion of two to one; in all cases the xanthelasmic patches appear in the eyelids first, extending in not more than 8 per cent, to other parts ; they invariably begin near the inner canthus, and almost invari- ably on the left side. It is probable that of the causes mentioned under which the pigmentation of the eyebds may be disturbed, disorder of the liver is the most powerful. Diseases of the 7iozr.—Crisp (‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxii, 305) pub- lishes a case of general alopecia in a healthy man. About the time at which he first noticed a small bare spot on his head, he had numbness of the skin of his left side from the armpit to the hip. Other bald patches appeared on the head, chin and cheeks, and other places, till the whole of the hair had fallen ofi" his body by about the end of a year. He had never had syphilis. His finger-nails split into layers, and were rough, with numerous indentations and furrows, and of a brownish colour. His toe-nails were normal. Ho trace of fungus could be found either about the hairs or nails, on careful microscopical examination. Prom his own statistics Crisp concludes that nearly all subjects of this complaint are strong, young, healthy men, whilst in poTvigo decctlvcifis th.6 majority of th.6 patients are females. Of the seven cases of total alopecia he has collected, all were males; of the eight examples of the disease, confined chiefly to the head and face, six were males, and two were females. Berger (‘ Virch. Arch.,’ liii, 533) relates two cases of premature grey hair. The first patient had typhoid fever in 1866, followed six weeks later by paralysis of the right side of the body and of the right facial nerve, which disappeared in about ten weeks, when partial greyness of the right side of the head and face was noticed. The second patient, who had a number of white hairs under an abundance of blond hair, spoke of the white forelock as an heirloom of his family. _ Pincus (‘Deut. Klin.,’ 1871, 3) makes a sharp distinction between alopecia on one side, and baldness and premature grey hair on the other. The first is a true disease of the hair independent of any aftection of the skin. Alopecia simp)lex attacks healthy persons between the ac^es of 18 and 3^, and in the course of five to fifteen years results in more or less extensive baldness of the scalp. On the other hand pre- mature baldness affects only a portion of the latter. ^ He Isolds “ according to his investigations (‘Berl. IHin. Woch., 18/1, 333) the view that alopecia is the result, in middle and advanced age, of atrophy of the skin, is erroneous. He shows instead, from micro- scopical examination, there is reaUy present an induration of the ^ Box (‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 5) has detected the tricophyton in the air of the wards of an institution in which an out- break of ringworm (300 cases, 120 at one time) occurred. As to treatment besides cutting the hair, and blistering, he recommends isolation, good feeding careful inspection, and, for the removal of the floating geims, disinfection of the wards by burning sulphur. p . The same writer (ib., 1871, i, 536) describes the presence of tricho- nhvton in a patient whose aftection began as erythema marginatum, and was complicated with urticaria and ecthyma.PAEASITIC SKIN DISEASES. 185 Vanlair (“Sur I’herp^s tonsurans,” ‘Bull, de I’Acad. Med. Beige,’ V, 699) describes a fungus agreeing iu some characters with that described by Kobin as trichophyton tonsurans, in others with a fungus described by Malmsten. Anderson (‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 742) asserts that tinea favosa is much more frequent in Scotland than in England; he treated 160 cases of it. “The frequency of favus in mice, coupled with the mousy odour which is one of the characteristics of the complaint, renders it not improbable that favus was originally communicated to human beings from them ” (!). He met with 178 cases of ringworm, 121 of tinea versicolor, due to the presence of microsporon furfur, and 197 of tinea decalvans. Neumann (‘Wien. Med. Ztng.,’ 1871, 89) describes the differences between parasitic and non-parasitic sycosis. In the former the hairs and their sheaths are affected first, while in the non-parasitic form they suffer no change till later; for instance, when the exudation into the hair-sac becomes purulent, the pus-corpuscles make their way between the sheath, and so loosen the hair. In the parasitic affection the deep subcutaneous tissue is affected, in the other only the hair-bulbs and the corium. The ordinary sycosis may remain at a standstill for months and years. The parasitic one spreads very rapidly. In two cases Neumann found, iu the neighbourhood of the pustules and papules, spots and rings of herpes tonsurans, and iu another case mycelia and conidia. As in all these cases he found traces of herpes tonsurans in some form or other, and as this affection preceded sycosis parasitica in 95 cases out of 100, he considers the latter as a form of the herpes affecting the hairy parts of the skin of the face. As to treatment, depilation is not necessary. He employs soft soap, succeeded by the application of Hng. Diachyli (Hebra), weak solutions of corro- sive sublimate, and sulphate of copper, or an ointment containing creasote and sulphate of copper. ° The same writer (‘Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph,,’ iii, 212) gives the results of his experiments on the culture and development of achorion. ^ Kohn (lb., 381) concludes that clinical symptoms prove the identity 01 erythema multiforme and herpes iris and circinatus. He describes the tungi Avhich he finds, and recognises another form of the affec- tion, which he designates as heroes tonsurans maculosus Monti (‘Wmn. Med. Woch.,’‘i87i, No. 37) treats itch in children with balsam of copaiba and carbolic acid. The former produces severe burning and redness of the skin, which lasts for about half an hour. the drug consists in the rapid cessation of the ching after the first inunction; the disappearance of the eruption after three or four rubbings in; and its cheapness as compared wiH Peruvian balsam. The carbolic acid (4 parts to 36 of waterfor to 120 applied thrice a day, and the scabies ought to be got rid of in from two to four days. If longm-^ Present, the treatment must be persisted in for some time Weinberg ( Ueber die Ambulatorische Behandlung Scabieskranker,”REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 186 ‘Wien. Med. Wocli.,’ 1872, s. 102), in cases where the affection is slight, and the patients’ skin tender, employs the usual formula : po Styracis Liq., §j; Olei Olivar., 51]. To be rubbed in twice after a bath. He finds its effect certain. In patients with a thicker skin, he combines the styrax with soft soap and chalk : 5«i Styracis Liq., Florum Sulpli., Gretas Albae, ana giss j Sapon. Virid., Axungiae Porci, ana 5j* To be rubbed in for two or three evenings. This ointment has a greenish-yellow colour, a doughy consistence, and agreeable smell; one to two ounces are suf&cient for one person, according to the severity of the affection. A bath is necessary only in persons of a generally dirty habit. Patients treated with the ointment state that the itching is quickly mitigated by it, so that they got a comfortable night’s rest; and after the second or third inunction it disappears altogether. Other papers on diseases of the skin are arranged as far as pos- sible in the order of the preceding: General.—R. M., “One Source of Skin Diseases” (soap), ‘Nature,’ v, 464. Mapother, “ Lectures on the Treatment of Chronic Skin Diseases,” ‘ Med. Press and Giro.,’ 1872, i, 29, &c. T. Fox, “Notes on the General Principles of Cutaneous Therapeutics,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, 641. Wilson, “Lectures on Dermatology,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 163. Curran, “Notes on Cutaneous Therapeutics,” ‘Journ. Cutan. Med.,’ iv, 35. Erythema.—Buck, “ Erythema Nodosum,” ‘ Berl. Klin. Woch., 1872, 163. Siredey, “ Les Rapports Pathogeniques de I’Brytheme noueux avec le Rhumatisme,” ‘ Ann. de Derm, et Syphi.,’iii, 241. . • Eczema.—Tait, “Note on the Cure of Inveterate Eczema m Children hy Vaccina- tion,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, i, 92. Wilson, “Eczema,” ih., 1871, i, 163. _ _ Herpes.—Deshayes, “Fievre herpetiqiie” (woman, set. S3)> ‘ Gaz- Hebd.,’ yin, 643. Broadhent, Herpes Frontalis giving rise to Contagious Erysipelas,”^ ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 187*1, ii, 34. Frazer, “On Herpetic Eruptions and Allied Affections observed in Dublin during the year 1869,” ‘Journ. Cutan. Med.,’ iv, 29. Coutagne, “De I’Herpes Generalise Febrile,”‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph.,’iii, 162. Pemphiqus.—Picot, “Pemphigus bulleux traite par la Ouate et le Liument Oleocalcaire” (two cases), ‘Gaz. des H8p.,’ 1872, 17. Wilson, “Phlyctenous Erup- tion affecting the Hands, Ankles, and Buccal Mucous Membrane, recurrent thrice yearly, repeated for seyeral years” (man, set. 21), ‘Brit. Med. Journ., 1871, b 008. Deyergie, “Du Cancroide, du Noli me tangere, de I’lmpetigo, Rodens ulcereux et non-ulcereux,” &c., ‘ Bull. G^n. de Therap.,; Ixxxi, 433. . . „ Psoriasis—Laycock, “Defectiye Cutaneous Sensibility in Cases of Psoriasis, ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, 275. Purdon, “On the Treatment of Psoriasis by Balsam of Copaiva,” ‘ Dubl. Journ.,’ li, 393. , iic/ien.—Charpy, “ De la nature du Lichen hypertrophique, ‘ Ann. de Derm., '\cMwow.—Clarke, “Ichthyosis lingu®,” ‘Lancet,’ 1872, i, 648. Tait, “On the P'ltholosfy of Ichthyosis,’ ‘Journ. Cut. Med., iv, 263. , Sileroma.-Scleroderma.-GoUr, “Ueber das Wesen des Rhinosclerom, eine187 SKIN DISEASES—TUMOURS. Klinlsch-bistologisclie Studie,” ‘Arch. f. Derm, u, Syph.,’ iv, 493. Guillemin, “Scler^me des adulfces,” ‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph./ iii, 521. Heller, “Ein Pall von Sklerodermie als Beitrag zur Pathologie des Lymphgefasssystems,” ‘ Dent. Arch./ X, 141. Lupus.—Giiterbock, “ Ueber Lupose Verkrummimgen der Finger,” ‘ Virch. Arch.,’ Hi, 344. B. Squire, “Living Specimen, showing the earliest stage of Lupus ” (girl, £et. 24), ‘Path. Soc. Trans./ xxiii, 291. Elephantiasis.—Bakewell, “ Elephantiasis Arahum ” (with engraving), ‘ Path. Soc. Trans.,’ xxiii, 288. E. Wilson, “ Elephantiasis Grmcorum ” (man, set. 43), ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 34. Milton, “On the Ancient Leprosy, or Elephantiasis Grsecorum,” ‘Journ. Cut. Med.,’ iv, 81. Gordon, “The Leprosy in olden times in Glasgow,” ib., 207. Pigmentation.—Kohn, “Ueber Xanthelasma oder Xanthoma,” ‘ Wien. Med. Woch.,’ 1872, No. 8. Virchow, “Ueber Xanthelasma Multiplex (Molluscum lipomatodes),” ‘Virch. Ai’ch.,’ Hi, 504. Waldeyer, “Xanthelasma palpebrarum,” ib., 318. Hilgen- dorf and PauHcki, “Abnorme Pigmentflecken in der Haut hei einem weiblichen Schimpanse (Simia troglodytes),” ib., 297. Geber and Simon, “Zur Anatomie des Xanthema palpebrarum,” ‘ Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph.,’ iv, 303. Kaposi, “ Idiopathisches multiples Pigmentsarkom der Haut.,’ ib., 265. E. Wilson, “Melasma Frontis, with General Melasma in Patches, originating in Cachexia,” ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, 34. Frank-Smith, “ On Morbid Pigmentation of the Skin,” ‘ Journ. Cutan. Med.,’ iv, 72. Purdon, “ Pigmentation of the Skin,” ib., 228. Sam—Pincus, “Der Einfluss des Haarpigments und des Markcanals auf die Fiirbuug des Haares,” ‘Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph.,’ iv, i. Drysdale, “Tinea Decalvans,” ‘Journ. Cut. Med.,’ iv, 78. Paxton, “Note on Diseased Hair,” ib., 197. Purdon, “Note on Fragilitas Crinium,” ib., 252. Devergie, “Note sur la Tricoptilose, Affec- tion de Cheveux non-decrite,” ‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph.,’ iii, 5. Parasites.—T. Fox, “Eemarks on the Treatment of Itch,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 672. Weigert, “Ueber Bacterien in der Pockenhant,” ‘Wien. Med. Woch./ 1871, No 37' E. Wilson, “Phytosis Versicolor (Pityriasis Versicolor of Willan), Orbiculate,Guttate! and Pr^igmous Variety, occurring in a ‘Tea-liquorer ’” (man, mt. 32), ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, 609. Bertulus, “L’ecole moderne et le Phthiriasis ou Maladie Pediculaire spontanee,” ‘Gaz. Mdd.,’ 1871, 332. Spillmann, “Observation de Favus simulant un Pityriasis du Cuir Chevelu,” ‘Ann. de Derm, et Syph,’ iii 347 H.—TUMOURS. cases of tumours will be found under the various organs • tiie following papers deal with their more general occurrence in the body. Neumann_ (»Kenntniss der zelligen Elemente der Sarcome,” ‘Arch, d. Heilk., xii, 66) finds that the same method tabes place in sarcoma- tous new growths as he had already convinced himself occurred in the new connective-tissue growth in pleuritic adhesions. In both the pro- toplasm of the cellular elements is metamorphosed into the intercellular substance of the new tissue. He thinks that this supports the old theory of Schwann lately rehabilitated by Beale and Max Schulze in opposition to Virchow’s theory. On the analogy of osteobkst and odontoblast, he proposes to call these elements fibroblasts. In illustra- tion he gives the following six cases :-Medullary sarcoma of the rectum with partial melanosis, fungoid sarcoma of the skin over the knee melanotic sarcomatous warts of the great toe, ulcerated sarcoma of the SrTomrof the"' fulb® ^^eath of the tendons in the foot, and melanotic ° inclined to look upon the pigmentation in melanotic tumours as a form of cell degeneration, like fatty or 01^0^^UEPOET ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 188 transformation, rather, than with Langhans, as some result of change in the colouring matter of the blood. Seitz (‘Virch. Arch.,’ lii, 114) publishes the case of a man, act. 49, in whom were found multiple fibro-sarcomata of the nerves. Over various parts of his body were numerous large and small tumours, which after death were found to be neuromata. The largest was the size of a fist, and was situated on the left peroneal nerve; the next largest, the size of a walnut, was on the internal cutaneous nerve of the thigh. Alto- gether there were twenty-two. On microscopic examination the small ones were found to be made up of fibrillar connective tissue; in the larger there was a transition into round- and spindle-celled sarcoma. The nerve-fibres were not enlarged, though in some places they had un- dergone fatty change. The brain and its nerves, the spinal cord, the sympathetic, the cervico-brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, were not aftected. The patient died suddenly after being admitted into hospital for strumous stenosis of the trachea. Arnold (“ Ein Beitrag zu der Lehre von dem Ban und der Entwicke- lung der Psammome,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ ib., 449) describes three tumours of the meninges allied to fibroma, which showed extensive deposit of lime-salts in the ribbon-like fibres of the tissue, in the cell-groups lying between them, and in the thickened sheaths of the arteries and capil- laries. Several of the vessels contained thrombi. Erom his own ob- servations Arnold is opposed to the view of Cornil and Eanvier, accord- ing to whom this deposit of lime occurs in the psammoma and in the normally or pathologically dilated vessels. The first tumour was found on the dura mater, at the base of the brain, in a woman of sixty-five, who had died of cancer of the stomach and oesophagus. It was 6 by 3’^ centimetres in size, and had caused no symptoms during life. In the second case, a woman of sixty-seven, there was, on the other hand, peculiar symptoms; here the tumour was situated on the surface of the right cerebral hemisphere, close to the longitudinal fissure; its size was 4’5 l>y 3 centimetres. In the third case, a woman of seventy, who had died suddenly from the bursting of a dissecting aneurism of the aorta into the pericardium, the tumour was round, with a diameter of about 2 centimetres, and was situate on the right side of the falx. Zillner (‘Virch. Arch.,’ ib., liii, 140) records two cases of the occur- rence of colloid cysts, one in the under lip of a boy, set. 10, which dis- appeared after being punctured ; the other case is that of a woman, aet. 36 who had died of typhoid, and in whom the thyroid gland and the connective tissue in its immediate neighbourhood were found to contain numerous colloid cysts. , , . • , • 1 Luschka (ib., lii, 323) also gives, with a plate, two cases in which colloid cysts were found in the larynx. , ^ ^ „ Wagner (‘ d. Heilk.,’ xiii, i) concludes his long account ot tuberculoid lymphadenoma of the various organs with a comparison of tubercle-with lymphadenoma. Maier (“ Zur Casuistik du Lymphoma,” ib., 148) publishes two cases of lymphomatous tumours. In the first case, a man of twenty-eight the diagnosis during life had been cancerous pkunsy. The nght pleural sac was found filled with tumours of the size of a fist, most ol them189 l^UMOUES. springing from the pleura covering the lung and the diaphragm. They were ^cemented together by very vascular adhesions, and there were numerous large and small prominences. The upper^ lobe of the lung contained a tumour the size of a fist, a cavity in which, the size of a walnut, contained serous fiuid of a yellowish-green colour. On section the tumours were greyish-white, and exuded a watery juice. In the lower lobe of the left lung were immense tumours, one reaching the size of a child’s head. Another, the size of a nut, existed in the wall of the right ventricle, and projected into its cavity. The mediastinal glands were large and dark. A half-degenerated tumour, the size of a walnut, was found in tlie tongue. The spleen was enlarged, and con- tained two tumours. The mediastinal glands and the other abdominal organs were healthy. The microscopical characteristics—those of lym- pho-sarcoma—are given in full. In the second case, a man of sixty- nine, there was simple hyperplastic lymphoma of the mesenteric glands, with two tumours in the pylorus. The entire freedom of the thoracic and abdominal glands in the first case is remarkable. The writer con- cludes with the diagnosis between the scrofulous, leuksemic, and these new growths. In the second case there was no increase in the white blood-cells. Eoth (ib., liv, 2^4) records the occurrence of multiple lymphomata in a woman of fifty-three, who six months before death had been attacked with diphtheria of the fauces. Three months later she had catarrh of the bladder and of the bronchi. The autopsy showed great enlarge- ment of all the glands in the neck, the axilla, mesentery, pelvis, groin, &c., with enlargement of the spleen. The glands were soft and mar- row-like, and were of different sizes, from that of a walnut to a pigeon’s egg. ^ The whole intestinal canal was studded with numerous miliary deposits, consisting of lymph-corpuscles, situated in the submucous tissue; deposits of the same kind were found in the mucous membrane of the larynx, the pelvis of the kidneys, and the neck of the bladder. The kidneys were greatly enlarged, and contained grey miliary and larger masses, which, under the microscope, appeared as round cells in a vascular stroma. In the brain were numerous microscopical deposits of round cells in the interlobular connective tissue. There was no in- crease in the number of the white blood-cells. Birch-Hirschfeld (“ Zur Cylindromafrage,” ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xii, 167) describes a peculiar tumour removed from the abdominal cavity of a man, set. who had died of phtnisis. It was the size of a fist, and in connection with the base of the vermiform appendix, and sent three cylindrical processes with knobbed terminations into the cavity of the pelvis. The tumour and its microscopical characters are described at length ; 3'Hd from the whole he concludes that the anastomosing net- composed was the relic of obliterated vessels, and all the other growths in it products of changes in their adven- titia ; and that the hyaline degeneration which the growth had under- gone was caused by the deposit of (probably emigrated) lymph-cor- puscles, which had partly been transformed into spindle cells. The starting-point 01 the tumour must have been the vessels of the serous coat 01 the vermiform appendix and neighbouring parts. He refers190 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. to tlie published cases of cylindromatous tumours, and calls the one described by himself angioma mucosum proliferum. Do Morgan, “On the Origin of Cancer,” ‘Lancet,’ 1871, ii, 6. Arnott, “Notes on the Pathology of Malignant New-growths; Carcinoma,” ‘Mecl. Times and Gaz., 1871, i, 566. Silver, “ Cancer beginning in the Inguinal Glands and extending upwards along the Lymphatics into the Chest” (man, act. 23), ib., ii, 769. Coats, “The Structure of the Myxoma and Sarcoma, with Illustrative Specimens,” ‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,’ iv, 35. Kaschewarowa-Rudnewa, “ Myoma Striocellulare seu Rhabdomyoma Myxomatodes Vaginae,” ‘Virch. Arch.,’ liv, 65. Lang, “Eih Beitrag zur Kenntniss der sogenannten Dermoidcysten,” ib., liii, 128. Armauer-Hansen, “ Beitriige zur normalen uud pathologischen Anatomic der Lymphdriisen,” ib., Ivi, 280. Peris, “ Beitriige zur Geschwulstlehre,” ib., 437. Acker, “ Zur Pathogenese der Geschwulst- metastasen,” ‘ Deut. Arch.,’ xi, 173. Neumann, “Ueber Sarcome mit endothelialen Zellen nebst Bemerkungen iiber die Stellung der Sarcome zu den Carcinomen,” ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, 305. I.—CLIMATE AND HEALTH-RESORTS. Holden (“ Ostracism for Consumption,” ‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, 107) asserts that the efficacy of a long sea voyage is gradually becoming more evident. The testimony even of those who have simply crossed the Atlantic on their way to Italy, Madeira, or Syria, will be almost universally found in its favour. "Within a week after losing sight of land the cough frequently subsides or changes in character, dyspnoea is relieved, the appetite returns, and with it a sense of new vigour and hope of recovery. The voyage to Cape Horn, Sydney, and thence to San Francisco by sea, &c., offers all the combined benefits to be looked for. As to American resorts, he recommends Florida, Aiken, South Carolina, and Minnesota. At the same time the object of his paper is to “protest agsinst the growing recklessness in sending patients who fail to improve out of sight.” Maclaren (‘ Med.-Chir. Eev.,’ xlvii, 193) writes on a long sea voyage in phthisis pulmonalis. He gives short notes of his own and nine other cases, and relates some useful facts as to the voyage to Australia. From the time of leaving England the temperature steadily rises until the vessel is close on the line, generally in a month or five weeks; it then gradually falls, until the most southerly point in the passage is gained, which may, perhaps, be in another month; during the remainder of the time it rises slightly until Australia is reached. He sketches the good hygienic conditions in which the patient is placed—pure un- contaminated air, pure water, absence of drains, good food, with gene- rally a large proportion of fat. “ But a sea voyage is a rough remedy, and it cannot be expected that it will be beneficial in every case.” Kattray (‘P^oc. Eoy. Soc.,’ xviii, 529; xix,_293) describes some of the more important physiological changes induced in the human economy by change of climate, as from temperate to tropical, and the reverse. Tropical climate causes loss of weight and depression of both mental and bodily energy. With hard work and diet of salt meat the loss is greatly increased. Sesary (‘ He la temperature de la ville d’Alger au point de vue des Maladies Chroniques de la PoitrineAlger, 1872) shows that the study of maximum temperatures is of more importance from a medical191 ciiMATE And health-resorts. point of view than that of mean temperatures. _ From the ist of May to the ist of November, or thereabouts, the climate of Algiers is hot, and utterly unsuitable for phthisical patients, who would find benefit from the temperate season between the beginning of November and the end of April. (This publication is probably referred to in an article on “Algeria as a Health Eesort” in the ‘ Lancet,’ 1872, i, 34a. —Bep.) Pulling, “ The Pine Forests of Georgia as a Eesort for Invalids,” ‘ New York Med. Journ.,’ xiv, 232. Mattocks, ‘Minnesota as a Home for Invalids,' Philadelphia, 1871. Keimer, “Climatische Wintercurorte,” ‘Dent. Klin.,’ 1871, 422. Lantoin, “ Notes concernant la Topographie medicale de differentes Localites du littoral de rOc&n Pacifique, recueUlies pendant la campagne de la Fregate VAstree (1868-1871),” ‘Arch, de Med. Nav.,’ xvii, 161. Bourel-Ronciere, “Le Station Navale du Bresil et de La Plata,” ib., 23. Macpherson, “ Notes of Visits to Foreign Baths,” ib., 460. Taylor, “ The Climate of Pau,” ib., 1871, ii, 535. Simons, “ Climate in its relations to the Production, Progress, Amelioration and Cure of Consumption,” ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixiii, 82. Morehead, “ Remarks on the Health-Resorts of Europe,” ‘ Edin. Journ.,’ xvii, 1080. Grabham, ‘The Climate and Resources of Madeira,’ London, 1871. Cannes and the Isles of Lerins ” (good general description), ‘ Sat. Rev.,’ Sept. 2, 1871, 304. Brown, ‘Wintering at Mentone, on the Riviera,’London, 1872, pp. 176 (light reading).19^ llEi'OTlT ON PUACTIOIL MBDICINil. List of Errata in last Eeport on Practical Medicine. Page 50, line 10 from top,/or “ lanula” read “lunula.” „ 52, „ I „ “ suchung ” cZeZe full stop. „ 59, „ 7 „ read ring.” „ 66, Seidel’s cases should probably have been included under typhoid fever. 73, line 3 from bottom,/or “considerable” read “considerable.' 88, 92, 102, io3> 119, 119, 132, i39> 147. 185, 187, 187, 8 „ for “ sudoriparous ” read “ sudoriparous.” 3 from top, after “ Gaz.” read “ 1869.” 19 » for “i” read “1.” 7 „ after “Hysterie” dele full stop. 17 „ /or “ Acetus ” rea<i “ Acutus.” 4 from bottom,/or “ retinae” read “ Retinae.” 14 from top,/or “Thus” read “In the same way.” 13 „ /or “ pas ” refffZ “ par.” 24 ,, /or “ Ambree’sche ” reos(7 “ Aubree’sehe.” 15 from bottom,/or “Entozoares” read “ Entozoaires.” 18 from top,/or “latter” read “delirium.” 17 from bottom,/or “these” read “there.” “ ib.” is in many places printed for “ Id. The following errata in the present Eeport have been overlooked: Page 34, line 24 from bottom,/or “ appe.arances” read “ appearance.” „ 40, „ 21 from top,/or “abaissment” reac7 “abaissemont.” „ 41, „ 19 „ /or “Burke” reo(7 “Barker.” „ 44, „ 2 from bottom,/or “ Selteuer” reac7 “seltener.” „ 47, last line, after “ employment” read “ in.” „ 50, line 14 fi’om bottom,/or “ Dr.” read “ De.” „ 70, „ 7 from top, after “ 1872” read “ pp.” „ 73, „ 10 „ c/(er “ Beitrag” full stop. „ 79, „ 11 from bottom,/or “ Des Parasiten ” read “ Die Parasiteu.”REPORT ON SURGERY. BY WAEEN TAY, F.E.C.S., ASSISTANT-SUEGEON TO THE XOHDON HOSBITAl, ETC. AncBstTietics. The number of deaths which have occurred, lately, from chloroform, the reported immunity of ether from such accidents, the visit of Dr. Joy Jeffries to the Ophthalmological Congress held in Dondon, and his practical demonstrations of the manner in which ether IS given in America, have contributed to excite, anew, the discussion as to tbe relative merits of the various amesthetics, and to lead to a trial of ether on a large scale in this country. All the journals have con- tamed articles on the subject, and papers have been contributed bv' many administrators. ^ In the ‘Lancet’for Nov. i6 and Dec. 7, 1872, is a report on ames- thetics and anesthesia. In the former number is an account of a case pubhshed in the New York Medical Eecord,’ of a death from the ad- ministration of ether This case is also noted in the other murnals. _ Mher and chloroform.—Mr. W. Haward gives the following conclu- sions as to the effects of chloroform in fatal cases :-(i) Th?tTn X the hurt’s ction. (2) That this failure is generally sudden. The chief dano-er action, and this danfer oes not appertain to ether. It has been shown, by Dr. Snow that it IS impossible to paralyse the heart by ether inhalation. EtW prf tZitrlf ''A- the cone prevents the ether from reaching^th™2^ ture, the size of which can be regulated bvpK * ^ ^ less air as may be required The nTinm'. more or ad,„mi»tration of To scl£ ? K iu the which allows its evaporitioo ?.) Wh^lh: 13194 REPORT ON SURGERY. temperature of this surface is so much reduced that the ether is too slowly evaporated, to change it tor a warm one. (3) To give the vapour freely, at first, so as to bring the patient under its infiuence as quickly as possible, by which the tendency to struggling is lessened. The two chief inconveniences, which Mr. Haward has found, are, the un- pleasantly noisy excitement sometimes manifested when the patient is recovering from its influence, and the rapid diffusion of the vapour about the room, which is to some disagreeable. The easy inflamma- bility of the vapour must also be borne in mind. A table of thirteen cases of deaths from chloroform is given, and also a table ot cases in which ether was administered, ninety-seven in number. In only one, was there after-sickness, and, in that case, the patient only vomited once, an hour after the operation. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans., Iv, 5.) Anrp^thetics bv Dr. Jones (‘ Brit. Med. Jonrn.,’ Nov. 23 and 30, 1872). Chloroform cmd its administration. Dr. Vivian Poore (‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 12, 26, Nov. 16, Dec. 14, 1872) contributes clinical remarks on cliloroform and its adminis- ^^^Chloroform accidents, by J. T. Clover (‘ Brit. Med. Joiun.,’ Ju^' S, i87i)._ A clinioal lecture on Death from chloroform, by Mr. Ericbsen, is given in Bi . If either, hj John Couper (‘Brit. Med. Jourm ’ 18^72^^^ The administration of ether, with a figure of an apparatus, by Di. Mo ( ^^MUr'Z'a^anasiheticlhy Dr. Morgan (‘Brit. Med. Jrarn.,’ Oct. V’ g x The administration of ether, by G. E. Norton (‘ Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7, 1872). 'JkK}"?artid^ in ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 2, &c, 1872. Nitrous oxide still holds its place as a safe anesthetic, ^^pted, at anj rate for short operations ; chiefly the extraction of teeth. A case is iust’now reported from Exeter, in which death followed the administra- tion of nitrLs oxide, but the pulse and respiration were ^^ot'ced foi minutes after serious alarm was excited. There was no post- mortem The case will probably remain doubtful as to the exact way in Xch death occurred. (‘ Brit. Med. Journal,’ &c., Feb. 1, 1873.) Antisevtic surgeryLister’s address, before the Brit Med. Assoc enters fuUyf into the question of antiseptic surpry. It las DuSik i/ all the medical journals, and, therefore, must be -bip tn most readers Bull abstracts referring to previous papps ^"rpiten in Bien. Eetrosp.’ We need, now, only refer to the are given in preceai ^ dressin^^; the chief novelties, we believe, carbohppray and the gauze adopted in many noted in the J ,, . fibres of which are impreg- scribes it as securely lodged in insoluble resin, which holds ‘elacity. while, at the eame time, a tp carbo prevent the adhesiveness, which the mixture of little paraffia otherwise possess. The fabric .a porous. itt^T^oifeJ silh a?d“pTacS over thf protective. In order to compel the dis-195 ANTISEPTIC AND OTHEIl DRESSINGS. charge to pass through the whole of the gauze before it can reach the surface, some impermeable surface must be interposed between the gauze and the external air. A cheap and light form of macintosh, termed “ hat-lining” by the india-rubber dealers, answers well. A piece of this is cut and placed beneath the layer that is intended to be out- ward. The discharge, then, cannot come straight through. The whole is retained by a bandage carefully applied. The dressings are changed according to the same principles as formerly noted. Carbolic spray.— 1 his is applied by means of one (or more) of Richardson’s spray pro- ducers. The spray is kept playing over the part, operated on, or being dressed. _ The solution of carbolic acid need only be of the strength of one part in two hundred of water. Mr. Lister discusses the treatment ot abscess; ligature of arteries ; application of catgut stitches to ten- in umbilical hernia, &c.; ununited fracture of neck 01 thigh bone ; removal of loose cartilages from knee-ioint: senile ean- fournakf"®'''’ Journ.,’Aug. 26, 1871, and other Some surge^s wash the wound out with a strong solution of chloride Morgan’s plan, noticed in previous ‘ Bien. Retrosp ’) and then dress antiseptically, instead of using the spray the whole time Ue anUsepUc catgut ligature is spoken of, favorably, in many quarters. vious^'r?;? % employment have been noticed in pr': vious Bien. Retrosp. Cases in which secondary hemorrhage has oc- further on. Mr. Lister does not recommend the catgut ligature unless e surgeon can make sure of antiseptic dressing afterwards. A case illustrating the present aspect of the antiseptic system of treat ment m surgery is narrated at length bv Mr Lister Tn tlio o »» ou irl^ry aUut tU h ®f„u7d ^ ry to d vM ft "taa and ra.p ofl the head of the radius to allow of the reduction of a di, location which existed. He did this, with conlidencrundTthe Mu enceof the antiseptic dressing. ('Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. J4. iS?,, 30 ) “"“'r i- thl May Mr. Lister are appended. '^72, 985. Statistical tables of cases treated by Dressings of dry lint, ^c.~ln the ‘ Edin Med Toiirn ’ III Soninrt! cases further or ^ Mr. Callender’s Moason (■ Brit. Mad. essay on this subjer^givef ^ an eases in the surgical clinic at Zurich dtlnglte isTo'rs” ''Z196 B,EPOET ON SURGEllY. draws a comparison between the results observed from i860 to 1867, when, under Billroth, the open treatment was but rarely followed, and those met with in 1868-1872, when, under Rose, this plan was followed almost without exception. There were no alterations ot any importance in the building or other arrangements of the hospital during the time. Kronlein first gives a history of the subject. In 1856, Vezin, o Osnaburgh, described, in the ‘ Deutsche Klinik,’ the results ot thirty amputations which he and Bartscher had performed m the course ot twenty-one years, and of which only three had proved lata . in i«59, Burow, of Kdnigsberg, stated that he had had only three deaths in 62 cases of amputation. Vezin and Bartscher applied no kind of means for uniting the wounds; while Burow used sutures half an hour after the operation, tying them, however, in such a way that they could be readily loosened in case of distension. In all other respects the wounds were left without dressing. In 1866, Burow had increased the number of his cases to 94, still with only three deaths. In 1867, Passavant stated that he had followed the method in cases of resection ; it was also adopted by Billroth and Esmarch, while Stromeyer Pirogoff, and Liicke, spoL with more reserve of its value. Rose s plan ^pees with that of Bartscher and Vezin ; he does not attempt to obtain healing by the first intention, but regards careful arrest of hsemorrhage, and as perfect rest as possible, as conditions necessary for success. ^ In the statistical portion of his essay Kronlein gives results obtained in the larger amputations extirpa ion of the breast, and the conservative treatment of complicated fractures. Du ng wears i860—1867 there were 140 amputations, of which 72, or 6^ 4 P cent were fatal; from 1867—1871 there were 85, with a mortality 0 •if or 20 per cent. Neither the place of the amputation nor its cause the age or sex of the patient, or the mode of operating. Produced open method of treatment hae proved superior to all others. rpp-ardine the occurrence of Some interesting statistics are proportion of deaths, ^h^erTSaeli™ of erysipelas Kronkm^^^^ ^ by natural means, as is that at °zS; • and heCggesta that it might be obviated by well-regulated artificial ventilation.ACUPRESSURE. 197 Acupressure.—Prof. Pirrie writes on this subject in the ‘ Lancet,’ ii, 1871. Having, since his former communication, nearly doubled his experience, and feeling fully convinced as to the efficacy of acupressure, he is anxious to see it more generally adopted. Three modes only are j’equired; they are now named Gircuonclusion, Torsoclusion, and Retro- elusion. In the first method, a pin and a loop of inelastic wire are required, in the other two, only a pin. Gircumclusion consists in enter- ing a pin in the tissues, a line or two to one side of the artery, pushing it behind and causing its point to emerge a little beyond the vessel; passing a loop of inelastic iron wire over the point of the pin, bringing the wire over the track of the artery and behind the stem of the pin, drawing it sufficiently tight to close the vessel, which is proved by the arrest of the haemorrhage, and fixing it by a single twist around the pin. The slight amount of direct and continuous pressure required to produce perfect arrest of circulation through an ai’tery is remarkable. Of all methods of acupressure this is the best; it is perfectly reliable, it IS most generally applicable, it may be performed in an amazingly short time, and, like the other methods, in ordinary circumstances with- out the aid of an assistant. When the artery is to be relieved from pressure the head of the pin must be gently twirled, and having been thus loosened, may be pulled out with the greatest ease without caus- ing any pain; after which, the loops, being liberated, can be readily withdrawn. Torsoclusion is the “ Aberdeen” method, or the method by the twist, it consists of two stages. A pin is thrust into the tissues close to the mouth of a vessel, pushed along in its direction for a short distance • then, secondly, a quarter turn is given to the pin, so as to place its emerged extremity, above, and at right angles to the artery; it is pressed well down against the small portion of tissue between the instrument is sent, for some distance, into the tissues beyond the artery, for the purpose of securing the pin in position and amtaming the twist. This is the simplest, the easiest, and the quickest method, and is perfectly efficient. There can be but little molecular injury or straining of tissues, and by the gentlest twirl and yry moderate size. In the first step, the pin is Ltered in the mns- u ar tissue, a little to one side of the artery, held almost fiat upon the thr^rTil passed in front, across, and a little Lyond t e track of the artery. Only a few muscular fibres are raised unon the across rfc the" TrS; cart rfa semfc' ® “= <*™“ibe the side of the be placed nearly flat on the opposite Sydirt:trori^tw\^ pressed on rmtU I’f fi a ■ passed in the first movement, and Jre 5ven vessel. Pigures Experience has shown that in ordinary circumstances where acupres-REPORT ON SURGERY. 198 sure has been skilfully performed, vessels of comparatively small size, such as the facial, temporal, radial, ulnar, mammary, and spermatic, may be safely freed from pressure in eight hours; and larger arteries, as the brachial, axillary and femoral, in twenty-four. In one case a boy whose thigh had been amputated removed the pin in four hours, from the femoral, without any hemorrhage resulting. In another case the axillary was relieved in fifteen hours without ill result. Of two thousand arteries, acupressed, hemorrhage only occurred twice on the removal of pins, and the vessels were immediately secured again. The result of acupressure is adhesion of the internal surfaces, with the formation of an internal coagulum more or less adherent to the artery. Since March, 1864, Dr. Pirrie has practised acupressure in all kinds of opera- tions without failing to arrest haemorrhage. Cases are mentioned in which rapid union followed in large wounds. Dr. Pirrie has not seen a case of septic poisoning since adopting acupressure. Mr. Clement Lucas describes a new plan. He uses an ordinary acupressure needle, with a ring at the end opposite the point, and a loop of wire. The needle, at about an inch from its point, is twisted round on itself, so as to form another ring. The loop of wire is first passed through the ring, at the end of the needle, and then through the second ring, so that the end of the loop will pass over the point of the needle. The’loop is then bent up out of the way, and the needle and wire may be so kept ready for use. When employed, the pin is passed under the artery, as far as the second ring, the loop of wire is bent down, over the point and then withdrawn, along the needle, till the artery is com- pressed as tightly as desirable, when the distal ends of the wire are Lcured round the needle. To remove it the wire is untwisted and the pin pulled on. If bleeding occur, the wire is again tightened, if not, the needle is removed altogether. The plan is easy of adoption, and safe, and is the only one which allows of being reapplied, if bleeding occurs, at once, without opening the stump. Figures are given. ( Lancet, Sept. 2, 1871, 320.) Cases illustratiug the process of occlnsiou in arteries after acupressui-e, with its relation to the treatmLt of surgical hasmorrhage and as compared with ligature and tot^J)l are given, hy J. J. Gant (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ n, 95), with illustrations. Torsion of arteries and dressing of wounds.—_ Callender s expe- rience has heen in favour of torsion. His first dressing has been, first, the leaving the surfaces to nature, after carefully arresting bleeding, ond after placing them in apposition; secondly, thorou^ covering up with lint or with cottoo-wool. (Clin, lecture, ■ Br.t, Holmee enters, in detail, into STotatracts, in tL ofter medical journals. Space w'^^ot allow * / f^llnwinp' him in his critical examination of the cases published. mata wopesitou“are stated succinctly by himself: i. That aneu- The P P and however near the heart they may be ought nTl/be regarlras’m but should be made the objects of199 TREATMENT OF ANEURISM. definite, methodical treatment, internal or external. 2. That there is definite proof, from pathological anatomy and from surgical experience, of the curative influence of Brasdor’s operation in innominate aneurism, and of its beneflcia! effects in some cases of aortic aneurism, 3. That arteries may be successfully tied and obliterated without their con- tinuity being interrupted ; and that tins modification of the ligature, whilst aff'ording much security against secondary haemorrhage, and thus much diminishing the danger of the operation in general, may very probably, in future, enable surgeons to deal successfully with cases in which it may be necessary to tie the first part of the subclavian (whether on the distal or proximal side of an aneurism) or the innominate artery. 4. That galvano-puncture may be used with, at any rate, temporary benefit in thoracic aneurism ; that its use is not so dangerous as to render further trials of it inexpedient; and that there is good hope that the method may be so far perfected, as to make it a safe and regular plan for the treatment of thoracic, subclavian, and other forms of aneurism. 5. That many cases, such as those in which ligature of the artery, near to the heart, has been resorted to, for the cure of subclavian and sub- clavio-axillary aneurism, may be made amenable to improved methods of pressure. 6. That aneurismal tumours situated even as high as the lower part of the abdominal aorta, those of the mesenteric and other branches of the aorta and of the iliac arteries, may be treated with suc- cess by rapid coagulation of blood underpressure ; but that this method IS a dangerous one, and should not be used until internal treatment has failed. 7. Tha,t there are cases of abdominal aneurism in which Mr. byme s ^ggestion of reviving the old operation is worthy of further trial. Mr. Bryant has published clinical lectures on the treatment of aneurism. He narrates a case of ligature of the femoral artery for femoro-popliteal aneurism, in which death from pymmia resulted • a case of aneurism in the calf of the leg cured by pressure and flexion • a case 0 popliteal aneurism treated by digital pressure, in which a cure resulted in forty hours; a case of femoral aneurism treated by com- and pyemia; a case of aneurism of left carotid, ligature, and death from sloughing of sac thirty-six days after operation; a case ofileo-femoral aneurism, ligature of external iliac and recovery; a case of aneurism of the innominate, ligature of the subclavian, and recovery. He discusses the plans in usf for flexion strTcC'TM^^ employment^ of Spier’s artery con f;, 1872.)^ ^9, July 13, and July Electrolysis and galvano-puncture.—(See further on.) with his arms stretched out A 1’ * 1 40, who fell outwards, aud dislocated froat ita200 REPORT ON SURGERTf. ments, in the neighbourhood, were oedematous, and the veins were in a varicose state. As ligature or compression appeared to be impossible, it was determined to try the plan of injecting ergotin subcutaneously, as recommended, by Langenbeck. The solution, used, consisted of a di’achin of Boujean’s ergotin, and three drachms, each, of glycerine and alcohol. Of this, a portion, containing half a grain of ergotin gradu- ally increased to three grains, was injected in the neighbourhood of the swelling, at first every second day, afterwards every third day. Alto- gether fifteen injections were made between October 25^^ December ist. A diminution of the tumour was first noticed after the fourth injection, and after this continued steadily. The injections pro- duced sharp pain, lasting for about two hours, but not followed by abscess. At the points of injection, however, there was left some in- duration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, which compressed the veins and, probably, bad a similar efiect on tbe aneurism. In the beginning of December, the supraclavicular fossa was free from the tumour; digital compression was now applied during three hours, in the morning and three, in the afternoon, for six days; under this treat- ment the tumour totally disappeared. As a precautionary measure, ten injections containing, each, three grains of ergotin were administered at long intervals, and compression, with a bandage and pad, was kept up for some time. The aneurism, when the patient was last seen (July, 1870), was quite cured, forming a hardened mass attached to the sternum and clavicle. . n • tj 1. • Muscular spasm relieved by compression of arteries—Broca naving found in his own person, that compression of the femoral artery relieved cramp of the leg, conceived the idea of applying the same treatment to constant, violent, muscular contraction in a case of fractured leg which came under his care. The spasms were so violent and painful that the limb could not be put up in splints. On applying pressure to the femoral artery the contractions at once ceased and on them recurring, at a later time, when the dressings were being readjusted compression was again applied successfully. (‘ Journal de Med. e Chir Prat.,’March, 1871.) a x, Aneurism of the common carotid artery; A man, set. 39, came under t4 care of Mr. James Lane on account of a large, pul- sating tumour on the right side of the neck, of nine months duration. Tim frtery was ligatured about two inches above the sterno-clavicular ioint with^a silk ligature. Increase of temperature was noted on the fame for the first two days. The normal and finally, below that of the opposite side. The man pre sented himself for examination eleven weeks ^^f^r the operation, an scf cely any trace of the tumour could be discovered. (‘ Lancet, Oct. narrates a case in which he ligatured the left common f ,q.Tp?v below the omo-hyoid, for aneurism. The patient dmd IvsTate/’ It was found that he had a cancer of the rectum which liberated into the peritoneum and set up peritonitis. The condi- Uon ii the wound and cf the aneurism had been Tery satafactory. (‘Lancet,’ June 3, 1871, 74i-)201 ANEURISM LIGATURE OP ARTERIES. Aneurism of the innominate—apparent cure—A. case ia which aneurism ot the innominate was dia^noseclj and. in which a cure appa- rently followed, is recorded by Mr. Morgan. Ice was applied and sul- phate of iron and digitalis (three drops of the tincture twice daily) given internally. The treatment was continued about a month. The man resumed his occupation, having been qnite nnable to do so before. The man remained, apparently, quite cured at the time of the last note, at the end of eighteen months. (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Deb. 1871, ^44-) A case of axillo-suhclavian aneurism was treated by digital pressure on the cardiac side. Sloughing of the skin and deep tissues occurred around the sac. Ultimately a partial cure resulted. The patient was a man, set. 45, under the care of Mr. Gray. (‘Lancet,’ Deb. 10, 1872, Aneurism of the ascending portion and arch of the aorta, treated hg ligature of the left carotid artery.—A man, set. 48, a farm labourer, came under the care of Dr. Cockle for an aneurism of the arch of the aorta. The symptoms are given in detail. The left carotid artery was liga- tured above the omo-hyoid by Mr. Heath. The wound healed quickly. The symptoms, of tumour pressing forward the sterno-clavicular articu- lation and bulging into the neck, of impulse, of inequality of the pupils, &c., diminished or disappeared. At the end of four months he had con- tinued to improve, and walked fourteen miles in one day. He was shown at the College of Surgeons, and his case was commented on b}'- Mr. Holmes. (See ‘Lancet,’ July, 1872; ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, Subclavian aneurism; temporary compression of innominate artery by an elastic compressor specially contrived ; ulceration of vessel ; antiseptic ligatwre; secondary hcemorrhage on fifth and sixth days ; death.—Mr. Bickersteth communicated the case to the Med.-Chir. Soc., Nov. 26, 1872. (Abstracts ‘ Med. Journ.’) ’ Ligature of the subclavian artery.—Sir W. Dergnsson ligatured the subclavian artery for axiUary aneurism (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Deb. 25, 1871, and ‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ March 4, 1871). He found the omo- hyoid a good guide. The patient died. A second case is also reported (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ April 22, 1871, 453). The aneurism was traumatic. A healthy young man was wounded, five or six weeks before, with the prongs of a pitchfork, one of which entered at the anterior margin of the deltoid muscle, and probably damaged the axillary artery. The wound healed, but soon afterwards a pulsating swelling was noticed in the armpit. When admitted, there was a tumour, the size of an orange, high in the axilla. Sir W. Dergusson remarked that he would have been justified, as it was a case of wounded vessel, in cutting down and tying the artery above and below ; but there are exceptions to the best surgmal rules. The wound would be extensive; the vein might also be afiected; there might be great haemorrhage; compression of the subclavian is a doubtful safeguard. An objection to the proximal ligature might be found in the “ collateral circulation.” This objection, however, though abundantly proved as regards the brachial artery, has never yet been established as regards the axillary.REPORT ON SURGERY. 202 Mr. Gay tied the right subclavian artery^ in the second part of its course, for an aneurism involving the subclavian and axillary arteries. Tlie patient died, on the nineteenth day, of bronchitis. The condition of the parts at the seat of the operation was quite satisfactory. (‘ Lancet,’ May 6, 1871, 611 ; also ‘Path. Trans.,’ xxii, iii.) Ligature of the carotid and subclavian arteries.—In a case of aneurism at the root of the neeje, Mr. James Lane ligatured the carotid and sub- clavian arteries. The patient, a woman, set. 40, recovered. Some tem- porary improvement followed; but ultimately the aneurism steadily increased in size, the sternum and clavicle becoming eroded. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 13, 1782, 43.) A.neurism of the arch of the aorta simulating innominate aneurism; attempted distal operation.—Mr. Heath intended to ligature the sub- clavian and cai’otid arteries, but, in attempting the former, found the sac (of what proved to be an aortic aneurism) in the way and desisted. Hemarks are made on the bearing of the case on distal ligature. The patient was in a dangerous state, and might have died from bursting of the sac at any time. Probably the operation hastened his death. There would have been no difficulty in ligaturing the common carotid artery, and it is an interesting speculation as to the influence this, alone, would have on the result. The left subclavian was obstructed. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxii, 95.) Traumatic axillary aneurism; ligature of the subclavian; recovery.—Dr. C. C. F. Gay records the case of a man, set. 26, who had been wounded, six years previously, by a pistol-ball, in the front of the left shoulder. Soon afterwards a tumour was noticed in the armpit. The ball was never removed. A tumour, as large as a child’s head, projected in front of the axilla on the chest. It seemed like a large abscess about to burst. No bruit could be detected, nor any pulsation. The arm was paralysed, and there was no radial pulse. A needle, thrust in, gave exit to a few drops of blood. A trocar gave exit to a little blood. An in- cision was made down to a blue surface, and then pressure with the handle of the scalpel burst the sac, and blood spurted out profusely. A free opening was then made into the sac and compression made with the finger of an assistant, while the third part of the subclavian was tied. On the seventh day there was secondary haemorrhage, which stopped with pressure. The paralysis of the arm was disappearing but the radial pulse had not returned when last seen. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1871, 392.) xr c r tj Traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery.—T)t. Kocher, ot Pern, relates in Langenbeck’s ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.’ (xii, 867), the case of a man named Abraham S—, aet. 48, who, three weeks before his admission into hospital, on October 27, 1868, had received three stabs in the nape of the neck and one over the scapula. The latter wound and two of the others soon healed ; but the fourth had remained open, and from it there had been daily haemorrhage, often profuse, ihis was restrained by plugs soaked in styptic solutions, over which was laid a compress of charpie moistened with solution of perchloride of iron, the Tofe being covered by a bandage. On removing these dressings there was seen, about an inch to the left of the spine, at the level ofTRAUMATIC ANEURISM OF TUB VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 203 the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, a roundish wound about two thirds of an inch in diameter. There was also observed through the opening a swelling, which’was distinctly seen and felt to pulsate, though feebly. On removing the coagulum which lay in the wound, some dark blood escaped; and on the removal of the fiuger after its introduction into the wound, a rather violent haemorrhage of bright red blood followed. Digital pressure not arresting the bleeding, the wound was laid open to the extent of about three inches, and a large quantity of coagulum was removed by the fiuger. There was thus found to be a cavity of the size of a small apple, at the bottom of which were felt the posterior surface of the left articulating processes, and, more distinctly, the trans- verse processes of the vertebrae. A transverse incision was now made, an inch and a half, in the anterior and half an inch, in the posterior, direction; and the blood was seen to come from a point between the transverse processes of two vertebrae, apparently the fifth and sixth. Arterial blood escaped from both the central and the peripheral portions ol the artery ; and the bleeding was arrested by pressure against the transverse processes, either from above or from below. As a ligature could not be applied, a plug of charpie of the size of a pea, soaked in solution of perchloride of iron, was introduced between the transverse processes, and left there, as soon as it had been ascertained that the bleeding had ceased. The external wound, having been closed by sutures, was covered with charpie, dipped in carbolised glycerine. Lister’s carbolic acid paste was applied, and the dressing was retained in place by a bandage. The’ head was kept fixed by a stiff collar. The plug in the deep part of the wound was removed on the fourth day after the operation, partly by means of a stream of water, partly by forceps • no bleeding followed. With the exception of a slight attack of erysi- pelas, which extended from the spine along the right side of the chest and right arm, the patient made steady progress towards recovery and was discharged, cured, a little more than five weeks after the operation. Kocher remarks that this is the twenty-first recorded case of t^raumatic a.neurism of the vertebral artery, sixteen having been collected by Barbieri of Milan, and four having been referred to, by Pilz, in an essay on ligature of the carotid artery, published in the ninth volume of the Archiv. Of the twenty cases, eleven were the result of stabs. In t^ cases the result was fatal, before any pulsating swelling appeared. When an aneurism was formed it was generally about three^weeks Mter the injury, and fourteen days after the healing of the wound. In Jlocher s case, however, and in one recorded by Mobus, violent bleedino- 1 ^ ™ - anJuAmTaTL™'' vertebral artery, or of a traumatic S cTe; I^a in seven- was made thprp w recorded by iraeys, in v\hich no necropsy process, tbe pa?sarou"rwKra°^^^^^ M bus cases, of traumatic, vertebral aneurism, are the only two thatREPOliT ON SURGEllY. 201 have terminated in recovery. In Mdbus’s case there was a tumour below the occipital bone on the right side. It might have arisen from either the occipital or the vertebral artery; but pulsation was not arrested by pressure on the occipital artery, nor was the tumour dimin- ished by compression of the carotid. In Kocher’s case it was, at first, uncertain whether the vertebral or the deep cervical artery was injured ; but the haemorrhage, on the removal of the dressing, and the result of introducing the finger as far as the transverse processes of the vertebrae, soon rendered the diagnosis clear. In a number of cases, traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery has been supposed to be seated in one of the branches of the carotid. Kocher adopts Barbieri’s explanation of this. It is that, when the carotid is compressed against the so-called carotid tubercle, on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebral artery is also compressed, at its point of entry into the foramen of the transverse process. The deception is not removed by compressing the carotid at a higher point, for the vertebral may pass up in front of the transverse processes. If it be desired to compress the vertebral alone, the plan recommended by Barbieri must be followed, of applying deep pressure, from without inwards, at the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Kocher says that compression of the vertebral with the carotid may be avoided by applying pressure to the latter, laterally, through the sterno- mastoid muscle. In nine of the recorded cases the wound was at, or above, the second cervical vertebra; in two, it is stated, merely, to have been at the upper part of the neck, and, in six, it was below the second vertebra. In four of the latter cases it was in the neighbourhood of the external carotid and its branches. Barbieri believes that the seat and direction of the wound and the situation of the swelling will aid the diagnosis, but Kocher dissents from this opinion. With regard to treatment, Kocher, following Barbieri, says that in three cases there is no record. In one case, death was the result of haemorrhage; in another of compression of the medulla oblongata by the elfused blood. Another patient died of meningitis, and another of septicsemia following suppuration of the areolar tissue of the neck. One patient died of haemorrhage after the removal ot a bullet. In eleven cases, the carotid artery was tied, through error in diagnosis, and this operation probably rendered the evil greater, by increasing the pressure of the blood in the vertebral artery ; indeed, in two of the cases thus operated on, the patient died of violent haemorrhage from the seat of injury, and, in three, from bursting of the aneurism. In five cases liga- ture of the carotid was followed by paralysis and death. Liicke, m a case in which the aneurism increased rapidly after ligature of the carotid injected chloride of iron into the sac, and also applied plugs saturated with the perchloride ; the patient, however, died with symp- toms of paralysis. Maissonneuve, in a case of gunshot wound, tied both the vertebral and the inferior thyroid arteries, and removed the bullet The hsemorrhage was arrested, but death occurred irom infi - tration of pus into the spinal canal, and consequent infiammation. In Mobus’s case the treatment for the first seventeen days consisted in the application of bandages and cold lotions. Haemorrhage then205 COMPRESSION IN ABDOMINAL ANEURISM. appearing, astringent solutions, and, later, iced cataplasms were used. Two months after the receipt of the injury the patient was seized with severe pain, during which the aneurism diminished, and at last disap- peared, the patient recovering. Ligature of the vertebral artery, Kocher observes, is impossible, except in a portion, about six centimetres long, between its origin and its entrance into the transverse foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra; and, in most of the cases, the only remedy, in cases of wound of the vessel, is the introduction of a plug saturated with some disinfecting fluid and pressed deeply. If this fail, two resources are left—the appli- cation of styptics and the Hunterian ligature of the artery. The latter operation has been twice, only, performed on the living subject—once by Maissonneuve, in the case already referred to, and once by Smyth, of New Orleans, in a case of regurgitant haemorrhage after ligature of the innominate for subclavian aneurism. Distal ligature of the ver- tebral artery, between the occipital bone and the atlas, as has been sug- gested by Dietrich, would be both difficult in performance and uncer- tain in result. In applying styptics it is doubtful whether they should be intro- duced deeply. In one case the nerves lying behind the artery were injured, and in another, attended with lesion of the bones, dangerous inflammation of the spinal meninges took place. If simple plugging fail, the wound must be laid well open, so that the surgeon can see the bottom of it; and the styptic must be applied immediately and exclu- sively to the bleeding orifices of the vessel. The best styptic is the solution of perchloride of iron. It is most important that the move- ments of the head should be restrained by means of a stifi’ cravat. When an aneurism has formed, digital compression of the artery on the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, or injection of ergotin, in the neighbourhood of the tumour, may be tried. 'Attempts to produce coagulation by electricity, or by injecting coagulating fluids into the sac, are inefficient and dangerous. The Hunterian operation is uncertain in result, on account ol the collateral circulation. The treatment in which Kocher has most confidence is the early laying open ot the sac and plugging, and, when possible, the direct application of solution ofperchloride of iron to the bleeding ends of the vessel. Abdominal aneurism cured by compression of the aorta.—Dr. Moxon and ^Hr. Durham record a case in which an abdominal aneurism was cured by compression of the aorta. This is the only case recorded precisely similar to the one narrated by Dr. Murray. The aneurism could be dis- tinctly felt over a space extending from rather less than an inch below the cartilages of the false ribs to the level of the umbilicus, and from the right ot the median line to about midway between the median line and the left border of the abdomen, or rather further. The patient was kept in bed and perfectly at rest for eleven days. Very sparing diet only was allowed, and pills of acetate of lead and opium were adminis- tered every SIX hours with the view of diminishing the desire for food. The tourniquet was screwed down very slowly until the pulsation was completely arrested, the patient being under the influence of chloro- lorm. The lower extremities were enveloped in cotton wool and hot206 REPORT ON SURGERY. water bottles placed in the bed. The pressure was absolutely main- tained for ten hours and a half. It then seemed desirable to discon- tinue the treatment. The aneurism no longer pulsated. It was mani- festly smaller and harder than before the application of the pressure, In the course of a short time pulsation was again recognised ; it was very much feebler than before. A little nourishment and a full dose of opium were given. After this, the patient slept. The next day the aneurism was smaller, much harder, and less compressible than it had been. It still pulsated in a marked degree. The general symptoms were remarkably slight considering the severity of the treatment. The right foot was colder than the other. Tincture of iron and of digitalis were given in ten minim doses. Wo bad symptom of any kind arose; but the pulsation of the femorals which had returned to some slight extent soon ceased altogether. The condition of the aneurism varied. At the end of a fortnight it was not only much smaller, harder and feebler in pulsation, but such pulsation as remained could be arrested with great ease, by digital pressure on the aorta. After rather more than a month the pulsation ceased altogether to be perceptible. The paper concludes with remarks on such cases as the above. Sphygmo- graphic tracings of the pulse are given. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 213.) Distal compression of the aorta.—Mr. Bryant records a case in which he employed distal compression of the aorta for abdominal aneurism situated high up. The patient was a man aet. 30. A tourniquet was applied for twelve hours under chloroform, the tumour pulsating all the time. Pressure was discontinued for twelve hours and was then applied for four hours. The man then became very ill and died eleven hours, later, thirty-nine hours after the first application. At post-mortem it was found that intestine had been damaged by pressure and had set up peritonitis, and that the aneurism was consolidated. A drawing of its condition is given. Mr. Bryant says, “ The interest ot this case is very great.” “ In a clinical point of view, it illustrates the fact that peritonitis, as a consequence of contusion of the intestine or perito- neum, is a danger which must be taken into account in‘,the use of the abdominal tourniquet.” “ It demonstrates the pathological fact that pressure upon the efferent artery of an aneurism or distal pressure, for twelve or sixteen hours, is as capable of producing the formation of a solid coagulum in a sacculated aneurism, even in a large artery, as pres- sure upon the afferent or proximal pressure. The case suggests inquiry into the value of compression by other means than that ot a tourniquet. I would also suggest that some instrumental means should be looked for by which the inner and middle coats of an artery may be divided and allowed to recurve, as in torsion, without destroying the ex- ternal coat, acting on the knowledge that an artery after a contusion may become occluded, aud the fact Moore has given us that a blow upon the common iliac artery may so detach its inner coats as to allow them to recurve and thus close the vessel.” ^ „ Mr. Bryant speaks favorably of Dr. Spiers artery constrictor so far as’he has tried it on the dead subject. “The distal treatment ot an aneurism is well worthy of renewed207 LIGATURE OF THE COMMON ILIAC, &C. attention.” “ Up to the present time the distal treatment of aneurism has been, with rare exceptions, judged mainly upon the results of the application of the permanent ligature.” “ I have a strong feeling that the distal treatment of aneurism by means of pressure in one of its forms, is likely to be followed by as much success as has already attended the treatment by pressure when applied to the proximal side of an aneurismal tumour.” (‘Med.-Cbir. Trans.,’ Iv, 22^.) The case of rapid cure of aneurism hy pressure, under the care of Dr. William Murray, is published by him in a small volume with an account of the post-mortem, and remarks on the mode of treatment generally. Ligature of the common iliac artery for haemorrhage from an abscess due to sacro-iliac disease.—Mr. Morrant Baker narrates a case of unusual character, in which he ligatured the common iliac artery. The patient, a youth of 17, a gardener, a month previously, whilst digging, felt a pain in the right hip. On examination the whole of the right gluteal region was found occupied by a tense, elastic swelling, giving on pressure a distinct sense of fluctuation, acutely tender, and at one point, near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, apparently protruding, abscess- like. It was opened, and a small stream of apparently arterial blood escaped, but there were no jets. The swelling did not diminish. The haemorrhage was easily stopped. The swelling was so like an abscess that a colleague, who was consulted, thought an arterv had been wounded over it, and that a deeper incision had better be made. Chloroform was given, and an exploration made. The Anger entered a large cavity between the iliac bone and the glutei muscles. The iliac and psoas regions were full and tense, and on examination through the rectum a swelling was found in the right ilio-rectal fossa. It seemed that blood had filled the gluteal, iliac and ischio-rectal regions. On enlarg- ing the gluteal wound a steady stream of arterial blood welled up through the great sciatic foramen. This was firmly plugged. It was decided to ligature the common iliac artery. This was done by a curved incision near the anterior spine of the ilium without much diffi- culty. On removing the plug from the sciatic foramen, some bleeding still occurred. This was easily stopped again. The gluteal wound becaine offensive, and the gluteal region and upper part of the thio-h passed into a state of gangrene. The leg and foot, however, remained unaffected. The patient died forty hours after the operation The sacrc-ihac joint was found open and gaped on pressure, and the neigh- bouring bone was diseased. The remains of a large abscess were found involving the branches of the internal iliac artery. No trace of aneu rism_ could be found. No afi'ection of the peritoneum or of any ab- dominal or thoracic viscera was found to require notice “ It is there fore, to be presumed that disease of the sacro-iliac joint ^;as the beginning of mischief, which, by extension in the pelvis, led ultTmate y a successful case C lLccI,' Mr.'REPORT ON SURGERY. 208 this operation for femoral aneurism (‘ Med. Times and G-az.,’ Feb. 25, 1871, 218). A successful case under the care of Mr. Jessop is noted in the ‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 12, 1872. A successful case for inguinal aneurism is noted under the care of L)r. Bernard (‘Lancet,’ June 22, 1872, 853). Gangrene of the toes followed. A catgut ligature was used. Femoro-popliteal aneurism treated by temporary deligation of the femoral artery, ^c. ; bullet in head of tibia.—Mr. Stokes records the case of a man, set. 36, admitted Aug. 17, 1870, into the Richmond Hospital, suffering from a large pulsating tumour, occupying the lower extremity of the thigh and popliteal space. He had been a soldier, and in i860 received a gunshot wound near the knee. The ball entered a little external to the tuberosity of the tibia, and was never extracted. Four years later he left the service, and up to the time of his adniission was employed as an agricultural labourer. Three weeks previously, when going home after a day’s work, he felt something “jump in bis ham,” and then he first observed the tumour. Pressure was applied to the femoral, but it could not be borne. On Sept. 3, Mr. Stokes exposed the femoral artery, placed a silver wire round the vessel, and passed Porter’s clamp down on the two free ends of the wire. These were tightly fixed to the ringoftheclamp.—(Seepreceding ‘Retrospect.’) This efiectually arrested all circulation through the aneurism.^ Fifty hours afterwards the ligature was removed, and to Mr. Stokes’ disap- pointment there was a return of pulsation in the aneurism, ihe turnour then commenced to enlarge rapidly. Digital compression was carefully tried for twenty-four hours. The thigh was then amputated by the circular method. Pymmia set in, and the patient gradually sank. On examining the tumour the aneurism was found to be a diffused one. The artery (popliteal) was ruptured on its anterior aspect. A large mass of coagulated blood was found in the aneurism. The knee-jomt contained about an ounce of amber-coloured serum, otherwise the articulation was quite healthy. The posterior surface of the feinur at its lower third was denuded of periosteum and slightly eroded. A section of the head of the tibia revealed a bullet which had been encysted for ten years. “ An examination of the portion of the artery where the temporary ligature had been applied showed that no damage had been sustained by the artery. This is a matter of considerable importance, as it shows conclusively that the wire conipressor can be ap&ied to a large artery so as to completely occlude it for so loi^ a period as fifty hours, without doing any injury to it whatever. Mr. Holmes, in his admirable lectures at the College of Surgeons on the surgical treatment of aneurism, in speaking of the case where I apphed the temporary ligature to the abdominal aorta, observes that the time ftwelve hours) during which it was applied ‘ hardly allows a judgment L to the action of the compressor.’ In the foregoing case, however, the instrument was applied for fifty hours without there being any damage whatever sustaiLd by the vessel.” (‘ Dubl. Journ. Med. Sci., ; c,«premon: c«re.-VnieT the eare of Mr. Jeesop. *■' cured ly compression.—M.I. Spence nar-POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 209 rates the case of a man, set. 32, in whom compression of the femoral cured a fusiform aneurism. He remarks on the nature of the aneurism, and the reasons for adopting the particular mode of cure. Watson’s “ pressure apparatus” was used. Fusiform aneurism in the lower extremity is rare. Mr. Spence has only met with one other case, an aneurism of the popliteal, which he cured by ligature of the femoral. In the present case the oblong aneurism was in that part of the femoral immediately above the origin of the great anastomotic artery, and, as the contents of the dilated portion were quite fluid, such a direct, retrograde feeder would have speedily refllled the vessel and acted as a disturbing element in preventing the formation of a coagulum. Mr. Spence had determined, if compression failed, to cut down on the artery in Hunter’s canal. The exact time which elapsed before pulsation ceased is not noted, but it was the evening of the first day. Mr. Spence lays stress on complete compression. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June I, 1872.) Death from secondary hcemorrliage after the lose of a carholised catgiot ligature.—Mr. Holden records a case in which lie ligatured the femoral with a catgut ligature, and in which secondary haemorrhage occurred on the ninth day, and proved fatal almost immediately. At the post- mortem, a large collection of pus was found burrowing in the thigh. At the point where the vessel was tied, there was a small, jagged perfo- ration of the arterial coats. Ho trace of the ligature could be found. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 189.) Popliteal aneurism ; ligature of the femoral artery.—Two cases, under the care of Mr. Savory, are recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ Aug. 3, 1871, 191. The patients recovered. ’ ’ A case of popliteal aneurism, bursting into the knee-joint, and sup- posed to be synovitis of the joint, is narrated in the ‘ Lancet,’ June 24 1871, 851, by Mr. Jamieson, of Shanghai. Mr. Lister mentions (Address, ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 26, 2871, two cases of diffused, popliteal aneurism treated by ligature of the femoral with catgut, antiseptically. Both patients recovered. In one case, the ligature was applied in “a forbidden region, from the vicinity 01 the profunda or other considerable branches.” Mr. Cooper Forster and Mr. Barwell relate cases of cure by com- pression. (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 103 and no.) j-i- records a case which was cured by voluntary flexion of the leg in about thirty-six hours. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 6 1872. ) ^ ’ Mr; Stokes figures an instrument for arterial compression (Presse whJh L O’Feilly, and gives a narrative of a case in which he used it. The pressure was kept up, night and day, for four Med Sci ’°Dec^T72^432^) (‘Dubi Journ. of Holden, one of which was cured by genuflexion. After thirty hours’ continuous pressure (digital), aided by a bag of shot placed over the fingers, which gabled each person to press for two hours, pulsation quite ceased. Mr. Holden thinks it ought then to have been continued for a while 14210 REPORT ON SURGERY. for the pulsation again returned at the end of twenty-four hours, and they had to press for some time longer. In the second case simple flexion was tried. On the seventh day very little pulsation remained, and the pressure of a tourniquet was added over the femoral. At the end of another week the pressure was gradually removed. In six weeks from the beginning of the treatment the patient was allowed to walk about. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 139 ) A case of aneurism of both popliteal arteries treated successfully by compression of the femorals is noted by Dr. Eendle. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ vin, 107.) . . Aneurism, false.—Mr. Spence narrates some interesting cases oi laise aneurism. A man came under his care for the results of a stab in the upper and inner part of the calf of the left leg, inflicted accidentally six weeks previously. Haemorrhage had occurred repeatedly. Pressure on the femoral did not check venous haemorrhage. Mr. Spence felt convinced that the posterior tibial artery and vein were wounded. He made an incision, about eight inches long, along the inner aspect of the calf dividing the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and exposed the vessels. It was seen that the posterior tibial artery was injured close to the bifurcation of the popliteal, and also one of the venae comites. A lieature was applied above and below the wound in each vessel, and another was applied to the anterior tibial, just below the bifurcation of the popliteal. The ligatures were left hanging out, and wet lint ap- nlied to wound. The patient recovered, and resumed work as a post- man in a country district. Mr. Spence remarks on the ^ interest in the case. The patient was in a very unfavorable condition, the limb greatly swollen. The operation practically amounted to liga- turing the lower part of the popliteal as well as a large vein, J®*' covery followed. ^He also details a case oi false aneurism^ the radial. The hemorrhage at the time of the wound was controlled by a pad, &c., and the wound healed; nevertheless an aneurisin formed which had every appearance of being an acute abscess. ( Me . aHery above elbow, for anemiem below the bend of the eluTX:L Z\loere was a MgH division The aneunsm suited from a sprain, and involved only the radial, so this ™ tied hy Mr Hulk” the elbow. Compression and flexion had failed, f‘Med Times and Giaz.,’ April i, 1871, 363.) • ^4. r,.,, ^ Tourniauet —Mr. Bulley has devised a double tourniquet for com- Times and Graz., Jan. 27, 1872, 950 . -d„4. n Hr Pai-prson describes a case. Ine cm rrmph like alee severely affected r,emity was much en arpeh and^^^^^^^^^^^^NyEVUS VAUIX—AMPUTATIONS. 211 varicosities proved to be enlarged lymphatic vessels filled to distension with a milky serous fluid. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1871, 1012.) Removal of ncBvoidgrowths with the ecraseur.—Mr. J. F. West has re- peatedly employed the ecraseur/or the removal of naevoid growths, with great success. He narrates cases in the ‘ Lancet,’ March 4,1871, 302. Treatment of ncevus hy subcutaneous rupture of vessels.—Dr. Mezger describes, in the ‘ Arch, fiir Klin. Chir.,’ xiii, the case of a child, three months old, who had a large nasvus on the left ala nasi. On prolonged expiration the tumour increased in lividity and size. Dr. Mezo-er compressed, with his finger, the vessels proceeding from the tumour,°so as to distend its capillaries with blood. He then rapidly squeezed the naevus, thus rupturing the vessels in the interior. This operation was repeated several times, with the result of producing extravasation of blood and slight inflammation, followed, ultimately, by complete disap- pearance of the naevus. Treatment of varix by subcutaneous injection of ergotin.—Dr. Paul Vogt, in the ‘Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’ March 4, 1872, speaks of subcutaneous injection of ergotin as an effectual and safe remedy in varix. In a case which he described he used a solution of 2 grammes of aqueous extract ot ergot in alcohol and glycerine (each 7^ grammes) mjecting a syringeful in the immediate neighbourhood of the varix* One of the enlargements disappeared after the first injection, and another a tew days after a second, made two days subsequently to the nrst. At the points where the injections were made, there remained some hard, circumscribed infiltration, which was not attended with much pain, and disappeared gradually. In six weeks, during which the patient (an old man) went about as usual, no trace of enlargement of the veins could be detected. The treatment was afterwards adopted with excellent results in several patients in the surgical clinic at (xreifswald. Vogt has also used ergotin injection successfully in vari- cocele, haemorrhoids, and certain forms of naevus. Death rate after amputation.—During the three years which have elapBedmnce Mr Callender published his last note on thLIubieet Sir James Paget and he hare performed amputations in twenty-flve cases, consecutively. Without; one fatal result. There was one primary amputation of the thigh and nine for disease; eleven of the^leg for disease; two others (primary) upper extremity, and two for disease statistics are to be relied upon, no stronger evidence could be given of the healthy condition of the hospital wards durincr EeV,’vHi,^i790^° Recurrent hemorrhage after amputation.—K case of recurrent hfPmnr artery in the lep'-<^fnmr> ViLi j i ^ ’ B^S^-fure of the bleeding were much diseased. (‘Edin.Xi Jour”’1086) prilr^7 oSeessfnl,212 llEPORT ON SURGERY. A successful case, for cancerous disease, is recorded by Dr. Bramwell. The patient died, however, five months later. Reference is made to other cases. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872.) A successful case, for osteo-sarcoma recurring in the femur, is recorded by Mr. Croft. (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 203.) Reamputation at the hip.—George A. Otis records in detail a success- ful case (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 141)- He alludes to the comparative safety of exarticulating the femur, for diseased condi- tions succeeding a previous amputation in the continuity of the thigh. He enumerates twenty-one cases, nine belonging to military and twelve to civil surgery. This distinction is valueless, as the causes for operation are strictly analogous. In twelve cases, the operation was done for “ chronic osteo-myelitis,” in six, for recurrence of tumours, &c., and, in three, it was compulsory on account of haemorrhage or gan- grene. Eourteen, of the twenty-one (66 per cent.), were successful. We may conclude, therefore, that in incurable disorders of thigh-stumps, resulting either from injury or disease, disarticulation at the hip is the proper remedy. By using a gutta-percha artificial stump, nine or ten inches in length, firmly strapped to the pelvis by a broad chamois-lined canvas band, an ordinary artificial limb for thigh-stumps can be used. Supra-condyloid a/mputation of the thigh.—Mr. Stokes writes lurther on this subject. He has found the operation a successful one, and quotes cases, noted by others, since his communication to the Med.-Chir. Soc. (see last ‘ Retrospect.’) (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sm.,’ Dec. 1872, 426.) Amputation through the femoral condyles.—Mr. Richardson gives two cases (successful). In one he removed the patella, in the other he lelt it having removed the cartilage. He divides the rectus. In the latter case the patella united well. Two other cases are mentioned (success- ful), under the care of Mr. Morgan. (‘ Dub. Quart. Journ., 1871, 2/7.) Amputation at the hnee-joint.-ln a clinical lecture on a case ot fibro-plastic tumour of the leg, in which he performed amputation at the kWioint, Mr. Erichsen makes some remarks on this operation. He preferi along anterior flap, slightly rounded at the the pateUa. If the latter is removed the flap is liable to live, and if it is left, there is a liability to suppiration ^ synovial pouch under the quadriceps extensor. He leaves cartila- ginous surfaces of the femur and patella. ( Lancet, ^87^^ ^ Dr. Staples records two cases in which he performed through the knee-joint. One patient was a man, set. 41. Ibe opera- tion was performed for inflammation of the leg ^ f was made in front, an inch or an inch and a half below the tibia The flap was dissected up far enough to reach the join, 0“ ttTu^r k five moihs he QfnT-P nnd had to stand “ constantly upon his feet all day. Ihe ot e patient was a boy, twelve years X similar operation was performed, and a button ol cart „IIESECTION OF SHOULDER AND ELBOW OP THE SAME ARM. 213 taken from the internal condyle.” In three months he could bear his entire weight on the stump. He was a strumous lad. The patella kept in good position, (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 62.) Senile gangrene.—Mr. Liston recommends amputation under anti- septic dressings. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug, 26, 1871.) Gangrene ^ the leg; amputation; recovery.—Mr. Morgan records the case of an old man whose foot became gangrenous, and whose leg he amputated as high up as possible. The patient recovered. The bones of the foot were found disorganized. A figure of the condition is given, (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Feb. 1871, 138,) Spontaneous gangrene of hoth feet, in a hoy, arising from disease of the heart; double amputation; recovery from operations ; death from cardiac and pulmonary conditions.—Mr. Gant. (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 176.) Amputations.—Favorable results, in country practice, are recorded by Dr. Benny. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872.) Amputation of the foot.—Mr. Stokes writes on Prof. Smith’s modifica- tion of Hey’s operation on the foot. The great advantage of it is that the ball of the great toe and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone are preserved. The operation is performed by making an oblique incision across the four lesser metatarsal bones, commencing about three quar- ters of an inch in front of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and in a direction towards the metatarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The incision should be made down to the bones, and another in- cision should then be made at the centre of the first one, but at right angles to it, upwards and inwards, for about an inch or an inch and a quarter. The flaps at each side of this incision should then be dis- sected off the bones, and these, thus freely exposed, should then be obliquely divided, close to their proximate articulations, with a small saw or fine forceps. The flap should he taken altogether from the sole of the foot. The operation appears to be best adapted for cases of caries of the phalanges and distal extremities of the metatarsal bones, for severe injuries of the phalanges with extensive laceration of the soft tissues, and epithelial ulcerations not unfrequently occurring in this situation. Mr. Stokes records the case of a woman, set. 58, suffering from epithelioma of the three lesser toes of the right foot. A lithograph of the state of the stump after recovery, and a woodcut of the cast of the stump of the patient, on whom Prof Smith first operated, are eiven (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci,’ Dec. 1872, 428.) Ankle-joint amputations.—T>v. Smith concludes that ankle-joint am- putations are only half as fatal as leg amputations, and the stumps are better adapted both for unassisted locomotion and for the use of artifi- cial supports. _ In reference to Pirogoff’s and Syme’s amputations. Dr. Smith IS of opinion that the former yields the better stump for unassisted progression, and the latter for the adaptation of mechanical aids. (“ Sur- gical Memoirs of the War of the Eebellion,” published for the IJ. S. Sani- tary Commission ; reviewed in ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Oct. 1871, 4a.) BesecUon of the shoulder- and elbow joints of the same arm.—Mv. ^ French soldier who was disabled at a shell explosion. The fragments severely lace- rated the bones and soft parts of his right arm, in the region of theIIEPOIIT ON SUllGEllY. 214 shoulder- and elbow-joints. Eor twelve days he did not receive any special attention. When Mr. MacCormac first saw the patient, he found a large, suppurating wound in the deltoid region, and another on the posterior aspect of the elbow-joint. The soft parts were extensively injured and the bones much comminuted. It almost seemed as if am- putation at the shoulder-joint were indispensable. It was, nevertheless, determined, if practicable, to save the limb. The man bore the first part of the operation without an anaesthetic, but he was induced to take chloroform for the second stage of it. The original wounds were en- larged. The shoulder-joint was first attacked. Tour inches of the upper extremity of the humerus were removed, the bone being sawn through at the limit of the fractured portion. The elbow-joint was then examined. Only the external condyle of the humerus was implicated, and only the thinnest possible slice was removed by the saw. The ulna was extensively fractured, the olecranon process pulverised, and the shaft split throughout its upper third. _ The fragments were removed subperiosteally, and the irregular extremity of the shaft cut through at the junction of the middle and upper third. A further portion of the shaft, split off for an inch farther down the posterior surface, was also removed, so that the divided extremity of the ulna only presented about two thirds of the section of the bone. As the radius was not impli- cated beyond its articulating head, this, only, was removed. The bones of the forearm were, therefore, divided at very different levels; but the tubercle of the radius was preserved with the muscular attachments belonging to it, and the preserved periosteum was trusted to regenerate, in part, the portions of ulna removed. To have sawn off both bones at the lower level would most certainly have precluded all hope of a usetul result. The after treatment consisted in supporting the injured arm on pillows, and providing for the free outfiow of matter. “ Neither in this nor in any other case of resection of the elbow- or of the shoulder- ioints did I employ splints, and from choice I always employed a single straight incision in the soft parts.” The patient did well for a week, then symptoms threatening pyaemia set in; an abscess, however, lormed, and was opened, and he then steadily recovered. A photograph ot his condition, eighteen months after the operation, is givenihe elbow- joint is thoroughly healed, and the ulna so far reproduced that there is scarcely any appreciable deformity or loss of shape in the joint. He can fiex and extend it, and also pronate and supinate the forearm. The power of the hand is being rapidly and completely regamed. As t e shoulder-joint is not yet healed, its condition is not so satisfactory bat by means of the pectoralis and latissimus dorsi muscles he moves the imnt freely backward and forward. He cannot raise the arm very hig from the^side, but this is no uncommon result after irticulation, and in this particular instance the greater poition of the deltoid muscle was destroyed by the sheU fragment causing the origmal wound I can entertain no doubt that, as soon as the necrosed piece of CS^ms is removed, the sinus in the region of the shoulder will close, «^rthe usefulness and power of the limb become greatly increased, ivr Tiwbilp I submit that the man’s present condition is extremely Ssfactiy; and, while it affords an ample justification of the operation,EXCISION OF THE SHOULDEll-JOINT. 215 as performed, it, also, warrants me in placing this case upon record, as one of successful resection for gunshot injury of the elhow- and shoulder- joints of the same arm. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 207.) Excision of the shoulder-joint.—Two cases are recorded by Mr. Ewens. Both patients were females; one set. 18, the other 32. Both recovered well, though much out of health at the time of the operation. The disease had existed for long. In the first case, an oval flap was made, in the second, a vertical incision at the posterior border of the deltoid with a superior transverse cut. (‘Lancet,’ Sept. 16, 1871, 390.) Mr. Grant, after alluding to the usual conditions requiring excision of the shoulder-joint, notes that the amount of bone to be removed is rarely extensive, the disease being usually limited to the head of the humerus, while the glenoid cavity is comparatively seldom affected, and, even then, may usually be left untouched or only scraped. The resulting state of the joint would seem to be that the limb can never be elevated above the horizontal line; while in many cases it hangs down without any power whatever in the deltoid, at a greater or less distance from the scapula. The movements of flexion, extension, and adduction are usually free; abduction can often be efiiected to the extent of raising the arm considerably from the side, and there is, generally, sufiieient power in the forearm to carry heavy weights, and perform many of the ordinary domestic tasks. Mr. Grant mentions a case, under his own care, in which excision was successfully performed, but the patient died subsequently of internal disease. He also narrates the ease of a young lady, mt. 17, at the time the note was made, whose right shoulder- joint inflamed acutely after exposure to cold (?) six years before. Suppuration followed, and a copious discharge occurred from several sinuses for two months, when the joint was excised by Mr. Lane. A vertical incision, down the inner border of the deltoid, with a short transverse cut superiorly, was made. Two inches and a half of the humerus were removed, and the glenoid cavity, in a deeply carious ^ate, was freely gouged. The patient made an uninterrupted recovery, ihe arm, at the end of the six years, was four inches shorter than its fellow, but she could move it freely backwards and forwards, without howeve^ the power to raise it horizontally unless aided by the left hand. The motions of the forearm were perfect, so that she could work readily, write, or play the piano. (Ibid., Sept. 2, 1871, 21O conditions appropriate for excision uHlftl if S r “P Ijy Mr. Gant as-(i) Functional in- 1 ty of the limb, depending on disease of the joint, resulting in arcWosTs” w 11 ir without thi superventio? of iurtifr exc Ln ^ f “.f position of the limb, will also justity excision. (3) As regards the amount of bone removed there is not the same limitation as in the case of the Imee-ioint. K is n“ so portant to keep within the limits of the epiphyses The removal of “bL“ ‘ "t Swtll ““‘r ‘'’Z artieula'^rlrof tLL“the followed hi’ i«I ® section ends too nearly in contact, is apt to be ioUowed by osseous union, and an unsuccessful result of the opiatiou216 RBPOET ON SURGERY. On the other hand, any new bone which may, not unfrequently, have been produced, in the form of a spiculated enlargement of the articular ends above their diseased portions, and thereby limiting the disease, should not be included in the excision. State of the limb.—Of 104 recoveries, out of 119 cases, the majority {minus 15 amputation cases) had useful limbs, as proved by the patient being able to resume his ordinary avocations. Injury of the ulnar nerve—an occasional accident during the operation—is followed by loss of sensation in the little huger and adjoining side of the ring finger, with, perhaps, loss of motion and wasting of the muscles; but the sense of touch will pro- bably return and the other ill consequences cease, apparently by re- .union of the wounded nerve. This accident, judging from the digital paralysis, happened, apparently, in one of his own cases ; but the symp- toms passed off entirely, as the functional use of the finger show^, for the patient was a seamstress. Me-excision may be practised—as in the ]jjiee—when necessary, rather than amputation, and even a third attempt, it is said, has been followed by a good result. Of 197 cases of recovery, only in three, is it noted that re-excision was practised. Of five cases, under Mr. Gant’s care, he had to re-excise in one, with a good result. Secondary amputation.—Of one collection of 104 cases of recovery, fifteen underwent amputation subsequently. Of another 197 recoveries, three, only, were subjected to amputation, with one fatal issue. (Ibid., August 26, 1871, 283.) _ . . „ Mr. Maunder, in the course of some remarks on primary excision ot the eibow-joint (ibid.. May 20, 1871, 679), proposes a modification in the plan of performing the operation. Hitherto, when the H or b m- cision has been adopted, the transverse or the semi-transverse cut has severed those very structures—the tendinous prolongations of the triceps to the fascia of the forearm—by which, as Mr. Maunder has demonstrated both on the living and the dead subject, extension by the triceps muscle may be always secured. The integument having been divided, the triceps muscle just above the olecranon should be cut longitudinally. The inner portion is to be detached from the end ot the olecranon, and it, with the ulnar nerve and soft parts along the inner side of the bone-ends, are to be separated from the bones, ihe outer half of the severed muscle is to be cut transversely, but is to be scrupulously preserved continuous with its tendinous fibres, which run forward between the point of the olecranon and the external condyle ot the humerus. When this structure, together with muscular fibre, is detached from the subjacent bones, a broad and thick band ot tissue will have been preserved, competent, hereafter, to extension ot the tore- arm. The subsequent steps of the operation are performed as usual. Mr Maunder describes his operation and gives a sketch of the import- ant part of it, in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 29, 1871. Anew method of excising the elbow-joint in cases oj anchylosis.— Annandale having had satisfactory results in several cases of compound fracture or dislocation of the lower end of the humerus, by the primary removal of the injured bone and the tip of the olecranon, without inter- ference with the head of the radius or ulna, he was led to think that_ in cases of anchylosis, the removal of only a portion of the lower extremity217 EXCISION OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. of the humerus, together with any new, osseous material likely to inter- fere with the future mobility of the joint, would lead to satisfactory results. In a case of the kind he adopted the following plan. He made two lateral incisions, one parallel and external to the ulnar nerve, the other internal to the projection of the external condyle. The ulnar nerve was drawn inwards and then the bones cleared, partly from the inner and partly from the outer incision, The attachments of the triceps and biceps were left untouched. The tip of the olecranon was then removed, the ligaments and the osseous union divided, and a copper spatula having been passed between the anterior aspect of the joint and the separated structures, the lower end of the humerus was sawn through. The head of the radius did not move freely on the ulna, so the knife was carried round to divide adhesions, and a thin slice of the articular surface was sawn off. The removal of some small portions of new, osseous material completed the operation. Should the anchylosis be greater, after separating the soft structures, Mr. Annandale would introduce the narrow saw under the triceps muscle close to its insertion, saw completely through the auchylosed joint, and then remove as much of the lower end of the humerus as seemed necessary. (‘Lancet,’ December 21, 1872.) Resection of the elbow for anchylosis ; formation of a movable joint.— Dr. Czerny relates, in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Chirurg.’ (xiii, 225), the case of a girl, set. 13, who, in September, 1868, came under Dr. Bill- roth’s care. Three years previously, she had had inflammation of the elbow; the joint had become anchylosed at an angle of 145°; and, on admission, there were six fistulous openings discharging pus abun- dantly, and caries of the ulna was detected. In the following month the ends of the bones were excised ; the portion removed being three and a half centimetres long, in the aspect of flexion, and six and a half centimetres long, in that of extension. The patient recovered with a joint which she could bend and extend between the angles of 60° and 113°; rotation, however, was lost. Two and a half years after the operation she died of pneumonia following an attack of suppuration of the knee. On examination, there was found not much difference, in length, between the two upper limbs ; and, when viewed externally, the joint, that had been operated on, had. a normal appearance. The muscles near the joint had their normal attachments; the triceps was much atrophied, and ended in a portion of bone eight inches long and three broad, which was united to the radius; this was evidently a ru- dimentary olecranon. There were two, distinct condyles at the end of the humerus, having between them a concave, articular surface corre- sponding with two facets on the upper end of the radius and ulna. The articulating surfaces were covered, though not entirely, by cartila^re • and there was a distinct synovial membrane. ® Watson’scare with symptoms of dislocation backwards of some duration. There was some anchylosis (fibrous). Excision was performed. The dislocation was accompanied by partial separation of the trochlear epiphysis and laceration of the orbicular ligament. There was also partial absorption of the articular surface of the trochlea and new, osseous deposit upon the greater sig-REPORT ON SURGERY. 218 moid cavity of the ulna, together with fibrous bands passing between the ulna and the humerus, constituting a partial, fibrous anchylosis of the joint. (‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1871, 652). An old case of dislocation of the elbow, treated by excision, and according to the antiseptic method, is noted by Dr. Marshall. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 27, 1871). A.ncliylosis of the elbow ; excision of the extremity of the humerus.— The anchylosis followed a comminuted fracture of the articular extre- mities of the humerus, radius, and ulna, in a patient about twenty years of age. Dr. Watson performed a new and original operation. A linear incision was made over the inner side of the olecranon, in the line of the ulnar nerve. The latter was dissected away with the soft parts and turned over the inner condyle. The joint was then opened, freely, in front of the internal condyle, and the latter removed with cutting pliers. The external condyle was then cut off, through the same wound, but from within outwards and from below upwards, and was twisted out of its bed with lion forceps. The end of the humerus was then turned out and smoothed off with the saw. The insertions of the triceps and of the hrachialis anticus are not interfered with, and, therefore, the movements afterwards are more perfect. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’Dec. 1871,559-) Excision of both elbows. — Mr. Cooper Eorster records a case of excision ol both elbows. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 6, 1872.) Excision of the elbow for compound dislocation.—The case of a woman, set. 40, of intemperate habits, who was admitted into the Sunderland Infirmary, under the care of Mr. E. A. Malins, is recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ Aug. 31, 1872. The accident occurred on January 17th. The dislocation could not be reduced even under chloroform. There was a wound, on the inner side, and another behind. The latter was enlarged and excision was performed. The patient did well afterwards. On March ist the wound was quite closed. The patient could bend the forearm to a right angle, and rotate it without assistance. It is interesting to note that, although the patient was an unhealthy syphi- litic woman, and the parts were considerably damaged, yet the result was good.” Iodide of potassium was given her. Excision of the wrist.—One of the patients whose case was recorded in the ‘ Lancet,’ 25th March, 1865 (ease No 5), was exhibited by Mr, Lister to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edinburgh, at the end of about seven years. The result was very satisfactory. (‘Edin. Med. Journ., Aug. 1871, I44-) In one case, Mr. Hancock made a semilunar incision across the dorsum, dissected up a skin flap, and pulled the extensor tendons aside. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 20, 1872.) Mr. Sydney Jones records a case; the patient was a male, set. 45; a useful hand resulted. Mr. Lister’s method was adopted. A lithographic illustration of the con- dition of the patient is given. (‘ St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ 11, 283.) Drawings of a specimen, showing the results of an excision ot the wrist, are given in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 7, 1871, 12. Excision of proximal phalanx of right thumb for enchond^ma.— Eoyes Bell narrates a case (with illustrations) in ‘ Lancet,’ Dec. 14, Excision of the hip-joint.—Mv. Gant mentions the following con-EXCISION OF THE HIP-JOINT, 219 ditions as appropriate for excision :—(i). Destruction of the articular cartilages without the supervention of anchylosis, will always justify operative interference by excision. The state of the general health should primarily determine the necessity for excision, in all cases, and not any arbitrary consideration of the period of the disease and the condition of the joint. Whenever, therefore, the general health is manifestly failing, whatever may be the stage of the hip- joint disease, excision should be resorted to and without further delay. On the other hand, the most extreme state of constitutional exhaus- tion, previous to the operation of excision, may be followed by re- covery after removal of the diseased bone. (2). Osseous anchylosis with malposition will not justify the peril of attempted excision. Section of the neck of the femur is practicable. (3). In femur, the diseased portion, remoyed, may include the head, neck, great tro- chanter and shaft, entering even into the medullary canal. In the acetahulum, the diseased portion may include the whole floor of this cavity, and even extend to the adjoining portions of the ilium, pubes, and ischium. The acetabulum not unfrequently recovers itself, when the diseased head of the femur ha? been removed from further contact and attrition. (4). Dislocation is unfavorable for excision, as indicating an advanced stage of the disease constitutionally. The significance of this local condition, will, therefore, diminish in proportion to the absence of marked hectic and emaciation. Operation.—Mr. Gant prefers a T-shaped incision. Excision of the trochanter major may, occasionally, prove sufficient. The after-treatment is very simple. The limb may be laid straight in bed and retained in position, only, by a small side- pillow, or roller sand-bag, without absolutely fixing the thigh. The section-end of the femur is drawn up by muscular action and hitches just above the acetabulum, which, having been generally more or less superficially carious, is thus left to recover itself, undisturbed by any attrition of the femoral end of the bone, while a new and firmly fibrous, movable joint forms, where the end of the bone rests above the ace- tabulum. There is very little tendency to displacement. The slight extra shortening, which results from leaving the limb to itself, is unim- portant, compared with the advantages in regard to the acetabulum and the formation of the best kind of new joint requisite for the func- tional use of the limb, in progression, as well as for support. Results.— Mr. Gant gives Dr. Hodges’ and Mr. Hancock’s statistics, tabulates those ot Dr. Good of America (112 cases), and has collected recent ones from the various hospitals. He deduces the three followin^^ general conclusions respecting the rate of mortality, (i.) In difierent countries a very different mortality, being highest in France and lowest in England. (2.) An average death-rate of i in 4 or 5 (about the same disease). (3.) Very different death- rates in the hands of individual surgeons ; no mortality i in 2 3 y 2 in 3 ; 4 in 3, or even total mortality, probably owing to the severity of the cases selected. The mortality is less than half that of hip-joint TverS -ff Dr. Hodges’ iii cases, J re- covered, with more or less useful limbs.” Of Dr. Good’s 112 cases, 52 recovered; 42 of these patients could use the limb, and in theoon UKPOKT ON SUllGEllY. remaining lo this result was not noted. Of the 42, 19 could walk with out support, 9 with the help of a stick, i two sticks, i a splint, i a crutch, 2 two crutches. In 9 the manner of walking is not specified. In 40, of the 52 recoveries, it was especially noted that the limb supported tlie weight of the body. The ultimate period at which the cases were seen varied from three months to five years. Their cure was ascertained, in most cases, after two or three years. In Mr. Grant’s own eight cases, the shortest period of known, permanent cure was two years and a half, and the longest period of known, permanent result five years. The ave- rage duration of the period of recovery has not generally been noted. In his own cases, the average period of union was three months. In extreme cases of hip-joint excision, extreme as to the amount of bone removed, the resulting state of the limb may still be successful. It was so, in two of the author’s cases, after removal of four or four and a half inches of the femur with one inch more of cancellated bone scooped out. (‘Lancet,’ July 15, 1871, 77). The particulars of the author’s own cases are given Aug. 5, 183. Lectures by Mr. Hancock, on this subject, are given in the ‘ Med. Times and Graz.’ (February 24, March 16, April 13, 27, and June i, 1872). A review of the whole subject is given, and narratives of most of the cases published, as well as cases of his own. He urges the im- portance of not waiting too long; insists on the point that it is not necessary for dislocation to have occurred, and that the presence ol acetabular disease, or perforation, does not contraindicate operative interference. He gives the number of cases recorded at various ages,^ and the relative proportion of success under different amounts of Dr. Ashhurst, in remarking on a successful case, urges that the operation should be looked on as the last resource, not to be employed as long as a reasonable prospect remains of saving life in any other way. The statistics of nearly 400 cases to which he has references, shows, he thinks, the operation to be one of such gravity that it ought not to be undertaken unless when its necessity is very evident. The mortality was about one half, and one in three at the most favorable age for operative interference. The removal of the diseased bone should be as complete as possible. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1871, "^'^Mr. Annandale showed a specimen, from a case in which he had onerated, four months previously. For two months the patient did well, and then dropsy set in. After death, it was found that the cartilage ot the acetabulum was destroyed, and that a kind of membrane had formed over the exposed bone. He believed that, if the patient had lived, this membrane would have become gradually converted into fibrous tissue, and the whole of the exposed bone healed. He thought the case was encouraging as regarded the performance of the operation, more espe- ciallv as all the diseased section seemed to have been removed, and a new^ joint was apparently being formed. (‘Edin. Med. Journ., ^^Notes^of four cases under the care of Mr. G-ay are given in the (June 8, .5. and ae .87.). Two of the pabents were 7EXCISION OP THE KNEE-JOINT. 221 VGfirs of ‘ISO) iHid the others were 27 Jind, ii. Three of them recovered with useful limbs. The patient, set. 27, died. Also see cases by Mr. Gray, ‘Path. Trans., xxiii, 188. A case, in which the limb was subsequently amputated, is noted by T. Carr Jackson, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 191. Excision of the Tcnee-joint.—Mx. Grant’s experience leads him always to remove the patella. Alter the section ol the bones the limb is ex- tended, and the ends of the bones placed in even apposition—not absolute contact—and then a piece of sponge is held on the wound while the splints are applied. The extended limb is laid on a padded back-splint covered with oil-silk under the knee, this splint reaching from the folds of the nates to just above the heel. Mr. Gant now prefers to have the foot-piece part of the lateral splint, as thus the heel escapes pressure and a subsequent tendency to sloughing. McIntyre’s splint he has long disused; it not only causes some pressure on the heel, and precludes access to that part for dressing, if requisite, but the trough, in which the limb lies, induces more wasting of the muscles than would otherwise ensue, and thence, also, a loosening of the splint at an earlier period than when it may be safely removed for cleansing, and reapplied. Broad strips of adhesive plaster are drawn round the limb and splint, immediately above and below the knee, another broad strip higher up on the thigh, and narrow strips around the ankle and instep. A roller bandage is applied from the foot upwards, and another, high up, from the thigh downwards, leaving the knee uncovered. An outside, interrupted splint, well padded, and covered with oil-silk above and below the interruption at the knee, and provided with a vertical foot- piece, is now applied; this splint, reaching from above the great trochanter downwards, and the end of the thigh-piece well supporting the very end of the femur externally, at the seat of excision, while the perpendicular foot-piece maintains the leg in position, and the upper end of the tibia in steady opposition with the femoral end of the bone. Elevation of the whole limb five or six inches will be found to further aid the latter purpose. A short, padded, femoral splint may, also, be placed in front of the thigh, terminating just above the femoral end of the bone ; but if the external thigh-piece be not too wide, this anterior splint will scarcely be necessary, and he rarely uses it. The external splint is secured, by a roller bandage, from the foot to below the knee, and, by another bandage, from above the knee up the thigh, and over the end of the splint, with, perhaps, two or three turns around the pelvis. The use of the external splint is to counteract the tendency to displacement of the lower end of the femur, in three directions, after excision of the knee-joint—projection outwards, by abduction, rotation outwards, and projection forwards. Mr. Gant has had occasion to lengthen the outside splint to the axilla, so as to counteract a tendency to an irregular twist of the trunk, to the opposite side, in bed, whereby the lower end of the thigh is abducted or everted, with an angular pro- jection outwards at the knee. Rate of mortality.—Three general con- clusions may be established, (i.) A diminishing mortality as the operation has continued to be practised. (2.) Since the revival of the opera ion, and more recently, an average death rate of one in four orREPORT ON SURGERY, 222 five cases. (3.) Very different death rates in the hands of individual surgeons, varying from one, in tvro or three, to one in twelve, and one in nineteen or even less. The average duration of the process of recovery is considerable. In forty-eight cases, where the patella was removed, the average was 225 days, and in thirty-eight) where the patella was supposed to be left, the period was 255 days. The average duration was about eight months, therefore. In eight successful cases, all of them children, at St. Thomas’s Hospital, the average was 206 days, or about seven months. In Mr. Grant’s first case, a man^ aet. 33, the period of osseous union was do daySj or two months, the knee then supporting the weight of the trunk. The union has stood the test of twelve years’ free use of the limb. The average period in his own cases has been, for the production of firm, or perhaps osseous union, three months; and, to regain a useful limb, three months more, in a starch bandage with gentle use of the limbj gradually, for support and progression. Results of twelve cases.—Osseous or firm union) and a straight limb in all the cases, except case 3^ where it was incomplete, cases 4 and 5, which were subjected to amputation, and case ii, the only death, from acute tetanus, in thirty-six hours, seventeen days after the operation. Period of union, average three months. Average period of removal of splints one month, when they were reapplied and removed at about the same interval till conclusion of treatment. Re-excision was performed in one case ; secondary amputation in three cases. Rermanent result.— Ultimate known period (i) eleven years; (2) one year and a half; (7) one year ; (8) one year and a quarter ; (9) one year and a quarter ; (10) six months; (12^ five months. (‘Lancet,’ May 13, and June 3, 1871, 638, 736.) _ ^ Mr. Treves passes in review, in considerable detail, the various sources of failure or of want of complete success which result from the neglect of certain precautions at the time of the operation or during the after-treatment. AVe must refer our readers to the paper itself. He describes a leather splint, which he has found useful, and in the per- fecting of which he was indebted to Mr. Clouting. It consists of leather, stengthened, at the back, by a piece of iron about two inches wide, which is riveted to the leather. The length of one piece reaches from the heel to within two inches of the fold of the knee-joint, wide enough to sur- round two thirds of the circumference of the leg. Another piece reaches from about two inches above the joint of the tuberosity of the ischium behind, and, on the outside and front, as high as the crest of the ilium. These two pieces are connected by the piece of metal, which passes the whole length of the splint, to within half an inch of either extremity, and is firmly riveted by two rows of rivets. The leather is softened by soaking in water, and chamois leather is pasted on its inner surface. When the splint is applied, it is fixed by gum bandages. The limb is laid in a McIntyre for twenty-four hours, and then swung, when the gum and leather are firm. (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 30 and Oct. 7, 1871, ^ A lecture,^by Mr. Holmes, is published in ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 12, 1872. . 1 1 n/r n 4. The case of a girl, let. 6, whose knee was excised by Mr. Lanton, is223 EXCISION OF A WEDGE OP BONE AT THE KNEE. recorded in the ‘Lancet,’ Jan. 20, 1872, 79. At the end of nine weeks the bones were found to be firmly anchylosed. In the ‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb. 1871, three cases are recorded fpm the practice of Dr. Grillespie. Two were in young adults and one in a lad of fourteen. All were cases of chronic synovial disease. The first dressing was dry lint, afterwards weak, stimulating lotions. The soft parts healed in sixty-five, fifty, and thirty-five days. The bone was firmly united in ninety-five, fifty, and forty days, and the patient could walk without assistance in 140, 100, and 160 days respectively. A splint was kept applied for six weeks without intermission. Mr. Sydney Jones narrates four cases. The patella was not removed. One patient died of pyasmia ; the others did well. The patient, who died, was a woman, set. 34. Those who recovered were two men, aet. 21 and 30, and a lad, set. 13. Illustrations of the condition of the patients are given. (‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 283.) Mr. Terry narrates two cases of successful excision of the knee. One patient was a man, set. 26, the other a boy, aet. 12. The first left the hospital in three months, and the limb was sound at the end of six years. The second left in fifteen weeks ; his limb was sound after two years. (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 13, 1872.) Mr. W. W. Moxhay narrates eight cases in which he performed ex- cision of the knee-joint. Seven of the patients did well, and when heard of, after the lapse of some time, had thoroughly useful limbs. In one case a patient, set. 40, amputation was necessary, and was followed by recovery. The other patients were males, set. *29, ii, 35, and 10, respectively, and females, set. 17, 8, and 20. The average stay in the hospital, after the operation, was about three months. (‘ Med.-Chir. Eev.,’ April, 1871, 487.) Anchylosis of the hnee; excision of a wedge of lone.—Dr. Morton gives the details of a case of complete, osseous anchylosis of the knee with extreme fiexion, in which he removed a wedge of bone with complete success. The patient was twenty-seven years of age. The flexion was at an acute angle, “ the leg being flexed to the full extent upon the thigh. The union was so complete and so dense that drilling was out of the question. A horseshoe flap was dissected up, and then a wedge- shaped portion of hone, including the condyles of the femur, a portion of the head of the tibia, and the patella, “ four and a half inches across the base, and two and a half inches in depth,” was removed with the saw. The hony tissue, cut through, was so very dense that even the portion covering the popliteal vessels could not be broken, as is usually done, and It was found necessary to use the saw until the section was completed. There was no necessity for dividing any of the hamstring tendons. Three months after the operation the patient could raise the hmb, union having taken place to a considerable extent. Several fastulse existed, through which necrosed bone could be felt. Eive, six and seven months after the operation some large fragments of bone’ corresponding to the sawn surfaces, were removed and the sinuses heale’d patient left the city, for a distance, nine months after the f "hhere was shortening to the en 0 wo inches. Eourteen months after the operation, the mauREPORT ON SURGERY. 224 Was, and had been, at work as a labourer in the country, and could walk long distances. The writer says Dr. Buck was the first to remove a wedge of bone from the situation of the joint to remedy anchylosis, and this is the operation which has since been generally adopted when drill- ing is impracticable. Dr. Hodges gives nineteen cases, of which ten recovered, eight died, and amputation was performed in one for delayed union. Lyon gives eleven other cases, of which ten recovered and one died; eight had useful limbs, one was discharged with firm union, but before the limb had been used; and in one case ifc is merely stated that the patient recovered. The author has collected nine other cases. Of these, eight were cured and one died. Of twenty cases, therefore, since Dr. Hodges’s record, only two have died. The former fatality is not easily explained. Sir W. Bergusson has also operated, successfully, on two cases of osseous anchylosis after excision of knee in faulty positions, by removing wedges. Of forty-one cases in all, of operations for osseous anchylosis, thirty patients recovered, ten died, and in one case amputation was performed. Bigures of the patient, before and after operation, are given, and a tabulated statement of eleven cases, recent. (‘Am. .Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, 321.) Mr. James Adams records the following case, and remarks that there are certain cases of knee anchylosis which can easily be cured by the operation of subcutaneous osteotomy, and there are others in which anything short of an excision of a wedge-shaped piece is wholly useless. Diagrams are given of the state of parts in his case, and the shape, &c., of the piece removed by him. The patient was a lad, set. 14, fairly nourished, but pale. The right leg was fixed at a right angle, the skin, at the point of fiexure, was marked by numerous cicatrices on all sides, some, especially those in the popliteal space, were puckered in and ad- herent to the bones. There was absolutely no pain or tenderness; there was the most complete rigidity (under chloroform) ; the adjacent portions of the bones were expanded and rounded, so as to leave no in- terval or depression between them; the position of the patella could not, with certainty, be made out. The disorganization of the joint occurred when he was one year and a half old, consequently the limb had been wholly useless for twelve years and a half; notwithstanding this there was not much wasting, and no appreciable shortening. A semicircular flap was cut and raised. The original point of union of the bones at the joint was sought for, but no indication of it could be found. A cut was then made with the saw, nearly vertically, through the femur above the condyles, not extending quite through the bone, and this was joined by a second, oblique cut, sloping from before down- wards and backwards, meeting the first about halt an inch in front of the posterior surface. The piece between them was then removed, and the remainiugiportionbroken, by flexing the limb. The vessels were thus completely avoided. The ends were smoothed down with a chisel until the limb could be easily straightened. It was then put up on a back splint specially made, and the wound covered with wet lint. A certain amount of suppuration followed, and a few abscesses required opening. At the end of eight weeks there was firm union. One noteworthy cir- cumstance was, that for several days after the operation, the boy was225 SUBCUTANEOUS OSTEOTOMY. literally tortured by pain in the back, which was attributed to his beino- obliged to lie in a position which, for obvious reasons, he had not been in the habit of assuming. The limb, at the date of note, was firm and straight, with less than two inches shortening. A few sinuses remained open. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 26, 1872.) Dr. liVatson showed to the Med.-Chir. Soe. of Edinburgh a wedge of bone, which he had removed, from the site of the knee-joint, in a case of old-standing, rectangular anchylosis. The patient was an adult male and recovered well. He could walk without assistance. In straighten- ing the limb the hamstring tendons required division. (‘ Edin Med Journal,’ Dec. 1871, ^59.) ^ Complete, lomj anchylosis of the hnee-joint; subcutaneous osteotomy — Mr. Little records the case of a girl, mt. 14. Both knees were con- tracted to a right angle. The left knee was straightened under chlo- ro orm, but the right knee was found to be firmly anchylosed. This had resulted from strumous disease, and the tibia was dislocated. “ A serious operation, such as severing a wedge-shaped piece of bone of the question, considering the feeble state of the girl’s Health, but as a subcutaneous operation, though possibly not successful I deteraitaed to attempt the division of the bone, somewhat after the method of Prof Gross fsee ‘B.en Eet.,- Z867-8, ,56) of Philadelphia." “An mcisioa a Zrd of the outside of the knee, over the lower border of the outer cradyle of the IhX” OwinTIn “<1 posterior aspects of e iimo. Uwing to the alterations in the positions of the hnnpo it was considered IipH-pt^ -n^f were divided, but ness, without her crutches. This c^sp^^ Painlessly, though with lame- neous osteotomy, for the rkief of s pn instance of subcuta- performed in this country. (‘ Med -Chir^ Trans . Vision of the joint (‘Lancet,’ Aug { ig’vi t8o? Mortality.—Cl cafes y died Of fhp^ are sufficient. I of secondary syphilis.’ The average m^Stllitv^thl «--Of the 3S, „„1, a 16226 REPORT ON SURGERY. covered. In 2 cases under the care of the author, both patients reco- vered with useful limbs. _ . . c. • Dr. Watson showed a patient to the Medico-Chirurgical Society or Edinburgh, whose ankle-joint he had excised. The parts removed, consisting of the astragalus and the ends ot the tibia and fibula, were also exhibited. The patient did well afterwards. At the end 0 ten months he could bear his whole weight on the affected limb, an walked smartly and readily. (‘Edin. Med. Journ., Jan. 1871, 650.) ^ A successful case is noted and figured in the ‘ Med. Times and Gaz., March 2, 1872, under the care of Mr. Maunder. , . , t <■» A case, under the care of Mr. Canton, is noted in the Lancet, Excision \fthe anUe-joint and removal of tarsal lones.-—M-V. Swam has had a case under care-a boy ®t. 14-in which, at different times, he excised the ankle-joint and the bones of the tarsus for caries. The re- sult was good. Illustrations of the state of the ankle are given. ( Brit. Bingle, exteAl, J-ahaped incision. C Edm. Med. Journ., Dec. i8,i, of the aotragalm.-yio. Gant states that, of complete ex- cision, 4 cases, only, are recorded in England. Of fortxd excision, m 27 cases recorded, 8 were for caries ; 5 terminated well, i ended in an- cSts’ and, in a, the result is not stated. Of cmnflete excision, 109 bTtir 3-:^ g^oodlnd“™fnl &n: h“ rck';enio™S\str?^^^^^^ sucifally, from the right foot ‘Vere in'“he l^/SrcSr dislocation, are given in the Path, irans., x , 9 > J Jackson. 7 j Dr Morton removed the os cateSto ttoS from ^ , (. Am. Journ. Med. dovUe talipeo.-ln the Removal of loth astragdi i g{yere double talipes, for which case of a ^oy, 7, ^ a without result, Mr. Lund deter- much treatment ^ longitudinal incision was made mined to remove both the bone, parallel to the over the most projecting part li,,e of the outermost Ltrn^rStrorlongu^aJ wfs'Lpo“ed L?a"goTgelas applied to'raise the hone, the scapho. .EXCISION OE BOTH ASTRAGALI—OP TARSO-METATARSAL JOINTS. 227 &c., being bent backward. In doing this a thin piece of the cup of the scaphoid was sliced off. A part of the external malleolus was also sliced off, owing to want of room. Mr. Lund then made use of a strong, blunt hook (figured), with a cutting concave edge. This hook was used, as a lever, to lift up the astragalus, and passing it round the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament, by simple traction, the latter was severed. This proved to be the key of the operation. Seizing the bone with lion forceps, a few touches of the hook set the bone at liberty and it was removed. In operating on the second foot, only the hook was used, and the astragalus was removed alone. Everything was done m accordance with Mr. Lister’s directions for antiseptic treatment, ihe result of the operation was all that could be desired. On the sixty-first day elastic traction was employed. The boy then had shoes ordered, and at the end of a month he could walk well Mr Solly in one case removed the cuboid bone, but there does not appear to be a case of removal of the astragalus, for talipes, on record. (‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 19, 1872.) ^ _ ^Excision of the os calcis.~Mv. Gant prefers the horizontal, horseshoe wrflT f A vertical incision forming a eei-tiap, like a Syme, is useful m certain cases, as adapted for Syme’s amputation, if necessary. Results of partial excision, in 42 Lses 38 were for disease—23 caries, 12 necrosis with sequestra and i necrosis. Of the 25, i died, the day after the operation of diar- rhma, 14 recovered at periods varymg from six wee& to six months 2 required a second operation, but recovered, and i underwent secon- dary amputation; while, of the remaining 7, the result is not stated' the 12 cases, 3 recovered, x required a second, i secondary amuu' tation and, of 7, the result is not stated. Gomplete excision —o/t8 cases (the particulars of which are authenticated), in 14 the dkLse was scrofulous ; and in ii, of these, this condition was entirely consL \ originated from a nail having been run into j- followed sprains. Of the ii cases i dipd nf diphtheria, 7 recovered, and with perfect use nf fbn i u ^ suffered secondary amp’utatiou, a £ rL^rrence oLle • ? remaining tarsal bones and owing to erysipelas Of the 2 induced by injury, 2 recovered completely; and the result of the tv^i was doubtful. The general results of the complete excision nf calcis in 34 authenticated cases—i died of diphth^eria o ^ pletely, 4 underwent secondary amputation^ and nf ^^°''"®red com- not pven. lu one ease of caLToTthros calcis ii'r‘r/r moved the cuboid bone and a small nnr.f r bone. The patient recovered and wffh a ?h m cuneiform nently serviceable foot- this result beino- sound and perma- ankle-joint had free mMion Se after two years The or sti4. The case TreZie^^n the aid of a crutch (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 5, i8^, ^85) -3rd, 1864. excised. The foot ^was^thoro^uehlv ^9> whose os calsis he of six years." 0/ ae second neMars<.l tone and euheiuent eacieion of all2'^8 IIEPORT ON SURGERY. the tarso-metatarsal articulations.—The patient was a middle-aged man, who had had a plank fall on his foot four months before admission. There was a sinus leading down to the second metatarsal bone, wliich was carious in nearly its whole extent. On Nov. 24, 1871, Mr. Holmes dissected out the second metatarsal bone. Various abscesses formed subsequently, and on Jan. ii, 1872, Mr. Holmes made a semilunar incision on the dorsum of the foot, and dissected the flap upwards. He tben disarticulated at the tarso-metatarsal articu- lation, and sawed off the ends of the four tarsal and then of each of the four remaining metatarsal bones. The disease seemed to be con- flned to the portions of bone removed ; on Tebruary rqth he was sent to Wimbledon. On April 8th “ the wound was entirely healed, except a small, superficial sore at the inner part. He could just put his foot to the ground. The toes were movable to a very slight degree, appa- rently from the traction of the extensor tendons being transmitted through the cicatrix. The second toe was out of the line of the others, riding upwards between the first and third toes, which touched each other. This, however, had been the case before the operation. Ihe man was well satisfied with the condition of his foot.” “ Many still regard excision of the ankle with disfavour ; yet, as far as 1 can judge from a limited, personal experience, there can be no question that, m cases of traumatic origin, sound union may be confidently expected, and the patient in such cases recover rapidly, and with a foot little interior to the healthy one. Three such cases have occurred to me and recovery has been very rapid in all of them. But excisions of the bones or joints of the foot itself are still less generally practised, although the ex- perience of many surgeons testifies to the great success which some- times ensues upon the complete removal of the os calcis, tlie jtragalus or other single bones of the tarsus, while, if I mistake not, commo experience also testifies to the rery frequent follows upon gouging or other partial measures. It is worth re- membering als? that the prospects of a surgical ^ much better in such cases as can be clearly traced to a traumatic pause ” f‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 207.) _ , . , , Mxeimn of He lower jaw.—In narrating a case m which he removed uart of the lower iaw in connection with epithelial cancer the fences, Ac llr -Watsln Especially lays stress on the advantages of the plan he ado’pted He made an incision from the angle of the raouth ohhqnely downwards to the base of the jaw as far as the Soier P wS^he^i^ldef in“hfhiXid and the inser- 'i tCtfesues !way from the hone upon its outer or masseteric it fhiPi Sly accomplished hy twisting the articular process aspect, tl ^ the bone the parts anterior and internal out of Its bed, dividing p the internal maxillary artery. t the posterior and lateral aspect of the buccal229 EXCISIONS OP THE MAXILL.E. cavity, the division of the lower jaw affords easy access, and entire control over the bleeding. In most cases it is not necessary to extir- pate any of the bone. If extirpation is required two things deserve notice in effecting it: ist, that an incision which ascends no higher than the level of the lobe of the ear suffices and thus avoids division of the portio dura; 2nd, that in the removal of the jaw, at the articulation, division of the internal maxillary artery may easily be avoided. (‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1871, 6^1). In order to avoid division of the facial nerve and parotid duct in removing the inferior maxilla, Mr. Lizars has adopted the following plan of operating. He made one straight cut from the angle of the mouth towards the upper part of the lobe of the ear as far as the pos- terior margin of the ascending ramus of the maxilla; he denuded the jaw of its periosteum, the masseter and that part of the temporal muscle attached to the external and lower part of the coronoid process (usiii" the handle of the scalpel principally), extracted the lateral incisor, and divided the jaw with the bone-pliers (the subject being young); then its cut end, drew it outwards and upwards, thus facilitating the removal of the mucous membrane and muscles from its inner surface, dividing the inferior dental nerve and internal lateral ligament with the knife, and by keeping close to the bone, avoided the internal maxillary artery. The coronoid process and neck of the iaw now being free, were divided with the pliers, and nearly the half of the jaw easily removed. (Communicated to the ‘Lancet,’ Sept. 28, 1872, by Sir W. Fergusson.) ’ r > / » Tumour of the lower jaio.—Mx. Hamilton records a case of cvstic tumour of the lower jaw, on which he operated successfully. The condyle was disarticulated at the joint, and nearly one half of the bone was removed, f w ' Med. Sci., April, 1872, p. 283). A case under the care I Mr. Christopher Heath, in which he removed a large fibro-cystic tumour of the lower jaw, is noted in the ‘Lancet,’ March 23, 1872, 397. and‘Path. Trans.,’xxiii, 181. 6, 1, Excision of half of the lower jaw.~Mx. W. Thomas, of Birminffham removed the left half of the lower jaw on account of a myeloid tumour! ihe growth had been recognised for about seven years. The left lower incisor tooth was extracted, an incision made along the ramus from the the taw rft tr ‘‘P’ dissected up, aud the jaw dinded at the symphysis: after a little dissection the tumour was rem^oved by sawing the bone below the condyle, and then after rf tt mtut7wt‘^ mucous membtn; ..nited n Stitched together, and the flap of skin laid down and twentt t sUver wire sutures. The mass removed tethed tUn Vi itfound to court ot a little &™rTAtn“T“7® I pinkish-white substance a rnthtTfterThtr * * substance were two cysts. Seventeen Td Resented no ,‘°k “ excellent health, JulyPjHfy , , recurrence of the disease. (‘LanceV W^Cg^^n'removT;! '"’“7 sapsrior «oau7i«.-Sir fergusson removed the greater part of the sifiierior maxilla for a230 EEPORT ON SURGERY. tumour of the antrum. The patient recovered. The growth proved to be fibrous, and was undergoing calcareous cliange. A complete account of the histology is given by Dr. Goodhart. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ May 25, 1872.) Excision of the superior maxilla.—A case in which Dr. Gott excised the superior maxilla for encephaloid disease is recorded in the ‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1871, 289. Removal of hoik superior maxillce.—Mr. Canton removed the left superior maxilla from a woman, set. 35* in 1864, for myeloid tumour, and, in 1871, the other maxilla for fibrous tumour. The deformity was remarkably slight. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 20, 1872, 79.) Anchylosis of the lower jaw ; formation of an artificial joint on each side.—tiv. Maas relates, in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,’ xiii, 429, the case of a man, set. 27, who was admitted into the hospital, at Breslau, on account of inability to open the iaw. At the age of 7 he had scarlet fever; during which, however, he was not confined to the house. About this time, in consequence of a cold, he was seized with severe pain in the articulation of the jaw, on both sides, so that he could not open his mouth. The pain ceased, but the inability to move the iaw increased, and became complete when he was 10 years old. Mis food consisted partly of fluids, partly of finely divided meat, which he managed to thrust into his mouth between the molar teeth, which Avere deficient. The shedding of the milk-teeth was attended with much difficulty and pain ; the permanent teeth were arranged irregularly and most of them were displaced laterally. On admission the patient had a pale, vellowish aspect, was in moderately good condition, and spoke dis- tinctly though with a somewhat muffled tone, ihe upper part of the face was well developed; but the lower jaw was retreating, and the alveolar- edge was observed to be far behind the corresponding part of the upper iaw Attempts to move the jaw produced pain in the articulation on the iight side, but failed, utterly, in opening the mouth, even ^ wL narcotised. Dr. Middeldorpf made an incision along the lower edge of the jaw on the right side, and, by means of the chain saw and Lifton’s forJeps, removed a wedge-shaped piece of bone, having its base wL. The r^esult of this was that the mouth could be opened pas- sively to the extent of about an mch. The teeth were found to mosDy carious, or to be so abnormally placed as to be useless ; one molar^on the left side, and two on the right, stood out horizontally froi the alveolar border. The teeth were for some time to produce separation of the jaws. T e , , very Se effect f aod, between four and five oneration the left side of the jaw was operated on by Dr. ± ischer in a shnilar manner Dour months after this the patient could voluntarily open hisTorh, to the extent of centimetres ; and h.s general con- ■"‘‘rsfttir^rrmr^ «-nar case to the Dr at Turin. The patient was a lad set. 17, Eoyal seven years old. Inability to open the who had W “ “ 7i Zt in a few months he was quite unable to rpalatfthe jSs opened the mouth forcibly dunng narcos,s,ARTIFICIAL MAXILLARY JOINT REMOVAL OF THE SCAPULA. 231 and inserted a wedge; this, however, was so troublesome to the patient that it was removed. Eesection was now determined on, a perpendi- cular incision was made on one side, and the head of the jawbone, after tlie periosteum had been separated, was removed by the chisel and hammer. This had no appreciable effect; and it was only after the operation had been repeated on the other side, that the jaw could be freely moved. The wounds were healed in six weeks, and the move- ments of the jaw were normal. Nothing abnormal could be found in the excised portions of bone; but the inter-articular cartilages were absent. (‘Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,’ No. 27, 1872.) Removal of the scapula.—Mr. Spence exhibited to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edin. a tumour involving the scapula, which he had removed. The tumour had been growing for twenty-three years. The patient, a man, set. 65, was in general good health. The tumour was apparently very loosely connected with the textures around it. Mr. Syme saw the man eighteen years before, and told him that it might not trouble him if he let it alone. When first seen by Mr. Spence, the tumour was not so large as it had become at the time of removal, and was exhibited to the society. It was movable, bound down by the tissues to the scapula, but apparently not connected to the bone. The man came into the^- hospital in bad health, took erysipelas, recovered, and was dismissed fo^'" a time. When he came back there was a change in the tumour. Th'“ pain was very great at night, and the pulse was quickened. The growtu> was still apparently movable and smooth on the surface, but from the appearance of the skin and of the patient Mr. Spence was of opinion he would have to remove the scapula. He made a preliminary incision, and the tumour felt so loose he thought it would come away, but when he came to a deeper part he found a soft mass involving the glenoid cavity. Accordingly he proceeded to perform excision of the tumour with the scapula. After examining the part, carefully, he found a series of prismatic bodies of milk-white appearance and opaque. He removed them, and they turned out to be lymphatic glands. He thought the growth malignant. The man recovered well. One difBculty in the after-treatment was found to consist in the tendency of the head of the humerus to project through the line of incision. At this part, there being nothing but skin, the head of the bone came against it and had a tendency to protrude. When, during the operation, the clavicle is sawn expedite matters, the sharp section of bone projects beneath the thin skin, and the overhanging arch is wanting. He would be inclined in future, to disarticulate the clavicle, and so leave the coXint incision and less un- oie mL i"® humerus and would produce a better result. “EdirMerj„l™.7ug‘ysT »coy«io, remit rot'etM been introduced into practice by M Dieulafoy for the purpose of preventinf^ the access of bllddei^^hesV&T'^^It^b^^ «Lispected to contam fluid—of the b adder, chest, &c. It has been improved by Weiss and others. It232 REPORT ON SURGERY. was described by M. Dieulafoy, at a meeting of tbe Academy of Medicine in Paris, on April 19, 1870. (“De I’aspiration pneumatique sous- cutanee,mctbode de diagnostic et de traitement,par le Dr. Georges Dieu- lafoy.”) Claims of priority were made by MM. Langier and Jules Guerin, tbe latter stating that he had had an instrument made on the same principle thirty years ago. The aspirator may be described, shortly, as consisting of a syringe with an air-tight piston, capable of creating a vacuum, and a series of fine, hollow needles (or a trocar and canula) fitting on to the syringe. The latter is provided with an outlet as well as an inlet, each having a stop-cock. The syringe is exhausted by drawing up the piston while the taps are turned to prevent entrance of air. A needle is selected, or a trocar and canula, attached to the syringe, and thrust a short distance into the cavity to be emptied. The stop-cock is turned on, and the fluid rushes into the vacuum in the syringe, without the possibility ot air entering the cavity tapped. If preferred, the syringe need not be ex- hausted till the needle is thrust in, and thus the traction force can be regulated. When the syringe is full the inlet tap is shut, the other opened, and the piston forced down. The fluid is conveyed by a tube into a con- venient receptacle. Messrs. Khrone and Sesemann supply a form of apparatus more convenient in some respects. It consists of a large, glass iar, in the top of which is inserted a syringe and a tube. The syringe is. used to exhaust the glass jar. To the tube is attached a convenient length of india-rubber tubing, to the end of which the needle or trocar and canula can be attached. This apparatus is easier to work if there is a large quantity of fluid to be removed. Considerable force is required to draw up the piston of the ordinary syringe, and is tiring after a time. Dr. Anton Lohmayer, of Esseg, a former assistant ot Billroth, gives, in the ‘Wiener Med. Woch.,’ August j and 12, 1871, notes ot 14 cases in which he used the aspirator; cold abscesses, hydrops genu., tumor albus genu., &c. This paper contains an interesting^ historical summary of attempts made in the same direction as that of Dieulatoy. Mr. Jessop gives illustrations of the surgical uses of the pneumatic aspirator in abdominal tumours a pelvm )ii“our phalus, abscesses, effusion into knee-joint, &c. ( Brit. Med. Journ., Dec. 7, 1872.) See, further. Aspiration of intestine. . n • 1 v, i Cleft palate.—Mr. T. Smith narrates forty eases m which he has operated for clefts of the hard and soft palates under 1“ twenty-five cases, he closed the whole cleft at one opera ^lo . of these a cLplete cure was effected; in eight, there was central hole lef^ in two, failure resulted; in three, only the hard palate unM • in one the soft only, and, in two, a large hole remained in the nalate. ’ If it is considered inadvisable to attempt to unite tew at once Mr. Smith recommends that the part of the cle s , broueht together, first, which seems most easily approximated, w233 CLEFT PALATE—TUMOUllS OF THE BREAST. throuo-h He only divided the muscles in a few cases, trusting to incisions. (‘St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ vii, 1.^3.) Mr. Francis Mason describes a plan he has adopted for improving the voice after a cleft of the palate has been closed. The operation may be performed at any time after the closure. A narrow spatula is passed behind the soft palate and then an incision is made in the soft palate on either side, just at the inner side of the hamular process. The palate retracts by muscular action and is converted into a loose, movable curtain, which, effectually shuts off" the communication between the posterior nares and the mouth. A diagram is given. Eleven cases have been operated on. (‘St. Thom. Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 271.) Mr. Hulke operated on a little girl, set. 2^, who had a cleft of the soft palate, under the influence of chloroform, using Smith’s gag. The sutures were torn out at the end of a week in a fit of coughing. He operated again at the end of thirteen months, using silkworm-gut sutures. Perfect union throughout the whole of the cleft resulted. (‘ Lancet,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 339.) Dr. 'Whitehead records two cases in which he operated successfully, the patients being anaesthetised. In several cases he believes bone has been produced in the new palate.—(‘ Amer. Jour. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 75.) A case of cleft of the hard and soft palates operated on successfully at one operation, in a man of thirty- five, is recorded by Dr. Whitehead. A special gag and various instru- ments, which are figured, were employed. The patient was reheved. (‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ July, 1871, 114.) Scissors for removing sutures,—Mr. Thomas Smith uses a pair of scissors with a fine hook at the end of one blade, and there are fiat surfaces on each blade, behind the cutting edge, to seize the suture fast when divided. (‘Lancet,’ May 13, 1871, 645.) Improved gag for use in operations on the mouth, ^c.—In a clinical lecture on epithelioma of the tongue Mr. Wood describes and figures a gag somewhat similar to Mr. Smith’s, acting on both sides, but without a tongue-piece, very strong and having a transverse connecting piece passing under the chin. (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 28, 1872.) Removal of tumours of the Ireast.—The results of Mr. Syme’s practice in the removal of tumours of the breast show, that of fifty-five opera- tions which he performed, for simple tumours, recovery followed in all. In 147 cases of carcinoma, death followed in 10. Two of the patients died of shock ; the others of erisipelas or of inflammatory affections of the thoracic viscera. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.’ July, 1871, 32.) Cancer of the Ireast.—In the ‘ Lancet,’ for Sept. 16, 1841, 398, is a record of cases of cancer of the breast, with special reference to the return of the disease after operation (compiled by Dr. Andrea Eabagliati) from the Bradford Infirmary. The following summary is given. Out of 10 patients, on whom 11 operations were made for cancer of the breast: —2 died of the operation; 3 ha,vedied since, i of return of the disease locally, and 2 died from constitutional return (of these i in the liver and I in the lung); in 2 more the disease has recurred locally; and in 3 there has been no recurrence of the disease up to the time of the of the last 3 patients the longest interval between the date 01 the operation and the time of the note was nine months,REPORT ON SURGERY. 234. in another, the interval was five months, and, in the last, the interval was three mouths. The disease had recurred in every one of the cases in which the axillary glands were involved at the time of the operation. Excision of the mamma.—Dr. .Joseph Bell advocates the employment of three incisions instead of the two oval ones usually employed. They are either curved, the convexities towards each other and leaving a triangular space enclosing the nipple, or V-shaped with a cross piece at the top (base) including the nipple, or, instead of the two lateral parts of the V, the incisions may be curved, with their concavities towards each other and the apex below the nipple, or, if more room is required, they may be continued downwards after crossing, curving away from each other. Figures are given. He also lays stress on removing all the fat and glands from the axilla if the latter is affected, and, also, the whole mass of subcutaneous fat lying in the line between the breast and the axilla, and which contains the lymphatics extending from the breast to the axilla. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Feb. 1871, 687.) Cystic tumours of the hreast.—Dr. James F. Goodliart has investigated the nature and development of cystic tumours of the breast, and his results are published in the ‘ Ed. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872, p. 1015, with illustrations. Myxoma of the breast.—Specimens by Mr. Forster and Mr. Henry Morris, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ vol. xxiii, pp. 261 and 274. Subcutaneous division of the necTc of the thigh-bone.—Mr. W. Adams points out the cases which he thinks adapted for performing sub- cutaneous section of the neck of the thigh-bone. Six cases have now been recorded ; five of them, for bony anchylosis, were successful; one, for fibrous anchylosis in a child, was unsuccessful. Mr. Adams enume- rates the specimens of bony anchylosis which are preserved in the various museums. In anchylosis after rheumatism, pyaemia, traumatic inflammation, and strumous disease, arrested in an early stage, the operation answers well. It is only in cases of severe, strumous disease, with destruction of bone, that the operation is decidedly negatived. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 20, 1871.) Statistics of operations.—Mr. Stokes publishes the statistics of 137 surgical opera- tions performed by himself from Jan. 1870.to Dec. 1871. (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sei.,’ 1872, 446.) Paracentesis thoracis.—Dr. Evans contributes a paper on thoracentesis, giving statistics and tables of results, &c. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 69.) Tumou/r caused by the growth of a canine tooth within the antrum.—A negro, set. 14, came under the care of Mr. R. W. McCoy for a swelling of the left side of the face. As far as a history could be obtained it was probable that the tumour had been growing for about two and a half years. The tumour was punctured under the lip with a trocar and canula, and half a drachm of a thin, glairy fluid drawn off. The opening closed and the tumour continued to increase in size. The whole ot the front wall of the tumour was then removed by operation. It was very thin and lined, on its concave surface, with a thick, gelatinous substance mucous membrane morbidly thickened and degenerated. The cavity of the antrum was found nearly filled with this substance. In the centre was a space about the size of an almond, containing a little viscid mucus and projecting into it, from above, was a tooth. The tooth was firmly imbedded in a socket, apparently growing from the nasal process235 REMOVAL OF NASO-PHARYNGEAL TUMOURS. or inner angle of the orbital process of the superior maxilla, and it required some foi’ceto extract it with the tooth forceps. It was a fully developed, sound, canine tooth. The gelatinous contents of the antrum were, in great part, cleared out. The boy recovered well and with no apparent deformity. The left, upper, canine tooth was wanting in its natural place. (‘Lancet,’Aug. 19, 1871, 259.) Distension of the antrum of Highmore.—Mr. Warrington Haward brought cases under the notice of the Clinical Society. (‘ Trans.,’ v, 131.) Myeloid tumour of the lower jaw; removal through the mouth without external wound. —Mr. Maunder records a case and gives a photograph. (‘Brit.Med. Journ.’ Jan. 13,1872.) Osteo-plastic resection for removal of naso-pharyngeal tumours.—It is now several years since Langenbeck devised “ osteo-plastic resection of the upper jaw” for the removal of naso-pharyngeal tumours (see ‘ Year Book,’ 1862, &c.). In his operation the bone was raised directly upwards or upwards and inwards. Ollier, of Lyons, opened the naso- pharyngeal cavity by cutting through the nasal and superior maxillary bones above, and turning the flap downwards. Another modiflcatiou of this operation, having the same object, has been devised by Dr. von Bruns of Tubingen, and is described in the ‘ Berlin. Klin. Wochenschr.,’ Nos. 12 and 13, 1872. In cases where the external nose is thrust towards the right cheek, a horizontal incision is made, through the upper lip (avoiding the mucous membrane), from a few millimetres below tbe right ala nasi to a point opposite the first, left, molar tooth. A second cut is made in the direction ot the naso-frontal suture, its ends lying about a centimetre above and on the inner side of the angle of the eye ; and a third is carried from the left extremity of the upper incision obliquely downwards and outwards along the side of the nose to the left end of the lower incision. The periosteum is divided in the incisions. The base of the anterior, nasal spine is now divided by a saw, and the septum is cut through, horizontally, by bone forceps. A saw is now inserted at the left, lower corner of the external nares, and the bone is divided, first outwards, then upwards, then to the right; tbe septum is then divided obliquely, downwards, and backwards. This being done, a chisel is inserted in the upper end of the lateral saw-cuts, so as to break through the connection between the right nasal and the upper maxillary bones, and the whole nose can be now turned over on the right qheek. When only one half of the nose requires to be raised, the horizontal incisions are carried only a little beyond the middle line ; the anterior nasal spine, the septum, and the nasal bone, on the sound side, are left untouched, and the nasal bones are separated along their line of junction. It the tumour cannot be at once removed, a tampon may be M ro to pi event union, and the operation completed afterwards. JJr. von Bruns has performed the operation on three patients, all the cases eing successful. In one instance it was necessary to keep the displaced tor three weeks, but union readily took place at the end ot that time, after frphening of the edges. The advantages of this plan are said to be, that the removal of the tumour is facilitated, more direct and extensive access to its base being gained; that the hemorrhage is easily arrested; that the surgeon has the opportunity of keeping the perform further operations if necessary ; and a ea lug takes place readily, without any disturbance of function.UEPOUT ON SURGEEY. 236 Removal of pharyngeal polypi hy the galvanic cautery.—MM. Corradi and Gozzini (‘Lo Sperimentale,’ 1871), describe a case of pharyngeal tumour which they removed by means of the galvanic cautery. The tumour was round, very hard, smooth, and was attached by a broad pedicle to tbe pharynx, the upper part of which it occupied. A Belloc’s sound, introduced through tbe nostril, was passed between the tumour and the uvula; one end of a silk thread was, by means of the sound, carried into the nose, and the two ends of a platinum wire, about two feet long and one twentieth of an inch thick, were fastened to the other end. The silk thread was drawn through the nose, and, by manipulating the wire loop in the mouth, it was placed as high as possible on the pedicle of the tumour. The ends of the wire were then placed in connection with the battery (Grenet’s) ; the circuit was kept closed for twenty seconds, traction at the same time being made on the wire. The current was now interrupted, and the loop, which had cut into the tumour, was placed more accurately on the pedicle. The circuit was again com- pleted, and the tumour was cut through at its base and removed through the mouth by means of the fingers. It measured nearly two inches longitudinally and an inch and a half transversely. The patient felt no sensation of heat during the operation; it was not followed by pain, haemorrhage, or any discharge. Nasal polypus.—Dr. Lichtenberg records a case of fibrous polypus, high up in the nose, which he removed, from the outside, by making a fiap and sawing through the nasal process of the superior, maxillary bone, &c. A detailed description and a figure of the operation are given. (‘Lancet,’ Nov. 30, 1872.) l^aso-pTiaryngeal polypus; extraction through the anterior nares; brain symptoms; death.—Mr. Forster, ‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, 159. Removal of hronchocele.—Dr. Greene has removed large bronchoceles, successfully, in three instances. The first patient was a woman, set. 45. The hronchocele was very large (a sketch from a photograph is given). A fatal result was anticipated, quickly, if nothing were done, and the patient was anxious for an operation. A long incision was made through tbe skin, and the fascia divided on a director. Several veins were wounded in dividing the fascia immediately investing the tumour. Their walls were so thin no ligature would hold. He only used his fingers in cleaning the surface of the tumour and separating it from surrounding structures, but the hsemorrhage was fearful. He soon reached the pedicle, which contained three, large pteries whose pulsa- tions were very distinct and which served as guides for dividing the pedicle into three parts, which was accomplished with the fingers. Each part was tied separately; adhesions to the sheath of the carotid vessels were found at one place, and their division was followed by copious, venous hsemorrhage. This came from the internal jugular, which was tied. Tbe patient recovered well. The second patient was forty years of age. The tumour was conuected with the oesophagus. There was not so much haemorrhage as in the former case. Two vessels were found at the base; a blunt needle was passed between these and the pedicle tied in two halves. She recovered well. The third patient was thirty- The growth was very large, and the suriace 01 it The haemorrhage was very alarming. The base five years of age. pulsated everywhere237 REMOVAL OF BRONCHOCELE. was reached as quickly as possible, regardless of the bleeding, and tied in two halves. The inferior thyroid, of the left side, is mentioned as oi the size of the common carotid in its normal condition. The patient did well. Dr. Greene says these are the only cases he has attacked, and though they turned out so successfully he is not anxious to deal with another; at the same time he would not hesitate in a similar case, as the possibility of extirpation, even in the worst cases, is established. The several steps in the operation are—(i) exposure of the tumour by linear incision of ample length, avoiding most sedulously any wounding of the tumour or of its fascia propria; (2) division of the fascia propria upon a director; (3) the reflection and the enucleation of the tumour with the fingers and the handle of the scalpel, paying no attention to hcemorrhage, however profuse, but going as rapidly as possible to the base of the gland and compressing the thyroid arteries ; (4) transfixion of the pedicle, from below upwards, with a Hunt, curved needle, armed with a double ligature, and tying each half; or, when practicable, dividing the pedicle into as many portions as there are main arterial trunks, and tying each portion separately ; (^) excision of the gland and subsequent dressing of the wound as in ordinary cases. “ It is and always will be exceedingly rare that any such interference is warrantable ; never for relief of deformity or discomfort merely, only to save life.” “ If it is beyond all question determined, in any given case, that such an opera- tion gives the only chance for snatching a fellow-being from an untimely grave, be it remembered that accurate, anatomical knowledge and a per- fect self-control, under the most trying ordeals through which a surgeon can pass, are indispensable to its best performance.” (‘Am. Jour. ‘Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 80.) Dr. Morell Mackenzie writes on the treatment of hronchocele (‘ Lancet,’ May 4, 1872). In “ simple or adenoid bronchocele ” he uses iodine, blisters, iron, &c. For the “ fibrous” he employs a seton passed through the substance of the gland. The seton should be of twine (six to twelve threads, according to the size of the tumour). In “ cystic bronchocele” he uses injections of perchloride of iron. The cyst should first be emptied and then a solution of perchloride of iron (two drachms of the salt to an ounce of water) is injected through the canula, which is then plugged and fastened in. The injection is repeated every two or three days till suppuration is established. The tube is then withdrawn and poultices are employed. Figures of patients before and after opera- tion are given. Other varieties of the disease are considered. Congenital, cystic tumour of the necTc successfully extirpated.—Dr. Hardie records the case of a baby, set. 5 months, who had a congenital cystic and solid tumour of the neck. After various methods of treat- ment had been tried, as the child seemed likely to die if nothing further was done, an operation was performed. Haemorrhage was checked as he proceeded. The baby on several occasions seemed nearly dead. Both sterno-mastoids were divided. The operation took an hour and five minutes. The child recovered perfectly and remained well. (‘Lancet,’ Nov. 9, 1872, 667.) Removal of a, cystic tumour of the nech.—Dr. Walter F. Atlee removed a cyst, of the size of a goose-egg, from the neck of a young man. Various238 IIEPOIIT ON SURGERY. attempts had been made to procure contraction of the cyst without avail. The patient recovered. “ The cliief interest, in this case, is derived from the facttliat it appears to show, that encysted tumours of the neck may have their origin in certain changes taking place in the lymphatic ganglia, as suggested by M. A. E-ichard (‘ Memoires de la Soe. de Chirurgie,’ iii). Another reason for calling attention to the case is the fact that English, surgical literature is most remarkably barren on the whole subject of tumours of the neck. In this respect Holmes’s ‘ System of Surgery ’ is quite deficient.’’ (‘ Am. Jour. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1872, 411.) (The notice in Holmes’s ‘System’ may not be in sufficiently large print or detail, but is hardly “ quite deficient.” See “ Eegional Surgery,” v.) Sanguineoits tumour of the neck.—A case in which a sanguineous tumour of the side of the neck was tapped, then laid freely open and syringed out, daily, with Condy’s fluid, is noted in the ‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 30, 1871,467. The patient was under the care of Mr. Savory. On the ninth day a sudden gush of blood occurred. It was 'stopped imme- diately and the common carotid artery ligatured, but the patient died. The external carotid artery had given way. Removal of a tumour of the palate.—A young man, set. 28, came under the care of Dr. King, of Hull, for a large tumour of the left side of the palate, which filled up nearly the whole of the arch of the fauces, the tonsil being tightly stretched over it. He had only been aware of it for three months, but when he discovered it, he said, it was of consi- derable size. The man’s symptoms were urgent, and so he consented to the removal being attempted. A ligature was first of all passed round the left carotid so as to be ready for being tightened if necessary. An incision was then made from the angle of the mouth to the inferior maxilla, a little above the last molar tooth, and the ends of the facial artery tied. The last two molars of the upper jaw were extracted and the incision was carried back across the masseter to the posterior edge of the inferior maxilla. Some dijficulty was then experienced owing to the tumour falling back on the glottis. It was held up, how- ever, and the ramus of the lower jaw divided about an inch above the angle and the lower portion forcibly drawn down. Eoom was thus ob- tained to deal with the tumour. An incision was made to the right^ of the uvula, and the soft palate detached from the hard palate: two in- cisions were made through the mucous membrane, one behind, the other in front, enclosing the tonsil between them, and the fingers thrust forcibly behind the tumour. The latter could now be drawn out be- tween the divided portions of the lower jaw. On making a final in- cision to remove the tumour a terrific gush of blood occurred. The ligature on the carotid was tied and the haemorrhage ceased. An artery on the right side of the palate required a ligature. The tumour was found to be of a fibrous character. Dr. King thought that the haemorrhage proceeded, simply, from vessels supplying a rapidly growing tumour, and that no artery of any size had been divided. He con- sidered'the preliminary ligature of the carotid unnecessary and should not ao-ain practise it. The chief danger was from suffocation. The man did well after the operation, as far as its immediate dangers were239 KEMOVAL OF TUMOURS OF THE PALATE. concerned, but succumbed to an attack of erysipelas six days later. The power of swallowing was restored, the wound in the face had all but healed ; the division of the inferior maxilla could not be looked on as hazardous ; no secondary hsemorrhage had occurred ; from the time of leaving the operating table till his death he did not lose one drop of blood. (‘Lancet,’ Feb. 25, 1871, 204.) Removal of pterygo-maxillary tumours hy the mouth.—A man, set. 21, was admitted into the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, May, 1871, under the care of Mr. Bickersteth, for a tumour of the left side of the palate. Eighteen months, previously, his attention was drawn to a slight swell- ing over the left parotid region, which kept slowly increasing in size, but did not cause him any pain or inconvenience. Probably the tumour had existed much longer. There was considerable enlarge- ment in the left parotid region, which evidently pushed the parotid outwards. The left, ascending ramus of the lower jaw was so pushed outwards that its condyle was seen and felt to project beneath the skin outside the back of the zygomatic arch, while the right was at least half an inch deeper than this process. On examination from within the mouth, a firm, dense tumour was found springing from the left pterygo- maxillary region, and pushing the lateral wall of the pharynx inwards. The tonsil was thrust inwards and downwards, and the uvula rested against the anterior pillar of the opposite side. The boundaries of the mass were well defined except externally. When pressure was made externally, the tumour was plainly pushed inwards. There was clearly no attachment to the bone. It was evident the tumour could not be attacked externally without division of the lower jaw and extensive mutilation of the soft parts. On the other hand, to attempt extirpa- tion from within the mouth appeared hazardous and the result doubtful, both on account of the size of the mass and the risk of wounding any large vessels. Nevertheless, relying on the mobility of the tumour and the certainty that it was enclosed in a distinct capsule, Mr. Bickersteth attempted the latter plan. Chloroform was not given. Eirm pressure was made by an assistant. 'A direct incision was then made from behind the left, posterior pillar of the fauces forwards and upwards, through the structures of the soft palate, as far as its junction with the hard palate. This incision, which at once exposed and opened the capsule of the tumour to an extent of not less than two inches, was crossed by another at right angles. With the handle of the scalpel the flaps were now pushed back and reflected so as fuUy to expose the whole of the portion of the tumour which projected into the mouth. This was seized with forceps. The growth was of so friable a nature, however, that it crumbled under pressure. Reliance was, therefore, placed solely on the use of the forefinger aided by pressure from the exterior. By a little perseverance the whole w’as turned out after some diflaculty. Not tuore than a drachm or two ot blood was lost, and no v^sd required ligature. On putting the finger into the chasm from which the tumour had been extracted, it was found to pass behind the articulation of the jaw, and there appeared to be nothing, except the skin and lascia, between it and the exterior The great arteries of the neck and the styloid process and pterygoid plates were easily felt, theREPORT ON SURGERY. 240 latter being laid bare but not denuded of periosteum. The patient was discharged, cured, in eight days. The tumour was about three and a half inches in its longest diameter, and weighed between three and a half and four ounces. It was enveloped in a distinct, investing capsule, and microscopic examination showed that it was mainly composed of very perfect cartilage with a good deal of fibrous tissue intermixed. Figures of the man’s condition before and after operation, and of the tumour, ai*e given. (‘Lancet,’ July 29, 1871, 156.) In the number for August 5, 186, Mr. Bickersteth remarks on the cases of Dr. King and Dr. Watson,* and observes—“When it is rememberedthat all innocent tumours, properly so called, are enclosed in a complete and distinct invest- ing capsule, which is separated from the surrounding parts by a simple layer of condensed, cellular tissue, surrounding the capsule proper, it appears to be often unnecessary, in order to remove them, to do more than make an aperture large enough to admit of their passage exter- nally, and then they are capable of being easily shelled out, by the aid of the finger or some blunt instrument, with much better precision and much less risk, than by the most elaborately conducted dissection. This observation is specially appropriate with regard to tumours occupyingthe position we are now considering.” “ The deep and almost inaccessible position of such growths secures them from the accidental agencies liable to excite inflammation and consequent adhesions in tumours situ- ated more superficially. If it is clearly ascertained that they admit of as much movement as the confined space in which they are lodged per- mits, I believe they may generally be easily and safely removed by the method I have described, and without any external excision or any elaborate dissection.” In Oct. 1864 a woman, set. 35, was admitted suffering from great difidculty in swallowing and from occasional attacks of dyspnoea, caused by a growth of firm, fibrous consistence on the right side of the pharynx. The tumour bulged over to the left side, but did not project externally as the former one did. The tonsil was stretched over it, but could be moved on it and was not adherent to it. In every direction, except below, its limits could be defined, but it passed down- wards into the lower part of the pharynx beyond the utmost reach of the finger. The tumour had been observed for some years, but had latterly increased rapidly, and the unfortunate woman was emaciated by starvation and in imminent danger of suffocation. Incisions were made similar to those described above, the flaps separated and turned up, and the tumour seized with vulseUum forceps. By the aid of the finger the whole growth was very quickly enucleated. It proved to be of the size of a moderately sized, ripe fig and of purely fibrous struc- ture. The patient left, in ten days, cured. Removal of an exostosis from the first rib.—The patient, a female, let. 20 was under the care of Mr. Birkett. She had noticed a swelling on the side of her neck for four months. There was a hard swelling felt, deeply placed, on the left side of the neck, close to the main artery, and with the cords of nerves going to the brachial plexus Posing over it so that they could be felt rolling over the tumour. The external ju’t^ular vein coursed along the anterior margin, and the incision was ^ * See ‘ lletrospeet,’ 1869-70, 308.241 ENCHONDIiOMA OP THE JRIBS. made behind the growth, parallel to the vein. As little use was made of the knife as possible when once the superficial incisions had laid bare the nervous cords. The carotid artery was found to lie in a groove on the anterior surface of the tumour, and had to be cautiously moved aside. The tumour could be felt to spring from the surface of the first rib, close to the margin of the scalenus. It was removed in two pieces. Mr. Birkett remarked that the rough surface would soon be smoothed down. He had never known a growth of this sort to recur. The powth itself seemed of ordinary, cancellous bone, with a thin layer of investing cartilage. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ May 27, 1871, 602.) Enchondroma of the ribs; operation; death.—Dr. Menzel relates (‘ Wien. Med. Wochensch.,’ JSTo. 15, 1871) the case of a man, set. 36, who was admitted into the hospital in Vienna, under Dr. BiUroth, in October, 1870, on account of a tumour under the right clavicle, which he had first noticed in the preceding January. It was five inches by four in diameter, and reached from the lower'border of the clavicle to the third rib, and from the sternum beyond the line of the nipple. Its surface was smooth, and it was firm and hard. The skin was not afi’ected. The tumour was immovable on the ribs, and was covered by the pectoral muscle. It did not pulsate, nor could any bruit be heard in it. There was no displacement of the heart nor any sign of disorder of the circulatory or resjDiratory organs. With regard to the question of operation, it was considered, on the one hand, that if the tumour were left it might endanger the patient’s life by outward growth and consequent ulceration and sloughing, or even by inward growth and com- pression of the lungs and large vessels ; while, on the other hand its removal might be attended with danger from opening the cavity of the pleura. It was accordingly determined to cut down the tumour to the mvel of the chest-waU, and this was accordingly done on October 27 Ihe wound was dressed with carbolic acid. On the third day the patient became very feverish (temperature 104° Fahr.), and stated that on deep expiration fluid escaped from the wound. On examination it was tound that the remaining portion of the enchondroma had slouched away, leaving an opening through which an india-rubber catheter could be passed dovvnwards as far as the lower part of the upper lobe of the lung. Adhesions had formed round part of the Opening. The pleSa roMo3f hours first with warm water, Ld then with niv hypermanganate of potash (five grains to the pint). From JNov. 2 to 9 the patient went on weU; but the perforation had been enlarged, partly spontaneously and partly by the removal of necrosed portions of the second and third ribs. On Nov. q dulness on nprcns smn was noticed at the lower part of the right side of the chesrand • upwards. On account of the increasing difficultv of breathing, paracentesis, by means of Dieulafoy’s aspirato^r was ne/ rmed between the eighth and ninth ribs, and 1400 cubic centimetres ttfe dZ bTthfT rdievTd for I'- - 16REPORT ON SURGERY. 242 paroxysms o£ which the lung became torn by the edges of the ribs, giving rise to slight haemorrhage into the thorax. Death took place on November 30. On post-mortem examination there were found to be extensive adhesions of the whole upper part of the right lung with puru- lent exudation below. The mediastinum contained some enchondroma- tous masses having a gelatinous appearance. Removal of tumours from hone.—Sir James Paget is convinced that the operation of simply removing a tumour from the place in which it lies is as sufficient for the cure of one growing in a bone, as for that of one growing in connective tissue, and that the instances are very few in which it is right to disturb tbe continuity of a bone in order to remove from it any innocent tumour. He selects the following cases:—i. He removed a cartilaginous tumour from the head of the tibia of a lad, set. 16. He reflected a semilunar flap and gouged. 2. He removed a similar tumour from the lower jaw of a lady, set. 45. 3. He removed a cartilaginous tumour from the radius of a woman, set. 40. 4. He removed a fibrous tumour from the walls of the antrum. 3. Mr. Wrench removed a myeloid, pulsating tumour from the end of the radius of a woman, set. 43. 6. He enucleated a bony tumour from the angle of the lower jaw of a patient, set. 15^. The tumour should be freely exposed, and then turned out with the finger or the gouge. For help to the diagnosis of fitting cases he suggests—i. The tumour is probably cancerous if its growth commenced before puberty or after middle age, unless it be a cartilaginous or bony tumour, on a finger or toe or near an articulation. 2. If a tumour has existed on or in a bone for two or more years, and is still of doubtful nature, it is probably not cancerous or recurrent, and this probability increases with the increasing duration of the tumour. 3. If the tumour on or in a bone has doubled or more than doubled its size in six months, and is not inflamed, it is probably cancerous or recurrent, and this probability is increased if, among tbe usual coincidences of rapid growth, the veins over the tumour have much enlarged, or the tumour have protruded far through ulcerated openings, and bleeds and profusely discharges ichor. 4. If with any such tumour, not being inflamed, the lymph-glands near it are enlarged, it is probably cancerous, and stiU more probably if the patient have lost weic^ht and strength to amounts more than proportionate to the damage of health by pain or fever or other accident of the tumour. 3. A tumour on the shaft of any bone but a phalanx is rarely innocent, and so are any but cartilaginous outgrowths on the pelvis, or any but the hard bony tumours on the bones of the skull. If on the concurrence of these characters or on other grounds it is in any case concluded that a tumour connected with a bone is not cancerous or recurrent the question whether it is growing on or in the bone may be made probable by attending to the following points;—When the waU of the bone can be traced over the surface or any part of the surface of the tunmur, its ffrowtb from within is nearly certain, and so it is when, on the surface of the tumour, portions of bone can be felt among portions of more yielding substance General smoothness of surface is usuaUy significant of a tumour growing within a bone and expanding it, unless in the case of cartilaginous tumours, which, after growing within bones, have pro-243 TUMOURS. truded through some of their expanded walls. Pulsation in a non-can- cerous tumour connected with bone is a nearly certain sign of growth within bone, except in the case of certain specimens of myeloid epulis, and when such pulsation is felt it is no indication that severe bleedino- will ensue in the removal of the tumour, for it is only derived from the arteries in the walls of the bone-cavity lodging the tumour. When these means of diagnosis are insufficient an exploratory puncture or incision may be made; and generally in cases of doubt it may be well to attempt the simple removal of the tumour, and in case of failure to proceed at once to its excision, or to resection, or to amnutation. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 253.) On deeply seated atheromatous tumours of the necTc.—Dr. Max Schede in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Chir.,’ xv, relates three cases in which the tumour lay on the sheath of the large vessels ; in one it was attached to the styloid process. In two of the cases, the inner wall of the sac was formed of cells arranged in from six to ten layers, superficially resembling large, flattened epithelium, and, in the more deeply seated parts, becoming gradually elongated into spindle-cells standing per- pendicularly on the cyst-wall. Outside the cellular layer was a sac of connective tissue, the inner part of which consisted of close, concentric iayers ot fine, fibrillar tissue, interspersed with a homogeneous finelv granular substance. Purther outwards, loose connective tissue was met with. There were no traces, of glands or of hair-follicles. In a third cas^e iodine had been injected before the removal of the cyst, ihe epithelial cells here showed pale nuclei, and the capsule of con- nective tissue presented signs of inflammatory infiltration, and con- tained a large amount of young tissue. On the outer part, the apsule presented the structure of a lymphatic gland; this appearance was found, on close examination, to be due to the incorporation of ymphatic glands with the wall of the sac. Schede believes that these cysts Lye their origin in branchial fistula. In one of the cases the patient s twin-sister had persistence of branchial clefts. The extirpa tion of such cysts is attended with difficulty; puncture followed^ injytion of iodine, is more likely to be useful ^ Conyemtal,fbro-cellular tumour in the buttock.—Mr. Bryant removed of a “an, at. <0 He had ys had it, he said, but it had only caused inconvenience fnr’ +wr> Sept aCsVr C « _ Bemoval of a large, scrotal tumour —Mr Bickpr<.fefli i- interesting case of a large scrntfll narrates a very testes. The mass wm ch^ h saving the cutaneous tissue. Embedded^ M nueuaea in this was the original growth (whichREPORT ON SURGERY. 244 had been said to slip up and down), about the size of a 32-lb. shot, enclosed in a firm capsule. It was fibro-cartilaginous in structure. From its upper part a firm band had passed upwards. This was met with in the operation as a pedicle of the thickness of the thumb, and tied before being cut. The man recovered. He was a tailor, and bad noticed the tumour about seventeen years. A figure of the enormous tumour is given. (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 5, 1871, 187.) Medullary carcinoma in the axilla.—Mr. Durham removed an encepba- loid tumour of the armpit from a man sot. 48. The tumour had been growing about five months, and was secondary to a small growth in a mole above the elbow. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Aug. 12, 1871, 189.) Osteoid cancer.—An interesting but somewhat obscure case of osteoid cancer of the ulna, &c., is detailed by Dr. Joseph Bell. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1871, 1006.) Multiple lymphoma treated hy arsenic.—Billroth describes in the ‘Wiener Medezin. Wochenschr.,’ No. 44, 1871, the case of a woman who was affected with universal hyperplasia of the lymphatic glands. On each side of the neck was a tumour as large as a fist, and in the fauces lay one (proceeding from the tonsils) as large as a hen’s egg. As this produced dyspnoea, it was removed by the galvanic cautery. There were also tumours, as large as apples, in the axillae and groins, and as large as hens’ eggs in the bend of the elbow. The mesen- teric glands were felt to be enlarged, and the spleen was double its normal size. There was no leukaemia. Recovery took place in four weeks under the use of Fowler’s solution. In such cases, Billroth remarks, subcutaneous injection and electrolysis have not been found to have any effect in reducing the size of the tumour. Rectilinear ecraseur.—Dr. Nott describes aud figures a rectilinear ecraseur. It may be compared to a pair of scissors. The blades short, strong and serrated—to crush—and the handles long, strong, and provided with a screw, by means of which the crushing power is exerted. In treating external hsemorrhoids the pile is crushed and then cut off. In internal piles the ecraseur is applied, removed, and then a ligature is tied in the groove formed by the crusher lor safety. The crusher may be used in any case in which an ecraseur is deemed advisable. The tissues are squeezed together and then a cut is made in front of the ecraseur, or after this is taken oil, through the line of indentation. In amputation of the penis no bleeding occurred, and the tissues quickly united. He removed a finger by crushing through bone and all. The end soon healed over. (‘Amer. Joum. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 378.) Treatment of tumours hy subcutaneous injection.—In a paper on tnis subject, read before the Surgical Congress in Berlin, and nublished in the ‘ Archiv fur Klimsche Cbirurgie, xv Dr_ Heme remarks that the high expectations which were formed when Thiersch and Nussbaum called attention to injections into the means of destroying tumours have not been realised. W e Deiieve that hitherto, surgeons have not bad clear ideas as to the object to be Stained »d’thaf they have acted rather empiricaUy m regari to choice of the fluids to be injected and to their strength. Again, tneTREATMENT OF TUMOURS BY SUBCUTANEOUS INJECTION. 245 cases, in which the treatment has been tried, have been those in which operation appeared unadvisable, and in which, therefore, no convincing I’esult could be expected. In primary cancer, the treatment ought to be tried at the earliest stage of the disease. In his paper, Heine referred to cases in which, after the injection of a watery solution of carbolic acid, cancer of the parotid and indurated syphilitic ulcers and pajjulae were said to have been reduced. In his experiments on cancer he modified the operation by injecting the fluid chiefly into the periphery, so as to act on the youngest proliferating cells, to bring their growth to a standstill, and to prevent the escape of the cancerous elements into the neighbouring lymphatic glands. A woman, £et. 48, the mother of three children, had had a tumour of the right breast for a year, and one of the left for six months. Their external appearance and an examination of excised portions showed them to be carcinoma- tous. Erom the left breast an indurated cord of lymphatics led to an enlarged axillary glaud of the size of a chestnut, and in the neigh- bourhood of the same breast several small, hard nodules were embedded m the skin. A solution of chloride of zinc (0-5 to i per cent.) was injected in the neighbourhood of the breast several times (the quantitv used being from five to seven charges of Pravaz’s syringe) but produced only severe pain, without any effect on the size of the tumour On October 31 Dr. Heine began to inject a solution of 1 per cent, of hydrochloric acid m quantities represented by from two to hve charges _ of Pravaz s syringe, at intervals of twelve or fourteen ys the injections being made between the breast and the axiUa. At the end of eight months a notable reduction in the size of the thrinf observed The enlargement of the axiUary glands and t e indurated lymphatic cord disappeared in a month from the com- mTn^se^S One gland, only, was removed for the purpose of microscojpic examination, and showed that the cancer-cell masses were broken down into a homogeneous, finely granular material he pam produced by the injection was slight. After the third iniec ion fever set in and lasted three months ; in Heine’s opinion it could and with an absorption-fever. It was treated with quinine^ and with carbolic acid in eight-grain doses in pills, with the efi-ect on^v of an?^®''4rtfcaUy'^in^ ‘"^^^^etres, HansvLsely! traostLely, afcw x^vertLuT 6^ tioo was omitted for a the end of the eighth month ’thi increased in size. At having for some time left her ^n good health, the fever mammary can^erln a woLnIn^l f ‘^<^ber cases, one of ulcerated the inguinal regioS L a secondary ulcerated cancer of febrile symptoms, molecular mpit1ul°d *>?<lyochlorie acid produced shrinking, ta two lastaacei D? hLo trophy of the prostate by mjectins aolutioi1‘if‘™H^®‘^ *“ ‘VP®*’’ 6o parts of tincture of fodiw. an® 8 parts ff ioHS®’ f ^ * As Dr HpJno r.vor.1-- *. T ° parts or iodide of potassium m A. Dr, Hens prartaes at Innspruct. he probably refers to the Austrian tineture“REPORT ON SURGERY. 246 180 parts of water. The fluid was thrown in per rectum by means of Pravaz’s syringe. The first patient died a fortnight after the treat- ment was commenced, of old-standing cystitis and pericystitis, with pulmonary oedema. The injection did not appear to have had any effect on the prostate. In the second case the solution used for injec- tion consisted of 60 parts of iodine and 4 of iodide of potassium in 102 of water. It produced prostatic abscess, which spread into the rectum, and the patient had epididymitis for some days. The lobe of the prostate, which was enlarged to the size of a walnut, was entirely reduced in size. In the discussion which followed the reading of Dr. Heine’s paper (see ‘ Berliner Med. Wochenschr.,’ July 8, 1872) Dr. BiBroth said that he had tried parenchymatous injections in the treat- ment of tumours, but the result had been negative, and he for some months desisted from their use. Having heard, however, of the injection of bronchocele and lymphoma with tincture of iodine by Liicke, of Bern, and of the observations made by B. Demene, of Bern, he determined to give the plan another trial. His late assistant. Dr. Czerny, made a number of experiments on the injection, in cases of strumous enlargements, tumours of the lymphatic glands, and cancer, of solutions of nitrate of silver, chloride of gold, perchloride of iron, carbolic acid, gastric juice, &c. The result, sometimes, was the forma- tion of a small abscess, which left a little scar, but had no influence on the growth of the tumours. In some instances, the result was a rapid increase of the tumour, and, in others, no result at all was obtained. BiUroth also related a case in which a single injection of alcohol in a case of strumous disease of the lymphatic glands was followed by sloughing and death. Suprasternal luxation of the clavicle—Yvol E. W. Smith records the following case, accompanied by two illustrations. A man, aet. 60, fell dowm from and was run over by a vehicle he was driving. He was found to have sustained a compound luxation of the astragalus of the right foot outwards. The bone was easily replaced. The sternal end of the left clavicle was dislocated. The shoulder had fallen in, towards the mesial line, so far that the end of the clavicle was pressing strongly on the trachea, causing a very great amount of dyspnoea. It formed a very striking projection in front of the trachea, giving to the sternal portion of the mastoid muscle an arched line; it was a complete luxation. In a sitting position the dyspnoea and dysphagia were extreme. When the man was placed in a recumbent position the bone no longer pro- jected, but it stiB remained above its proper level. The man died on the eleventh day. When the integuments were removed from the sternal region, the end of the left clavicle was seen lying above the sternum, beyond the centre of which it had so far passed as to be in contact with the inner edge of the right sterno-mastoid muscle. The sternal portion of its own muscle crossed in front of it at some distance external to its articular surface, was arched forwards and m a state ot tension while the clavicular portion was relaxed. Posteriorly, the bone rested on the sterno-hyoid muscles and the front of the trachea. The which, according to Squire, contains one part of iodine in seventeen of rectiBed spirit.DISLOCATIONS. 247 anterior and posterior ligaments of the joint were, of course, ruptured, as were, likewise, the inter-clavicular and rhomboid ligaments. The inter-articular cartilage was torn from its attachment to the sternum and cartilage of the first rib, and was carried upwards and inwards aloog with the clavicle. The only deviation Ifom its normal state observable in the subclavius muscle was that it ajipeared relaxed and altered in direction. Dr. Stokes then gives an account of seven other cases already published, and remarks—“ It will be seen from the preceding r^sum^, that the archives of surgical science, previous to the publication of the present case, contained only seven examples of the injury under consideration. The case I have described constitutes the eighth, and is peculiarly valuable as being the first (as far as I am aware) in which the anatomical characters of the injury were accurately established hjpost- ‘nwrtem examination, for the account given by Du Verney is totally des- titute of value as a dissection of the injury. It is a luxation of neces- sarily rare occurrence, for it not only requires for its production that the force applied should be very great, but that it should also act on the shoulder in an unusual direction, viz. downwards, inwards, and probably backwards. The result of this threefold impulsion is that the clavicle, converted into a lever of the first order (the fulcrum of which is con- stituted by the first rib) is forced, at its sternal extremity, upwards and inwards.” (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 1872, 4^0.) Dislocation of both ends of the clavicle.—Dv. Stanley Haynes records the case of a girl, set. 13. Spontaneous dislocation forwards of the stpnal end of the clavicle and partial luxation upwards of the acro- mion one occurred while she was washing the back of her neck one morning._ The bone could easily be replaced, but it was diflicult to retain it in place. In a note Mr. Erichsen states there are three cases own work, and one by Mr. Hamilton (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 27, 1872.) Paralysis of the arm after dislocation of the shoulder-joint.-Dr Bernhard relates in the ‘ Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’Nm . 1871 two cases in which dislocation of the head of the humerus was foUowed aL? thl^-^^^‘ reduction was effected eight days after the mjury, in the other the dislocation was reduced on the dav of slight power of extension of o hXl Vr ^"^Sus became very distinct in the attempt t sensibility was increased in some parts but was somewhat in the forearm. In the second ca?e the forearm could be bent on the arm and the head could be moved sh^htlv wbil^ voluntary power over the muscles of the shoulder wis coSldv W more than four weeks althono-h iKp ^7 ® ight degiee at the end of had become increase?’ voluntary power over the muscles a f «'--Mr. Callender records standing under choloform ® of the humerus, of one month’s .. iasr.;248 HEPOllT ON SUllGERY. upwards, across the sternum, the elbow being raised almost to the level 01 the axilla. In this way the head of the bone was depressed, the trunk being fixed, the arm was then forced outwards by pushing against the elbow, the forearm being flexed and at the same time movements of rotation were made, the arm being occasionally lowered from the level of the axilla. Eeduction was soon effected. The manoeuvre consisted in raising the elbow across the chest, forcing the raised arm outwards, rotating the arm in so doing, and, lastly, whilst still rotating, somewhat depressing it. Practically this plan avoids all risks of injuring the great vessels. (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, 196. See also previous ‘Bien. Eetrospects.’) JExtravasation of Hood after the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder.—Mr. C. De Morgan records the case of a man, aet. 54, who came under care a fortnight after the reduction of a dislocation of the shoulder under chloroform and with the heel in the axilla. Extravasa- tion of blood occurred and increased. The man’s strength failed and he had rigors. Mr. De Morgan laid open the swelling and turned out clots, &c. The man gradually sank. At the post-mortem it was impos- sible to detect the source of the haemorrhage. , (Clinical lecture, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 6, 1872.) Mr. Eivington records the case of a man, aet. 71, who died in consequence of haemorrhage from a traumatic, axillary aneurism, resulting from the reduction of a disloca- tion of the humerus. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 20, 1872.) In the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 18, 1872, is recorded the case of a man, aet. 38, who dislocated his humerus and had it reduced. He was then admitted into the Northampton Infirmary. Gangrene of the arm ensued and the man died. Fracture of the coracoid process, chipping of the head of the humerus, and rupture of the axillary artery*, were found. , £ Tv/r Dislocation of the wrist.—A case has been under the care ot iir. Erichsen. The accident had occurred long before. The carpus was displaced on to the palmar aspect of the bones of the forearm and to the ulnar side, and the trapezium could be distinctly felt in front 01 and to the ulnar side of the end of the radius. After manipulation the position of the parts was much improved. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 14, 1871, 470.) . Congenital dislocation of the Specimen from an old woman brought to the dissecting-room. (Mr. James Adams, Path. Trans., ^^^Gomplete, simple, anterior luxation of the semilunar 5one.—Dr. Chisolm narratis the following case. A sailor, aet. 23 fell fr^ the yard-arm on to the deck, a distance of about twenty-five feet. He fell on the right side with his right hand doubled under him. Ten days later he came under Dr. Chisolm’s care. There was comparatively little swelling. The axis of the hand was perfectly in a line with that of both radius and ulna. A large, hard, rounded, subcutaneous prominence existed on the front of the wrist, directly over the site of the semilunar one. This wS%0 firmly fixed ae to exhibit not the elightert the maninulated with force. The point of a couching needle thrust, to the depth of an inch, into the back of the wrist showed, by the freedom ofDISLOCATION OP THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. 21-9 movement in every direction, that a vacant cavity existed where, normally, the compact semilunar bone is found. The constant pressure kept up by the luxated bone caused forced and jiainful flexion of the fingers and wrist. All attempts at reduction were useless. Three weeks after the injury Dr. Chisolm removed the bone through a single incision, two inches in length, in the median line. The operation was more tedious than was expected. The bone was rotated so that the concavity for the reception of the rounded head of the os magnum looked directly up the arm, whilst the convex surface belonging to the radio-carpal joint w'as facing the fingers. All the ligaments were not torn through, but the bone was forced amongst them, twisted and stretched over it so that it was tied down firmly in its new position. Its reduction would have been quite impossible, owing to the irregular surfaces of bone in contact. A small fragment of the scaphoid was found attached to the semilunar, torn ofl"at the time of the injury. (‘Lancet,’ Oct. 28, 1871, 605.) Dislocation of the hones of the pelvis.—Dr. Sallerou contributes an elaborate memoir on the subject to the ‘Archives Generales de Mede- cine, for July and August, 1872. During a period of forty years, there have come under his notice, in the military hospitals, more than thirty cases of severe injury of the pelvis, most of them being instances of fracture with dislocation, often complicated with other severe injuries, and rapidly fatal. In three cases, there was simple dislocation without fracture. In one of these, a man, aet. 26, fell from a height of twelve metres, and dislocated the left iliac bone, upwards and backwards; the second piece of the sternum was also dislocated upwards and forwards, on the first. Eeduction was readily efi’ected by fixing the pelvis’ steady extension, by a towel placed round the thigh, and push- posterior, superior, iliac spine downwards and forwards. Attempts were made to reduce the dislocation of the sternum, but without effect. The patient left the hospital, able to walk without crutches, about seven weeks after the receipt of the injury. In another case, a Zouave, ast. 36 dislocated the right iliac bone forwards and slightly upwards by a faU from a height of five or six metres. On placing him on his back, the right antero-superior spine of the ilium was seen to be ten or twelve millimetres higher than the left, and the right pubic bone projected forward, beyond that of the other side. The crista fill was nearer to the false ribs on the right side than on the left There was no impairment of the movements of the hip-joint. On sXron make a further exammation. Dr. balleron felt a sudden movement, accompanied by a sound which was m^ni^fation^o^ tr^^^^^^ • relieved, and the ampulation oi the pel™ became leas painful than it had been On again placing him on his back, the projection forwards of the risht o?remfes““Thflefti*T r“2t':dt7the7attr^^ related, and the patient was unable to lie on his back without pain. As250 llEPORT ON SUllGEUY. the patient was in a state of nervous excitement, and the displacement was not very strongly marked, Dr. Salleron deferred any attempt at reduction. On the fifth day, while the patient was turning himself in bed, he felt a sudden shock in the pelvis, accompanied with a noise which his neighbour (no doubt with exaggeration) described a.s being as ^ loud as a pistol-shot, but which was distinctly heard by a man in the third bed from the patient. Immediately after this he was able to lie comfortably on his back. When he went out of hospital, three months after the receijDt of the injury, he could walk tolerably well, but the right thigh was somewhat atrophied. Its con- dition had improved, somewhat, when he was seen twenty days after- wards. In a subsequent portion of his memoir Dr. Salleron treats, at length, of the pathology, symptoms, diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment of dislocations of the pelvis. Pathology.—In disjunction of the pubic symphysis, the interarticular cartilage is not (except, perhaps, in exceedingly rare cases) torn through its central part, but is separated from the bone on one or the other side. This has been noticed by Malgaigne, Backer, and Cloquet, as well as by Dr. Salleron. The fibrous ligaments surrounding the symphysis are more or less torn. The inferior ligament is generally detached from the interarticular fibro-cartilage, and torn away from its attachment to the descending ramus of the pubic bone that is detached. Its lower edge seems to be usually uninjured, but its upper border is irregularly torn to a greater or less extent, especially at the sides, where it is attached to the bone. Lacerations of the perinseum and rupture of the urethra or of the bladder, although produced simultaneously with the dislocation, are not produced by it. Rupture of the bladder generally arises from direct pressure. The wound in this case is linear, and has well-defined edges, while in perforation of the bladder by fragments (which, in rare cases, takes place in cases of dislocation com- plicated with fracture) the edges of the wound are irregular. Reten- tion of urine or dysuria may occur in consequence of the deviation of the prostatic portion of the urethra to one or the other side. The precise mechanism of this displacement requires to be explained by post-mortem examination; but Dr. Salleron believes that it arises from the manner in which the pubo-prostatic ligament, on the side of the dislocation, is affected. When it is merely stretched, the prostate and the ui’ethra with it are drawn towards the affected side ; when it is torn through, the prostate and urethra are displaced towards the opposite side. This displacement of the prostate has been noticed in one case by Richerand, and in two by Dr. SaUeron. In displacement of one of the pubic bones directly forwards, there is no injury of the triangular ligament and no deviation of the urethra from its course. Simple luxation of the sacro-iliac articulation may be partial or complete. In the partial form, the ligaments uniting the ilium to the sacrum are torn, while the ilio-lumbar ligament is only partially lacerated. The ilium becomes somewhat tilted, so that its upper portion is carried somewhat forwards, and its lower part correspondingly backwards. The tuberosity, which lies behind and a little below the posterior, superior, iliac spine’ passes beyond the posterior edge of the articular surface of251 DISLOCATION OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS. the sacrum, and becomes entangled on it. If the ilium be thrown a little higher up, this tuberosity lodges in the digital fossa of the sacrum, and the displacement may now be regarded as complete. In both degrees of this dislocation, the ilium is rotated from within outwards and from before backwards, to a degree proportionate to the amount of the laceration of the soft parts; its posterior border thus approaches the middle line, while the internal, iliac fossa is turned more or less directly forwards, and the external one backwards. The isehiatic spine, in the first degree of this dislocation, is carried backw3,rds and inwards towards the edge of the sacrum, and the tuberosity of the ischium approaches the coccyx. When the dislocation is complete, which rarely occurs, the upper half of the ilium is carried backwards and the lower forwards; the isehiatic spine and the tuber ischii pass considerably in front of the edges of the sacrum and coccyx. M. SaUeron believes that the condition described by Key, in which the finger could be intro- duced into the space between the sacrum and ilium, must be of extremely iwe occurrence, and must, if it occur, be attended with very great dis- turbance. In most cases the bones remain in contact. In the forms of dislocation of the ilium here described, the pubic bone of the aflfected side is carried outwards and a little forwards, never inwards. When the ilium is dislocated directly forwards, the upper half is tilted forwards and the lower backwards. In the less complete degree of this disloca- tion, the iliac tuberosity lies on the articular surface of the sacrum, but, in the more complete form, it is thrown on the anterior edge of the articulating surface. In the more simple forms of dislocation forwards or backwards, the soft parts are more or less lacerated, giving rise to extravasation of blood along the courses of the large vessels and nerves. In the second degree the large vessels and nerves, though stretched* may remain entire, but if the displacement be great they may be lacerated’ Causes and wecAawm.—Considerable violence is necessary to nro- duce displacement of the pelvic bones, on account of the size and extent ot the articulating surfaces, the strength and shortness of the ligaments and the very limited amount of motion in the parts. To produce dis- location ot the sacro-ihac joint upwards and backwards, the displacing passing through the tuber ischii or the Tn '? sacro-iliac synchondrosis. 1“ 1’® ihuin forwards, the traumatic cause must act alons of S !1Tt ‘h.P®®*®"”. ™P™or, iliac spine and the centr? ot the sacro-ihac articulation. To produce dislocation of both iliac bones backwards, the force must act on the spinous processes of the “ “*‘® aides pass fo™Lds ^d outwards through the centre of the saero-iliac articulation. Dislocation of the FscU«^/th “ Py^y®'^ ‘'y f®’’®® '*®‘“g fte tuberosities them ^ the acetabula, so as to increase the distance between superior spine of the ilium is pfaced re£ve?y t%^e^and^ situSREPORT ON SURGERY. 252 further back than that of the other side. The crest of the ilium is Jiearer the false ribs than is normal; the postero-superior spine can be felt (if there be not too much contusion and ecchymosis) projecting more or less backwards, and lying nearer the middle line than that of the other side ; the hollow of the sacrum is increased. The pubic bone on the side of the injury is raised above the other, and is carried more or less outwards and forwards, according to the extent of displacement and rotation of the ilium. The displacement outwards is the result of the approximation of the postero-superior iliac spine to the middle line. Tavignot has recorded a case where the pubic bone, of one side, was dis- placed in such a way as to ride over the other ; Dr. Sailer on, however, believes that there must be some error in the description, especially, from the ready recovery of the patient, there is no reason to suppose that there was also fracture. The leg of the affected side appears shortened, but it is only apparently so, and the measurements from the antero- superior, iliac spine to the malleolus are the same on both sides. In consequence of the rotation of the ilium, the foot is generally everted, sometimes to such an extent as to imitate fracture of the neck of the femur (as in cases described by Enaux and Glerdy). In luxation of the iliac bone forwards, the transverse diameter of the pelvis is increased, and the displaced bone forms a visible projection. The antero-superior, iliac spine is thrown forwards and, generally, a little downwards—some- times, however, upwards. The postero-superior, iliac spine is depressed, and cannot, often, be readily felt; the sacral hollow is moi’e or less obliterated. The limb nearly preserves its normal length and direction; the foot may be more or less inverted. The symphysis pubis is little, if at all, injured, but, sometimes, the sensibility of the part is very great. In both forms of dislocation there is deep-seated pain in the pelvic and ilio-sciatic regions, increased by the slightest, passive movement, and especially by pressure with the fingers. Active movement of the limb is abolished, or is restricted to slight flexion of the toes. If, however, the limb be well supported it can be flexed and extended to a limited extent without pain. In luxation upwards and backwards, in conse- quence of the laceration of the subpubic ligament, there is stretching or deviation of the urethra and a resistance to the passage of a catheter; in the luxation directly forwards, there is little disturbance in the pubic region, and the flow of urine is free. In luxation upwards and back- wards, there is no compression or laceration of the nerve-trunks to such an extent as to produce numbness or paralysis; in the dislocation directly forwards, the sacral nerves may become stretched, producing more or less marked and persistent disorder of their functions. When the luxation is unaccompanied by fracture, the bladder and urethra are generally uninjured. Occasionally, however, rupture of the bladder has occurred in such cases, probably as the result of direct pressure during the accident. Except when the coccyx is dislocated forwards, there is no disturbance of the rectum. In the three cases of simple dislocation, observed by Dr. Salleron, the displaced iliac bone was completely immovable. Key has described an instance where the iliuna was dis- located backwards and the finger could be laid in the sacro-iliac joint. In this however, the bone must have been displaced outwards. WhenREDUCTION OF OLD DISLOCATION OP THE FEMUR. 253 both iliac bones are dislocated backwards, and especially when there is also luxation of the pubic symphysis, the severity of the injury and of the symptoms, generally, renders the diagnosis easy. In cases where the local injury and the visceral lesions are not so severe or complicated as to involve immediate danger, the use of anaesthetics will probabiy enable the surgeon to make his diagnosis more accurate; when, however, the injuries are so severe as to be obviously fatal, at a more or less early date, Dr. Salleron thinks that the surgeon should abstain from minute examination, and make, merely, a general diagnosis. Prognosis.—Even in the more simple cases the prognosis requires to be carefully made, and in the complicated cases it is very unfavorable—the bladder being often lacerated, the urethra ruptured, and large vessels being torn, giving rise to extravasation into the pelvis and sometimes into the peritoneum. Together with these lesions there are almost always injuries of the head, chest, and spine. Other complications, of which the observation of cases has shown the possibility, are contusion of the sciatic nerve, concussion of the spinal cord, intra-pelvic suppuration, &c. The prognosis is especially unfavorable in cases of dislocation of both iliac bones backwards, or of the sacrum forwards, on account of the great disturbance of the parts which this lesion produces. Treat- ment.—Dr. SaUeron advises immediate attempts at reduction in all cases of disbcation of the pelvic bones, whether fracture be also present or not. The patient must be kept lying'on the back in a state of absolute rest, and any complications that arise must be treated accordine to their nature. ° Reduaion of a dislocation of the femur after five and a half months.— Dr. M Kee records a case. The patient was a woman who was thrown out ot a trap on the left knee. She was at a distance from any advice. After nve and a half months the dislocation was diagnosed and reduced bv manipulation under chloroform. There seemed to be some tendency in the other hip to become dislocated during pregnancy. Great difficulty was experienced m keeping the femur in its place iter reduction. It pipped out once but returned with an audible snap. (‘Am. Journ Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 281.) ^ ^ «^ourn. Dr. James Norton notes a case of dislocation of the femur backwards and upwards, with fracture of the acetabulum, which was reduced n-FtPT months. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May « i8?“ ) ^ Unreduced dislocation of the femur.—Mr! MacCormac describes a specimen of unreduced dislocation of the femur Tha nof + man, St. 70. A weight of metal M Zhim his'^aM^^ injured extensively. The symptoms of the dislocation were inversion of leTht b\T f Thetendonoftbeobturatorinternus7^wtS7elr7^^254 REPORT ON SURGERY, confirmed most of Bigelow’s views. An illustration is given. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ii, 142.) Simultaneous dislocation of both femora.—Mr. William Pollard records a case in a man, get. 53. The right was thrown into the thyroid foramen and the other on the dorsum. Beduction was effected by manipulation. Two months later, he could walk perfectly. His recovery was delayed by an attack of gout in the left foot. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Bep.,’ viii, 103.) Hip and shoulder dislocations and their reduction without traction, by Rushton Parker. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 7, 1872.) Dislocation of the knee.—A man, set 50, slipped from a ladder and severely lacerated the soft parts of the calf of the left leg and the skin of the popliteal space, and also dislocated the left tibia outwards and slightly backwards. After two months he came under the care of Mr. Erichsen. At that time the leg was fixed nearly at a right angle and was quite useless. With the aid of chloroform the reduction was effected without any great difiSiculty, (‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 470.) Simultaneous dislocation of the three cuneiform bones.—An instance of this extremely rare injury is quoted in the ‘ Gazette Med. de Paris,’ Dec. 30, 1871, from the ‘ Gaz. Med. de I’Algerie.’ It is described by Dr. Bertherand. The subject was a man, get. 37, an infirmier, who fell on the soles of his feet from a height of four metres. After being under treatment for some time, he left the hospital completely disabled by lameness. When M. Bertherand saw him, the right foot was strongly flexed on the leg, especially on the inner side. The first three metatarsal bones, with the cuneiform bones, were raised, forming a higher plane than that of the dorsal surface of the foot. On the ex- ternal side of this elevation was a vertical surface consisting of the outer surface of the third cuneiform bone detached from its articulation with the cuboid. On the inner side was a depression, increasing con- siderably in this direction the normal concavity of the plantar arch. Behind, there was another depression, the upper surface of the sca- phoid lying lower than the back of the cuneiform joint, _ In this cavity the tendons of the tibialis anticus muscle, on the inner side, and of the extensors of the toes, on the outer side, were felt very distinctly. The foot was atrophied ; the tarso-metatarsal joints were nearly ankylosed, and the length of the inner border of the foot was shortened to the extent of about 15 millimetres. The patient walked on the heel of the affected foot, it being impossible to bring the first three toes to the ground. Subastragaloid dislocation of the foot.—A case of dislocation of the foot inwards from beneath the astragalus came under the care of M. Gosselin in January, 1872. The foot was turned inwards, with the under border looking upwards ; there was a rounded projection on the exterior side of the foot, in front of which a depression could be felt, and on the inner side, was a depression having an antero-posterior direction, at the bottom of which the inner malleolus could be in- distinctly felt. Deduction was readily accomplished under chloroform. (‘ Gaz. des Hopitaux,’ 10 Eevrier, 1872.)APPLIANCES IN FRACTURES. 255 Compound dislocation of the foot.—Mr. Spencer Smith gives a clinical lecture on two cases of compound dislocation of the foot, complicated, in one of them, with compound fracture and dislocation of the astra- galus. Eecoverj in both instances, with useful limbs. One patient was a man, set. 37, the other a married woman, set .28. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb. 17, 1872.) Plastic apparatus in surgery, especially plaster of Paris.—Dr. St. John writes an elaborate paper on the employment of plaster of Paris splints in the treatment of fractures. He enters, at length, into the history of the employment of plastic apparatus, the advantages of such apparatus, the method of applying the splints, and. the cases in which he has himself used this mode of treatment. He tabulates his results. A great deal depends on the manner in w'hich the apparatus is put on. In fracture of the femur, ether is administered, and extension is kept up by a traction apparatus while the plaster is applied. The limb is padded with blankets. The plaster should be cut up the middle soon after its application; he generally makes two cuts, one on each side of the middle line, and thus removes a strip an inch wide. He prefers a Marp, shoemaker s knife as the most useful instrument for doing this. He sums up as follows. He has endeavoured (i) to show that the results are at least equal to those of any other instrument, and, in some fractures better. To support this ground he adduces 192 cases of simple fracture (30 being of the femur) and 26 cases of compound fracture. (2) That union is not delayed by this splint, as aUeged by some. On this point he appeals to the records of 313 cases, 192 of the gypsum apparatus and 12/ of the starch, felt, leather and pasteboard. (3) That t e splint may, with safety, be applied, at once, in fractures of all bones, n support of this point there are 176 cases in which this splint was applied within forty-eight hours from the date of the accident, of which 69 are smiple and 23 compound fractures (gypsum apparatus') 2 c? are ’1, *■ 8®* complete detafls as to results thepatients having been discharged from the hospital wearing the splints’ Ac but whose records are given beyond the date, when we maF Sure catior the earty appli- by machinery. The frarture had^n ^ wrist-joint. There wl X jbout two inches above the showed the mechanism of the “green-rtLk l^igber up, which describes and figures a speoime?256 REPORT ON SURGERY. whicli, though the bone was broken across, the fragments were so dove- tailed into one another that they were held firmly in a curved position, separated at the convexity of the curve, jammed together at tiie concavity. This specimen was noticed on a former occasion, but it was not then sketched. Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872,351-) . . ^ A simple method of removing silver wire when employed in cases of ununited fracture.—Mr. Mason invites attention to a modification of the plan of transfixing and holding the fractured ends in apposition with twisted wire. He operated on an ununited fracture of the ulna and radius. The smooth surfaces of the ends of the ulna were sawn oif diagonally, so that when placed together the new surfaces accurately corresponded. A hole was bored obliquely through them, and a needle was passed through the hole. The needle was then encircled with a loop of wire, the ends of which, having been firmly twisted on them- selves, were made to emerge, together with the needle, from a small inci- sion in the skin, placed at right angles to the larger wound. By re- moving the needle the wire would be at once disengaged. The radius was treated very similarly. The wire was finer and carried round the needle in a figure of eight. Mr. Mason suggests that it is possible that the division of the fibrous bond of union may be dispensed with, the needle and loop of wire being alone employed ; that the needle may be shorter, so as not to press on the neighbouring structures ; that ivory or other material may be used in the place of the needle ; and, lastly, that the wire, being released, may be left to work its way out, its removal, if required, being efi’ected at any time by traction. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans., liVj 313.) A clinical lecture on delayed vmion and non-union of hones by Mr. Callender will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ., 1872. He alludes to obstructed venous circulation as a cause of delayed union. He mentions a ease in which union was delayed for ten months— of the thigh-bone. In the case of a soldier the humerus did not unite for two years and a half In another case the femur did not unite for tioo years. At St. Bartholomew’s there has been but one case in two thousand five hundred fractures. He alludes to abscess of the bone, foreign bodies between the ends, want of apposition, fractures near a ^""'"^rfstdrop from paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve in fractures of the humerus —Vvol Erichsen remarks that injury to the musculo-spiral nerve in fracture of the humerus must be of r^e occurrrac^ met with no instance recorded in any standard work. He had h^^^e f Ten three instances quite recently. When the mam trunk is injured complete wrist-drop is produced. When the posterior interosseo divismn is iniured,Ve loss of supination and of extension is not so complete The supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis ^ongior, being supplied by branches from the main trunk, are not paralysed, and ^ .S+oin +• hmi0-h verv limited, movement in the sense ot supination T TfpTisionis preserved, though the forearm and hand tall naturally into andextensionis preserveu,^^^ g of a woman, mt. W-rus about the middle; ten weeksfllACTURK OF OLECRANON—ATR,Of>HY OF MUSCLE. 257 afterwards, she had marked. wrist*drop. The symptoms are given at length. There was a difference of temperature, on the two sides, of 5° or 6°. The thumb and index-finger were numb ; when the fingers were completely flexed, she could extend the joints between the first and second, and second and third phalanges. This was evidently accom- plished by means of the interossei and lumbricales (figures of the hand and fingers are given). When the forearm was flexed, a slight, supine move- ment could be made by the patient, probably due to the action of the biceps. The second case was that of a woman, £et. 30, who fell on her elbow, and was found to have sustained a compound fracture of the external condyle of the humerus. She could not raise the wrist or the fingers when the hand was pronated. There was some power of supi- nation and also of extension, probably due to the extensor carpi radialis longior and to the supinator longus. The muscles supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve were paralysed, the radial had escaped. She could feel in the fingers and there was no loss of temperature. The third case was one of fracture of the lower epiphysis of the humerus, wrist-drop from paralysis of the posterior interosseous nerve and tonic contraction of the fingers. The patient was a girl set. 7. She had fallen over a croquet hoop and the lower part of the right humerus was fractured. She had very marked wrist-drop, but could easily extend her wrist, her hand was pronated and could be but imperfectly supi- nated. The fingers were fiexed and drawn into the palm of the hand. She could use the interossei and lumbricales ; the flexor tendons were much contracted; the arm was smaller than the other. There was a difference in temperature, on the two sides, of 8° or 9°. (‘ Lancet,’ July i, 1871, I.) Fracture of theolecranon in each arm; atrophy of muscle.—Mr. Hutchin- son notes the case of a man, £et. 27, who was admitted into the London Hospital, who had fractured the olecranon process on each side, and (as he stated) ruptured the tendon of his calf. These accidents had all happened several years before. Two years before admission, he fractured the right olecranon, by falling on his elbow from the rigging of a ship a height of about ten feet. He had the arm put in splints in a straight position for three weeks. Since that time he had had no power to lift the arm straight in the air above his head ; the forearm falls into extreme flexion as soon as its centre of gravity gets to the proximal side of the elbow. Ihe tnceps of the right arm was found to be wasted and quite flabby; wh^ he tried to straighten the arm, that muscle did not act in the least. The upper fragment of the olecranon was separated, by at least an inch, from the lower one. Live years later, he fractured the*^left olecranon by a somewhat similar accident, falling about four feet The arm was kept straight in splints for six weeks, after which time he soon regained perfect use of the limb. The upper fragment was found to be movable on firm pressure, but he had perfect use of the triceps and his Wr, ‘-^PP^ently quite strong. The fracture appeared to have been oblique and there was strong, fibrous union. He met with a third thrS’ months before, in which he probably ruptured tl e tendo Achilhs on the right side. He jumped off a table, ilnd on alighting felt as if something had struck his right calf. On examining 17llEPORT ON SUIIOERY. 258 it ho found a little “dent ” into which he could put his finger. After rest in bed for a time, he could walk as on admission. There was found, on careful examination, .a slight swelling at the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the calf, or perhaps rather higher. The right calf measured half an inch less in circumference than the left. The wasting was quite perceptible to the touch and seemed to involve, chiefly, the inner part of the gastrocnemius, for, when the calf muscles were put in action, it was that part which remained flabby, while, apparently, the soleus could he felt to act beneath it. Possibly the rupture had involved only the tendon of the gastrocnemius before its junction with the soleus. The calf of this leg was considerably weaker than that of the other, so that he could not stand on tip-toe on the corresponding foot; he limped with the left foot. Mr. Hutchinson remarked that no cause was assignable for the occurrence of these injuries. The health was good ; no fractures of any other bones had occurred. The dilference in the condition of the two arms was probably due to the too early use of the right one. He thought it was not difficult to obtain close union after these fractures, although very difficult to get actual bone. It was of interest to note that absolute atropy of the triceps on the right side by no means disabled the arm. In this respect the case was parallel to what happens after atrophy of the quadriceps extensor of the tliigh. The man could use the arm well, except in extension, and followed a laborious occupation without discomfort. The reason why a muscle should atropy in consequence of non-union of the bone into which it is inserted is not quite obvious; but Mr. Hutchinson has repeatedly noticed this result after badly united fractures of the patella, and some- times very good ones. He had never before noticed it after ununited fracture of the olecranon. (‘ Lancet,’ July 29, 1871, 159.) Fracture of the head of the radius.—Specimen described by Mr. James Adams (‘Path, Trans.,’ x.xii, 205). Fracture of the ilium hy muscular violence.—A case of fracture of the anterior, superior, spinous process of the ilium from muscular violence is reported in the ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, 277. The patient was under the care of Drs. S, Joy and J, W. McWhinniewho recorded the case in the ‘ Canada Med. Journ,,’ Sept., 1870, A very muscular youth, 8st, 17, in turning at a certain point while running in a foot race, felt something snap in his right hip, walked a few steps and fell, “ On examination distinct motion and crepitus could be felt by pressure over the process, also by placing the thumb over the origin of the sartorius and rotating the thigh. The fracture extended into the notch below, but there was no great tendency to displacement save when the leg was abducted, thus placing the sartorius upon the stretch, the process doubtless being partially kept in place by the fibres of the tensor vagina3 femoris arising from this process on the one hand, and Poupart’s ligament on the other, when tension was taken off the sartorius.” The patient was kept in bed with the thigh flexed and the shoulders raised. In two weeks the patient made a good recovery without displacement remaining. , . > at Another case is recorded by Mr. Hyde (‘Brit Med. Journ., Hov. 9, 1872).259 FRACTURE OP THE PEMUR.j ETC. Ununited, extra-capsular fracture of the nech of the thiyh hone.—Mr. Listei*, in the case of a man, ast. 45, who had fractured his thigh eighteen mouths before without union having occurred, cut down at the seat of fracture, felt the ends of the bones gouged them, and then dressed the wound antiseptically, applying strong support. Bleeding occurred sub- sequently and the wound had to be stulfed with lint (antisej)tically). Complete recovery resulted and the man walked well. (Address, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 26, 1871.) Spontaneous fracture of the femur.—Mr. Durham records a case in a man, set. 44. Re-union occurred and the patient remained well four years later. The pathology remained open to doubt. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, 63.) Fracture of the femur.—Dr. Montgomery writes on the impractibility of restoring to its full length a thigh-bone shortened' by fracture, as apparently demonstrated by experiment. In a case of fracture of the femur in a muscular man he tried reduction after death; the fracture was transverse with overlapping to the extent of one inch and a quarter. The force employed by four men reduced the overlapping half an inch. A weight of one hundred and twenty pounds was then ajiplied over a pulley and left for seventeen hours. The overlapping was then only a quarter of an inch. “ I venture the opinion that in most, and probably 7 fracture of the femur whether transverse or oblique toith shortening, the fractured ends of the bone cannot be placed in exact opposition by any force which can be safely applied to livino- tissue. It IS admitted by most liters on surgery that shortening of the hrab in fracture of the thigh is to be expected and is generally found alter proper treatment. -Would it not be more correct to say it is a ways found (when produced by a fracture), because a shortened cannot be fully extended to its normal length after the broken ends of bone have passed eacAother ?” (‘Am. Journ. Med oci., July, 1872, 112.) resection of the tiUa.—Dv Ed ward Bennett records a case of ununited fracture of the tibia and nrevtoislv "VhT f “ accident had occurred four months 1 fiacture waa compound. On proceeding to operate a mass of tissue was found between the ends of the bonfs The over lapping ends of the tibia were cut off and the union of the fibSa' ankle DTHratgomervlin of the tibia near the by means of a weight^ “““essfully employedM^^ extension plan of fixing the Shtto Ait “ “°*fioation of the usual April, 1871, 35, ) “ *° J°"™- Med, Sciences,' fractured S icnciusiois a.r “1 .P^duction of these the odontoid process Ins (Jon? ? liealthy condition of parts omoia process has greater strength than either the anterior ringlUirOllT ON SURGIOE.Y. SGO of tlic atlas or the transverse ligament. 2. The odontoid process is less liable to be fractured by external violence thau the body of the axis at the insertion of the process. 3. The odontoid process is not fractured by being driven against tlie transverse ligament or anterior arch of the atlas. 4. The odontoid ligaments have a combined strength greater than the odontoid process. “ I am satisfied, however, that the efficient agents in this fracture are the odontoid ligaments.” He details vai’ious cases under the heads of spontaneous fracture ; fractures from direct violence ; from external violence applied to the forehead, the back part of the necli, side of the head ; fractures with slight symptoms at first; multiple fractures; fracture followed by exfoliation and recovery; fracture and recovery with the formation of a false joint. He dis- cusses the various modes of death and the symptoms ; the chief being, that the patient carries the head supported on his two hands.—(‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1871, 338-38.) Unilateral dislocation of the fifth cervical vertelra.—Dr. E-eyburn records the case of a man, set. 24, who sustained a unilateral disloca- tion of the fifth cervical vertebra by a weight falling on his neck. Paralysis gradually came on. After nine weeks and two days reduc- tion was effected with improvement in the symptoms. Death occurred a fortnight later. There was no fracture. An abscess was found in the cord. Eemarks on otlier cases recorded are made.—(‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ July 1871, no.) Uractiore of the spine.—A case of fracture of the fifth cervical ver- tebra, with laceration of the spinal cord, and complete paralysis below the root of the neck, in which the patient lived for three months, is recorded in the ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, 390. The relative mortality of analogous injuries in civil and military practice.—Dr. R. Vol'kmanu, of Halle, holds (‘Archiv. _ fiir Klin. Chirurg.,’ xv) that the mortality after injuries and operations is not greater in military than in civil practice; on the contrary, that it is even less. In 1699 gunshot fractures of the bones of the leg, occurring in the wars of the last ten years, and the statistics of which were collected by Billroth, there were 401 deaths, or 23-6 per cent.; and in 109 cases which came under Dr. Volkmann’s notice, there were 23 deaths or 22 per cent. On the other hand, in 883 complicated frac- tures of the leg, occurring in various German and British hospitals, there were 339 deaths or 38^ per cent. In one hospital alone (St. Bartholomew’s) the mortality was lower than in military practice, being 20 per cent. In most of the German hospitals the mortality was 40 per cent. With regard to the cases of gunshot fracture of the leg in which attempts were made to preserve the limbs, V^olkmanu finds that, in the Italian war, the mortality was 17 per cent. Among the 109 patients under his care at Trantenau, amputation of the thigh was performed in 18 cases, and 9 of the patients died; while, in 91 cases in which he employed conservative treatment, the mortality was 16 or 17’3 per cent. Billroth, at Weissenburg, and Socin, at Stettin, had a mortality of about 14 per cent, among the cases treated coiiser- vativelv • and Stromcyer, in the Danish war, had a mortality of only TO per cent. Ou the”other hand, of 320 patients subjected to couser-MORTALITY OF INJURIES IN CIVIL AND MILITARY PRACTICE. 261 vative treatment ]D civil hospitals, lao died, or 32.^ per cent. Witli regard to complicated fractures of the femur, Volkmann has hitherto been able to collect only a limited amount of statistics from civil practice. Injuries of this kind generally occur in connection with railway acci- dents, accidents with machinery, blasting of rocks, &c., and demand primary amputation. Dr. Friinkel has collected 140 cases in civil practice which were, at least at first, subjected to conservative treat- ment ; of these 85 died, or 60 per cent. This rate of mortality is about the same that has been observed in military practice after frac- ture of the shaft of the femur by gunshot. In the more recent cases, the rate of mortality has been even less. Volkmann himself had 44 deaths in 95 cases, or 46'3 per cent. Among the 883 cases of compli- cated fracture of the leg referred to as having occurred in civil practice, there were 177 amputations; the percentage mortality after the primary amputations was 60, and after the secondary, 77. On the other hand, among the 3813 cases in military practice collected by Billroth the death-rate was only 41.6 per cent. Having given these statistics, Volkmann goes on to say that, in com- plicated fractures in civil practice, the soft parts are most injured; while in military surgery the bones suffer most, being often very ex- tensively fissured. The statistics, already referred to, show that the injury of the soft parts has a much greater infiuence on the mortality than that of the bones—an influence even greater than has generally been supposed. Again, the result in gunshot fractures depends much less on the extent of the injury of the bone than would be d ■priori ex- pected. Volkmann has several times had the opportunity of examining, after death, bones (including the femur) in which from twelve to twenty fragments of various sizes had become consolidated, and where no necrosis had occurred, no splinters had been removed, and the deformity of the limb was no greater than after an ordinary fracture. The mere e.xtent of the fracture and the number of splinters, he, therefore, holds not to afford sufScient ground for primary amputation. Simple frac- tures are very rare after bullet wounds. He has met with only two or three instances among many hundred cases of such injuries. Grunshot wounds of the joints, also, may heal witliout suppuration or necrosis. Compound fractures of the leg occurring in civil life as the result of indirect violence, and presenting but slight injury to the soft parts perhaps a clean cut-wound—appear (at least in the larger hospitals) to be attended with a higher mortality than splintered fractures from gun- shot. In cases of death after fracture of the leg, in civil practice the fatal event occurs, in 50 per cent., within the first fortnight. In gun- shot fractures of the same part, on the other hand, death does not occur (except in rare cases) until the third week. The cause of this marked difterence is thus exj)lainedIn civil practice those patients who die within the first fortnight are carried off by acute septic processes. After gunshot wounds, on the other hand, the most acute and rapidly de- structive, septic, phlegmonous processes are seldom or never met with. s oug ing piiagedaena after a bullet wound, Volkmann met with no examp es , in one case under his care, where gangrene occurred, he found injury of the large vessels, with much extravasation of blood.2G2 REPOET ON SUEGEEY. Local reaction sets in later and more slowly after gunsliot wounds, and has not the same tendency to advance as after other injuries. A num- ber of patients, indeed, die of septicaemia after gunshot wounds; but, in these eases, there arc almost always found purulent deposits around the ends of the bones, presenting a much more limited character than the diffused dejeosits met with after compound fractures in civil practice. The comparatively small amount of injury of the soft parts, and the less extensive, local reaction, must have a favorable influence on primary amputation in the field. But, leaving this subject, the difference in tho mortality after intermediate amputation in civil and in military practice is noteworthy, and has been noticed by Billroth as well as by Volkmann. Amputation performed as late as about the sixth day after the injury, for gunshot wound, is in many cases as successful as primary ampu- tation. But after this comes a period extending to the eighth week, in which extensive inflammation prevails, and (at least as regards the thigh) a patient operated on in this stage very rarely survives. The discussion which followed the reading of Dr. Volkmann’s paper before the Surgical Congress in Berlin is reported, at length, in the ‘ Berliner Klin. "Wochenschr.’ for May 6, 1872. Dr. von Langenbeck, the jire- sident, could not agree that infiltration of the wounded parts does not occur to the same degree in military, as in civil practice. In extensive, gunshot fractures of the femur, at least, swelling and all the symptoms of sepsis often ajDpear within' twenty-four hours ; so rapidly, indeed, as scarcely to allow time for primary amputation properly so-called. To this he was disposed to attribute the great mortality following the operation. He agreed with Dr. Volkmann that the different amount of danger in civil and military practice was due to the relative amount of injury of the bone and of the soft parts. Injuries from cannon balls or fragments of shells may very closely resemble certain injuries occurring from accidents in civil life. But there is a great difFerence in the result between an entire separation or a mere crushing of the soft parts. Laceration of the soft parts by splinters of shells are attended with relatively small danger, even when the bones are not injured; and, Avhen the bones are injured, death occurs at a later period than in civil practice. Cases where the soft parts were contused by cannon balls without a large open wound, were, in his opinion, much more liable to septic infiltration than those in which the soft parts were extensively laid open. Dr. Bardeleben thought that Dr. Volkmann attached too little importance to the injury of the bones. Dr. Busch had already noticed the greater mortality after severe injuries of the leg in civil than in military p>ractice. Deferring to injuries of the knee, he remarked that severe wounds from axes, &c., often occurred in civil practice, and might be compared with gunshot wounds. As far as lie knew, more than half the cases of knee-joint injury treated conserva- tively in military surgery were successful ■ but this fell far short of civil practice, where he could remember only two deaths in a number of injuries of the knee that had come under his notice. He agreed with Dr. Langenbeck as to the frequency of purulent oedema after gunshot wounds, and had been struck with the number of cases of this which he saw at Metz, even after resection of tho elbow and shoulder joints. Dr.263 GUNSHOT INJUllIES. Simon believed tliat necrosis was a much more common result of the splintering of bone than Dr. Volkmann supposed. He could not call to miud one instance of extensive splintering in which necrosis did not occur. Several other sui’geous also took part in the debate. Gunshot loounds; experience in the late war.—Mr. Sandford Moore, Assistaut-Surgeon, 4th Dragoon Guards, gives his experience on certain questions connected with the treatment of gunshot wounds, in the ‘ Lancet’(April 8, 1871, 476 and 502.) i. There are two operations which the whole experience of the war goes to show should be aban- doned, at any rate in field hospitals, or until aU further necessity for removing the patient is ended, viz.—(a) excision of the knee-joint; (IS) amjjutation by the fiap method in the upj)er or middle third of the leg. The first operation has been almost invariably followed by a fatal result. The latter operation has the disadvantage that the posterior flap becomes very heavy and separates from the anterior flap. If the flaps are made of skin only, they take longer to make and do not offer so good a covering to the bone, as that produced by a circular amputa- tion. The German surgeons have advocated leaving amputation of limbs for gunshot wounds till the third day. Carbolic acid was used as a disinfectant simj)ly. Marine lint was very useful. Various matters in connection with the surgery of the late war are noted by Dr. Murray in “ Four Days in the Ambulances and Hospitals of Paris under the Commune.” (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May 20, &c., 1871.) Eenmi'ks on the Prussian Siege of Paris, by C. A. Gordon, will be found in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 16, 1871. Remarks on the instruments designed for exploring gunshot wounds to detect bullets or other foreign bodies, by Prof. Longmore, will be found in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 23 and 30, 1871. Under the title of “ BecoUections of Work done in an Ambulance,” Mr. MacCormac relates many interesting cases of gunshot wounds. His pajDcrs are illustrated. A statistical table showing the number of the various operations performed, and the results of the same is given in the last communication (March ii, 1871), (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1870 and 1871.) See also a case of excision of the shoulder and'elbow- joints antea. The Classification and Tabulation of injuries and surgical operations is dealt with, at lengtli, by Prof. Longmore (‘ Med.-Cbir, Trans./ vol. liv, p, 201-46). The War Department of the United States has issued a report on the surgical cases in the army from 1865 'to 1871. (‘ Circular ’ Ho. 8.) It_ contains an immense amount of valuable detail on all ’kinds of injuries and statistics of proportion of recoveries, &c. Three successful cases of amputation at the hnee-joint were performed the condyles being removed. ’ Siimgery of the arteries in gimshot wounds.—M.. Verneuil communi- Society of Paris five cases of injuries of large t r 11s y a s and jiieces of shell, in which hsemorrhage was arrested Pfformance of primary amputation aUowed the ti" °i 1-^ '^Gssels to be examined. The arterial coats were divided, throughout, at the same level, as if they had been cut by a knife ; andIlEPORT ON SURGERY. 2G4 a clot extended for some way above the divided end of the vessel. In two of the cases, the posterior tibial and the popliteal were the injured arteries. (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ July 2a, 1871.) Gunshot injuries of hone.—Specimens exhibited by Mr. Mac Cormac. (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxii, 199.) Fourfold, gunshot ivouncl of the chest; recovery.—Dr. Lorinser relates in the ‘Wiener Med. Woehenschr.,’ for March 25, 1871, the case of a man, mt. 40, who for the purpose of committing suicide, discharged a bullet from a four-barrelled revolver into the chest between the second and third left ribs, a second between the third and fourth, a third be- tween the fourth and fifth, and a fourth between the fifth and sixth ribs. He was soon afterwards seen by Dr. Lorinser, who found him lying dressed on a sofa, exhausted by hemorrhage, and pale. He ob- jected, at first, to examination and wished to be left to die in peace. There was moderate hemorrhage from the wounds ; the movements of the chest on the left side could scarcely be perceived ; respiration was laboured and stertorous; and the heart’s action was weak. On the third day, he had recovered sufiiciently to be undressed and jmt to bed. A bullet was now felt lying under the skin below the angle of the left scapula; but as it caused no inconvenience, it was not removed. The other balls could not be found. The patient went on well for about a week, when he was suddenly attacked with repeated paroxysms of dyspnoea, which were relieved by cherry laurel water and acetate of mor- phia. Por a time, again, there was improvement; but, on his attempting to leave his bed, for a short time, in the third week, he was again seized with dyspnoea, to which were now added loss of appetite and sleepless- ness. This state continued till the eighth week, when he had recovered sufficiently to leave his bed and go into the open air. Three months after this injury, he went to the Tyrol where he spent the summer, and returned in better health than he was in before the injury. Gunshot wound of the nech ; retention of the hall for eight on&nths.— M. Baumes communicated the following case to the Surgical Society of Paris, in October, 1871. In the preceding January, an officer was shot in the right submaxillary region. Haemorrhage occurred several times, but was always arrested by plugging with charpie._ Por some days after he received the wound, he was treated in the hospital of La Pitie, under Mr. Trelat. It was found necessary to perform tracheotomy, which was attended with difficulty by reason of the general swelling of the nepli. After its performance, the breathing became free, and the swelling diminished. The canula fell out easily; the wound soon closed, and the breathing remained normal. Still the part which had been wounded remained enlarged, and fistulous openings presented themselves in the neighbourhood. On introducing a probe, it struck against a foreign body, but of its nature or size no idea could be formed. The patient had an obscure notion that something was removed when he first came under treatment after being wounded. At the end of eight months, the parts remained indurated. An abscess now formed, and burst into the mouth allowing an examination to be made with ease. A hard body was now felt lying deeply in the submaxillary region: it was removed tlirough an external incision, and was found to be a musket-ball weigli-265 TREPHINING POE GUNSHOT. ing 215 grammes (more than ounces). (‘ Qaz. Med. de Paris,’ 21 Oct. 1871.) Trephining for Gunshot.—A case is recorded in which a soldier was wounded in the forehead by a bullet. After ten days “a spot was discovered, a little to the right of the occipital protuberance, that was j)aiuful when touched, and had the appearance of being a very slight portion of the occipital bone forced by some power from within out- ward.” The wound in front was examined more carefully. The frontal bone had received a fracture of both tables, but in such a manner as to allow the piece or pieces to spring into place again. A probe was passed into this wound outwards to the “ back part of the head in the im- mediate neighbourhood of the lesion of the occipital bone, where it met a hard, convex substance.” The occipital bone was then trephined, and a bullet extracted. The man recovered. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 120.) Dr. Halstead records (‘ St. Louis Med. and Surg. Journal,’ March, 1870) the case of a man, set. 17, who was shot in the head by the breech-pin of his gun. The pin struck his forehead, smashed in the bone, and stuck into the brain. The man pulled it out himself and then rode on horseback for some distance. He afterwards became in- sensible. Pieces of bone were found driven for two inches into the brain. _ As many as thirty-eight pieces were removed, and also a three- fourth inch screio. It was supposed that the breech-pin passed nearly to the petrous bone, a distance of four and a half inches, it is said, from the forehead, tearing the falx cerebri and opening the superior, louo-i- tudinal sinus in its passage. The injuries, &c., are described in detail. The man wholly recovered. He was not in any respect aware of any difference, three months later, in his mental or physical condition, from that before the accident. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan i8vi 301.) ■ ‘ ’ Dr. Howard narrates the following case in detail. On April 6 1862, a soldier, set. 19, was shot in the head by a Minie ball He staggered, fell back, and remained insensible till the next day. On April 9 he was found sitting up, leaning against a tree, and sensible. Un April 15 he was carefully examined. There was a wound in the lett temple, and a probe passed obliquely across the most prominent part ot the forehead and emerged through a small incised wound, said to have been made by a surgeon who extracted a ball, which the patient hZ. 1 r?? ^ depression in the frontal boue._ The left leg was numb. After a few days “ symptoms of com- pression came on. “ Coma becoming almost complete,” it was deter- mined to explore On April 21, a triangular depression was found in .op®* of tie depressed portion was chipped ofi^, leaving a smjl opening not admitting a probe. In this as entangled a single hair. This at once suggested the presence of a foreign body beyond The trephine was applied. A MinS baU was removed from a depth of two inches. The patient recovered. k™i ‘‘ P™Sable that a portion hTd pped 0^ remained under the skin, and had been removed by a surgeon. The remainder entered the skull and formed a trap-door266 REPORT ON SURGERY. apertui’e, tlio lid springing into place as soon as the ball passed. Why the ball should have entered the skull, at all, at a point beyond the greatest convexity of the forehead, is not to bo accounted for; but the ultimate recovery of the patient is the most reuiarkablo feature in the case. The narrator has tailed to find another case on record in which a missile out of reach and out of sight has been discovered and removed from the brain by trephining—a permanent I’ecovery afterwards resulting. A diagram of the fracture is given and of the ball. (Ibid., Oct. 1871, 385.) Gunshot loounds of the lower extremity.—Mr. MacCormac writes a very interesting paper on his experience of the treatment of gunshot wounds of the lower extremity. He quotes statistics from English, Erench, German, and American authorities. In the Anglo-American ambulance, Mr. MacCormack and others treated in all, 47 cases of gun- shot fracture of the femur. In 21 of these, amputation was performed; 16 terminated fatally. Excluding disarticulation at the hip, the mortality was 72^22 per cent. 26 cases were treated without amputa- tion, many of them being in a hopeless condition. One half died. If an attempt is made to save the Kmb it is better to avoid any strenuous efforts to remove the deformity. If amputation is determined on, it- should be done within the twenty-four hours. In the ambulance, 57 cases of gunshot fracture of the leg were treated, with 23 deaths. 25 were treated conservatively, with 8 deaths, or 32 per cent.; while 32 required amputation. Of these 13 died, or qo'd per cent. Of the operation cases, 16 consisted of primary amputation, with 5 deaths, and 16 were secondary amputations, with 8 deaths. As regards injuries to the hip-joint, the American statistics given in the Surgeon-General’s Circular No. 21,869 referred to. (See last ‘ Retrospect.’) Injuries of the knee- and ankle-joints are discussed. Mr. MacCormack sums up—“ The considerations detailed in this paper appear to me to afford grounds for concluding against the universal application of amputation in regard of gunshot fractures of the shaft of the femur. Sound, though it may be delayed, union will often follow conservative treatment. I think, for general guidance, we may, for the present, declare that, in fractures of the lower half of the femur, the rule should be, when in doubt, to amputate, while, in those of the upper half of the bone, the converse should apply, namely, when in doubt to try to preserve the limb.” Two plates of illustrations of injuries to the femur and to the tibia accompany the paper. (‘ St. Thomas’s Hosp. Eep.,’ ii, 43.) Depressed fractv/re of the sicull in a child, with deep laceration of the hrain; no symptoms for six days; death from convulsions on the eighth g(iy^—Mr. W. Adams (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 184). Compound, depressed fracture of the shtcll; operation.—Dr. Meldon records the case of a boy, set. 7, who was kicked on the head by a horse. Two compound, depressed fractures of the skull were found. On ad- mission, he was “ semi-conscious; one pupil was contracted and the other dilated.” The depression was “ an inch in depth.” The bone was elevated and pieces removed from each position. In one place the dura mater was found lacerated. Hernia cerebri resulted from this part, and was controlled by pressure. At the same time, however, thereINJURIES TO THE HEAD. 2G7 ■was a quantity of purulent discharge. At the end of three years “ the brain can be seen pulsating under the scalp in both the places -where the fractures existed.” (‘Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872,. 295.) Mr. Nicholson records the case of a child, aot. who had fallen down stairs while playing with a marble. Hasmorrhage occurred from a cir- cular wound in the temple. A hole could apparently be felt in the skull. At the end of a fortnight a large marble ivas removed from the temple. The child did well; but the hole in the skull was not filled up at the end of ten years (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 91). Dr. E. N. Downs records a case oi g>unct%hred fracUire of the sJmll, in ahoy, let. 12, in which death resulted from the bursting of an abscess into the ven- tricles, four months after apparent recovery (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1871, 429). A case of compound fracture of the slcull with protrusion and loss of brain-substance, operated on by Mr. Wag- stafie, and followed by recovery, is noted in ‘Lancet,’ Aug. 17, 1872. Mr. Annandale showed a patient to the Ed. Med.-Chir. Soc., who had recovered from a severe injury to the head. On admission he was found to have sustained a compound, comminuted fracture of the bones of the skull, and to have hemiplegia of the right side. The depressed portion of the skull was elevated and the fragments removed. One of the fragments had wounded the brain, so that a portion of brain came away. The patient had no other symptoms than those of hemiplegia • he was perfectly sensible and took his food. About the third day a fungus of the Brain made its appearance, and gradually increased till it reached the size of a pigeon’s egg. During the whole time the anti- septic treatment, as recommended by Prof. Lister, was carried out with the antiseptic spray, and pressure was applied to the fungus. There was no suppuration from the deep part of the wound. The pressure was quite successful, and, gradually, the granulations arising from the fungus adhered to those of the scalp, so that by keeping up steady pressure it was gradual y diminished, and the wound healed. An opening in the bone-walls of the skull was left. Mr. Annandale said--“ Having watched many of these cases, where the antiseptic treatment was not adopted I think the treatment employed had much to do with the satisfactory results. In many of these cases fatal results happen from suppuration of the_ brain itself, but I believe the treatment prevented that. The patient is recovering from the hemiplegia, and can now use Ins right arm and leg, (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1872, ^154.) Mr. Stokes records the following interesting case: —A lad, mt 18 was struck on the head and cut over the left temple five weeks before he came under care. TUe occurred in England Lrig went on witMns work. On the fourth day he suddinly lost nower rf speech. He was under the care of a practitioner for a fortni.rht H,s father was then sent for from Ireland When the latter S ?ed the son could recognise him, and spoke to him in monosySe” He could walk about, and was quite sensible. For a foSht more he remained in the same state. At the end of four weeks and three lys the? rf? T ^ ^he had a yioleut attack of vomiting They I'iVTool. tie father left liis son for I ,. t on us return found him in a profuse perspiration and quiteREPORT ON SURGERY. 268 insensible. After a while he improved, and was able to walk down to the quay, a distance of 200 yards. On board he became, again, quite insensible, and remained so. On admission he was quite comatose. On examination a slight depression was felt under the cicatrix of the wound in the temple. The pupil of the left eye was dilated, the riglit contracted; the pulse was 56 ; the respiration was stertorous; the in- sensibility complete ; touching the cornea with a feather did not pro- duce the slightest irritation. His head was turned to the right side. A stellate fracture of the frontal bone was found. A circular piece of hone was removed with a trephine, and the inner table found to be de- pressed. The dura mater was intensely congested, exceedingly tense, and bulged, hernia-like, out of the opening. An incision was made into it, letting out only turbid serum. Improvement followed. The respira- tion ceased to be stertorous, the pulse rose to 64, the left pupil became less dilated, and sensation was restored to the cornese. He soon re- lapsed, however, and died about thirty-six hours after admission. At the post-mortem, “ on removing the calvaria the membranes were found intensely congested, and a large abscess between the dura mater and the bone was found pressing on the left hemisphere. It was a remark- able circumstance that the abscess was not found immediately connected with the portion of depressed bone. It is, I think, a circumstance much to be regretted that the operation of trephining and elevating the depressed portion of bone was not performed when the symptoms of pressure first manifested themselves. (‘Dub. Jomm. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 1872,437.) Trepliiniru] for abscess xoithin the cranium.—Prof. N. R. Smith relates (‘ Baltimore Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1870) a case:—A clergyman received a blow from a sharp stone over the left parietal bone. Separation of a small sequestrum followed. There remained a fistulous opening, which never closed during the long period of twenty years. When he came under care, examination with a probe, through the fistula, showed a cavity two and a half inches in depth between the bone and the mem- branes of the brain. The sinus was smaller than a quill. Trephining was proceeded with. The bone was found of ivory hardness, and much thicker than common, and of unequal thickness. The operation was proceeded with, however, without hesitation, as the membranes were known to be far removed from the inner surface of the bone. When the piece was lifted up about three ounces of fetid pus escaped. Ho cerebral disturbance followed. The patient “entirely recovered,” and remained well sometime afterwards. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, .59.5-) Trephining in cerebral disease.—A paper, by Dr. W. Pepper, on this suhiect, with the narrative of a successful case, will be found in the ‘ Ain. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ April, 1871, 411. The patient was a man, mt. 21. He had suffered from constitutional syphilis, had febrile symp- toms like tertian ague, intense headache, left hemiplegia, strabismus and ptosis, increasing coma and stertor, and a node on the right frontal bone. ’ Anti-syphilitic treatment failed to give relief Innury to the brain.—Mv, Callender notes three cases of injury to the brain and tabulates others, with the object of directing attention, first.TUBERCLE OF THE URINARY TRACT. 2G9 to the frequency with which convulsions or rigidity are associated with paralysis of the left side of the body as compared with that of the right; secondly, to the occurrence of these symptoms in cases of injury or dis- ease of those parts of the right cerebral hemisphere which lie above the corpus striatum. (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liii, 129.) jffections of the lungsfrom injury to the base of the brain.—Dr. Brown- Sequard, in the course of some experiments on guinea-pigs, was struck by the frequency with which the lungs are altered consecutively to a lesion of the brain. One of the most frequent causes of death was pneumonia. He made sjDecial experiments to ascertain the immediate effects of an injury to the brain on the lungs. “ The results obtained were startling. In almost all cases of injuries by crushing or section of the pons Varolii ecchymoses were found in the lungs.” Injuries to other parts of the base were followed, sometimes, by the same effects, and it is extremely probable that a slight pressure uqion the pons by effused blood is sufficient to qiroduce it. Injuries to the medulla and spinal cord rarely produced an effusion in the lungs. “ Many experiments have shown that it is not through the par vagum, but through the sympa- thetic nerve, especially by its spinal roots, which throw themselves into the first thoracic ganglion, that the peculiar influence of the irritated pons Varolii exerts itself, producing a pulmonary hemorrhage.” The condition of the lung, as regards distension or collapse of the air-cells, does not seem to influence the production of hemorrhage. It is not essential that there be a continuation of breathing. Hemorrhage is not the only result; an anemic condition, oedema, and emphysema can also be produced. The latter can occur when not a single respiratory movement takes place after an irritation of the base of the brain, either by crushing or cutting. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 7, 1871, 6.) Tuberciflar disease of the urinary mucous membrane.—Mr Thomas ^mith writes on this subject, with special reference to the symptoms, &c., during life. He quotes various authorities to show what has been already written respecting the disease, and then explains that his paper refers to what is often called strumous or scrofulous disease of the urinary, mucous membrane, and which commences as a tuberculous in- filtration of the submucous tissue of some part of the genito-urinarv mucous membrane (probably most often first in the kidLy). To the ^ yellowish, cheesy deposit, though in its earliest stage it is stated to be a deposit of grey or miliary tubercffi Later on in the disease it is often associated with tubercle of the sub' fS t body of the penis, or the prostate It Lstly' 1.S ™°Tod of Hf/ H diyhesis, and occurs before tbe imaie period of life. He describes the condition' of the nrefbm advanced stagesbutVe pass on to the adv.ee IS not generally sought, being, perhaps, a slight aching in theREPORT ON SURGERY. 270 back, a little blood in the urine, a transient pain in the testicle or glans penis. By degrees the bleeding becomes more copious, the pain in the back more severe, and symptoms of urinary irritation appear, in an in- creased frequency of micturition, in pain in the glans penis, in the bladder, or in the perinsoum. In children there may be, before passing water, shrieking, shuddering, and pulling the foreskin and pinching the glans penis, the child sometimes finding a temporary relief after the water has passed. In the later stages of the disease the pain in the bladder and the urinary distress is most severe, and there is tenderness in the hypogastrium. The urine, which from the first is usually alka- line, may contain nothing abnormal but blood and broken-down epithe- lial scales. After a time it comes to be loaded with pus, and to be offensive. I have observed that the qualtity of the urine is liable to great variations, that it may, at one time, be full of blood, at another, free from it; that the pus may disappear and again reappear. Ab- scesses may form in the loins, prostate, vesiculse, perinasum, body of the penis, or testicle; and these are preceded, in the last-named organs, by deposits of tuberculous matter, which may be recognised as indura- tions or lumps some time before the formation of matter. Urinary abscess or extravasation is not rarely the result of these suppurations. In a case (a boy) under Mr. Wormald’s care, in addition to very severe' urinary symptoms, phosphatie deposits could bo detected with a sound in the mucous membrane of the bladder. The blood in the urine may be bright coloured, as from the bladder, or coffee-coloured, as in stone in the kidney; it may be largely increased in quantity by exertion or shaking, jarring movements of the body. As before mentioned, in some stages of the complaint, the subjective symptoms are identical with those of stone ; in no case, therefore, where tuberculosis is suspected, can the diagnosis of the disease be confirmed until the non-existence of stone in the bladder be ascertained by physical examination, and until, by watching the progress of events, the existence of renal calculus is nega- tived.” He narrates the case of a man, mt. whose symptoms began with pains in the back, followed by irritability of the bladder and fre- quent micturition, with hasmaturia. After eighteen months, “ pain commenced in the bottom of the bladder,” followed by pain in the penis and most acute pain in the glans, especially just at the moment the bladder was being emptied. The tenderness in the periuaeum was so great that he could not sit. At this time the urine was bloody, puru- lent, and full of mucus. No stone could be found. He died after three years. Changes (detailed) were found in the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and prostate. One patient was under observation many y;ears. Another, a boy, let. qi, died in about four months. He had urinary symptoms, and a tumour was felt below the right kidney. After dearth this was found to be, probably, due to a deposit in the ureter. The chief changes were in the kidneys. The case of a lad, set. 14, is noted. Mr. Smith calls attention to the similarity between the symptoms and those in pulmonary mischief. On the one hand, suppuration, hemoptysis, increased secretion of mucus, with the occasional recurrence of a spas- modic expulsive, muscular effort (in the form of cough). On the other, suppuration, hematuria, increased secretion of mucous, with spasmodicFEVER AFTER CATHETERISil. 271 expulsive contrActions of the bladder. Particulars of a case, in a man a>t. 29, and in a girl, jet. 2^, are also given. Treatment.—‘‘ Prom the urgency and painful nature of the symptoms of this disease, it is obvious that these must be treated as they arise, though it is necessary and beneficial to use constitutional remedies. I believe opium or morphia to be most useful for the relief of pain, astringent preparations of iron and confection of blacli pepper to be most efficacious in control- ling the bleeding, and cod-liver oil and iron to be the best as constitu- tional remedies. (‘ St. Barth. Hosp. Eep.,’ viii, 95.) Fatal, urethral fever after catheterism.—Mr. W. M, Banks writes on this subject. The attacks may come on very quickly after slight inter- ference with the urethra, and may terminate fatally in a few hours, or may be deferred for a longer period, and death may not ensue for several days. The aifection is essentially due to some shock to the nervous system, _ possibly the sympathetic, nervous system. An interesting feature is the non-secretion of urine in many cases. The patients retain consciousness. He mentions a case in which a man died in a few minutes after the passage of a catheter. He quotes the cases he has found recorded in the medical journals for the last twenty-five years, and details a typical case in which, after successive trials on different days with small bougies, at last a Ho. 4 metallic bougie was passed into ^e bladder. In half an hour the man vomited, then a rigor followed. He continued to vomit, complained of pain in the region of the bladder and loins j the pulse became quicker. In six hours and a half he had a sort of convulsive tremor, his appearance altered, he became uncon- scious, and died in a few minutes. The autopsy revealed no special lesions. (‘Ed. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1871, 1074)REPORT ON SURGEll'#. ^72 the bladder the stylet is removed, and a bulbous portion projects in tlie bladder. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 9, 1872.) Vertebrated, prostatic catheter.—Dr. Squire advocates the use of a silver catheter, the distal part of which is formed of joints. It is quite llcxible and is adapted for cases of enlarged prostate. A figure is given. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Oct. 1871, 393.) Dr. Sayre figures and describes his vertehrated catheter and probe in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 22, 1871. It is composed of a number of segments, is introduced quite flexible and is then stiffened. Stricture of the urethra.—Mr. W. Stokes records a hundred cases treated either by gradual dilatation, external urethrotomy, internal urethrotomy, or forced dilatation. He thinks the former the most satisfactory mode of treatment when possible. His mode of performing external urethrotomy was to pass a full-sized silver catheter clown to the stricture, make a median incision in the perinaeum,'reach the end of the catheter, feel the stricture, divide it carefully, and then having reached the dilated part of the urethra pass a flexible catheter into the bladder. In order to bring the catheter through the anterior part of the urethra, Mr. Porter suggested the following plan. Take the ivory head of the flexible catheter away, pass a bougie down the urethra, bring it out at the wound and fix it firmly into the catheter, and then withdraw the bougie pulling the catheter with it. He has found internal urethrotomy very successful. He uses Maisonneuve’s instrument. A filiform flexible bougie is passed through the stricture, and pushed on into the bladder carrying after it a curved, grooved director on which is passed the cutting instrument, so fashioned that the healthy urethra cannot be cut, only the stricture. He thinks this plan far preferable to forcible rupture of the stricture. Cases are given and figures of the instruments employed. (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Feb. 1871, i.) Stricture of the ttrethra ; orchitis ; pycemic symptoms ; perineal sec- tion; recovery.—A man was admitted under Mr. Hulke’s care with orchitis. He had repeated rigors ; a stricture v/as detected and perineal section was performed. The man then did well. (‘ Lancet,’ Nov. 9, 1872.) A case of complicated stricture of the urethra treated by Mr. Syme’s operation for impermeable uretbra, is reeorded by Mr. Christopher Heath. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iy, 121.) Retention of urine from impassable stricture, treated by filiform bougies. Hy W. F. Toevan. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, p. 124.) Sir Henry Thompson contributes a second lecture to the ‘ Lancet ’ (Dec. 7, 1872), on stricture of the urethra. He thinks Holt’s operation generally involves but little risk; the benefit is not very enduring. He describes a plan introduced by Dr. Corradi and figures the instru- ment. Internal urethrotomy is said to give the best results of any plan. He prefers Civiale’s instrument; the incision should be free. He has performed two hundred operations. A new stricture dilator.—Mr. Berkeley Hill describes a new stricture dilator. The two halves of a split sound, which in juxta-position equal the calibre of a No. 2 or 3 catheter, can be separated by thrusting between them a segment of a cone fixed on a slender stem. It is ot273 OIlCiriTIS FROM ]^ROSTATIC INFLAMMATION. simple and cheap construction. Cases treated are narrated. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 23, 1871.) Incontinence as a symptom of retention of urine.—Mr. Hutchinson writes on this point and mentions cases. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 21, 1871, 60.) Perdstent priapism.—See cases ‘ Bien. Eet.,’ 1867-8, 317. Dr. Mackie records the case of a gentleman, mt. 70. After much treatment, without eftect, a free incision was made into the corpus cavernosum, com- mencing at the corona glandis. Clotted venous blood escaped and bleeding followed; the patient was relieved. The acute symptoms had lasted three weeks. Eftusion of blood into the structure of the corpus cavernosum was finally suspected. The treatment was so successful that the author recommends its early adoption in like cases. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872.) Urinary fistula of the penis treated hj tirethroplasty.—M.v. John Wood publishes a clinical lecture on this subject. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 24, 1872.) See also Mr. Pemberton’s address on surgery (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 10, 1872), and a note by Mr. J. E. Lane on ante- scrotal, urinary fistula. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 24, 1872.) Epithelioma simulating lido.—At a meeting of the E. K. Glessellschaft der Aerzte in Vienna in January, 1871, Dr. Gleber related the case of a man, ast. 28, who had an epithelioma in the right groin. The patient had excoriation after sexual connectiou, which was followed byenlarue- meut and induration of the inguinal glands. Antisyphilitic treatmmit was employed, and it was only when this failed and the disease con- tinued to spread, that it was suspected that the case might be one of ^iithelioma. Microscopic examination confirmed the latter opinion, .ur. Deber also related another, similar case, in which the dilferentiai diagnosis between syphilis and epithelioma was attended with difficulty and was only cleared up by microscopic examination. (‘ Wiener Med’ Wochenschr.,’No. 4, 1871.) ^ v cuci juea. Orchitis from irritation in the prostatic In a clinical lecture on this subject, Mr. Hutchinson details various cases in which orchitis termmatmg in suppuration and requiring incisions, occurred in con- nexion with the passage of prostatic catheters, lithotrity, lithotomy &c cases. ±ie then remarks, “ these instances of inflammation of the testis in association with some source of irritation existing in the urethra are d inflalamatiou of £ v”s deteiens only, as evidenced by deep-seated pain in the iliac fosso snH matiof of thrvas dp^r symptoms. (2) In connexion with inflam“- inn • j 1 deferens an abscess may form over its conrsp miri ■it'ireXnd riny The°mfl "a “ay present deferens and extend to tLe inflammation may involve the whole vas tinuous with it vi/ iLp o poi^Lon of the testis which is directly con- In a fourth group of caserthe unaffected. tunica va-iu?lis Ld thfIp i ^ I-the lu thircCs are all involved these cases the eftusion is usually serum only and a speedy and com: 18HEPOllT ON SURGERY. 27i. plete cure by absorption niay be expected; but, in exceptional cases, suppuration may occur in the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and in others, still more exceptional, in the body of the testis itself. He alludes to gonorrhoea as causing epididymitis, and then asks, “ What is the connexion between prostatic irritation and orchitis ?” He thinks it duo to the direct communication of the tube of the vas deferens with the structures concerned; he disbelieves in the mere sympathy theory. ‘‘ I believe that whenever there is pain in the cord, that pain begins before the epididymis is affected; and I believe, further, that if the vas deferens be carefully examined you will almost always find clear proof that it is thickened and inflamed.” In support of his view he insists on the following facts :—(i) That, as already stated, in a vast number of cases there is conclusive proof that the vas is involved. (2) That in a few cases the opportunity occurs for observing that the vas is inflamed before the testis is involved. (3) That now and then the inflammation begins and ends in an inflammation of the vas and never gets to the testicle at all. (4) That according to the admission of all surgeons the orchitis begins in the epididymis—i.e. iu the part directly continuous with the vas deferens—a fact which the theory of sympathy cannot in the least explain. Against the theory of the direct extension is the fact of the extreme rarity of symmetrical orchitis. The affection may alternate (“ see-saw orchitis,” Hicord) from one to the other testis, but is very rarely seen in both at once. The subsidence of the discharge on the appearance of the orchitis may be due to sympathy, ox*, as Dr. Humphrey points out, to the efficient counter-irritation caused by the orchitis. Mr. Hutchinson agrees with Dr. Humphrey that so long as the discharge lingers the patient is liable to swelled testicle, and, there- fore, treats the discharge vigorously in all stages. As regards treat- ment of severe cases Mr. Hutchinson says, “ when the pain is intense, and when it persists in spite of the use of ice, I believe that thepi’actice of incisions is not only safe, but very valuable.” In slight cases inci- sions, if harmless, are unnecessary. In cases in which abscess_ is threatened an incision cannot be made too early. “ A. free incision into the tunica vaginalis leads to no ill consequence, whatever, excepting the inconvenience of suppuration of the sac ; and if you chance to let out the pus the relief is immense. A free incision through the tunica albuo-inea into the testis itself does not lead to gangrene of the testis, nor always, even, to fungous jirotrusion. When the testis is swollen it appears to relieve pain, much with the same certainty that iridectomy does in acute glaucoma, and my impression is that it is likely in critical cases to diminish the danger of gangrene on the one hand, and of consecu- tive atrophy on the other.” (‘ Med. Times and Gaz., April 15 and 22, 1871 4.10 447.) Dr- Garden mentions in detail cases in which orchitis followed lithotomy in India. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July 29, 18 71, 126) His proportion has been about one in fifty-two; the left side seems more Mten affected, in_ connexion with the incision. In five out of sixteen cases mentioned it is noted that abscesses formed. 'enlargement of the prostate gland,—m, Quain writes on sc^e forms of enlar4ment of the prostate gland. In one case, a patient, set. 68, had very little trouble if he was careful to pass water frequeutly enough.275 EXTROVERSION OE THE BLADDER. but if be overstayed the time he almost certainly had an attaek of re- teutiou. He finally died of idiopathic erysipelas. The bladder was touud to be in great part filled with a firm tumour which reached above tlie pubes. A section of the whole having been made the tumour was found to be the prostate gland enlarged in an unusual position, above the urethra instead of below it, as is common. The upper end was conical and inclined the urine towards the urethra. The bladder proper was almost wholly within the abdomen. TV^hen he had attacks of re- tention, during many years, one passage of the catheter relieved him till his next attack. _Ho urine constantly remained behind in the bladder, nor did the kidneys become aifected. Engravings are given and notes of other cases. In one case, besides an enlargement of the prostate, a large sac bulged backwards from the bladder. In another case, general symptoms were occasioned by the accumulation of “ resi- dual urine.” (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June, 1872.) Amimtahon of the penis for carcinoma—Dr. Johnson narrates four cases, in one, he saw the patient eleven years afterwards, and in ano- ther three years afterwards, and no return had occurred in either case, though the glands were more or less involved at the time of the opera- tion. ( Edm. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1871, 243.) ^ Melanosis of the Penis; Amputation. Mr. T. Holmes, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 175. Inversion of the Uadder.—Mv. Croft records a case of inversion of the bladder. The patient was a female infiint, mt. 14 mouths. The blndder was ■’eUimed. The case did well. Three other cases recorded |hr‘pLre“of riusTf S C sTSriloap Eepl/ li^xiroversioii of the urinarif bladder.—Dr. P. F Maurv Ins miei-sforl successfu ly on two cases. The patients were boyr*^ and ?cn^vdiner-™-“' °P«ation consisted in mikint a curvilinear incision commencing on the outer third of Poupart’s Hp-i° meut, carried down below the hernim and scrotum to the middle of fhe perinieum, and thence along the opposite side to a point correspondino- to tlm commencement of the incision. This flap wL care^xZ d^ sected up completely denuding the hernia, of their cutaneoufeoveriuT A vftlvG like iDcisiou was mude iii oue flan so -fn niii^ -*-i • j^' tte bhddS'then was obtained Siufficient to coyeHu minal ‘walls’and a ‘Ira^ror 17^0^ "'f operations, the other onir^ &sT7o7 l7ckrerthe7,k^7'’“ now covered in, a small urinal can he J-be_bladder is recumbent posture and the ci'nof • ,. retained in the276 lliirORT ON SURGEllY. Dr. Asliliurst records a caseiu wliicli he operated by AVood’s method. The patient was a girl, oot. 6^ years. The result was very satisfactory. When lying down she could hold her water for two hours, when erect she was obliged to wear some portable receptacle. The aperture which had existed at the lower part of the abdomen instead of showing a raw surface was now in a state of healed cicatrix. Tigures are given. (‘Am. Journ, Med. Sciences,’ July, 1871, 70.) Sitccessful litliotrity in a case of atony of the Madder.—Dr. Matie- jowsky of Prague, relates in the ‘ Wien. Med. Woehenschr.,’ Nos. 18 and 19, 1871, the case of a gentleman, one of his colleagues in the uni- versity, who came under his care in October, 1868, on account of stone in the bladder. The disease had been first detected in 1862, and the bladder had gradually fallen into a state of complete atony. The urine, which had to be drawn off entirely by the catheter, was bloody and contained a large quantity of mucus. TJnder these circumstances, it was considered that lithotomy was contra-indicated, and it was re- solved to practice lithotrity, notwithstanding that it is generally said to be attended with much danger when the bladder is in a state of atony. The first operation was performed in October, 1868, and the lithotrity was repeated at intervals on sixty-six subsequent occasions, the last being on January 5th, 1870. The bladder was each time washed out by injecting water into it. The result was that the bladder was freed from stone; the patient recovered from the vesical catarrh ; and the urine became healthy. The atony, however, remained, de- manding the habitual use of the catheter. Dr. Matiejowsky believes, from an examination of the fragments, that six calculi were broken up and removed. They contained a large quantity of carbonate of lime and phosphates of lime and magnesia, and some uric acid and mucus. Choice of operations for stone in the Madder.—Sir Henry Thompson . has communicated a clinical lecture on this subject to the ‘Lancet,’ July 22, 1871. He had had twelve cases recently in the wards. In four he performed lithotomy, in eight lithotrity. All the patients re- covered. He thinks it most important to clioose according to the cir- cumstances of each case. It is unwise to cut all your patients or to crush all the stones. In guiding your choice you must acquaint yourself —ist, the size of the stone, or the amount of the calculous matter if multiple; 2nd, its composition : 3rd, the age and constitution of the patient; 4th, the conditions of the local organs. A stone which mea- sures to 11 in. in its longest diameter is amenable to lithotrity. A stone of which any diameter is in. is mostly too large. Por a small stone, at whatever the age, lithotrity is the operation. Enlarged pros- tate rarely opposes any obstacle. Stricture of the urethra should be treated first and then does not oppose any obstacle. If lithotomy be performed, the lateral is always preferable. There were two children amongst the twelve patients. One who had a large stone was cut. The other had a small stone and this was crushed. It was about the size of an orange pip. Sir Henry uses a tube if there be hcemorrhage. The last case was that of a man, 03t. 72, who was relieved of a con- siderable lithic acid mass in eighteen sittings. JLirjh operation.—Dr. T. H. Watson operated on an adult male by277 LITHOTOMY, lateral lithotomy. Ho could not extract the stone. He then made a supra-pubic incision and removed the stone by that means. It weighed four and a half ounces. The patient recovered. (‘ Edin. Med. Jouim.,’ Dec. 1871, 557.) Lithotomy; hcemorrhaye.—A case, in a lad, set. 15, operated on by lateral lithotomy, in which haemorrhage occurred on the sixth day, and recurred till the eleventh is noted by Mr. Square. The bleeding came on and ceased suddenly. Lancet,’ May ii, 1872, 648.) In the ease of a boy, aet. 4.^, under the care of the present compiler, haemorrhage occurred on the fifth day. There had been no previous complication ; the bleeding came on quite suddenly, after he had had a violent fit of passion and crying; it was so severe as to produce rather alarming faintness, ceased as suddenly as it came on, and did not appa- rently hinder the child’s progress in any way. Lithotomy.—A paper on Lithotomy in Lndia will be found in ‘Dub. Quart. Jouru.’ (May, 1871, 311), by Dr. Curran. Pour cases in which the stones were of unusuallij large size are narrated by Mr. Teevan (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ iv, 84). An analysis of statistics of lateral lithotomy by Dr. Keith is continued and completed by the account of the fatal cases in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,' Sept. 16 and 23, 1871. Seven cases are recorded by Mr. Ensor, of South Africa. Notwithstanding the frequency of hmma- turia and of renal calculi, vesical calculus is rare (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 27, 1872, 112). Professor Erichsen gives an interesting clinical lecture on several cases on which he operated for yerarrewi; or multiple calculi (‘Lancet,’ March 18, 1871, 360). A clinical lecture on lithotomy, by Dr. Eben Watson, is given in the ‘Lancet,’ May 4 1872 • ® 47 patients operated on by him two only died; he uses Buchanan’s rectangular stafE. A clinical lecture, by Professor Humphrey, is given in the ‘ Lancet,’ June i, 1872, and one by Mr. Forster on lithotomy and litliotrity in the ‘Lancet’ Oct 26 1872. ’ ■ ’ Ritpure of the female bladder.—W. Stokes, in a clinical lecture on rupture of the female bladder, says he could only find notes of five cases (m Mr. Hoiiel’s memoir). Two others occurred under the care ot colleagues of his own, and he adds one case. The patient survived six days and fifteen hours. The rupture was at the anterior part of the lundus. He discusses the diagnosis. He mentions two cases, recorded ot recovery after rupture of the male bladder. (‘ Brit. Med Journ ’ March 23, 1872.) ’ Wotmd of the bladder in fracture of the pelvis ; recovery.—Dr. Bell showed a lad who had fractured his pelvis. When he came under care he could only pass water through a wound on the left side of the abdomen A probe went straight into the bladder. Ho catheter could be passed. IS was at last accomplished. No more urine came through the fistula and the latter healed. Another case was mentioned where the fistula was on the other side. (Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1872.) LUhotomy; removal of apiece of bone from the bladder.—Henrv • case of a patient on whom he operated for stone mthe bladder and removed a calculus which proved to be bone e™ rusted with phosphates. The patient was a lad fifteen years of age 1 our years previous y he had been run over by a cart. On preliSinTv ““Zn”, ''“■‘-‘.‘■«“>Mt?apiece of bone was removed.'andTSo operabon a larger piece was found. A somewhat similar case, in a man » . 40, occurred seven years before. Sir Henry removed fragments of278 EEPOUT ON SURGEUY. bone and phospliatic matter by litbotrity. The bone had probably necrosed from the os innominatum as the man had had abscesses about the hip, figures are given and allusion is made to the other cases recorded. (‘Lancet,’ June 22, 1872, 8ji.) Calculus vesiccB in the female,—Dr. Watson removed a calculus weighing 1120 'grains from the bladder of an elderly woman by rapid dilatation. She was able to retain her urine within twenty-four hours of the operation. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ., 1871, 653.) |Dr. Atleeremoved a stone weighing 220 grains, and measuring 3 ^^^yth inches, in its greatest circumference, and 2j%ths, in its smallest, from the bladder of a female, £ct. 73, by rapid dilatation of the urethra. He used Holt’s dilator and a pair of dressing forceps. The patient had no incontinence of urine. (‘ Am. Journ, of Med. Sciences,’ April 1871, 424.) Dr. Long removed a large stone from the bladder of a female, set. 33, by rapid dilatation. Incontinence resulted for three days. The stone weighed 308 grains, was four and a half inches in its longest and three in its shortest cir- cumference. A translation of the reports of two cases recorded in the ITospitaU- Tidende in which vesico-vaginal lithotomy was performed, is given by Dr. Moore in the ‘ Dub. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April 1872, 353. The first patient was thirty-five years of age; symptoms had existed for five years. A “large” stone was detected. Lithotomy was first attempted, but owing to the hardness of the stone and the pain caused was unsuc- cessful. Guerin’s old apparatus for lateral lithotomy was used (instead of a round or straight director, passed along the urethra) to guide the knife in incising the vaginal W'all. The stone was easily removed. An hour later the wound was united with ten silver wire sutures, which were fixed wdth leaden plates. The urine was drawn oft* every second or third hour. On the seventh day, five of the sutures were removed. The wound was healed. On the twelfth day the wires were removed. No aperture whatever remained. The other patient was 32 years of age. The stone was of a “ tolerably large size.” It was found im- possible to crush it. The female blade of the lithotrite was employed as a director. After three quarters of an hour had elapsed the wound was closed with eleven sutures (silver wire), which were twisted. A catheter was inserted. The vagina was washed out regularly On the third day catheterisation at regular intervals was adopted. On the ninth day three sutures, and on the eleventh one, and on the fourteenth day the other seven were removed. No gap remained. The nucleus of the stone could not be crushed with the lithotrite out of the body, only the outside crust. In the first case the stone had been crushed into two parts by the lithotrite. Together they weighed 648-1 grains. The length was six centimetres (2-4 in.), the breadth five centimetres (2-0 in.), and the thickness two centimetres ( -8 in.). The second calculus was one inch and a half in its longest diameter, and one and a third aud one inch in others. Its weight was 2^4-63 grains. ,tt Bectal lithotomy.—hx the ‘ Vierteljahrschrift fiir die prakt. Heil- kunde,’ iii, 1872, Th. Schaffer describes two methods of performing lithotomy through the rectum. He uses for dilatation specula like Sims’s, but adapted to the rectum. The operations which he describes279 CYSTINE CALCULI. £ire the recto-vesical, and the lateral recto-prostatic. In the recto-ve- sical operation, the section enters the bladder at the base of the pros- tate between the seminal ducts, parallel to the long axis of the rectum. Injury of the spermatic ducts or of the peritoneum may be avoided by operating with care. In the lateral recto-prostatic operation, a nearly semilunar incision with the convexity downwards is made along the border of the prostatic and membranous parts of the urethra; the flaps are dissected from the prostate, and under the guidance of the sound, the prostate is divided as in lateral lithotomy. Calculous disease.—Sir Henry Thompson contributes a clinical lecture on the prevention of calculous disease. His treatment consists chiefly in careful dieting, avoidance of sugar, alcohol and fat, and the adminis- tration of Triederichshalle and Carlsbad waters, saline purgatives. He objects to the alkaline waters generally ordered. (‘ Lancet, ’Jan.13,1872.) Calcuhis-cholestearine.—Dr. Duncan showed to the Med.-Chir. Soc. of Edin. a cholestearine calculus weighing 390 grains, which had es- mped from the umbilicus of a young lady. No spinal symptoms weure noticed previously or subsequently. She had had constant dwehaj^' from the umbilicus for three years, during which time the calculus was making its way to the surface. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1S73, 1127.) Cystine calculi.—Dr. E. Hltzmann describes in the ‘ Wiener. Med. Wochenschr.,’ Nos. 13 and 14, 1871, four cases of cystine calculus, operated on by Dr. von Dumreicher in Vienna. The total number of cases of stone among which these occurred was 103. In three of the cases, the calculus consisted entirely of cystine, and were single; in the fourth, there were three calculi formed of alternate layers of cystine and earthy phosphates. The first case occurred in 1847, in a healthy man, mt. 24. There had been no hismaturia. Lateral lithotomy was performed; the stone was broken during removal by the lorceps. The patient was dismissed cured on the eighth day. The calculus was of the size of an ordinary wal- nut, somewhat flattened at the sides, and of a yellowish colour and waxy aspect. It weighed twelve grammes (185 grains.) The second case was that of a boy, set. 2 years. His mother noticed when he was a year old that he had difiiculty and pain in passing urine. On Eeb- ruary 17th, 1834, Dr. von Dumi’eicher operated by the lateral incision, and removed a calculus of the size of a pigeon’s egg. The child was dismissed, cured, sixteen days afterwards. The calculus, in the dry state, weighed 4-3 grammes (66^ grains). Its surface was of a yellow colour, and was found on microscopic and chemical examination to con- sist ot cystine. Section of the calculus, however, disclosed in the centre a waxy, yellow, glittering cystine nucleus of the size of a coflee- + was covered by a layer a line thick, consisting of earthy phosphate with traces of urate of ammonia ; over this lay a dark brown 1C ayer of oxalate of lime, and over this again a layer of pure cys me, one of earthy phosphate, and, finally, an external layer of cystine. The symptoms of calculus returned three months afterwards: and the patient was operated on a second time in January, 1836; on IS occasion, two calculi were removed. He was sent home, cured, twoIIEPOIIT ON SURGERY. 280 da^’s after tlic operation. The stones weighed, together, 9-j grammes (1461- grains). They were, like the former one, formed of cystine nuclei followed by two layers of earthy phosphate and one of cystine. The third case was that of a boy. mt. 7, who three years previously bad had hsematuria, unattended by any pain ; tins soon diminished, and a short time after its first appearance he passed urethram, without pain, a yellowish, firm substance of the size of a pea. Some time later he became very restless at night, would spring out of bed if not re- strained, and endeavour, but in vain, to pass urine. The next morning he would have no recollection of what had occurred. He had also violent itching over the whole body, which was reported to then have a bronze colour. In the daytime bright coloured urine was frequently passed in small quantities. In the summer his condition improved; but in the winter of 1863, irritation of the extremity of the penis set in. His urine when examined in March, 1864, was found to be straw- coloured, slightly turbid, of acid reaction, and to deposit a sediment containing hexagonal plates of cystine. This, however, was not found in the sediment on subsequent examinations. During the summer he again improved ; but in the winter the symptoms became more severe ; his fasces were frequently mixed with mucus and blood; there were alternate suppression and incontinence of urine; and he was taken into hospital in May, 1863. On the day after his admission. Dr. von Dumreicher removed, by the lateral operation, a stone about an inch in diameter, weighing about ten grammes (153'4 grains) and consisting entirely of cystine. The operation was followed by a severe attack of cystitis and pericystitis, which, however, was subdued in the course of ten days by inunction of mercurial ointment into the abdomen and warm applications. The urine passed partly through the urethra on the fifteenth day; and the patient was discharged, cured, four weeks after the operation. The fourth patient was a man, set. 35, who was admitted into hospital in November, 1870, having suffered for two years from pain in the bladder and other symptoms of stone; for nine months he had had constant dribbling of urine. None of his family were known to have suffered from calculus. The patient was thin, and his skin was almost bronze-coloured. The liver was not eidarged, nor was there pain in the hepatic region. On sounding, a hard body, which could not be pushed into the bladder, was felt in the prostatic portion of the urethra. It did not give a very clear sound on being struck, and its surface was felt to be rough; a small portion which followed the removal of the sound, was, on examination, found to consist of cystine. The urine was of acid reaction, of spec. grav. 1007 ; it was cloudy and yielded a flocculent sediment of pus, together with epithelial cells from the pelvis of the kidney and casts from the tubes of Bellini. The quantity of colouring matter and uric acid in the urine was much diminished ; the urea and salts were in normal amount; and there was a good deal of albumen. There was no cystine in the sediment. The median operation of lithotomy was performed on November 17th, and the stone was removed in three pieces with a quantity of detritus; the whole was calculated to weigh forty- five grammes (694^ grains). The patient went on well for some days ;TESTICLE IN THE PERINiEUM. 281 but on November 30th, febrile symptoms appeared; diarrhoea set in four days afterwards; and he died on December 12th. The cause of death, 4 far as the necropsy gave any indication, was general anaemia and hypostatic pneumonia. There was some disease of the parenchyma of the kidneys which had apparently come on subsequently to the ope- ration, and did not seem sufficient to account for death. The supra- renal capsules were healthy, so that the bronzed state of the patient’s skin was not connected with disease of these structures. Treatment of Uiberculous testicle hy the actual cautery.—M. Verneuil, in a communication to the Surgical Society of Paris, expresses his pre- ference for the actual cautery over all other methods of treatment of tuberculous testis. He introduces conical, or olive-shaped cauteries into the fistulous openings, penetrating the indurated scrotal tissue, and destroying the diseased structure of the testicle. Under this treat- ment, he says, patients are enabled to leave the hospital in a few weeks. The constitutional disease, however, is not eradicated, and the disease is likely to return in the testis, and extend to the prostate. Cauteriza- tion, however, relieves the patient for a year or two, and appears to delay the recurrence of the disease. In the discussion on M. Yerneuil’s communication, M. Legouest expressed an opinion in favour of castra- tion being j)erformed much more frequently than it is in such cases, and at an early period of the disease. (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Novem- ber 4, 18/1.) Testicle removed for neuralgia.—Mr. Aiiuaudale showed a specimen. The pain had existed for six or seven years. No disease was found except slight thickening of the epididymis (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept., 1872). Cancer of an imperfectly descended testis; difficulty of diagnosis.—Mr. Henry Arnott, ‘Path. Trans.,’ xxii, 182. Transition of the testicle into the perinceim.—Mr. James Adams narrates the ease of a male infant, aged eleven weeks, who came under his care for a misplaced testis. The right side of the scrotum was nor- mal. On the left side was a pouch, but no testis in it. The left testicle formed a smooth oval swelling in the perinieum, to the left of the middle line, and half an inch in front of the anus. It was quite movable. The cord could not be felt owing to a considerable thickness of fat. Mr. Adams operated by making an incision about an inch and a half long, from the external abdominal ring over the empty scrotal pouch, which he carefully opened, thus preparing a bed for the testicle. He then felt for the cord, and having found it, followed it down to the testis, taking care not to injure the tunica vaginalis. On making traction on the cord, it became evident that there was some firm adhesion between the lower part of the testicle and the perineal pouch. This, Mr. Carling sug- gested, was the gubernaculum. Mr. Adams dissected down to its attachment, and divided it as far from the testis as possible. The testis was then raised, in its uninjured tunica vaginalis, and placed in the scrotel pouch. A catgut suture was passed through the gubernaculum and fixed to the bottom of the scrotum. On the third day the edges of the wound became' sloughy, erysipelas followed, and the child died at the end of a fortnight, apparently of exhaustion. Reference is made to the other two cases on record, and Mr. Adams remarks, the chief282 EEPOllT ON SURGEUY. arguments^ adduced iu favour of early operation are:—i. That the scrotum will not develope on the empty side, and that in the course of a few years it will become an impossibility to cover the organ with it. 2. That, as neaidy all testicles found in abnormal situations are atro- phied, there is a chance of the gland itself becoming useless. 3. It has been asserted that its position is inconvenient and painful, and that it is liable to injury. The first of these propositions is undoubtedly true. The gland, however, does not invariably atrophy, as in Mr. Ledwich’s case it was of normal size, and contained spermatozoa. The patient may attain adult life without experiencing any inconvenience. He is therefore of opinion that no operation should be undertaken during the earlier periods of life; first, because in very young children the wound must almost necessarily be frequently irritated by the urine, and because of the probability of the potency of the serous membrane; and, secondly, because the malposition may not prove to be of any inconvenience, unless the patient is destined to become an equestrian. (‘Lancet,’ May 27, 1871, 710.) Tj'eatment of gono-rrJioeal epididymitis hy ice.—Dr. Borgioni, in a paper published in ‘ L’Imparziale,’ for May i and 16, 1872, relates four cases of gonorrhoeal epididymitis treated successfully by ice. He does not bring forward the remedy as new, nor does he consider the number of his cases sufficient to warrant his saying that it is always efficacious; but, as far as he can judge, he believes it simple of application, and capable of effecting an early cure. Oonorrliosal or urethral rheumatism.—Dr. Bond writes on this subject. He concludes with the following deductions, that urethral rheumatism is a slow form of pyasmic poisoning, due, not to a sudden absorption, but to a gradual vitiation of the blood by progressive absorption of tho uretbral discharge; that the vitiated state is not maintained indepen- dently of the local disease; that when the discharge is thoroughly and permanently stopped, the rheumatism may soon be cured and has no tendency to return, except by the access of a fresh urethral discharge. (‘Lancet,’ March 23, 1872, 393.) Vesico-vaginal fistula.—Dr. Joseph Bell records cases on which he has operated successfully. He uses a series of steel points, highly tempered and curved, in various sizes, some not larger than one third of the circumference of a sixpence, others bearing the same proportion to a shilling, but all welded to the silver wire in such a manner as to project no shoulder, and require no threading. These are easily managed either with a Sims’ needle forceps, or by an ordinary pair of dressing- forceps, and setting the wire at a right angle to the needle and curving it round the hand and arm, it is readily managed with great ease. Ho also finds (Sims’ ?) barbed hooks of great service. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.’ Jan. 1872, 591.) Imperforate hymen.—A case in which Dr. Barton operated success- fully for retained menses, owing to an imperforate hymen is recorded. (‘Dub. Quart. Journ.’ Eeb. 1871, 62.) The patient was fifteen years of age. The septum across the vagina was divided carefully, and not very freely. It was of considerable thickness. Eeunion partially occurred, but was obviated by retention of a piece of oiled lint.283 EPITHELIOMA OF THE TONGUE—GALVANIC CAUTERY. Eintlielioma of the tongue treated hj the galvanic cautery.—Drs. Audrea Gozziui and Peleo Puccioni relate, in ‘ L’Imparziale,’ (Nos. 15 and 16, 1872) a case in which an epithelioma of the tongue was re- moved by the galvanic cautery. The patient was Signor Mazzoni, a gentleman aged 64, who had always enjoyed good health, until, in October 1871, he observed an excoriation on the upper part of the left side of his tongue. In course of time, this presented the ordinary cha- racters of epithelioma; and, an operation being decided to be neces- sary, it was determined to apply the galvanic cautery. The operation was performed on April 10, 1872, in the presence of Senator Prof. Burci and Drs. Casetti and Billi. The tongue was drawn out of the mouth by a double hook passed through the healthy portion, and held by an assistant. The end of a needle was then introduced, which had been made for the purpose; it was in the form of the letter S, chan- nelled on its surface, and carried at one end a platinum wire milli- metre in diameter, and 50 centimetres long. It was introduced into the fold of mucous membrane which is reflected from the base of the mouth on the inferior surface of the tongue, as nearly as possible at a point which left three-flfths of the base on the left side, and two fifths on the right. When the eye of the needle appeared on the upper sur- flice of the tongue, the platinum wire was seized with a forceps, and, having been freed from the needle, one end was drawn out of the mouth and placed in contact with the other end, the needle having been with- drawn in the reverse direction to that by which it entered. The ends v'ire were then fastened down by a serre-noeud on the apex of the tongue. The loop was then heated by the galvanic cautery, and in twenty seconds the parts with which it was in contact were distinctly cauterised. The wire was now allowed to cool, and was again tightened; tiftei which tho cautery was applied as before. By proceeding in tbis way, the longitudinal division was eftected in eight minutes. The tongue being held aside well out of the mouth, and the angle of the mouth and the cheek held by a blunt hook, and pieces of wood being placed between the molar teeth,_the wire was applied transversely, as far back as^ possible; and the division in this direction was completed in seven minutes The whole operation occupied seventeen minutes; it was unattended either with haemorrhage or with flow of saliva. After the operation, the patient rose from the chair on which he had sat, and walked to his bed without assistance. Ice was given him to suck, and he was ajj^wed soup and wine, which he swallowed slowly, but without the fifteenth day the eschar fell off, after which f become profuse, diminished and soon ceased • and the patient became able to eat solid food. On the eighteenth day after the operation Signor Mazzoni was able to walk out.^ During the ^®. ^ad been able to attend to his professional duties\s a kwyer, conveying his mstmetions for some days by means of writing tum3°^ ^^® ®PitJieliomatous character of the tkiTtbp.pT the case was reported, three months after the opera- tion, there were no signs of recurrence. fnlWpi!!Tfff ^'^^^^^^^^9fetongue.~m. Eurneaux Jordan suceess- y removed the tongue of a patient suffering from carcinoma, by the28i IIRPOIIT ON SURGERY, a nove/Z]T°? >'7 Maoleod, of Glasgow, con.I.lno.l witl. Li? W,“h 1, He made the ineiaion by ti.rustmg h s knife through the cheek in front of the ramus of the jaw, and then t?rsi?l “““Hi- Tte vessels weie secured by toi Sion. He thus obtamea free access to tbe root of tbe tongue. “ The tongue was then seized close to its root between the finger and thumb ^ other carried under the tongue a strong curved needle, threaded with four pieces of ligature. These drew back trough the channel made by the needle the chains of two ecraseurs, one afto the other. One was fixed so as to divide the tongue near the larynx the other was to separate it from the floor of the mouth. The instru’ meuts were worked simultaneously, and in about seventeen minutes clean removal was efiected, absolutely without haemorrhage. (‘ Lancet ’ April 20, 1872, 540.) ° ^ ’ the riffJd half of a ivoman's tongue Buchanan’s modi- fication of Syme s operation. Ilic patient was 71 years of age. At time of note she vas 72, and there was no recurrence (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug., 1872, 678). A suc- cessful case 111 a woman, aged 62, under the care of Mr. Canton, is noted in the Lancet (Jan.^ 20, 1872, 80). The tongue was dr.awn down below the maxilla, and divided by an ecraseur. Mr. Lee records a case. He divided the jaw, and passed ligatures, 111 a special manner, through the base of the tongue before cutting it awav JMo hseinorrhage occurred. The patient recovered. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,' iv, 114.) _ Abscess of the Tongue.—Dr. Pooley records a case of abscess of the tongue in a girl seven years old (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 385). Congenital liyperirofliy of the tongue.—A case was shown to the Clinical Society by Mr. Lawson. (‘ Traus.,’ v, 158.) In a case under the care of Mr. Simon removal of 'portions loith the ieraseurv^QsB practised and death followed. Eeport of the case by Mr. Arnott. (‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, 109.) In a case of congenital hyjiertrophy of the tongue which came under the care of Mr. Lairlie Clarke he used the ecraseur with success. The patient was four months old. The jirotruding portion only was re- moved. (‘Lancet,’March 30, 1872,433, and ‘Path. Trans.,’ xxiii, in.) Fatty masses in a ranula—adipocere.—In a case of ajiparently ordinary rauula, Mr. Waren Tay evacuated five masses, like lumps of firm butter, from a cyst under the tongue. Dr. Tidy pronounced them, from che- mical examination, probably in the condition of adipocere. They were not ordinary fat. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xxii, 238.) A fatty tumour tinder the tongue resembling ranula is recorded by Mr. Churchill who gives a resume of other cases. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ xx, iii, 234.) Fibrous tumour of the tongue.—Dr. Pooley records the case of a young woman (set. 23), who came under his care for a tumour of the tongue of twelve months’ duration. It was hard to the touch, and placed far back. It had a broad base. Bleeding occurred occasion- ally. It was removed with wire ecraseur with some difficulty owing to its density. There was no bleeding. The patient soon recovered. After removal the tumour was as large as a bantam’s egg perfectly spherical inform, with a pedicle an inch in diameter, had several stellate cracks or fissures extending through the mucous membrane with which it was covered^ which were undoubtedly the source of tbe repeated h^e-285 SPASMODIC STRICTURE OF THE CESOPHAGUS. niorrliages. In structure it was a firm fibroid and resembled accurately, as it did also iu its symptoms, the well-kuowu fibroid polypi of the uterus. One case is quoted from Paget, another from Cooper’s ‘Dictionary,’ and one from ‘Boston Med. Surg. Journ.,’ all the author could find. The patients were young men. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872, 38^). Dr. Titts records the case of a woman, mt. 30. In examining her throat and while depressing the tongue he noticed a tumour rising up at its base, of about the size of a filbert. It was situated in the median line, so far back that it was difficult to pass the finger behind it. It was exceedingly hard, incompressible and im- moveable. It was not apparently pedunculated. In a few mouths the growth steadily increased in size, and almost filled the whole of the fauces. Prof. Bigelow operated. He removed the tumour with the ccraseur. It was pronounced fibrous or fibro-recurrent. At the end of two years there was no recurrence. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1872, 122.) Sir James Paget Hysteric or spasmodic stricture of the oesophagus. considers this condition the homologue, in the pharynx or oesophagus, of that want of harmony between the organs of sjDeech and respiration which produces stammering and appears to depend on a want of per- fect concert between certain involuntary muscles and muscles acting under the control of the will which are designed to act in harmony. In the latter case the muscles of respiration do not act in time and unison with the organs of speech ; in the former, instead of the normal contraction of successive portions of the upper part of the alimentary canal from above downwards which transmits the food regularly from the mouth to the stomach, there occurs an unruly contraction of certain fibres which, as long as it continues, bars the passage of food as com- pletely as if sorne permanent obstruction existed. The degree of this contraction varies^ in different cases; iu some it only compels the patient to take his meals apart or inconveniences him whenever his attention is in any way directed to the act of swallowing : while, in others, it produces contraction so obstinate and complete that the maintenance of life by means of gastric digestion is wholly prevented. In these cases recourse must be had to enemata, and it will be found necessary to- make use of something more than beef tea and brandy and by injecting preparations containing fats, starches, sugars, and vegetable as weU as meat juices, to sujiply all the ingredients which are contained in a natural diet, and are essential to the building up of Of the fact that vegetable jiices could thus be effectually introduced into the system, he had recently enemata somV^of°fh ^ ^ patient with whose nutritive emata some of the essence of water cresses proposed by Mr Wyatt flafou^of '^’Sht be diminished, because the stant as to ho p f mouth had become so strong and so con- disagreeable. (‘Lancet,’ Jan.7, 1871, ii.) (hd -m-f > an article in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin, be fninui ri T Ill’- Billroth suggests that this operation may be found practicable in cases of cancer of the oesophagus. He remarksIIEPOET ON SUllGEllY. ^8G that tho disease is geuerally limited to one part, aud tluit attempts at dilatation often only increase the evil by tending to ulceration. lie suggests that after removing the diseased portion (if the cancer bo situated sufficiently high), the resulting cicatrix would be capable of dis- tension by bougies ; and that the healing powers would be analogous to that which takes place in the urethra after the loss of a portion of this canal by ulceration, sloughing, or injury. From a large dog, Bill- roth removed an inch aud a quarter of the oesophagus, and united tho lower end of the tube to the skin by two sutures, so as to allow tho introduction of a tube through which milk was to be conveyed into tho stomach. On the fifth day, it was found possible to introduce a tube through tho mouth; at first it had to be guided along the wound by means of the finger, but afterwards this became unnecessary. Tho sutures were removed a week after the operation. There was at first a great discharge of mucus through the wound; this gradually decreased, the opening became smaller, and in two months entirely closed; aud an oesophageal bougie of the size of a large index finger could be readily passed. Tho dog was fed with meat, potatoes, &c., and throve well. A little more than two months after the operatiou, it was killed ; the cicatrix was found to be annular, scarcely half a line wide, and readily distensible. JPoreif/n bodies impacted in strictured ossophar/ns: cesophagotomy.— Dr. Menzel relates, in the ‘Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.’ xiii, 678, the cases of two children, patients in the General Hospital in Vienna, in whom stricture of the oesophagus had been produced by swallowing irritant fluids, and in whom also foreign bodies subsequently became impacted in the strictured portion. Tlie first patient was a boy aged 6, who, a year previously, had swallowed some strong lye, in conse- quence of which great narrowing of the oesophagus occurred. He was brought into hospital on account of having swallowed a breeches button. Dr. Billroth removed this by cesophagotomy, and the patient was dis- chai’ged, with the external wound healed, on the twenty-first day after the operation. The second patient, a girl, had strictured oesophagus, the result of swallowing nitric acid, and was unable to swallow solid food. She was brought to the hospital on account of having been for ten days unable to take any food whatever through the mouth. A slender oesophageal tube, however, was passed, through which some milk was introduced. After this, the condition varied; sometimes deglutition was tolerably easy, sometimes quite impossible; on some occasions a bougie of moderate size could be passed, while on others this could not be done, and it occasionally seemed as if a foreign body were struck, though this could not be distinctly made out. The child gradually lost strength, became feverish, and died on the forty-eighth day after admission. At the necropsy, there was found in the oesophagus a semi- lunar aperture leading into a cavity in the submucous tissue, in which lay a blue glass bead, of the size of a pea. A narrow, fistulous canal led from the bottom of the cavity to a collection of pus in the mediastinum. There was also purulent effusion in the right pleural cavity. Dr. Bean relates in the ‘Tribune Medicale,’ January 21, 1872, the case of a boy, a^ed 8 who had a peach-stone impacted in the oesophagos beneath the f 1WOUND OF (ESOPHAGUS—U/EJIOKIIHAGE—OPERATION. 287 niauubriuin sfcerni. CEsopliagotomy was performed, but the foreign body could not be reached. The connective tissue between the oeso- phagus and trachea was carefully torn by the finger to the extent of about 3 centimetres, till the mediastinum was reached. The sharp end of the peach-stone was now felt, and the foreign body, having been brought into a favorable position, was pushed into the oesophagus and removed. The wound in the oesophagus healed within a fortnight. Removal of an artificial plate with false teeth from the oesophagu,s.—A lady in an epileptic fit swallowed a tooth-plate. At first it could not be felt from the mouth, but after some time could just be detected. At the end of about twenty-four hours Dr. Matthews succeeded in tilting up one end as it lay across the oesophagus, and then extracting it. (‘Lancet,’ May 13, 1871, 643.) Passage of an artificial tooth-plate along the alimentary canal.—Mr. Henry Smith was called to see a corpulent butcher who had swallowed an artificial plate, with two teeth, and projecting hooks on each side. Mr. Smith tried to withdraw the foreign body which he could just feel, but failed in his attempts, and therefore decided to push it into the stomach. This he accomplished. Nine days later the plate passed per auum. (‘Lancet,’ April i, 1871, .^140.) Hremorrhage frominternal woxmd of oesophagus—operation.—Mr. Ann- andale records the following case:—A lady, aged 52, while dining, swal- lowed a bit of bone which she felt lodged in her throat. A few streaks of blood were noticed to pass by the mouth. The day after a small swelling formed over the inner border of the left sterno-mastoid, about the middle of the neck. On the fourth day this was still evident, hard to the touch, and about the size of half a small walnut. An ivory- headed probang passed down the oesophagus struck against some hard substance on the left side, immediately opposite the swelling in the neck. This hard substance could not again be felt. The pain and difiiculty in swallowing bad vanished. The next day only a slight sore- ness was felt in swallowing. On the twelfth day haemorrhage occurred suddenly from the mouth. The blood brought up was arterial and un- mixed, except with a little saliva and mucous. The haemorrhage re- curred after some hours and it was decided to cut into the neck, with the hope of discovering and removing the source of the luemorrhafre which appeared to be connected with the lodgment of the foreign body in the (Ksophagus. An incision was made on the left side of the neck as if foi’tying the common carotid below the omo-hyoid, and the artery haying been_ exposed, a ligature of catgut was passed loosely round in order to be in reserve. A careful dissection was then made to the inner side of the artery, so as to lay bare the (esophagus, with the result of exposing a wound (if this canal. The wound was a quarter of an inch m ength situated in the left side, and passed completely through the somewhat ragged, and a continuous nnfWd occurred from them. A very fietid odour was oTiio • ' fi ° could be detected. A small artery was found ^ cesop agus close to the wound. This artery passed up- underneath the carotid, and was, from its situation and ec ion, considered to be a branch of the inferior thyroid artery. AIlEPORT ON SURGERY, 388 ligature passed round this small branch at once stayed the bleeding le margins of the wound were freely touched with tincture of muriate of iron, and the edges of the wound in the neck were brought together with sutures. The patient was fed by a tube. The wound became un- healthy looking, slight haemorrhage occurred, checked by iron. The patient gradually became weaker, and died nine days after the operation. No post-mortem allowed. Mr. Annandale remarks, “The history of the case, the detection of the foreign body by means of the probang, and the condition determined at the operation are, I think, sufficient proof that a sharp fragment of bone had lodged in the oesophagus, and wounded its walls. This wound had been followed by ulceration, which, in its progress, had involved the arterial branch and caused the hmmorrhage. It seems probable that my first introduction of the probang displaced the bone, and that this accounted for the relief of the symptoms and the disappearance of the inflammatory swelling in the neck. Had the bone remained in its original position, an abscess, pointing externally, would have been the result. Trom the fact that no difficulty in swallowing was experienced after the introduction of the probang, it is likely that the bone passed down into the stomach. Had I not possessed a clear history of this case, and had I not also dis- tinctly felt the bone and ascertained its position, operative interference would scarcely have been justifiable; for although the blood was evi- dently coming from the pharynx or oesophagus, it was impossible to bo certain as to its exact source.” “ The discovery that the wounded vessel was not a branch of the carotid, but of the subclavian artery, is an ex- cellent, but, at the same time, rare illustration of the important prin- ciple in the treatment of wounded arteries, namely, to search for the bleeding-point itself and secure it, if possible. Ligature of the carotid artery, in this case, could have had no influence in restraining the hmmorrhage from the bleeding vessel.” The pi’ogress of the case, for the first few days, was all that could be desired. The fact that the patient had been hemiplegic for some time on the left side, and was not in a good state of health, tended to diminish her chance of recovery. The bleeding after the operation was only from the sloughy edges of the wound in the neck, not from the oesophagus, and blood never came by the mouth. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1872, 880.) Radical Cure of Inguinal jffenu'a.—Professor Fayrer records cases (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ April 6, 1872). Herniotomy, —Mr. Erichsen operated on a male infant,, aged six toeeJcs for strangulated inguinal hernia. The child recovered from the opera- tion, but died a month later from pleurisy and peritonitis. (‘ Lancet,’ May 18, 1872.) Mr. J. D. Hill performed herniotomy in a case of congenital scrotal hernia in aii infant eighteen months old. Strangula- tion had existed twenty-four hours. The sac was not opened. The baby recovered. (‘Med. Times, and Gaz.,’ April 8, 1871, 395.) Sir James Paget has contributed Clinical Lectures on Strangulated Hernia to the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ i and ii, 1872. Direct Inguinal Hernia in the Female.—Mr. Squire, ‘ Path. Trans.,’ x.\li, 148. • Strangulated Femoral Hernia; reduction in masse.—Beported by Mr. Morris, under the care of Mr. Lawson. (‘ Path. Trans.,’ x.xii, 148.)289 ASPIRATION OF STRANGtlLATED INTESTINE. Catqut sutures to the tendinous openings in hernia.—Mr. Lister has successfully emjDloyed catgut sutures in stitching up the tendinous 02)enings in operating on ventral and umbilical hernise. (Address, ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’Aug. 26, 1871.) Strangulated TImhilical Sernia; operation ; sac opened; recovery.-—Dr. Arnison mcntious two cases. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 2, 1872.) Incarcerated scrotal hern'-.a; operation; artificial anus: recovery.— The case of a man, set. 63, under Mr. Hutchinson’s care for hernia presented features of interest. The hernia was incarcerated from im- paction of faeces ; there was an absence of strangulation, and yet the bowel was sloughing. There was no vomiting and no constipation, but the prostration was extreme. Great relief followed the oj)eration. The right scrotum was enlarged, swollen, tender, and of dusky red hue. On incision, the hernial sac was found distended and fluid was let out. The neck was quite free. The intestine contained a large mass of faeces of almost stony hardness and was sloughing at one part. The mass was turned out and the margins of the bowel stitched to the edges of the wound. The artificial anus gradually closed. (‘ Lancet ’ Aug. 24, 1872.) ^ Treatment of strangulated hernia hy puncture of the intestine.—In the Med. Times and Gazette,’ Ajeril 20, 1872, Mr. Bryant records the case of a man, aet. 71, the subject of strangulated scrotal hernia and upon whom he performed herniotomy. It was necessary to expose the bowel in order to return it. Owing to the restlessness of the patient however, the gut again descended in a few hours, and aU attempts to reduce it failed, until the large intestine was punctured in four or five places with a grooved needle and a quantity of flatus let out. The patient recovered without any bad symiitom. Mr. Bryant advo- cates puncturing the intestine in certain cases of hernia. He thinks It imssible that some herni£e may be reduced without any cutting one- ration at_ all. He intends trying puncture in large scrotal and umbi- lical herniffi, and thinks the plan adapted for all cases of acute internal ^rangulation, due possibly to bands or twists. In the ‘ Med. Times and r iT' u ^ strangulated hernia treated success- fully by puncture are referred to. T oEE' P^^f^'ture of the intestine in hernia.—Dv. Leon Labbe records a case of strangulated inguinal hernia in a man, *t. 70 m which aspirating puncture of the intestine was employed. Fluid Tas SrT- related to the Academy of Medicine, in May 1872 the case of a young man, to whom he was called, sufi-er ng Sstran’ gulated congenital hernia. M. Demarquay sa^ him ^ the second rX:fthe hoSttt 1 and atltpted to PoS»tpt7o"anVwrth& He then ?ppUed of liouid Afi-PvwnifN^r,r £ ^^^®^^irie about 120 grammes whicli had none down J’ ^ mmntes to see whether the swelling, rheTbdoi®n ^ pSn?g““S replaced the intestine fn treated h, rest, snrall diesis of o^.'Sirdtt > andXirfgrd 19290 RJSPORT ON StmOEE,-^. recovery, the only disturbance of any kind being inflammation of tbe testis in consequence of tbe pressure to wbicb it bad been subjected. M. Demarquay says that the treatment of hernia by aspiration is in- dicated in the following circumstances :—i. In all congenital hernias, or in recent berniae which have become strangulated at the moment of their formation ; 2, in old herniae that were perfectly reducible a few days before strangulation took place; and in recently strangulated, large, umbilical hernise. The operation, he says, should be performed only at an early period, when there is reason to believe that the intes- tine has not yet undergone any destructive change. (‘ Bull. General de Ther.,’ 13, 1871.) Mr. Jessop says, “I remember the late Mr. Teale, in i860, while introducing an acupuncture needle twenty or thirty times through the abdominal walls in a case of excessive tympany following herniotomy, remarking to the students around him that, in his early days, he had been accustomed, under similar circumstances, to use the trocar after the manner of veterinary surgeons ; but that, of late years, he had pre- ferred the acupuncture needle as being at the same time less dangerous and equally efficient.’’ Mr. Jessop has used the aspirator with satis- factory results on several occasions. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 7,1872.) Diaphragmatic hernia.—Dr. A. Popp, in the ‘Deutsche Zeitschr. filr Chir.,’ Band i, has collected forty-two cases of diaphragmatic hernia, adding two observed by himself. He arrives at the following conclu- sions :—The oesophageal opening very rarely gives passage to the hernia ; in most cases, there is an abnormal cleft in tbe oesophagus, either con- genital or the result of injury. The hernia is generally on the left side ; an aperture on the right side being covered in by the liver. The causes of injury were, stabs in tw^enty-one cases; gunshot wounds in three ; falls in ten; and in three, the causes were, respectively, violent ex- ertion, a fall with a violent twist of the body, and the being run over by a carriage. In most cases, the hernia was formed of the stomach, transverse colon, or a portion of the omentum. In five cases, the hernia was in the right pleural cavity, in thirty-two, in the left. The dia- gnosis is difficult, but may be aided by the history of the case and by auscultation and percussion. J. Sargent relates a case of diaphragmatic hernia in the ‘Boston Med. Surg. Journal’ for Pebruary 22, 1872. In 1831, a woman, named S—, was injured by the handle of a hay-fork, which entered the vagina and broke the first rib on the left side. She recovered, and died in*^i87i of peritonitis. At the necropsy, the left pleural cavity was found to contain, besides the compressed lung, the stomach, the trans- verse colon, several inches of the descending colon, and a considerable portion of the small intestine. In the left half of the diaphragm was an irregular opening four inches in diameter. j v i- Obturator hernia.—Dr. Chiene describes the conditions found by him in the body of a woman, set. 73, in the dissecting room. On opening the abdomen a portion of the ileum was found strangulated in the opening at the upper part of the obturator foramen. _ On dissecting down- wards, among the adductor muscles of the thigh, a sac, the size of a pigeon’s egg, was exposed. It was brought fully into view by cutting291 OBTURATOE HERNIA—HERNIA OF THE OVARY. through the pectineus and dissecting off a layer of fascia derived from the muscular fascia of the obturator externus. It had passed through the obturator canal displacing, in its outward passage, the upper fibres of the obturator externus muscle. The artery lay between and was separated from the sac by a ligamentous band. The nerve lay in front. The sac contained the outer two thirds of the Tallopian tube and two inches of the ileum. The bowel was gangrenous and had given way. The round ligament passed in front, above the opening. The ovary was compressed against the wall of the pelvis immediately below the open- ing. The sac was formed of the broad ligament. Dr. Chiene’s expla- nation of the occurrence of this hernia is, ‘‘ In the broad ligament of the uterus, in health, a slight cul de sac will be observed between the round ligament and the Fallopian tube; a knuckle of bowel pressing downwards in this position had caused a separation of the layers of the broad ligament; the pressure being continued, the bowel had passed through the obturator canal, necessarily pushing before it a sac formed of the peritoneum of the broad ligament, the Fallopian tube being cai’ried into the sac along with the peritoneum. On the opjiosite side were two obturator hernise, an anterior sac formed of parietal perito- neum, the opening admitting the tip of the little finger and passing in front of the round ligament, and a posterior one, similar to that on the other side, containing the outer half of the Fallopian tube. A sketch of the parts is given. The points of interest are that it was a case of triple obturator hernia, and that in two of the herniae the sacs were formed of the peritoneum of the broad ligament. Dr. Miller gives some particulars of the patient’s clinical history. ’ He had ope- rated on her, rather less than twelve months before, for strangulated emoral hernia, successfully. At the post-mortem examination, detailed above, very little trace of this could be found. He was called to see her apin shortly before her death. He could find no hernial tumour, but she had symptoms of abdominal obstruction and was very ill. She had delayed sending as she dreaded another operation. The idea of gastrotomy suggested itself, but was dismissed owing to the patient’s great age and low condition. (‘Ed. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1871 601-q.') A case is noted (‘Lancet,’ June 22, 1872) under the care of Mr. dpnth ^0 symptoms to lead to the diagnosis. After SS’ ? symptoms of obstruction, a small hernia was found. De- taiiea notes are given. Hernia of the ovary.~Dv. J. Englisch describes (‘Jahrbiich. der K K Gesellsch. der Aerzte in Wien,’ 1871) three cases of ovarian hZnt and makes some remarks on the afiection. Exclusive of the cases in are on record thirty-eight cases of ovarian hernia, tweutv-seven in III OM third of Bides In displacement was on both ineuinal anrS*Tb«“ 1 in all these it was thMP feet. Pnll- ? of double hernia were also inguinal. From from an abnormaT dpqppnf^^?^ congenital ovarian hernia arises descent of fbo+pof * ovary, analogous to the normal descent of the testis in the male. Ovarian hernia is frequently combinedllEPORT ON SUUGlEll?; SD2 with other malformations of the genital organs. Those cases of ovarian hernia which come on at a later period of life must be accounted for by some such conditions as excessive length of the ovarian ligament, bend- ing forward of the uterus, too great an inclination forward of the pelvis, or the drawing down of the ovary with a hernial sac. In congenital herniae, the ovary and Pallopian tubes are generally present, while acquired hernia usually contains the ovary alone. The uterine end of the Tallopian tube has been found obliterated in most of the cases that have been examined. The displaced ovary was, in fifteen cases, normal; in seventeen, infiamed; in five, it had undergone cystic, and in one, can- cerous degeneration. In five cases the hernia also contained intestine. Ovarian hernim are generally pear-shaped, the neck of the protrusion being very narrow, especially where the organ has undergone degenera- tion. In the femoral form, the hernia is rounder. It is rarely that any information as to diagnosis can be obtained from the form or the consistence of the swelling. It has been alleged by some observers that the pain produced on pressure extended to the umbilicus, and in a number of cases included uterine colic and pain in the external genital organs. The healthy ovary is always tender. Of the fifteen con- genital herniae, thirteen were irreducible; while, of fifteen cases of acquired hernia, in three only could the ovary not be returned into the abdomen. In some cases pain is described as having been produced by dragging on the uterus, when the patients lay on the side opposite to that of the hernia. In single ovarian hernia, the uterus is generally inclined towards its affected side. The symptoms produced during menstruation are very striking, and afford important aid in the dia- o-nosis. In some cases, however, these have been wanting, and here the uterus has been absent. Before the menstrual discharge commences, the patient feels pain in the hernia, which also increases in bulk. In many cases there have been also eructation and vomiting, nearly lead- ing even skilful surgeons into the error of supposing that they bad to deal with strangulation. In one case, in which pregnancy occurred, the changes in the hernia at the menstrual periods were arrested during this condition. Infiammation of ovarian hernia may be traumatic, or may accompany menstruation. Englisch observes that even in omental and intestinal hernia the period of strangulation often coincides with that of menstruation ; and he believes that the congestion, which affects not only the ovary but the peritoneum, may in certain cases give rise to the phenomena of incarceration. When an ovary that has under- gone cystic degeneration becomes gangrenous, it may readily be con- founded with gangrenous intestine. The vomiting which often accom- panies inflammation of a displaced ovary, is ascribed by Englisch to a sympathetic affection of the intestine, and not, as has been supposed by Millert, to compression of the intestine against the overstretched edge of the broad ligament. In inflammation of an ovarian hernia, the abdomen is usually less distended, and the countenance less anxious than in ordinary strangulated hernia. When an ovarian heraia suppu- rates the abscess very rarely bursts into the abdomen. _ When there is strangulated intestine, at the same time with the ovary, in the hernia, the symptoms are increased in seventy. The condition of the stools293 SOIATIO HERNIA—INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. will give the most certain aid in the diagnosis ; which, however, is often very difficult. Of twenty cases in which symptoms of incarceration were present, a correct diagnosis was formed in seven only ; in the remainder, the nature of the hernial contents was not ascertained until the sac had been opened. The prognosis in ovarian hernia is favorable as re- gards life, but unfavorable as regards the function of the organ. Attempts should be made to reduce the displaced ovary, if possible, by the same proceedings as are followed in other hernise. If the hernia be irreducible, a concave truss should be worn. If the tumour be- come very painful, extirpation is indicated. When inflammation occurs, the patient must rest; cold applications are to be used in the trau- matic, and warm in the menstrual form. If abscess occur, it should be opened ; or it may be evacuated by means of an aspirator. The opening of the peritoneal sac for the purpose of replacing an irreducible healthy ovary is condemned by Englisch. Of the cases in which extirpation of a healthy irreducible ovary was performed, one half died of sub- peritoneal inflammation and its results. Sciatic hernia.—Dr. Marzolo of Padua has described the case of a female who was first seen by him in 1847. She was then thirty years old, and for ten years had noticed a small tumour in the right gluteal fold, which disappeared on lying down, and again protruded and gra- dually increased while she was erect. The patient had been pregnant five times ; on four occasions she miscarried, and once bore a healthy child at the full term. The hernia now formed a large swelling, the base of which covered part of the nates, and reached as far as the tro- chanter and the pubic arch. It was 60 centimetres in length, and 118 in its greatest and 80 in its smallest circumference. It apparently con- tained a large part of the intestines, as the belly was retracted, the abdominal wall lying in contact with the vertebral column. On lying down or sitting, most of the hernial contents returned into the abdo- men, the patient was accustomed to sit upon the hernia. Defsecation and coitus were interfered with. The patient came under treatment again in 1871. There was no great change in her condition; but the hernia had now become quite irreducible, and at the lower part the per- cussion sound was dull and fluctuation was distinctly felt. Marzolo now made a puncture and drew off nine quarts of fiuid; severe diar- r oea soon set in, and the patient died, 'post-mortem examination could not be made. (‘Wien. Med. Wochenschr.,’ July 6, 1871 ) Intestinalolstruction; injection; kneading; cure.—Dv. Hilton Pa^ffe records the case of a man, aet. 40, who was attacked with great pain in the abdomen quickly followed by severe vomiting. This was Oct 22 1871, in t^ evening. He came under the care of Mr. Brookhouse y anxious expression; he was crying out with pain, a little to the right of the median line of the epigastric region increased by pressure. On the fourth day Dr. Fagge sL hi! ^The vomited matters were not stercoraceous. On Oct. 28, the seventh day, strangulation, according to the dates given, but five days according to thi heading), a copious im f abdomeu was kneaded. The injection was repeated next day. The man recovered. Dr. Hilton Fagge remarks ;294 REPORT ON SURGERY. ■ “ In this, as in so many otlier cases of intestinal obstrnction, it was not possible to determine accurately the cause of the disease. The history of the attack pointed to a sudden closure of the calibre of the bowel, and probably to the small intestine as its seat; while the fact that mucus and blood were passed on the third day was in favour of the existence of an intussusception, and of its having become strangulated as soon as formed. The remarkable feature in the case, however, is the success of the energetic treatment which Mr. Brookhouse adopted. It can hardly be doubted that the life of the patient was saved by the kneading of the belly carried out by his medical attendant, and so satisfactory an issue in this case may well encourage other surgeons to adopt a similar procedure. Tet it cannot be denied that such forcible manipulation of the abdomen would, in many instances, involve great risks of tearing through parts softened by inflammation, or even sloughing, and might thus counteract the curative processes of nature. It can scarcely be said that there was anything in the symptoms in Mr. Brookhouse’s case that indicated the special applicability of kneading ; nor does the success of the treatment enable a more accurate diagnosis as to the nature of the intestinal lesion to be given than had been given before it was tried. The ease still remains very obscure in this respect.” (‘ Lancet,’ July 27, 187a, in.) A case is recorded which came under the care of Mr. Waren Tay, at the London Hospital. A man, set. 49, who was apparently in good health, was seized while in the street, at five o’clock in the morning, with acute pain in the epigastrium. He soon vomited and continued to do so. Thirty-six hours later the vomiting became stercoraceous, and seven or eight hours later he was admitted. He continued to vomit stercoraceous matter repeatedly; he was in great pain (referred to the right side and above the umbilicus), and appa- rently in an urgent condition of collapse. No hernia could be ascer- tained. There was no local swelling or tenderness to aid in the formation of an accurate diagnosis. There was no history of any pre- vious attack of any sort. Some sudden displacement or knotting of intestine seemed indicated. The man’s symptoms were so urgent that the question of gastrotomy had been entertained. It was not thought he would live through the night. Three washband basinfuls of injection were thrown up, and then chloroform was given, the abdomen kneaded, and the man was also inverted and shaken. When he recovered from the chloroform he said he was relieved. Owing to the urgency of the previous symptoms, a consultation was held a couple of hours later; it was then manifest, however, that he was much better; no further vomiting occurred (save slightly once), and the man quickly and tho- roughly recovered. The nature of the case did not admit of any diagnosis being made ; but the case is important from the urgency of the°symptoms, which were so rapidly relieved. The enema visibly dis- tended the abdomen, and the obstruction could not have been in the large intestine. (‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Dec. 14, 1872.) Intestinal ohstruction.—Mv. Bryant writes on this subject (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ March 16, 30, April 29). He details a number of very interesting cases. Mr. Bryant relates cases in which he has performed lumbar colotomy, and remarks on the kind of cases adaptedSTUANGrULA.TION OF INTESTINE WITriOUT VOMITING. 295 for this procedure (‘Med. Times and Graz.,’ May i8 and June 1872.) Mr. Steele records cases (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sep. 7, 1872). Dr. Taylor narrates a case in which a portion of the ileum was found in a knot, at the post-mortem, which might have been unravelled had an operation been performed. A figure of the knot is given. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July 29, 1871; Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1871, 126.) Biliary concretion in the ileum causing intestinal obstruction.—Mr. Le Gros Clark records a case and figures the concretion (‘Med.-Cliir. Trans.,’ Iv, i). Cases of intestinal ohstnuotion, at the seat of a congenital constriction of the gut, and at the'point of departure of a diverticulum., probably the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric duct, are recorded by Dr. Southey. One patient was a lad, eet. 16, the other was a girl, set. 13(‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 139 and 162.) Mr. Bell and Dr. Groom narrate the case of a man, about 30 years of age, who was under care for obstruction of the bowels loith peculiar features. He was in good health and had never had any previous attack. He lived from Eeb. 4th till Eeb. loth, suffering from obstinate obstruc- tion without any nausea or vomiting during the whole time. The ab- domen was swollen, on the whole, resonant on percussion. There was no marked tenderness anywhere, but the 'pain was localised, chiefly, in the right iliac fossa, rather above the position of the ileo- caecal valve, and, at this spot, careful, deep pressure gave the sensa- tion of several coils of intestine matted together and distended chiefly with air. A tumour, which could not be moved out of its place, but was as if moored to the back of the abdomen, could be felt. It was lobulated and resonant. The diagnosis of a twist of the small in- testine, probably quite close to the caecum, was made. An operation was proposed, but the suggestion was not agreed to. After death evidence of general peritonitis was found. In the right iliac fossa there were several coils of small intestine matted together. A portion of one coil had burst. For three inches from the iliac valve, the intestine was absolutely contracted and empty up to a distinct twist, rather more than half a turn, which evidently was the seat of the obstruction. The points of diagnosis were arrived at by exclusion. The pain was not sharp enough for gall-stone, nor in the right place. As the enemata had passed well into the colon the seat of obstruction was probably on the right side; secondly, the absence of vomiting made the ileum more probable than the jejunum; and lastly, the tumour in the right iliac fossa seemed probably ileum low down. Had it been higher up it would have been more likely to have changed its position at times. There was also a peculiar coiling, lobular movement to be felt in the affected portions of the intestine such as is described by Brinton. The ques- tion of the pathology of the affection is entered into, whether the peri- tonitis precedes the twist, or whether, more probably, the twist forming accidentally first, the peritonitis occurs as a secondary condition. The questmn of treatment is also discussed. After medical means have been fully tried gastrotomy afi'ords the only chance. In this case, the coil could have been untwisted. Colotomy would not have been of any use. Great relief had been afforded to the patient by tapping the intestine and letting air out. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872, 971.)296 REPORT ON SURGERY. Intestinal obstruction; formation of artificial anus in small intestine.—' Mr. McCarthy records a case of obstruction of the bowels caused by cancerous disease, in which he made an incision in the abdominal wall, opened the first piece of intestine which presented and stitched it to the edges of the wound. The patient lived for forty-eight days having been much relieved by the operation. Death was caused immediately by failure of the heart. The carcinoma had originated in the cardiac end of the stomach and had involved the splenic flexure of the colon. There was not the slightest evidence of peritonitis. Mr. McCarthy remarks on the absence of 'peritonitis. It is stated by authorities to bo almost inevitable after such an operation. Another point of interest was the fact of there being very fluid, but otherwise normal, faecal matter in the portion of the bowel between the artificial anus and the obstruction. It is also noteworthy that the patient recovered. (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 267.) Oastrotomy for intestinal obstruction.—Dr. Buchanan operated on a young woman who had symptoms of acute intestinal obstruction, suc- cessfully. The patient was 29 years of age, in good health. The symptoms began with severe pain in the abdomen followed by vomiting. On the third day, stercoraceous vomiting occurred. On’the fourth day. Dr. Buchanan saw the patient. The voice was husky; her counte- nance was anxious and pale ; the extremities were cold ; her pulse was weak; and she was restless and uneasy in whatever position she lay. The abdomen was distended with flatus. The most careful examination failed to detect any point which could be referred to as the seat of the obstruction. An incision was made from the umbilicus downwards for about four inches. As soon as the peritoneum was opened a quan- tity of turbid serum flowed out and was collected, altogether about a pint. It had very much the appearance of whey, with flocculi, like pieces of curd, floating in it. It was very acrid, smarting the skin when it came in contact with the hands. The intestines were glued together and one coil was sharply bent on itself. The right hand was intro- duced into the abdominal cavity and a thorough exploration made. The intestine was removed from the pelvis with slight jerks to liberate any portion possibly strangulated. An assistant kept the bowels from protruding from the abdominal cavity. The pelvis was sponged out. The wound was secured with deep and superficial sutures. The patient did well afterwards. She had an attack of swelling of the left lower ex- tremity resembling phlegmasia dolens. Dr. Buchanan alludes to cases of spontaneous recovery in intestinal obstruction, but remarks that there are few, if any, in which stercoraceous vomiting has gone on un- interruptedly for more than forty-eight hours which have not terminated fatally. The cause of the stercoraceous vomiting he supposes to have been the twist of the intestine held down by adhesions or else the acrid peritoneal fluid. Mr. Hancock, in 1848, performed a somewhat similar operation and let out a quanity of greenish, flocculent serum with decided relief of the symptoms and ultimate cure of the patient. In a paper which Mr. Hancock read before the Medical Society, he advo- cated opening the peritoneum in other cases of peritonitis in “ cases where the effused fluid destroys rather by its character than its quan-297 GASTROTOMY FOR INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. tity. . . . where the sinking and typhoid symptoms depend on the pre- sence of the offensive fluid in the peritoneum.” Dr. Buchanan, after the experience of his own case, was inclined to make the same sugges- tion before he became aware that such had already been done. (‘ Lancet,’ June lo, 1871, 777.) Mr. Hulke publishes a clinical lecture on the following case:—A man, eet. 32, in good health, after a hearty meal of flsh, was seized with pain in the beUy—he thought it colic—shortly followed by vomiting. The pain left him, but the sickness continued. On the tenth day Mr. Hulke found his belly uniformly swollen and hard, so hard that no rea- sonable pressure dimpled it. He often vomited a pea-soup-like fluid having a faacal smell, which gushed copiously from his mouth with but little heaving. The only pain and tenderness in the belly, and this was very slight, he referred to a spot rather above and to the right of the navel. His pulse was small, quick and weak. By a process of exclusion weU described by Mr. Hulke, “ it became 'likely that the obstacle was either a twist, or the entanglement of a piece of small intestine in a hole in the mesentery or omentum, or an adventitious, constricting band. A negative reply to repeated questions whether he had any previous abdominal ailment weighed rather against the suppo- sition of a band, and favoured volvulus or entanglement with strai^gu- lation, because an adventitious band necessitated a previous peritonitis, and of this there was no history; but then a very limited and sub-acute peritonitis might have passed unnoticed ; it might have been, so to say, latent, just as the post-mortem theatre teaches us daily with regard to pleurisy and periorchitis, revealing adhesions of the costal and pulmo- nary pleurae, and of the testis and parietal tunica vaginalis in the bodies of persons in whom during life these maladies had not been suspected ” The aldomen was opened by a cut in the median line midway between the navel and pubes, through which the hand was passed and an emptv piece of small intestine sought for, by tracing which Mr. Hulke hoped to be led to the obstruction. The distension of the small intestines caused great difficulty. Many feet of intestine had to be drawn out and returned again. The obstacle remained undiscovered. The howel teas tapped with a very fine trocar. Much stinking gas hissed ont, but only a few inches of bowel collapsed, and on puUing out the canula thin pea-soup-like feces _ oozed through the prick. An attempt to tie X J® f •? becoming larger. The punctwred gut was sUt and stitched securely to the skin: a large panful of fluid feces immediately ran out. The relief was prompt and remarkable the vomiting ceased and the belly became soft; he had no pain, and his temperature was not raised; this, however, was not conclusive as to the Fifty-three hours after the operation the patient died exhausted At the post-mortem the intestine and peri! toneum were found inflamed ; the sigmoid flexure of the colon had a very long and lax meso-colon, which allowed it to stretch in an ana'ular OOP across the pelvis from left to right. At the apex of the lo®op a oag epiplooic appendage issuing from the free border of the guygaVe 7“^ 77 s''”*™™?, tendinous band, the other end of which crossed and tightly tied down the ileum about three inchS298 HEPORT ON SURGEUY, distant from the Ccocum, and lost itself on the peritoneal lining of the pelvis near the right sciatic notch. The band might have been easily reached and safely cut had its seat been discovered during the ex- ploration.^ The lessons drawn from the case are, that “ notwith- standing its fatal issue, the ascertained practicability of cutting the con- stricting band is an encouragement to operate again under similar circumstances. ^ Next, the acute and general enteritis and the ulceration at the constriction, already present when the operation was done, show how much danger grows with delay. Again, we learn that the plan of puncturing inflated intestines for the purpose of letting olf gas is safe only when the gut does not also contain fluid faeces; and when, unspoiled by inflammation, its muscular coats can shrink and close the puncture, assisted by a slight sliding of the mucosa ; but where the gut is damaged by inflammation, and contains also fluid faeces as well as gas, the hindrance to the search caused by tight packing of the inflated intestine, will be more safely dealt with by a freer section of the walls than by puncture. We are taught, also, that flxed tenderness and pain are very uncertain guides to the seat of an obstruction, for here that situation pointed to the upper end of the small intestine, while the obstruction was close to the caecum. Lastly, in traumatic peritonitis we may expect a low temperature, and are not to be thrown olf our guard by the absence of a high one.” Mr. Thomas Annandale narrates a case- in which he performed gastrotomy on the fourth day of obstruction of the bowels, and divided a band of lymph. The patient died about eighteen hours after the operation. He was a man aged 55, who was taken suddenly with severe pain in the abdomen. Fmcal vomiting rapidly set in, showing that the obstruction was complete. Mr. Annandale sums up (i) when the symptoms of sudden and complete intestinal obstruction are present, and the ordinary meaus of treatment have failed to give relief, the operation of gastrotomy is justifiable and advisable. (2) That the operation should not, if possible, be delayed beyond forty-eight or thirty-six hours after the first symptoms have appeared. (3) That the abdomen should be opened in the middle line; and, that during the operation and after it every precaution should be taken to lessen the risks of peritonitis. (4) That when the abdominal cavity is opened the best guide to the seat of obstruction is the contracted or dilated condition of a portion of the intestine. (5) That if the intestine be gangrenous, or the obstruction not removable, its canal should be opened as near the obstruction as possible, and an artificial anus established. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb. 1871.) In the ‘Brit. Med, Jour.,’ March 23, 1872, is an abstract of a case recorded in ‘ Lo Sijerimentale’ for March, 1872. The patient was a man aged 23, who had double inguinal hernia. Symptoms of internal strangulation came on while both hernise were reducible. On examin- ing one, by operation, and passing the finger into tlie abdominal cavity a knuckle of intestine was found tightly strangulated by a hard fibrous band. This was divided. The patient left the hospital, cured, in a month. Opening the stomach for cancer.—Three cases in which the stomachOPENING THE STOMACH—COLOTOMY, ETC. 299 was opened for disease are related by Mr. Smith and Mr. MacCormac. In the case under the care of Mr. Smith the patient lived seven days. In one of Mr. MacCormac’s cases the patient lived six days. It seems doubtful whether in any case yet recorded the operation has prolonged life. It seems to relieve suifering. In the cases which have survived for three days, peritonitis has always been present. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ Vol. V., 236 and 242). Dr. Lowe relates the case of a woman suffer- ing from scirrhous cancer of the oesophagus, in which he opened the stomach. Considerable relief followed. She died on the third day rather suddenly (about sixty hours after the operation). (‘Lancet,’ July 22, 1871.) A case in which Dr. Troup opened the stomach of a man suffering from cancer is noted in‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July 1872^ 36. The patient lived for three days afterwards and was greatly relieved. Wound of abdomen loiiJi injury of the intestine; recovery.—The wound of the abdomen was a lacerated one j omentum protruded and the peritoneal coat of the jejunum was damaged. Mr. Horton (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 28, 1872). Iteoto-vesical "fistula treated hy colotomy.—Mr. Bryant records two cases. In 1869 he recorded another case (see ‘ Retrospect’). His present cases were very successful. The ulcerated action which caused the fistula was in all probability of a simple nature, and commenced in the rectum. In both the relief afforded was complete. The ulcera- tive action ceased if it did not heal. The escape of urine into the rectum showed that the fistula remained open, but ffeces did not escape into the bladder. The cases corroborate remarks made by Mr. Holmes in connection with a similar case and noted in a previous ‘Retrospect.’ (‘Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v. 131.) Colotomy. Cases of colotomy for stricture of the rectum under the care of Mr. Hulke will be found noted in ‘Lancet,’ July 20 and fol- lowing nos., 1872. Imperforate Anus.—Dr. A. Stern relates in the ‘Wiener Med. VYochenschr., Ho. 21, 1872, a case of successful operation for im- perforate anus in a newly born child. Ho bulging could be perceived perimeum when the infant cried. An incision was made, and the blind end of the rectum was reached at the depth of an inch and a halt. It was laid open, giving exit to a quantity of meconium : and the edges were brought down and fastened by sutures to the external skin. The haemorrhage was very slight. The wound was dressed with lead lotion and carbolic acid, and healed by granulation. The child was in good health six weeks after the operation. Strictztre of the rectum.—of stricture of the rectum treated in various ways one of them by electrolysis, are narrated by Dr. White- If fi“h ^872, 114). He also records a whfr^h h of the rectum in a married woman, aged 38, The incisions and gradual dilatation afterwards. whLh ! ' india-rubber, conical bag enelr The injected through a pipe provided with a stop- cock The water is used warm. _ To prevent the sphincter being too much pressed on, the pipe which is embraced by the sphincter should be800 REPORT ON SURGERY. at least an Incli and an quarter in lengtli. The pip6 should also be pro- vided with an india-rubber flange to prevent its passing too far in. The pipe terminates inside the bag in a sort of rose which is surmounted by a delicate, flexible, hard-rubber probe four inches long, and to which the capote, or bag, is attached superiorly. The probe is screwed into the pipe at its bulbous end and may be replaced by others of difi’erent lengths and flexibility. He alludes to opinions of authors on the rectum in relation to syphilitic stricture and considers that sufficient attention has not been called to this form of stricture. The seat of the stricture is at the junction of the dilated part with the sphincter, about one inch and a half from the anus. The patients, with very rare exceptions, are women. Fissures and fistulse in ano and in perineo, or fistulous tracts opening into the labia, sometimes complicate stricture of the rectum, and condylomata about the anus are frequent. The stricture may be partly fibrous, tight and unyielding, the fibrous con- striction being from half an inch to two thirds of an inch in extent, or the stricture, while forming, may produce the sensation to the finger of irregular elevations or of crescentic folds which readily break down from pressure of the finger. The intestine sometimes four or five inches above the stricture is ulcerated and the extensively ulcerated surface is terminated superiorly by a festooned border. There is con- siderable purulent secretion and the contraction of the sphincter favours its accumulation in the ampulla. It lasts for months or years, before the formation of a stricture. The mucous membrane may be so softened that a bougie easily penetrates it and may enter the peritoneal cavity. If the ulceration is low down pain on defaecation is complained of, if higher up there may be no pain. The patients are generally between 17 and 40 years of age. Owing to the anatomical relations of the ano-genital region of the female, the chancrous matter of the syphilitic sores, nearly always present on the vulva, infects this region, occasioning rhagades or fissures of the anus. The ulceration extends to the ampulla of the rectum, where it remains long after the healing of the external sores and on cicatrising causes a tight, fibrous stricture. The sti’icture is lower down than in cancerous disease. An antisyphilitic treatment is worse than useless. It does harm b^ de- bilitating. When the stricture is fibrous, it should be very freely divided with the knife or scissors and kept properly dilated. Chloride of zinc or carbolic acid sufficiently diluted should be applied to the ulcerated part above. (‘Am. Journ. Med., Sciences,’ Jan. 1871, ii^.) Hemoval of a 'portion of hone from the rectal fossa. Dr. Thompson relates the case of a man, aged 70, who, twenty years previously, had begun to sufier from pains in the back and pelvis. After five years he consulted a surgeon, who could not find anything the matter. When he came under Dr. Thompson’s care he complained of “piles/’ On examination an almost raw surface was found extending two inches round the anus and a zone of erysipelatous blush four inches in breadth. On the left side, about an incb from the anus, there was a small opening, through which appeared a small black point. This was seized and drawn out b;^ slightly enlarging the orifice and proved tobvAElOTOMY, 301 be n, piece of bone three quarters of au inch square. No piles were found. A jjrobe passed through the ojoening entered the rectum a short distance above the sphincter, and a considerable cavity remained where the bone had rested. The following day two other small pieces of bone were removed. The fistula was subsequently slit up. The patient declared that he felt more comfortable than he had done for twenty years. He regained his former activity. The pieces of bone were examined and were possibly j)ortions of the scajDula of a rabbit. The patient thought it had been “in him all those years,” if so, it must have lodged in some part of the intestine, ulcerated its way out and gradually reached the pelvic opening. There was no history of any injury to the spine or sacrum. (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 26, 1871, 289.) Ovariotomy.—Mr. Alcock operated on a child three years old. The tumour was universally adherent. The patient died at the end of forty-eight hours. (‘Lancet,’ Dec. 16, 1871, 850.) Dr. W. Barker has operated on a child aged six years and eight months. The case was one of dermoid cyst of the right ovary. The patient recovered, (‘ Philadel. Med. Times,’ Nov. i, 1871, and ‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1872, 285.) A case of ovarian disease on which Dr. Newman operated, using antiseptic ligatures and dressing, is narrated in the ‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Deb. 17, 1872, 184. Haemorrhage occurred into the peritoneal cavity and the wound was opened (under carbolic spray) on the tenth day. ^ About three ounces of “ dark coloured and slightly oft’ensive blood was let out. The patient recovered. Dr. Newman regretted he liad not used a clamp instead of the catgut ligature. Mr. Spencer Wells publishes further tables of hospital cases in the ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Deb. 18 and March 25, 1871, 187 and 337. A fourth series of 100 cases of ovariotomy are recorded by Mr. Wells in the Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 263. Of the first joo cases, 34 died • of the second 100, 28 ; of the third 100, 23 ; of the fourth, 22. Eemarks are added on the diagnosis of uterine from ovarian tumours. Mr.302 REPORT ON SURGERY. existence the bowels acted regularly. In two other cases death followed. Ten cases of ovarian disease operated on at the Hospital for Women are detailed in the ‘ Lancet,’ 1871 (March 2, 9, and 16). In all the cases the pedicle was tied and dropped in. A double ligature was passed through the centre of the pedicle and tied on each side, and then one of the ligatures encircled the whole pedicle and was tied again. The abdominal cavity was always thoroughly cleansed out with sponges on holders, wrung out in warm water before the sutures were inserted. When the wound was brought together a broad strip of strapping was placed across the abdomen tightly from hip to hip, and a large linseed- meal poultice with a drachm of laudanum was applied and changed every four or six hours and continued for six or seven days. Seven of the patients recovered, three died. Dr. W. D. Atlee records a successful case of ovariotomy, and also a case in which he successfidly removed an enlarged uterus which loas considered to he an ovarian tumour. Dr. W. L. Atlee’s clamp was used in each instance. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ July, 1871, t_56.) Dr. Packard relates a somewhat similar case. The tumour was not removed. The patient died (Oct. 1871, 433). (See previous ‘ Bien. Eetrosp.’ also.) Mr. Keith records a third series of 50 cases. Of the last 100 cases there have been 84 recoveries. Eight of the last 30 patients died: 2 from obstructed intestine, i from acute septicaemia, and 3 from perito- nitis. In 2 of these the adhesions were considerable, in i moderate, while, in 3, the tumours were non-adherent. In 6 of the fatal cases, the clamp was used; in i, catgut ligatures to one ovary and clamp to the other; in another the long ligature of Dr. Clay. In nearly one third of the cautery cases, bleeding took place from large vessels and ligatures were necessary. (‘Lancet,’Nov. 16, 1872.) Treatment of sitppurating ovarian cysts and pelvic adhesions in ovariotomy.—Mr. Holmes remarks on a case of ovarian disease in which after a preliminary tapping, apparently revealing a single cyst without complications, suppuration of the cyst ensued. The patient com- plained of constant pain in the right iliac fossa, and became very emaciated. She was sent to a convalescent home at Wimbledon. When she had improved as much as she was likely to do, Mr. Holmes operated. A large quantity of pus was let out. Many adhesions were found, but all were separated till the brim of the pelvis was reached; here there were very firm adhesions. The remains of the cyst were pulled out as far as possible, the intestines returned into the belly and the lower portion of the cyst clamped. The wound was united; next day there was a little oozing of blood from the walls of the cyst, which were nearly half an inch thick. A strong ligature was passed through the mass above the clamp, and the exposed edges of the cyst were seared with the acttfal cautery. The clamp was removed on the third day. The sloughing stump gradually receded and tympanites became developed. She recovered gradually, but completely. Mr. Holmes remarks, “ The internal inflammation which leads to suppuration will, I should suppose, usually, if not always, be accom-303 SUPPURATING OVARIAN CYSTS^ ETC. panied by external peritoneal inflammation. The flrst question we have to decide is whether it is possible to distinguish the symptoms of suppuration from, those of peritonitis. When occurring in the acute form after the operation of tapping, I believe the diagnosis may be made with moderate certainty, from the rapid refllling of the cyst, with rigors, sweats, high temperature and general fever. But few such cases would, I imagine, afford any opportunity for surgical treat- ment. Mr. Sj)encer Wells has recorded one successful case of ovario- tomy during acute suppuration in a lecture in the ‘ Med, Times and Gazette.’ It is more important in a surgical ]3oint of view to.inquire into the symptoms and treatment of that chronic form of suppuration which is more common and more tractable that the former.” Quota- tions from authors on this subject are given. Mr, Holmes says “I much regret that the thermometer was not used in the case-1 have related, but the heat and dryness of the skin were certainly not present nor was the tongue of the character described by Mr. Wells. In fact,^ the patient was so free from any indication of general fever that it never occurred to me to take thermometical observations, nor is it likely that a very elevated temperature could have coexisted with symptoms otherwise so ill-defined. The sickness which came on shortly after the abdominal pain and tenderness was of no value as a diagnostic sign, since equally troublesome sickness occurred before the tumour had been meddled with in any way, and when the fluid was certainly not purulent. Ho rigors were observed at the time, and on question- ing the patient afterwards she said she had never had any. There remains the rapM and extreme emaciation combined with a peculiarly feeble pMse. It is difficult to convey in words an idea of the strange patient; it really seems to me that this ema- ciatmn and this peculiar pulse were the only general symptoms which ought to have attracted ouv observation, and on which a diagnosis could founded. _ But I would also call attention to the fact of the patient having complained of acute tenderness when the cyst was pressed upon in yanous parts.” -1 think I might say that in aSL case in which this general tenderness to pressure coincided with symptoms aM ^tb m emaciation otherwise unaccounted for to coCc'^ I be disposed 7 a occurrence of chronic suppuration within the cvst “VrSh f ca‘se>°tw t wouldVobably have ended and might, after all, have been futTlf Th! !• ’ -Poe alternatives are to pull theilEPOUT ON SUHGEll'^. 30 i cyst as far as possible out of tbe abdomen and apply a clamp to its neck; or to apply a clamp temporarily, cut away tbe cyst, sear tbe cut edges with the cautery and return the mass into the abdomen; or instead of the cautery to use ligatures for the purpose of restraining bsemorrhage from the cut edges of the cyst; or, finally to stitch the edges of the cyst to the wound in the abdomen and leave the cavity of the cyst exposed. I have no doubt of the superiority of the first method when it is practicable, that is, when the neck of the cyst is thin enough to be embraced in the clamp. The internal surface of the cyst is thus brought into contact and may adhere and obliterate the cavity, as seems to have occurred in our patient. If this does not take place, at any rate the resulting inflammation during the healing of the wound will probably exclude the mass from the peritoneal cavity, just as effectually as if the edges were stitched to the wound ; whilst the plan is free from the dangers incurred by leaving the remains of a suppurating cyst free in the pelvis, and those resulting from the irritation of ligatures in the pelvic cavity.” Mr. Wells relates a case in which the ligatures set up mischief. “ The case before us was an example of complete, and, I must allow, unexpected success. I ex- pected that when the clamp and pins had been removed a suppurating sinus would be left proceeding from the interior of the cyst, which would only gradually dry up, if at all. Such a result would not, how- ever, be inconsistent with good health and activity.” At the end of a year the patient remained quite well. The cicatrix was quite sound and free from irritation, with no perceptible swelling beneath it. (‘Med. Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 195.) Peritoneal inflammatory cyst resembling an ovarian tumour.—Dr. W. L. Atlee records the case of a married woman, who at her last con- finement, five months previously, had been discovered to sufier from a tumour on the right side of the uterus. Some days after childbirth she was seized with rigors followed by fever and supposed peritonitis, and a rapid development of the tumour, with great constitutional dis- turbance and emaciation. When Dr. Atlee saw the patient she was larger than a woman at full term. Notwithstanding the case was very unfavorable for operation, in consequence of the acuteness of the original attack, the rapidity of the development, the pelvic complication, the dis- placement of the uterus, and the general condition of the patient, it was determined to make an exploratory operation, as it was believed at the time that the tumour was ovarian. An incision was made, and a cyst foimd, which was not ovarian, but came from the pelvis. The cyst was laid open, and fifteen ifints of greenish pus and numerous large, stringy clots of fibrinous matter let out. The patient died on the third day. “ After the operation I supposed that the original tumour was a pedun- culated, uterine fibroid tumour, that inflammation had supervened, and that an abscess had formed within it, which had caused it to partake of the characteristic signs of a unilocular ovarian cyst. Subsequent experience, however, satisfied me that this last opinion was erroneous, and that the tumour originated in the pelvis through inflammation localised in the peritoneum, agglutinating the serous surfaces, and forming pockets wherein to receive the resulting fluids of this luttamma-OVAillOtOMi?—CLAMPSj JETC. 30 tion, forming what I denominate, in my book on the diagnosis of ovarian tumours, ^peritoneal inflammatory cyst.” (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’July, 1872, 133.) Large ovarian cyst; tapping; inflammation; great prostration; ovariotomy; recovery.—Mr. John Clay records the case of a patient extreme prostration resulting from inflammation of an TTrP'P 'f.nnmnrr wllPn /^TTo»n*/-\^-i-vrviTr ^44-1^ who was in >vuu vvao lu cAwemt) prostration resulting irom innammation 01 ar ovarian cyst after tapping, when he performed ovariotomy with success (‘Lancet,’ Sept. 7, 1872.) Cases of ovariotomy, under the care of Dr. W. L. Atlee, are given. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1872, 113.) In one case the cyst was full of pus, and was everywhere adherent. Neither clamp nor ligature was used, the vessels of the pedicle having been destroyed by inflammation. A second case was one of cyst of the broad ligament. A third was mul- tilocular with extensive omental adhesions. All the patients recovered. A case is also recorded which was under the care of Dr. John L. Atlee. The cyst was multilocular, there were slight adhesions, and the patient recovered, (p. 118.) Wound of intestine during ovariotomy, with recovery.—Mr. C. Heath records a case in which he operated for ovarian disease, and, in enlarging the abdominal wound with scissors, cut a piece of intestine which becam? entangled between the blades. He stitched the intestine to the ab- dominal wound, and so formed an artificial anus. After some time he applied the actual cautery to induce the opeuing to contract. It never quite closed; but the patient became fat, and a pad and belt sufficed to prevent all extrusion of fecal matter. Mr. Heath remarks that he believes no similar case is on record, and it will serve as a warning to surgeons to be on their guard against adherent intestine. If such an accident should occur he thinks the plan he adopted the best which could be carried out. (‘ Clin. Soc. Trans.,’ v, 3 < ) ^ew clamps, /c.-Dr. W. L. Atlee describes and figures a new clamp, constructed so as to ensure a parallel grip, and admitting adap- tation to a narrow or wide pedicle. (‘Amer. Journ. Med Scfence^’ April, 1871, 370.) Atp. 398 of the same journal he narrates seven cases of ovariotomy. Two of the patients recivered, five died Durthe? cases are given July, 1871, 128. They are three in number The paWs recovered, but in one, the tumour was not removed r. Dawson has invented a new clamp It is oval Onp limTi r-P+ “ILe? V.8hape1\Te™ ° limb £ed, aad then cut throagb wSb blades, the straight ends nnc,wp ' ^°^ceps with stirrup-shaped Btirrup fit into «oss-bar" of ?he these, then the tumour is cut off afn p grasped with fectly. There wae po h.morrba’ge';^ He 20306 REPORT ON SURGEEt. the abdomen and closed the wound. The patient made a rapid recovery. Kgures of the forceps are given. (‘ Lancet,’ Jan. 28, 1871, 108.) Dr. Beebe records cases in which he severed the pedicle gradually, and twisted each vessel as it bled, afterwards returning the stump into the abdomen, and closing the wound carefully. Five cases in succes- sion treated in this way recovered. Also another in which he applied a single catgut ligature to the pedicle, and returned the stump, after cutting away the tumour, within the abdomen. (‘ Am. Journ. Med, Sciences,’ April, 1871, 353.) See also Dr. Nott’s rectilinear 6craseur. Gcesarean section.—Dr. Philip Foster records a case in which he performed Csesarean section successfully, as far as the mother was concerned. (‘Lancet,’ June i, 1872, 753.) Dr. Harris has collected cases of Caesarean section performed in the United States, and tabulated them. They are seventeen in number. Twelve of the women recovered, and fourteen of the children were saved. The operations “ were performed during or at the close of the first day of labonr, showing the value of timely surgical interference. In all of the cases but one the child was removed alive.” (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ July, 1872, 290, from ‘Am. Journ. Obstet.’) Vaccino-syphilis.—A case was brought before the Clinical Society by Mr. Thomas Smith (‘Trans.,’ iv, 53). Subsequently two series of cases were brought before the Medico-Chirurgical Society by Mr. Hutchin- son, and were reported on by a Committee. First series, synopsis:— Twelve persons, mostly young adults, vaccinated from a healthy-looking child. Satisfactory progress of the vaccination in all. Indurated chancres on the arms of ten of the vaccinated in the eighth week. Treatment by mercury in aU, Eapid disappearance of the primary sores. Constitutional symptoms in four of the patients five months after the vaccination. The vaccinifer showing condylomata at the age of six months. Second series, synopsis:—Unquestionable symptoms ot constitutional syphilis in nine children who had been vaccinated from the same patient. Suspicious symptoms in six others, and entire escape of a certain number. Vaccinifer a fine healthy-looking child, but with slight, local symptoms, indicative of inherited syphilis. (‘ Med.- Chir. Trans.,’ liv, 317.) Reinfection toith constitutional syphilis.—B.. Kobner, in the ‘ Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’ Ho. 46, 1872, remarks that Eicord had asserted that syphilis can be contracted once only during life; a new infection cannot take place. This doctrine has been generally accepted, espe- cially by the dualists; but Kobner calls it in question. He relates a number of cases of repeated infection which he has observed, among which is the following:—A man, set. 40, had, in May, 1866, a sore on the penis, roseola, and sore throat, for which he was treated with mer- cury ; in November, 1868, he had syphilitic sarcocele on the right side, and a node on the manubrium sterni. He was now treated by Kobner with iodide of potassium and mercurial ointment to the scrotum, and at the end of the year was able to resume his work. During the next two years he suffered occasionally from pains in the limbs and sternum, for the relief of which he took iodide of potassium, but did not seek medicaliBONE DISEASE IN CONGENITAL SYPHILIS. 307 advice. The patient’s wife was treated by Kobner, in the spring of 1867, for tubercular and ulcerative syphilides of the limbs. In Octo- ber, 1871, the male patient had a very indurated shallow sore, with sharply defined edges, on the glans penis; the afiection of the sternum also returned, and the right testis became enlarged, and in parts very much indurated. The induration on the penis disappeared in six weeks under the use of calomel ointment and iodide of potassium, the other symptoms remainingunchanged. The patient remained under observa- tion eleven months, during which time he was treated for acute nephritis and symptoms of spinal irritation no further symptoms were observed and no change was noticed in the residual symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. Kbbner repudiates the idea that the induration ob- served on the penis was the result of a gummatous deposit, and calls to mind a number of instances in which several infections have been alleged to have taken place after the complete removal of all the symptoms of the first attack of syphilis. In 4^ cases of repeated infection the only symptom, in 22, was indurated chancre ; in 23, constitutional symptoms followed; these were severe in one case only. The constitutional afiection was removed in the course of about eight weeks by appropriate treatment; and, except in one case, relapse did not occur. Kbbner arrives at the following conclusions:—(i) Constitutional syphilis is perfectly curable, for it is only when the disease has been completely removed that the system becomes liable to infection, as in a healthy person. (2) Many inveterate, so-called tertiary affections, such as sar- cocele and exostosis, are only local products or remains of an attack of syphilis that has run its course, and are not to be regarded as signs that the whole system is still infected. Parents with tertiary products of this kind may beget healthy children. (3) In more than two thirds of all the cases observed, the cure of the first attack of syphilis was effected by mercury, used sometimes in the form of inunction, but in most instances given internally. ^ Sone disease in hereditary syphilis.—Gr. Wegner has published some interesting observations on this subject in ‘ Virchow’s Archiv.’ He has examined forty children affected with intra-uteriue syphilis, which were either still-born or died soon after birth. In almost all the cases Wegner found pathological changes in the bones in the forms of ossilying periostitis, and of a peculiar disease of the bone at the point ot transition from the diaphysis to epiphysial cartilage. This last- named disease was found in three forms, which Wegner regards as three stages of the same affection. In the first, between the cartilage and the soft spongy bone is found a layer about two millimetres in nckness, shining, sometimes with a level surface, sometimes bulging. He believes it to be the result of iucreased proliferation of the cartilage- cells, with retardation or arrest of the conversion of cartilage into boiie. is consi?p?nbt^^‘^^r^ become doubled in thickness ; there with m»n£rrp« ' epiphysial cartilage-cells ; together calcification of the intercellular sub- f ^ cells near the upper surface of the joint, and some evident neighbourhood of the spongy bone-substance of the ossification of the cartilage. The third stage presents the followino-liEPOET ON SURGERY. 308 appearances at the point of transition from the diaphysis to tho epi- physial cartilage. There is first a layer of hyaline cartilage, then comes an indented layer of mortar-like substance about four centimetres in thickness, and, finally there is a soft, pus-coloured layer, sometimes irregular, defined at the upper part, which gradually passes into the diaphysis. These three stages may he observed in different bones of the same individual. Wegner regards the disease as an irritative osteochondritis arising from syphilitic condition of the blood. The long bones, and the epiphyses of those which contribute most to growth, were specially affected. Along with these changes in the bones, fatty degeneration of the cells and vessels of the medulla is often found in syphilitic children, the marrow assuming a reddish-yellow or light yellow instead of a red colour. (‘ Wiener Med. Wochenschr.,’ No. 8, 187J.) Dr. Taylor’s essay (reprinted from ‘ Am. Journ. Syph. and Derm.,’ Jan. 1871) on dactylitis syphilitica, that is on late syphilitic affections of the fingers and toes, is a useful contribution to our knowledge of this rare form of disease, which has been generally overlooked by writers on syphilis. He has added to several published cases two that came under his own observation and has constructed a short, but valuable, essay. The disease consists of gummy infiltration of the subcutaneous connective tissue, the ligaments, periosteum, and bones of the pha- langes. By this morbid process, irregular enlargements are produced in b^oth fingers and toes, sometimes forming rounded swellings of the bone and periosteum .near the first phalangeal articulation, which strongly resemble enchondromatous tumours. In other instances the enlargement spreads chiefly in the sheaths of the tendons and connec- tive tissue, forming a dull, red, brawny thickening of the whole digit. These aflfections yield readily to specific I’emedies. The essay contains all the cases hitherto recorded of this peculiar affection and forms an important contribution to syphilitic pathology. (‘ Med.-Chir. Eeview,’ July, 1871, 129.) Subcutaneous injections of mercury in syphilis. — Dr. Sigmund, of Vienna, writes on this subject in the (‘ Wien. Med. Wochenschr.’ for Sept. 9, 1871.) He first examines the disadvantages which, accord- ing to the opponents of the proceeding, attend it; viz. the formation of subcutaneous deposits; inflammation, abscess, and their results; the pain attending the process of injection; the difficulties of the pro- cess ; the disturbance which it produces in the circulatory and respi- ratory systems; stomatitis and salivation; and, finally, the small amount of success attending subcutaneous injections as compared with other plans of treatment. , The formation of subcutaneous infiltration at the seat of injection no doubt occurs; but, under rest and care of the aff“ected parts, com- plete absorption of the deposited material gradually takes place. The occurrence of inflammation and abscess is, no doubt, very troublesome and interferes with the cure ; but it depends entirely on the manner in which the injection is made, on the strength of the solution used, and on the management of the patient after the operation. Sigmund hasMERCUEIAL INJECTIONS IN SYPHILIS. 309 used subcutaneous injections in more than aoo cases of syphilis in hospital and in private practice, and has twice only met with abscess as a result. The patients were of both sexes, of various ages and con- stitutions, and affected with syphilis in very various stages. Some patients had as many as thirty injections j usually one daily, sometimes one every second or third day. The parts chosen for injection were generally the trunk, sometimes the arms, care being taken to avoid parts that were liable to be lain upon, or to be subjected to movement or pressure. The process of injection was performed with great care, and the patients were required to protect the parts well and keep’ them at rest. The solution used in almost all the cases was that re- commended by Lewin—four grains of bichloride of mercury in an ounce of distilled water. If patients are allowed to go heedlessly to their ordinary occupations immediately, or two or three hours after the injection, the occurrence of inflammation and abscess must be a'scribed to this and not to the operation. The pain attending injection in Sigmund’s cases varied much, but was usually very slight and of short duration; in most cases, it was at once allayed by cold applications. In a few cases, the pain was severe and lasted for some time, no matter at what part or with how much gentleness the injection was made. Patients in whom this occurs are not ht subjects for subcutaneous injection; in them even the addition o± hydrochlorate of morphia to the solution does not prevent the occur rence of the pain. _ The details and difficulties of the operation are scarcely worth con- sideration. Good instruments pe easily procured, and can be easily kept in good order. The operation is not a difficult one, and even if it rZfCIToiitl if Stomatitis and ptyalism occur frequently if the patients do not cleanse Sigmundhas\ery seldormet S even slight affections of the gums in his patients, but he uses pronhv- ctic measures. He has never met with disturbance of the cir^ulatio^n and respiration or any other general disorders of any iZortaC attributable to the mercury. The methodically continued use of all heart™ acSor?^m^^^ ^ moderate increase of the earts action and of the temperature: gastric disturbances oftpn tinn^nf^fL attributed generally rather to the dietetic condi- of the patient than to the treatment. The secretions nf fLo i • and Mneys are but rarely disturbed in caaes wb“st be It would be Luo sMe t„ r° ^^ treatment of syphilis, intervals manifests itself' so ?erbrti:fitL“Lst^^^^^^^ SJ^^pS^e^310 REPORT ON SURGERY. There is also the difficulty, even when a patient is kept under observa- tion for a number of years, of knowing whether he confines himself to the prescriptions of his medical adviser, or uses sometimes those of other persons. The question as to the value of subcutaneous injection in syphilis is not yet ripe for decision; a prolonged series of clinical observations is required. _ _ , , One of the alleged advantages of subcutaneous injection in syphilis is the possibility of allowing the patient to move about pd foUow his ordinary occupation. This advantage, however, is limited; for the wound made in the operation demands rest and care for a time at least, and it is often necessary simultaneously to apply local treatment to the genital organs, mouth and throat. In the treatment of syphilis, oig- mund insists most strongly on the importance of pure air and exercise; but when injection is used much care is required. An essential advantage of subcutaneous injection, and one which cannot be overrated, is its precision. The surgeon knows when how much, and where he introduces the medicine into the system, and can determine with the greatest accuracy the place, the time, and the repetition of the dose. Again, there is no immediate disturbance ot the digestive organs. Perfection in the details of the operation, and attention to the hygienic and dietetic conditions of the patient are the most important points to be observed in a long and varied inquiry made with the view of arriving at a conclusion as to the value of the process. In Dr Sigmund’s opinion, no one as yet possesses the tacts on wlncli an absolute conclusion may be founded. Subcutaneous injection must be regarded as a valuable addition to our resources, inasmuch as-un- fortunately not rarely—cases are met with which resist all the ordinary methods of treatment. As far as Dr. Sigmund ha,s observed, its good effects are most readily obtained, and are apparently permanent in the simple papular, pustular, and squamous syphilides, in simple fascial and larvngeal catarrh, in diffuse inflammation of the muscles and tendons o/the periosteum and perichondrium and of the joints and affections It may also be used empirically where other methods have failed or where, Iv special reasons, they cannot be carried out. To casL’of the kind here referred to, Dr. Sigmuud would limit tlm use of subcutaneous injection in private practice. Clinical observations, on brother hand, must embrice a wider range. As far as Dr. Sigmund has observed, he finds that he cannot support one of the assertions of the advocates of subcutaneous injection, viz. that it prevents secondary svmptoms when employed in the initial stage, or that of induration. In all the cases which he has thus treated, the consecutive, cutaneous and mucous syphilides have appeared, just as if the disease had been *^^Subcutan^^^^ injection possesses an advantage in common with friction and fumigation, namely, that internal remedies, such as quinine, of iodine, chd-liver oil, &c., can be given at the same time ^ Dr Sigmund attaches much importance to this fact, since such in order t„ arrive at an estimate of the value of suhcutaneous mercurial injectionTEAUMATIC PEVEE. 311 in syphilis, of observations, continued for several years, as to the efiect of the treatment on all the various forms in which syphilis manifests itself. Hitherto, he has found mercurial inunction to produce the most favorable results; but he could abandon it if a better remedy were found. Traumatic fever,—The thirteenth volume of the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chirurg.,’ contains an essay by Dr. Billroth on the pathology of trau- matic fever, supplementary to those which he has already published on this subject. On the present occasion he treats of—i. Fever following injury in man. 2. The temperature in man during the first hours after operation. 3. The temperature of the rectum in healthy dogs. 4. The influence of muscular motion on the temperature in man and dogs. 5, The direct influence of various injuries. 6. The continued mechanical and chemical irritation, y. Of irritation of the vaso-motor nerves on the temperature of the rectum in dogs. 8. Septicsemic fever in dogs. 9. Pysemic fever in dogs._ 10. The efi’ect of the iujections of water, blood-serum, and the fluid of hydrocele, on the temperature of the rectum in dogs. ii. Critical remarks on the results of the experiments detailed in the foregoing chapters, 12. How does the inflammatory process give rise to fever ? _ I. In Ins first chapter, Bilboth repeats the statement made by him in the second volume of the ‘ Archiv,’ “^that in a large number of cases even of severe injury, there is no fever ; fever is, then, not a necessary result of injury, but rather an accident.” Further, in the ninth volume, he remarked that it was not only in slight wounds that fever was absent, tor he had met with cases of amputation of the limbs (including: even the thigh) of excision of the breast and axillary glands, ovariotomy, extirpation of the upper jaw, &c., in which little or no fever followed Changes connected with fever may occur in a wound at any time froni its origin to Its perfect healing. As a general rule, fever sets in within the first two days, mostly on the second, and then lasts till the seventh day. The duration of the fever is more variable than the period of its appearance. Of 45 cases of removal of the breast and ax- illary glands one was unattended with any fever; in 10 natients the fever commenced on the first day, in 28 on tL secoid, in 4 on and in 2 on the fourth day. In none of them did the fever com- mence a,fter the fourth day. Analogous results were found in the observation of seventeen _ cases of removal of the breast alone and nineteen cases of amputation of the arm and forearm. When he’com meneed to investigate the subject of traumatic fever, Billroth acLpted the doctrine of Schonlein, that the fever was the result of reflex irrita t.on of the nerves of the injured part. The absence, howeve? constant rela ion between the extent of injury and the seveSv of the ro tne conemsion that there was a relation between the amount of ,1p struction of the tissues and the amount of fever. Still however some points required explanation ; the course of the fever prkented remS SrvatfoT ^ fS”'* .temperatuif By further oh- comnlicited tbo jieen enabled to eliminate certain elements which complicated the question, and to arrive at a general theory of W,312 REPORT ON SURGERY. which maybe called “humoral,” although in it the nervous system still has a place, especially in the explanation of disturbances of motility, such as rigors. 2. With regard to the temperature in man during the first hours after operation, Billroth recalls the fact that, in his first essay on traumatic fever, he stated that the temperature at first falls and then soon commences to rise rapidly. His examinations at that time were made on each case for three or four hours only; subsequently, however, he has noted the temperature continuously for periods varying from eight to twelve hours. He finds that the cases (twenty-one in number) can be arranged in three principal classes, i. Those (ten) in which the temperature remained below the normal (100° Bahr.) ; 2, those (six) in which the temperature rose slowly above the normal; and, 3, those (five) in which it rose rapidly, sometimes reaching, in a few hours, even 104° Bahr. In most of the cases the rise commences from half an hour to two hours after the operation, being, in rare in- stances, preceded by a fall, which probably often occurs before the observation commences, and escapes notice ; while in some instances the rise of temperature is attended by intercurrent falls. These differ- ences cannot be accounted for by the nature of the injury and its im- mediate effects on the tissues; the state of the temperature depends on other circumstances, which may be called accidental. G-reat loss of blood lowers the temperature. This has been proved experimentally by Weber, Brese, Kettler, and Bergmann. Chloroform also has the same effect, as was pointed out in 1848 by Dumeril and Defiiarquay ; and the observation has been confirmed by Scheinesson, of Dorpat, by experiments described in an unpublished thesis, which Billroth has had an opportunity of reading. Pain, perhaps, also lowers the temperature, but in some cases it was attended with a rise. Eapid section of the large nerves, and their more or less abrupt laceration, as in the removal of tumours, may produce a depressing influence on the temperature, as is observed in shock. The exposure of the patient unclothed to the air for too long a time, especially in winter, in the operating theatre, is liable to produce a fall of temperature. To this, Spencer Wells attaches much importance in ovariotomy ; and Billroth remarks that, since his attention was directed by Mr. Wells to the necessity of not allowing the temperature of the operating room to fall below 77° Bahr., he has never seen such marked collapse during and after ovariotomy as he formerly met with. In two cases observed by Billroth a temporary faU in the temperature, which had been high or rising, was produced by hmmorrhage; and in another instance of fever, daily variations 'were ob- served, which corresponded with those normally occurring in the healthy subject, there being a fall between 5 and 7 p.m. 3. In the third chapter, Billroth describes a series of researches on the ordinary tem- perature of the rectum in dogs. He found it to manifest frequent oscil- lations, which were proved, by the use of specially protected thermo- meters, not to be dependent on muscular action. 4. The influence ot muscular action on the temperature is discussed in the fourth chapter. Verv slight changes, if any, are produced in the temperature ot healtliy men bv muscular exercise; in animals, however, the effect is greater. The artificial production of tetanus in a limb gives rise, as shown by313 TRAUMATIC PEVER. Loydeu, to an increase of temperature in tlie part. 5. In the fifth chapter, Billroth examines the influence of various injuries on the tem- perature of the rectum in dogs. He finds that even severe lesions, such as the ligature of arteries, or long incisions through the skin, have no constant effect on the temperature in the rectum within three hours, even when the experiments are performed on animals that have been suffering from illness. 6. The application to the extremities of the nerves of mechanical and chemical irritants, such as injection of air or water into the subcutaneous tissue, irritation with croton oil or with ammonia, &c., had no constant effect in elevating the temperature in dogs, even when continued for two or three hours. 7. The influence of irritation of the vaso-motor nerves on the temperature has been studied by Billroth by means of (a) the introduction into the vessels of canulsp or pieces of tangle, which produced no result; (b) the introduction of purely mechanical embola, such as starch or powdered charcoal suspended in water. The injection of these into the systemic arteries was followed by a fall in temperature rather than a rise; when they were introduced into the jugular vein, and thus reached the pul- monic circulation, fever was not a constant result, but the temperature presented a remarkable series of tolerably regular falls and rises, such as had already been noticed by Albert and Strieker. 8. In the eighth chapter Billroth speaks of septicsemic fever in a dog. A filtered in- fusion of putrid_ muscular tissue, swarming with vibriones, when injected in large quantities into the arteries, veins, or subcutaneous areolar tissue, rapidly produeed_ death ; when injected in smaller quantities (five centigrammes or less) it produced fever of a remittent type, lasting several hours. 9. Regarding pyemic fever in dogs, experiments are described in the ninth chapter, the result of which was that the injec- tion of pure j)us, or of pus diluted with water, was sometimes followed by fever, sometimes not. 10. A similar inconstancy of results attended the injection, in a similar manner, of water, of serum, and of the fluid ot hydrocele, ii. In commencing, in the eleventh chapter, a critical examination of the results described in the preceding part of his essay' Billroth says that their great variety is one of the principal obstacles to their use in forming a theory of fever. Two phenomena only are constant—the rise of the temperature after muscular action, and after the injection of putrid mattep. Referring to the eflTect of muscular action he says that the artificial tetanization of limbs and the efi'ect of voluntary muscular movements can be accepted as starting-points in the inquiry only so far as they show that an elevation of temperature is produced through irritation, direct or reflex, of the muscles. It is owever, not proved that a similar elevation of temperature can be exerted reflexly by the irritation of sensory and vaso-motor nerves. The curves presented by the temperature in the various experiments are regula™? ffte?’the^ steadyLd tolerably 1 S ® ™.iection of water there was a single marked ise; and in other instances, especially after the injection of putrid H is\S-ibwf^f were two marked elevkons rise ?nd^?h!f fr ^ ®^Periments the same cause produced the nse, and that this was m all cases called forth and regulated by theREPORT ON SURGERY. 314 same means. For some time, in the cases where the double rise of temperature was observed, Billroth attributed the first elevation of temperature to the irritation directly produced by experiment, and the second to the supervention of a secondary inflammatory process. This double rise, however, did not follow the injection of serum or of hydro- cele fluid. This double elevation of temperature Billroth suggests may be explained by assuming a defect in the regulation of the production of heat. If the regulating apparatus be regarded as nervous or mus- cular, it may be supposed to become exhausted by excess of work; that then the rapid effect of the pyrogenic action will be held in check by the renewed energy of the regulating apparatus; and that, this again becoming exhausted, the progressive influence, though there is no new formation or increase in quantity of it, again produces a rise of tempera- ture, In Billroth’s opinion injections of water (with or without embolic matters), of putrid fluid, of pus, of blood serum, of hydrocele fluid, &c., all give rise, alike, to pyrogenic action ; but the time of appearance and the duration of this vary. Putrid matters and some forms of pus (as well as other substances) depress and even destroy the regulation of heat, and hence arise the longer duration and greater intensity of the elevation of temperature after the injections of these than after that of water. If the respiration and insulation be greatly lowered at a time when the pyrogenic action is still powerful, death is attended with a rise of temperature. If, on the other hand, the pyrogenic agent paralyse the regulating apparatus of temperature before the heart and lungs fail, then the temperature falls rapidly, and there ensues a state of vita minima recognisable only by a few respirations and by diminished action of the heart, the temperature of the body falling to a level with that of surrounding objects. 12. In the last chapter Billroth discusses the question. In what way is fever excited by inflammatory processes ? According to Zimmerann, the combustion in the seat of,inflammation is the source of the excess of heat which becomes distributed over the body. According to this hypothesis the heat of the inflamed part should always be greater than that of the blood, which, however, according to Mosengeil and Billroth, is not always the case. Traube and Senator suppose the increase of temperature to be due to a diminished expendi- ture of caloric, while Leyden and Liebermeister hold that there is an exaggerated production of heat in fever. Another hypothesis js that the septic substances introduced into the blood serve as materials for combustion; the production of fever by the injection of water or of serum, however, renders this improbable. If the ordinary doctrine be accepted, that increased temperature in fever is due to an exaggeration of the normal calorific process, the question arises. How is this brought about ?—in what way does the local inflammation exert an influence on the apparatus which regulates the production of heat ? In spite of the experiments of Brener and Chrobak, Billroth does not admit that irri- tation of the sensory or of the vaso-motor nerves produces fever by reflex action. The hypothesis which appears to him more probable is, that matters are carried from the inflamed or sloughing part_ into the blood, and act on the nervous system in such a way as to impair its power of regulating the production of heat. Billroth does not admit315 TEAUMATIO PEVEE PEOM GUNSHOT WOUNDS. that there is any difference, except in degree, between the products of inflammation and those of putrefaction. The opinion has been main- tained that the introduction of septic or of inflammatory products into the blood or areolar tissue gives rise to fever by first exciting infiamma- tion. This, however, is opposed to the fact that fever may follow the in- jection of water, serum, or hydrocele fluid, where, without inflammation, an influence is produced on the nervous system through the medium of the blood. It is, therefore, rational to suppose that pus and putrid matters act, not through inflammation, which is not always present, but rather indirectly on the nervous system through the blood. In con- clusion, Billroth expresses his renewed conviction that that hypothesis of traumatic fever is the most probable which assumes that materials are absorbed into the blood from the focus of inflammation, and give rise to fever, probably by acting on the nervous system. This hypothesis he considers to be applicable, not only to inflammatory and traumatic fever, but also to the initial form of infectious diseases before the appearance of local symptoms. This subject has been investigated in its relation to gunshot wounds by C. Hueter (‘Volkmann’s Sammlung Klin. Yortrage,’ No. aa), and by von Eecklinghausen (‘Verhandl, der Physikalisch. Mediz. Gesellsch. in Wiirzburg’). Hueter treats of traumatic fever in its relation to gunshot wounds. Wounds made by small bullets, and regular in shape, often heal without any fever. On the other hand, severely lacerated and con- tused wounds are often accompanied with much fever. This difierence in the course depends essentially on the amount of decomposition of the secretions from the wound, induced by vibrionic germs. In cases, especially where the tissues are moist and albuminous, and not charged with oxygen, the vibriones multiply immensely and bring about destruc- tion of the highly complex albuminous substances, the products of the healing up of which become sources of fever and increased tempera- ture. Traumatic fever is at first essentially septictemic. The vibrionic germs are, perhaps, introduced into the wound with pieces of clothing carried with the projectile, or by the use of dirty charpie at the first dressing. The treatment must then consist in the prevention of the introduction of septic matter and of its absorption from the wound, and in the subdual of inflammation and fever. The septic process is best obviated by careful organisation of the hospital and local disinfection of the wound. As, however, the former is not always within the control of the surgeon, he must give more attention to the latter. Hueter recommends irrigation of the wound with permanganate of potash, which, he says, destroys vibriones. The wound is then to be dressed with charpie soaked in an oily or watery solution of carbolic acid. _ To prevent the absorption of septic matter, the escape of the secretions of the wound must be assisted by caoutchouc or metallic drainage tubes. The products of decomposition produce, not only fever, but also inflammation and suppuration. Traumatic fever setting in with the commencement of suppuration is of a septicopyoemic cha- racter ; with the cessation of the putrefactive process and the advance of suppuration, it becomes pysemic. But the pus itself must be816 REPORT ON SURGERY. protected against initrefactive changes. As soon as the pus passes beyond the immediate limit of the wound, forming a phlegmonous abscess, this must be opened; and, on the escape of the pus, the local swelling and the fever diminish. This opening cannot be made too soon, as it is impossible to know whether the case is to be one of simple phlegmon or of rapidly spreading gangrene. No other compli- cation in the ordinary course of a gunshot wound points to an intense poisoning so strongly as the acute septic phlegmon. When the track of the wound is lined with granulations, these form a barrier against the absorption of putrid matters ; under such circumstances, however, it may be broken through, giving rise, in the course of the healing of the wound, to the complication described by Billroth as secondary fever._ In nearest relation to the septicopyemic fever stand the com- plications _ arising from putrescence of pus. Hueter believes that diphtheritic disease of the wound (including hospital gangrane) and erysipelas arise from this source. In the early stage of progress of a wound, vibriones are probably the cause of the putrefactive process. They cannot exist in fluids rich in oxygen (of which the action of per- manganate of potash gives proof). Their action on the living tissues is probably prevented by the oxygen contained in these. In pus containing oxygen there appear animal organisms belonging to the genus crepuscuhwi; in a chemical sense, these are sources of putrescence, inasmuch as they cause the breaking up of the more complex combinations. These monads produce irritation and inflammation of the living tissues. As they can live in oxygenated fluids they may penetrate in vast numbers through the finest lymphatic passages into the blood, and may even appear in the urine. Hueter believes that traumatic diphtheritis and erysipelas are produced by the wandering of these monads into the living tissues. These speculations of Hueter derive increased importance from the researches of von Eecklinghausen, who, at a meeting of the Physico-medical Society of Wurzburg in June, 1871, ascribed to the development of parasitic organisms the presence of multiple small purulent deposits in the lungs, kidneys, spleen, liver, heart, brain, and eye, which correspond with what had been described by Virchow as capillary embola. The organisms were those described by botanists as schizomycetes, zoogloea, or micrococcus ; and are distinguished from the detritus of tissues by their unchange- ability in acetic acid, glycerine, and solution of soda. They seem in all essential characters identical with the organisms described by Buhl, Oertel, and NassiloflT as occurring in diphtheria, and by Klebs in pyelonephritis. They occur, not only in the blood-vessels, but also in the alveoli of the lungs and in the urinary tubules. They were much less abundant in the arteries than in the veins. The absence of changes in the endocardium contradicted the idea of an embolic origin. Eecklinghausen showed these purulent deposits with micrococci in pyaemia, typhus, and phthisis, with hectic occurring four weeks after delivery, in cases, therefore, where previous lesion of tissues had aftbrded an opportunity for the introduction of germs. Small myo- cardial and nephritic deposits with micrococci were found in the body of a boy, eleven years old, who died at the end of three days withTEVEU AFTER SURGICAL OPERATIONS. 317 symptoms of articular rlieumatism, without any injury of the tissues. According to Hueter the most simple result of the decomposition of pus is ulcerative destruction of the granulations, which manifests itself as diphtheritis, and, in an extreme stage, as hospital gangrene. Diph- theritis in its mildest form may be successfully combated by the use of carbolic acid in the proportion of one part in] twenty, applied four times daily. ^ Hueter prefers the watery to the oily solution. In diphtheritic inflammation attacking the areolar tissue, spreading rapidly with redness and swelling, and leading to the formation of foetid pus, incisions must be made and the tracks of the wound freely mrigated. In the puljey and gangrenous form of traumatic diphtheria Hueter prefers the actual cautery to all other treatment. He believes that while the cautery destroys the monads, its action extends beyond the tissues that are burnt. Much may be done, in Hueter’s opinion to prevent erysipelas by the use of disinfectant dressiugs. He iiraises ^ means of a,rresting the extension of erysipelas ; it is applied j ®ointment consisting of two parts of tar and one of lard, which is energetically rubbed in with the hand for four hours, and repeated two or three times. Other observers, however, have failed to hnd this method efficacious even though the inunction has been repeated twenty times. Fever following surgical operations.—Mr. Spencer Wells has given some clinical lectures on this subject (‘ Med. Times and Gazette,’ Jan. l^F^i V’ lecture he mentions three cases m which high temperature and other signs of fever were clearly due ovarian cysts, or to decomposition of diately after the removal of the cysts, and the patients completely^e- covered. In all these cases the fever was of the type now commonly termed pycvnnc. He then mentions a case of what might be 3 urcvmze t^Yev in a patient, mt. i6, admitted with what appeared to be at nJpT'''' exploratory incision was made, and Mr. Wells the cmcum, its appendix and the ascendino-colon which had been pushed forwards bv the cvst bphirirl tTq +i ^ i (what was suspected before) that it 4s a cVeVhjLn^hr^ ^The tTfnl? ‘“PPf pint, of fluid remov^ STeuiuJt yst was fastened to the abdominal wall. Before the 4pra4n rose foToo ‘o,",oT3o“S 102 4 at the end of ten hours—a risp nf c-° in +on u ’ mi morning, and io4° ffi the ^ tempera^ to 104-2° in the rose to 108'4° and at nio-ht if w'n<a afternoon it fourth day, htr temperaW fn4f ' 1 ' 111°. Mr Wells savs “ L upwards of how did the operation check xp fl^®®tions follow—Birst, lead to its presLce in efcesB from the decomposition of urea ? Ld ® arumonia resulting to fever heat or hyperpyrexia tLp uremia lead j'Pcrpyrexia.H The post-mortem showed the left318 HEPOET ON SURGERY. Iciclney was almost useless, and tbe right kidney was converted into a cyst holding twelve pints of fluid. “ Why no symptoms showed them- selves before this cyst was emptied, why they came on almost imme- diately afterwards, and why they continued (although a free discharge of urinous fluid was kept up from the cyst) I cannot explain.” “ We are led to the suspicion that the opium which was given to relieve the pain, or possibly the chloro-methyl by which anaesthesia was kept up, may have been the cause of the first stoppage in the elimination of urea, or else that some injury to the nerves of the kidney may have been the first step in the fever process.” The second question is answered by appealing to the consideration of the influence of the nervous system upon the production and regulation of heat. Traumatic erysipelas.—Wilde states (‘Deutsches Archiv fiir Klin. Med.,’ x) that he was led, on the recommendation of Volkmann, to_ ex- amine the effect of subcutaneous antiseptic injections in the neigh- bourhood of the affected part. He used for this purpose a solution of one part of sulphocarbolate of soda in twelve of water; from three to five injections (each 38 grains) of this solution were made, either at different points around the diseased part or even directly into it. In five cases, on the first day, the temperature did not rise much in the evening ; on the next day (two injections having been made) there was a fall, and the erysipelas had begun to disappear. Ou the third day, oedema alone remained. (‘ Wien. Med. Woehenschr.,’ 1872, No. 35O Hospital gangrene.—During the Franco-German war, those among the wounded in the hospitals of Berlin who were attacked with hospital gano-rene were transferred to special barracks, which were placed under the care of Dr. Jacob Heiberg, of Christiania. Dr. Heiberg has pub- lished in ‘ A^irchow’s Arch.,’ liii, the result of the observations m^e by him from September i, 1879, to March 13, 1871. In all the Berlin cases the gangrene was of the ulcerative form ; it was always ot local origin, although there were cases where the aperture of entry was small in which the disease commenced in the deep-seated parts, and nroduced constitutional disturbance before it was detected. In an open granulating wound the granulations would break up over round or angular patches, which gradually increased, and at last became con- fiuent. The wound assumed a yellow grey colour; and here and there were spots of a clear red, or brownish-red colour, the result of effusion of blood into the granulations. The whole surface became ex- cavated; the destructive process then seized on the subcutaneous and intermuscular connective tissue, and the skin was often deeply undermined to a much greater extent than was visible externaliy. ih skin swelled first at the margin, becoming tender and red. In a cica- trix the process of destruction went on muscles, nerves, bones, and arteries were at last laid bare, covered wit a firm greasy mass, or with a yellow-green stinking pulp. The large cavities^ of tL body were not found invaded in any case, and gangrene seldom appeared on the trunk. In eighty-nine cases under observa- tion secSdary hc^morrhage occurred in seven. In six of these it took place from artLies, and in one it was capillary. In two cases repeated Seriate® were applied, but both died. In tbe remam.ug caace319 HOSPITAL GANGRENE—TRACHEAL TAMPON. the hemorrhage was treated successfully by cauterisation and plugging. The fever was always secondary, and presented the type of fever arising from absorption of morbid matter. It always occurred in cases where the gangrene spread irregularly into the deep parts; when the gan- grene was superficial, it was observed only in exceptional cases. The temperature presented no special type, the curves. Dr. Heiberg says, “ were as irregular as the Alps.” In the treatment, gastric disturbance was allayed by low diet and iced water; beyond these, no internal remedies were used. The treatment was throughout local, and con- sisted almost exclusively in cauterisation with chloride of zinc. Per- manganate of potash was found by Heiberg to be of no use. It is alleged by American surgeons that very mild cases heal readily under the use of water dressing and fresh air; but Heiberg doubts whether such can be cases of true hospital gangrene, which spreads mercilessly under such treatment. The granulations in the neighbourhood of a necrosed piece of bone may undergo a process of destruction, bearing a close resemblance in appearance to incipient gangrene. The manner of extoMion of the disease is the only trustworthy ground of diagnosis ; and Heiberg daily marked, with coloured chalk, on an iron wire network the extent of the disease, so as to observe its progress accurately. When the diagnosis was clearly made out chloride of zinc was at once applied. It was dissolved in a small quantity of water, so as to form a mass 01 the consistence of oil, in which small pads- of cotton-wool were clipped; these, having been gently pressed, were laid over the whole surface of the sore. If the gangrene had spread deeply, free incisions were made; the more extensive these were, and the more the sore was laid open the sooner was the gangrene arrested. Chloride of zinc has the advantage over nitric acid of being less dangerous to clothes, hands, and instruments. After the cauterisation the sores were dressed with oil lor twelve hours; after this, lukewarm water dressing was applied our times daily. The scars often remained till the eleventh day, and It was found that attempts to remove them by mechanical means pro- duced bleeding and pain, without being successful. Paralysis and tbe depth at which the Srre,r.nH°"’?l™“ ‘reatmect one death only occurred and m this instance the patient died under chloroform, when the caustic was about to be applied. There were six deaths Tiom pymmia in patients in whom the gLgrene had been arrested and a review of the same in the ' Am.^/ourn. Med Sc4nee^;^ Junker writes on the employment of the triicheal tampon, as advocated by Dr. Trendelenburg and^-nrap AhShfo,/;™* • “ operations about the face, &c„ oSsteof’rdeir"'“r consists of a delicate, double-waUed india-rubber tube, of about 3 4REPORT ON SEROErY. 320 centimHrea in length {v^6"). The walls of the tube are united at their extremities, so as to form a cavity, which is inflated by means of a small tube opening into the external wall. The internal wall closely embraces the vertical portion of the tracheotomy-canula. This tampon Avhen inflated witliin the trachea, thoroughly plugs the space between canula and and the windpipe.” The air can be let out to witlidraw the plug. “ A small india-rubber balloon, with an ivory nozzle, fits into the inflating tube. After inflation the tube itself is closed by means of a small metal clamp. The point of the canula is furnished with a raised shoulder of about one millimetre (‘04") in thickness. A similar shoulder exists above the plug, so that the latter is firmly re- tained between these two shoulders. By this arrangement the tampon is prevented from slipping when passing through the wound.” The tracheotomy is performed, a sufficiently large opening being made, the canula and tampon (collapsed) inserted, and then the latter is inflated. The anaesthetic is administered by a funnel-shaped instrument of japanned tin. Its outlet is furnished with an india-rubber tube, stiff- ened by a spiral wire, which, by means of a cone-shaped nozzle, fits into the external aperture of the tracheotomy-canula. Over the inlet of the funnel a raised, wire frame covered with dimity is placed, and on this the anaesthetic is dropped. A circle of small holes drilled round the edge of the funnel assists the admission of fresh air. After the opera- tion, before the removal of the plug, the larynx should be washed out with warm water, and the clots removed through the upper angle of the incisiou by means of a syringe with a fine nozzle. A common tube is inserted till all danger of haemorrhage has passed way. (‘ Med. Times and Gfaz.,’ May 4 and 25, 1872.) In the‘Berliner Klin. Wochenschr.,’ for September 2, 1872, Dr. Heiberg, of Christiania, relates a case, in the practice of Dr. Schoenborn, in which this plan was followed with good results. The patient, a man, aet. 36, had cylindroma of the upper jaw. By following Dr. Trende- lenburg’s method, it was found possible to maintain complete anaes- thesia throughout the operation. In this case, however, the india- rubber tampon was not sufficient to prevent the entrance of blood into the larynx, and it was necessary to introduce plugs of wadding from the mouth. The patient was discharged cured on the twentieth day from the operation. Bronchotomy.—Mr. Prescott Hcwett gives a clinical lecture on the operations on the windpipe. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 27, 1872.) Larynyotomy for removal of a half sovereign impacted, in the larynx,— Mr. H. Smith records the case of a tipsy shoemaker, who put a half sovereign in his mouth and it disappeared. Dr. Johnson saw it with the laryngoscope impacted between the vocal cords transversely, its reverse looking upwards. It was found impossible from its position to crasp its edge. Mr. Smith performed laryngotomy, and, after a little trouble, extracted the foreign body. A view of it, in situ, is given. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 7, 1871, 7.) Foreign hoclyin the larynx; removal.—A female child, £Bt. 18 months, had been suddenly seized with difficulty of breathing five days pre- viously. It was not known that a foreign body had entered the larynx,t’OREIGN BODIES IN TlIE LARYNX TRACHEOTOMY. B21 but tracheotomy was performed high up. Something was felt, and on cutting through the cricoid cartilage a dress-hook was found attached to one of the vocal cords. After much trouble the hook was removed. The child died on the seventh day, probably owing to the damage neces- sarily caused by the removal of the awkwardly and firmly fixed hook. The patient was in the Ormond Street Hospital. (‘ Lancet,’ SeiDt. 30 1871,468.) ’ A case in which a foreign body was removed from the larynx of a child eight years old is recorded by Dr. Bennett. The child had swal- lowed a plum-stone. _ Tracheotomy was performed, but the stone could not be found, notwithstanding careful search with probes by himself and Mr. Butcher. After some days it was clear it was impacted be- tween the cords. The thyroid cartilage was divided and the stone removed, about three weeks after the child first came under care. The child recovered voice, &c. (‘ Dub. Quart. Journ.,’ Aug. 1871, 29.) Mr. Teake records the case of a man who, while drinking, sucked a Urn opiate of hone into his larynx. Examined with the laryngoscope the bone was seen to be a long, thin piece, impacted between the thyroid cartilage in front and the arytenoid behind. It was seized with forceps y VLr. leale, but it could not be removed. Tracheotomy was then periormed. Representations of the bone are given. ("‘Brit Med Journ.,’Jan. 7, 1871, 7.) v • • Mr. Stokes says, “ As I am not aware of any case in which the difii- cult and hazardous operation of tracheotomy, performed twice on the same subject has been recorded, the particulars of the following one must, doubtless, be considered of much surgical interest •” ihe patient was a woman, set. 30, who sufi'ered from syphilitic dis- Sormer previously she had had techeotomy periormed. I he tube was only worn a short time, the wound healed and the patient became free from all laryngeal distress. Six weeks previously the^ difficulty of breathing had returned. A second operation beck s double tracheotomy-hook of great service. She continued to wear a tube afterwards (‘ Dub. Jouru. Med. Sci.,’ Dec isTaTe ) .Dr. Buchanan, in the ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ March 4. and 2^'^t8>7t traSeotoSy^"'^"^ of results of thirty-nine cases in which he performed Watson narrates two cases for chronic laryngeal disease the administration of chloroform ^°Tn^the^^Po^ plication existed Df Wo+ i ^ second case no special com- the trac“ea otcued bu^^^^^ “a* “ ‘>''= ot knife after thfX-n Ins h. r tl>e time the tube should be SceV corded in the ‘Lancet,’ Jan. a?, irwL“eU™dV^ 21llEPOET ON SUB.GEEY. 33^ Ilolthouse, by enlarging tbe wound and placing the patient in a prone position. Ur. J. W. Ogle and Mr. H. Lee record a case of tracheotomy in which the tube, having become detached from its shield, escaped into the trachea, and was removed by a second operation fourteen months afterwards. (‘Med. Times and Graz.,’ Sept. ii, 187a, 324.) Parotitis; tonsillitis; tracheotomy.—Ur. Packard records the case of a child, aged four years and nine months, on whom he performed laryngo-tracheotomy, on account of dyspnoea from tonsillitis, compli- cating mumps. Bleeding occurred just as he opened the trachea. The child survived eight hours. (‘ Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872,404.) Opening the larynx for the removal of morlid growths.—Mr . Uurham read a paper on this subject before the Med.-Chir. Society. He details 3 cases which have come under his own care, or under that of his colleagues, in which section of the cartilages of the larynx has been performed for the removal of growths. The first case was that of a girl, nine years of age, who was admitted into Guy’s Hospital with urgent dyspneea. Tracheotomy was performed. In the course of the next four years she was repeatedly seen, but no laryngoscopic exami- nation could be satisfactorily carried out. But at the end of that time Mr. Uurham succeeded in obtaining a view of the larynx and found it blocked up by warty growths. Shortly afterwards, chloroform_ having been administered through the tracheotomy canula, an incision was made, with a curved, sharp-pointed knife, straight through the super- ficial structures, the crico-thyroid membrane and the mucous mem- brane of the larynx, and then directly upwards in the middle line, through the thyroid cartilage, &c., thus dividing all the structures by one incision as high as the thyro-hyoid membrane, which was only sliehtlv cut. The cricoid cartilage was subsequently divided in order to give more room. When the edges of the wound were drawn apart it was seen that the whole larynx was studded with growths. Only a few small ones were below the vocal cords. All were _ carefully re- moved • some were cut off with scissors, others were twisted oft with forceps’ The wound was closed with sutures and strappmg. The next dav the patient could breath through the larynx and could produce audible sounds. On the seventh day the wound had healed. On the tenth the canula was removed after having been worn tor tour years More than four years after the operation the patient ivas a fine thoroughly healthy woman, breathing, speaking, and singing as though she had never had anything the matter with the larynx. The second patient was a lad, aged seven_ years. Tracheotomy had been performed nine years previously. An incision was made padually from Sove downwards, through all the structures as low as the opening m the trachea. The whole larynx was full of growths, whmh extended above and below the vocal cords. All were removed. He recovered, and nine months afterwards was reported breathing well and the con- Sion of the voice was satisfactory. Uifficulty was experienced in closinc^ the old tracheotomy wound in this case. It was finally accom- r V. ^ nfter paring the edges. The third patient was a girl, aged years. Bour |ears before, tracheotomy had been performed. A IREMOVAL OP GROWTHS FROM THE LARYNX. 333 similar proceeding to tliat adopted in the last case was carried out. The fourth patient, under the care of Mr. Bryant, was a boy, aged three years. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, by means of a curved bistoury, an incision was made upwards from the opening in the trachea. Some hemorrhage, as in the other cases, then occurred, but was quickly stopped by exposure, torsion of vessels, &c. In the course of a fortnight the canula was removed, and in three weeks the wound was entirely healed. More than a year later he was in excellent condition. The fifth patient, under the care of Mr. Davies-Colley, was a boy, four years of age. Tracheotomy was first performed and then, on a subse- quent occasion, an incision in the middle line was made through the cartilages and upper rings of trachea. The growths were most exuberant. A month later the tracheotomy tube was discontinued in the day time* but subsequently its use had to be resumed. A second operation was’ performed seven'months later and has apparently been quite successful. In the second, third, and fifth cases nitrate of silver was applied after the removal of the growths, in the fourth perchloride of iron was used. Appended to the paper are notes of all the cases in which similar operations have been performed of which the record is accessible The cases are 3 2 in number; including his own, 3 7. In at least 19 of these the operation was completely successful, in 7 partially successful, and in 4 temporary benefit resulted. (In a note 2 other successful cases are mentioned.) In 3 cases the result was negative. Five cases were not completed but were progressing favourably. In 2 cases death appears to We resulted from the operation. Dr. Mackenzie, in his monograph on Growthyn the Larynx,’gives 9 out of 28 as the proportion of deaths, but Mr. Durham considers that 7 of these deaths occurred from circumstances unconnected with the operation. He gives the facts nf the cases. Mr. Durham remarks on^he difficultierattWi^^^^^^^^^^ operation. First with regard to hemorrhage. If the incision be kept strictly to the median line it is impossible that any large vessel can be wounded. Any woimded vessel is fully exposed^ The wound beW open, if blood pps down the trachea it is soon coughed up again^ Bleeding Ironi the interior of the larynx is easily controlled by pres^sure or styptics. The introduction of a canula, if not already in SSn and the insertion of a small piece of sponge into the trachea above the w'thp^S f1 aid in securing free respiration and hindlr- mfnts nf blood down the air-passages. The spasmodic move- ments of the larynx and the paroxysms of cough often cause delav bnt these generally subside after a time. Division of cartilacrpq ff * proceeding seems to Mr. Durham unneccssnrv a some important part of the larviiY i. ' ^ unless necessa^musthLemoved w “ prohahly host to begin hy Styrotr anfRErOitT ON StmGEIlY. 324 tliyroid membrane and subsequently to continue the section upwards and downwards as far as necessary. Cases in which extensive inci- sions have been made have proved as successful as those in which the thyroid only has been divided. It is advantageous, if tracheotomy have not already been performed, to insert a canula during the operation and leave it in for a few days at any rate. If the growths be few, in certain cases, it may not he necessary to leave the tube in. The result of Mr. Durham’s consideration of the subject shows, ist., that the dangers and difficulties attending operative procedures are neither so numerous nor so considerable as have been represented and commonly supposed ; and, 2ndly, that the success hitherto achieved has been so marked and so indisputable as to justify and encourage, in any such case as may seem appropriate an earlier, bolder, and more ready resort to this method than has hitherto prevailed. (‘ Med. Chir. Trans.,’ vol. Iv, 17—90.) In a most’complete monograph, well illustrated. Dr. Mackenzie enters thoroughly into the consideration of the whole subject of laryngeal growths. He details 100 consecutive cases treated by himself, and also gives a resume of cases treated by others. Of 93 of his cases in which growths were removed joer vias naturales, in 72 a cure resulted. Stricture of the trachea.—In an article on operations on the air- passages, in the ‘ Archiv fiir Klin. Med.,’ xiii. Dr. Trendelenburg re- lates the case of a girl, a3t. 19, who came into hospital in Berlin in June, 1867, suffering from dyspnoea and complete aphonia; she had for several years had hoarseness, dif&culty of swallowing, and shortness of breath. On the 27th, Dr. Trendelenburg opened the trachea below the thyroid body, on account of an urgent attack of dyspnoea. In perform- ing the operation he noticed that the peritracheal tissue was much thick- ened and indurated. Dour months later an ulcer formed at the point where the canula pressed, and increased rapidly. A second tracheotomy was accordingly performed above the thyroid body, but it was now found that the canula would not pass, in consequence of a stricture, which would only admit a very fine urethral bougie. An attempt had been made at first to examine the parts with the laryngoscope, but had failed in sequence of the diseased state and faulty position of the epiglottis. A lonc^ slender canula was introduced with an india-rubber plug, into the lower opening; the plug was inflated, and pressure was exercised on the oranulations surrounding the opening, so that they now disappeared. Attempts were now made to treat the strictured portion by internal incision; but the only result was to produce emphysema of the neck. Dr. Trendelenburg accordingly, on March 19, 1870, laid open the trachea from the cricoid cartilage to the lower opening; the tissue cut like cartilage. Conical pieces of tin, gradually increased in size, were introduced. The patient, who had been unable to speak, was able to utter sounds at the end of five days, when the canula and pieces ol tin were removed. After three weeks, the strictured part was found to be dilated to the extent of 1-2^ centimetre; the wound in the trachea was nearly healed, but respiration through the glottis was still very imnerfect. On examination, it was found that the obstruction was caused by the epiglottis, which was ulcerated and much swollen andDISEASES OF JOINTS^ ETC. 325 inclined backwards. A portion of it was removed with good effect; the breathing, liowever, did not become quite free, as there was paresis of the vocal cords, which yielded, however, to tlie application of elec- tricity continued for some time. The canula could not be removed, as this was in a few hours followed by renewed shortness of breath. The patient, however, gained the power of walking and ascending stairs with the canula closed; and in time she learned to introduce bougies herself through the glottis. Joint disease, necrosis.—Mr. Treves narrates some interesting cases of necrosis of the ends of bones leading to joint disease, and in which after the removal of the sequestra the latter subsided. A boy, set. ii, was admitted with disease of the left knee following necrosis of the end of the femur. He also suffered from necrosis of the lower end of the right tibia. The disease probably followed on an attack of rheumatic fever eleven months previously. The knee was much swollen, was contracted, and there were sinuses. After five months’ residence iu'the hospital at Margate, Mr. Treves made an incision below and on 'the inner side of the joint, and removed in three fragments a large seque- strum, which had become separated from the lower end of the femur. It was between two and three inches long, and about an inch in diameter, and corresponded to the lower third of the shaft of the femur; passing downwards it had been discharged through the con- dyles and the knee-joint. Eecovery with useful limb followed. Sequestra had previously been removed from the tibia on the inner side. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the knee and a sinus in the popliteal space, probably of twelve months’ duration. After about nine months’ residence, Mr. Treves removed a sequestrum from the back of the outer condyle of the femur. The boy was_ discharged able to walk on the limb. A boy, set. 10, was admitted with disease of the hip. A sinus on the front and outer side, led to bare bone. At the end of about mne months a sequestrum was removed from the inner side of the joint, the sinus having passed under the femoral vessels and opened on the inner side. The child did well. A boy, set. 7, had disease of the nkle. After seven months a sinus on the outer side was enlarged and a small sequestrum, which had separated from the lower end of the tibia towards its fibular side, and lay in contact with the joint, was removed through the joint. _ Tour months later the child could walk with ease. The average time required for the separation of the sequestrum was about eighteen months. (‘Lancet,’ Hov. 18 i8^ Disease of joints from continued rest. — Dr. Menzel writes nn fEia subject in the ;Archiv fiir Klin. Chirurgie,’ 1871 He remaX th^^^ Cloquet and other authors observed some time ago that ankvlosis was sometimes the result of prolonged disuse nf mi of the eonrlhinr. nf aisuse ot joints. The earlier stages ° w^ich ankylosis is the termination were fu-st In® W e==™iuation ofsTx’indMdul Wn limbs, and hid tteeby een jjrevented for long periods from using the joints. They found in mem'b w n iufiltiation of the sy“ovS membiane, and ulceration of the cartilages. Mensel has tested the326 EEPOltT ON SUROEUY. correctness of these observations by experiments on dogs and rabbits, the extremities of which were encased in plaster of Paris, and examined at periods varying from one to ten weeks. In most cases, at the end of ten weeks, the same appearances were found in young rabbits as bad been described by Bonnet and Teissier. In one case there was crepi- tation in the joint. The synovia contained numerous red corpuscles and epithelial cells ; and the cartilages were found to have undergone proliferation of the nuclei, with conversion into a fibrous tissue rich in spindle-shaped cells. Menzel concludes that the retention of the articular surfaces in contact by means of the surrounding elastic structures has a mischievous effect; and that the ulceration of the cartilages is analogous to bedsores, arising as it does from the constant pressure of the same points against each other. Sip-joint Disease.—K clinical lecture by Dr. Sayre on the treatment of hip-joint disease with a description and figure of his own splint for keeping up extension will he found in the ‘Brit. Med. Journ.’ July 22, 1871, also ‘Med. Times and Gazette,’ July 29. . 0.11. Dr. Morton publishes a lecture on the subject of excision in disease of the hip (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’Jan. 20, 1872). Chronic Eheumatic Arthritis.—Numerous specimens have been exhibited by Mr. Hutchinson (‘Path. Trans.,’xxiii, X94). Loose Cartilages in the knee-joint.—Ur. Square records twenty-four consecutive and unselected cases, cured, without anxiety or accident, by subcutaneous incision (‘Brid. Med. Journ.,’Sept. 23, 1871). . . , . Mr. Lister speaks of the removal of loose cartilages under the antiseptic dressing (‘Brit. Med. Journ..’ Aug. 26, 1871). Spina lijlda treated ly tapping and pressii/re.—A child, set. 25 days, was brought into the San Jose Hospital, in Lisbon, under the care of Dr. Camara Cabral, on November 21,1871. It^had spina bifida in the lumbo-sacral region ; the tumour was 40 centimetres in circumference, and measured 17 centimetres, longitudinally, and 10 transversely. It was transparent and fluctuated, but appeared to contain solid matter as well as fluid. Convulsions were not 'produced by manipulating the tumour, nor was there any paralysis or other sign of injury of the nGrvous systein. On tlie 29th it was tapped by means of Dieulaioy s aspirator, and 409 grammes of yellow, transparent fluid, containing much albumen, were removed. Compression by means of adhesive nlaster was employed. Some vomiting and loss of appetite were the only symptoms that followed the operation. The tumour refilled m the course of a few days, it was therefore again tapped, 2 jo grammes of fluid being remoyed, and on December 14th, 425 grammes were drawn off. On two subsequent occasions 175 and 12 j grammes were removed by the aspirator; the fluid had become more albuminous thp it was at first. The last two operations were followed by meningitis whmh vielded to remedies. The child recovered, and was exhibited by Dr. Cabral at a meeting of the Lisbon Medical Society, on February 17. (‘"o Correio Medico de Lisboa,’ March i, 1872.) Dr. Morton records a cas^ cured by injections (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April 6, 1872). TRceration of the jugular veins.—Dr. Gross writes an elaborate paper n-n ulceration of the jugular veins, communicating witli an abscess or nr, nnen sore He also alludes to the cases which have been recorded, to Xh arteries hare been opened by nlceration, &c., and to Mr, B.r-ULCERATION OF THE JUGULAR VEINS. 327 kett’s case of abscess of tbe neck opening the arch of the aorta. He says that erosion of the blood-vessels is by no means to be anticipated in cases of abscess, &c., of the neck, as they are strengthened by fibri- nous deposits outside, and often coagula inside. The pressure of an abscess on a vein often causes its obliteration, whereas arteries appear more disposed to ulcerate. Having met with a ease of fatal haemorrhage from perforation of the internal jugular vein, in consequence of difi'use or gangrenous cellulitis, after an attack of scarlatina, he turned his attention to the subject. He gives the details of twelve cases, from which it would appear that ulceration of the jugular veins attacks the two sexes with equal frequency, and to be eminently a lesion of early life, since lo of the 12, in which the age is noted, occurred between the second and thirteenth year, the average being the sixth year, while in the remaining 2 the patient had attained the age of maturity. The efiicient cause of the destruction of the coats of the vessels was, in 11 instances, diffuse cellulitis following their course, and that disorder must be regarded, in at least 10 of the cases, as one of the secondary expres- sions of the morbid poison of scarlet fever, developed immediately after its termination or during convalescence from it. When the cellular in- flammation has culminated in an abscess which has been opened by the surgeon, or has opened spontaneously, haemorrhage from perforation of the jugular veins may be looked for within the first week. In 2 of the cases the bleeding was immediate; in i it was deferred until the seventh day; but the average date of its appearance was the fifth day. After haemorrhage has once occurred, investigation of the cases narrated shows that a fatal result may be anticipated. In 3 instances it occurred immediately, % being found dead in their beds; i was fatal in a few hours; while in 6 other cases, in which the date is recorded, it varied from thirty hours to the fifth day after the first haemorrhage, the average being the third day, and then from repeated recurrence of the loss of blood. Three distinct pathological processes are probably included in the perforation of the vein. In i case there was probably a limited necrosis from cutting off of the vascular supply, an eschar of upwards of an inch in extent having plainly been visible before death. In another the vein gave way from the loss of the support of an abscess. In all the other cases the ulceration was due to progressive inflamma- tory changes or difi’use (suppurative) phlebitis. In only 2 was there thrombosis of the affected vessels. In one case the coagulum was of a limiting nature, in the other the thrombus had softened, and led to secondary^ obstructions and metastatic deposits. The appearance of the ulcer IS noted in ii instances. In i the external jugular vein was pertorated like a sieve, m a space three quarters of an inch in extent ” In another there were two openings in the internal jugular vein, one of about the size of a pea, and a second in the form of a slit half an inch in length. In all the othps the opening was single. In 2 it was cir- cular while in the others it was of an oblong or ovoidal form, and varied from four to twelve hues in length. In only i was there any inflam- matory appearances about the margins of the opening or of the internal coat of the vessel. In only 2 cases were the edges of the ulcer irregular or jagged. In the remainder it appeared as if the walls of the vein hadREPORT ON SUROERY. 3^8 been removed by a sharp scalpel. In only 2 of the cases did tho contents of the vein communicate with a closed abscess, and blood flowed at once upon an incision being made into it. It is scarcely pos- sible to diagnose sucli a condition. In 2, however, there were sus- picious symptoms. In i there existed “ a certain tremor, which was perceptible by the hand, and noise which could be heard with the ear,” while, in the other, pulsation was very evident, and it could not be de- termined whether it was resident in the tumour or communicated to it by the carotid artery. In both cases there were no signs pointing to the presence of venous blood, but a careless examination might have given rise to the supposition of an aneurism. Introduction of air was only met with in one instance. A month before the death of the patient, while dressing her neck, there was slight bleeding, followed by a gurgling sound, &c., and alarming syncope, from which she gradually recovered under the use of stimulants. “ The practical lessons to be deduced from the study’of the facts contained in this paper are,—Tirst, that acute, destructive inflammation of the tissues of the neck and deeply seated abscess, which has existed for some time and suddenly takes on acute action, may, if unchecked in their progress, lay bare and perforate blood-vessels, and that this result is to be feared more particu- larly when diffuse cellulitis follows grave forms of scarlatina or other acute speciflc diseases. Secondly, that scrofulous abscesses and ulcers are not always indolent, but may, under favorable circumstances, that is, in an enfeebled, broken-down condition of the system, rapidly assume a phagtedenic condition, and lead to the same complication. And thirdly, that the large arterial and venous trunks are more liable to be involved than their branches.” Incisions should be made early to check the inflammation. If the surface of the sore be unhealthy, chloride of zinc in solution, &c., may be used. Poultices should be avoided. If the gangrenous action be extensive and spreading, the hot iron may be lightly applied. The general condition of the patient must be attended to. As to the treatment of the hemorrhage little can be said, as all the cases proved fatal. In all the cases in which it is possible to apply a ligature, and the disorganized condition of the parts does not contra- indicate its employment, it should be resorted to in preference to other hemostatic agents. It is perfectly safe, and is not open to the objec- tions which can be justly urged against compression.* _ In the cases detailed the latter was utterly ineflicient. If it be tried it should be in the following wayAn assistant’s finger should be placed above the wound, a small piece of sponge should be held in contact till it adheres to the orifice, and should then be supported with a compress and adhesive strips. Instead of the sponge, a piece of lint dipped in dilute solution of persulphate of iron may be employed. This will exercise a beneficial influence in checking gangrenous action and correcting the ofiensive discharge. (‘Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Ainil, 1871, 337.) Intrabuccal resection of the inferior maxillary nerve.—pv. A Menzel, of Vienna, describes in the ‘ Archiv fur Klin. Chir.,’ xiii, two cases in which resection of the lower maxillary nerve was performed by him and * See ‘Retrospect,’ 1867-8, p. 283, and ‘Am. Jonru. Med. Sciences,’Jan. and April, 1867,329 EESECTION OF NERVES^ ETC. by Dr. Billroth in the manner proposed by Paravieini, of Milan, in 1858. The corner of the mouth being held wide open, an incision three centimetres long, running obliquely from within outwards, is made along the anterior border of the ramus of the jaw through the skin and the anterior fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle. The connective tissue between the pterygoid and the periosteum is then torn through with the finger, the nerve is easily reached at its entrance into the dental canal, and a portion is removed. The lingual nerve is easily avoided by taking care to trace the nerve to its entrance into the bone. In Menzel’s case the nerve was raised on a hook, and a piece four lines long was excised. The bleeding was very slight. Billroth raised the periosteum from the bone, and having surrounded the nerve with a thread, cut out a piece ten centimetres long. Menzel says that the mtrabuccal method of excision of the lower dental nerve is attended with less extensive injury and is less dangerous than the other plans • that It leaves no disagreeable results—such as scars, facial paralysis, or salivary fistula; that the nerve is readily rendered accessible, and may be excised even to the extent of ten centimetres ; that the hemorrhage 13 slight; and that the operation is not difficult of performance Dr described by Dr. Meusel, of Gotha, in the Deutsche Klmik for mvernber, 1871, in which the intrabuccal operation was performed, but both the dental and the lingual Lrves were divided. He believes that this is the first case in which ™e operation has been performed on the living subject. Paravieini operated only on the dead body, and up to a recent date his proposal had no supporters, but several opponents. " ^ ^‘^Posure and extension of the ?8?/Jn rccoyery.—Iu the ‘Lancet,’ ,0 triumph. The patient was a soldier who had been injured in the ™ sufiered from spasm of the arm, from anaesthesia and from nain' to the probable seat of the mischief Dp Im’rl i stretched it, then the nerves aronnd the ® them, and lastly the cords of the h h- | artery and stretched dividl,ally and ZoroLly S^^^^^ The m Dr^GarLr has^opra'^oth^^atfenr if possible; but successful cases h“e occurred a funnel-shaped, metallic vessel dn 11 is attached which hot wate^Ts to be rour^d bp^^^ ^ through venient handle. To the other end Is ^ to enter the vein. About five inches metal, capillary point segment of glass tub in a 4ort fa, 1X1 oraer that it may be known when the830 EEPORT ON SURGERY. supply of blood is exhausted, and to avoid injecting air. If the funnel is held up, the blood will usually flow; if not, the hand-ball can be used. (Am. Journ. Med. Sciences, Jan. 1872, 105.) _ Dr. Winants records a case in which he employed transfusion. The carotid artery of a lamb was opened to supply the blood, which was not defibrinated. The patient decidedly rallied, and survived for a fort- night. At the time he appeared moribund. (Ibid, Jan. 1872, io8.) _ Dr. Aveling records a successful case of immediate transfusion in hemorrhage after parturition. A man employed as coachman furnished the blood. A tube was inserted into a vein in his arm, and the india- rubber portion of the apparatus filled with water affixed, another tube having been inserted into a vein in the patient’s arm, as was thought. It proved to be only in the cellular tissue, and was then properly inserted. Sixty drachms of blood were injected. The patient recovered com- pletely. A diagram of the whole method of operating is given. A bevel-pointed, silver tube is inserted into a vein of the patient, and this tube is'filled with water, and the thumb is kept on the open end._ An assistant prepares the blood-donor’s arm, and inserts a round-pointed tube in a direction towards the fingers. An india-rubber tube with a ball in the middle and a tap at either end is filled with water and fitted to the two tubes. The taps are turned on, the india-rubber tube com- nressed on the donor’s side of the ball, and the ball squeezed to send the water on into the patient’s vein. Next the tube is compressed on the other side of the ball, and the latter filled. The process is repeated as at first. Defibrination is not necessary. (‘ Lancet Aug. 3,1072, i470 Modification of Syme's rUnoplastic operation—Wv. Stokes operated on a man, mt. 39, a Scotchman, who was suffering from complete de- struction of the nasal bones as well as the nasal processes of supe- rior maxillary bones, and the soft structures covering them. Theie w^s a iLge opening, through which three fingers could be easily intro- d^Ld into the nasfl cavity, fortunately the soft parts constituting the tip of the nose remained intact, and the tissues around the opening anneared healthy. Mr. Stokes adopted a modification of several pio- cSures. He made two triangular flaps, with their apices above, at t nasal nrocess of the os frontis and their bases below and having fieely vivified the edge of the large, oval-shaped opening he transplanted the fwn +riT.n?ular flaps towards the middle line so as completely to coyer Ito liid Lited them in that situation with fine entomobgist • ^ /I P'lass silk sutures. The bases of the triangular flaps the upper margin of the lower portion of Tn order to fill up the defect at each side of the inner portion of the cheek, where, namely, the flaps had been taken, Sfo operation was performed. The flaps were made of a somewhat miadrilatoal form and were taken from the soft parts covering performed the whole or greater portion of the borfer of tTe Hp Bs advantages are simplicity and facility ofTREATMENT OF CICATRICES FROM BURN, ETC. 331 performance and slight cicatrices left afterwards. An illustration is given. The disease is removed by a quadrilateral-shaped incision. Prom the outer (and inferior) angles of the defect, incisions should be made downwards and outwards to the lower border of the inferior maxilla, terminating at about one inch and a quarter from the sym- physis. From the apex of the chin two other incisions, united above, should be made, parallel to the first ones, but underneath the chin, and each of them from half to three quarters of an inch in length. ’ The soft parts included within these four incisions should then be dissected off* the inferior maxilla as far as the inferior extremities of the two lower incisions (those, namely, beneath the chin) and these latter then permit the soft tissues of the chin to be pushed upwards, so as completely to fill up the defect made by the removal of the morbid growth. (‘ I)ub Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Dec. 187a, 444.) ' ^ Treatment of cicatrices from hurn.—'Dr. Buck records the case of a child affected with extensive cicatrices of the front of the neck, &c on whom he operated successfully. A broad band extended from’the chin to the sternum, approximating them to within two inches of each other At both lateral edges of the band, the adjacent, continuous sound skin receded, and formed a deep pocket behind the band itself BO that the fingers pressing from opposite sides were easily made to meet, with the skin only intervening. A photograph is given showing the great width of the band well. _ The patient being under the infiuence of ether, the entire cicatricial band was divided into three serrated, irregular fiaps, interlocking each other. One of the three was central with its apex upward at the symphysis menti: the other lateral, with their apices downward, and resting on the . diverging incisions carried from the sympmsis downward and outward to either edge of the band at the clavicles. From these terminal points an incisfon wafmSe alon^ either margin of the band, upward and outward, to the edge of the jaw. The three flaps were then dissected up from the subiacent loose, connective tissue, from their apices towards their bases. The disLc’ tion was carried beyond the limits of the scar. The flaps were adiSed lines of cicatrix formed and were notched.' The advanced means of an apparatus which is described in detaiUnd ^4urS^^^ T parallel bars were fixed along the back from the pelvis t? the' the chin above the collar thus fiirflic obliged to lift means of a screw behind, the chin could\e % patient recovered satisfactorily A woodcut offdepressed. The gi-ven. In the course of soine remarks D. t f .^^^1 appearance is of the removal of tl.e indurated cicatrized parts ty Z^gW^g, an”HEPORT ON SUEGERY. 333 tlie free detacliment of the remainder from the subjacent parts ; on the fact that tbe apparatus was kept on for a very long time (it was taken off at night) ; the repression of the granulations ; and the free division of the new cicatricial tissue forming in bands. Dr. Buck refers to other cases and apparatus. (‘ Am. Journ. Med. Sciences,’ Jan. 1872, 53.) Treatment of cicatrices.—Mr. Lister advocates division of cicatrices, stretching of the edges of the wound by india-rubber bands and the careful employment of antiseptic dressing. The latter consisting in applying folds and bandages of gauze (antiseptic) with a piece of water- proof material interposed next the skin as a “protective.” Underneath the outmost fold also a piece of waterproof material is inserted to make any discharge travel through a quantity of the gauze. The gauze admits air freely, but removes the septic germs. (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1871, 145.) Ossification of the marrow of hones.—At a meeting of the Academy of Medicine in Paris on January 9th, 1872, M. Demarquay presented a specimen of ossification of the medulla of the humerus. It was taken from a young man, set. 20, who had had his humerus fractured by a gunshot a year previously. An attempt was made to preserve the the limb, but the wound did not heal; numerous abscesses formed on the chest, and the arm became greatly swollen, and presented, through its whole extent, fistulous openings leading to diseased bone. The patient’s health being much impaired, disarticulation of the limb was per- formed. The humerus was divided longitudinally, and it was then found that the periosteum had formed a layer of new bone covering the whole shaft, but leaving openings through which the dead bone could be reached. The whole of the shaft had undergone necrosis. ^ The medulla had undergone ossification at the ends of the diaphysis, its periphery being transformed into bone, and the central part destroyed. Scapulo-humeral periarthritis.—Dr. Simon Duplay gives an elaborate description, in the ‘Archives Generales de Medecine’ for November, 1872, of an affection which is, he says, very_ common, but has scarcely, if at all, been thoroughly described in surgical works. Jarjavay, how- ever, in a paper on displacement of the tendon of the long head of the biceps, published in the ‘ Gazette Hebdomadaire,’ in 1867, gives a very accurate account of the early stages of the disorder. He says that con- tusions of the shoulder and sprains of the arm are very oftp followed by inflammation of the subacromial synovial bursa, producing the fol- lowing symptoms :—A sensation at the time of the accident as if some- thing were displaced; tumefaction of the shoulder; pain, preventing the movements of the arm, especially abduction; flexion of the forearni on the arm, and rigidity of the biceps muscle; increased pain, with crepita- tion beneath the acromion when the arm is raised and abducted, and disappearance of the pain and return of the power of movement after rest and the use of a sling, with the application of lotions to the shoulder. This description of Jarjavay is applicable to the acute form, but Dr. Duplay has extended his researches also to the chronic form of the afifection. After describing the symptomatology, diagnosis, pro- gnosis, and treatment, and giving several cases, he sums up in the lol- lowing conclusions(i) Direct or indirect injuries of the shoulder areSCAPULO-HUMEIIAL PEUiARTIIRITIS. 333 very frequently followed by inflammation of the tissues surrounding the seapulo-humeral articulation. This periarthritis is more especially localised in the subacromial synovial bursa and the subdeltoid areolar tissue, and gives rise to thickening and induration of the areolar tissue and of the walls of the subacromial bursa, and also to the formation of adhesions and fibrous bands, which impede or entirely prevent the head of the humerus from gliding on the concavity of the acromion and the inner surface of the deltoid. (2) Periarthritis is distinguished from disease of the interior of the shoulder-joint by the absence of deformity, and if there be any swelling, it is only in the acute stage, when it is limited to the summit of the shoulder. The characteristic symptoms of periarthritis are the following:—(a) The movements of the shoulder are impeded, sometimes to such an extent that the arm cannot be extended horizontally. In all the movements of the joint the relations of the humerus to the scapula remain unchanged, and the latter bone plays round its clavicular attachment. In some cases these movements are accompanied by crepitation, (b) There is pain on moving the arm, not at the level of the articulation, but beneath the acromion, at the attach- ment of the deltoid to the humerus. Pain is also caused by pressure below the acromion, at the level of the coracoid process. Sometimes, also, there is a sensation of tingling and of numbness along the limb as far as the hand. ^ (c) The forearm is sometimes semiflexed, and at- tempts to extend it produce pain in the fold of the elbow and in the neighbourhood of the coracoid process. (3) Periarthritis of the shoulder must be carefully treated at its commencement, if we would avoid the rigidity to which it gives rise. Gymnastic exercises of the limb, electricity, douches, and. shampooing, are the best methods. (4) In cases of chronic periarthritis the only means of procuring a rapid and comj)lete cure is at once to break down the adhesions and the fibrous bands. The use of chloroform is indispensable for this opera- tion, which may require to be repeated if the result be not satisfactory (5) After the adhesions have broken, the patient must be placed for some time under a course of gymnastic exercises, electricity, douches &c., until the limb has regained its power of movement. Periostitis of the temporal hone.—In an intere.^itincr pli'm'pnlREPORT ON SURGERY. su Treatment of imrsistent inflammation.—Mr, John Marshall writes ou the employment of solutions of the oleates of mercury and of morphia in the local treatment of “ persistent” inflammation. They consist, essen- tially, of solutions of oxide of mercury in oleic acid, being, in reality, the oleate of mercury dissolved in oleic acid, but to these solutions is added a certain quantity of morphia, which, in its uncombined state, is readily soluble in, and doubtless unites with, the oleic acid. The oxide of mercury precipitated by caustic potash or soda from a solution of the metal in nitric acid (which is a yellow impalpable powder) is, when recently made and well dried, readily soluble in oleic acid, especially when aided by a temperature of about 300° Tahr. The solutions are named according to the amount of oxide they contain. The 5 per cent, is a perfectly clear, pale, yellow liquid. They should not be rubbed on the skin, but merely smeared on. As a rule, from ten to thirty drops are sufficient for one application. This should be repeated twice daily for four or five days, then at night only, then every other day. In a case of chronic inflammation of the knee-joint treated, twenty to thirty drops of the ^ per cent, solution also containing a grain of morphia in the drachm were applied night and morning for about ten days, and then at longer intervals. A piece of linen was kept on the joint, then a layer of cotton wool, and over this a bandage from the foot to above the knee. The patient could walk at the end of a month. The 5 per cent, solution with the addition of an eighth part of ether is useful in sycosis, chloasma, and other forms of tinea. It destroys pediculi and their ova. In congenital syphilis a drop of the 20 per cent, ointment, about the size of a pea or bean, placed in the child’s axilla night and morning for five or six days is an effective and cleanly means of treatment. (‘ Lancet,’ May 25, 1872, 709.) T'eatment of e-pistaxis—T^v. E. Kiichenmeister, of Dresden, proposes to treat epistaxis by an instrument which he calls the “ rhineurynter,” and wffiich is, in fact, an imitation of the “ colpeurynter.” It consists of an india-rubber tube about 20 or 24 centimetres long, with a dia- meter of half or three-fourths of a centimetre, and ending in a bulbous extremity about i-l- centimetre long and from i to i-g- centimetre wide. The tube is guided into the nostrils by means of an ordinary sound, and the latter being withdrawn, air or water is injected so as to distend the bulb, which thus fills the naso-pharyngeal cavity and presses against the walls of the nares. (‘ O^ter. Zeitschr. fiir prakt. Heilk.,’ No. 22, 18^1 ^ Nasal mucous menibrane used in uranoplasty. M. Lannelongue com- municated to the Surgical Society of Paris, in May, 1872, the history 01 the case of a lad, set. 17, who had congenital fissure of the hard and soft palate. He had also harelip on the left side, which was remedied bv operation. The cleft in the hard palate was a centimetre in breadth, and to its right border was attached the septum narium. This suggested to Lannelongue the idea of transplanting the nasal mucous membrane. He accordingly made two perpendicular incisions in the membrane, before and behind, joined the upper ends by a transverse cut loosened the flap thus formed, and fastened its free border to the left edge of the fissure'after paring the latter. Union followed, and a fortmght after335 SKIN GRAFTING, ETC, the operation the membrane retained its original appearance, and con- tinued to secrete mucus, though in diminished quantity. Removal of foreign bodies from the external ear.—J. Gruber (‘Allge- mein.Wiener Medizin. Zeituug,’ Nos. 42 and 43, 1872) recalls attention to the old, but hitherto much neglected fact that foreign bodies are best removed from the external auditory meatus by syringing, and if they become impacted in consequence of swelling of the canal, they do less harm than the attempts made to remove them. He has lately made experiments for the purpose of ascertaining the eflect of astringent solutions in reducing the size of peas, &c., which are often introduced into the ear by childrea, and he finds that the only agents which pro- duce this result are a solution of sulphate of zinc and diluted lime- water. He therefore advises that, in cases of the introduction of foreign bodies, these fluids should be dropped into the ear. He relates the following case:—A carob bean had been pushed by a schoolfellow into the ear of a boy eleven years old. Attempts were made to remove it, but without eflect. When Gruber saw the boy, five weeks aftewards, he had febrile symptoms, and was therefore placed under antiphlogistic treatment. The foreign body lay deep in the ear, and water, when in- jected, flowed out through the nose, showing that the tympanum was perforated. After the febrile symptoms had abated the meatus was dilated, and solution of zinc dropped in. At the end of about three minutes the bean was removed by injection. Previously to the intro- duction of the bean the boy had been sufiering from purulent discharge from the ear; this, however, ceased some weeks before the foreign body was removed, and after the removal of the latter the membrana tym- pani was seen to present a cicatrix, but no perforation. Shin-grafting.—M. ^Ollier, of Lyons, in a communication to the Acade'mie des Sciences, on March 18, 1872, states that the method which he emj)loys to promote healing of ulcers consists in the transplantation, not of small portions of epidermis, but of pieces of skin 4, 6, or 8 square centimetres in size. These may be taken from the patient himself or from another person, the part having been first rendered insensible by a freezing mixture. In most cases M. Ollier has obtained these from amputated limbs. Any adipose tissue that may be present on the under surface of the flap must be removed before its application. By this process, M. Ollier says, a thick, stable layer of skin is formed, in piace.of thin, delicate, and unstable cicatrix which follows the operation 01 epidermic grafting. of ofrop/iy o/iie fanyue.—Mr. Fairlie Clarke relates the case FebrZ^i i6“T87t,‘'’n*‘“n'*A'‘ ■'emoTed from her right breast , . October 3rd the patient was seized with a deep* i,w olb olu of the head, of a periodic character, retmi- g g , c'fccu I and 2 a.m., and rendering her for some hours336 EEPOllT- ON SUllGEliy. incoherent and unmanageable. There was great turgescence of the vessels of the right side of the neck. On the 4th of December the pa- tient was so much better as to require no further attendance. It was at this time that the atrophy of the right side of the tongue was first noticed, though it was not then so marked as it afterwards became. On March 29th, 1871, the patient was found to be suffering in an aggra- vated degree, and, in addition, there was an alarming dysphagia, toge- ther with paroxysms of suffocative cough, which recurred about three times in the twenty-four hours. She could only put the tongue out very slowly, and seemed unable to do so at all at first. The tongue was crimped and puckered along its whole right side from base to apex, but these appearances were most marked in the anterior two thirds, and an actual loss of substance had taken place, so that this half of the organ seemed small and wasted. The loss of substance was bounded by the median raphe, and the contrast between the plumpness of the left side and the shrivelled aspect of -the right was very striking. The tongue was soft throughout; there were no hard nodules on it. N0 alter- ation was noticed either in the common sensation of the organ or in its special sense of taste. When the tongue was protruded there was no deviation to either side. The paroxysms of dyspnoea became more frequent and more severe, and on the 7th of June, in one of these pa- roxysms, she died. There was no post-mortem. Two published cases are quoted, one recorded byM. Dupuytren, and the other by Sir James Paget. Mr. Pairlie Clarke remarks that in his case he thinks there was good reason for supposing that the affection depended on the in- volvement of the right hypoglossal nerve in a secondary cancerous growth, either inside the cranium or at the upper part of the neck. The facts which lead to this conclusion are—the existence of an undoubted cancerous tumour, which was removed sixteen months before death, after it had been growing about a year; the general cachexia; the in- tense and deep-seated pain on the right side of the head and neck; the fulness and turgescence of the vessels ou the right side of the neck,^ denoting an obstruction to the circulation; the frequent attacks of dyspnoea and dysphagia, which probably depended on pressure on the pneumogastrie and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. These symptoms, together with the absence of paralysis of the extremities and the_clear- ness of the intellect, seem to indicate that the disease was not in the brain or medulla oblongata, and make it probable that there must have been an adventitious growth pressing upon the right hypoglossal nerve, and implicating more oi' less the pneumogastrie and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. The different situations in which such a growth might be placed are discussed, and the evidence which exists to show that the condition of the tongue might depend on an affection of the nerve itself is considered. An experiment on a rabbit is detailed. In an appendix, cases more or less similar are alluded to. An illustration of the state of the tongue is given. (‘ Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ Iv, 90.) [Abstracts of various papers on Cancer, Tetanus, Electrolysis, Treatment of Deformities, etc., etc., have been unavoidably omitted. JEEPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. BY EGBERT BREDENELL CARTER, E.R.C.S., OPHTHAIiMIC SBEGEON TO ST. GEOEGe’S HOSPITAL. The years 1871 and 1872 have been marked, like those immediately preceding them, rather by writings of a fugitive character, devoted to matters of detail, than % accounts of any researches or facts of striking novelty. The International Congress of Ophthalmology held its fourth quadrennial meeting in London, in the first week of August, 1872, but the report of the meeting has not been published at the time when this summary is passing through the press, and the papers read must be noticed on a subsequent occasion. In the course of the two years death has taken away five ophthal- mologists of eminence. Dr. Heymann, of Dresden, best known in this country by his ingenious aut-ophthalmoscope; Professor Gioppi, of Padua ; Professor Erederic Jaeger, of Vienna; Dr. Pamard, of Avignon; and Professor Stoeber, of Strasburg. Of these, the first two have died in the prime of life ; the last three were veterans, already resting from their labours. In England the literature of ophthalmology has been extremely scanty. Messrs. Churchill have published, in their manual series, a second edition of Macnamara’s treatise.* Mr. Streatfeild has re- written the chapter on diseases of the eye for a new edition of Erich- sen’s ‘ Science and Art of Surgery the ‘ Ophthalmic Hospital Reports’ have appeared irregularly ; and various papers have been published in the journals or read before the medical societies. In America the Archives of Ophthalmology and Otology’ have been continued, and a second volume has been completed. The ‘ Trans- actions of the American Ophthalmological Society’ have been issued irregularly. In Germany Dr. Hirschberg has commenced the publication of an annotated edition of von Graefe’s ‘ Clinical Lectures ;f Dr. Schmid I tA ^ Diseases of the Eye,’ by C. Macnamara. ‘KlmischeVorfcrageuberAugenheilkunde. Herausgegeben, erlautert und mit Zusatzea verseben von Dr. J. Hirschberg,’ Berlin, A. Hirscbwald. 22338 HEPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. has issued a treatise on the lymph-follicles of the conjunctiva ;* Dr. Salomon has written a tract on the diseases of the lenticular system,t founded on v. Graefe’s teaching; Dr. Otto Becker has collected and edited Heinrich Muller’s writings on the anatomy and physiology of the eye Wolnow, of Moscow, has published at Vienna a treatise on ophthalmometry ;§ and various tracts and inaugural dissertations have appeared. Dr. Nagel has commenced a yearly record of ophthalmo- logy,j] which is to embrace the scientific work of all countries. Prof Th. Leber has been added to the editorial staff of the ‘ Archiv fiir Ophthalmologie,’ and the ‘ Klinische Monatsblatter’ of Prof. Zehender have appeared as usual. In Prance Dr. de "Wecker has issued a Prench edition of Jager’s ‘ Ophthalmoscopic Atlas,’ with the original plates, and with a disserta- tion of his own upon the diseases of the deeper parts of the eye Galezowski has completed his systematic treatise,** and has com- menced, in conjunction with Dr. Piechaud, the issue of a monthly oph- thalmic journal.tt lu Holland the usual scientific papers have been added to the annual reports of the Netherlands Ophthalmic Hospital. In Belgium the ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ and in Italy the ‘ Giornale d’Oftalmologia Italiano’ have been continued with regularity. (a) Anatomy and Physiology. Ocular tension.—MonnikJJ has published the opinions of Bonders with regard to the principles of tonometry of the eyes, and the results of his own observations with an improved tonometer. Bonders points out that when we determine the ocular tension, either by the finger or by a tonometer, we estimate the force required to make a certain impression upon the tunics of the eye. The tension of the eye de- pends upon several conditions, and we cannot estimate simply and directly the hydrostatic pressure of the contained fluids. The pressure that we exert upon the eyeball from without diminishes its internal space, and displaces a portion of its contents, for which, the con- tents being incompressible, room must be found elsewhere. This room is afibrded (a) by extension of the remaining parts of the ocular tunics, an effect that will vary with their elasticity and with the * ‘Lymphfollikel der Bindehaut des Auges. Histologisclie Studie, von Dr. Schmid,’ Wien, 1871, Braumuller. t ‘ Die Krankheiten des Linsensystems, von Dr. Max Salomon,’ 1872, Brunswick, "ViGW6^» J Heinrich Muller’s ‘ Gesammelte und hiaterlassene Schriften zm- Anatomie und Physiologie des Auges. Zusammengestellt und herausgegeben von Otto Becker,’ Band, i, 1872, Leipsic, Engelmann. § ‘ Ophthalmometrie, von Dr. M. Woinow,’ 1872, Wien, Braumuller. II ‘ Jahreshericht iiher die Leistungen und Eortschritte im Gebiete der Ophthal- mologic,’ Erster Jahrgang, 1872, Tubingen, Laup. ^ ‘ Traite des Maladies du Fond de I’CEil et Atlas d’Ophthalmoscopie, par L. dc Wccker et E. de Jaeger, Paris, Delahaye. ** ‘ Traite des Maladies des Yeux,’ Paris. ft ‘ Journal d’Ophthalmologie de Paris.’ .. tt ‘Tonometers en Tonometrie,’ Dissert iuaug., Utrecht, 1868; ‘Bijbladen, lodo Versing, Nederl. Gasth.,’ v. Ooglijders, 18695 “Ein neuer Tonometer und sein Gehrauch,” ‘Arch. f. 0.,’ xvi, i, 49-ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 339 absolute size of the eyeball, since a larger surface will yield more than a smaller one; (b) by an alteration in the shape of the eyeball, which from being spheroidal will become more nearly spherical; (c) by the exit of blood and lymph from the vessels of the eye. It is only after estimating the value of these several factors that a sound judgment U2)on the actual degree of tension can be arrived at. The new instru- ment of Monnik is so contrived as to measure the force that is re- quired in order to indent the coats of the eyeball to the depth either of one fourth or of one half of a millimetre, and the inventor states that this force is about two grammes greater near the corneal margin than at the equator. In his final observations the tonometer was applied at an intermediate part, 6 mm. from the cornea. The tension of normal eyes was found to differ within rather wide limits, and Monnik defines normal tension as that in which a depression of ^th of a millimetre was produced by a pressure ©f between lo and grammes. He calls the eyes soft that require less than lo grammes, and those hard that require more than 15. From a small number of observations it would seem that tension naturally increases with advancing life; that there is frequently a small difference between the two eyes of the same person; and that the same healthy eye, tested at different times, may exhibit a difference as great as three grammes. In moderate degrees r tension was slightly below the normal, in high degrees slightly in excess, in hypermetropic eyes normal. Excess of tension was found in almost all cases of anterior synechia, esiiecially when complicating corneal ulcers or keratitis; in congestive amblyopia, in some cases of cataract, and in glaucoma. Diminished tension was found in aU forms of iritis except the sympathetic, in some cases of cataract, and in detachment of the retina. In sympathetic iritis a reduction of tension folloived the extirpation of the primarily iniured eye. Ihe efect of atropine upon tension was not satisfactorily determined. The instrument used in the researches was made by Verlaan, of Utrecht. ^ Coccius^ practises palpation of the globe by placing the tips of e index fingers first moistened with lukewarm water, directly upon f looks upwards. He believes that he Ln ness Congenital coloboma of the iris.—Qv. Pontit nro^ontprl Med.co Ohirurgical Conference of the UnivSi W^wle of hta Ws of thrieft*eve"1n^^ years, the subject of congenital fissure of the fo -r ” ’ direction downwards and a little inwards as by converaen”^ Thrc,T’ A*™® convex in the segment 20 corresponding with the coloboma. Vision was perfect (S=-, No. . 8n. read at There was no photophobia, although it had existed Bericht uber die Ileilanstalt fur arme Augenkrauke ’ t ‘Aunales ffOcuHstique,’ 1872, ii, 19.340 REPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. during the first years of life. The media and fundus showed nothing abnormal. The author related that, seven months before the birth of this child, his mother assisted at an iridectomy inwards and downwards on the left eye of a little girl. He thought it possible that the im- pression thus arising might have produced the coloboma. He also cast doubt upon coloboma being occasioned by an arrest of develop- ment, and gave reasons for attributing it to a process of intra-uterine infiammation. The diagnosis of colour blindness.—M. Woinow* brought before the Heidelberg Congress of 1871 a simple and easy method of dis- covering colour blindness. It rests on the fact that all the tones, including white, that are distinguishable by an eye which is blind for one of the three elementary colours, may be obtained from the other two. Thus, if the eye be afiiected with anerythropsia, all the colours it can distinguish, including white and grey, may be obtained from violet and green. If it be blind to green, all the colours it can dis- tinguish may be obtained from red and violet; or if to violet, from red and green. The author constructed a top, carrying four super- imposed concentric discs, each smaller than the one below it. The largest and lowest is coloured violet and green; the second, violet and red; the third, red and green; and the fourth, black and white, or grey. When the top is rapidly rotating the discs present a grey centre, surrounded by three variously coloured rings. The patient is asked whether any of the three rings seem to him to be grey, like the central disc. If one should present this appearance, the patient is blind as regards the colour absent from that disc. Retinal 'pulsation in aortic disease.—Dr. Beckerf read, before tlie Heidelberg Congress of 1871, an account of his investigations on arterial (retinal) pulse in cases of aortic insufficiency. He had observed, in concert with Dr. Sichting, that under such circumstances a spontaneous arterial pulse was visible with the ophthalmoscope in the direct image. At first he thought the observation new, but found afterwards that he had been anticipated by Quincke, who had pub- lished two articles upon the subject.^; Further and careful examination showed that in every case of insufficiency of the aortic valves, not complicated with other valvular disease, the arterial pulse was plainly visible, and the more plainly the more considerable the consecutive hypertrophy of the left ventricle. It W'as absent when valvular insufficiency was combined with very pro- nounced ansemia or with fatty degeneration of the heart. The pulse was visible, not only upon the papilla, but over the^ retinal surface, wherever it was possible to follow the arteries with the ophthal- moscope. . . n .-u The phenomenon is wholly different in its character from tne so-called arterial pulse of glaucoma, in which, on account of the resistance to be overcome, blood only enters the central artery of the retina at the acme of each successive pulse wave. The visible pulse of * ‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 112; ‘Arch. f. 0.,’ xvii, 2. + ‘ Armales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 275. J ‘Berl. Kliu. Woch.,’ 1868, No. 34; 1870, No. 21.341 ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. aortic insufficiency presents all the characters that can be recognised at the wrist by touch. It allows the observer to count on the retina the beats of the heart, to see the rhythmical distension and elongation of the artery, to recognise the distinction, during each pulsation, between the turgescence of the artery, its relaxation, and the pause ; in other words, it displays to view all the characters of the pulse, its frequency, its force or weakness, its sharpness or softness. By means of the ophthalmoscope the eye can follow on the retina, as on the table of a sphygmograph, all the undulations of the curve described by the arterial wave. The observation of the phenomena is not equally easy in all cases, or in all parts of the same retina. The distension of the arteries is best seen at a bifurcation, their elongation in those which present curves in the form of an S. During the arterial diastole the curves of the S in- crease, and return to their former position during the arterial systole. Sometimes the rhythmical and vermicular movements of the vessels communicate to the whole fundus of the eye a strangely animated appearance. It is well known that similar conditions may be observed in the mesentery of a frog. When a drop of water is suffered to fall on the exposed intestine, the muscular coat, by its contraction, in- creases the resistance offered to the arteries on their passage from the mesentery to the intestine, and their vermicular movements assume an almost spasmodic character. Dr. Becker has observed that, in a certain distribution of vessels on the papilla, spontaneous arterial pulsation may be found even in the normal eyes of healthy persons. He has also observed a case of detachment of the retina, in which the arteries, on their passage over the displaced portion, performed very manifest vermicular movements. But his most interesting observation was in a case of aneurism of the transverse^ aorta, in which the phenomena of visible pulsation were apparent in the left eye and entirely absent from the right. This condition could only be explained by reference to the seat of the aneurism, which must have been so situated as to involve the origins of the left carotid and subclavian, leaving the innominate free. The con- clusion to be drawn from this is that, in certain cases, the appearance ot a retinal arterial pulse might assist in determining the precise seat 01 an aneurism of the transverse aorta. In the discussion which followed. Dr. Weber, in reply to Dr de Weeker, gye an account of the retinal circulation at and immediately after dissolution Dr. Schmidt, who had taken part in Quincke’s obseryations, confirmed the general accuracy of Dr. Becker’s stemenL addmg, however, that the force of the pulsations varied from time to time with the degree of cardiac excitement. Dr. Becker reioined that a stimulant to _ render the pulse more visible. He was entirelv in accord with_ Quincke except on two points. That observer said^at the pulse might be manifest at certaiS moments and quitl inv^ible at others. _ He also claimed to have seen, besides the^Serial i u^ rhythmical coloration and pallor of the disc, which he attributed to a capillary pulse. In spite of the most careful and conscientious examhREPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. f ‘Aniiales d’Ociilistique/ 1872, i, 89. 343 nations, he had not been able to verify either of these statements. Dr. Schmidt observed that he had witnessed both phenomena. Dr. Becher did not doubt him, but regretted that he could not himself say the same thing. Befraction.—Dr. F. Erismann, of St. Petersburgh, publishes* a very full and detailed account of his investigation of the state of refraction of the eyes of 4358 scholars or students of both sexes, and of ages ranging from 10 to 24 years. Cohnf brought before the Heidelberg Congress the results of his examination of the dioptric _ state of the eyes of 240 village school children, after the instillation of atropine. He commenced by some observations on the paper of M. Erismann mentioned above, and stated his intention of analysing this paper fully on a future occasion. At the time he would only refer to some expressions in it which he thought a little too bold, and especially to this, that the use of concave glasses was hurtful to the sight of young myopes. Nothing could be more difficult than to determine, a priori, whether, given a certain degree of myopia, such or such a glass would be hurtful or not. In order to answer such a question it would be necessary to have a number of persons all with the same degree of myopia, all occupied in the same manner and during the same hours, and to give glasses to half of them and not to the others. Under such conditions, and after several months of observation, it would be possible to determine the influence of spec- tacles upon myopic vision. The chief interest that Dr. Cohn found in the paper of M. Erismann was the proof it afl^’orded of the great frequency of facultative hyperme- tropia. Among the children attending school at St. Petersburgh 44 per cent, were manifestly hypermetropic, and it might have been found that many others were really so if atropine had been employed. The author wished to fill this void in all previous researches; and he had been enabled, by favorable circumstances, to apply atropine to the eyes of 240 children at the school of Schreiberhau. He selected 142 boys and 98 girls, all who were old enough for his purpose, and first examined them for facultative hypermetropia without atropine, and found Hm. in 77 per cent. After atropinization he found H in 99 per cent., and in the following degrees: H = ^ in 26 per cent. -in 16 „ — in 12 „ 40 H = — in 6 per cent. 30 ^ 24 I 20 in 4 111 2 „ — in 1 „ 10 9 „ SO that the extremes were -gV and and the most frequent gi’ado * ‘Arcliiv. f. Ophth./ xvii, i, 1—79.343 SURGEEY. was 4^. He concludes that the normal eye among children from 6 to 13 is* not emmetropic, but presents a slight degree of hypermetropia. Cohn’s paper is published in full in the ‘ Arehiv fur Ophthalmologie and the same journal contains also (p. 292) his promised review of Erismann. The details are such that they scarcely admit of con- densation. Maklakotff has examined the refraction of the eyes of scholars twice, after an interval of a year, and his results generally agree with those of Erismann. He found that both the number per cent, of myopes and the mean grade of the myopia increased in the more advanced classes. Among 759 scholars, 284 were of the junior classes. Of these— 208 (73i per cent, were emmetropic. 69 (24i „ ) „ myopic. 7 ( 2i „ ) „ hypermetropic. 307 were in middle classes. Of these— 189 (61 per cent.) were emmetropic. Ill (36 » ) » myopic. 7(2^ „ ) „ hypermetropic. 168 were in advanced classes. Of these— 86 (51^ per cent.) were emmetropic. 73 (43i ) » myopic. 9 ( Sf » ) » hypermetropic. He also found myopia more common among girls than among boys, a circumstance which he attributes to such occupations as sewing, which require the close application of the eyes. Test types.—Burchardt has published^; a set of test objects, which he calls international, originally suggested by the test dots given in the ‘English Army Medical Report for i860.’ His introduction is trans- lated, and specimens of the tests are given, in the ‘ Annales d’Ocu- bstique.’§ He enumerates the well-known disadvantages of types as tests of the acuity of vision, and proposes to substitute for them groups of black dots or circles, variously arranged and of graduated sizes. The intervals between the dots are equal to their diameters, and vision is tested by the distance at which the dots of a given group can be seen and counted as distinct objects. Eor astigmatism he has black circles intersected by white lines in several directions, correspond- ing to the lines of Dr. Fray’s test types. He professes to be able by these tests to determine the state of refraction in each meridian, or in the eye as a whole, without the aid of lenses. It is worthy of remark that the principle of using dots instead of letters is not new, but was suggested by Dr. G-iraud-Teulon to the Ophthalmological Congress of 1862. The author makes no reference to this circumstance. (h) Surgery. Cataract extraction.—Dr. Mazzei, of Florence, in a letter addressed * xvii,_2, 305. t ‘Societe Phys. Med. de Moscou,’ 1871. J ‘ Cassel, Verlag.von A. Preyschmidt.’ § i, 1871, 25 et seq.REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. t Ibid., 1872, i, 157. 844 to Dr. Charles Delstanche,* enters at length into his method of cataract extraction, for which he claims a large proportion of success. He dis- penses with a blepharostat, and never administers an anaesthetic. He does not use the upper section except for prominent eyes, and prefers the lower wherever the orbital fat is absorbed, or the eye, from any cause, deeply seated. He entrusts the upper lid to the care of an assistant, who is told not to elevate it too much, and himself steadies the globe with two fingers of the right or left hand, according to the side operated upon. He then introduces a knife, of the general model of that of Graefe, but twenty-four millimetres long instead of thirty, and three broad instead of two and a half, at the junction of the lower with the middle third of the outer corneal margin, and carries it into the anterior chamber directed towards the pupil, or at an angle of 40° Avith the lower horizontal tangent of the cornea. When the widest part of the blade has fairly entered the chamber he changes the direction of the point in such a manner as to make a counter-puncture opposite the puncture, the cutting edge being turned directly downwards. The counter-puncture being fully made, the cutting edge is turned forward till the flat of the blade makes an angle of 45° or 50° with the iris, and then the corneal section is completed by a gentle sawing movement. The capsule is next lacerated, and an attempt made to extract the lens by simple pressure and counter-pressure. If this should not succeed, or if the iris should protrude before the advancing lens, an iridectomy is performed, and the necessary pressure again employed. The external incision may be enlarged if necessary. Six hours after the operation the writer ^ops in solution of atropine, and repeats the application every twelve hours, the lightly compressive bandage being changed each time. After three days the bandage is laid aside, but the atropine is continued for twelve days longer. The writer claims for his method the great simplicity of the operation, the almost constant preservation of the integrity of the iris, and a smaller degree of pain and distress to the patient^s, on account of the non-employment of blepharostat or fixation forceps. No statistics of the method are given. _ Dr. Martin, chef de clinique to Dr. de Wecker, publishesf a statistical report of the operations performed at the clinique during the second half of 1871. Among these were ninety-five for cataract, of which eighty-six were for spontaneous, five for traumatic, and four for con- genital cases. The spontaneous and the traumatic cases were all ope- rated' upon after the method of von Graefe, with modifications as regards the section of the sclerotic and as regards the manner of opening the capsule. The section is based upon the fol- lowino- rule:—The 'puncture and counter-puncture are made in the sclerotic tissue, a millimetre heyond the corneal boundary, upon a hori- zontal line two millimetres below the upper corneal margin. The Tcnife is made to cut its way out at the level of the superior corneal margin. In this way a flap is obtained, the summit of which corresponds exactly to that of the cornea, while its base, situated two millimetres lower, measures the whole width of the cornea at that level, with the addition * ‘Atmales d’Oculistique,’ 1871, ii, 202.845 SURGERY. of two millimetres (one on each side) from the sclerotic. If the cornea be of twelve millimetres horizontal diameter, the section thus made will he of eleven or eleven and a half millimetres, while that of von G-raefe never exceeded ten or ten and a half. This enlargement of the section is not necessarily attended by a large excision of the iris. A large coloboma may be avoided by not drawing out too much iris prior to excision; and, when the excision is made, it is always possible, if the iris should tend to lock itself into the angles of the wound, to replace the extremities of the sphincter by slight movements over the cornea with the convexity of the caoutchouc spoon. It is an important point in De Wecker’s section that the same rule suffices for all cases and persons, and, unlike Graefe’s, requires no modi- fication for very large or very hard lenses, or for eyes of small corneal diameter. Tlie division of the capsule is effected by a forceps resembling iris forceps, but furnished with a screw to regulate the extent of separation of the blades, and with a point on each blade to serve as a cystitome. The forceps being introduced closed and horizontal, until it reaches the inferior margin of the pupil, is then turned into a vertical position, so that its points perforate the capsule. The blades are then allowed to expand, so that the two points incise the capsule horizontally at the level of the pupillary margin. Still expanded, they are drawn towards the section, making two parallel incisions in a vertical direction. When nearly at the margin of the lens the blades are closed, the points making the second horizontal incision, and thus cutting out a square portion of capsule, corresponding to rather more than the pupillary area. As the blades are closed this portion is seized between the for- ceps teeth, and is withdrawn altogether from the eye. The forceps cystitome should on no account be introduced until the cut margins of the iris are restored to their proper position. After the operation both eyes are covered by circular pieces of fine linen, over which are pads of ungkzed wadding, so placed as to fill all the space between the orbital margin, the bridge of the nose, and the prominence of the cheeks. These pads are retained by a binocular flannel bandage, which exerts slight pressure over the eyes and renders the lids immovable. On the evening of the operation a dose of chlorai, hydrate is administered, and on the following morning, if the pupil is sufficiently dilated and free from cortex no atropine is used. It is only employed when the aqueous is a little turbid, when cortical masses remain, or when the iris is threatened with inflammation. The foregoing observations are followed by a table giving full details of each case and of the results obtained. Extraction without opening the capsule.—Hv. Hermann Pagensteeher* gives the results of the more recent experiments of his brother Dr Alexander Pagenstecher, in this method of operating, which, during the kst few years, he has appbed to 140 eases. Careful observation has led to the conclusion that the method is specially applicable to certain groups of cataracts, wlnle others are more successfully removed by j. ^ The delicacy of the latter in certain cases, and its intimate union with the zonula, contra-indicate the general adoption * ‘Annales d’Ooulistique,’ 1871, ii, 136.REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 34G of the proceeding. On the other hand, it seems to he especially ad- vantageous when the resistance of the capsule is greater than that of the zonula. In the latter category may be placed nearly all senile cata- racts, whether they are regressive and hard, or soft, as well as those in which, after the slow development of opacity, certain portions of the cortex remain permanently transparent, and never attain maturity. Such are, in general, of small dimensions, and the attachment of the capsule to the zonula offers but little resistance. Most frequently the cortical layers are in a regressive condition, and the cataract is conse- quently somewhat flattened. A third group well suited for the pro- ceeding comprises the cataracts which supervene upon irido-cho- roiditis or iritis, and which coexist with circular posterior synechiae. In such it is, of course, necessary to detach the adhesions, and this may be done with a small blunt silver hook. The fourth group comprises the cataracts that accompany iridodonesis, a state which depends either upon regression of the lens or upon diminution in the bulk of the vitreous body. The method is especially to be recommended for the cases comprised in the last two classes, in which there is a tendency to inflammation, and in which it is very important to protect the iris from debris of cortex and of capsule. There is a last and rare indication in those cases in which, prior to laceration of the cap- sule, there is escape of vitreous humour. On account of these it is desirable, even when intending to open the capsule, to be always ready to employ the scoop. Besides arriving at these indications, MM. Pagenstecher have much modifled their original method of operating. They now make a linear incision upwards, instead of a flap, and a large iridectomy. In a few cases, as soon as this is done, and the eyeball well flxed and turned downwards, a slight pressure on the lower border of the cornea will cause the lens, enclosed in its capsule, to present itself at the incision. G-enerally, however, it is necessary to employ a scoop, specially con- structed for the purpose by Messrs. Weiss and Sons. The scoop is carefully carried behind the equator of the lens, and made to glide over the posterior capsule until it reaches the equator on the opposite side. To facilitate this manoeuvre it is necessary to make slight pres- sure with the flxation forceps against the lower border of the lens, and thus to push the opposite margin upwards. After a slight rota- tion, produced by change in the direction of the scoop, such that its handle passes from the centre towards the inner angle of the wound, the lens is drawn upwards, the handle of the scoop being at the same time depressed towards the orbital margin. Thus there is produced a slight pressure of the lens against the cornea, which forbids the former to slip out of the concavity of the scoop. Its exit is at the same time promoted by a slight pressure on the lower part of the cornea by a caoutchouc curette, which is made to follow the advancing lens from below upwards. i j i. 4.1 Angesthesia from chloroform, which was always employed when the flap section was made, is now only practised at the especial request of the patient. Experience has shown that extraction with the capsme may be performed as easily through the linear as through the flap in-SURGERY. 347 cision. The author also finds that loss of vitreous occurs both less frequently and to a less extent than before. The subsequent treatment is the same as after other forms of opera- tion. The advantages claimed by the author are— The extraction of the lens within its capsule removes all predispo- sition to iritis. In 200 cases operated upon there has not been one of primitive iritis. The method excluded all secondary operations. The visual acuity is greater after this operation than after any other. In 12 per cent, of the cases S = i. 4 Notwithstanding these advantages, it is not attended by a larger proportion of lost eyes than ordinary linear extraction. The defects consist in the difiiculty of execution, and in the diffi- culty in certain cases of arriving at an exact diagnosis. Loss of vitreous occurs pretty frequently, but has never been found to interfere with the union of the section. It is necessary to observe that after these operations it is compara- tively frequent for the anterior portion of the vitreous body to become turbid. Without considering whether the same thing does not occur in other methods, it need only be said that such turbidity completely disappears after a while. It most usually appears after loss of vitreous, but seems to bear no relation to the quantity that may escape. Astigmatism after cataract operations.—Woinow* has been engaged with Eeuss in the study of astigmatism in aphakial eyes. He has arrived at the conclusion that the cylindrical glasses employed for ordinary astigmatism, and based upon ophthalmometric data concern- ing the curvatures of the cornea, will not always neutralise aphakial astigmatism, and that other glasses are to be preferred, of different forms and with their axes differently directed. Hence he’believes that aphakial astigmatism is not due to the cornea, but that it is seated in and due to the curvatures of, the posterior pole of the eyeball. He finds also that many aphakial astigmatics require a different cylinder and a different direction of the axis for vision of near objects, and he explains this by the supposition that a certain rotation of the globes takes place during convergence.f _ Glaucoma.—?vot Quaglinoi publishes an account of some expe- riments intended to determine what is the value of iridectomy in the treatment of glaucoma, and leans to the conclusion that the incision in the sclerotic is the essential element in the operation He has prac tised sclerotomy upon several eyes already lost from glaucoma, and has found a permanent diminution of tension and a clearing of the media as the result. Since then he has used sclerotomy also in progressive eases, and has been well satisfied with it. He operates with \ lance * ‘Prot. cle la Soc. Pliys. Med. de Moscou/ 1871. t This seems subtle; but surely the ordinary cause of astigmatism after cataract operations is the alteration m the curvature of one meridian of the cornea, due to f ‘ Annali di Oftalmologia,’ 1871.34<8 REPOllT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. ;j; ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 70. knife, as if for iridectomy, and withdraws the blade very gently, pressing upon the iris as he does so. If prolapsus should still take place he waits until the protruding portion is distended by the resecretion of aqueous humour, and then punctures it in the direction of the radial fibres. After this the prolapsus may generally be readily replaced. Dr. de Wecker, at the Heidelberg Congress of 1871,* referred to Quaglino’s results, and stated that he had himself made trial of sclerotomy in a somewhat different manner. He introduces a Grraefe’s cataract knife, by puncture and counter-puncture, as if to make a flap two millimetres in height, the point passing through the sclerotic very near the corneal margin. He then divides the sclerotic for two thirds of the distance between the punctures, leaving the central third undi- vided, and retains the knife in the chamber until the aqueous has escaped, when it is slowly withdrawn. In this way he avoids prolapse of the iris. His cases seemed to him to establish the value of sclerotomy in reducing tension, and to show that a cicatrix of filtration was the condition essential to a cure. Ulcus serpens cornece.—Pagenstecherf strongly supports Saemisch’s treatment of creeping ulcer of the cornea. The treatment previously employed at Wiesbaden consisted of atropine instillations, with warm poultices and compression, and it often yielded good results. But com- plete or nearly complete loss of vision was sufficiently common to render a trial of Saemisch’s method desirable. The results were— I. The ulcerative process was restrained within its existing limits, and thus the size of the eventual leucoma reduced to a minimum. a. The base of the ulcer became clean and less turbid, and the sur- rounding infiltration wholly disappeared in the course of a few days. 3. The pus or turbid matters in the anterior chamber were in great part evacuated, and the absorption of the remainder much promoted. The risk of occlusion of the pupil by the organization of false mem- brane was thus greatly diminished. 4. The tendency to iritis rapidly diminishes, and complete dilatation of the pupil is soon produced. 3. Existing ciliary neuralgia is commonly completely relieved, either immediately or after the lapse of a few hours. The precepts laid down by Saemisch were rigorously followed in the making of the incision. The after-treatment consisted in the appli- cation of a moist compress, the instillation of atropine, the application of a pressure bandage at night, and the frequent reopening of the incision. This last, however, was not continued for so long a time as by Saemisch, but only for from five to eight days. Corelysis.—Uir. de WeckerJ entirely condemns operations for detaching posterior synechia, either by corelysis or by Passavant’s method. He thinks that all such operations are usually followed by anterior synechia, the peripheral part of the iris becoming united to the corneal wound. The way in wdiich this wound is irritated by passing hook or forceps through it, and the necessary dilatation of the * ‘Aimales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 87. f ‘ Kliniscbe Monatsblatter fiir Augenboilkunde,’SUEGEEY. 34 pupil afterwards, combine to render such union probable; and the anterior adhesions are as perilous to the eye, if not more so, as those which they supersede. Dr. de Wecker relates the case of a gentleman who had a single, very fine band of anterior adhesion in his left eye, passing from the inner and lower portion of the pupillary margin to the small circumscribed scar of a nearly central corneal ulcer. Several ophthalmic surgeons attributed frequent attacks of peri-orbital pain to the presence of this adhesion. Nothing seemed more easy than to detach it, and the attempt was made, without success, first by Prof v. Hasner, then by Prof Knapp, and, lastly, by Dr. de Wecker himself. Dr. de Wecker made a small incision at the margin of the cornea, allowed the aqueous to escape slowly, and seized the iris near the adhesion with forceps. He found, however, that he tore the tissue of the iris instead of breaking the adhesion, and desisted after three attempts. Every operation was followed by union of the iris to the corneal wound, so that the patient gained three fresh synechiso without losing the old one, and without losing the pains for which he had sought' advice. Dr. de Wecker recommends, in all such cases, the excision of the portion of iris that is adherent. Suture of the etjelids.—Yevneml* related to the Societe de Chirurgie de Pans some cases in which he had pared the edges of the eyelids and united them by suture, in order to prevent ectropion after the extirpa- 1 epithelioma of the lower lid, and after other injuries likely to be followed by a contracted cicatrix, and also for the cure of ectropion actually established by such contraction. In one case he maintained the union of the margins of the lids for fourteen months. The results in aU his eases were very encouraging, and he advocates the employ- ment of his method in preference to plastic operations, which are usually only imperfectly successful.f ^ PurowJ confirms Passavant’s account of the excellent qualities of the so-cal ed marine grass (obtained in China from the spinning organ of the silkworm) for sutures. _ The threads produce no suppurftion^Tyen if they are sufi'ered to remain for weeks, and are especially adapted for £ r. f aDout the eyelids. In the same paper he refers to “ collodion for twisted sutures. As soon as the collodion IS dry the pins may be removed. He uses English sewin^ ne^les with broad points (glovers’ needles ?) and floss sillf Warlomont§ mentions a method suggested to him by the elder aumlot coutribatiou to ophttalmic surgery of entirely * ‘Gaz. Hcbd.,’ 1871, 473. ivrLr, and by Mr Bowman, by the § ‘Ann. d’Oculistique,’ 1871, i, 73. ^ ^ Wochensclir./ 1871. 155,350 HEPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SUROERY. unprecedented and most important character has been made by Dr. Hermann Cohn, of Breslau, who has recorded* his experience of the cases of injury to the eyes treated at the Lazareths of Forbach, Ileinitz, and Neunkircheu, during and after the Eranco-German war, and his paper is so novel and so important that it deserves a full notice. He commences by stating that the literature of gunshot wounds of the eye is extremely scanty, probably on account of the attention of military surgeons having been directed almost exclusively to the wounds of vital parts ; that even the statistical records of injuries to the eye are very imperfect, and that military ophthalmic surgery can hardly be said to exist, although the value of the organs implicated renders this branch of the art worthy of all attention. Estimating the superficial surface of the body at 15 square feet, and that of the eyes at 4 square inches, we might expect one injury to an eye in every 500 wounds. Demme, in the Austro-Italian war of 1859, saw, in all, 5 j cases of shot wound of the eyes, among which 19 produced blindness of both. Stromeyer, among 714 invalids from the Schleswig-Holstein campaign, found loss of eyes in 13 cases, hut has not recorded in how many of these both were lost. Williamson states that among the wounded from the last Indian campaigns there were 11 cases of loss of one eye, and a single case of loss of both. From the Crimean war there were 42 cases of destruction of a single eye, and 2 cases of loss of both. In the Austrian war of 1866 Niemetschek saw 9 and Mooren 4 cases of shot wounds of the eyes, and beyond these there are, within Dr. Cohn’s knowledge, no statistics upon the subject. No conclusion can he drawn from the number of soldiers invalided as blind, since the lists would exclude all the cases in which injury to the eye had been followed by partia,! or complete recovery. Even in the Franco-German war it was impossible to arrive at the facts with any certainty, since in a large number of lists of wounded the nature of the injury was not stated at all, and in others it is probable that eyes were involved in many cases entered as injury to the face, head, or brain. The only statistical guidance of any value is that furnished by Dr. Fischer,f who has based a comparative estimate of the relative frequency of wounds of different parts of the body upon 109,698 cases recorded from the annals of modern warfare. His table is entitled to weight on account of the large numbers on which it is based, and he gives 7-4 as the average percentage of wounds of the brain and head, and 3-3 as the average percentage of wounds ot the face There are, therefore, 107 per cent, of injuries in which one or botli eyes are liable to be implicated. If we assume that they v^l be actually implicated in 10 per cent, of such injuries, an estimate that is probably not much short of the truth, then the 100,000^ wounded 01 the Franco-German war would furnish 1000 cases of eye injur;^ Ihe care of the wounded was divided among at least 4°° German, Frenc , and foreign surgeons, and, especially at the beginning of the war the cases of injury to the eye were scattered among the several ruiiitary hospitals, along with all other cases that would bear removal, instead of Iming sent to the numerous ophthalmic hospitals of Germany, it * Contribution to Fischer’s ‘ Kriegschirurgische Erfahrungen/ Erlangen, 1872. f ‘Ueber Kriegschirurgie,’ Erlangen, 1868.351 StJllGERY. follows tliat scarcely any single surgeon enjoyed opportunities of observing many cases of injury to the eye, and hence Dr. Cohn has felt himself bound to make public the histories and results of 31 such cases that came under his own treatment. While on duty at the railway station at Saarbrucken, where hundreds of wounded passed daily, it was his custom to select the cases of injury to the eyes for treatment in his hospital at Heinitz ; and his colleagues, Drs. Discher, Waldeyer, Spiegelberg, Finne, Friinkel, and Busch, selected cases for him in the same manner at Forbach, Neunkirchen, and Ottweiler. In this way 14 cases were obtained, and the remaining 17 were seen for the first time after the close of the war, some at his own eye hospital at Breslau, others at a barrack hospital in Berlin. He treated 8 cases at Heinitz, 4 at Forbach, i at Saarbrucken, i at Heunkirchen, 6 at Berlin, and 7 at Breslau. .A.mong the 31 shot wounds there were 2 of the biain, 16 of the eye only, p of the face, and 4 of the cranium Among the 16 wounds of the eye the eyeball was ruptured in 8 cases and grazed in 2. In 3 the lids were wounded by fragments of shell and in i a fragment had penetrated the ciliary body. Of the 0 wounds of the face 3 implicated the superior maxilla and 4 the zygoma, and of the 4 wounds of the cranium i was of the temporal and 3 were of the frontal bone. The right eye was wounded in 13 cases, the left in 14. in one case double blindness and in another double nystagmus were produced by injury to the brain. ^ ^ In the 31 cases the following 70 conditions were observed. Dr Oohn has stated them, some in German, some in Latin, and some in p raseology hybrid between the two languages, so that his original words are quoted when his meaning does not seem to be absolutely Total loss of the eye {Totaler Defect des Auqes) Wasting of the eyeball . . ' Extensive wound of the eyeball {Vulmsperfectu Foreign body m eyeball Opacity of cornea . Hsemorrbage into anterior chamber Iritis Partial loss of iris {Defectus iridis partialis) Iridodyalysis , . . ^ ' Traumatic mydriasis Opacity of anterior capsule Hffimorrbage or opacity in vitreous body Kupture of choroid . Haimorrhage in choroid 'I-"” Cborio-retinitis with exudation Haimorrhage at yeUow spot Disease at yellow spot Detachment of retina Atrophy of optic nerve Complete amaurosis Inflammation of optic nerve Amblyopia without visible change Sympathetic affection without visible chanire Weakness of internal recti . ^ bulbi) 2 3 4 I 1 * 2 3 1 2 5 2 5 2 1 1 I I I 1 4 2 2 I 4 3REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. Weakness of external recti . . . . i Monocular weakness of accommodation . . . i Nystagmus . . . . . .1 Sympathetic hlepharo-spasm . . . .1 Ptosis . . . . . . .4 Lagophthalmus . . . . . . i Cicatrix of lid . . . . . .2 Poreign body in lid . . . . .2 Pterygium . . . . . . . i In a case of wound inflicted by a waggon-wheel passing over the eye there was laceration of the upper lid, followed by defective union; and a case of bayonet wound of the orbit was followed by paralysis of the rectus internus, complete ptosis, and pterygium. The operations performed in the 31 cases were enucleation of the eyeball in 3, and in 3 the excision of splinters of shell that had pene- trated the lids. The following cases are among those given in detail: Two cases of injury to the hrain. ’ I.—Jnschkat, set. 27, was injured in the brain by a chassepot ball before Metz, on the 14th August, 1870, and was struck down stone blind, but without loss of consciousness. The wound of entrance was situated an inch and a half above and behind the concha of the right ear in a line with a prolongation of the palpebral fissure, and therefore in the lower and posterior portion of the right parietal bone. When the patient reached Iforbach, on the 17th of August, a portion of brain the size of a walnut had escaped from the wound, and was adhering to the shirt collar. There was no wound of exit, and the ball was found lying about 2" behind and 1^' below the wound of entrance, a little to the rio'ht of the occipital eminence, from which position it was immedi- ately Removed by Prof. Pischer. Perception of light returned the same evening, and on the following day the patient could discern the (white clothing of the nursing sister who had charge of him. A small tity of brain tissue mixed with pus escaped daily from the wound, which was only gently syringed. The patient had perfect freedom of movement, and his taste, smell, and hearing were normal. There was no paralysis of either extremity. Dr. Cohn saw the case for the first time on the 22nd of August, eight days after the injury. The eyes were then, as they had been from the beginning, quite normal in external appearance. In the right eye the pupil measured 2^'", and promptly contracted to ii-'" under lateral illumination or direct lamplight. When looking at the illuminated face of the obseryer it discerned movements of the hand outwards, upwards and outwards, and downwards and outwards, but in no other parts of the field. Colour perception was lost, but the power of distinguishing whether large objects were bright or dark re- Cned, and, although movements of the hand were seen, the fingers “ould not be counted. The ophthalmoscope showed perfectly clear 3ia, the retina nowhere detached. The optic nerve was much swollen its margins obscured, its surface exhibiting a radiating stiia- tion in the course of the fibres, the veins distended and winding, the arteries very small, and a number of fine vessels were visible, such as are never seen in the healthy state. The whole surface of the disc was353 SUEGEEY. very red, with a greyish tone. Eetina healthy. In extreme abduction or adduction of the eye there were slight pulsatile movements of the globe. Tension seemingly normal. Left eye:—Pupil 3"' in diameter, con- tracting very little at the close approach of a flame. No perception of light in any direction. Aspect of nerve the same as in the right eye. The patient slept and felt well, and answered intelligently all questions put to him. All functions were naturally discharged. Pulse full, 30. Dr. Cohn gave a doubtful prognosis, and advised two leeches to be ap- plied to the inner angle of each orbit. The local circumstances pre- cluded treatment in a dark room, and when Dr. Cohn next visited Porbach, on the 23th of September, the patient had been sent away. The notes in the journal were:—“ August 26, abscess in the neighbourhood of wound and removal of splinters of bone after incision. Sept. 4, sudden acute headache and a rigor. Sept. 14, vision much improved, wound healing. Discharged.” Dr. Cohn remarks that this case presents many features of great in- terest. It is another illustration of the well-estabKshed fact that large quantities of brain substance may be lost without disorder of the intel- ligence. Secondly, it shows that even total traumatic amaurosis may terminate in recovery. Thirdly, that sudden increase of pressure on the brain may produce double stauungspapilla, with sudden loss of sight. That the blindness was not the result of concussion of the retina seems to be proved by the ophthalmoscopic examination, since such concussion is never attended by visible changes. It must be admitted that in gunshot wounds of the brain we never have symptoms of pure compression, those of concussion and contusion being always added. But in this case everything shows the predominance of compression; the slow full pulse on the eighth day, and the circumstance that per- ception of light was restored to the right eye on the eighth day, imme- diately _ after the projectile was removed. It is well known that V. Grrafe, in 1866, sought to explain the occurrence of stauungspapilla in intracranial tumours, by obstruction to the flow of blood through the cavernous sinus. He believed that the passive congestion of the retinal vein thus occasioned was multiplied by the constriction of the sclerotic foramen. Sesemann, however, in 1869, proved by careful iniections that the retinal vein always communicates with both the superior and the interior ophthalmic, and that by constant anastomoses at the inner angle of the orbit the blood from these veins can always find outlet by the tacial; so that increased intracranial pressure cannot afl’ect the ocular eirc^atiou in the manner supposed. In the same year it was shown by Schwalbe that the space between the two sheaths of the optic arachnoid space, and Schmidt, who re- peated Schwalbe s experiments, found that by injecting the arachnoid cav. y he could distend the space between thener4 sheaths quite up to the lamina cribrosa. Hence, he correctly inferred that increased intra- cranial pressure would force the arachnoid fluid between the nerve- sheaths, and produce swelling and compression at the lamina cribrosa so as to impede both the circulation of blood and the conduction of SaniPa^ ' T^ Produce the changes known as stauungs- papilla. Leber took the next step, for, in the autopsy of a patient who 23REPORT ON ’OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 354 liad been the subject of stauuugspapilla, he found considerable thicken- ing and an oedematous condition of the inner sheath, and of the lax cel- lular tissue separating it from the outer. This tissue was “much hypertrophied, and in most places increased almost to be an interme- diate layer.” The case now recorded seems powerfully to support Schmidt s view, since in no other way could the sudden occurrence of so great a degree of stauungspapilla be explained. The intracranial pressure must have been increased by the presence of the projectile, and the arachnoid fluid forced between the nerve-sheaths and against the lamina in such a way that the circulation and the nerve conduction were both alike arrested. It may be urged against this view that, as the ophthalmoscopic ex- amination was not made until the eighth day, there is no evidence as to the time at which the changes in the disc occurred. But Dr, Cohn contends that it would be far-fetched to assume a descending neuritis, in view of the instantaneous blindness, and refers again to the slow pulse as an evidence of pressure. It may also be objected he says, that a stauuugspapilla is not a suflicient explanation of total blindness, since many cases have been observed in which this condition has co- existed with almost normal vision. He points out, however, that there would be a vast difference between the sudden traumatic compression and even the same degree, if more gradually produced. He refers also to another possible objection, namely, that on Schmidt’s hypothesis every case of compression of the brain would be attended with stauungs- papilla, which he admits is not the case. He suggests the possibility that something may depend upon the part of the brain from which the increased pressure proceeds, and points out the need for careful oph- thalmoscopic examination in all perforating wounds of the brain. At present he is aware of only one recorded case at all similar to the fore- going,* and this was examined very superficially. a. The second case of brain injury befell Jaschke, jet. 23, who re- ceived a shot in the head before Paris,'’on the 20th of September. He fell, remained unconscious for half an hour, and on recovery found his left arm and leg paralysed, and an acute pain in the left side of the head. He was removed to the Gonesse Lazareth, and knew then where he was. He was wearing his helmet when wounded, and the ball passed through the right flap of the helmet and split against the skull. Half passed out through the back part of the right half of the helmet, the other half lodged in the brain, whence it was removed, three months later, by Prof. Konig, at Berlin, Dr. Cohn saw the case for the first time on the iith of April. There was then a cicatrix over the right parietal bone, not sensitive on pressure, measuring in length and in breadth and depth. The patient had complained from the day of the injury of a dazzling before the right eye, there being no dazzling of the left, and both being of normal aspect. After reading for half an hour the dazzling of the right eye became excessive, and was attended by lacrymation. If he abstained from reading he had no inconvenience, it being only produced by exercise of the accommodation. The left * Demme, ‘ Spezielle Cliirurgie, der Schusswuaden.’ Abtli. 2, p. 7.355 SURGERY. £11*1T1 £ID(1 1©^ 'W6TQ Still C010pl6t6ly p3;r£llyS6dj tll6 pflitlGHt USlDg 3, Crutcll. The pupils were of equal size, and acted equally and well to light. Before the removal of the portion of bullet from the brain he felt always a dull pressure in the right eye, but this disappeared a few weeks after the removal. The vision was perfect. Dr. Hecke, the assistant-surgeon in charge, stated that the patient would often com- plain suddenly of feeling hot, and that his pupils would on these occa- sions become widely dilated, soon returning to their ordinary condition. In the right eye A = |- but only with great effort and after half a minute. ISTo. Snellen was read fluently from 6" to i8". JMo. 3 from 6" to 30". Left eye, No. 3 fluently from 3" to 40"; No. i|- from to 18". In either eye S = i. No defect of fleld. Dundus quite normal; pupils of equal diameter. The case presents, therefore, the very rare condition of a monocular paresis of accommodation from gunshot wound of the brain. Eight cases ofrupUi/re of the eyeball. Enucleation in three cases. Anato- mical conditions of the enucleated eyeballs. Sympathetic ophthalmia. Eemarlts on the indications for, and on the performance of enucleation.— I. C. Slurzos, set. 23, wounded on the iSth of August, before Metz. The ball entered i" in front of the tragus of the left ear, passed through the left zygoma, the outer margin of the orbit, the outer part of the sclerotic, the cornea, and made its exit through the upper lid. Dr. Cohn first saw the case four days later at Forbach. The left upper lid was tense and hard, with a lacerated wound at the middle of its margin, and on its inner surface a ragged wound of conjunctiva and cartilage. The conjunctiva of the globe much swollen and chemosed. The cornea presented a ragged opening, which occupied four fifths of its surface, and from which a fissure passed in an outward direction for 3'" into the sclerotic. _ The cavity was filled by a dark mass in which no trace of lens or iris could be seen, and vision was entirely lost. The wounded eye was acutely painful, and was at once removed, and placed in diluted chromic acid for examination. The choroid was found detached from the sclerotic by a large clot that nearly filled the remains of the eyeball, and there was evidence of commencing suppuration. The lens, iris, vitreous body, and retina were wanting, probably carried away by the ball.^ On the 25th of Sept. Dr. Cohn saw the patient again and found him convalescent. The right eye read Snellen No. 2 from 2I", and No. 3 fluently to 36". There was no pain on continued exercise^of accommodation. 2. Borner, J., £et. 21, struck on the i6th of August, by a shot that entered the right eye and passed out through the neck. Seen by Dr. Cohn on the 20th. There was a small loss of substance of the margin of the tarsal cartilages, with cilia of both upper and lower lids, and the upper and inner quadrant of the cornea was separated from the rest by a gaping wound, through which a blood-tinged, watery fluid escaped, ihe sclerotic at the inner corneal margin is ruptured and separated ffoin the neighbouring lower and outer portion by a wound wide. I he ocular conjunctiva chemosed, the eye very painful, the cornea urbid, vision totally lost. The whole left cheek was much swollen, hot, and painiul, and there was marked facial paralysis. The ear was normal356 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. but 2'' bebind the lobe, at the margin of the hairy scalp, there was an in- conspicuous small opening, with surrounding tenderness, discharging a little yellow serum. The vision of the left eye had been imperfect from youth, and its lids were then spasmodically affected. Enucleation was advised, but was necessarily deferred in consequence of other calls upon the surgeons. It was performed on the 24th, by which time impending panophthalmitis had made further progress, the facial paralysis being unchanged. The edges of the lid wounds were at the same time pared, and brought together by sutures. Recovery took place favorably, and on Sept. 20th the left eye read Snellen fluently over a range of from 2" to 4". Without a lensj S = after neutralizing the myopia by — A, S = No distress of accommodation after prolonged reading. The eyeball was examined by Dr. Waldeyer, but it was so much destroyed by the injury that nothing beyond diffuse purulent infiltra- tion of the choroid was recognisable. 3, Legouey, set. 22, struck by splinters of shell before Metz, on Aug. 17th. After remaining seven hours on the field he obtained cold compresses from a Erench surgeon at the church of a neighbouring village, and after two days was sent he knew not where. On the 24th of August he came to Dr. Cohn, by whom, according to his own account, he was for the first time carefully examined. Immediately after the injury there was, he said, a considerable fluid discharge from the right ear, whether of Ijlood he did not know. There were numerous burns and abrasions of the skin over the right eyebrow, cheek, and side of the nose. The brows were powder-blackened, and at the outer extremity of the right eyebrow there was a lacerated wound i" long, discharging a quantity of greenish pus. The right lids were closed, the upper lid was moderately swollen and somewhat hard. On raising it the con- junctiva was seen to be red and much swollen, and a scorched brownish mass occupied the place of the cornea. Loss of vision complete. There was purulent discharge from the right external auditory meatus, and a watch could not be heard with this ear. Enucleation was performed with some difficulty, it being impossible to detach the muscles entirely from the torn sclerotic; and the eyeball was so completely disorganised that nothing but the sclerotic was distinguishable. A large number of small fragments of shell were removed from the forehead, eyelid, and cheek, and cold compresses were applied. G-ood recovery followed, and on Oct. 3rd the report was that the stump had good movement down- wards and outwards, but very little in other directions. Left eye normal, with no discomfort after continued use. 4. Sehn, H., aet. 23, struck by a chassepot bullet at St. Privat, on Aug. 18th, and seen by Dr. Cohn on September 13th. The wound of entrance was in the right ala of the nose, and was brought together by sutures two hours after it was inflicted. The bullet passed through the nasal bone, the left superior maxilla, and the left eye, to the temple, shatter- ing the upper part of the outer margin of the orbit, and escaping 2" in front of the tragus of the left ear. Many splinters of bone had been removed from the nose and from the temporal region. The eyeball was reduced to a small stump, in which there was no trace of cornea, and which was sensitive to touch. Conjunctiva of the globe much in-357 SURGEEY. flamed. Movement downwards lost, movement inwards and outwards limited, movement upwards very limited. The right eye had M = -Jy, with p!p. for No. 2 at 4-^", and was painful when used for very near vision. Tield normal. Dr. Cohn warned the patient of the possibility of sympathetic ophthalmia, and advised him to submit to enucleation if the field should become contracted, or if the pain felt in accommodation should increase. On the 6th of October he saw the case again, and found a better state of things. The p.p. at 2", the field normal, and all pain and inflammation had subsided. 5. Gommenginger, I., set. 22, wounded on Aug. 6th at Spicheren, and seen by Dr. Cohn on Aug. 13th. A bullet had entered at the junction of the nasal bones with the frontal bone, shattering the cribriform lamella of the ethmoid and the zygomatic process of the right superior maxilla, tearing the right eye out of the orbit, and issuing on the lower and back part of the cheek, in front of the right ear. The orifices of the wound and the cavity of the orbit were covered by healthy granulations, with abundant purulent secretion, and pus was also discharged from the nose and mouth. Crepitus could be clearly felt about the zygoma. The cheek was much swollen and very painful on pressure, the swelling simulating facial paralysis. In the course of time many splinters of bone were removed, and recovery took place. On the 23rd of Sept, the patient was discharged, the left eye being of normal aspect and free from discomfort. 6. Max, K., set. 27, wounded at Le Bourget on the 21st of December, at 9 a.m., when in the act of leaping over a ditch. Eelt as if his left eye had been pierced by a needle, then lost consciousness and fell into the ditch, where he remained two hours. At five in the evening found him- self a prisoner in the hospital at St. Denis. Had a sensation of empti- ness in the left orbit, and was told that his eye was gone, but does not know whether it had been removed by the surgeons. The wound was inflicted by a round ball from a Eemington rifle, and the ball, which he savv, seemed torn, as if it had been itself explosive. A portion of the patient’s gold spectacle frame was imbedded in the bullet, and near this a portion of one of the lenses, fused to an opalescent condition. The bullet was extracted on the sixth day after the injury, from the left sterno- mastoid, about below the lobe of the ear. After sufiering many pri- vations he was given over to a Prussian outpost on the 5th of Eeb., and Dr. Cohn saw him on the iith of May. The margins of the lids were united towards the outer canthus, so that the fissure could not be opened more than 3 and about t!' of the frontal process of the malar bone was wanting. The palpebral conjunctiva was almost of natural aspect, the ocular somewhat swollen. Nothing could be seen of the eyeball, the place of which was occupied by a cicatrix of two branches meeting at an angle, and with somewhat swollen margins. In the inner and upper part of the orbital cavity a probe detected some hard substaime, somewhat but not very sensitive, possibly remains of an eye- a . Eight eye M=3i, S = i, with difficulty, and under good illumina- tion. bndlen No. i was read fluently from 2" to 4". Eield of vision nonnal. On the 15th of May, in very good daylight, he read S=i with 4. Dr. Cohn instructed him concerning the premonitory signs ofREPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 358 sympathetic ophthalmia, which might be excited if, as seemed possible, some portion of the spectacle were still imbedded in the orbit. He was supplied with an artificial eye, which was but little movable. 7. Steinmetz, !P., set. 26, struck on the right eye and cheek by shell splinters before Hravelotte, on the i8th of August. He was for some hours insensible, and on recovery found himself in a lazareth, where he discovered that he had lost the sight of his right eye, which gradually dwindled. During the first four weeks after the injury his left eye was very sensitive to light, and he had sensations of dazzling when he at- tempted to read. Dr. Cohn saw him in the following April, and found some badly healed scars about the right eyelids, and the globe shrivelled up to a small knob, freely movable in all directions, very soft, and not sensitive on pressure. The left eye quite normal. 8. Eakel, A., aet. 30, wounded by a chassepot bullet before Le Mans, on the loth of January. The ball pierced the root of the nose and the left eye, and passed out through the outer margin of the orbit. On the loth of April Dr. Cohn found the left upper lid greatly thick- ened, with discharge of pus from the orbital cavity. On lifting the lid with a retractor, some hard substance was felt, but it was impossible to say whether this was the stump of the eyeball or a fragment of bone, since the patient was excessively sensitive to pain, and refused to take chloroform. The right eye was of normal aspect, and the pupil acted naturally, but the patient complained of constant dazzling when he looked at any object. He could only read No. 14, and that imperfectly. No convex lens helped him, but only produced increased strain. The daz- zling had become much worse since he was wounded. An attempt to take the field of vision produced lacrymation and blepharospasm, and was therefore abandoned, but the field seemed to be totally defective on the inner side. The fundus was normal, except that the choroidal epithelium was almost wholly absent, and this atrophy seemed of old date, as it extended far forward. His vision with this eye was defective before the war. Dr. Cohn vainly urged him to submit to an explora- tion of the orbital cavity and to the removal of the stump or foreign body lodged there. lipon the basis of these eight cases Dr. Cohn discusses the question whether an eyeball lacerated by shot should generally be enucleated, and if so, when ? Two grounds are to be urged in favour of the operation. First, the dread of suppurative choroiditis (panophthalmitis) ; secondly, the dread of sympathetic ophthalmia. With regard to panophthalmitis we know, from the experience of the time when cataracts were removed by flap extraction, and when suppu- ration of the eyeball occurred in a considerable percentage of the failures (although by the linear method it has been rendered excessively rare), with how great pain the distension of the eyeball by pus was attended. We know, also, that the panophthalmitis lasted three or four weeks, and in some cases the pain continued long after the evacu- ation of the pus, radiating over the whole head, destroying sleep, at- tended by fever, and materially reducing strength. Even in cases ol rapid panophthalmitis, after wounds of the ciliary region, followed by shrinkipg of the eyeball, the cicatricial contraction has often producedSUEGERY. 359 irritation of tlio ciliary norves, attended by acute ciliary neuralgia, and by danger of sympathetic ophthalmia. If we may regard enuclea,tion as asimple and not difficult operation, followed by little or no pain,_ and absolutely excluding the risk of sympathetic ophthalmia, then the indi- cations for its performance become imperative in every case of perfo- rating shot wound attended by loss of sight, unless they are counter- acted by some danger connected with the proceeding. Dr. Cohn be- hoves that only four cases of death after enucleation have been recorded. At the Heidelberg Congress of 1863, in a discussion on mortality after cataract operations, v. Grafe observed that he had seen two cases of death after simple enucleation of the eyeball, performed during the acute stage of suppurative panophthalmitis with exophthalmia, and deprecated the performance of the operation at such a time, since he had never known it produce death under other circumstances. Upon this, Mannhardt cited a case of death from meningitis (no autopsy) after enucleation, and Horner another, in which the autopsy revealed a meningitis that was wholly unconnected with the parts within the orbit. Unfortunately, no full accounts of any of the cases were given, as they were only mentioned in course of the debate. Those of Mannhardt and Horner need hardly be here considered, but v. Grafe’s direct warning seems to be highly important. It is to be regretted that there is no clue to the histories of the cases, as v. Grafe has only published one instance of enucleation in panophthalmitis, performed three years before the time referred to, and in which there is no mention of a fatal issue. Mooren* relates an interesting case from the Austrian war in which a bullet struck near the union of the zygoma with the sphenoid bone, and made its exit behind the root of the nose on the inner margin of the opposite orbit. The patient was totally blind of both eyes immediately after the injury, and on the same evening the shattered eye was removed under chloroform in order to prevent suffering. The splin- tering of the lacrymal and ethmoid bones produced great swelling of the soft parts ; and, as this subsided, the vision of the other eye slowly returned, until, after the disappearance of some serous infiltration of the retina, Ho. 1 Jager could be read. Here, therefore, enucleation was performed prior to the commencement of panophthalmitis, and without danger to hfe. The same author has recorded 128 cases of enuclea- tion, observing that he had never once seen any serious symptoms; and the operation has now become so common, for eyes blinded by tumours, cyclitis, phthisis, irido-cyclitis, or irido-choroiditis, that fatal cases would certainly have been made known if they had occurred. In the three instances related by Dr. Cohn, in which early enucleation was per- formed, there was evidence of impending panophthalmitis, and in aU of them, instead of danger following the operation, the previously existing pain was promptly relieved. As regards the risk of sympathetic ophthalmia, all ophthalmologists are now agreed that wounds of the eye, especially in the neighbourhood of the ciliary region, are attended by this danger. In fifty-two cases of sympathetic amaurosis, Mooren found twenty-four which had followed * ‘ Oplitlialmiatrische Beobuchtungen,’360 llEPOET ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. a wound^ of the ciliary body. The same author thinks it doubtful whether in all cases of panophthalmitis the disorganisation of the ciliary nerves is sufficiently complete to give entire immunity from the danger. Whenever, he observes, he has seen symptoms threatening the second eye follow a panophthalmitis, he has generally also found that the latter had left a painful stump. Although much in the history of sympa- thetic ophthalmia is still obscure, it is, at least, [certain that any kind of injury to the ciliary nerves may excite it, and, unfortunately, the commencement of the mischief is often highly insidious. The patient is only brought to the surgeon by subjective symptoms at a time when the intractable disease has gone too far for vision to be preserved. Moreover, the commencement differs much in different cases, being indicated in some only by very slight concentric contraction of the field of vision, or by slight fatigue on looking at near objects, in others by rapid loss of sight, constant dazzling and dancing of objects before the eyes, or by lacrymation with photophobia. That there is no available remedy but enucleation, and that this often fails[when practised how- ever early after the appearance of symptoms, is known to all surgeons, and it may, therefore, be laid down that the enucleation of a shot blinded eye will preserve its fellow the more certainly the sooner it is performed, and that it should be performed prior to the occurrence of the smallest lacrymation or contraction of the field. In the case of common soldiers and others of the less educated classes, liable to be distant from skilled ophthalmic surgeons at their own homes, and to be tardy in seeking advice for their ailments, enucleation should be per- formed as a prophylactic measure in all perforating shot wounds causing blindness. The woollen seton recommended by v. Grafe is, at least, of questionable trustworthiness for the end in view; and the section of the ciliary nerves, advised by v. Grafe and first practised by Meyer, is open to the objection that it is difficult to be certain of dividing all the nerves by which mischief may be done, and that, when divided, they may reunite and restore the danger of sympathetic afi’ection. It has been urged that for the reception of an artificial eye a wasted globe IS better than enucleation. On this gi’ound, Himly advised free division of the eyeball in panophthalmitis, and Williams the abscission of the an- terior half by passing a cataract knife through the equator, and complet- ing the section by scissors. Apart from the free bleeding from the cho- roidal vessels that would often be produced by such a course, it is evi- dent that the movements of such a stump would be very imperfect, since the recti muscles are inserted in front of the equator. It cannot be denied that an artificial eye moves better when placed on the remains of the globe than when on the conjunctiva and muscles only ; but it is also true that the stump is often irritated by the foreign body, and that sympathetic ophthalmia may be thus produced. With regard to the method of enucleation Cohn observes that, although the operation is very easy when dealing with an unopened eye ball of ordinary tension, and with a natural conjunctiva, it becomes very difficult when the conjunctiva is swollen and the eyeball ruptured or very soft. In the former case the points of insertion of the muscles are not easily found. Dr. Cohn thinks it a matter of indifference which361 SURGERY. muscle is first divided, or in what order of succession they are taken. He objects to the method of the Vienna school, in which the muscle on the left side is divided at some distance from its insertion into the globe, and the portion still attached is seized by forceps and used to move the globe in any desired direction. To do this diminishes the mobility of the resulting stump towards the left. He also condemns the use of Mazeux’s hook forceps, which permits the escape of the contents of the eyeball, and injures the preparation; but rather prefers spoon-bladed forceps, which will hold the eye without injury. He advises section of the optic nerve close to the eyeball, having observed, when it has been divided far back in cases of intraocular tumour, that the conjunctiva has retracted in healing, and the application of a glass eye has been rendered difficult. Under the head of “ Shell Splinter in the Oiliarg Body of the Bight Eyef is related the case of a man, set. 26, who was wounded before Paris on the 20th of September, by a fragment of shell about a cubic line in diameter, which struck the right eye, and produced instanta- neous blindness, soon followed by swelling. The patient was treated by poultices and atropine instillation for three months, at the end of which time the left eye began to redden, and objects before it ajipeared to quiver. The right eye was then removed by Dr. IToring, and when Dr. Cohn saw the case, on the 27th of Pebruary, the sympathetic symptoms had wholly disappeared, although the patient believed that he could not see with his left eye quite as clearly as before the injury. The retina of the enucleated eye was wholly detached, the whole globe disorganised by inflammation, and the piece of shell was embedded in the ciliary body. Two cases of grazed wounds of the eyeball contain little worthy of note, except that in one of them the bullet performed an iridectomy with great neatness. In both the injury was followed by blindness, due to detachment of the retina and effusions into the vitreous. Pour cases of wound of the upper eyelid are recorded, in one of which the shock seemed to have produced a rupture of the choroid near the equatorial region. In another the shock produced myopia = —, wi^ S in an eye supposed to be previously healthy and emmetropic. Pive cases of wound of the upper jaw, in which the eyelids and eyes were implicated, give Dr. Cohn occasion to remark that he failed in ob- taining primary union of eyelid wounds by paring their edges and inserting sutures seven or eight days after the wounds were inflicted and when suppuration was proceeding. He removed all the bruised parts and obtained exact apposition by silk threads. He refers to the possibility that silver wire might have succeeded better, but counsels early operation in such cases, whenever it is necessary to preserve the outline and position of the lids. The same eases show that there is no occasion to puncture the anterior chamber in order to evacuate effused ban^age^^^^^ ^ always be readily absorbed under a compressive A case of Contusion of the eyeball is related at great length. A ball struck the outer margin of the left orbit, fracturing the bone and pro- ucing immediate total blindness. The cornea and iris retainedHEPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. 362 their normal aspect, hut the nature of a white appearance upon the fundus could not be clearly made out. After a time sympathetic dis- turbance of the other eye supervened, and enucleation was performed. The white appearance was then found to he due to great inflammatory effusion in and upon the retina and choroid. The sympathetic symptoms disappeared after the enucleation, and vision, which had fallen to f, re- turned to the normal standard. The range of accommodation also in- creased after the enucleation from to -i. The clinical interest of the case rests chiefly on the production of sympathetic troubles by an injury which implicated only the outer side of the sclerotic, and which neither directly, nor by tbe subsequent inflammation, affect*ed the ciliary body. A Wound of the zygoma by a rifle-ball was said by the patient to have been followed by defective vision, and the conditions were very analogous to those sometimes presented in civil practice by “ railway cases.” The injury was inflicted on the i8th of Aug. 18705 and the patient (twenty-one years old) was flrst seen by Dr. Cohn on the 6th of the following January. He presented the scar of the wound of entrance in the body of the right malar bone, about half an inch below the external canthus, and that of the wound of exit an inch and a quarter further back, over the temporal process. The patient said that for the flrst three months he could scarcely see at all with the right eye. It had received no direct injury, either internal or external, but seemed to pro- trude a very little more than its fellow, and its tension seemed some- what higher. Field of vision normal. The optic nerve showed no exca- vation, and some slightly winding veins in the retina were found also in the other eye. There was no manifest difference in colour between the discs, but perhaps the right was a trace less red than the left. The pupils of equal size, the right somewhat more sluggish. The vision was very carefully tested on the the 6th of January by Dr. Cohn’s assistant, and on the 8th by Dr. Cohn himself, with the following results: January 6. Eight eye.—Snellen at ik," the smallest legible. With + 10, li to si". hi S liW* Left eye.—Snellen from 5" to 9." With + 10, 11 to 4". hi S fr- January 8. Right eye.—Snellen at si", the smallest legible. „ si ti’om 2" to 4i". With + 10, ij to Sz'‘ hi S Left eye.—Snellen if from 5" to loi". With + 10, li to 4". hi -bV* ® After atropinization of the right eye he read, on the nth of January, with + 8, Snellen from 3" to f ; and with + 4, 2 Snellen from i to 3". The*test-types employed on the different occasions were not the same, and the suspicion of malingering was excited when it was found that the S of the uuinjured left eye varied from to f g between theSUllGEEY. 363 6th and 8th of January, both being light days, with snow on the ground and sunshine. Moreover, it seemed hardly credible that the S of the affected eye should range in the same time from to Dr. Cohn observes that there were only three possible explanations, either am- blyopia from concussion of the retina, or amblyopia of long standing, or simulation. Such an effect from concussion is not very rare after injuries of the bones of the face ; but, as the ophthalmoscope threw no bght upon the question, the only other evidence of it was the some- what sluggish action of the pupil. The prism tests of A. v. Graefe and of Alfred Graefe are sufficient for the detection of simulated monocular amaurosis, but they are useless against simulated amblyopia. The only way to detect such cases is by repeated trials with different types, and with and without glasses, in order to discover whether the state- ments of the patient are consistent with each other. In this case Dr. Cohn felt himself unable to arrive at a positive diagnosis, and therefore refrained from prescribing the hypodermic use of strychnine, to which he would have had recourse if he had placed full confidence in the statements made to him. Another injury to the right eyebrow by a shell splinter, infiicted on the 30th of October, 1870, and producing great impairment of sight, came under observation on the 20th of March. Dr. Cohn then found a dark coloured projection, which seemed, when seen in the inverted image with an ocular of -f-3, the size of a large pin’s head, occupying the region of the macula lutea. The patient with this eye could dis- cern moving fingers, but could not count them, and letters of No. xx appeared distorted. The left eye was emmetropic, with S = and read from 4!" to 22", and 3 from 4" to 40" fluently. He was not treated, but was warned of the possibility of sympathetic disorder, and he returned on the 17th of April with a complaint of failing vision in the left eye. He said that a darkness appeared before it after ten minutes’ reading, and that he saw round black spots floating to and fro. He could only read 3 Snellen with a near point at 8". Enucleation of the right eye was performed, and on the 17th of July the vision of the left eye was again normal. The excised globe was found to present a subretmal haemorrhage, which had lifted up the retina over the fovea into an elevated fold projecting into the vitreous, but left the microscopic elements apparently unchanged. The case is important as illustrating the occurrence of sympathetic irritation four months after an inconsiderable haemorrhage, without participation of the ciliary body in the injury, and without inflammation. An appendix to the report contains two cases of injury to the lids treated successfully by plastic operations, but of no special interest ’ ^ Foreign lody in tie orlit.—F)v. Borel,* of Rouen, describes a case in wnich the amber mouthpiece of a pipe was imbedded in the orbit by a blow, and was discovered and removed, after the lapse often days withoutinjury to the eye. •' ’ Neio instruments. Only a few new instruments have been produced. Among the most mportant of these are the self-opening scissors of Dr. Noyes, of New York, in which the handles terminate in flattened * ‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 245.364 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. springs instead of in the usual loops, and these springs are brought into tension by the closure of the blades, so as to open them again as soon as the hand of the operator is relaxed. Dr. Heymann* describes a pair of so-called needle-forceps for the removal of capsule. The in- strument is a small pair of forceps, with ordinary teeth, and one blade is prolonged beyond the teeth as a cutting point. It is figured both in natural and in double size in the paper. Dr. ’Warlomontf speaks favorably of a set of iridectomy knives, resembling those used by Weber, of Darmstadt, in his cataract operation. The blades are shaped like the heart on playing cards, and four are provided, respectively of the width of two, three, four, and five millimetres. By selecting a blade of the width of the desired incision, and by introducing it to the full extent, the size of the internal corresponds exactly to that of the external wound. Dr. D. Monoyer, of Strasbourg,^ has invented a pair of new double fixation forceps. They consist of ordinary forceps, car- rying a terminal arc, each end of which is fitted with teeth in the ordi- nary way, BO that they seize the conjunctiva at two points at once on opposite sides of the cornea. The two grasping extremities are 13 millimetres apart, and the arc on which they are placed is of 13 milli- metres radius. The inventor states that they may be applied in any direction, and that they fix the eye more completely than any instru- ment that acts upon one point only. (c) Medicine and Therapeutics. On the visual sense in diseases of the choroid and retina.—Forster read a paper at the Heidelberg Congress on this subject,§ in which he started from the well-known fact of the want of correlation, in many diseases of the choroid and retina, between contraction of the field and impairment of the sense of vision. In certain afiections, with a good light, the sense is not materially impaired, while if the light be lowered, it fails rapidly. In others, the reverse of this is the case. The author had made these well-known facts the basis of some researches, and believed that he had done something towards explaining them. He employed for this purpose a photometric apparatus, consisting of a rectangular box, twelve inches long by eight wide, and six high, having two holes, by which a patient could look into the interior, and another, two inches square and covered with white paper, for the admission of the light of a candle. This opening was fitted with two wings of blackened tin, which could be closed or opened at pleasure by means of a screw, and a scale and index served to show the size of the aperture, which could be varied from i to 1^00 square millimetres. The objects of vision are black lines on a white ground, from i to 2 centimhtres wide by 5 high, and the test is to determine by how small a degree of light they can be seen. The retinal sensibility, which the author calls n, will bear an inverse proportion to the size of the aperture of illumination. Thus, * ‘Arcbiv f. Oplith.,’ xvii, i. f ‘Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1871, i, 97, X Ibid., 1872, i, 64. § Ibid., 1872, i, 97,365 MEDICINE AND THEEAPEUTICS. an eye which required for the definition of the test objects ten times as much light as a normal eye, would have a retinal sensibility only one tenth as great. It follows that, if li be the minimum of light necessary for a normal eye, and h the minimum for a diseased eye, that X, = A normal eye distinguishes the objects when Ti—i sq. mm. If, H then, we take a sq. mm. to be = i, and express H by half its actual value, the value of n will always be a fraction having i for its nume- rator. The annexed table gives the mean results of the examination in a large number of diseases. In the third column are placed the degrees of acuteness of vision, and in the fifth those of the retinal sensibility. Square measure No. Diagnosis. S. of illmninating L. aperture. I Optic neuritis .... 1 i ainr— 2 2 — 8 1 X 1 4 2 Apoplectic retinitis 25 1 X 2 3 Ketinal apoplexy 1 4 12 1 IT 4 Albuminuric retinitis (fatty cle- 1 1 1 'ainr 2 — 4 T i generation) s White atrophy of optic nerve 1 1 2 inr 2 12 1 1 T IT 6 Hemiopia in cerebral apoplexy . 0 ■§■ 12 1 IT 7 Amblyopia from abuse of alcohol 1 6 2 1 or tobacco 8 Syphilitic choroiditis . 1 1 2 -g- 128 —1500 1 1 ■irT — ’rmr 9 10 Disseminated choroiditis Pigmentary retinitis . 2 I IT 2ir 3 1 4 2 112 — 450 50 — 1500 1 _ 1 6 IT 1 1 II Separation of retina . i 1 4 U 312 — 1500 1 1 12 Yellow atrophy of optic nerve i 1 8 27S 612 —1500 i 1 ■ ■smr T617 (from syphilitic choroiditis) 13 Normal eye .... 1 T 2 1 1 There are, therefore, two groups of diseases. In the first, from Nos. I to 7 inclusive the retinal sensibility is very little diminished. In the second, from 8 to 12, it is very considerably diminished, so much so that in many cases the full opening of 1500 square millimetres was yet insufB-cient. The author called attention to the fact that the morbid processes of the former group were such as to affect chiefly the conduct- ing portions of the visual apparatus, such as the fibrous and ganglionic layers of the retina, the optic nerve as far as the brain, and perhaps the brain itself, while those of the latter affected chiefly the choroid and the perceptive layer of the retina. Glaucoma had been omitted from the table on account of the variableness of the results. In inflamma- tory cases, and during the premonitory stage of cases of a certain degree ot acuteness, the visual sense was much diminished. In chronic cases the results differed greatly. Some observations followed on the value of this examination as a means of diagnosis, e.g in negativing the suspicion of retinal detach- ment in a case of turbid vitreous, in which L retained a high value ; and in determining the cure of syphilitic affections of the choroid. The author also used his instrument to discover whether a scotoma was366 REPORT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. positive, i. e, depending on a choroidal lesion implicating the perceptive layers of the retina; or negative, depending on lesion of the conducting tissues. The former was rendered more conspicuous by dim light, but not the latter. Dr. V. Hippel read a paper on a similar subject, in which he con- demned the instrument of Dr. Dorster as being too small for the accu- rate determination of together with L, and described one of his own on a similar principle, but on a larger scale. His results, from the ex- amination of fifty cases, were confirmatory of those of Eorster. In tho pbsequent discussion Dr. A. Weber said that he also had used a similar instrument with advantage. ■ Circumscribed choroidUis.—Dr. A. Sichel* has written an important memoir on circumscribed choroiditis, a disorder first described by Jager under the name of “ change in the region of the macula,” and since then little noticed. The author has collected several cases of the affection, and has, so to speak, built up its clinical history. He describes it as being characterised by the presence, in a single defined part of the fundus of the eye, of changes analogous to those which occur in the disseminated or areolar forms of choroiditis. On examination with the ophthalmoscope there is seen sometimes a simple tumefaction or hy- perjemia of a very limited portion of the fundus, situated excentrically on the side beyond the equator, or more centrally, or even over the region of the macula; and sometimes a single spot or several small spots of whitish or yellowish-white colour, in the latter case grouped so closely together as to form a little patch of agglomerated lesions on a single part of the field, while the most careful examination reveals no changes elsewhere. Instead of being whitish or yellowish-white, the spot or spots may be of reddish-black or brown with notched edges sur- rounded by a zone either paler or more dark ; or there may be a more or less white patch in the centre, surrounded by a border variously coloured. The disorder may be divided, in accordance with the symp- toms and the ophthalmoscopic appearances, into four stages or periods, namely:—i. The period of hypersemia and local congestion. 2. The period of exudation and fatty proliferation. 3. The regressive or pig- mentary period. 4. The period of atrophy. These periods are im- portant, because during the two first the malady is within the reach of treatment, while during the two last its effects are produced, and are practically irremediable. The first subjective symptom experienced by the patient is a very annoying myodopsia, the spot resting always in the same part of the field of vision, and becoming more marked after long use of the eye, or after exposure to strong illumination. Often, after having continued for a time, the myodopsia gives place to a more or less pronounced haze or mist, which may either occupy a single portion of the field, or may render all objects indistinct. Two other symptoms soon appear, and produce great annoyance. The first is a photophobia, occurring at every change from a less to a greater degree of illumination, and often accompanied by an appearance of rays, proceeding from any source of light, in the direction of the impaired part of the field. The second is * ‘ Annales d’Oculistique,’ 1872, i, 129—156.367 MEDICINE AND THEEAPEUTICS. a sharp constrictive or penetrating pain in the eye, such as to render its movements very painful; and if the seat of mischief, as determined by the oj)hthalmoscope, be sufficiently near the equator to allow the corresponding part of the ocular tunics to be reached from without when the eye is strongly turned in the opposite direction, it will be found that this part is acutely sensitive to the touch, like the ciliary region in cyclitis. Little by little the various symptoms diminish or increase, until they terminate in a fixed scrotoma, centric or excentric, according to the position of the lesion, and which, when centric, is often attended by the apparent distortion of objects in the portion of the field around the fault, in consequence of alterations in the plane of the retinal sur- face. 3?he difierential diagnosis from disseminated choroiditis, of which the malady is, indeed, but a variety, rests on the absence of spots on other portions of the field. At one period, when the retina is elevated by hypersemia or effusion, it might be possible to suspect the early stage of a choroidal tumour. But such growths are always attended by retinal detachment, the more extensive as they are more central, and this element in the case being wholly wanting, error would be impos- sible. The causes of circumscribed choroiditis are far from being as well defined as those of the disseminated variety. In the cases seen by the author he has never been able to discover indications of syphilis. Cer- tain conditions, however, seem to be always associated with the disease, namejy, habitual constipation, suppression or irregularity of the menses in women, suppression of a hsemorrhoidal fiux in men. Indications of a tendency to congestion about the head have been met with in the majority of cases, and in some of the women there has been chlorosis. Lastly, when the malady attacks the posterior pole, it has usually been associated with myopia. The course of the disease may be either rapid and, so to speak, acute, or it may be slow and chronic. In the former case it may pass through all its periods in the course of a few weeks, but its ordinary duration is three months, or even more. If left to itself it would always terminate in circumscribed atrophy of the choroid, which would injure vision by producing a permanent scotoma. Only when arrested' by treatment does it terminate in a restoration to the healthy condition. In respect of treatment the author first advises that any general cause of the malady should be sought for, and should receive such atten- tion as it may require. Besides this, he mentions four remedies which he has been accustomed to employ with benefit. The first is depletion by Heurteloup s leech from the temple, in a quantity proportionate to the severity of the aff'ection and the state of the patient. This has proved most useful at the beginning of the disorder, and after the de- pletion the patient should always be kept for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours in absolute darkness, a precaution the neglect of which mvahdates the benefit of the leeching. The second means is the use of JNeapohtan ointment, by friction, to various parts of the body, the quantity used at once varying from 50 centigrammes to 2 grammes, and the application being made night and morning. The third is the admi- nistration of Sirop de Gibert, which in these cases, as in the disorders368 REPOUT ON OPHTHALMIC MEDICINE AND SURGERY. of the vitreous body, will be found of great service. The fourth is the application to the forehead and temple, on one or both sides, accord- ingly as one or both eyes are affected, of a series of from three to five flying blisters, a resource that has scarcely ever failed to produce marked benefit. The paper terminates with a detailed recital of six cases, which support the statements and conclusions of the author. Researches on syphilitic amaurosis and amblyopia, by Dr. Gralezowski.* The author arrives at the following conclusions: 1. Syphilitic retinitis and neuritis may exist without any change in the choroid, and most frequently under the form of an apoplectic and exudative retinitis. Such cases, however, are only exceptional. 2. Syphilitic retinitis presents no pathognomonic signs by which it may be distinguished from other forms of retinitis. 3. But if retinitis or optic neuritis be attended by iritis or choroiditis, with or without flocculi in the vitreous, it is then undoubtedly syphilitic. Experience shows that there is no other affection except glaucoma that will give rise at once to retinal haemorrhage and to iritis or choroiditis. 4. Disturbances of colour vision are constant in these two forms of eye disease, and especially in optic neuritis. 5. The moat effectual treatment of these maladies is by iodide of potassium and perchloride of mercury in full doses. 6. Syphilitic , choroiditis is the most frequent lesion in cases of syphilitic amaurosis or amblyopia. The signs of this form of choroiditis are very characteristic, or even pathognomonic of syphilis. They are: —I. Disturbance or loss of sight occurring by attacks or crises, often separated by long intervals. 2. A mist resembling cobweb floating con- stantly before the eye. 3. Erequent photopsia. 4. Photophobia. 5. Hemeralopia at an advanced stage of the disease. 6. Preservation of central vision for a long period, with peripheral contraction of the field. 7. Obscured outline of optic disc. 8. Pigmentary retinitis at a still more advanced stage of the disease. 9. Atrophy of the central vessels of the disc with preservation of the rosy tint due to the cerebral or nutritive vessels of the optic nerve. 7. Pigmentary retinitis is very often developed as a consequence of syphilitic choroiditis. 8. The pigmentary spots arrange themselves along the course of the retinal vessels, and also in a generally circular form, like the circles of herpes circinnatus. , , , j-rr. n 9. The acquired pigmentary retinitis of syphilis does not difier from the congenital form, especially from that which has been attributed to the consanguinity of parents, except in the circular form of the pig- mentary spots. 1 -T.- rr i.- 10. Congenital pigmentary retinitis is an hereditary syphilitic affection. 11. Congenital pigmentary retinitis should be subjected during infancy to an iodine or mercurial treatment. After a certain age it is no longer possible to arrest the progress of the malady, which becomes progressive, and at length destroys the sight. i 12. The children of syphilitic parents should be submitted to careful ophthalmoscopic examination from their birth; and, retinitis once recog- nised, it should be treated in the manner indicated above. * ‘Arcli. Gen. de Med.,' Jan., Fev., Mars, 1871.R E P O E I’ ON MIDWIFERY AND THE DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN. BY J. J. PHILLIPS, M.D. Lond., ASSISTANT OBSTETRIC PHYSICIAN TO GHY’S HOSPITAL; ASSISTANT PHYSICIAN TO THE HOSPITAL EOB SICK CHILDREN; PHYSICIAN TO THE ROYAL MATERNITY CHARITY. I. QYNiECOLOGT, EMBRACING THE PHYSIOEOGT AND PATHOLOGY OE THE NON-PREGNANT STATE. Anomalies of Structure. Dr. L. Nehqebaher relates (‘Arcliiv fiir Gynakologie,’ ii, 2, 1871) two cases observed by him of one-sided bieinatometra with double uterus. The first patient was nineteen years old. She had commenced to menstruate at seventeen; the flow was profuse, and there was excessive pain in the lower abdomen and pelvis. A swelling, larger than a fist, appeared in the hypogastrium. After menstruating regularly a few times there was amenorrhcea and absence of pain for several months. Menstruation returned with great sufiering A swelling extending nearly to the umbilicus was to be felt on the right side of the abdomen. Having arrived at the diagnosis by the position shape, and relations of the tumour, and fearing spontaneous rupture’ Neugebauer opened the pelvic swelling with a bistoury by the va<^ina and dark brown, odourless, viscous blood, of the consistence of thin ho’nev flowed away. There was sharp abdominal pain on the second day but the patient improved until the fourteenth day, when menstrukon returned, and she died in three days with symptoms of peritonitis ilie second case was that of a patient of the same age Menstruation scanty and painful A swelling on the left side, nearly the size of the uterus at the sixth month of pregnancy. The uterie cavity of the right side freely communicated with the vagina. Dr. Chivat opened the swelling by the vagina by pushing an ordinary uterine sound into t- r pain for the first three days. On the suddenly supervened severe pain in the left hip then high fever, frequent vomiting, and escape of blood-stained muc8- 24EEPOE-T ON MIDWIl'EUY, ETC. 370 pus from the vagiua. She died in forty-eight days after the operation. Neugebauer refers to several published cases of the kind, in which the age ranged from fourteen to twenty-seven. The length of time between the onset of the pains from retention of the menstrual discharge and the commencement of the treatment on account of the hsematometra varied from five weeks to fifteen years. Out of fifteen cases operated upon, eight recovered and seven died. Two cases of hsematometra in the closed canal of a bicornite uterus are also recorded by iFreund and Wheeler (‘Boston Journal,’ July, 1872). Steiner also writes (‘Wien. Med. Woch.,’ xxi, 29, 1871) on hsematometra. .. ^ ^ „ . Breisky relates (‘Archiv f. G-ynak.,’ 11, 1, 1871) a case of pyom^ra and pyokolpos lateralis in a girl the subject of a double uterus. She had five brothers and two sisters, all well formed. Often, as a chilcl, she had suffered from abdominal pains, supposed to be due to worms; at the age of sixteen she began to sufier regularly every month for three or four days from severe pelvic pains, but no menstrual discharge appeared There was obstinate constipation, great ansemia, and diffi- cult micturition. When on the point of seeking medical advice some- thing burst, to her great relief, and a quantity of pale red, thickish, foetid fluid escaped. The difficult micturition returned; Breisky punc- tured a swelling in the vagina, and an abundant quantity of pus was discharged. The cavity of the abscess was carefully washed out. Subseauent dilatation enabled the condition of parts to be ascertained, and Breisky divided the vaginal septum and part of the uterine septum The patient made a good recovery, and the right half of the uterus (the seat of the abscess) afterwards underwent such contraction S il cavity appeared shorter than that of the left. As ascertamed by the sound the right measured 4 cm. and the left 6 cm. ^Two cases of absence of the vagma are recorded by Bianco. In the first case, mt. 2 j, the vulva was normal; no trace of a vagina existed, but it was determined to attempt the formation of one. The tissue which had to be dissected was a little more resisting than ordinary ppllnlar tissue The uterus was reached and punctured on account of mLZai retention. After a severe attack of the uatient recovered. A second puncture was necessary in fifteen ’ and when the patient was last seen the vagina was much contracted. Tn tirsecond case, mt. 20, the treatment was more pccessful, the vnfrina being kept dilated. Branco controverts the opinion of Scanzoni that complete absence of the vagina is not met wfih except in conjunc- finn with absence or a rudimentary state of the uterus, and ne y tion ^^^^,?;®SnLitv of the vulvm He shows that the develop- “'rrof L /Sf^rga^B place in three aoncB, indepen- one of® the Other - the external parts in the external layer of £ te “:giris|s to tSd tion should not be performed at a menstrual peiiod. ( oui Bruxelles,’ Nov. 1871.)ANOMALIES OF STRUCTURE. 371 A woman, set. 26, who had miscarried four times, was found, after death, to hare the ovary, Fallopian tube, and ligaments of the left side entirely absent. This side of the uterus was perfectly free, and the muscular structure was smoothly covered by peritoneum throughout. Ling ('Lancet,’Sep, 1872), A patient, set. 18, who had never men- struated, died in St, George’s Hospital, and the uterus was found to be absent, though the ovaries were well developed. The only representa- tive of a uterus was a small nodule of fibrous tissue found in the folds of peritoneum between the rectum and the bladder (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 1872). Cases of absence of the uterus and the vagina form the subjects of interesting remarks on malformations of the female genitalia by Eichet and by Gallard (L’lJnion Med.,’ 1872). Dr. Aikman describes a case of double uterus and vagina. A septum, rather thicker than the vaginal wall, extended from about three quarters of an inch above the hymen to midway between the uterine orifices. The uterus, which had a tumour attached to its fundus, was four inches long. It was divided into two cavities. The left cavity was perfect as far as the internal os, it then tapered to end in the left Fallopian tube. The right cavity had the usual shape of the right half of the uterine cavity, and communicated freely with the rif^ht Fallopian tube. (‘ Glasgow Journal,’ May, 1872.) ° A case of congenital absence of the uterus and vagina is recorded by Dr. Smith (‘Brit, Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872). The vulva was well formed, the mammae were large and flabby. Absence of vagina and uterus. Warner (‘Boston Journal,’ Jan. 1872). Double uterus and vagina in a young woman who died of epilepsy, ihere was only one kidney. Eoberts (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June. 18727. ’ uterus with concurrent pregnancy. Boss (‘Lancet,’ July, Schatz records seven cases of incomplete union of the female genital canal in adults ( Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871). Schatz also relates a remarkable case of deformity of the urino- genital systeni in an infant. There was a double uterus, a doXe vagina, a double bladder, and a double vesico-vaginal fistula. The mother of the child was a healthy woman, and had previously had one child, a boy in every way well formed. In this, her second labour contained only one artery. (‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ hi, 2, 1872 ) Dr. Squarey contributes (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1872) three cases of nb.pnpp of the uterus, the patients being sisters ^ ^ ^ * absence breasts. (‘Lancet,’ June, 1871.) ^aWanced the view that chlorosis differs from ancemia mainly m this- llErOllT ON miowieeUy, etc. 375 Menstruation. JEavly appearance of menstruation.—Mr. Ashton states ( Lancet, March, 1871) that he has a patient, set. 7, who had a slight red dis- charge from the vagina two weeks after birth. This recurred some- times once a month, at other times after an interval of two or three months, till the child was four years old. _ Since then the discharge has been “ regular,” and sufficient in quantity to soil one diaper. The child’s mother first menstruated when nine years old, and the mother’s aunt at the age of seven. ^ ^ i Tlugel records (‘ Centr. f. Med. Wiss.,’ Leb. 1872) case in^ which menstruation commenced at eighteen months, and continued regularity until death at the age of five and a half years. The child was five feet high. Disorders of Menstruation. Dr. Eockwell reports (‘ Amer. Journal of Obstetrics,’ May, 1872) eight cases of amenorrhoea—one of the cases was of four years duration and another of two years and a half—in all of which menstruation reappeared after the use of faradization or galvanism. General faradization is indicated in those conditions of debility where a genial and powerful tonic influence is called for. Faradization localised externally is but slightly efihcacious. The electro-muscular contrac- tility of the abdominal muscles is so great that a current of but little tension can be used, and neither by reflex nor direct action can the great sympathetic in this way be decidedly mfluenced. Faradization localised internally, however, is a very effective method of treatment, and by it the uterus can be more thoroughly and powerfully mfluenced than in any other way. Sometimes central galvanization or peripheral galvanization, either external or internal, is more effectual. Dr Wade, in a clinical lecture (‘Brit. Med. Journ., July, 18/2), concludes that (1) chlorosis occurring in young women who have men- struated at all is commonly the result of theloss of blood by the menstrual discharge • (2) when amenorrhoea occurs in these cases it is a consequence, and not a cWse, of the anemia; and (3) ^o^h primary and subse^ menstruations produce on the system the same produced by any other haemorrhage of equal amount. Gaillaid Thomas (‘Diseases of Women,’ 1872) believes that chlorosis is a neurosis of the ganglionic system of nerves. Disordering the control which this svS exerts over the functions of organic life, it produces, as symp- toms ofits existence, impoverishment of the blood constipatiou, dvspepsia palpitation, and menstrual derangements and irregularities. MaSv^obse^rvers have thought, from its ordinary period of invasion teinl the time of puberty, when the dormant functions ‘f e ^ are aroused, that it is dependent on some derangement menstruation • but it is more probable that torpidity of the uterus and ovaries is like the peculiar blood state which is so characteristic of the rlicinrdpr merely a symptom of functional disease in the sympathetic «rtem of Ses. ^SeVeral French pathologists have of late years373 DECIDUA MENSTRUALIS. that the latter is merely a blood state, while the former is a disease of the nervous system, which may or may not produce the latter. Eaci- borsky also regards chlorosis as due to disorder affecting the ganglionic nervous system. Virchow has lately written on the relation between chlorosis and vascular abnormalities (‘Ueber die Chlorose,’ &c., Berlin, 1872). A ease of “ supplementary” hsemorrhage from the breasts in a girl who had not menstruated is recorded by Meynet. The patient was seventeen years of age on admission to Hotel Dieu, and stated that for eight months she had each month suffered from a rather free discharge of blood, lasting two or three days, from a crack in the nipple, some- times on one side, sometimes on the other. The hmmorrhage was preceded by pain and swelling of the breasts. Although she had never menstruated, she suffered, at the time of the monthly discharge from the breasts, from abdominal pain and a sensation of fulness. The patient was under observation for three months, and the above- mentioned facts were observed each month. In two months after she left the hospital, where she had been treated by tonics, menstruation appeared naturally, and nothing abnormal was subsequently noticed in the breasts (‘Lyon Med.,’ March, 1872). A case of so-called vicarious menstruation by haemorrhage from the nose is related by Obermeier. The epistaxis ceased durinsr presnancv (‘Virchow’s Ai’chiv,’ 1872). ^ ^ ^ Dysmenofrlicda. BecidiM Menstrualis.—A. case of the inflammatory form of dys- menorrhoea. Dr. A. Solowieff, of Kasan, relates (‘Archiv f G-ynak. ’ n, I, 1871) a case of the above. The patient was twenty-one years of ap, and had been ill three years. Menstruation began at eleven, was always irregular, and accompanied with great pains. Married at sixteen and a half Pregnant in four months. Labour at full time. Lett off suckling at eight months. The first menstruation after wean- mg was paanless, but the following period did not appear at the proper time, and the patient suffered from a sensation of weight in the lower ppt ot the abdomen and especially in standing up and in walking ^ fortnight, attended with strong pains, and on the third day a mass, the exact shape of the uterine cavity, was passed. These pains did not disappear, but increased in sevmty at each menstrual priod. The vagina was red and so sensitive that it could not even be touched. A similar mass appeared at each period Meptruation was always delayed a week or two. Patient bedridden' Great mritabihty; n different parts of the body hyper-' »sthesia of the skin especially of the abdomen ; disorders of diVestfon • ttie introduction of a very small speculum was, with great trouble congested than natural, and somewhat touching Xh called forth a succession of reflex hysterical symptoms. Various kinds rea men were employed, but the most useful was the injection of374 REPORT ON MIDWIPERYj ETC. percliloride of iron. This was used at first every second day, and afterwards daily. It diminished the local pain, but frequent injection caused sleeplessness and palpitation. Tor eight months the injections were continued, generally every fourth or fifth day. The membrane ceased to be expelled, and menstruation became regular. After de- scribing the nalced-eye appearance of the membrane, Solowieff says that a transverse section under the microscope shows three layers, which, proceeding from without inwards, may be called the fibrinous, the glandular, and the granulation layers. The fibrinous layer consists of fibrin, among the fibres of which lie red, and occasionally white, blood- corpuscles. In the glandular layer the glands are of the usual size, and contain cylindrical epithelium with round cells, the cells being of various sizes, and the largest containing sometimes three nuclei. The granulation tissue consists of round and lengthy protoplasma-cells, with a large nucleus. The cells lie in a delicate, somewhat fibrous, inter- mediate substance. The vessels form loops on the inner surface. The innermost surface is irregularly covered with mucus. No epithe- lium is to be seen. These three layers, however, pass so gradually the one into the other that a sharp line of demarcation cannot be drawn, and a division can only be made according to the predominance of one or other element. Membranous dysmenorrhoea is also elaborately described by Michaud and Lagrave (‘Arch. Gener. de Med.,’ i, 187a). Dr. Barnes writes on the essential cause of dysmenorrhoea, as illus- trated by cases of menstrual retention. He seeks, by comparison of difterent cases of dysmenorrhoea, to discover a common essential cause. Having adverted to the evidence accumulated in proof that cases of neuralgic and constitutional dysmenorrhoea are being gradually transposed under closer clinical analogies to the class of obstructive dysmenorrhoea, the author states the proposition that the essen- tial condition in a large proportion of cases is really retention ot flnifl He illustrates this by several cases of congenital and if the initial steps m tue |jiu^;ci3o yji. -i-r, UTEEINE TUMOUHSj ETC. 375 cannot be doubted that the flexion was the source of trouble, and bis experience leads him to think that flexions by themselves, independent oftoeir complications, ought to be considered as a pathological change deserving special treatment, (‘Graz. Med. di Torino,’ 1871.) Dr. Edis writes in favour of dilatation of the cervix uteri by graduated bougies in cases of anteflexion and dysmenorrhoea. He commences with an ordinary No. 8 bougie and passes it once a week, gradually increasing the size, and he allows it to remain in for about ten minutes. This method of treatment is capable of far more universal application than the insertion of a stem into the uterus. Three illustrative cases are added. In the first case the patient had been married sixteen years and was sterile. She sufiered great dysmenorrhoea, but was soon relieved by the above treatment. The second case was that of a woman, act. 38, married seven years, sterile. Not only was the dys- menorrhoea relieved, but she became pregnant. The third case could not tolerate a stem, but dilatation by metal bougies had the effect of getting rid of all inconvenience at the catamenial period. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1871.) Molliere relates a case where a patient, after using a cold vaginal injection a few days after menstruation, was seized with severe peritonitis, from which she died (‘ Journ. de Bruxelles,’ May, 1871). Uterine Tumours, ^c. Dr. Hegar describes (‘Archiv f. Gynak.,’ii, 1,1871) sarcoma of the uterus. He submits that this morbid growth is more common than is generally believed. It occurs in two principal forms:—(i) There are multiple tumours, more or less distinct; (2) there is a diffuse infiltration. In situation and relation to the uterine wall they pre- sent a great likeness to the intramural fibrous tumours. The seat is almost always the body of the uterus. Veit’s case, in which the cervix was affected, is unique. For the most part the sarcomatous tumours repose, with a broad basis, upon the inner surface of the fundus and body, projecting into the enlarged cavity, as not seldom do the intramural fibro-myomas. A kind of stalk is rare. Sometimes, as West says, together with the intra-uterine tumours there is a second division, which develops itself towards the abdominal cavity either in the iliac fossa or in Douglas’s pouch, reaching even to the lumbar region. The intra-uterine tumour seldom possesses a distinct investment, but a thick, smooth, fibrous capsule may exist. Invasion of the new formation into the cervix may take place. Either a uniform infiltration of both walls or of one wall and lip, with or without ulceration of the os uteri, or tumours connected with those of the body spring from the inner surface of the neck, or, lastly, larger tumours proceeding from one lip fill, monstrous hypertrophies, the vagina. In a second order of cases the sarcoma presents itself as a diffuse infiltration of the mucous membr^e, submucous membrane, and even of the proper muscular wall. There is on the inner surface of the uterus a large ulcerated suriace, with fungous granulations, necrotic debris of the originalREPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 87G tissues and of the new formation hanging to it. Other parts show better preserved, hut also rough wart-like elevations, knobs or polypous excrescences. The diffuse infiltration may penetrate all the tissue strata, so that the new growth presents the aspect of an enormous uterus, retaining its ordinary shape. The two kinds, distinct and diffuse, are at times blended. It is remarkable that apparently sound parenchyma is at times disseminated through the diseased tissue, recog- nised as foci by the microscope. The first origin of the degeneration is commonly sought in the mucous membrane, proceeding from whence the submucous and muscular tissue is invaded. The colour of the tumour is generally greyish-white, even white, but sometimes reddish- grey. The consistency differs. The tumour is soft, so that it breaks down under the fingers or the polypus forceps, like brain substance or wet mortar. It may, however, be denser, like a soft or even a hard myoma. The round-cell sarcoma and the medullary forms are most frequently found. The cells are either of medium size or small.^ The basis substance -is homogeneous, finely striped, not seldom delicately netted, as in gliosarcoma. The spindle-cell sarcomas appear to be more rare. Combinations of round and spindle cells are more common. When a large proportion of fibrous connective tissue enters into the constitution of the tumour it acquires a firmer consistency. The pro- portion of fibrous connective tissue may be so great that we are compelled to admit a transition form, a fibro- and myo-sarcoma. In some cases the fibrous tissue is so preponderant that only very careful iuvGstigation can detect tlie significaiit different tissue. Such mixed tumours may have existed from the beginning, but a sarcomatous proliferation may spread through a groundwork of pro-myoma. Virchow speaks of proliferation process of myxomatous character into the rich and extensive interstitial tissue of many myxomas. Numerous vessels penetrate the structure of many sarcomas. The concurrence of carcinomatous and sarcomatous tumours is less common than the transition forms and mixed forms of myofibromas and sarcomas. Secondary deposits of the sarcoma in distant organs are seldom men- tioned, as in the lungs, the parietal pericardium ; they only appear after long duration of the disease. Deposits in neighboupg organs are somewhat more frequent, as extensmn of the degeneration to^the vagina, to the rectum, with consecutive stricture and ileus. Deposits in the lumbar and retro-peritoneal glands occur. The etiology is obscure. It has been met with in puberty pd in the climacteric ueriod in virgins and in women who have borne children. Ihe previous health has been described as excellent. But ^ number of cases distress pointing to antecedent disease of the sexua organs has been complained of, as dysmenorrhoea, irregular, frequent, protracted menstruation, discharges, rather watery than leucorrhoea, abortions, stpility, and f ^^^^imes hysterical pd^ habits One of the earliest signs of the existence of the tumour is menorrhagia. This is very often attended by irregular or pepstent hemorrhages Offensive mucous discharge was in one case the firspyrup- tom, being followed by bleeding. Peculiar luemorrhages and offensn puriform or flesh-water like discharge are rarely absent. These di - IUTEllINE TUMOURS^ ETC. 377 cliftr^Gs infiy rG36ixil)lG "fcliosG of cui’cinornni of tliG cgtviXj bu.f tbG od.oiip is gGncrallj less penotrating. At a later stage the discharges contain numerous small and larger shreds of the tumour. Sometimes a poly- poid projecting portion is cast off, or falls into purulent degeneration, giving rise to an intolerable stench. To these discharges are sometimes added as early symptoms a sensation of pressure, of bearing-down pain in the sacrum, in the pelvis, pressure on the rectum, dysuria. But Hegar does not agree with Gusserow in admitting that pain is constant and early. Mostly the pains possess a labour-like character and point to real contractions. Besides these principal symptoms there are numerous so-called consensual symptoms, such as attend the most different diseases of the sexual organs, especially disorders of digestion, cardialgia, &c., nervous symptoms, nutrition suffers ; from dysuria hydronephrosis may follow. The constant issue is death, which either ensues from exhaustion through the protracted discharges, through pyaemia, or the consecutive diseases. Objective symptoms in the living vary according to the anatomical relations of the new growth. Through the abdominal walls we may feel tumours of varying size, knobby, over- lapping, or distinct, between which the body of the uterus may be made out or lost in the imbedded tumours. If, in the case of an intra- uterine tumour, rapid degeneration does not ensue, the cervix gradually dilates, its wall softens, its lips disappear, the os uteri opens, and the tumour is driven through, perhaps into the vagina, simulating a fibrous polypus, when it becomes gangrenous, suppurative, and is cast oft' in larger or smaller pieces. The sound generally indicates an enlarged cavity of the body of the uterus, and strikes upon rough, irregular places. The mobility of the uterus is often z’etained fora long time. At a late stage peritonitis, proceeding from the extension of the disease to the neighbouring organs, may fix the organ. The diagnosis is gene- rally clear, but the microscope alone makes it certain. It is easy to get small portions of the tumour. Simple hyperplastic growths are distinguished by their fibrous connective tissue muscular substance, vessels, follicles, glands. The duration of the disease is variable— from five months to six years. But it lasts longer than carcinoma of the cervix. The treatment is simple. If the cervix is not dilated, it must be dilated, so that the finger may reach the basis of the tumour and permit its removal by scissors or polypus forceps. Generally hooks tear out and will not hold. After the operation, Hegar has introduced potassa fusa; a copious discharge followed, bringing away shreds of the tumour. Hegar concludes by relating eight cases. [From ‘ Brit, and Foreign Med.-Chir. Eeview,’ July, 1871.] Winckel also describes two cases of sarcoma of the uterus and the microscopical appearances of the growths (‘ Arch. f. Gyn. ’ iii, a 1872) See also Babl-Eiickhard (‘ Beit, zu Gynak.,’ Berlin, p. 76, 1872) ^ Dr. Noeggerath removed from the posterior surface of the uterus by a curette a small growth the size of a pea, in which were felt hard points, sandy to the touch. The growth was an adenoid tumour, and an example of tlm powths called by Virchow psammomata. (‘ Amer Journ. of Obst,,’Feb. 1872. ) v An inverted uterus with nn intramural fibroid was removed by ecrase.REPORT ON MIDWIEERYj ETC. 378 ment by Dr. T. Hay. Before the operation it was evident that an in- verted uterus existed, but its large size could not be accounted for. The stump of the inverted uterus occupied almost as high a position within the abdomen as the organ does in its natural position. The patient was thirty-two years old, the mother of one child, six years of age. The entire mass removed weighed one pound. The fibroid was found im- bedded in the parietes of the uterus, and from pressure and distension the tissues covering it were very much attenuated, and round the base so thin and firmly adherent as to be separable only with great difidculty. (‘ Amer. Ileporter,’ Dec. 1871.) Dr. Valette relates (‘Lyon Med.,’ April, 1871) a case of inversion of the uterus, in which the uterus was extirpated by the caustic liga- ture. The patient was forty-two years' of age, the mother of seven children, the youngest child being four years of age. Two years previously she began to sufier from severe metrorrhagia, and eight months before admission she was seized with severe pain like that of labour, which ceased immediately on the appearance of a firm tumour at the vulva. There was much anxiety of countenance, constant pain confining her to her bed for seven months, and allowing her no rest at night, great anaemia, and for two months incontinence of urine. The vaginal inlet was obstructed by a large tumour, composed of two parts. The lower portion was as large as a fist, firm, not tender, of a pale rose colour. The second portion, situated above the preceding, from which it was separated by a pedicle, three centimetres in diameter, was smooth, and redder than the lower portion. The first was a fibrous polyp, the second the inverted body of the uterus. Valette deterniined to extm- pate the whole of the tumour, which was done by the instrument he describes. There was no hemorrhage, and recovery was uninterrupted. The pulse after the operation never exceeded 88, nor the temperature C. He points out the disadvantages of (i) simple excision with a cutting instrument, (2) ecrasement, and (3) ligature; and con- siders the caustic ligature, many years ago advocated by toutaret, as bv far the safest procedure. _ .7 , • j ^ Gaillard Thomas writes on the enucleation of sessile uterine fibroids. The methods of dealing with these growths he enumerates under three UpaTlg (i) the setting up within their tissue a process of sloughing, (1) the Upairment of their nutrition by direct and deep incisions, and G) their removal by enucleation. The first method presents great dangers from septicsemia; the second is attended hmniorrhage, and is withal very uncertain as to results; so that the third although by no means free from danger, presents itself as a valu- able resourl in a most intractable afi-ection, for the reason that it is the most efi’ectual and least hazardous of the procedures now at our disnosal The day may come when electrolysis will take the place of enucleation. Enucleation should not be resorted to unless the state of the natient absolutely requires it on account of prolonged and dan- {xerous hsemorrhages. Dull and complete opening of the os internuin should be effected by tents, and the attachments of the to.mour shou d be ascertained as accurately as possible. Thomas finds a pliable whale- bone rod very useful for the latter purpose. The uterus must then beUTERINE TUMOURS; ETC. 379 depressed to the vulva by the band of an assistant placed over tbe hypoo-astrium, a tenaculum fixed in the cervix, and the vagina cautiously dilated so as to admit the entire hand. An incision should afterwards be made into the most depending part of the tumour, and its capsule stripped off it as much as possible. The removal of the tumour will often prove an easy task, and even cases apparently most difficult will yield to a persevering, bold, and cautious effort. Eeports of five com- pleted cases are given without a single death. Thomas has, however, had two fatal cases from peritonitis during the preparatory dilatation. He does not wish to be understood as comparing the advantages of enucleation with those of excision or ecrasement. Enucleation is to a great extent a dernier ressort, to be employed only when the less dan- gerous methods are entirely impracticable from the fact that the sessile nature of the attachment does not allow of its being grasped by a wire or chain. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872.) Dr. Meadows writes on the treatment of fibrous tumours of the uterus, and recommends more frequent and decided resort to operative interference, especially in the interstitial and submucous varieties. These tumours are to be regarded as essentially foreign bodies, and nature’s method of dealing with them, when fair play is allowed her, is to expel them. In order to do this a dilated os uteri and uterine con- traction are essential, and when these are wanting it is the duty of the physician to remedy the deficiency by free division of the circular fibres of the cervix uteri in several directions, and by promoting contraction of the uterus by every means in his power. These two measures will be greatly aided by subsequent detachment of the tumour, making it more and more like a foreign body. An illustrative case is added. The neck of the uterus was freely divided, and the patient advised to return in three months. The os uteri then admitted the finger, and the tumour could be felt presenting. The next stage was then attempted, viz. the separation of the tumour from its attachment as far as the finger could reach. This was repeated, the descent of the growth was facilitated by the administration of ergot, and it was ultimately removed, the patient being discharged cured. The author states that he has never attempted, and does not think that he ever will attempt, the process of gouging, enucleation, or destruction by the actual cauterv Brit Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1871.) j’ \ A case of death from septicaBmia after the removal of a uterine fibroid is recorded by Dr. Emmet. The growth had been cut into masses by scissors and broken up. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ Eeb. 1872 ) Spencer Wells reports a successful case of removal of a uterine fibroid by abdominal section. (' Med. Times Gaz.,’ July, 1871 ) Dr. Kidd, in a paper on uterine fibroids (‘Dublin’ Journal’ Aug. 1872), states that in some cases he has dilated the uterus and applied nitric acid This is often beneficial; the tumour is checked in its growth, and the hemorrhage very much lessened. Dr Kidd has Been very senous results from the perchloride of iron introduced into the uterus for these tumours. In the last case in which he tried it the woman got a low form of metritis and died. He points out that in cases of mtra-uterme polypi the tumour often bulges out the w^all ofREPOllT ON MIDWIFEIIY, ETC. 880 the uterus opposite to where it is attached. A steel wire is sometimes much more elllcient for their removal than a soft irou wire. The steel wire can be compressed to get it through the os uteri, and it then expands by its own elasticity, and is easily slipped over the tumour. An excellent description of the various kinds of uterine polypi is given by Duncan (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1871). Gueniot, in a treatise on the absorption of fibroids of the uterus, states that the disappearance of such tumours by absorption, although still denied, ought now to be accepted as an ascertained truth. They sometimes disappear even rapidly, a few months sufiicing for the dis- appearance of very large uterine myomas. According to the ascer- tained facts the absorption takes place during the period of sexual activity, but the puerperal state only exceptionally seems to exercise an evident influence over it. Dterine myomas may also disappear without operation by two other processes, viz. spontaneous expul- sion and gangrenous destruction or suppuration; but their dis- appearance by absorption is the only method exempt from danger and always followed by recovery. Fatty degeneration, judging from analogy, appears necessary as a preliminary to their absorption, and Gueniot thinks that such substances as favour this change should be employed, such as arsenic, phosphorus, and lead. (‘ Arch. Gener. de Med.,’ April, 1872.) A fibroid of the uterus, weighing nine ounces, is reported by Dr. Hardie, in the practice of Dr. Duncan, to have become spontaneously separated. It lay in the vagina in a putrified state, and set up chronic septicsemia, from which the patient quickly recovered after the removal of the tumour. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July, 1872.) Dr. Brunton (‘ Obstet. Trans.,’ xiii) believes that in a case of fibroid enlargement of the uterus ergot of rye promoted the disappearance of the growth by maintaining uterine contraction, promoting its absorption by mechanical pressure. Hildebrandt (‘Berl. Kliu. Woch.,’ 1872) expresses a similar opinion of the action of ergotin injected subcu- taneously, the nutrition of the fibroid being interfered with by the increased compression. The medical treatment of fibroid tumours of the uterus beyond surgical interference is the subject of remarks by various observers (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1871). Dr. McClintock described to the Dublin Obstetrical Society in February, 1872, a method of removing uterine polypi by means of a loop of twisted, silken, fishing line attached to a Gooch’s double cannula. The ligature having been carefully adjusted, the instrument is slipped up the tumour and the ligature drawn tight. The cannulse being held in position, the ligature is drawn firmly to and fro, and the neck of the tumour is soon cut through. He believes that hemp-saw is adequate to cut through the structure of any vaginal or uterine tumour requiring extirpation, and that it is more easily and with more certainty applied round the neck of such a tumour than a wire Bryant details a case of complete extirpation of the uterus and ovaries for fibro-cystic disease. The broad ligaments were securely separated, and the uterus at its neck was ligatured in halves. AUTERINE TUMOURS, ETC. 381 strong clamp was put on, which sloughed off on the fourteenth day. The tumour weighed eight and a half pounds, ilecovery was uninter- rupted. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1872.) Dr. 'W. F. Atlee relates a case of fibrocystic disease 01 the uterus, believed to be ovarian, which was subjected to operation. The mass weighed five pounds. The patient recovered. The uterine cavity was not lengthened. (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ July, 1871.) Dr. Lloyd Koberts records the successful removal of a fibrocystic tumour of the uterus, supposed before operation to be an ovarian tumour. No increase in length of uterus. Tumour weighed twenty- three pounds. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871.) Gayet quotes a case of cystic myoma of the uterus mistaken for an ovarian tumour, in which, before the operation, the tumour was tapped and several quarts of a transparent yellowish fiuid were withdrawn. (‘Lyon Med.,’ March, 1872). hir. Spencer Wells, in some remarks on the differential diagnosis of uterine from ovarian tumours (‘Med.-Chir. Trans.,’ liv) states that there are more than a hundred cases on record where the abdomen has been opened with the object of removing an ovarian tumour, but the operator discovered that the tumour was not ovarian, but uterine. Visible enlargement of the abdomen is more often general in cases of ovarian tumours, and partial in uterine tumours, being confined to the lower part of the abdomen until a very large size has been attained. The depression of the umbilicus is diminished, or the umbilicus may become prominent in large ovarian cysts. This is rarely seen in uterine tumours unless fluid is also present in the peritoneal cavity. Enlargement of the superficial veins of the abdominal wall is more common in uterine than in ovarian tumours of moderate size. Nearly all uterine tumours, though visibly moving above, seem to be fixed below in the hypogastric region. Very great proportionate increase of the space from the pubes to the umbilicus is more common in uterine than in ovarian tumours. As a rule, the fluid portion preponderates in an ovarian tumour, the solid in a uterine tumour. The mobility of ovarian tumours is generally greater from below upwards than that of uterine tumours. Vascular murmurs are common in uterine, very rare in ovarian, tumours. The diagnosis is much aided by examining by the vagina and the rectum. For remarks on the differential diagnosis of fibrocystic disease of the uterus and ovarian tumours see also Lee (‘ New York Journal,’ Nov. 1871), Beatty (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1871), and discussion at Obstetrical Society (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ March, 1872). Dr. Snow Beck furnishes a careful microscopical account of the structure of the uterus^ (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871). It is made up of fusiform fibre-cells, which form strim, bands, or layers, having in the unimpregnated organ a small amount of amorphous transparent tissue surrounding each fibre-cell, and of oval or round corpuscles and minute molecules or granules imbedded in a considerable amount of transparent amorphous tissue, and constituting what he terms the soft tissue of the uterus. The internal surface is composed entirely of soft tissue, and this has the utricular glands imbedded in it. The softREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 38a t’.ssue also penetrates into the walls of the uterus, and is met with in decreasing amount towards the outer surface. It will thus be seen that Dr. Beck does not admit the existence of a defined mucous mem- brane on the inner surface. Uterine Cancer. Spiegelberg writes (‘ Arch. f. G-ynak.,’ iii, 2, 1872) on the diagnosis of the first stage of cancer of the neck of the womb. He says that the hardness and unyielding character of malignant deposit, as compared with the firm and rough consistence of benign induration, is well known, but he relies on two other signs which may be briefly de- scribed as follows:—In malignant degeneration the overlying mucous membrane is always immovable, firmly connected with the underlying tissue, which is not the case in simple hyperplastic induration ; and while the latter, under the pressure of a sponge-tent in the cervix, dilates regularly and becomes looser, softer, and thinner, the cancerous infiltration continues unaltered, firm, and hard, and does not become stretched. Spiegelberg is not in favour of operative interference when the disease is far advanced. Dr. Madge, after a careful examination, reported that a specimen exhibited by Dr. Protheroe Smith before the Obstetrical Society was one of epithelial cancer of the lining membrane of the body of the uterus, which destroyed portions of the uterine substance without affecting the cervix. The bulging masses noticed on the inner surface were made up of a variety of elements, minutes granules, oil-globules, epithelial cells, and other cells of an irregular and nondescript character, with a little earthy matter, all contained in a stroma of connective tissue. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’1872.) Dr. Henry Bennett records a case, very obscure as regards the dia- gnosis during life, of malignant disease of the body of the uterus. The patient was fifty years of age, had ceased to menstruate for two years, and a uterine tumour was casually discovered by the hand on the hypo- gastric region. The uterus was enlarged to about the size of four months’pregnancy, perfectly free from adhesions, movable in every direc- tion ; there was no vaginal discharge. The sound passed four inches. In forty-eight hours after this she was seized with peritonitis and died. A large encephaloid cancerous tumour was found in the uterine cavity. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1872.) , . , Arpem, in ‘ L’Impartiale ’ of Plorence, publishes a case which, it the diagnosis be correct, shows the marked influence of gastric juice on uterine cancer. The patient was fifty-eight years old, with malig- nant disease of the rectum and of the neck of the uterus. After stopping the haemorrhage by the perchloride of iron, seven drachms of artificial gastric juice was divided into three parts and used locally every day for three weeks. Ultimately the ulcers were completely healed ^^Dr. Eouth writes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872) in favour of gastric i uice for uterine cancer. The effects which he has observed to be produced by the juice on cancerous sores have been solution of sloughs,383 DISPLACEMENTS OP THE UTEllUS. solution of the granular projections of the growths tliemselves, and absorption and disappearance of glandular enlargements beyond the seat of growth. Its action is rapid. Eouth refers to some successful cases by Lusana and Pagello in Italy. Pi’ofessor Simpson writes in favour of the removal of portions of the diseased tissues in cases of cancer of the uterus. Even in cases in which the whole disease cannot be removed the ablation of only a portion of the diseased tissue diminishes the haemorrhage and the dis- charge, relieves the pain, and thus prolongs life. Where the disease is sessile, and not capable of removal by the ecraseur, it must be dug or scraped out by means of the finger-nail, a Eecamier’s curette, or Simon’s scoox?. He thinks a saturated solution of the chlorate of potash a good application to the remaining stump. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1872.) Eemarks by various authors on the treatment of uterine cancer by scraping away the diseased tissue and by gastric juice are contained in the same journal for Aug. 24th, 1872. Dr. Barnes quotes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1871) a case of cancer of the female genitalia in which sudden death occurred. Hothing like embolism or thrombosis was found after death. The glands and subpei’itoneal tissue in the lumbar region were involved in dense masses of cancerous tissue; the aorta and the vena cava ran like tunnels through the solid cancerous mass, which extended from the pelvis to the diaphragm, and the aorta had, in many places, its coats bent inwards, forming nodular projections into its cavity. The aorta was thus no longer an elastic tube expanding under the heart’s systole and then contracting, but a rigid tunnel utterly wanting in resiliency. Such an aorta is mechanically unfitted to do its work, and under moderately increased exertion or emotion, causing unusual action in the heart, this rigid tube would throw back upon the heart a portion of the column of blood which the aorta ought to receive and propel. This retrograde dynamic disturbance would overwhelm the feeble heart, and thus death would follow. Tuberculosis of the female genitalia is illustrated by a case reported by Lehnerdt, and another case by Wernick, thirty-three days after labour, in which the disease was confined to the Eallonian tubes (‘Beitr. zur Gieb. u. G-ynak.,’ Berlin, 1872.) ^ Displacements of the Uterus. In a paper read before the Obstetrical Sdciety, Nov. 1871 Dr Konrad discusses the etiology of prolapse of the female genitalia ’ He believes, with Spiegelberg, that prolapse of the vagina is the most im- portant feature in any prolapse of the female genitals. The anterior wall descends most commonly, and in the large majority of cases pro- apse of the uterus is a sequel of this. He describes Spiegelbero-’s operation for the radical cure, which combines Dieffenbach’s^ method with a modification of Simon’s colpokleisis. The cervix uteri, if greatly hypertrophied, is first removed by the galvanic wire Dr. Duncan (‘Edin. Med. Jour.,’ Jal 1872) believes that the causes leading to procidentia are purely mechanical. In all chronic casesUEPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, F,TCi. 384 they have been long acting, gradually elongating the attachments, and stretching and elongating the organs themselves, or parts of them. The pelvic viscei’a descend either from the retaining forces being diminished or the expelling forces being predominant. That which is most easily displaced will descend first, and the rest will follow in the exact order and in the exact duration of the facility with which they may be depressed. Dr. Duncan, in a paper on the functions of the perinseum in proci- dentia uteri (‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Eeb. 1871), believes that the peri- nmum has nothing to do with the maintainance of the uterus in its natural position, and that laceration of it has no causative influence in the pro- duction of procidentia. There can be no doubt, however, that lacera- tion of the perinseum favours or accelerates the occurrence of proci- dentia. It abbreviates the latter part of the path which the uterus travels in its descent. It abets the causes which produce prolapsus by removing difficulties which otherwise would have to be overcome. These difficulties lie not only in the length and resistance of the perinseum, but also in the smallness and tightness of the vaginal orifice. Eestoration of the perinseum does not remove any cause of prolapsus or procidentia. It is restored in order that it may resist the progress of the descending uterus. This opposing power of the perinseum may be increased by the pressure of the pad of a T bandage. Dr. Squarey writes (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1872), on the causation of ac- quired flexions of the uterus. His object is to explain why in two cases, the same causes and conditions apparently existing, an anteflexion is found in the one case, a retroflexion in the other. He points out that in whatever plane of the pelvis the uterus is situated, its axis is invariably at right angles to that plane, and he believes that the direc- tion the fundus uteri takes in a flexion depends on the situation of the uterus in the pelvis at the time that the cause producing it comes into action. When an anteflexion is produced, the uterus is high up, the axis being forward, and any force striking it from above would impinge on the posterior and upper surface of the fundus, and so force it for- ward, producing anteflexion. When retroflexion is produced the uterus has from some cause sunk more or less deeply into the pelvis, a.nd has its axis directed more or less backward, so that any force striking it from above would impinge on the anterior and upper surface of the fundus. ^ 1 .1 1 n • Dr. Rasch writes (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) on a novel method ot using the uterine sound for redressing a flexed uterus. The sound intro- duced into the retroflexed uterus should first be used as a lever to lift up the organ; then, instead of twisting the handle round, the part in the uterus and its ideal prolongation are made the centre of motion, round which the handle and stem sweep in a large circle. The move- ment is well illustrated by grasping the curved part of the scmnd m one’s hand and swinging the handle round as it will go. By the above method the irritation which results from making a large semi- circle of motion in the uterine cavity is avoided. _ The mechanical treatment of displacements of the unimpregnated uterus is fullv described by Pepper (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstet.,’ 1871)385 DISEASES OP THE VAGINA, Dr. Baruea furnislies (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1871) an accurate description of the anatomical conditions connected with hypertrophic elongation of the cervix uteri. The whole pelvis and its contents in such a case were removed after death, and a vertical section was made in the median line. The entire length of the uterus was about seven inches. The fundus and body were somewhat lower in the pelvis than natural; the body had undergone apparently very little elongation. The two lips of the os uteri were much hypertrophied and somewhat everted ; they formed a mass covered by the everted vagina outside the vulva. The base of the bladder was carried down along with the down- growing interior wall of the cervix uteri, forming a sacculated pouch below the level of the urethra, and, therefore, below the symphysis pubis. The urethra was also distorted into a curve, of which the con- vexity looked upwards, the bladder end of it being carried downwards along with the base. The peritoneum, descending behind the abdo- minal wall, was reflected upwards over the bladder (the cavity of which was enormously enlai’ged) at a point about two inches above the sym- physis pubis. It descended behind the bladder quite down to a point on a level with the sacculated pouch of the bladder, that is, below the level of the lower margin of the symphysis pubis. Rising over the fundus uteri, the membrane descended behind, forming a Douglas’s pouch quite below the vulva. Dr. Barnes points out that it would not have been possible to remove more than a portion of the os without opening the retro-uterine pouch. The specimen also explained the difficulty commonly encountered in keeping the protruded parts inside the pelvis by pessaries. No folds of intestine descended between the pelvic viscera in the anterior or the posterior peritoneal pouch. Barnes also writes (‘St. Thomas’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 1871) on “the hypertrophic polypus of the os uteri, and its relation to hypertrophy of the cervix uteri.” Cervical hypertrophy is known frequently to pursue a very uniform course, affecting the whole structure of the cervix alike ; but sometimes one lip, and sometimes even a part of one lip, is more especially affected. A small lobe continues to grow under the same stimulus that determines the general hypertrophy. It grows a little more quickly, then its base, being compressed by the firm structure of the os on either side of it, is squeezed and elongated until it assumes the characteristic polypoid shape. The structure of these hypertrophic polypi entirely accords with this theory of their forma- tion. They are generally small, but sometimes as large as a cherry commonly single, but it is not infrequent to find two or three, and some show a tendency to lobulation. Diseases of the Vagina, Winckel gives (‘Arch. f. G-yniik.,’ ii, 3, 1871) an analysis of fifty cases of vaginal cysts, including four under his own care. The cysts may be divided into three kinds :—(i) mucous cysts, originating either in open or closed follicles; (2) interstitial, submucous, or placed in the hbro-muscular layer; and (3) sub-serous, situated above, in the pen-vaginal connective tissue underneath the peritoneum, below 25386 REPORT ON MIDWIEERY, ETC. between tbe vagina and tbe rectum. The chief causes of the follicular cysts are catarrh, inflammation of the vagina, and the physiological hypersemia which it undergoes during pregnancy ; while the deeper cysts, both interstitial and subserous, generally result from compression and bruising of the vaginal wall, and the effusion of blood into its tissue, the result of a preceding labour. The cysts are generaBy slow in their growth j in some recorded cases they attained to the size of a hen’s egg in seven or eight years. The medium-sized and small ones generally cause but little inconvenience. Winckel treated and cured his cases by simple incision. The other methods of treatment recom- mended are the excision of a portion of the cyst wall and the subse- quent application of caustic, puncture and injection of iodine, removal by the ecraseur, and the use of a seton. Vaginal stenosis is illustrated by Ebell, who relates a case of great contraction in the upper third after cholera, and by Martin, who records two cases. (‘ Beitr. zur Geb. u. Gynak.,’ Berlin, 1872.) Gueneau de Mussy writes on hypersesthesia of the vulva and vagi- nismus. He disapproves entirely of Sims’ method, and believes that medical means combined, if necessary, with dilatation render deep inci- sions altogether unnecessary. He has obtained good results from va'^inal suppositories of bromide of potash and belladonna, and subcu- taneous injection of morphia and atropia. When the vaginismus is accompanied by itching he gives also some arseniate of soda. (‘ Lyon Medical,’ 1871.) ^ n ^ i. Stoltz writes (‘Gaz. M^d. de Strasbourg., 16, 1871) on hyperses- thesia and spasmodic contraction ot the vaginal sphincter, with or without fissure. Vaginismus is also treated of by Scharlau. ( zu. Geb. und Gynak.,’ p. 64, 1872.) On vaginal neurosis. Ferber (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’ viii, i^, 1871). . , „ . ^ .. Dr. Byrne related to the Dublin Obstetrical Society a case ot tumoui of the vagina. The patient was thirty-six years of age, the mother ot four children. The tumour was firm, about the size of a hen s egg, pale in colour, quite movable. It was attached to the posterior wall of the vagina, and appeared to be folded up in a large loose fold of the mucous membrane. A V-shaped incision through the mucous mem- brane having been made, the tumour was carefully dissected out ot the cellular tissue in which it lay. The tumour was lost, and so its micro- scopical characters were not ascertained. ( Dublin Quart. Journ., ^^r bLubs removed a fibroma, the size of a large orange, from the anterior wall of the vagina. Its attachment began just at the meatus urinarius, extending along the anterior vaginal wall, but leaving a space of an inch quite clear below the os uteri. ( Obst. Trans., Mr Lawson Tait figures (‘Med. Times and Gaz., March, 1871) two needles, suitable for use in operations for vaginal fistula. One needle is the ordinary tubular one of Simpson, which, in making a stitch, Mr. Tait aCrintroduces first by the left hand. He then n>akes slight inotion on the wire so as to lift its loop up from the point of the rilo 'inrl introducing the other needle through the other flap opposite rcaught in its notch Li the stitch con,pleted.387 JDiSEASES OF THE OVARIES. The absolute certainty whicli the two needles _ give of the points of insertion for each stitch being exactly opposite is a great recommenda- tion for their use. Chrschtschonovitch writes on the termination of nerves in the vagina. The mucous membrane contains numerous branched cells, resembling connective tissue corpuscles, arranged just beneath the laminated pave- ment epithelium with almost the same regularity as in the cornea, while others are scattered irregularly through the membrane. The nerves penetrating through the muscular layer to the mucous membrane consist of large bundles of medullated fibres, which here and there contain groups of ganglion cells. From these, smaller trunks are given off, still medullated, which enter the proper mucosa or rete Malpighii; as these pass towards the surface the medullary sheath is gradually lost, and the fibres either bend back or join with a fibril from a neighbouring trunk, forming a very superficial plexus, or apply themselves to the wall of one of the small vessels, ascending to supply the papillae of the membrane. Some few of them, destitute of medullary sheath, may be seen ascending between the epithelial cells; but the author agrees with Hensen and Klein in stating that the nerves do not join with the branched connective corpuscles. The smooth muscular fibre fasciculi of the membrane are surrounded by a very rich plexus of uon-medullated nerve-fibres, from which individual fibres are given off that exhibit here and there granule-like enlarge- ments, and penetrate between the several muscle cells. He thinks it probable that these last are encircled by the ultimate fibrils. Follow- ing the branches given off to the epithelium from the sub-epithelial non-medullated plexus, he finds that they break up in the deeper layers into a plexus of fibres encircling the epithelial cells, amongst which are large branched corpuscles. (‘Lancet,’Hov. 1871.) Diseases of the Ovaries. Professor Waldeyer describes (Archiv f. Gynak., ii, 3, 1871) a difi'nse fibroid of the ovary of peculiar structure. The tumour measured 13 cm. in length, ii in breadth, and 10 in thickness, and weighed 910 grammes ; and had the shape of a greatly enlarged ovary. Ihere was on the surface one cyst nearly the size of an apple, and two small, transparent cysts, the size of peas. The consistence of the mass T^s unusually hard, so that there was a difficulty in making a section 01 it. It had a close resemblance to closely meshed spongy bone or an osteoid tumour. Waldeyer then describes its microscopical cha- racters, and states that it ivanted only the characteristic grouping of the cells at the epithelial like margins of the trabecula, and the firm throughout homogeneous state of the trabecular substance itself to render the resemb ance between it and an osteoid tumour complete, both macroscopically and microscopically. The cystic cavities showed on their inner surface a short cylindrical epithelium. etiologically there exist several species, Wenorrhagic, rheumatic, traumatic, inenLual, puerperal, clinically there are the very acute, the acute, and the888 REPOllT ON MIDWIFEU'if, ETC. chronic. From a clinical point of view we cannot recognise the j division into follicular, parenchymatous, and peritoneal. Slavjanshy j contributes an article on the same subject. (‘Arch. f. G-ynak.,’ iii, 2, j 1872.) See also Matthews Duncan. (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’Sept. 1871.) . Dr. Edis relates a case of abscess of the ovary in a girl set. 12. The ' right ovary was found to be distended to the size of an orange, its walls were much thickened and covered internally by flaky purulent ^ lymph; the posterior surface had given way, allowing the matter to escape into the peritoneal cavity. There was also general chronic peritonitis. (‘ Obst. Trans.’ i87i)- o z-xr . - • > Professor Gaillard Thomas records (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics, 1871) five cases of malignant disease of the ovaries. He concludes fhat the circumstances which most prominently point to the existence of the disease are:—(i) The rapid development of a solid tumour in an ovary, with marked depreciation of the strength, vital forces, spirits, and general condition of the patient. (2) The occurrence of oedema pedum and spanmmia at an early period, and consequently dependent upon a general blood state, and not the consequence of pressure by the tumour. CD Lancinating and burning pains through the tumour. (4) Cachectic appearance. (5) The occurrence of ascites without evidences ot hSatic, renal, or cardiac disease, or of chronic peritonitis; the fluid accumulating in such large amounts as to force aside the supernatant intestines and produce dulness in place of resonance on percussion in dorsal decubitus. „ mi Dr. Brown records a case of solid cancer of the ovary. The tumour weighed nineteen pounds. On section it was found to be tough and fibres in structure, and to have in its interior a few small cavities containing a purulent-looking fluid. The closely resembled those found in many scirrhous cancers of the breast. C‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872.) . ^ Dr. Parry writes an interesting article on sudden enlai^ements of, and hmmorrbage into, ovarian cysts. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst., JNo . '^Mn relates twenty-five cases of ovarian cysts in which from ex- cessive distension of the cyst wall, or from some traumatic cause runture of the cyst occurred. Seven of the cases were cured^, five af ^bf&strtwo aVr repeated rupture. Eighteen died; .^e from collapse six from acute^peritonitis, three from chronic peritonitis and M “ ruptured cyst were purulent fatal peritonitis occurred. Ovafiotomy. Mr Spencer Welle has lately (‘ Med.-Chir. Sec.,’ Noj- 'Sm) 'om^ pleS Se analysis of 500 eases of ovariotomy performed by h.m.389 OVARIOTOMY. 1 eases both ovaries were removed at one operation, and there were four cases where ovariotomy was performed twice on the same patient. The subsequent history of patients who recovered after removal of one ovary proved that they might menstruate regularly, and might bear children of both sexes, or twins ; and that after removal of both ovaries they did not become excessively fat, nor lose their feminine appear- ance or sexual instinct. Of 373 women who recovered, 36 who were unmarried at the time of the operation had married since; of these 13 had had one child, 6 two children, 3 three, 3 four children, and a had had twins. Of 239 who were married when the operation was per- formed, many being beyond the age of child-bearing, 23 had had one or more children since. Seventeen had died of causes more or less directly connected, and 19 of causes not at all connected, with ovarian disease or the operation, at various periods from a few weeks to eight years after ovariotomy. IVIr. Wells stated that unilocular cysts often disappeared after a simple tapping. They were frequently not ovarian at all, but connected with the parovarium or the broad ligament. His views as to early operation had become modified from those which he at first held. He had found that the results of operations on small tumours in healthy women were not so favorable as in cases where the cysts were large, and the patients had become accustomed to disease. He did not think it right to remove small ovarian tumours, unless they caused great pain and inconvenience to the patient. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1872.) Keith communicates (‘Lancet,’ Hov. 1872) a third series of fifty cases of ovariotomy. Of the last hundred cases operated on by Keith there have been eighty-four recoveries. There were only eight deaths in the fifty cases now recorded; two died from obstructed intestine, one from acute septicaemia, and five from peritonitis. Keith now takes perhaps more care than ever during the operation to tie every bleeding point. Lister’s animal ligatures being used. Pure, dry, sulphuric ether is always used by him as an anaesthetic. A tabular statement has been published of the cases of ovariotomy performed by the late Dr. Skoldberg of Stockholm. Out of thirty com- pleted cases twenty-six recovered. An exploratory incision was made in four cases, and one of these died. An operation for the removal of a solid cancerous ovarian tumour was fatal. Mr. Christopher Heath related to the Clinical Society (Nov. 1871) a case of ovariotomy in which very extensive adhesions to the sur- rounding structures were found. On enlarging the abdominal incision with scissors in the ordinary way, an empty coil of small intestine, which was closely adherent to the wall, was divided in three quarters of its circumference. Mr. Heath attached the bowel to the skin wdth silk sutures, forming an artificial anus. The patient made a perfectly good recovery, the use of a belt and an air pad satisfactorily retained all faecal matter, and she had regular stools. Dr. Beebe relates five cases of ovariotomy in which he treated the pedicle by simple torsion of its vessels. There was no subsequent haemorrhage, and each case recovered. (‘ Amer. Jour, of Med. Sci.,’ April, 1871),REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 Dr. Atlee records seven cases of ovariotomy, and describes a new clamp for the operation. By means of this clamp the pedicle is com- pressed in the linear direction of the wound, and at the same time it limits within certain points the expansion or spreading of the pedicle when the blades are screwed together. (Ibid.) A new ovariotomy clamp is described by Dr. Dawson (‘Amer. Jour. Obst.,’ 1871), and a pump for facilitating the operation by Dr. Lente. « , . , Dr. Tracy reports six eases of ovariotomy, five of which were suc- cessful (‘Austral. Med. Journ.,’Aug._ 1871); and a successful case performed during an attack of peritonitis. (‘Med. Chir. Soc., 1872.) Dr. B. S. Schultze relates (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii,_3, 1871) four cases, two of which recovered. One of these patients had two children subsequently; the other menstruated through the abdominal wall, and the discharge from the site of the incision often lasted some hours longer than that from the vagina. Mlartin also contributes seven cases. (‘Berl. Klin. Woch.,’March, 1872.) Dr. G. H. B. Macleod writes (‘Lancet,’ Jan. 1871) on an improved method of dividing the pedicle in ovariotomy, and describes an instru- ment of his own construction which he employs to grasp the pedicle finely near its uterine end. The cyst is tlien cut away by dividing with a knife the extreme distal end of the pedicle, and the stump is cau'^ht by special forceps at a short distance from the part grasped by the''instrument above mentioned. By slowly turning the forceps while the first instrument is kept at rest, the stump is twisted oii close to the edge of the instrument by which it is held, and may then be returned with safety into the abdominal cavity Dr. Macleod relates a successful case in which this plan was adopted; the patient was quite recovered about the time the clamp is found to separate in most cases. He says that it is a question for further observation now far the simple grasp of the first instrument, if contmued for a short time might sufidee to close the vessels of the pedicle without the Won. Mr. Jessop relates (‘Lancet,’ Sept 1871) two cases in which the nedicle was successfully twisted by the above method. Dr. Hayes recommends a method for securing the vessels of the pedicle, which he^ calls “ the subperitoneal.” The proceeding resembles the Tubcutaneous ligature of nmvus. The pedicle is first co^mpressed by a clamp and a needle armed with stout catgut ligatoe is Passed beneath a good thickness of the serous surface of the pedicle, but suSSal to the principal vessels. The needle bemg withdrawn at thrside opposite the point of entrance is again passed into the aper- ture of exirandpushecl between the vessels and peritoneal covering on tWdVo^^^^ vessels opposite its first passage, until it can be with- torn through the opeing made hy t rDuZ fhe ligature are to be strongly tied, and cut off short. ( Dub plnarSes^a°Iuo’ee®M case of ovariotomy in which a tnbperito- neal* fibroid of the uterus was removed at the same time. ( Gaz. iawsou^Talt has introduced a new form of trochar for use in391 PERI-UTERINE CONDITIONS. oviriotomy It is claimed that this instrument has the following aStaS'over those at present in use:-thatthe penetrating edge Ss a^d Les not tear, miking a wound which the tube completely Ss and it is easily retracted. The cutting point may be used as a knife to slit open smaller cysts contained in the major one, and of which the contents may be so viscid as to be unable to pass along any trochar. The catches adapted to the trochar are such as to obviate any possibility of its slipping. (‘Med. Times Gaz.,’Dec. 1872.) ^ Dr Goddard relates (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) a case of ovariotomy performed by Mr. Wells at the third month of pregnancy. Recovery. Labour at term. Living child. Mr. Wells has performed ovariotomy in four cases during pregnancy, each time with a successful result. Barker performed ovariotomy successfully in the case of a girl set. six years and eight months. The tumour was tapped and easily ex- tracted. Besides the fluid contents it contained the elements usually found in a dermoid cyst. (‘Philad. Med. Times, 1871.) Mr. Spencer Wells relates (‘Med. Times Gaz.,’ Jan, 1872) three cases of suppurating ovarian cysts with a high temperature, which were successfully operated upon, the temperature falling quickly after the removal of the ofiending cyst. Peri-uterine conditions, ^c. Dr. Meadows writes on pelvic hsematocele, especially on its diagnosis and treatment. He relates two cases in which he punctured the tumour; and believes from his own experience and from an analysis of Bernutz’ cases that puncturing should be more frequently practised, that this is generally best done by the rectum, but that as a rule it should not be undertaken during the flrst _ month after the effusion has taken place. An interesting discussion followed the reading of this paper. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1871.) Dr. Snow Beck, writing on the source of the hemorrhage in pelvic hematoma, believes it to be highly improbable that the blood ever regurgitates from the uterus through the Fallopian tube, as the con- sequence of some disorder of the menstrual function. There is no post-mortem evidence that this occurs except where there is permanent obstruction to the outward flow of the catamenia and consequent dilatation of the uterus. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Delpech records (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Sep. 1871) a case of phlegmon of the broad ligament, proceeding to suppuration, and causing death by bursting into the peritoneal cavity. The patient was forty years old, never married, and the cause of the phlegmon appeared obscure. The pain flrst came on suddenly, eight days after the cessation of menstruation. Dr, Hart narrates (‘Amer. Jour, of Obstetrics,’ 1871) an interesting case of hydrocele of the round ligament, which at flrst was mistaken for a strangulated hernia. The tumour was larger than a hen’s egg, flattened, situated above Poupart’s ligament, in the direction of the inguinal canal. When exposed, an exploring needle was introduced,392 HEP011T ON MIDWIFEUY, ETC. and three ounces of a clear limpid fluid escaped. The sac was then freely laid open, but no intestine or omentum was found. Two similar cases came under the notice of Dr. Nelson, and in these there existed the same translucency, slow growth, non-reducibility, and freedom from pain. In a paper on uterine inflammation after the change of life (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1872) Dr. Tilt states that the occasional recur- rence after the menopause of inflammation of the sexual mucous mem- brane may be safely predicted to those who have long suffered from inflammation of the entire womb, when they presume too much on their partly recovered strength. Also that we may safely predict inflammation of the sexual mucous membrane to those who overtax their strength after the menopause, whenever the uterine tissues are teased by the presence of a small interstitial fibroid or a polypus, when the cervix is hypertrophied, and also when the women are cachectic and have always one or more of fheir mucous membranes in a diseased condition. In a discussion on uterine injections for chronic metritis at the Societe de Medecine of Paris M. Charrier recommended iodine; the perchloride of iron, he said, gave rise to excessive pain. Gallard spoke highly of a weak solution of the perchloride. He first injects the uterus with water so as to ascertain its capacity, and afterwards injects a similar quantity of the solution of the perchloride. (‘ G-az. des Hop.,’ Peb. 1871). _ /.s ..T > ••• Professor Spiegelberg contributes (‘Arch._f. Gynak., 111, 2, 1872) three cases illustrating the value of puncture in the diagnosis of collec- tions of fluid in the abdominal cavity. _ Having referred to a previous case reported by him where the omission of tapping led to the error of mistaking a hydatid cyst of the kidney for an ovarian tumour, and to an operation and the death of the patient, he quotesCase i.— woman, jet. 30, two years previously, after so-called abdominal in- flammation, noticed a swelling in the left hypogastnum, which increased slowly and steadily, but which gave rise to little annoy- ance, except to fixed pain in the left side. On admission a cyst occupying the centre part of the lower and middle abdomen ; doubtful origin; puncture, evacuation of pus; attempted incision; and rupture of cyst after detachment of neighbouring adhesiop; escape ot echinococcus membrane ; retroperitoneal left-sided hydatid cyst; partial excision, the rest attached to the abdominal wound; recovery by wasting of the sac after long continued suppuration. Case 2.—Ait. 40 sent in for ovariotomy. Puncture of one of the cystic spaces r^led it not to be an ovarian tumour, for the small quantity of dark fluid with- drawn, besides containing many red and white blood-ceUs, ™der^ spontaneous coagulation and showed no epithelial elements The serous character was thus apparent. Death by marasmus and ce<iema of the lungs Tumour found to be a large retroperitoneal and mesenteric sarcoma descending into the pelvis, and resembling an ovarian cyst on account of numerous sacculated ascitic spaces and secondary adhesious to the fundus uteri. Case 3.--^^ ^8, with an abdommal tumour its character doubtful. By tapping a glutinous fluid was ' contained besides crystals of cholesterm, numerous cells, a little dchis,393 PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE OVUM. cells witli clear contents, and mucli remarkably distinct mmlear cylin- drical epithelium. This pointed to its ovarian character. Ovariotomy, incomplete on account of numerous adhesions. Death by decom- position of cyst. Spiegelberg concludes that although diagnostic ■pimcture does not always give positive information as to the origin oi the fluid, yet that when it does the result is conclusive as compared with the doubtful physical examination. II. PREGNANCY. Physiology and Pathology of the Ovum. Dr. Livius Eiirst writes (‘Arch. f. G-ynak.,’ ii, 3) on the amnion in its relation to foetal malformations. W hile he admits that compression by the umbilical cord may, in some cases, be the cause of arrest of development of certain portions of the foetus, he believes that amnial “filamentous adnexa”—under which name he includes thready, stringy and membranous formations—are the most common causes of mechani- cal interruption to the development of the foetus. He then discusses the formation of these adnexa; by some they are regarded as plastic adhesions, by others as the result of foetal inflammation with plastic exudation, but Durst agrees with the theory which considers them due to arrested formation of the amnion. The inner layer of the amnion, at first in close contact with the foetus, is gradually separated from it by the liquor amnii; but abnormal adhesion may take place between the epithelial layer of the amnion and the epidermis of the foetus, and this, by the expansion of the amnion, leads to thready and stringy formations, wliich may wholly or partly interrupt the development of the extremities. The most frequent cause of this adhesion is the small quantity of liquor amnii, or its late secretion. In the discussion on a specimen exhibited at the Obstetrical Society of a child whose forearm had undergone amputation in utero. Dr. Barnes said that it was not often strangulation by the umbilical cord that caused these amputations, but by a string of false membranes. He regarded the budding from the stump which is so often found, with the signs of a cicatrix, as proof of amputation in the early stage of develop- ment. (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871.) Dr. Braxton Hicks writes on the anatomy of the human placenta, and controverts the Hunterian doctrine. He shows how the injection which Hunter used would almost certainly produce an irruption of blood amongst the villi. The fact of blood being found among the villi after natural expulsion is no evidence in favour of or against a sinus system, because there are then nearly always lacerations and denudations of the decidua serotina. The author argues that if no blood be found among the villi, the placenta being examined in situ, this is conclusive evidence against the existence of the sinus system. Dissections proving the absence of blood under these circumstances are added. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.)394 REPOllT ON MIDWIPEBYj ETC. Joulin contributes some observations on the laminar membrane o£ the human placenta, the state of the chorion, and the placental circula- tion at term, and concludes that at the end of pregnancy the chorion has disappeared as a continuous membrane from the foetal surface of the placenta, and that the greyish resisting tissue which covers the placenta is not the chorion, but a membrane of new formation, which he calls the laminar membrane. He illustrates the evolution of this membrane by reference to the condition of the placenta at various stages of its development. (‘Bulletin de 1’Academic de Med. de Paris,’ March, 1872.) An interesting case of recurrent discharge of fluid from the uterus during pregnancy is recorded by Dr. Dyce Brown (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872). The first gush of clear fluid, just tinged with blood, took place at the fourth month, and was repeated almost weekly until the sixth month, when labour came on. The amniotic sac was then felt tense, and required to be ruptured, after which a large quantity of fluid escaped. A similar discharge has occurred in the two subsequent pregnancies of the same patient. Pabbri writes (‘ Presse Med.,’ xxiii, 29, 1871) on the hydrorrhoea of pregnancy. Dr. Matthews Duncan writes on long delay of labour after discharge of liquor amnii. He gives an illustrative case, and refers to the researches of Winkler, proving that the amnion has the power of secretion and absorption in a high degree. Firm compression of the foetus may take place without active uterine contraction, and it is firm compression by active uterine contraction that is incompatible with the continuance of pregnancy. (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Similar cases are also recorded by various writers in the ‘British Med. Journ.,’ and by Doughty (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ May, 1872). In the ‘ Graz. Med. de Paris,’ Oct. 1871, is an account of some pecu- liar cysts' of the placenta described by M. Jacquet. He believes that they were developed at the expense of the sheath of the placental vessels, ciud he calls them perivascular cysts. Jacquet admits four kinds of placental cysts—(i) gelatinous cysts originating in the laminated tissue between the chorion and the amnion ; (2) perivascular cysts ; (3) sanguineous cysts, from the placental sinuses; and (4) the ordinary cysts of the villi (hy^atiniform degeneration). p Oii calcification of the placenta.—Dr. E. Friinkel gives ( Arch t. Gvniik. ’ ii, 3 1871) three cases in which a careful examination 01 the placenta was made; and he concludes that calcification of the placenta most frequently follows the course of the capillaries and small vessels of the villi, though it may be more diflTuse and intermediate, and then its origin, according to Langhans, is from the epithelial layer of the villous trunks. Most commonly capillary incrustation proceeds from the vessel wall, spreads through at all points, and forms, as it were, a coating for the cavity of the vessel, without as yet rendering the vessel impervious. It usually, though not always, begins at the extremities of the villi, and may also show itself at separate points in the trunks. Dilfuse not too extensive, calcification is without influence on the sup- port of the foetus, while, indeed, a less extensive capillary petrificaUon especially in the earlier months of pregnancy, interferes with the foetal395 PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OP THE OVUM# blood and gaseous interchange, and thus may lead primarily to the death of the fcetus. Calcification of a mature placenta with a living child is only an indication of completed intrauterine growth ; and from a similar point of view is to be regarded as secondary cal- cification, noticed when the foetus is from other causes dead and macerated. . Ahlfeld, of Leipzig, writes on the determination of the size and the age of the child before labour. The attempt is made by Ahlfeld to deter- mine the size of the foetus for two reasons; firstly, in order to.ascertain the period of gestation, and, secondly, to make out before labour if any disproportion exist between the foetus and the genital passages. To arrive at the first point attention is paid to the woman s statements, the height of the uterus, the development of the abdomen, the condi- tion of the inferior segment of the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, and the state of the external genitals. To ascertain the second point particular attention is paid to the size of the head, the hardness of the bones which form it, and the condition of the sutures and fontanelles. The uterine contents determine the form of the uterus, so that in the middle of pregnancy, when the foetus forms the principal part of the ovum, the form of the uterine walls is moulded to the posi- tion and attitude of the foetus. There thus results an ovoid, the two poles of which are constituted by the head and the breech, and the separation of these two gives the length of the foetal axis, and this is always about half the entire length of the child. Having placed the woman on her back, with the thighs flexed, if the long axis of the uterus be from above downward, the position of the fundus uteri is marked on the abdomen, and then one arm of Baudelocque’s pelvimeter is guided by the finger along the vagina to the occiput of the child ; the length from head to breech is thus ascertained, and by doubling this we have the entire length of the child. If the long axis of the uterus be trans- verse, the position of the head and the breech is marked, and the dis- tance between them measured. The author has collected in eight tables the results of measurements made in 250 cases, and at the same time the estimation of the weight of the foetus. In the fortieth week the greatest length is estimated at centimetres, the shortest at 48 ; in the thirty-ninth week, 56 and 46 centimetres ; in the thirty-eighth, 60 and 44; in the thirty-seventh, 54-4 and 40. The second table proves the truth of the statement already made, that the entire length of the child is about double that of the foetal axis. The third table gives the results of measurements made in the intervals of uterine contractions ; the fourth, of those made during uterine action. The fifth gives an account of the measurements in transverse and oblique positions, and the sixth the relation which exists between the length of the newborn child and the two transverse diameters of the head. The seventh table gives the height of the uterus in each week of pregnancy, and the last table the relation between the height of the uterus and the length of the intra-uterine foetal axis, and the length of the newborn child. The increase in the size of the uterus is about half a centimetre a week, at least, in the last third of pregnancy. The height of the uterus continually increases to the end of pregnancy, although it isREPOUT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. 396 generally said that the uterus descends in the last month. (‘ Schmidt’s Jahrhiicher,’ B. clii, H. i.) Dr. Hutton states (‘New York Med. Journ.,’ July, 1872) that he has been able to predict the sex of the child in utero in seven cases, with- out a failure, by auscultation. When the foetal pulsations number 144 per minute the child is a female ; 124 per minute, a male. A variation of six beats per minute, from 124 upward and from 144 downward, will not endanger the diagnosis, provided auscultation be practised in the ninth month of pregnancy. Of fifty-seven cases examined by Steinbach he was correct in forty-five, and Brankenhausen was correct in all the fifty cases which he examined with a view to determine the sex of the child. Dr. Brunton relates a case (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871) in which the entire ovum was expelled at the seventh month, and although at least fifteen minutes elapsed before the membranes were opened, yet the child was rescued alive. Dr. Heywood Smith did not see why the child should not have been alive. It was not in the condition of a child born with the stimulus of the external air producing inspiratory effort, and so incurring the danger of drowning, but in this case, with the ex- ception of slight loss of heat, the child was in a natural condition, its circulation continued as if it had been still in utero, with the substitu- tion merely of aeration by the atmosphere, acting directly upon the uterine aspect of the jdacenta, for the maternal blood. Dr. Grigg said the practical lesson from the case was to take care, should the placenta be expelled before the birth of the child, to expose its uterine surface to the air. t-, i Conception under unusual circimstances. — Dr. it. Ulsnausen re- lates (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871) two cases in which conception occurred while each of the patients was wearing an intra-utermo stem. The first case was that of a woman who, since her last con- finement, had sufi'ered from menorrhagia and anteflexion of the uterus, for which an intra-uterine stem pessary was introduced on the 28th of June. She menstruated for the last time on the 6th of Decem- ber, and was delivered of a strong boy on the 25th of September. The instrument was removed on the i^th of January, conception having pro- bably occurred about the 19th of December. The second parent had suffered from perimetritis after her last labour, and had anteflexion of the uterus, for which she wore an intra-uterine stem. Menstruation was regular and profuse; the last period was on the 8th of September. Th^e pessary was removed on the i8th of October, and she was confined of rSri weighing 4 kilog., on the 24th of June. -The ovum and the Lstrumentwe?e'probably twenty days together in the uterus in this case. The pessaries were made of hard caoutchouc, with a globular head. Diseases of Pregnancy. Dr. E. Kaltenbach writes an elaborate article on albuminuria and diseases of the urinary organs in the child-bearing period ( Arch. . ’ iii I 1871)- He relates cases as proofs ot eacli propositiou whTch hekys ’dow.,and™ up his researches in the followmg con-397 DISEASES OE PEEGNANCY. elusions During pregnancy albuminuria may supervene (i) in conse- quence of vesical catarrh, which occasionally results from pressure on the urethra and the neck of the bladder; (2) from general catarrh of the urinary passages, with pyelitis ; (3) m consequence of congestion of the renal vessels ; and (4) from parenchymatous diseases of the kidneys. In the puerperal state albuminuria may result (i) from vesical catarrh, brought on by the mechanical irritation of a catheter, or by the exten- sion of the inflammatory process from the genital organs to the bladder, or by severe labour ; (2) from general catarrh of the urinary passages with pyelitis, arising from a simple extension of a primary catarrh of the bladder, or from contiguity to inflamed parts, while sometimes pyelitis may supervene as an independent idiopathic affection; (3) froui congestion of the renal vessels as in uncompensated insufficiency of the valves of the heart; and (4) from textural disease of the kidney, which may appear as a primary parenchymatous nephritis, or be secondary to the extension of inflammation from the bladder, or result from pressure on the ureter, or be the metastatic inflammation of py- — • - Physiological albuminuria does not exist either during pregnancy mmia. or in the puerperal state. Dr. Hermann Lebert, of Breslau, relates three cases, intended as a contribution to our knowledge of the causation of heart disease and disease of the vessels in connection with child-bearing; Case 1.—Acute articular rheumatism at the fourth month of preg- nancy, symptoms of mitral endocarditis, repeated rigors, indications of embolism in the left lower and the right upper extremity, abortion, death from oedema of the lungs. Endocarditis with ulcerative destruction of the bicuspid valve, embolic obstruction of the subclavian artery, of the termination of the aorta, and of the first part of each iliac artery. The uterus was full of blood-clot, but no pathological change existed in its walls. Case 2.—Severe puerperal fever, great dyspnoea, with abundant rhonchi and a bellows murmur in the vicinity of the tricuspid valve. On opening the body there was found purulent inflammation of the tricuspid, a large embolism in the right portion of the pulmonary artery, with purulent inflammation of the same. The inner surface of the uterus showed a well-marked uniform injection of its vessels, with everywhere a rather thick epithelial layer. The organ was twice the size it should be at the fifth week after labour, but its structure appeared normal. There was inflammation of the right spermatic vein. Case 3.—Abortion at the sixth month, periovaritis, pleurisy, swelling of right knee and left elbow ; death on the twenty-fourth day. Em- bolism in the pulmonary artery, double pleurisy, gangrene of the lower lobe of right lung, thrombus of vena cava inferior, obstruction of the left renal vein, periovaritis, periuterine purulent phlebitis, and endo- metritis. (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ hi, i, 1871.) Dr. A. Gusserow relates (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ ii, 2, 1871) five very interesting cases of a high degree of anaemia in pregnant women. The character of the symptoms and the cause of the disease were strikingly alike in all. The age of the patients varied from twenty-four to thirty- six ; they had previously enjoyed good health, and four of them had been before pregnant. Slowly, in the course of pregnancy, and with-398 fcEPOUT ON MIDWIFEUY^ ETC. out any apparent cause, tliere supervened such severe anaemia and hydraemia, that towards the eighth month the foetus was expelled, and each patient died soon after. In none of the organs could be found any marked change except the appearances of extreme anaemia and hydraemia and their consequences. The brain and its membranes were very anaemic. The slight fatty degeneration observed (though not in all the cases) in the substance of the heart and in the abdominal viscera was, he believes, simply the result of the blood-change, and not the primary cause. The alterations which are known to occur in the blood during pregnancy seem, in these cases, to have been carried so far as to become a pathological condition. Gusserow recommends, in similar cases, that abortion should be induced, or at least, as early as possible, premature labour. Transfusion may be necessary. Matton, of Bouzonville, writes (‘ Journ. de Bruxelles,’ May and June, 1872) on pneumonia during pregnancy and on puerperal fever. In the first place the author considers the modifications which pregnancy in- duces in the blood. These consist in an increase of the fibrine and the water, and a diminution of the corpuscles and the albumen; thus preg- nancy predisposes to inflammations. If the amount of fibrine exceed certain limits, we have, succeeding to the inflammatory, the purulent diathesis, and if it is the watery part which is increased beyond measure, we have in addition a seroiis cachexia. According to Andral during the first six months of pregnancy the amount of fibrine is diminished, and is met with in increased quantity only after the sixth month. Matton then quotes thirty-eight cases of pneumonia during pregnancy, and states that nineteen cases out of twenty re- covered when the pregnancy was not intei’rupted in its course, but only nine out of eighteen got well when labour supervened. Bor him puer- peral fever is the combined result of an essential fever of internal origin, due to the condition of the blood and other ill-understood causes, and a local phlegmasia. -.i i. • Spiegelberg writes on the complication of pregnancy with chronic heart disease. (‘Archiv. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871.) Complications and Accidents of Pregnancy. Dr. Madge reports (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec. 1871) a case of paralysis during pregnancy. At an early period in the pregnancy the patient complained of severe pain in the hands and feet, which soon became excessively sensitive and painful. In a few weeks this hypei- iBsthesia was succeeded by anaesthesia, and there was also loss 01 motion. Small doses of ergot of rye were taken for several weeks without any perceptible benefit; this was ordered on account ot its contractile effects on the smaller vessels, thus lessening congestion, which it is believed existed in this case in the grey matter of the chord. Faradisation was then used, and sensation returned in two months, but motion not until later. A dead foetus, of about four months, ot a dark muddy colour, and surrounded by muddy liquor amnii was ultimately expelled. The patient made a good recovery. Dr. Playfair points out (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ xiii) that some cases ofCOMPLICATIONS AND ACCIDENTS OE PREGNANCY. 399 irritable bladder in the latter months of pregnancy are due to an obliciue or transverse position of the fcetus in utero. He relates three cases in which this troublesome symptom'disappeared after rectifica- tion of the child’s position by external manipulation. Dr. Hicks sug- gests that this results from the disturbance to the form of the bladder by the altered form of the uterus. In the ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Feb. 1871, Dr. Zagiel relates a case of pregnancy complicated with cystic disease of the left ovary. Labour ter- minated successfully for both mother and child. Dr. R. P. Harris records (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1871) a case of ovarian dropsy of fifty years duration. The patient was three times pregnant during its existence, and each labour had a successful issue to both mother and child. Two cases of ovarian tumour coexistent with pregnancy are also to be seen recorded in the ‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ July, 1871, p. 2,91 and p. 295. A case of ovarian cystic disease with pregnancy coexisting is also mentioned by Dejpaul (‘ Lancet,’ July, 1871, p. 165). The cyst was tapped, and no refilling took place after the patient’s confinement. He thinks it a question worthy of notice whether the pressure of the developing uterus had a great share in efiecting a cure in the case. The‘Archives Generales,’ January to March, 1871, contain articles by Dumaivon on pregnancy, labour, and child-bed, complicated with ovarian cysts. A girl, set. 16, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with retention of urine at the fourth month of pregnancy. She was seized with sudden abdominal pain and died. A post-mortem examination revealed the fundus of the bladder, the caecum, the lower part of the small intestine, the fundus of the uterus, the sigmoid fiexure, and the extremity of the omentum to be all matted together by very old adhesions. A little recent lymph was spread over the rest of the peritoneum. On breaking down the old adhesions a sort of cavity was discovered behind the bladder and above the uterus, which contained a brown turbid liquid. This cavity communicated with the bladder by a sloughy hole in the posterior wall of the latter. The bladder pre- sented large sloughy patches that implicated all its coats. (‘ Lancet,’ May, 1871.) Funk relates a case of reposition by the fingers of an incarcerated re- troverted uterus in two successive pregnancies. The first was successful, the pregnancy proceeding to the full term; in the second, death of the mother succeeded to abortion, gangrene of the bladder and peritonitis. (‘Oesterr. Ztschr. f prakt. Heilk.,’ xvii, 26, 1871.) Dr. Eoss relates (‘Lancet,’ July, 1871) a case of double uterus with concurrent pregnancy. Twins, advanced to between the fifth and sixth months of utero-gestation, were born in July. Menstruation occurred regularly after this, and in four months another child was born at the full term. A careful examination of the uterus afterwards revealed that a vertical septum extended from the fundus to the cervix uteri, completely dividing it into two separate cavities. A peculiar case of complete prolapse of the gravid uterus at the fourth month in a patient, £et. 20, who had voluntarily half starved her- self, and allayed the cravings of hunger by incessantly smoking, and whoREPORT ON MIDWIFERY; ETC. 400 then placed a heavy weight on her abdomen, is related by Biggs. (‘Western Lancet,’ Aug. 1872.) A case of exfoliation of the female bladder is recorded by Dr. Wardell. The patient was twenty-eight years old, and about three months preg- nant ; retention of urine for five days; abortion. On the twelfth day she complained of great pain over the pubes. A membranous mass was seen to protrude through the meatus urinarius, and this was fully expelled in half an hour. On examination it seemed as if the whole of the mucous coat of the bladder had been thrown off. The patient made a good recovery. Similar cases are reported by Dr. J. J. Phillips, who points out that retroversion of the gravid uterus by leading to retention of urine is one cause of the accident; by Mr. Spencer Wells, whose two cases occurred after severe cystitis following par- turition ; and by Mr. W. Whitbead, who states that muscular fibre and serous tissue are often attached to and incorporated with the mucous lining expelled. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June 10, 24, July i, and Oct. 14, 1871.) Dr. Graily Hewitt contributes (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) a paper on the vomiting of -pregnancy, and believes that it results from flexion of the uterus, either forward or backward; the tissues of the uterus, including the nerve ramifications pervading it, being compressed at the seat of flexion and thus leading to the sickness. A somewhat similar view is also advocated by Hubert in the ‘LyonMed.,’ Oct. 1871. Mr. Metcalfe Johnson recommends the simple hydrated phosphate of lime, in doses of from three to ten grains, in the sickness of pregnancy. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ July, 1871.) Gimbert writes in favour of the bromide of potassium administered in large doses by rectal injection for severe vomiting during pregnancy. He relates a case in which various remedies were tried in vain, but after three days the above method proved very successful. (‘ Bulletin de Therap.,’ 1872.) A case of excessive vomiting at the sixth month or pregnancy is recorded by Dr. Campbell (‘Boston Journal, 1872). Aftei various ineffectual kinds of treatment, the membranes were ruptured, and relief was speedily obtained; but labour did not come on for twelve days after puncturing the membranes. _ , Pypingskold relates two cases of uncontrollable vomiting during early pregnancy; one was kept alive by nutrient enemata, the other died without being delivered. (‘Lo Sperimentale,’Jan. 1871.) Mr. Ling records (‘ Lancet,’ Sept. 1872) a case in which a patient, four months pregnant, was seized with agonising abdominal pains, fol- lowed by intense syncope and death in twelve hours. The abdominai cavity was filled with blood. A large hole existed at the fundus uteri, four inches in diameter; the edges of the wound were jagged, but the substance of the uterus was firm. The placenta was found with its attached surface presenting upwards in precisely the position it would take if adhering normally to the fundus, and the foetus surrounded y the unruptured membranes was contained in the uterus. The uterine tissue presented in some parts only spoilt-looking granular remains of the muscular structure with extravasated blood, suggesting an injuryDURATION OR PREGNANCV. 4(Jl fliiicl su.bsG^UGiit local ixiGtritis, or an iiiflamniatoi’y condition pi’oducing softening of the tissue and subsequent rupture, with extravasation of blood into the muscular tissue. See also a case of rupture of the gravid uterus at the seventh month, (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,’ Aug. 1871.) The Diagnosis of Dregnancy. Dr. Braxton Hicks points out that the pregnant uterus possesses the power and habit of spontaneously contracting and relaxing from the third month up to full term. This contraction most commonly occurs every five or ten minutes, though it may not recur for half an hour. It is independent of refiex stimuli. It is useful in providing for the frequent movement of the blood in the uterine sinus and deci- dual processes, and facilitates the movement of the fiuid in the inter- villal space, and it also adapts the position of the foetus to the form of the uterus. It is of great value in the diagnosis of pregnancy. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1871.) Dr. Wallace advocates (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Nov. 1872) the exact diagnosis of the placental position by vaginal stethoscopy. In three cases of flooding before delivery he has lately had the opportunity of testing the value of this diagnostic method ; and in Case i he prognosti- cated marginal or partial placental presentatiou, in Case 2 centre for centre, and in Case 3 no placental presentation whatever. Each of these diagnoses were verified by the subsequent progress of the labours. He recommends a long and curved stethoscope. The patient is put into the usual obstetric position, the nates being well over the edge of the bed ; the stethoscojDG, well lubricated with oil, is passed into the vagina, and placed first against the os uteri under the guidance of the finger. The ear can then be brought into contact with the stethoscope without any. difficulty, aud by carefully moviug it in all directions from the os uteri as a centre, the whole of the superior part of the excavation, corresponding to the lower zone of the uterus, is explored in succession. The bellows murmur, heard by vaginal stethoscopy in central implantation of the placenta over the os uteri, has a loudness and distinctness of character rather startling to the ear accustomed to abdominal auscultation. When the presentation is central the murmur is heard over every part of the pelvic strait. If partial or marginal, the indication of the site is equally well marked, and in such instances combined vaginal and abdo- minal stethoscopic examination will map out with clear precision the site of the placenta when it has an anterior or lateral position. The absence of the characteristic^ signs by the abdomen, and the posterior situation of the vaginal bruit, with its absence in the anterior aud lateral directions in the superior part of the excavation, will determine its partial presentation interiorly, and posterior situation superiorly. Duration of Dregnancy. Dr. Matthews Duncan (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1871) states that prediction of the day of lying-in is an important practical matter, from whose arrangement all theory should be excluded'. It is a valu- 26REPORT ON MIDWIFERY; ETC. 403 able calculation of a quite empirical kind. He refers to Ahlfeld’s elaborate memoir on tbe duration of pregnancy (‘ Monats. fiir Geburt.,’ 1869), in wliicli tbe duration is estimated at 271 days. Duncan recommends tbe following method:—Dind tbe day on wbicb menstrua- tion ceased, take that day nine months forwards as 275 days, unless Pebruary is included, in wbicb case it is taken as 273, to this add three days in tbe former case, or five if Eebruary is in the count, to make up tbe 278 days. Out of 133 cases tbe day of confinement was exactly predicted in ten cases in this manner. In eighty cases labour took place sooner, and in sixty-three cases later than was predicted. The average error was about seven and a half days, a circumstance which indicates that the prediction should not state the week, but the fortnight of delivery. Abortion and 'Premature Labour. Dr. J. J. Phillips contributes a paper on retroflexion of the uterus as a frequent cause of abortion. He states as the result of his observa- tions that, after making due allowance for various constitutional causes, a most important factor in the production of abortion in many cases is a retroflected uterus. The increased susceptibility of the retroflected pregnant uterus to concussion from sudden movements, the mechanical irritation to which it is subjected, the straining in micturition and defecation in such cases, and the irritation which the abnormal position sets up, appear to be very efficient excitors of uterine action, while the interference with the uterine circulation tends to the effusion of blood and death of the ovum. He relates cases where, after repeated abortions, the full term of pregnancy was reached by wearing a Hodge’s pessary. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Dr. Donaldson relates (‘ Glasgow Journ.,’ 1872) an interesting case in which by means of premature labour induced at the eighth month, the life of the child was saved, though three former pregnancies had ended in the birth of stillborn children. The death of_ the children resulted, it was believed, from disease of the placenta, which contained throughout masses of cheese-like deposit. _ . , , , Martini recommends chloride of gold and of sodium in the treatment of nervous disorders dependent on uterine disease. He believes the chloride is also useful in preventing the tendency to abortion. (‘ Eev. Clin, de Boulogne,’Jan. 1871.) „ ^ Mr. Bassett confirms the experience of Dr. Kennedy fliat in abor- tion the administration of ergot is generally inadvisable, w hen the hemorrhage is slight, and the case threatening only, ergot may do good as also where the ovum is detached and merely wants expelling. But no more regularity of action can be secured for it in miscarriage than in labour. Owing to its uncertainty and irregu arity and its well- known power of producing contraction of the circular rather than the longitudinal fibres of the uterus, it is inadvisable to administer it in manv cases of abortion. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1872.) _ dI Noeggerath relates a case of abortion in which the secundines were expelled without the foetus; the latter came away tour weeks, at least, afterwards. (‘Araer. Journ. of Obst., 1871, p. 35^-)ABORTION AND PEEMATUEE LABOUR. 403 Dr. Carl Eokitansky writes in favour of the artificial induction of labour by rupturing the membranes. Wien. Med. Presse,’ 1871.) Dr. Wiltshire contributes (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) two cases of fatal tetanus after abortion. In both cases there had been great mental de- pression, which he believes had some influence in producing the disease. The first case was that of a lady who, while her husband was abroad, became preguant illegitimately. It was suspected that abortion had been criminally induced by instruments at an early period of gestation. Symptoms of tetanus supervened in a few days, and rapid death. The only post-mortem uterine lesion was a bruising and slight laceration of the cervix uteri. A portion of placenta was adherent to the fundus. The second case was deserted by her husband, and the effect of this sudden mental distress was to induce abortion, which was followed by tetanus and death in a week. In a contribution to the study of fibrinous uterine polypi Dr. E. Erankel relates two cases. He quotes Kiwisch in favour of the view that such cases may be independent of a previous conception, and Scanzoni as believing that they follow only some antecedent dilatation of the uterine cavity, either from labour at the full time, or abortion, or from some change in the uterine walls. ErankeTs first case was that of a woman set. 31. She aborted in June. In December there was a severe flooding, and she was admitted in a collapsed state. The ques- tion of transfusion was discussed, but the operation was not performed, as the patient was suffering, not simply from anaemia, but also from Bright’s disease. _ The polyp was not removed in her then desperate condition. Notwithstanding various remedies, convulsions, coma, and death supervened. There were numerous capillary cerebral apoplexies, oedema of lungs, hypertrojihy of heart, wasting of kidneys. The fibri- nous polyp was found on the posterior Avail of the uterus. The whole had the appearance of a villous hsemorrhagic neoplasma. The mucous membrane was thickened around, and there was also a small mucous polypus. A perpendicular section through the fibrinous polyp and tlie adjacent wall showed in the latter normal, but rather large, smooth, muscular fibres. Among them lay numerous lymphatic cells, red blood- corpuscles, finely granular and fibrous masses. Nearer the surface the characters of a fibrinous coagulum became clearly marked with only scattered muscular fibres. The second case was that of a patient, also set. 31, who had been confined three weeks previously at the full time. The placenta had been cast spontaneously. She kept her bed for nine days, and then followed her usual domestic work. Dragging pains in pelvis; metrorrhagia; uterus slightly anteflected, its fundus extending above the pubes. A pear-shaped body, the size of a walnut, having a crumbled feel, with an uneven surface, presented at the os uteri. Its origin was from the hinder wall of the uterus. A. cotyledon of the placenta had remained, which had served as the basis of the hematoma. After Its removal and the injection of a solution of the sesquichloride of non the bleeding ceased, and in a fortnight the uterus was of normal shape, size, and consistence. (‘ Archiv fiir Gyniik.,’ ii, 1, 1871.) Ecctra-uterme 7l^•ey?^a;^cy.~Perrond gives a case of extra-uterineUEPOllT ON MIDWIEEUY, ETC. 404 gestation, of the abdominal form, in wbicb the foetus died at the seventh month without rupture of the containing cyst. Chronic peritonitis supervened, pulmonary vomicfe, colliquative diarrhoea, and hectic. Death resulted from exhaustion at the eighteenth month from the commencement of the pregnancy. (‘ Lyon Med.,’ Ja,n. A case of extra-uterine foetation and superfcetation. (Argles, ‘ Lancet,’Sept. 1871.) An interesting case of extra-uterine foetation is reported by Mr. J ohn- son. After an illness of twelve months the general health improved, and continued good for forty-four years. At the end M this time foetal bones were passed per rectum. (‘Med. Times Gaz., June, Peck reports a case of extra-uterine foetation in which the child, a foetus of four months, was delivered by the rectum. Soon after the mother’s bowels were relieved a foetus passed per auum. The cord was found hanging from the bowel, and portions of the placenta subse- quently passed away. Peck considers the case to be one in which the placenta was attached to the fimbriated extremity of the Pallopian tube, and the child during its growth by the side ot the rectum gradu- ally led to thinning of the tissues, and these ultimately gave way alter the effort of defecation. (‘Journ. de Bruxelles,’ _Peb. 1871.) ihe post-mortem appearances in a case of extra-uterine pr^naucy are described by Dr. M. Duncan. (‘Med. Times and Gaz., July, Adams relates a case of extra-uterine foetation, in which pstrotomy was performed after the full term of gestation. T le pain rom w ic the patient had previously suffered ceased at the end ^ month. There succeeded a profuse purulent discharge from the and portions of the foetal skeleton passed by the same f was also a fistulous opening near the umbilicus from feces escaped. After making an incision through the abdominal wall there was much difficulty in liberating the child, which was surrounded by false membranes. There were three fistulous openings Ije^ween the r Jctum and the cavity in which the foetus was contained. The patient recovered. (‘ Gaz. Mied. de Pans, xxxii, i 7^v p • 4. ii’+ini Edgar recoVds (‘St. Louis Journ.,’ yiii, 4. 1871) a case ot interstitial '"TwSeresting diseussioushaye taken ulaee^ nn tlie treatment of extra-uterine foetation ( Obst. irans., xni, xiv;. Dr Mead^^^^ta^^ i8?a, related a case in wliioh a liying child yyas ?emo“ed by abdominal section, but an placenta and the foital cyst, and this was “t trtt tnSr; cy^st“tuld »n| ’’r ? Sw necisiV for t^rplacenta, its remoyal by atrophy might ?a^?ly "THE MECHANISM OF LABOUR. 405 incurred in completely closing the abdominal opening, as recommended by Dr. Meadows, and leaving the placenta behind without any chance of escape. Dr. Barnes and Dr. Hicks agreed that the placenta should not be removed, the former remarking that its non-removal was the established practice, and the latter that in three cases reported by him the fcetus alone had been removed. A case of double conception, bearing on the question ot super-loeta- tion, occurred in the practice of Dr. Chenery. The patient was forty years of age, and was found to have lost large quantities of blood, among which was a fcetus with its transparent membranes entire, and alto- gether of about the size of a common open-faced watch. The os uteri was dilated and another and a much larger foetus was lying with its head pushing its unbroken investments through the cervix; its birth was expected, but it remained in utero till the fnll term of gestation. The one ovum was expelled at the eighth week with all the appearances of life up to the time, while the other (from calculations at its birth) was at that period at about the twentieth week. (‘ Boston Med. and Surg. Journal,’ April, 1871.) Two cases of precocious pregnancy. The first case was that of a girl, thirteen and a half years old. She suffered from puerperal con- vulsions, but ultimately recovered. The child was living and weighed 6 lbs. 8 oz. (‘ Med. Eecord,’ Jan. 1872.) The second was that of a girl who had never menstruated, and who was eleven years eight months and a half old at the time of conception. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1871). Dr. Young also records (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1871) a case of early pregnancy. The mother, at the time of labour, was fourteen years and ten months old. III. LABOUR. The Mechanism of Labour. In some observations on the innervation of the tiierus (‘ Archiv f. Gynak.,’ ii, i, 1871), Dr. Eeimann, of Kiew, publishes the result of experiments performed for the purpose of determining whether uterine contractions are dependent on the central nervous system. He expe- rimented on bitches and cats, and subjected the uterus, partly or wholly separated from the body, to various kinds of irritation. He found that the uterus, separated from the cerebro-spinal axis, and even removed from the body, responded to the irritation, by peristaltic and rhythmical movements of the whole organ, even when only a portion of it had been subjected to the irritation. The kind of irritant—electricity, heat, cold, mechanical irritation—made no difference. He also found that the uterus separated from the body, but maintained at its normal tempe- rature spontaneously contracted and relaxed for about an hour after the death of the animal; mechanical irritation increased the movements observed, narcotics diminished them. Similar rhythmical movements were, under like circumstances, observed in the Fallopian tubes. Dr. Eeimaun concludes that the contractions of the uterus are under the nfluencc of certain organs (ganglionic), not yet anatomically demon-DEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 406 strated, but which are situated in the uterus itself; and that, like the contractions of the heart, they are independent of the cerebro-spinal system, though physiological and pathological facts prove that the latter has certain influence over them. Oser and Schlesinger record the results of numerous experiments to determine the cause of uterine movements. They experimented chiefly on pregnant rabbits, in which the uterus was generally at rest when they began their observation, and they found that whenever the blood which circulated either through the brain or through the uterus itself became extremely venous, tetanic contraction of the uterus took place. The irritation of the brain which produced uterine contractions was conducted down the spinal cord to the uterus, and when the cord was divided irritation of the brain from venous congestion produced no eflfect. Stagnation of blood in the uterus, produced by compression of the aorta, caused uterine movements of the same tetanic character. If spontaneous movements of the uterus were present, they soon ceased after compression of the aorta was begun; and when arterial blood was again allowed to circulate through the organ a strong contraction of the entire uterus, quickly followed by rest, took place. (‘ Centralb. f. Med. "Wissensch.,’ 1871, and ‘ Brit Med. Journ.,’ June, 1872.) Dr. Matthews Duncan writes (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ May, 1871) on the efficient powers of parturition. The first, and he believes the best, results in the investigation of this subject have been obtained by careful deduction from experiments on the tensile strength of the amniotic membrane. He next observes that if, in an unobstructed and powerful labour, the accoucheur, by the directly opposing pressure of his hand on the fcetal head, arrests its progress for one or several pains, he has in the pressure by his hand, a force which, added to the small amount required to effect parturition, exceeds all the combined powers of labour in this case. Duncan, well accustomed to such work, finds by actual trial with an accurate dynamometer, fifty pounds to be about the highest power he can use situated at the bedside in attend- ance on a case of labour. He believes that very few of the most power- ful labours exert a force of lbs., and that the great majority ot labours are accomplished by repeated impulses, whose highest power probably never exceeds 2^ lbs. He refers to the researches of Dr. Haughton (see ‘ Eetrospect,’ 1869-70), who follows a diflferent method of investigation from the above, and measures the bulk and the extent of the involuntary and voluntary muscles employed in the tunction. Duncan comments on Haughton’s conclusions. He does not say that Haughton is wrong in supposing that the uterus mw exert a ±o^^ce 0 <^4lbs., but he believes that only a very few difficult labours require for their whole work a force exceeding 50 lbs. Ho permieum would long resist a force of 50 lbs. repeatedly applied. He then furnishes arouments in favour of the power of the uterus in parturition as compared with the powers of the voluntary “ijsdes which he be- lieves render Haughton’s conclusion quite incredible that, while the power of the uterus is ^4 lbs., that of the voluntary muscles can be ?2^ lbs. Haughton believes that on an emergency soniewhat moie than a quarter of a ton pressure can be brought to bear upon aTHE MECHANISM OP LABOUE. 407 refractory child that refuses to come into the world in the usual manner. Duncan points out that such a pressure represents a strain to which the maternal machinery could not he subjected without instantaneous and utter destruction. The possession and use of a considerable portion of such a power would render the torceps and the cephalotribe weak and useless insti-uments; the mother could bray the child as in a mortar. Such a power would, if appropriately applied, not only expel the child, but also lift up the mother, the accoucheur, and the monthly nurse—all at once. If this force were applied just as the chief resistance to deliyery was oyercome, the child would be shot out of the vagina at the rate of thirty-six feet per second. See also on the mechanism of labour, Schatz, ‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ m, i, 1871. In a paper on relaxation of the pelvic articulations during pregnancy (‘ Amer. Journ of Obst.,’ Nov. 1871), Professor King, after answering some of the objections which have been raised, states that physiological enlargement of the pelvic canal, in addition to that which takes place during pregnancy from thickening of the interosseous cartilages, is further increased during parturition by the muscular efforts of the female forcing the wedge-shaped sacrum downwards and; backwards between the two iliac bones. He adds that the practical inference from this is that “square on the back” is the proper position for delivery; that the feet or knees should find a firm support on a surface disposed evenly transverse to the axis of the body, and that two sheets, one for each hand, should be so arranged that the woman may pull on them, not diagonally, but in a line parallel to the axis of her body, so that the spine may exert its downward force evenly upon the base of the sacral wedge. On the mechanism of the expulsion of the placenta.—Dr. Duncan (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1871) states that the belief that the placenta generally descends into the vagina inverted, so that its foetal surface is turned outwards, is erroneous. The part which presents at the os uteri, and subsequently at the os vaginae, is not the foetal surface, but the edge of the placenta, or a point very near the edge, and that the mass is folded up longitudinally during its expulsion. If the placenta descends inverted it is generally the result of pulling at the cord. Much less space is required for the passage of the placenta by the natural mechanism, and if the placenta is expelled inverted, as Baudelocque, Schultze, and others describe, the forcing of the placenta into a cuplike space cannot be effected without a hollow space being offered for the reception of blood, or, indeed, without a certain force being exerted to produce the folding and a vacuum, which force will also tend to draw blood into the hollow from the open uterine sinuses. The third stage of labour should be left to nature, or, if interference is required, the natural mechanism of the birth of the iilacenta should be as closely imitated as circumstances admit. Professor Hodge, in an elaborate paper on the synclitism of the equatorial plane of the foetal head in pelvic deliveries, criticises the reasons adduced by Sir James Simpson and Dr. Barnes in favour ofHEPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4.08 podalic version in preference to the use of the forceps, and he con- cludes that the operation of podalic version should always be regarded, not as one of choice, but as one of necessity. It is fraught with danger to the infant and to the mother in all complicated eases; it demands great skill and experience for its execution; numerous, and often unexpected, difficulties are apt to be interposed, and yet the time allotted is exceedingly short. The whole process of descent must be accomplished in a few minutes, or the child, for whose benefit these risks are incurred, will perish. Professor Hodge maintains that in head-last labours simple tractile force should not be the sole recourse of the practitioner, but that flexion of the head should be insured and maintained. (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ July, 1871.) Dr. Matthews Duncan contributes an elaborate paper on the curves of the developed genital passage. The first curve which he mentions is that said to be at tbe brim of the pelvis, with its convexity downwards and backwards. He discusses the views of Schatz and Schultze on this point, and concludes that this curve does not exist. If it does exist we must admit that the advance of the child’s head is impeded, not only by friction and imperfect dilatation, but that a new difficulty is introduced to its transit, namely, the difference between driving a body through a curved and a straight passage. If this curve be admitted, the axis of the genital passage, regarded in the antero-posterior vertical plane, has the shape of a Eoman S; but the author thinks that we are nearer the truth in adopting the view that in this plane the genital passage has only one curve, having the concavity of its axis looking forwards. The second curve is also at the brim, and is indicated by the deflection of the uterus from the mesial line to the right or to the left. The author gives the results of some experiments made to calculate the amount of deflection, and he states that the angle of deviation of the axis of the uterus from the axis of the brim has important physiolo- gical and practical bearings, though, as yet, but little worked out. The most interesting application of it is to assist in accounting for the pro- duction of face cases. The third curve is the most extensive and best known. It is the great curve in the antero-posterior vertical plane, which begins above the middle of the third bone of the sacrum and extends through the outlet of the ligamentous pelvis to the outlet from the soft parts. In connection with this curve the synclitic and allied movements of the foetal head during its progress are to be studied. The author shows that Schultze’s recommendation to facilitate the advance of the foetal head after it has reached the floor of the pelvis by extension of the spine (this extension he believes increasing the poste- rior obliquity of the axis of the uterus, and therefore of the force of labour as exerted on this part) is founded upon what he (Dr. Duncan) regards as a misapprehension of the conditions of this curvature. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ March 2, 1872.) Prof. Trenholme writes on irregular contractions of the uterus, and states that in such cases he has found adhesions existing between the decidua and the uterine surface at term. He attributes the irregular contraction to laceration of the muscular fibres at the point of adhe- sion, the parts lacerated acting as direct excitants of the spasm of409 ON THE MANAGEMENT OF THE PERIN^EUM. the walls of the uterus. The treatment recomniended is to pass the finner and separate the united surfaces, but when they are beyond reach it is best to rupture the membranes. _ Hour-glass and other irre- gular contractions after delivery are attributed to the same cause. (‘Amer. Journ. Obst.,’ May, 1872.) M. Mattel, writing on false cramps during pregnancy and labour, says that they are to be explained by the pressure which the foetus exerts on the course of the nerve which borders on the painful part, though the pressure be made far from the seat of pain. But these pains may also exist without pressure on the nerve^s, and may be a reflex pheno- menon of uterine trouble. (‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ Hov. 1872.) Tachard wndtes on the use of electricity in midwifery. He believes that uterine contractions cannot be induced by it unless they have already commenced, and that uterine inertia coming on during the ex- pulsive stage of labour is not to be treated by electricity, but that in the stage of dilatation, when applied to the lumbar region it increases the contractions, both in duration and intensity. The cervix dilates more readily, the expulsion of the placenta immediately follows the child, and neither the mother nor the child sufiers from the treat- ment. Dr. Chantreuil speaks favorably of uterine expression as a means of delivery. He bases his observations on 540 cases in which the practice was followed. (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ July, 1871.) On the management of the 'perincBum during labour.—Dr. Goodell gives an elaborate historical account of the practice, and of the various methods employed. He concludes that when it seems necessary to aid nature the best method is to insert one or two fingers of the left hand into the rectum, the woman lying on her left side, with her knees well drawn up and separated by a pillow, and to hook up and pull forward the sphincter ani towards the ‘pubes. The thumb of the same hand is to be placed upon the foetal head, scrupulously avoiding all contact with the fourchette. The right hand is to assist the thumb in making the head hug the pubes, or in retarding its advance, and is to press back the head from the perinseum and thus to repress reflex uterine action. By this method the perinseum is brought forward without direct pressure, and its dilatation is diffused over its entire surface. The aid rendered is not liable to sudden interruption by any movements of the mother, and the circulation of the blood is left free. Dr. Goodell believes that the rapid springing back of the fourchette over the pro- jecting nose, or the subsequent rapid expulsion of the shoulder often produces lacerations. These are also well controlled by the above method, in the former instance, by merely pulling forward the sphincter ani, in the latter by adding the support of the right hand to the emerging shoulders. (‘Amer. Jour. Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1871.) ^ Dr. Swayne states (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1872) that his expe- rience proves the inefficiency of support for the prevention of perineal lacerations. There is seldom any great danger of rupture until the head is^ protruded so far that the accoucheur can grasp the exposed portion with his thumb and fingers. When this can be done the best plan is to press the head forwards as much as possible under410 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. the pubic arch, so as to prevent the vis a tergo from acting so directly downwards upon the perinssum. When rupture takes place the rent usually commences at the fourchette and extends backwards, but sometimes it begins near the centre of the perinasum and extends forwards. He believes that the most frequent cause of laceration is an unusual breadth of the perinaeum. Dr. Aveling has collected the history of forty-four cases of post- mortem parturitioriy and deduces the following conclusions. Expulsion of the contents of the uterus may take place after death without the aid of art. This may occur in cases in which no symptom of natural parturition existed before death. Spontaneous evolution of the fcetus, and prolapsus, inversion, and rupture of the uterus may occur post- mortem. These phenomena are explained either by the contracting power which persists in the uterus after the death of the rest of the body, or (and this is the more frequent cause) by the pressure exerted upon the uterus by gases of decomposition pent up in the abdomen. A child may continue to live in the uterus for many hours after the death of its mother. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Deformities of the Pelvis, and Dystocia by the Mother. Prof. 0. Spiegelberg gives (‘Archiv f. G-ynak.,’ ii, i, 1871) an elaborate report of two cases of obliquely distorted pelvis. The first case was that of a woman who had sustained a fracture of the right tibia in its lower half when three years old. The pelvis was contracted on the right side, and there was synostosis of the right sacro-iliac joint, and considerable shortening of the right lower limb. Premature labour was artificially induced in the thirty-fifth week of pregnancy. The second case is described as one of inflammation of the right sacro-iliac joint and secondary atrophy of the surrounding bones without synos- tosis. Delivery by perforation and cephalotripsy. Discussing the etiology, he states the two chief causes to be the inordinate pressure ou one half of the pelvis and the one-sided atrophy of the bones entering into the sacro-iliac joint. Either of these factors may be the primary one. Dr. Harris describes (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ Nov. 1871) the usual forms of pelvic deformities, and illustrates his paper by several typical examples. . , . , , Petit relates a case of oblique-ovate pelvis, in which the labour was quite natural. The child was of medium size. The brim of the pelvis, contracted on the left, was 12^ centimetres (about ^ mches) in its greatest oblique diameter, from the right ilio-pectineal eminence to the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and 9 centimetres (a little over 3^ mches) in the short oblique diameter, from the left ilio-pectineal eminence to the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis. The distance from the sacro- vprtebral angle to the left ilio-pectineal eminence was 6 centimetees, and to the right nine and a half. (‘ Bull. Med. du Nord, Eeb. '^H-nst Braun writes (‘Arch. f. Gynak.,’ iii, i) on a case of funnel- shaped pelvis,411 DYSTOCIA BY THE CHILD. The causes, nature, and treatment of rigidity of the os uteri. Dr. Isham (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetr.,’ July, 1871). _ . ^ -w, Dr J. J. Phillips (‘ Lancet,’ March, 1871) relates m detail three cases of "successful version with living _ children after failpe of the forceps. In each case the conjugate diameter of the pelvis was nar- rowed. In the first it measured very little over three inches; in the second, three inches and a half, but the foetal head was very large and firm ; and in the third the jutting of the sacral promontory had pro- duced a marked depression on the left parietal and frontal bones of the foetal head. . . . -r, , For remarks on turning in pelvic contraction see Jdoning. ( ±>erl. Klin. Woch.,’ viii, 34, 1871.) , , , . ^ ^ ■ n. -j j ■ An interesting case, showing the behaviour ot uterme fibroids during pregnancy, labour, and the puerperal state, is recorded by Dr. Madge (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872), and a case of inertia of the uterus during labour from the existence of two fibroid masses at the fundus by Depaul (‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ Aug. 1871). Magdelaine also writes on the complication of pregnancy and labour with subperitoneal fibroids of the uterus (‘Arch. Gener.,’ xvii, 214). In a case of fibrous tumour, nearly filling the pelvis and complicated with pregnancy. Dr. Habit induced premature labour, and, with the patient under chloroform, lifted up the growth out of the pelvis. Successful result to mother and child (‘ Wien. Med. Zeitsch.,’ 1871). Cases of fibroids of the uterus, not interfering with the action of the organ at the time of labour are related by Dr. Goodell (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1872) and by Mr. Harries (‘Guy’s Hosp. Gaz.,’ Hov. 1872). Chantreuil writes on cancer of the uterus in reference to conception, pregnancy, and labour. Out of sixty cases, twenty-five died during labour or in the puerperal state, thirty-five were restored to health for a time. In the twenty-five fatal cases rupture of the uterus during labour occurred six times, nine cases died from peritonitis, seven died after serious operations, and thrice the cause of death was not ascer- tained. Twenty-eight out of the sixty children were born alive. During the earlier months of pregnancy the body of the uterus is developed independently of the cervix, which is the usual seat of cancer, and thus gestation is but little interfered with until the latter part of pregnancy, when premature labours are frequent. Occasionally can- cerous infiltration of the cervix prevents its dilatation, and becomes also, a cause of unusual prolongation of pregnancy beyond the normal period. Pregnancy hastens the progress of uterine cancer. The line of treatment which he advocates is either the induction of abortion, the performance of the Caesarean section at term, or the incision of the neck of the uterus and application of the forceps. The last method he describes as almost always fatal to the mother and offering less chances of life to the child. (‘ Du Cancer de I’llterus, &c.,’ Paris, 1872.) Dystocia hy the Child. Dr. Eeimanu, of Kiew, relates (‘Archiv f. Gyn'ak.,’ ii, i, 1871) a case of difficult labour resulting from the simultaneous presence ofEEPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 4ia twin foetal lieads in the pelvis. The patient was seized during labour with convulsions, and the attendant applied forceps to the presenting head and delivered it easily. The shoulders did not follow, and on examination a second head was found in the pelvis. When Dr. Reimann arrived he applied forceps to the second head, the body of the first child then followed, and afterwards that of the second. He thinks that the delivery by forceps did not cause the difficulty, as this is the only case of the kind he has found recorded in which the first head was delivered artificially. Probably a capacious pelvis has some influence in the production of the accident. The delivery of a dicephalous monster is described by Wettengel. (‘Amer. Journ, Obst.,’ Nov. 1871.) Dr. Porter relates a case of successful reduction of prolapsed funis by the postural method. The position he recommends is on the knees, w*ith the chest and face resting on the bed. (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ Jan. 1871.) Cases of quadruplets are recorded by Leopold (‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ ii, 2, 1871), by Lowndes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Peb. 1872), and by Cuppa- ridge (‘Dubl. Journ.,’ March, 1872). Obstetric Operations. Ccssarean section,—This operation was performed by Mr. Gibbons on a woman, set. 22, and who was three feet ten inches in height. Uterus contracted rapidly; no sutures were applied to the uterine wound. Uncontrollable vomiting commenced soon after, and continued till death, forty hours after the operation. No peritonitis, no extravasation. Antero-posterior diameter at brim an inch and three quarters. Trans- verse diameter 4'i inches. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1871O In a case reported by Dr. Inglis (‘Edin. Med. Journ.1871) the abdominal incision was made on one side of the median line, so as to avoid incising the expanded central tendon between the recti, which is too mobile to be afterwards kept in apposition; and the uterine incision was commenced an inch and a half to the left of the mesial line, nnd, was carried first downwards and then to the side,_ the curve of the incision corresponding with the direction of the outer circle of fibres suriounding the left cornu. The object of this was to avoid cutting across more muscular tissue than was necessary. He doubts the advisability of inserting sutures into the uterine wall. n , p Dr. Harris records (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1871-2) sixty cases ot the Caesarean section in America. Of these, thirty-two were successful as regards the mother, and twenty-seven of the children were Scyed. One hundred and six cases are quoted from Great Britain and Ireland, eighty-eight of which were fatal to the mother, while sixty of the children were saved. Dr Andrei compares (‘Western Lancet,’ 1872) the result to mother and child in a large number of cases, the summary of which he has collected, of premature labour, symphyseotomy, and Caesarean sec^iom’oiie^ performed the Caesarean section on account of a sacral IOBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. 4.13 tumour obstructing delivery, with a successful result to the mothei There was a great tendency after extracting the child to eversion of the innei^urface of the uterus, but no uterine sutures were employed, ('Abeille Med.,’ No. 4, 1871). See also a successful case for pelvic deformity, Foster, (‘Lancet,’June, 1872). en ^ Dr. Yarrow reports (‘Lancet,’ Oct., 1872) a case of Caesarean section. The pelvis was of the rickety type, the antero-posterior d^ia- meter being one inch and a half. After extracting the child alive the edges of the external wound were brought together by interrujAed sutures, but no sutures were inserted through the uterine walls. Ihe patient lived six days. The uterine wound measured one inch imd a half’ it was open, and there was a small quantity of dark coloured blood in the pelvis. The intestines and their peritoneal coveiing mgtg healthy, but the peritoneum investing the posterior part of the pelvis was inflamed. . . . i i t A successful case of Cmsarean section is recorded by Causse _(_ Dyon Med.,’ July, 1872). The mother was thirty-two years old, rachitic, and the sacro-pubic diameter measured o'o6^ millimetres. The child also was extracted alive and survived. Dr. Hoscheck performed the CsBsarean section upon a patient who died from phthisis, near the full term of her pregnancy. The operation took place about ten minutes after death, and although the child was apparently dead when extracted, insufflation from mouth to mouth restored it. (‘Archiv f. Grynak.,’ ii, i, 1871.) Molinier also relates (‘Graz, des Hop.,’ Ixxxi, 1871) a case of post- mortem Caesarean section, in which the child was saved. On decapitation as a mode of delivery in cases of shoulder presentation, in tohich version cannot he safely effected.—Dr. Gr. H. Kidd (‘ Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ May, 1871) writes on this subject. He describes three conditions in which version cannot be performed without exposing the mother to danger. These three conditions are respectively met with ; I. In those cases where the shoulder is so far advanced into the pelvis, and the action of the uterus is, at the same time, so strong that it is impossible to raise or move the child. 2. In cases where the difficulty arises from the firm contraction of the uterus, the liquor amnii is evacuated before dilatation of the os uteri has taken place, and the uterus becomes moulded to the child’s body. It is, in these cases, quite possible to introduce the hand, seize a foot and bring it down into the vagina; but the child does not turn, the head remains fixed in the iliac fossa, and the uterus may be torn in the efibrts to complete the delivery. 3. In cases of transverse presentation with extreme narrowing of the pelvis. Dr. Kidd describes the various instruments which have been used for decapitation, and especially a plan adopted by Prof. Heyerdahl, and practised in a modified form by Pajot and Tarnier. The instrument consists of a handle and a hollow stem, with a strong wire in its centre ; and after it has been passed round the neck the internal wire is pushed upwards, and a loop of string can now be passed round a knob placed at the end of the wire. A cord is thus left round the neck, by means of which a chain or wire rope is drawn round, and with this the neck is sawn through. Dr. Kidd suggests that the operation may be much414 ilEPORT ON MIDWIFEEYj ETC. simjjlifiecl, as the cord might he very easily carried round the child’s neck by means of an elastic catheter mounted on fa firm stylet or on a uterine sound. The catheter should be a good deal curved, and after it has been passed round the neck the cord may be attached to it and drawn back with it. The ends of the cord are now drawn through a speculum, the catheter having been first removed, and the neck is divided. _ The operation might be further improved by using an ecraseur for dividing the neck, by which the accidental interruption of the opera- tion by breaking of the cord would be avoided, as well as the risk of injuring the soft parts of the mother by its friction. Dr. Kidd thinks that it would be best to stop as soon as the spinal column is divided, and to leave the head attached to the body by a portion of the soft tissues of the neck. It is obvious that the division of the spinal column would do away with the difficulty of turning, and the tissues attached to the head would facilitate extraction. Drs. Affleck and Macdonald relate (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ July, 1871) a case of shoulder presentation in which turning was impossible, and de- capitation was impracticable, owing to the position of the foetus with the head very high up and the narrowness of the inlet of the pelvis ; they, therefore, resorted to spondylotomy. The thorax having been opened by long vaginal scissors, two fingers were introduced, so as to push aside the contents of the chest and feel for the vertebral column. The spine was then clipped through without any great difficulty. Trac- tion was then resumed on the foot, which had originally been brought down, and this time with complete success. An old practitioner, in the same journal (Oct. 1872), prefers to spondylotomy or decapitation the removal of the presenting arm, and also of the other arm. He says that the increase of space afforded by the removal of the two little fat arms is very great, and the shoulders being removed from the chest greatly increases the facility of turning. He has practised this method on several occasions. Mr. E. W. Wright recommends (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1871) a method of bisecting the foetus in utero in arm presentation, in which version is impracticable. The presenting member is to be seized with the right hand, and, while considerable traction is employed, the left hand is to be introduced into the vagina and kept firmly upon the child’s neck. A blunt hook with a curve sufficiently large to embrace the neck, and having a perforation at the extremity of the curve, is armed with a piece of tape and made to embrace the neck. A leash of about a dozen very thin wires, about a yard long, twisted together at the ends, should be tied to the end of the tape. By pulling at the tape the wires will be drawn over the child’s neck, and with a saw-like motion of the wires the head may be cut off“ in five seconds. Dr. Tucker, of Bermuda, describes a method of delivery in cases of arm presentation, after the usual mode of turning has failed. He places the patient as for lithotomy, perforates the body of the phild, and empties the abdomen and thorax sufficiently to enable him to reach the bodies of the foetal spine. He then crushes these with a strong forceps. Bending of the child’s body then takes place, and it descends sufficiently low to enable a handkerchief to be passedOBSTETRIC OPERATIONS. 415 round it, wlien, making traction, the pelvis and lower extremities soon descend, followed by the trunk. (‘Xiancet, Feb. 1871.)^ Depaul relates two cases of shoulder presentation in which he decapitated, and insists on the operation in severe cases of the kind where turning is impracticable. (‘Jour, de Bruxelles,’ July, 1871.) Dr. Cappie suggests (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1871) that in using the forceps the task of introducing, guarding, and directing the blades should be trusted entirely to the fingers of the right hand, and that in the first stage of introduction the left, crossed over the right wrist, should have little more to do than to support the shank or handle of the instrument. By thus acting the ordinary obstetric posi- tion does not require to be disturbed, and the forceps can in this way be applied in many instances where it would otherwise be impossible. Barclay introduces a new form of midwifery forceps. It combines Tigler’s male and female blades with the length, strength, and curve of Simpson’s. (‘Lancet,’Jan. 1872.) Easbender publishes four cases of version performed by the method of Braxton Hicks. He points out that one great advantage of the bi- manual method is that it facilitates cephalic version; in podalic version there is always the risk of certain accidents, such as compression of the cord, the crossing of the arm behind the neck, constriction of the neck of the uterus around the child’s neck, which, by prolonging extraction, more or less compromise the child’s life. Easbender performed cephalic version in three of the four cases, each of these was a case of shoulder presentation, and podalic version in the fourth, a case of pla- centa praevia. (‘Beitrage zur Greburt. und Gynak.,’ Berlin, 1871, i, 8.) Professor Halbertsma recommends that an external examination of the uterus should be substituted during labour for the internal exami- nations which are so frequently made. It has been proved that internal examination may generate infection. By external examination alone we can, in most cases, ascertain the position of the child, whether it has sunk deep into the pelvis, and by auscultation whether there is danger for the child. We shall in this way not be able so well to ascertain whether the delivery is proceeding, yet the nature of the pains and the flow of liquor amnii are some indications. The flrst and second cranial positions can often be diagnosed by external investigation alone. When there is danger of infection from the accoucheur the external ex- amination should be the rule, the internal one the exception. (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ June 10, 1871.) Drs. Braxton Hicks and J. J. Phillips, in a paper published in the ‘Obst. Trans.’ for 1871, call attention to the imperfect and unscientific manner in which the usual tables of mortality after obstetric operations have been compiled, and to the delusive conclusions to which they con- sequently lead. A brief abstract of a very large number of cases traced to their original source is added, and the conclusion at which the authors arrive is that, in a very large majority of the fatal cases, death resulted either from the condition which rendered the operation neces- sary, or from the too long delay of instrumental assistance. Dr. Matthews Duncan writes (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Hov. 1872) on416 IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIEEUY; ETC. the appliances used for mechanical dilatation of the cervix uteri. He compares tlie bougie, the tangle-tent, the sponge-tent, and the india- rubber bag, in reference to the amount of force exercised, the amount of expansion produced, and the amount of time required for producing the expansion. In using great force to pass a common uterine probe the instrument is bent, and by experiment the force required to bend it is found to be about four pounds exerted at its point, the^handle being fixed. With the same force used the tension overcome will be the greater in proportion as the wedge is sharper or has a smaller angle. Assuming the surface pressed upon in the cervix to be one tenth of an inch in breadth, then the dilating force exerted will be about nine lbs., if the wedge have an angle of 90 degrees, or 90 lbs. on the square inch, and about eighteen lbs. if the wedge have an angle of 45 degrees, or 180 lbs. on the square inch. The tangle-tent was found experimentally to have an expanding force of 500 lbs. on the square inch, the sponge-tent a force of only from 20 to 30 lbs., and the india-rubber bag a force from T5 to 25 lbs. on the square inch. The amount of dilatation produced by the ordinary series of surgical bougies successfully used is about a quarter of an inch. A tangle-tent whose stem is about one fifth of an inch in diameter expands to one half an inch if not subjected to pressure, but in proportion as the resistance to be overcome increases so does the amount of actual expansion decrease. A small sponge-tent more than trebles its diameter when not under any constraint; its expansion, however, under slight compression is very small indeed. The expan- sion produced by the india-rubber bag is practically unlimited, because any bag can be easily withdrawn, and another of larger size immedi- ately substituted for it. No time is lost in bringing the full power of the bougie into action. The tangle-tent expands very slowly; before its small dimensions have doubled twelve hours will have elapsed. The sponge-tent rapidly expands when unconstrained ; and no time is lost in bringing into action the full power of the india-rubber bag, and its power conWues till its full expansion. Accidents during Labour. Rupture.—Fourrier records a case of rupture of the uterus with escape of the foetus and placenta into the abdominal cavity, in which he performed gastrotomy on the fifth day. The patient was 29 years of age, the mother of two children. Six weeks before her expected labour she fell in going down stairs; this, however, gave rise at the time and for a few days afterwards to only slight abdominal pains. Labour came on at terra, and soon after the rupture of the membranes she felt sudden and severe pain, and there was cessation of labour- pains. On careful examination four days afterwards, the abdomen pre- sented two tumours; the one on the right was made up of the foetus, while that on the left was about the size of the uterus soon after labour. An incision was made on the right, the foetus with its mem- branes and the placenta were extracted, and, although the patient after- wards presented some indications of purulent infection, she ultimately recovered. Lourrief calls attention to the absence of any severe hie-417 ACCIDENTS DUEING LABOUE. morrhage, only a slight sanguineous discharge appeared externally eight hours after the rupture. The presence of the foetus in the abdominal cavity did not give rise to general peritonitis. He believes that the fall was an important element in the production of the rupture; it pro- bably produced a contusion of the uterus which led to thinning of the uterine walls. (‘Bull, de Therap.,’ Aug. 1872.) Prof. Dohrn writes (‘ Arch. f. Gynak.,’ iii, i) on a case of ruptured uterus in the first stage of labour. Rickety pelvis, no degeneration of uterine tissue. Cessation of foetal heart sounds early in labour. Rupture of the uterus is also illustrated by Clements (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 1871), Whinery (‘Philad. Rep.,’ March, 1872), and Mordhorst (‘Deutsche Klin.,’ Kos. 17, 18, 1872). Mr. Jamieson relates (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1872) a case of vaginal rupture, unattended at the time of its occurrence by any serious symptoms. The child was born by aid of the forceps, dead. At the post-mortem examination the pelvis was found to be in every respect normal, but there was an acute curvature of the spine in the lower dorsal region ; the spine was so shortened that the last ribs were on a lower level than the crest of the ilium. The anteversion of the uterus was very great, and it therefore acted at a great mechanical disadvantage, but, continuing to contract violently, tore itself from its vaginal attachments. Four cases of uretero-uterine fistula are recorded in the ‘Boston Journal,’ Jan. 1872. Each case succeeded to a difiicult labour, and was characterised by an almost uninterrupted flow of urine from the os uteri, with complete continence of urine in the bladder. Dr. Argles relates the case of a primipara, in which the foetal head passed through the posterior wall of the vagina, and the face presented through an artificial opening in the perinjeum, just anterior to the anus, and without injuring the bowel. Dr. Argles passed a director down the natural passage, between it and the child’s head, and slit it up for an inch and a half The wound entirely healed, and the patient was able to walk down stairs in three weeks. (‘ Lancet,’ April, 1871.) Inversion,—Dr. White contributes two additional cases of inversion of the uterus, completing a series of nine cases, all of which have been reduced by manipulation by a single effort. One case was of fifteen years duration. In recent cases the fundus can be pressed into the body and neck, or “ dimpled ” as it is termed, by pressure upon the most depending part. In chronic cases Dr. White uses the left hand over the pubes, the fingers pressing on the anterior wall of the uterus and psisting in pulling open the uterine cavity. The right hand encloses in the vagina the entire uterus, and pressure is made against the fundus by a wooden or hard-rubber enlarged extremity of the repositor, the distal extremity of the stem being made into a screw so as to fasten into a coil of steel spring wire, requiring eight or ten pounds pressure by the breast of the operator, against which it is placed, to briner it down. (‘Amer. Journ. _Med. Sci.,’ April, 1872.) cases of inversion of the uterus are recorded by Dr. Braxton licks. Restoration was effected in each case, in one case a week after abour. He wonders why any doubt has been expressed that removal of 27REPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 418 the placenta before attempting to restore the uterus is the best practice. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872). In some remarks on two chronic cases (ibid., Aug. 1872) Dr. Hicks recommends the introduction of air bags into the vagina, which should remain for two days. The first bag is a ring-shaped one, pressing on the upper vagina equally all round, and steadies the uterus under the pressure of the second bag, which is a globular one, pressing on the inverted fundus, as the fundus passes through the ring of the first bag. At the end of two days chloroform should be given and reduction effected with the hand; or pressure should be continued on the fundus by a vulcanite stethoscope, having a pear-shaped elastic bag drawn over the thoracic end and tied round the stem tightly. Into the opening at the aural end of the stethoscope a stopcock can be screwed, and attached to an india-rubber apparatus, by which means the bag at the other end can be distended. When re- storation is effected the end of the stethoscope will have entered the cavity of the uterus. It is well to give a dose of opium every eight or twelve hours to lessen the irritability of the uterus. A case of inversion of the uterus with no perceptible shock and very little haemorrhage. Dr. Bell (‘Lancet,’ Sept. 1871). Dr. Woodward relates (‘Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ 1871) a case of spontaneous inversion of the uterus in a primipara. The placenta was shed naturally, but severe post-partum haemorrhage supervened; the hand was introduced, and when the patient was left, the uterus was normal in position. Next morning, contrary to advice, she was allowed to get up and sit on the commode; severe haemorrhage came on, and the uterus was found inverted. This was restored, but the patient died with symptoms of thrombosis. Dr. I Taylor contributes an elaborate article on the mechanism of spontaneous active uterine inversion. (‘New York Journ.,’ May, 1872.) . A case of inversion came under the care of Dr. Hall Davis ten months after labour. Ordinary efibrts at reduction failed, and, the pa- tient being too weak for sustained pressure during consecutive days, the uterus was removed by the single wire ecraseur. Discharged on the thirty-third day. (‘Obstet. Trans.,’ 1872.) A case of emphysema during labour is related by Dr. Whitney (‘ Bos- ton Journ.,’ Nov. 30, 1871). The patient was a robust young woman, in her first labour, which was very severe and protracted. The irrup- tion of air took place in the night, and was momentarily attended with some difficulty of breathing; it was so extensive as to nearly or quite close the eyes, reaching to all parts above the waist, where it was arrested in its downward progress by the tightness of the clothes. The attendant assured his patient and her friends that it would sponta- neously disappear in a few days, and this prediction was fully verified. Whitney refers to Cazeaux’s work, which contains a chapter on pul- monary and subcutaneous emphysema, and in which cases such as the above are stated to be more rare than those in which the air spreads to the face and neck only, and may occasion oppression and threaten sut- fncation A case proviug fatal in forty-six hours after delivery fias been recorded by Depaul, where the air diffused itself through the m-419 HiEMORRHAGE—TRANSFUSION. tervesicular, interlobular, and sub-pleural cellular tissue, invading both lungs -without going beyond them. The autopsy revealed emphysema of the cellular tissue of both lungs. Dr. Mackenzie also reports (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’ 1871) a case of emphysema occurring during labour. He considers that the emphy- sematous condition -was caused by the rupture of one or more vesicles in the lungs from the spasmodic action of the diaphragm. The patient was well on the eighth day. Mr. Jalland relates a case of vaginal thrombus. It burst spontane- ously after the expulsion of the placenta. The patient became pulseless, but the haemorrhage was controlled by pressure. (‘ Obst. Trans.,’ 1872.) Fib7'ous tthmour removed after laboior.—Dr. Yeld relates the case of a multipara, aet. 37, in which, when the hand was introduced to remove the placenta, a large mass was found firmly adherent to the walls of the uterus. This was believed at first to be the placenta, and was removed by traction and breaking down of surrounding adhesions. The mass weighed four pounds and a half, and measured nine inches in circum- ference. The patient died in two hours. (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1871.) Haemorrhage—Transfiosion.—Dr. Braxtpn Hicks calls attention to a form of concealed haemorrhage before the expulsion of the placenta, not usually described. Owing to adhesion of the membranes to the lower part of the uterus, while they, together with a portion of the placenta, are detached above, blood collects and inverts the free^portion into the vagina, forming a bag full of blood. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Deb, 1872.) Three severe cases of concealed accidental uterine haemorrhage are recorded by Mr. Parsons. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ June, 1872.) Dr. GoodeU also writes on this subject. (‘Amer. Journ. Obstet.,’ 1871.) A successful case of transfusion, by M. De Belina. The patient, ^t. 26, had previously had many severe floodings after abortions. She was now four and a half months pregnant, and the haemorrhage was so pro- fuse that she was found in a state of profound syncope, and presented all the appearances of approaching death. The blood was obtained from her sister; it was defibrinated, filtered, and then injected. The improvement was sudden and well marked, and the patient soon ex- pressed herself relieved, and said she had felt an agreeable sensation of warmth extendmg from the arm to the chest. (‘ Gaz. Med de Paris ’ Feb. 1871.) ’ Dr. Aveling describes and figures (‘Lancet,’ Aug. 1872) his instru- ment for immediate transfusion, and relates a successful case in which it was used after post-partum haemorrhage. A fold of skin over a vein at the bend of the elbow is raised, transfixed, and divided. The flat- tened vein should be seized with a forceps and raised, while an incision IS made, and the bevel-pointed silver tube of the instrument inserted into It. The tube should be filled with water, and kept full by placing the thumb over its larger opening. The arm of the blood-donbr should then be prepared, and the round-pointed tube inserted into it. The hand of an assistant holds the efferent tube and the lips of the small wound ogether, and another assistant holds the afferent tube secure. The india-rubber portion of the apparatus, which consists of a central bulb420 REfORT ON MIDWIFERYj ETC. with a tube proceeding from it on each side, terminated by a stopcock, is filled with water and connected with the silver tubes. The cocks are then turned straight, and the operation commenced by compressing the india rubber on the efferent side and squeezing the bulb. This forces two drachms of water into the afferent vein. The afferent tube is then compressed and the bulb allowed to expand slowly, when blood will be drawn into it by the efferent vein. By repeating this process any quantity of blood can, at any rate, be transmitted. Dr. Eichardson stated at a meeting of the London Medical Society (‘ Lancet,’ Eeb. 1871) that the details of the operation of transfusion had reference to the needle, the knife, and the passage of fluid into the veins. The needle he recommended is curved, probe pointed, and with an opening in the under side at the top, curved so that when intro- duced into the vein, if the end is held down, the apex applies itself to the upper wall of the vein, whilst the under side of the needle is free and allows the blood to escape. As to the knife, it should be one to enter the vein at once, having a small blade with a cutting edge along the entire of one side, and only for about one eighth of an inch on the other. As to the passage of fluid, all syringes are bad. The mere ele- vation of the vessel containing the blood above the patient is sufficient. He uses a vessel constricted at the base and then widened out gradu- ally to the top. At the constricted part a wet valve is formed by a floating ball when the vessel contains fluid, and this fluid gets low in the vessel. At the lowest part of the vessel is an arm attached to a tube, and this tube is connected with the needle, the fluid from the vessel finding its way along the tube to the needle. Dr.r Higginson contributes a report of thirteen cases of transfusion. The average quantity of blood injected was nine ounces, the largest quantity was twenty ounces, and the smallest four ounces. No sub- stance was mixed with the blood, and it was not subjected to any mani- pulation. Ten of the cases occurred in obstetric practice, and four of these recovered. (‘Liverpool Med. Surg. Eep.,’ 1871.) A successful case of transfusion is recorded by Dr. Eingland. (‘Dub. Journ.,’ Jan. 1872.) Dupierris publishes twenty-four cases of post-partum haemorrhage treated by the injection of a solution of iodine into the uterus, all with a successful issue and no accident. (‘Bulletin de Therap.,’ 1871.) Dr. Booth also writes on injection of iodine in post-partum haemor- rhage. (‘Virginia Eecord,’Dec. 1871.) —Monteverdi records (‘Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ No. 8,1872) the results of various experiments made to determine the action of quinine on the uterus. He invariably used the sulphate, and found that this substance exercised a general tonic influence on the various organs, but especially on the uterus. About half an hour after its administra- tion it produced slight contractions of the uterus independent of pain, and these contractions became gradually of longer duration and stronger, with distinct intervals of rest, in every respect similar to the ordinary pains of parturition. These effects lasted two hours. The dose em- ployed was about twenty centigrammes. Quinine appears to him preferable to ergot of rye, since it has no injurious effect on theTHE PUEEPERAL STATE. 421 mother or the child, its action is certain, the contractions it induces pe regular and natural, and it is free from danger at whatever pmod of pregnancy it is administered. See also Delioux de Savignac, Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ vol. 8i. Dr. Denham concludes that ergot of rye does not act as a poison on the foetus. Physiological experiments on animals are in favour of me view that ergot is, at all events, not a powerful or violent poison. He believes that when ergot is administered between the sixth and ninth months the life neither of mother nor child is affected, and that labour is not induced by it until the full period of utero-gestation is com- pleted. (‘Dub. Obst. Soc.,’1872.) _ _ Dr. Thompson believes that ergot should be administered with great care in persons of feeble cardiac power. (‘Brit. M!ed. Journ., Aug. 1872.) IV.—The Pueepeeal State, Professor Martin adheres to the view previously put forward by him as to the nature of puerperal fever, that it is due to a diphtheritic pro- cess set up in the female genitalia, this diphtheritis spreading by an infiltration of the pelvic cellular tissue, occasionally by extension along the mucous membrane direct to the peritoneum, or more frequently through the lymphatics. In reference to the influence of retained decom- posed portions of placenta in setting up puerperal fever he points out that fragments are frequently retained in utero without setting up any decomposition or putrid absorption, so that in the former cases some other incident must be sought to explain the occurrence. He thinks a preceding inflammation of the genitalia, as seen in several cases of gonorrhoea before labour, has some influence in producing the diphthe- ritic condition after labour; although, as a rule, the poison gains access in other, and very different ways. Martin points out that diphtheritic affection of the genitals does not exclusively attack lying- in women, although they are particularly subject to it. Dubois observed that at the time when puerperal fever was epidemic, the young midwives of the Maternite were occasionally, during menstrua- tion, attacked with a febrile affection analogous to that affecting the women whom they attended. In reference to the treatment, the prophylactic measures are the most important, but digitalis, quinine, and baths are indicated for the fever, while disinfectant vaginal and uterine injections are insisted upon. (‘Alleg. Mediz. Zentr.,’ Aug. 9 and 12, 1871.) The pathology of puerperal fever is discussed by Omboni. (‘ Gazz. Lomb,,’ 25, 26, 1871.) Dr. Waldeyer, of Breslau, writes (‘Arch. f. Gyniik.,’ hi, 2) on the occurrence of Bacteria in the diphtheritic form of puerperal fever. After referring to the labours of Mayrhofer, Haussmann, Coze, and Feltz, in the same direction, he states that he has examined the diph- theritic deposit on the inner surface of the uterus, the puriform masses in the lymphatic vessels of the uterus and of the broad ligaments, the peritoneal exudation (both the fluid exudation and the yellowish-white- purulent fibrinous flakes), and in one case the thick exudation in the422 REPORT ON MIDWIPERY, ETC. pleural cavities and pericardium. In aU these he has found bacteria in a remarkably large quantity. In the diphtheritic patches they lie between the pus-cells and those of the partly mortified tissue elements. The puriform contents of the lymph channels consist of pus-corpuscles and (in large proportion) of bacteria, and these latter are also to be found in the peritoneal flakes, mixed with pus-corpuscles, young cells, and fibrine masses. In the last case, on which Waldeyer bases his observations, the post-mortem examination was made six hours after death, the body was yet warm, and nowhere were there any indications of decomposition to be observed in the organs. The occurrence in all the cases of bacteria within the pus-corpuscles is very noteworthy. Waldeyer believes that the changes originate on the inner surface of the genital canal, and creep upwards along the lymphatics to the peri- toneum. An exudative purulent inflammation of the abdominal parietes occurs, which quickly extends to the diaphragm; and then we find inflammation of the diaphragm, and still further pleuritis and peri- carditis. Contribution to the Study of Fuer'peral Septicoemia.—The following is the summary of the conclusions arrived at by M. d’Espine in his long and elaborate articles on this important subject, recently published in the ‘Archives Generales de Medecine.’ i. Puerperal septiceemia'con- sists of a series of symptoms, the gravity of which is in direct relation to the quantity of septic matter absorbed by breaches of surface in the utero-vaginal canal. These symptoms are not peculiar to the puer- peral state, and ought to be classed with those produced by septicaemia in the wounded and in animals. 3. The source of puerperal septicaemia is always the uterus or vagina; and all causes which prevent the heal- ing of the bared interior of the uterus, or which favour the production of septic matter in its neighbourhood, have an important action in its production. 4. The most common channel of absorption is through the lymphatics, and its passage through them can generally, but not always, be traced by lymphangitis. 5. Peritonitis is the result of the conveyance of septic matter through the lymphatics of the uterus, and it may be compared to the local inflammations which develop round infected wounds. 6. The effect of septic absorption is to develop con- gestions and inflammations in internal organs, chiefly in the lungs, kidneys, and intestines; subserous ecchymoses and interstitial apo- plexy ; internal and external inflammations, which localise themselves in the neighbourhood of the serous membranes; during life, these actions are recognised by fever, diarrhoea, pulmonary congestion, epis- taxis, and often by fugitive cutaneous eruptions. 7. Milk fever has no existence; febrile action in the first week after delivery almost always depends on absorption of lochia through slight abrasions or lacerations of the utei’o-vaginal canal. It may continue for some weeks should the uterus not be firmly contracted, or should the lochia be foetid. In the latter case ulcerations, through which absorption takes place, may almost always be found either on the cervix or in the vagina. 8. These Blighter affections are often, but not always, accompanied by angioleu- citis and slight perimetritis. When the septic poison continues long we may have consumption and death {phtUsie septigue). 9. PuerperalTHE PtlEEPERAL STATE. 423 is a complicate panied by the i^iesence p ^ depends on septic embola being riwie almost inflammations of the cellular tissue of the arfculitions depend on lymphatic infection, and are not embolic m their °tSau(‘r"“rerfW»%r^^^^ in which he punctured the colon with great relief to the ^ although before the operation she appeared to be afterwards and was getting well. (‘Bull, de la Soc. de Chir., May, '^In\he ‘Gas. Med. de Paris' (Oct. 1871) « contained the report of a case of haimorrhagic smallpox after labour, which terminated *d“*’p.'A. Kehrer (‘Archiv fiir Gynak.,’ ii, i, 1871) contributes an elaborate paper on the morphology of the milk casein, the chiet points of which appear to be contained in the following conclu- sions —I The gland-cells of the mammse are continually, during the milk preparation, in a state of active division, and break up on the other hand after a preliminary fatty metamorphosis into fat globules and protoplasma particles. 2. The fat globules of the milk are not enclosed in coverings of albumen or casein. 3. The cell-particles (inter- globular substance) spring up in the milk serum, and form with it a thin scum. 4. This scum is the emulsion of the fat globules. .5- -*-11 fresh milk the formed cell-particles are invisible, by coagulation they show themselves as granules, nuclei, and granule-nuclei-containing flakes 6. They collect together out of a light basis-substance and granular coagulating casein. 7. The casein is neither soluble in water, nor in the salts of the milk, but is held in it as an ingredient of formed ^ M. Decaisne, in an important paper communicated to the Academy of Sciences on the influence of starvation on woman's milk, concludes that insufacient, food always gives rise, within varying proportions, to a diminution in the amount of butter, casein, sugar, and salts, whilst it augments generally that of the albumen. In three fourths of the cases observed the proportion of the albumen was in an inverse ratio to that of the casein under an insufficient diet._ The modifica- tions in the composition of the milk, due to a reparative diet, always manifest themselves in a striking manner by the end of four or five days. (‘Med. Times and G-az.,’Nov. 1871.) Dr. J. G. Wilson records two cases in which the external application of belladonna to the breasts after labour gave rise in four days to a bright scarlet eruption, which appeared first on the face and chest, and then extended all over the body. Other symptoms were present indi- cating that the patients were under the influence of belladonna. The complete absence of desquamation of the skin, the persistent dilatation of the pupils for some days, and the rapid recovery of the patients show that these were not cases of puerperal scarlatina. (‘ Glasg, Med. Journ.,’ 1872.)REPORT ON MIDWIFERY^ ETC. Puerperal Convulsions.—Halbertsma writes (‘ Med. Centr.,’ ix, 27, 1871) on the etiology of eclampsia. Veratrum viride in large doses is recommended as a substitute for bloodletting in puerperal convulsions (‘ Amer. Journ. of Obstetr/ 1871). Cases of puerperal eclampsia treated by venesection are recorded by Swayne (‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Peb. 1871); and by Jones (ibid., April, 1871). A case of puerperal convulsions successfully treated by chloroform. Boss (‘ Lancet,’ Aug. 1871). Puerperal convulsions treated by hydrate of chloral, Purley (‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ JSTov. 1871); Geikie (‘Canada Lancet,’March, 1871); Starley (‘Americ. Practit.,’ 1871); Perris (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ April, 1872). Two cases successfully treated by chloroform are recorded in detail by Dr. E. E. Townsend. In one of the cases there was smart uterine haemorrhage after delivery, but the bleeding had no effect what- even in controlling the convulsive attacks (‘Dublin Quart. Journ.,’ Peb. 1871). Dr. Whidborne advises the use of suppositories of chloral hydrate, when that drug cannot be taken by the mouth. (‘Lancet,’ June, 1871.) A case of sudden death seventeen days after delivery is recorded (‘Obst. Trans.,’ 1871) by Dr. Playfair. A slight pleuritic attack succeeded labour, and death probably resulted from embolism. The inflammatory complication had apparently produced an increased hyperinosis of the blood above that already existing; and hence in- flammatory affections in the puerperal state should be regarded with a greater suspicion and anxiety than at other times. A case of sudden death seventeen days after delivery was related by Dr. Eingland to the Dublin Obst. Soc. The heart was found small, soft, and flabby, with much fat deposited'externally. The pulmonary artery and its two branches were Ailed with a large though soft clot. The uterine walls were so thin, as almost to resemble the urinary bladder. Dr. Madden contributes a series of eases of sudden death soon after parturition. (‘Amer. Journ. Obst.,’ 1871.) Mr. Bassett relates thirteen cases of secondary hcemorrhage coming on between the third and the thirty-second day after delivery. Pive were due to the irregular and inefiicient contraction of the womb, with clots in its interior; in four cases the haemorrhage arose from a retained portion of placenta; and the remaining cases were due to retained portion of membrane, fibrous polypus, inversion of the uterus, and imperfect involution. (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872.) Dr. Jenks exhibited to the Philadelphia Obstetrical Society a speci- men of placenta suecenturiata, which had been retained for flve days after the delivery of the child and of the placenta proper. It was adherent to the uterus, and had evidently been connected with the umbilical cord by a delicate funis of its own. Its presence had given rise to a constant haemorrhage. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obst.,’. 1871.) Prom a careful microscopical examination of an enlarged, imperfectly involuted uterus. Dr. Snow Beck concludes that the enlargement is more due to the increased size and amount of the “ soft tissue” of the uterus than to the increased size of the contractile flbre-cells. Although the blood-vessels are loaded with fluid blood there is no evidence of theTHE INFANT. 425 existence of inflammation. This explains the frequent hemorrhages noticed in such cases. Any local application to be of value stould be applied to the entire uterine cavity, as the chief seat ot the abnor- mal state is the body of the uterus. (‘ Obst. Trans., 1871.) V.—The Infant. Dr. J. Gregory (‘Arch, fiir Gynak.,’ ii, i, 1871), after relating several observations on the loeight of infants, concludes that—(i) All children decrease in weight during the first few days after birth. (2) They be<yin to lose in weight during the first hours or extra-uterine liie. (?) The'^duration of the decrease is generally two days in healthy, full-time children, brought up at the breast. (4) In children brought up by hand and in the premature the duration of the decrease is from half a day to a day, and from two to three days longer. (5) Pull-time children brought up at the breast increase in weight after this directly and tolerably regularly, and generally attain at the end of the seventh day to their original weight. (6) Immature children nourished by the breast have a varying increase, and even on the eighth day usually only make up half their sustained loss. (7) There is gene- rally no actual increase in the first eight days in children brought up by hand. Since the loss is continually in greater proportion, they lose in weight, therefore, also after the beginning of the first increase. This applies to the premature children in this category in a greater degree than to the mature ones. (8) Nutrition is more active in boys than in girls, whence it follows that boys begin to increase comparatively earher, and that more per cent, of boys than of girls in a similar period exceed their original weight. (9) There is no relation between the falling off of the navel string and the commencement of the increase in weight, (10) Nourishing support to the lying-in.woman has a favor- able reaction on the child, shortening the period of loss of weight, and rendering the increase more regular and greater. ■Wernich, from observations founded on 1889 births confirms the statements of Hecker and Duncan, and says—(i) That the weight of the foetus increases with the age of the mother till she has attained the age of thirty-three, and that the length of the foetus increases up to the forty-fourth year. (2) Each new infant outweighs and is larger than the preceding one. (3) Long intervals between the pregnancies are more favorable than short ones. (4) Women who have menstru- ated early are confined for the first time of a more vigorous child than those in whom menstruation was late in appearing. (‘ Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg,’ Oct. 1871.) Stillborn infants (an epistle directed to Dr. C. Ludwig, by Dr. Schultze, Jena, 1871).—The condition of a stillborn infant is, accord- ing to Dr. Schultze, in all cases one of asphyxia. The stillborn sometimes present an anaemic, and at others an apoplectic condition, but under both conditions the still birth is one of actual asphyxia. The mass of blood, in the one instance, is insufidcient to enable it to take up and convey an adequate amount of oxygen to the medulla oblongata, the excita- bility of which is, in consequence, reduced, and finally extinguished.426 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. On the other hand, the apoplectic form of asphyxia is when the medulla oblongata is not in a condition to respond to the normal exciters pre- sented to it. ^ The following is the author’s general statement of the four pathological conditions, into one or other of which stillborn chil- dren are distributable :—(i) A so greatly diminished excitability of the medulla oblongata that, under the normal excitants, the proper nervous influence from it is no longer transmitted to the respiratory apparatus, hence there necessarily results a deflcient supply of oxygen to the blood. (2) A deficient oxygenation of the blood, and its neces- sary concomitant, an abnormal accumulation of carbon in the blood. (3) Constant lessening in the force of the circulation from the slowness of the heart’s contractions, and the immediate and secondary conse- quences, causing what may, in some sense, be considered as a com- pensatory movement, besides overfilling the heart with blood, directing the flow of the latter towards the thorax. (4) The clogging up, to a greater or less extent, of the trachea with liquor amnii, meconium, slime, and blood. To arouse the suspended vitality of the stillborn who fall within the first proposition presents three indications :—To increase the excitation of the medulla, so that the respiratory nerves shall react; to endeavour, by acting upon the peripheral nerves, to excite the action of the respiratory muscles; or to endeavour to reinstate the normal ex- citability of the medulla. In the cases embraced in the second proposi- tion, there is a deficiency of oxygen. Now, after birth this deficiency can be supplied only through the lungs, and hence, in the absence of natural respiration, an attempt must be made to imitate it artificially. In reference to the cases of stillbirth embraced by the third proposi- tion, it may be understood that when the infant is born deeply asphyxi- ated, with very slight action of the heart, while the blood in the capil- laries of the lungs is almost stagnant, how little of the circulating mass can, by artificial inflation of the lungs, be brought into contact with oxygen. Hence the increased action of the heart caused by such means is only of temporary continuance. Artificial respiration can only be productive of permanent results when, at the same time, there occurs, as well through the vessels of the lungs as throughout the entire rami- fication of the aorta, a life-supporting circulation of blood. The artifi- cially excited action of the respiratory organs may, however, become ultimately the cause of the reinstatement of the excitability of the ner- vous centres, and thus be the means of recalling the normal activity of the respiratory muscles. Eesuscitation, in the cases embraced by the fourth proposition, is to be effected by the removal of the impediment, by a sucking effort of the operator’s mouth applied directly to the mouth of the infant, or through an elastic catheter passed into the larynx, or by a syringe and elastic tube. (‘ Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ the colour of the eyes of the newly horn.—Dr. Wiltshire (‘ Lancet,’ Feb. II, 1871) believes that the eyes in newly born chilren are always of a blue colour. It is a slaty, mercurial ointment, or leaden- blue generally different from the blue colour which obtains in after life. A change is usually observable in the second month. If the eyes are to become “ dark,” a brownish hue overspreads the leadenthe ineant. 4.27 hue and in time effaces it. Eyes that ultimately become brightly blue gradually clear up, as it were, like the sky after a thunderstor and a dear-tinted blue iris is the result. Dr. Wiltshire is inclined to think that all newly born animals have blue eyes. It is stated that a similaa* otervation is made by Eucte, in 1846 (‘Wagner’s Handwort^^^^^^^^ der Physiologie,’ iii, part 2, 325), and even oy Aristotle ( De Gener., ’ Gueniot writes on the treatment of fractures of the thigh in newly born infants. In the majority of cases the fracture js situated at the upper half of the bone, and nearly always occurs during an assisted labour, the foetus presenting by the breech, the operator makes too lorcible or ill-directed traction on the fold of the groin. In one case he saw it produced by the application of the forceps to the presenting breech. He describes a gutta-percha apparatus which he has found useiul in the treatment. (‘Bull. Gen. de Therap.,’ i, 1872.) . Gueniot writes on the treatment of urinary umbilical fistulas, due to the persistence of the urachus. (‘ Bull, de Therap.,’ ii, 1872.) Dr. Littleton (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Sept. 1872) quotes the statement that between three and four hundred children are annually suffocated by overlaying, and advocates the use of the arcuccio, universally used in Italy. The apparatus bears some resemblance to the cradle adopted to shelter an injured limb, and with it children can be safely laid entirely under the bed clothes in winter without danger of suffocation. On the etiology of foetal peritonitis.—Dr. E. Olshausen gives the dis- section of a foetus the subject of peritonitis. The vulva and the vagina were imperfect; the meatus urinarius was not to be detected. Absence of the anus and of the lower portion of the rectum. Moderate disten- sion of the bladder, more considerable of the uterus, and enormous of the lower part of the intestine, with urine. Considerable dilatation* of the ureter on each side and hydronephrosis. Connection between the uterus and the bladder through a narrow short canal, and through another, still shorter, between it and the rectum. General peritonitis of old date. The greatest amount of exudation in the neighbourhood of the ovaries and the outer portions of the Eallopian tubes. As regards the malformations, the connection of the uterus with the colon and with the bladder may be considered the rarest, and, as regards the results in this case, the most important one. Not only did the urine collect in the ureters and the kidneys, but also the uterus was filled and distended into a thin bladder, and there was distension of the colon. But the most important point is that the urine passed into the Fallopian tubes, dilated their inner portion, and led to effusion in the pelvis and to general peritonitis, with gluing together of the intestines. (‘ Archiv f. Gynak.,’ ii, 4, 1871.) Dr. Jacohi (‘Amer. Journ, Obstet.,’ 1871) relates a case ot foetal asymmetry. When shown to the Obstetrical Society of New York the child was three months old. The two halves of the tongue were not equal in size, the left being thinner than the right, and when the tongue was protruded it deviated to the left. The entire left side of the head, face, body, and extremities, were smaller than the right. Dr. Jacobi believed this condition to be of pre-placental origin. The circulation428 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. produced in the development of the allantois is large between the sixth and seventh week, so we must look anterior to this time for the cause. He thought it probably due to an obstruction to the free circulation of blood in the veins of the left side of the vascular zone. Mr. Macgillivray relates a case of congenital hypertrophy of the left nand and arm, for wliicli he ligatured the brachial artery with a sue- cessful issue. (‘Austral. Med. Journ.,’ Jan. 1872.) Hr. Bailey, in an article on trismus nascentium, in the ‘Amer. Journ. Obstet.,’ 1871, quotes the opinions of several authorities on the sutyect, and says that in his experience, since 1853, he has not observed a single case of lockjaw when due regard was paid to the management and dressing of the umbilicus. Tumefaction and redness, without sup- puration should always excite apprehension. Unsuitable dressing, both before and after the separation of the cord, are common exciting causes. In the early stage of the disease soothing applications to the umbilicus are of great service. Dr. Bailey does not think that negro infants are more liable to it than white children. Dr. Widerhofer, of Vienna, speaks highly of the value of chloral hy- drate in the treatment of tetanus neonatorum. He has had six cases (out of ten or twelve) of recovery under treatment by chloral. (‘ Lancet,’ March 18, 1871.) BieJeets.—Dr. Blache, of Paris, writes (‘Practitioner,’ Sept. 1872) on rachitis and mineral inanition. He quotes the conclusions of Dusart: —(i) That in all living beings, whether vegetable or animal, the pre- sence of phosphate of lime is necessary for the transformation into cells of the azotized matters supplied by food, and that to preserve their vitality the tissues must be constantly traversed by a kind ot current of phosphate of lime; (2) that the vital activity peculiar to each species is always in proportion to the quantity of phosphate of lime contained in it; and (3) that when the food is deficient in phos- phate of lime the tissues draw from the osseous skeleton that which is necessary for nutrition. He then inquires by virtue of what action do albuminized substances assume, in presence of calcareous phosphate, the form of cells, and of tissues of every nature without its being demon- strated that the salt of lime forms any constituent part of them. Knowing the property possessed by salts of lime of precipitating albu- men in an insoluble state, may it not be admitted that there takes place in the organism an analogous phenomenon, but with this modification, that in the living medium this precipitate assumes the figured form and becomes organised in tissues ? If children too young or persons debili- tated from various causes are subjected to a course of alimentation ex- clusively composed of the flesh of young animals, the liquid albumen will be easily absorbed, whilst the solid parts containing the salts of lime will resist the action of the debilitated stomach, and will be ejepted. It is not organizable elements which are wanting, but an organizing ao-ent, and mineral inanition ensues indirectly as surely as by adminis- tering aliments deficient in salts of lime, such, for instance, as wheat alone. Blache believes that the good efi’ected by cod-liver oil in rickets is due entirely to the exciting action produced through the whole ex- tent of the digestive tube by the volatile oily acids to which it owes itsTHE INFANT. m well-known odour. The regular contractions of the digestive tube, and especially the glandular secretions, reappear, and tins double influence promotes the digestion of the solid parts of food, which kad till then resisted. The same result is obtained by presenting directly to the absorption of the stomach phosphate of lime, on the cradition that it be soluble and require no labour for its digestion. The phosphate taken into the weakened stomach of persons afflicted with rachitis wifi iindero'o no modification. He recommends Dusart’s lactophosphate of lime, which is prepared by imitating the action of the gastric juice on phosphates, and which contains the salt completely digested, and con- sequently capable of being absorbed without requiring any previous labour of the stomach. ,• i 7- ■ j? Dr. Widerhofer, in some remarks on the differential diagnosis 0/ slight cases of ricTcets and of chronic hydrocephalus, says the points to be attended to are chiefly these. In rickets the form of the head is more or less angular, but there is no special disproportion between the head and the face. The anterior fontanelle may be large, but the sagittal suture is generally closed at eight or nine months. The orbits are normal and there is no prominence of the cornea. Eiirther, some alterations in other parts of the sketeton, e.g. beading of the ribs, or some enlargement of the epiphyses of the radius and ulna, will probably be present. In chronic hydrocephalus the skull is inclined to a globular shape; the sagittal suture is open, as well as the fontanelle; the head is large, out of proportion to the face, and there is divergence outward of the temporal bones at their upper part, instead of their usual vertical position. Drom the pressure of the intra-cranial effusion the upper wall of the orbit tends to become more and more upright, so as to push forwards the eyes and expose the cornea. Further, in rickets, the tendency is to partial convulsions, especially spasm of the glottis ; in hydrocephalus to general convulsions. Lastly, the former is most frequently accompanied by diarrhoea; the latter by constipation. (‘Lancet,’ March 18, 1871.) Dr. Eitchie writes on the diagnosis of rickets (‘ Med. Times and Gaz.,’ Jan. 1871), and points out, as the result of numerous observa- tions, that there is a varying fall in the evening temperature in rickets, whereas in tuberculosis there is not only no evening fall, but there is a positive evening rise. Dr. Sonsino, in a paper on the physiological dyspepsia for starchy food in infancy, confirms the opinions of Bidder and Schmidt, Guillot, and Schiff; and concludes that in the generality of mammalia, saliva acquires its digestive power over starchy matter only at a degree of development which, in the larger number of the same animals, is not reached at the time of birth. He then details some experiments made with an infusion of the pancreas of young animals, and states that pancreatic juice in dogs, cats, and rabbits in the first week of life is devoid of any digestive action on starch ; and he infers that the same inability of the pancreas to digest starch exists in the early life of man. Experiments made with the enteric juice were not so conclusive. He thinks that an infusion of fresh pancreas might be useful to aid the digestion of starch in infancy; but that good reasons exist for not feeding infants430 REPORT ON MtDWIFERYj ETC. with starchy matters, however they may be rendered digestible. The nutriment nmnished^ by starch does not afford materials for the re- integration of the principal tissues, but it concurs almost exclusively as luei to the process of liematosis, whereas the growing infantile organism needs _ a greater quantity of those nutriments which directly afford materials to the development of the tissues, Practitioner,’ Sept 1872.) ’ ^ I)r. Dobell believes that many cases of infantile wasting occur because the food, deficient in fat, not only fails to nourish tlTe child, but fails to develop the function of the pancreas for the digestion of fat at a later period of life. The craving of the child, due to the deficiency of assimilated fat, is met by starchy food which it has not the power to digest, and which, if digested, cannot supply the place of fat. Of all the satisfactory remedial effects of pancreatic emulsion none equal those produced by it in these cases of wasting in children. (‘Practioner,’ Oct. 1872.) Gold Mod for Infants.—Surgeon King writes in the ‘ Philadelphia Medical Times ’ on this subject“ Our best authorities direct that the cow's milk should be given to the child at the same temperature as that of the mother’s milk, from 90° to 95° Pahrenheit, and when great accuracy is required a thermometer employed. On reflection, it is obvious that these instructions can never be carried out so that the little one will take all its food at the same temperature, for during a meal the bottle becomes cold, and there may frequently be considerable difference of temperature between the first and the last milk imbibed by the infant. It is unnecessary to state that very little will upset the feeble powers of the digestive organs in the early days of infantile life, and this difference in the temperature of the food, I am disposed to believe, is one of the causes of gastric and intestinal disorder which we so often have to deal with among infants brought up by hand. Instead of giving warm milk, I have adopted the plan of giving cold milk entirely—ordering the babe’s bottle to be kept standing in iced water in the summer and in a cold place in winter. This method I have found, from practical experience, to answer remarkably well. If there* is any tendency to diarrhoea I recommend the milk to be heated to 212° Pahr., and afterwards allowed to get quite cold before being used. In private practice I am of opinion that bottle-fed infants generally have their food given them too warm. They soon like it better than warm food, and during the teething period cold milk seems especially agreeable to the inflamed gums of the little sufferers.” (‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Aug. 1872.) Vaccination.—Mr. Hutchinson contributes an important report on two series of cases in which syphilis was communicated in the practice of vaccination. The first series consisted of twelve persons, mostly young adults, who were vaccinated from a healthy looking child. The progress of the vaccination was satisfactory in all; but indurated chancres appeared on the arms of ten of the vaccinated in the eighth week. The primary sores rapidly disappeared after mercurial treat- ment, but constitutional symptoms appeared in four of the patients five months after the vaccination, and the vaccinifer showed condy-431 the infant. 1 L 4. j-1 « o/vQ nf div months Four out of the five vesicles on the Ss:™ weTe than one, possibly all of them bled somewhT Mr. Hutchinson deduces the followmg conclusions from thrcases. The blood of a child suffering from inherited syptalis can, if inoculated, transmit the disease with great certainty. The result of such inoculation of blood will be an indurated chancre. If multiple inoculations be practised, multiple _ chancres may Pro- duced. A period of incubation between the inocumtion and the ii^t occurrence of induration about the prick will occur, during which the part may appear perfectly healthy. The period of incubation prior to t^he first specific induration will usually be about five weeks. It quite possible for vaccine lymph and blood to be transfen’ed at the same time, and for each to produce its specific results, the efi^ects of the syphilitic inoculation occurring subsequently to those ot vaccination. It is quite possible to vaccinate successfully from a syphilitic infant in the stage of utmost potency as regards its blood, without communi- cating syphilis. In the second series of cases there were unquestionable symptoms of constitutional syphilis in nine children who had been vaccinated from the same child. There were suspicious symptoms in six others, but a certain number of those vaccinated entirely escaped. The vaccinifer was a fine healthy-looking child, but with slight local symptoms indicative of inherited syphilis. IMedico.-Chir. Trans., liv.) For discussion on syphilitic inoculation by vaccination__see proceed ings of the Societe de Medecine de Lyon. (‘ Lyon Med.,’ vii, 510 5^4j) Mr. Amos Beardesley writes on vaccination—the advantages of Bryce's test. There is no local appearance which can be relied upon as a guarantee of a constitutional security against smallpox; and in neglecting the con- stitutional test we are aggravating the distrust in vaccination, degrad- ing the productive power of vaccine lymph, and curtailing one of the greatest blessings ever given by man to man. (‘ Practitioner,’ June, 1871-) . . . Dr. Farquharson concludes from extensive experience in revaccina- tion, that while it is a perfectly safe operation under ordinary circum- stances, care should be taken in its performance on weakly subjects. In these the resulting constitutional disturbance may cause much dis- comfort, and some efforts should first be made to improve the tone of the general health. (‘Lancet,’ July, 1871.) Mr. Stephen Mackenzie relates (‘Lancet.’ Feb. 1871) several cases vaccinated with lymph dilated with glycerine, in the proportion of forty drops of the latter to the contents of two capillary tubes of vaccine. He thinks that lymph diluted to this extent is as potent as undiluted lymph. A similar view is also expressed by Dr. E. Muller, of Berlin (‘Berlin Woch.,’ April 17, 1871.), and by Weiss (‘Centr. f. Med. Wiss.,’ 48, 1871). Guilland quotes the following case:—A primipara, confined on the 18th of January, was attacked with the eruption of smallpox on the evening of the 20th, forty-eight hours after labour. She died on the fourth day of the hsemorrhagic form of the disease. The infant had been sent away to a nurse the day after it was born. On the 27th Guilland went to vaccinate the child, having been unable to procureREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. vaccine sooner, but the pustules had appeared the same morning, and the patient died on the 3 xst. Another child suckled by the same nurse was successfully vaccinated on the 27th; but was seized on the ninth day with a very mild form of varioloid and did well. The nurse pre- sented on the loth of February five pustules around the nipple of the right breast. These commenced on the 4th of February. There had been, and there was no other part attacked, not even the opposite breast, which, as it was the seat of an abscess, had not been frequently used. G-uilland regards this case as an instance of true inoculation from the nursling to the nurse. Being protected by early vaccination she was susceptible only of a local effect. (‘ Lyon Med.,’ April, 1871.) A foetus expelled in the sixth month of pregnancy, while the'mother was suffering from smallpox, had distinct pustules all over its surface. (Simpson, ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ May, 1872.) See a case of iucubation of smallpox in utero. (Townsend, ‘Med. Times and Graz.,’ June, 1872.) See also the case of a foetus born with a pustular eruption' the mother at the time sufiering from smallpox. (‘ Lyon Med. ’ Oct! 1871. ) Poliak writes on Timmorrhage from the kidneys in infants (‘ Wien. Med. Presse,’ xviii, 1871). It is liable to follow severe attacks of diarrhoea in infants under two months old. In addition to the appear- ances of the urine there is pain produced by pressure in the lumbar regions, and there is also great restlessness. Poliak thinks, from post- mortem examination, that the parenchyma of the kidney is not the seat of disease. The young patient’s strength should be kept up by good milk and by tonics. Eecovery is rare. • The Jaundice of Newly-born Children.—Dr. Kehrer believes that first- born children are rather more frequently attacked than others. Early purging of the meconium does not hinder the development of jaundice. We must, then, abandon the idea that the jaundice is caused by resorp- tion of the meconium, which is rich in bile in newly-born children. In jaundice in newly-born children we find the liver throughout, or in parts, yellow coloured, from the bile contained in the liver-cells. Frerichs thought icterus neonatorum due to diminished tonicity of the capillaries of the parenchyma of the liver, which takes place when the flow from the umbilical vein is stopped, and permits of increase of bile in the blood. Hardenhain admits that after compression of the aorta the pressure of the secretion in the ductus choledochus falls off. Virchow thinks that infantile jaundice results from catarrh and stop- page of the bile-duct. The disease commenced usually on the second or third day, and seldom on the first or fourth day of life. The prognosis is generally good. (See ‘ Amer. Journ. of Obstetrics,’ Nov. 1872. ) Gueniot relates (‘ Gaz. des Hop.,’ Ajiril, 1872) a case of congenital invagination of the rectum. Dr. Dawson related to the New York Obstetrical Society the case of a child six weeks old, who was the sub- ject of an invagination of the colon, csecum, and a portion of the duo- denum into the rectum, and which were bound together by exudation where the peritoneal surfaces were opposed. The diagnosis had not been made during life. (‘Amer. Journ. of Obstetr.,’ Nov. 1872.)MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond., E.E.C.P., BECTUEEE OIT CHEMISTEY AT GTTY’S HOSPITAL; MEDICAL OFEICEE OP HEALTH FOE ST. PANGEAS, MIDDLESEX, AND OFFICIAL ANALYST ; LATE EXAMINEE IN FOEENSIC MEDICINE IN THE HNIYEESITY OF LONDON. Poisons. General.—Prof. Goltz,i of Halle, has experimented on the absorption and removal of poisons after suspension of the circulation, and has arrived at the following results:—i. In frogs, the hearts of which had been previously ligatured, strychnine nitrate injected into the stomach induced tetanic spasms within fifteen minutes, and the same results ensued when the poison was injected beneath the skin. 2. The poison reaches the spinal cord spite of the ligature applied to the heart, for frogs were fed with the spinal cord of another frog which had been poisoned by the injection of the poison over the muscles of the calf subsequent to the ligature of the animal’s heart, and yet tetanus super- vened after the lapse of eight hours. 3. The passage of the alkaloid from^ the region of the calf to the spinal cord is independent of the activity of the striped muscular fibres of the poisoned limb. When the heart was ligatured, the roots of the ischiadic nerve of one side divided in the pelvis, and then the stychnine salt injected into the calf on the same side, tetanus supervened. 4. The blood is the vehicle by which the toxic substance is disseminated, for when frogs were destroyed by strychnine subsequent to ligature of the heart the blood of these poisoned animals was capable of inducing tetanic spasms in other frogs. 5. If a frog’s heart be ligatured, and the animal be now poisoned by the introduction of the strychnine salt into the leg, the poison passes into the opposite limb, for if another frog be fed with the muscles from the first poisoned frog the second frog experiences tetanic spasms 6, The experiment last detailed fails if a dead frog be employed for the strychnine injection in the first instance.—The author is of opinion that the general principles enunciated above are applicable to poisons generally, and states that even after complete interruption of the cir- culation a poison may pass from one part to another of the living body by a process different from the osmosis which takes place in the dead * ‘Arch. f. Gesam. Physiol.,’ 1871, p. 147. asllEPORT ON MEDICAL JUB-ISPEUDENCE. 434 tissues, and he promises further experiments on the force which renders this translation possible. Elimination of 'poisons.—Dr. Anstie ^ combats vigorously the pre- valent views with respect to the supposed ehmination of poisons, animal, vegetable, and mineral. He appears to be of opinion that there is no tendency in the unaided animal organism to get rid of poisons, and that remedies administered with the object of assisting elimination are, as a rule, powerless. Antagonism of Poisons. The literature of this topic is unusually interesting. Antarjonism between pTiysostigmine and atropine. A very elaborate research on this subject, full of valuable results, has been completed by Dr. Fraser.2 The author first reviews previous experiments on physio- logical antagonism, viz. between atropine and hydrocyanic acid (Preyer), between atropine and muscarine (Schmiedeberg and Koppe), between physostigmine and strychnine, and between physotigmine and chloral (Bennett), and comes to the conclusion that, although in many cases the a priori reasons in favour of the existence of a lethal or of a more or less general antagonism are extremely plausible, the_ experimental data by means of which it has been attempted to establish the reality of the antagonism are, probably without exception, imperfect, and therefore insufiicient to do so. His own experiments were made with a view to determine the existence of a physiological antagonism between ifiiysostigmine and atropine, and the limits of the same. Physostigmine was administered either in the form of an alcoholic extract or of the sulphate of the active principle (curarine) ; preparations chiefly made by himself, but in some cases with those manufactured by Messrs. T. and H. Smith, of Edinburgh. The atropine was administered in the form of sulphate. The subjects of experiment were chiefly rabbits weif^hing about three pounds, in a state of perfect health, and during dieestion. In some cases dogs were used. The plan of the experinients was as follows. In the first place the minimum fatal doses lor rabbits of the extract of physostigmine and of the sulphate of physostigmine resnectivcly were determined by a number of preliminpy experi- ments BO that, on the weight of the animal being ascertained, it was an easy matter to be certain of the dose of the particular prepara- tion that could kill them. Then in those experiments in which recovery followed the administration of a dose of atropine given in combination with a dose of physostigmine equal to, or in excess of, the minimum fatal, the animal used was killed many days after- wards and, when the effect of the two substances had completely disappeared, by a dose of physostigmine less than or only eflual to that frZ which it had previously recovered. , Therefore, when the adminis- tration of atropine prevented an otherwise fatal dose of physostigmine from causing dLth, a perfect demonstration was obtained ot the power of atropine to produce some physiological action or actions that coun- teracted some otherwise lethal action or actions of physostigmine. * ‘The Practitioner,’ viii, pp. i6i, 289, 356. f ‘Trans. Poy. Soc. Edin.,’ 1872, xxvi, pp. 7>3-435 i>OISONS. The administration of the substances was effected by subcutaneous injection. The following is a brief summary of the first series of experiments: 1. The minimum lethal dose for rabbits of the extract of physos- tigmine is i'2 grain, and that of sulphate of pbysostigmine o'12 grain, for every three pounds’ weight of an animal. 2. The influence that is exerted by atropine upon the lethal action of extract of pbysostigmine and sulphate of pbysostigmine was examined in rabbits, and a description is given of the experiments performed for the purpose. As an instance we quote the following:—A rabbit weighing 2 lbs. ozs. received 0-3 grain of sulphate of atropine, and in five minutes afterwards i'2 grain of extract of pbysostigmine. Ee- covery took place. Ten days afterwards the same rabbit, now weighing 3 lbs., received I'2 grain of extract of pbysostigmine. Death occurred in twenty-two minutes. Many other similar experiments are related with a like result. 3. Several experiments are also described in which the influence exerted by atropine upon the lethal action of extract of pbysostigmine and sulphate of physostigmine were examined in dogs also. As an example the following will suffice:—A dog weighing 11 lbs. received O’13 grain of sulphate of atropine, and five minutes afterwards o’g grain of sulphate of physostigmine. Eecovery took place. Ten days afterwards the same dog, now weighing ii lbs. 4 oz., received o’3 grain of sulphate of physostigmine. Death occurred in seventeen minutes. These experiments clearly demonstrate that atropine is able to counteract the lethal action of physostigmine in rabbits and dogs, but whether it will do so in other animals can as yet only be surmised. 4. The influence exerted on the lethal action of physostigmine by atropine injected directly into the veins, in which case it acts with greater effect; the physostigmine, being injected subcutaneously, was the subject of another set of experiments, as an example of which we give the following;—A rabbit weighing 4 lbs. received 2 grains of extract of physostigmine, and five minutes afterwards o’o3 grain of sulphate of atropine by injection into a facial vein. Eecovery took place. Seven days afterwards the same rabbit, now weighing 4 lbs. 3 oz. received 17 grain of extract of physostigmine. Death occurred in twenty-three minutes. The next part of the research was made with a view to determine whether the counteracting influence of atropine upon the lethal action of physostigmine is successful only within a definite range of doses, and whether this range can be determined experimentally. For this purpose three sets of experiments were made. The chief objects of the first two of these were to ascertain the maximum dose of phy- sostigmine that can be successfully antagonised by atropine, and the range m doses of atropine that can successfully antagonise lethal doses of physostigmine. The chief objects of the third series was to ascertain within what limits of time between the administration436 REPORT ON MEbiCAL JURISPRUDENCE. of the two substances successful antagonism occurs. The following are the results obtained: I. JExperiments with the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.— While o'oo5 grain of sulphate of atropine is a dose insufficient to prevent death, o’oop grain is one sufficiently large to do so; and any dose of sulphate of atropine ranging within the wide limits extending from o’oop grain to 5^5 grains is able to prevent the fatal effect of this dose of physostigmine ; but if the dose of sulphate of atropine amounts to grains the region of successful antagonism is left and death occurs. Experiments with one and a half times the minimmn lethal dose of physostigmine.—In these it appears that while o'oi^ grain of sulphate of atropine is a dose too small to prevent the occurrence of death after a dose of physostigmine one and a half times as large as the minimum lethal, o'o2 grain is a dose sufficiently large to do so ; that doses of sulphate of atropine ranging from o‘02 grain to 4'i grains are able successfully to counteract this dose of physostigmine, and that death occurs when the dose of sulphate of atropine is so large as 4’3 grains. Experiments with twice the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—The range is from o'o2 gr. up to 3’2 grains sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below this range death occurs. Experiments with two and a half times the onininum lethal dose of physostigmine.—The range here is from o‘025 to 2’2 grains of sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below this death occurs. With three times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine.—In this case the range of successful antagonism lies between o'o6 and vi grain of sulphate of atropine. Beyond and below these limits death occurs. With three and a half times the minimum lethal dose of physostigmine. —Here the range is a very limited one, extending from o'l to 0-2 grain of sulphate of atropine. With four times the minimmn lethal dose of physostigmine.—In this case no successful antagonism can be exerted by atropine, as death invariably ensues. The results of these experiments are all represented diagramatically. In another series of experiments the interesting fact is brought out that death may be likewise produced by the combined non-lethal doses of the two substances. When sulphate of atropine is administered five minutes before half the minimum lethal dose of phyostigmine, death occurs if the dose of the former substance bep'S grains or more. This result is a very remarkable one when it is considered that a very decided counteraction is exerted by much smaller doses of atropine against the poisonous action of doses of physostigmine greatly in excess of the minimum lethal, and that the minimum lethal dose of sulphate of atropine is about 21 grains. II. Eetermination of the limits of antagonism when atropine is administered five minutes after physostigmine. Experiments with the minimum lethal dose of sulphate of physostig- mine {o'io.gr. per 3 lbs. weight).—The range of antagonism Hes between o'o2 and grains of sulphate of atropine.POISONS. 437 With one and a half time the minimum lethal dose.-—The range lies between o'o^ and 2‘i grains of atropine. With twice the minimum lethal dose the range is from o’l to I'a grain of atropine. With three times the minimum lethal dose the range is still more limited, recovery taking place only in one place in which o’i6 grain atropine was administered. Doses three times more than the minimum lethal dose of physostig- mine cannot be successfully antagonised by atropine. Another set of experiments shows that the smallest quantity of atropine that, in conjunction with half the minimum^ lethal dose of physostigmine administered five minutes beforehand, is sufficient to cause death, is about ten grains per three pounds’ weight of rabbit. Ill, Deteronination of the influence of the interval of time between the administration of the two substances upon the dose of atropine required to counteract a given dose of physostigmine. The plan of this third series of experiments was that the dose of physostigmine was constant (one and a half time the minimum lethal dose, viz. o'12 sulphate of physostigmine per 3 lbs. weight of animal), while the dose of atropine and the interval of time between the ad- ministration of the two substances varied. The experiments are—(«) those in which the two substances were simultaneously administered ; (i) those in which atropine was administered after physostigmine ; (c) those in which atropine was administered before physostigmine. (o) In these the range of successful antagonism lies between o'o^ and 3’3 grains of atropine. (b) The results of administering atropine flve minutes after physos- tigmine have already been given. Ten minutes afterwards: the range in this case is from o'3 to 2'5 grains of atropine. Fourteen minutes afterwards; only one experiment was made, in which o'3 grain sulphate of atropine was successful. Fifteen minutes afterwards: death is pre- vented by doses of atropine ranging from o'3 to i grain. Beyond this interval atropine does not antagonise physostigmine. (c) Five minutes before: the range of successful antagonism is from O'05 to 37 grains of atropine. Another set of experiments with varying doses of atropine, adminis- tered at different intervals before the minimum lethal dose of physos- tigmine, shows that o'o^ grain exerts successful antagonism with an interval of twenty minutes or less, but not if the interval be prolonged beyond this. Doses of half a grain of atropine antagonise one and a half time the minimum^ lethal dose of physostigmine, if administered thirty minutes before this, but not if the interval be longer. Doses of one grain and a half antagonise physostigmine within an interval of sixty-five minutes. Three grains of atropine administered an hour and thirty-five minutes before the same dose of physostigmine successfully antagonise it, but not if the interval is prolonged to one hundred minutes or more. Three grains, however, is near the maximum limit of the range in the case of simultaneous administi’ation, and, accordingly, not far from the limit inREPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 438 the case where atropine is administered five minutes before physostig- mine. Another set of experiments shows this remarkable result, that if four and a half grains of atropine are given ten minutes before the physos- tigmine, death occurs, but recovery takes place if the atropine is admi- nistered fifteen or twenty minutes before. When five grains of sulphate of atropine are administered before the same dose of physostigmine death occurs if the interval of time be one of fifteen or twenty minutes, but recovery generally occurs if the interval be one included within the wide limits extending from twenty-five to one hundred and seventy-five minutes; while death, again, occurs if the interval be one so great as three hours. A very interesting chain of events is therefore presented, for it is seen that certain actions, produced with sufficient intensity to cause death when the two substances are simultaneously administered, lose the power of doing so when the atropine is administered at an interval of twenty-five minutes before the physostigmine; while the now unob- scured counteraction of the lethal eflect of this dose of physostigmine which makes the loss perceptible, persists till the interval is increased to three hours. The whole of this remarkable investigation is tabulated and illus- trated by diagrams. The one substance is shown in the most conclu- sive manner to exert a remarkable and decided physiological antagonism to the other, and that the fatal effect of three and a half times the mini- mum lethal dose of physostigmine may be prevented by atropine. “ The existence of such an antagonism encourages the hope that the power of directly counteracting disease is far from unattainable, and it supplies a strong incentive to efforts designed to determine the conditions of disease and the actions of remedies with an exactitude sufficient to show how the remedial action may be applied as a counteracting influ- ence to the diseased condition.” _ A-iitctoouisiu of vctTious poisons.—Prof. of PGnnsylvania, has investigated the following supposed antagonistic poisonsMorphine and atropine, morphine and hydrocyanic acid, morphine and strych- nine morphine and aconitine, morphine and arsenic, strychnine ajnd tobacco, strychnine and aconitine, strychnine and tincture of chloride of iron, strychnine and tincture of iodine, strychnine and Calabar bean, and atropine and Calabar bean. ^ ., , i • r j The antagonism between hydrocyanic acid and morphine was toimd to be very slight, if, indeed, it exists at all. The positive antagonism of atropine and morphine could not be satisfactorily demonstrated; on the contrary, the converse would seem rather to be proved by one ex- periment, the morphine intensifying at least one portion of the atropine impression—its paralytic effect. Strychnine and hydrocyanic aeid.can in no sense, he thinks, be considered antagonistic; nor can strychnine and tobacco be regarded as true antagonistic poisons, although, so far as relates to the human subject, we have the testpony of some autho- rities that tobacco does really appear to antagonise the toxic iriAu^ce of strychnine. In one experiment tincture of chloride of iron seemed ^ ‘ Ainer. Jouru. Med. Sc.,’ Ixi, pp. 133, 373-POISONS. 439 sliglitly to modify the effects of strychnine, without, J^owever, prevent- ing a latal result; hut another experiment showed that the supposed antidote has no proper antidotal power over the alkaloid. Ihere was no good evidence obtained of an antagonism between strychnine and tincture of iodine. When strychnine and aconitine were given in com- bination the symptoms that followed were purely those ot strychnine poisoning. . ^ . Antagonism letween atropine and morphine.—Firmy* relates a case m which he injected subcutaneously, for neuralgia, a solution containing one twenty-fifth of a grain sulphate of atropine, combined with a quarter of a grain of acetate of morphia. In ten minutes after, symp- toms of acute atropine poisoning resulted, viz. dilated pupils, dryness of the throat, rapid pulse, frequent respiration, delirium, and unconscious- ness, causing great alarm. Twenty minutes after the commencement of the symptoms of intoxication one third of a grain of morphine was injected, with the result, in five minutes, of entirely changing the cha- racter of the symptoms and inducing tranquil sleep, lasting the whole nit^ht. Next day the patient was quite well. lOr. A. Littlef asserts that the antagonism between belladonna and opium is incontestably established, and brings forward a series of cases, old and new, collected chiefly by American physicians in support of this view. In one case of an infant poisoned by opium, tincture of belladonna was successfully administered in doses of fifteen drops twice repeated. In another case, of an adult who had taken twelve to fifteen grains of sulphate of morphine (the patient had been in the habit of taking morphia in small doses), extract of belladonna was given with apparently excellent results, five grains of the extract having been given in divided doses. Administered after opium, belladonna fails to exercise its full influence on the pupil. It is indubitable that bella- donna neutralizes or counteracts some of the effects produced by mor- phine, but it is more doubtful whether the lethal action of opium is prevented by the administration of belladonna. Strychnine as an antidote to chloral.—M. OreJ finds that—i. Not only does injection directly into the veins of i-6oth grain of strychnine (a fatal dose for a rabbit of 4-|- lbs.) fail to prevent the animal suc- cumbing to a drachm of chloral, but the presence of the alkaloid is not manifested by any spontaneous characteristic phenomenon. 2. The injection into a vein of i-24th grain of strychnine occasions spon- taneous and well-marked convulsions. 3. In proportion as the dose of strychnine is augmented (i-i8th grain), death supervenes with greater rapidity, and the poisonous property of the alkaloid becomes more marked. 4. If the dose be increased beyond i-pth grain, the action of the chloral is then completely masked, and the animal dies from strychnine-intoxication. The antidote thus becomes a toxic agent. 5. Whenever it is attempted to combat the effects produced by a fatal dose of chloral by means of strychnine, introduced either subcutaneously or into a vein, the animal always succumbs; most frequently in conse- * ‘Dublin Journ. Med. Sc.,’ July, 1872, p. 38. t ‘ Philad. Med. and Surg. Rept.,’ xxiv, p. 334. J ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1872, p. 401.REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 41-0 quence of th^e action of the former, sometimes, however, of the latter agent. 6. Hence strychnine is not an antidote for chloral. Pliysostigmine and strychnine.—Ashmead* * * § describes a case of suc- cessiul treatment of strychnine poisoning by means of extract of ^ drachm of the pharmacopoeial solution of strychnine had been swallowed. Eecovery took jilace after the administration of a little more than two grains of the extract of physostigmine. Dr J. St. Clair Grayt proposes nitrite of amyl as an antidote for strychnine. Aconite and digitalis,—Dobie;}; reports a very interesting case in which recovery took place from a poisonous dose of tincture of aconite treated by the subcutaneous injection of tincture of digitalis. The patient, when seen, was pulseless and apparently at the point of death. Twenty minims of the tincture of digitalis were first injected subcutaneously. Galvanism was also applied to the cardiac region. At the end of twenty minutes the patient was able to swallow, when he received along with brandy and ammonia a teaspoonful of the tincture. Improvement followed, and the mixture was repeated twice within an hour. After this the patient was out of danger. He subsequently got quite well, and confessed he had swallowed an ounce of Fleming’s tincture of aconite. The case is looked upon by the author as proving that digitalis is a cardiac stimulant, and not a cardiac depressant, as some suppose. Phosphorus poisoning.—Dr. Lichtenstein§ reports a case in favour of the views of Personne, Andans, Kohler, and others, that oil of turpen- tine is an antidote for poisoning by phosphorus. Dr. Schultzen|l states, that in an experience of thirty or forty cases nearly one half termi- nated favorably, notwithstanding that no oil of turpentine was given. Dr. A. Welter^ has an elaborate monograph on phosphorus poisoning generally, but the chief point in his paper is that of treatment. He approves of the treatment by oil of turjjentine, but states that the rectified oil is unreliable. He recommends the Drench oil of turj)en- tine. We may remark that five kinds of the oil are met with in com- merce—French, English, German, Venetian, and Templin oil, which dilfer considerably in composition and optical rotatory power. The following is Vetter’s course of treatment. In acute cases he first gives sulphate of copper in emetic doses every ten or fifteen minutes till vomiting is produced. No harm is done, but rather the reverse, if several doses have to be given before emesis supervenes, for the copper neutralizes the phosphorus. After thorough vomiting the 01. Tereb. Gallicum is given in 40-minim doses every fifteen minutes, mucilage being the medium employed for the exhibition of the remedy. Next day magnesia is given. G. H. Eoessingh** makes some observations on the treatment of * ‘ Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, p. 235. f ‘Glasgow Med. Journ.,' Eeb., 1871, p. 188. t ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Dec., 1872, j). 682. § ‘ Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,’ 1870, No. 33. II ‘ Centralbl. f. d. Med. Wissensch.,’ Oct. 8, 1870. ^ ‘Virchow’s Arch.,’ liii, p. 168, 1871. ‘Schmidt's Jahrb.,’ clvi, p. 19.441 POISONS. acute pliosplioi’us poisoning with copper and oil of turpentine. His experiments were made on rabbits. The conclusions he has arrived at are as follows(i) The statements of Bamberger, that oil ot turpentine as an antidote to phosphorus is inert, are erroneous; (2) all the ani- mals which were treated with turpentine, after having been poisoned with phosphorus, lived longer than those which received copper; (3) the dose of phosphorus which could be borne when turpentine was given was much greater than that where copper was employed as an antidote ; (4) the temperature never rises so high when turpentine is administered as when copper is used; (^) owing to the great rise in temperature animals poisoned with phosphorus lose weight more rapidly when treated with copper than when treated with turpentine. In addition to these facts, the animals which were treated with copper were much stronger physically than those treated with turpentine. As an example of the influence of turpentine, he gives the following experi- ment. To one rabbit 25 minims of phosphoretted oil along with 80 minims of olive oil were given, to another the same dose of phos- phorns along with 80 minims of French oil of turpentine. _ The first died, the latter remained quite well. He regards turpentine as the best antidote to phosphorus. Tissue changes in phosphorus poisoning.—Voit* and Bauer’investigate phosphorus poisoning in relation to the fatty degeneration of the tissues and organs which it causes. By giving phosphorus to dogs deprived of food for several days they found that the ordinary symptoms of phosphorus poisoning and fatty degeneration of all the organs were produced. The fat could not have come from the food, as the animals were in a state of starvation, nor from the other parts of the body, as there the fat had all disappeared for the same reason. It must therefore have been produced by the decomposition of the albuminous tissues. They show by experiment with Yoit’s respiration apparatns that in phosphorus poisoning the fatty degeneration is due both to diminished oxidation of fat and to its increased production from the transformation of albumen. They find with Schultzen and Riess that the urea is increased, but they found no abnormal products in the urine, except in fatal cases a little sarcolactic acid. They did not find leucin or tyrosin in the urine, but found these abundantly in the liver, heart, and blood of dogs poisoned with phosphorus. The nitrogenous products of the decomposition of albumen are therefore converted into urea in all cases in the dog, and in slighter cases of phosphorus poisoning in man. In severe cases in man the decomposition is imperfect, and the higher products of decomposition are excreted. They think that the greater rapidity of degeneration in acute yellow atrophy of the liver is the chief difference between this disease and phosphorus poisoning. Corrosive Poisoning. Sulphuric acid.—Cases of fatal poisoning by this substance are related by Malmsten and Schauenburg.f 1 ! ''' P- 946; ‘ N. Eep. Pharm.,’ 3 t ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ civ, p. 7. + ^ .7 ^^7 P' 34®'REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 442 Nitric acid.—Stevenson* relates a case of suicidal poisoning with about three ounces of nitric acid. Death resulted in seventeen hours. In this case there was perforation of the stomach and ulcera- tion of the colon. The perforation apparently occurred after death or just before it. The ulceration of the colon may have pre-existed. Other cases are reported by Malmsten,f and by Dougall.J Hydrochloric acid.—Fatal cases of poisoning by hydrochloric acid are detailed by Drs. G. Johnson,§ Paul,|| and Nager.^ Ammonia.—Stevenson** relates a case of poisoning by a teaspoonful of the strong liquor ammoniae, sp. gr. -88. Death supervened quite suddenly, without asphyxia. Castantt describes the symptoms resulting from the inhalation of ammonia vapours. Caustic potash.—Kager^f^ describes a case of poisoning by caustic potash which proved fatal in twenty-two hours under symptoms of lobular pneumonia. Nitrate of silver.—T. Scattergood§§ gives details of a case of poisoning by nitrate of silver. A student, while applying a stick of lunar caustic to the throat of a fifteen-months child, accidentally let the piece drop out of his fingers, and it was swallowed by the child. The piece was three quarters of an inch in length. Vomiting of the contents of the stomach immediately followed. Large quantities of common salt were given, vomiting occurring repeatedly. Diarrhoea set in and convulsions, under which the child died, six hours after the commencement of the symp- toms. The chief post-mortem appearances were corrosion of the great curvature of the stomach and superficial corrosion of the duodenum and commencement of the jejunum. No nitrate of silver was found in the contents of the stomach, as it had all been decomposed by the antidote. Chronic lead poisoning.—Heubel|l|| has made chronic lead poisoning the subject of an experimental research, with special reference to the theories of Henle and others, that lead exerts a specific action on the pale and striated muscular fibres. Analysis of the viscera of four dogs which died under symptoms of eclampsia saturnina showed that in chronic lead poisoning the bones contain the largest quantity of lead, next the liver and the kidneys. The central nervous organs contained less, but a greater quantity than the muscles, intestines, and blood, &c. He therefore denies a specific affinity of the muscles for lead. That the symptoms of lead poisoning are due to spasm of the blood-vessels, as stated by Henle and Hitzig, he considers disproved by the state of the pulse during an attack. That it acts directly on * ‘Gruy’s Hosp. Eep.,’ 3rd ser., xvii, p. 223. + ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ civ, p. 7. j ‘ Glasgow Med. Joui-n.,’ 1872, May. § ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, p. 221. II ‘Bull. Gen. de Thm-ap.,’ Oct. 20, 1872, p. 364. ^ ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1872, p. 213. ** ‘Guy’s Hosp. Rep.,’ 3rd ser., xvii, p. 225. ff ‘Montpellier Med.,’ Nov. 1871, p. 577. jj ‘Arch. d. Heilk.,’ 1872, p. 213. §§ ‘ Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, pi 527. III! ‘Virchow und Hirsch’s Jahresher.’ for 1871, i, p. 316.POISONS. 443 the pale and striated muscular fibre is very it causes of the contracted muscular fibres on^tiie ends of the sensory nerves. The obstinate constipation he attributes to abnormal irritation of the splanchnic nerve, whic inhibits peristaltic action. If the peristalsis were colic it ought to lead to diarrhoea rather than constipation. To the irritation of the splanchnic he likewise attributes by refiex action the slowing of the pulse and diminution of the urine observed during the attacks. The rapid atrophy of the muscles m lead poisomng he attri- butes to general interference with nutrition which lead causes in a marked degree, and partly to the paralysis itself, which he attributes to direct actiL of the poison on the intra-muscular ends of the nerves, and not on their central ends. The nerve tissues have a special affinity for lead. To its action on these, both in their central and peripheral parts he attributes the symptoms of chronic saturnine poisoning, and the repeated attacks he regards as caused by the occasional absorption of the lead into the blood from the organs m which the poison is de- posited That lead does not exert a desiccating effect on the tissues, as supposed by Talk and Hitzig, -he disproves by experimental analyse. The symptoms of encephalopathia saturnina, both acute and chronic, he attributes to direct deposition of lead on the brain. Eclampsia Sjitur- nina he refers, with Traube and Eosenstein, to capillary anaemia of the brain. He does not think, however, with Eosenstein, that this anaemia is due to direct action on the vessels, but to oedema of the brain, which is generally found, exerting compression on the vessels, and in cases where oedema is not marked to the diminished diuresis giving rise to a uraemic condition from accumulation of the urinary constituents m the blood. The diminished diuresis does not seem to act by causing an accumulation of lead in the system, as only traces of lead are excreted through the urine. Sulphate of copper.—relates a case of suicidal poisoning with sulphate of copper. Death ensued in three days. Among other symptoms jaundice occurred, a symptom which has likewise been ob- served occasionally by others. Maschka attributes it to fatty degenera- tion of the liver, as in arsenic and phosphorus poisoning. Sulphate o/2;iMc.—Well-recorded cases of poisoning by white vitriol are, perhaps, rare. Tardieu and Eoussinf record a very instructive case, which terminated fatally. The remarks which accompany the paper are well worthy of perusal, though they are too long for useful abstraction. Carlonic oxide.—Zuntz J investigates the question whether the car- bonic oxide compound with haemoglobin is a fixed compound or not. In opposition to commonly received opinions as to the toxic action of this gas, Donders has recently stated that carbonic oxide may be expelled from blood saturated with this gas by means of indifferent gases, such as oxygen, hydrogen, or carb^onic acid. Naurocki and Pokrowsky deny * ‘Wien. Mod. Woclienscli.,’ 1871, No. 26. t ‘Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxvii, p. 329. X ‘ Pfliiger’s Arcliiv. f. Physiologic,’ v, 584.444 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. ■^e possibility of separating it from blood by means of the vacuum. Zuntz, however, has succeeded, by Pfliiger’s gas pump, in extracting the carbonic oxide. The chief point in the research is that the gas is only given off fitfully and by repeated exhaustions of.the receiver. liis experiments account for the statements that carbonic oxide cannot be so removed from blood, as the process was supposed to be finished after the first exhaustion. These results must modify commonly received opinions regarding carbonic oxide poisoning. There is no need to sup- pose that the carbonic oxide cannot be expelled as such, but requires oxidation into carbonic acid. So long as the heart beats there is reason to hope that, by means of energetic artificial respiration, the blood may be again restored to its normal condition. Podolinski* confirms the statements of Bonders and Zuntz, and shows, in addition, that not only may carbonic oxide be expelled from blood by indifferent gases, but that nitric oxide comes under the same category. Nitric oxide may be expelled from its haemoglobin compound by means of indifferent gases, such as hydrogen. The oxygen, carbonic-oxide, and nitric-oxide haemoglobin compounds are thus in agreement with each other. Oxygen is most easily expelled, next carbonic oxide, and lastly nitric oxide. Each gas can be more easily expelled by the one imme- diately following than by an indifferent gas, and each, again, can like- wise be more easily expelled by the one immediately preceding than by any other indifferent gas, E. and E. S. Turnerf contribute a very interesting account of the symptoms and post-mortem appearances in several cases of carbonic oxide poisoning, resulting from the combustion of coal and peat in closed chambers. Oxysulphide of carbon.—Dr. S. Eadziejewski,J working in Liebreich’s laboratory, has investigated the physiological action of this gas, dis- covered in 1867 by Than. Oxysulphide of carbon appears to be widely distributed in nature, giving to many sulphuretted waters their pecu- liar sweet taste and aromatic odour. It is also a probable constituent of the gases evolved in volcanic districts, and is, perhaps, given off during the putrefaction of organic substances containing sulphur. Its compo- sition is represented by the formula COS; it is, in fact, intermediate between carbonic acid and bisulphide of carbon. It is absorbed by water, and slowly decomposed by this into carbonic acid and bisulphide of carbon. The gas produces in animals toxic effects, which resemble those observed by Eosenthal and Kaufmann in intoxication by sulphu- retted hydrogen. Eadziejewski supposes that oxysulphide of carbon absorbed into the blood splits up, in conjunction with water, into car- bonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen, a decomposition which takes place, as we have already stated, outside of the body. To this view there are, however, some objections. The oxysulphide is less soluble in dilute alkaline solutions (and hence in the blood) than in water, and even in this latter the decomposition of the gas is very tardy, whilst the oxysulphide is more rapid in its toxic actions than sulphuretted hy- * ‘ Pflliiger’s Archiv f. Physiologie,’ vi, p. 553. f ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ March, 1871, p. 106, j ‘Yirchow’s Arch.,’ liii, p, 370.445 j?oisoi^§. droffen. Notwithstanding that oxysulphide of carbon is a chemical curiosity, it is so widely distributed in nature that its poisonous action is a point of much interest. « t ,i n Nitrous oxide.—Purcell* reports a case of death from the inhalation of nitrous oxide. A woman, 20 years of age, apparently healthy, died suddenly after four teeth had been extracted, while under the influence of nitrous oxide. The cause of death was supposed to be asphyxia,. Little congestion of the lungs was found, however, and shock seemed to be the real cause of the fatal result. . CarUlic The toxicology of this substance, now so extensively used in medicine, has of late received much attention,"!" and fatal cases have frequently resulted from its administration either by accident or for the purpose of self-destruction. Its use as a remedial agent has also been put to more rigid and extended tests. Salkowski found carbolic acid to be useless as a remedy in smallpox. In gangrene of the lungs it was more successful when given in the form of pills. If given in the liquid form, the solution must be highly dilute, for a one per cent, solution causes thickening of the stomach. The remedy was found to be useful in gastric affections. The use of the pure diluted acid never causes pain, nausea, or vomiting. This ob- server has also carefully inquired into the physiological effects of car- bolic acid, and his results are of great interest. When injected into the blood carbolic acid produces both local and general paralysis, and the muscles penetrated by the substance shrink and their fibres lose their electric excitability. When injected the heart’s beats decline in frequency to nearly one half. Convulsive movements are also set up, simulating those produced by strychnine, and these may be excited in the upper extremities after the prolonged therapeutical employment of carbolic acid as a remedy. The following is the cause of the symptoms observed in rabbits:—A few minutes after the administration of the acid fibrillary quiverings of the muscles may be noted, then more dis- tinctively convulsive movements. The animal continues to run about ac- tively, but the tremors increase in severity. Respiration becomes slow and the animal becomes restless. The limbs gradually lose their power, and eventually the rabbit falls on its side. In endeavouring to rise, clonic spasms, salivation, and dilatation of the pupil are excited. Sen- sibility is diminished, and with lethal doses of the. phenol gradually diminishing tonic and clonic spasms are excited. The urine is seldom tinged with blood, nor is it albuminous. The detailed course of symp- toms appears to be dependent on an action of the poison upon the central nervous system, and must not be confounded with the local paralysis at first produced by injection of phenol. Carbolic acid is quickly absorbed into the circulatiofa, and rapidly excreted, so that there is no fear of its exciting a cumulative effect. A part of it is oxidized in the circulation into oxalic acid. The dark colour of the urine so frequently observed after the use of carbolic acid ensues as well after the internal use as after the external applica- ‘Phil. and Med. Sm’g. Eep.,’ 1872, p. ,^43, ‘Arch. f. Physiol.,’ v, pp. 335 and 470'; ‘I p. 25, et seg.; ‘Schmidt’s Jahrh.,’ civ, p. 272. Dent. Klin.,’ 1870, p. 341, et seq., 1871,REPOllT ON MEDICAL iUEISPEUDENCE. tion of the substance, and is attributed to oxidation of phenol in the mneys, but from the intensity of colour of the urinary secretion no conclusion can be drawn as to the saturation of the organism with the ’ mi Salskowski thinks to be combined in the urine with an a kali. The above-described symptoms of phenol intoxication are better ests 01 the saturation of the body with carbolic acid than is the colour 01 the urine. Bromine water forms no test of the presence of carbolic acid in the urinCj for it fails to detect that substance in the normal urine. Hoppe-Seyler found the symjitoms of phenol intoxication ensuing on the application of a concentrated aqueous solution of the agent to the abdomen of animals to agree pretty closely with those cited by Sal- skowski. Hoppe-Seyler was enabled to detect phenol in the blood, liver, kidneys,^ and brain, after death from its administration, and, above all, in the brain in much larger quantities than in the other viscera. It would hence appear that phenol accumulates in the central organs of the nervous system after the manner of anesthetics. (As carbolic acid is not an acid, it is very desirable that its scientific name, phenol, should be substituted for the term carbolic acid.—En.) Several fatal cases of poisoning by carbolic acid are reported, both suicidal and accidental. Jeffreys and Hainworth* give details of a case of suicide in a man, aged years, who swallowed from half an ounce to an ounce of commercial carbolic acid. Death resulted in fifty minutes. A. Ogstonf relates a case of a man, 45 years of age, who died thirteen and a half hours after swallowing by mistake for spirits an ounce to two_ ounces of phenol. After death the smell of carbolic acid was distinctly perceptible in the ventricles of the brain, the bladder, blood, and organs generally. ZimmJ gives a similar case, where from one to one and a half ounce of the commercial acid was taken in mistake for cognac. Death resulted in sixty hours after swallowing the poison. 'White§ observed dangerous eflects, not proving fatal, resulting from the application of carbolic acid in necrosis of the tibia. Hydrocyanic acid.—Preyer|| has published perhaps the most elabo- rate and complete monograph on the actions of the above poison ever issued, and has arrived at conclusions the importance of which can scarcely be exaggerated. A most valuable index of the bibliography of the subject is added. Preyer divides the symptoms exhibited during the course of a fatal case of poisoning by prussic acid into three stages—a preliminary stage, before the animal falls ; a convulsive stage, ending in collapse; and a paralytic or comatose stage. During the first or preliminary stage the breathing is rendered laborious and the frequency of the respirations diminished, whilst during the second or convulsive stage the respirations are diminished to an extraordinary extent. In the last, the paralytic or comatose stage, either the respirations undergo a * ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, p. 423. •}■ ‘Brit. Med. Journ./ 1871, p. 116. X ‘Virchow uud Hirsch’s Jahresber. £.,’ 1871, i, p. 337. § ‘New York Med. Gaz.,’ p. 274. II ‘Die Blausiiure’ (pamphlet).POISONS. 441' steady and rapid diminution m frequency until respiration entirely ceasei or they undergo a temporary exaltation m frequency as com- pared with the previous stage, but then diminish, and ultimately cease. If durino- the stage of collapse the number of respirations exceeds the normal amount, this is an unfailing sign of speedy recovery. The convulsions of hydrocyanic acid intoxication are, as regards their cause and course, identical with those produced by strangulation, only they are more intense. Vomiting and the peculiar cry were found to be very inconstant symptoms of poisoning by hydrocyanic acid. J-t the poison be received into the blood in quantity considerably greater than that required to produce death, the animal _ dies either from direct paralysis of the heart or from that in conjunction with paralysis of the lungs. In warm-blooded animals the first stage of complete intoxica- tion lasts from one second to fifteen minutes, commonly half a minute ; the second stage from a few seconds to a few minutes, usually half to one minute ; the third stage from a few seconds to several hours, commonly half to one minute. In cold-blooded mammalia the stages are much more prolonged. Preyer finds the solution of the phenomena of prussic acid intoxica- tion in the action of the poison on the vagus nerve, and his study of the action of the acid on that nerve has led him to the discovery of an antidote for the poison. In warm-blooded animals prussic acid induces inspiratory tetanus, with stoppage of the heart, and this through the vagus. It also, by its action on that nerve, diminishes the frequency of the cardiac pulsations. When the vagus is divided before the poison is injected subcutaneously no changes in the heart’s activity are observed ; and when rabbits had both vagi divided and ordinary lethal doses of the poison were subsequently injected, recovery took place. It appears that the rationale of hydrocyanic intoxication is as follows ;— Irritation of the peripheral terminations of the vagus in the lungs; excitation of the origin of the vagus; then paralysis of that nerve; inspiratory tetanus; stoppage of the heart; then renewed cardiac pulsations after the stoppage of respiration; lastly, stoppage of the heart. Mammalia with divided vagi die after breathing the vapours of the acid, or its injection, from direct action of the poison upon the heart (cardiac paralysis). Seeing that hydrocyanic acid influences the activity of the brain (in men), and causes dizziness, headache, distur- bances of the co-ordinating faculty, &c., the therapeutical employment of the acid is to be deprecated. Preyer found that prussic acid intoxication is fatal from the super- vention of asphyxia, and that the blood cannot be distinguished from that in asphyxia from other causes, except that it contains the poison itself. Moreover, the thermal changes of the animal are identical in the two classes of cases. If, however, the dose of the poison be suffi- ciently great to kill by paralysis of the heart, the blood is bright red and contains oxygen. In confirmation of the author’s views as to the physiological action of hydrocyanic acid, he finds that when the vagus is divided in rabbits, and the poison injected beneath the skin, the re- spirations are at first quickened and afterwards retarded, whilst if the poison be breathed after division of the vagi the converse is observed,ilEPORT ON MEMCAL JUEISPRUDENCE. tlie respirations being at first retarded in frequency and then rendered more rapid. Preyer finds that when respiration has ceased the only available means of resuscitation is artificial respiration. It is, of course, presup- posed that the heart has not also ceased to beat. Atropine is the only real dynamic antidote to hydrocyanic acid, and it appears to be a per- fect one, its physiological actions being in direct opposition to those of the acid. _ It is necessary, to ensure success, that the alkaloid should be administered by subcutaneous injection very shortly after the inges- tion of the poison, on account of the rapidity with which this acts and the comparative slowness with which atropine is absorbed from the stomach. Babbits to which atropine was administered before the use of prussic acid, exhibited a surprising immunity to the action of this most powerful toxic agent. Dr. Amory,* of Boston, Massachusetts, publishes experiments illus- trating some of the physiological and pathological actions of hydrocyanic acid._ The following is a summary of his conclusions:—(i) Artificial respiration does not prevent the intoxication of prussic acid, nor does it materially assist in the elimination of the poison, consequently means directed to the institution of artificial resj)iration in cases of poi- soning by the acid are unnecessary for the protection of life. (2) Artificial respiration will prevent the occurrence of convulsions or of the muscular spasms which follow the absorption of the poison in a dose of sufiicient quantity to endanger life. (3) Muscular irritability and nervous conductibility are not impaired by the intoxication caused by hydrocyanic acid in cases where artificial respiration has been main- tained until after the cessation of cardiac pulsations. (4) The static congestion of the pulmonary tissue is either a post-mortem symptom or is due to the asphyxia which has been considered by some experi- menters as one of the causes of death in cases of poisoning by prussic acid. (5) Death by this agent is due to some other cause besides asphyxia, and it may be suggested that the fundamental cause is a state of blood poisoning due to some alteration of either the physical or the chemical condition of the blood; which of the two it is not the purpose of the author to discuss. (6) The apoplexy in the ence- phalon and spinal cord, noticed by Tardieu as an anatomical lesion due to the intoxication produced by this agent, is probably referable to the asphyxia, secondarily induced, and not to the direct action of the poison. The same condition has been observed in animals dying from asphyxia produced by other causes, as, for instance, by nitrous oxide and by chloroform. When asphyxia is not present in a case of poisoning from prussic acid no very marked apoplexy or congestion is noticed post- mortem. Dr. Mialhe t endeavours to prove that prussic acid is unable to com- bine with the alkalies of the blood, and that the poison thus prevents the catalytic action of the corpuscles from being affected, an action which Schbnbein has already demonstrated as taking place in normal red blood-corpuscles, and thus oxidation in the blood does not take place. * ‘The Practitioner,’ viii, p. 197. t ‘L’Union Medicale,’ No. 65, 1872.449 ATROPINE. Hydrocyanic acid would thus appear to act upon the blood in the same manner as it acts upon fermenting solutions, which immediately on the addition of the acid cease to ferment. . . . , NitrO’lenzol.—Bahrdt* * * § describes several cases of poisoning with nitro-benzol, one of which proyed fatal. Three young persons about the age of 20, prepared a liqueur by filling an ordinary wine-bottle with one part of water, two parts of alcohol, and, as was said, twenty drops of nitro-benzol. One of the boys drank largely of the mixture about 8 o’clock in the morning. Death occurred about ^ p.m. The symptoms and post-mortem appearances are minutely described. The general summary is given in the following propositions: (i) even with a fatal dose of nitro-benzol there is a latent period of from one to twm hours (2) this latent period is independent of the kind of preparation, or of the quantity swallowed; (3) even during the latent period a peculiar greyish-blue discoloration of the skin is observed; (4) rapid pulse, intermittent respiration, unconsciousness coming on gradually or sud- denly, and dilatation of the pupils, are constant signs of poisoning with nitro-benzol; vomiting and convulsions are usually observed, but may be absent. A transitory recovery may occur even in fatal cases; (j) nitro-benzol poisoning differs from prussic acid poisoning by its longer latent period, the greyish-blue colour of the skin, and the dark- brown colour of the blood; (6) as treatment, Bahrdt recommends in the first instance the use of the stomach-pump, the inhalation of ammonia vapour, and copious transfusion (2—3 ounces) ; (7) after death there is a distinct smell of bitter almonds; the blood is dark brown and fluid, and the endemic rigidity is well pronounced and of loug duration. Gliloral hydrate,—Several cases of poisoning by chloral have been reported in the medical journals at home and abroad. As most of the cases are in English journals and easily accessible, we merely give the references. See on this subject the papers by B. W. Eichardson,f Hunt and Watkins,! lSrorris,§ Fuller,|| Shaw,^ and Burr.** Maschkaff reports a case in which, after the administration of a drachm of chloral hydrate by a dentist for the purposes of anaesthesia during the extraction of teeth, death resulted within a few minutes after the operation. Atropine.—Prof. H. C. Wood, jun.,!! of Pennsylvania, has confirmed the observations of Messrs. Wharton Jones and Lemattre, that bella- donna and atropine have little or no influence on the pupils of pigeons ; and has established the fact, that belladonna, stramonium, and hyos- cyamus resemble morphine in their want of action on these birds. It appears to be almost impossible to immediately kill them with the * ‘Arch. f. Heilk.,’ 1871, p. 320. t ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, i, p. 169. j ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, i, p. 193. § ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, p. 226. II Ibid., 1871, i, p. 403. TT ‘Phil. Med. and Surg. Rep.,’ July, 1871. ** Ibid., Dec., 1871. tt ‘Wien. Med. Wochensch.,’ 1871, No. 48. t! ‘Araer. Journ. Med. Sc.,’ Ixi, p. 128. 29HEPOUT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. 450 extracts given by tbe mouth. Three grains of pure sulphate of atropine were given to a pigeon, and retained, and yet the dose did not appear to interfere materially with the wellbeing of the bird. It is very possible, however, to kill the birds with the poison by enormous doses hypo- dermically^ injected. These experiments show what care must be exercised in drawing conclusions in toxicological research from physio- logical investigations. Dogs will bear almost heroic doses of atropine, and the horse will tolerate with impunity an enormous dose of strych- nine.* Hence conclusions as to the antidotal or non-antidotal effects of two poisons on the human subject cannot be drawn with certainty from experiments on the lower animals. Tobacco.—Drs. Vohl and Eulenbergf have published an elaborate ex- perimental essay on the toxicological relations of tobacco, with especial reference to the chemical constituents of tobacco smoke. After an account of the introduction of tobacco into Europe, a summary is given of its chemical history, and the statement is made that the narcotic action of tobacco has been attributed to nicotine in error. The authors adduce analyses and experiments of their own in support of this view. Stress is laid upon the fact that some forms of tobacco which produce powerful physiological effects contain but little nicotine. In snuff this alkaloid varied from ‘0392 to ‘062 per cent., whilst strong chewing to- bacco contained a mere trace of nicotine, and some kinds contained none at all; hence nicotine intoxication is out of the question in the use of these sorts of the weed. They were thus induced to analyse the smoke of strong tobacco containing so much as 4 per cent, of nicotine, the tobacco being burnt both in pipes and as cigars. The gases given off were found to consist of oxygen, nitrogen, marsh gas, carbonic oxide, carbonic acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen. The smoke was drawn first through a solution of potash, and the acids thus absorbed examined; then through dilute sulphuric acid, and the bases thus collected were examined. The potash solution was found to contain a neutral carbo- hydride (CigHjg) and several other carbo-hydrides, hydrocyauie acid, the fatty acids from formic to caprylic acid inclusive, phenol acid, suc- cinic acid, and kreasote, but no benzine. In the acid solution were found ammonia and ethylamine, besides the following homologous bases:—Pyridine, OgHgll; picoline, CgH^^N; lutidine, C7HgN; collidine, ; parvoline, C9H13N; coridine, CjoHigN; rubidine, CJ1H17N ; and, perhaps, viridine, CjgHiglSr. Hot a trace of nicotine could be detected. The authors ascribe to the pyridine bases, and not to nicotine, not only the nausea and other unpleasant symptoms experienced by per- sons beginning to smoke, but also the more chronic affections to which inveterate smokers are liable. Parvoline greatly resembles nicotine in odour and in physiological action, and might readily be rnistaken for this alkaloid, but they Sffer essentially in their respective boiling points. The well-known fact that a much stronger tobacco can be smoked with impunity in cigars than in a pipe is explained thus. The smoke of a pipe contains much more volatile bases than that of a cigar, and cou- * ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sci.,’ Ixi, p. 377. f ‘ Vrtljhrsscrft. f. Gericht. Med.,’ N. F. xiv, p. 249.451 TOBACCO. tains especially a much larger proportion of pyridine, which is the most yolatile base of its series, and is very stupefying. The physiological actions of the various alkaloids oi the pyridine and picoline series were not tested separately, but a mixture of the bases was used for experiment. Two mixtures were employed, one consisting chiefly of the first three alkaloids of the series, pyridine, picohne, and lutidine; the other chiefly containing the higher members of the series, collidine to viridine inclusive. The experiments upon animals with these liquids do not appear to havo been very elaborate •, it was, how- ever, ascertained that they both acted very like nicotine, inducing con- traction of the pupils, laboured breathing, general convulsions, and, if in sufficient doses, death. On section the bronchial tubes and lungs were found to be congested. Singularly enough, the effects were more quickly produced when the liquids were taken internally than when injected beneath the skin. They did not act so rapidly in any case as nicotine. Vohl and Eulenberg adduce the case of a man whom they know to be able to swallow the juice from a tobacco-pipe without apparent effect. They do not tbink, nevertheless, that his case militates against the rule that pyridine bases powerfully affect the animal organism. Since plants which are known to contain no narcotic are occasionally used by smokers as substitutes for tobacco, and it is known, moreover, that the pyridine bases are among the products of the destructive dis- tillation of most nitrogenized vegetable and animal substances, the authors deemed it of importance to investigate the action of the pyri- dine bases from various sources, and those produced from stramonium, willow wood, dandelion, and Boghead coal, were employed. The ac- tions of these bases were very similar to those resulting from the use of the alkaloids obtained from tobacco, but the effects were weaker, and except after the use of the alkaloids produced from willow wood, there was no contraction of the pupil. The vapour of picoline was found to be highly poisonous. As regards opium, Vohl and Eulenberg are of opinion that its action when smoked is not due to the alkaloids which the drug naturally contains, but to the bases produced by its destructive distillation, which differ somewhat from those produced by the distillation of tobacco. Heubel,* who has made an experimental inquiry into the active prin- ciples of tobacco smoke, with special reference to the researches of Vohl and Eulenberg on this subject, thus sums up his conclu- sions:— (i) Tobacco smoke undoubtedly contains nicotine. This is proved both by chemical analysis and physiological experiment. (2) By the slow combustion of tobacco, as in ordinary smoking, a compara- tively large amount of the alkaloid becomes volatilised in the smoke. (3) The nicotine in the tobacco smoke occurs chiefly as a nicotine salt. (4) Tke reason why nicotine, though volatile and easily decomposed, is not all destroyed during the process of smoking, appears to be, in a measure, due to the fact that the alkaloid in the leaves, as well as in the smoke, is not free, but is in the form of stable salts (malate and * ‘ Centralblatt f. d. Med. Wissensch.,’ No. 41, 1872.EEPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPEUDENCE. 452 citrate). (5) The physiological action of tobacco smoke is, to a great extent, due to the nicotine it contains. Opium.—Dr. Schaefer,* of Dusseldorf, publishes a case of opium poisoning of considerable interest,—that of a childn which died after taking about three quarters of a grain of opium in two doses. The post-mortem appearances were unusually well marked. On sawing through the calvarium there was a flow of black, fluid blood ; the blood- vessels of the dura mater, but more especially those of the arachnoid, both on the cerebral convolutions, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata, were filled with blood ; and there was likewise found in both ventricles, not only a considerable quantity of effused serum, but also several drachms of a similar fluid were met with at the base of the brain. Death from apoplexy was most markedly indicated. Besides the more ordinary appearances met with on section after opium poisoning, Schaefer describes in this case a spongy condition of the lungs, which were gorged with black, fluid blood, blood in all the cavities of the heart; hyperaemia of the liver and spleen, and a full urinary bladder. The appearances presented by the post-mortem ecchymoses were very striking; instead of being purple they were rose- red and of great extent. The presence of opium was ascertained by analysis in the oesophagus, stomach, and its contents, and in a portion of the small intestine, although the whole quantity of morphia taken could not have exceeded one tenth of a grain. The opium was administered, one half five hours, and the remainder three hours, before death. Picrotoxin.—Herr Povergof has investigated the action of picro- toxin on the reflex inhibitory centres of the brain of frogs, and arrived at the conclusion that picrotoxin and strychine act in a similar manner on these centres. Vanilla ice.—Maurer* gives an account of the symptoms of poison- ing in nine persons after partaking of vanilla ice. The chief symptoms were gastralgia, severe vomiting, entralgia, diarrhoea, and in some cases a greater or less degree of collapse and cold extremities. None of the cases proved fatal. Maurer attributes the symptoms to the vanilla, and not as has been suggested to any admixture of lactate of zinc which has been supposed to result from the action of the lactic acid of the cream on the zinc vessels in which the ice is generally manufactured. Mushrooms.—C. Buckert§ has re-examined the Agaricus muscarius, extracting from the plant by a process first followed by Schmiedeberg an alkaloid—muscarine. Euckert obtained ’07 to *08 per cent, of the sulphate from a thick extract of the fungus. Muscarine forms a colour- less, syrupy substance, tasteless, and odourless. It yields the usual reactions of an alkaloid, and is not coloured either by sulphuric acid alone, or by this in conjunction with oxidising agents. The physiological effects of muscarine are stated to be antagonistic to those of atropine. * ‘ Vrtljhi’sschrft. f. Gericht. Med./ N. F. xvi, p. 255 t ‘Deut. Ztschr. £. d. Staatsarznyk,’ xxix, p. i. J ‘ Deutsch. Arcliiv f. Klin. Med./ ix, p. 303. § ‘New Rep. Pbarm./ xxi, p. 193.453 MUSSELS. Husemann* publishes a paper on the poisonous action of fungi, embracing all that is known on the subject, but embodying no new poisons.—The medical profession is greatly indebted to Dr. Dayrert for his magnificent work on Indian snakes. It embraces the whole range of the subject, beginning with coloured lithographs and anatomical descriptions of various snakes, followed by an experimei^al inquiry into the reputed cures for their bites. The poison of the cobra is the most deadly of all. Dr. Dayrer says that it is most deadly in warm weather; that it seems to act through the circulation, and kills by some occult influence—whatever that may mean—on the nervous system. He distinctly lays it down that the poison is capable oi being absorbed tbrough the nuicous menibraiies, though, of couise, much less rapidly than from an open wound or through the serous membranes. As the poison kills when introduced into the stomach there is a certain amount of risk attending the act of sucking a wound inflamed by a poisonous snake. The venom of the cobra kills every living creature, except the cobra itself, and, perhaps, some other deadly snakes. Dr. Dayrer has tried, perhaps, every known reputed remedy for the treatment of poisonous snake bites, and always unsuccessfully. The lightning-like rapidity with which the venom diffuses into the blood holds out little hopes of any remedy being applied with success. Even immediate ligature and amputation, as appeared from experiments upon animals, is of little avail. Among the remedies used we may enumerate, ligatures, amputations, Aristolochia indica, carbolic acid, liquor ammonise injected into the blood, liquor potassm, Condy’s fluid, eau de luce, brandy, and other stimulants, the Cape antidote, norbish, quinine, ipecacuanha, various secret nostrums, as the Tanjore pill, &c. There appears, then, to be no known antidote to the poison of the deadly Indian snakes, and it is probable that the only successful treatment (successful only in rare cases) is amputation or excision, the application of ligatures, the actual cautery or burning by strong acids, and the use of stimulants internally. Dr. Fayrer is of opinion that the most successful means for staying the lamentable loss of life now going on in India from the bites of these venomous reptiles is the offering of sufficient pecuniary rewards to the natives for the destruction of venomous snakes. In 1869, out of a population of 120,972,263,—11,416 persons died from the effects of snake bites, an annual rate of mortality of 0^94 per 1000 persons living. SnaJce poison.—Mr. Vincent EichardsJ asserts that the poison of venomous snakes may be absorbed by mucous and serous surfaces, and even by the skin. This opinion is supported by the authority of Dr. Fayrer, who observes, that the poison is deadly when applied to a mucous or serous membrane, to the stomach, or the conjunctiva. Poisonous mussels.—M. de Beunie§ attributes the occasional poi- * ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrbilcher,’ cxlix, p. 89, and d, p. 89. t ‘The Thanotophidia of India.’ By J. Fayrer, M.D. London, 1872. X ‘Med. Ann, of Med. Sc.,’ xxix, 162. § ‘ Journ. de Pharm. et Chem.,’ 1871, p. 298.454 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. sonous qualities of the edible mussel (^Mytilus edulis) to their feeding on the spawn ot star fishes. Star fishes spawn in the months of April, May, July, and August, and it is chiefly in these months that mussels exhibit poisonous properties. He states that the spawn of the star-fish possesses a very irritant action, and that the slightest contact with it causes violent itching, and may even occasion inflammation resulting in gangrene. The following notes relate to the detection of poisons. Phosphorus.—M. Poulet* gives a very simple method of detecting this poison when being excreted in the urine, in which it appears as hypophosphorous acid. The urine is calcined after the addition of nitric acid; when, as the liquid approaches the state of dryness, the mixture suddenly catches fire and burns with a peculiar kind of deflagration. This test must, however, be liable to many fallacies; deflagration alone in the presence of nitric acid cannot be regarded as conclusive evidence of the presence of a lower oxide of phosphorus. Dalmonf describes a new reaction for phosphorus. A stream of hydrogen is passed through the organic substance supposed to contain phosphorus; and the issuing gas is ignited, and a narrow glass tube inverted over the flame when detonations, accompanied by a peculiar luminous appearance, will be observed. With care, and by a peculiar artifice, a beautiful green ring of flame may be obtained. If the inte- rior of the tube be previously moistened with distilled water, and after the above experiment with a solution of nitrate of silver, a brown preci- pitate, speedily becoming black, wiU be observed. No platinum tip for burning the gas is required. Neubauerf also describes an improved and simple method of obtaining Mitscherlich’s phosphorus reaction. The matter to be tested is distilled in an ordinary flask provided with a cork, through which passes a glass tube bent twice at right angles, the terminal and vertical limb of which has three glass bulbs blown upon it. _ Before dis- tillation, the substance to be tested is treated with a few drops of diluted sulphuric acid and a fragment of green vitriol, in order to retain sulphur, which hinders the reaction. A finery stream is seen descending through the bulbs if phosphorus in the free state be present. The end of the tube may be made to dip into alcohol, which retains a consider- able quantity of phosphorus, and if a few drops of the alcoholic solution of phosj)horus be dropped into water, and shaken in the dark in a bottle, the whole appears luminous. Moreover, the alcoholic solution reduces a solution of nitrate of silver, giving a black precipitate, and a similar reaction occurs with sulphate of copper as a reagent, but the liquid does not blacken lead salts as sulphuretted hydrogen does. Kydrocyanic acid.—Almen § points out an error in the ordinary mpthod of applying the sulphocyanogen test for the detection of hydro- cyanic acid. When the suspected solution, or rather a portion distilled off from it, is treated with ammonium sulphide and evaporated on a * ‘ Gaz. Med. de Paris,’ 1872, p. 400. f ‘Ztschr. f. Anal. Chem.,’ 1871, p. 132. J Ibid., p. 254. § ‘ Neu. Jalirb. d. Pharm.,’ xxxi, p, 22O.455 PICROTOXIN. water- or sand-bath, if a trace of cyanide only be present this may be lost throuo-h the volatility of ammonium sulphocyanate. This may, however be prevented by adding a few drops of a solution of caustic soda to the m’ixture before it has reached dryness. Sodium ^ formed, which is not volatile at the temperatiu-e employed. Almen s paper contains other valuable hints on the testing for prussic ^cid. ^ Prever* finds the most delicate reagent for the detection of hydro- cyanic acid in the blood to be Schonbein’s test with f^J^acum and cupric oxide. The following method is recommended for the detection of^the poison in the blood. The blood is diluted with water, and peroxide of hydrogen added ; it then becomes brown gives off but little oxygen, and exhibits a continuous spectrum. Another portion of the blid is distilled with diluted phosphoric acid, and the distillate divided into four portions. One portion is treated^ with ammonium sulphide, evaporated to dryness, and treated with ferric chloride lor the production of red ferric sulphocyanate. Another portion is treated with liquor potassse and ferrous chloride, then with hydrochloric in order to form Prussian blue if hydrocyanic acid be present. A third portion is tested with silver nitrate, whilst to the fourth is added tinc- ture of gniacum and a little copper solution, when, in the event of hydrocyanic acid being present, a blue colour is perceived. ^Emetine.—Panderf states that sulphuric acid in which a little molyb- date has been previously dissolved gives a reddish colour with emetine, speedily changing into green, even with grain of the alkaloid. Even with -g^gth grain of emetine the reagent gives a reddish irides- cence. Bismuth iodide, or cadmium iodide dissolved_ in potassium iodide, gives a precipitate with .g-J^-^th grain of emetine in 25,000 times its weight of water. Emetine is decomposed by fermentation. Brucine.—VanderX has also found Dragendorff’s nitric acid test to be the most delicate for the detection of brucine. If the suspected alkaloid be brucine, yieidj when dissolved in plphuric acid, and a drop of nitric acid allowed to come in contact with it, at first a rose, then an orange, and finally a yellow colour. The stannous chloride test is only one fifth as delicate as the above. The presence of strychnine does not interfere with the nitric acid test for brucine, nor does caffeine interfere with the testing for the alkaloid. Eerinenta- tion does not destroy brucine. Physostigmine.—The same experimenter§ finds that bromine-water gives a red-brown colour with grain of the alkaloid. Calcium chloride gives a red colour after a few minutes with one sixth or one twelfth grain of the alkaloid. Fermentation decomposes physostigmine. Picrotoxin.—In order to detect picrotoxin in beer, Blas|| removes the lupuline by evaporating five quarts of the beer to a small bulk after saturation with soda, and shakes with one tenth of its volume * ‘ Die Blausaure.’ Pamphlet, t ‘ Chem. Ccutr.,’ 1872, pp. 437, 440. t Ibid., pp. 437, 440. § Ibid. 11 Ibid., p. 441.456 REPOET ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. acidulated with acetic acid, and the filtered solution evaporated. K no distinct crystals are obtained the residue is to be recrystallised from alcohol. Picrotoxin as thus obtained is recognised by the fan-like orwheat- sheat torm iu which it crystallises, its very sparing solubility in water and ether, its ready solubility in alcohol, its bitterness, and its action on fishes. A couple of fishes of about seven ounces weight are placed in rather less than two quarts of water. A solution of the crystals obtamed as above, is made by dissolving them in alcohol, adding water and boiling off most of the alcohol. This solution is then added to the water containing the fishes. The fishes speedily die if the suspected substance be picrotoxin. Lujiuline has not this poisonous action on fishes. Thirty grams of cocculus indicus, corresponding to one and a half grain picrotoxin, is sufficient to kill a fish of seven to eleven pounds’ weight in ten hours._ At least five quarts of beer should be operated on. Depaire,* in a notice on the above paper, gives another process for separating picrotoxin. The beer is shaken with common salt—400 grains per quart and filtered. The filtrate is exhausted twice with ether; the residue from the evaporation of the ethereal solution dissolved in alcohol, half an ounce of water, and one drop of sulphuric acid added to the solution, the liquid heated for a quarter of an hour on the water-bath, cooled, filtered, and shaken with ether, the ethereal solution is evaporated, the residue recrystallised from alcohol and examined. This celebrated trial has excited so much interest throughout the United States, and the nature of the evidence offered is so remarkable, that we are induced to offer a summary of the scientific testimony along with a brief history of the case. The theory of the prosecution was that Mrs. Wharton was in debt to Gieneral Ketchum, and had invited him to her house for the purpose of poisoning him, and that she actually accomplished her design by means of tartar emetic. The trial lasted fifty-two days, and the jury were locked up for seven weeks. Collateral evidence was offered to show that she had also attempted to poison a Mr. Yan Ness, connected with her firm of bankers, who was staying in her house at the same time as Gen. Ketchum. General Ketchum, the deceased, was an old army officer, an intimate friend of the accused. He was in apparently good health and of active habits. On June 34, 1871, a very hot, sultry day, he had undergone considerable bodily exercise by walking in Washington on business matters. He neglected eating his dinner, partook plentifully of iced water, took the train for Baltimore, and arrived at Mrs. Wharton’s house between 6 and 7 p.m. He ate very heartily at supper about 9 p.m. He retired, apparently in good health, at ii p.m., but had to go to the closet once or twice in the course of the night. Next morning he The Wharton-Ketchum Trial.-\ * Loc. cit. f ‘Amer, Journ. of Med, Sc.,’ Ixiii, p, 329,457 WHARTON-KETCHUM TRIAL, remarked that be had not been very well in the night, but he went out, and partoolc of all liis nioals with tho family on that day; and although complaining of not feeling well, he appeared inore cheerful after tea, chatting with the family and smoking until he retired at 11 p.m. Before going to bed he drank a glass of lemonade with a Mrs. Chubb. _His glass contained some brandy, which he himself added. On that night he was again sick, and had slight purging. On the morning of the 26th he complained of sickness and giddiness, and remained in his room during the day, although be ate all his meals. In the afternoon, at the solicitation of the accused, he saw Dr. Williams. At 4 p.in. that physician found him sitting up and vomiting into a vessel which he held. Dr. Williams ordered him to bed, and prescribed creasote and lime-water, thinking him to be suffering from cholera morbus. No mention is made of diarrhoea at this time. Next morning he had much improved, and he dismissed his physician, the latter regarding his patient as well. Throughout this day, however, he was somewhat drowsy, as if under the influence of some narcotic. He stated that he had taken some of his own medicine, and a vial which had contained laudanum was found beneath his bed. On June 27th he appears neither to have vomited nor been purged, but on the morning of the 28th he was found on a sofa nearly insensible. At 10 p.m. Dr, Williams found him in a semi- comatose state, very diflS.cult to arouse, and giving inarticulate answers. On being touched a slight convulsive tremor passed over him from head to foot. His head and face were much congested, of a purplish tinge. His limbs were rigid. He gave only muttered replies to questions, and did not complain of suffering. The respirations were normal, the skin was not preternaturally moist, the pupils were not contracted, but were insensible to light. The treatment consisted of ice to the head, and 40 drops of tinct. of gelseminum in water. This was to be repeated in 2 hours. Whilst the ice was upon the head, he had some convulsions of a peculiar character, the tendency of which was to throw the body from the back to the left side. At i p.m., after a third dose of gel- seminum, the general became very restless, and uttered incoherent cries. The convulsions increased in intensity, giving to the body the true character of opisthotonos. He tore at his neck and abdomen, so as to inflict extensive abrasions ; but it is doubtful whether these movements were not automatic. At 1.30 Dr. Williams administered chloroform, and drew off the urine, suspecting uraemic poisoning, but detected no albumen. Thirty grains of chloral hydrate were given in milk, but the convulsions were so violent that he bit the spoon so that his first tooth was loosened. At 3 p.m. he died in a convulsion. The autopsy was made next day by Dr. Williams, assisted by Prof. Miles and Chew. The brain and abdominal cavity only were examined. Nothing was discovered to account for death, the only thing noted being red punctiform congestion of the cerebral lobes, and doubtful congestion in patches of the alimentary canal. The stomach was se- cured and handed to Dr. Aikin for analysis. It presented nothing of ^ reported that he had satisfied him- self of the existence in the stomach of tartar emetic to the extent of458 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * ‘ Vrtljhrsscb. f. Gericht. Med.,’ N.F., xvi, p. 263. at least twenty grains. His method of arriving at this conclusion is curious and open to much objection; nevertheless, it has great influ- ence in forming the probable ground of the opinion, expressed at the trial, of Dr. Williams and of Profs. Chew, Miles, Donaldson, Howard, Johnstone, and Smith, that the death was not due to natural causes. Dr. Aikin’s analysis of the contents of the stomach was conducted thus. Inferring the possible existence of strychnine or of arsenic, he tested for the former of these by the process of Stas, which gave him, he says, negative results. He appears, however, to have omitted apply’ ing the colour and physiological tests. He next proceeded to examine for arsenic and antimony, using the material already employed in the analysis for strychnine. A portion of this material was treated with hydrochloric acid and chlorate of potassium, then, without previous treatment with a sulphite, a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen was passed through the solution. A dark brownish precipitate was thus obtained. As this precipitate did not dissolve in ammonia, he was satisfied that it could not be arsenical. Another portion was now treated with tartaric acid and sulphuretted hydrogen, without preliminary destruction of organic matter, when a reddish-brown or brownish-red precipitate was obtained. When this was separated and dried it dissolved in hydro- chloric acid ; this solution, when dropped into the water, gave a white precipitate ; that white precipitate became orange red when treated with sulphide of ammonium, and it was soluble in tartaric acid. This completed all that was necessary to satisfy Dr. Aikin of the presence of antimony, and he stated in evidence that he knew of nothing that would have produced these results except antimony. He admitted that Eeinsch’s test had failed to give any result for antimony; and he en- tirely neglected to attempt to procure metallic antimony from the stomach. His method of determining the quantity of tartar emetic present was simply a piece of guesswork. The chemical testimony for the defence demonstrated that the colour test (the orange red precipitate) with all its subsequent reactions, save one, might be obtained when no antimony was present. Bloodstains. D. L. Sonnenschein * proposes a new reagent for the verification of these, viz. soluble tungstates, which give, with albuminates and gelatine, a precipitate insoluble in acids. Sodium tungstate, super- saturated with either acetic or normal phosphoric acid, is preferred, and forms even a more delicate reagent for the proteids than Millon’s solu- tion. A dilute and filtered solution of blood gives, with the above- mentioned solution, a voluminous, reddish-brown, or chocolate-coloured precipitate, which shrinks much in volume on boiling, and is then seen, under the microscope, to consist of small vesicles. The precipitate is soluble in ammonia and in alkaline solutions, forming a dichroic mix- ture having the same intensity of colour as the blood itself when treated with ammonia. On acidification the original precipitate re- appears. The precipitate contains all the elements of blood. On in- cineration and fusion of the ashes with a mixture of sodium carbonate459 HAIR. find a trace of potassium nitrate, and subsequent lixiviation, an insolu- ble residue of ferric oxide is left, free from tungsten. Molybdie acid gives a similar precipitate to that produced by tungstic acid with albuminates and blood. _ The precipitate produced by tungstic acid in solutions of blood or ot blood and veins may be treated with ammonia and examined by the spe^ctrogope.s ^ ^ Gunning t find in zinc acetate an excellent pre- cipitant for the colouring matter of blood. The bulky, flocculent Precipi- tate which forms in solutions containing blood, on the addition ot the acetate, can be readily washed, placed on an object-glass whilst still in a pasty condition, treated with acetic acid, and hsemine crystals obtained. Zahnt applies the evolution of oxygen which follows on the addition of hydrogen peroxide as a means of_ detecting blood stains. ^ He does not regard it as an absolutely certain test, but thinks that it may be applied directly without the necessity of dissolving off the colouring matter from the articles stained. The non-evolution of oxygen is not a proof of a stain not being due to blood, as the corpus delicti may have been previously treated with boiling water. If the other tests for blood are successful and the hydrogen peroxide test fail, it is a proof that the stained articles have been subjected to the action of hot water on the influence of a high temperature. SorbyJ contributes a valuable paper on the spectroscopy of blood, and Preyer§ has an excellent description of the modes of testing for blood. The Structure of Sair in its Medico-legal Aspects. Hoffmannil has investigated the structure of hair in man and the lower animals for the purpose of diagnosis in medico-legal cases. He sets himself to answer the questions (i) Whether man’s or brute’s hair ? (2) Prom what part of the body ? In regard to the first ques- tion the difficulty, as a rule, is not great. The chief point to be attended to is the structure of the medulla. In human hair the medulla is very fine or altogether wanting, while in the hair of animals the medulla is very broad and the cortical substance greatly reduced. The medulla of human hair is granular, while that of animals is well-marked and cel- lular, and this gives it quite a different appearance. The second question as to what part of the body the hair is from is answered chiefly by ex- amination of the free end of the hair, which, when it has not been dis- turbed, forms a fine point, or, if cut, exhibits a square end, which, after some time, gradually becomes rounded or fibrillated. The free ends of the body-hairs undergo changes by friction and the action of the perspiration. The appearance of the free end of the hair, taken in con- junction with other circumstances, may enable us to determine, if not with perfect definiteness, yet with more or less certainty, from what part of the body the hair has come. * ‘Chem. Centralb.,’ 1871, p. 37. f ‘Virchow und Hirsch’s Jahresher.,’ 1871, p. 416. X ‘ Monthly Micros. Journ.,’ vi, p. 9. § Op. cit., p. 208. 11 Prager, ‘ Vierteljahrsc. f. Heilk.,’ 1871, iv, p. 67.460 REPORT ON MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE. * ‘ Vrtljhrsschrffc f. Gericht. Med.,’ N. F., xv, p. 58. Eecliymoses after suffocation.'—Dr, Juliua Lukomsky,* of Kiev, pub- lishes an interesting criticism on the ecchymoses which Tardieu has described as characteristic of death from suffocation. In order to arrive at a satisfactory settlement of the questions at issue. Dr. Lukomsky made an elaborate series of experiments on the pressure of the blood in the various vessels during the time that animals were being suffocated. By suffocation (eptickung) is meant, in a restricted sense, all causes of death by mechanical applications for the purpose of excluding air, ap- plied to the mouth and nose, to the air passages and oesophagus, pres- sure on the chest and abdomen, and suffocations by being buried in earth, or in any pulverulent material. During suffocation it was found that both the arterial and venous pressures were materially increased. After this had been established be- yond doubt, the variations in respiration were noted—ist, after simple closing of the trachea so as to produce suffocation; 2nd, after suffoca- tion induced by irritation of the nerves; 3rd, after suffocation conse- quent on_ section of the nerves ; 4th, by occlusion of the trachea after forcing air into the lungs under increased pressure ; 5th, in suffocation by rarefaction of the air. It was thus proved, on comparing the pressure of the blood and the variations in the mechanism of respiration during suffocation, that—(i) during suffocation a typical change in the rhythm of respiration takes place ; (2) a considerable increase of pressure was noted in both arteries and veins, especially in the region of the thorax; (3) there was a diminution of pressure in the pulmonary artery; (4) the greatest increase in the pressure of the blood coincided with the period of most powerful respiratory effort, i. e. with expiration. Dogs were the animals experimented on. The connection between the arterial and venous pressure and Tar- dieu’s ecchymosis is next traced. In normal respiration, during in- spiration, there is an increased flow of blood into the right heart, a quickened action of the heart, and consequently an increased arterial pressure; whilst during expiration the converse obtains. But in suffocation the greater effort at and duration of each inspiration in- creases the flow of blood to the right ventricle. In consequence of a diminution of pressure in the pulmonary artery, blood flows more quickly from the right into the left ventricle, and consequently both the activity of this and the pressure in the arteries are heightened. But when a rapid and energetic expiratory effort follows upon the climax of inspiration, and this effort at expiration adds an increase of pressure to the already heightened arterial pressure in the thorax, it is seen that there is a direct connection between the altered relations of the respiratory mechanism during suffocation and the development of the peculiar form of subpleural ecchymosis which Tardieu has pointed out as a diagnostic sign of suffocation. The memoir is enriched with experiments bearing upon the altered rhythm of resj)iration and varia- tions in arterial and venous pressure when suffocation is artificially pro- duced by various means, as, e. g., by section of nerves; but these expe- riments, valuable as they [are, are of more interest to the physiologist than to the medical jurist.UEPOET ON MATERIA MEDICA AND GENERAL THERAPEUTICS. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond,, E.E.C.P. Sulphovinaie of sodium.—M. Eabuteau* proposes the use of this salt as a purgative, and states that it possesses the following advantages, (i.) Its taste is very slight at first, and is afterwards sweet, so that it is taken without difficulty'even hy children. (2.) It is the mildest in its action of all the saline purgatives, and is especially useful in colic. (3.) It produces no pain or tormina, and is exclusively a dialytic pur- gative ; hence it is useful during menstruation and pregnancy. (4.) It presents all the advantages, and none of the disadvantages, attending the use of citrate of magnesium. In the first place, the sulphovinate is more agreeable to take, especially when administered in seltzer water, than the citrate; and in the next place, it does not tend to the produc- tion of calculi, as the citrate of magnesium is apt to do. (5.) Sulpho- vinate of sodium acts as a purgative when given in relatively small doses. Rather less than an ounce of the salt dissolved in seltzer water is invariably sufficient to produce in an adult five or six stools. 2-1 drachms suffice for a child, and this dose produces very appreciable effects even in an adult. (6.) It does not produce after-constipation, as saline purgatives are so apt to do ; this owing to the rapidity with which the sulphovinate of sodium is eliminated after its absorption. Peroxide of hydrogen.—Dr. John Day, t of Geelong, finds in pessaries containing peroxide of hydrogen a convenient method of destroying the offensive odour which accompanies the discharges of patients svd- fering from cancer of the uterus. The following is his formula: Melt, with gentle heat, twelve drachms of cocoa-butter, and well stir in until thoroughly incorporated eight scruples of ethereal solution of peroxide of hydrogen. When nearly cold divide into eight pessaries. One to be inserted into the vagina every night and morning, or oftener if necessary. They keep well. * ‘Gaz. HeM.,’ June 10, 1870. f ‘Austr. Med. Journ,,’ 1871, p. 303.REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. t ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ Oct. 14, 1871, 435. Chlorides. Eabuteau* has found that common salt, when given in considerable quantities, greatly increases tissue change and the excretion 01 urea. At the same time it increases the secretion of gastric juice acidity. On this account animals which get much salt digest their food well, but do not get fat. The red blood-corpuscles become more numerous when salt is taken, and this, along with its other pro- perties, will render it useful in phthisis and diabetes. Very large doses of salt are purgative. Salt food produces constipation, because the salt is absorbed into the blood, and lessens the exosmosis into the intestines. Small doses of salt are, therefore, very serviceable in diarrhoea and dysentery, when other remedies fail. Chloride of ammonium acts as a diuretic, increases the excretion of urea, quickens the pulse, and seems to raise the temperature. It does not impair digestion. It is not diaphoretic. Large doses induce vomiting, and cause temporary weakness of the lower extremities. Sal ammoniac alone has a specific remedial action in bronchial catarrh; but all ammonium compounds increase expectoration. Chloride of potassium increases the excretion of urea, but has only a slight diuretic action. It increases the appetite, and causes slight con- stipation. It slows the heart, and Eabuteau thinks this salt might be used instead of digitalis. Chloride of magnesium, injected in large doses into the veins, slows the heart like chloride of potassium. Two and a half drachms produces purgation, not accompanied by colicky pains, and not succeeded by constipation. It is also pleasanter to take than the sulphate of mag- nesium, and Eabuteau, therefore, recommends it in place of the latter salt, in doses of 7 drachms for men, drachms for women, and half an ounce for children. The dose should be dissolved in a considerable quantity of water. Ferrous chloride does not coagulate either egg- or serum-albumen, and hinders the coagulation of blood. One grain injected directly into the circulation stops the heart like potassium chloride. The blood remains fiuid. Ferrous chloride is chiefly excreted by the intestine. Ferric chloride is reduced by albuminous substances, and undergoes reduction in the body. It is quickly absorbed. Eabuteau recommends the employment of ferrous chloride in medicine, and he finds that re- duced iron, ferric oxide, and ferrous carbonate are converted into ferrous chloride in the stomach. Gold and palladium chlorides are reduced in the body, and when given for a long time produce albuminuria and renal afiection. The author considers that there is a particular kind of albuminuria pro- duced by metals, as albumen appears in the urine in poisoning by lead, nitrate of silver, and the salts of uranium and cadmium. Bromides.—Woodf finds that, by combining bromide of potassium with tincture of cannabis indica, the dose of bromide may be raised to a drachm and a half three times a day without any bad effect following. The bromide in doses of one drachm frequently causes melancholy when given alone. Dacosta thinks that if 40 to 60 grains of bromide * ‘ Union Medicale,’ Ixxiii, p. 150 et seq., ‘ Comp. Rend.,’ Ixxiii, 24, p. 1390.ALcoaot. 463 ai*6 given a few hours before a dose of opium they prevent headache, giddiness, and nausea, as. well as increase the hypnotic action of the opium. The itching of the skin is also lessened. Bartholow* considers that the bromides of potassium, sodium, and ammonium agree in their mode of action, and produce similar symptoms. They all produce weakness, trembling, impaired co-ordination, and paralysis. This effect he ascribes to diminution of the irritability of the muscles themselves, and also of the motor nerves. They depress the heart and lower the temperature. They diminish the activity of the brain, and procure sleep. The action on the muscles and nerves is greatest with the employment of the bromides of potassium and am- monium ; least on the heart with the use of the sodium salt, and most with the administration of the bromide of ammonium. On the brain bromide of potassium acts most, and bromide of ammonium least; whilst the potassium salt is intermediate in its activity. The toxic action is greatest in bromide of potassium, and least in bromide of sodium. Arsenic.—Vaudryf finds that arsenious acid, in doses of i-6oth to i-ioth grains, quickens and strengthens the pulse, facilitates respira- tion, improves the appetite, aids digestion, increases all secretions with the exception of the urine, imparts muscular activity and a general feeling of comfort, and causes an increase of weight. After it has been given for some time the feeling of comfort disappears, but again returns when the dose is increased by i-3oth to i-i^th grain. Doses of i-6th to 2-5th grains cause disturbance of the intestinal canal. In some persons even i-i2th grain will occasion diarrhoea. The author considers the effect of arsenic on respiration to be due to stimulation of the vagus. Animals gradually acquire a tolerance of arsenic. Arsenate of quinine.—Prof. GiovJ has given this salt successfully in cases of neuralgia involving the brachial plexus, in doses of i|—2 grains, the treatment being continued for eight or ten days. Mercury.—Dr. J. H. Bennett § records experiments which show that calomel, blue pill, and corrosive sublimate, digested in the stomach, do not irritate the orifice of the common bile duct in the duodenum, nor does their application or any other kind of local irritation cause in- creased secretion or flow of bile into the duodenum. The gall-bladder is not contractile, and therefore does not contract on the application of either direct or reflex irritation. Pressure on the gall-bladder or liver, in consequence of extensive contractions of the neighbouring muscles, causes a copious flow of bile into the duodenum. Byasson || finds that corrosive sublimate, when given by the mouth, appears in the urine in two hours and in the saliva four hours after its administration. It does not appear in the sweat. Its elimination is completed in twenty-four hours. Alcohol.—Parkes and Wollowicz^ have investigated the action of alcohol when taken in the form of claret as well as in the form of * ‘Amer. Journ. Med. Sc.,’ 1871, p. 359. t ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jaliresber.,’ 1871, n. ?i2. t ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cli, p. 271. § ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, p. i, II ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et do Physiol.,’ 1872, p. i?oo. ^ ‘ Pr. Koy. Soc.,’ xviii, p. 362.REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETO. 464i brandy. ^ The eflPects of both of these are the same in many respects. They quicken the heart and dilate the vessels. There was no distinct alteration in temperature in the axilla or rectum, nor any change in the excretion of nitrogen or phosphates either in the urine or faeces. They do not consider the dietetic effects of claret to be the same as those of brandy and water, but the differences could not be discovered by the method of experimentation they employed. Ten ounces of claret con- taining about one fluid ounce of pure alcohol caused no unpleasant heat or flushing. Twenty ounces produced both. Alcohol began to appear in the urine. The authors consider that the use of alcohol by healthy persons is unnecessary and may be injurious. Bouvierf found that when fever was produced in animals by the in- jection of putrid matters, those which were treated with alcohol resisted the fever much longer than others. Their temperature could be reduced several degrees by the administration of alcohol. He obtained good results from the use of alcohol in typhus, but not in intermittent fever. Eabowt found that wine and brandy, in doses of two or three table- spoonfuls, increased the temperature in 23 cases, and left it unchanged in 2. The rise was generally o'q—07° Pahr., but often only o’2° Pahr. A rise of temperature was also noticed during collapse, when the admi- nistration of wine was attended with much benefit. Manizu J and Pokker§ found little change in the temperature of the human body after the moderate use of alcohol, but Pokker observed a slight fall in a dog. It somewhat diminished the excretion of urea in the dog, and the effect of a given quantity was the same whether it were given in repeated small doses or in one large one. Pokker regards it as food, and indicated in all diseases where there is danger of death from inanition. He does not consider it to act as a febrifuge. Danet || gives several cases showing that the mortality in pneumonia is least when patients are treated with alcohol and blisters, greater with digitalis and blisters, and greatest with antimonials and blisters. He has also seen benefit from the use of alcohol in congestion of the lungs, and mentions the beneficial effects of its local application in cases of purulent infection. Subbotin^ finds, from experiments on rabbits, that a considerable quantity of alcohol is eliminated by the skin and lungs in the first five hours after its introduction into the body. Twice as much alcohol is eliminated by the skin and lungs as by the kidneys. This result is in dii’ect opposition to the statement of Lallemand, Perrin, and Duroy, that alcohol is excreted chiefiy by the kidneys. Part of the alcohol probably undergoes combustion in the body. Chloral hydrate.—Dr. A. Monti** contributes a paper on the employ- ment of chloral hydrate in the diseases of children. This observer noted that in children, when the dose was proportioned to their age, * ‘ Centralblatt f. d.'Med. Wiss.,’ p. 801. f ‘Berl. Klin. Wchnschr.,’ 1871, No. 22, p. 257. ‘Diss. Bonn.,’ 1870, ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jaliresber.,’ 1871, p. 324. § ‘Virchow and Hirscb’s Jabresber.,’ 1871, p. 324. II ‘Gaz. des Hop.,’ 1871, 418, 421; ‘Ztscbr. f. Biologic,’ vii, p. 361. •a • Zeitscb. f. Biologic,’ vii, p. 361. ** ‘ Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk.,’ v, p. 63.465 ANyESTHBTICS. within an hour and a half there supervened slight_ suffusion of the countenance and a quasi-intoxicated state, passing in o soun s eep. The pulse, which at first was somewhat quickened, was afterwards re- tarded, the respirations were unaffected, and the temperature ot the body sank. It was only after very large doses of the lijdrate that the numbness of the skin, followed by anesthesia, was preceded by excite- ment and contraction of the pupils. The sleep induced is quite normal, and on awakening there is neither headache nor cerebral congestion, nor any other disturbance of function. Chloral hydrate sometimes in- duces vomiting, but never diarrhoea. The dose is i to 4 grains for a new-born infant; up to one year, i^to 5 grains ; from one to five years, 3 to 10 grains; and for children from five to twelve years of age, from 8 to 18 grains. To infants at the breast i grain was given every fifteen or thirty minutes, till the desired result was obtained. His conclusions are summarised as followsSleep is as readily induced by chloral hydrate in children as in adults. In symptomatic as well as in idiopa- thic convulsions it acts symptomatically, and is contra-indicated only where there is inflammatory disease of the bronchi, lungs, or heart, and the remedy must be used with caution where the child is anaemic or atrophic. Chloral is useful in laryngismus stridulus, chorea, and hoop- ing-cough, except in the third stage of this last, when it acts prejudi- cially by checking expectoration. It proved useless as an anaesthetic in surgical operations and in idiopathic and traumatic tetanus. Husemann * contributes a long and able resume of all that is known regarding the pharmacological and toxicological relations of chloral hydrate. A vast amount of literature has been laid under contribution for the preparation of his monograph. Ancdsthetics.—Kohlerf reviews all the recent work that has been done with anaesthetics. His memoir is a valuable one, and is enriched with cuts of the various forms of apparatus that have been designed for the inhalation of anaesthetics. Byasson and Toilet J have compared the action of trichloracetate of sodium, chloral, and chloroform. The effect of tricloracetate of sodium is more like that of chloroform than of chloral. Chloroform given by inhalation is the most powerful anaesthetic, but when given subcuta- neously it has less action than either of the other two. Chloral, when given by the stomach, is a more powerful soporific than the others, but has less anaesthetic power than chloroform. The authors distinguish three degrees of action in chloral. In the first, it acts as a slight soporific and sedative of the sensory nervous system. This effect is often accompanied by agitation like that occur- ring during unpleasant dreams. In the second, it has a powerful sopo- rific action, lessens sensibility considerably, and produces calm and deep sleep. This may be kept up for a considerable time, without danger, by giving a fresh dose when the effect of one is passing off. In the third, it produces complete anaesthesia, entire loss of general sensi- bility, and muscular relaxation. Heath almost always occurs after * ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cli, p. 81. t Ibid., p. 193, j ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ 1870, p. 570. 30REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 466 this stage has been reached. It may sometimes he averted by artificial respiration or inhalation of oxygen. Bromal hydrate. Berti and JN^amias* have investigated the thera- pentical properties of this proposed remedy, and arrive at the followiug conclusions, i. Even in small doses, and well diluted, bromal hydrate produces burning pain in the throat, pyrosis, vomiting, and diarrhoea, a. In an emulsion (i to 300) its use is barely supportable. Even after long and cautious administration it produces vomiting and purgation. 3‘ relatively large doses it does not induce sleep, or abate restless- ness. It is useless in epilepsy. 4. Subcutaneously injected it excites local inflammation, and exercises little action in the nervous system. 5. Eubbed up with an equal quantity of fatty matter, and applied locally, it produces erythema of the skin, but it is not so safe an appli- cation as a sinapism. 6. Bromal hydrate ofters no advantages as a therapeutic remedy over other safer and speedier remedies. 7. Toxic doses induce stupor, paralysis of motion and sensation, and rapid or sudden cessation of the respiratory movements, ending in death. Croton chloral.—Liebreichf finds that croton chloral produces in ani- mals, first, anaesthesia of the head, then loss of reflex movements through- out the body, and, finally, death by paralysis of the medulla oblongata^ In man it produces anaesthesia of the fifth nerve, while the sensibility of the body and the pulse and respiration remain unafiected. Ho con- siders that it is split up in the blood into formic ether. Byassonj; supposes that the action of chloral is partly due to the formic acid, which it yields along with chloroform when decomposed in the blood. This supposition he has confirmed by the administration of formic ether, which also yields formic acid in the blood. When given to animals, either by inhalation or subcutaneously, it produces symptoms of asphyxia, diminution of temperature, partial flaccidity of muscles, and lessens sensibility without completely destroying it. In man it caused a tendency to sleep, and formic acid appeared in the urine. Bichloride of methylene has been recommended as an ansesthetic by Graine§ and Spencer Wells,|| but its administration is not without danger, death having occurred^ during antesthesia produced by it. Methylamine.—Fargier-Lagrange** finds that trimethylamine, in doses of about 9 grains daily, lessens pain in rheumatism. It slows the respiration and pulse, and reduces the temperature. Nitrite of amyl.—H. C. Wood, jun.,tt finds that nitrite of amyl greatly lessens, but does not destroy, the irritability of nerves and muscles. The power of the central motor ganglia is also much diminished, but sensibility is only slightly lessened. He thinks with Brunton that the diminution in the blood-pressure which nitrate of * ‘ Journ. de Bruxell.,’ lii, p. 328 j ‘ Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cliii, p. 141. t ‘Comp. Rend.,’ 1872, p. 1202. X Ibid., 1871, Ixxii, p. 742. § ‘Med. Times and Gaz.,’ 1871, p. 232. II ‘Lancet,’ 1871, i, p. S91. ^ ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, p. 457. #* ‘Virchow and Hirsch’s Jahresber.,’ 1871, p. 341. ft ‘Amcr. Journ. Med. Sc.,’ Jidy, 1871, p. 39, and October, p. 359.i ‘Edin. Med. Journ.,’ 1871, ii, p. 39, TUEPENTINE. 461^ amyl produces is cliiefly due to dilation of the capillaries, but considers tnat the power of the heart is also lessened by the action of the drug on its muscular substance. When directly applied to nerves, muscles, or the heart, it lessens their irritability, without causing any temporary- increase at first. It hinders oxidation both within and without the body, and diminishes the temperature and excretion of carbonic acid. When the spinal cord of animals is divided, and they are laid in a warm place, their temperature rises much, and they rapidly decompose. Both of these effects are prevented by nitrite of amyl. He confirms Brunton’s statements regarding its beneficial effects in angina pectoris, and recommends it in synocha and tetanus. Talfourd Jones* gives cases of benefit from the use of this remedy in spasmodic asthma, epilepsy, laryngismus stridulus, colic, and hemi- crania. He recommends it in colic and cholera. Goodhartf noticed a fall of temperature from its inhalation. Lauder BruntonJ mentions that nitrite of amyl was tried in cholera by Hayden and Cruise without effect. He discusses the symptoms and pathology of cholera, and ascribes the difficulty in breathing to con- traction of the pulmonary vessels and obstruction to the flow of blood through the lungs. He shows by experiment that nitrite of amyl dilates the pulmonary as well as the systemic vessels. The fact that it does not lessen the difficulty in breathing, although’ it possesses this power, is explained by its forming a compound with the hsemoglobin of the blood and preventing oxidation, as shown by Glamgee. He, there- fore, recommends it to be given by the mouth, or subcutaneously if used in cholera. Benzine.—This liquid has been found§ useful in allaying the paroxysms of hooping-cough, in doses of 10—20 drops suspended in syrup or mucilage ; or the vapour of benzine may be inhaled. Tar.—Magnes-Lahens|| recommends a convenient method of adminis- tering this substance. The tar is triturated with charcoal till the mass no longer soils the hand, and has a granular aspect similar to gun- powder. The powder can then be administered in various ways—in- haled, smoked, taken into the stomach in various menstrua, &c. Turpentine.—WixTouvton Begbie^ considers that turpentine is ab- sorbed by the skin when applied externally, and eliminated by it to some extent when administered internally. He regards the occurrence of a smell of violets in the urine as indicating to a certain extent a healthy condition of the kidneys. The external application of turpen- tine is not absolutely counter-indicated by renal disease, as the drug is eliminated to_a great extent by the lungs and intestines. The author recommends it as the most trustworthy remedy in purpura hcsmor- rhagica associated with hiematuria. In asthenic typhus with subsultus stupor, or delirium, and in puerperal fever, he has found it efficacious! In doses of 10 30 drops, thrice a day, it is of great service in sciatica, * ‘ Practitioner,’October, 1871,0.213. t Ibid., p. 12. j ‘Brit. Med. Journ.,’ 1872, p. 42. § ‘ Aim. de Thm-ap.,’ 1870-71, p. 74. II ‘Bull de Therap., Ixxx, 1871, p. 213, 31?.REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA, ETC. 468 and in neuralgias, crural and bracliial, succeeds when other remedies nave tailed. He also recommends it in doses of 20—30 grains for trontal headache resulting from mental fatigue, and in cases of gan- grene of the lungs, pyaemia, and diphtheria. Aconitine. H. Duquesnel* has recently obtained this alkaloid in a crystalline condition from Aconituin napellus, by a modification of Stas s method, and he states that hitherto the term aconitine has been applied to several substances differing in therapeutical value with the source from which they are derived. He regards the alkaloid, to which he assigns the formula C27H4(,lSrOif), as a glucoside, and considers that this view explains the spontaneous deterioration of various preparations of it on keeping. The chemical properties of aconitine are fully de- scribed, and phosphoric acid, tannin, potassio-mercuric iodide, and iodine in potassium iodide, are stated to be the most sensitive reagents for it. The same observer, in conjunction with M. Grrehant,t describes the physiological action of the crystallised aconitine prepared by him. Prom experiments on frogs, they conclude that small doses of aconitine are analogous in physiological results to curarine, destroying the motor power of nerves, but with large doses the heart’s action was arrested, and the nerves did not lose their motricity, because, through cessation of the circulation, the did not come in contact with the poison. In mammalia, the eflTects of the poison are more rapidly deve- loped, and are more difS.cult to analyse. Opium.—0. Hesse J has described some new alkaloids from opium —laudanine, codamine, meconidine, and lanthopine. These collec- tively, when impure, form the porphyroxine described by Merck. The physiological and therapeutical properties of these new bases have not yet been ascertained. Eabuteau § has investigated the action of the alkaloids of opium, and classified them accordingly. The alkaloid having the most powerful action is placed first, and that having the weakest is placed last. They stand in this order as soporifics—morphine, narceine, and codeine. The other principles have no soporific action. As poisons— morphine, thebaine, codeine, papaverine, narceine, and narcotine. As analgesics (pain destroyers)—morphine, narceine, thebaine, papaverine, and codeine. Harcotine does not seem to diminish pain. The author has also examined their effects in preventing secretion from the intes- tine, as he supposes diarrhoea to depend on more fluid passing into it by osmosis from the vessels. Morphine is the most powerful anexos- motic, and next to it comes narceine. The other principles do not seem to arrest diarrhoea. Opianine is present in opium in very small quan- tity. Its action is like that of morphine. Meconin and meconic acid have no action whatever. Opium and chloroform.—Labbe and and Guyon || have confirmed the statement of Claude Bernard and Hussbaum, that when morphine is * ‘ Comp. Rend.,’ Ixxiii, p. 207. t Ibid., p. 209. t ‘Ann. Chem. Phavm.,’ Supp., Bd. viii, p. 261. § ‘ Jouru. de I’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ 1872, p. 302. II ‘ Journ. de Pharm. et de Chem.,’ 1872, p. 398.469 MONOBROMIDE OP CAMPHOR. eiven alon^ with chloroform much smaUer doses of chloroform are re- quired to produce complete anesthesia than when it is given alone and the risk of death occurring is thus diminished. The anesthesia lasts a long time, and may he prolonged still farther by small doses oi chloro- ^°^Sibuteau * finds nearly all the principles of opium, with the excep- tion of narcotine, aid the action of chlopform. Morphine is the most powerful in this respect, but narceine is nearly equal to it. Codeine and papaverine have only a feeble action. Apomorpldne.—The action of this substance has been investigated by Vincent Silbert.f The minimum dose required to produce vomiting, when injected subcutaneously, is about one tenth of a grain. A grain and a half given by the stomach produced only nausea in one case, but much smaller doses may sometimes produce vomiting. Quehl X finds that the dose required for subcutaneous injection is T-i2oth to i-3oth of a grain; by the mouth, i| to 2^ grains ; and by the rectum, 2f to grains. No tolerance is produced by its long- continued use, nor does it injure health. Excessive doses, 3 grains or more, do not produce vomiting at all, but cause staggering, weakness, and manege movements. Vomiting is also prevented by division of the vagi nerves. Blaser § recommends simple syrup as the best solvent for apomor- phine. Muscarine.—This alkaloid has its chemical characteristic detailed by Euckert.|| It is recommended by Deneffe^ in delirium tremens. He gives it in doses of 45 to 60 grains daily, in the form of pill. Camphor.—Dr. O. Heubner** has investigated the action of camphor on the heart, and obtained results of much therapeutical interest. The results were obtained by experimenting on frogs. He finds that cam- phor renders the cardiac contractions more energetic, the pauses be- tween the contractions of longer duration, and that the heart bestows upon the circulation greater rapidity. Monohromide of camphor.—Dr. Wm. A. Hammond ft has tested the alleged efficacy of this medicament, and his experience of its use, though thus far limited, is eminently satisfactory. The preparation used was in beautiful crystals free from the slightest yellow tinge, hence it con- tained no free bromine. Employed in two cases of infantile convul- sions due to the irritation of teething, the bromide prevented the further occurrence of paroxysms which, previously to its administra- tion, had been very frequent. In each case a grain was given every hour, rubbed up with a little mucilage. Three doses were sufficient in one, and two in the other case. In a very obstinate case of hysteria, in the form of paroxysms of weeping and laughing, alternating with * ‘ Journ. de I’Anat. et de Physiol.,’ loc. cit. t ‘Untersuch. u. d. Wirk. d. Apormorph. Diss. Derpat.,’ 1871. j ‘Diss. Halle,’ 1872. § ‘ Arch. d. Heilk.,’ xiii, p. 272. II ‘New Rep. Pharm.,’ xxi, p. 193, ‘Presse Med. Beige,’ 1, p. 405. ** ‘Arch. d. Heilk..’ xi. n.470 REPORT ON MATERIA MEDICA^ ETC. epileptiform and’choreiform convulsions, where the acts usually lasted +1,^^ ^ eleven days, uninfluenced by medication or moral suasion, the influence of the drug was distinctly perceived after two doses (four grains ^ery hour) were taken, hut ten were necessary to entirely break off the attack. Dr. Hamnioiid also speaks highly of the bromide in headache from mental excitement. In wakefulness it is inferior to other bromides, as, e.g. bromide of calcium. Digitalis. Dr. Rudolph Boehm,* * * § of Wurzburg, has investigated the physiological actions pf digitalis and digitalin. He finds that digitalin increases the irritability of the inhibitory nerve-centres situated in the heart, and exercises a specific action on the muscular fibres of the heart, first of all increasing their contractility, next rendering their contractions irregular, and finally conferring upon them a peculiar rigidity. The essay is a long and valuable one. Dr. A. Weilf contributes a paper on the physiological actions of this drug. His memoir is very instructive, but as the object of the experi- ments, ^ made upon frogs, was to demonstrate the mechanism of the reflex inhibitory centres (reflexhemmungs mechanismen), we do not think it necessary to do more than make a short reference to them. He finds—(i) That small doses of digitalin (i-6oth of a grain) dimi- nish very considerably in decapitated “reflex frogs” (a term applied to to frogs in which, on the previous day, the cerebral hemispheres had been separated by cutting through the bones) the frequency of the heart’s action, the heart’s beats being stopped, sooner in the decapitated animals than in those which had not been so treated. The same oc- curred with doses of i-3oth of a grain. (2) Small as well as large doses act as excitants of the inhibitory centres. (3) Large and small doses induce a period at which division of the medulla oblongata no longer restores the reflex irritability, at which period also the irritation of the inhibitory centres has given place to paralysis of the cord. Pre- vious to this, the action of the digitalis is limited to the brain, so far as reflex excitation is concerned. Grourvat J finds that a moderate quantity of digitalin paralyses the motor nerves of voluntary muscles in frogs, and that a large quantity destroys the irritability of the muscles themselves. It seems to act as a stimulant to involuntary muscles. It causes contraction of the arte- rioles and raises the blood pressure. The cardiac pulsations become slower, stronger, and more regular, after a moderate dose. The slow- ness of the pulse is due to the increased blood pressure, and is propor- tional to this. The contraction of the arterioles produced by a moderate dose soon passes ofi*, but lasts longer when a large dose has been given. After the contraction has ceased they become paralysed and dilated. Their contraction causes diminution of the sweat and the secretions of mucous membranes and glands, but the amount of urine is increased. Ackermann § has investigated the action of digitalin—ist, on the heart; 2nd, on the arteries; and 3rd, on the temperature. He finds * ‘Arch. f. Anat.,’ v, p. 153. t ‘Arch. f. Physiol.,’ 1871, p. 252. j ‘ Gaz. Mod.,’ 1871, No. 26, et seq,-, ‘Gaz. des H6p,,’ cxxxii, p. 526. § ‘Perl. Klin. Wchiischi’.,’ 1872, 27; ‘Dent. Arch. f. Kliu. Med.,’ xi, p. 125.* ‘ Journ. of Anat. and Physiol.,’ 1872, p. 134. 471 DIGITALIS. (i) Thcat after the iujectiou of a large dose of digitalm (o-o^ gram.) into the veins the pulse becomes very slow, then quicker, and then slow attain. The first slowing of the pulse is cpsed by the digitalm acting dfrectlv on the vagus roots, and stimulating them; the quickening is caused by the drug paralysing the ends of the vagus in the heart, and, at the same time, stimulating the accelerating nerves. The second slowing is due to paralysis of the muscular substance ot the heart. (2) Lai’o-e doses of digitalin increase the pressure of blood in the arteries by causing contraction of the arterioles. It does not cause them to con- tract by stimulating the vasor-motor centre in the medulla oblongata, but by acting on the ends of the vaso-motor nerves in the vessels or on the muscular fibres in their walls. (3) It lessens the temperature of the interior of the body and increases that of the surface. It probably does this by quickening the circulation through the skin. Lauder Brunton and A. B. Meyer * bring forward a new proof that digitalin causes contraction of the arterioles. They find that the blood pressure rises after its injection, but the pulse wave becomes smaller. This shows that the rise is not caused by the heart. At the^ same time each wave descends more gradually, showing that the blood js escaping morAslowly through the arterioles. As the blood pressure is high, the slow flow of the blood through the arterioles can only be caused by their contraction. The pulse is rendered slow. This is partly due to the increased blood pressure.REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. BY THOMAS STEVENSON, M.D. Lond., E.E.C.P., lECTTTEEE ON CHEMISTBY AT GTJY’S HOSPITAL; MEDICAL OPPICEE OP HEALTH POE ST. PANGEAS. Cholera. Choleea is the disease which has attracted the largest amount of attention from sanitarians during the last two years, and the literature of the subject has been very abundant. The recent diffusion of cholera in Europe.—A rejiort of remarkable interest on the recent diffnsion of cholera in Europe* has been sent by Mr. J. Netten Eadcliffe to Mr. Simon, who has forwarded the report to the president of the Local G-overnment Board, with a recom- mendation that it be brought under the official notice of foreign govern- ments. The report commences with an account of the first appearance and subsequent progress of the epidemic which, beginning in South Eussiaat Kiev, in the autumn of 1869, spread during the months of November and December into several of the districts in South, Central, and West Russia. In January of the following year cholera appeared in Moscow, and in Eebruary cases were reported from Novgorod. During the summer and autumn the disease spread actively, so that in 1870 cholera prevailed with hardly a break—if indeed with any break— throughout the tract of country lying between Moscow and the north coasts of the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. To the north and west of this tract it had appeared at St. Petersburg; and to the south and east it appeared along the north-east coast of the Black Sea, from the Straits of Kertch to Poti, through the valley of the Eion across Trans- caucasia to the Persian frontier of the empire. In 1871 cholera was generally diffused throughout Russian Europe. It spread also into Siberia, appeared in the autumn at Astrachan, prevailed in Ciscaucasia along the course of the Kouban, and in Transcaucasia was present at Baku on the west coast of the Caspian, and at Erivan. During the whole progress of this remarkable diffusion of cholera, the disease did not spread into Europe beyond the limits of the Russian empire, except at four points. In July it passed the Polish frontier into East Prussia, and on the 24th of the month attacked Kbnigsberg. In August it extended to Memel, Dantzic, Elbing, Stettin, SvvinemUnde, ^ ‘ Parliamentary Paper,’473 CHOLERA. and the adjacent districts; scattered cases were and outbreaks of the disease occurred in Hamburg and Altona. On the 3rd of September it appeared at Hernosand in Sweden, and at the same date at Constantinople. _ In October, cholera was reported to be present on the Danube at Sulina and Galatz, and in November at Tultcha At the commencement of August an outbreak occurred in Asia Minor at Brusa in Anatolia, a commercial town of considerable size, with a poi-t at Mundania on the Sea of Marmora. _ At this time cholera was prevalent at the ports of Kherson, Nicolaiev, Taganrog, and Eostov on the Don to the north; and at Bagdad, and several points in Turkish Kurdistan, in the vicinity of the Persian frontier, and in the province of Azerbijan in Persia to the east and south-east. Previous to the outbreak, cholera had spread largely ^°^g of the Euphrates and Tigris within the pashalik of B^dad, and had extended into Eastern and Northern Arabia. Erom Brusa, cholera spread to the surrounding districts ; and, subsequently to the appear- ance of the disease at Constantinople, cases occurred in the lazaret at Salonica and in the vicinity of that town, and in the lazaret at Varna in European Turkey, in the island of Cerigo, at St. Jean d Acre on the east coast of Asia Minor, and at Samsoun and Trebizonde on the north coast, and at Amasia in the interior of Anatolia. The cases at Salonica and Varna occurred among passengers who had recently arrived there by ordinary steam transit from Constantinoj)le. The first case at St. Jean d’Acre was landed from a Eussian steam-vessel coming also from Constantinople. On the loth of October an ill-furnished emigrant steamship sailed from Stettin for New York, touching at Copenhagen and Christiansund. About a week after this vessel had left Christian- sund cholera appeared among the passengers, 610 in number. She put into Halifax, Nova Scotia, on the 6th of November, and introduced cholera into that city and into the village of Chezetcook, twenty-five miles north of Halifax. In the course of September two cases of cholera were imported by steamships from Hamburg to England, both into the port of Hartlepool. One of these cases, which ended fatally, was imported on the 7th of the month; the other, which recovered, on the 18th. AVhile these events were taking place in Europe, cholera was also spreading rapidly from the head of the Persian Gulf along the courses of the Shat-el-Arab, the Euphrates, and the Tigris, within the pashalik of Bagdad, in which province the disease had appeared at Meshed Ali, in December of the previous year (1870). Early in the summer of 1871 a Turkish expeditionary force became affected with cholera at Bassora, as it was about to embark for Koweyt, and carried the disease into Eastern Arabia. About the middle of June cholora broke out at Hayel in the Djebel Shomar, Northern Arabia, introduced there, it is stated, by an infected. caravan coming from Meshed Hussein. Erom Hayel the disease passed, two months later, to Khaiber, three days’ journey from Medina, and in September it broke out in the latter town, at a time when numerous pilgrims were there. In November cases are stated to have occurred at Mecca, and in December a severe outbreak occurred on the east coast of the Eed Sea, at Gonfudah, south of474 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. ^isease appeared at Gonfudah amonR troops recentiv eon oiConstantinople, and it prevailed chieflv^among th? gS close of the y , remarkable diffusion of cholera in Europe durins 1^^°’ ^ question of considerable interest aid of im? 1 Director of tL ImpeS Medical Department of Eussia, is of opinion that the diffusion was not a new epidemic, but that it was a recrudescence of the epidemic of i86<: an opmon which is shared by Dr. Eauvel.* Mr. Eadcliffe “unable to accept this theory as sufficient to explain all the phenomena of the eeS^bvattention to the fact that this diffusion was pre- eeded by the most considerable development of cholera in North Persia particular y in the Caspian provinces of the kingdom, that had occurred for several years. Previous outbreaks of cholera in North Persia of like extent had been invariably followed or accompanied by the appear- ® disease in Eussia The history of cholera in Persia since 5 s of much interest in relation to the subject under consideration Ihe persistence and recurring activity of cholera in Persia from i866 to 1871, although paralleled by previous periods of long-continued pre- valence of the disease—for example, from 1851 to 1861—have led some observers on the spot to question whether the malady is not becomiuff naturalised in Persia From 1865 to 1868 the general movement of cholera in Persia had been from west to east. With the return of a band of ^Jilgrims from Meshed in July 1868 when cholera raged with great violence, a reverse movement began’ mid with it indications of greater diffusiveness of the malady. This diffusion, in the course of i86g, spread over the greater portion of Northern, Western, and Central Persia, and throughout Irak-Arabi in the pashalik of Bagdad. ’ Mr. Eadcliffe is of opinion that the prevalence of cholera in Persia cannot be rightly studied without, at the same time, a study of the prevalence of the disease in India. Now, in 1867, cholera, which had broken out with much fierceness among the multitude of pilgrims assembled at Hurdwar for the great annual religious Hindu fair held there, followed in the track of the pilgrims returning northwards into Afghanistan, and towards the close of the year it was prevalent at Cabul. In 1869 it again became epidemic over the whole of the Bombay Presidency and Northern India, and spread anew into Af- ghanistan. The great trade route between Persia and India through Afghanistan, by way of Herat to Meshed, has been the track chiefly fol- lowed in previous invasions of Persia by cholera migrating from Northern India ; and Meshed, from its large commerce, as the principal centre of trade between the two countries and Afghanistan, and also from its being the focus of a great pilgrimage from all parts of Persia, has always played a very important part in the diffusion of cholera when the disease has been introduced there. Mr. Eadcliffe thinks that the outbreak of cholera at Meshed in 1868, and the subsequent diffusion of the disease from that city was more pro- * ‘ Bulletiu de I’Academio de Medecine,’ xxxvi, 694.CHOLERA. 475 bably an extension of tbe outbreak in Northern India in 1867, than a revivication of the epidemic of 1865-57. At any rate, in Russia as in Persia before adopting the recrudescence theory, the better understood effects'of reimportation during the migratory period of the disease must be more clearly excluded. . -n • • o< The reappearance of cholera in an active form m Russia in 1869, when the disease was prevalent in Northern Persia, is sufficiently intel- ligible in the light of previous diffusions ; but the locality of the reap- pearance, Kiev, an inland town of South Russia, and the absence of any extension of cholera across the Russo-Persian frontier or to the Russian coast of the Caspian, in either 1868 or 1869, appeared at first sight to shut out absolutely any connection by importation in the ordinary course of traffic between the two countries. The result of investigations into the lines of traffic between the two countries was to elicit the important fact that since 1864 there had been a great displacement of traffic between Persia and Russia in Europe. Previous to the date given the main lines of traffic were by way of Astra- chan and by way of Trebizonde; but since 1864 the traffic has been largely diverted from these routes to routes traversing Transcaucasia to the coast of the Black Sea at Poti, and thence to the ports of South Russia. This route has been greatly promoted by the Russian Govern- ment, and still further to develop the traffic from Persia along the Poti route, a railway has been projected from Poti to Baku, by way of Tifiis and Blizabethpol, and will shortly be opened. It is a most noteworthy fact that the outbreak of cholera in South Russia should coincide with the wide prevalence of the disease in North Persia, and the establishment of a direct and more rapidly traversed route of traffic between South Russia and Persia. Mr. Radcliffe justly suggests that a more probable explanation of the outbreak in South Russia in 1869 or 1870, and of the subsequent large diffusion of the disease in Northern Europe, is to be sought in the movement of cholera, in some way (from imperfection of data) as yet unknown, along the route into Russia, rather than the assumption, less consistent with our knowledge of epidemic diffusion of the disease beyond the limits of India, of the recrudescence of the well-nigh extinguished epidemic of 1865. If this suggestion be correct, the establishment of the route by way of Poti and the ports of South ^Russia, as the principal line of traffic between Persia and Russia, is a matter which seriously affects the sani- tary welfare of Europe, particularly when considered in connection with the development of railway communication between Central Europe and the Russian Coast of the Black Sea. With the completion of the Transcaucasian railway it may be anticipated that “ contagions current in Persia will become current in Europe.” Cholera on the Upper Nile.—Of great interest in connection wdth the events above narrated by Mr. Radcliffe are the facts relating to the recent prevalence of cholera in Nubia.* Cholera broke out in the Taka country, in Upper Nubia, in June, 1872. This country, of which the capital town is Karsala, lies between the rivers Atoara and Barca, and communication between it and Egypt, is chiefiy maintained through the * ‘ Cholera on the Upper Nile,” The ‘ Times,’ January 3, 1872.476 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. flnff 5'“’ Taka country is a dead an impracticable slo^h, but at present under process of reclamation by the Khedive for the purposes of cotton cultivation. It was among the labourers engaged in these works that the outbreak of cholera occurred, and, according to reports brought among them by camel drivers from Souakin. Cholera prevailed among the workers from the close of June to the close of August when it seemmgly ceased ; but in October the disease reappeared, and spread among the native tribes of the Taka country, This second outbreak was of great severity, and it probably did not come to an end till the beginning of December. From the Taka country cholera, in August extended to Berber. There it broke out with violence, and prevailed until the beginning of October, causing a great mortality. On the 3rd and 4th of September the deaths from cholera were reported to have been 200. In September the disease attacked the tribes occupying the ^untry west of Berber, and it was carried by them southwards towards Kordofan, and northwards into Dongola. Up the NBe, cholera appears to have passed from Berber into the Halfaya district, where the disease was probably present in November, and down the Nile, scattered cases were reported as low as Korosko. The probable source of this outbreak forms one of the most interest- ing episodes in the history of the late westward diffusion of cholera As already related in Mr. Eadcliffe’s report, cholera spreading from the head of the Persian Gulf was carried to Mecca and Gonfudah at the close of 1871. From Gonfudah the disease was carried by the troops to Hodeida in the following February. In Mecca the malady was sup- posed to have disappeared at the close of January, 1872. From the 19th to the 23rd of February a great religious festival was held in Mecca, at which upwards of 80,000 pilgrims were congregated in and around the city during those days. On the 27th of February cholera reappeared in Mecca, the earliest cases being observed among the Takruri pilgrims; that is to say, negro pilgrims from Nubia and Central Africa. These’ were in a most destitute condition. The number of pilgrims from the west coast of the Eed Sea who attended the festival at Mecca in 1872 exceeded 2300. Before the reappearance of cholera the greater number of the pilgrims had left Mecca. Two great caravans, the Damascus and the Egyptian had started about the 23th of February. Hardly had these caravans got clear of the city when cholera appeared among them, causing great mortality. Cholera was introduced by them into Medina. In the track of the returning pilgrims, who diverged from Medina to the sea coast, cholera reappeared at Gambo in March, and did not cease until April. Jedda, however, escaped. In April, also, cholera is re- ported to have ceased in Hodeida. The outbreak of cholera in the Taka country followed upon the series of events here related, and the disease is surmised to have been carried to Taka from Hodeida by way of Souakin. The particular steps of the transmission are not known. The time of the outbreak followed close upon the time’of the return and passage of Takruri pilgrims from Mecca by the Souakin route; and it is known that cholera first shewed itself among these pilgrims when, at the close of February, it reappeared inCHOLERA. 477 that city To what extent Europe owes its safety from last year s out- break of cholera in the Hedjaz to the energetic measures adopted by the E-yyptian Government, to prevent the introduction of mtected nilarims into Egypt, and their passage through the Suez Canal to ports in the Mediterranean, it would be difficult to say. But the preventive measures taken were well conceived and well carried out, and they offered the greatest chance of protection to Europe from the importation of the pestilence. . ■ The comparatively light diffusion of cholera in Upper Nubia appears to have been to some extent due to the military cordons established by the Egytian Government. Cholera in the British — Considerable apprehension was entertained in this country during the course of both 1871 and 1872 of an invasion of our shores by Asiatic cholera; and, indeed, England was on more than one occasion invaded by the disease, though, thanks to the precautions taken, no extension of the disease occurred. Having for nearly two years been in Russia,* and since August, 1870, more or less in St. Petersburg, cholera in the sxiring and early summer of 1871 spread somewhat considerably in the Baltic p)rovinces of Russia, and at the end of July began to touch the contiguous parts of Germany, when, soon after, Konigsberg suffered most severely._ With cholera actually epidemic at St. Petersburg, Cronstadt and Riga, and likely soon to become ejiidemic at jiarts still nearer to England, it was evident that ships from the Baltic might in certain cases be a source of danger to this country. Since quarantine in this country was not to be thought of, the steps taken by the British Government were mainly these :—Local authorities (and especially port authorities) were warned of the danger in question, and were advised of the p>recautions which in the jiresent state of our knowledge are regarded as of most value against the infection of the disease ; and every legally jDOSsible facility was given for the local exercise of such precautions. Facilities were given for the examination of ship)S arriving from the Baltic; and a central iusp)ector visited our x>orts to confer with the local authorities as to the provision of hosj)ital accommodation, &c. Never before was the extension of infection from the first imp)orted cases so successfully and completely met. Ground water.—Pettenkoferf returns to the subject of the influ- ence of ground water on cholera and tyjphoid fever in a paper on typ)hoid, cholera, and ground water in Zurich. Spite of the opposition his views have met with, and the facts urged in refutation of the validity of his conclusions, Pettenkofer still adheres to his now well- known views on this subject. Diffusion of cholera in India.—PettenkoferJ in a small work has entered into an examination of the recent reports on cholera in India by Macpherson, Murray, Macnamara, Cunningham, Lewis, Bryden, &c., and * “ First Report of the Local Government Board,” p. Iv. t ‘ Zeitsclirift f. Biologie,’ vii, p. 86. t ‘ Verbreitungsart der Cholera in Indien.’ Braunschweig, 187/. ‘ The Diffusion of Cholera in India.’ Translation in ‘Indian Annals of Med. Science,’ No. xxix, pp. 176—300.478 llEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH, States his own conclusions in the following theses, (i) In India there are S tL ^ rp^ f prevalence fluctuating according to the season fo7’ in ^+1 ^disease and its endemicity cannot be looked kpnwn ? ^<^oked for in a yet un- the specific disease-germ and the soil and •; I^dia has at all times periodicaUy difi^used Itself in the form of epidemics from the endemic districts over other tUe currents of_ air, specially the monsoons (the miasmatists, Brvden) othps human intercourse, specially through the excreta of cholera patients (contagionists, Macnamara), while others allow the diffusion m both these ways. The proposition goes on to state that neither of these views sufficiently explains the facts, but that along with human local and periodical conditions, and that diffusion by currents of air alone is certainly not in harmony with what has been observed in India. (3) That which determines the local thriving of the cholera germ, which may be called a?, does not proceed from the human organism, but from the localities due to yet unascertained processes in the soil. This principle aiiplies not only to the endemic circle but to all places in which epidemics of cholera are deyeloped. The substratum furnished by the locality or soil, on which the local and periodical disposition for cholera epidemics is depen- dent, may be called y. The cholera germ x is able to trayel with human beings, the true substratum y is associated with the locality, (4) That part of the cholera process which goes on in the soil, and on which the periodic rhythma of cholera prevalence is essentially depen- dent, both in the endemic and epidemic regions, requires, in addition to other conditions, a certain medium amount of soil moisture. Both great persistent dryness (as in deserts) and excessive continued moisture (as in the Granges Delta towards the end of the rains) of the soil are alike unfavorable to cholera. On this account, it hapjiens that in the dry and hot districts with scanty rain-fall, which abound in Djiper India, cholera usually prevails in association with the rains (summer or monsoon cholera), whilst in the moist and hot regions with very abun- dant rain-fall prevailing in Lower Bengal, cholera abounds in the rainless spring (spring cholera of Calcutta) and is put to flight again by the monsoon rains. Places which, like Madras, under otherwise like conditions, stand as regards their rain-fall in the mean between Lahore and Calcutta, show also, with tolerable regularity, spring and summer cholera in one and the same year. Whenever, as the result of altered conditions of rain and temperature, the moisture or soil-water conditions in a place deviate from the formerly existing rule, the periodical rhythma and prevalence of cholera of that place are likewise altered, so that such a place, for example Bombay, instead of prevalent spring cholera, can also exceptionally have monsoon cholera and vice versa. One and the same amount of rain acts on differently associated soils, and on soils which differ in their dryness or moisture in entirely different ways. Just such diversities as are dependent on the reception of water479 CiiOLEllA. by various soils, are also rendered prevalent by the dispersion of it into the atmosphere through evaporation. Soil and soil-water conditions may be regarded as causes of temporary or permanent immunity. (5) In addition to the cholera germ 00 which is diffused by intercourse, and the cholera substratum y which represents the local and periodical _ dispo- sition, the number of attacks is essentially dependent on the individual predisposition, which is very considerably less among the native Indians than among the Europeans. Among the natives, again, the inhabitants of hill countries show a greater individual predisposition than the in- habitants of the plains. (6) Ships at sea never generate y, or, in other words, they are never in themselves possessed of the local or periodical disposition, and are, therefore, to be regarded as exempt localities. In so far as cholera occurs on board ships, it always originates on shore. In the greater majority of cases the persons who are attacked on board a ship were already infected when they came on board, and are unable to transfer the disease to others who were not on shore, or who, previous to embarcation, were in no infected place. Only in a very few cases do people sicken who have not been on shore, and these cases also take place invariably only subsequent to some communication of the ship with the infected land. In these cases, moreover, it must not be assumed that the infection occurred independent of the co-operation of the soil (y), or that they prove it to be unnecessary, but that the communication with the land has procured a sufficient quantity of the infectious mate- rials, which was generated there in the ordinary manner (from x and y), and which, probably under certain circumstances, must enter into some further alteration, or attain a certain ripeness on board the ship before the infection can make itself known. (7) The use of various drinking waters, possible contaminated with the excretion of cholera patients, can in nowise explain the local and periodical appearance of cholera in India. Eor the further details of this elaborate paper we would refer readers to the original itself, or to the admirable translation by Dr. Cunningham from which we have quoted. Dr. Cunningham* has himself written an excellent report on cholera. This observer states that in the town of Madras, and in its immediate neighbourhood, cholera is least prevalent during very dry and very wet seasons. Palaveran, a place nearly exempt from attacks of the disease, and St. Thomas’s Mount, without any apparent differences in their soils, show a remarkable difference in their liabilities to be attacked by cholera. In the Neilgherries many facts seem to be in favour of the soundness of Pettenkofer’s theory, and the general immunity of the Neilgherry plateau appears to be quite in accordance with the require- ments of the subsoil theory. The facts are nevertheless susceptible of explanation by several of the current hypotheses, though that of the pure contagionists entirely fails; and the immunity experienced must be ascribed to some of the physical conditions under which the inhabi- tants of the district live. At Salem, again, the facts are in accordance with Pettenkofer s views, but are inexplicable on the diffusion-by-water hypothesis alone. He concludes thus : * Seventh Annual Report of the San. Com. of the Gov. of India,’ p. 139.480 * Virchow and Hirscli’s ‘ Jahresh.,' 1871, ii, p. 214. REPORT ON PUiJLtC HEALTH. ist. That with the present extremely imperfect data it is quite pre- mature to decide exclusively in favour of any one theory reeardin? the localisation of cholera. 2nd. That several of the existing theories may really involve partial truthSj and that they only become incompatible with one another when insisted on as absolute and entire explanations. 3rd. That although in the report much stress has been laid on tlie soil theory it is not on account of any assumption of its essential superiority to the others, but because it appears to be little understood in this country (India), and to be regarded with a considerable amount of prejudice in consequence. It has seemed to Dr. Cunningham, there- fore, very desirable that the existence of any facts in its favour should be distinctly put forward, and the more so that there seems to be enough of these to forbid the wholesale rejection of the theory, and to warrant the continuance of careful observations which may teach in time the laws of the association of ground moisture with the propaga- tion of cholera. Dr. Zehnder’s report on the cholera epidemic in Zurich in 1867* con- tains much valuable information on the origin and diflPusion of this disease. He regards water-closets contaminated with cholera de- jections as the most common cause of contagion, from the germs getting into the air and thus gaining access to the alimentary canal. He did not observe that drinking water played any important part in the diffusion of the disease. Meteorological conditions did not seem to exert any special influence on the spread of the epidemic. The year was very rainy. The nature of the soil, as well its conBguration, its elevation, and geological formation, especially in reference to the sub- soil water, were likewise without apparent influence on the spread of the epidemic. A comparison of the levels of the ground water with the daily number of cases of cholera, showed that at the time of the out- break the surface was tolerably dry ; at the end of August (the time when the disease was spreading) the rain had caused an increase in the moisture of the soil, while in September the moisture increased as the epidemic gained in strength. Drom the middle to the end of the month, at which time the epidemic ceased, the moisture gradually diminished till it reached the same condition of dryness as at the time when the outbreak occurred. Hence the disease began with a dry condition of the soil, gained energy as the moisture increased, and again became less active as the dryness returned. Accumulations of filth outside the houses exercised little or no influence on the difi'usion of the disease, but the accumulation of moist sewer gases in the interior of houses exercised a most prejudicial efiect and greatly contributed to the spread of the contagion. tThe paper concludes with a description of the methods taken and recommended for checking the dififusion of the disease :—(i) Absolute prevention of access to water-closets in a house once infected after disinfection of the same, and the use of utensils which are to be carefully disinfected and emptied out of the house; (2) the formation of privies for the convenience of those in whose houses or neighbourhood cases of cholera have occurred, but whoseCHOLERA. 481 mode of life renders it impossible in them to avoid the infected spots. Erichsen* investigates Pettenkofer’s subsoil vrater theory in re- ference to diffusion of cholera in St. Petersburg, and comes to the conclusion that in reference to this town it is insufl&cient to account for the facts observed in regard to the outbreak and spread of the disease. Pfeiffer,t who is a firm believer in Pettenkofer’s subsoil water theory, writes on the influence of temperature of the soil on the origin and spread of cholera. He believes that the temperature of the soil, in addition to the state of humidity and state as regards putrefactive changes, exercises a very important influence on the causation of cholera and its allies. As to arctic regions there are no data on which to build, and in the tropics the uniform temperature of the soil can have little influence. In reference to temperate climates, however, Pfeiffer finds that the acme of an epidemic of cholera coincides with the season of the greatest superficial temperature of the soil; that the cholera diminishes with the rapid decrease of the temperature, and that when the soil has a temperature under 41°—45° Fahr., the disease en- tirely disappears. The causes of the variation in soil-temperature are of course numerous, such as the temperature of the air, the conductivity of the soil, the humidity, &c. The value of each of these factors the author has studied in the epidemic at Weimar in 1870. The facts are as yet too few to allow of very general conclusions being drawn, but he thinks that more attention should be paid to a subject which is likely to throw much light on the etiology of cholera and other diseases. Causes of cholera.—Honert| believes that cholera depends on poison- ing with ammonia which is set free along with so-called marsh gas during the decomposition of nitrogenous substances. Cholera and malarious fever have, therefore, a similar origin. Cholera germs are an absurdity, and the disease is truly autochthonous. Barth§ also supposes that cholera is due to the action of a specific poison generated in the earth, and that this poison paralyses the nervous system. Communication from one person to another is an un- warrantable supposition. The poison is evolved into the air or becomes dissolved in the water in the ground, and so gains access to the system. Cholera contagion. Popes'll made several experiments in regard to the infecting power of cholera excreta, and has compared the efi"ects pro- duced by putrid infection. His experiments were made on dogs. As material for putrid infection he used infusions of putrid meat and rotten yeast, and for cholera he employed the vomited matters, faeces, and urine in a fresh condition. The materials were introduced partly into the cir- culation direct, partly into the alimentary canal. The difi'erences be- tween the symptoms and post-mortem appearances in the two cases * ‘St. Petersburg Med. Zeitschr.,’ i, p. 32s : ii, pp, 4,7 e,7 t ‘ Zeitschr. f. Biologie,' vii, p. 263. ^ ^ ^ I Virchow and Hirscli’s ‘ Jaliresb.,’ 1871, ii, p. 222. § Ibid., p. 222. I ^ y V II ‘Berlin Klin. Wchnscbrft.,’ 1872, p. 393 31482 t Vide Virchow and Hirscli's ‘ Jahresb.,' 1872, ii, p. 226. IIEPOIIT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. are_ accurately and minutely detailed. Of the latter the most charac- enstic dinerences are observable in. the alimentary canal. In putrid imection the signs are those of simple gastro-enteritis haeraorrhagica (Jiergmann) without special affection of the lymphatic glandular apparatus, while in cholera these are affected in a marked degree. He draws the following conclusions: (i) Cholera excreta are undoubtedly contagious, as well the vomited matters, as the dejecta and the urine. Cholera excreta are specially contagions in the fresh condition. (3) Decomposed excreta cause a modification of the choleraic symptoms and induce a con- dition resembling putrid infection. (4) The infection can be caused by direct introduction of the poison into the blood, without having passed the alimentary canal. (5) The action of the cholera poison does not begin at once, but generally after one to three days or longer. Organisms in cholera.—In a paper on the micrography of cholera,* Hedsvetzki states that from his microscopical investigations of cholera blood and cholera excreta he has been able to confirm the statements of Klob, Thome, and others, and he likewise claims to have made some fresh discoveries. In the dejecta, vomit, and urine of cholera patients he finds in all, (i) an upper layer consisting of oil- globules of various sizes; (2) a great number of epithelial cells more or less altered such as occur in diphtheritic products; (3) the cells are all filled, as well as the fluid in which they occur, with myriads of actively moving organisms. These organisms are of various forms; granules single and united in a rosette form, rod-shaped organisms, a granular mass composed of minute cellules. These he calls cholera- bacteridia; (4) red and white blood-corpuscles fiUed with the same organisms; (5) mucus; (6) occasional spores resembling those of aspergillus and penicillium. In the blood from the skin, the’veins, and the heart, he found a greater or less number of fat-globules. In all cases he found the red blood- corpuscles more darkly coloured and less transparent than usual. The darkest blood was found in the parenchyma of the lungs. The white blood-corpuscles were not increased in number. The chief difference appeared to be that in many cases they had passed into a granular mass and had lost their individual contours. The granules after a time began to move like the previously described organisms. The blood in the capillaries, as studied in fine sections of the skin hardened in chromic acid, exhibited between the corpuscles finely granular masses composed of organisms like the first of those described. He also states that the expired air of cholera patients contain bacte- ridia. These he regards as the carriers of cholera infection. In the paper (‘ Moscaner Med. Zeitung ’) in which his researches are pub- lished at length, the author enters into other investigations into the nature of cholera parasites, but which are not here detailed. Enteric Fever, Doreign journals f for the year 1871 ai’e rich in contributions ro- * ‘Centralblatt. f. d. Med. Wisscncb.,’ 1872, p. 232.483 ENTERIC i’EVEll. spectiug the eiDidemics o£ enteric fever which occurred in reserve and field lazarettes during the late Franco-Grerman war. Many of these discuss specially the etiology of the disease, and more than ordinary attention has been directed to the question of its diffusion by the agency of drinking water. Wohlrab * * * § gives a very interesting account of a small epidemic which occurred in the spring of 1870 in the village of Oberwiesenthal, situated 2800 feet above the sea level. The water supply was conveyed through wooden pipes which were found to be in a very filthy state, and so laid that the oozings of open cesspools could easily gain access and become mixed with the water. The disease spread in such a way as to preclude the possibility of diffusion by communication from one person to another. The sudden occurrence of the malady in five houses simultaneously pointed to a common cause. This was traced to contamination of the water sujjplied to these five dwellings, by the dejecta of the first case which occurred, by oozings from the cesspool into which they were thrown. Subsequent cases occurred traceable to a similar cause. The water was found to contain a large projDortion of chlorides. The large quantity of rain which fell during the season was considered to have been the means whereby the mixture of cesspool oozings and the water in the main cisterns was effected. Eeichjt who investigated an epidemic of enteric fever which pre- vailed in Salzbach from June 1870 to January 1871, though unable to determine how the disease was imported into the town, traced the diffusion of it to a running well which had become contaminated by the overflow of a cesspool situated near it. That this was the source of the spread of the disease appeared from the following facts:—(i) That the disease occurred only in those houses which were supplied from this well, while all the other houses immediately in the vicinity of the infected ones, but which got their water supply from pump wells, re- mained quite free from contagion. (2) The epidemic ceased and no new eases occurred after the cleansing of the cistern and stoppage of the flow from the well. (3) Analysis of the water proved that it con- tained a very large amount of organic matter, which must have come from external sources, as the well itself was a granite spring. Raymond J attributes the diftusion of typhoid in Brussels in the spring and summer of 1871J not so much to conveyance of the con- tagion by water, but rather to meteorological conditions and to the effluvia from sewers. Socin § has investigated the relation of typhoid in Basle to the state of the subsoil and the rainfall. His conclusions are(i) In all pro- bability unusual dryness favours the development of typhoid in Basle while increasing moisture checks it. (2) The intensity of the epidemics cannot be explained by the degree or rapidity of the variations in humidity. (3) The epidemics occur usually in the second half of the * ‘Arch. cl. Heilk.,’ 1871, p. 134. t ‘ Aerztl. Mitthcil. aus. Baden,’ No. is, 1871. I ‘ Archiv. Med. Beiges,’ Juin, 1871, p. 385. § ‘Typhus, Eegenmenge und Gruudwasser in Basel, luaug. Diss ’ PP- 59i 231- Virchow and Hirsch’s ‘ Jahrsb ,’ 1871, ii, p. 231. Basel, 1871,* ‘ Lancet,' 1872, i, pp. 787, 820. 481. REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. wLofi increasing humidity; whence it remains undetermined w ether, in contradiction to the first proposition, humidity favours the development of typhoid, or whether it is a late effect of the previous dryness, or whether it is entirely due to temperature. (4) 1 he movements of the disease are the same in all parts of the city, whether high or low, or near or at a distance from the Ehine (0 The epidemic does not select one part of the city more than another Mr. JJe Eenzy* has given a remarkable instance of the extinction of enteric fever in a prison by the simple method of changing the supply of drinkmg water. Tor many years some of the ablest of our metropolitan physicians failed to detect the true cause of the un- healthiuess of MiUbank prison, and assigned various causes for it which later experience has proved to be unconnected with it. Enteric fever was rife from time to time in the gaol. In the year 1854, however, the water supply was changed with the best possible results. Pre- viously, the water used for drinking purposes in the prison was pumped direct from the Thames, but was- of course filtered before use. The water used for domestic purposes is now supplied by the artesian well in Trafalgar Square. The change was carried into effect in ^ the midst of the cholera epidemic which was then so severely visiting London, and the prison was suflFering from cholera at the time. Six days after the change the disease suddenly ceased, and a marked improvement took place in the health of the prisoners. Erom the date of the introduction of the new water supply up to April 1872, a period of nearly 19 years, there have been only three deaths from enteric fever, viz. one in 18^5, one in i860, and one 1865. Mr. De Eenzy thinks that the sanitary history of Millbank—which he gives in detail—appears to warrant the following conclusions : I. That the extinction of enteric fever, and other diseases of the saine class, is quite within the range of practicability. 2. That the extinction of one class of zymotic leases is not necessarily followed by zymotic diseases of a different class. Eor example :—It is sujiposed that the increased prevalence of scarlatina and measles of late years is due to the partial displacement of smallpox by vaccination. The case of Millbank shows that it is practicable to protect a community against every kind of zymotic disease. Ignorance of sanitary science is the great obstacle to the extension of this protection to the free population. 3. That since some of the ablest physicians in London failed for many years to detect the true cause of the unhealthiness of Millbank Prison, and assigned causes for it which later experience has found to be unconnected with it, the probability is that a similar error is frequently made elsewhere, and that the prevalence of some zymotic disease is ascribed to locality, faialaria, heat, cold, variations of temperature, moral depression, and other intangible inffuences which would be entirely removed by the general disuse of impure water. 4. That as it required long years of observation to establish the noxious infiuence of Thames water in Millbank, even when well filtered, under conditions very favorable for detection, we should beENTERIC FEVER. 485 cautious in accepting the opinion, based on the resul^ of chemical analysis, that the use of that water by the population of London is tree The ‘ Second Annual Report of the State Board of Health of Massa- chusetts’* contains a number of queries and the replies to them, from medical men in 163 towns in the State, in reference to the causes of enteric fever. The following is a statement of the questions and answers: _ (1) Have you observed a difference in the prevalence of this disease between bouses supplied with water from wells about the premises and houses supplied with water conveyed from springs or from ponds of unquestionable purity ?—Replies : “ Tes,” 23 ; “no difference has been remarked,” 71; whole supply of towns from wells, 18; indefinite, 51. (2) Can you inform us whether, at times, when typhoid prevailed, the water of the wells was rising or falling, and whether it was higher or lower than the average for the year ? (To this question is appended a note recommending observation of the height of the subsoil water in future, if attention had not previously been directed to it.)—Replies : Rising after being very low, ii ; falling, 16; very low, 28 ; “have not observed,” 100. (3) Have you observed any connection between typhoid fever and foul soil, whether from privies, pigsties, manure heaps, or similar collec- tions of decomposing matter lying on the ground ?—Replies: Tes, 79; no, 43 ; doubtful, 39. (4) Have you observed any connection between typhoid fever and putrid air, whether from rotting vegetables in cellars, bad drains, un- ventilated living or sleeping rooms, or from any other cause ?—Replies: Tes, 90; no, 36; doubtful, 37. Ten towns report that typhoid is a disease almost entirely unknown among them, and they can assign no reason for this. In a table is given the mortality from typhoid fever in the urban population of Massa- chusetts during the last ten years, from which it appears that in 147 cities and towns of more than 2000 inhabitants the average annual rate of mortality from this disease was o'753 per 1000 persons living; whilst in 184 towns of less than 2000 inhabitants the average annual rate of mortality was so much as i‘i89 per 'looo persons living. Typhoid is more prevalent in the smaller rural towns than in the large manufacturing towns, but the mortality from all causes is higher in the latter. Decomposing organic matter is considered in the report as the proximate cause of enteric fever. Typhus.—Grun t is of opinion, from his investigations into the epi- demic of typhus in East Russia, in 1867 and 1868, that the disease is of autochthonous origin, and springs up where filth, poverty, and bad air prevail, and where vegetable and animal organisms find a suitable nidus, and (levelope a poison which disseminates itself further by way of con- tagion. VirchowJ has convinced himself that there are no sufficient grounds * ‘ Dublin Quart. Journ. of Med. Sci.,’ li, p. 480. t ‘■Vierteljahrsc.hr. f. Gerichtl. Med.,’ xiii, p. 203. X ‘ "Virchow’s Arcbiv,’ 53, p. 134.486 llEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. for believing in the spontaneous generation of this disease, and that it can, as a rule, bo ti’aced to contagion. Pastau* describes an epidemic of typhus •which prevailed in Breslau jioin loOo to 1869. The disease followed close on an epidemic of re- lapsing fever, and spread particularly in those districts in which relapsim^ fever had raged. In all, there occurred 738 cases, 419 of which were among men, and 319 in women; 78 persons survived both diseases. J\ early the half of the cases fell between the ages of sixteen to thirty- five years. The mortality, on the average, was i4'92 per cent., and in- creased with age. During the prevalence of the typhus epidemic, cases of enteric fever were less numerous. Etiologically, according to Pastau, typhus seems to have something in common with relapsing fever. Good results were obtained from the cold water treatment. With this treatment the mortality was 9^23 per cent, during the first week, and 14-66 per cent, in the second week, against a percentage of 16-47 when the expectant treatment was followed. Belapsing fever.—Tennentf communicates a very interesting series of observations on the epidemic of relapsing fever in Glasgow in 1870. The origin of the epidemic was traced to infection from Edinburgh. Erom this focus the contagion spread, and reached its height in the middle of December. About 1200 in all were affected, a very small number when compared with the epidemic of 1843, on which occasion as many as 32,000 cases occurred. The disease prevailed almost exclu- sively in the poorer districts of the town. The disease was very infec- tious, so that out of 352 cases, infection was clearly traced in 295. Nearly all tlie occupants of the same house were afected about the same time. This was evidently dependent on faulty hygienic condi- tions, since of 80 nurses and attendants in the hospital only 16 cases of the disease occurred. It was also observed that in proportion to the increase in the number of cases of relapsing fever those of typhus dimi- nished, a fact which was likewise observed in London and Edinburgh. The paper gives a full account of the symptoms and sequelae of the disease. The mortality was small, only 6 fatal cases occurring out of a total of 362 cases. Tenneut did not observe the ophthalmia described by Mackenzie among the sequelae. Charteris,J however, had opportunity during this epidemic of study- ing this “post-febrile ophthalmia,” of which he gives a detailed account. The reap]iearance of relapsing fever in the southern district of the metropolis at the close of 1872 was followed by its appearance in Man- chester in the Pottery District, and led to the issue, by the medical officer of the Local Government Board, of a memorandum on the chief practical points to be borne in view by the sanitary and other authorities responsible for taking precautions against the disease and its conse- quences. * ‘ Centralblatt f. die Med. Wissenscli.,' 1871, p. 362. + ‘Glasgow Med. Joui-n.,’ May, 1871, p. 354. j Ibid., p. 347-SMALLPOX. 487 Scarlet fever.—Dv. Alfred Carpenter* propounds some new ideas re- garding tiie causation of scarlet fever. lie brings forward a number of facts relating to the diffusion of this disease in Croydon, which seems to warrant the conclusion that scarlet fever may originate, de novo, from the decomposition of blood outside the organism under certain unknown conditions. The fatal cases of scarlet fever occur in Croydon chiefly in three places, which have this in common, that they are in the neighbourhood of slaughter-houses, from which the drainage is imperfect. He holds that, unlike typhoid, scarlet fever is independent of the sanitary state of the district, inasmuch as it prevails to a great extent where good drainage, &c., has driven typhoid away. ^ Cases are given where scarlet fever broke out, and proved very fatal, in new houses which had been built on land previously manured with blood from slaughter-houses. Copeman f believes that the scarlet fever miasma is difi'used chiefly by the faeces, and hence he recommends that these should be thoroughly disinfected. Dr. Geo. Johnson^ considers that the infective period of scarlet fever lasts over a month from the first day of the disease. The carriers of the poison are the secretions of the throat, the nose, and the epidermic scales. Also the faeces and the urine may carry the contagion. He recommends as prophylactic treatment the isolation of the patient and burning a fire night and day in the apartment. All carpets, &c., must be removed, and the attendants must wear easily washed clothes, and avoid intercourse with other persons as much as possible. Excreta, urine, &c., must be carefully disinfected. In order to avoid infection from the skin, the patient should be bathed, once or twice a day, as long as desquamation goes on, in a warm bath, and afterwards rubbed with camphor oil, or better, with carbolic acid soap, during the bath. When the patient is well, the room and everything in it must be thoroughly cleaned out and disinfected. The doors and windows of the room should be left open for a long time, and a fire kept con- tinually burning in it. Children living in a house where scarlet fever prevails must be kept from school, in order to avoid any risk of their propagating the contagion. Smallpox.—year 1871 was chiefly remarkable at home through the prevalence, first in London, and afterwards generally in England, of a far severer epidemic of smallpox than any which had been wit- nessed of late years, or probably since the general use of vaccination. It appears to have killed in England, within the year, nearly 23,000 persons, including 7876 of the population of London.§ The severity of the epi- demic became evident in two ways—first, by the extraordinary multitude of persons whom the disease attacked, and secondly, by the extraordi- nary intensity of the disease in the individual cases. To illustrate the latter point, it may suffice to mention that at the London Smallpox Hospital, where 930 cases were treated during the year, the deaths, in * ‘Lancet,’ 1871, pp. no, 148. t ‘ St. George’s Hosp. Rep.,’ vol. v. No. 3, p. 55. J ‘ British Med. Journ.,’ 1870, ii, p. 315. § ‘ First Report of the Local Government Board,’ 1871-72, p. lii, (blue book).488 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. 1 enence of the hospital for thirty-two years would have prognosti- and to our own country, nf information cannot be quoted as to all the diffi Sion of the disease in Continental Europe, facts enough are known to north-western parts of the Con- tinent, the power of the epidemic was as great as here! lessons of this epidemic, in reference to the value of vaccination affOTd sonie very suggestive facts for comparison. In the chief towns 2 j vaccination is non-compulsory, and where, as a rule the children are long left unvaccinated; in Hamburg, with non- com pusory vaccination; in Paris, where not only vaccination is non- compulsory, but where also, at least some years ago, there were strong grounds for suspecting the quality of much of the current vaccination • —in all these places the epidemic seems to have raged with very much more severity than even in London; and Hamburg, which, though ^ tenth part of our London population, suffered nearly two thirds as many deaths as London, has now, under influence of this terrible suffering, been led for the first time to pass a law of compulsory yaccination. The proceedings taken by the Local Government Board for Eug- land, with reference to the epidemic of smallpox, consisted in endea- vours to move local authorities to resist the disease in their respective districts by duly administering, first and above all, as specially appli- cable to the case, the provisions of the vaccination law, and secondly, those provisions of nuisance law which apply to all dangerous infectious disease, and are meant to secure the isolation of the sick and the dis- infection of infected houses and things. The extensive diffusion of the disease in England brought into prominence the evil results of the general want throughout the country of hospital accommodation for cases of dangerous infectious disease. The epidemic brought also into strong relief two popular errors with regard to re-vaccination. Eirst, the error of not having it performed on each person (irrespectively of any immediate alarm of smallpox) on his attaining the age of puberty, and secondly, the error of seeking under panic to have it performed indiscriminately again and again. Under the influence of these two errors, Mr. Simon states,* the first allowing an indefinite accumulation of postponed cases, and the second giving swarms of needless, or relatively needless, re-applicants, the demand for re-vaccination, under alarm of this great epidemic, was such as medical practitioners could not by any possibility at once meet without sacri- ficing the cardinal conditions of safe vaccination. It is stated in a reportf that the necessity of re-vaccination when the protective power of the primary vaccination has to a great extent passed away, cannot be too strongly urged. Ho greater argument to prove the efficacy of this precaution can be adduced than the fact that, out of * Loc. cifc. t ‘ Report of a Committee of the Managers of the Metropolitan Asylum District, &c., 1872.’ Pamphlet.SMALLPOX. 489 upwards of 14,800 cases received into the hospitals, only four well- authenticated cases were treated in which re-vaccination had been pro- perly performed, and these were light attacks, burther conclusive evidence is afforded by the facts, that all the nurses and servants of the hospitals, to the number at one time of upwards of 300,^ who were hourly brought into the most intimate contact with the disease, who constantly breathed its atmosphere, and than whom none can be more exposed to its contagion, have, with but few exceptions, enjoyed com- plete immunity from its attacks. These exceptions were cases of nurses or servants whose re-vaccination, in the pressure of the epi- demic, was overlooked, and who speedily took the disease; and one case was that of a nurse who, having had smallpox previously, was not re-vac- cinated, and took the disease a second time. The medical officer of the Homerton Fever Hospital* (used during the smallpox epidemic for smallpox patients) gives tables, embodying the experience of that institution, to disprove a very common error, viz. that more vaccinated than unvaccinated persons are attacked by small- pox, and states that the real truth is that vaccinated persons, and by vaccinated persons he means only properly vaccinated persons, form but a very small proportion of those attacked by smallpox. Looking at the cases, divided into those occurring before and after puberty, he finds the case stands thus with regard to patients treated in the above-men- tioned hospital. Of 411 of smallpox vaccinated and unvaccinated, only 17 had been vaccinated according to the standard of the vaccine insti- tution, and 4 according to Mr. Marson’s standard, i. e. that of 41 r smallpox patients, but 21 had been vaccinated properly. The pro- portion of well-vaccinated persons attacked by the disease after puberty was higher than under that age, but it was still true that well-vacci- nated persons formed but a small proportion of the smallpox cases. Of 349 eases occurring after fifteen, 32 only had been vaccinated according to the directions of the vaccine institution, and but 13 according to Mr. Marson. Taking aU the cases together, and assuming the two standards referred to as equally good, it was found that of 1000 cases of smallpox, 65 only had been efficiently vaccinated, the other 933 had been inefficiently vaccinated. Another table is given showing the importance of quality in vacci- nation, and illustrating the influence of different kinds of vaccination in determining the severity short of death. Hot a single severe case occurred in a vaccinated child, and only 7 well vaccinated children had the disease, and these in a very mild form. Of 132 cases of severe smallpox occurring after twelve years of age, 31 per cent, occurred amongst the unvaccinated, 23 per cent, amongst the badly vaccinated, 4 per cent, amongst the fairly well vaccinated, and amongst the well vaccinated there was but one case. A select committee of the House of Commons sat in the session of 1870, and arrived at these among other conclusions :f—That the cow-pox affords, if not an absolute, yet a very great protection against an attack * ‘ Report of the Medical Officer of the Homerton Fever Hospital for 18^1-2’ Pamphlet. ' t Report. Vaccination Act (1867). Bine book.llEPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. of siBcallpox and an almost absolute protection against death from that aisease. Ihat if the operation bo performed with due regard to the iiealfch ol the patient vaccinated, and with proper precaution iu obtain- ing and using ^ the vaccine lymph, there need be no apprehension that vaccination will injure health or communicate any disease. That smallpox unchecked by vaccination is one of the most terrible and destructive of diseases; as regards the danger of infection, the pro- portion of deaths among those attacked, and the permanent injury to the survivors, and therefore that it is the duty of the State to endea- vour to secure the careful vaccination of the whole population. As a consequence of the recommendations of the select committee, the Vaccination Act, 1871, was passed, the provisions of which muk be known to the readers of this ‘ Eetrospect.’ The bulky report of the select committee contains a mass of extremely valuable matter re- lating to vaccination and re-vaccination, including all that can be said against the operation. Scurvy.—Much interesting matter has been published relative to a scorbutic epidemic which prevailed in Paris during the winter of the siege of 1870-71.* As regards the etiology of the disease. Dr. 0. Berger is of opinion that scurvy was brought about by the following causes Depressing mental influences; undue bodily exertion, as well as want of exercise; overcrowding; cold; alteration in diet, more especially the want of fresh vegetables; want of food, and this was the cl lief cause of the epidemic. An insnfficient quantity of food acted, however, as a predisposing cause only, and was incompetent to induce the disease in the absence of special conditions, notably the withdrawal of fresh vegetables. Even with this in other respects best of diets, lack of fresh vegetables induced scurvy. As regards the quantity of food it is worthy of note that the theory which asserts that the use of salt meat produces scurvy, receives no support from the facts observed during the siege; a diet of fresh meat induced scurvy where fresh vegetables were withheld, even when every other hygienic condition was perfect. Acid fruits were found to replace fresh vegetables. Wounds received whilst fighting were not proved to predispose towards the disease. Chalvet found the cause of scurvy to be inanition, in conjunction with cold. It is also asserted that the great benefit de- rived from the use of green vegetables and fruits arises from this, that the potash salts contained in them readily split up in the organism into acid and base, whilst the phosphate, nitrate, and chloride, being much more stable, cannot replace the less stable potash salts. Delpechf found that an abundant diet of fresh meat did not ward off the disease where fresh vegetables were withheld, and asserts that the deprivation of a vegetable diet is the sole determining cause of scurvy. Dwellers in marshes.—Prof. Prestel,J of Emden, recommends rain- water for use among the dwellers in marshes, where, as is well known, it is often next to impossible to procure good drinking-water from wells * ‘ Ann. d’Hyg.,’ xxxv, p. 297, and xxxvi, p. 279. ‘ Gaz. Hebd.,’ viii (xviii), 1871, 6, 9, 14, 16, 17, 18. ‘Schmidt’s Jahrb.,’ cliii, p. 82. t Loc. cit. X ‘ Vrtljhrsschrft. f. Gericht. Med.,’ N.F., xvi, p. 336.491 ENTOZOA. sunk in ths ground. Ho riiisos £i novol cntorion of tlio fitnoss of rain- wator for drinking purposes. If i-s a. familiar fact tkat rain-water un* * * § dergoes a sort of fermentation, by wbicb it is freed from various organic matters, wbicb bave been washed out of tbe atmosphere. Subsecjuently various animal organisms are developed in tbe water. Dr. Prestelsays that, as long as entomostracss (cypris, cyclops, dapbnia,, &c., i. e. water- iieas, &c.) are active in tbe water, it is fitted for drinking purposes. The animals may readily be separated by a very coarse method of filtra- tion. Whenever such water becomes an unhealthy and non-potable liquid tbe above organisms perish. The author also asserts that in marshes the mortality is in inverse ratio in different years and seasons to the amount of rainfall; a diminished rainfall in one month is followed by an -increased mortality during the succeeding month, and, vice versa, an unusual rainfall during one month is followed by a diminished mortality during the next month. The saying, “More rain the less sickness,” may be accepted as an axiomatic truth. Air and rain.—Dr. Angus Smith* has published an elaborate but highly diffuse work on the above subject, and intended as the begin- ning of a chemical climatology. Its great merit consists in the large number of facts embodied in it; and Dr. Smith, from his official posi- tion as (General) Inspector of Alkali Works for the British Govern- ment, has had better means than almost any man living of getting at facts bearing upon the subject of which he treats. He shows that small differences from the mean of 2o’96—the percentage of oxygen in pure air—may make vast differences in its healthiness or unhealthiness ; and also that a moderate increase in the percentage of carbonic acid, formed at the expense of the oxygen, may have much to do with the unhealthiness of air. It must not be forgotten that when the carbonic acid is derived from the act of respiration, organic impurities are also brought into play, and these the author attempts to determine quanti- tatively by Wanklyn, Chapman, and Smith’s process of oxidation by an alkaline solution of permanganates, and estimation of the resultant ammonia—a process which has been found to be exceedingly valuable for the determination of the amount of nitrogenous organic impurity in drinking waters. Dr. Angus Smith’s work is merely tentative and of a preliminary character, so that it is rendered unsuited for .brief abstraction. No doubt he will extend his researches, and endeavour to draw some useful general conclusions from them. Alcoholism.—Several exhaustive essays upon this topic have appeared. We can merely indicate the titles of some of these :—M. Ach.- Boville,f jun., on ‘ Practical Means for Combating Drunkenness;’ Dr. Jules BergeronI on ‘ The Eepression of Alcoholism.’ Petroleum.—M. A. Chevallier§ has investigated the dangers attending the manipulation, stowage, and use of petroleum. The physiological * ‘ Air and Kain.’ London, 1872. t ‘ Ann. d.’Hyg.,’ [2] xxxvii, pp. x, 299. X Ibid., xxxviii, p. i. § Ibid., xxxviii, p. 277.492 REPORT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. wj ?• petroleum are a peculiar action on the brain and portions of the oil, known as petroleum ether or benzoline, may be used as an anaesthetic. It is known that workmen who are engaged in petroleum warehouses suffer severely from inhala- Bntozoa in relation to public health and the sewage guestion.~Dv Spencer Cobbold* is of opinion that the utilization of sewacre for the purposes of irrigation greatly contributes to the diffusion and growth of parasites in man and the domestic animals. He mentions facts which seem to render this not merely a hypothesis; the common occurrence of entozoa, the difficulty of diagnosing the diseases caused by them and the enormous number of ova which they produce. Parasites once intro- duced into a locality can by means of sewage irrigation become ende- mic. In regard to the enormous reproductive powers of entozoa he mentions the case of a girl under treatment for bilharzia hmma- tobium, whose urine daily contained so many as 10,000 ova of this parasite. Disinfection.—Prof. Hoppe-Seylerf has made a valuable contribution to our knowledge of putrefactive and fermentative processes, and he has also investigated the influence which several reputed disinfectants exert upon these processes. Our review will embrace this latter portion of the subject only. After reference to Pettenkofer’s well-known views as to cholera- germs, the author asserts that, although deodorants, as, e. q. sulphate of ipn, destroy the ill-smelling products of fermentation and putre- faction, it must not be supposed that the infective materials of such diseases as cholera and typhus are thereby necessarily destroyed, and that in carrying out disinfection we must not rest contented with merely destroying bad smells. 'He is of opinion that metallic salts act as disinfectants chiefly by precipitating ferments, and along with these the lower organisms also. He has proved that i-20th of green vitriol suffices to prevent all development of infusorial life in a solution; but it is questionable whether the ferment and the organisms are re- spectively so changed and destroyed as to be incapable of showing their activity renewed under altered conditions. As regards carbolic acid, Hoppe-Seyler finds that the destruction of the lower organisms is admirably achieved by the use of a very small quantity of this agent, but that the prevention of fermentation demands the employment of a much larger amount of it. One per cent, of carbolic acid will effectually put an end to organic life, but two per cent, is required to prevent putrefactive changes. Sulphurous acid gas appears to the author to be the most eff'ective agent for destroying germs in the air. Rather less than —3 ounces of sulphur burnt in each 100 cubic feet of the space to be dis- infected entirely prevents the growth of fungi. These quantities of sulphur give one and two volumes per cent, respectively of sulphurous acid gas. * ‘ Med. Times and Gazette,' 1871, i, pp. 93, 315, 236, 363. t ‘Medizin.-Chem. Untersuch.,' 1871, p. 561.493 iDISlNfECTtON. Some further useful and new information on this subject is also con- tained in a paper by Dr. Zapolsky.* , , p n • • , The Chemical Society of Berlinf has issued the following instruc- tions for disinfection. They are so valuable that we give them almost in full: _ j 1 i- f Excrementitious matters and privies.—Dor commodes, solutions oi permanganate of potash or of carbolic acid are to be used, also for pus- basins and chamber utensils, rinsing with carbolic acid _ solution, leaving a little of the solution in the vessels after the operation. Dor spittoons, carbolic acid powder. Dor night stools, carbolic acid powder if they are to remain unemptied, and solutions of permanganate of potash if they are emptied immediately. Dor closets with separate recep- tacles, carbolic acid powder to the solid, solution of carbolic acid to the liquid, excrement. Dor water-closets use carbolic acid water. Dor privies communicating with cess-pits use carbolic acid powder, solu- tions of chloride of manganese, green vitriol, or other metallic salt; applying the disinfectant to the surrounding soil also. Dor privies communicating with dung pits, sprinkle with carbolic acid powder or with a solution of carbolic acid in water. Dor sanitary pipes use carbolic acid water. Dor latrines in camps and barracks use lime, gypsum, or, at all events, earth, and change the site of the latrines frequently. Dung-heaps are to be treated with carbolic acid powder. Urinals are to be treated with carbolic acid water and solution of chloride of lime (we have found chloride of lime of little use in deodo- rising urinals; the chloride soon expends itself in liberating nitrogen from urea.—Ed.). Spent charpie, lint, bandages, &c., should be col- lected in vessels of tinned iron containing permanganate of potash or carbolic acid, and then burnt. If the above are thrown into dust-bins, chloride of lime is to be employed. Straw, hay, and the like, from transports for the wounded, and soaked mattresses not again to be used should be treated with chloride of lime, and burnt as quickly as possible. Animal refuse from slaughter-houses and lairs are to be buried deeply and covered with quicklime or with chloride of lime. Enclosures. — These include sick-rooms, railway carriages, and waggons (and things used for transports of every kind), cowstalls (especial attention must be paid to the mangers), workrooms in factories, schools, prison-cells, sentry- and watch- boxes, lavatories, barracks, living-rooms, urinals, operation-rooms, dead-houses, ware- houses filled with animal matter, slaughter-houses, and ship-decks. The floors of these are to be scoured with carbolic acid water, and the walls and ceilings lime-washed with carbolic acid and lime, and the air is to be purified by the evaporation of wood-vinegar, or carbolic acid (from the powder). If the rooms are unused—and only then is an actual disinfec- tion of the air feasible the floors are to be washed with a solution of chloride of lime or of hypochlorite (liq. sodse chloratm, &c.) or a solution of chloride of manganese. Place about the room or other vessels containing chloride of lime with either hydrochloric or acetic * ‘ Medizin.-Chem Untersuch.,’ p. 842. t ‘Deut. Ztaclir. f. Staatsarznkd,’ n. f. xxix, p. 1644.9-i. IIEPOIIT ON PUBLIC HEALTH. acid, or strong nitric acid, or nitric acid and pieces of tin-foil. ulpliur may be burnt (roll brimstone is best) in earthenware vessels about sprinkle carbolic acid water - Courts, market-places, open abattoirs, cemeteries, nattle-nelds, and deserted places of rendezvous here included Above all things, remove the causes of danger (putrefying refuse, corpses, &c. &c.), burying such matters, or covering them with chloride of lime, lime, or earth, further, larger surfaces are, when possible to be watered with a solution of chloride of manganese. The so win" of plants of rapid growth is very advisable. ° _ Water.—'Drin'king water is best rendered harmless by previous boil- ing. Failing this, permanganate of potash may be added till the water IS just tinged by the salt. Turbid water, or^ water that becomes turbid on standing, may be clarified by the addition of a little alum or soda. Carbon filters remain active only when they are frequently calcined with exclusion of air. Floivinq or stagnant wa^er.--Sinks, gutters, conduits of all kinds, pools, &c., are to be_ sluiced with as much water as possible, and to be frequently treated with the following agents: carbolic acid, quick lime, chloride of magnesium, and tar (Suvern’s mixture, see below), alum’ salts, chloride of manganese, and other metallic salts. Body- and led-linen, articles of clothing, ^c.—Linen must be sprin- kled immediately after use with carbolic acid water, and then immersed for some time in boiling water. Mattresses, uniforms, and articles of clothing, are best heated in an oven to 212° to 258° Fahr., and afterwards beaten. When this cannot be done, the actually infected articles are to be burnt, and the rest soaked in carbolic acid water, and then dried in a warm room. Men and living animals that, have come into personal contact with infected matters.—Wash the hands in a solution of permanganate of potash. The animals are to be sprinkled all over with carbolic acid water and especially on the soft parts. Corpses which are to he removed to a distance are to be sprinkled with carbolic acid water, and to be wrapped in cloths soaked in solution of chloride of lime (i in 20.) When possible the abdomen is to be opened—a small opening will suffice—and solid chloride of lime inserted. Wounds.—The treatment of these must always be left to the surgeon. It may, however, be remarked that solutions of pure permanganate of potash and pure carbolic acid should alone be used. Directions for the preparation of the disinfecting materials.—Solutions of permanganate of potash should contain i part of the pure salt in 100 parts of water, or, if the crude salt be used, 5—10 parts in the same quantity of water. It acts, in solution, as a disinfectant, but acts only on the surface of solid masses. Carbolic acid water is obtained by dissolving i part of pure crystal- lized carbolic acid (liquefied by immersing the vessel in wmrm water) in 100 parts of water. Crude carbolic acid, the strength of whichLEGISLATION. 495 is V6ry variable, is used iu the proportion of i part acid to of water. Carholic acidimoderis prepared by mixing loo parts of peat, gypsum, earth, sand, sawdust, or charcoal, with i part of carbolic acid previously mixed with water. The crude acid is recommended, used in double the above proportion. If carholic acid salts are employed twice as much is required as of the acid itself. Carholic acid lime-iohite is made by mixing i part of carbolic acid with loo parts of milk of lime. Solution of chloride of lime should be made by mixing i part of the chloride with loo parts of water. Bromine may be used, but with great care, on account of its highly poisonous action. Its saturated solution in water is the best substance to be used, and may be employed where chloride of lime and the like are directed to be employed. The preparation of bromine water should not be entrusted to unpractised hands. Solutions oigreen vitriol and other metallic salts are prepared by agitating an excess of the salt with water. Suvern's mixture is made from loo parts slaked lime, parts coal- tar, and 15 parts chloride of magnesium, mixed with water. Legislation. The Sessions of the British Parliament of 1871 and 1872 were the occasions of the passing of the following Statutes bearing upon the public health:—the Local Grovernment Board Act, 1871; the Pactory and Workshop Act, 1871; the Metropolis Water Act, 1871; the Infant Life Protection Act, 1872; the Pactories Steam Whistles Act, 1872 ; and the Adulteration of Pood, Drink, and Drugs Act, 1872. The Local Government Board Act, 1871, provided for the con- stitution of a central board, now known as the Local Glovernment Board, to which w^ere transferred all the powers and duties vested iu the old Poor Law Board, those vested in the Medical Department of the Privy Council Office, those vested in the Secretaries of State under Local Government Acts, and certain sanitary functions of the Board of Trade. This Act was a necessary preliminary to the bringing in of a new Public Health Bill. The Pactory and Workshop Act, 1871, transferred from the local sanitary authorities to Her Majesty’s Inspectors of Pactories the supervision of the hours of labour limited and prescribed by previous statutes for women and children, pd introduced certain modifications 01 the legal hours of work in certain trades and occupations. The Metropolis Water Act, 1872, provides, under certain regulations, mr a constant water supply to the houses in London and its suburbs. 1 ha,ve been framed, but the Act has hitherto been a dead letter The interests of small property holders are too powerful to permit local authorities to put the provisions of the statute in force; hence London remains with a, for the most part, intermittent water-supply. ^ ’496 REPORT ON PUBLiO lIEALTtl. he Infant Life Protection Act, 1872, contemplates the periodical examination and licensing of all houses where baby-farming is carried on as a practice, and is intended to insure for infants sent out to nurse, proper food and attention; and, in the event of death an inquest is directed to be held. The Pactories Steam Whistles Act requires the sanction of the local sanitary authority for the use of steam whistles and trumpets in order to prevent annoyance in quiet neighbourhoods. ’ The Act of 1872 to amend the law for the prevention of adul- ^ration of food and drink and of drugs is a most important one. i>y the old statute of i860 it was made penal to adulterate articles of food and drink with substances injurious to health. By the Pharmacy Act of 1868, the provisions of the above statute were extended to druf^s; but the adulteration of drugs was deemed of such importance to the community that all admixtures of drugs were declared to be adultera- tions. These Acts were entirely inoperative, and not being obligatory, were never put in force. The recent statute amends the definition of adulteration, and enacts a penalty for the mixer, and the person who orders admixture, as well as for the vendor of adulterated articles of food, drink and drugs. It is thought that the law now stands thus, I. All admixtures of drugs are adulterations injurious to health. 2! Pood and drinks are adulterated when they are mixed with substances injpious to health, and also when substances are fr'audulently to in pease weight and bulk. 3. Local authorities are empowered to appoint analysts, who must have competent medical, chemical and microscopical knowledge, and it is supposed that the Local Government Board can compel recalcitrant local authorities to apppoint analysts. The Public Health Act, 1872, is a most important measure, pro- viding ^ for the constitution of urban and rural sanitary districts, authorities and officers; bringing the whole of Bngland under sanitary regime, and giving the central Local Government Board a direct voice in, and control over, the proceedings of the local sanitary authorities. It is ppected that this statute will speedily be supplemented by a consolidation of sanitary law—a reform much needed.33 INDEX. Abdominal aneurism (Durham), 205 — tumour, cases of (Dickenson), 166 Abortion, case of (Noeggerath), 402 — caused by retroflexion of the uterus (Phillips), 402 Abscess, intra-cranial, trephining for, 268 — of the brain, titles of papers on, 93 — of the lung, 122—3 Absorption, by the unbroken skin (Aus- pitz, Neumann, Rohrig), 3—4 — influence of muscles on (Genersich), 3 — influence of nerve centi’es on, 4 — list of authors on subjects connected with, 5 — of lymph by tendons (Genersich, Lesser, &c.), 3—4 — of solids from serous cavities (Aus- pitz, Neumann), 3 Accommodation, paralysis of, in diphthe- ria (Hutchinson), 104 Add, carbolic, action of, internally (Sal- kowski), 446 — do., in cholera, 48—50 — do., poisoning by, 445 — carbonic, amount of eliminated from the skin (Aubert), 13 do., tension of, in blood and lun'^s (Wolffbey), 15 ~44R^°48 (^“017) &c.), — do., chemistry of (Miahle), 448 — do., detection of (Almen, Preyer), 454 — nitric, cases of poisoning by, 442 sulphuric, cases of poisoning by, 441 — sulphurous, action of, on germs, 492 Acids, cases of poisoning by various, 442 Aconite, antagonism of, to digitalis (Dobie), 440 ^ Aconitine, on (Duquesnel, &c.), 468 Acupressure, a new plan of using (Lucas), — on (Pirrie), 197 Adams, case of extra-uteiine fcetation, 404 ' Adams (J. E.), dislocation of wrist, 248 wedge of bone at knee, 224 ’ — fracture of head of radius, 258 Adams (J. E.), transition of testicle into perinfeum, 281 Adams (Mr. W.), fracture of skull in a child, 266 — subcutaneous division of neck of thigh- bone, 234 Addison’s disease, cases of (Laschke- witsch, Tuckwell, Payne), 76 do., red corpuscles in (Laschkewitsch), 8 — do., titles of papers on, 76 Adenoma, lymph- (Murchison), 111 Adenopathy, bronchial, on (Gueneau de Mussy), 110 Adipocere in a ranula (Tay), 284 iEgophony, on (Stone), 107 Affleck, cases of dilatation of the stomach, 153 — case of shoulder presentation, 414 Ague (see fever, intermittent), 45 Ahlfeld, determination of the size and age of child before labour, 395 Aikman, case of double uterus and va- gina, 371 Air and rain, on, 491 Albuminoid compounds in muscle in tetanus (Danilewsky), 27 Albuminuria, 167—7l — during pregnancy, on, 397 — in smallpox (Cartaz), 63 — in syphilis in a child, 66 Alcock, ovariotomy in child, 301 Alcohol, action of (Parkes, &c.), 463 — do., in fever, 464 — do., on temperature, 464 — elimination of (Subbotin, Dupr^ &c.), 18,464 ’ — use of, in pneumonia, 464 Alcoholism, on, 491 All butt (Clifford), cases of tetanus, 9o — effects of strain on the heart, 132 effect of exercise on the bodily tem- perature, 15, 40 — emaciation in typhoid, 52 — histology of brain, &c., in hydropho- bia, 42 •' r Almen, detection of hydrocyanic acid, 454 ’INDEX. 498 Alopecln,^ general, ease of (Crisp), 184 — on (Pincus), 184 Amenorrhcea, 372 Ammonia, case of poisoning by (Steven- son), 442 Ammonium, chloride of, action of, 462 Amnesia, case of (Bristowe), 87 Amnii, liquor, nrea in, 17 Amnion, on the, in relation to foetal mal- formations (Fiirst), 393 Amory, action of hydrocyanic acid, 448 Amputation after excision of the hip, case (Jackson), 221 — at the hip-joint, 211 — at the knee-joint (Erichsen, Staples), 212—13 — death-rate after (Callender), 211 — in senile gangrene (Lister, Morgan), . 213 — of the foot, modification of (Stokes), 213 ■— re-, at the hip (Otis), 212 — recurrent haemorrhage after, 211 — supra-condyloid, of thigh (Stokes), 212 -— through femoral condyles (Richard- son), 212 Amputations, ankle-joint, on (Smith), 213 — in utero, on (Barnes), 393. -— results of (Benny), 213 Amj'l, nitrite of, as antidote to strychnine (Gray), 440 — do., on (Wood, Jones, Brunton), 466—7 Anaemia during pregnancy (Gusserow), 397 Anaesthetics, on, 193—465 Analgesia in hysteria (Rosenthal), 80 Anchylosis, excision of the elbow for, 216—8 — of knee, excision of wedge of bone in (Morton, Adams, Watson), 223—25 — do., subcutaneous osteotomy in (Little), 225 ■— of the lower jaw, operation for (Maas, Bottini), 230 Anderson (McCall), case of haematidrosis, — 183 —, cases of elephantiasis, 182 — cases of skin disease, 174 — on tinea favosa, 185 Anderson (Mr.), on epidermic grafting, 335 Andrei, on Caesarean section, 412 Andrew, case of rheumatism, 74 Aneurism, at the root of the neck, double ligature in (Lane), 202 — axillary, traumatic (Gay), 202 — axillo-subclavian (Gay), 201—202 — close to the heart, diagnosis of (Bal- four), 149 Aneurism, dissecting, case of (Barth), 150 — false, cases of (Spence), 210 — femoral, cases of, 208 — femoro-popliteal, temporary deligation of femoral in (Stokes), 208 — mjection of ergotin in (Dutoit), 199 — list of papers on, 150—51 — of the abdominal aorta, distal com- pression in (Bryant), 206 — do., compression in (Durham, Murray), 205—7 — of the arch of the aorta, ligature of common carotid in (Heath), 201 — do., simulating innominate (Heath), 202 — of the aorta, diagnosis of, with the laryngoscope (Johnson), 149 — of the common carotid artery, ligature (Lane, Gamgee), 200 — of the coronary artery (Crisp), 149 — of the heart, cases of (Murchison, Townsend), 139 — of the innominate, apparent cure (Morgan), 201 — of the mitral valve, case of (Simon), 141 — of the vertebral artery, traumatic (Kocher), 202 — popliteal, bursting into knee-joint (Jamieson), 209 — do., cases of, 209 — do., compression in, 209 — do., flexion in, 209 — do., ligature in, 209 — subclavian, compression and ligature of innominate in (Bickersteth), 201 — surgical treatment of (Holmes), 198 — traumatic, after reduction of disloca- tion of humerus (Morgan, Rivington), 248 — treatment of (Bryant), 199 Angina pectoris (Moinet), 146 — pharyngo-scrofulous (isambert), 151 — ulcerative (Lubauski), 151 Angioma mucosum proliferum, 189—90 Animal parasites affecting man, 77—9 Animals, infection from poison of (list of authors on), 42 Ankle, amputation at the {see amputa- tion) — dislocation at the {see dislocation), 255 Annandale, case of hemorrhage from internal wound of oesophagus, 287 — case of injury to the head, 267 — excision of the elbow in anchylosis, 216 — excision of the hip-joint, 220 — intestinal obstruction from baud of lymph, 298499 Index. Anuaiiclale, removal of testicle for neu- ralgia, 281 Anstie, on elimination of poisons, 434 Anthracosis, 123 Antiseptic catgut ligature, on, 195 — gauze, on (Lister), 194 — surgery, on (Lister), 194 Antrum,distensionof,re£erencc(Hawarcl), 235 — tumour of, from canine tootli (McCoy), 234 Anus, imperforate, case of (Stern), 299 Aorta, aneurism of the {see aneurism) — do. of the arch of the (Heath), 202 — do. do., ligature of the common caro- tid (Heath), 201 — abdominal, compression of, in aneu- rism (Dm-ham, Murray), 205—7 — do., distal compression of the (Bryant), 206 Aortic disease, retinal pulsation in (Becker), 340 — insufficiency, case of (Mussy), 130 — do., double sound in femoral artery (Riegel), 142 — do., on (Peter), 141 Aphasia, cases of (Baginsky, Simon, Jackson), 87 — from emholisim, case (Wrany), 134 — on (Bristowe, Hammond), 86—87 — power of singing in (Jackson), 88 — titles of papers on, 88—89 Aphasics, autopsies of two (Samt), 86 Aphemia, case of (Bristowe), 87 Apomorphine, on, 469 Apoplexy, cases of, and titles of papers on, 84—88 — meningeal, titles of papers on, 89—90 Apparatus, plastic, 255 Archehiosis, on (Bastian), 2 Argles, case of passage of foetal head through vaginal wall, 417 Armour, passage of portions of tsenia solium at the age of three days, 79 Arndt, hydrocephalus externus, 89 Arnold, cases of tumom’s of meninges, 188 Arnott, cancer of imperfectly descended testis, 281 — epithelioma of the heart and lungs, 124 — on case of congenital hypertrophy of the tongue, 284 Arpem, case of cancer of uterus, 382 Arsenic in multiple lymphoma (Billroth), 244 — on the effects of (Vaudry), 463 Arteries, acupressure of, 197 — amount of oxygen in blood of various (Mathieu, D'Urhain), 13 Arteries, a new plan of acupressing (Lucas), 198 — catgut ligature for, 195 — compression of,instrumentfor(Stokes), 209 — measurements of the (Beneke), 8 — muscidar spasm relieved by compres- sion of (Broca), 200 — surgery of, in gunshot woiinds (Ver- neuil), 263 — torsion of (Callender), 198 — vaso-motor nerves of (Ludwig), 23 Arterio-capillary fibrosis, on (Gull and Sutton), 168 Ai’tery, carotid, ligatm-e of the (Lane), 202 — common carotid, aneurism of, ligatime (Lane, Gamgee), 200 ~ do., ligature of, in aortic aneurism (Heath), 201 — coronary, aneurism of the {see aneu- rism), 149 — femoral, aneurism of, cases of, 208 — do., ligature of, cases of, 209 — do., temporary deligation of the (Stokes), 208 — iliac, common, ligature of the, for hsemorrhage (Baker), 207 — do., external, ligature of the, cases, 207—8 — innominate, aneurism of, apparently cured (Morgan), 201 — internal carotid, case of rupture of (Verneuil), 84 — pulmonary, stenosis of, after birth (Paul), 142 —^radial, ligature of, high up (Hulke), — rupture of, after dislocation of hume- rus (Morgan, Bivington), 248 — subclavian, ligature of (Fergusson, Gav, Lane), 201—2 — vertebral, traumatic aneurism of the (Kocher), 202 Arthritis, chronic rheumatic (Hutchin- son), 326 Ashhurst, extroversion of the bladder, 276 — on excision of the hip-joint, 220 Ashmead, on antagonism of strychnine and physostigmine, 440 Ashton, early appearance of menstrua- tion, 372 Aspirator, pneumatic, in pleurisy (Bou- chut), 113 do., in pleurisy, &c., titles of papers on, 115 do., use of, &c. (Dieulafoy, Loh- mayer, Jessop), 231—32 use of) in hernia (Labbe, Demar(juay), 289 ~ do., (Jessop), 290500 INDEX. Asthma, bronchial (Leyden), 117 — do., titles of papers on, 117 Astigmatism after cataract operations (Woinow), 347 Astragali, both, e.'ccision of (Lund), 226 Astragalus, cases of excision of, 226 Asymmetry, on a case of fcetal, 427 Ataxy, locomotor, case of (Greenhow, Cayley), 98 Atheromatous tumours of neck, removal of (Schede), 243 Atlee (Dr, W. F.), fibro-cystic tumour of uterus simulating ovarian, 381 — do., removal of cystic tumour of neck, 237 — calculus in female, 278 — cases of ovariotomy, 301, 390 — on a new clamp, 305 — peritoneal inflammatory cyst simulat- ing ovarian tumour, 304 Atropine, antagonism of, to morphine (Firmy), 439 — do., to physostigmiue, (Fraser), 434 — effects of, on heart, (Schmiedeberg), 10 — do., on ocular tension, 338 ‘— do., on pupils of pigeons, 449 Aubert, amount of carbonic acid elimi- nated from the skin, 14 Auchenthaler, coincidence of measles and scarlet fever, 60 Auscultation in diagnosis of sex of child (Hutton), 396 Auspitz, absorption of solids by serous membranes, &c., 3 Aveling, cases of post-mortem parturition, 410 — on transfusion, 330—419 Axilla, medullary cancer of (Durham), 244 Bacon, case of idiotcy, 88 Bacteria, development of (Bastian, San- derson, &c.), 2 '— development of, in various solutions (Sanderson, Bastian), 36 — in blood (Nepveu, &c.), 36—37 — in skin, in smallpox (Weigert), 63 presence of, at high temperature (Blake), 2 Baginsky, cases of aphasia, 87 Bahrdt, poisoning with nitro-benzol, 449 Bailey, trismus nascentium, 428 Baker (Morrant), ligature of the com- mon iliac artery for hemorrhage, 207 Balfour, diagnosis of aneurism near the heart, 149 — pre-systolic murmur, 131 Ballot, deaths from acute exanthems, 59 Banks, catheterism followed by fatal urethral fever, 271 Barclay, midwifery forceps, 415 — pre-systolic cardiac murmur, 131 — on urates and phosphates, 172 Barker, ovariotomy in a child, 301, 391 Barnes, amputation in utero, 393 — anatomy of hypertrophy of the cer- vix uteri, 385 — case of flbroma of the vagina, 386 — case of sudden death in cancer of genitals, 383 — hypertrophic polypus of the os uteri, 385 — on marriage of consumptives, 128 — on the essential cause of dysmenor- rhoea, 374 Barth, on cholera, 481 — case of dissecting aneurism, 150 — on spontaneous rupture of the heart, 143 Bartholow, use of bromides, 463 Barton, imperforate hymen, 282 Barwell, case of popliteal aneurism, 209 Basedow’s disease, cases of, and titles of papers on, 77 Bassett, cases of secondary hsemorrhage after labour, 424 — treatment of abortion, 402 Bastian, fungi in blood, 36 — mode of origin of simjplest forms of life, 2 — on muscular sense and on thinking, 85 Bauer, tissue changes in phosphorus poisoning, 441 Baum^, long retention of ball in gun- shot injury to neck, 264 Bazin, case of intra-uterine ague, 45 Beach, case of peritonitis, 157 Beale, distribution of nerves in fishes, 24 Beardesley, on Bryce’s test for vaccina- tion, 431 Beck (Snow), on involuted uterus, 424 — rupture of the heart, 144 — source of haemorrhage iu pelvic haema- toma, 391 — structure of the uterus, 381 Becker, retinal pulsation in aortic disease, 340 Beebe, cases of ovariotomy, 389 — on division of pedicle in ovariotomy, 306 Beer, on detection of picrotoxin in (Bias, Depaire), 455 Begbie (Warburton), on absorption of turpentine, 467 — swelled leg of fevers, 41INDEX. 501 Behier, case of pleuritic effusion, 113 Bellna, case of transfusion, 419 Bell, case of inversion of the uterus, 418 — case of tracheotomy for croup, 106_ Bell (Dr. Joseph), intestinal obstruction without sickness, 295 — on mode of removing the mamma, 234 — osteoid cancer of ulna, 244 — on veslco-vaginal fistula, 282 Bell (Royes), excision of phalanx of thumb, 218 Belladonna, antagonism of, to opium (Little), 439 — eruption after application of, 423 Beneke, size of arteries, 8 Bennett (Edward), operation for ununited fracture of tibia and fibula, 259 — removal of foreign body from the larynx, 321 Bennett (J. Henry), absorption of poisons by unbroken skin, 37 — action of mercury on the secretion of bile, 463 Bennett (Henry), case of cancer of uterus, 382 Bennett (Risdon), cancer of lung, 124 Benzine, use of, in cough, 467 Berger, cases of ephidrosis unilateralis, 183 — cases of premature gray hair, 184 — on scurvy, 490 Berkart on emphysema, 116 Bernhard, paralysis of arm after dislo- cation, 247 Bernhardt, case of embolism, 135 Bernstein, exchange of gases in placenta, 14 Bert, influence of changes in the baro- metric pressure on vital phenomena, 13 Berthrand, dislocation of cuneiform bones, 254 Berti, on bromal hydrate, 466 Beunie, on poisonous mussels, 453 Bickersteth, case of subclavian aneurism, 201 — removal of pterygo-maxillary tumours of the mouth, 239 — removal of scrotal tumour, 243 Biesiadecki, corpuscles in blood in syphi- lis, 65 Biffi, inoculation of tubercles, 38 Bile, action of mercury on the secretion of (Bennett), 463 — colourless, on (Robin), 165 Bile-ducts, affections of the, authors on, &c., 164 Biliary acids, detection of, in urine (Strassburg), 17 Biliary calculus, case of, 164 — concretion causing obstruction (Clark), 295 — fistula, case of, 164 Bil'roth, arsenic in multiple lymphoma, 244 — enchondroma of the ribs, 241 — resection of the oesophagus, 285 — on traumatic fever, 311 Binz, action of quinine on blood-cor- puscles, 7 Birch-Hirschfeld, tumour removed from the abdominal cavity, 189 Bird, hydatid cyst of lung, 125 Birkett, removal of exostosis from first rib, 240 Bizzozero, on certain lai’ge corpuscles in pus, 34 Blache, on rickets, 428 Bladder, case of double, 371 — case of ulceration of the,in pregnancy, 399 — extroversion of the (Maury, Ash- hurst), 275 — female, exfoliation of the (Wardell, &c.), 400 — inversion of the (Croft), 275 — lithotrity with atony, of the (Malie- jowsky), 276 — removal of piece of bone from the (Thompson), 277 — resistance of the sphincter muscle of the, 20 — rupture of the (Stokes), 277 — stone on the, choice of operations for (Thompson), 276 — wound of, with fracture of the pelvis (Bell), 277 Blake, diatoms growing at high tempera- ture, 2 Bias, on detection of plcrotoxin, 455 Blaser, on apomorphine, 469 Blood, a ciliated hmmatozoon in the (Boyd-Moss), 7 — a colloid fluid with diflTusible con- stituents (Marcet), 7 — (see leucocythmmia) 69 — (see microcythmmia), 70 — alkaline, in leucsemia (Mosler), 8 — analysis of the, in scurvy (Chalvet), 8 — ashes of the, on (Jarisch), 6 — bacteria, &c., in (Sanderson, Lostorfer, Ferrier, Bastian, &c.), 36 — coagulation of the, on (Schmidt, Scbiffer, Boll), 7 — colouring matters of the (Struve), 5 — corpuscles, action of bile on (Jurasz), 6 — corpuscles, authors on, 8 — corpuscles, passage of, through the walls of the vessels (Norris), 34502 INDEX. Blood - corpuscles, red, in Addison’s disease, state of (Laschkewitz), 8 — corpuscles, red, size of, in septicajmia (Mauasseiu), 6 — corpuscles, state of, in case of bronzing of skin (Laschkewitscb), 76 — corpuscles, white, action of quinine on the (Geltowsky, Kerner, Binz), 7 — corpuscles, white, glycogen in, while mobile (Hoppe-Seyler), 8 — corpuscles, white, origin of pus from, on (Duval), 7 — corpuscles on the structure of the white (Richardson), 6 — crystals, on the (Preyer, Brond- geest), 5 — current in muscle (Hafiz, &c.), 278 — examination of, in scurvy (Chalvet), 75 — filaria in the (Lewis), 6 — fungi in the (Lostorfer), 7 — list of authors on, 8 — peculiar corpuscles in the, in syphilis (Lostorfer, Strieker), 8 — pressure, action of strychnine on (Mayer), 10 — do., influence of nerves' on (Mies- cher), 9 — quantity of oxygen in, in various ar- teries (Mathieu, D’Urhaln), 13 — rapidity of the current of the (Cyon, &c.), 9 — sarcinsc in the (Lostorfer, Perrier, Bastian), 36 — spectroscopy of (Sorhy), 459 — stains, on detection of (Sonnenschein, &c.), 458—59 — transfusion of, on, 329 — vessels, development of the earliest (Klein), 7 Boehm, on action of digitalis, 470 Boelt, case of oedema glottidis, &c., 101 Bogolowsky, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Boisseau, aphasia in intermittent fever, 45 Boldyrew, histology of respiratory mu- cous membrane, ll Boll, coagulation of the blood in a chick, 7 Bond, on gonorrhoeal rheumatism, 282 Bone) disease in hereditary syphilis (Wagner), 307 — gunshot injuries of (Mac Cormac), 264 — removal of piece of, from rectal fossa (Thompson). 300 — removal of tumours from (Paget), 242 Bones, composition of, whilst improper food was given (Weiske), 29 Bones, delayed union of (Callender), 256 — ossification of the marrow of (Dcmar- quay), 332 Borel, amber mouthpiece of pipe in orbit, 363 Borgioul, treatment of epididymitis by ice, 282 Botkin, on cholera, 47 Bottini, operation for anchylosis of the lower jaw, 230 Bouchut, case of hydatids of the liver, 163 — on pleuritic effusion, 113 — ophthalmoscopic appearances in acute affections of the nervous system, 90 — treatment of diphtheria, 1.06 Bouvier, action of alcohol in fever, 464 Bradley, case of syphilitic renal dropsy, 168 — syphilis with albuminuria in a child, 66 Brain, abscess of the, titles of papers on, 93 — cases of gunshot injury to the (Cohn), 352 — changes in newborn ehildi’en (Jas- trowitz), 91 — disease, ophthalmoscope in, 90—91 — do., trephining in (Pepper), 268 — diagnosis of syphilitic disease of the (Rees), 65 — effects of galvanizing the (Pritsch, Hitzig), 22 — hydatids in the, cases (Reeb), 78 — inflammation of, onidipoathic (Elam), 91 — injury to, affections of lungs from Brown-Sequard), 269 — do., locality of) causing convulsions (Callender), 268 — softening of the, cases of, and titles of papers on, 91—93 — temperature of, with excitation of sen- sory nerves, 22 Brakel, on peristalsis, 16 Branco, cases of absence of the vagina, 370 Brasch, treatment of diphtheria, 106 Braun, case of deformed pelvis, 410 Bread, relative value of different kinds of (Meyer), 18 Breast, cancer of, statistics of (at Brad- ford), 233 — mode of removing the (Bell), 234 — removal, &c., of, 233—34 — statistics of removal of tumours of (Syme), 233 _ Breeding, experiments on (Galton), 3 Breisky, case of pvometra and pyokolpos lateralis, 370INDEX. 603 Brlstowe, case of hemiplegia, &c., 87 — on impairment, &c., of speech, 86 Broadbent, cases of cerebral tumour, 92 — case of dropsy of the optic irerve- sheath, 90 — case of herpes, 176 — case of renal disease, 169 — cerebral mechanism of speech and thought, 84 — on the mechanism of thought, 25 Bi’oca, muscular spasm relieved by com- pression of arteries, 200 Bromal hydrate, on, 466 Bromides, action of (Wood, Bartholow), 462 — in epilepsy (Vance, Lutz), 83 Bronchial adenopathy in the adult (Gue- neau de Mussy), 110 — asthma (Leyden), 117 — do., titles of papers on, 117 Bronchitis, cases of, 116 — titles of papers on, 116—17 Bronchocele, removal of (Greene), 236 — treatment of (Mackenzie), 237 Bronchotomy, on (Hewitt), 320 Broudgeest, on crystals of blood, 5 Bronzing of skin, cases of, 76 Brouardel, on pneumonia, 120 Brown (Dyce), case of solid cancer of the ovary, 388 — case of stenosis of the pulmonary artery, 148 — recurrent discharge of fluid from the uterus during pregnancy, 394 Browne, gangrene of the lung, 123 Brown-Sequard, afiections of lungs from injuries to brain, 269 ~ ecchymoses in the lungs from injury to the head in gninea-pigs, 108 — on epilepsy in guinea-pigs, 82 Brucine, detection of (Pander), 455 Bruckner, on pendulum-like respiration, 107 Bruit du diable, on the origin of the (Duchek), 132 Bruit, subclavian, cases of (Snelling), 132 Bruns, resection of superior maxillm for removal of naso-pharyngeal tumours, 235 Bruntou (Lauder), on action of digitalis, 471 — cases of combined exanthems, 60 — cflects of heat on the heart, 9 — effects of temperature on the heart, 133 — ergot of rye in uterine fibroid, 380 — expulsion of ovum at seventh month, 396 —• on nitrite of amyl, 467 Bryant, colotomy for recto-vesical fistula, 299 — congenital fibre-cellular tumom- of buttock, 243 — distal compression in aneurism of the abdominal aorta, 206 — extirpation of uterus, &c., for tumour, 380 — on intestmal obstruction, 294 — puncture of intestine in hernia, 289 — treatment of aneurism, 199 Bubo, epithelioma simulating, 273 Buchanan (Dr.), cases of tracheotomy, 321 — gastrotomy for intestinal obstruction, 296 — tracheotomy in croup, &c., 105 Buck, treatment of cicatrices from burn, 331 — treatment of psoriasis, 176 Bullej', a double tourniquet, 210 Bumstead, on pemphigus caused by iodide of potassium, 176 Burchardt, test types, 343 Burman, gangrene of the lung, 123 Burn, treatment of cicatrices from (Buck), 331 Burow, marine grass for sutures, 349 Butlin, cases of chorea, 81 Buttock, congenital fibro-cellular tu- mour of the (Bryant), 243 Buzzard, case of facial atrophy after chorea, 81 Byasson, action of corrosive sublimate, 363 — on auffisthetics, 465 — on croton chloral, 466 Byrne, case of tumour of the vagina, 386 Cabral (Dr. Camara), cure of spina bifida, 326 Cfflsarean section, cases of, 306—412 Callender, death-rate after amputation, 211 — delayed union of bones, 256 — locality of injury to brain causing convulsions, 268 — reduction of old dislocation of shoulder, 247 — on torsion and on dressing wounds, 198 Calculous disease, prevention of (Thomp- son), 279 Calculus, cholestearine (Duncan), 279 — cystine, cases of (Ulzmann), 279 — vesicm, choice of operations for (Thompson), 278504 INDEX. Calculus vesictD lu tliG fenialej opera- tions for, 278—79 Calvert (Crace), on dovolopraent of bac- teria, &c., 2 Campbell, case of doubtful typhus, 56 — vomiting in pregnancy, 400 Camphor, action of, on heart (Heubnerh 469 ^ — monobromide of (Hammond), 469 Cancer, medullary, of axilla (Durham), 244 — of breast, 233—34 — of female genitals, sudden death in (Barnes), 383 — of the heart (Payne), 139 — of imperfectly descended testis, refer- ences (Arnott), 281 — of liver, cases of, 163 — of lungs (Bennett, Arirott, Sparks, Waters), 124 — of penis, cases of, 275 — of the uterus, cases of, &c., 382—83 — osteoid, of ulna (Bell), 244 Canton, case of excision of the knee, 222 — excision of the ankle, 226 — removal of both superior maxillae, 230 Capsules, supra-renal, changes in, 76 Carbolic acid in cholera, 48—50 — do,, internal use of (Salkovvski), 445 — do., poisoning by, 446 — spray, on (Lister), 195 Carbon, ^ oxysulphidc of, on (Radzie- jewski), 444 Carbonic acid, amount of, eliminated from the skin (Aubert), 13 — do., tension of, in lungs and blood (WolftTaey), 15 — oxide, poisoning by (Zuntz, Bonders, &c.), 443 Carcinoma (see cancer) Cardiac murmur, coincidence of, with period of heart’s action, on (Jacobson), 129 — do., pre-systolic (Barclay, Balfour), 130 — do., on, 129—34 — do., titles of papers on, 134 Cardio-sphygmograph, on a (Garrod), 9 Carmalt, on keratitis, 33 Carotid artery, common, ligature of, in aortic aneurism (Heath), 201 — do., case of ligature of the (Lane), 202 — do., internal, case of rupture of (Ver- neuil), 84 Carpenter (Dr. Alfred), origin of scarlet fever, 60, 487 Cartaz, on urine in smallpox, 63 Carter, paracentesis in pleurisy, 113 Carter (R. B.), report on ophthalmic medicine and surgery, 337 Casein of milk, morphology of 423 Cataract, extraction of, without opening the capsule (Pagenstecher), 345 — do., mode of (Weeker), 344 — do., on (Mazzoi), 343 Catgut ligature, on antiseptic, 195 Catheter, a new self-retaining (Wright), — improved, flexible, for retention in bladder (Thompsan), 271 — vertebrated (Squire, Sayre), 272 Catheterism, followed by fatal urethral fever (Banks), 271 Causse, case of Caesarean section, 413 Cayley, case of locomotor ataxy, 98 — case of paralysis agitans, 97 Ceradini, action of heart on respiration, 11 — effects of heat on the heart, 9 Cerebellum, cases of tumours of the, and titles of papers on, 92—93 — hydatid cysts of the (Evans, Pullar), — tubercle of the (Cordier, Jackson), 92 Cerebral disease, diagnosis of syphilitic (Rees), 65 — do., trephining (Pepper), 268 — hemispheres, effects of galvanizing the (Fritsch, Hitzig), 22 — mechanism of speech and thought (Broadbent), 84 — softening, cases of, 91—92 — do., titles of papers on, 93 — tubercle, case of (Heischmann), 92 Cerebritis, iodiopathic, on (Elam), 91 Cerebro-spinal meningitis, titles of papers on, 44.—45 — spinal meningitis on (Eulenberg, Kotsonopulos, Russel), 43—44 Chalvet, analysis of the blood in scurvy, 8 — on scurvy, 75 Chamberlain, on acute atrophy of the liver, 160 Charcot, on hysterical contraction of the limbs, 79 — on irritative spinal lesions, 95 Charrier, uterine injections for chronic metritis, 392 Cbarteris, post-febrile ophthalmia, 57, 486 — on relapsing fever, 486 Chautreuil, on cancer of uterus in con- nection with labour, &c., 411 — on uterine expression as a means of delivery, 409INDEX. 505 Chauveau, contagion due to solid parti- cles, 35 Cheadle, on cirrhosis of the liver, 162 Cheiloplastic operation, on Zeis’ (Stokes), 330 Chest, fourfold gunshot injury of, re- covery after (Lorinser), 264 Chevalier, on petroleuro, 491 Chicken-pox (see varicella), 60—62 Chiene, obturator hernia, 290 Child, determination of age and size of, before labour (Ahlfeld), 395 — sex of, determination of, in utero (Hutton), 396 Chisolm (Ur.)> dislocation of the semi- lunar bone, 248 Children, jaundice in new-born, 432 Cliloral hydrate, antagonism of strych- nine to (Ore), 439 — do., in cholera, 50 — do., on the employment of, 464 — do., poisoning with, cases of, 449 Chlorides, on use of (Rabuteau), 462 Chloroform combined with morphine, 468 — on the administration of (Haward), 193 Chlorosis, on (Wade), 372 — (Virchow), 373 Cholestearine in calculus (Duncan), 279 Cholera, brnming of straw, &c., in, 51 — carbolic acid in, 48—50 — cause of, on, 481 — chloral hydrate in, 50 — contagion, 481 — diffusion of, in India (Pettenkofer), 477 — epidemic at Zurich, report on (Zehn- der), 480 — germs, action of disinfectants on, 492 — influence of ground water on the spread of (Pettenkofer), 477 — on nitrite of amyl in (Brunton), 467 — on the spread of (Radcliffe), 472—77 — opium in, 50 — organisms in, 482 — propagation, symptoms, treatment, &c., of, 47—52 — quinine in, 48—50 — report on (Cunningham), 479 — titles of papers on, 51—52 Chorea, case of facial paralysis after (Buzzard), 81 — case of, with embolism (Murchison), 134 — cases of (Jones, Gray, Tuckwell), 81 — cases of, treated by sulphate of zinc (Butlin), 81 — titles of papers on, 81 Choroid, disease of, visual sense in (Forster, Hippel), 364—66 — tubercles in the (Fi'ilnkel), 91 Choroiditis, circumscribed (Sichel), 366 — syphilitic, on (Galezowski), 368 Chrschtschonovitch, on the termination of the nerves in the vagina, 387 Chunder Roy, case of abscess of the liver, 160 Churchill, fatty tumour under the tongue, 284 _ Chyluria, filaria in blood in (Lewis), 7 Cicatrices from burn, treatment of (Buck), 331 Ciliary muscle, paralysis of, in diphtheria (Hutchinson), 104 Circulation, rapidity of the, &c., 8—10 Clapham, on sunstroke, 58 Clark (Le Gros), mechanism of respira- tion, 14 Clarke, carcinomatous mass in thorax, 111 Clarke (Fairlie), case of congenital hy- pertrophy of the tongue, 284 — unilateral atrophy of the tongue, 335 Classen, cases of diphtheria, 104 Clavicle, dislocation of (see dislocation), 246 — necrosis of, during scarlet fever (Kelly, Nowlan), 61 Clay, case of ovariotomy, 305 Cleft palate, formation' of hone after operation for (Whitehead), 233 — operation for, cases of (Smith, &c.), 232—33 Cleghorn, hydatids of the liver, causing abscess, 164 Clemens, case of variola, 62 Clement, case of typhoid fever, 53 Clements, case of acute atrophy of tho liver, 161 Climate, influence of change of, 14, 190—91 Climates for consumptives (Williams), Coagulation of the blood, on the (Schmidt, Schififer, Boll), 7 Coal-dust in lungs (Mayet), 123 Coats, calcareous degeneration of tho heart, 140 Cohhoid, on entozoa, 492 Ooccius, on testing the tension of the eve. 339 Cockle, case of aortic aneurism, 201 Cohn, gunshot wounds of eye, 349—63 — refraction of eyes of children, 342 Cold-water treatment of typhoid (Lis- sauer, Scholz, Popper, &c.), 54—55 Colloid cysts in larynx, 188 — in lip, 188506 INDEX. Colloid cysts in thyroid, 188 Colohoma of the iris, congenital (Ponti), 339 ^ Colotomy for stricture of rectum, cases of (Hulke), 299 — in intestinal obstruction (Bryant), 294 — in recto-vesical fistula (Bryant), 299 Colour-blindness, diagnosis of (Woinow), 340 Colouring matters of the blood, 5 Coma, diminished frequency of pulse before death from (Gray), 133 Compression (see aneurism), 198, &c. — of arteries, instrument for (Stokes), 209 Condie, contagiousness of phthisis, 128 — spurious consumption, 125 Consumption (see phthisis), 125 Consumptives, climates for (Williams), 127 — should they marry ? (Williams, Barnes, Bennett) 128 Contagion, bacteria, &c., as means of (Sanderson, Bastian, Lostorfer, &c.), 36—37 — by organised poison (Liveing), 37 — by solid particles (Chauveau), 35 — by unbroken skin surface (Bennett), 37 — list of authors on subject of, 37^ — of typhus, direct (Virchow), 56 Convulsions after injury to brain, on (Callender), 268 — puerperal, cases of, 424 — with loss of speech (Jackson), 87 Copeman, scarlet fever, 487 Copper in phosphorus poisoning, 441 — poisoning by, on, 443 Cord, spinal (see spinal) Cordier, eases of diphtheria, 106 — tubercle of cerebellum, 92 Corelysis, on (Weeker), 348 Cornea, “ cells” of the, nature of (Gener- sich), 33 — healing of wounds of (Giiterbock), 34 — inflammation of the, experiments on, (Carmalt, Strieker, &c.), 33 — regeneration of the epithelium of the (Heiberg, Hansen, &c.), 33 Corpuscles of the blood (see blood) Corradi, removal of pharyngeal prolapsus by the galvanic cautery, 236 Costa (Da), on irritable heart, 146 Cramps, on, during pregnancy and labour (Mattel), 409 Crisp, abscesses of the heart, 140 — aneurism of coronary artery, 149 — case of dilatation of the stomach, 154 — case of general alopecia, 184 Crisp, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Cristoforis, cases of flexion with dys- menorrhcea, 374 Croft, inversion of the bladder, 275 Croton chloral, on, 466 Croup, development of exudation in (Letzerich), 103 — nature of (Hartmann), 104 — titles of papers on, 106—7 — tracheotomy in, cases of, 105—7 Crystals of the blood, on the (Preyer, Brondgeest), 5 Cunningham, on cholera, 479 Curran, case of scleriasis, 179 Cyon, on diabetes in dogs after section of ganglia, 20 — rapidity of current of blood in veins, 9 Cyst of neck removed (Hardie, Atlee), 237 Cystic tumours of breast, on, reference (Goodbart), 234 Cysticerci oculi, cases of (Hirschberg), 79 Cystine calculus, cases of (Ulzmann), 279 Czerny, excision of the elbow for anchy- losis, 217 Da Costa, on irritable heart, 146 — on membranous enteritis, 155 Dactylitis syphilitica (Taylor), 308 Dalmon, detection of phosphorus, 454 Dalton, on the sugar of the liver, 17 Damaschino, on infantile paralysis, 96 Danet, use of alcohol in pneumonia, 464 Danilewsky, quantity of albuminoid com- pounds in muscle, 27 Daturine, effects of, on heart (Schmiede- berg), 10 Davis (Dr. Hall), case of uterine inver- sion, 418 Davies (Dr. Herbert), on the four ori- fices of the heart, 131 Dawson, invagination of colon, &c., 432 — new clamp for ovariotomy, 305, 390J| Day (Dr. John), use of peroxide of hy- drogen pessaries, 461 Decaisne, on an epidemic of jaundice, 164 — milk of women taking insufficient food, 20 — on the influence of starvation on the mother’s milk, 423 Decapitation as mode of delivery (Kidd), 413 Deglutition, nerves of (Waller, Prevost), 15 Delafield, pigment induration of the lungs, 121 Delivery, decapitation as mode of (Kidd), 413507 INDEX. Delivery in arm presentation, 414 — position of foetal head during artificial, 407 Delpech, case of phlegmon of the broad ligament, 391 — on scurvy, 490 Deniarquay, ossification of the marrow of hones, 332 — use of aspirator, 290 Dengue, titles of papers on, 43 Denham, action of ergot of rye on the foetiTS, 421 Depaire, on detection of picrotoxin in beer, 456 Depaul, cases of shoulder presentation, 415 — puerperal peritonitis, 423 Diabetes, cause of (Zimmer, Salinger), 72—73 — large doses of opium in (Kratschmer), 73 — production of, in dogs (Cyou, Aladoff), 20 — rheumatic pains in subject of, taking lactic acid (Foster), 74 — titles of papers on, 73 Diaphragmatic pleurisy (Hayden), 114 Diarrhoea in infants, on (MeSwiney, Eosse), 157 Dickenson, cases of abdominal tumour, 166-67 Dieulafoy {see aspirator), 115 Digestion, report on subjects connected with, 16—18 Digitalis, antagonism of, to aconite (Dobie), 440 — on action of (Boehm, &c.), 470 Diphtheria, cases of (Classen), 104 — development of exudation in (Let- zerich), 103 — experiments on (Oertel), 103 — fungous nature of (Letzerich), 102 — nature of (Hartmann), 104 — outbreak of, in Kent (Kersey), 105 — paralysis after (Kraft-Ebing), 105 — paralysis from, treated by faradisation (Greenhow), 105 — paralysis of ciliary muscle in (Hutchin- son), 104 — peculiar case of defect of sight in (Classen), 104 — subcutaneous emphysema in (Giiter- bock), 105 — tracheotomy in, successful, &c. (various), 104—6 — titles of papers on, 106—7 — treatment of, 106 Diphtheritic puerperal fever, 421 Disease and dust (Tyndall), 37 Disinfectants, action of, on cholera-germs, &c., 492—95 Disinfection, on modes of, 492—95 — rules for, 493 Dislocation at the knee (Erichsen), 254 — compound, of foot (Smith), 255 — of both femora (Pollard), 254 — of clavicle, supra-sternal (Smith), 246 — of both ends of clavicle (Haynes), 247 — of cuneiform bones (Bertherand), 254 — of elbow, compound, excision in (Malins), 218 — of elbow, old, excision in, 216—18 — of humerus, extravasation of blood after (Morgan, Eivington), 248 —. of humerus, paralysis of arm after (Bernhard), 247 — of shoulder, reduction of old (Callen- der), 247 — of the bones of the pelvis (Salleron), 249 — of the femur, old, reduction of (Mc- Kee, Norton), 253 — of the femur, unreduced(Mac Cormac), 253 — of the semilunar bone (Chisolm), 243 — of wrist (Erichsen, Adams), 248 — snbastragaloid, of foot (Gosselin), 254 — unilateral, of fifth cervical vertebra ■ (Keyburn), 260 Dislocations, reduction of, without trac- tion, reference (Parker), 254 Dittmar, on spinal cord, 21 Dobell, on feeding of infants, 430 Dobie, antagonism of aconite and digi- talis, 440 Dogiel, on rapidity of arterial enrrent and arterial pressure, 9 Dohrn, case of ruptured uterus, 417 Donaldson, induction of premature labour, 402 Donders, on poisoning by carbonic oxide, 443 Domitz, on structure of muscle, 27 Down (J. Langdon), case of hemiplegia, 88 Downs, case of injury to the head, 267 Dressing of wounds, on (Callender), 198 Dressings to wounds, antiseptic (Lister), 194 — do., of dry lint (Gillespie), 195 Dropsy, renal, on, 167—70 Duchek, bruit du diable, 132 Duchenne, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, Duckworth, on acute atrophy of the liver 160 — on molluscum contagiosum, 182—83508 INDEX. Dufour, case of scleroderran, 179 Dulirssen, absorption of cheesy products, 127 Ebell, vaginal stenosis, 386 Ebstein, secretion of glands of stomach. 16 Duncan, causes of procidentia, 383 curves of the genital passages, — duration of pregnancy, 401 •— functions of the perinseum, 384 — long delay of labour after discharge of liquor amnii, 394 — on mechanical dilatation of the cervix uteri, 415 — mechanism of the expulsion of the placenta, 407 — on the efficient powers of parturition, 406 — on uterine polypi, 380 Dunlop, cases of rotheln, 62 Dupienis, cases of post-partum haBmor- rhage treated by injections of iodine into uterus, 420 Duplay (Dr. Simon), on scapulo-humeral periarthritis, 332 . Dupre, elimination of alcohol, 18 Duquesnel, on aconitine, 468 Dura mater, tumours of the (Janeway, Teakle), 93 Durante, experiments on inflammation, 33 Durham, compression in abdominal aneur- ism, 205 — medullary cancer in axilla, 244 — on opening the larynx for removal of growths, 322 Dust and disease (Tyndall), 37 — inhalation of, into lungs (Mayet, Eoss, Merkel), 123 — on (Tyndall), 2 Dutoit, injection of ergotin in anemdsm, 199 Duval, on corneal inflammation, 7 — on the origin of pus, 34 Dyce Brown (see Brown) Dysentery, list of papers on, 159 Dysmenorrhoea, case of inflammatory (Solowiefif), 373 — cases of, with flexion, &c., 374 — dilatation of cervix in treatment of (Edis), 375 — essential cause of (Barnes), 374 — intermenstrual, on (Priestley), 374 Dyspepsia for starchy food in infancy, 429 Dyspnoea, nocturnal, in disease of the heart (Habershon), 133 Dystocia by the child, 411—12 — by the mother, 410—11 Ear, removal of foreign bodies from ex- ternal (Gruber), 335 Ecchymoses after suffocation, on (Lu- komsky), 460 Echinococci (see hydatids), 163 Ecraseur, a rectilinear (Nott), 244 Eczema, papers on, 186 Edes, tumours in connection with ner- vous system, 93 Edis, abscess of the ovary, 388 treatment of dysmenorrhoea, 374 Elam, idiopathic cerebritis, 91 Elbow, dislocation of (see the) — excision of the Electric excitation of muscle, 31 Electricity, use of, in midwifery, 409 Elephantiasis, papers on, 187 — Arabum, pathology and cases of, 181—82 — Grsecorum, eases of (Anderson), 182 Emaciation in typhoid (Allbutt), 52 Embolism, cases of, 134—36 — gangrene of feet from, 213 — intra-cranial, cases of, and titles of papers on, 91—93 — titles of papers on, 136 — with heart disease, case of (Simon), 141 Emetine, detection of (Pander), 455 Emmert, on exophthalmic goitre, 77 Emmet, septicmmia after removal of uterine fibroid, 379 Emphysema, changes in vessels in (Isaak- son), 116 — during labour, cases of, 418—19 — instrument for treatment of (Berkart), 116 — titles of papers on, 116—17 Empyema (see also pleurisy), 113 — titles of papers on, 115 Encephalitis, diffuse, in new-born chil- dren (Jastrowitz), 91 Enchondroma of the ribs (Bdlroth, Men- zel), 241 — of phalanx of thumb, 218 Endocarditis, titles of papers on, 142 — in pig, with arthritis (Roth), 74 — ulcerative, case of (Heiberg), 140 Engelmann, on innervation of the con- tractile gland-ceUs of the frog, 24 — on wrinkles in nerves, 21 Englisch, on hernia of the ovary, 291 Enteric fever (see typhoid), 52—55 Enteritis, membranous, on (Da Costa, Whitehead), 155—56 Entozoa, relation of, to public health, 492 Ephidrosis unilateralis, cases of, 183 Epidermic grafting, on, 335509 iKdex. Epididymitis, treatment of, by ice (Bor- gioni), 282 Epilepsy after injuries to the head (Lan- genbeck), 83 — bromide of potassium in (Vance, Lutz), 83 — from necrosis of femur (Martin), 83 — in guinea - pigs (Brown - Sequard, Westphal), 82 — production of, in guinea-pigs (West- phal), 23 — titles of papers on, 83 Epistaxis, treatment of (Kiichenmeister), 334 Epithelioma of the tongue, removal of, with galvanic wire (Gozzini, Puccioni), 283 — sinndating bubo (Geber), 273 Epithelium, development of ciliated (Let- zerich), 103 Ergot, action of, on the foetus, 421 — use of, in abortion, on (Bassett), 402 Egotin, injection of, in aneurism (Dutoit), 199 — in treatment of varix (Vogt), 211 Erich sen, amputation at the knee-joint, 212—13 — dislocation at the knee, 254 — dislocation of wrist, 248 — herniotomy in infant, 288 — obturator hernia, 291 — wrist-drop after injury to nerve in fracture, 256 — (Petersburg), on cholera, 481 Erismaun, refraction of eyes of children, 342 Erysipelas, bacteria in blood in (Nepveu), 37 — laryngeal obstruction with (Russell), 101 — subcutaneous antiseptic injections in (Wilde), 318 — traumatic, on (Wilde), 318 Erythema exsudativum multiforme, on (Lipp), 174 — marginatum, parasite in (Fox), 184 — papers on, 186 — parasitic (Kohn), 185 — solare, case of (Wilson), 175 Esmarch, ice in acute rheumatism, 74 Espine (M. d’) on puerperal septicsemia, 422 Ether, death from the administration of, 193 —on the administration of (Haward), 193 Eulenburg, cases of muscular atrophy, 70 — on cerebro-spinal meningitis, 43 — toxicological etfects of tobacco, 450 — on yellow fever, 46 Evans, hydatid cyst of cerebellum, 93 Evans, on thoracentesis, 113 Evvens, case of excision of the shoulder, 215 Exanthemata, the acute, 58, &c. Excision of the ankle (Gant, Watson, Maunder, Canton), 226 — of the ankle, and removal of the tarsal bones (Swain), 226 — of the astragalus, cases of (Gant, Han- cock, &c.), 226 — of the astragalus, malleoli, &c. (Wat- son), 226 — of both astragali in case of talipes (Lund), 226 — of the breast, 233—34 — of the breast, mode of j)erforming (Bell), 234 — of both elbows (Foi’ster), 218 — of the elbow in anchylosis (Annan- dale), 216 — of elbow for anchylosis after disloca- tion of radius (Watson), 217 — of the elbow for anchylosis (Czerny), 217 — of elbow for compound dislocation (Malins), 218 — of elbow for old dislocation (Marshall), 218 — of the elbow, on (Gant), 215 — of the elbow, primary, on (Maunder), 216 — of end of humerus for anchylosis of elbow (Watson), 218 — of the hip, amputation after (Jackson), 221 — of the hip-joint, cases of, 220—21 — of the hip-joint, on (Gant), 218—20 — of the hip, specimen from (Annail- dale), 220 — of the knee, on (Gant), 221—22 — of knee, cases of, 222—23 — of knee, sources of failure aftet (Treves), 221 — of lower jaw, mode of performing (Watson, Lizars), 228—29 — of lower jaw, through the mouth (Maunder), 235 — of os calcis (Gant, &c.), 226—27 — of phalanx of thumb for euchondroma (Bell), 218 — of shoulder and elbow in same arm (MacCormae), 213 — of the shoulder, cases (Ewens), 215 — of the shoulder, on (Gant), 215 — of the superior maxilla, 229 — 30 — of the tarso-metatarsal joints (Holmes), 227-28 — of the trochanter major (Gant), 219 — of wedge of bone at knee for anchy- losis (Morton, Adams, Watson), 223—25510 INDEX. Excision of the wrist, cases of, 218 Exercise, effects of, on the bodily tem- perature (Allbutt, &c.), 15 Exophthalmic goitre, cases of, and titles of papers on, 77 Exostosis from first rib, removal of (Bir- kett), 240 Extender, spiral spring (Holthouse), 255 Eye, gunshot wounds of (Cohn), 349—63 — instruments, new, 363—64 — syphilitic affections of the interior of the (Galezowski), 368 Eyeball, contusion of, case of, 361 — enucleation of, in sympathetic oph- thalmia (Cohn, Mooren), 355—60 — on testing the tension of the (Coccius), 339 — on tension of the (Monnik), 338 Eyelids, suture of the (Verneuil), 349 Eyes, colour of, in the newly born, 426 Facial paralysis after chorea (Buzzard), 81 Fa3ces of sheep in foot-and-mouth disease (Hallier), 79 Fagge, case of intestinal obstruction, 293 ■— murmurs attendant on mitral contrac- tion, 140 — post-mortem changes in scleroderma, 178 Falck, on urea, 172 Farquharson, cases of pneumonia, 118 — on revaccination, 431 Fasbender, cases of version, 415 Fat, storing up of, in fat-cells (Hoffmann), 32 Fatty masses in a ranula (Tay), 284 — tumour under the tongue (Churchill), 284 Fauvel, on cholera, 49 Favus, frequency of, in Scotland, 185 Fayrer, radical cure of inguinal hernia, 288 — on snake poisons, 453 Febris lymphatica (Harley), 61 Femur, dislocation of {see dislocation), 253 ^ neck of, subcutaneous division of (Adams), 234 — necrosis of, producing epilepsy (Mar- tin), 83 Ferber, case of rheumatism, 73 —^ on hay fever, 43 Ferguson, case of hysteria, 80 Fergusson (Sir W.), excision of superior maxilla, 229 —^ ligature of the subclavian artery, 201 Ferment, acting on starch, found in many parts (Lepine), 16 Ferrier, fungi in blood, 36 — on molluscum contagiosum, 182 Fever, action of alcohol in, 464 — dengue, titles of papers on, 43 — exanthematic {see measles, &c.), 58, &c. — following surgical operations, on (Wells), 317 — hay {see hay fever), 43 intermittent, aphasia in (Boisseau), 45 intermittent, intra-uterine (Bazin), 45 intermittent, relation of, to relansintc (Senator), 57 — intermittent, titles of papers on, 45 — puerperal, on, 398, 421 — relapsing {see also relapsing), — relapsing, case at Glasgow (Tennent), 57 — relapsing, epidemics of, 486 —incubation of (Murchison), — relapsing, in Loudon, 58 — relapsing, outbreak of, at Leeds (Rob- inson), 57 — relapsing, post-febrile ophthalmia after (Charteris), 57 — relapsing, relation of, to intermittent (Senator), 57 — traumatic, from gunshot wounds (Hueter), 315 — traumatic, on (Billroth), 311 — typhoid {see typhoid), 52—55 — typhoid, tuberculosis after (Birch- Hirschfeld), 39 — typhus {see typhus), 56 — urethral, fatal, after catheterism (Banks), 27l — on “ war typhus ” (Virchow), 56 — yellow, on (Munro, Sullivan, Hiron, Eulenberg, &c.), 45—47 — yellow, titles of papers on, 47 Fevers, incubation of (Murchison), 41 — list of authors on, 41 — swelled leg of (Begbie), 41 Fick, effects of heat on the heart, 9 — effeets of heating and cooling the blood passing to the nerve-centres, 22 — on the peptones, 16 Fieber, spinal hemiplegia, 84 Filaria in the blood in chyluria (Lewis), 7 Finney, cirrhosis of kidneys, 170 Firmy, antagonism between atropine and morphine, 439 Fistula, recto-vesical, colotomy in (Bry- ant), 299 — vesico-vaginal, on (Bell), 282 — uretero-uterine, cases of, 417 Fitzmaurice, on pneumonia, 118 Fleischman, case of eerebral tubercle, 92 — development of teeth in rickets, 76 — mortality of scarlet fever, 69 — symptoms of rotheln, 62Index. — of ilium by muscular violence, 258 Gangrene, hospital, on (Jones), 319 rieming, case of tubercular meningitis, 89 . . .. T Fliut, on the gastric and intestinal tubules, 153 — results of muscular exercise, 31 Floegel, on structure of muscle, 26 Flugel, case of early menstruation, 372 Foetal asymmetry, on a case of, 427 — peritonitis, on, 427 Foetation, extra-uterine, cases of, 403—4 — extra-uterine, treatment of, on, 404 — super-, cases of, 404—5 Foetus, action of ergot of rye on the, 421 — malformations of the, influence of the amnion on, 393 — method of bisecting (Wright), 414 — smallpox in a, 432 Fokker, action of alcohol on the tempera- ture, 464 Follet, on anaesthetics, 465 Food during siege of Paris, on (Payen), 17 — effects of absence, of lime from (Weiske), 29 -— for infants, on, 430 Foot, amputation of the, — dislocation of bones of, 254 Form, transmutation of, in certain pro- tozoa (Johnson), 3 Forceps, midwifery (Barclay), 415 Forster (Cooper), case of popliteal aneur- ism, 209 — case of tracheotomy for croup, 106 — excision of both elbows, 218 — death after extraction of naso-pharyn- geal polypus, 236 Forster, on cholera, 50 — visual sense in disease of the choroid and retina, 364 Foss, case of rotheln, 62 Foster, case of Cmsarean section, 306 — rheumatic pains in diabetes, 74 Fothergill, on hypertrophy of the heart, 138 Fox (E. L.), on phthisis, 126 Fox (T.), case of lichen ruber, 177 — case of pityriasis pilaris, 177 — on keloid, 180 — parasite in case of erythema, 184 — do., in the air of wards, 184 Fracture of femur, complete extension eannot be effected after (Montgomery), 259 — do., neck of, ununited, operation for (Lister), 259 — do., spontaneous (Durham), 259 — of the fifth cervical vetebra, survival after, 260 — of head of radius (Adams), 258 511 Fracture of odontoid process, mode of production of (Smith), 259 — of olecranon, atrophy of triceps after (Hutchinson), 257 — of skull in child, case of (Adams), 266 — of skull, operation in, cases, 266—68 — of tibia and fibula, uuuuited, operation for (Bennett), 259 — of tibia, continuous extension in (Montgomery), 259 Fractures, gunshot, mortality after (Volk- mann), 260 — do., of lower extremity, on (M'Cormac), 266 — do., of skull, 265 — do., on (Mac Cormac), 264 — incomplete (Smith), 255 — in the newly-born, on, 427 — paralysis from injury to nerve in (Erichsen), 256 — plastic apparatusin (St. John), 255 — ununited, on (Callender), 256 — do., removal of wire alter operation for (Mason), 256 Frankel, calcification of the placenta, 394 — on fibrinous uterine polypi, 403 — tubercle in choroid, 91 Fraser, on antagonism of physostigmine and atropine, 434 Friction sound, auricular pericardial (Salter), 130 ; Friedinger, secretion of glands of sto- mach, 16 Fritsch, galvanisation of cerebral centres, 22 Fuller, case of hysteria, 80 Fungi in the blood (Lostorfer), 7 — poisonous action of (Husemann), 453 Fungus in diphtheria (Letzerich), 102—3 — a variety of, in the skin (Vaulair), 185 Funk, reposition of cancerous uterus, 399 Funis, prolapsed, successful reduction of, 412 Fiirst, on the ammion in relation to foetal malformations, 393 Gag, improved, for operations (Wood), 233 Galezowski, on exophthalmic goitre, 77 — on syphilitic amaurosis, &c., 368 Gallard, uterine injections in chronic metritis, 392 Galton (Mr. F.), on pangenesis, 3 Galvanic cautery, removal of pharyngeal polypus by the (Corr.adi, Gozziui), 236 ■— wire, removal of epithelioma of the tongue with the (Gozziui, Puceioni), 283 Gamgee, ligature of common carotid artery for aneurism, 200513 INDEX. Gangrene, hospital (Heiberg), 318 embolism, amputation in (Gant), 213 — of the lung, 122—23 — senile, amputation in (Lister, Mor- gan), 213 Gant, amputation in gangrene from embolism, 213 — excision of the ankle, 225 — on excision of the astragalus, 226 — do., of the elbow, 215 — do., of hip-joint, 218 — do., of the knee-joint, 221 — do., of the shoulder, 215 — do., of the os cakis, 227 Garden, orchitis after lithotomy, 274 Garrod, on a cardio-sphyginograph, 9 — on lead poisoning, 99 Gases, exchange of, in the placenta, imi- tation of (Bernstein), 14 Gastric juice, effect of, on uterine cancer, 382 Gastrotomy for intestinal obstruction, 296—98 — in extra-uterine feetation, 404 Gatzuck, effect of, venesection on arte- rial current, 9 Gay (C. C. F.), ligature of subclavian in traumatic axillary aneurism, 202 Gay (John), case of axillo-subelavian aneu- rism, 201 — cases of excision of the hiu-ioint, 220 — ligature of subclavian artery, 202 Gay, on histology of prurigo, 178 — pathology of fhe sweat-glands in elephantiasis, 181 Gayet, case of cystic myoma of uterus, 881 Geber, case of epithelioma simulating bubo, 273 Geltowsky, action of quinine on blood- corpuscles, 7 Gemma, on pellagra, 67—68 Genersich, absorption of lymph by ten- dons, &c., 3 — on the cells of the cornea, 33 Genital passages, on the curves of the (Duncan), 408 Gerhardt, cases of papilloma, 181 Germs, action of sulphurous acid on, 492 ■— on development of (Bastian, Sander- son, &c.), 2 — on detection of blood-stains, 45 Gescheidlen, distribution of urea in the body, 19 Geuns, on detection of blood - stains, 459 Gibbons, case of Cmsarean section, 412 Giese, mode of origin of sounds of heart, Giles, on gonorrhoea and peritonitis in women, 166 Gillespie, cases of excision of the knee, 223 — dry dressings to wounds, 195 Gimbert, bromide of potassium in the vomiting of pregnancy, 400 Gior, on arseniate of quinine, 463 Giovanni, position of the heart, 132 Gland-cells, innervation of contractile, of frog (Engelmann), 24 Glands, authors on anatomy of, 20 — lachrymal innervation of the ( Wolferz), 25 ineseuteric, anatoin3^ of (Popper), 4 salivar^r, affections of tlie, list of papers on, 152 — of the stomach, secretion of the (Eb- stein, &c.), 16 — termination of nerves in (Pfliiger), 24 — uterine, epithelium of (Lott), 30 Glaucoma, value of iridectomy in (Qua"- lius), 347 ° Glosso-pharyugeal nerve, case of paralysis ^ of (Taylor), 91 Glover, case of pericarditis, 137 Gluge, case of typhoid, 53 Glycogen in blood-corpuscles, while mo- bile (Hoppe-Seyler), 8 Glycerine lymph, on, 431 Goitre, exophthalmic, cases of, and titles of papers on, 77 Gold, chloride of, action of, 462 — chloride of, in nervous diseases (Martin), 402 Goltz, on absorption of poisons, 433 — influence of nerve centres on absorp- tion, 4 Gombault, case of progressive muscular atrophy, 7l Gonorrheea and peritonitis in women (Giles), 166 Gonorrhoeal rheumatism (Bond), 282 Goodell, on the management of the pe- rinaaum during labour, 409 Goodfellow, case of disease of the heart, 139 Goodhart, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Goodridge, case of acute atrophy of the liver, 161 Gosselin, subastragaloid dislocation of the foot, 254 Gott (Dr.), excision of superior maxilla, 230 Gourrat, on action of digitalis, 470 Gout, connection of, with hay fever (Gueneau de Mussy), 43613 INDEX. Gozzini, removal of pharyngeal polypus hy galvanic cautery, 236 — removal of the tongue with the gal- vanic wire, 283 Grafting, epidermic, on, 335 •— skin, on, 335 Gray (St. Clair), antagonism of nitrite of amyl and strychnine, 440 — (of Oxford), cases of chorea, 81 Gray, fall in frequency of pulse before death from coma, 133 Gregory, on weight of infants, 425 Green, case of disturbed innervation of the heart, 147 — case of interstitial hepatitis, 162 — interstitial pneumonia, 120 Greene, removal of bronchocele, 236 Grehant, on action of aconitine, 468 Greenhow, case of locomotor ataxy, 98 — paralysis in diphtheria, 105 Greyness of hair, premature, on (Pincus, Berger), 184 Gross (Dr.), on ulceration of the jugular veins, 326 Ground water, influence of, on spread of cholera, 477 Gruber, removal of foreign bodies from external ear, 335 Gnm, on typhus, 485 Gubler, nervine symptoms of smallpox, 63 Gueniot, on absorption of uterine fibroids, 380 — on fractures of the thigh in the newly born, 427 — hmmatoma in typhoid, 53 — on urinary umbilical fistulas, 427 •— congenital invagination of the rectum, 432 Guilland, case of inoculation of smallnox 431 ^ Guinea-pigs, epilepsy in (Brown-Sequard, Westphal), 82 Gull, on Bright’s disease, 168 Gunning, on detection of blood-stains, 459 Gunshot, trephining for (Halstead, How- ard), 265 Gunshot injuries of bone (Mac Cormac), ' - injuries, mortality after, compared with civil practice (Volkmann), 260 — injuries to the brain, cases of (Cohn), 352 wound of chest, fourfold, recovery after (Lorinser), 264 — wound of nock, retention of ball (Baumes), 264 — wounds, experience in (Mac Cormac), Guirshot wounds of eye (Cohn), 349—363 — wounds of lower extremity (Mac Cormac), 266 — wounds, operations not adapted for (Moore), 263 — wounds, surgery of arteries in (Vcr- neuil), 263 — wounds, traumatic fever from (Hueter), 315 Gusserow, anaemia during pregnancy, 397 — on urea in liquor amnii, 17 Giiterbock, emphysema in diphtheria, 105 — healing of wounds of the cornea, 34 Habershon, cases of disease of the stomach, 154 — nocturnal dyspnoea, 133 — peritoneal adhesions giving rise to pain, 166 Haematidrosis, case of (Wilks), 183 Hsematocele, pelvic, on (Meadows, Beck), 391 Haematoma in case of scarlet fever (Hu- ber), 60 — in typhoid (Gueniot), 53 Haematometra, 369—70 Haematozoon, a peculiar ciliated (Boyd Moss), 7 Haematuria, paroxysmal, on (Pavy), 170 — titles of papers, on, 170 Haemoglobin crystals, &c. (Preyer), 5 Haemoptysis, experiments on, as caiise of phthysis (Sommerbrodt), 126 —127^''^^^^^'^’ proportion of (Williams), Haemorrhage from kidneys in infants, 432 — meningeal, titles of papers on, 89—90 — recurrent, after amputation, 211 — secondary, after delivery, 424 — supplementary to menstruation, 373 — transfusion for, 419 Hafiz, properties of muscle, 27 Hainworth, case of poisoning by carbolic acid, 446 Hair, loss of, over the whole body (Crisp), 184 ^ — papers on diseases of, 187 — premature greyness of (Berger, Pin- cus), 184 structure of, in its inedico-lee:al as- pects, 459 Halbertsma, external examination of uterus in labour, 415 Hallier, examination of fseees of sheep in foot-and-mouth disease, 79 Hallopeau, on chronic myelitis, 93 Halstead, trephining for gunshot, 265 Hammarsten, absorption of lymph 4 33514 INDEX. Hau'iilton, case of tumour of the lower jaw, 229 Hammond on aphasia, 86 — on monohromide of camphor, 469 Hancock, excision of the astragalus, 226 — on excision of the hip-joint, 220 — excision of wrist, 218 Hanson, regeneration of epithelium of cornea, 33 Hardie, removal of congenital cystic tumour of neck, 237 — spontaneous separation of uterine fibroid, 380 Harley (J.), on scarlet fever, &c., 61 Harris, cases of Cffisarean section, 412 — on Caesarean section, 306 — on forms of pelvic distortion, 410 Hart (Dr.), case of hydrocele of the round ligament, 391 Hartmann, on croup and diphtheria, 104 Hasse, course of blood in spleen, 19 Hattute, case of elephantiasis, 181 Haughton, mechanics of muscle, 30 Haward (Mr. W.), on ether and chloro- form, 193 Hay (T.), removal of inverted uterus with intramural fibroid, 377 Hayden, diaphragmatic pleurisy, 114 Hayem, case of pneumonia, 119 — on scurvy, 75 Hay fever, relation of, to gout (Gueueau de Mussy), 43 — quinine in (Ferner), 43 — symptoms of (Waters), 43 — titles of papers on, 43 Hayes, method of securing vessels of pedicle in ovariotomy, 390 Haynes, dislocation of both ends of clavicle, 247 Head, gunshot injuries to, 265 — injury to, cases of, 266—68 — injuries to the, on artificial respira- tion in (Schiff), 14 — injury to the, emphysema and ecchy- mosis of lungs in—experiments (Browu- Sequard), 108 Health, public, report on (Stevenson), 472 — resorts, on, 190—91 Hearing, action of the tensor tympani on (Schapringer), 25 Heart, abscesses in the (Crisp), 139 — action of camphor on the, 469 — aneurism of mitral value of (Simon), 141 aneurism of the (Murchison, Towns- end), 139 — calcareous degeneration of tbe (Coats), 140 — cancer of the (Payne), 139 Heart, case of disease of tricuspid valve of (Whipham), 141 — case of disease of (Smith), 138 — circulation in, with inspiration (Quincke, Pfeiffer), 13 — congenital malformation of the, cases of, 147—48 — do., list of papers on, 148—49 — dilatation of the, on (Thompson), 138 — disease of, case of (Goodfellow), 139 — disease, cases of, with embolism, 134 —36 — disease complicated with pregnancy (Spiegelberg), 398 — disease of, during pregnancy, causa- tion of (Lebert), 397 — disease of the walls of the (Quain), 137 — disease, on prevention of (Stone), 132 — disease, titles of papers on, 134,142— 43 — effects of heat on the action of the (Ceradini, Brim ton. Pick), 9 — effects of strain on the (Allbutt), 132 — effects of temperature on the (Bruu- ton), 133 — effects of the, on respiration (Landois, Ceradini), 13 — fibrous tumour of the (Wagstaffe), 138 — hypertrophy, &c., of the, on (Fother- giil), 138 — irritable, on (Costa), 146 — murmurs in diseases of, on, 129—34 — do., titles of papers on, 134 — nervous palpitation of the (Mazza), 147 — neurosis of the (Nunneley, Moinet, &c.), 145—47 . — nocturnal dyspnoea in disease of the, 133 — orifices of the, on (Davies), 131 — origin of first sound of the (Giese), 129 — palpitation of the, on (Nunneley), 145 — position of the (Giovanni), 131 — presystolic murmur in disease of, on (Fagge), 140 — rupture of the, cases of, 143—45 — sounds of, audible after cessation of respiration, 141 — sounds of, intensification of the (Poore), 130 — sounds of the, titles of papers on, 134 — valvular disease of, prognosis in (Pea- cock), 139 Heart’s action, effects of respiration on (Hering), 10 Heat, effects of, on action of the heart (Ceradini, Brunton, Pick), 9INDEX, 515 Heath, case of aortic auenrism, &c.,_202 — lijjatui'C of the comaiou carotid in aortic anenrisin, 201 — case of wound of intestine during ovariotomy, 305, 389 — tumour of lower jaw, 229 Hebra, case of herpes impetiginiformis, 176 Hegar, on sarcoma of the uterus, 375 Heiberg, endocarditis with mycosis endo- cardii, 140 — on hospital gangrene, 318 — on use of tracheal tampon, 320 — regeneration of epithelium of cornea, 33 Heidenhain, temperature of brain with sensory excitement, 22 — on tone of muscles, 30 Heine, subcutaneous injection of tu- mours, 244 Heifer, carbolic acid in diphtheria, 106 Hemiplegia, cases of (Perroud), 84 — from rupture of internal carotid (Ver- neuil), 84 — right-sided, without defect of speech (Down), 88 — spinal, cases of (Pieber), 84 — titles of papers on, 88—89 — with embolism, cases of, 134—36 Hemisphere of brain, functions of each (Perroud), 84 Henoeque, distribution of nerves to mus- cular tissue, 30 Hereditariuess of nervous diseases (Jas- trowitz), 91 Heriug, action of respiration on the heart’s action, 10 Hermann, on electrisation of muscle, 31 Hernia, catgut sutures to tendinous openings in (Lister), 289 — diaphragmatic, on (Popp, Sargent), 290 — direct inguinal, in the female (Squire), 288 — femoral, reduction of, en masse, 288 — incarcerated scrotal (Hutchinson), 289 — obturator, cases of (Chiene, Erichsen), 290—91 — of the ovary, on (Englisch), 291 — radical cure of inguinal (Payrer), 288’ — sciatic, case of (Marzolo), 293 — strangulated, on (Paget), 288 strangulated, treatment of, by punc- ture of the intestine (Bryant), 289 — strangulated umbilical, 289 use of aspirator in (Labbe, Demai'- quay), 289 Herniotomy, cases of, in infants (Ericb- seii. Hill), 288 Herpes frontalis (Sichel), 175 Herpes impetiginiformis (Hebra), 176 — papers on, 186 — with urticaria (Broadbent), 176 — zoster, on (Wyss, Sichel, Parrot, &c.), 175—76 Herpetic fever, on (Parrot), 175 Hertel, case of bronchitis, &c., 116 — case of congenital malformation of the heart, 147 Heschl, state of capillaries, &c., in ty- phoid, 52 Hesse, on alkaloids from opium, 468 Heterogenesis, on (Bastian, &c.), 2 Heubel, on chronic lead poisoning, 442 Heubner, action of camphor on the heart, 469 Hewitt (Graily), on the vomiting of pregnancy, 400 Hewitt (Prescott), on bronchotomy, 320 Hicks (Dr. Braxton), anatomy of the human placenta, 393 — cases of inversion of the uterus, 417 — on diagnosis of pregnancy, 401 — hEemorrhage in connection with labour, 419 — on tables of mortality after obstetric operations, 415 Higginson, cases of transfusion, 420 Hildreth, on transfusion of blood, 329 Hill (Berkeley), a new strictiu’c dilator, 272 Hill (J. D.), excision of part of scapula, 231 — herniotomy in infant, 288 Hip, amputation at the {see amputation) — re-amputation at the, on (Otis), 212 Hippel, visual sense in disease of the choroid and retina, 366 Hiron, on yellow fever, 46 Hirschberg, cysticerci oculi, 79 Hirsclifeld (Bmch-), on inoculation of tubercle, 39 Histology, papers on, 32 Hitzig, galvanisation of cerebral centres, 22 Hodge, on position of foetal head during delivery, 407 Hofman, treatment of acute exanthemS, 58 Hoffmann, on storing up of fat in the fat- cells, 32 — structure of hair in its medico-legal aspects, 459 Holden (Luthef), cases of popliteal aneu- rism, 209 — hmmorrhage after use of catgut liga- ture, 209 Holden (of America), on sea voyage iu phthisis, 190616 INDEX. Hollis, case of simultaneous lead and mercurial poisoning, 99 Holmes (Timothy), excision of the tarso- metatarsal joints, 227—28 — on excision of the knee-joint, 222 — flexion of leg in popliteal aneurism, 209 — on surgical treatment of aneurism, 198 — treatment of suppurating ovarian cysts, 302 Holthouse, removal of tracheotomy tube, 321 ■— spiral spring extender, 265 Honer on cholera, 481 Hoppe-Seyler, glycogen in blood, 8 — on disinfection, 492 Hoscheck, case of Caesarean section, 413 Hospital gangrene, on (Heiberg, Jones), 18—19 Howard, trephining for gunshot, 265 Huber, haematoma in scarlet fever, 60 Huchard, cause of death in smallpox, 63 Huehel, active principles of tobacco smoke, 451 Hueter, traumatic fever fi'om gunshot wounds, 315 Hughes, case of rupture of the heart, 145 Hulke, cases of colotomy for stricture of rectum, 299 — case of cleft palate, 233 — case of gastrotomy for intestinal ob- struction, 297 — case of ligature of radial, 210 — case of stricture of urethra, 272 Humerus, dislocation of (see dislocation), 247 Humphry, on myology, 31 Husemann, on chloral hydrate, 465 — poisonous action of fungi, 453 Huss, pain in pleurisy, 112 Hutchinson (Mr. Jonathan), atrophy of triceps after fracture of the olecranon, 257 — case of cerebral tumour, 92 — ease of incarcerated scrotal hernia, 289 — cases of vaccino-syphilis, 306 — chronic rheumatic arthritis, 326 — incontinence as a symptom of reten- tion of urine, 273 — on orchitis from irritation of the pros- tatic urethra, 273 — paralysis of ciliary muscle in diph- theria, 104 — on periostitis of temporal bone, 333 — xanthelasma palpebrarum, 183 Hutton, prediction of sex of child by aus- cultation, 396 Hydrocyanic acid, detection of (Almen, Preyer), 454 Hydatids in the brain, cases (Recb), 78 — in the lung, case (Zuber), 79 Hydatids of cerebellum, cases of, 93 — of the liver, cases of, 163 — of the lungs (Lebert, Zuber, Bird), 124—25 Hydrocele of the round ligament, case of (Hart), 391 Hydrocephalus, cases of, and titles of papers on, 89 — chronic, on, 429 Hydrochloric acid, cases of poisoning by, 442 Hydrocyanic acid, action of (Preyer), 446 — action of (Amory), 448 Hydrogen, peroxide of, use in pessaries (Day), 461 Hydrophobia, histology of nervous centres in (Allbutt), 42 — list of authors on, 42—43 — pathology of (Rudnew), 42 Hymen, imperforate (Barton), 282 Hyperaesthesia, titles of papers on, 88 Hypermetropia, frequency of, 342 Hypertrophy, congenital, case of, 428 Hysteria, case of analgesia with (Rosen- thal), 80 — contraction of limbs in (Charcot), 79 — on cases of supposed (Fuller), 80 — titles of papers on, 80 — trance in (Jamieson), 80 Ichthyosis, papers on, 186 Icterus neonatorum, 432 Icterus, on, 164 Iliac artery, common, ligature of the, for hsemorrhage (Baker), 207 — external ligature of the, cases of, 207—8 Ihlder, nerves of the tongue in birds, 25 Impetigo, papers on, 186 Incubation of fevers (Murchison), 41 Induration of lungs, brown (Delafield, Rindfleisch), 121 Infantile paralysis, cases of, nature of, &c. (Damaschiuo, Roger, Rinecker, Rosenthal), 96—97 — paralysis, titles of papers on, 97 — spinal paralysis (Charcot), 95 Infants, hsemorrhage from the kidneys in, 432 — on feeding of, 430 — on still-born, 425 — weight of, 425 Infection from poison of animals, list of authors on, 42 — list of authors on subject of, 37 — means of (see also contagion), 35—37 — use of respirator to prevent (Tyndall), 37 Inflammation, condition of the walls of the vessels in (Durante), 33517 INDEX. Inflammation In the cornea, experiments on (Heiberg, Hansen, Carmalt, &c.), 33 — list of authors on, 34 — persistent, treatment of (Marshall), 334 — the state of the walls of the vessels in (Durante), 33 Infusions, development of bacteria in (Sanderson, Bastian), 36 Inglis, case of Caesarean section, 412 Injection in tumours, (Heine), 244 Innervation of contractile gland-cells of frog (Engelmann), 24 Inoculability of tubercle (various), 38—^39 Inoculation of smaU-pox, case of, 431 Innominate, compression and ligature of (Bickerstetb), 201 Insolatio, on (Thin, Macdonald, Clap- ham), 58 Intermittent (see fever), 45 Intestinal obstruction, cases of, 293—99 — obstruction, formation of artificial anus (Me Car thy), 296 — obstruction from bands of lymph, cases of, 298 — obstruction from congenital constric- tion (Southey), 295 — obstruction from a knot (Taylor), 295 — obstruction from peritonitis, case of (Buchanan), 296 — obstruction, list of papers on and cases of, 158—59 — obstruction, on lumbar colotomy in (Bryant), 294 — obstruction without sickness (Bell, Croom), 295 Intestine, changes in, in typhoid (Heschl, Murchison, Maclagan), 52 — puncture of, 297 — puncture of, in hernia (Bryant), 289 — syphilitic disease of small (Oser), 65 — wound of, case of, 299 — wound of, during ovariotomy (Heath), 305 Intestines, affections of the, list of papers on, 157 Intussusception (see invagination), 432 — list of cases of &c., 158 Invagination, congenital, of the rectum, 432 — of the colon, &c., 432 Iodine as injection in chronic metritis, 392 — causing pemphigus (Bumstead), 176 Iridectomy, value of, in glaucoma (Qua- glino), 347 Iris, congenital coloboma of the, 339 Iron, chloride of, action of, 462 — perchloride of, as an injection in chronic metritis, 392 Isaakson, on emphysema, 116 Isambert, pharyngo-scrofulous angina, 151 Itch, treatment of (Monti, Weinberg), 185 Jackquet, cysts of the placenta, 394 Jackson (J. Hughlings), convulsions and loss of speech, 87 — power of singing remaining in two aphasic boys, 88 — tubercle of the cerebellum, 92 Jackson (T. Carr), amputation after ex- cision of the hip, 221 — excision of the astragalus, 226 Jacobi, on case of foetal asymmeti’y, 427 Jacobson, on coincidence of mnrmurs with period of heart’s action, 129 Jalland, case of vaginal thrombus, 419 Jameson, case of abscess of the liver, 159 Jamieson, case of popliteal aneurism, 209 — case of trance, 80 — case of vaginal ruptiu’e, 417 Janeway, tumours of dura mater, 93 Jarisch, composition of the blood, 6 Jastrowitz, hereditary character of ner- vous diseases, 91 Jaundice, authors on, &c., 164 — in new-born children, 432 Jaw, lower, anchylosis of the, operation for (Bottini, Maas), 230 — lower, excision of, &c., 228—29 — lower, myeloid tumour of (Maunder), 235 — lower, removal of, through the mouth (Maunder), 235 — upper, excision of the 229—30 — upper, resection of, for removal of naso-pharyngeal tumours (Burns), 235 Jeffreys, case of poisoning by carbolic acid, 446 Jenks, case of placenta succentm-iata, 424 Jessop, use of pneumatic respirator, 232 Joffroy, case of tetanus, 98 — changes in paralysis agitans, 97 Johnson (Mr.), extra-uterine foetation, 404 Johnson (Dr. G.), diagnosis of aortic aneurism with the laryngoscope, 149 — on Bright’s disease, 167—68 — on laryngeal spasm, 102 — on scarlet fever, 487 Johnson (Metcalfe), phosphate of lime in the vomiting of pregnancy, 400 — on transmutation of form in certain protozoa, 3 Joint disease, necrosis in (Treves), 325518 INDEX. Joint, knee, loose cartilages in, removal of (Square), 326 Joints, amputation through (see ampu- tation) ■— disease of, authors on, 326 — disease of, from continued rest, (Menzel), 325 '— excision of (see excisions), 213 Jones (Handfield), cases of acute rheu- matism, 74 — cases of chorea, 81 — on case of pleurisy, 112 Jones (Dr.), on hospital gangrene, 319 Jones (Sydney), cases of excision of the knee, 223 — excision of wrist, 218 Jones (Talfourd), on use of nitrite of amyl, 467 Jordan (Furneaux), new method of re- moving the tongue, 283 Joulin, on the laminar membrane of the human placenta, 394 Jugular veins, ulceration of the, on (Gross), 326 Julian, on capillary bronchitis, 116 Junker, on the use of the tracheal tampon, 319 Jurasz, action of bile on the blood-cor- puscles, 6 Kalteubach, albuminuria during preg- nancy, 396 Kehrer, jaundice in new-born children, 432 — morphology of milk casein, 423 Keith, cases of ovariotomy, 302 — on ovariotomy, 389 Kelly, case of congenital malformation of the heart, 148 — case of scarlet fever, 61 Keloid, on (Kohn, Fox), 180 Kennedy, on phthisis, 126 Keratitis, experiments on (Carmalt, Strieker, &c.), 33 Keruer, action of quinine on blood-cor- puscles, 7 Kersey, outbreak of diphtheria, 105 Kidd, decapitation as mode of delivery, 413 — on uterine fibroids, 379 Kidney, amount of uric acid excreted by the (Sawicki), 30 — atrophied, ursemia from (Murchison), 169 — Bright’s disease of, causes of (Roberts), 168 — Bright’s disease of, diagnosis, &c., of (Johnson), 167 — Bright’s disease of, dropsy in (Wood), 167 Kidney, Bright’s disease of the, titles of papers on, 170 — Bright’s disease of, with contracted kidney (Gull and Sutton), 168 — cirrhosis of the (Finney), 170 — disease of, ending in apoplexy, 169 — extreme, granular degeneration of, without cardiac affection (Moxon), 169 — hjMatids in the (Shepherd), 171 —^^hypertrophy of, on (Rosenstein, Perl), — syphilitic disease of (Bradley), 168 — titles of papers on affections of the, 171 Kidneys, hremorrhage from the, in infants, 432 — on formation of urea by the (Rosen- stein), 19 King (Dr.), removal of tumour of palate, ^238 King (Prof.), relaxation of pelvic articu- lations during pregnancy, 407 King (Surgeon), on cold food for infants, 430 Kittel on trichinosis, 78 Klein, development of earliest corpuscles and blood-vessels, 7 — distribution of nerves in membrana nictitans, 24 — on serous membranes, 4 Knee, amputation at the (see amputation) — anchylosis at, excision of wedge of bone in, 223—25 — anchylosis at the, subcutaneous osteo- tomy in (Little), 225 — dislocation at the, 254 — excision of the (see also excision) Knoll, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, 71 Kobner, reinfection of constitutional syphilis, 306 Kocher, on traumatic aneurism of the vertebral artery, 202 Kohler, on anesthetics, 465 Kohn, on keloid, 180 — on parasitic erythema, &c., 185 Konrad, etiology of prolapse of female genitalia, 383 Korner, on tubercle, &c., 126 — on tuberculosis, 108 Kotsonopulos, on epidemic of cerebro- spinal meningitis, 44 Kowalewsky, on arterial current, and arterial pressure, 9 Kraft-Ebing, paralysis after diphtheria, 105 — suppuration in muscles, after typhoid, 53 Kratschmer, on diabetes, 73 Kronlein, on open treatment of wounds, 195INDEX. 519 Kuclienmeister, ou treatment of epistaxis, 334 Kupressow, power of sphincter vesicm innsclc, 20 Kussmaul, on lead poisoning, 99 Kiittner, on invagination of the intestine, 158 Labhe, on morphine and chloroform, 468 — use of aspirator, 289 Lahorde, nervine symptoms of smallpox, 63 Labour, accidents during, 416 — artificial induction of (Rokitansky), 403 — determination of age and size of child before (Ahlfeld), 395 — difficult, cases of) 410—12 — external examination of uterus in (Halbertsma), 415 — hsemorrhage in connection with (Hicks, &c.), 419 — haemorrhagic, smallpox after, 423 — induction of premature (Donaldson), 402 — influence of uterine fibroids ou, 411 — long delay of, after escape of liquor amnii (Duncan), 394 — management of perinacum during (Goodell, Swayne), 409 — mechanism of, on, 405—7 — ruptureof the uterus during (Fourrier), 416 — sudden death after, 424 Lachrymal fluids, innervation of the (Wolferz), 25 Lagrange (Fargier-), on methylamine,466 Lahens (Magnes), on use of tar, 467 Lair, on sterco-bilen, 17 Landois, action of heart on respiration, 31 Lane, double ligature in aneurism at the root of the neck, 202 — ligature of common carotid for aneu- rism. 200 Langenbeck, on epileptic convulsions after iujm’ies to the head, 83 Lannelongue, use of nasal mucous mem- brane in uranoplasty, 334 Laryngeal nerves, function of (Navi-atil), 102 — obstruction after erysipelas (Russell), 101 — obstruction with oedema, case of (Boelt), 101 Laryngotomy for removal of foreign bodies (various), 320—21 Larynx, colloid cysts in the, 188 — growths in the, on (Mackenzie), 324 — opening the, for the removal of growths (Durham), 322 Larynx, removal of foreign bodies from, cases of, 320—21 — spasm of, on (Johnson), 102 — titles of papers ou affections of the, 102 — tracheotomy for disease of, cases, Laschkewitsch, blood-corpuscles m Ad- dison’s disease, 8 — cases of bronzing of skin, 76 Laseue, treatment of diphtheria, 106 Latham, ou typhoid fever, 53 Lavdowsky, on lymphatics, 4 Laveran, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Lawson, case of congenital hypertrophy of the tongue, 284 — case of reduction of femoral hernia en masse, 288 — on cholera, 48 Lead and mercurial poisoning, case of (Hollis), 99 — poisoning, case of (Kussmaul, Maier), 99 — poisoning, chronic, on (Heubel), 442 — poisoning, on (Garrod), 99 Leared, gangrene of the lung, 122 Lebert, on causation of heartdiseaseduring pregnancy, 397 — hydatid cysts in lung, 124 — on pneumonia, 119 Lee, removal of tracheotomy tube, 322 Legg, on acute atrophy of the liver, 160 Leg, swelled, of fevers (Begbie), 41 Legislation, sanitary, 495 Leichtenstein, on volume of expired air, 11 Lepiuc, ferment converting starch into sugar widely diffused, 16 Lesser, on absorption of lymph, 4 Letzerich, fungous origin of diphtheria, &c., 102—3 Leucaemia, alkaline blood in (Mosler), 8 Leuchaemia (see leucocythemia), 69 Leucocythaemia, examination of urine in (Salkowski), 69 — post-mortem, on case of (Reincke), 69 — relation of, to pseudo-leukaemia, 69 j — state of retina in (Reincke), 69 — titles of papers on, 70 Lewis, filaria in blood, 7 Leyden, on bronchial asthma, 117 Lichen, papers on, 186 Lichen ruber, case of (Fox), 177 Lichtenberg, extraction of polypus, 236 Lichtenstein, ou phosphorus poisoning, 440 Liebig (G. v.) effects of atmospheric pressure on respiration, 15 Liebreich, on croton chloral, 466520 INDEX. Life, phenomena of, influence of baro- metric pressure on (Bert), 13 Ligature (see artery) — antiseptic catgut, on, 195 — antiseptic, of innominate (Bicker- stcth), 201 — catgut, hsemorrhage after use of (Holden), 209 — of common carotid in aortic aneurism (Heath), 201 — of common carotid artery for aneu- rism (Lane, Gamgee), 200 — of the common iliac artery (Baker), 207 — of the external artery, cases of 207—8 Light, violet, influence of, on growth (^Pleasanton), 18 Lime, effects of absence of, from food (VVeiske), 29 — phosphate of, in vomiting of preg- nancy (Johnson), 400 Ling, absence of ovary, &c., 371 — injury to pregnant uterus, 400 Lipp, on erythema, 174< Lissauer, treatment of typhoid, 54 Lister, on antiseptic sm-gery, 194 — amputation in senile gangrene, 213 — case of, amputation of thehip-joint, 211 — cases of popliteal aneurism, 209 — catgut sutures to tendinous openings in hernia, 289 — excision of wrist, 218 — operation for ununited fracture of neck of femur, 259 — removal of loose cartilages from knee- joint, 326 — treatment of cicatrices, 332 Lithotomy, cases of, &c., 277 — haemorrhage after (Square, Tay), 277 — in female, 278—79 — orchitis after (Hutchinson, Garden), 273—74 — rectal (Schaffer), 278 — removal of piece of bone from the bladder (Thompson), 277 Lithotrity, case of, with atony of the bladder (Matiejowsky), 276 Little (Dr. A.), antagonism between belladonna and opium, 439 Little (W. S.), subcutaneous osteotomy at knee, 225 Littleton, on overlaying, 427 Liveing, cases of molluscum contagio- sum, 183 — poison of contagious diseases, 37 Liver, abscess of the, cases of, 159—60 — acute atrophy of the, cases of, 160— 61 — do., list of papers on, 161 Liver, cancer of the, cases of, 163 — cirrhosis of the, cases of, 161—62 — do., list of papers on, 162 — deposits in, in syphilis, on (Simon), 66 — hydatids of the, cases of, 163—64 — do., list of papers on, 164 list of papers on various affections of the, 165 — size of, in children (Steffen), 165 — sugar of, on (Dalton), 17 Lizars, excision of the lower jaw, 229 Locomotor ataxy, case of (Greenhow, Cayley), 98 — titles of papers on, 98 Lohmayer, use of pneumatic aspirator, 232 Long, calculus in female, 278 Lorain, case of woman with four breasts, 371 Lorinser, fourfold gunshot injury to chest, recovery, 264 Lostorfer, diagnosis of syphilis by the microscope, 64 — fungi in blood, 36 — fungi in human blood, 7 Lott, epithelium of uterine glands, 20 Lowe, case of rupture of the heart, 145 — opening the stomach for cancer, 299 Lubauski, ulcerative angina, 151 Lucas, a new plan of using acupressure, 198 Liicke, on paculosis, 180 Ludwig, vaso-motor centre of medulla, 23 Lukomsky, ecchymoses after sufibcation, 460 Lunatics, gangrene of lung in (Browne, Burman), 123 Lund, excision of both astragali, 226 Luneau, cases of embolism, 135 Lung, abscess of the, cases and titles of papers, 122—23 — gangrene of the, cases and titles of papers, 122—23 — hydatids in the, case of (Zuber), 79 Lungs, afEections of, from injuries to brain (Brown-Sequard), 269 — brown induration of (Delafield, Rind- fleisch), 121 — ecchymoses in, from injuries to the head, experiments (Brown-Sequard), 108 — emphysema of the, from injury to the head (Brown-Sequard), 108 — encephaloid disease of (Sparks), 124 — epithelioma of the (Arnott), 124 — hydatids of (Lebert, Zuber), 124 — 25 — hydatids of, in Australia (Bird), 125 — hypertrophy of, title (Thierfelder), 121INDEX. 531 Lung, ill-cfEecfc on, from ill-developed muscles of neck (Koruer), 108 — inhalation of dust into (Mayet, Ross, Merkel), 123 — lymphatics of the (Sikorsky), 11 — scirrhous cancer of (Bennett, Waters), 124 Lupus, papers on, 187 Luschka, cases of colloid cysts in the larnyx, 188 Lussana, nerves of taste, 25 Lutz, on bromide of potassium in epi- lepsy, 83 Lymph, absorption of, hy tendons (Gen- ersich. Lesser, &c.), 3—4 — flow of, circumstances influencing, 4 Lymphadenoma, case of (Murchison), 111 Lymphadenomata, on (Wagner), 188 Lymph-corpuscles, glycogen in, while mobile (Hoppe-Seyler), 8 Lymph, glycerine, on, 431 Lymphatic varix, congenital (Paterson), 211 Lymphatics, arrangement of, in serous membranes (Klein, Sanderson), 4 — of the lungs, on the (Sikorsky), 11 Lymphoma, multiple, arsenic in (Bill- roth), 244 Lymphomata, cases of (Maier, Roth), 188 —89 Lyons, on typhus in India, 56 Maas, cases of sporadic pellagra, 68 — operation for anchylosis of the lower jaw, 230 MacCall, on whooping-cough, 117 McCarthy, formation of ai’tificial anus in intestinal obstruction, 296 MoClintock, mode of removing uterine polypi, 380 MacCormac, excision of shoulder and elbow in same arm, 213 — experience of gunshot wounds, 263 — on gunshot injuries of hone, 264 — gunshot wounds of lower extremity, 266 — opening the stomach for cancer, 299 — unreduced dislocation of the femur, 253 McCoy, tumour of antrum, 234 Macdonald, case of shoulder presenta- tion, 414 — on sunstroke, 58 McDougall, hajmorrhage after amputa- tion, 211 Macgillivray, case of congenital hyper- trophy, 438 McKee, reduction of dislocation of the femur, 253 Mackenzie (Dr., of America), case of emphysema during labour, 419 Mackenzie (Morell), treatment of hron- chocele, 237 Mackenzie (Mr. Stephen), on glycerine lymph, 431 Maclagan, intestinal lesion on typhoid, 52 Maclaren, on sea voyage in phthisis, 190 Macleod (Dr.), on division of pedicle in ovariotomy, 305, 390 — on skin grafting, 335 McPherson, case of biliary calculus, 164 MacSwiney, case of tubercular menin- gitis, 89 — on infantile diarrhcea, 157 Madden, cases of sudden death after labour, 424 Madge, paralysis during pregnancy, 398 — report on specimen of epithelioma of uterus, 382 Magnesium, chloride of, action of, 462 Maier, cases of lipomatous tumours, 188 — on lead poisoning, 99 Malarial poison, vegetable (Liveing), 37 Malformations of foetus, influence of ammion on (Fiirst), 393 Malins, excision of elbow for compound dislocation, 218 Malmsten, cases of poisoning by sulphuric acid, 441 Mamina, on mode of removing (Bell), 234 — removal, &c., of, 233—34 Mammae, case of four (Lorain), 371 — cases of haemorrhage from, supplemen- tary to menstruation, 373 Manassein, size of blood-corpuscles at different temperatures, 39 — size of blood-corpuscles in pyaemia, — temperature in animals after swing- ing, &c., 39 Manizu, action of alcohol on the tem- perature, 464 Manometer for respiratory movements (Waldenburg), 108 Marcet, blood a colloid fluid, 7 — chemistry of muscle, 28 Marine grass for sutures (Burow), 349 Marriage in consumptives, on (Williams, Barnes, Bennett), 128 Marshall, excision in old dislocation of elbow, 218 Martin, epilepsy from necrosis in thiffh, 83 — on puerperal fever, 421 Martini, case of muscular atrophy, 70 — treatment of uterine disease, 40253S INDEX. Maschka, on poisoning by sulphate of copper, 413 Masius, on microcytlitemia, 70 — sterco-bilin, 17 Mason (Mr. T.), cleft palate, 233 — removal of wire after operation for ununited fracture, 256 Materia medica, report on (Stevenson), 461 Matbieu, amount of oxygen in blood in different arteries, 13 Matiejowslcy, case of stone, with atony of the bladder, 276 Mattel, cramps during pregnancy, &c., 409 Matthews, removal of an artificial tooth- plate from the oesophagus, 287 — rupture of the heart, 144 Malton, pneumonia during pregnancy, 398 Maunder, excision of the ankle, 226 — excision of lower jaw through the mouth, 235 — on primary excision of the elbow, 216 Maurer, symptoms of poisoning by vanilla ice, 452 — on trichinosis, 78 Maury, extroversion of the bladder, 275 Maxilla, inferior, anchylosis of the, opera- tion for (Maas, Bottini), 230 — inferior, cases of excision of, 228—29 — inferior, excision of, mode of per- forming (Watson, Lizars), 228—29 ■— inferior, removal of, through the mouth (Maunder), 235 — superior, excision of the, 229 Maxillm, superior, resection of, for re- moval of naso-pharyngeal tumours (Bruns), 235 Mayer, action of strychnine on the blood pressure, 10 — case of softening of the stomach, 155 Mayet, on anthracosis, 123 Mayo, on an outbreak of typhoid, &c., 54 Mazza, on nervous palpitation of the heart, 147 Mazzei, on cataract extraction, 343 Marzolo, case of sciatic hernia, 293 Meadows, on pelvic hmmatocele, 391 Measles and smallpox coincident (Au- chenthaler, Brunton), 60 — mortality of (Ballot), 59 — treatment of (Hofman), 58 Meadows, on treatment of fibroid tu- mours of the uterus, 379 Mediastinal growth, a peculiar (Virchow), 109 — growths, titles of papers on, 112 Mediastinum, carcinomatous mass in (Clarke), 111 Medicine, report on (Shepherd), 33 Medulla oblongata, vaso-motor centre of the (Ludwig), 23 Melanosis of penis, (Holmes), 275 Meldon, case of injury to the head, 266 Membrana nictitans, distribution of nerves in the (Klein), 24 Membrane, respiratory mucous, histolosrv of (Boldyrew), 11 Meningeal apoplexy, titles of papers on, 89—90 Meninges, psammomata of the (Arnold), 188 Meningitis, cerebro-spinal, on (Eulenberg, Kotsonopulos, Russell), 44—45 — do., titles of papers on, 44—45 — chronic (Arndt), 89 — ophthalmoscopic appearances in (Bou- chut, Socin, Broadbent, &c.), 90—91 — titles of papers on, 89 — tubercular (Fleming, MaeSwiney), 89 Menstruation, defective, on, 372 — early appearance of (Ashton, Flugel), 372 — hemorrhage supplementary to, 373 — painful, 373 Menzel, on disease of joints from con- tinued rest, 325 — enchondroma of the ribs, 241 — impaction of foreign bodies in stric- tured oesophagus, 286 — intra-buccal resection of the inferior maxillary nerve, 328 Mercurial and lead poisoning, case of (Hollis), 99 Mercury, action of bichloride of, 463 — action of, on secretion of bile (Ben- nett), 463 — oleate of, in treatment of inflamma- tion, 334 — subcutaneous injections of, in syphi- lis (Sigmund), 308 Merkel, inhalation of dust, 123 — on Cheyne-Stokes’s respiration, 107 — on structure of muscle, 26 Mesenteric glands, anatomy of (Popper), 4 Methylamine, on (Lagrange), 466 Methylene, bichloride of, use of, 466 Meyer, on action of digitalis, 471 — on exophthalmic goitre, 77 — value of different kinds of bread, 18 Meynet, case of scarlet fever, 61 — case of supplementary hminorrhage, 373 Mezger, subcutaneous rupture of vessels in nmvus, 211 Mialhe, chemistry of hydrocyanic acid, 448 Micrococci in warts (Richter), 79533 INDEX. Microcj’tlicomiii (Vaulair, Maslus), 70 MicrozyiBGS, development in solutions, &c. (Sanderson, &e.), 36—37 Miesclier, action of nerves on blood pres- sure, 9 Mignot, lowering of temperature before death, 40 Military surgery, mortality in, compared with civil practice (Volkmann), 260 Milk casein, morphology of, 423 — condition of woman’s, under defi- ciency of food, 20 — on the influence of starvation on a mother’s, 423 Moinct, on angina pectoris, 146 Molinier, case of Cajsarean section, 413 Mollicre, case of peritonitis after use of vaginal injection, 375 Molluscum contagiosum, on presence of parasite in (Ferrier, &c.), 182 — contagiosum, on contagiousness of (Ferrier, Liveing, Duckworth), 183 Monnick, on ocular tepsiou, 338 Monoyer, double fixation forceps, 364 Monteverdi, on the action of quinine on the uterus, 420 Montgomery, on fracture of femur, 259 Monti, on treatment of scabies, 185 — on the use of cliloral hydrate, 464 Moore (S.), experience of gunshot wounds, 263 Moore (Dr.), Schleissner’s paper on cholera, 49 Mooren, case of injury to orbit, 359 Morbilli (see measles), 62 Morgan (Mr., of Dublin), amputation in senile gangrene, 213 — aneurism of the innominate, appa- rently cured, 201 Morgan (C. de), extravasation of blood after dislocation of humerus, 248 Morphine, antagonism of, to atropine (Firmy), 439 — combined with chloroform, 468 Morris, reduction of femoral hernia en masse, 288 Mortality in civil and military practice (Volkmann), 260 Morton, case of cure of spina bifida, 326 — on excision of hip-joint for disease, 326 — excision of the os calcis and astraga- lus, 226 — excision of wedge of bone at knee, 223 Mosler, blood in leucsemia, 8 — function of spleen, 19 Moss (Boyd), ciliated ha)matozoon in the blood, 7 Mouth, affections of the, on, list of papers on, 152 Moxhay, cases of excision of the knee, 223 Moxon, case of granular disease of kid- neys, 169 — identity of grey and yellow tubercles, 125 — suppuration in syphilitic deposits in the liver, 162 — on syphilitic pneumonia, 120 Mucous membrane, respiratory, histology of (Boldyrew), 11 Muller, case of heart disease, 141 Munro, cases of yellow fever, 45 Murchison, case of aneurism of the left ventricle, 139 — case of biliary fistula, 164 — case of hydatids of the livei’, 163 — case of paralysis agitans, 97 — case of peritonitis, 157 — case of ui’mmia, 169 — changes in intestine in typhoid, 52 — embolisms, with chorea, &c., 134 — incubation of fever, 41 — lymph-adenoma. 111 Murmur, presystolic, on the (Fagge), 140 — subclavian, cases of (Snelling), 132 Murmurs, cardiac, titles of papers on, 129—34 — vascular, on (Nolet), 10 Murray, rapid cure of an abdominal aneu- rism, 207 Muscarin, effects of, on heart (Schmie- deberg), 10 — on, 469 Muscle, anatomy of (Floegel, Meikel, &c.), 26—27 — atrophy of, after fracture (Hutchin- son), 257 — blood current in (Hafiz, &c.), 27— 28 — chemistry of (Marcet, Petersen), 28— 29 — ciliary, paralysis of, in diphtheria (Hutchinson), 104 — quantity of albuminous fluid in, in tetanus (Danilewsky), 27 — resistance of, to electric current, 31 — dissections of (Humphry), 31 —^distribution of nerves of (Henoeque), — mechanics of the (Haughton), 30 — of embryo, electrical excitement of (Valentin), 31 — production of acids during action of the (Nigetiet), 30 — suppuration in, after typhus, 53 — tone of the, on (Hidenhain), 30 Muscular atrophy, examination of mus- cles in (Martini), 7l524 INDEX. Muscular atrophy in children (Eulenherg, Knolly, Duchenne), 70—72 — atrophy, progressive (Vogt, Gomhault, Knoll), 70—72 — atrophy, titles of papers on, 72 — exercise, effects of (Flint), 31 — hypertrophy, pseudo- (Martin, Eulen- burg. Knoll, Duchenne), 70—72 — hypertrophy, pseudo-, titles of papers on, 72 — sense, on the (Bastian), 85 — spasm relieved by compression of arteries (Broca), 200 Musculo-spiral nerve, paralysis of, after fracture (Erichsen), 256 Mushrooms, chemistry of (Ruckert), 452 Mussels, on poisonous (Beunie),453 Mussy (Gueneau de), a case of aortic insufficiency, 130 — bronchial adenopathy, 110 — on hay fever, 43 — hypereesthesia of the vulva, 386 — symmetry of diseases of the skin, 174 Mycosis endocardii, case of (Heiberg), 140 Myelitis, chronic, classification of, forms of (Hallopeau), 93 Myoidema (Tait), 128 Myoma of uterus, 380 Myopia, frequency of, 342 Myxoma of the breast, specimens, refer- ence, 234 Na3vi, removal of, with the ecraseur (West), 211 Naevus, subcutaneous, ruptm-e of vessels in (Mezger), 211 Namias, on bromal hydrate, 466 Nasal polypus, death after extraction of (Forster), 236 — polypus, extraction of, by cutting maxillary bone (Lichtenberg), 236 Naso-pharyngeal tumours, resection of maxillary for removal of (Burns), 235 Nasse, on flow of lymph, 4 Navratil, on laryngeal nerves, 102 Neck, atheromatous tumours of the, removal of (Schede), 243 — cyst of, extirpated (Hardie, Atlee), 237 — effects of ill-development of muscles of, on lungs (Korner), 108 — gunshot injury to, long retention of ball in (Barnes), 264 — tumours of {see bronchocele), 236, &c. Necrosis in joint disease (Treves), 325 — of clavicle, during scai’let fever (Kelly, Nowlan), 61 Nedsvetzski, on cholera, 482 Nephritis, on, 167—70 Nepven, fungi in blood, 36 Nerve-centres, effects of heating and cooling blood going to the (Fick), 22 — do., influence of, on absorption (Golz), 4 — glosso-pharyngeal, case of paralysis of, (Taylor), 91 inferior maxillary, intra-buccal resec- tion of (Menzel), 328 — optic {see optic), 90-91 Nerves, cases of injury to, of upper ex- tremity, 23 — distribution of, in fishes (Pouchet. Beale), 4 distribution of, in meinbrana nictitans (Klein), 24 —^distribution of, iu wing of bat (Schobl), — effects of stretching on excitabilitv of (Schlisch), 21 — on excitability of (Willy), 21 — excitability of, in various parts of their course (Rutherford), 21 — influence of, on circulation (Miescher), 9 — influencing deglutition (Waller, Pre- vest), 15 — laryngeal, function of (Navratil), 102 — multiple tumours of the, 188 — of the lachrymal glands (Wolferz), 25 — of muscle (Henoeque), 30 — of taste, on the (Lussana), 25 — of the tongue, on the (Ihlder), 25 — on the structure of (Ranvier, Tamam- ischeff, Engelmanu), 20—21 — sensory, effects of excitation of, on temperature of brain (Heidenhain), 22 — stretching of, for cure of spasm, &c. (Nussbaum), 329 — termination of, in glands (Pfliiger), 24 — trophic, on, 23 — vaso-motor, distributed to arteries (Ludwig), 23 Nervous centre, extrication of heat during activity of (Schiff), 22 — diseases, hereditary character of (Jastrowitz), 91 — do., titles of papers on, 100—1 — disorders from uterine disease, treat- ment of, 402 — system, ophthalmoscope iu diseases of, 90—91 — do., papers on the, 24 Neubauer, detection of phosphorus, 454 Neugebauer, case of one-sided hsemato- metra, 369 Neumann, absorption by the skin, 4INDEX. 525 Neuiliann, changes in involuntary muscles of the skin, 173 — on culture of achorion, 185 — development of sarcomatous growths, 187 — on sycosis, 185 Neuralgia, titles of papers on, 88 Newman, case of ovariotomy, 301 Nicholson, case of injury to the head, 267 Nicol, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Nigetiet, production of acids in muscles during action, 30 Nitric acid, cases of poisoning by, 442 Nitro-benzol, poisoning with (Bahrdt), 449 Nitrogen, effects of diet and disease on elimination of (Parkes), 18 Nitrous oxide, on, 194 — oxide, poisoning by (Purcell), 445 Noeggerath, case of abortion, 402 — psammoma of the uterus, 377 Nolet, on vascular murmurs, 10 Norris, on blood-corpuscles, 8 — on passage of corpuscles through the walls of the vessels, 34 Norton, reduction of dislocation of the femur, 253 Nose, vicarious hsemorrhage from the, 373 Nott (Dr.), a rectilinear ecraseur, 244 Nowlan, case of scarlet fever, 61 Noyes, self-opening scissors, 363 Nunneley, on palpitation, &c., of the heart, 145 Nussbaum, stretching of nerves for cure of spasm, 329 Ocular tension (Mounik), 338 Odontoid process, mode of production of fractures of (Smith), 259 Oertel, experiments on diphtheria, 103 Qisophagns, affections of the, list of papers on, 152—53 — hsemorrhage from internal wound of, 287 _ — impaction of foreign bodies in stricture of the (Menzel), 286 — removal of artificial tooth-plate from the (Matthews), 287 — resection of the (Billroth), 285 — spasm of the (Paget), 285 Ogle (Dr. W.), on right-handedness in animals, 30 Ogston, case of poisoning by carbolic acid, 446 Oleranon, atrophy of triceps after frac- ture of (Hutchinson), 257 Olier (M. D’), case of Cajsarean section, 412 Ollivier, cases of croup, 106 — on cirrhosis of the liver, 161 Ollier, on skin grafting, 335 Olshausen, conception under unusual cir- cumstances, 396 — on foetal peritonitis, 427 Omboni, on puerperal fever, 421 Operations, statistics of, 196 — statistics of, reference (Stokes), 234 Ophthalmia, post-febrile, after relapsing — fever (Charteris), 57, 486 — sympathetic, on (Cohn, Mooren), 35o —61 Ophthalmic medicine, report on (Carter,) 337 Ophthalmoscope in brain disease, titles of papers on, 91 — in djseases of the nervous system, (Bouchut, Socin, Broadbent), 90—91 Opium, alkaloids from (Hesse Rabuteau), 468 — antagonism of, to belladonna (Little), 439 — in cholera, 60 — in conjunetion with chloroform, 468 — large doses of, in diabetes (Kratsch- mer), 73 — poisoning by (Schaefer), 452 Optic discs in cases of gunshot injury to the brain (Cohn), 352 — nerve sheath, dropsy of, case (Broad- bent), 90 — do., haemorrhage into, in diphtheria (Classen), 104 Orbit, amber mouthpiece of pipe in (Borel), 363 — gunshot wounds of or near (Cohn), 349—63 Orchitis after lithotomy (Garden), 274 — from irritation in urethra (Hutchin- son), 273 — from stricture of urethra, case (Hulke), 272 Ore, strychnine antagonistic to chloral, 439 Organisms, presence of, in blood, 35 Organs, functional interchange of (Ranke), 18 Os calcis, excision of the, 226—27 Oser, cause of the uterine movements, 406 — on movements of the uterus, 31 — syphilitic ulceration of intestine, 65 Ossification of the marrow of bones (Demarquay), 332 Osteoid cancer of ulna (Bell), 244 Osteotomy, subcutaneous, in anchylosis at knee (Little), 225 Otis (G. A.), on re-amputation at the hip, 212526 INDEX. Ovarian cysts, danger of drainaffc in (Phillips), 388 — do., rupture of (Palm), 388 — do., sudden enlargements of (Parry), 388 — do., suppuration, operation on (Wells'), 391 ’ do., treatment of suppurating (Holmes), 302 — disease with pregnancy, cases of, 399 — tumour simulated by enlarged uterus, 302 — do., simulated by peritoneal inflam- matory cyst (Atlee), 304 — do., simulated by uterine, 380—81 — tumours, on diagnosis of, from uterine (Wells, &c.), 381 Ovaries, malignant disease of the (Thomas, &c.), 388 Ovaritis, different forms of (Scaglia), 38^ Ovariotomy after tapping an ovarian cyst (Clay), 305 — cases of (Atlee), 305 — clamps for (Atlee, Dawson), 390 — division of pedicle in, 305 — during pregnancy, 391 — improved method of dividing the ped- icle in (Macleod), 390 — in a child, 391 — in children, cases of, 301 — new clamps for, 305 — statistics, 301 — do. of (Wells, &c.), 388—91 — sub-peritoneal, method of securing vessels (Hayes), 390 — torsion in (Beebe), 389 — trochar, a new (Tait), 390 — with removal of fibroid of uterus (Panas), 390 — wound of intestine during (Heath), 305, 389 Ovary, abscess of the, case of (Edis), 388 — absence of the, 371 •— fibroid of the (Waldeyer), 387 — hernia of the, on (Englisch), 291 Ovum, expulsion of entire, at seventh month (Brunton), 396 Packard, tracheotomy for parotitis, 322 Paculosis, 179—80 Page, on skin grafting, 335 Pagenstecher, extraction of cataract without opening the capsule, 345 ■— on treatment of ulcus serpens corneae, 348 Paget (Sir J.), removal of tumours from bone, 242 — spasm of oesophagus, 285 — on strangulated hernia, 288 Palate, cleft, operations for, 232—33 — cleft, use of nasal mucous membrane in clSsure of (Lannelongue), 334 — tumour of, removal by division of jaw (King), 238 — tumour of, removal through the mouth (Bickersteth), 239 Palladium, chloride of, action of, 462 Palm, cases of rupture of ovarian cysts, 388 Panas, case of ovariotomy, 390 Pancreas, cirrhosis of the (Pepper), 166 Pander, detection of emetine, brucine, and physostigmine, 455 Pangenesis, on (Galton), 3 Panophthalmitis, sympathetic (Cohn, Mooren), 355—60 Papilloma, cases of (Gerhardt), 181 Papillon, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Paracentesis in diagnosis of abdominal disease, on (Spiegelberg), 392 — thoracis, on (Evans), 113, 234 — do. (Behier), 113 — do., case of (Carter, Vallin, &c.), 112 —13 — thoracentesis, titles of papers on, 115 Paralysis after diphtheria, cases of, 104 —5 — agitans, pathology of (Murchison, Cayley, Joffroy), 97 — do., titles of papers on, 98 — facial, after chorea (Buzzard), 81 — from injury in fracture (Erichsen), 256 — infantile, cases, &c. (Damaschino, Roger, &c.), 96—97 — of arm after dislocation (Bernhard), 247 — of glosso-phaiwngeal nerve, case of (Taylor), 91 — pseudo-hypertrophic (Eulenberg, Knoll, Duchenne), 70—72 — with typhoid (Clement), 53 Parasites (animal, affecting man), 77—79 — cutaneous, papers on, 187 — vegetable, 79 Parasitic skin diseases, 184—86 Paraskeva, inoculability of tubercle, 38 Parkes, action of alcohol, 463 — effects of diet and disease on elimina- tion of nitrogen, 18 Parotitis, tracheotomy in (Packard), 322 Parrot, on herpetic fever, 175 Parry, enlargements of ovarian tumom’S, ■ 388 Parsons, cases of concealed hmmorrhage during labour, 419 Parturition, cases of post-mortem (Ave- liug), 410 — on the efiicieut powers of (Duncan),406527 Index. Pascbutin, action of ptyaliu on starcli, 16 Passavant’s operation, on (Weeker), 348 Pastan, on typlius, 486 _ . Paterson, congenital lymphatic varix, 211 — on cholera, 48 Paul, on phthisis, 127 — stenosis of the pulmonary artery after birth, 142 — on thoracentesis in pleurisy, 112 Pavy, on paroxysmal biematuria, 170 Payen, on food during siege of Paris, 17 Payne, cancer of the heart, 139 — case of Addison’s disease, 76 — case of Hodgkin’s disease, 16S Peacock, prognosis in valvular disease of the heart, 140 Peck, case of extra-uterine foetation, 404 Pellagra in young children (Gemma), 68 — skin affections in (Gemma), 67 — sporadic, cases of (Maas), 68 — titles of papers on, 68—69 Pcllarin, on cholera, 50 Pelvic articulations, relaxation of, during pregnancy (King), 407 Pelvis, dislocation of the bones of the (Salleron), 249 — distortions of the, 410 — fracture of the, wound of bladder in (Bell), 277 _ Pemphigus, from iodide of potassium (Bumstead), 176 — papers on, 186 Penis, amputation of the, 275 =— fistula of the, treatment of (Wood, &c.), 273 Pepper, cirrhosis of the pancreas, 166 — treatment of displacements of uterus, 384 — trephining in cerebral disease, 268 Peptones, on the (Pick), 16 Pericardial, auricular, friction sound, on (Salter), 130 Pericarditis, case of (Glover), 137 — titles of papers on, 137 Pericardium, on adherent (Wilks), 136 Perineal section, case of (Hulke), 272 Perinmum, functions of the, in proci- dentia uteri (Duncan), 384 — management of, during labour (Good- ell, Swayne), 409 — transition of testicle into (Adams), 281 Periostitis of the temporal bone, on (Hutchinson), 333 Peristalsis, on (Brakel), 16 Peritoneal adhesions giving rise to pain (Hahershon), 166 — cavity, blood in, in new-born children (Steiner), 165 — infiammatory cyst, reseinhliug an ovarian tumour (Atlee), 304 Peritoneum, list of papers on affections of the, 167 Peritonitis after use of vaginal injec- tion, 375 — cases of (Beach, Murchison), 157 — foetal, on, 427 — gastrotomy in case of, 296 — in connection with gonorrhoea in women (Giles), 166 — puerperal, on, 423 Perl, on hypertrophy of kidney, l7l Perrond, case of extra-uterine pregnancy,. 403 _ — on hemiplegia, &c., 84 Pertussis {see whooping-cough), 117—18 Pessaries, use of peroxide of hydrogen for (Day), 461 Peter, on aortic insufficiency, 141 Petersen, analyses of flesh, 29 Petit, cases of deformity of pelvis, 410 Petri, on trichinosis, 77 Petroleum, dangers of, in commerce, 491 Pettenkofer, diffusion of cholei’a in India, 477 — influence of ground water on the spread of, 477 Pfeiffer, effects of inspiration on the car- diac circulation, 13 — on cholera, 481 Pfliiger, termination of nerves in glands, 24 Pharyngeal polypus removed by the galvanic cautery (Corradi, Gozzini), 236 Pharynx, affections of the, on, 151 — list of papers on, 152 Phenol, on poisoning by, 446 Phillips, cases of delivery with distorted pelvis, 411 — on abortion, 402 — on tables of mortality after obstetric operations, 415 — treatment of suppurating ovarian cysts, 388 Phlegmon of the broad ligament, case of (Delpech), 391 Phosphates, chemistry of (Barclay), 172 Phosphorus, detection of (Poulet, &c.), 454 — poisoning, oil of turpentine in (vari- ous), 440 — poisoning, tissue changes in (Voit), 441 — Ijoisoning, treatment of acute (Roes- singh), 440 — poisoning, various authors on, 440 Phthisis {see tuberculosis) — contagiousness of (Condie), 128 — experiments as to hmmoptysis in (Sominerbrodt), 12652S iJjdeX, Phthisis, identity of grey and yellow tubercles (Moxon), 125 intermittent pyrexia in, denoting ab- sorption (Duhrrsen), 127 muscular irritability in, on (Tait), 128 — on climates for (Williams), 127 — on marriage in those affected with (WiUiams, Barnes, Bennett), 128 — on Niemeyer’s views on (Fox, Kor- ner, Kennedy, Skoda), 126 — on spurious (Condie), 125 — a thousand cases of (Williams), 127 — starting-point for, in a thousand cases (Williams), 127 — titles of papers on, 128 Physiology,_ report on (Power), 1 Physostigmine and strychnine, on antago- nism of (Ashmead), 440 — antagonism of, to atropine (Fraser), 434 — on detection of, 455 Picrotoxin, action of (Povergo), 452 — on detection of (Bias, Depaire), 455— 56 Pigmentation of the skin, papers on, 187 Pilz, on temperature, 39 Pincus, on alopecia, &c., 184 Pirrie, on acupressure, 197 Pityriasis pilaris, case of (Fox), 177 Placenta, anatomy of the human (Hicks, Joulin), 393—94 — calcification of the (Frankel), 394 — cysts of the (Jacquet), 394 — exchange of gases in, imitation of (Bernstein), 14 — mechanism of the expulsion of the (Duncan), 407 — succenturiate, 424 Plaster of Paris in fractures (St. John), 255 Playfair, cause of irritable bladder during pregnancy, 398 — sudden death after labour, 424 Pleasanton, influence of violet light on growth, 18 Pleurisy, case of (Renault), 114 — cases of thoracentesis in (Jones, Re- denbacher, Paul), 112 — diaphragmatic (Hayden), 114 — explanation of pain (Huss), 112 — modes of operating for (Bouchut), 113 — titles of papers on, 115 Pleuritic effusion on operation in (Be- hier), 113 Pneumatic aspirator (see aspirator), 113—15 Pneumonia, action of alchohol in, 464 — chronic, relation of, to phthisis (Fox, Kbrner, Skoda), 126, Pneumonia during pregnancy (Malton), 398 — etiology of (Sturges), 118 — experiments on (Popoff), 119 — interstitial (Green), 120 do., rapid formation of, and of false membranes (Brouardel), 120 118^^^^^^ vitality in (Farquharson), — nature of (Revillout), 118 often mistaken for other ailments (Fitzmaurice), 118 — sudden death during convalescence from (Hayem), 119 — syphilitic (Moxon), 120 — temperature, &c., in (Lebert), 119 — titles of papers on, 121 — treatment of, neutral acetate of lead in (Strohl), 120 Pneumothorax, titles of papers on, 115 Podolinski, on poisoning by carbonic oxide, 444 Poison of animals, infection from, list of authors on, 42 Poisoning by acids, cases of, 442 — by ammonia, case of (Stevenson), 442 — by carbolic acid, on, 446 — by carbonic oxide, on (Zuntz, Bonders, &c.), 443 — by caustic potash, case of (Nager), 443 — by copper, on, 443 — by lead, on chronic (Heubel), 442 — by nitrate of silver, case of (Scatter- good), 442 — by opium (Schaefer), 452 — by oxysulphide of carbon, 444 — by phosphorus, on turpentine in, 440 — by sulphate of copper (Maschka), 443 — by sulphate of zinc (Tardieu), 443 — by sulphuric acid, cases of, 441 — by vanilla ice, symptoms of (Maurer), 452 — with chloral hydrate, cases of, 449 — with nitro-benzol (Bahrdt), 449 Poisons, on absorption of (Goltz), 433 — animal, mode of contagion by, 35—37 — antagonism of, on, 434 — detection of, 454—56 — eflects of certain, on heart’s action (Schmiedeberg), 10 — on elimination of (Anstie), 434 — snake, on (Fayrer, Richards), 453 — various, antagonism of, on (Reese), 438 Poisonous action of fungi (Husemanu), 463 — mussels, on (Beunie), 453 Poliak, hsemoxThage from the kidneys in iufiuits, 432INDEX. 629 Pollard, dislocation of both femora, 254 Pollock, case of psoriasis, 176 Polypus, nasal, death after extraction of (Forster), 236 — do., extraction of, by sawing maxillary bone (Lichtenberg), 236 — pharyngeal, removal of, with galvanic cautery (Corradi, Gozzini), 236 Ponti, congenital coloboma of the iris, 339 Pooley, abscess of the tongue, 284 — fibrous tumour of the tongue, 284 Poore, intensification of sounds of heart, 130 PopofP, on cholera, 481 — experiments on pneumonia, 119 Popp, on diaphragmatic hernia, 290 Popper, mesenteric glands, 4 — treatment of typhoid, 55 Porro, case of congenital atresia of the oesophagus, 152 Porter, case of acute atrophy of the liver, 161 — successful reduction of prolapsed funis, 412 Potash, caustie, case of poisoning by (Nager), 442 Potassium, bromide ofi in epilepsy (Vance, Lutz), 83 — do., in vomiting of pregnancy (Gim- bert), 400 — chloride of, action of, 462 — iodide of, causing pemphigus (Bum- stead), 176 Pouchet, distribution of nerves in fishes, 24 Poulet, detection of phosphorus, 454 Povergo, action of picrotoxin, 452 Power, report on physiology, 1 Pregnancy, anaemia during (Gusserow), 397 — causation of heart disease during (Lebert), 397 — chronic heart disease with (Spiegel- berg), 398 — diagnosis of, on (Hicks, Wallace), 401 — duration of (Duncan), 401 — extra-uterine, cases of (Perrond), &c., 403—4 — in case of double uterus, 399 — influence of uterine fibroids on, 411 — interstitial, case of (Edgar), 404 — irritable bladder during, on cause of (Playfair), 398 — on albuminuria during (Kaltenbach), 396 — on cramps during (Mattei), 409 — on the vomiting of (Hewitt, &c.), 400 — paralysis during (Madge), 398 — pneumonia during, on (Matton), 398 Pregnane}’’, precocious, cases of, 405 — recurrent discharge from the uterus during (Brown), 394 — relaxation of pelvic articulations during (King), 407 — treatment of vomiting in, 400 — under unusual circumstances (Olshau- sen), 396 — vesical fistula in case of, 398 — with ovarian disease, cases, 399 Prestel, on drinking water, 490 Presystolic cardiac murmur (Barclay, Balfour), 131 Presystolic murmur, on the (Fagge), 140 Prevost, nerves of deglutition, 15^ Preyer, on action of hydrocyanic acid, 446 — on the crystals of the blood, 5 — on detection of blood, 459 — detection of hydrocyanic acid, 455 ^ Priapism, persistent, case of (Mackie), 273 Priestley, on intermenstrual dysmenor- rheea, 374 Progressive muscular atrophy (Charcot), 95 — do. atrophy, cases, &c. (Martini, Vogt, Gombault, Knoll), 70—72 Prostate, enlarged, on (Quain), 274 — irritation of the, causing orchitis (Hutchinson), 273 Protozoa, transmutation of form in cer- tain (Johnson), 3 Prurigo, cases of (Wilson), 178 — histology of (Gay), 178 Prussic acid {see hydrocyanic acid) Psammoma of the uterus, 377 Psammomata, on (Arnold), 188 Pseudo-leukaemia and leucocythemia (Wood), 69 Pseudo-muscular hypertrophy, 70—73 Psoriasis guttata, case of (Pollock), 176 — papers on, 186 — treatment of (Buck), 176 Pterygo-maxillary tumours, removal of (King, Bickersteth), 138—39 Ptyalin, action of, on starch (Paschutin), 16 Puccioni, removal of the tongue with the galvanic wire, 283 Pudzinowitsch, relation of perspiration to temperature, 40 Puerperal convulsions, cases of, 424 — fever, on (Martin, &c.), 421 — fever, on 398 — peritonitis, on, 423 — septicaemia, on, 422 Pullar, case'of hydatid cyst of cerebellum, 93 34i530 INDEX. Pulmonary artery, stenosis of the, after birth (Paul), 142 Pulsation, instrument for audibly measur- ing (Jacobson), 129 Pulse, diminished frequency of, before death from coma (Gray), 133 Purcell, poisoning by nitrous oxide, 445 Purpura, titles of papers on, 75 Pus, large bodies found in (Bizzozero), origin of, from white corpuscles, on (Duval), 7, 34 Pyajmia, autopsy of a pig suffering from (?) (Roth), 74: ^ Pyiemic symptoms with stricture of urethra, &c. (Hulke), 272 Pye Smith, case of congenital malforma- tion of the heart, 148 Pyokolpos lateralis, case of, 370 Pyometra, case of, 370 Pypingskold, vomiting in pregnancy, Quadruplets, cases of, 412 Quaglino, value of iridectomy in glau- coma, 347 Quain (Dr.), affections of the walls of the heart, 137 — on fatty degeneration and rupture of the heart, 143 Quain (Mr.), on enlarged prostate, 274 Quehl, on apomorphiue, 469 Quincke, effect of inspiration on current of blood through the heart, 13 Quinine, action of, on white corpuscles (Geltowsky, Kerner, Binz), 7 — arsenate of, on (Giov), 463 — in cholera, 48—50 Eabagliati, statistics of cancer of breast, 233 Rabow, action of alcohol on temperature, 464 Pabuteau, on alkaloids from opium, 468 — on opium with chloroform, 469 — on use of chlorides, 462 — do. sulpho-vinate of sodium, 461 Eadcllffe, (Mr. J. Netten), on the spread of cholera, 472—77 Eadius, fracture of head of (Adams), 258 Eadziejewski, on oxysulphide of carbon, 444 Eanke, on functional interchange, 18 Eansome, mechanical conditions of respi- ratory movements, 14 Eanula, fatty masses in a (May), 284 Eanvier, structure of nerves, 20 Easch, method of using uterine sounds, 384 Eatcliffe (Netten),on outbreak of fever, 54 Rattray, on change of climate, 14, 190 Raymond, on typhoid, 83 Re-amputation at the hip, on (Otis), Rectal fossa, removal of piece of bone from the (Thompson), 300 — lithotomy on (Schaffer), 278 Recto - vesical fistula, colotomy for (Bryant), 299 Rectum, congenital invagination of the, 432 — stricture of, colotomy in, 299 — stricture of the, treatment of, 299 Redenbacher, case of pleurisy, 112 — cases of hydatids of brain, 78—79 Rees (Owen), diagnosis of syphilitic dis- ease of brain, 65 Reese (Prof.), on antagonism of various poisons, 438 I^efraction, ocular, frequency of defects of, Reich, on typhoid, 488 Eeichard, on cholera, 50 Reimann, difiicult labour from presence of two foetal heads, 411 — on the innervation of the uterus, 405 Reincke, post-mortem on case of leuch- semia, 69 Relapsing fever {see fever) — fever, ophthalmia after, 486 Renal capsules, supra-, changes in, 76 Renault, case of pleuritic effusion, 114 Rcndle, popliteal aneurism on both sides, cured by compression, 210 Reiizy, on cholera, 50 — on typhoid, 484 Resection {see excision), 213 Respiration, action of the heart on (Landois, Ceradini), 13 — artificial, on, in injuries to the head (Schiff), 14 — authors ou, 15 — effects of division of spinal cord on (Schiff), 13 — effects of, on circulation (Quincke, &c.), 13 — effects of, on heart's action (Hering), — influence of atmospheric pressure ou (Liebig), 15 — pendulum-like, on (Bruchuer, Meikel)* 107 — titles of papers on, subjects con- nected with, 109 — volume of expired air in, experiments on (Leichenstein), 11 Respirations, manometer for (Waldeu- bm-g), 108 Respiratory movements, mechanics of the (Eansome, &c.), 14INDEX. 531 Respiratory mucous membrane, histology of the (Bolclysew), 11 — murmur, sogophony (Stone), 107 — muscles of neck, detrimental develop- ment of (Korner), 108 Retina, disease of, visual sense in (For- ster), 364—66 — hmmoirhages in, iu leucocythemia (Reincke), 69 Retinal pulsation iu aortic disease (Becker), 340 Revaccination, on, 431 Revillout, on pneumonia, 118 — prevention of pitting iu smallpox, 63 Rcybrnm, case of unilateral dislocation of the fifth cervical vertebra, 260 Rheumatic pains iu diabetic patients taking lactic acid (Forster), 74 — scarlatina, titles of papers on, 43 Rheumatism, autopsy of a pig affected by (?) (Roth), 74 — case of (Andrew), 24 — case of, with chorea, &c., autopsy (Ferber), 73 — gonorrhoeal (Bond), 282 — ice in (Esmarch), 74 — no definite duration (Jones), 74 — titles of papers on, 74—75 — various drugs tried in (Jones), 74 Rhino-plastic operation (Stokes), 330 Rhino-scleroma, papers on, 187 Rib, exostosis from the, removal of (Birkett), 240 Ribs, enchondroma of the (Menzel, Billroth), 241 Richards, on snake poison, 453 Richardson, amputation through femoral condyles, 212 Richardson (Dr. J.), on blood-corpuscles, 6 — on transfusion, 420 Richet, absence of uterus, &c., 371 Richter, micrococci in warts, 79 Rickets, development of teeth in (Heisch- mann, 75 — on, 428—29 — temperature in (Ritchie), 75 — titles of papers on, 76 Riegel, case of aortic insufficiency, 142 — fall of temperatm-e after section of spinal cord, 22 Right-handedness iu animals (Ogle), 30 Rindfleisch, brown induration of lunes, 121 ^ Rinecker, autopsies of cases of infantile paralysis, 97 Ringland, sudden death after labour, 424 Ringworm in calves and men (Tuckwell), Ritchie, on diagnosis of rickets, 429 Ritchie, temperature in rickets, 75 Riviugton, extravasation of blood after dislocation of humerus, 248 Roberts, on Bright’s disease, 168 — case of double uterus and vagina, 37l — removal of fibro-cystic tumour of uterus, 381 Robin, on colourless bile, 165 Robinson, outbreak of relapsing fever, 57 Roy, case of rupture of kidney and of liver, 165 Rockwell, cases of amenorrhoea, 372 Roessingh, treatment of acute phosphorus poisoning, 440 Roger, on infantile paralysis, 96 Rohrig, absorption by the skin, 4 Rokitansky (Carl), on artificial induction of labour, 403 Rollestou, on cholera, 50 Rosenstein, formation of urea by the kidneys, 19 — hypertrophy of kidney, 170 Rosenthal, case of analgesia iu hysteria, 80 — on infantile paralysis, 97 Ross, case of double uterus, 371 — diseases of lungs from inhalation of dust, 123 — pregnancy in case of double uterus, 399 Rosse, on cholera infantum, 157 Roth, autopsy of a pig, 74 — multiple lymphomata, 189 Rothe, on cholera, 50 . Rbtheln (see rubeola), 62 Rommelaene, variola and varicella, 63 Routb, action of gastric juice on cancer of uterus, 382 Rubeola, case of (Foss), 62 — cases of, and titles of papers on, 62 — epidemic of (Dunlop), 62 — symptoms of (Fleischmann), 62 Ruckert, chemistry of mushrooms, 452 Ruduew, on hydrophobia, 42 Russell, case of laryngeal obstruction, 101 — on cerebro-spinal meningitis, 44 Rutherford, excitability of nerves, 21 Sacro-iliac disease, leading to abcess and bmmorrhage (Baker), 207 St. John, plastic apparatus in fractureSi 255 Salinger, on diabetes, 73 Salivary glands, list of papers on affect tions of the, 152 Salkowski, on action of carbolic acid, 445 — elimination of salts from the body, 19 — gangrene of lung, 122 — urine in leuchsemia, 69532 INt)EX. Sallei’on, dislocation of the bones of the pelvis, 249 Salter (Hyde), auricular pericardial fric- tion, 130 Salts, alkaline, elimination of, from the body (Salkowsky), 19 Samt, autopsies of two apbasics, 86 Samuel, experiments on injections of various secretions, 34 Sanderson (Dr. Burdon), on development of bacteria, &c., 2 — development of microzymes, &c., 36 — on serous membranes, 4 Sarcinae in blood (Lostorfer, Ferrier, Bastlan), 36 Sarcina not a living organism (Bastian), 36 Sarcomata, development of (Neumann), 187 Sargent, case of diaphragmatic hernia, 290 Savory, cases of popliteal aneurism, 209 — case of sanguineous tumour of the neck, 238 Sawicki, amount of uric acid excreted by the kidney, 30 Sayre, on treatment of hip-ioint disease, 326 — vertebrated catheter, 272 Scabies, treatment of (Monti, Weinberg), 185—86 Scaglia, on the different forms of ovari- tis, 387 Scapula, excision of portion of the (Hill), 231 — excision of the (Spence), 231 Scapulo-humeral periarthritis, on (Du- play), 332 Scarlet fever and smallpox coincident (Brunton, Sansom), 60 — and varicella coincident (Brunton, Musket), 60 — at the age of fifteen days (Meynet), 61 — epidemics of, &c., 487 — hsematoma in case of (Huber), 60 — morbid anatomy of, and relation to enteric (Harley), 61 — fever, mortality of (Ballot, Fleisch- mann), 59 — necrosis of clavicle during (Kelly, Nowlan), 61 — origin of (Carpenter), 60 — rheumatic, titles of papers on, 43 — titles of papers on, 61 — treatment of (Hofmann), 58 Scattergood, case of poisoning by nitrate of silver, 442 Schaefer, poisoning by opium, 452 Schaffer, on rectal lithotomy, 278 Schapringer, effect of tensor tympani, 25 Schatz, case of deformity of the urlno* genital system, 371 — cases of incomplete union of the female genital organs, 371 Schauenburg, cases of poisoning by sul- phuric acid, 441 Schcde (Max), removal of atheromatous tumours of neck, 243 Schiefferdecker, cases of injury to nerves of the upper extremity, 23 Schiff, artificial respiration, 14 — on extrication of heat during activity of brain, 77 — functions of spinal cord, 21 — influence of section of cord on respira- tion, 13 Schiff er, coagulation of the blood, 7 Schleissner, on cholera, 49 Schlesinger, cause of the uterine move- ments, 406 Schliep, on dilatation of the stomach, 154 Schlisch, on effects of stretching of nerves, 21 Schloemann, on cholera, 50 Schmiedeberg, action of certain poisons on the heart, 10 Schmidt, cause of the coagulation of the blood, 7 Schobl, termination of nerves in bat’s wing, 24 Scholz, treatment of typhoid, 54 Schultze, cases of ovariotomy, 390 — on still-born infants, 425 Schultzen, on phosphorus poisoning, 440 Schutz, treatment of diphtheria, 106 Scissors for removing sutures (Smith), 233 — self-opening (Noyes), 363 Scleroderma, cases of (Curran, DufouiO, 179 — papers on, 187 — post-mortem appearances in (Fagge), 178 Scleriasis {see scleroderma), 178 Scurvy, analysis of the blood in (Chal- vet), 8 — cases of (Hayem), 75 — epidemics, &c., of, 490 — examination of blood in (Chalvet), 75 — titles of papers on, 75 Secretions, results of injection of various (Samuel), 34 Seegen, on presence of sugar in normal urine, 172 Seitz, case of multiple tumours of nerves, 188 Senator, abscess of lung, 122 — intermittent and relapsing fever, 57 Senses, special, papers on the, 25 Septicromic poisoning, mode of, 36—37INDEX. 533 Septicaeinic poisoning, size of red eor- puscles in (Manasseiu), 6 Sei’ous membranes, absoi’ption of solids by (Auspitz, Neumann), 3 — do., arrangements of lymphatics in (Klein, Sanderson), 4 Sesary, study of maximum temperatures of health resorts, 190 Shepherd, hydatids of kidney, 171 — report on medicine, 33 Sherman, case of rupture of the heart, 145 Shoulder, dislocation of {see dislocation), 247 — excision of the (see excision) Sichel, circumscribed choroiditis, 366 — on herpes frontalis, 175 Sigmund, on subcutaneous injections of mercury in syphilis, 308 Sikorsky, lymphatics of the lungs, 11 Silbert (Vincent), on apomorphine, 469 Silver, nitrate of, case of poisoning by (Scattergood), 442 Simon, on aphasia, 87 — case of heart disease, with embolism, &c., 141 — on gummata in liver, 66 — prodromal exanthem of smallpox, 62 Simpson, on cancer of uterus, 383 Singing, power of, with aphasia (Jack- son), 88 Skin, absorption by the (Auspitz, Neu- mann, Eohrig), 3—4 — affections in pellagra, 67 — amount of carbonic acid eliminated from the (Aubert), 14 — bacteria in, in smallpox (Weigert), 63 — bronzing of, cases of, 76 — changes in the involuntary muscles of the (Neumann), 173 — disease of the, cases of, statistics of (Smith, Anderson), 173—74 — diseases of the, list of papers on, 186 —87 — do., symmetry of (Mussy), 174 — disturbances of the secretions of the, 183 •— grafting, on (Ollier), 335 — imbibition of poisonous fluids through (Bennett), 37 — parasitic affections of the, on, 184—86 — thickening of the, case of curious (Ullersperger), 179 Skoda, on phthisis, 126 Skoldberg, cases of ovariotomy, 389 Skull, abscess within the, trephining for (Smith), 268 — fracture of {see fracture) — gunshot injuries of the, 265 Smallpox, albuminuria in (Cartaz), 63 Smallpox and measles coincident (Auchen- thaler, Brunton), 60 — and scarlet fever coincident (Brunton, Sansom), 60 — bacteria in skin in (Weigert), 63 — carbolic acid in (Salkowski), 445 — case of inoculation of, 431 — cause of death from (Huchard), 63 — epidemics of, &c., 487 — extravasations in, on (Wyss), 63 — haemorrhagic, after labour, 423 — incubation of, in utero, 432 — in a foetus, case of, 432 — mode of formation, &c., of pustules of (Vulpian), 63 — mortality of (Ballot), 59 — nervine symptoms of (Gubler, La- boi'de), 63 — prevention of pitting in (Revillout), 63 — prodromal exanthem of (Simon), 62 — relation of, to varicella (Rommelaere), 63 — titles of papers on, 64 — xmsymmetrical (Clemens), 62 Smith (Angus) on air and rain, 491 Smith (Dr.) case of absence of the uterus and vagina, 371 — on ankle-joint amputations (American), 213 Smith (Henry), case of passage of artifi- cial tooth-plate along alimentary canal, 287 — laryngotomy for removal of foreign body, 320 Smith (Dr. S.), mode of production of fractures of odontoid process, 259 Smith, case of disease of the heart, 138 — cases of skin disease, 173 Smith (R. N.), trephining for abscess within the cranium, 268 Smith (R. W.), on incomplete fractures, 255 — supra-sternal dislocation of clavicle, 246 Smith (Spencer), compound dislocation of foot, 255 Smith (T.), case of vaccino-syphilis, 306 — on cleft palate, 232 — opening the stomach for cancel’, 299 — scissors for removing sutures, 233 — tubercular disease of urinary mucous membrane, 269 Smoke and dust, on (Tyndall), 2 Snake poisons, on (Fayrer, Richards), 453 Snelling, subclavian bruit, 132 Socin, ophthalmoscopic appearances in brain disease, 90 — on typhoid, 483 Sodium, chloride of, use of, 462534 INDEX. Sodium, on use of sulphovinate of fRal)u. teau), 461 Solids, absorption of, by serous mem- branes (Auspitz, Neumann), 3 Solowieff, on dysmenorrhoea, 373 Sommerbrodt, experiments on phthisis, 126 Sonnenscliein, on detection of blood- stains, 458 Sorby, on the spectroscopy of blood, 459 Sousino, dyspepsia for starchy food in infancy, 429 Southey, intestinal obstruction for con- genital constriction, 295 Sparks, primary cancer of the lungs, 124 Spectroscopy of blood, on the (Sorby), 459 Speech, cerebral mechanism of (Broad- bent), 84 —87^^^*^^ convulsions (Jackson), — loss of, cases of (Baginsky, Simon, Jackson), 87 — (Bristowe, Hammond), 86 — loss of, titles of papers, on, 88—89 — unaffected, with right-sided hemi- plegia (Down), 88 Spence, case of fusiform femoral aneu- rism, 209 — excision of the scapula, 231 — cases of false aneurism, 210 Sperlmg, injections into the arachnoid cavity, 89 Sphygmograph, on a cardio- (Garrod), 9 Spiegelberg, cases of distortion of the pelvis, 410 — diagnosis of cancer of uterus, 382 — paracentesis in diagnosis of abdomi- nal disease, 392 — pregnancy and heart-disease, 398 Spinal cord, anatomy of the (Dittmar), 3X Spina bifida, cure of, by tapping, &c. (Cabrai, Morton), 326 Spinal affections, titles of papers on, 95—96 — cord, on chronic inflammation of the (Hallopeau), 93 — cord, effects of division of the (Riegel), 22 — cord, eflfects of division of, on respira- tion (Leichtenstein, Schiff), 12—13 — cord, functions of, as a conductor (Schiff), 21 — cord, histology of, in tetanus (Allbutt, Joffroy), 98 — hemiplegia, cases of (Fieber), 84 — infantile paralysis, cases of, &c. (Damaschino, Roger, &c.), 96—97 Spinal cord, on irritative lesions of the (Charcot), 95 — meningitis, on, 43—45 Spine, dislocation of (sec dislocation) fracture of (see fracture) Spleen, affections of the, authors on, 165 —66 — course of the blood in the (Wedl, Stoff, Hasse), 19 of the, with leucocythemia (Wood), 69 — function of the (Hosier), 19 — size of, in children (Steffen), 165 Sputum, peculiar (Whitehead), 109 Square, case of haemorrhage after litho- tomy, 277 — removal of loose cartilages from knee- joint, 326 Squarey, cases of absence of uterus, 37l — causation of acquired flexions of the uterus, 384 Squire (Balmanuo), on parasite in mol- luscum contagiosum, 182 Squire (Mr.), direct inguinal hernia in the female, 288 Squire (Dr.), vertebrated catheter, 272 Staphyloraphy, 232—33 Staples, amputation at the knee-joint, 213 Starch, action of ptyalin on (Paschutin), 16 — wide diffusion of a ferment acting on (Lepine), 16 Stauungspapilla, 353 Steffen, on hooping-cough, 117 — on size of liver and spleen in children, 165 Steiner, blood in peritoneal cavity in new- born children, 165 Steinmann, rapidity of current in veins, 9 Stenosis of pulmonary artery after birth (Paul), 142 Sterco-bilin, on (Lair, Masius), 17 Stern, case of imperforate anus, 299 Stevens, case of intermittent hsematuria, 170 Stevenson, case of poisoning by nitric acid, 442 — report on materia medica, 461 — report on medical jurisprudence, 433 — report on public health, 472 Strieker, on keratitis, 33 Stricture dilator, a new (Hill), 272 — of the oesophagus, spasmodic (Paget), 285 — of urethra, perineal section for, case of (Hulke), 272 — of the urethra, on (Stokes), 272 — do. (Thompson), 272 Stoff, course of blood in spleen, 19635 INDEX. Stohr, transfusion in cases of uraemia, 170 Stokes, on amputation of tlie foot, 213 — on arterial compression, 209 — ease of injury to the head, 267 — rhinoplastic operation, 330 — rupture of the female bladder, 277 — on stricture of the urethra, 272 — supra-condyloid amputation, 212 — temporary deligation of the femoral artery, 208 — tracheotomy twice in the same person, 321 — on Zeis’ cheiloplastic operation, 330 Stoltz, hypermsthesia of the vaginal sphincter, 386 Stomach, affections of the, list of papers on, 165 Stomach, cases of disease of (Habershon), 154 — dilatation of the, cases of (Affleck, Schliep, Crisp), 153—54 — glands of the, secretion of the (Eb- stein, &c.), 16 — medullary sarcoma of the (Ward), 153 — opening the, for caneer, 298 — softening of the, during life, case of (Mayer), 155 Stomata in lymphatics, 4 Stone, on mgophony, 107 — etiology of heart disease, 132 Sti’assburg, on blood, 6 — detection of biliary acids in urine, 17 Struve, colouring matters in blood, 5 Strychnine, action of, on blood pressure (Mayer), 10 — antagonistic to chloral (Ore), 439 Sturges, on pneumonia, 118 Subbotin, on elimination of alcohol, 18, 464 Subclavian aneurism, case of (Bicker- steth), 201 — ligature of the (Pergusson, Gay, Laue), 201—-2 Subcutaneous division of neck of thigh- bone (Adams), 234 — osteotomy at knee for anchylosis (Little), 225 — injection in tumours (Heine), 244 Suffocation, ecchymoses after (Lukom- sky), 460 Sugar of liver, on (Dalton), 17 Sullivan, notes on yellow fever’, 46 Sulphuric acid, cases of poisoning by, 441 Sulphurous acid, action of, on germs, 492 Sunstroke, on (Thin, Macdonald, Clap- ham), 58 Suppuration, experiments on (see pus), 33—34 — in muscles after typhoid (Kraft-Ebing), 53 Suppuration, list of authors on, 34 Supra-rerral capsules, changes in, 76 Surgery, report ou (Tay), 193 Sutton, on Bright’s disease, 168 Sutures, marine grass for (Burow), 349 — method of removing (Warlomont), 349 — scissors for removing (Smith), 233 Swain, exeisiou of the ankle and removal of the tarsal bones, 226 Swayne, support of perinarum during labour, 409 Swelled leg of fevers (Begbie), 41 _ Sycosis, parasitic and non-parasitic, on (Neumann), 185 Sympathetic, section of, causing diabetes (Cyon, Aladoff), 20 — ophthalmia (Cohn, Mooren), 355— 60 Syme, statistics of removal of breast, 233 Syme’s rhinoplastic operation, ease of, 330 Syphilis, corpuscles in the blood in (Los- torfer, Strieker), 8 — corpuscles in blood in (Lostorfer, Wedl, Strieker, Vajda, Biesiadecki), 64—65 — diagnosis of, by the microscope (Los- torfer, Strieker, Wedl, Biesiadecki, Vajda), 64—65 — hereditary, bone disease in (Wegner), 307 — hereditary, latent, on (Simon), 66 — reinfection of (Kobner), 306 — subcutaneous injections of mercury in (Sigmund), 308 — titles of papers on, 66—67 — vaccino-, on, 430—31 — do., cases of (Smith, Hutchinson), 306 — do., cases of, 430 — with albuminuria in a child (Bradley), 66 Syphilitic choroiditis, &c., on (Gale- zowski), 368 — dactylitis, on (Taylor), 308 — disease of brain, diagnosis of (Rees), 65 — disease of small intestine (Oser), 65 Tachard, use of electricity in midwifery. Taenia solium, portions of, passed at the age of three days (Armour), 79 Tait, on muscular irritability in phthisis, 128 — new ovariotomy trochar, 390 — vaginal fistulae, 386 Tamamscheff, structure of nerves, 21 Tampon, tracheal, on the (Junker), 319536 INDEX. Tar, on administration of (Magnes- Lahens), 467 Tavso-metatarsal joints, excision of (Holmes), 227—28 Taste, on the nerves of, 25 Tay (Waren), case of intestinal obstruc- tion, 294 of haemorrhage after lithotomy, — congenital fibrous tumour of arm, 243 — fatty matter in a ranula, 284 — report on surgery, 193 Taylor, case of embolism, 91 — case of intestinal obstruction from a knot, 295 — on dactylitis syphilitica, 308 — on mechanism of uterine inversion, 418 Teake, removal of plate of bone from the larynx, 321 Teakle, tumours of dura mater, 93 Teeth, development of, in rickets (Fleisch- mann), 75 Temperature, action of alcohol on the, 464 — effects of alterations of, on size of blood-discs, 39 — effects of exercise on the (Allbutt, &c.), 15, 40 — effects of, on the heart (Bruutoii), 133 — in animals during movements (Man- assein), 39 — in healthy children during day, &c. (Pilz), 39 — in rickets (Ritchie), 75 — increase of, with intense headache ( Jergely), 40 — influence of high, on low organisms (Burdon-Sanderson, &c.), 2 — list of authors on, 41 — lowering of the, before death, 40 — relation between perspiration and the (Padzinowitsch), 40 Temporal bone, periostitis of the (Hutch- inson), 333 Tendons, absorption of lymph by (Ge- nersich. Lesser, &c.), 3-^ Tennent, cases of relapsing fever, 57 — on relapsing fever, 486 Tension, ocular, mode of testing, 339 Tensor tympani, action of the (Schar- pringer), 25 Teratoma myomatodes (Virchow), 109 Terry, cases of excision of the knee, 223 — excision of the os calcis, 227 Testis, cancer of imperfectly descended, on, reference (Arnott), 281 ■— removal of, for neuralgia (Aimandale), 281 lestis, transition of, into perinajum (Adams), 281 — tuberculous, treated with actual cau- tery (Verneuil), 281 Test types (Burchardt), 343 Tetanus, fatal cases of, after abortion, 403 — histology of cord in (Allbutt, Joffroy), 98 quantity of albuminous compounds in muscles in (Danilewsky), 27 — neonatorum, 428 — titles of papers on, 98—99 — treatment of, by various drugs, 98 Thigh, fractures of the, in the newly born, 427 Thigh-bone, subcutaneous division of neck of (Adams), 234 Thin, on smistroke, 58 Thinking, physiology of (Bastian), 85 Thomas (Gaillard), on chlorosis, 372 — on enucleation of sessile uterine fibroids, 378 — malignant disease of the ovaries, 388 — excision of half of lower jaw, 229 Thompson, action of ergot of rye, 421 — case of intra-cranial osteophytes, &c., 89 — on cholera, 49 — on dilatation of the heart, 138 — rupture of the heart, 144 Thompson (Dr.), removal of piece of bone from the rectal fossa, 300 Thompson (Sir H.), choice of operations for stone in the bladder, 276 — improved flexible catheter, 271 — on prevention of calculous disease, 279 — removal of piece of bone fi’om the bladder, 277 — on stricture of urethra, 272 Thought, cerebral mechanism of (Broad- bent), 85 — on the mechanism of (Broadbent), 25 Thoracentesis (see paracentesis), 112 — titles of papers on, 115 Thorax, carcinomatous mass in (Clarke), 111 —• growths in, 109—12 — growths within, titles of papers on, 112 Thrombosis, titles of papers on, 136 Tibia, bullet in head of (Stokes), 208 Tilt, on hysteria, 80 — uterine inflammation after the change of life, 392 Tinea (see parasite) Tobacco, on toxicological effects of (Vohl), 450 — smoke, chemical constituents of (Vohl, Huebel), 450—51INDEX. 537 Tongue, abscess of the (Pooley), 284 — cases of removal of the, 284 — congenital hypertrophy of the (Law- son, Simon, Clarke), 284 fatty tumour under the (Churchill), 284 — fibrous tumour of the (Pooley), 284 on the nerves of the (Lussana, Ihlder), 25 — new method of removing (Jordan), 283 — removal of, for epithelioma, by gal- vanic wire (Gozzini, Puccioni), 283 — unilateral atrophy of the (Clarke), 335 Tonometry of the eyes (Monnik), 338 Tooth-plate, artificial, extraction of, from the oesophagus (Matthews), 287 — artificial, passage of, along alimentary canal (Smith), 287 Torsion of arteries (Callender), 198 Touch, on the comparative anatomy of the organs of (Jobert), 25 Tourniquet, double, a (Bulley), 210 Townsend, case of aneurism of the left ventricle, 139 Trachea, stricture of the (Trendelen- burg), 324 — tube removed from the, 321—22 Tracheal tampon, on the (Junker), 319 Tracheotomy for parotitis (Packard), 322 — for removal of foreign bodies, cases of 320—21 — in croup, cases of, 105—7 — in diphtheria, cases of successful, &c. (various), 104—6 — in laryngeal obstruction, cases of (Boelt, Kussell), 101 — tube, removal of by operation, 321— 22 — twice in the same person (Stokes), 321 Tracy, cases of ovariotomy, 390 Transfusion, cases of successful, 419—20 — instrument for (Aveling), 419 — in uraemia (Stohr), 170 — of blood, on, 329 — on (Richardson), 420 Transmutation of form in certain pro- tozoa (Johnson), 3 Traube, on blood in urine, 173 — case of bronchitis, &c., 116 Traumatic erysipelas, on (Wilde), 318 — fever from gunshot wounds (Hueter), 315 — fever, on (Billroth), 311 Trendelenburg, on stricture of the trachea, 324 Trenholme, on irregular contractions of the uterus, 408 Trephining for abscess within the cra- nium (Smith), 268 Trephining for gunshot (Halstead, Howard), 265 — in cerebral disease (Pepper), 268 — of skull for fracture, cases of, 266—68 Treves, excision of the knee-joint, 222 — on joint disease, with necrosis, 325 Trial, the Wharton-Ketchum, 456 Triceps, atrophy of, after fracture of the olecranon (Hutchinson), 257 Trichinosis, cases of (Udhe, Kittell, Maurer, Zenker), 77—78 — in rats (Zenker), 78 — titles of papers on, 79 Trismus nascentium, on (Bailey), 428 Troup, opening the stomach for cancer, 299 Tubercle, identity of grey and yellow (Moxou), 125 — inoculability of (various), 38—39 — of brain, case of (Fleischmann), 92 — of the cerebellum (Cordier, Jackson), 92 Tubercles in the choroid (Prankel), 91 Tubercular disease of urinary mucous membrane (Smith), 269 — meningitis (see meningitis), 89 Tuberculosis after typhoid (Birch-Hirsch- feld), 39 — experiments on (various), 38—39 — on (Korner), 108 — relation of, to pneumonia (Fox, Kor- ner, Skoda), 126 Tucker, method of delivery in arm pre- sentation, 414 Tuckwell, case of Addison’s disease, 76 — cases of chorea, 81 — ringworm of cattle communicated to man, 79 Tumour, congenital fibro-cellular, of buttock (Bryant), 243 — congenital fibrous, of arm (Tay), 243 — cystic, of neck, removal of (Hardie, Atlee), 237 — cystic, sanguineous, of neck (Savory), 238 — fibrous, of the tongue (Pooley), 284 — fibrous, removed after labour, 419 — of antrum, from canine tooth (McCoy), 234 — of antrum from distension, reference (Haward), 235 — of lower jaw, myeloid (Maunder), 235 — of palate, removal of, by dividing jaw (King), 238 — do., removal of, through the mouth (Bickersteth), 239 — peculiar, from abdominal cavity, 189 — scrotal, removal (Bickersteth), 243538 INDEX. Tumour, atheromatous, of neck, removal of (Schede), 243 cystic, of breast, reference, 234 — development of (Neumann), 187 — intracranial, cases, and titles of naners on, 92—93 — mediastinal, 109—12 — do., titles of papers on, 112 — naso-pbaryngeal, resection of axilla for removal of (Burns), 235 — heart, 233—31 — papers on, 190 — removal of, from bone (Paget), 242 — treatment of, by subcutaneous injec- tion (Heine), 244 Turner, poisoning by carbonic oxide, 444 Turning, cases of, 415 — impossible in a case of shoulder pre- sentation, 414 — in deformed pelvis, 411 Turpentine, on absorption of, 467 — absorption of, by the unbroken skin (Rohrig), 4 — oil of, in phosphorus poisoning, 440 Tympanites, on gastro-intestiual puncture in, 157 Tyndall, on dust and disease, 37 — on dust and smoke, 2 Typhoid, causes of (Massachusetts report), 54 — changes in intestine in (Murchison, Maclagan), 52 — emaciation in (Allbutt), 52 — from special poison, alvine (Latham), 53 — hsematoma during recovery from (Gueniot), 53 — incubation of (Murchison), 41 — outbreak of, at New Barnet (RatclifEe), 54 — do., near Cambridge (Latham), 53 — do., near Oxford (Mayo), 54 — peritonitis after, followed by suppura- tion from umbilicus (Gluge), 53 — fever, state of capillaries, &c., of in- testine in (Heschl), 52 — spread of, &c., 482—85 — suppuration in muscles after (Kraft- Ebing), 53 — titles of papers on, 65 — treatment of (Lissauer, Scholz, Popper, &c.), 54—55 — tuberculosis after (Birch-Hirschfeld), 39 — with fatal paralysis, &c. (Clement), 53 Typhus, direct contagion of (Virchow), 56 — incubation of (Murchison), 41 — in India (Lyons), 66 Typhus, on “war” (Virchow), 56 — oil cerebro-spinal meningitis, case of (Campbell), 50 — spread of, &c., 485 Udhe, on trichinosis, 77 Ulcus serpens cornese, treatment ot (Pagenstecher), 348 Ullersperger, case of, thickening of skin of soles of feet, &c., 179 Ulna, osteoid cancer of (Bell), 244 Ulzmann, cases of cystine calculi, 279 Underhill, tracheotomy in croup, &c., 105 Ursemia from atrophied kidney, case of (Murchison), 169 — transfusion in (Stolu-), 170 Uranoplasty, 232—33 nasal mucous membrane used iu (Lannelongue), 334 Urates, chemistry of (Barclay), 172 Urban (D’), amount of oxygen in blood of different arteries, 13 Urea, distribution of (Gescheidlen), 19 — excretion of, on (Falck), 172 — in liquor amnii (Gusserow), 17 — on formation of, by the kidneys (Ro- seustein), 19 Uretero-uterine fistula, cases of, 417 Urethra, irritation of the prostatic caus- ing orchitis (Hutchinson), 273 — stricture of the, on (Stokes), 272 — stricture of, on (Thompson), 272 Urethral fever, fatal, after catheterism (Banks), 271 Urethroplasty, cases of (Wood, &c.), 273 Uric acid, amount excreted by the kidney (Sawicki), 30 Urinary mucous membrane, tubercular disease of (Smith), 269 — umbilical fistulm, on, 427 Urine, amount of organic matter iu, 172 — detection of biliary acids in (Strass- burg), 17 — diagnosis of source of blood in, 172 — experiments on (Wernich), 172 — incontinence of, as a symptom of re- tention (Hutchinson), 273 — list of papers on the, 173 — on secretion of (Ustimowitsch), 19 — retention of, case of, in pregnancy, 399 — state of, in leucocythemia (Salkowski), — test for sugar in the (Palck), 172 Urticaria, with herpes (Broadbent), 176 Ustimowitsch, experiments on secretion of urine, 19 Uteri, cervix, mechanical dilatation of the (Duncan), 416 — os, hypertrophic prolypus of the (Barnes), 386INDEX. 539 uterine disease, treatment of nervous disorders in, 402 — expression as a means of delivery (Cbautreuil), 409 — prolypi, fibrinous, on (Frankel), 403 — sound, novel method of nsing (Rasch), 384 Uterus, abscess of the, 370 — absence of the, cases of, 371 — amputation within the, on (Barnes), 393 — action of quinine on the, 420 — anatomy of hypertrophy of the (Barnes), 385 — cancer of the, cases, &c., 382—83 — cancer of, diagnosis of early stages of, 382 — cancer of, effect of gastric juice on, 382 — causation of acquired flexions of the (Squarey), 384 — cause of the movements of the (Oser, Schlesinger), 406 — cases of ruptured, 417 — determination of sex of child within the (Hutton), 396 —"displacements of the, 383—84 — double, 369—70 — double, with pregnancy, 399 — external examination of, in labour (Halbertsma), 415 — extirpation of an inverted (Valette), 378 — extirpation of, for tumour (Bryant, Atlee, Roberts, Gayet), 380—81 — fibroid in an inverted (Hay), 378 — fibroid of the, disappearance of a, with ergot of eye (McClintock), 330 — fibroid of the, removal of, by abdomi- nal section (Wells), 379 — fibi’oid of the, septicaemia after removal of a (Emmett), 379 — fibroid of the, spontaneous separation of a, 380 — fibroids of the, absorption of (Gueniot), 380 — fibroids of the, enucleation of sessile (Thomas), 378 — fibroids of the, on (Kidd), 379 — fibroids of the, treatment of (Meadows), 379 — gravid, complete prolapse of, 399 — gravid, rupture ofi at seventh month, 401 — hydrocele of the round ligament of the (Hart), 391 — inflammation of the, after change of life (Tilt), 392 — influence of nerves on the (Reimaun). 405 ^ Uterus, injections in chronic inflamma- tions of the, 392 — injection of iodine into, in post-par- tuin hmmorrhage, 420 — injury to gravid (Ling), 400 — inversion of the, cases of, 417—18 — inverted, removal of an, 377 — involuted, anatomy of, 424 — irregular contractions of the, on (Tren- holme), 408 — mechanical treatment of displace- ments of the (Pepper), 384 — movements of, excitement of (Oser), 31 — phlegmon of the broad ligament of the (Delpech), 391 — polypi of the, on (Duncan), 380 — procidentia of the, etiology of (Duncan, Konrad), 383 — procidentia of the, functions of peri- nseum in (Duncan), 384 — psammoma of the, 377 — recurrent discharge from the, dmlng pregnancy (Brown), 394 — removal of an enlarged (Atlee), 307 — reposition of displaced cancerous, 399 — retroflexion of the, a cause of abortion (Phillips), 402 — rupture of the, during labour (Pour- rier), 416 — sarcoma of the (Hegar), 375 — structure of the, on (Beck), 381 — tumours of the, diagnosis of, from ovarian (Wells, &c.)i 381 Vaccination, Bryce’s test for (Beardesley), 431 — influence of, 488 Vaccine particles, on (Ferrier), 36 Vaccino-syphilis, cases of, 430—31 — cases of (Smith, Hutchinson), 306, 430—31 Vagina, absence of the, 370—7l — cysts of the, on (Winckel), 385 — double, cases of, 371 — hypersesthesia of the sphincter of the (Stoltz, &c.), 386 — stenosis of the (Ebell), 386 — termination of nerves in the, 387 — tumour of the, cases (Byrne, Barnes), 386 Vaginal fistulse, on operation for (Tait), 386 — injection, peritonitis after use of, 375 — thrombus, case of (Jalland), 419 Vajda, corpuscles in blood in syphilis, 65 Valentin, on muscles of the embryo. 31 '540 INDEX. Valette, case of inversion of the uterus, Vnllin, case of pleuritic effusion, 113 Valvular disease (see heart) Vance, on epilepsy, 83 Vanilla ice, symptoms of poisoning Lv (Maurer), 452 Varicella and scarlet fever coincident (Bunton, Musket), 60 — relation of, to smallpox (Rommelaere), 63 — titles of papers on, 64 Variola (see smallpox), 67 Varix, congenital, lymphatic (Patershn), treatment of, by iniection of ergotin (Vogt), 211 Vascular murmurs, on (Nolet), 10 Vaudry, on the use of arsenic, 463 ^*"l8l'^"* of elephantiasis, — microcythemia, 70 — on a variety of fungus, 185 Vedie, rupture of the heart, 144 Vegetable parasites, 79 Veins, jugular, ulceration of the, on (Gross), 326 Vensesection, effects of, on arterial cur- rent (Gatzuck), 9 Verga, inoculation of tubercle, 38 Vergely, case of headache with increase of temperature, 40 Verneuil, case of rupture of internal caro- tid, 84 — surgery of arteries in gunshot wounds, 263 — suture of the eyelids, 349 — on tuberculous testis, 281 Vertebra, [fifth cervical, dislocation of (Reyburn), 260 Vesico-vaginal fistula (Bell), 282 — case of double, congenital, 371 Vessels, condition of the walls of, in in- flammation (Durante), 33 — passage of corpuscles through walls of the, 34 Virchow, on chlorosis, 373 — on direct contagion of typhus, and on “ war typhus,” 56 — on typhus, 485 Visual sense, on the, in disease of the choroid and retina (Forster, Hippel), 364 Vital phenomena, influence of barometric pressure on (Bert), 13 Vitriol, white, poisoning by (Tardieu), 443 Vogt, case of progressive muscular atro- phy, 71 — ergotin in treatment of varix, 211 Vohl, toxicological effects of tobacco 450 ’ Voit, tissue changes in phosphorus poi- soning, 441 Volkmanu, on relative mortalitj' in civil and military practice, 26 Volvuli, list of cases of, 15 Vomiting of pregnancy, on the (Hewitt, &c.), 400 Vulpian, pustules of smallpox, 63 ^'386 (Mussy, &c.), Wade, on chlorosis, &c., 372 Wagener, on structure of muscle, 27 Wagner, on tubercular lymphadeuoma, 188 Wagstaffe, case of fibrous tumour of the heart, 138 — case of injury to the head, 267 Waldenburg, on a manometer, 108 Waldeyer, on diphtheritic puerperal fever, 421 — on fibroid of the ovary, 387 Wallace, diagnosis of pregnancy, 401 Waller, nerves of deglutition, is Wallowicz, on action of alcohol, 463 Wanklyu, on composition of m-ine, 172 Ward, medullary sarcoma of the stomach, 153 Warded, case of exfoliation of the female bladder, 400 Waring-Curran, abseess of the lung, 122 Warlomont, iridectomy knives, 364 — removal of suture pins, 349 Warner, case of absence of the vagina and uterus, 371 War typhus, on (Virchow), 56 Warts, micrococci in (Richter), 79 Water, kinds of, for use, 490 Waters (Dr.), on hay fever, 43 — seii’rhous cancer of lung, 124 Watson, case of rupture of the heart, 145 Watson (Dr. Bben), calculus in female, 278 — cases of tracheotomy for laryngeal disease, 321 — excision of the ankle, 226 — excision of the astragalus, malleoli, &c., 226 — excision of the elbow for anchylosis, 217 — excision of extremity of humerus for anchylosis, 218 .— excision of the lower jaw, 228 — excision of wedge of bone at knee, 225 Weeker, on corelysis, 348INDEX. 541 Weclier, on extraction of cataract, 344 Wedl, blooclpath of the spleen. Id — corpuscles in blood in syphilis, 65 Wegner, bone disease in hereditary syphi- lis, 307 , . . Weigert, bacteria in the skin in small- pox, 63 Weil, on physiological action of digitalis, 470 Weinberg, on treatment of scabies, 186 Weiske, results of giving food poor in lime or phosphoric acid, 29 Wells (Spencer), diagnosis of uterine from ovarian tumours, 381 — extirpation of suppurating ovarian cysts, 391 — on fever following surgical operations. 317 — on ovariotomy, 388 — ovariotomy statistics, 301 — remgval of uterine fibroid by abdomi- nal section, 379 Wernich, analysis of the urine, 172 — on weight of infants, 425 West, removal of nsevi with the ecraseur, 211 Westcott, case of rupture of the heart, 145 Westphal, epilepsy in guinea-pigs, 82 — production of epilepsy in guinea- pigs, 23 Weter, on phosphorus poisoning, 440 Wettengel, delivery of a dicephalous monster, 412 Wharton-Ketchum trial, the, 456 Whipham, case of disease of the tricuspid valve, 141 White, cases of inversion of the uterus, 417 — case of poisoning by carbolic acid, 446 Whitehead (Dr.), cases of cleft palate, 233 — cases of stricture of the rectum, 299 — on membranous enteritis, 156 — peculiar sputa, 109 Whitney, case of emphysema during labour, 418 Whooping-cough, on (Stefren, McCall), 117 — titles of papers on, 118 Widerhofer, on rickets, 429 — tetanus neonatorum, 428 Wilde, on traumatic erysipelas, 318 Wilks, on adherent pericardium, 136 — case of hmmatidrosis, 183 Williams, on phthisis, 127 Willy, on excitation of nerves, 21 Wilson (E.), cases of prurigo, 178 Wilson (E.). case of erythema solare, 174 Wilson (J. G.), case of eruption after application of belladonna, 423 Wiltshire, case of rupture of the heart, 145 — fatal tetanus after abortion, 403 — on the colour of the eyes of the newly born, 426 Winants, on case of transfusion, 330 Winckel, cases of sarcoma of the uterus, 377 — vaginal cysts, 385 Wire, removal of, after operation for ununited fracture, 256 Wohlrab, on typhoid, 483 Woinow, astigmatism after cataract ope- rations, 347 — diagnosis of colour blindness, 340 Wolferz, innervation of lachrymal glands, 25 WolfEbey, tension of carbonic acid in lungs and blood, 15 Wood (Prof. H. C.), effects of atropine on pupils of pigeons, 449 — on nitrite of amyl, 466 Wood (Mr. J.), an improved gag, 233 — on urethroplasty, 273 — leucocythemia, 69 — on nephritis, 167 — use of bromides, 462 Woodward, case of inversion of the uterus, 418 Wounds, dressing of (Callender), 198 on open treatment of (Kronleln), 195 Wrany, embolism, &c., after endocar- ditis, 134 Wright, a new self-retaining catheter, 271 — method of bisecting foetus, 414 Wrist, dislocation of (Ericlisen, Adams), 248 — drop, from injury to nerve in fracture (Erichsen), 256 — excision of, cases of, 218 Wyss, extravasations in smallpox, 63 — on herpes zoster, 175 Xanthelasma palpebrarum (Hutchinson), 183 Yarrow, case of Cmsarean section, 413 Yeld, case of fibrous tumour removed after labour, 419 Yellow fever, on, 45—47 — titles of papers on, 47 Zahn, on detection of blood-stains, 459 Zallonis, inoculability of tubercle, 38542 iNDtlX. Zehnclei’, report ou cholera epidemic 480 ’ Zeis’ choiloplastic operation, 330 Zenker, on trichinosis, 78 Zillner, cases of colloid cysts, 188 Zimm, case of poisoning by carbolic acid, Zimmer, on diabetes, 72 Zinc, sulphate of, on poisoning by (Tar- dieu), 443 Zuber, case of hydatids in lung, 79, 125 Zuntz, on poisoning by carbonic oxide. PJilNTED BY J. E. ADI/AED, BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE.I'T',1 r;.i rVi ri.'r!-!