iJf(o : 4 /THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. INSTITUTED MDCCCLVIIL VOLUME VIII.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b24751248_0008YEAR-BOOK OK MEDICINE, SURGERY AND THEIR ALLIED SCIENCES, FOR 18 5 9. EDITED BY DR. HARLEY, DR. HANDFIELD JONES, MR. HULKE. DR. GRAILY HEWITT, and DR. ODLINa, FOR THE NEW SYDENHAM SOCIETY. LONDON. MDCCCLX.E 7^^ Da 1 cEDITOR'S PREEACE. In issuing the first volume of tlie New Sydenham Society's 'Annual Compendium of Scientific and Practical Medicine/ the members of the Society may not deem it superfluous, if the General Editor briefly explains the plan of the work, and the manner in which it has been executed. The volume is divided into five departments, each of which has been entrusted to a separate editor. The first department, entitled the " Institutes of Medicine," includes reports on Anatomy, Phy- siology, Histology, and Animal Chemistry, and is, in fact, an epitome of science applied to practical medicine. The second department contains the reports on Pathology, Therapeutics, Clinical Medicine, and Psycliiatry. In the third department are the reports on General, Aural, Ophthalmic, and Dental Surgery. Tlie fourth department is devoted to Midwifery and Diseases of "Women and Children. Whilst the fifth and last department includes Legal Medicine and Sanitary Science. Each department has been systematically divided, and the materials so arranged, that the members will be able to find almost any subject without the trouble of referring to the Index, whenvi editor's preface. they are acquainted with the general plan of tlic volume. The value of a complete Index, however, has not been lost sight of, and special care has been taken to arrange it so that the reader may readily find the information sought for, altliough it be only the name of the author, the organ, or the disease, with which he is familiar. The title of each work or paper is given in full at the commence- ment of each subdivision, and in all cases the foreign titles have been briefly translated. The reports themselves consist of concise abstracts of the original matter contained in British and American medical journals and separate treatises, and of the epitomes of continental year-books. Among the year-books to which we are chiefly indebted may be mentioned 'Canstatt's Jahresbericht,' 'Schmidt's Jalirbucher,' 'Henle and Meissner's Bericht,' and the Trench 'Annuaires' of Noiret, of Jamain and Waher, and of Bouchardt and Sandras. As regards 'Schmidt's Jalirbucher,' the General Editor gladly embraces the opportunity of acknowledging the obhgation due to its editors. Professors Winter and Eichter, as well as to the proprietor, Mr. Otto Wigand, for the generous assistance they gave him and his colleagues in fm-thering the publication of the present volume, by transmitting directly the revise sheets of their valuable work as they issued from the press. In making their abstracts, the Editors have generally avoided giving an opinion regarding the merits of any of the papers. They have merely classified them, so as to bring into juxtaposition the labours on each particular subject of medical men, scattered in every corner of the earth, and have thereby placed the reader in a favorable position for di-awiug his own general conclusions. The authors whose material has been made use of, and who may think themselves restricted in the space assigned to them, are entreated to bear in mind that the reports of the Editors were AVII editor's preface. restricted by the space at their disposal; wliilst members wlio may require fuller informatiou ou any special subject thau could be here iutroducedj can readily refer to the original source of informatiou which is in all cases indicated. Embarrassed by a superabundance of materiid^ the Editors found it difficult to select; but in cases where it was absolutely necessary to choose one for abstract from among the several papers on analogous subjects, preference has been given to the labours of foreign authors, in order that the members of the Society might receive information of that kind which they covld not otherwise easily obtain. 77, Harlky Si kkrt, W. ; Juiy, iSCo.LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS REFERRED TO. (Aead. Belg.) Bulletins de I'Acad^mie Royale M^dicale Belgique. (Acad. Med.) Bulletin de I'Academie de Medecine. (Amer. Med. Journ.) American Journal of Medical Sciences. (Amer. Quart.) North American Medico-Chirurgical Review l^""'^'''?/?-) Annales d'HygiSne publique et de Medecine legale. et Wahn. Chirurgie Pratique, par Jamaia (Arch. Gen. de Med.) Archives Generales de Medecine. (Archiv. of Med.) Beale's Archives of Medicine. (Baden) Aerztliche Mittheilungen aus Baden (Bombay) Transactions of the Bombay Medical and Surgical Society. Bouchardat) Annuaire de Therapeutique, par Bouchardat. ^ (Bn . and Foreign Rev.) British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review (Brit. Med.) British Medical Journal. surgical neview. (Snsttm ■ LS,T'T f t I'"P- de St. Petersbourg. ^^Talpen^'""'"^""'''^"^' gerichtliche und offentliche Medecin, von S. L. icZL ^^'"^i- f'?'"??" I'Academie des Sciences. STm°f\ T ^ ^TP'^' ^''"'^"^ Socidtd de Biologic. (Conn. Med.) Journal des Connaissances Medicales. (D:n;!^^l)°S:h?Sf Arznei,u,nde. (Dub. Hosp. Gaz.) Dubhn Hospital Gazette. (Dub. Med. Press) Dublin Medical Press. (Gaz. Hop.) Gazette des H6pitaux. (Gaz. Med Parish Gazette Medicale de Paris. (Glas Med. Joum.) Glasgow Medical Journal. (Uuy) Guy'i Hospital Reports. Snt"? nf'^A'/"*'"^' ^'"^ Staats-Arzneikunde m^J^^^ f- ^""^'"'' Z«i'schrift Miiller's Archiv h \ die Pharmacie von Dr. H. Hirzel (Jour, de Phys.) Journal de Physiologic. (Lancet) The Lancet. ^ (Med. Circul.) Medical Circular. V '^'T'^ ^ ^''^ ^^^'"^^^ Times and Gazette Micros Jour.) Microscopic Journal. (Mol^chou) Moleschott's Untersuchungen zur Naturlehre des Menschen und der (Momt. Hop.) Moniteur des HSpitaux. SoiTo^"a"- ^^^-^ . ^r'^ ^"'^ -^""^"al of Medicine. (P.ager) Prager Vierteljahrssehrift fur die practische Heilkunde.X (I'rcusscn) Mediz. Zcitscbrift hcrausgcgeben von der Vereiii fur lleilkuude in Preussen. (Proc. Roy. Soc.) Proceedings of Uie Royal Society. (Schmidt) Schmidt's Jalirbiicher dcrGcsararaten Medicm. fTrans Roy. Soc.) Transactions of tl»c Royal Society. , , , . . wfeirS.) Zeitsclirift der Kaiserlich Kiinigs. Gesellschaft der Acrzte zu Wicn. fWienerl Wiener Med. Wochenschrift. . Wittste n) Vierteljahrsschrift flir practische Ph»"°».«'« ^^^v'S' fWurtemb ) CorrespondensWatt des WUrtemberger urztl chen Vercms. (WuSig) Verhaudlungea der Physicalisch-Medic.nischen GesellscUaft zu (ZeitsIS'f'u'r wiss. Zool.) Siebold und KolUker's Zeitschrift far wissens. Zoologie. E E R A T A. 62, line 27, /o)- 78, „ 1> 78, ,, 4> 125, last line, 203, line 21, „ 220, ,, 35, 236, „ 21, „ 236, „ 26, „ 268, last liae but two „ 281, line 9, » 286, „ 17. » 288, lastliaebut three „ 289, line 25, „ 292, „ 12, 295, 25,1 297, „ 1. J 300, „ 9, „ 307, „ !• " 310, „ 9, „ 310, „ 27and30, „ 310, „ 31, „ 310, „ 46, 311, 1' " 312, „ 11. " 315, 28, ,. 316, „ 29, .. 825, „ 34, „ 328, „ 8, „ 330, „ 3. " 330, ., 14, » 333,lastUnebuttbree „ 334, line 12, „ 877, ., 3, „ 881, last line but one „ 395, line 26, 408, „ 31, „ Czerinack Czemack Eckard Hirsel Austen 1839 Oppolzen Bean Beddoe Buller Hennett Wood Poupert Harting Hewitt Flemming Pemburton Goselin Bonnett 90 Kinlock Sunborn Kinlock Sculborn Kirket Warlemont Pearce Daniel Villard Delose Bruek 27 Gilette Flemming read Czermak. Czermak. Eckhard. Hirsch. Austin. 1859. Oppolzer. Beau. Beddoes. Bulley. Hennet. Ward. Paupert. Hartung. Hewit. Fleming. Pemberton. Gosselin. Bonnet. 99. Kinloch. Sanborn. Kinloch. Sanborn. Birkett. Warlomont. Pdan. Daniell. Villards. Delore. Briick. 257. Br'iick. Gillette. Fleming.1 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE, COMPREHENDING ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, HISTOLOGY, CHEMISTRY, AND PHYSICS. BY GEORGE HAELET, M.D., FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF EDINBURGH J MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF LONDON ; PROFESSOR OF MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE; AND PHYSICIAN TO THE NORTHERN DISPENSARY, LONDON. MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, AND LECTURES. Salton-—Treatise on Human Physiology. Philadelphia, 1859. PP- Todd-—The Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology. Parts li and Hi. London. Humphry-—On the Human Skeleton (including the joints). With numerous woodcuts, pp. 620. Cambridge, 1859. Knox-—On the Relation of Anatomy to Physiology and Pathology; being a sequel to the'Life and Labours of Xavier Bichat.' (A short essay in the Lancet, p. 479, May, 1859.) Ward-—Outlines of Human Osteology. 2d ed., pp. 440. London, 1859. Holden-—Manual of the Dissection of the Human Body. 8vo. London, 1859. Elemente der Speziellen Anatomic. [Elements of Special Anatomy.] 5th ed. ^eiwar, 1858. (Canstatt's Jahresbericht, 1859, vol. i, p. 19. A pocket anatomical rememberer for the use of practitioners and students.) Le Gendre-—Anatomic Chirurgicale Homolographique. Paris, 1858. pp. 45. (Schmidt's Jahrbucher, vol. 120, No. 4, p. ii6. A description of the principal regions of the human body, illustrated with twenty-five plates, natural size, drawn from sections made on frozen bodies.) Eckhard-—Contributions to Anatomy and Physiology. Second part, pp. 86 177. Giessen, 1858. (Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 4, p. 114.) Hyrtl-—Handbook of Topographical Anatomy, with its practical application to Medicine and Surgery. 3d ed. Vienna, 1857. Vol. i, pp. 594; vol. 2, PP- S'3- (Schmidt, vol. 103, No. 8, p. 240.)REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. Perrone —Trattato Elementare d'Anatomia Speciale. [An Elementary Treatise on Special Anatomy.] Napoli, 1857. 1" vols, izino, pp. 495,459, 777 and 266. Budge-—Conservation der Leichen fur Priiparir und Chirurgische Operationsii- IJUMgen. [On a Method of Preserving Anatomical " Sulyects."] (Virchovr's Archiv, vol. xv, p. 172, 1858. Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 5, p. 152.) Ambrosoli-—On the Preservation of Anatomical Preparations by means of Glycerin. (Gaz. Lomb., No. 39, 1858. Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 5, p. 153.) Lister-—Contributions to Physiology and Pathology. Plates, 4to. London, 1859. Heale-—Treatise on Vital Causes. 8vo. London, 1859. I'Udwig'-—Lehi buch der Physiologic des Menschen. [Text-Book of Physiology.] Second and improved edition. Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1858. Longet. —Traite de Physiologie. [Treatise on Physiology.] 8vo, 2d ed. Paris, 1858. (British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, April, 1859.) Funke.—Lehrbuch der Physiologie fiir Akademische Vorlesungen und zum Selbst- studium. [Text-book of Physiology.] 2d ed. 2 vols. 8vo. Leipzig, 1858. (British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, April, 1859.) Schiff.—Lehrbuch der Physiologie. [Text-book of Physiology.] (First three parts.) 8vo. Lahr. 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28, 1859.) Ad. Fick.—c ompendium der Physiologie des Menschen. [Compendium of Human Physiology.] (First part.) 8vo. Vienna, 1859. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28, 18,59.) Arnold.—Die Physiologische Anstalt der Univ. Heidelberg von 1853-8. [The Physiological Institution attached to the University of Heidelberg.] Heidel- berg, 1858. Milne-Edwards-—Lapons sur la Physiologic et I'Anatomie comparee de I'llomme et des Animaux. [Lectures on Comparative Anatomy and Physiology.] 8vo. Paris, 1858. Hannover-—Statistiske Undersogelser af laegevidenskabeligt Inhold. [Hospital Statistics.] Copenhagen, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28.) Reynolds.—The Facts and Laws of Life. London, 1859. C-*^" introductory Lec- ture delivered at the opening of the Medical School of the Westminster Hos- pital.) Reichert-—Studien des Physiologischen Instituts zu Breslau. Leipzig, 1858. (Contains, among other things, the author's paper on the Circulation in Fish, which will afterwards be referred to.) Auzeux-—Le9Qns Elementaires d'Anatomie et de Physiologie Humaine et com- paree sous les points de vue de I'Hygiene et de la Production agricole. [Ele- mentary Lectures on Comparative Anatomy and Physiology.] 8vo. Paris, 1858. (No abstract.) Th. Bischoff.—Ueber den Unterschied zwischen Mensch und Thier. 8vo. Braun- schweig, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28. Scientific discourse on the difference between Man and Beast, delivered in Munich in the winter of 1858.) rionrens.—De la Vie et de I'lntelligence. [On Life and Intelligence.] 8vo. Paris, 1858. (No abstract.) Frey.—Das einfachste thierische Leben. 4to. Zurich, 1858. (A sketch of animal life.) Picard.—Darstellungsversuch einiger der Beziehungen der Physiologie zur Patho- logie und Therapie. [Some Physiological and Pathological Experiments.] 8vo. Wurzburg, 1856. (No abstract.)MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. 3 Bernard-—Lemons sur lea Proprietes Physiologiques, et les Alterations Patholo- giques des Liquides de I'Organisme. [On the Animal Fluids.] Vols, i and ii. Paris, 1859. Bischoff—Ueber Johannes Miiller und sein Verhaltniss zum jetzigen Standpunkt der Physiologie. [Discourse ou Professor Miiller.] Munchen, 1858. 4to. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28.) Virchow.—Johannes Miiller. Eine Gedachtnissrede. [Discourse on Professor Miiller.] Berlin, 1858. 8vo. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 28. (No abstract.) Seller-—On ^ome of the Metaphysical Aspects of Physiology. (Edinburgh Monthly Medical Journal, July, 1859, p. i. A lectuie delivered at a conversazione held on the invitation of the President and Fellows of the Royal College of Physi- cians of Edinburgh.) Jones.—Descriptive Catalogue of the Preparations in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. Vols, ii and iii. London, 18^g. Lardner.—Chemistry for Schools, with 170 Illustrations, pp. 343. 1859. Lehmann.—Zoochemie. [Animal Chemistry.] Heidelberg, 1858. pp. 734. (Canstatt, vol. 1, p. 144.) Liebig.—Chemische Briefe. 4th ed. Heidelberg, 1859. (Familiar Letters on Chemistry, translated by Dr. Blyth. 4th ed. ionrfora, 1859.) Kletzinsky.—Compendium der Biochemie. Vienna, 1858. In two parts, and with eleven plates. (Scherer gives a critical review of this work on Animal Chemistry, and directs attention to a number of defects. Canstatt, vol. i, P- I45-) CapezZUOli, Seraf.—Trattato di Chimica Organica applicata alia Medicina. [Chemistry applied to Medicine.] Firenze, 1858-59. Fasc. i. (No abstract given in Canstatt.) Colling'WOOd,—Ou the Influence of the Microscope in Medicine. Liverpool, 1859. (An Introductory Lecture delivered at the opening of the Medical School in Liverpool.) Kolliker.—Gewebelehre des Measchen. [Human Histology.] 3d ed. Leipzig, 1859. Virchow-—Die Cellularpathologie in ihrer begriindung auf Physiologische und Pathologische Gewebelehre. [Cellular Pathology.] Berlin, 1858. (British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, October, 1859.) Spengel- — Mikroskopische Notizeu iiber die Thermen von Ems. [Micro- scopical Observations on Ems' Waters.] (Virchow's Archiv, 1858, p. 163. Canstatt, vol. 1, p. 203.) Engert.—Ueber Tliierknospenund Zellen. Sitzungsberichte d. mathemat.-naturw. Klassed. kaiserl. Akad. d. Wissensch. [Histology.] Vol. xxv, 1857. pp.185. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 203.) Daben.—In Stockholm. Leistungen des Mikroskops zum Zwecke der arztlichen Diagnostik. [Practical Application of the Microscope to Clinical Medicine.] (Translated into German by Dr. L. Tutschek.) Wiirzburg, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. I, p. 201.) Eeinicke.—Beitrage zuj- neuen Mikroskopie. [On the Microscope.] Dresden, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 201.) Harting —Das Mikroskop. Theorie, Gebrauch, Geschichte und gegenwiirtiger Zustand desselben. [Treatise on the Construction and Application of the Microscope.] (Translated into German from the Ilollaudish, by Dr. W. Theile.) Braunschweig, 1859. (Canstatt, vpX i, p. 201.)» REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Wittich-—Ueber das Verhalten der Farbstoffc, insbesondere der Carminliisung in Beruhrung mit todteii organiscben Zellen. [On tbe Colouring of Tissues by means of Carmine.] (Kiinigsb. med. Jabrb., i. Parts i and 2, p. 197. Canstatt, vol. 1, p. 201.) Aeby-—Ueber die Sympliysis ossium pubis des Menschcn nebst Beitragen zur Lehre vom hyalinen Knorpel und seiner Verknbcherung. [On the Human Pubis and Ossification of Cartilage.] (Henle und Pfeufer's Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. Vol. iv, parts i and 2, p. i. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 201.) Heidelberg, 1858. Gerlach-—Mikroskopische Studien aus dem Gebiete der menschlichen Morphologic. [Histological Researches.] Erlangen, 1858. Billroth-—Ueber die Epithelialzellen der Froschzunge, sowie iiber den Bau der Cylinder- und Flimmerepitlielien und ihr Verhiiltniss zum Bindegewebe. [On Epithelium.] (Miiller's Archiv, 1858. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 201.) Berlin-—Ueber die Blutkorperchen haltigen Zellen Archiv f. d. holland. Beitr. z. Natur- u. Heilkundeherausg. v. Bonders u. Berlin. [On Cells containing Blood-corpuscles.] Utrecht, 1857. pp. 356. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 203.) B-adlkofer-—Ueber die wahre Natur der Dotterplattchen. [The Ovum.] (Siebold's u. Kiilliker's Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zool. Vol. ix, p. 529. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 203.) Bemak-—Ueber die Theilung der Blutzellen beim Embryo. [On the Dividing of the Blood-corpuscles in the Embryo.] (Miiiler's Ajchiv, 1858, p. 178. Eight plates. Canstatt, voL i, p. 203.) Dalton's work on physiology is a large book of more than six hundred pages^ illustrated with 254 woodcuts. He adopts Eobin and Verdeil's plan of dividing the constituents of the body into immediate principles and anatomical elements. The work contains several original observations. In the preface the author says that it is ofPered to the profession of the United States as a means of communicating, in a condensed form, such new facts and ideas in physiology as have recently marked the progress of the science. Many of the topics discussed being of great practical importance to the practitioner, as likely to influence in various ways his views on pathology and therapeutics. Of the 254 illustrations in the book, only eleven have been borrowed from other writers. In the chapter on food, the author calls special attention to the importance of the inorganic ingredients; points out the inefficiency of amylaceous and fatty substances, when used alone; describes the bad effects of an exclusive non-nitrogenous diet; and, lastly, alludes to the advantages, and even occasional necessity of cooking. The nature of the digestive process, the apparatus by winch it is accom- plished, both in man and the different species of animals, as well as the successive changes the food undergoes in the intestinal canal, is fidly gone into. The existence of sugar in the liver of all animals, its percentage,5 MANUALS, GENERAL TREATISKS, ETC. its properties and composition, as well as its final metamorpliosis and disappearance, is briefly alluded to. Dalton made an artificial duodenal fistula on a dog, and with its aid studied the biliary function. He says that bile passes into the intestine in by far the largest quantity immediately after feeding, and within the first hour. After that time, its discharge remains pretty constant; not varying very much from sixteen grains of solid biliary matters per hour. The discharge of bile into the intestines continues even after the animal has been kept for many days without food. From these facts Dalton concludes that the bile is simply an excrementitious fluid, containing only ingredients resulting from the disintegration of the animal tissues, and not intended to perform any particular function, digestive or otherwise. Section 2 is devoted to the consideration of the nervous system, and Section 3 to reproduction; both contain much interesting matter. Todd's CycLOPiEDiA or Anatomy and Physiology, a work which has been no less than twenty-four years in progress, is now completed. The new titlepages, preface, and index, are contained in the parts just published. Humphry, in his large work on the descriptive anatomy of the skeleton, tells us whi/ such a bone is of such a form—why it has a facet on one particular point and not on another—why a tendon is inserted into this, and not into that ridge—why the inner plate of the skull is denser than the outer, &c., &c. From this it will be seen that the book is intended for the use of those who wish to learn something more than the bare facts of anatomy. ('British Medical Journal,' p. 228, 1859.) Ward, and Holden's works are new editions of manuals already m the hands of many of our readers. They are chiefly intended by their authors for the use of the student. In the second part of Eckhard's 'Contributions to Anatomy and Physiolog/ are to be found original papers on the nerves and electric organs of the torpedo, on hydro-diffusion, on the endos- mose of common salt, and on the theory of the cause of the heart's action. The first edition of Hyrtl's 'Anatomy' appeared in 1847, and not- withstanding its size and price, before ten years have elapsed a third edition has been caUed for. The first half of the work is devotedREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 6 to the consideration of the head, neck, thorax, and abdomen; and the hxtter half to that of the pelvis, back, and upper and lower extremities. Peurome's work on anatomy is merely a compilation. Budge strongly recommends, for the preservation of bodies for anatomical purposes, an injection consisting of two ounces of wood- spirit, four ounces of sulphate of zinc, and seven pounds of water. He says that this will preserve a body during a whole summer, and has the great advantage of neither destroying the colour of the muscles, injuring the knives, nor preventing the employment of coloured injections. "Ambkosoli, on the other hand, recommends the putting up of specimens in glycerin, and the preservation of entire bodies by injecting it into the vessels. The first plan is neither unknown nor new in England. The second is of little value, as it is attended with success only in cold weather. LisTEu's ' Contributions to Physiology and Pathology' consist of communications made to the Eoyal Society in 1857-8, and published in their 'Transactions.' The first is entitled "An inquiry regarding the parts of the nervous system which regulate the contraction of the arteries;" the second, "On the cutaneous pigmentary system of the frog/' and the third, " On the early stages of inflammation." The author says, that the first and second papers were read as supple- ments to the essay on the last; but that in accordance with a recommendation from the council, he extended Ids investigations into the subject of the present memoir. Some cases are mentioned to show that in the early stages of inflammation occurring in the human subject, as, for example, after the application of an ii-ritant, such as mustard, the minute vessels become abnormally loaded with red blood, the corpuscles of winch ultimately become arrested, prior to the occurrence of efPusion. He afterwards says, that the conclusions which he arnved at from studying the process on the frog apply equaUy weU to the same morbid process in man. The rouleaux, he thinks, are simply the result of the shape of the corpuscles, together with a shght degree of adhesiveness which retains them pretty firmly attached, when their flat surfaces are applied to each other. The aggregatmg ten- dency of the red discs is thus regarded as a phenomenon simdar in kind though inferior in degree, to the weU-known adliesiveness of the white corpuscles, and varies according to physical circumstances, and slight chemical actions.MANUALS, GENERAL TRUATISES, ETC. 7 In the smallest arteries of the web of the frog's foot the middle coat is composed of muscular fibre-cells wrapped spirally round the internal membrane, and Lister thinks that the arteries regulate by their contractility the quantity of blood transmitted in a given time tlirough the capillaries. The contractility being in its turn regulated by a part of the spinal cord. Tepid water applied to the frog's foot first induced constriction, then dilatation of the arteries. When the temperature of the water was more elevated, the corpuscles of the blood were obstructed in their progress, even when the vessels were fully dilated,—and a continuance of the irritation soon caused the minute vessels to be choked up. Irritation produced by the employment of salt, mustard, essential oils, chloro- form, heat, galvanism, or mechanical violence, gave rise to exactly similar effects. On applying an irritant it was noticed that, at first, the abnormal adhesiveness of the blood-corpuscles was limited to the spot acted on; it afterwards, however, extended to the neighbouring capillaries. When the same irritants were applied to freshly drawn blood, they seemed to diminish rather than to increase the adhesiveness of the corpuscles. The results of some other experi- ments led the author to conclude that mere quiescence of the blood does not of itself give rise to an aggregation of the red corpuscles within the vessels, unless the tissues are in an unhealthy condition; and that therefore the healthy tissues exert an influence on the blood in their vicinity, by means of wliich the corpuscles are pre- vented from adhering together. While in an inflamed part this influence is in abeyance. In the second paper the author calls attention to the fact of the pig- ment-ceUs of the frog's skiu being sometimes of a stellate figure, with minute, ramifying rays,—at other times, of a contracted, rounded form, the change of shape being produced, according to German observers, by the contraction and dilatation of the pigment-cells. Lister, however, believes that the true explanation is that, the form of the cells remain imchanged, but that the pigment-granules are, on the one hand, attracted into the centre of the cell, or, on the other, repelled into the minutest recesses of the ramifying rays, both the attractive and repulsive forces residing in the nucleus. Our author concludes by saying, that it may be looked upon as a fundamental principle, that whenever inflammatory congestion exists in any degree, the tissues of the* affected part experience a propor- tionate functional activity or vital energy.8 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. In his text-book on physiology, Ludwig limits himself ahnost entirely to the consideration of the chemistry and physics of hfe, and thereby presents a striking contrast to the views advocated by Healcj in his book on the vital causes. Ludwig remarks, in his preface, that pathologists are often complaining of the unpractical direction of physical physiology, forgetting that physiology can never be of much use to pathology until it has solved the problem of " healthy life." Wlien the medical practitioner thoroughly under- stands a healthy process, he will readily discover the conditions requiring to be changed in order to reproduce in a diseased part a normal healthy action. It is not, he says, in the dead-house, but in the physiological laboratory, that the fundamental laws of diseased, as well as healthy, action must be studied. In the first section of the first volume, the elements, and the organic compounds out of which the human body is built, are considered, and in the second part, the nerves and muscles, as well as the physiology of the senses, are treated of. The second volume, on the other hand, is devoted to the development and decay of the tissues and fluids of the body, and concludes with a chapter on animal heat. When on the elements entering into the composition of the human body, the author remarks, that as often as we analyse the animal organs and tissues, we are forced to the conclusion that they are ultimately composed of a very small proportion of chemical atoms, associated with light, heat, and electricity. Prom which circumstance we are forced to conclude, that the animal phenomena are the result of the same forms of simple attraction and repulsion which are observed in all elementary bodies. It having been ascer- tained that by the action of heat, light, electricity, and other chemical agents, all the organic animal compounds may be decomposed, and that this decomposition does not directly yield the elements them- selves, but only the "immediate principles," physiologists as well as chemists have come to the conclusion, that the complex organic combinations winch we find in the tissues are not the result of the direct union of simple elements, but of a series of compounds, which are themselves aggregations of individual atoms. The fhst ele- ment which Ludwig considers is oxygen—a gas which, as is well known, is found in every part of the animal body, in the fluids as well as in the sohds, both in a free, and in a combined state; but which was not supposed until very recently to occiu- in the form of ozone. Schonbem was the first to call attention to this fact; and aMANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. 9 few months ago M. de Luca has shown that the oxygen exhaled by the leaves of plants in the sun's light presents the properties of ozone. Schonbein had previously pointed out, however, that the juice of certain muslirooms changed oxygen gas into that substance. Ludwig says, that if we suppose that ozone exists in the animal body, we can easily comprehend how substances are therein consumed without any great increase of temperature. Animal combustion is peculiar, not only on that account, but also because of its products being different from any met with in ordinary combustion. They never- theless resemble eacli other in several important particulars; for example, urea is a product of animal combustion in the healthy body, and it can be formed artificially from albumen by a process of slow combustion, effected by means of a solution of permanganate of potash, at a temperature of 176° Tahr. When on the subject of nerve-force, our author remarks that its source is most probably to be found in the chemical decomposition of the substances composing the nerves. In proof of this, he says that nerves only retain their irritability so long as they possess a definite chemical composition,—and that living nerves in an excited, as well as in a non-excited, condition, gradually lose their normal composition. Por example, heat, which evaporates the water from the nerves, destroys their irritability just as much as an excess of water, which removes their salts. The same effect is produced by substances which coagulate their albumen or attack their fats. LoNGE'r's treatise on physiology has been coming out in parts during the last eight or nine years, and is only now completed. It is a large work, in two volumes; and although, like all text-books, it is more or less a compilation, it yet has a considerable quan- tity of original matter scattered through its pages. The author although of the advanced school, does not advocate the ultra views of some chemico-physical writers. He seems more inclined to steer a middle course; for when treating of the properties and functions of the nervous system, he remarks that some observers perhaps the majority, are strongly inclined to the opinion that nerve- force IS identical in its nature with electricity; while others, ao-ain think that, although it closely resembles electricity in many resp^'ects' It IS nevertheless a peculiar principle. But after having examined with impartiality the numerous facts upon which both theories are founded. It appears to him that there are not at the present moment sufficient grounds to authorise his adopting the views of the formerRKPOTIT ON TTIK INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. 10 He therefore inclines to the oi)inion that the active principle of nerve-matter is a force stii getieris. Funke's manual is a new and modified edition of 'Wagner's Physiology/ which had for some years been out of prijit. The last edition of Wagner's book was published in 1844, and five years ago a new edition of it appeared, edited by Dr. I'unke. The latter differed so much from the former edition, both as regards plan and substance, that the editor replaced Wagner's name by his own. Punke, as is well knoAvn, has paid considerable attention to the formation of crystals in blood. While upon this subject, he re- marks that, under certain external influences, the organic colouring matter, which is an essential part of the contents of the red cor- pu-scles, can be made to assume, in any animal's blood, a crystalline form; the blood of each species of animal possessing, however, its own characteristic form of crystals. So much, indeed, is this the case, that by the shape of the crystals alone it is in many cases possible to tell the species of animal from which the blood was taken. Punke still adheres to his former opinion regarding the nature of these crystals, and has filled no less than three pages in trying to prove that hsemato-crystalline is not a compound, but a simple body. Some of his own arguments are, unfortunately, opposed to liis theory; for in the end he has been forced to admit that the crystals have no very definite chemical composition, and sometimes contain a lesser, sometimes a greater, proportion of inor- ganic matter,—wliich they leave behind on incineration. Of Schiff's manual, only the first tliree parts of the first volume, and of Pick's only the flrst part, is published; so that we can at present give no extracts. Aenold, after giving a description of the Physiological Institute at Heidelberg, relates the results of some of the experiments performed in it from 1853 to 1858. These will afterwards be referred to under their various heads. Milne-Edwabds has published the first two volumes of a large work ' On Comparative Physiology.' They treat of respiration, and circulation. Hannover gives the statistics of births, deaths, and diseases treated in the hospitals of Copenhagen. Beunard states, in his lectures on the animal fluids, that on injecting 1120 c.c. of water into the jugular vein of a dog weighing five pounds, the secretion of the submaxillary gland and of the pan- creas gradually ceased. Also that, after a short time, the urinary bladder was found empty. The bUiary secretion was the only oneMANUALS, GENERAL TREATISES, ETC. 11 that continued, and this, Bernard thinks, depended more on a mecliauical infiltration than on a true secretion. In the second part of the volume Bernard, speaking of liis already pubhshed experiments'on the pressure of the blood in the arteries, remarks that when the cervical sympathetic is divided, the pressure in the carotid artery increases, the temperature of the part of the body supplied by it is heightened, and the blood in the veins remains red. Galvanism applied to the cut end of the nerve removes these effects. In the next section, he treats of the effects of secretion on the colour of the blood—a point to be afterwards alluded to under the head " Secretion." In vol. ii Bernard remarks that he found the urine of the rabbit acid after the animal had respired pure oxygen gas. "While speaking of another experiment, he says the quantity of urine which the kidneys of a dog secreted increased as the pressure of the blood in the carotids augmented. The chapters on the perspiration, the bile, the milk, the saliva, and the pancreatic juice, contain, Yalen- tine says, scarcely anything new. In several of them Bernard defends his ovm views, which have been attacked by other writers. Lardner's book "comprehends as much of the elements of chemistry as may, with moderate attention, be acquired within a reasonable time by the younger class of students, and even as much as may suffice for those who, being more advanced in Life, desire merely to obtain a general knowledge of the elements of the material world."—Preface. Lehmann's works on animal chemistry are so well known that it is only necessary to indicate the contents of the present volume. It treats, first, of the nature and properties of the animal fluids; secondly, of the tissues J and thirdly, of the metamorphosis of tissue, &c. Liebig's ' Chemical Letters' are familiar to our readers, in the form of Gregory's translation, a later edition of which has now appeared, edited by Dr. Blyth, and, as stated in the preface, besides extending considerably the former letters, the author has, in the present edition, added a number of new letters, which refer to general scien- tific questions, and to the most remarkable discoveries recently made in the departments of chemistry and physics. Among these are. Letter 2d, on the study of the natural sciences; Letter 13th, on the correlation of the forces of inorganic nature; Letter 15th, on the alteration of properties in bodies; and Letter 23d, on materiahsm in connexion with natural inquiries.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 12 KoLLiKEu's Avork on the microscopic anatomy of tlie tissues em- braces a wide range of subjects, and the literature of ahnost every one of them is extended by the author's own researches. There being an English translation of the first edition of this work, for further information, we must refer our readers to it. ViiiCHow expounds a new theory regarding the process of inflam- mation, and the first steps in the formation of morbid gro\vths. He says that the spindle-shaped corpuscles of tendon, and of all con- nective tissue, form an anastomosing network, by means of fine tubes which proceed out of them in all directions. The first step in the inflammatory process is the enlargement of these corpuscles, together with an increase in size, and subdivision of their nuclei. The nuclei then go on enlarging and multiplying by endogenous growth, till the formation of pus is the result. Pus-cells are never, he says, formed by an aggregation of granules, as has been repre- sented as occurring in the smallpox-pustule. A cell can only be formed from a cell. In the suppuration of mucous membranes, it is the epithelium- cells that become traiisformed into pus-corpuscles. Such, for ex- ample, is the case in gonorrhoea, where we have the formation of pus without ulceration. The cyhndrical variety of epithehum is much less disposed to form pus. On accurate observation, the yellow matter which it produces is found to be only modified epi- thelium, though of a very purulent appearance. (Example, diph- theritic exudation.^) In the suppuration of muscle, the pus-ceUs form in the so-called nuclei of the sarcolema, wliich, according to Tirchow, are the nuclei of the connective-tissue-corpuscles. Eatty degeneration, he says, also commences in these corpuscles. 1 Attention-was called to this fact in the discussion which followed the reading of a paper on diphtheria at the meeting of the Royal Medical Society, 17th January, 1859. One of the speakers said that the exudation on the fauces in cases of diph- theria was composed of an excessive and modified secretion of the mucus-cells and epithelium-scales proper to the part of the throat from which it was removed. It has since been observed that a diphtheritic false membrane from the eye, although it had all the external appearance of pus, on microscopic examination proved to be entirely composed of enlarged and modified conjunctival epithelium-scales.(13 ) OSSEOUS SYSTEM, INCLUDING CARTILAGE AND TEETH. Owen.—On the Vertebral Characters of the Order Pterosauria (Ow.), as exempli, fied in the Genera Pterodactylms (Cuv.) and Dimorphodon (Ow.) (Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 703.) Owen-—Fossil Mammals of Australia (Part i). Description of a mutilated skull of a large Marsupial Carnivore. Thylacoleo Carnifex (Ow.) (Proc. Royal Soc, No. 34, p. 585.) Oilier-—On the Artificial Production of Bone, by the Transplantation of the Peri- osteum, and by Osseous Grafts. (Med. Times and Gaz., 7th May, 1859, P-476. Journal de Physiol., Jan. 1859. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1859, Nos. 14-15.) Kolliker-—On the Different Types in the Microscopic Structure of the Skeleton of Osseous Fishes. (Proc. Koyal Soc, No. 34, p. 656.) Hecklinghausen-—Die mineralischen Bestandtheile junger Menschenknochen [On the Earthy Constitutents of Young Bones.] (Virchow's Arch., vol xiv' parts s and 6. Schmidt, vol. loi, No. 3, p. 285; and Scherer's report in Canstatt, vol. i, p. 168.) BeZOld-—Das chemische Skelett der Wirbelthiere. [On the Chemistry of the Skeleton.] (Zeitschr. f. Wissen. Zoolog, 1858, pp. 240-269. Schmidt vol. loi. No. 3, p. 283.) ' Budge-Lewison-—Ueber die Emahrung der Knochen. [On the Nutrition of Bone.] (Deutsche Klinik, Oct. 1858, p. 393-394.) Fiek-—Untersuchungen ueber die Ursachen der Knochenformen. [On the Laws which regulate the Form of Bones.] 410. Marburff, i8^g. Lusihka.—On the Synarthrosis (Halbgelenke) of the Human Body A Mono graph, with six copper-plates. Berlin, 1858. pp. ,44. (Schmidt, vol loi' No. I, p. 125.) ' Luscllka.-Ueber Halsrippen. [On Cervical Ribs.] (Extract from the Vien Wochensk., No. 5, read before the Vienna Academy, 21st Jan 1858 ) Luschka.-Das Nebenthranenhein des Menschen. [On the Human Lachrvmal Bones.] (MuUer's Archiv, 1858, No. 3. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 19 ) Martins.—Resume d'un Memoire sur la Comparaison des Membres Pelviens et Thoraciques de I'Homme et des Maramiferes. [A Comparison between the Thoracic and Pelvic Members in Man and other Animals.] fGaz HfhH No. 47, 1857.) ^ rteoa., Wenzel Gniber.-Der Pankendeckenknochen des Menschen. [On the Hum-i Ossiculum tegmenti tympani.] (Bulletin de I'Acad. Imp. St Petersburg vol. xvii. No. 21, pp. 324—9. Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 4, p. 7.) Schwegel. — Knochenvarietaten. [On Abnormal Bones.] ' (H u Pf's Ztscb 3dserie3,vol. V, pp. 283—319. Schmidt, vol. 103, No 7 p 11") ' auatrefages.-Note sur I'Angle Parietal et sur un goniomet're"destine k le Men TaU ;8:L'"r Sactr^^"""^ ^-^'^-^ (^-P^^ Re„du; Muller.-Ueber die Entwicklung der Knochensubstanz, nebst Bemerkuneen iih.r den Bau rhachitischer Knochen. [On the Development of Bon. ^ Kicket Bones.] (v. Siebold's u. K511iker-s ZeitschT? w^sl zr/., vot14 IlErORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Huxley-—On the Development of some parts of the Skeleton of Fishes. (Micros. Jour., 1859, P- 33-) Harney-—Ou the mode of Formation of Shells of Animals, of Bone, and of several other Structures. 4to. pp. 153- London, 1858. (Reviewed in Micros. Jour., 1859, pp. 109.) CAHTILAGE. Webb-—Microscopical Examination of a Loose Cartilage from the Knee-joint. (Micros. Jour., 1859, p. 11.) Barwell-—On the Nutrition, Inflammation, and Ulceration of Articular Cartilage. (British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct. 1859, pp. 486—500.) Freund-—Zur Histologic der Rippeiiknorful in Normalem und Pathologischen Zustande. [On the Histology of Rib-cartilage.] With three plates. Breslau, 1858. (Caiistatt, vol. i, p. 227.) Aeby-—Ueber die Symphysis Ossium Pubis des Menschen, &c. [On the Pubis and Ossification of Cartilage.] (Henle u. Pf.'s Zeitschr., vol. iv, p. i. Can- statt, vol. I, p. 227.) TEETH. Rainey-—O" the structure and Mode of Formation of the Dental Tissues. (Micros. Jour., 1859, p. 212.) Magitot-—Etudes sur le Developpement et la Structure des Dents Humains. [On the Development and Structure of the Human Teeth.] (Archiv. Gen. de Med., Jan. 1858.) Guillot-—Recherches sur le Developpement des Dents. [On the Development of the Teeth.] (Compt. Rend., March 29th, i858.) Owen says, the question of tlie vertebral characters of the Ptero- dactyles is specially interesting with reference to the carrying out the comparison of their skeleton with that of birds. From liis investigations of the species of Fterosauria, extending from the period of the Lias, as exemplified by the Bimorpliodon macronyx, to the Upper Green-sand, as exemplified by the Fterodactylus SedgwicMi, and Pier. Fittoni. The author has ascertained the fact that, with respect to the cervical and dorso-lumbar vertebrae, the terminal articular surfaces of the vertebral bodies are simply concave ante- riorly and convex posteriorly ; and that they consequently manifest the earliest known instance of the "procoeUan" type wliich now prevails in the reptilian class. But in no other reptile, he says, are those articular surfaces so narrow vertically, in proportion to their breadth, as they are in the cervical vertebrae of the Fterosauria. In15 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. the dorsal series the cup and ball present more ordinary Saurian proportions. Owen describes a fossil skull, and certain of the teeth of a quadruped of the size • of a lion, in which he points out the characters indicative of its carnivorous habits, and of its affinities to the marsupial order. The large size of the temporal fossse, together with the large carnassial teeth, both in the upper and lower jaws, evince the carnivorous habits of the extinct species. While the vacuity in the bony palate; large lachrymal bone, perforated by the canal anterior and external to the orbit; the separation of the tympanic from the petrous bone; the development of the " bulla auditoria" in the alisphenoid; the low and broad occiput, and the very small relative capacity of the brain-case, &c., lead him to believe that it belongs to the marsupial class. Ollier's experiments are exceedingly curious. He found that—I. A flap of periosteum retaining its attachment to the bone by one end, lodged among the muscles, under the skin, or elsewhere, contracts adhesions with the surrounding parts, and forms new bone on its under sui-face. The new bone, assuming the form and disposition of the flap, adheres to the old bone whence the periosteum was peeled off. 2. The communicating pedicle of the flap may be excised tliree or four days after the transplantation, and the process of ossification still continue. 3. The periosteum may be entirely detached from the bone, and lodged in a distant part of the body, and yet osseous deposit occur. 4. Pieces of bone separated from the soft parts, but retaining their periosteum, may be trans- planted, and live in new localities. KoLLiKEE says, that a great many genera of osseous fishes possess no bone-corpuscles, radiated or fusiform in their skeleton, and there- fore no real osseous tissue. In 1850 Williamson pointed out the absence of bone-corpuscles in the bones of the cod, haddock, perch, plaice, pike, and various other fishes, distinguishing them in this respect from the bones of the eel, in which the corpuscles are abundant. KoUiker gives a very long list of the fishes he examined, and concludes that the osseous fishes, notwithstanding their great number, are separated in a very remarkable way into two groups : all the higher organized tribes of Pkjsostom.i possessing bone- corpuscles; aU the numerous tribes of Acantho^iteri, vdi\i the exception of the genus Thynnus, having none. T^olliker also extended his observations to the hard structures of16 RllPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. the skin of fishes and of the rays of the fins; and found that the same laws wliich hold good in the structure of the endo-skeleton apply equally to the exo-skeleton. Recklinghausen made a quantitative analysis of bones, and found that the inorganic matter, at various ages, difi'ered very little either as regards the relative or absolute quantity present. The difference of age is chiefly seen in the quantity of accessory substances. The analysis of the spongy, and of the solid parts of the bone resembled each other very closely. The results he obtained are therefore seen to be in many respects different from those of previous observers, Heintz, Bibra, &c., as well as of Bezold, who found that the chemical composition of the skeleton of vertebrated animals varies at different ages. The quantity of chlorine diminishes as life advances, while that of sulphur and phosphorus increases, especially the latter. Magnesia increases in relative proportion to chalk and organic substance. The iron also increases proportion- ately with the organic matters. The fixed alkalies, on the other hand, remain stationary. Lewison placed silver rings on the periosteum of the leg-bones of pigeons, and on killing them from two to eleven months afterwards found that they had caused an exudation, and a copious deposit of bony matter. Pick relates some experiments on animals, the results of which led him to the conclusion, that the form of particular bones greatly depends on mechanical influences. As a general rule, bones have a tendency to grow in the direction of the least resistance. In his monograph, Luschka treats of the development and rela- tions of the vertebral, sternal, and pelvic joints. He divides all the joints of the body into two great classes, one of which he calls hollow joints {Iwhle knochenverbindungen), and the other soUd (WiWe knochenverbindungeu). The hollow joints he again divides into perfect (pandiarthrosis), and half joints (hemiarthrosis). The latter are those usually termed synartlu-osis, and it is of these that he principally treats on the present occasion. In seven skulls out of sixty, Luschka found a small, irregular, four-sided bone in front of the os lachrymale. In two of the skulls there was a bone of this description on both sides of the head. Wittich says, tliis bone is neither the os lachrymale externum of Rousseau, nor the satura longitudinalis imperfecta of Weber. Maetin says, that the humerus is a bone twisted upon its axis.17 OSSEOUS SYSTEM. The twist is of i8o degrees in tlie terrestrial and aquatic mammalia; 90 degrees in birds and reptiles. The neck is tmsted 90 degrees in the mammalia. In order to compare the humerus with the femur, which is a straight bone, it is necessary to untwist it 180 degrees. This alone is sufficient to reduce the thoracic to the type of the pelvic member. He also compares the tibia, the pelvis, the shoulder, &c. Gktjber found the ossiculum tegmenti tympani seven times in six skulls ; in one of them on both sides. He also describes, as a frequent occurrence, a pons cuneiformis, and gives to it the name of the ossiculum tegmenti tympani cuneiforme. ScHWEGEL describes all the abnormal bones that came under liis notice during the three years that he acted as demonstrator in the Medical School at Prague. MuLLEB, in his researches on the development of bone, has con- firmed the statement made by Sharpey in 1845, regarding the manner in which osseous tissue is formed in cartilage. Nisbet, in 1736, said that bones were formed in two ways, some being formed in a membrane, others originating in cartilage, and that in the latter case the catilaginous tissue did not constitute a part of the bone, but was removed by absorption. Little attention was paid to the latter view, until Sharpey demonstrated, by histological investigation, that it was correct. Moreover, he pointed out that, although a portion of the cartilage is in the first instance ossifi.ed, yet it does not remain to constitute any part of the per- manent bone. The latter is, in fact, produced by the ossification of a membranous blastema, something like what occurs in the parietal bones of the head. Miiller has gone into the subject very fully, and traced the changes which occur in the temporary vascular canals of ossifying cartilage. He agrees with Sharpey in saying that bone-corpuscles are not calcified cartilage-cells. He believes, how- ever, that they are formed out of cells wliich are the descendants of the original cartilage-corpuscles. The paper concludes with some remarks on the condition of the bones in rickets. HuxLEY^s observations on the development of some parts of the skeleton of fishes were cliiefly made upon the stickleback {Gaste- rosteus leiurus). He first speaks of the development of the tail— giving a full account of the literature of the subject—and then that of the palato-pterygoid arc, and hyomandibular suspensorium, In speaking of the homologies of the bones of the fish's face, 2REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MliDICINE. Huxley says, that in it, "Cuvier's palatine is the homologue of the palatine of the abranchiate vertehrala, and his pterygoid is the homologue of their pterygoid, and that his jugal is their quad- ratiim or incus." Huxley cannot, however, find any liomologue of the temporal and symplectic. They appear to be specially piscine elements, only traceable as far as the amphibia, where they are represented by that part of the suspensorial cartilage, to which the hyoid arch is attached, and by the " temporal" of Cuvier. In the abranchiate vertebrata, if the hyoid is connected with the skull, its insertion is quite distinct from that of the mandibular arch. Huxley believes, therefore, that the braucliiate vertebrata, the oviparous abranchiate vertebrata, and the mammalia, present a series of well-marked gradations in the mode in which the ramus of the mandible is attached to the skull. In the fish it is separated by the OS articulare, the quadi-atum, and the temporo-symplectic. In the amphibia the latter becomes less distinct. In the abranchiate ovipara it disappears; and finally, in the mammalia, the ramus comes into direct contact with the squamosal element of the skull. Eainey studied the mode of formation of bone, of shells, of starch.-corpuscles, and several other organic structures. He has, in the fijst place, pointed out a process by which carbonate of lime can be made to assume a globular form, and says that it is produced by "molecular coalescence." In the second place, he gives an explanation of the probable cause of crys- tallization. Tliirdly, lie has discovered a process of "molecular disintegration" of the globules of carbonate of lime;—by in- verting the mechanical conditions upon which their pre\'ious globular form had depended. And lastly, he deduces from his observations, that tbe rounded forms of organized bodies do not depend upon vital causes, but on purely physical agencies, Webb, in his examination of a loose cartilage; found on the surface a condensed layer of fibrous tissue; further in, there was an arrange- ment of cells in a matrix, somewhat resembling what is seen in ossifying cartilage. Some of the cells contained opaque granular matter, and were so attached together by their margins as to give the appearance of short tubules. In the centre was a quantity of cretaceous matter, soluble in hydrochloric acid. It has been generally supposed that articular cartilage receives its nutriment from the vessels of the synovial membrane; but Barwell thinks—1. That although in the articular cartilage itself there are19 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. no vessels^ yet there is situated immediately within the articular lamella' a set of arteries destined to supply the cartilage with nutriment, a. That the articular lamella is composed of a finely tubular structure, wliich allows the nutrient fluid to find its way to the cartilage in minutely divided streams. 3. That the cartilage has no other souixe of nutriment. Teeund looks upon the granular condition of the matrix, in the cartilages of the ribs, as being due to the presence of a quantity of fine fat-globides. They can be removed by ether, which circumstance he thinks estabhshes the correctness of his view. Abby describes the development of cartilage in the foetus, and its ossification in later life. His description of the development and increase of the cartilage-corpuscles is clearly given; but does not difl'er materially from that of other writers. In the process of ossification of the symphysis pubis cartilage, the cells appear to diminish in number, while the matrix increases in quantity. The corpuscles themselves somewhat change their appearance; they become granular, and contain fat-globules, as is well seen in rib- cartilage. The researches of Magitot and Guillot can scarcely be said to have furnished us with any new facts regarding the development of the teeth. Magitot says that the enamel is composed of ossified cells, and agrees with Tomes as to the artificial nature of its supposed membrane. Guillot thinks that the teeth are developed out of a blastema similar to that which forms the matrix of bone. MUSCULAll SYSTEM. Eadcliffe.—On Muscular Action from an electrical point of view. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 690. Ellis.—Researches into the nature of the Involuntary Muscular Tissue of the Human Bladder. Transactions of the Roy. Soc, 1859, pp. 469—477, plates xxvi and xxvii. Budge,—Sur la croissance des muscles. [On the Grovfth of Muscles.] (Compt. Rend., Oct., 1858, pp. 587—589-) ' Toynbee calls the layer of bone separating the cancelli of the ossified epiphysal cartilage from the true articular cartilage, the " articular lamella."20 RKI'ORT ON THIS INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. Meissner,—Uebcr das verhalten der iniisculosen Faserzellen im contrahirten iiiistaiide. [On the Involuntary Muscular Fibres during Contraction.] (Henle u. Pf.'s Zeitschr., vol. ii, pp. 521—530.) Valentin. —Die Wirkung der Znsammengezogenen Muskeln auf die Atmosphare. [ riie Action of Contracted Muscles on the Atmosphere.] (Archiv f. physiol. Heilk., 1857, PP- 285—366. Canst., vol. i, p. 85.) Arnold.—Ueber die Irritabililiit des Herzens und Gliedrauskeln. [On the Irri- tabillty of the Heart and other Muscles.] (Die Physiol. Anstalt von Heidel- berg, pp. 98—104.) Calliburces.—Sur les mouvements peristaltiques du tube digestif. [On the Peristaltic movements of the Digestive Canal.] (Compt. Rend., 1857, Dec, p. 1095.) KupflFer.—Ueber das Ilemmungsvermogen derMuskeln gegenueberlocalerErregung. [On the Power possessed by Muscles of limiting the local Action of Electricity.] (Ilenle u. Pf.'s Zeitschr., 1858, pp. 160—162. Canst., vol. i, p. 85 ) Wimdt.—Ueber Muskelbewegung. [On Muscular Movement.] {Braurucfiw., 1858.) Fechner.—Ueber der Muskeliibung. [On Muscular Exercise.] (Verhand. Sachs. Ges. Leipzig, 1858, pp. 113—120. Canst., vol. i, p. 85.) Thouvenin.—Influence de I'exercise musculaire sur la constitution. [The Influence of Muscular Exercise on the Constitution.] Paris, 1858. (Known already. —Valentin.) Henle,—Handbuch der Muskellehre des Menschen. [Text-book on the Human Muscles.] Braunschweig, 1858, pp. 315. Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 5, p. 247. Seraud,—Du mode de terminaison des fibres longitudinales du rectum. [On the Termination of the Longitudinal Fibres of the Rectum.] (Compt. Rend, de la Soc. Biol., 1857.) Luschka.—Ueber den Vordern innern Theil des Afterhebers (levator ani) beim Mann. [On the Male Levator Ani.] H. u. Pf.'s Zeitschr., Bd. iv, Heft i, 2, 1858. Schmidt, loi. No. i, p. 27. Luschka.—Ueber den weiblicben Afterheber. [On the Female Levator Ani.] H. u. Pf.'s Zeitschr., vol. v, pp. 113—121. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 12. Luschka,—Der Musculus transversus colli des Menschen. [On the Human Transversus Colli Muscle.] Sitz. Ber. d. k. Akad. zu Wien math. phys. Kl., xxxiii, p. 18. Schmidt, vol. 102, No. 4, p. 8. Hyrtl,—Ueber den Musculus sternoclavicularis. [On the Sterno-clavicularis Muscle.] Sitz. Ber. d. k. k. Akad. zu Wein; Math.-phys. Kl., Bd. xxix, p. 265. Schmidt, vol. loi, No. i, p. 29. Linhart,—Anatomie et topographic du pli de I'aine. [On the Anatomy of the Anus.] A translation from the German by M. Bonnertz, in the Monit. des Hopit., No. 137, 1857. Bruecke,—Ueber den Bau der Muskelfasern. [On Muscular Fibrillse.] Mole- schott's Unters., vol. iv, p. 89. Berlin,—Ueber die quergestreifte Muskclfaser. [On Striated Muscular Fibres.] Archiv, Holland. Utrecht, i8t,%. Vol. i,p.4i7. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 234. Budge,—Ueber Struktur und Wachsthura der Muskelfasern. [On the Structure and Development of Muscular Fibres.] Wunder.'s Archiv, 1858, p. 71. Canstatt, p. 234. Bottcher.—Ueber Ernahrung und Zerfnll der Muskelfasern. [On the Nutrition and Decay of Muscular Fibres.] Virchow's Archiv, vol. iii, p. 227, plate v, figs. 1—4.MUSCULAK SYSTEM, 21 Eadcliffe begins by observing that the signs of electrical action in living muscle die ont, pari passu, with the signs of irritability; and, as with these latter signs, their last trace disappears before the occurreme of rigor mortis. He adds, that it seems that there is a close agreement between ordinary muscular contraction and rigor mortis, for in ordinary muscular contraction, as Professor Du Bois Eeymond has shown, there is a partial disappearance of electrical action. If the muscular current be present, rigor mortis is absent. So it would appear that the state of muscular con- traction is antagonized by the muscular current. The author says such a view is supported, ist, by the fact recently discovered by Eckhard, viz., that the state of tetanus is put an end to by the passage of a constant galvanic curi'ent tloi'ough the tetanized parts; ad, by the investigations of Harley on the modus op)erandi of strycliuia, wliich prove that this poison acts by making the blood less able to appropriate oxygen, and by impairing the irritabihty of the muscles. Eadcliife finds, also, that stryclinia exercises a directly depressing influence upon the nervous and muscular currents. He concludes by saying, that according to the results obtained from his own, as well as other observers' experiments, it appears that muscular contraction is produced, not by the stimulation of any vital property of contractihty belonging to muscle, but by the simple cessation of the action of certain agents—electricity, nervous influence, and others—which had previously kept the muscle in a state of relaxation or expansion. Ellis says, that the involuntary muscular tissue of the bladder and the voluntary muscle in other parts of the human body, have a like composition, and that Professor KoUiker's view, that involuntary or smooth muscle is in all cases made up of fusiform cells, is incorrect. For the muscular substance of the bladder is composed of lengthened fibres with fixed and tendinous terminal attachments. The fasciculi of muscular fibres in the bladder are interwoven into a network, and are marked at varying intervals by tendinous intersections, like those of the rectus abdominis on a small scale. The author terms what are usually called the "nuclei" of the niuscular tissue—" corpuscles," and distinguishes two varieties of them, the oval and the fusiform. The latter are the more numerous, and are the rod-hke nuclei of KoUiker. Two or even three of these may be observed in the length of a single fibre. If a single muscular23 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. fibre of the bliulder be isolated, it will be found to terminate as in volimtaiy muscle; connective tissue investing not only the fibre, but eacli of the separate portioTis into which it ultimately divides. The author considers that the " sarcous elements" of voluntary muscle are represented by the lines of dots visible in the muscular fibres of the bladder. Budge counted the muscular fibres in the gastrocnemius of the frog, and found that their nmnber increased as the animal grew; he could not, however, find how the increase took place. Meissxek says that the non-striated muscles, when in a state of contraction, have striae upon them; he noticed this in fibres from the bladder of the cat and rabbit, and the spleen of the dog and sheep. Valentin found that during active contraction the muscles absorb oxygen, and give out carbonic acid gas. And Arnold observed that the heart of a frog, whether cut out or left in the body, beat slower and less forcibly in proportion as the surrounding air became rarified. If chloride of lime be placed along with the heart under the air-piimp, the pulsations cease altogether as soon as the organ has lost 15 per cent, of its water. Mechanical and electrical stimuli can still, however, induce the heart to contract. Muscles, under the air- pump, gave out a very considerable amount of carbonic acid. Arnold says that the want of oxygen, and, of water is the cause of the cessation of the muscular contractions. Callibtjeces made some experiments on the influence of heat on the peristaltic movements of the intestines, ureters, bladder, and pregnant uterus of animals. He found that a moderate warmth greatly increases the force and number of the peristaltic contractions. In the separated uterus of a bitch the con- tractions induced by gentle heat are powerful enough to expel a KtJPFPEB caUs attention to the fact that tendinous attacliments limit the effect of nerve stimuli on muscles. Thus, in the rectus ab- dominis a stimulus applied to a nerve supplying one part of the muscle will not cause contraction in another. Techneii experimented upon himself in order to ascertain what increase of muscidar power exercise induces. He used dumb-bells during two hours after break- fast for two months; in wliich period his strength so increased, that instead of 104 be was able to make 692 movements before feeling fatieued. Wundi-'s researches were made upon the elasticity ot the animal tissues in general; he found that the tendon of a calf hasMUSCULAR SYSTEM. 23 1669-3, the nerve of the same animal 1090-5, the artery 72-6, and the muscle of the ox 273-4, as "elastic-coefficients." ScHiFF says, that, in animals poisoned with sulpho-cyanide of potassium, the muscles cease to be affected by stimuli, either directly or indirectly, through the nerves. The injection of healthy blood into the vessels of tlie limb, however, restores both the nervous and muscular functions—the latter soonest. Henle's manual on the muscles contains 159 partially coloured woodcuts printed in the text. The fascia, bones, and ligaments occupy another volume, previously published. Beratjd says that the part of the rectum, uncovered by peri- toneum, has three layers of longitudinal muscular fibres. A super- ficial, middle, and deep. The first can be again divided into three portions; an anterior, lateral, and posterior. The anterior leaves the rectum, and attaches itself to the prostate; he names it mus. recto- prostaticus. The lateral pass into the levator ani. The posterior leaves the rectum and attaches itseK to the sacrum, close to the inser- tion of the levator ani. According to Luschka, the levator ani resembles the buccinator, and not, as is generally thought, the mylohyoid. He divides it into three portions, i. Pars rectalis, or that part of the muscle which terminates around and behind the rectum. 2. Pars prostatica, in front of the rectum; or, in other words, the portion usually named adductor s. levator s. compressor prostatse. And 3. Parsurethralis, further forwards, and not in contact M'ith the rectum, but closely surrounding the pars membranacea urethrse. The origin of the female levator ani is the same as in the male. The posterior portion, ox pars rectalis, needs no separate description. The middle portion is much weaker than in man, and is reduced to a narrow convex band of fibres, with the concavity looking forwards. The centre of the anterior portion is absent; its posterior edge is gra- dually lost in the transversus perinsei profundus, and its anterior edge on the walls of the urethra. In his paper on the Transversus Colli, Luschka says, that this unusual muscle arises from the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, passes behind the origin of the sternohyoid, between tliis and the sternothyroid, then spreads itseK out into fine bands of fibres, which meet in the middle line with those from the opposite side. Some of the fibres end in the interclavicular ligament. The muscle is occasionally present on one side only.'i'* REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. In 1856, LusciiKA described a small muscle under the name of mus. sternoclavicularis. Since then Hyrtl has looked for it in eighty- three bodies, and found it in six. Four times it exactly agreed with Lnsclika^s description, twice difl'ered slightly from it. BiiUECKE examined muscular fibrillse with polarized light, and distinguishes two substances in them—one "isotrope," and the other " anisotrope." MuNK says that the fibrillaj consist of a homo- geneous matrix, in which is a row of shining balls, the whole being suiTOunded by a structureless, transparent, elastic tube—sarcolema. Bo'iTCHER has specially directed liis attention to the nuclei in the sarcolema, and concludes that they are corpuscles of connective tissue, and connected together by a system of fine canals, as in tendon. RIGOR MORTIS. Heincke, Budge.—Ueber die Trritabilitat der Muskeln und deren Zusammenhang mit der Todtenstarre. [On the Irritability of Muscles, and its relation to Rigor Mortis.] (Deutsche Klinik, No. 3, 1858, pp. 420—422.) BrOWn-Sec^uard.—Sur la rigidite cadaverique. [On Rigor Mortis.] (Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, 1858, pp. 281-3.) Kuhne.—Ueber die Entstehung der Todtenstarre. [On the Development of Rigor Mortis.] (Allgem. med Centralzeit, No. 70, 1858, pp. 553, 554.) Fischer.—De natura causisque rigoris mortis. [On the Nature and Cause of Rigor Mortis.] Berlin, 1857. (Already known.) Kussmaul.—Ueber die Ertodtung der Gliedmassen. [On the Death of the Limbs.] (Virchow's Archiv, 1858, pp. 289—323.) Heincke having cut the sciatic nerve in two rabbits, and in thirty-six hours afterwards killed them with stryclinia, found that the muscles of the sound limb entered into a state of rigor mortis sooner than those in the limb with the nerves cut. The irri- tability was also soonest lost in the sound limb. The same results were obtained on rabbits killed by strangulation. When the muscles of a limb were killed by electricity the rigor mortis came on more rapidly. Brown-Sequard relates some experiments on the return of rigor mortis after it has been removed by forcible extension and flexion of the Hmb. He killed a healthy dog by ligaturing the trachea at 8 o'clock; at 11 rigor mortis began, and25 VASCULAR SYSTEM. at 12^ it was complete. One of the limbs was now moved back- Tv-ards and forwards till it became flaccid. In from two to five minutes the rigor mortis returned. The same experiment, with a similar result, was performed at i o'clock. At 3 o'clock the result was less satisfactory. In twenty hours the rigor mortis did not re- appear after being removed by forcible means. Kuhne examined the expressed juice of muscles in order to ascertain the cause of rigor mortis. The fresh juice coagulated in fifteen minutes, and, after a time, had an acid reaction, hke muscles when they are in a state of rigor mortis, or beginning to putrefy. KtJSSMAUL found that the injection of a few drops of cliloroform into an artery caused permanent rigor in the muscles supplied by it. He thinks it acts by causing coagulation of the muscular fibrin. A muscle in this condition of rigor is more easily torn across than a healthy one. The injection of healthy blood does not restore the muscular irritability after chloroform. Ether and other stimulants act in a somewhat similar manner. VASCULAR SYSTEM. Waters,—On the Intimate Structure and the Distribution of the Blood-vessels of the Human Lung, (Proc. Royal Soc, No. 35, p. 16. Med. Times and Gaz,, July i6th, p. 71.) Savory.—On the Shape of Transverse Wounds of Blood-vessels in relation to their Physiology. (Lancet, vol. i, 1859, p. 311.) Scott.—On the effects of Rupture of the Internal and Middle Coats of the Arteries. (British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, pp. 211—237.) Lister.—On the Coagulation of Blood. (Edin. Monthly Med. Joura., Dec, 1859, PP- 536—540-) D'Espine,—De la fissure sternale congenitale de M. Groux. [On the Sternal Fissure in M. Groux.] Neufchdtel, 1857. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 47.) The following are taken from the same source. Euhle.—Ueber M. Groux. (Jahresh. d. Schles. Ges. f. Vaterl. Cult., 1857, p. 146.) Pippinskold.—Studier i Krets loppets. [Researches on the Circulation.] Svo. Hehinfifors, 1857-8. (No abstract.) Gabriac,—Quelques Experiences relatives au choc du coeur. [Experiments on the Impulse of the Heart.] Paris, 1857. Chevenin-Conqueret,—Du choc du coeur. [On the Impulse of the Heart.] 4to, Paris, 1857. Colin.—De la determination exp^rimentale de la force du coeur. [On the Force of the Heart.] (Gaz U&A. de Paris, August, pp. 493—495. Gaz. Heb., August, p. 32.)KEPORT ON THE INSTITUTKS OV MEDICINE. 20 Luschka.—Die fibrosen Bunden des Herzbeutels. [The Ligaments of the Pericar- fliiim.] (It. u. Pf.'s Zcitschr., vol. iv, parts i and 2. No abstract.) Marey.—Uecliercbes sur bi circulation du sang. [On tbe Circulation of tbe lilood.] (Gaz. Mod., No. 12, pp. 171—173, ,858.) Marey.—Uecbercbes liydrnuliques sur la circulation du sang. [Hydraulic Experi- ments on the Circulation of the Blood.] (Annal. des Sciences Nat., 1857, vol. viii, p. 329. Compt. Rend., loth March, 1856, p. 483, April, p. 680. Gaz. Meri., July, 1857, p. 416, Oct., p. 620.) Marey.—Interpretation hydraulique du Pouls dicrole. [Hydrauliclnlerprelation of the Double-pulse.] (Compt. Rend., Nov., 1858, p. 826.) Rudinger,—Ueber die Mechaiiik der Ilerzklappen. [On the Mechanism of tbe Cardiac Valves.] (Froriep's neue Notiz., vol. ii, 1858, pp. 25—27. No abstract.) Vulpian.—Recherches sur la duree de la contractilite du coeur apres la mort. [On the duration of the Heart's Action after Death.] (Gaz. Med. de Paris, 1858, pp. 479—482.) Hedtenbacher.—Zur Kritik des Haimadynamometers. [Some Critical Remarks on the Haeraadynamometer.] (Archiv f. Physiol. Heilk., 1858, pp. 135, 136.) Moilin.—De la pression du sang. [On the Pressure of the Blood.] 4to. Paris, 1858. (No abstract.) Verneuil.—De la suspension du Pouls radial dans I'extension forcee du bras. [On the Stoppage of the Radial Pulse during forcible extension of the Arm.] (Journ. de Physiol., 1858, pp. 506—512.) Guertin.—De la frequence du Pouls de I'etat pbysiologique. [On tbe Normal Rapidity of tbe Pulse.] 4to. Paris, 1858. (Mostly all already known.— Valentin.) Brown-Sequard.—Notes sur I'Association des efforts inspiratoire avec une dimi- nution ou I'arret des mouvements du coeur. [On tbe Diminution or Suspen- sion of the Heart's Action during forced Inspiration.] (Journal de Physiol., 1858, pp. 512—518.) Fleury.—Des effects produits sur la circulation par I'application prolongee de I'eau froide a la surface du corps de I'homme. [The effect of the Cold Douche on the Circulation.] (Journ. de Physiol., 1858, p. 398.) Vulpian.—Experiences sur la contractilite des vaisseaux. [On the Contractility of the Blood-vessels.] (Gaz. Med. de Paris, May, 1858, p. 318.) Vulpian,—Sur les effets des excitations produites directement sur le foie et les reins. [On the effect of Stimuli directly applied to the Liver and Kidneys.] (lb., p. 302.) Gunning.—Ueber die Ursache der Blutbewegung. [On the Cause of the Move- ment of the Blood.] (Froriep's neue Notizeu, No. 2, pp. 20—24.) Botkin.—Ueber die Wirkung der Salze auf die circulirendenrotben Blutkorperchen. [On the Action of Salts on Living Blood-corpuscles.] (Virchow's Archiv fiir path. Anat., 1858, vol. xv, p. 173.) Busch.—Ueber retrograde Blutbewegung in den grossen, dcm Herzen nahelie- genden venen. [On the Retrograde Movement of the Blood in tbe Large Veins near to the Heart.] (Verb, des Preuss. naturhistor. Vereins, vol. xiv, 1857, pp. 95, 96.) Bezold.—Zur Phvsiologie der Herzbewegungen. [On the Physiology of the Heart's Action.] (Virchow's Archiv fiir path. Anatomic, vol. xiv, 1858, pp. 280—309.)VASCULAR SYSTEM. 27 Wittich.—Ueber die Abhangigkeit der rythmischen Bewegtingen des Herzens von den Herzganglien. [On the Influence of the Cardiac Ganglia on the Move- ments of the Heart.] (Konigsberger medicin. Jahibucher, vol. i, parts i and 2, 1858, pp. 15—19. No abstract.) Eckhard.—Ein Beitrag zur Theorie der Ursachen der Herzbewegung. [On the Heart's Action.] (Dessen Beitriige zur Anatomie und Physiologie. Part 2. 4to. Giesseti, 1858, pp. 145—156.) Pfluger.—Zur Theorie der Hemraungsnerven. [On the Influence of the Vagi on tlie Heart's Action.] (Arch. f. Anat. u. Physiol., 1859, p. 13.) Heidenhain.—Zur Physiologie des Blutes. [On the Physiology of the Blood.] (Wunderlich's Archiv, i8so(?), part iv, pp. 507—543.) Welcker.—Bestimmung der Menge des Koiper blutes. [Estimation of the number of Blood-corpuscles.] (Henle und Pf.'s Zeitschr., 1858, vol. iv, pp. 145 -167.) Hecht.—Des causes et des symptoms de la coagulation dusang. [On the Coagula- tion of the Blood.] Strasbourg, 1857. (A compilation of known facts.— Valentin.) Heusner.—De Sanguinis Analysi Chemica. [Chemical Analysis of the Blood.] Berlin, 1857. (Already knovrn.) Brown-Sequard.—Recherches experimentales sur le sang. [Experiments on the Blood.] (Journ. de Pliysiol., vol. i, pp. 95—122, pp. 353—362.) Notes sur les modifications que subissent les glouhles circulaire du sang des mammiferes injecte dans le systeme circnlatoire des Oiseaux. [Blood of Birds injected into Animals, &c.] (Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 173—175.) Brachet.—Sur la couleur du sang. [On the Colour of the Blood.] (Compt. Rend., Feb., 1858, p. 393.) An historical reclamation. (Valentin.) Chevreul,—observations sur la couleur du sang de Chevre expose au contact des gaz atmospherique, &c. [On the Action of Gases on the Colour of Goat's Blood.] (Gaz. llebdom.. No. 39, 1858, p. 393.) His,—Sur les relations qui existent entre le sang et I'ozone. [The Relations of Ozone and Blood.] (Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 634—641.) Schontein.—Ueber die Gleichheit des Einflusses, welcliea in gevvissen Fiillen die Blutkorperchen und Eisenoxydulsalze auf die chemische Thatigkeit, des gebun- denen Sauerstoflfes ausiiben. [On the Influence of the Red Blood-corpuscles on Ozone.] (Verhaud. der Nat. Gesel. in Basel, vol. ii, part i, pp. 9—15, 1858.) Fixsen.—De lingue ranae textura disquisitiones microscopicse. [On the Frog's Tongue.] Dorpatie, 1857. Hyrtl.—Die Rami perforantes der Art. meningea media. [On the Perforating Branches of the Middle Meningeal Artery.] Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, p. 9, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 102, p. 284. Hyrtl.—Vermehrung der primitiven Aorteniiste. [On an Abnormal number of Aortic branches.] Oester. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 11, 1859. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 295- Fischer,—Verlauf des Art. Subclavia in einem Falle von deutlich entwickelten Halsrippen. [On an Abnormal Distribution of the Subclavian Artery.] Wiener Wochenschr., No. 30, 1858. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 23. Panas.—Anomalle de I'aorte et de ses branches. [On an Abnormal Aorta.] Bui. Soc. Anat, No. 6, 1857. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 23. Wallmann,—Ueber das Olfenbleiben des Foramen ovale cordis bei Erwachsmen. [On the Patent Foramen Ovale in the Adult.] Prag Vjhrschr., Ixii, p. 21,1859. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 296.REPORT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Dusch—Ueber^Commuiiiktttionen Zwischen den Herzventrikeln. [On a Communi- cation between the Ventricles.] Verb. d. naturh.-med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, vi, p. 185. Schmidt, vol. 103, p. 297. Hamernik.—Das llerz und seim Bewegung. Prag, 1858. [A contribution to the anatomy, physiology, and pathology of the Heart.] Harting.—Note sur les corpnscules sangiiins du Cryptobranchus japonicus. Verslagen en Mededeeliiigen der koninklijke Akademie van Wetenschappen. Afd. Nutunrliunde. [On the Blood-corpuscles of the Cryptobranchus Japonicus.] ^levende Deel. 1858. Amslerd., 1258. pp.368. Canst., vol. i, p. 213. Buchner und Simon.—Untersuchungen iiber Haminkrystalle und ihre gerichtlich medicinische Bedeutung. [On Blood Crystals.] Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, p. SO. Canst., vol. 1, p. 213. Pollock.—On Granulated Blood-discs. Microscop. Journ., Oct., 1859, p. 4. Watees begins by saying that the bronchial tubes terminate in a dilatation, into which the air-sacs of the lung open. Six to twelve air-sacSj with their vessels, &c., connected with a terminal bronchial twig, constitute a lobulette. The air-sacs are somewhat elongated, and separated from each other by thin walls, without any lateral openings, covered by a number of small, shallow, cup-like depressions —eight to twenty. Blood-vessels.—Those of one lobulette do not anastomose with those of another. The radicles of the pulmonary veins issue from the periphera of the lobulettes, coUect into larger vessels, and then running in the interlobular spaces, proceed to the root of the lung. Savory agrees with Liston, Miller, and others, that a longitudinal wound in an artery appears as a slit; an oblique becomes fusiform; a transverse circular. He further says that wounds assume the same shape in the dead as in the living artery, and therefore their shape is due to a physical property—elasticity. The elasticity is, however, greatly assisted in its effects by a natural state of tension, for when the artery is dissected out, even the gaping transverse wound becomes a mere sHt. Wounds of veins assume similar shapes from the same causes. Their form is slightly modified, however, by the greater delicacy of their coats, Scott experimented on animals, and the conclusions he came to were—i. When the internal and middle coats of a healthy artery in a dead animal are ruptured, either regularly all round the vessel, or irregularly at different places, there occurs, in by far the majority of cases, no ijiversion or coiling up of the cut edges of the tunics. 2. Eupture of the inner coats of the arteries of healthy living dogs is also, for the most part, unattended with any coiling up29 VASCULAR SYSTEM. of the edges of the divided inner coats. 3. Rupture oT the intiraa and media of the arteries of living animals, whether in one hne round the vessel, or in several circular lines closely apposed to each other, or irregularly at different parts of the interior of the artery, is not of itself sufficient to cause coagulation of the blood in, and consequent obstruction of, the vessel at the point of injury. 4. Inflammation of the arterial walls of such a degree as to cause great thickening of the same, is insufficient of itself to cause coagu- lation of the blood in, and consequent obstruction of, the artery at the point inflamed. Lister says that the ammonia theory is far from presenting a satis- factory explanation of the cause of the coagulation of the blood. Tor among other things he finds that blood, the ammonia in which has been neutralized by acetic acid, still remains fluid when kept in a cold vessel; and coagulates as soon as the temperature is slightly raised. Lister's experiments go in part to support Bruecke's state- ment regarding the power which the coats of the blood-vessels have in keeping the blood fluid. D'EspiNE and RuHLE differ with regard to the nature of the pulsating tumour at the upper part of Groux's sternum. The former thinks that it is the ascending aorta, the latter the right auricle. Gabriac and Chevenin-Conqtjeret say that the impulse of the heart against the thoracic waUs is synchronous with the systole. The force of the horse's heart, Colin found to be equal to 336 lbs. It diminishes with the loss of blood, and when reduced to about one fifth the animal dies. Marey believes that the action of the heart in propelling the blood is greatly assisted by the elasticity of the arterial coats. He says, too, that mechanical as well as chemical stimuli, cause contraction of the capillaries when they are weak, dilatation when they are strong. VuLPiAN finds that the heart after death is more sensible to mechanical than galvanic stimuli. He mentions an interesting fact, viz., that Rousseau, on opening the chest of a woman twenty-four hours after she was decapitated, found the heart still pulsating, and, what is more astonishing, he says it continued to pulsate during five hours. Redtenbacher points out the defect of measuring the force of the heart by means of an instrument containing mercury. Verneuil says that the arrest of the radial pulse, when the arm is30 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MKDICINE. forcibly extended, is on account of the aponeurotic termination of the biceps and brachiahs internus compressing the humeral artery. Buown-Sequard tries to explain the reason of the heart's pulsa- tions being reduced, or even arrested, during deep inspiration. If, he says, a rabbit, in its natural position, has the respirations at 90, and the pulse at 144 per minute; the pulse may be raised to 160, and the respirations reduced to 60, by bending its head backwards. If, on the other hand, the head is bent forwards on the breast, the respirations are reduced to 44, and the pulsations raised to 180 per minute. After the two vagi are divided in the neck, the bend- ing of the head backwards alters but slightly the number of pulsa- tions and respirations; but the bending it forwards reduces the number of respirations very considerably, although it merely raises the pulsations a few beats. Tliis is another proof that the vagi have a powerful influence on the heart. M. Pleury claims the priority of investigating the effects pro- duced by the prolonged application of cold water to the body. He does so in consequence of Dr. Bence Jones having pubHshed a paper on the same subject a short time ago. YuLPiAN tried to measure the contractility of the vessels of the liver and kidney—by the application of mechanical stimuli— immediately after death. He poisoned most of the animals (dogs and rabbits) with w^ourali, kept up artificial respuation, and then applied the point of a needle to the surface of the liver. After a second or two the tissue round where the needle was apphed became injected with blood, which did not readily disappear on pressure. Galvanic did not act so well as mechanical stimuli. A similar effect was obtained with the kidney. At first the vessels dilated; then, after a time, contracted. Gunning calls attention to the fact that, on diminishing the watery part of the blood by means of salts and other substances, the circulation becomes much slower. Botkin thinks that tlris arises from the saline solutions causing a change in the form and elas- ticity of the blood-corpuscles, and thereby giving rise to greater friction in the vessels. BuscH strengthens Meckers view regarding the possibility of substances in the blood passing backwards from the right auricle into the hepatic vein. He proved tliis experimentally, by injecting finely powdered charcoal (mixed with water) into the external jugular vein of a dog(?). The capillaiies of the lungs becameVASCULAR SYSTEM. 31 blocked up, and the animal rapidly died. On post-mortem exa- mination, the charcoal was found in the inferior vena cava; in one case as far down as the junction of the renal veins. Bezold confirms the fact that a heart suspended by its vessels continues to pulsate longer than when laid on a flat surface. Also Stannius's observations on the efi'ects of ligature of the organ. He noticed, that in frogs, when the auricle is suddeidy separated from the ventricle, it ceases to pulsate; whereas the ventricle con- tinues to do so. Division of the heart longitudinally does not pre- vent either the auricle or ventricle contracting, if the section be made during the diastole. Lastly, he confirmed Kolliker's state- ment regarding the effect of woorara in preventing the stoppage of the heart's action when galvanism is applied to the poisoned pneumogastric nerve. WiTTiCH revives the theory regarding the influence of the cardiac gangha on the rhythmical contractions of the heart. On making sections of the ventricles of frogs' hearts, he says, he always found that the portion to which the gangha were attached continued to pulsate; but that the pulsations ceased immediately after the removal of the ganglia. EcKHARD says that the spontaneously acting cardiac ganglia are not, as Bidder supposed, attached to the septum atriorum, nor those of reflex action situated in the atrio-ventricular margin. He con- firms Stannius's statement regarding the repose of the heart after its division at the union of the venous sinus and right auricle. Tliis happens even when many of the gangha in the septum escape injury. Pflugeu found that a strong electric current passed through the vagi did not stop the action of the heart; he therefore thinks that Schiff is wrong in saying that the pneumogastrics are the motor nerves of that organ. Heidenhaix estimated the quantity of blood in different animals by Welcker's method, and found, that in the rabbit, on an average the weight of the blood to that of the body is as i to 17 j whereas m the dog it is as i to 13. In three dogs that had fasted—the first 6, the second 9, the third 14 days, he found the weight of the blood to that of the body as i to 13-5, i to 13-33, and i to 1275. Almost the same proportions as in the healthy animal. Welcker, in his last paper, gives, as the result of his experi- ments, the subjoined table of the average quantity of blood in—32 REPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Species cxnmined. The relative weiglit of tlie blood to tliat of the body. RANGED BETWEEN AVEaAGE. 3 1 : 74'0 — I : 19-4 1 : 49 0 4 I : 33'o — I : IS'9 I : 20-5 4 I : 20-4 — I : 15-4 I : I7'2 4 I : lyi — I : io'9 I : 2I'J Mararaalia(man included) 8 1 : 181 — I : I2"0 I : 14-7 Thus, it appears that fish have proportionally least blood; amphibia less than birds; and birds less than the mammalia. Young have proportionally more blood than old animals. The female/ too, he found, has less blood than the male of the same species. Brown-Seqtjard says that the only difference between arterial and venous blood is in its containing more oxygen and less carbonic acid. The proof of this is, he says, that when venous is well shaken with air, and becomes red, it can, when injected into the vessels, equally well with arterial blood, restore to muscles their irritability, after they have been in the condition of rigor mortis. In a similar manner the sensibility of the nervous system can be restored. BrowTi-Sequard gives it as a general rule, that the irrita- bility and sensibility of the tissues can be restored by the injection of blood longer after death, in large than in small animals. In the guinea-pig until the eighth, in the sheep until the tenth and a quarter, and in man until the twenty-seventh hour. When defibri- nized blood is injected into the artery of an amputated limb, it is on its return by the vein found to contain fibrin. When the muscles are galvanized during the injection, the fibrin increases m quantity. Moreover, he thinks that the fibrin formed by the muscles is decomposed by the liver and kidneys. . , . . . , When a quantity of the oval-corpuscled-blood of a bird is injected into the circulation of a dog, cat, or rabbit, it is found that in the course of an hour aU the oval blood-cells disappear; whereas, if the examination be made only a quarter of an hour after the injec- tion they are to be found in all parts of the circulation. On the other hand, if the small round blood-corpuscles of one of the mammaUa (dog, cat) be injected into the circulation of a hen, theVASCULAR SYSTEM. 3^ round cells may be detected in the blood a montli afterwards, though in greatly diminished quantity. Chevreul observed that, when the venous and arterial blood of the goat is shaken with atmospheric air, oxygen, nitrogen, or carbonic acid gas, the effect is always the same. The venous blood thus pro- duced, however, is in all cases a little browner than the arterial. He calls attention to several interesting facts regarding the relations between the blood and ozone. Schonbein says, that fresh and healthy blood-corpuscles act upon ozonized turpentine in a similar way to the salts of the oxide of iron; and that this most probably arises from the circumstance of the blood-corpuscles containing a small quantity of that metal. FixsEN recommends the old method of studying the circulation of the blood on the frog's tongue. Htrtl found by injecting the middle meningeal artery, that its perforating branches are not lost in the diploe of the skull; but that they pass through the bone, and assist in suppljdng the pericranium. Other branches perforate the sutures and supply the membranes lining the ear as well as the orbital cavity. The perforating branches going to the pericranium are not accompanied by veins. A transposition of the right subclavian to the left side, Hyrtl thinks, occurs in about two per cent., and he, along with Dr. Oehl, of Pavia, inclines to regard this transposition as the cause of left- handedness. Tliis view is combated by Thbile, who believes that there are more than two per cent, left-handed individuals, and that the transposition of the right subclavian does not occur oftener, if even so often. In the case of a supernumerary pair of ribs arising from between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebrse, Pischer found that the scalenus muscle consisted of two portions. The anterior of which arose from the trans, proc. of the fourth to the sixth cervical vertebra, the posterior from that of the sixth and the neck of the super' numerary rib. The subclavian artery passed up over the dome of the pleura, between the two portions of the muscle, and from thence over the stretched end of an abnormal intercostal muscle, belonging to the supernumerary rib. Panas found in the body of a man, £et. 33, the aorta, which rose as usual, bend over the right bronchus to the right side of the vertebral column. Prom the arch rose only two, unusually thick, branches, the right subclavian and the right common 334 IIKPORT ON THE INSTITUTKS OF MEDICINE. carotid. Opposite to the sixth dorsal vertebra there the aorta gave off a vessel about the size of a goose-quill, which passed up through the fifth intercostal space to the neck, and there shoM'ed a curious distribution. The oesophagus lay to the right side of the trachea. Wallmann says, among other things, that cases of open foramen ovale are more frequent among women than men. That the fossa ovalis is not tmfrequcntly divided mto two by a band of muscular fibres. (Otto, Breschet, and others.) That occasionally openings are found in the semilunar valves, &c., &c. Dusch relates the case of a boy eleven years of age in whom a communication existed between the ventricles. He afterwards makes some general remarks upon tliis peculiar condition of the heart. Hauting found that the red blood-corpuscles of the Cnjpiohranclius Japonicus measure 46-8 mm. long, 32-8 mm. broad. The nucleus i8"8 by 14 mm. The colourless corpuscles, on the other hand, measure i6'8 by i5'2 mm. The surface of the red blood-corpuscles in this animal is therefore twenty-nine times greater than the diameter of the blood-corpuscle of the human subject. They are the largest known. BucHNER and Simon prepare blood-crystals by evaporating a few drops of blood, with an excess of strong acetic acid, to dryness in a watch-glass. Crystals may be obtained by this process even from dried blood removed from cloth, &c. The method may be employed in medico-legal investigations, as the only crystals hkely to be con- founded with those of hasmatin are crystals of murexid. The latter, however, differ from the former in being soluble in water, and dilute hydrochloric acid, and in giving with potash a blue instead of a dark-green solution. ('Canst.,'p. 214.) Pollock sought for granular blood-discs in blood circulating in the living vessels—ist, in the web of the frog's foot; 2d, in the gills of the tadpole of the water-newt; and 3d, in the small arteries and veins in the mesentery of kittens and rabbits while the animals were under the influence of chloroform; but in all tliree cases with negative results. The cause of the corpuscles assuming a crenated appearance after the blood has been drawn from a vessel he cannot exr plain; but he says, that it is not on account of its exposure to the air. Spirit of wine, when added to a drop of blood, causes all the cor- puscles to disappear, and in theii- place is to be seen a large quantity of extremely minute particles, of no definite shape,—apparently the dehm of the former discs.35 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Jones (Handfield).—On inhibitory Influence. Brit. Med, Jour., Feb. gth, 1859, p. 104. Schroeder van der Kolk.—On the Minute Structure and Functions of the Spinal Cord and Medulla Oblongata. Translated for the New Sydenham Society, by W. D. Moore, M.B. London, 1859. BrOwn-SeC[liard.—Course of Lectures on the Physiology and Pathology of the Nervous System. (Dublin Hospital Gazette, June 15th, and following num- bers till August isth, 1859.) Bernard.—Le9ons sur la physiologic et la pathologic du Systerae Nerveux. [Lectures on the Nervous System.] Vols, i and ii. Paris, 1858. Coghill,—Lectures on the Structure and Relations of the Nervous System at the Periphery, including the Neurology of the organs of special sense. (Lancet, 1859, P- 181, August 20th, and following numbers. Schiff.—Lehrbuch der Physiologic. [Text-book of Physiology.] Parts 1—3. Za^r., 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 103. Heidenhain.—Ein mechanischer Tetanomotor fiir Vivisectionen. [A Mechani- cal Tetanomoter.] Moleschott's Unters., vol.iv, 1858, pp. 124—133. Kolliker.—Ueber die Vitalitat der nervenrohren der Frosche. [On the Vitality of the Nerve-flbres.] Zeits. f. wissen. Zoologie, vol. ix, 1858, pp. 418—433. Birkner.—Das Wasser der nerven in physiologischer und pathologischer Beziehung. [On the Influence of the Water in the Nerves.] Augsburg, 1857. Harless. — Moleculare vorgange in der Nervensubstance. [On the Molecular Changes in Nerve-substance.] Part i. Munich, 1858. Harless.—Ueber die Bedeutsamkeit der NervenhuUen. [On the Importance of the Nerve-sheath.] H. u. Pf.'s Zeits., 1858, pp. 168—188. Preiss.—Untersuchungen ueber die Wirkung des kalten Wassers ini Bereiche des Nervensystems. [On the Effect of Cold Water on the Nervous System 1 Berlin, 1858. Sclliff.—Ueber Modification der Erregbarkeit durch elektrische Erregung. Fro- riep's neue Notizen, vol. iii, 1858, No. 14, pp. 209-216. [Electrical StimulL —An extract from his text-book. Valentin.] Pfluger.—Ueber die Veranderung der Erregbarkeit der Nerven durch einen con- stanten elektrischen Strom. [The Effects of a constant Electrical Current.] Monatsber. der Berliner Akademie, March, 1858, pp. 198—205. Althaus.—On the Action of the Electric Current upon the Motor Nerves and Muscles. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, pp. 109, 207, 311. Ileg:nailld.—Recherches electro-physiologiques. [Electro-physiological Experi- ments.] (Jour, de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 404—409.) Lucm8.-De Faradisatione locali. [Electricity locally applied.] Vratislavim i8s8 (Scientific and practical.) ' Stein.—De vario modo electricitatis eiTectuum quod ad therapiam. [The various modes of applying Electricity.] Berolini, .858. (A careful compilation, valentm.) '36 RKPOllT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Leuret et Gratiolet.—Anatomic compar^e du sysleme iierveux consideree dans ses rupports avec rintelligpnce. [The Comparative Anatomy of the Nervous System.] 8vo. PaWs, 1839—1858. Journ. de Physiol, vol. i, 1858, pp. 368 —371. See also Tlieile in Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 99, 1858, pp. 246—249. Valentin. Linati.—Degli Studi elettro-fisiologici presso I'antichita. [Electro-physiology.] Parma, 1858. MatteUCci.—Cours d'electrophysiologie. [On Electro-physiology.] Pari», 1858. Dubois-Reymond.—Untersuchungen iiber thierische Elektricitiit [animal elec- tricity]. (Moleschott's Unters., vol. iv, part, i, pp. 1—15, 1858.) Dubois-Ueymond.—Ueber Polarisation an derGrenze ungleichartiger Elektrolyle. [Polarization of Dissimilar Electrolytes.] (lb., part 2, pp. 144—157-) Dubois-Eeymond.—Ueber die innerePolarisation poroser mitEIektrolyten getrank- ter Halbleiter. [On the Polarization of Porous Electrolytes.] (lb., pp. 158 —177-) Bernard.—Sur les quantites variables d'electricit^ necessaire ponr exciter les pro- prietes des difFerents tissus. [On the Amount of Electricity necessary to excite different tissues.] Gaz. Med., 1858, No. 8, pp. 116, 117. Bernard.—Sur I'excitabilite. [On Irritability.] Journ. de Physiol., 1858,pp. 563 -565. Halle.—De I'influence du galvanisme snr le systeme nerveux moteur. [On the Action of Galvanism on Motor Nerves.] Paris, 1858. (No abstract.) Rousseau, Lesure, et Martin-Magron,—Actions des courants electriques sur les nerfs. [The Action of Galvanism on Nerves.] Gaz. Med., April, 1858, pp. 230—233, No. IS ; pp. 245—247, No. 61 ; pp. 322—325, No. 21. Pfluger.—Ueber die telaniserende Wirkung des constantenstromes. [Tetanus induced by the Constant Current.] Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiii, 1858, pp. 437 —449. Kosenthal.—Ueber die Modification der Erregbarkeit durch geschlossene Ketten und die Volta'schen Abwechselungen. [On the Effects of Different Batteries.] Monatsber. der Berliner Akademie, December, 1857, pp. 639—641. Mole- schott's Untersuch., vol. iv, 1858, pp. 247—250. The same paper is given more fully in Henle u. Pfeuffer's Zeitschr. fur rationelle Medicin, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 117—141. Froriep's neue Notizen, vol. iii, 1858, No. 13, pp. 198, 199. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 103. jgjjjg Verhandeling over de galvanische Polarisatie met betrekking tot de Leer der dierlijke electriciteit, eu over de middelen our haren invloed bij het Onder- tzoen ta voorkomen. [The Action of Galvanism.] Groningen, 1858. Dubois-Reymond.—Ueber einen nach Berlin gelauten lebenden Zitterwels. [On the Electrical Shad-fish.] (Moleschott's Unters., vol. iv,pp. 91—96. Also in the Monatsber. der Berlin Akad., January, 1858, pp. 84—110.) Eckhard.—Ein Beitrag zur Physiologic der elektrischen Organe beim Zitter- rochen. [On the Electrical Organ of the Ray.] (In his own ' Beitrage zur Anat. et Physiol.,' part 11, pp. 157-177- A^°- Giessen, 1858.) Bonnefln. —Recherches experimentales sur la possibilite du passage a travers les centres nerveux des courants ^lectro-magnetique a la peau cbcz I'homme. [On the possibility of passing Electric Currents through the Nerve-centres.] (Jour, de Physiol., vol. 1, pp. 545—548-)37 NERVOUS SYSTRSr. Jacubowitsch.—Nouveau precede pour etudier les elements de la moelle epiniere et du cerveau a I'etat frais. [New Process for examining Microscopically the Brain and Spinal cord while fresh ] Compt. Rend, de I'Acad. des Sc., t. 47, No. 15, p. 581. Seance 11 Oct., 1858. Jacubowitsch,—Recherches comparatives sur le systeme nerveux. [On the Nervous System of different Animals.] Compt. Rend, de I'Acad. des Sc., t. 47, No. 7, Seance 16 Aout, pp. 290—380. Le Moniteur des Hopitaux, ser. i, t. 17, Aout, 1858, p. 820. Gazette Hebd., No. 35, 1858, p. 6ii. E.emak.—Ueber periplierische Ganglien an den Nerven des Nahrungsrohrs. [On the Peripheral Ganglia in the Alimentary Canal.] Miiller's Archiv, 1858, p. 189. Gerlach.—Beitrage zur Structurlehre der Windungen des Kleinhirnes. [On the Structure of the Cerebellum.] In his Mikroskopische Studien. Erlangen, 1858, p. I. Billroth.—Einige Beobachtungen iiber ausgedehntes Vorkomraen von Nervenan- astomosen im Tractus intestinalis. [The Nerves of the Intestines.] Miiller's Archiv, 1858, p. 148. Gerlach.—Von dem Baue und der physiologischen Bedeutung der Tastkorperchen. [On Tactile-papillse.] In his Mikroskopische Studien, p. 39. Krause.—Ueber Nervenendigungen. [On the Mode in which Nerves terminate.] Heidelberg, 1858. pp. 8. Mit 2 Tafeln. Owsjannikow.—Einige Worte iiber die Mittheilung des Herrn Jacubowitsch. [A Critique on Jacubowitsch's Paper.] Virchow's Archiv, vol. xv, p. 150. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 238. Lister and Turner--On the structure of Nerve-fibres. (MicroscopicalJournal, October, 1859, P- 29.) RoUeston.—On the Comparative Anatomy of the Pons Varolii. (Medical Times and Gazette, 23d July, 1859, P- 77-) Berlin.—Beitrag zur Struktur der Grosshirnwindungen. Erlangen, 1858. (Con- tribution to the structure of the cerebral convolutions. A thesis.) Schultze.—Ueber the endigungsweise des Hbrnerven (acoustic) im Labyrinth. [On the Termination of the Acoustic Nerve.] Muller's Archiv, part 4, 1858. Oehl.—Su '1 nervo e su I'oigano Olfatorio. [On the Olfactory Nerve.] Gaz. Med. Ital. Lorab., Nos. 1—4. Genajo, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 22.) Eudinger,—Die Gelenknerven des menschlichen Kiirpers. Erlangen, 1857. [On the nerves supplying the joints.] (Canstatt, vol. i, p. 21.) Curie.—Sur un filet moteur affecte a la glande lacrymale. [On the Motor branch of the Lachrymal.] Monit. des Hopit., 17th July, 1858. (Canstatt, vol. i,p. 21 ) Luschka—Historischer Beitrag zu Dr. W. Krause's Schrift: ueber Nervenendi- gungen. [Remarks on Krause's paper on the Mode in which Nerves terminate.! (Deuts. Klinik, No. 45.) Schiff.-Ueber die Function der hinteren Strange des RUckenmarkes. [On the Function of the Posterior Column of the Spinal Cord.] (Moleschotfs Untersuchungen, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 84—86.) Schiff-Exp^riences relatives ^ la sensibilite tactile des cordons posterieures de la moelle. [On the Sensibility of the Posterior Column.] (Gaz. Med i8?8 August, No. 32, p. 648.) ■' ^ ' Brown-Sequard.-Influence de I'oxygfine sur les propricles vitales de la moelle ep.n.ero et des nerfs motenrs et sensitifs. [On the Influence of Oxygen ou Nerve-substance.] (lb., pp. 617, 618.)38 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. BrOWn-Sequard.—Sur quelques cliaracteres non encore signalds des mouvementg reflexes chez les manimiferes. [On Keflex Movements.] (Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, 1858, p. 643.) , . , . A BrOWU-Sequard.—Expose critique des idees de M. Chauveau sur la pbysiologie de hi mooUe upiiiicre ct fails nouveaux a I'uppui des theories que j'ai propose a regard de la transmission des impressions sensitives. [On the Physiology of the Spinal Cord.] (lb., pp. 170-189. Bullet, de I'Acad. de Med., vol. x.\iii, Oct., 1857, pp. 7—H-) . Brown-Sequard—Note sur I'influencequ'une moitie laterale de la moelle 6pmiere exerce dans certains cas sur la moitie correspondante de I'encepliale et de la face. [On the Influence of the Lateral half of the Spinal Cord on the opposite side of the Head.] (lb., pp. 241, 242.) / • - Brown-Sequard.—Nouvelles Recherches sur la physiologic de la moelle 6pmiere. [New Experiments on the Spinal Cord.] (lb., pp. 139—144-) Bezold —Ueber die gekreuzten Wirkungen des Ruckenmarkes. [On the Crossing of the Nerve-fibres in the Cord.] (Siebold und KbUiker's Zeitschrift fur wissenschaftl. Zool., vol. ix, 1858, pp. 307—364-) j ,f j Vulpian —Des effets croisgs de la moelle epiniere d propos d'un travail de M. de Bezoid. [On the Crossing of the Nerve-fibres in the Cord.] (Gaz. Hebd., vol. V, 1858, Nov., No. 48, pp. 822—825.) . Tpittpler -Wer ist der Begrander der Lehre von den Reflexbewegungen. ['!l.o discovered Reflex Action?] (Prager Vierteljahrschrift, .858, vol. u", Mever-sXtlandigkeit desRiickenmarkes. Verhandl. des naturhistor. Vereins ^der" Rheinlande, vol. xiv, 1857-8, P- 8, Ixxxvi. [On the Independence of the Spinal Cord. Already known. Valentin.] , • i, „rntnhpr Browil-Seauard-Hecbercbes snr la physiologic et la pathologie de la protuber- ^'Tce aJ^uS. (Journ. de Physiol, vol. i, 1858, pp. 5.3-S39.) [A collection of cases in order to disprove the crossing of the nerve-fibres high up in the Fovmr-CotLrationsphysiologiquessurraccesd'epilepsie. 8vo. Paris, 1857- Isome Remarks on the Physiology of Epilepsy.] (No abstract.) Thrown Seauard-Note sur des fails nouveaux concernant I'epilepsie consecutive ^'°!^fe iSe la momie epiniere. (Jonrn. de Physiol, vol. >.'«f ;PP- 47.-478-) [On the occurrence of Epilepsy after Injury to the Cord. No abstract.] Brown Seauard -Recherches sur les causes de tnort apres I'ablat^n de la parUe ^'Tf S'e allongee, qu'on nomme le point vital. [On the Cause of Death after Removal of the Vital point.] (lb., pp. 217-223-) X. Wens-Nouveaux details surle ncEud vital. [Some New Observations on the ^^™;oii;t.] (Compt.Rend.,vol.xlvii,No.2i,Nov., .858, p. 803.) Renzi-Refles ioiii e sperimenti per seivire di materiale alia fi->°f J ^ " ^'^etto. [Onthe Physiology of the Cerebellum.] (Contmuazione.) (Gaz^M . Ital. Lombardia, No. 49. Dec, i8S7- I'P- 4^5-4^7; Feb., 1858 PP- 35 39. and 112-115; April, PP- 196-.98; Aug., pp. 265-267; Sept., No. 40,NERVOUS SYSTEM. 39 Bulatowics.—De partibus, quas Nervi vagi in vomitu agunt. [The Action of tlie Pneumogastric in Vomiting.] 8vo. Dorpaii, 1858. Lowinsohn,—Experimenta de Nervi vagi in respirationein vi et effectu. [The Action of the Pneumogastric in Respiration.] 8vo. Dorpaii, 1858. Kupffer ""d Lndwig'.—i^ie Bezlehung der Nervi vagi und splanchiiici zur Darni- bewegung. [The Influence of llie Pneumogastric and Splanchnic Nerves on the Movements of the Intestines.] (Sitzungsher. d. Wiener Aliad., Jiili, 1857, vol. XXV, pp. 580—583. Ilenle und PfeiilFer's Zeitschr. fiir rationelle Medicin, Dritte Reihe, vol. ii, 1858, pp. 357—360.) Asche.—De nervi vagi functionibus nonnulla. [On the Function of the Pneumo- gastric Nerve.] 8vo. Berolini, 1857. (Already known. Valentin.) Heinemann.—Nonnulla de Nervo vago ranarum experimenta. [On the Pneumo- gastric Nerve.] 8vo. Berolini, 1858. Van Biervliet.—Notes sur un cas de section des pneumo-gastriques. [On Section of the Vagi.] (Bullet, de rj\.cad. de Med. de Bruxelles, 2de serie, vol. i, No. 6, 1858, pp. 471—474.) Flourens.—Note sur la circulation nerveuse. [" Circulation Nerveuse " is a new name given by Flourens to the recurrent sensibility in the motor roots of spinal nerves.] Compt. Rend., March, 1858, pp. 503—506. (No abstract.) Moreau.—Note sur la distinction physiologique des racines de sentiment et des racines de mouvements chez les poissons. [On the Mode of distinguishing the Motor from the Sensory Roots of the Spinal Nerves in Fish.] Gaz. Med., August, 1858, p. 646. (No abstract.) Bernard.—L'ufficis del Gangli intervertebrali. Gaz. Med. Ital. Toscaua, 1857, PP- 305• [Contains M'aller's observations on section and degeneration of nerves.] Wagner.—Versuche am Halstheile des sympatheticus beim Menschen. [Experi- ments on the Human Cervical Sympathetic] II. u. Pf.'s Zeits., vol. v, p. 331. Cornochan.—T rois cas de section du Nerf maxilaire superieure avant son passage du gangUon de Meckel sans consequences facheuses pour la nutrition de la face. [Three Cases in which the Superior Maxillary Nerve was divided in ihe Human Subject, and no Bad Effects tliereby produced on the Nutrition of the Face.] (Jouru. de Physiol., vol. i, 1858, pp. 414, 415.) Liegois.—Physiologic du nerf facial. [Physiology of the Facial Nerve.] 410. Paris, 1858. Ziemssen.—Ueber Chorda tympani. Virchow's Arch, fur patholog. Anutom., vol. xiii, 1858, pp. 376—386. [On the Chorda Tympani. Chiefly patholo^ gical.] Budge.—Sur un second centre spinal du nerf grand sympathique. [On a Second Spinal Centre of the Sympathetic] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, Oct., 1858, No. IS, pp. 586, 587. Gaz. Hebdom., vol. v, Oct., 1858, No. 43, p. 739. Budge.—Ueber das Centrum genitospinale des N. sympathicus. [On the Genito- spinal Centre of the Sympathetic] Virchow's Archiv f. pathol. Anatora., vol. XV, 1858, pp. 115—126. ' Budge.—Ueber die Empfindliclikeit der Bauchgangtien. [On the Sensibility of the Abdominal Ganglia.] Deutsche Klinik, 1858, No. 20, p. 198. BrOWn-Sequard.-Sur le nerf splanchnique. [On the Splanchnic Nerves.] Journ. de Physiol., vol i, 1858, pp. 421, 422. JaschkowitZ.—De discisionis plexus lienalis efficacitatc in lienem. [On the Splenic Plexus.] 8vo. Berolini, 185 j.REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 40 Handfield Jones adopts Lislei-'s views relative to the action of certain nerves in arresting or diminishing action. And from physiological as well as clinical data (many examples of which he brings forward), he believes that it may be regarded as a funda- mental truth, that one and the same afferent nerve may, according as it is acting mildly or energetically, either exalt or depress the functions of the nervous centre upon which it acts. Upon this theory of inhibitory influence he explains the distant effect of many morbid states, as well as the action of counter-irritants and certain external stimulants. ScHRCEDER VAN DER Kolk's M'ork forms the fourth volume of the New Sydenham Society's series. As stated by the translator in his preface, the chapters devoted to the consideration of the influence of the corpora olivaria in the articulation of words, and on the variety of lesions of speech which accompany morbid affections of different parts of the brain and medulla oblongata, are par- ticularly worthy of attention. His remarks on the intermittent character of many convulsive and neuralgic attacks, wliich are yet dependent on persistent causes, are calculated to afford important aid in the establishment of the diagnosis m difBcult cases, where the most regularly recurring fits of severe suffering, though truly intermittent, are nevertheless the result of organic disease. The histological part of the work is illustrated by plates. Brown-Sequard, in commencing his lectures in Dublin, stated ' that his object was to explain the origin of four kinds or groups of nerve-fibres, theii' course in the cord, and their place of decussation. (I.) What are usually termed conductors, he asserts, contain several species of nerve-fibres, conveying various sensitive impressions, such as tickling, pain, touch, muscular sense and direction, and tempera- ture. Besides these there are still other species of nerve-conductors. (2.) The voluntary motor. (3.) The vaso-motor. (4.) The nu- tritive, concerning whose separate existence he is as yet dubious. That the phenomena of changes in secretion and nutrition are Teferable to nerve-influence can, however, be proved. Thus, by irritating the Hngual, the salivary secretion is increased. This influence is distinct from the vaso-motor, as galvanism appUed to the nerves of vessels diminishes both secretion and animal heat. He •moreover says, that all sensory fibrils, except those conveying the sense of muscular contraction, pass into the posterior roots of the spinar nerves. That it is doubtful whether some of the excepted41 NERVOUS SYSTEM. form, pass into the anterior roots, thus occasioning an exception to the law of function in these nerves enunciated by Sir C. Bell. Hence, in some diseases and injuries in which the posterior roots have been destroyed, this variety of sensation has remained. After stating that the roots of the nerves can be traced into the gray substance of the cord, and that its posterior columns pass into the cerebellum, but not into the cerebrum. Brown-Sequard mentions that, after a transverse section of the posterior columns, in some animals, the sensibility is increased instead of being lost; hence these cannot be the only channels for conveying sensitive impres- sions to the brain. If, on the other hand, all the cord except the posterior column be divided, all sensation, as well as muscular motion, is lost. The subject of the second lecture is paraplegia, two forms of which are precisely determined—the reflex and the direct. BrowTi- Sequard thinks a third may be added, which occurs whenever an irritation is so transmitted to the spinal marrow from an organ as to produce paralysis; example in wasting palsy, which Eoberts says is preceded by neuralgic pains and visceral alterations. Urinary paraplegia may be distinguished from that depending on inflammation of the cord by the paralysis of voluntary motion being complete, while the reflex power is augmented; it is further dis- tinguished by the spine being tender on pressure at the seat of the disease. Haemorrhage into the substance of the cord may be dis- tinguished from haemorrhage around it, by the sensibility gradually decreasing, and there being no convrdsions. When the hsemorrhage •is merely round the cord, and compresses the roots of the nerves, there are convulsions, as well as paralysis of voluntary motion. Paraplegia may arise from stricture of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate, and disease of the bladder or of the kidneys. Sequard says the spinal cord may act either on the nerves going to the blood-vessels, or on those producing changes of nutrition. Thus, if one hand be dipped into a freezing mixture, the other hand, as first pointed out by Mdne-Edwards, will become reduced in temperature; not, however, as he supposed, by a reduction of the general temperatiire of the body, but simply from its vessels becoming contracted through a reflex nervous influence. The sixth and last lecture is cliiefly devoted to the consideration of the subject of poisoning. In treating a case of poisoning, two things are, as Sir B. Brodie said, to be done—first, to apply42 RKPOllT ON THE INSTITUTKS OK MEDICINE. antidotes; and, secondly, to keep the patient alive until the poison is eliminated by the excretions. All the excretions ought, therefore, to be encouraged—sweating by heat, evacuation of the bowels by purgatives, and the removal of the urine by passage of the catheter. Bern^uid's lectures on the' nervous system fill two octavo volumes, of above five hundi'ed pages each. In the first volume he considers the general property of the nerves and nerve-centres, reviews the various theories regarding reflex action, indicates the presence of reflex sensibility, and explains the electrical properties of the nerves, muscles, and skin. While speaking of the effects of a continuous galvanic current upon nerves, he says, that if the current be made to pass centrifugally (that is, by placing the positive pole next to the nerve-centre), the nerve Avill rapidly lose the property of being excited by the electricity. At first sight this might appear to arise from some disorganization of the nerve- elements. Such, however, is not the case; the property of the nerve is enfeebled, and exhausted, but not destroyed; for, on changing the direction of the current by merely reversing the position of the poles, in a very short time the stimulus applied to the nerve will call forth as energetic muscular contraction as before. It has been long known, that when a feeble current is passed through a nerve, the muscular contraction which it induces might manifest itseK in a variety of ways. At one time the contraction takes place when the current begins, at another time when it is arrested; and again, there occurs a contraction at both the opening and the closing of the galvanic circuit—none, however, during its continuance. Now, if the nerve be first exhausted, it will be found, that on applying to it a direct current (that is, from the centre to the circumference),, contraction only occm-s when the stumulus begins, not during its apphcation or at the moment of its removal. Whereas, if the indirect current be applied (from the circumference to the centre), no contraction takes place except at the moment of its interruption. It has been still fui-ther observed, that these results vary when the stimulus is applied to difterent parts of the same nerve. Thus, it is found tliat, on applying the galvanism close to the divided end of the nerve, contraction occurs, as has just been said, at the moment of its application in the case of the direct, at the moment of its arrest in that of the indirect, current, while if the stimulus be applied near to the periphery of the43 KERYOUS SYSTEM. nerve, contraction occurs both at the opening and closing of the current. Bernard says this is on account of the disorganization of the nerve beginning at the cerebral end, and it is only on the weakened nerve that the effects first spoken of are observed. When the pneumogastrics are galvanized, the pulsations of the heart stop, and this is followed frequently (in the dog) by the appearance of peristaltic movements in the intestine. Bernard thinks that this probably arises from the circulation being arrested. If the galva- nism be apphed to the upper end of the divided nerves, no action is produced upon the heart, but the respiratory movements are stopped tlirough reflex action. And by the same means a change in the chemical composition of the blood and urine may be pro- duced. Thus, galvanism applied to the pneumogastrics may bring on diabetes. In his twenty-fourth lecture Bernard calls attention to the fact, that if the circulation in the hver be arrested by ligaturing its vessels, a stimulus appUed to the nervous system fails to produce an excessive, or indeed any, production of sugar. On the other hand, whatever increases the circulation in the Hver, as, for example, section of the sympathetic, is likely to produce artificial diabetes. In the second volume there are some remarks on the influence of the cranial nerves on certain secretions, and a very complete resume of all that is known regarding the influence exercised by the great sympathetic over the circulation, and temperature of different parts of the body, but more especially of the head. The author also points out the influence it exercises indirectly over secretion, and describes the manner in which operations may be performed upon the thoracic and abdominal portions, and the residts thereby obtained. CoGHiLL, in lus lectures, describes in detail the nature of the ultimate structural relations subsisting between the nervous and other organic systems in the body. This involves a description of the various modes in which the distal extremities of the nerve- fibres terminate, of the modifications in form which they undergo, and the special structures which are found appended to their peripheral ends. He reviews all the recent researches that have been made in this field, and gives special attention to the observa- tions of Continental physiologists, who have thrown much light onREPORT ON THK INSTITUTKS OF MEDICINE. the anatomical connexion of the nei-ves with the various tissues, glands, and other organs of the body. The author, iu liis introduc- tory remarks, says, that he purposes to consider the peculiar nerve- structures in the organs of special sense, of which the retina forms the highest member. A peculiar differentiation prevails amongst them, corresponding to the nature of the stimuh wliich act upon them, and this he intends specially to consider. Schiff's treatise on the nervous system contains much original matter. Wliile speaking of the degeneration of the peri- pheral part of a cut nerve, he says that the vascular supply has a very great influence upon it, as the following experiment shows. He exposed the sciatic nerve of a cat, drew the upper end out of the pelvis, and laid it in the bottom of the wound. On examining the central end three or four weeks afterwards, it was not found to have undergone any degeneration, whereas the lower portion of the same nerve had, in several parts, become changed in structure. Schiff says that wounds in the nerves of warm-blooded animals heal very rapidly, and if the nerve is cleanly cut tlirough, reunion wiU take place in a few days. The power of sensation returns in those cases sooner than the power of motion, the difference in time being as eight to fifteen. If a sensory and a motory nerve be divided at the same time—example, the infra-orbital and the facial, or the lingual and hypoglossal—it will be found that the sensory unites and regains its function before the motory. Scliiff could not satisfy himself as to the regeneration of ganglia. In some favorable cases he succeeded in making sensory unite with motory fibres, but no physiological effect was thereby obtained. The difficulty experienced in causing motory to unite with sensory fibres shows that there must be an important difference in the con- stitution of the two kinds of nerves. Heidenhain describes and has employed a little hammer to excite nervous action. The instrument is so arranged as to give a series of gentle blows on the nerve. The effect thus produced is fouud to be similar to that of galvanism. Kolliker, in reply to Ordenstein, says that a nerve, after it has been dried and has lost its power of conducting a galvanic current, can be restored to life again,—by immersing it in water for a short time. Birkner estimated the quantity of water present in difl'erent nerves. He fouud in the sciatics of a decapitated woman aged thirty, from 68-2 to 72*5 perNERVOUS SYSTEM. 45 cent, of water; in the crural nerves of one aged forty, from 6^'6 to 64'o per cent.; in the brachial of a rabbit, from 65 to 67, and in the sciatic of the same animal, from 68* i to 69" 2, per cent. Hahless says, that the sciatic of the frog, on an average, conducts electricity 14-86 times better than water. This he attributes to the chemical composition of the nerve. He confirms KoUiker's state- ment regarding the power of water in restoring the properties of nerves after they have been lost through the nerve becoming dry. The vapours of nitric and hydrochloric acids, he states, have the power of increasing for a time the sensibility of a nerve. Preiss beheves that sensory nerves can conduct centrifugal as well as centripetal impressions. The object of Althaus's communications to the ' Medical Times' is to prove that the muscles possess an inherent muscular irrita- bihty altogether independent of the nerves. The greater part of the papers is devoted to an historical review of the subject. He concludes by saying that Bernard's researches have been confirmed by Kolliker, who experimented both with woorara and conia, and that he (the author) has also obtained similar results, as the fol- lowing experiment shows. If the crural artery and veins be tied in one limb, so that the circulation of the blood is stopped, and the animal poisoned, by inserting some woorara under its skin. When galvanism is applied in a short time afterwards to the motor nerves of the limb, no muscular action ensues; but if the galva- nism be applied to the muscular substance itself, contractions are immediately induced. FinaUy, he mentions that the micro- scopic observations of Dr. Wundt are likewise in favour of an innate muscular irritability. He (Wundt) found that the mus- cular fibres are shortened when the poles of a galvanic battery are apphed directly to the muscular tissue. This phenomenon is not, however, observed when the nerve is stimulated. Althaus thinks that inherent muscular irritability is proved by—ist The microscopic observation of Bowman, showing a partial contraction ot muscular fibres, which have been entirely insulated from every extraneous tissue. 2d. By the experiments of Bernard, KoUiker and himself,^ with woorara, which kiUs the motor nerves and •leaves the muscles intact. 3d. By the microscopic observations of Jolrla^SlTi^atMU)! ''''' '''"^46 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Wundtj showing the action of the closed continuous cm-rent upon the muscular fibre, when the electrodes are directly apphed to the muscles, and no such action when the stimulus is conveyed to the muscles through the instrumentality of the nerves. Gratiolet treats of the relation of the outward form of the skull to that of the brain. The results of his observations, which extend over a great part of the animal kingdom, are quite opposed to plirenology. EoussEAU, Lesure, and Mageon state that, if two opposite cur- rents be allowed to act upon different points of a nerve at the same time, only the peripheral part of the nerve will exert any influence upon the attached muscles. Beukaud calls attention to the difi'erence between a constant and an interrupted current. During the former the leg of the frog remains stiU,—during the latter the muscles are seized with tetanic spasm. Pfltjger says, that very weak, constant currents of electricity never induce tetanus—moderate currents caU it into play, and strong currents arrest it. Eosenthal's experiments show that if a constant current be kept up for several minutes, at the moment of breaking the circuit tetanic spasm takes place. If the circuit be again closed in the same direction during the spasm, the tetanus ceases. On the other hand, if it be closed in the opposite dii-ection, the spasm is increased. Then, again, if one waits till the spasm has passed, and then closes and reopens the circuit in the same direction, the tetamc spasm comes on just as strong as if it had been closed in the opposite dii-ection. Jacubowitsch has adopted Gerlach's method of imbibing sec- tions of brain and spinal cord with carmine solution. He says that he can distin!?uish between sensory, motory, and sympathetic gan- gUon-cells in the spinal cord. The first are spindle-shaped, the second star-shaped, and the last round or oval. Bemak again raises the question regarding his right to be considered the discoverer of the peripheral ganghon. He says that as early as 1840, he discovered them in the digestive canal of man, and in 1843, in that of birds. Geulach describes the nerve-fibres of the brain as terminatmg m cells and granular masses. As there are many more fibres than ceUs several of the former must terminate in one of the latter. KoLLiKEK says that he has been unable to make out the arrange- ment described by Gerlach. BiLLBOTH revives the old views regarding the plexiform termi-47 NERVOUS SYSTEM. nations of nerves in the digestive canal. The finest fibres anasto- mose freely Avith each other and with granular nuclei. Gerlacu says that the tactile papillae stand in physiological relationship with the nervous systenij but he is unable to point out their histological position. Krause thinks that between the Paccinian bodies on the one hand, and the tactile papillae on the other, there is a third way in wliich nerves terminate. And according to liim, it is in small, round or oval corpuscles, to which he gives the name of flask-shaped terminal corpuscles. Luschlca had already described these, six years ago, as occui'ring in the mammary glands. Keferstein tliinks that what appears to be a central cavity in the Paccinian body, is in reality nucleated connective tissue. OwsjANNiKOW says that Jacubowitsch^s statement,—that the brain and spinal cord of animals poisoned with narcotics are so destroyed as to be unfit for liistological purposes,—is untrue. Lister and Turner employed the "imbibition method" (steep- ing the tissue to be examined in an ammoniacal solution of carmine) in their researches on the nerves, and found that sections of the sciatic so treated, when examined by reflected Hght, showed in the centre of each nerve-fibre a red spot, suiTounded by a yellowish- white granular ring. The spot corresponded to the axis-cylinder, the ring to the medullary sheath. Cliromic acid was found not to afi"ect the axis-cylinder, but to render opaque and of a brown colour the medullary sheath; facts which confii-m the ordinary opinion regarding the chemical difference existing between the different parts of a nerve-fibre. RoLLESTON says that the corpus trapezoideum, contrary to what is usually supposed, exists in all annuals, although it is sometimes apparently very small, in consequence of being overlaid by an exces- sively developed pons. He moreover describes in man a band of nervous substance, the lower end of which passes into the crura cerebri, near to the exit of the third nerves; the upper of which bifurcates, and sends one branch to the pillars of the valve of Vieussens, the other into the testis. ScHULTZE describes the manner in which the acoustic nerve in the ear of the ray- and dog-fish terminates. He has traced the axis- cylmder of the nerve-fibres as far as the epithelium-layer of the cnsta acoustica. Schultze disagrees with Kolliker in his descrip- tion and ideas of the so-called "Cortischen Organe." CurieREPORT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 48 confirms Schwann's statement regarding the iiervus troclilearis giving off a motor branch to the lachrymal. He further says, that he found it give a branch to the nasal by wliich the lachrymal sac and duct are supplied; and lastly, that the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic and of the superior maxillary do not always anastomose. Oehl says the olfactory nerve (pigeons, hens, &c.) spreads itself out into a fine plexus under the nasal mucous membrane, and that the nerve-fibres ultimately end in club-shaped bodies (ganghon- cells ?), lying immediately beneath the mucous epitheUum. Further, he says that the yellow colour- of the upper part of the nasal mucous membrane does not depend upon a deposit of pigment m the epithehum-cells, but upon a peculiar secretion of the mucous glands. RuDiNGEU describes the distribution of the nerves m the liga- ments, capsules, and synovial membranes of the joints. They axe mostly all, he says, of the cerebro-spinal origin. Ltjschka makes an historical addition to Dr. Krause s work on the termination of nerves. ScHiFF found that among small mammalia the reflex move- ment, after section of the cervical portion of the spmal cord is strongest in the hedgehog. In eels and carp it is more marked than in mammaha, and in amphibia even more so. Ihe sala- mander seems to feel pain after decapitation; but Schiff is stiU doubtful on the point. The posterior columns, he says, although alone sensitive, are not the only ones that conduct sensory im- Tiressions. It is rather the gray substance wluch conducts these. Longitudinal section of the spinal cord does not destroy the sensi- bilit? of the posterior columns. He denies that there is any cross- ing of the sensory fibres in the cord, and says that the gray istance can conduct motory as weU as sensory impres.on. There are no separate motory bundles m the cord which can, by a dkect (iot a reflex) stimulus, cause muscular move- bLw^-Sequaub saysthatthefunctionsof the brain, cord, and the JoryTnd sensory nerves, are increased by oxygen and diminished bytarlonic acid g'as. Hyperesthesia, he ^ bv the action of oxygen on the sensory nerves. Most ot the lacts I'd i^lhe other p'fpers are familiar to our rea ers since their pub- lication in the ' Lancet,' 1858. Bezold says, that-ist. Joluntary motii in amphibia, birds, and mammalia, is conducted d.ecUyNERVOUS SYSTKM. 49 through the cord. 2d. The results of his experiments do not prove that there is any crossing of the sensory fibres in the cord, neither do they absolutely negative that opinion. 3d. In the spinal cords of birds and frogs he could not find any vaso-motory fibres. Vtjlpian disagrees with SchifP and Bezold, and adopts Brown- Sequard's views regarding the crossing of the sensory fibres in the cord. Jeittleu's paper is written with the view of showing the part Prochaska took in the discovery of reflex action. Brown-Sequard denies the existence of Flourens' so-caUed "vital point." He says, that when animals die suddenly after injury to the " vital point," it is on account of the action of the heart being arrested, in consequence of injury to the neighbouring parts of the cord. It does not occur when the vital point is excised. The arrest of the respiration he accounts for in a similar manner. Plotjrens replies to this, and cites experiments to prove that a vital point does exist. Eenzi thinks that the irregular movements which foUow upon extirpation of the cerebellum arise from disordered hearing and sight, as in ordinary vertigo. Lussana's paper is on the cause of vertigo. He cites several experiments that he made on the effects of extirpation of different portions of the brain. BuLATOwicz found that galvanism applied to the cardiac portion of the mucous coat of the stomach induces vomiting in the course of a few seconds, while its application to the fundus and pylorus only produces pain. If the animal be rendered insensible by the injection of opium into the jugular vein, vomiting cannot be induced. Section of both vagi is followed by a similar result. After finding that two and a half grains of tartar emetic mtroduced into a vein caused immediate and violent vomiting, he divided the vagi in another dog, and then made a similar injection. This time, however, neither vomiting nor efforts at vomiting were observed. He also noticed that section of both vagi is foUowed by paralysis of the lower part of the oesophagus, so that during the act of respiration food is frequently forced back tlirough the cardiac orifice of the stomach. Lastly, he found that the stomach, durmg the efforts at vomiting, becomes passivelv fiUed with air. LowiNsoHN, under Bidder and Kupffer, tested the effects of section of the vagi on the respiration. He says that the quantity of carbomc acid exhaled after the nerves are divided, at first 4REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 50 increases and then diminishes. He made some observations on the effects of galvanism on the cut vagi, but found nothing very new Heinemann cut tlie vagi and recurrent laryngeal nerves of frogs. Six lived 4 weeks after the operation, two lived 18, one 10, one 8, two 7, and one 6 days. Biekvliet made some expe- riments on dogs, with the view of ascertaining the effects of the vagi on the sensation of hunger, but with unsatisfactory results. KuPFFER and Ludwig's experiments, on the other hand, were made with the view of ascertaining the influence of the vagi on the movements of the digestive canal. They found that galva- nism applied to the peripheral ends of the cut vagi induces peristaltic action in the intestines. Galvanism apphed to the splanchnic nerves is followed by a similar result. Wagner's observations on the sympathetic were made upon a decapitated woman, ^t. 2S. He found that galvanism applied to the cervical sympathetic caused the eyeUds to open, the pupil to enlarge, and the other results usually noticed on the lower animals. Liegeois found that, after tearing out the facial nerve, the movements of the cheek continue for an hour. Budge concludes, from his experiments on rabbits, that sethenza- tion does not diminish the sensibihty of the ccehac or of the superior mesenteric ganglion to mechanical stimuli. Brown- Sequard thinks that galvanizing the splanchnic nerves causes an increase in the peristaltic movements of the intestine only when the current passes through a portion of the bowel as weU as the nerve. , Jaschkowitz found that section of the nerves of the spleen, in dogs and cats, cause an increased flow of blood to the organ, and a copious deposit of h^matin-pigment in its ceUs. THE FIVE SENSES—SEEING, HEARING, TASTING, SMELLING, AND FEELING. Tlprschel -Remarks on Colour-Blindness. Proc. Roy. Soc, No 35, p. 72- WrS-Ou the Cause of Long and Short Sights, and on the Voluntary Contrac- ^ tion and Dilatation of the Pupil. N. Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July. p. 705- Med. Times and Gaz., 17th Septeinher, 1859. P- ^9i- . JagO.-On Entopics. British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859. P- 4«>S, July, p. 165.51 ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. Dombluth.—Die Sinne des Menschen. [On the Senses.] Leipzig, 1858. (No abstract.) Dudtenhofer.—Die acht Sinne des Menschen. Nordlingen, 1858. (Series of letters on the Senses for educated people.) Sturm.—De organo auditus cum organo visus comparato. [The Auditory and Visual Organs.] Vratislavice, 1857. (A compilation.—Valentin.) Kan.—Ueber die Sinnesorgane ueberhaupt und die Pflege des Auges insbesondere. Bern., 1858. (A Lecture on the Organs of Sense, especially the Eye.—Valentin.) Vallee.—Cours elementaire complet sur I'oeil et la vision chez I'homme et les aniniaux vertebres, qui vivent dans I'air. [The Anatomy of the Eye.] (Gaz. Med., No. 22, 1858, pp. 346—348; No. 23, pp. 360—362. No abstract.) Heake.—Die Oeffnung und Schliessung der Augenlider, und des Thranensackes. [On the Movements of the Eyelids.] (Graefe's Archiv, vol. iv, pp. 70—98, 1858. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 93.) Eeute,—Ein neues Ophtbalmotrop. [A new Ophthalmiscope.] Leipzig, 1858. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 93. Creutz.—Memorabilia de paralysibus apparatus oculomotorii. Bonnce, 1857. (Confirmation of known facts on the paralysis of the muscles.—Valentin.) Schuft.—Die Lehre von der Wirkung und Lahmung der Augenmuskeln. [On the Paralysis of the Muscles of the Eyeball.] Berlin,iZsB. Canstatt, p. 94. Graefe.—Klinische Analyse der Motilitiitsstorung des Auges. [On the Paralysis of the Muscles of the Eyeball.] Berlin, 1858. Canstatt, p. 94. Petrinus.—Nonnulla de Mydriaticis atque Mydriasi. Leipzig, iSsi- (A careful compilation of known facts on Mydriasis.—Valentin.) Hansen.—Kort Fremstilling af den i praktiske Oiemed Anvendelige Undersogelse med Oienspeilet og af de ved denne Undersogelse ind vundne Resultates. [Short treatise on the practical application of the Ophthalmiscope.] Copenhagen, 1857. Siegert.—Analecta ad organi visus physiologiam. Berlin, 1857. (A description of single vision and of stereoscopic effects.—Valentin.) Melsens.-Recherches sur la persistance des impressions de la retine. [On the Persistence of Impressions on the Retina.] Bullet, de I'Acad. de Bruxelles _ 1858, p. 738. Wmigen.—Eine Lichterscheinung im Auge. [On the Appearance of Light in the t-ye.] Pog. Annal., vol. 102, p. 175. Aubert-Ueber Accomodation des Auges. [On the Accommodation of the Eve 1 (Jahresbu., No. 35, der Schles. Ges. f. vaterland. Cultur. Breslau, ,8c8 pp. 147—149. Already known.—Valentin.) ' ^^^C?' «".'""«">datione, experimenta nova. [On the Accommodation of the Jiye.J Berlin, 1857. ^^Tn"?,! /"i^ris in oculis mammalium structura et functionibus [On the Ciliary Muscle.] Berlin, 1857. "i-uonious. Mannhart.-Bemerkungen uber den Accomodationsmuskel und die Accomodation [The Accommodation of the Eye.] Graefe's Archiv fiir OphthalmoloRle' vol. IV, part I, ,858, pp. 269-285. ^ naimoiogie MnUer.-Einige Bemerkungen uber die Binnenmuskeln des Auges. The same in Mannhart's paper.—Valentin ) ^^^"^^^I'^Vl^''^^^^^^^ S»-Ber. <lcr Wien. Akad. iiovemoer, 1857, vol. xxvii, pp. 78—80.53 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Manz.—Anatomisch-physiologische Untersuchungan iiber die Accomodation de« Fischauges. [On the Accommodation of the Eyes of Fish.] 8vo. Freiburg i. Breisg., 1858. Lubimoff.—l^echerches sur la grandeur apparante des objets. [On the Apparent size of OI)jects.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858. No. j, July, pp. 24—27. Annales de Chimie, troisieme scrie, vol. liv, pp. 13—28. Seguin.—Notes sur les couleurs accidentales. [On Accidental Colours.] Compt. Kendus, vol. xlvii, 1858, No. 5, August, pp. 158—200. Chevreul.—Notes sur quelques experiences de contraste siraultanee de couleur. [On the Contrasts of Colours.] The same, No. 5, Aout, pp. 196—198. (Already known.—Valentin.) Baumgartner.—Ein Fall ungleichzeitiger Wiederkehr des Sehvermiigens fur verschiedene Farben. [On a Case in which one Eye regained the Power of distinguishing Colours before the other.] Sitzungsber. d. Wien. Akad., 1858, vol. xxviii, pp. 2571 258. Weicker.—Dc nonnulHs coloribus complementariis quales singulis hominibus apparent. [Some Remarks on the Complementary Colours.] 8vo. Lipsix, 1857. (Compilation.—Valentin.) Martini.—Sur les effets produits sur la vision par la Santonine. [On the Effect of Santonine on the Vision.] Gaz. Hebdom., 1858, No. 39, p. 593- Mialhe.—Sur la Santonine. [On the Effect of Santonine on the Vision.] Monit. des Hopit., No. 109, p. 869. Volkmann.—Ueber irradiation. [On Irradiation.] Bericht der Sachs. Geselkch. d. Wissensch. zu Leipzig, 1858, pp. 129—148. Herschel's remarks on colour-blindness originated in a report on Mr. Pole's paper. He says lie considers Pole's communication exceedingly valuable, because it is a clear and consecutive account of the affection by one suffering from it, and who is in possession of a knowledge of all that has been written on the subject by others, and who, moreover, from general education and habits of mind, is m a position to discuss his own case scientifically. Pole refers all liis perceptions of colour to tliree primary or elementary sensations, these may be red, blue, and yeUow, as Mayer proposed, or red, green, and violet, as suggested by Dr. Young. It is as necessary to distinguish between our sensations of colour as it is to distinguish between bitterness, sweetness, sourness, &c. In looking at green Pole does not recognise the sensation either of blue or yellow, but something suiffeneris. Maxwell has lately announced his iuabihty to form green by the combination of blue and yellow. The union on the retina of the yeUowest yeUow and the bluest blue, in such propor- tions that neither shall be in excess, so as to tinge the resultmg light either yeUow or blue, is not green, hut white. Herschel, from numerous facts, concludes—1st. That in no case can the sensation of green be produced by the joint action on theON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 53 eye of two lights, in neitlier of wliicli, separately, i^rismatic green exists. 2dly. That the joint action of two lights, separately pro- ducing the most lively sensations of blue and yellow, does not give rise to that of green, even when one of them contaiyis in its compo- sition the totality of green light in the spectrum. And 3dly. That all our liveliest sensations of yellow are produced by the joint action of the rays, of which those separately exciting the ideas of red and green form a large majority; and that a decided yellow impression is produced by the union of these only. He further adds, that from these premises it would seem the easiest possible step to con- clude the non-existence of yeUow as a primary colour. But this conclusion he is unable to admit in the face of the facts—1st, that a yellow ray, incapable of prismatic analysis into green and red, may be shown to exist, both in the spectrum and in flames in which soda IS present; and adly, that neither red nor green, as sensations, are m the remotest degree suggested by this yeUow in its action on the eye. Whether under these circumstances the vision of normal- eyed persons should be termed trichromic or tetrachromic, seems an open question. That Mr. Pole^s vision is diclu-omic, there can be no doubt. Wright thinks that the essential cause of shortsightedness is to be sought for m the iris, wliich in aU cases is preternatui-ally con- tracted. Dilatation of the pupil by beUadonna extends the field of vision, while contraction by opium shortens it. "The true cause 01 longsightedness consists in a preternatural dilatation of the K"^ / 1 ■ ■ *o tlie statement of most writers on he subject, the sight of the myopic improves as he advances in We, because the pupils become larger, in consequence of the circular hbres of the ins losing in a gi-eat measure their irritabiHty Jago calls, a methodical proceeding to show how ocular spectres, structures, and ftmctions, are mutual exponents-Entopics. We tod it mipossible to give a condensed abstract of this article • but by quoting the first paragraph our readers wiH have the opportunity of fonmng some idea both of its style and contents. " Our visual ■organs,'says theauthor,"arenotonlycapable, by an adjust S ts'lT; '^^^^^^^^ ar furX/Jr^^^^ T "^^'"^ ^'"^ brain, but hanir 1 ^'"^ ^^J^^^-^^^ structures. Thus it happens that they reveal to us a number of adventitious phenom na -spectres as we call them-whether caused by light at^he paTt!54 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. that cover the cornea, or by any stimulus whatever affecting the special nervous tract. Besides the ordinary interest that we feel in tracing subjective illusions to their sources, the accurate elimination of these is a physiological necessity, if we would avoid tlie risk of ascribing effects begotten by subordinate to more integral portions of the apparatus, and thus forming wrong conceptions of the laws which regulate the conduct of the latter. Tinally, a diligent study of these accidental appearances may be made serviceable for the solution of certain important points of ocular structure of too delicate a nature for the microscope or other usual means of investigation, as also for determining important questions of function." Henke proposes to divide the orbicularis palpebrarum ilito three muscles—orbic. orbitalis, laclirymahs anterior, and laclirymahs pos- terior. The laclirymahs anterior, acting upon the laclirymal duct, causes its enlargement, and thereby induces the entrance of the tears. The lachrymahs posterior, on the other hand, compresses the duct and forces the tears into the nasal cavity. Baku thinks that the accommodation of the eye depends entirely on the change m the form of the lens. The adjustment, Mannhart says, is brought about by the cihary muscle (alone) acting on the lens. Levy gives a somewhat similar explanation of its action. Wliile Czeemak says that the adjustment of the eye for short distances most probably arises from an increase in the antero-posterior diameter of the crys- taUine lens. Manz thinks that the eyes of fish are capable of adiustment, notwithstanding their possessing no cihary muscle and the iris being scarcely mobile. The adjustment may be induced, he imagines, by the action of the muscular fibres of the campanula on Lubi'moff made experiments on the apparent extent of objects, bv looking at them through variously-sized openmgs made m shdes, and Seguin on the extent of the post-impression Avith the closed eye The latter looked at a red square on a black ground, and after projecting the given post-impression on a wliite screen, shut the eyes and walked backwards. He fomid that by so domg the picture appeared to become larger as he receded. AUBERT and Melsens's communications contam remarks on the probable cause of post-impressions, and Willigen s on the effects observed on looking tlirough shts. Maktini states that for some hours after taking a dose of santo-ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 55 nine everything appears green. Mialhb and Leroy d'Etioles make a similar statement. VoLKMANN, in relating some of his experiments on ii-radiation, says that there are cases in which black bands on a white ground appears broader, and not narrower. The apparent increase in the size of the black band taking place at the expense of the white ground. The following titles of papers, bearing more or less on the ques- tion of STEEEOscopic EFFECTS, are taken fi-om Yalentin-'s ' Keport.' Claudet.—Le Stereomonoscope. Nouvelle instrument, dont le principe est fonde sur la decouverte de la propriete inherente en verre depoli de presenter en relief I'image de la chambre obscure. [Description of a new kind of instrument-! 8vo. Paris, 1858. D'Almeida.—Nouvelle appareil stereoscopique. [A new Stereoscope.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, July, 1858, pp. 61—63. Serre (d'Fzes).—Theorie explicative des phenomenes stereoscopique. [The Theory of Stereoscopic EflFects.] BuUet. de I'Acad. de Med. de Paris, vol. xxvii, 1858, pp. 1116—iii8. Giraud-Teulon.—Mecanisme de la production du relief dans la vision binoculaire [On the Theory of " Relief."-Continuation.] Gaz. Med., November, i8«!7 No. 47, pp. 730—734; No. 48, pp. 745—750. Panum.—Physiologische Untersuchungen uber das Sehen mit zwei Augen fRe- searches on Binocular Vision.] 4to. Kiel., 1858. Paniim.-Ueber das Sehen mit zwei Augen. Froriep's neue Notizen, i8^8 vol. IV, No. 9, pp. 131—134. (Extract from the preceding work ) Helmholtz.-Telestereoscop. [On the Telestereoscope.] Verhandl. des naturhistor Verems der preuss. Rheinlande, 1857, vol. Ixxiv. Annales de Chimie, troisieme sene, vol. In, pp. 118—1B4. ' D0Ve.-Ueber den Einfluss des Binocularsehens bei Beurtheilung der EntfernunK durch Sp,egelung und Brechung gesehener Gegenstande. On the Influence o^ B.nocular Vzsxon xn Calculating Distance.] Monatsber d. Berliner Akad. May, 1858 pp. 312-3,5. Poggendorf's Annalen,vol.civ, 1858,pp.32,-„o Claparede -Sur une nouvelle determination de I'horopt&re. [On he determina t>on of the Horopter.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, ,858, No. 14, Oct p 66 stereos^ piqt ei'sur la universelle de Geneve, nouvelle penode, vol. iii, 1858, Oct., pp i,8-x6S Nov., pp. 225_267; Dec, pp. 362-369. pp. 138 x68. HEARING.56 RKPORT ON THE INSTlTUTliS OF MEDICINE. Toynbee. 0" the Mode in which Sonorous Undulations are conducted from tlie Menibrana Tympani to the Lal)yrinth in the Human Ear. Proc. ttoy. Soc, No. 3^, p. 32. Lancet, and Med. Times and Gaz., i8lh June, 1859. Earnshaw.—On t'^e Mathematical Theory of Sound. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 590. Alison (Scott).—On the Intensification of Sound. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 649. Bonnafont.—Memoire sur les osselets de I'oreille et sur la membran du tympan. [On the' Bones of the Ear and Membrana Tympani.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858, Oct., pp. 614, 615; and more fully in the I'Institut, 1858, Oct., No. 1294, pp. 341, 342. J ^ . A Claudius.—Physiologische Beraerkungen uber das Gehororgan der Cetaceen und das Labyrinth der Sangethiere. [Remarks on the Organ of Hearing in the Whale.] 8vo. A'ie/., 1858. Froriep's neue Notiz., 1858, vol. iii, pp. 225—232. Canst., vol. i, p. loi. Bonnafont.—Reflexions medico-psychologiques sur certaines conditions de sens de I'ouie et de la vue. [On certain conditions of the Ear and Eye.] Revue Med. Fran9aise et Etrangere, June, 1858, pp. 705—722. Burdach.—Annotationes anatomico-physiologicae de aure externa. [On the External Ear.] 4to. Regiomonti, 1857. MooRHEAD tliinks that the membraua tympani is normaUy tliTown into vibration in a twofold manner—ist, by sonorous undu- lations reflected upon it from the walls of the meatus; 2d, by vibra- tions directly propagated to it from the external ear; and that these vibrations may be impeded by many causes, occasioned by an aper- ture in the membrane. Such as impaired elasticity of the mem- brane, diminished excursion of its vibrations, &c. Toynbee's conclusions are not unsimilar, for he says—ist. That the commonly received opinion in favour of the sonorous undulations passing through the chain of ossicles to the vestibule is correct ad That the stapes, when disconnected from the mens, can still conduct sonorous undulations to the vestibule from the air. 3d. So far as our present experience extends, it appears that in the human ear sound always travels to the labyrinth through two media viz., through the air in the tympanic cavity to the cochlea, and through one or more of the ossicles to the vestibule. Eaunshaw says, that the principal feature of his commumcation is the discovery of an integral of a certain class of differential equa- tions. This class includes the differential equation of motion when a disturbance is transmitted through a uniform elastic medium con- fined in a horizontal tube. He discusses wave-motion, when the temperature is supposed to be unaft'ected by the passage of a wave, and when the change of temperature is allowed for.57 ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. With respect to the velocity of sound, which has hitherto been found experimentally, to exceed the velocity obtained by theory, it is shown that the value obtained by approximative methods is the minimum limit of sound-velocity, so that the actual velocity will be always greater; the excess depending on the intensity and genesis of the sound. It is shown that aU the parts of a wave do not travel at the same rate—a circumstance which leads to the formation of a bore in the front of a wave. Several previously unexplained pheno- mena, such as the double report of firearms heard at a great dis- tance, the outrunning of one sound by another, observed by Capt. Parry, the comparative powers of different gases of transmitting sounds, and the laws of transmission of sound from one medium to another, are accounted for and directly deduced from the integral of the equation of wave-motion. The relation between pressm-e and velocity is shown to be that which is expressed by the equation— from which several new results are obtained. Scott Alison found that sounds which are faint when heard by a hearing-tube dii-ectly applied to solid sounding bodies, become augmented when water is interposed between these bodies and the distal extremity of the hearing-tube. He has been able to hear, by the employment of water, the sound of a solid body, such as a table, which, without this medium, has been inaudible. The result of augmentation is greatest when the hearing-tube is immersed freely in water. A piece of wood not thicker than a paper-cutter, when interposed between the water employed and the mouth of the hear- ing-tube, materiaUy interferes with the augmenting power of the water. The hearing-tubes employed by Alison are various. Many of the experiments were performed with his differential stethophone, an mstrument described in No. 31, of the 'Proc. Roy. Soc' Tubes closed at their distal extremity with solid material, such as glass, do not answer so weU as those closed with membrane. A water- bag mcreases the impression conveyed to the ear by the wooden stethoscope, af it be placed between the flat ear-piece and the external ear. The name of hydrophone has been given to it. BoxNAFONT says that he examined the drum of the ear with a speculum, and could never detect it vibrating, even when powerfulREPORT ON TIIK INSTITUTES OV MliDICINE. 58 military music was being listened to. He noticed, however, that in these cases the blood-vessels became somewhat congested. Claudius made some original observations on the ear of the Cetacea, and came to the conclusion that the whale does not hear through the outer ear, the Eustachian tube, or the bones of the skull, but that the sound is communicated indirectly from the water to the air-filled tympanic cavity through the bones of the head. BuRDACii's paper contains a critical notice of the anatomical and physiological relations of the external ear. SMELLING AND TASTING. Klaatsch and Stich.—Ueber den Ort der GeschraacksTermittlung. [On the Locality of Taste.] Virchow's Arcliiv fiir PathoL Anatom., vol. xiv, 1858, pp. 225—243. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. Stich.—Ueber das Ekelgefiihl. [On Nausea.] Annalen der Charite Jahrgang VIII, Berlin, 1858, pp. 22—43. lb., vol. i, p. 102. Suineril.—Sur les organs des sens et en particulier de I'odorat, du goftt et de I'ouie dans les poissons. [On the Organs of Smelling, Tasting, and Hearing in Fish.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, igsS, No. 19, pp. 867—879. Oehl.—Su'l nervo et su I'organo olfattorio. [Remarks on the Olfactory Organ and Nerve.] 8vo. Milano, 1858. (No abstract.) Beau.—Note sur les papilles de la langue. [On the Papillae of the Tongue.] Compt. Rend., voL xlvii, 1858, No. 16, pp. 612—614. Klaatsch and Stich made a number of experiments with the extract of quassia, a solution of white sugar, salt, and tartaric acid, in order to ascertain the exact seat of taste. The solutions were applied to different parts of the mouth by means of a fine hair- pencil. They found the soft palate; but neither the uvula nor tonsils, sensible to taste. The trachea was equally insensible. This experiment was made on a patient with a " cut throat." Klaatsch and Stich confirm the opinion of old writers, that certain substances are only tasted in particular spots. DuMERiL thinks that fish possess the sense of taste, but only by means of their organs of smell. Beau's paper on the papillae of the tongue contains notliing new of any interest. FEELING. Oele —On Diphaemetric Compass. Beale's Archiv. of Medicine, No. 4, 1859. Battye.—On a Sixth Sense. Edin. Month. Med. Journ., 1859, pp. 7^3 and 992.ON THE ORGANS OF SENSE. 59 Fechner.—Beobachtungen, welche zu beweisen scheinen, dass durcb die Uebung der Glieder der einen Seite, die der andern zugleich mitgeiibt warden. [On the Effect of Practice in Perfecting the Sense of Touch in the opposite Limb.] Berichte iiber die VerhandL der k. sachsiscben Gesellschaft der Wissenscbafteii zu Leipzig, vol. i, 1858, pp. 70—76. Leipzig, 1858. Volkmann.—Ueber den Einfluss der Uebung auf das Erkennen der raumlichen Distanzen. [On the Effect of Practice in Recognising the Distance between Two Points placed on the Limb at the same moment.] The same, pp. 38—69. Bnsch.—Ueber Innervation in transplantirten Hautlappen. [On the Loss of Sensibility in Transplanted Skin.] Verhandl. d. natur-histor. Vereins d.Rhein- lande, vol. xiv, 1857, p. 94. (No abstract.) Wundt.—Beitrage zur Theorie der Sinneswahrnehmung. [On the Tactile Recog- nition of Distance.] Erste Abhandlung. Ueber den Gefiihlssinn mit besonderer Riicksicht auf dessen raiimliche Wahrnehmungen. Henle und Pfeuffer's Zeitschrift fiir rationelle Medicin, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 229—293. Canst., vol. i, p. 102. Kammler,—Experimenta de variarnm cutis regionura minima pondera sentiendi virtute. [On the Power possessed by different Parts of the Skin in Detecting Slight Weights.] 8vo. Vratislavias, 1858. lb., vol. i, p. 102. Zantedeschi.—De la mesure de la limite de sensibilite neuro-musculaire de rhomme etudie comparativement a sa force mechanique. [On Neuro-muscular Sensibility.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvii, 1858, No. 3, July, pp. 117, 118. (No abstract.) Brown-Sequard,—Sur la sensibilite tactile et sur un moyen de la mesurer dans I'aneslhesie et I'hyperesthesie. Journ. de Physiolog., vol. i, 1858, pp. 344 346. (Repetition of a former communication on the means of measuring tactile sensibility.—Valentin.) Ogle reviews the observations made with regard to the power possessed by different parts of the skin, in a physiological condition, of detecting (so to say) the double impression made on its surface when two points are made to touch it within a given distance of each other. It was shown by E. H. Weber, in 1834, that different parts of the skin were imequally endowed with this faculty, one wliich Ogle terms "contactile discrimination." And the subject has since been further investigated by Valentin, AUen Thompson, Belfield Lefe'vre, Graves, &c. Ogle considers the observations of these writers, and after certain remarks regarding the general subject of tactile sensibility in a state of health, and its various subdivisions into the subordinate tactile senses of tempera- ture, pain, muscular action, and contactility, he proceeds to notice pathological instances, in which, owing to affections of the nervous system, of cerebral or spinal origin, modifications exist in this capacity of appreciating double impressions simultaneously made; aUuding to the application made to chnical purposes by others, such as Bro^- S^quard, Sieveking, &c., of the physiological law estabhshed byREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. GO "Weber, as respects the contactile sensibility of the skin. He next refers to cases of disease, in which the contactile discriminating power may be either increased or diminished, and in which variations therein may become practically usefid in pointing out to a certain extent the degree in which the nervous system is affected, and also what advances may have been made towards a re-establishment of a hedthy condition. He also shows what circumstances exist capable of rendering the instrument ^?^applicable as a means of diagnosis. The DESCRIPTION of the Diaphemetric Compass is as follows : The instrument, wliich is about four and a half inches long, con- sists of a pail" of mathematical compasses, with the usual joint, furnished with a circular dial-plate, whose circumference is divided into inches and tenths and twentieths of an inch, and provided with a central hand or indicator (see fig. i),' which may be turned in any direction, so as to point to the various subdivisions. This dial is attached to the anterior surface of one of the legs of the compass, and the indicator on its sui'face is moved by means of a small-wheeled pinion be- hind the dial, of which the pivot is connected with it through the dial. Into this wheeled pinion {b) behind the dial works a seg- ment of a tooth-wheel (c), which is attached to the other leg of the compass in such a manner that when the legs are separated, that is, when the compass is opened, the tooth-wheel working in the pinion moves the indicator on the face of the dial, and makes it point to the various subdivisions. Thus, as these sub- divisions are calculated and constructed with reference to the fact that the legs of the compass open round the centre, and not m a straight line (and consequently are not made equal), the exact dis- tance at which the .points of the compass are separated may at once 1 No 1 in this figure shows the front view of the graduated dial-plate, with the indicator. No. 2 shows the posterior view, with the tooth-wheel working in the wheeled pinion.ON THE OBGANS OF SENSE. 61 be "read ofF" on the graduated face of the dial-plate. The ad- vantage of tliis instrument over those which have hitherto been used for similar purposes consists in the readiness of measurement, owing to the great length of the graduations on the dial-plate, the faciUty with wliich, with one hand, the measurements may be taken, and the greater ease afforded in measuring contactile discriminative power about the joints or parts where irregularity or convexity of the surface exists.^ Battye entitles his communication 'An Experimental Inquiry into the existence of a Sixth Sense. To which are added Researches upon the Psychal Functions of the Cerebrum in relation to all the Senses.' The author's sixth sense resides chiefly in and about joints, as standing in opposition to or residing in muscles—" resistance or strength being considered the normal state of the sense, and weight as the abnormal." Fechner and Yolkmann's experiments were made with the view of ascertaining if the power of distinguishing the intervening dis- tance of two points placed on the skin could be increased by training. They found that after making several experiments on the left arm, the right became more sensible to distances—and so with the sense of touch. After practising with the fingers of one hand, those of the other gained in sensitiveness. From this they conclude that trammg chiefly afi^ects the central nervous system. Fechner adds thereto, that training of the muscles of one side of the body to any particular movement increases the same powers on the opposite side. Volkmann found that removing the scarf-skin rendered the sense of touch more acute. WuNDi^'s paper is entirely devoted to a theoretical exposition of the sense of touch. Kammler, on the other hand, relates experi- ments to show that the skin of the brow and neck is the most sensitive to shght weights, while that of the palm and back of he hand is to heavier ones. This, he says, is a proof that the acuteness of this sense does not depend upon the number of tactile papillae. (Canstatt's Jahrs.)62 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDIOIXR. RESPIRATION. Smith (Edward).—Experiments on the Phenomena of Respiration. Proc. Roy. Soc, No.34, p. 6iI. Lancet, 29th Jan., p. 110. MuUer.—Beitrage, zur Tlieorie der Respiration. [A Contribution to the Theory of Respiration.] (Wiener Med. Wochenschr., 1858, No. 44, pp. 770, 771. Aunal. der Cliem., vol. cviii, p. 257- Canst, p. 54. Henle and Meissner, p. 258.) Brimmeyer.—Ueber die Diffusion der gases durch feuchte Membranen. [On tlie Diffusion of Gases through Moist Membranes.] Munich, 1857-8. Wiederhold. — Die Ausscheldung fester Stoffe durch die Lungen. [On the Excretion' of Solids by the Lungs.] Deutsche Klinik, No. 18. Henle and Meissner, p. 258. Ternet —Sur I'absorption et le degageraent des gaz de la Respiration et par les dissolution salines et le sang, &c. [On the Absorption and Exhalation of Gases by the Blood and Saline Solutions.] These. Paris, 1858. (Compt. Rend., 1858, No. 13, pp. 620-624 ; No. 14, pp. 644-647-) Henle and Meissner, p. 258, 1859, part 2. Canst., vol. i, p. 54. Smitll (Edward).—On the Action of Food upon the Respiration. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 638. Lancet, Feb. 26th, 1859. P- 216- Meyer.—De Sanguine oxydo carbonico in facto. [On the Expiration of Carbonic Acid.] 4to. Vralislavits, 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 54. Arnold—Ueber die Wirkung der Brustrauskeln bei der Athraung. [On the Action of the Thoracic Muscles in Respiration.] (Die physiol. Anstalt in Heidelberg, pp. 146—IS4-) ^ ^ .v j _Der Kehlkopfrachenspiegel (Speculum for the Larynx) und die Methode seims Gebrauches. (Zeitschr. d. Gesel. d. Aerzte in Wien., 1858, No. 26.) Czermack —Physiol. Untersuchungen mit Garzia's Kehlkopfspiegel. [On the Laryngeal Speculum.] (Sitzungsber. d. Wien Akad., 1858, No. 12, pp. 557 —584.) (Schmidt, vol. loi. No. 2, p. 160.) Price.—On a Convenient Instrument for examining the base of the Tongue and Epiglottis. Lancet, Dec. 24, 1859, p. 643. Edward Smith gives the results of a series of experiments on the quantity of air inspired and carbonic acid expired, with the rate of pulsation and respiration, ist. In the whole of the twenty-four hours, with and without the excretion of food; 2d, the variations from day to day, and from season to season; and 3d, the influence of some kinds of exertion. The apparatus he employed consists of a spirometer to measure the air inspired, capable of registering any number of cubic inches; and an analytical apparatus to extract the carbomc acid gas and vapour from the respired air. The former is a small dry gas-meter; the latter, a desiccator of sulphuric acid to absorb the vapour, aRESPIRATION. 63 gutta-percha box, with chambers and ceUs, containing caustic potash and offering a superficies of 700 inches, and lastly, a second desiccato^ to retain the vapour which the expired air had carried off from the potash box. A smaU mask is worn to prevent any air passing into the lungs without first passing through the spirometer. The amount of carbonic acid expired in the twenty-four hours varied from an average of 24-274 ounces in Smith, to 16-43 ounces in Dr Frankland. The quantity evolved in sleep was 4-88 and 4-00 grams per minute, and 6-i grains at different times of the night The whole quantity evolved in the six hours of the night the author estimates at 1950 grains. Hence the total quantity of carbon evolved m the twenty-four hours, at rest, was, in Smith Tiaa ounces ' ' The quantity of an- inspired in the working-day varied from kSo cubic inches per minute in himseK, to 365 cubic inches in Dr. Trankland. The rate of respiration varied in different seasons as well as m difi-erent persons. The depth of inspiration from qo cubic mches to 39-5 cubic inches. The respirations were to the piJsations as 1 to 4-63 in the youngest, and as i to 573 in the oldest. One half of the product of the respirations into the pulsations gave nearly the number of cubic inches of air inspired in some of the persons, and the proportion of the carbonic acid to the air inspired by them varied from as i grain to 547 cubic inches to as i grain to 58 cubic inches. The variation in the carbonic acid evolved in the workmg-day gave an average maximum of 10-43, and minimum of 6 74 grams per minute The quantity increased after a meal, and de reased from each meal, so that the minima were nearly the same ofa wTr^' ^^'i The effect of a fast of forty hours, with only a breakfast meal, was to reduce with food, to render the quantity nearly uniform throughout the day, with a little increase at the hours when food had usul b en taken and to cause the secretions to become alkaline. The variations from day to day were shown to be connected Mdth the reEn of waste and supply on the previous day and ni.ht so that wlfl f health, good night-rest and sufficientLd, thet« ^^^^^^^^^^^ was considerable on the foUowinj; morning T. V ever-acting cause of variation-r dTmLutfon .n X T "J St^'wm" '-^'-rfre rose:"Xrlr:~ effect. Walking at two nule, per hour induced an exhaMon of64' REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MKDICINR. 18" I grains of carbonic acid per minute, and at three miles per hour of 25-83 grains. While the effect of the tread wheel at Coldbatli fields Prison was to increase the quantity to 48 grains per minute. MuLLEU analysed air in which rabbits and small dogs had been asphyxiated, and found that when the volume of air was exceedingly small the oxygen disappeared almost entirely from it, while the carbonic acid gas rose to from 10 to 15 per cent. If the volume of air was greater than the volume of the animal, the oxygen remaining was seldom under 5 per cent. When the experiment was so made that the animal always breathed fresh air—the expired gases being removed—it was found that fi-om 6 to 7 per cent, of oxygen in the atmosphere sufficed to support life. When the animal was put into a small volume of pure oxygen gas and allowed to die there, nearly the whole oxygen disappeared ; whereas if the volume of oxygen in which the animal was placed was considerable, it became asphyxiated when the carbonic acid gas amounted to from ,56 to 58 per cent., and the oxygen had diminished to from 20 to 36 per cent. A more complete account of Miiller's experiments is to be found in the 'Ann. d. Chem. u. Pharm.,' cviii, pp. 257—31 ^> Dec, 1858. The conclu- sion drawn from them is, that nearly the whole of the oxygen can be extracted by the living blood from the inspired air, and so quickly too that it is highly probable that it enters into direct chemical combination with the constituents of the blood, a smaU portion only remaining physicaUy absorbed. In tliis respect Miiller's results are opposed to the theory of Magnus, and confirm the experunents of Harley ^ The chief features of respiration lie, it appears, in the fact, that while the constituents of the blood go on absorbmg the oxygen, and thereby diminishing its volume (and consequent absorption-pressure) they at the same time continue to yield up a constant supply of carbonic acid, which, graduaUy surmountmg the absorbing capacity of the blood, becomes exhaled. BuiMMEYEu's experiments on hydrogen, oxygen, carbomc acid, and atmospheric air, led him to believe that gases, m pa^smg tlirough moist membranes, obey the law of absorption. WiEDEKHOLD says, that from a number of careful observations that he has made, he has come to the conclusion that the lungs, hke the skin and kidneys, excrete inorganic as well as organic sub- stances On coUectiug a large quantity of expired air, and testing 1 ' Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev.,' vol. xxxvi, Oct. 1856, p. 4«.V 165 RESPIRATION. it with suitable reagents, he found that it contained cliloride of sodium, uric acid, urate of soda, and also urate of ammonia, as well as a small quantity of urea. He was even able to obtain these sub- stances in a crystalline form. Eernet and Meyee have both studied the influence of the salts in the blood on the absorption and exhalation of the gases. Experi- ments with carbonic acid and an aqueous solution of carbonate of soda showed, that while one part of the gas is chemically com- bined, the other remains free in the solution. The quantity of gas remaining in solution is, however, smaller than (according to Dalton's law) it would be in pure water. The more concen- trated the solution, the less free gas. The carbonate of soda, by combining with the carbonic acid, becomes a bicarbonate. A somewhat similar result is obtained with carbonic acid gas and a solution of phosphate of soda. When the salt used, however, is chloride of sodium, no chemical combination is observed to take place—^physical absorption only occurs. The serum of ox-blood behaves towards carbonic acid gas in the same way as the solutions of carbonate and phosphate of soda. A solution of carbonate of soda, or of phosphate of soda, takes up a quantity of oxygen greater than that taken up by pure water. A solution of common salt, on the other hand, absorbs less; and serum, again, chemically unites with a quantity of oxygen, over and above what it retains physically mixed with it. Nitrogen is absorbed by all the solutions, according to Dalton's law only. If blood be long exposed to a stream of carbonic acid gas, the blood-corpuscles are destroyed, whereas they are not affected by either oxygen or hydrogen gas. Smith's aim in this communication is to show the variations in the influence of food. His method of inquiry is, to take a moderate quantity of a single article of food alone, before breakfast, whilst the body is at rest and in a sitting postui-e, and to deter- mine the influence every ten or fifteen minutes during a period of about two hours. The results obtained led the author to conclude 1st. Tliat pure starch scarcely increases the amount of carbonic acid evolved; but with the addition of gluten.and sugar, as in the cereals, causes an increase of about two grains per minute. 2d. Eats lessen the amount of carbonic acid evolved, but increase pulsation. 3d. Sugars increase the exlialation of carbonic acid to the maximum extent of from 1-5 to 2-5 grains per minute in 566 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. about half an hour. Cane is more powerful than milk sugar, and still more so than grape. Acids increase the maximum influence of sugar. 4th. Milk increases both the pulsation and the carbonic acid, the latter to a maximum of nearly two grains per mniute. All the component elements have a similar effect, but new milk is much more powerful than any of its elements separately, or than any artificial combination of them. 5th. Tea and coffee increase the production of carbonic acid to the extent of from one and a half to three grains per minute. Tea is more powerful than coffee, and coffee than chicory. Cocoa is as powerful as coffee. Acid added to tea makes it more stimulating; alkalies make it more sootliing. 6th. Alkalies differ in their effect, both as regards the kind and different sample. Spirits of wine always increases the quantity of carbonic acid evolved to a maximum of less than one grain per minute. Eum commonly increases it, sometimes to one and a half grain per minute. Ale and stout increase it to upwards of one grain per minute. Sherry wine (three ounces) commonly increases it. Brandy and gin, and particularly the latter, always decrease it. Whisky varies in its effects. The inhalation of the volatile elements of Avine and spu-its, and par- ticularly of fine old port, lessen the quantity of carbomc acid, and increase the amount of vapour exhaled. The non-excitants are starch, fat, some alcohols, and coffee-leaves. The respiratory excitants are sugar, milk, the cereals potato, tea, coffee, chicory, cocoa, alcohol, rum, ale, some wines, gluten, casern, gelatin, fibrin, and albumen. ^ ,7 , x x All the "respiratory excitants" mcrease the depth, but not the rate, of respiration. Some of them produce much greater effect when a smiu dose was given, and frequently repeated, than when the whole quantity is taken-such as tea. The evolution of carbon is greater than the amount contained m the excitant. Aenold made a number of experiments on ammals (stunned by a blow on the head), in order to ascertain the movements of the thoracic muscles during respiration. The raismg of the ribs and the widening of the thorax is still possible after section of the pec- Wand sfrratus magnus muscles, wliich proves that they axe not essential to respiration. During gentle respiration the abdominal, Sove much more than the thoracic ribs. Tliis is m consequence "action of the diaplu-agm. The first rib does not mov Tt aU, except in deep inspiration. Dunng the raising of the67 VITAL CAPACITY OP THE LUNGS. true ribs the internal as well as the external intercostal muscles contract. Turk and Czermack employed Grazia's larynx-speculum in order to study the movements of the various parts of the larynx during the acts of respiration, swallowing, and speaking. The mirror of the spe- culum is a four-cornered glass or metal plate, from six to foui-teen lines (Austrian) in diameter; it is attached to a piece of wire, by which it can be passed into the back of the tliroat. In order that the breath may not dim its surface, it is slightly warmed before being used. It was ascertained that—ist. In normal respiration the vocal cords are so wide apart that the fingers may be passed between them. 2d. In forced inspiration the opening is widened. 3d. In forced expiration sHghtly contracted. 4th. In speaking, the vocal cords move rapidly. The sharper the tone the closer they approach each other, &c. Price's instrument is abnost the same as Grazia's. VITAL CAPACITY OF THE LUNGS. Geist -Altersverenderungen der Athtnungscapacitat. (Froriep's neue Notizen 18S8, No. ^yP-321-326; No. ^^, pp. 337-346. (An extract from the author s work on Old Age—eflfect of, on the Vital Capacity ) Schnepf-Capacit^vitaledu Poumon, ses rapports physiologiques et pathologiques avec les malad.es de la poitrine. [The Relation between tSe Vital Capacirand Pulmonary Affections.] PaWs, 1858. i'li-ii.;'ana Arnold.—Ueber die AthmungsgrBsse des Menschen. TOn the H.,min Vifoi Capacity.] (Die physiol. Anstalt in HeidelbcrK, pp. 146-154) ^ ^^'^.f^'^V^''^"''"l"'"'' dimensions du corps dans certaines classes d ammaux determinant la capacite et des mouvements fontionel es d! Poumons et du Coeur. [On the Laws which Re^nl«fp fv Lungs, &c.] 4to. £r«,rWi8s7. ' ^'^'^ ^'^ulate the Capacity of the Schnepf.—De la circonference de la poitrine et de IVla^tmif^ ^« 1 paJ^rapport k la capacite vitale du Pouln T ' / ference and Elasticity of the Thorax o^ Vitd C^^^^^^^^^^^^ S^^T Paris, 1857, No. 5,. p. 795.) Capacity.] (Gaz. Med. de The preceding articles treat of the vital capacity of the lun^s as measured by the spirometer, and the value of that in^trumenf "f+r diagnosis of pulmonary disease. ArWs r.^t^T\^^^, special notice, as from very careful experiment. V ^"^^^^^ made on the human subject he has shSw th. '^T''^"' inspired by a healthy individual can be^l a lake exactitude if the following facts betpt^ rie^-^^^^^^^^68 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. vital capacity of a man increases with his stature, in the proportion of 9-6 cubic inches for every inch in height. If, therefore, a man of 6 a inches in statui-e possesses an average vital capacity of 172-8 cubic inches, another of 68 inches stature wiU have a breathing capacity of 230-4 cubic inches, and a third person, 72 inches in height, a capacity of 288-8 cubic inches. 2d. In men the vital capacity increases with the circumference of the chest in the same ratio, namely, 9-6 cubic inches for every inch of increase in thoracic circumference. If the chest measures 26 inches, the vital capacity will, on an average, amount to 165-12 cubic inches. With a thoracic ch-cumference of 3a inches it will increase to 222-7 cubic mches; and if the cii-cumference be as much as 36 inches, the vital capacity will be no less than 226-12 cubic inches. 3d. The mobihty of he chest has a great influence over the vital capacity. Its value increases with the stature and with the circumference of the chest. 4th. The vital capacity increases from the fifteenth to the thirty- fifth year of age nearly 10-2 cubic inches, and sinks from the thirty- fifth to the sixty-fifth about 57-5 cubic inches, at different periods and in different proportions. S^^- Tte position occupation, and mode of life have an undeniable influence on the breathing-capacity. It is at its maximum among sailors, soldiers, and strong young men with out-door occupations; at its medium among mechamcs, com- positors, and pressmen; and at its minimum among paupers and the Tpper classes' 6th. In women the vital capacity is abso utely and relatively less than in men. It increases m the female sex at the rate of 6-4 cubic inches for every additional mch m height, and with the circumference of the chest in similar proportion. Arnold gives a very complete set of tables for calculating the vital capacity of any individual; the height, thoracic circumference, mobihty, &c., being taken into account. DIGESTION. r..,u^^ -On the Composition of the Animal Portion of our Food and its relation Gllbert.-On the comp p ^^.) LanL^eS^oS^e Le Food collection in the South Kensington Museum. Cor^sS-O-n imperfectly known Function of the Pancreas. (Lancet, .6th Feb., ,859. P-2.°9 ) ^. ei„„irkung des pancreatischen Saftes ^^t^ X^r^T.^ on Albumen.] (G.ttinger gelehrte Anzeigen, August, 1858, pp. i4S—'S5-)DTGESTION. 69 Brinton.—On tlie Digestion of Protein Substances by the Pancreas. (Dublin Quarterly Journal, August, 1859, P- ^94-) Funke.—Ueber die Function des Pancreas. [On the Function of the Pancreas.] (Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 97, pp. 21—25.) Berard et Colin.—Memoire sur I'extirpation du Pancreas. [On the Extirpation of the Pancreas.] (Bullet, de I'Acad. de Med., Feb., 1858, pp. 250—264. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 35, and following.) Corvisart.—Some Remarks upon the Criticisms lately made upon the Digestion of Albuminous Bodies by the Pancreas. (Lancet, i8th June, 1859, p. 605.) Moleschott.—Lehre der Nahrungsmittel fur das Volk. 3d ed. Erlangen,'i8s8. [A Popular Treatise on Food.] The first edition of this work was translated into English by Dr. Bronner. Schuh.—Ueber die Bewegungen des weichen Gaumens beim sprechen und Schlucken. [On the Movements of the Soft Palate during Speaking and Swallowing.] (Wien. Med. Wochenschr., No. 3, pp. 33—36, 1858.) Trousseau.—Rapport sur la Ligature de I'ffisophage. [On Ligature of the (Esophagus.] (Bullet, de I'Acad. de Me'd., vol. xxiii, pp. 999, 1062, 1072, 1090; 1858.) Orfila.—Ligature de I'CEsophage. [The same.] (Gaz. des Hop., May, 1858, p- 226.) Blondlot—Sur quelques perfectionnements k apporter dans I'etablissements des fistules gastriques artificielles. [On an improved method of making an Artificial Gastric Fistula.] (Jour, de Physiol., vol. i, 1858, pp. 89-94.) Blondlot.—Nouvelles Recherches sur la Digestion. Premier Partie. Sur le prin- cipe acide du sue gastrique. [New Experiments on Digestion. On the Acid of the Gastric Juice.] (lb., pp. 308—320.) Smith et Brown-Sequard.—Sur la Transformation de I'Amidon en Glucose dans I'Estomac. [On the Transformation of Starch into Sugar in the Stomach 1 (lb., pp. 158, 159.) Bardeleben.-Ueber den Einfluss des Magensaftes auf die umwandlung des starkmehls m Zucker. [On the Influence of the Gastric Juice on the Trans- formation of Starch into Sugar.] (Deutsche Klinik, 1858, No. 16 ) Arnold.—Ueber die verdauung des thierischen Eiweisses. [On the Digestion of Animal Albumen.] (Die physioL Anstalt v. Heidelberg, 1853—1858 ) Coopmauns.-Sulla digestionae dell' Albumina Vegetabile. [On the Digestion of Vegetable Albumen.] Torino, 1858. Florent.-Sur la digestion [On Digestion.] (Compt. Rend., Jan.. 1858, pp. 17,18.) nes.] (Schmidt's Jahrbuch., vol. 98, pp. 153 and 858. Valentin Lvs that it contains nothing either clear or new.) ^'"'ptot^^'^rfr J^y^^.'^Si^ der Verdauungs-organe. [Contribution to the IMiysiology of the Digestive Organs.] (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiv, pp. 140- ^'^fr;~."f'I Nahrstoffcinsbesondere uber die Erdphosphate n TeTJLirT. [On Inorganic Food, esp S ; "1. I08, p 35'. ' " °' ^"""^ Lieb. innal! experimental data, show- ing that the largest part of the solid substance of the animll body70 REPORT Oti THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. is fat. On the other hand, the dry, nitrogenous matter, even in- cluding the wool in the case of sheep, is less than half, and sometimes even less than one third, of the quantity of dry fat. Only a small proportion of the increase of a fattening animal is nitrogenous substance. Therefore the relative value of fattening- foods depends more on the digestible, non-nitrogenous, than on the nitrogenous material they contain. It appears, therefore, that the admixture of animal with farinaceous diet does not increase, but diminishes, the relation of the flesh-forming to the fat-formmg capacity of the collective food. Coevisart's experiments upon the pancreatic fluid have led inm to the same conclusions as those arrived at by Pappenheim and Purkenje many years ago, namely, that the pancreas, as well as the stomach, secretes a substance capable of transformmg protem matters into peptone. He thinks that " the pancreatic jmce is m- tended to act upon that part of the albuminoid substances which have left the stomach before being transformed into peptone; and that a secondary duodenal dyspepsia may result from a faulty pancreatic secretion. It may be cured, he says, by treatment suited to gastric dyspepsia. . Kbfeestein and Hallwachs experimented with pancreatic jujce obtained from an artificial pancreatic fistula; but did not find that it possessed the power of digesting albumen, and transforming it into peptone. On the contrary, they thought the effect Comsart described was simply due to putrefaction. ^ . „ , The title sufBciently indicates the object of M. Corvisart s second paper He relates only one new experiment m support of his views regarding the power possessed by the pancreatic jmce of digesting wd-boiled white of egg. He says that thixty-five grammes of albmnen were completely digested in a dog's duodenum m the space of fifteen hours, and that the reason why Iveferstem and HaUwachs failed in their experiments was on account of their em- ploying pancreatic juice secreted under abnormal cu-cnmstances. ^ BuiNTON finds that the action of an infusion of the pancreas on coac^ulated albumen is very irregular. It sometimes disso ves a large quantity, and sometimes none at aU. The pancreatic solution, he savs is much slower in its action on albumen than gastric jmce ^equ Sg from two to six times longer time for its effects to be well 3ed He says, too, that the action of the pancreatic flmd is Accompanied m some cases by a putrefaction, which m others isDIGESTION, 71 incomplete, but discernible tlirough a change in the odour of the mixture. The action is generally increased by the addition of a small quantity of alkali, diminished by the addition of a few drops of acid. He found, too, that the same infusion which, made from a perfectly fresh pancreas, has no action, energetically dissolves coagulated albumen in its subsequent stages of putrefaction. Although he admits that the action of the pancreatic solution in digesting albumen is " quite specific" to the organ, and is absent from the saHvary glands, he yet doubts that it dissolves albumen in the hving body. It may be well to remark that Brinton does not expressly state whether the specimens of pancreas he used were taken from animals kiUed during digestion or fasting. And that this is a point of great importance in deciding the question, for, as Corvisart has shown, the juice of the pancreas from the fasting animal has little or no power over coagulated albumen. Pu>rKE, again, who operated much in the same way as Brinton, came to the conclusion that pancreatic juice has in reality the power of transforming albumen into peptone. Beuaud and Colin extirpated the pancreas from four young dogs, two pigs, a goose, and a duck; they aU grew and Hved to be adults. From their experiments Berard and Colin conclude that the pancreas is not essential to the absorption bf fatty matters ScHUH observed the movements of the soft palate during speaking and swallowing on a woman, set. 36, who had part of the left cheek removed by operation on account of disease. TuoussEAu's report on the effects of ligatui-e of the oesophagus is tavorable to the opimon expressed by mostly aU writers on the sub- •''"t..;* ^^'^^^i^t ligature of the oesophagus is invariably fatal. 2. it the ligature be removed witliin twenty-eight hours, the animal may recover. 3. In the latter case, a fistulous opening in the neck IS not unfrequently formed. 4. Pasting animals live longer than those operated on with a full stomach. In the establishment of artificial gastric fistulse, Blondlot pro- poses to replace the canula by means of a gutta-percha, cork or ivory stopper, introduced by the mouth, and drawn into the wound by means of a string. In his recent researches on digestion, he behevcs that he has been able to confirm his previously ^ub! hshed opimon regarding the acidity of the gastric juice. It depends, he thinks, on the presence of the acid phosphate of lime (PoAO)!73 llEPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Smith and Bkown-Seqtjaeb call attention to a fact already well known—namely, that starch is transformed into sugar in the stomach. Baudeleben imagines that the gastric juice itself has the power of producing tHs transformation. Other observers believe, however, that when starch is changed into sugar in the stomach, some saliva or mucus secretion fi'om the oesophagus or other part of the digestive canal must have mingled with it, for pure gastric juice out of the stomach has not the power of changmg starch into glucose. Arnold found that uncooked white of egg is not coagulated in the stomach, and that, other thmgs being equal, it is more rapidly digested than hard-boiled. rLOiiEXT Prevost confirms the fact that many birds alter their food at different periods of life; some begin by living on insects, then change to corn, afterwards returning to insects. All ot the tore- going papers contain valuable information. We have not, however, space to give a fidler abstract of them. Btjsch relates the very interesting case of a woman, set. 31, witn a jejunal fistula (wound made by builds horn), on whom he made a series of experiments. He ascertained-ist. That the tem- perature of the intestines does not increase durmg digestion. 2(1. That the sensation of hunger does not depend on the stomach berng empty (She felt hungry even when the stomach was quite tun.) od The peristaltic action of the intestines is not constant, (it entirely ceased fi-om 11 o'clock at night to 4 o'clock in the mormng. This state of repose occurred whether she was asleep or awake; whether she had taken supper or gone to bed fasting.) 4th. AnU- peristaltic as well as peristaltic movements exist, f-'^'f';^'^ Lee is always alkahne. 6th. It transforms starch into sugax but does not change cane-into grape-sugar. 7tt- Albmnen and fibrin are dissolved in the intestines. 8th. A mixture of gastric, pan^atic, and intestinal juices along with bile, dissolves albumen, even when the mixture is neutral or alkahne. LEHMA.-K made a number of experiments on calves, with the vi w of ascertaining if their food contains sufficient ^afy salts for t^^ ^owth of their bones. He has given his results in a t bula^ fZ The foUowing is one of the most instructive of the tables, as it Thows-(a). That the metamorphosis of the tissues during ou^ dTys is tolerably regiilar. (^). That the quantity of the solids exited in the first forty-eight hours is about the same as m the last, although the quantity of water is less.DIGESTION. 73 1^ p. o to ^ o N VO VO o\ ■<(- O P r* P p 00 b PI M 00 ■<»• OV 00 o <X5 O "1 s VO o VO 00 C 00 b vb ov 00 vb O o o vb ov o o 00 fito vp o o o o o <^ o Ov 00 o S g 00 o "5 o 00 o o o at 2 fi- ll o o -a •a a <4 o O o o -O ;S O 03 a o T3 O o .a a C u a •c -a a Cl, o Ac O 13 CO CO S C! -a J3 O <3 •r ft b "> O 60-a :e s PS o CO <u CO S3 u a t3 .s CO O . .a •o • B7i REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. From the results given in this and other tables, Lehmann con- cludes—I. Tiiat calves often receive too small quantities of lime and phosphoric acid; while they, at the same time, receive an excess of magnesia, a. That hay is the food which furnishes to the calf the greatest amount of material for the growth of the bones. 3. That the mineral substances required for the growth of bone (lime, magnesia, and phosphoric acid), when given in the form of powder, are digestible. ('Canst. J.,' p. 158.) ABSORPTION. Waller.—Experiments 011 some of the various circumstances influencing Cutaneous Absorption. (Proceedings of Royal Society, No. 36, p. 122.) Funke.—Ueber das endosmotiscbe Verbalten der Peptone. [On the Endosmotic Equivalent of Peptone.] (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiii, pp. 449—462.) Canstatt, vol. i, p. 43, and following, jj-^^-^ig —Physiologie der Endosmose. [Physiology of Endosmose.] (Froriep's neue Notizen, vol. iii, 1858, Nos. i and 2. This paper is an extract of the chapter on Endosmose in his Text-book.) Haidenhain.—Die Absorptionswege des Fettes. [On the Absorption of Fat.] (Moleschott's Unters., vol. iv, p. 251.) Eeclam.—Experimental-Untersuchungen ueber die Ursache der Chylus und Lymph- bewegung und der Fettresorption. [An Experimental Inquiry into the Origin of Lacteal and Lymphatic Circulation.] 4to. Leipzig and Heidelberg, 1858. Basslinger.—Ueljer die Chylusgefiisse der Vogel. [On the Lacieals of Birds.] (Zeitschr. f. Wissenschaft. Zoologie, vol. ix, pp. 301—303.) Kohler.—Ueber den Unterschied inder aufsaugung zwischen hungernden und gefiitterten Thieren. [On the Relative Rapidity of Absorption in Animals Fast- ing and Digesting.] 8vo. Marburg, 1858. Meder.-Aorta abdonunali subligata, vasa lymphaticse non resorbere experimentis demonslratur. [Experiments on Absorption by the Lacteals.] 8vo. Gryphics, 1858. , . , Schwanda—Ueber die quantitat derinbestimmten Zeiten und unter verschiedenen Umstanden abgesonderten Lymphe. [On the Quantity of Chyle formed in a given time.] (Wiener Med. Wochenschr., 1858, pp. 236—249.) Kohnhorn.—De Cataracta aquK inapia effecta. [On the Artificial Production of Cataract.] Gryphiae, 1858. "Waller says that one of the sunplest modes of demonstrating the existence of cutaneous absorption is by unmersing the leg of a young guinea-pig in a mixture of equal parts of chloroform and tincture of aconite. In fifteen minutes the part will be found insensible, and, after a short time, symptoms of poisoning supervene —even death. The influence of age, or of thickening of the cuticle, can be demonstrated in the same way; if an adult animal be75 ABSORPTION. employed, no poisoning, but only local insensibility and slight disturbance of the respiration, &c., supervene. If the cliloroform be omitted (under the same circumstances as first related), neither local insensibility, death, nor, indeed, any symptoms of poisoning, are observed. Section of the sciatic nerve in the adult animal increases to such an extent the power of cutaneous absorption in the paralysed limb, that the animal is even poisoned by immersion of the lamed extremity in simple tincture of aconite. Waller tliinks this arises jfrom the paralysis of the blood-vessels, allowing the blood to flow faster witliin them. The foot, after division of the nerve, is, on this account, both hot and red. Ligaturing the limb, although it impedes the power of absorption, is less efficient than might be anticipated. On substituting atropine for aconite, and an albino rat for a guinea-pig, he was able to measure the absorption more readily. A solution of atropine in chloroform (half a grain to a drachm) dilates the pupil after the foot has been immersed in it from two to five minutes. Immersion of one limb dilates both pupils equally. The local effects of the immersion are—heat, redness, and swelling of the foot, accompanied sometimes with extravasation of blood from some of the smaUer vessels. The part is less sen- \ sible; but in no case insensible. When a solution of atropine in t turpentme is employed, the pupil scarcely, if at aU, dilates during the immersion J but immediately after the removal of the limb the dilatation commences. After two or three minutes' immersion the animal shows signs of pain, and much inflammation of the part I follows the employment of this solution. Atropine and alcohol.—Dilatation of the pupil can only be obtained m this case after from twenty to thirty minutes Atropine in water, with the addition of sufficient acetic' acid for its solu ion -Dilatation only occurs in tliis case after thirty minutes. Waller found that contrary to what might have been expected, the pupds dilate when the foot of the rat is kept five minutes ii^ ■ a sok ion o half a gram of the acetate of morphia, twenty drops of > alcohol, and one draclim of cliloroform. With a solution of I strychnine and chloroform, the pupils dilate after three minutes' immersion; after five, spasms come on; and in two minutes a ter the removal of the foot from the mixture death ensues. In strvch : 'Z;!:^^ — thirty-five^m^^t76 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. From the above-cited observations it appears that the rapidity of cutaneous absorption greatly depends on the menstruum employed for dissolving the poison. As albumen undergoes during the digestive process an important change before it passes tlirough the walls of the intestines into the blood, it is possible that tlie object of this change is to render it more easy of absorption. Funke put this theory to tlie test, and ascertained that peptone has a very much higher endosmotic equivalent than simple albumen. A solution of peptone, made by digesting wliite of eggs in artificial gastric juice prepared from the pig's stomach, is as rapidly absorbed by the'intestines as a solution of sugar, whereas only the smallest quantity of pure albu- men passes tlirough the intestinal walls. Haidenhain says that the roots of the epithelium-cells lining the frog's intestine have long, fine fibres attached to them (hke what Gerlach described in the brain); which enter the mucous membrane, and end in little swellings. If the frog is made to swallow oil, and the intestines be afterwards examined, the epithe- lium-cells, the fibres, and the swellings at their extremities, are all found filled with oil. I'rom this he concludes that these fibres form a system of hollow tubes, which communicate with the lacteals. This communication has not, however, been observed. Reclam made a number of experiments in order to show that the exhalation of watery vapour from the lungs and skin excites a cur- rent (of fluids) in the tissues. And further, that the rapidity of in- testinal absorption depends upon the rapidity of the cutaneous and puhnonary evaporation. (His experiments scarcely admit of this conclusion.—Valentin.) Basslinger observed a network of lacteals in the mtestmal walls of the goose, and a quantity of fat-globules in the chyle. Kohler's experiments were made with the view of ascertaimng whether poison acts quickest on animals whUe digesting or fasting. He found that fasting animals were most slowly poisoned, and this he supposes arises from their circulation being slower. The effect was most marked when the poison was not introduced into the stomach, but into the subcutaneous ceUular tissue. Meder found that after ligature of the abdommal aorta, the lymphatics do not take up strychnine. _ ScHWANDA calculated the quantity of chyle passing tlirough the thoracic duct (of dogs) in one hour. The maximum quantity he77 SECRETION. found to be 7*839 grm. in an animal weighing 7740 grm. The minimum 0*314 grm. in one weighing 13,303 grm. KoHNHOUN examined the effect of removing the water from the frog's body by evaporation, or by giving the animal sugar, salt, &c. He found that frogs live until they lose from thirty to forty per cent, of their weight. At first the respiration is increased, but after- wards it becomes laboured, and the heart's action diminished. If water be rapidly given them, the animals take it up, and actually became heavier than they were at fii-st. The fluids of the eye do not appear to be proportionally afi'ected. The cornea becomes flattened, and the lens sometimes dim. On giving large quantities of salt to dogs, cats, and rabbits, he found, as Kunde said, that cataract is induced. SECRETION. Inman.—On the influence of Vitality on Secretion. Brit. Med. Jour., 30th April, p. 350. And on Excretion, nth June, p. 461. 1859. Spender.—Remarks on Dr. Inman's Paper, 4th June, 1859. Brit. Med. Jour., p. 442. Gasne.—Recherches sur la Transpiration dite insensible. [On Insensible Transpi- ration.] 4to. Pam, 1857. (A compilation of known facts.—Valentin.) Funke.—Heitrage zur Kenntniss der Schweis-secretion. [Contribution to our Knowledge of Cutaneous Perspiration.] (Moleschott's Untersuchuneen, vol iv X858, pp. 36-57.) ^ Leconte et Demarquay.—Memoirs sur les phenomenes pathologiques, physio- logiques, et chimiques, produits par les injections d'air, d'azote, d'oxygSne d'acide carbonique, et d'hydrog^ne, dans le tissu cellulaire et le peritoine. [On the Effects of the Introduction of Air, Oxygen, Carbonic Acid, and Hydro- gen into the Cellular Tissue and Peritoneum.] (Compt. Rend., vol xlvi March, 1858, pp. 632—633.) Bernard.—Sur les variations des couleurs dans le sang veineux des organes glandu- laire. [On the Variation of Colour in the Venous Blood of Glands.] (Compt Rend., vol. xlvi, Jan., 1858, pp. 159-165. Journ. de Phvsiol., ,8,8, pp' 233 — 241.) • 5 . l-F- Bemard.-De I'influencede deux ordres de nerfs qui determinent les variations de couleur du sang veineux dans les organes glandulaires. [On the Influence of he Nerves m Determining the Colour of the Venous Blood of Glands 1 (Compt. Rend., July, 1858, pp. 245—253.) Bernard--Sur la quantite d'oxygene qui contient le sang veineux des organes glandulaires a I aat de fonction et a I'^tat de repos. [On the Quantity of Oxygen ,n the Venous Blood of Glands during the period of Active SecreLn and of Repose.] (Compt. Rend., August, pp. 39 ,-400.) Gluge et Thiemesse.-Notes sur la coloration rouge de sang veineux. fOn the Red C_olour of Venous Blood.] (Bullet, de 1' Acad, de BruxeUeS, 1858^ No.tREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 78 Czermack.—Ueber die Beiliiilfe der nerven zur Speichelsekretion. [On the Iii- lluonce of tlie Nerves on liie Salivary Secretion.] (Moles. Untcrs., vol. v, pp. 73—90-) Eckard.—Tbe same. II. u. Pf.'s Ztschr., vol. v, p. 334. ludwig'ind Spiess.—Vergleiehung dcrWarme des Unterkiefer Driisenspeichels und des gleicliseitigen carotidenblutes. [On the Difference in Temperature of the Saliva from the Submaxillary Gland, and the Carotid Blood.] (H. u. Pf.'s Zeitschr. fur ration. Med., iii Reihe, vol. ii, pp. 361—367.) MILK. ScMossberger.—Menschliche Milch von ganz enormen Fettgehalt. [Human Milk containing an immense Excess of Fat.] Annal. der Chem. u. Ph., vol. 108, p. 64. Trommer.—Ber Eiweissgehalt der Kuhmilch. [On the Albumen of Cow's Milk.] Deutsche Klin., 42, 1858. Monier.—Nouvelle methode pour 1'analyse du lait^ au moyen de liqueurs titrees. [New Volumetric Method of Analysing Milk.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, 1858, pp. 236 and 425. LIQUOR AMNII. Maiewski. — Substantiarum, quae liquoribus Amnii et AUantoidis insunt rationib'us diversis. [On the Composition of the AUantoid, and Amniotic Fluids.] Dissert, inaug. Dorpati, 1858. In his first paper, Inman points out tliat excessive secretion is a more frequent concomitant of debHity than of strength, and brings forv^ard many cases in illustration of his views. Spender, in liis remarks on the paper, thinks that Inman has confounded two essentially different processes—active and passive secretion, and believes that whenever we have an augmented secretion, as the result of weakened power, we ought to regard it, not as an exaltation of a physiological act, but rather as a purely physical process. In his second paper, Inman implies that aU excretions have a certam degree of vitality, which prevents their undergoing decomposition, and that the decomposing process begins when the vitality is destroyed; consequently he regards the vitality of an excretion as the criterion of a patient's strength; the quicker the excretion decomposes, the weaker bebg the vital power of the mdmduai who passed it. . . , to- < ]?UNKE calculated the quantity of sweat given out by different parts of the body during an hour or an hour and a half of active79 SECRETION. exercise. The experiments were made upon himself—by covering 1 up a portion of the skin with a piece of caoutchouc, and so at- I tachmg a little flask that the perspiration ran into it as soon as formed. He reckons that the whole body yields from 53-040 I *o ^^5'337 grm. (from about 20 to 27 oz.) per hour- and ,1 of sohds, from 0-923 to 6-967 grm. He found a volatile acid, i but no lactic acid, m the sweat; also a large per-centage of urea [I but no unc acid. Scherer in his review (' Canstatt,' vol. i p 184) ' gives the following table: f Moderate exercise in a room . Ditto Ditto Active exercise in a room . . Ditto Very moderate exercise . . Very active exercise . . Moderate exercise ... * Temperature in shade. (Celsius.) Active out-door exercise . . Ditto Moderate out-door exercise . Active exercise in the room . Ditto . [ Active exercise on a cloudy day'. 22"5 19° i8°s 21° 20° 20° 27° 31° 27°S H° 2I°8 •3° Perspiration in one hour. GRAMMES. 309-628 101-762 117-300 77-435 115-498 74-443 180-523 53-040 267-784 115-702 513-400 815-337 485-758 236-300 391-153 618-970 561-765 215-067 Solids in perspiration. GRAMMES. 3- 625 1-383 1-373 0- 923 1- 262 1-514 I-3S7 1-303 4- 286 6-967 5-100 3909 1-699 Leconte and Demaequay examine anew the chancres which different gases undergo when iniected .-r^+n fi "^^^^ cellular tissue or into the peritoneZ A. ^^bcutaneous in this caae, besides oxZtheatre , 7.1 " ' ^l"^"^'"' present. The wholeof the hv,!,; i ' *™ " "'t"?™ When carbonioSt inrecW Tf''"'^^'"" after sixty-two boL. -ygen, aU the cart n^^'ae f btf 1' ^T.'^'"^ -'"8™ and -y*e .nntes. Tbesel^S.^^^80 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. results follow the injection of the before-named gases, either into the peritoneum or subcutaneous cellular tissue, although some of the gases (especially oxygen) did not entirely disappear for a week In experimenting on dogs and rabbits, Bkrnaed observed that the blood returning from the kidney by the renal vein was of as bright a scarlet colour as that going to it by the artery. He further observed that this state of things only existed so long as the secre- tion of ua-ine continued. If from any cause the unnary secretion was temporarily arrested, the blood returning from the kidney had the usual venous hue. The same thing was observed to occur in the blood of the submaxiUary gland. That is to say, durmg the time the gland was secreting saliva, its venous, had the same colour as its arterial blood. On the other hand, while the gland was m a state of repose, in as far as the secretion of saliva was concerned, the blood in the vein was of the usual purple tint Bernard fur- tber observed that section of the nerve-twig which the gland re- ceives from the lingual branch of the fifth-this twig, properly speaking, comes from the seventh, and only accompames the fifth Lugl a certain part of its course-immediately arrested he saUvafy secretion, and caused the blood in the vem to resume he usual dark coloui-. Whereas, when galvamsm was appbed to the peripheral end of tbe divided nerve, the secretion was resumed, and th venous again resembled the arterial blood m coloux. Thus, i would seem that the effect of functional activity, upon the co our of The Uood of glands and of muscles, is reversed; for it is weU kno^vn that he more actively a muscle contracts, the darker is the hue of SfvenouT blood. Bernard promises to explain the peculiar action of thTdand-tissue above alluded to in a future commumcation. g J^L Thxebkesse obtained somewhat different results from tho!e jrmentioned. They studied the question on the ki^ey and maxillary glands of two dogs, on the kidneys and pa™ fs of i hoC on both submaxiUary glands of a sheep, and las ly on rnrj of a rabbit and another dog. Theconclusionsare hat- xs^ The venous blood of the kidney durmg repose is as dark ^ fwf in tbe inferior cava. ad. Dm-ing the tmie the kidney is tt L urine the blood becomes purple-red, but never attains the St scaZ hi of arterial blood. 3^- The venous blood from SlSf and submaxmary gla,ids remains dark in colour even when the secretion is active.81 SECRETION. ■ It must be left to future research to clear up the discrepancies of these different experiments. CzERMACK found that the application of electricity to the cervical sympathetic, under certain conditions, first increases, then arrests, the flow of saliva from the submaxillary gland. Eckaed found that I the secretion differs in appearance and in chemical properties according as the sympathetic or the Hngual nerve is stimulated. LuDwiG and Spiess found that the temperatui-e of the saliva II secreted by the submaxillary gland, when galvanism is applied to S its nerves, is gi-eater than that of the blood from which it is secreted. The difference of temperature being i-8 degree. This fact proves that the process of secretion, like many of the other animal functions, is attended with a notable increase of heat. On analysing the milk from the hypertrophied breast of a woman, set. 26, ScHLOssBERGER found it of a specific gravity of 0-98—0-99, whereas that of normal milk is i-03-1-046. The milk contained in 100 parts— Water Solids Noimal milk (Becquerel and Vernois). 67-52 . . 89 — 87 32-48 . . II _ 13 I00"00 28-54 . . 0-6 — s-66 Fat . Sugar and extractive "1 matter . . / • • 2-5 — 5-9 Casein 2-74 . . 3-9 Inorgauic salts . . 0-41 . , 0-05 — 0-33 (CansL, 167.) \ Trommer confirms the opinion of Heynsius regarding the presence of albumen m the normal milk of the cow. (Schmidt, vol 102 No. 7, p. 5.) • ^' MoNiER found that the casein and albumen in acidulated milk possess the power of removing the colour of cameleon; and upon thjs he has founded a method of estimating the quantity of these substances Sugar-of-milk and butter have no effect upon the colour The albumen, for example, he calculates by taking 10 c c )f milk at a temperature of 45-50° C, adding to it a drop of acetic icid which separates the casein and butter, filtering, and then add- ng his standard solution of camelcon. The author, in his second 'aper, gives a method for calculating volumetrically the quantity )t starch m any solution. ^ ^REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. B2 Majewski found that the pure liquor aninii collected from the cow and the sheep is at first fluid and colourless. After standing, it becomes of a slightly opaque-yellow colour, and glutinous feel. The allantoid fluid is more or less of a brownish-yellow, accordmg to the age of the embryo—something of the colour of urme. From the pig, it gives a deposit. Both fluids are alkaUne; both contain sugar (not found in the human subject), albumen, and urea. ('Canst.,' 185.) ON PARTICULAR ORGANS—LIVER, HEART, SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES, ETC. M'I)onneU.-On the Physiology of Diabetic Sugar in the Animal Economy. Dublin Quarterly Journ. of Med. Science, August, 1859. „ ^ c pavy-On Lesions of the Nervous System producing Diabetes. Proc. Roy. Soc, LeJai^-Ueber die Bildung des Zuelzer in der Leber. [On the Saccharine Function of the Liver.] (Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 97, 1858. PP- „. Moreau-Experiences relatives a la glucogenic, &c. [Experiments on the Glu- oogenic Function.] (Gaz. Med., May, 1858,^302-) Fuchs —The same, Oct., p. 630. . PoiseuiUe et Lefort.-De I'existence du Glucose dans I'organ.sme animal, &c. [Srthe ExSence of Glucose in the Animal Body.] (Compt. Rend., .858. April, pp. 241 and 279 ; March, p. 565; J"ly. P- ' P" . C0lin.-ief origine du sucre du chyle. [On the Origin of the Sugar m the Chyle.] (Compt. Rend., June, 1858. p. 1264.) nf Sncrar Sanson -De I'origine du sucre dans I'economie animale. [On the Origin of Sugar in the Animal Body.] (Journ. de Physio)., p. 244. 1858.) ISgSt-Rapp:;; ru/t'memoire de M. Sanson. [Report on Sanson's Paper.] (Bullet, de l'Acad.de Med., July, 1858, p. 9S3-) ^ . w m„ the Moos-Untersuchungenueber die zuckerbildende Fu-t-n der Leb r [On the Saccharine Function of the Liver.] (Archiv f. Gemem. Arbeit., vol. iv. 1858. X. rirth.'tw'i Ha^oUr-PrUsa^^^ Selskabets Kgl. danske Vidcnsk. Selsk. Fouhandlinger, ,857. No. 8. /''";*,' P" ^?; Rnhnttin-Ueber cinige kunsthche Umwandlungsproducte durch d,e Leber. [On ^'^°?e Artificial Formation of some Hepatic Subs.ances.] Wund. Arch., part u. n ^^6 part v Henle und Meissner, p. 256. Canst., vol. 1, p. 1O7. 'z, r aLSr ■ ^z!:?.:^;!XoZ^^^: .m. .... -.i. p. 227.83 LIVER, HEART, ETC. Gluge.—Notes sur le foie et le rein gras physiologique. [On Fatty Liver and Kidneys.] (Bullet, de I'Acad. de Bruxelles, 1858, pp. 293—295.) Nasse.—Ueber einige Verschiedenheiten im Verhalten der Leber hungernder und gefiitterter Thiere. [On the Difference in the Livers of Animals when Fasting and Digesting. (Archiv f. Gemein. Arbeit., 1858, part i, pp. 77—98. Henle and Meissner, p. 256. Canst., vol. i, p. 662.) Kottmeier-—Zur Kenntniss der Leber. Wurzburg, 1857. (Chiefly upon the effects of ligaturing the hepatic vessels.) Canst., vol. i, p. 62. Arnold.—Ueber the Gallenmenge, welche bei Hunden mit Gallenblasenfisteler im verhiiltniss zur art der Nahrung. [On the Effect of Food upon the Secre- tion of Bile.] (Die Physiol. Anstalt zu Heidelberg, pp. 91—98.) Hosier.—Untersuchnngen ueber den Uebergaiig von stoffen aus dem Blut in die Galle. [On the Passage of Substances from the Blood into the Bile.] (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiii, pp. 29—46, 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 62. Henle and Meissner, p. 256.) Kemp. —Ueber die Function der Gallenhlassenschleimhaut. [On the Function of the Mucous Membrane of the Gall-Bladder.] (Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 97, 1858, pp. 281, 282. Canst., vol. i, p. 62.) Schlossberger-Analyse der galle des Wels. [On the BUe of the Whale.] Liebig's Annal., vol. cviii, p. 66. Canst., vol. i, p. 181. tuschka.—Die Driisen der Gallenblase des Menschen. [On the Glands of the Human Gall-Bladder.] H. u. Pf's Zeitschr., 3 Reihe, vol. iv. Oidtmann.—Die anorganischen Bestandtheile der Leber und Milz und mehrerer anderen Dinisen. [On the Inorganic Constituents of the Liver, Spleen, and other Glands.] Von der med. Fakultat zu Wurzburg gekriinte Preisschrift. Linnich, 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. i68. Joseph.—Die Ringe und Klappen des Menschlichen Herzens. [On the Valves of the Heart.] Virchow's Arch., vol. xiv, pp. 244-270, 1858. Schmidt, vol. 103, No. 7, p. 12. luschka.—Ueber die Lage des fordern Randes der Lunge. [On the Position of the Anterior Margin of the Lung.] Deutsche Klinik, No. 28, 1858. Canstatt p. 24, vol. i. ' MuUer.-Ueber die chem. Bestandtheile des Gehirns. [On the Chemical Compo- sition of the Brain.] II Abhdlg. Liebig's Annal., vol. cv, p. 361. Canst vol. 1, p. 168. BLOOD-GLANDS. PhiUpeaux.—Notes sur I'extirpation successive des deux capsules surrenales [On the Extirpation of the Supra-renal Capsules.] (Compt. Rend., Feb. 18 ss' pp. 420—422.) Henle and Meissner, p. 256. ' ' Brown-Sequard.—Nouvelles recherches sur les capsules surrenales. [New Researches on the Supra-renal Capsules.] (Compt. Rend., Dec, 1857, p. ,0,6 Journ. de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 360—373.) ^ ^" surrenales. [On the Supra-renal Capsules.] (Gaz Med. de Pans, 1858, No. 24.) -' ^ Vulpian.-Sur les granulations graisseuses corame ^^ments morpholodaue normaux des capsules surrenales. [On the Presence of Fat as a normal ele- ment of the Supra-renal Capsules.] Gaz, Hebd., vol. v, No. 33.)84 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. Zellweger. — Untcrsuclningcn ueber die Nebennieren. [On tlie Supra-renal Capsules.] Franenfeld, 1858. Canst., p. 74- Fomeris -Sur les fonclions du corps thyi&id. [On the Function of the Thyroid Glami.] (Gaz. M6d. Sardi., 1858, No. 12, p. 89. Gaz. llebdoin., No. 41, Friedleben —Die Physiologic der Thymusdruse in Gesundheit, und Krankheit. [On the Pliysiology of the Thymus Gland.] Frankfurt, 1858. Henle and Meissiier, p. 257. Scherer-Ueber das Vorkommen des Guanins in der Pancreas-Druse des Ochen. [On the Presence of Guanin in the Pancreas of the Ox.] Verha.idl. der kgl. bayer. Akademie der Wissenschaften und Virchow's Arch., 1859. Canst., vol. i, p. 168. . Soberer -Xanthicoxyd, ein normaler Bestandlheil des thier. Organ. [Xanth.c Oxide a normal constituent of the Animal Body.] Sarkin u. Hypox. identisch. Liebg. Annal., vol.cvii, p. 314- Canst., p. 168. Strecker -Ueber das Sarkin. [On Sarkin.] Liebig's Annal., vol. cviii, p. 129. Strecker —Ueber die Verwandlung des Guanins in Xauthin. [On the Trans- formation of Guanin into Xanthic Oxide.] Liebig's Annal., vol. cvui, p. 141- Canst., p. 168. M'DoNNELL endeavours to give a simple and, at the same time, faithful account of the history and present condition of our know- ledge of the origin of sugar, and the changes it is liable to m the ammal economy. The paper, which occupies twenty-seven pages, will be found, he believes, of peculiar value to those whose multi- farious professional occupations prevent them from searching out for themselves, from the immense mass of material which has during the last few years accumulated on this subject, what is substantiaUy true, and what is incorrect. . , • i + „ Paty says, that the sugar formed m the liver is due to a j^.*^- norten occurrence, and that during hfe there is a force capable of overcoming the chemical tendency to a saccharme metamorphosis^ Division of the spinal cord, as high up as between the second and third cervical vertebra, does not produce saccharine urme. Alter pdson?ng an animal by strychnine, the circulation being mamtained by artificial respiration, the urine becomes ^^^ongly sacchanne According to the author's views, it would appear that the meduUa oblongata is the centre of the force preventing he formation 0 sugar in the living animal. Division of the cervical sjnnpathetic 0 of the ascending branches of the superior thoracic ganghon on bo h ^ides of the neck, occasions an intensely marked diabetes, ihc tZtes is still more marked after removal of the superior cervical ^%tisbn of the sympathetic in the chest he several times found85 ON THE LIVKR. to be succeeded by saccharine urine. Excision of the superior cervical ganglion in the rabbit, with division of the pneumogas- trics above their gangliform enlargement, and close to their exit from the skull, is, he says, followed by diabetes. Lehmann gives a review of the recent researches on the gluco- genic function of the liver. Mobeatj examined the portal blood of two dogs that had been restricted to a flesh diet during some time, and found sugar absent. Wliereas, in the blood of the hepatic vein of one of them, sugar was detected. He accounts for the absence of sugar in the blood of the hepatic vein of the other, by saying that the animal was in a sickly condition. It being a known fact, that in sickly animals the liver secretes little or no saccharine matter. PoiSEUiLLE and Leeort confirm the existence of sugar in the livers of fish, frogs, birds, and mammaha. The same authors also found it in the livers of two dormice dui-ing the period of hybernation. They further ascertained that the muscles of cats, dogs, sheep, calves, horses, oxen, and pigs contain a small quantity of sugar durmg digestion, but not during fasting. From expe- riments made upon dogs that had been fed during six weeks on flesh only, they conclude that the sugar found in the bodies ot animals is not derived directly from the food, but actuaUy manufactured by the liver. Moreover, they still hold to Bernard's tHeory, that it disappears in the lungs through an oxidizing process. Colin does not agree with PoiseuiUe and Lefort as to the origm of ammal sugar. Although he does not deny the exist- ence 0 the saccharme function of the Hver, yet he says that a certain quantity of sacchanne matter is absorbed into the system from the food and that the sugar found in the lacteals and in the thoracic l^vs^rV.^ '''^'^ '^^'"'^^ ^^<i« ^ quantitative M of the sugar contamed in the chyle and in the lymph, and Animal. Chyle. Xymph. 0" . . . Horse . Ditto . Foal . Dog . Ditto . o-io6 per cent. o*i4i „ 0-I28 „ o'io2 per cent. 0-II2 „ °iS8 >, °"'3S „86 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Sanson says that fresh healthy blood does not contain any sugar, but that after standing from four to eight hours exposed to the air, sugar can be detected in it. This is in consequence of fresh blood containing glucogcne, which, by fermenting, becomes trans- formed into sugar. Sanson further states that the animal body has not the power of forming glucogene. That the herbivora obtain it directly from the vegetable kingdom; the carnivora indi- rectly through the flesh of the herbivora. PoGGiALE gives a report on the researches of Bernard and Sanson. He states that the Commission appointed by the Aca- demy of Medicine, consisting of Bouley, Longet, and himself, after performing several experiments on different animals, came to the conclusion that the liver possesses the power of forming gluco- gene, irrespective of the kind of food. That it is formed in greatest quantity, however, when the diet is vegetable. They agree stiU further with Bernard, in saying that glucogenic matter holds a middle place between starch and dextrine. Moos made a quantitative analysis of the sugar in the livers of healthy rabbits and dogs, and compared it with the quantity found in the livers of the same species after section of the pneumogastric nerves. His results are confirmatory of the previously known fact, that the quantity of sugar in the liver diminishes rapidly, and finally disappears, after section of the cervical pneumogastric. He further found that galvanism applied to the spinal cord of frogs renders them diabetic, while at the same time it increases the quantity of urine. He also states that whatever increases the action of the sympathetic, especially its cervical portion, augments the formation of sugar in the liver. The quantity of sugar in the liver fluctuates greatly. During digestion it is at its maximum; during fasting at its minimum. In the livers of pregnant rabbits the quantity is small, and it is frequently entirely absent in those killed by poison. The food wliich tends most to increase the quantity of sugar in the livers of rabbits is bread, potatoes, and boiled starch. Nasse says that glucogene appears in the cells of the liver in the form of small granules. The Commission appointed by tlie Danish Academy to examine Schiff's memoir on Diabetes, consisting of Hannover, Escliricht, and Scharling, report that the paper shows—ist. That sugar is actually formed in the liver, and not collected there from other6s THE LIVER. 8!^ organs. 2d. That the sugar comes from the transformation of a substance resembling starch (glucogene), which substance can be detected by means of the microscope in the cells of the Hver. The transformation is caused by an animal ferment. 3d. Artificial dia- betes, from injury to the nervous system, is the result of hyperaemia. The blood-vessels being widened either from the paralysis of one set of nerves, or increased stimulus of another—narcotic poisons, gal- vanism, &c. 4th. Neither section of the vagi, nor injury to the spinal cord, arrests the secretion of sugar in the liver. The latter operation, on the contrary, increases it. 5th. Hepatic and grape- sugar are identical. ScHOTTiN found that liver freed from blood, connective tissue, and wen washed—i. Transforms cane- into grape-sugar in from eight to ten hours, and in the course of other twenty-fours hours into lactic acid. a. Changes fibrin into leucin, and a small quantity of t}Tosin. 3. If, after the sugar has fermented, a few drops of oil are added to the hver and well shaken, the oil disappears in a few hours, producing at the same time a second fermentative pro- cess. He confirms Lehmann's statement regarding leucin not being found in the hver till some hours after death. Benvenisti has already, in a former paper, declared that the sugar found in the animal economy comes from amylaceous food. He unagines, too, that starch, under the influence of sahva, can be changed into fat. Berthelot says that the organic part of the skeleton of the ver- tebrata chiefly consists of a nitrogenized substance, insoluble in cold water; but soluble in the alkaUes, and nearly alHed m its chemical characters to albumen. As is known, this material yields gelatin by prolonged boilmg. On the other hand, the organic part of the skeleton of the invertebrata is quite difi-erent from anytliing resem- blmg gelatin. Its nature varies,- sometimes it is hke the cornea at other times it is closely allied to the substances found in the vegetable kmgdom-cellulose. To it he gives the name of tuni- cine. This substance is transformed by strong sulphuric acid into sugar. Gluge claims the priority of observmg that a fatty condition of the hver IS a normal state in young animals. Nasse calls attention to the mterestmg fact that the weight of the liver varies with the88 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. period of digestion. The livers of fasting animals, he found, weigh much less tlian those of the same species of animal killed during the time of digestion. Arnold has repeated his researches on the effect of different kinds of food on the quantity of bile. He found tliat a dog, for every two pounds of its weight, secreted in twenty-four hours— Food. Bile. 57 to 60 grammes black bread . . . 9-0 grammes. 96 grammes fresh meat ir6 „ Mixed diet lo-o „ While fasting 9-0 „ The solids in the bile in the case of the bread diet weighed 0-256 grammes. In the flesh diet 0-541 „ In the fasting 0-260 „ Arnold's experiments were made on dogs with biliary fistulse. MosLEE injected from five to ten grammes of grape-sugar into the jugular vein of a dog, and failed to detect it either in the urine or in the bile. When twenty grammes were injected into a vein it reappeared in the urine, but not in the bile. The same result was obtained after the injection of tliirty or forty grammes of sugar. It was not until from sixty to eighty grammes were injected that it reappeared in the bile. "With cane-sugar forty grammes were found sufficient to impregnate the bile. One gramme of iodide of potas- sium injected into the blood can afterwards be detected in the bile, whereas ten grammes of nitrate of potash cannot. Sulphate of copper, when taken into the stomach in the form of pill, appears in the bile in four days. Calomel, when given in doses from one and a half to tliree and a haK grammes, cannot be detected in the bile; neither is the quantity of bile secreted thereby augmented. Benzoic acid, when given by the mouth, is not afterwards found in the bile. Kemp finds that the mucus of the gall-bladder causes neutral bile to become alkaline, and give a deposit with weak acetic acid. FucHS injected bile into the veuis of animals with the intention of giving them jaundice; but it made the animals ill without pro- ducing that result. He believes, therefore, that jaundice is not the effect of a reabsorption of bile, but a non-secretion of it. -89 ON THE I,IVEIl. ScHLOssBEKGER found the bile of the shad-fish of a yellow-brown colour and peculiar fishy smell. On analysis (compared with the python's bile) it gave in loo parts— Shad-fish. Python. Water .... Biliary acid salts Mucus and colouring matter 9448 3 63 023 1-48 90.42 846 0-03 089 According to Luschka's observations there are from six to fifteen grape-shaped glands in the mucous coat of the human gall- bladder. They consist of a tunica propria, surrounded by bands of areolar tissue. No epithelium is found lining their inner walls, but their cavities are filled with fine granular debris. OiDTMANN analysed the liver, spleen, and several other organs, the results of which analyses Scherer (in his review of the mono- graph) has given in the following table {see next page).RKPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. a a a •* o d r-i 4) IS P 2 a I "■a tn U3 S O «o O ^ ^ O »o 6 b 00 b 00 M 8 b : ^ § a ■a in m 0) S3 > 3 ir'j O n vo p b bv o 00 " O t^-VOVO rv t-00 oovooo-"-"" 6 00 d f^.ob o lO »'3 ON O O M \0 00 I- o o o o - o b b O "t ON O " ■* p ^ p b oT b t^OO r~ 00 ~ 2 2 « ^ 9 p b> b b b b OS o *^ o #s o : o o : b b b b M 00 PC O ^ W ON ON M »0 O O lo o p p o p V) \o M b b o b VO "5 o Ov O 0\ O N o 00 VO « 00 ov O r- ■« b b b to Ov rt-vo ^ t:-Q_ 00 - privo VO V5 Ov Cv - "H" »-" O vO fCvO O —T* ^ o O ^ f*~. p p O - bbbbbb^aT'b VO O O O o o o o o o b b b 0>or~'Ct^i^"VO VO « W VO O^OO — O VO »n ON«^o~oppfopp p in V b b b b b b b b o o VO o o i 8 8 b b w VO ff!00 "1 O rCOO O Ov N O fOvO O N "5 " O t^vo 2 o 00 So»«op«^pp p Vf. ;^ M b b b b b b b b o 088 000 b b b c o .is ' ' ' a luS « - o S a. = £-T3 t2 y *- y "G 5 «*- 4j o -n s . . 'S .^000HEART, SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULES, ETC. 91 Oidtmann, from these and other results, drew the following con- clusions : I. That the inorganic constituents of glands increase with the age of the individual. 2. The watery constituents are in inverse proportion to the age. 3. Disease alters the quality of both water and inorganic salts. 4. In the liver and muscles lime is found in greater quantity than soda. 5. In the spleen (in consequence of the quantity of blood) there is more potash than soda. 6. CUorine exists in small quantity in both liver and spleen. 7. The liver contains more phosphoric acid than the spleen. 8. The Hme is in small, but the magnesia in stiU smaller quantity. 9. The propor- tion of iron is large. 10. Copper and lead are both present, but not always. In his paper on the valves and apertures of the human heart, Joseph says that all four apertures—the two venous as well as the two arterial—have in general the same structure, being com- posed of elastic fibro-cartilaginous tissue; have almost the same form; but are of various sizes. The valves are likewise composed of elastic fibro-cartilage. This article is abnost the same as the the author's thesis ('De Anatomia Cordis," &c., 1857). It is generally thought that the anterior margin of the right lung extends to the left edge of the sternum. Ltjschka says that opposite the insertion of the second rib it reaches three quarters across the sternum; but from that point downwards it gradually ceases to extend so far, and it only occasionally reaches as far as the left margin of the sternum. MuLLEE says that on boiling cerebrin with hydrocliloric acid he obtained first a reddish-violet colour, and then a brown resinous substance, insoluble in both acids and alkalies. With nitric acid it gave a yellow colour and a wliite fatty-looking body. With cold sulphuric acid, a dark-red colour, and a yeUow flocculent substance. Cerebrin is not acid. Philipeaux has extended his experiments on animals, and found that not only can both supra-renal capsules be removed without any fatal result, but that even the spleen and the thjToid glands may be extirpated from the same individual (the rat) without causmg the death of the animal. BRowN-SEquARD attempts to explain away the success attending the operations of Philipeaux and Harley, by saying that these gentlemen only operated on animals having no pigment deposit in their tissues (albinoes), and consequently those which, according toREPORT ON TIIH INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 93 Brown-Sdquarcl's idea, do not require supra-renal capsules. An explanation since shown to be quite untenable, as Pbilipeaux and Harley M ere equally successful in their experiments .on coloured animals. VuLPiAN again calls attention to the peculiar red colouring matter of the medullary substance of the supra-renal capsules. He has not yet been able to isolate it; but he finds that it is not con- tained in the cells (Virchow), but in the blood. It is soluble in alcohol. The colom- is not so marked in man as in sheep, oxen, &c. In diseased capsules it is occasionally entirely absent, and in those of the fostus it is very slight. In his other paper Ytjlpian confirms the statement of previous writers concerning the presence of fat-granules in healthy supra- renal capsules. Zellweger analysed chemically the supra-renal capsules, and found that in the new-born cliild they contain in loo parts—77*4 water, 22'8 organic matter, and 0*4 ashes. The ox's, on the other hand, contains in 100 parts—72*1, 25'6, and 2-3; the pig's— 72*2, 257, and VI. The ashes consist chiefly of phosphates. PoMERis revives the opinion that the thyroid gland is a diverti- culum for the excess of the cerebral supply of blood. This, he says, is particularly the case during sleep, at wliich time the gland becomes so distended with blood that it increases considerably the circumference of the neck. According to Eriedleben the thymus increases in size up to the time of puberty; although after birth up to that time its size to that of the body is relatively less. From puberty to manliood it is stationary; and after this it begins to disappear. Friedleben says the same tiling occurs in the lower animals. Like Bischoff", Tried- leben observed it to be occasionally absent in well-developed cliildren. The juice of the thymus, Friedleben says, has always an acid reaction — which disappears when the gland begins to putrefy—and the ashes left after incineration are only in part soluble in water. They consist of chlorides, phosphates, and sul- phates of soda, potash, Hme, and magnesia. The organic matter is albumen, gluten, sugar, fat, colouring matter, and lactic acid. The quantity of ash is greater in the calf than in the ox; the thymus of a calf, ten days old, contains 10-226 per cent, of inorganic matter; whereas that of an ox, eighteen months old, has only 3-317 per cent. The quantity of water is also greater in the thymus of the calf. A93 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. rich diet, of albuminous, fatty, and saline food, increases the size of the th}Tnus and the amount of its secretion; but an entirely fatty diet causes it to disappear. Starch diet first increases the secretion, then diminishes it, and at length causes atrophy of the gland, as happens in starved animals. Priedleben found that extirpation of the gland is not fatal to young dogs; and that when both the thymus and spleen are extirpated the preparation of the blood and the nourishment of the body are defective; so much so that after a time all the animals operated on die of a species of inanition. When the thymus alone is removed the spleen increases in size. The urine is also found to be diminished in quantity. ScHEUER detected guanin in the pancreas of the ox. He says that there can be no doubt of the substance found in the pancreas being the same as that obtained from guano, —i. From the elementai-y analysis. %. The characteristic combination with hydro- chloric acid. 3. The insolubibty in pure water. And lastly, the reaction with nitric acid and potash. Strecker found in the juice of flesh a substance which he named sarUn {Q^^^f)^ ; but which is iji reahty the same as Scherer found and previously described under the name of hypoxanthin. The test for it is,—when heated on a spatula with weak nitric acid, it forms a yellow substance, wliich, on the addition of potash, gives a reddish-yellow solution. This solution on being evaporated to'drynes's leaves a fine dark purple-red matter. Scherer and Strecker are now both of the opimon that hypoxanthin and xanthic oxide are identical The latter substance Scherer found in normal urine, liver spleen pancreas, brain, and muscle; and in the blood in disease Strecker' m his last communication, says that guanin can be transformed into xanthic oxide through the agency of nitric acid. Guanin. "i^ii^^ + HO N ON THE GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. Hassall.—The Urine in Health and Disease. Plates fivn nn r ^REPORT ON TUK INST1TUTK8 OP MEDICINE. 94 Seller—On the Natural Acid Reaction of the Urine, and on the Determination of the Proportions tlierein of Uric Acid and Urea, as applicable to Practical Medicine. Edin. Montlily Med. Journ., Jan., 1859. Carter.—On Indican in the Blood and Urine. Edin. Monthly Med. Joum., Aug., 1859, p. 119. Fleming.—Clinical Observations on Injuries and Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Dub. IIos. Gaz., p. S, vol. vi, Jan. 1st, 1859. Hicks.—New Tests for the Kiesteine of Pregnancy. Lancet, 17th Sept., 1859, p. 281. Beale.—On 'he Preservation of Urinary Deposits as permanent Microscopic Objects. Archiv. of Med., No. 4, p. 331. Beale—On Blue Deposit in the Urine, from a patient aet. 83, sent by Dr. Eade. Beale.—Reraar'^s on the Formation of certain Urinary Calculi, and of the Dumb- bell Crystals of the Oxalate of Lime. lb., p. 305. Beale —On the Straight Vessels in the Pyramids of the Kidney. lb., p. 300. Beale".—A Course of Lectures on the Urine, Urinary Deposits, and Calculi. Pub- lis'hed in the Brit. Med. Journ, 1859, beginning at p. 271. Hinffer —On the Connexion of the Heat of the Body and the Excreted Am'ounts of Urea, Chloride of Sodium, and Urinary Water, during a Fit of Ague. Trans. Med.-Chir. Society, vol. xlii, p. 361. •Wpiihaiier und Voeel —Anleitung zur qualitativen und quantitativen Analyse des Hants. [On the Analysis of the the Urine.] Wiesbaden. 1858. Third edition, dp M2. Henle and Meissner, p. 260. Canst., p. 191. T^pW-Ueber Kreatin und Kynurensaure im Hundeharn. [On the Presence of Creatine and Cynuric Acid in the Urine of the Dog.] (Annal. der Chemie und Pharm., VOL cviii, p. 3S4- Renle and Meissner, p. 260.) Sclliff.-Z"f Nachweisung der Harnsiiure. [On Uric Acid.] (An. Chera. u. Phar., vol. cviii, p. 65. Henle and Meissner, p. 260.) V BabO und Meissner.-Ueber das Verhalten der Harnsaure zu der Feb ing schen Kupferlosung. [On the Behaviour of Uric Acid towards Fehhng's Liquid for the Detection of Sugar.] (Zeitschr. Rat. Med., vol. ii, p. 321- Henle and TTallwLX-Uet'rden Ursprung der Hippursaure im Harn. der Pflanzenfresser [On the Origin of the Hippuric Acid found in the Urine of the Herb.vora.] 4to. Gottingen, 1857. nrUwacr-Der uebergang der Bernsteinsiiure in den Ham. [On the Transit ^*^7Snic Acid into the Urine.] (Liebig's Annal., 1858. vol. cvi, p. .60. raiiiit D iQi. Henle and Meissner, p. 260.) , . , rn„ Wpissmam-Ueber die Bildung der Hippursaure beim Menschen [On the ^ OrSS'Hippuric Acid in Man.] (Henle u. Pf.'s Zeitschr.. vol. n, pp. 33i- Mack-Zu'Sn'e'si'der Hippursaure im Organismus. [On the Origin of Hippuric Acid in the Animal Economy.] (Archiv f. gemeins. Arbeit.. vol...v, IQetSsiy-Ueberdn'neues muthmassliches Vorkommen des Xantbins. [On ^'^hTprLnce of Xanthic Oxide.] ((Estr. Zeitschr., No. .8. ,858.) Canst., TToMer-Ueber das Vorkommen des AUantoins im Harn. [On the Presence of AUantoine in the Urine.] (Zeitsch. fur die ges. Naturw., 1857. P- 336.)95 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. Neubauer—Ueber OxalsaureBildung. [On the Origin of Oxalic Acid.] (Archiv fiir gemeinschaft. Arbeit., vol. iv, part i, p. i.) Cruse.—Quicritur, quae vis diversis saccharum in Urina Diabetica investigandL nietliodis sit attribiienda. [On Saccharine Urine.] Regiomonti, 1857. Bruecke.—Ueber die reduzirenden Eigenschaften des Harnes gesunder Menschen. [On the Property of Reducing the Oxide of Copper possessed by Healthy Urine.] (Sitzber. d. Vien. Acad., vol. xxviii, 1858, pp. 568—575. Henle and Meissner p. 260.) Bruecke.—Ueber das Vorkommen von Zucker im gesunder Menschen. [On the Presence of Sugar in Normal Urine.] (The same, vol. xxix, 1858, pp. 346 —350. Henle and Meissner, p. 260.) Brock.—De diabete mellito. Berlin, 1857. [0" Diabetes.] Already known. (Valentin.) Stadfeldt.—Nogle Jagttagelserom Glycosurien. [On Diabetes.] Copenhagen, 1857. lowenthal.—Empfindliches Reagens auf Traubenzucker. [On a Delicate Test for Sugar.] (Jour. Pract. Cheni., vol. Ixxiii, p. 71. Henle and Meissner, p. 270.) Vierordi—Bemerkungen ueber medizinische Statistik. [Some Remarks on Medi- cal Statistics.] (Wunderl. Arch. f. Phys. Heilk., vol. ii, 1858, pp. 220—227.) Sick.—Versuche ueber die abhangigkeit des phosphorsiinre gehaltes des Urins von der phosphorsaure zufuhr. [On the Relation between the Phosphates in the Food and the Phosphates in the Urine.] (Wunderlich's Archiv, 1857, pp. 482 —503-) Zrabbe.—Om Phosphorsyremmangden. [On the Phosphates.] Copenhagen, 1857. Hammond.—Ueber die Ausscheidung der Phosphorsaure. [On the Excretion of Phosphoric Acid.] (Archiv f. gem. Arbeit., 1858, pp. 108—116.) Porcher.—Sur I'absence de I'Uree et de I'acide dans I'urin des individus atteints de fi^vre jaune. [On the Absence of Urea and Uric Acid in the Urine of Yellow Fever.] (Jour, de Physiol., 1858, p. 422.) Kletzinsky.—Ueber die hypochlorite, hyposulphite und die Benzoesaure in ihrem Einfl. auf den Stoffwechsel. [On the Influence of Benzoic Acid, &c. on the Metamorphosis of Tissue.] (Qlstr. Zeitschr., No. 41.) Sirelius.—Om Ursemie. [On Uremic Poisoning.] Hehingfors, i8<!8. fNo abstract.) ^ leconte.—Procede de dosage de I'uree par I'hyperchlorite de soude fOn the Method of Calculating the quantity of Urea by means of the Hypochlorite of Soda.] (Compt. Rend., vol. xlviii, p. 237.) Becquerel.-De la non-existence de I'aibumine dans les urines normales, et de 1 infidel.te de 1 action du chioroforme comme reactif de I'aibumine. [On the Non-ex.stence of Albumen in Normal Urine, and the Uncertainty of Chloroform in Detecting it.] (Compt. Rend., No. 21, Nov., 1857 ) rL^f'il'.ih""'^ 'IV'^rf""'' '''''''' Pyophosphorique comme Re ain a7"" "T^Itt °' Pyrophosphorxc Acid as a Re-agent for Albumen.] (L'Union Med., No. 12 1858 ) Klingner -De urinae humana; partibus. [On the Composition of the Human Unne.] 1857. Contains nothing new. (Valentin) Geist-Beschaffenheit des Hams bei Greisen. (Froriep's neue Notiz.. vol. i, 18.8, PP- 3S3-3S7-) An extract, on the Composition of the Urine out of the author's work on Old Age. (Valentin.) 'REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 96 Hej/lXSius.—Ueber die Entstcliiing des Ureums. [On Uraemic Poisoning.] (Froriep's neuc Notiz., vol. ii, 1858, pp. 194—198, and 209—212.) Vulpian.—Sm- le contractillte des nrdticSs. [On the Contractility of the Ureters.] (Gaz. Med. de Paris, July, 1858, p. 428.) Cazenave. — Do I'lneilire. [The Urethra.] Jour, de Mdd. Bordeaux, 2me s^rie, No. 7, 1858. Gives apparently nothing new, (Valentin.) Barkow.—Anatomische Untersuchungen ueher die Harnblase (Researches on the Urinary Bladder) des Menschen, nebst Bemerknngen ueber die mannliche und weibliche Harnrohre. (On the Male and Female Urethra.) Fol. 1858. Giraldes. — Note sur un nouvel organ glanduleux, situd dans le cordon sper- matique, et pouvant donner naissance a des Kystes. [On a new Glandular Organ in the Spermatic Cord.] Gaz. des hopit., No. 45, 1858. Hassall says tliat the object of his little work is to afPord an explanation, as simple as possible, of the physical properties, com- position, and uses of the urine; of the function of the kidneys; and, more especially, of the principles of treatment of the chief urinary disorders. The volume is illustrated with twenty-four plates of the various deposits, organic as well as iaorganic, met with in the urine. A few of the plates are copied from Eobin and Verdeil's 'Atlas;' the remainder are original. Hassall states that unwholesome and adulterated food operates as a cause of renal disease—1st. By many of the substances employed in the adulteration of food being in themselves injurious to health, by impairing and deranging the digestive function. 2d. By reducing the dietetic value of the articles consumed; examples of these are furnished in bread, milk, and cofTee. Another fruitful predisposing cause to renal disease are unhealthy occupations, especiaUy employments entaihng the working in ill-lighted, iU-veu- tilated, over-crowded rooms. He says, too, that the mere density of the urine affords an indication of treatment, as it is mainly due to the presence of an excess of urea or sugar. Tlie former denothig an undue waste of tissue, the latter the existence of a special disease. An extremely acid condition of the urme is in general dependent on the nature of the food; but mainly on some error of digestion. A persistent alkahne condition of the urine, on the other hand, is usuaUy not so much dependent on a faulty digestion as on general or local debility. As regards the nature and treatment of cystine deposit, our author says, that as it contains more than 25 per cent, of sulphur, and thereby bears a close resemblance to taurine, it is probable thnt its presence in the ui-ine is due to some disorder of the hepatic97 GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. I function. In the cases recorded, however, such a relationship has I not been traced. Bird thought that it was a product of the scrofu- j lous diathesis, and some others look upon it as hereditary. It I frequently occurs in the urine of chlorotic women. The best plan j of treatment is to correct any disorder of the assimilative functions, ' and attend to the general health. , Haughton derives from experiment the following table, showing I the relation between the specific gravity of healthy urine, and the amount of urea contained in it: Specific gravity. lOIO'O 1010- s lOI i-o 1011- 5 10I2'0 1012- 5 1013- 0 1014- 0 1014- 5 10150 1015- 5 10160 1016- 5 1017- 0 1017- 5 1018- 0 10185 1019- 0 1819-5 Grains urea per ounce of lu'ine. 5- 0 57 6- 6 7- 2 7- 8 8- 4 88 9- 2 9-6 lO'O 10-4 10- 9 11- 2 11-9 Specific gravity. 1020-0 1020- 5 1021- 0 1021- 5 1022- 0 1022- 5 1023- 0 1023- 5 1024- 0 1024- 5 1025- 0 io2S'5 1026- 0 1026- 5 1027- 0 1027- 5 1028- 0 1028- 5 1029- 0 1029-5 Grains urea_per ounce of unne. 12-2 12-4 12-6 12- 9 13- 1 13-3 13-4 13-5 137 13-8 13- 9 i3"9S 14- 0 140 14-0 140 14-0 13-95 13-9 : _ Selleu estimates the acidityof the urine by observing how much ■ IS reqmred to neutralize a solution of caustic soda of given stvenjh He uses a capUary syphon, which delivers the fluid, drop by dSn' into a measured quantity of urine. The standard solution should b^ of auch a strength that it wiU neutralize an equal quantity of wate contaimng 1 per cent, of dry oxaHc acid. He ecomiendr the ordmary method of coUecting uric acid from urine but pro poses a rough way of estimating its quantity, by comparing, i a standard heap of the same substanc . Eor the stTmS of he recommends Liebig^s method. estimation of urea Cakter gives an historical account of the colourino- moff e the ur^e, but omits mentiou.„g r^o-l^^L.^tZI, ^T/J. 7REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES 01' MEDICINE. 98 ment that lias been obtained from it.^ lie relates some ca^es that occurred in the Edinburgh Infirmary. Pleming observed that the urine of a child, suffering from retention dui-ing an attack of remittent fever, resembled, in colour and consistence, substantial chicken-broth, was feebly acid, and had a specific gravity of io x 8-ao. It became a tremulous jelly on cooling; cleared on heating; but again became turbid when the boibng point was reached. The addition of nitric acid rendered it again transparent, and caused it to effervesce with the disengagement of ammonia. It contained no albumen. The child recovered. Hicks recommends the employment of rennet as the best means of detecting kiesteine in urine (two teaspoonfuls of rennet to tlu-ee ounces of urine). The advantages of the rennet, he says, are—ist, saving of much time; 2d, increase of the deposit; 3d, the deposit is nearly free from phosphates; and 4th, nearly free from smell. Kennet has no action on healthy, diabetic, albuminous, or phos- phatic urine. If, to the lower portion of urme containing the deposit of kiesteine, a few drops of a strong solution of ammonia be added, and heat appUed, the deposit is transformed into a semimucus mass, causing the urine to become almost tremulous. Beale says that the principal points advanced in his com- munication may be summed up as follows :—i. That the dumb- bell crystals are formed in the uriniferous tubes, while the octohedral crystals of oxalate of lime are not deposited in the kidney at all, and in many cases not until the ui-ine has left the bladder.^ 2. That under certam circumstances the dumb-bell crystals, if retamed in the tubes of the kidney, become aggregated together, and form the nucleus of a calculus. 3. The nuclei of oxalate of hme, of uric acid, of ui-ate of ammonia, phosphatic calculi, &c., may be composed of dumb-bells. 4. Dumb-bell crystals, like m-inary calcuh, occur at an periods of hfe. 5. The chemical composition of the dumb- bell is, doubtless, the same as the oxalate of Hme calculus, of which it is but an early stage, and consists of oxalate, and not oxalurate of lime. 6. As it has been shown that dumb-bells may grow into small calculi, it is very important to promote their expulsion from the kidney as soon as possible. In his paper on the kidney Beale says that liis researches are confirmatory of Virchow^s views, viz., that the vasa recta, ni many ' ' Verband. Phys. u. Mel. Gesellscb. zu Wurzburg,' Bd. v, 1854; and Erdmann's 'Journ.,'vol. xliv, part s, 1855.GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 99 cases, come off directly from branches of the artery, so that the blood in them does not necessarily pass tlirough the Malpighian bodies. Beale further says that there are two, tliree, or even four, branches of the artery running close to each other for some distance, which at last terminate in the straight vessels, or anastomose with other branches. In cases of obstruction of the trunk of an artery the circulation through its tributaries will still be maintained. And in cases of disease when the circulation tlixough the cortical portion of the kidney is interfered with, part of the blood passes through the straight vessels in the cones and is returned by the veins. ♦Our author dissents from Virchow's opinion regarding the formation of tube-casts only in the straight, and not in the convoluted portion of the uriniferous tubes, and is more inclined to adopt Johnson's view of their formation taking place in the latter. Ringer made his observations on two untreated cases of ague- one of quotidian, and one of tertian—in University CoUege Hospital, under the care of Professor Parkes; and they are recorded in a series of charts and tables, showing the foUowing particulars: The temperature of the body commenced to rise from forty-five to ninety minutes before any change was perceived by the patient and continued to rise during the whole of the cold stage and durmg part of the hot; it feU during the latter part of the hot, and the whole of the sweating stage. The severity of the ht could be determined by the character of the rise whether rapid or with oscillations, and by the variations of the temperature during the several stages; but the charts of temperature, and the comments given at length in the paper, must be consulted in order to exhibit this ckarly. The urea was found to increase during the fit, as stated by Traube. The increase commenced before the feeling of cold, and before indeed the rise in the temperature. The maxi mmn mcrease m the amount of urea was at the end of the cold and at the commencement of the hot stage; and from this point the tShe t ^^^'^^^"^ There were varia! W f-"^'" corresponding to variations in tempera- ture, but often preceding them a little. The amount of increase was considerable (from .00 to 500 per cent.), and wa Ste watertr Ir 1 ^^^^^--^^ ^y the excretion of water The cliloride of sodium passed was also increased and varied with the temperature, but in a much less d g ee The increase was at its maximum at the same period as the urea. The100 IIEPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. urinary water was also definitely increased, and this was quite independent of the quantity of lluid di-unk. M uch more water was drunk than was excreted. The author next relates the observations made upon the same patient when (piinine was given. A scruple taken before the lit, ami just as the temperature commenced to rise delayed the rise for an hour; but had no other effect on the tempera- ture on that day, and none on the urea, cliloride of sodium, and water. Another scruple given at night, after the fit, cured the patient as far as the subjective symptoms were concerned; but did not prevent the increase in the ui-ea and cliloride of sodium occurring at what would have been the fever hour. An effect first noticed by Eedenbocker. In the case of tertian ague almost similar results were obtained. The rapidity of the pulse closely corresponded with the temperature, [n addition to these cases of ague, the author subjoins one of hectic fever, occurring in a phthisical patient under the care of Dr. "Walslie. The subjective phenomena were similar to those of ague, there being a cold, hot, and sweating stage. The temperature fol- lowed the same rules as in ague, and there was also an increase in the ui-ea and cUoride of sodium during the cold and hot stages. There was this difference, however; the urea fell before the rise in the temperature commenced, and increased less after it than in ague. Neubauer and Vogel's work on the uiine is highly thought of in Germany. The tliird edition is much improved; it includes all tlie newest researches, and a chapter on the chemical analysis of urinary calculi. LiEBiG obtained fi-om the urine of a dog that had been, durmg a length of time, fed solely upon meat a large quantity of creatine. The urine, mixed with milk of lime, had stood nearly six weeks, and, as is known, under these circumstances all the creatinine must have become changed into creatine. The same urine, when fresh, yielded only creatinine. The dog, when fed on fat, passed cynuric acid in the urine. The formula of this acid is CifiNH705. ScHiFF says the best test for uric acid is fresMy precipitated car- bonate of silver, a little of which mil detect i-47,5ooth grm. of uric acid by the gray colour wliich it forms. Von Babo and Meissner, repeat Leconte and Boimet's statement, that uric acid in healthy lu-ine reduces the oxide of copper. Viallwachs' and Weissmann's papers are prize essays. Although their researches on the origin of hippuric acid in the urnie ofGENITO-URINARY ORGANS. 101 Jierbivora were made independently, yet both as regards the manner in which the experiments were conducted and the results obtained, there is a general resemblance. The method of extracting the hip- puric acid adopted by Weissmann is as follows :—From lo to 30 c.c. of urme is evaporated nearly to dryness, after cooling from five to ten drops of concentrated hydi-ocliloric acid are added, and then an extract of the whole is made with pure ether' on evaporating which more or less coloured crystals of hippuric acid are obtained. The urine of man contains an excess of hip- puric acid after vegetable diet, whereas after animal diet the acid nearly disappears. The average daily amount of hippuric acid Weissmann gives at 2-170 grms., and on pure animal diet it feU to 0765 grms. He found that after living for seven days on nothing but bread and water his urine contained less hippuric acid than when on animal diet. He concludes from the above, and some expenments that he made on typhus patients, that the acid is not only derived fi-om the food, but also from the protein compounds of j the animal body. In three cases of diabetes the quantity of hip- puric acid was very considerably diminished. Mack says as Eoussm found, that horses when standing in the stable pass very ittle luppunc acid and a large quantity of urea, whereas while working they pass little m-ea and a large quantity of hippuric acid, it is |aot unprobable that the acid comes from an oxidation of the urea Ihis theory, however, is contrary to known facts, namely, that urea ^ ^he least oxidizable product of the animal-tissue metamorphosis i When urea is decomposed it is transformed into ammonia and cari bonic acid. j _Hall^;achs experimented upon liimself and a dog with succinic I acid and found that after taking it in quantity it neither reappeared in the excrements nor in the mine, nor did it in any way au-ment 1 the excretion of hippuric acid. ^ augment Kletziksky examined the excrements of the chameleon, and says that he found therein uric acid, traces of urate of ammonia, small quantities of oxalates and phosphates, traces of biliphain and biliarv acids, together with xanthin and prophylamin. Scherer regards the presence of the two latter as very problematical KoHLEE found that allantoine is present in the urine when the ? respiration is imperfect. ^ ^ Nedbauuk shows how oxalic acid is one of the indirect products ot the retrograde metamoi-phosis of tissue and protein food. It is I102 llEPORT ON TlIK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. increased in the urine after—ist. Vegetable food, ad. Effervescing wines and bicarbonates of the alkalies, 3d. Salts of the vegetable acids. 4th. Highly nitrogenized food (Beneke and Bird). _5th. Constantly in cases of imperfect respiration—emphysema (Lehmann), In convalescence from severe diseases—typhus, &c. The chief cause of the presence of oxalates in the urine is the imperfect oxidation of uric acid. Ckuse compared the relative value of the "fermentation" and " Pehling's method" of quantitatively estimating sugar, and came to the conclusion that the one method is as good as the other, BuuECKE calls attention to the fact that nearly all urines from healthy men become slightly bro-\vn when boiled with potash. Also, that when the sulphate of copper and potash test is employed, there is in general a slight browning, thereby indicatmg the presence of a small quantity of sugar. Bruecke says that the existence of sugar in healthy urine can be put beyond a doubt by adding to every 10 c.c. of urine 54 c.c. of strong alcohol, filtering, and adding to the filtrate a Little spirit made slightly alkaline with potash. After standing twenty-four hours, when the liquid is decanted, the bottom and sides of the glass will be found covered with crystals. These crystals, on being dissolved iu water and tested, will be found to be grape-sugar. LowENTHAL proposcs the use of a salt of iron instead of one of copper, as being a more delicate test for the detection of sugar. It has no advantage over copper, however, and it has disadvantages which the copper does not possess. The object of Viereodt's paper seems to be to correct some remarks made by Eadicke on Kaupp's researches upon the effect of salt on the constituents of the urine. Sick studied upon himself the variations in the amount of phos- phoric acid in the m-ine. He took different quantities of phosphate of soda in the twenty-four hours, and afterwards examined the xtrine, in order to see if all the salt taken reappeared in the urine; and in what form. He began by taking one gramme, and gradually increased the dose to three grammes. The result of the experiment led him to believe that all the phosphoric acid taken is excreted by the urine, and in the same form ; that is to say, it does not appear in the urine as an earthy, but as an alkaline, phosphate. Hammond's experiments were also made upon liimself. He divided the day into three parts. The first from 7 a,m. to i p.m,;103 GENITO-URINAUY ORGANS. the second from i p.m. to lo p.m.; the third from lo at uight to 7 in the morning. He found that he passed the greatest amount of phospliates in the second part, the least during the night, and the medium quantity from 7 in the morning to mid-day. After muscular exercise the quantity of phosphates increased, as well as tlie amount of the urine. The specific gravity of the urine slightly diminished. On taking phosphates internally he obtained similar results to Sick. PoKCHEE says that the urine, in cases of yellow fever, contains neither urea nor uiic acid; but, on the other hand, is often albu- minous. ScHERER says, that the methods adopted by Kletzinsky for esti- mating the quantity of hypochlorites and hyposulplutes in the urine cannot be depended upon, and that consequently Kletzinsky's results are of no value. Kletztnsky says, that after taking ben- zoic acid, the urea is diminished to 24 grammes in the twenty- four hours, and the hippuric acid increased to 9-5 grammes. Leconte employed Davy's method of estimating the urea by means of the hypochlorite of soda, and has given an explauation of the process. The urea is decomposed by the hypoclilorite even in the cold, but much quicker when gentle heat is applied. C,H.NnO, • + 6(NaO, CIO) = 6NaCl + 2CO2 + 7HO + 2N. -^22 The carbonic acid remains in solution, and the nitrogen is set free. Although o-io gram, urea ought to yield 37 c.c. of nitrogen, yet Leconte never obtained more than 34 c.c. Leconte, as Scherer justly remarks, has forgotten to mention that Davy proposed and published the above method of estimating urea some years ago. _ GiGOX states that healthy urine always contains a small quan- tity of albumen, and that its presence has been hitherto over- looked, m consequence of the tests employed for its detection not being sufficiently delicate. Becquekel replies that chloroform the agent used by Gigon for the detection of the albumen in the mine IS a test not to be depended on, and that the precipitate obtained by It is composed of mucus and organic matter, there being not a trace of albumen in normal urine. Gigon again repeated his expe- nments more carefully, and in the above-mentioned paper shows that his first conclusions are correct, and that Becquerel errs in sup- posing that pyrophosphoric acid is a more delicate test for albumen than chloroform. On the contrary, he says that in delicacy it 13 not supenor either to nitric acid or tincture of galls. MoreoverREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 104 Gigon shows tliat urine, from which all the mucus has been removed, acquires a milkiness with cliloroform, and still further, that urine which never contained any mucus at all, gives the same reaction, lie obtained the latter by taking it directly from the pelvis of the kidney of the Hving animal. The urine of the ox, after the mucus has been removed by filtration, gives no precipitate with cliloroform. To prove that the precipitate from human urine is really composed of albumen, Gigon collects, dries, and after- wards redissolves it in acetic acid. The solution gives the reaction of albumen with ferrocyanide of potassium. The quantity of albiunen daily passed in healthy human urine, the author says, is about 2'6 grammes. Heynsius says that normal urine contains no albiunen. On account of the contents of the tubuli uriniferae being acid. The urine, he imagines, becomes albuminous as soon as it is alkaline. VuLPiAN confirms the existence of a peristaltic action in the ureters. His experiments were mostly made upon animals rendered insensible by woorara. The peristaltic action continues even after the ureter is separated from the kidney, which proves that it is not the stimulus of the urine which calls it into action. BarkoVs anatomical researches on the human urinary bladder, together with his observations on the male and female urethra, are, unfortunately, too long for abstract. GiRALDES describes a small, glandular-looking organ in the spermatic cord, near to where the tunica vaginalis propria is re- flected to form the serous sac. It does not communicate with the spermatic duct. He found the organ in children as well as in adults, and names it " corps iimomine." ON THE PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF CERTAIN POISONS. Weston.—On the Poison of the Common Adder. Lancet, 2i8t May, 1859, p. 522. Livingstone.—S«r la Tsetsd. [On the Tsetse.] L'Institute, No. 1296, p. 364. Waller.—On the Means by which tlie Actinise kill their Prey. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 722. Harley.—On the Treatment of Tetanus by Woorara Poison. Lancet, 1st Oct, 1859. P- 34S- WeUs (Spencer).—Three Cases of Tetanus in which Woorara was used m the Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., 3d Dec, 1859, p. 564. Broca (Paul).—Sur le traitment du te'tanos par le Cuiare. [On the Treatment of Tetanus by Woorara.] Gaz. des IIopitaux,Oct 2gi\\ and Nov. 3d, 1859.PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF CERTAIN POISONS. 105 V Pelikan "nd Kolliker.—Untersuchung iiber die Eiimirkung einiger Gifte auf die Leistungsfahigkeit der Muskeln. £0n the Action of certain Poisons on the Muscles.] Verhandl. der Wiirzbiirger physikal.-medicin. Gesellsch., 1858. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. Schmidt, Vol. loi. No. i, p. 35. Kolliker.—Zehii neue Versuche mit Urari. [On Woorara.] Siebold u. Kiilliker's Zeitschr., vol. ix, 1858, pp. 434—438. Schmidt, No. i, p. 35. Haber.—Qiiam vim venenura Curare exerceat in nervorum cerebro-spinalium systema. 8vo. Vratislavix, iSsi- [The Action of Woorara on the Nerves.] Schmidt, No. i, p. 35. Canst., p. 104. ZoUiker.—Einige Bemerkungen zur Geschichte der physiolog. Untersuchungen uber das Urari. [Physiological Experiments with Woorara.] Verhand. Wiirz- burg Ges., January, 1858, pp. i—3. Hoppe.—Versuche uber die Wirkung des Utari. [The Action of Woorara ] Wien. Zeitschr. der Gesellschaft der Aerzte, 1858. pp. i_66. Froriep's neue Notizen, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 81—83. Canst., vol. i, p. 104. Hoppe—Die spontane Erholung der Nerven und Muskeln vergifteter Thiere nach der Section. [The Recovery of the Nerves and Muscles after Section, in Poisoned Animals.] AUgemeine medicin. Centralzeitung, Oct., 1858, No. 87 pp.689—691. Canst., p. 104. ' " VnlpiaiL-Observations physiologiques faites sur des animaux empoisonnes par le curare et soumis a la respiration artificielle. [Artificial Respiration in Poi- soning with Woorara.] Gaz. Med., July, 1858, No. 27, p. 429. Claparede.—De Taction physiologique du curare. Biblioth. Universale de Geneve nouvelle periode, vol. iii, 1858, pp. 25-62. [A review on the Action of Woorara]. Pelikan.-Actions physiologiques de I'Upas Anthiar et de I'Anthiarine FOn the An.thiar and Anthiarine Poisons.] Gaz. Med., March, 1858, No. 13, p. 201. ZoHlker und Pe ikan.-Physiologisch-toxikologische Untersuchungen Uber die W rkung des alkohohschen Extractes der Tanghinia venenifera. [Experiments vnth the Alcoholic Extract of the Tanghinia Venenifera.] Verhan 1 de phys.kal.-med.c.n. Gesellsch. in Wurzburg, vol. ix, 1858, pp. 33-43. Canst., De Kiedrowski.-De quibusdam experimentis, quibus qnantam vim habeat ac, urn hydrocyanzcum in nervorum systema cerebrospiL.e atquermuscu o systemafs vertebral.s probatur. [On the Action of Hydrocyanic Acid 8 0 Vrattslavtte, 1858. Canst., p. J04 . 1 ^ /i.i.iu.j svo. J0Seph.-H,,ir.rg,r„m bicH„.tnm corrosivum quid In resoirUi,,™. j- Weston relates his own case. His finger }n>fo« 1, .31ion HUPOIIT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MKDICINE. had been sucked, the finger became swollen and painful, numbness proceeded up the arm, the limbs became weak, he felt giddy, and vomited. Next day, spots of purpura haemorrhagica appeared on different parts of Ids body, and erysipelas attacked his arm. He re- covered slowly. Livingstone says, that the sting of the "tsetse," although fatal to the dog, ox, and horse, is not so, either to man, the goat, or the ass. Waller repeated McDonnell's experiment of allowing the actina to seize the sciatic nerve of a galvanoscopic frog, and on so doing was struck with the uncertainty and irregularity with wliich muscular contractions are obtained; whereas when he presented, in lieu of a galvanoscopic frog, a nereis to the actina, the result was invariably the death of the animal. The first symptom observed is a writhing, as if the creature felt great pain, and in the most marked cases to this is succeeded paralysis and flaccidity of the muscles, like what is seen in a frog poisoned by woorara. It appears indifi'erent whether the cephalic or the caudal extremity of the nereis be attacked by the actina—similar symptoms are pro- duced in both cases. In order to elucidate the real power of the actina—after having in vain exposed the finger with the cuticle softened—Waller presented his tongue to the tentacles of the animal. The result was such as to satisfy him respecting the offensive weapons with which it is furnished. The animal seized the organ, and was with difficulty detached. The injury was followed by a pungent, acrid pain, the part becoming inflamed and much swollen. After an hour these symptoms abated, and in about four houTS they entirely disappeared. In a day or two afterwards an ulcer appeared on the tip of the tongue, but it soon healed. Prom this experiment Waller concludes that the actinee kill their prey by means of an acrid irritant poison—similar in some respects to that of the wasp, or of snakes—winch quickly spreads tlirough the system of the annelida, producing the above-mentioned results. By spreading a thin india-rubber membrane over a glass tube, and allowing the actina to grasp it, he found by means of the microscope that the poisoned darts are left sticking in the wound. Habley, in liis letter to the 'Lancet,' says, that in 1856, he pointed out the antagonistic action of woorara and strychnine, citing three experiments to show that these substances have the power of reciprocally neutralizing the effects of each other, accordingPHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION 01? CERTAIN POISONS. 107 as the one or other poison is in excess.^ Since then he has frequently- repeated these experiments^ and on several occasions succeeded, by means of woorara, in saving the lives of animals to which he had administered poisonous doses of strychnine. In 1857, through the kindness of Professor Varnell, Dr. Harley had the opportunity of trying the effects of woorara on a horse labouring under a severe attack of tetanus, and although he did not succeed in saving the life of the animal, he says, that he saw enougli to convince liim of the value of the remedy. Indeed, so convinced was he of its beneficial effects, that he would have tried it shortly afterwards on a boy labouring under traumatic tetanus, had the disease not yielded to other remedies. Spencee "Wells alludes to the recent cases of tetanus treated on the Continent by Yella, Manec, and Chassaignac ; and to the experi- ments of Bernard with the alkaloid cixrarine, the active principle of the poison. He shows that the experiments of Brodie, in 1811, the apphcation of their results by Sewell, and the subsequent experiments of Morgan and Harley, had anticipated aU that has been recently done on the Continent, with, the exception of making actual trial on the human subject. Wells thinks that he has seen enough in his cases to establish the foUowng propositions: i. That our knowledge of the physiological action of woorara, of its antago- nistic effects to the artificial tetanus of strychnine, of the results of Its use in idiopathic tetanus of the horse and ass, and the fact that two cases of chronic tetanus in man on the Continent, and one in this country, have recovered during its application, should encourage further experiments. 3. That although cases of acute traumatic tetanus in man have died, notwithstanding the use of woorara, this should not discourage us from further trials, when we consider the fatal nature of this form of tetanus, and the fact that in only one of the cases was the woorara given in any quantity In the discussion which followed the reading of this paper, Harley said —as regards the value of woorara when compared with other narcotics —that Its superiority consists in its peculiar power of paralysing the motory much sooner than the sensory nerves. He said that this poison could be so administered as to entirely destroy the power of voluntary motion, .nthout impairing the consciousness of the animal in administenng woorara to animals labouring under tetanus induced by strychmne, he gave sufficient to paralyse all the voluntary Ac'tiln Ts^'Xil'.^'- " ^"'^^ °^ '-^^^- P^vsiologicalUEPORT ON Tlllil INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. muscles except those of respiration. In this way he was able to allay the tetanic spasm without destroying the intelligence, or arresting the performance of the organic functions,—and by continu- mg the thus-moderated action of woorara until the kidneys had time to eliminate the strychnine from tlie system, he had been able to save the life of the animal. The theory of its action in tetanus is, he considers, much the same. That is to say, you try to keep the spasms from killing the patient by their violence, until the morbid state calling tliem into play has exhausted itself. Sibson said that in 1838 he experimented upon an ass, to show that an animal might be resuscitated by artificial respiration after what would otherwise be a fatal dose. For more than an hour the animal lay apparently dead, with no sign of life except the beating of the heart. At lengtli it breathed, and in an hour afterwards walked round the room. In a subsequent experiment Sibson gave woorara to a horse labouring under tetanus. As a dose proportionate to that given to the ass did not produce in this case any effect, more was given, and in increasing the quantity the animal was destroyed. In another case the animal breathed at the end of tliree or four hours, but it died before the apparatus could be applied a second time. The animal was free from tetanus during the whole period of the experiment. In order to overcome tetanus, it is necessary to give an adequate dose, and Sibson fears that an adequate dose wiU be such as to call for artificial respiration. EadcMe suggested the employ- ment of conia in cases of tetanus. Paul Broca lately read a paper on the treatment of tetanus by woorara, to the Surgical Society of Paris. He began by giving a resume of the literature of the subject, and then entered upon the question as to the best mode of administering it. He does not like the plan of inoculation, and prefers, he says, giving it by the mouth, which is a less troublesome and equally effective method. For al- though the poison does not act so rapidly, nor in such small doses when taken into the stomach, yet if given to fasting animals its absorp- tion by the digestive canal is not to be doubted. BiiocA further says, that he would not hesitate to give a man every half hour a table- spoonful of a six-ounce mixture, containing in solution fifteen grains of woorara. The paper contains many practical hints of importance. KoLLiKEE, and Pelikan found that the muscles of frogs poisoned with woorara have, as fiirst pointed out by Bernard, and afterwardsPHYSIOLOGICAL ACTIOiV OP CERTAIN POISONS. 109 denied by Eosenthal, a greater irritability than healthy ones. More- over, they found that the poisoned muscles can sustain an equal weight with the others. With Upas antiar, veratrin, and tanghinia poison, which act in the reverse way to woorara, namely, by killing the muscles, and not the nerves, similar experiments to the above showed that the poisoned, have much less irritability and power than the healthy muscles. (St.'s J.) Haber, under Eeichert, confirmed the fact that the peripheri of the nerves become first affected by woorara, and after a time the trunk. That the poison only acts tlirough the blood; that the sensory retain their irritability longer than the motor nerves; and that the muscles obey direct stimuli after the nerves have ceased to conduct. He found, moreover, that when woorara is directly applied to the sciatic, sooner or later its motor fibres become affected. ■ Haber says, that the fact of the motor being so much sooner poisoned than the sensory nerves proves that they are chemically different. KoLLiKER confii-ms the statement that the spinal cord is in general not affected by woorara until some hours after the peripheral nerves have been poisoned. He made ten experiments, and found that the reflex action lasted from one and a quarter to four and a quarter hours, at a temperature of 17—18'^ R., and from six to twenty-five hours at a temperature of 5—6° R. HoppB found that the nerves of frogs poisoned with woorara, whether divided or entire, after a time regain their lost in- -fluence over the muscles. He also observed that the rapidity of ■the action of the poison depends in a great measure on the rapidity of the circulation. YuLPiAN relates a series of experiments made upon animals poisoned ^vlth woorara, in which, by artificial respiration, he was able to keep the heart beating for some hours. ruNKE denies that the motor any more than the sensory nerves lose the power of conducting stimuli in animals poisoned with woorara. He says that they only lose the power of communicating the stimdi to the muscles. In proof of this he cites several sxpenments which he performed with the mnltiplicator. Funke also relates some experiments which he made with strychnine, and con- cludes from them that it acts upon the nerves in a somewhat similar nanner to woorara. Peukan says that antiar and antiarine arrest the heart's action.HliPOllT ON THK INSTITUTES OF MEDICINK. iio and destroy the irritability of the muscles. They affect the nerves, but slowly. These poisons are active when taken by the mouth as well as when applied to the skiu or introduced through a wound. KoLLiKEit, and Pelikan found tluit the Tanghinia venenifera at first quickens the action of the frog's heart, then makes it irregular, and at last stops it, in from five to fifteen minutes. There is no tetanus. The voluntary action ceases before the reflex, and the sensibility of the motor nerves before the muscular irritability. Section of the sciatic does not prevent the muscles of the limbs losing their irritability. The conclusion Kolliker and Pelikan came to is, that tangliinia acts upon the muscles like antiar, and upon the nerves like woorara. KiEDEOWSKi says that hydrocyanic acid, when introduced by a wound or by the mouth, first acts upon the gray substance of the brain, as is seen by its destroying sensation, and voluntary motion. The white substance of the brain, on tlie other hand, remains for some hours unaff'ected. The motor nerves furthest from the brain and spinal cord die first, and those nearest the nerve-centres last. The heart's action soon ceases, and usually the organ is found full of red blood. Joseph found that in frogs poisoned with bichloride of mercury, the action of the heart soon stops. The topical appHcation of the poison produces the same effect. Amelung found that perch die when fifty per cent, of sulphu- retted hydrogen solution is added to the water in which they are. Frogs in an atmosphere of the gas die in twenty to thirty minutes. Pigeons are killed by 3 c.c, and rabbits by 6 c.c, of a watery saturated solution given by the mouth. The gas can be detected in the expii-ed air (as Bernard previously showed) when 5 c.c. of the solution are injected into a vein, 20—40 into the stomach, or 32—50 into the rectum, of dogs. In the first case in five, in the latter in 55—lao, seconds. ANESTHESIA. Sichardson.—On Voltaic Narcotism for the Production of Local Ansesthesia for Surgical Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. r2th, 1859. P- 'S^- Waller.—Experiments on Dr. Richardson's Mode of performing Painless Opera- tions by Voltaic Narcotism. Med. Times and Gaz., 19th March, 1859, p. 285. Waller.—Additional Observations on Voltaic Narcotism. Med. Times and Gaz., May 14th, p. 491.Ill ANAESTHESIA. Eichardson.—The same. Med. Times and Gaz., June 25th, p. 647. Waller.—The same. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, p. 107. Felikan et SavielieflF.—Comment comprendre rintroduction de differents medi- caments dans rorgaiiisme au moyen du courant galvanique. [How are we to explain tlie Introduction of Substances into the Body by means of Galvanism ?] (Jour, de Physiol., vol. i, pp. 192—200.) Todd (Armstrong).—Remarks on the Administration of Chloroform, with a Description of a new Inhaler. Med. Times and Gaz., 9th July, 1859, p. 30; also at pp. loi and 537. Ozanam.—Note sur les inhalations d'acide carbonique consideree corame anesthe- sique efficace et sans danger. [Carbonic Acid Gas as an Anaesthetic] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, 1858, No. 8, pp. 417—420. Canstatt, vol. i, p. 105. Herpin.—Note sur I'emploi du gaz carbonique comme agent anesthesique. [The same.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, March, 1858, No. 12, pp. 581—584. Canstatt, p. 105. Baehrens.—De Anaestheticis nonnulla. 8vo. Beroftni, 1857. [Some Remarks on Anjesthetics. Already known.—Valentin.] Daub.—De Ansestheticis nonnulla. 8vo. Berolini, 1857. [The same. Patho- logical. No abstract.] Geutebruck.—Ueber die Anaesthetica. 8vo. Marburg, 1858. [On Anaesthesia. A compilation.—Valentin.] Secke.—De morte chloroformio inducto. 8vo. Berolini, 1858. [On Death by Chloroform. Already known.—Valentin.] Eirsten.—Nonnulla de chloroformio. 8vo. Lipsice, 1858. [On Chloroform as an Anaesthetic. Already known.—Valentin.] RiCHAUDSON begins by saying, that the electric current in no one of its applications can be made to produce insensibility to pain— although, the interrupted cm-rent, by producing counter shocks in sudden operations, such as tooth-extraction, may remove the idea or the consciousness of pain, by a diversion of sensation. He proposes a new mode of producing anaesthesia, wliicli he calls voltaic narcotism. The following experiment illustrates the mode in which this is applied : The upper part of a dog's Umb, after being freed from hair, is wrapped in a broad, copper band, including a sponge saturated with a solution composed of, tincture of aconite, 5iij; alcoholic extract of aconite, 9j; chloroform, ^iij, A third part of the solution is put on the sponge at one time. Below the ankle of the same limb is wrapped another band of copper, also including a sponge, but which contains merely water. This done, the upper plate is connected with the positive, the lower with the negative pole of the battery. In eleven minutes the parts included between the poles are so insensible, that they can be pricked or cut without the animal giving any signs of pain. Richardson applied voltaic narcotism in a similar way, to theREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. 113 wrist of a girl, in the iieiglibourliood of a bursa, and after making the application twice for a period of sixteen minutes, the parts to be operated on were white, and so insensible that the patient, whose head was averted, was unconscious that anything was being done. Waller repeated llicluirdson's experiments upon himself and several other persons^ as well as animals, and came to the conclusion that the local insensibility obtained in the above-described manner is quite irrespective of the electricity employed, and is simply due to tlie local absorption of cliloroform and aconite. The non-influence of the electricity, he says, is demonstrated by the fact, that the simple topical application of the narcotic mixture induces complete insensibility of the skin in a shorter time that when electri- city is superadded. The effect of the electricity is neither to accele- rate the absorption of the narcotic, nor to produce per se local insensibility of the skin. In his second communication. Waller says, ''that the so-called process of voltaic narcotism is a lususphysiolo- gicus, and all the effects obtained are solely referable to cutaneous absorption.-"' Further, that the insensibility is entirely confined to the integuments at the spot of application, and that the contact of the narcotic mixture for ten or fifteen minutes is almost invariably followed by vesication, and even destruction of the superficial parts of the cutis. The iniiammation being sometimes of a very painful and obstinate character. The cicatrization of the suppurating surface being more diflicult than in the ordinary mode of blistering. In his communication of the 35th June, Richardson says that he has continued his experiments on the subject of voltaic narcotism, several of which he relates, and he considers that it may be accepted as a fact, that such a degree of local insensibility may be produced by it as shall enable the surgeon to perform a large number of operations without pain. He makes no allusion to Waller's researches, but remarks that he is aware that the local application of narcotic solutions produce a certain degree of local ansesthesia. The addition of the voltaic current, however, makes the insensibihty extend more deeply. The process, he says, has certain disadvantages: i. It requires a long time, for its application to be successful; 2. It is accompanied with a certain amount of pain; 3. The apparatus necessary is cumbersome; and, 4. The production of cutaneous vesication is objectionable. Waller, in his communication of the 30th July, brings forwardPARASITES. 113 farther evidence to sliow tliat tlie local production of anJEsthesia by narcotics is not accelerated by electricityj and positively denies the existence of an iuterpolar variety. Moreover be sbows that narcotics are very rapidly absorbed by the skin when dissolved in chloroform (see chapter on "Absorption"), and attributes Dr. Eichardson's results entirely to the employment of that menstruum. Pelikaist and Savelibff made a number of experiments with a great variety of substances, such as the iodide of potassium for example, but it is quite unnecessary to cite any of them, as they all led the authors to the same conclusion, viz. that " the idea of introducing medicines into the organism by means of galvanism, arose from an imperfect understanding of the physical laws, and a mal-interpretation of experimental phenomena." Todd's instrument is so constructed that the vapour of chloro- form is freely diluted with air before entering the lungs, and that the warm expired gases are prevented from coming in contact with the narcotic. The advantage of the instrument consists in its permitting the cliloroform to be inhaled in a gradual and uniform manner. OzANAM experimented with carbonic acid on animals, and found that at first they remain still, then get uneasy, begin to breathe rapidly, and have violent palpitation of the heart. Immediately after tliis they become insensible, and faU over on the side. While in this state they show no signs of pain, even on the application of a hot iron. The pupils are moderately open. Brought into fresh air, they soon recover. Animals after a time get so inured to the action of the gas, that in order to render them insensible they require a much greater quantity. Hekpin's results are nearly similar to the above. PARASITES. Barclay (John).—The dependence of Tape-worm on the use of raw or underdone meat. Med. Times and Gaz., March 26th, 1859, P- 3°9- Peacock.—The same. lb., 28th May, 1859, P- SSo- Stone.-Fatal Case of Sarcina Ventriculi. Brit. Med. Journ., cth Feb i8?o p. 100. ■' Kolliker.—On the frequent occurrence of Vegetable Parasites in the Hard Struc- tures of Animals. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 36, p. 95. Farre.—On Substances discharged from the Human Urinary Bladder. Archives of Medicine, No. 4, p. 290. Hogg.—On the Vegetable Parasites of the Human Skin. Lancet, sth Feb., p. 143. 8EKPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. Fox (rilbury).—On the Identity of Parasitic Fungi affecting the Human Surface. Lanca, lolh Sept., 1859, P- 260. Lowe.—On Parasitic Fungi. Lancet, 20th Oct., 1859. Hassall.—On Fungoid and other Organic Productions generated in Alkaline and Albuminous Urine. Lancet, Nov. 19th, p. 503. Kucheiimeister.—Bericht iibcr die Leistungen auf dem Gebiete der thierischen Parasiten des Meiischen. [On the Parasites affecting the Human Body.] (1856, 1857.) Schmidt's Jahrbiicher, vol. 99, 1858, pp. 89—log. Blume.—De Entozois corporis humani. Berolini, 1857-8. [On the Entozoa found in Man.] (Known already.—Valentin.) Levison.—Disquisitlones nonuUa: de Echinococcis, adjecta historia morhi. Grypliiee, 1857-8. (Valentin says this is a very carefully written paper, relating some experiments on Echinococci, and illustrated with plates.) Leuckart.—Weitere Beobachtungen iiber die Jugendzustande und die Entvrick- lungsgeschichte von Pentastomum taenioides. Ilenle und Pfeuffer's Zeitschr. fiir rationelle Medicin, Dritte Reihe, vol. iv, 1858, pp. 78—101. (A good abstract of this paper on the Development of the Pentastoma taenioides, will be found in the Microscopical Journal. 1859, p. 182.) Van Beneden.—Sur la reproduction des Echinocoques. [On the Reproduction of Echinococci.] Bullet, de I'Acad. de Bruxelles, anne 1857, p. 319. Bruxelles, 1858. Van Beneden.—Note sur quelques Pentastomes. [On some kinds of Pentas- toma.] The same, pp. 349—352. R. M. Diesing. Zwei Worte uber Diporpa und Diplozoon. Sitzungsbericht der Wiener Akad., 1858, No. 4, p. 269. Jolly,—Memoire sur une nouvelle espece d'heraatozoaire du genre Filaire, observee dans le coeur d'un Phoque (Phoca vitulina, L.) [On a New Species of Entozoa found in the heart of the Common Seal,] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, 1858, No. 8, Feb., pp. 403—405. Wag^ener.—Beiirage zur Entwicklungsgeschichte der Eingeweidewiirmer. [Con- tribution to the development of Entozoa.] Natuurkundige Verhandelingen van de Hollandsche Maatschappij de Vetenschappen te Haarlem. Twaalfe Deel. 4to. pp. I—112. i/ar/em, 1856. Vgl. Fror. neue Notiz., 1858, vol. iv, No. i, PP- 3—6. Canstatt, p. 130. Laycock.—On the Parasitic Nature of Diphtheria. Lancet, vol. i, 1859, P- Harley.—The same. lb., p. 173. Barclay relates no less than ten cases of persons, at various ages, who were affected with tape-worm, and who, on searchijig examination, admitted that they were in the habit of occasionally eating raw meat. A case in St. Thomas's Hospital, under the care of Dr. Peacock, was also traced to the same cause. The man, a boot- maker, aged thirty-six, had only been affected with the worm for eight months, and said that he became first affected mth it after being for some time in the habit of eating raw bacon. Before this he had, however, been troubled -with ascarides. This, and the ten cases related by Barclay, support Von Siebold and Kuchcnmeister's115 PARASITES. views, who say that the Tcenia solium is most frequently found among people who use pork as a common article of diet. For example, in Poland and Hungary. On the other hand, it is rarely met with among Jews and Mohammedans, whose rehgion pro- hibits the use of pig's flesh. Yon Siebold says that the vitality of the scohces of tape-worm is not destroyed by the process of curing; but Kuchenmeister differs from him, and thinks that the pickling and smoking of hams destroys it equally as well as cooking. Stone reports a fatal case of Sarcina ventriculi which came under the care of Dr. Barker. The patient, a woman aged sixty-four, was ill during tliree months with symptoms of dyspepsia. For the last nine weeks she suffered from constant vomiting; not even water would remain on her stomach. Yomited matters were bright-green, soupy, and yeast-hke, and full of sarcina. Died from exhaustion. Post- mortem.—M{ the organs found healthy. Stomach contained a quantity of fluid similar to that vomited during life. QuECKETT was the first to point out that vegetable parasites fre- quently occur in the skeleton of corals. Kolliker has taken up the subject and extended liis observations over a number of species of animals—Spongise, Toraminifera, Corals, Bivalves, Bracliiopods, Gasteropods, Annehds,Cirrhipods, and Fishes. In all of these he looks upon the parasite as a unicellular fungus, and not belonging to the Confervse. It seems probable that they bore their canals by mechanical force, as is the case when vegetable parasites make their way through the ceU-membranes of plants. Nearly aU the parasites spoken of occur in marine animals. It may be further noticed that the author says, "These parasites afford an excellent means for demonstrating the double-refracting power of the shells." Farre gives an anatomical description of an entozoa previously figured and described by Mr. Laurence in the 'Med.-Cliir. Trans ' vol. u, p. 385, 1811. Dr. Farre had seen the woman, and even removed some of the worms from her bladder, so (he says) that there could be no doubt that the entozoon came from that viscus He also examined the bladder after death; but was unable to detect any worms, or disease in the organ. The worm has neither mouth nor alimentary canal; nor does it possess any generative organs. It is soHd, and is composed of muscular fibres connective tissue, and nucleated ceUs. In some specimens nume' rous shining, tendinous bands of fibres are observed crossin^j tbe abdommal aspect of the worm, near to the extreme ends of thelib REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. body. In some parts, cells closely resembling cartilage-corpuscles are observed. Some of the worms measure several inches in length, and are from one to three lines in breadth. Tarre calls it the Diplosoma crenata, Hogg says that it is wrong to attribute certain special diseases of the skin to a vegetable parasite peculiar to each. The same fungus is peculiar to all, and ought rather to be looked upon as the result, and not the cause, of the disease. Tox, on the other hand, looks upon parasites as the real agents in the production of diseased hair, which, in his opinion, is the true parasitic affection. In all cases of skin-disease, if there be a parasite present in a state of growth, the hairs will be found diseased; when the growing fungus is absent, the hairs are unaffected. Other structures besides the hairs are, however, involved. Eruptive disease may be present, although not necessarily. Example—Tinea decalvans. Eruptions are evoked by a host of irritants besides parasites, whereas affection of the hairs, which Eox says is the true parasitic disease, can only be produced by the presence of a fungus. Eemove the affection of the hairs, and notliing diagnostic of the ravages of the parasite remains ; take away, on the other hand, the eruption, and the true parasitic disease is still there. He beUeves, moreover, that the existence of an eruption is necessary for the development of the parasite. Lowe's views are similar to the above, and he also, with Eox and Hogg, looks upon the fungi affecting the human surface as mere varieties of one common species. Hassall says the Fihrio lineola are not exactly linear; but slightly enlarged, and rounded at either extremity, hke a dumb- bell. That they are endowed with the power of voluntary motion, and are rapidly developed in feebly acid or alkaline urine, especially that containing much animal matter (albumen). The Bodo urina- rius are round or oval-shaped bodies, possessing two or three cdia. They multiply by fmiparous reproduction. They are developed under similar conditions to Vibrio lineola. Lastly, Hogg describes a peculiar fungus, occasionally met mth in alkaline urine. Ex- posure to the air and the presence of albumen accelerate its development. Van Beneden took a quantity of Echinococci from the liver of a pig, and put them into milk in one, and into albumen of the hen's egg in another, case. By keeping them at about the temperature ofGENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. 117 the living body he was able to preserve them alive, and study their development up to a certain point. In dissecting the heart of a specimen of the common seal—I'lioca vltulina, Joly found several female nematoid worms, measuring from fifteen to twenty centimetres in length, and about one millimetre in diameter. To them he has given the name Filaria cordis phoca. He found no males. Joly thinks that the embryos enter the animal along with its food, find their Avay into the circulation, and are there developed. Yalentin says that Wagener's researches on the development of cestoid worms, as also on Echinococci, &c., are exceedingly im- portant, and are illustrated with thirty-seven fine large plates. He gives, however, no abstract. Laycock found the OicUum albicans on the exudation from the fauces of a patient labouring under diphtheria, and thought that the parasite might be the cause of the disease. Harley examined twelve cases, and found it absent. Its presence in some cases is, he says, due to accidental cii'cumstances. In one of the cases examined by Harley, the parasite grew on the exudation forty- eight hours after its removal from the patient. GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Thomson.—Oa the Comparative Influence of the Male and Female Parent upon the Progeny. Edinb. Month. Med. Journ., Feb., 1859, P- 696. Spencer.—On the Laws of Organic Form. British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 189. Dotell.—On the Influence of White Light, of the different coloured Rays, and of Darkness, on the Development, Growth, and Nutrition of Animals. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 644. Beclard.—Note relative a I'influence de la lumiere sur les animaux. [On the Influence of Light on Animals.] Compt. Rend., vol. xlvi, pp. 441—443. Davy.—On the Electrical Condition of the Egg of the common Fowl. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 35. P- Thomson.—On the Embryogeny of Comatula rosacecB (Linck.) Proc. Roy. Soc, No. 34, p. 600. EoUeston and Robertson.—On the Aquiferous and Oviductal Systems in the Lamellibranchiate Molluscs. Proc Roy. Soc, No. 34. p. 633. DTincan.—On the Development of the Female Pelvis. (Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., '859. P- .?i9 ) Lnbbock.—On the Ova and Pseudova of Insects. Proc. Roy. Soc, No. ^.P- 374- Bonifas.—De la ggu^ration spontan($e. 4to. Paris, 1858. (A compilation in support of the spontaneous generation of present and extinct animals.^ Valentin.)118 REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. Lankester.-Generationswechsel und Parthogeneeig der Pflanzcn und Thiere Fronep's na.e Notizen, ,858, vol. iii, No. i, pp. ,, 2. L'Institut, April, ,858, Mo. 1268, pp. 139, ,40. [Parthogenesis in Plants and Animals. Already known.—Valentin.] ' Cohn.—Ueber das Wiederauflcbcn dcr dtirch Austrocknen in Scheintod versetzten Thiere und Ptlanzen. 35. Jahrcsbcr. d. schles. Ges. fUr vaterl. Cuitur Aug dem J., 1857. 4to. Breslau, 1858. pp. 48-50. (A review of various known facts regarding the resuscitation of dried and apparently dead animals.) Kussmaul.—Von der Ueberwanderung des menschlichen Eies als einer Ursache der Eileiterschwangerschaft. [On the Emigration of the Human Ova] Froriep's neue Notizen, 1858, vol. ii, No. 3, pp. 41, 42. Gaz. Me'd., AuKust 1858, No. 32, p. 649. " ' Hecker.—Beitriige zurLehre von der Schwangerschaft ausserhalb der Gebarmutter [Contribution to our knowledge of Tubal Pregnancy.] 4to. Marburg, 1858.' Thomson quotes a number of cases in man, and other ani- mals, to prove that the male parent has the chief influence over the propagation of the iextwe, colour, and other cutaneous peculiarities of the progeny. The following table shows this in man: FATHER. MOTHER. CHILDREN. Black. Black. Black. Black. Black. White Negro. Black. White. Albino. Albino. Albino. White Negress. White. Black. White. Black. Black children. Black children. Albino child. Black child. Black child. White child. Black child. Twins—1 black, ] white. Number whose colour of skin was due to the father . . 9 Ditto, mother 2 Tlie hair takes on the characteristics of the male. The hair is crispy when the father is a negro; sleek, when the male parent is a European. Thomson quotes the following cases— In a young woman residing in Edinburgh, born of Scottish parents, but whose mother, before her marriage, had a cliild by a negro. Dr. Simpson found that the hair had the negro characteristics. Congenital alopecia is extremely rare, and in the only case on record Bayer teU us that it was transmitted by the father to the son. In the lower animals, the marked influence of tlie male on the colour of the skin and hair is particularly remarkable. Wlien the spawn of the salmon is impregnated by the male trout, the progeny119 GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. liave the bright-reel spots, and the black colour shaded downwards in bars, diagnostic of the male. In cross-breeds of birds, the colom-s are generally derived from the cock bird. The feathers of the feet of grouse disappear when the pheasant is the male parent. The ram, again, gives the quality of the wool to the sheep, and is selected for tliis purpose. Black rams are uniformly rejected for breeding, because of the transmission of their colour. The male wolf and bitch have progeny with colour, ears, and tail, like the father. The dog and she-wolf yield offspring with slouch ears and pied colour. A black-and-white sow, covered by a white boar, has a white litter. The hybrids of the male ass and mare resemble the ass in colour and coarseness of the hair, while the hinny by the stallion has the fine skin of the horse. The famous chesnut mare of the Earl of Morton, covered by a wild African ass, gave birth to a hybrid with black bars on the legs and shoulders. And although only covered once by the quagga, had successively three foals, all of wliich had unequivocal skin-marks derived from the quagga. Sir Gore Ousel/s mare, covered by a zebra, gave birth to a striped zebra. There are also curious examples known in the human race of the influence of a male extending to several generations, even when the female is impregnated by another male. Spencee aims to show that the changes undergone in the evolu- tion of a homogeneous germ into a heterogeneous organism are interpretable as consequences of two universal dynamic laws—[a) that every homogeneous aggregation is in unstable equiUbrium, because its different parts are differently exposed to incident forces, and (i) that every force produces more than one change; (c) that the forms of all organisms are dependent on their relations to inci- dent forces. Thus it is found—i. That when the conditions are alike in all directions—either constantly, as in the Gregarina, or on the average of successive instants, as in the Folvox, or on the average of many individuals, as in the Protococci—there we have symmetry of tlu-ee dimensions, or spherical symmetry. 2. That where the conditions are ahke on all sides of one axis, but different in line of tliis axis—either constantly, as in the mushroom and in vertically growing plants and trees, in peltate leaves, and terminal flowers; or on the average of many successive instants, as in many echmoderms; or on the average of many individuals, as in the irre- gularly placed flowers and in zoophytes—there we have symmetry of two dimensions, radial or circular symmetry. 3. That wliere theREPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OF MEDICINE. conditions are alike only on the opposite sides of one axis, while they are unlike in all other directions, as in the majority of leaves, m many flowers, and throughout the Vertehrata, there we have symmetry of one dimension, bilateral or linear symmetry. 4. That where the conditions, widely uidike in all other directions, are only partially alike on the opposite sides of one axis, as in the sole, &c., there we have unsymmetrical bUateralness. And, 5. That where the conditions are indeterminate, as with the Amoeba, or have no simi- lai-ity in any direction, as with the viscera of the higher animals, then the structure is asymmetrical. DoBELL thinks that we may accept of the following propositions, all other conditions being the same. i. The ova of insects are not directly influenced in their development by white light, by the different coloured rays, or by darkness, a. The larva of insects are not directly influenced iu their development, growth, nutrition, or metamorphoses, by wliite light, by the different coloured rays, or by darkness. 3. The larvae of Batrachian reptiles are, in a similar manner, influenced by the same causes. 4. The materials necessary to the colour of insects and reptiles are equally well prepared under the different kinds of light or in dai-kness. DoBELL says that, speaking generally, it must be admitted that light is essential to the development, growth, and nutrition of ani- mals, but only indirectly. In his experiments, the usual coincidents of hght, a proper supply of food, a due aeration of the respiratory medium, a properly regulated external temperature, &c., having been provided, the direct influence of light only being changed, no corre- sponding change occurred in the animal Ufe. Beclaed relates researches made upon the development of the fly {Musca carnaria), by means of coloured glass. The animals were most rapidly developed under blue and violet, least under green, light. The order of development was, i, under violet; 2, blue; 3, red; 4, yellow; 5, wliite; and lastly, green. The quantity of carbonic acid exhaled by birds and mice \mder coloured glass does not vary; whereas with frogs it is very difi'erent—they give out one quarter, one tliird, or even one half more COg under green than under red light. Davy says, that the structui-e of the egg suggested to liim the idea of its exerting electrical action, which was confirmed on trial. Using a delicate galvanometer and a suitable apparatus, on plunging one wire into the wliite, and the other insulated, except at the point121 GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. of contact, into the yolk, the needle was deflected five degrees. On changing the wires, the coui-se of the needle was reversed. Wlien the white and yolk were taken out of the sheU, the yolk being still immersed in the white, the effects on trial were similar; but not so when the two were well mixed; then no distinct effect was perceptible. Indica- tions also of chemical action were obtained on substituting for the galvanometer a mixtui-e consisting of water, a little gelatinous starch, and a small quantity of iodide of potassium, especially when rendered very sensitive of change by the addition of a few drops of muriatic acid. In the instance of newly laid eggs, the iodine liberated appeared at the pole connected with the white. In that of eggs that had been kept some time, it appeared at the pole con- nected with yolk, answering in both to the copper in a single voltaic combination formed of copper and zinc. Thomson describes the male and female reproductive organs of the comatula. The mature ova, before impregnation, are protruded and remain hanging from the ovarian orifice, entangled in the aereolar tissue of the everted ovary. In this position impregnation usually occurs. After segmentation of the yolk, a soHd nucleus is formed in the centre of the mulberry yolk-mass j this nucleus becomes invested by a membrane, and into this mass the remainder of the yolk is gradually absorbed. The embryo is ciliated. The young larva, on escaping from the egg, is barrel-shaped, of a pale- yeUow colour, girded at intervals with about five broad, cihated bands. The digestive organs are rapidly developed, and the larva at the same time becomes vermiform. Under circumstances favorable to the production of the pentacrinal stage, the development of the larva may be arrested in any of its earlier stages, before the com- plete differentiation of its internal organs. EoLLESTON and Eobeetson say, that the commonly received opinion as to the orifices at the outlet of the ovarian system is erroneous, and that they are, in reality, the exhalent orifices of a water-vascular system. In the second part of the communication the structures are indicated which the authors hold to be the true oviducts. At the spawning season, a prominent ridge projecting into the lower segment of the intestine is seen, which, with two smaller ones, are said to discharge tliis function, Duncan alludes to the manifold infiuences wliich determine the form of the pelvis. Between infancy and adult age, as it grows in size, it gradually changes in shape. In early life, the antero-pos-REPORT ON THE INSTITUTES OP MEDICINE. 122 tenor diameter of tlic brim is greater tlian tlie traiisverse; the sacrum is nearly vertical j the ilium almost flat and straight, from the posterior tuberosities to the acetabulum. While in adult life the transverse diameter of tlie brim is greater than the antero- posterior; the sacrum and the ilium have both assumed an oblique direction. The horizontal rami of the pubic bones also form a less acute angle in the adult. Lubbock endeavoured, in 1857, to show that the organic eggs of Baphm are formed on the same type, and consist of the same parts as other eggs. In the present paper he says, that in all temale insects there are two ovaries, each consisting of at least two egg-tubes opening into a common chamber, the uterus. The egg originates and attains to nearly its fuU size in the egg-tube, and it IS with this portion of the generative organs he chiefly occupies himself. The egg-tubes differ very much in number and length and the number of egg-germs tbey contain varies. It is, however,' probable that in each species the number is definite. Each egg! tube generaUy consists of two membranes. The outer muscular, the inner deKcate and structureless, and lined with a layer of epithehal ceUs. These probably take an active part in the secre- tion of the yolk m aU insects, and are the principal, if not the only, organs which form the yolk in the Orthoptera, Fulex, and the Libellulina. In the earKest stage of development, the egg-ceU cannot be dis- tinguished from the vitelHgenous ceUs (those that secrete the yolk), and at the upper end of the egg-tube may be found ceUs which are neither the one nor the other, but which are apparently capable of becoming either the one or the other. The macula germinativa is a small, round vesicle in the Orthopetra. In Fulex the germinal vesicle IS dark, and the macula germinativa, which is distinct in the young egg-germs, soon disappears. In the Coccus, the germinal vesicle makes its appearance after the viteUigenous ceUs. It is about •0008 in diameter. About the same time the oil-globules also make their appearance, and soon become the most conspicuous part of the egg. The viteUigenous ceUs, Huxley and Leuckart say, are weU developed in the oviparous Aphides ; but less apparent in the agamic or viviparous forms. It is generally stated that all the Apliides are, in spring and summer, self-fertile and viviparous, and become oviparous in autumn. Lubbock, however, tliinks it probable that in cold regions some species may be always ovijjarous.123 GENERATION AND DEVELOPMENT. Heckek and Kussmaul's observations were made upon cases of tubular pregnancy in tbe human subject. Kussmaul concludes from his researches that the egg fi-om one side of the generative organs passes over and develops itself in the other. A review of Kussmaul's book is to befound in the 'British and Toreign Quarterly/ October 9, 1859.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, PATHOLOGY, AND THERAPEUTICS. BY CHAELES HANDFIELD JONES, M.B., F.E.S., FELLOW OF THli ROYAL COLLEGE OP PHYSICIANS; PHYSICIAN TO ST. MABY's HOSPITAL ; iiiC. GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. Wilks—Lectures on Pathological Anatomy, delivered at Guy's Hospital during the Summer Sessions of 1857 and 1858. pp. 472. Virehow—Das wahre Neurom. [TheTrue Neuroma.] Canstatt's Jahresbericht, 1859, vol. li, p. 23. Leubuscher.—Pathologische Bindegewebs entwicklung im Gehirn. [Pathological Development of Connective Tissue in the Brain.] Canst. Jahrber., 1850, vol. u p. 29. Snellen.—Experimentelle untersuchung uber den Einfluss der nerven auf den Entziindungs-Process. [Experimental Inquiry respecting the Influence of the Nerves on the Process of Inflammation.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, vol. ii, p. 44. (The experiments were made under Donders' inspection.) Gmining.—Untersuchungen uber Blutbewegung und Siasis. [Inquiries respecting the Movement and the Stasis of Blood.] Canst. Jahr., vol. ii, p. 45. (Under Donders' superintendence.) Samuel.—Ueber den Einfluss der Nerven auf den Entzundungs process. [On the Influence of the Nerves on the Process of Inflammation.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 48. Virehow.—Zur Geschichte der parenchymatosen Entzundung. [On the History of Parenchymatous Inflammation.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, vol. ii, p. 50. Eanzi.—Sui fenomeni iniziali delle flussione sanguigna specialmente secondo i risultati delle osservazioni ed esperienze microscopische, nuovi studii sperimen- tah. Ferner.—Interna di fenomeni iniziali della flussione sanguigna special- mente secondo i resultati delle osservazioni ed esperienze microscopisclie: Nuovi studii sperimentali e considerazioni intorno all' essenza della flogosi. [On tlie Initial Phenomena of Determination of Blood, particularly according to the results of microscopical observation and experience: New E.\perimental Studies. Further.—Respecting the Initial Phenomena of Determination of Blood, particularly according to the results of microscopical experience and observation: new Experimental Sludies and Considerations respecting the Essence of Inflammation.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, vol. ii, p. 53.GElStEBAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. 125 Lister—On the Early Stages of Inflammation. Canst. Jahrber,, 1859, vol. ii, p. 53. Robin.—Memoire sur une mode particiiliere et non decrile de la production de la pai-vi {sic) des Kystes autour de certaines Collections de pus et d'autres liquides dans les organes profonds. [Memoir on a particular and undescribed Mode of Production of the walls of Cysts around certain collections of pus and other liquids in deep-seated Organs.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 54. Vulpian.—Recherches sur la duree de la contractilite du coeur apres la mort. [Researches on the Duration of the Contractility of the Heart after Death.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 55. KuSSmaul.—Ueber die Ertodtung der Gliedmassen durch Einspritzung von Chlo- roform in die Schlagadern. [On causing Death of the Limbs by injection of Chloroform into the Arteries.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, P- 56, vol. ii. Gestin.—De influence des CUraats chauds sur I'Europeen. [The Influence of Hot Climates on Europeans.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 58. Parehappe.—Des variations pathologiques de la flbrine dans le sang. [On the Pathological Variations of the Fibrin in the Blood.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, vol. ii, p. 61. Beckmann.—Kleine Beitrage zur Experimental Pathologic.—(1.) Druckstiegerung im Arteriensystem und Albuminuric. (2.) Herzhypertrophie bei vermehrtem Druck im Aortensystem. [Small Contributions to Experimental Pathology.—■ (1.) On Increase of Pressure in the Aortic System, and Albuminuria. (2.) On Cardiac Hypertrophy in increased pressure in the Aortic System.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 62. Behier.—Modification apportee au reactif de Bottger pour reconnaitre la presence, du Sucre dans les urines diabet. [Modification of Bottger's Reagent for detecting the presence of Sugar in Diabetic Urine.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, "> P- 75- Recklingshausen,—Ueber eine Echinococcus Flussigkeit. [On Echinococcus Fluid.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, P- 86. Gannal.—Memoire sur I'hydropisine, nouvelle matiere albumineuse. [Memoir on Hydropisine, a new albuminous substance.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, "» p. 86. Delore.—Note sur la suppuration bleue. [On Blue Pus.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. 87. CONTRIBUTIONS TO MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. Hamemik.—Das Herz und seine Bewegung. [The Heart and its Motion.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, "> P- 9°- Gerhardt.—Untersuchung uber die Herzdiimpfung und die Verschiebung ihren Grenzen bei Gesunden. [An Inquiry respecting the Dulness-area of the Heart, and the alteration of its limits in health.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, '^'ol. ii, p. 97. Luschka.—Ueber die Lagerungsverhaltniss der vorderen mittelfelle. [On the Position of the Anterior Mediastinum.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, ^ol- », p. 100. Piorry.—Influence des respirations profondes et accelerees sur les maladies du coeur, du foie, des poumons, &c. [The Influence of deep and accelerated Re- spiration on Diseases of the Heart, Liver, Lungs, &c.] Canst. Jahrber., 1859, vol. ii, p. 102. ' Hirsel.—Klinische Fragmente. [Clinical Fragments.] Canst. Jahrber., vol. ii, p. ro3.126 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ave es ,nalad.cs < e la poilrine. [Vital capacity of the Lungs, and its IlelatJon to tl e Diseases of the Chest.] Canst. Jahrber., ,859, vol. ii, p. ,00. Czermak.-Ueber de„ Kehlkopfsplegel. [On the Laryngeal Speculum.] Canst. Jahrb., 1859, vol. ii, p. II,. Funk.-Den Kehlkopfraehenspiegel und die Methode seines Gebrauchs [The Laryngeal Speculum, and the mode of using it.] Canst. Jahr., i8so.vol ii p. 112. ' Stork.-Zur verwerthung des Kehlkopfraehenspiegels. [The value of the Laryn- geal Speculum.] Canst. Jahrb., vol. ii, p. 117. Semeleder-Beweglicher Bnllenspiegel zu laryngoskopischen untersuchungen [Moveable Spectacle-Mirror for examination of the Larynx.] Canst. Jahrb ' vol. 11, p. 118. ■' ■WunderUch.-Ueber Hypertrophen bei typisch verlaufenden Krankheiten [On Kelapses in Diseases running a typical course.] Canst. Jahrb., 1859, ^o\. ii, Dr. WiLKs' lectures on pathological anatomy do not admit of more than bare mention. The work is divided into two parts the first describing the various morbid states of the several organs and systems, the second treating of associated morbid con- ditions and essential diseases. Eeference is made continually to lUustrative specimens in Gu/s Hospital Museum, which is under the charge of the author, and wliich, together with the numerous autopsies he has conducted, has furnished liim with a most copious store of facts on which liis statements are based. GENEEAL PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. TosTER, after quoting Virchow's description of the state of the nerves of an amputated stump, says that it is probable that the fascicular neuroma with fibroid characters is to be regarded equaUy \vith the true neuroma as a tumour consisting of nerve-fibres. In it, however, the fascicles of the perineurium are filled with nerve- tubes devoid of medullary substance, but broad and rich in nuclei. Webeu describes the formation of new vessels in and on cartilage during clironic articular inflammation, as occurring in two difi'ereiit modes. In one club-hke processes of fusiform nuclei or cells shoot out fi-om the margin of a capillary loop, and give off fresh processes. These enter the gaps made by the perishing of the cartilaginous structure. The original capillary becomes the trunk of a vessel which ramifies through the new-formed arborescent process. Billroth gives an account of the mode of ossification inGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY, 137 osteo-sarcomata, exostoses, osteophytes, the repair of fractures, &c. Maier describes a case of sarcoma melanodes; Yirchow describes the minute structure of tubercle; and Porster gives a pretty full expo- sition of the structure of cylindrical epithelial cancroid. Beckman communicates a case of amyloid degeneration. (Vol. ii. pp. 24—27.) Leubuschee details a rare case of cystic formation in the brain, somewhat similar to the embryonal or colloidal tumours; as well as the microscopic appearances in the brain of an insane person, where some patches of softening and one of induration were found. Buhl, from examination of trachomatous structure, refers the alteration to the class of neuromata, or tumours formed by consider- able hypertrophy of the sheaths of the nerves. Kussmaul has studied the production of laceration of the inner coats of the cervical arteries in persons who have died by hanging. It occurred four times in fourteen cases. Billroth describes a new formation of glandular parenchyma as occurring in secondary acute and subacute inflammation of the lymphatic glands, not a mere increase of lymph-corpuscles. Prom examination of an inflamed prepuce, in which the sheaths of the vessels and bundles of connective tissue were full of lymph-corpuscles, Billroth comes to the conclusion that the connective-tissue-corpuscles may be regarded as the epithehum of the lymph-capillaries, which are represented by lacunar spaces among the bundles of the above-mentioned tissue. True lymphatic vessels were seen to originate from the vascular sheaths laden with corpuscles, in this instance. Billroth also describes the course of the degenerative changes in hypertrophy of the tongue and lips. Triedleben, in his admirable monograph on the thymus, shows that there is no such disease as the so-called astlima thymicum. Beale describes the interspaces between the lobules in cirrhosed states of the Hver as not containing any unusual amount of connective tissue, but the detritus of cells that have perished. Wagner's treatise on uterine cancer, and Thompson's on the prostate gland, must be noticed, as works of reference on their respective subjects. Pellizzari supports the view that puerperal fever is only fever set up by purulent infec- tion. Yirchow describes the sweat-glands in cases of phthisis as being in a state of fatty degeneration. CONTRIBUTIONS TO GBNEUAL PATHOLOGY. Virehow's 'Cellular Tatkology.'—This work is ranked by Kussmaul with Schwann's celebrated treatise, as doing for pathology what theREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 128 latter did for pliysiology. We can do no more than refer to it. So also with another essay of the same author, on ' Irritation and Irritability' wc have to quote the remark of Kussmaul, that we do not see how, with advantage to tlie reader, we can give a summary of the contents, at least within tlie hmits allotted to us. Snellen has examined experimentally the influence of various nerves upon the inflammatory process. He states, from observations on the ear of the rabbit, that " the relation of the sensory nerves to the vascular nerves is similar to their relation to the motor nerves. Irritation of the sensory nerves causes increased action of the vascular nerves of the same side upon the same part. Wlien the irritation is intense, this reflex action, just as is the case with the motor nerves, extends also to other regions; moreover, it is the spasmodically contracted condition of the wall of the vessels which essentially conditionates the succeeding state of atony, so that the force of the heart remaining the same, vascular dilatation must follow contraction without the nervous influence being lessened." He further ascertained that section of the sensory nerves did not essentially alter the process of inflammation, while section of the vaso-motor to some extent promoted it, and quite positively promoted the absorption of extravasated fluid, and the occurrence of cicatrization. So also when he inflamed both eyes, by dropping strong acetic acid into each, the course of the inflammation was shortened in the eye of the side on wliich the sympathetic cord had been divided. Snellen opposes the old view that section of the fifth pair produces corneitis by paralysing the nerves that preside over the nutrition of that part. He beheves the corneitis that ensues to result from mechanical irritation, &c., and shows that if the animal's ear is fastened in front of its eye, and the mucous secretion carefully removed, the cornea is kept free from inflammation. Gunning has studied carefully the motion of the blood, and its stasis. With respect to the influence of the nerves on the diameter of the vessels, he found, that in frogs, division of the rami communi- cantes of the sympathetic produced no marked effect; division of the sciatic plexus near the spinal cord had a marked effect in producing vascular injection, and increasing the rapidity of the current; pinching of the skin he found to cause contraction of the small arteries, but does not feel satisfied to assume a reflex action from the sensoiy or the vaso-motor nerves, because arterial contractions occur both spontaneously (even after division of the nerves) and associatedGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. l^H with muscular movements. With respect to the effect of irritants—(i.) A weak galvanic current constantly contracts the greater and smaller arteries lying in its course, sometimes in spots, sometimes com- pletely, and usually so perfectly that the channel is obliterated. The veins of the web were never positively contracted, only the larger ones running at the sides of the toes. The circulation in the capillaries was not slackened or arrested, unless the degree of contraction was considerable. (2.) Mechanical irritation produced the same effects as Wliarton Jones observed. (3.) Warmth (104°) immediately increases the rapidity of the stream, and distends the arteries, capillaries, and veins, without causing contraction or dila- tation. A higher temperature (158°) at first increases the rapidity of the stream, but soon it slackens, and stasis occurs. The arteries were not contracted. Cold (33°) had no effect. [The editor remarks that some observations of his own were very positive as to the arterial dilatation produced by warmth, and the contraction induced by cold. Both the higher and lower temperature were moderate.] (4.) Dilute acids for a moment increase the rapidity of the current, then it declines and stasis sets in. Stronger acids cause accumulation of the blood in the veins, and an empty state of the capil- laries and arteries. (5.) Dilute caustic alkalies act in the same way as acids. (6.) Clilorides of sodium and calcium, sugar, urea, sulphate of magnesia, and of soda, &c., act much in the same way. A drop of cold, saturated solution conditionates almost immediately accele- ration of the circulation, without visible arterial dilatation, which in a few seconds passes into retardation and arrest. The stasis affects, first the capillaries, then the veins, last the arteries. In the small veins, whose current tends away from the irritated spot, the direction is sometimes reversed. Gunning concludes that stasis has no con- nection with the state of the vessels or of the heart's action. He confirms Weber's results as to the efi'ects of irritants after ligature of the vessels. Samuel, after observing that exudation is the inflammatory pbe- nomenon in warm-blooded animals, which is equivalent to stasis in the cold-blooded, and expressing his agreement with Lawrence, Thomson and Virchow, as to the non-occurrence of stasis in the ordinary inflammations of the human subject, proceeds to state his own results as to the production of inflammation by irritation of a nervous centre. The part he selected was the posterior part of the spinal cord of the frog, and the irritants were mechanical and elec.. 9130 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. trical. True stasis was produced, not mere stillstand of the current. Samuel concludes that nerves originate from this centre wliich re- • gulate the nutrition of the posterior limb. Viuciiow describes a specimen of inflamed cornea, and one of inflamed endocardium of the chordse tendineaj, as illustrating his views of parenchymatous inflammation. The lamellse in the former were unaffected, the corpuscles were enlarged to from ten to twenty times, and rendered opaque by a fatty, albuminous, granular mass. In the latter the inflammatory alterations did not appear in the vicinity of the vessels, but rather at the most remote parts, where the tendinous cord is most exposed to tension, at the point of bifurcation. Ranzi, (late) of Florence, denies that the capillaries have any power except that of elasticity. Active hypersemia he ascribes to the greater activity Avith which the tissues exert their function. Inflammation he refers, and did as long ago as 1844, to secret disturbances of the interchange taking place in the process of nutrition between the blood and the tissues. He thinks that no explanation can be found in the derangements of the circulation of the phenomena of inflammation. Neither does he consider inflam- mation as an increase of organic activity and nutrition, but rather as characterised by the reverse. In a paper on the early stages of inflammation, Listeu shows that irritation of a certain part of the spinal cord of the frog produces constantly contraction of the arteries of the web, and that destruc- tion of the same is followed by permanent dilatation. Neither state, however, causes any arrest of the blood-current, or alteration in the quality of the blood. Erom the circumstance that the same changes are produced in successive portions of blood passing through the vessels of a spot wliich has been subjected to mild irritation, viz., increased tendency of the red and white corpuscles to adhere together and to the walls of the vessels. Lister concludes that the irritated tissue is the original seat of the inflammation, and that the altera- tions in the blood are secondary. He observes, further, that the red and wliite corpuscles are never more inclined to adhere than they are in healthy, fresh-drawn blood, and concludes that the tissues of a healthy part exert an influence on the blood whereby the red and white corpuscles are kept free from tendency to adhere, while in inflamed parts thi's influence is more or less lost. Lister believes the inflamed parts to be in a state of diminished functional activity, from tlie relaxation of the arterial coats and the diffusion of theGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. 131 pigment in the radiating pigment-cells, the active state of these cells showing concentration of the pigment around the nucleus. Robin describes certain cystic tumours whose walls are colum- nated like those of the auricles of the heart, or " a vessie colonnes." The columns have sometimes quite the appearance of muscle, but contain no striated or non-striated muscular fibres ; they consist only of bundles of fibres, among wliich are occasionally elastic. The contents are various—puriform or mucous, turbid or transparent. These tumours occur in many different parts. Vtjlpian publishes some inquiries relative to the duration of the contractility of the heart after death. In a decapitated criminal the right auricle acted for five hours, the autopsy not having been commenced till twenty-four hours after death. Independent rhytli- mical movements were observed in the right auricle of the dog's heart twenty-six houi's after cessation of artificial respiration. An undulating movement was observed tliirty-four hours after death. It often continued when strong galvanic and mechanical ii-ritation failed to produce contraction. KussMAUL shows that chloroform injected into the arteries of dead animals prevents putrefaction, but if injected during life it speedily produces it. He ascribes the difference to the circumstance, that after the cliloroform has destroyed the vitality of the tissues in the latter case, it is washed away by the blood, and so cannot exert its preservative action. The case is the same as when a limb mortifies after frostbite ; the return of the circulation brings with it three conditions higUy favorable to putrefaction, viz., warmth, oxygen, and water. The blood continued to circulate in the dead limbs in the experiments performed by Kussmaul until putrefaction had visibly set in, as declaredby the odour and colour of the skin. When all circulation had ceased in the leg and the greater part of the tliigh, in consequence of thrombosis, a concentrated solution of iodide of potassium was injected under the skin of the sole of the foot; after four and a half hours the salt was detected in the urine, and con- tmued to pass off copiously by this channel until the death of the animal, twenty-four hours later. Kussmaul supposes that the channel tlirough which the salt reached the moving blood from the putrid limb, must be the microscopic, plasmatic, vascular system of the connective tissue discovered by Virchow. Difinision and capillary attraction probably operated to transmit the saline solution alon<T these channels, aided also materially by the suction-po-wer of theREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 132 heart, which must be felt even in that vascular system. Mere irritation, as shown by experiments with dead organs, does not cause a salt to penetrate speedily into the interior of the mass. The prac- tical conclusions which Kussmaul adopts are—"that a putrid limb is not to be considered as a mere dead appendage, even when all circula- tion has ceased; that, on the contrary, there may go on an active exchange of fluids between it and the living parts; that the mecha- nical and even the chemical actions are different in sphacelus and in post-mortem putrefaction; and lastly, that the magnitude of the danger in gangrene of a Hmb does not only depend on the size of the contact-surface of the living and dead parts, but on the size of the whole putrefying mass." Gestin maintained a thesis at Paris in 1857, on the influence of hot climates on Europeans. The essay is full of important facts, and does not admit of abbreviation for our limits. Parchappb has made numerous examinations relative to the pathological variations of the fibrine in the blood. He finds that in acute inflammations, attended with fever, the blood contains twice as much fibrine as in the normal condition; he states, as the general mean, I5'88 parts per 1000 of liquor sanguinis. In chronic inflam- mations the increase was very little 5" 10 to 6'oi per 1000. In various diseases attended with impoverishment of the blood, where the fibrine has been apparently increased, Parchappe shows that the increase is only relative, and that there is an absolute decrease. G. Meyer in thirty-one persons dying of different diseases, found traces of sugar (or hepatine yielding sugar) five times only, while in the remaining twenty-six there was no trace. Vernois found sugar sixty- seven times in 173 cases; Stokvis only once in eleven cases, the sugar- yielding case being that of a man who died from fracture of the skuU while in perfect health. In a case of death from common car- buretted hydrogen no sugar was found, though the patient hved only four hours. It does not appear that the age, the nature of the disease, or its duration has any positive determining influence on the pre- sence or absence of sugar. Meyer ascribes its absence, in accordance with Bernard's views, to an alteration of nutrition occasioned through nerve-influence. In a dog whose thigh-bone had necrosed after obliteration of the aorta, Beckmann observed the muscular fibres of the heart in some places calcified so as to form rigid, gUstening cyhnders; only here and there were the calcareous salts deposited in the form of small,133 GKNERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. round granules between the tibres. In the kidneys, the cortical tubes in several places were completely filled with calcareous salts ; the Malpighian bodies, the stroma, and the pyramids, were free. PATHOLOGICAL CHEMISTRY. Eelative to the detection of sugar in the urine, in the normal and in pathological conditions, there are several communications which may be consulted with advantage by those who wish for further information on tliis subject (pp. 93—104). We can only cite the foUowing. Bottger's new test for sugar is, according to Behier, one of the most delicate and reliable, if slightly modified as he pro- poses. The urine is boiled with an equal volume of one part of crystallizedCarb. Sodse in tliree parts of water, and a little basic nitrate of bismuth added. Behier adds also a very small fragment of caustic potash. If sugar is present, the bismuth is reduced, giving a black colour to the mixture ; if there is none, it remains white. Echinococcus fluid examined by Eecklinghausen was colourless, feebly acid, tui-bid, containing flocculi mainly made up of scolices, of sp. gr. i'oi5, free from albumen. In 100 parts there were 97-998 of water, 3'003 of solids. The latter contained nearly half its weight of cliloride of sodium. EoBiN and Verdeil have di-awn attention to a substance occurring in dropsy different from ordinary albumen. This liquid, after addition of sulphate of magnesia and filtering, is rendered turbid by boiling, alcohol, or acids, without coagulating in flocculi like albumen. They requested Gannal to examine tliis substance fui-ther. He states, as the general result of liis inquiry, " That in the morbid effusions of the pleura and peritoneum a substance is found coagu- lable by heat and nitric acid. It is distinguished from serum and albumen by being retained by sulphate of magnesia without being coagulated; from casein by coagulation on heating; and from pan- creatine by not being reddened by chlorine. This substance he names hydropisine. It has not been found in the urine of morbus Brightii. In 100 parts of pleural effusion there were 1670 parts of moist hydropisine, 31-15 of moist albumen. In 100 parts of peritoneal serum there were 14 of moist hydropisine, 34-46 of moist albumen. In many cachectic individuals the pus secreted by wounds is of a greenish colour, and stains the dressings blue. The colouring-134 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICJNK. matter has been isolated by Coutaeet, by steeping the bandages in cold distilled water, and expressing the liquid. This is mixed with some alcohol, heated to boiling, and filtered. After driving off the alcohol by heat, chloroform is added, which takes the blue colour from the water. The chloroform-solution being separated and evaporated, a deep-blue powder was obtained, which became green on shaking with aether, and remained blue in water, thus pro\'ing the identity of the blue and green colouring. The general opinion IS, that the colouring matter is a modification of biliary pigment. CONTRIBUTIONS TO MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. In a paper on the position and movements of the heart, Hamernik states it, as a great mystery, that the heart's systole should raise the wall of the chest instead of rather drawing it inwards. He thinks he can explain tliis by reference to liis observations on the position of the heart and the fixed point afforded it by the contraction- tendency of the lungs. If the heart is examined by touching it through the diapliragm after opening the abdominal cavity, through the pleura by removing the fifth costal cartilage, and tlu'oiigh the right layer of the anterior mediastinum from the right pleural ca\aty, the observer becomes convinced of the firm, immoveable position of the heart, fitted into the angle between the diaphragm and anterior wall of the chest. " If a small opening is made into the pericardium through the right mediastinal layer, the air rushes in with a noise, the heart loses its fixity, the sharp edge of the right ventricle starts from its recipient angular bed, the heart becomes easily moveable, takes another position and direction, while the anterior wall of the chest between the fourth and sixth cartilages (left) changes its reso- nance, and (in place of a dull) gives now a clear note." This firm, immoveable position of tlie heart only exists in young, healthy individuals; in old persons and in various morbid states it is lost. Hamernik maintains that the apex of the heart takes no part in the impulse, the tongue-shaped extremity of the upper lobe, or the anterior border of the left lung, lying between it and the anterior wall of the chest. Hence the determination of the site of the heart's impulse cannot determine the position of the heart. Hamernik describes particularly the superficial and the deep position of the heart, the chief difference between them being tlie close approximation in the former of the anterior or superior convex wall of the ventricles to the wall of the chest. The former is the position wliich exists in early Ufe, untilGENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMATOLOGY. 135 " involution " has set in. In the latter the heart retires more from the surface of the chest, and is covered more or less by the anterior tliin part of the left lung. The swelling up of the heart, or the increase of its vertical diameter, when lying on its posterior flat sm-face, is, according to Hamernik, the cause of the impulse. That the heart during systole moves downwards, or from left to right, he quite disbelieves. Geehabdt has made inquii-ies relative to the limits of the heart's dulness.—(a.) In healthy individuals,lying on the back and breathing quietly, he finds that the right or internal boundary Hne corresponds with the left border of the sternum. The lower border of the cardiac dulness runs from the lowest extremity of the preceding outwards and a httle downwards to join the external at the level of the sixth costal cartilage, or occasionally of the seventh or fifth. The length of this border is about one tliird that of the length of the sternum. The upper and left boundary is made up of a shorter portion sloping a httle downwards, and another longer running more decidedly downwards and outwards. Tliis line, thus bent at an obtuse angle or curved, commences at the lower border of the fourth left rib. (b.) Changes during deep inspiration and expiration consisted in a decrease and descent during inspiration, an enlargement and ascent during expiration; the right boundary, however, almost always remaining unaltered. The mean advance of the left boundary inwards and to the right during deep inspiration was centim., the upper boundary descended about 2^ centim. In deep expiration the upper boundary receded if centim., the right lower lung-boundary centim., the left cardiac limit a figure intermediate to the two. (c.) Alterations depending on the right or left lateral position were evident. In the left lateral position the left cardiac limit advanced 11—7 centim. outwards; the right limit was unchanged. In the right lateral position the heart's impulse is still felt at or near the same spot as in the supine, but it is weaker; right ventricle pulsation, however, becomes more evident under the xiphoid process. In the lateral positions two displacements, which are only exceptional in the supine position, are almost constantly observed, viz., in inspiration while lying on the left side movement of the right limit towards the left, and in expiration on the opposite side movement of the same limit to the right. Gerhardt infers from the above—(i.) That extensive pleural adhesions in the vicinity of the heart will impair its mobility in every direction, and of course diminish the variations in the extent of itsREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 136 dulness. ( 2.)—That murmurs depending on the contact of roughened spots may be developed, increased, or abolished, by change of position. (3.) If it sliould be shown in a case of simple pericardial adhesion that the mobility of the heart was lost, this latter would become a useful sign of such adhesion having occurred. In the person of a female, who had an external fistulous opening, Gerhardt observed distinctly, by introducing his finger so as to be in contact with the sternal part of the diaphragm, that the heart descended at each inspiration (tranquil), and altered its position with right or left lateral decubitus. He also assured himself of the occurrence of a systolic movement of the heart's apex downw^ards and to the left. Hameknik having stated that the whole posterior surface of the sternum was covered by the right pleura, and that no part of the pericardium was left unlined by the two pleurae, Luschka examines the exact positions and attacliments of the two layers of the anterior mediastinum, and finds that the individual varieties are very con- siderable, but that as a rule there exists certaiidy a triangular space at the lower end of the body of the sternum devoid of pleural covering, and therefore accessible to the trocar in hydropericardium. The width of this at the level of the sternal extremity of the fifth rib is I -5 centim., at that of the sixth rib 3 centim., at that of the seventh rib 3 "5 centim. PiORRY recommends frequent and deep respiratory efforts as a means of relieving dyspnoea dependent on a congested and dilated state of the heart, congestions and inflammations of the liver and also of the lungs, as well as dropsical effusion resulting from cardiac disease. In his clinical fragments, Hirsch accounts for the vocal fremitus being sometimes abnormally increased, at others diminished, by the varying state of the tension of the thorax, or by the too great pressure of the swollen lung against the parietes. Condensation of the lung will always, he believes, intensify the vocal vibrations. In examinations of the vital capacity of the lungs, and its relation to chest-disease, Schnepf finds that expiration always occupies a longer time than inspiration, and that in three out of four cases a quantity of air greater by 50*250 c.c. is expired than is inhaled. He does not think this increase can be explained by expansion of the air from heat, and addition of carbonic acid, for these conditions exist in all persons. He states, further, that the quantity of air put in motion during the respiratory act does notDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 137 depend on the breathing movements; there does not even appear to exist any close relation between the two. Relative to the influence of age, Schnepf concludes that before the age of ten the capacity of the lungs increases yearly about 140 c.c, so that at the age of ten the mean is about 1400, and that to obtain approximatively the capacity for an age below this, it is sufiicieiit to multiply the given number by the age. Between the agesof ten and twentytheyearlyincrease amounts to above 260 c.c, except for the first years. At the age of twenty the capacity reaches its maximum, and afterwards declines, but in an irregular manner, so that no yearly number of decrease can be stated. In the female sex the pulmonary capacity is considerably less than in the male. The capacity increases in general with the height, yet persons of the same height may differ in their capacities 1200—1300 c.c. The circumference of the thorax (taken at the nipples) has no determinate relation to the capacity. In one fourth of the observations made to determine the point it was found that the capacity was the same when the stomach was full as when it was empty; in another fourth the inspiration and expiration w^ere both greater when the stomach was empty; in the remaining half the capacity was greater when the stomach was full. CzERMAK strongly recommends the use of Garcia's laryngeal speculum for the examination of the larynx and adjacent parts. The instrument consists of a small, oblong mirror, fixed to a suitably bent wire. The mirror is introduced deeply into the tliroat till its lower margin meets the posterior wall of the pharynx, the soft palate being pushed upwards. With a little practice the whole base of the tongue, the epiglottis, the upper and lower chordae vocales, the ventricles, the mucous lining of the arytenoid cartilages, and the posterior pharyngeal wall as far down as the oesophagus, nay, on deep inspiration a considerable part of the interior of the trachea, can be brought into \dew. By turning the reflecting smface of the mirror upwards, a view can be obtained of the posterior surface of the soft palate, and of the upper part of the pharyngeal cavity. TiiRK gives a description, with figures, of the laryngeal speculum he employs, with copious details of directions for its use. Eor these we must refer to the paper, only remembering that it is necessary to heat the speculum moderately before introducing it into the mouth, to prevent the condensation of vapour on its surface. Semeleder recommends the employment of a concave mirror, perforated in the centre, and fitted to the examiner's eye, as an im-138 RKl'ORT ON PRACTICAI. MKDICINK. proved means of illuminating the part of the throat whicli it is desired to see with the speculum. In some remarks u\)on hypostrophes, as Wunberlich terms relapses, and various deviations from the normal course of recovery, he observes that no sign gives such sure and early warning as the increase of the temperature of the body. So long as in diseases that subside slowly the temperature falls uniformly, or with such variations that the morning temperature and the evening are each a little below that of the preceding day at the same hours, there need be no fear that the improvement is interrupted; or if the temperature which has fallen to the normal figure after rapid or slow subsidence remains normal, or after having fallen below this point it ascends to it, there is no ground for anxiety, even if the other conditions should not become healthy as soon as was expected. E, on the contrary, through several days, the temperature keeps up beyond the normal figure (at least at the corresponding hours of different days); if even a little increase of temperature is apparent, comparing similar hours of succeeding days, there is every reason to be on one's guard. If an increase of a degree or more takes place from evening to morning, or from one evening to the next, the occurrence of a relapse of fever is by no means improbable, and the utmost precau- tion necessary, even if the patient feels well. If the increase lasts several days, and advances, one may be certain that a fresh morbid process, or a recurrence of the past, has set in. DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. Parkin.—The Causation and Prevention of Disease, showing the innocuousness of putrid exhalations, and pointing out what are the real and efficient causes of disease, pp. 191. London. Garrod.—On the Nature and Treatment of Gout and Rheumatic Gout. pp. 601. London. Althaus.—A Treatise of Medical Electricity, Theoretical and Practical, and its Use in the Treatment of Paralysis, Neuralgia, and other diseases, pp. 352. London. Markham.—Remarks on the Uses of Bleeding in Diseases. Brit. Med. Joum., April 9th and i6th, 1859. Althaus.—On 'lie Action of the Electric Current upon the Motor Nerves and Muscles. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 29tli, 1859. Hunter.—On the Hypodermic Treatment of Diseases, with Cases and Experiments. II)., March 5th and 26th, and April i6th, 1859.139 DrSEASES AFFKCTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. Hardy,—On the Treatment of Purpura Haeraorrhagica by the administration of Tincture of Larch Bark. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. isth, 1859. Barclay.—On the Real Value of Bloodletting in Acute Diseases. Brit. Med. Journ., March 5lh, 1859. Kennedy.—On the Change of Type Theory of Disease. Edin. Med. Journ., Jan., 1859, p. 624. Newham.—A Fever Village. Lancet, April 23d, 1859. Rostan,—Traitement de la fievre typhoide. [Treatment of Typhoid Fever.] Annuaire de Med. et Chir. pratiq., 1859, pp. 1—7. Quiet.—De la fievre pernicieuse chez les jeuues enfants. [Pernicious Fever in Young Children.] lb., pp. 7—23. Berchon.—fievre jaune et les fievres paludeennes. [Yellovr Fever and Marsh Fevers.] lb., pp. 23—29. Heed.—Revaccination in the Army. Lancet, April 30th, 1859. » Husband.—On Public Vaccination. Brit. Med. Journ., April 30th, 1859. Schneider.—Emploi de la digitale dans les maladies inflamniatoires, et en particu- lier dans la pneumonie. [Use of Digitalis in Inflammation, and in Pneumonia especially.] Annuaire de Therapeut., 1859, pp. 82—88. Tisseire.—Traitement de la morsure de la vipere bicorne de I'AIgerie. [Treatment of the Bite of the Viper Bicorne of Algeria.] lb., p. 263. Eiselt.—The Diagnosis of Melanotic Cancer by the Urine. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May ist, 1859. Heidenhain.—On intermittent Fever; the result of the observations made during several epidemics. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859, p. 535. Gairdner.—Du traitement de la goutte. [On the Treatment of Gout.] Annuaire par Noirot, 1859, p, 160. Veit,—Sur la rougeole hemorrhagique. [On Hsemorrhagic Measles.] lb., p. 1.94. BrauW et Broers,—De la ligature des membres comrae moyen auxiliaire dans le traitement des fievres intermittentes. [On Ligaturing the Limbs in the Treat- ment of Intermittent Fever.] lb., p. 314. Heyfelder.—De la dipbtherite des surfaces traumatiques. [On the Diphtheritis of Traumatic Surfaces.] lb., p. 329. Gunsburg.—Sur I'emploi de la colchicine dans la goutte. [On Colchicine.] lb., P- 34«- Bamberger.—Remarques sur la variole et sur sa combinaison avec d'autres mala- dies. [Remarks on Variola, and on its Combination with other Diseases.] lb., P- 3S2- Lancet Sanitary Commission,—Report on Diphtheria, its History, Progress, Symptoms, and Treatment. Lancet, Jan. 15th, 22d, and 29th, and Feb. sth and 12th, 1859. Eamskill.—On Local Treatment in a particular form and stage of Diphtheria. lb., Feb. 19th, 1859. Ellis and Rigden.—Reports on Diphtheria at Crowle (Lincolnshire) and at Can- terbury. Brit. Med. Journ., May 28th, 1859. Tire.—On the Employment of Iodide of Sodium. Lancet, April 2d, 1859. Marcet—On the Treatment of Chronic Alcoholic Intoxication. lb., April 2d, 1859. Murchison.—On the Prevalence of Continued Fevers in the Metropolis and other parts of the United Kingdom, during the year 1858. lb., April zd, 1859.REPUllT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK, 140 Pleischl, Michaelis, und Danielsen—Zur Syphilisation. [On Syphili^a- tioii.] Scliiiiidt's jiilirl)., vol. loi, pp. 56—59. Stenberg.—Uulier Sypliilisation, nebst eiiiigen mit dcrselhen angestellten ver- sucheii. [On Syphilizaiion, will) Experiments.] lb., pp. 59—60. Panum.—Zur Lelire von der putriden oder septisclicn Infeklion. [On Putrid or Septic Infection.] II)., pp. 213—217. Clark.—On Selenite as a Febrifuge. Med. Times and Gaz., June iith, 1859. Bamberger.—Uelier Combination von Blattern und Sypliilis. [On Smallpox coinl)ined with Syphilis.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, p. 31. Lorinser und Reder.—Merkur und Syphilis. [Mercury and Syphilis.] lb., P-3I- Duchek.—Ueber Wecbselfieber. [On Ague.] lb., pp. 169, 170. Schramm.—Ueber das genuine Wecbselfieber. [On Ague.] lb., p. 173. Houghton.—Summary of Tables of Cases of Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Journ., June 25tli, 1859. Houghton.—On Diphtheria. Dublin .Med. Journ., Feb., 1859, p. 94. Murchison.—On Origin of Typhus from Overcrowding; illustrative cases. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2d, 1859. Budd.—Intestinal Fever essentially Contagious. Lancet, July 2d, 9th, 16th, and 23d, 1859. Gairdner.—Clinical Notes.—Fever. Edinb. Med. Journ., July, p. 45; Sept., p. 238, 1859. Budd,—On Intestinal Fever; Nature of Intestinal Affection. Lancet, Aug. 6th and 27th, 1859. Sigmund.—Neuere Beobachtungen iiber die Einreibungskur mit grauer Salbe bei Syphibsformen. [Recent Observations of the Cure of Syphilis by Inunction.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, pp. 300, 301. Gruber.—Ueber den organischen Stoffwecbsel syphilitisch Erkrankten unter dera Gebrauche von Merkurialmitteln. [On the Organic Metamorphosis of the Syphilitic under the use of Mercury.] lb., p. 302. Ballard.—Some Account of Dipliiheria and Epidemic Sore Throat. Med. Times and Gaz., July i6tb and 23d, 1859. Eade.—Cases of Paralysis as a Sequela of Diphtheria. Lancet, July 16th, 1859. Smith, and others.—On Diphtheria. Brit. Med. Journ., July 16th, 1859. Bogge.—A Report on Twenty-two Cases of Diphtheria. Lancet, July 30th, 1859. Murchison.—On the Simultaneous E.\istence in the Human System of two or more Diseases, which are supposed to originate from specific morbid poisons. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, pp. 178—201. Lebert.—On a Case of Scrofula cured by Iodized Food. lb., p. 244. Lebert.—Aerztlicher Bericht aus riem k. k. Allgem. Krankenhause zu Wien vom Civil Jabre 1856 u. 1857. [Medical Report of the Royal Vienna General Hos- pital for the years 1856 and 1857.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, pp. 124—147. BristOWe.—Cases of Diphtheria, with remarks on the pathology, symptoms, and treatment of the disease. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 20th and 27th, and Sept. 3d, 1859. Murchison.—On the Causes of Continued Fevers, with special reference to the recent Windsor Epidemic. Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., 1859, p. 297. LaWSOn.—Observations on the Outbreak of Yellow Fever among the Troops at Newcastle, Jamaica, in the latter part of 1856. Brit, and For. Mcd.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1859, p. 44S.DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 141 Virchow.—Ueber die Natur der constittitionell-syphilitischen afFektionen. [On the Nature of Constitutional Syphilis.] Schmidt's Jahrli., vol. 104, pp. 65— 68. Peacock.—On the recently prevalent Malarious Affections. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 22d and Nov. sth and 12th, 1859. Whitley.—Cases illusirative of the Treatment of Rheumatic Fever. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, 1859, pp. 187—203. Beau.—Treatment of Acute Rheumatism by Quinic Intoxication. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 29th, 1859. Kansome.—Diphtheria affecting the Throat and, to a slight extent, the Air-Pas- sages; Paralysis; Recovery. Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 12th, 1859. SibsOQ.—Table of Cases of Acute Rheumatism treated veith large doses of Opium. Ih., Aug. 13th, 1859. May.—Observations on Diphtheria. Lancet, Sept. 17th, 1859. Michaelis.—BeitrSge zur Lehre von der Scrofein und Tuberkeln. [On Scrofula and Tuberculosis.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, pp. 309—312. Heymann.—Zum Wesen der Beri-Beri. [On the Nature of Beriberi.] lb., _P- 314- Lorinser.—Ueber Tauschungen und Irrthiiraer in Erkenntniss der Allgemeinen Syphilis. [On deceptions and errors in the Diagnosis of General Syphilis.] lb., vol. 104, p. 173. Hassing-.—Ueber die Natur der Schleimpapel. [On the Nature of Mucous Tubercles.] lb., pp. 176—178. Boeck.—Ueber Sypbilisation. [On Syphilization.] lb., pp. 311—315. Ringer.—On the Connexion between the Heat of the Body and the excreted amounts of Urea, Chloride of Sodium, and Urinary Water, during a Fit of Ague. Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xiii, 1859, P- 361. Sibley.—A Contribution to the Statistics of Cancer, collected from the Cancer Records of the Middlesex Hospital. lb., p. iii. ClarUS.—Action physiologique et therapeutique dela solanineet de ladouce-amere. [Physiological and Therapeutical Action of Solaiiine and Dulcamara.] Annuaire de Therapeutique, p. 24, 1859. EUis.—Diphtheria at Crowle, in Lincolnshire. Lancet, Dec. 24th, 1859. In his work on the prevention and causation of disease, Paukin controverts the accepted views, as to the influence exerted by decom- posing matters of aU kinds in producing both endemic and epidemic disease, and ascribes the chief potency to malaria, the same agent that produces intermittent and remittent fever all over the world. He entirely dissents from the view that this agent is the result of vegetable decomposition, and propounds the opinion that it rather proceeds from volcanic action, applying this term not so much to the special effects of volcanic eruptions and earthquakes as to the cause which gives rise to them. He cites various instances to show that occupations involving the constant inhalation of putrid emanations are by no means unhealthy, indeed appear actuaUy condu-142 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. cive to health {vide the cases of Mr. Rose's ii8 labourers, employed in emptying ashpits by day and cesspools by night, and that of the knacker's yard at Montfau^on, near Paris). Dr. Parkin does not seem to recognise the distinction between typhus and typhoid fever, nor between these and malarious fever, nor does he beheve "that any particular district has been preserved from visitations of either epidemic or endemic diseases by the removal of nuisances or by the establishment of new drains." Indeed, he entertains the opinion that di-ains may act directly as promoters of disease, partly by affording a passage along which malarial emanations from the banks of rivers may make their way into the interior of the houses, and pai-tly, when they become dilapidated, by allowing gaseous (malarial) matter to enter the drain from the soil. The chief remedies which he proposes are, paving or flagging the surface of the ground, so as to prevent the escape of the malarial emanations, and the use of charcoal and carbonic acid, to absorb and neutraUze them when they have escaped. In an appendix he gives various suggestions as to the best method of dealing with the question of the drainage of London. He argues forcibly for the application of the sewage to the purposes of manure, instead of allowing it to be thrown away into the sea. Gaeeod's work is divided into fifteen chapters.—Chapter i is in- troductory and historical; ii and m describe the symptoms and pheno- mena of acute and chronic gout; iv treats of the blood; v, of the urine in gout; vi and vii, of the morbid anatomy of gout; viii, of its causes; ix, of its pathology ; x, xi, xn, and xiii, of its treatment; XIV, of irregular forms of gout; and xv, of rhemnatic gout. The scanty space at our command induces us to give the foUowing extract from the chapter on the nature of gout, as conveying in a condensed form the principal views set forth by the author. "First, in true gout uric acid is invariably present in the blood in abnormal quantities, in the form of urate of soda, both prior to and at the period of the seizure, and is essential to its production; but it can be equally proved that this acid may occasionally exist largely in the circu- lating fluid without the development of inflammatory symptoms, as, for example, in cases of lead-poisoning and a few other instances. Its mere presence, therefore, does not explain the occurrence of the gouty paroxysm. Secondly, the investigations recently made in the morbid anatomy of gout prove incoutestably that true gouty in-143 DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTliM. flaramation is always accompanied with a deposition of urate of soda in the inflamed part. Thirdly, the deposit is crystalline and inter- stitial, and when once the cartilages and ligamentous structures become infiltrated, such deposition remains for a lengthened time, perhaps during life. Fourthly, the deposited urate of soda may be looked upon as the cause, and not the effect, of the gouty inflam- mation. Fifthly, the inflammation of gout tends to the destruction of the ui'ate of soda in the blood of the part, and consequently of the system generally. Sixthly, the kidneys are implicated in gout, probably in its early, and certainly in its clironic, forms; and this affection is not only functional, but subsequently becomes structural; the urinary secretion is also altered in composition [being often slightly albuminous, and always deficient in uric acid]. Seventhly, an im- pure state of the blood, arising principally from the presence of urate of soda, is the probable cause of the disturbances which not unfrequently precede the seizure, and of many of the anomalous symptoms to which gouty subjects are liable. Eighthly, the causes which predispose to gout, independently of those connected with individual peculiarity, are either such as produce an increased formation of uric acid in the system, or which lead to its retention in the blood. Ninthly, the causes exciting a gouty fit are those which induce a less alkaline condition of the blood, or which greatly augment the formation of uric acid, or such as tempo- rarily check the power of the kidneys for eliminating tins principle." Under the head of treatment, he shows from experiment that col- chicum has no effect in increasing the elimination of uric acid or the other soKds of the urine. He does not agree ^-ith the opinion that colchicum acts beneficially by virtue of its purgative action, as most marked curative effects may be obtained without any purgation. Neither does he apprehend that the judicious use of colcliicum renders the attacks more frequent and inveterate. He thinks favor- ably of the use of sahnes, in small doses, administered in a very dilute form, and continued for a long period. Carbonate of lithia is valuable from its great solvent power over uric acid. Ash- leaf infusion is useful in chronic cases; it seems to have the power of diminishing the frequency of the attacks. To the use of Vichy waters he assigns but a limited utility, disapproving of them in chronic and acute gout, and only advising them in tlie complete mtervals of the latter, and more especially in strong and robust subjects, where uric acid is formed in excess, and in cases in which144 RKPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. the liver and digestion are considerably at fault. The disease termed rheumatic gout he looks upon as diverse both from gout and rheumatism, and states that much injury is frequently produced by treatment directed by a wrong view of the nature of tiie case^ and especially from its being confounded with gout or rheumatism. The great object is to strengthen and give tone to the system, and to promote the due assimilation of the food. The appendix contains some valuable information as to the tests for urea, the influence of colcliicum, the composition and influence of various mineral ■waters. Althaus, in Chapter i, treats of the forms of electricity; Chapter II, of electro-physiology; Chapter iii, of medical electric appara- tus, and its application; Chapter iv, of electricity as a means of diagnosis; Chapter v, of electro-therapeutics. The information under the several heads is very complete, but we have not space ta attempt any analysis. In a paper on the uses of bleeding in diseases, Maekhaji maintains the following thesis: " That as regards internal inflam- mations, venesection is of service, not tlirough any direct mfluence wliich it exercises over the inflammatory process, but in consequence of its removing certain of the secondary consequences which arise accidentally out of the inflammation; that venesection, in fact, acts in internal inflammations as it acts in all other diseased condi- tions in which it is of service, viz., by relieving the oppressed and congested condition of the heart which has arisen as their conse- quence ; and that the direct abstraction of blood is of service in those internal inflammations in which anatomy shows us that it is possible." A paper by Althaus on the action of the electric current upon the motor nerves and muscles may be referred to with advantage, but it is impossible to abstract it with advantage. Hunter aflirms that to produce an immediate or a decided narcotic effect in any case, no method is more effectual than the hypodermic injection of the cellular tissue. The proceed- ing is the same as in Dr. Alexander Wood's treatment of neu- ralgia. Hardy records several cases of purpura hsemorrhagica treated satisfactorily by tincture of larch bark. Dose of tincture, from 5ss to 5iij. The addition of Bismuthi Subnitras to copaiba and cubebs ob-145 DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. viates the gastric and intestinal disturbance they are apt to pro- duce. Dental neuralgia is instantaneously relieved by cotton soaked in the following liquid placed in the meatus of the ear of the affected side : Morphite Acet., gr. iss; Acid. Acet., niij; Eau. de Cologne, 3ij. M. Barclay treats the moot question of the day, as to the value of bloodletting in acute diseases. He recognises plaiidy a varying degree of power in the human body, whether to repel and resist or to bear up under disease, and seems to admit the truth of the view that disease is now more of an asthenic character ilian in some former times it has been. He considers the phenomena of disease under two large groups—one formed by the action of the morbid influence on the body, the shock, or the force of the impres- sion ; the other the reactional, or such as belong to the process of repair, taken in the widest sense. Yenesection can render no ser^ace to diminish the injurious effect of the shock; it may be of great value to lessen the reaction, if excessive. It does not influence the course of the inflammation as a local disorder, but only the excess of the reparatory process in the accompanying fever. Vene- section is also serviceable in relieving pulmonary and cardiac con- gestion and in relie\ang pain. The M'hole paper is well Avorth perusal. Henry Kennedy writes on the change of type theory of disease. He argues decidedly in favour of the view in opposi- tion to Benne-H', considering seriatim the propositions main- tained by the latter. He states it as a patent fact, that both animal and vegetable life is subject at times to epidemic influences, which at one period raise, and at another depress, the standard of health. These determine the so-called constitutio anni. Tliese were carefully noted by the older writers, and their practice shaped accordingly. It is denied that inflammation is necessarily tiie same at all periods; the process, abstractedly considered in itself, may be so, but its results vary exceedingly with the state of the system in which it takes place. Instances are cited in which bleeding is both useful and necessary. As regards the influence of treatment over inflammation. Dr. Kennedy assigns to it a much higher position tlian Dr. Bennett does; he is convinced that diseases are often terminated by judicious remedial measures whicli pre- viously had wholly resisted the vis meclicairix natiirce. H(! also strongly insists on the need for a discriminating therapcutism, 10146 RKPOirr ON I'HACTICAL MEDICINE. affii'iniiig that no single plan can ]X)ssibly meet the ever-varying shades of disease, some iiillammations requiring wine (alone), some mercury, some bleeduig, general or local, or both. An account of a fever epidemic prevalent lately, at a village named Great Ilorwood, is given by Newham. Out of a population of 700, 135 were attacked, and 28 cases proved fatal. The fever came on either with rigors, pains in head and limbs, and consecutive symptoms of typhoid fever; or with bilious diarrhoea, followed by great prostration and petecliife; or with slight malaise, followed 011 the third day, by dyspnoea and intestinal hfcmorrhage. AVine was essential in the treatment, but in the second form of disease required to be given in sago or arrow-root. The treatment of the anfesthesia of hysterical patients, especially by means of Taradization, is described in some detail, as practised by M. BuiQUET. It may afPect the skin, the eyes, the ears, nasal and buccal mucous membranes, the muscles, or the bones. The anaesthesia of the muscles, is quite independent of that of the skin. Patients thus affected have no consciousness of the action of their muscles, if their eyes are averted fi'om the object. This paralysis is cured by a current made to traverse the part, tlu:ough moist sponges applied to the surface; wlule the cutaneous anaesthesia is cured by the electric brush being moved over the insensible surface, a moist conductor being applied to a neighbouring part. EosTAN reviews the various methods of treatment that have been employed in typhoid fever, enumerating them as the expectant, anti- phlogistic, evacuant, revulsive, and tonic. He often employs the first only. Venesection he employs rarely, except in the first week of the disease, in robust subjects, with well-marked febrile reaction. Emetics and purgatives he considers no "universal panaceas tlieir use must be regulated " sagement." Bevulsives may act serviccably to bring about general reaction. Tonics he uses in all states of debility. Gtjiet communicates some interesting instances of pernicious fever in young children. One in particular is very striking, from the extreme prostration, emaciation, constant vomiting, and para- lysis of the riglit arm, which all yielded rapidly to the adjmnistra- tion of quinine at first, in the form of enema. The author believes such occurrences to be more frequent than is generally su])posed, and quotes the remark that pernicious fever is seldom markedly l)eriodical, but most often presents some prominent symptom, whichDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 147 deceives the practitioner by leading liim to imagine that it is a sub- stantive malady. An accoiuit of a yellow-fever epidemic at Rio Janeiro, which ill the space of a month destroyed 823 individuals out of the crew of five ships of Avar (French), is given by M. Berciiox. He ))oints out several particulars in wliich it differed notably from paludal fi'vers. (i.) It is, as a rule, confined to the American continent. (3.) It prevails on the sea-coast. (3.) It is not an endemic, being often absent for some years, (4.) Its course is that of epidemics, having n period of invasion (rapid), of increase, of decline. (5.) One attack, instead of rendering the individual predisposed to relapses, afl'ords an immunity from them. (6.) Yellow fever leaves no such sequelm as paludal fever; no enlarged spleen, &c. (7.) Quinine is far less ser- viceable in yellow than in paludal fever. Eead publishes the result of 990 re-vaccinations in the 30th Ecgi- ment. Out of 193 bearing marks of previous variola, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 113, a modified in 31, none in 51. Out of 695 bearing good marks of former vaccination, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 357, a modified in 130, none in 308. Out of 84 bear- ing doubtful marks of former vaccination, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 36, a modified in 33, none in 35. Out of 18 bearing no marks of either small- or cow-pox, a perfect vesicle was obtained in 8, a modified in 4, none in 6. He refers to the observations of M. Laiuie on the same subject, and agi-ees with him fully in several propositions, of which the most important are the following :—(i.) The practice of re-vaccination is a very important hygenic measure, to which the variolated and vaccinated should be subjected. (3.) Vaccine matter taken from re-vaccinated adults Avill produce fine in- oculablc pustules. (3.) With adults, the matter should be inserted more deeply than just below the epidermis. (4.) Lymph from im- perfect or modified pustules of re-vaccinated adults will originate, in adults or childi-en, perfect vesicles fully corresponding with the "pearl on the rose-leaf" description. Husband affirms with reference to the " Instructions for Vacci- nators," lately issued by the Privy Council, that ten years' experi- ■ence on a large scale justifies him in stating, the use of lymph, preserved in hermetically sealed capillary tubes, for even months or years, to be equally efficient and safe as the use of Ijonplr direct from the arm. Schneider affirms the following propositions relative to the actionRKPOUT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINK. ]-I8 of digitalis in inflainmatory diseases, and in pneumonia particularly, (i, 2.) Digitalis, given in large doses (two and a lialf to three and"a Irnlf grains secuncUs horis) during the progress of an acute inflamma- tion, has not only the power of reducing the pulse, but also of lowering the temperature of the skin, which may fall below the normal figure. (3.) The lowering of the temperature is independent of the coexistent slowing of the pulse. (4.) The slowing of the pulse shows itself before, or simultaneously with, the diminution of tem- perature. (5.) The sloAnng of the pixlse commences in 24 to 48 hours, and the lowering of the temperature 36 to 60 hours, after the commencement of the medication, (6.) The frequency of the pulse and the temperature continue to fall after the omission of the remedy. (7.) Together witli the above-mentioned phenomena, there occurs coincidently a cessation in the progress of the local disease. (8.) The value of the exanthem sometimes produced by digitalis is a matter for further inquiry. (9.) The influence of this drug upon the stomach, and in producing bilious vomiting, ought also to be kept in mind. A highly important warning is given, that during the time when the pulse and temperature are lowered, and the disease is yielding, it is dangerous to sit up, on account of the frequent occurrence of syncope. Laborde affirms the local emplojanent of clilorate of potash, as gargle, &c., to be of superior efficacy to its internal administration in purely local diseased conditions. He also finds it to be a pro- phylactic of mercurial stomatitis. Bautmez has obtained very good results fi-oni the injection of chlorate-of-soda solution into the trachea, in cases of croup, after the operation of tracheotomy. It produces the expectoration of shreds of false membrane. Tucus amylaceus is recommended by Albert, of Bonn, as _'\neld- ing a superior jelly to that obtained from cetraria or carragheen. Bertulus recommends very strongly the employment of quinine in all forms of typhoid fever. It does not cure, but keeps off' asthma and bad symptoms, and leads to a favorable convalescence. Potass, iodid. is found by M. TJovsskt eminently effectual in ar- resting the mammary secretion. In lead-disease, (Eltinoer confirms the beneficial efl'ect of potass, iodid. taken internally, and insists on its administration until the presence of lead is no longer demonstrable in the urine. Behier has observed very great benefit from the employment ofDISEASES AU'ECTING THE GEXlCRAL SYSTEJ[. 149 diy cuppiug in typhoid fever, with che^t complicatiou. He applies from 40 to 80 (!) cups in the day, half in morning, half in the evening. In Algeria, the best remedy for the bite of the viper Bicormi, is found to be the expressed juice or the decoction of the Euphorbia Guyoniana, a plant which grows abundantly in green tufts, in most of the places infested by these venomous reptiles. Tor the fu-st dose, eiglit to ten drops of the juice in water; an hour after, a second, with five ch'ops; and two or tlu'ee liours after, a thii'd, of five drops; a fom-th and fifth, of the same strength, may be given at intervals of thi-ee or four houi-s, if the symptoms continue. The decoction is to be made with a small handful of stalks to about two pints of water, boiling for ten minutes. The tympanitis of typhoid fever, according to M. Cochenil, is treated successfully by repeated fomentations of liq. sod. claloriuat., diluted M'ith water, applied to the abdomen. EiSELT believes that, in melanotic cancer, the urine may be made available as a means of diagnosis. If treated with nitric or chromic acid, or exposed for some time to air and light, it becomes of a dark colom-, Avithont losing its transparency. Heidenhaix, Avho has practised for twenty-eight years at Marien- werder, in Western Prussia, where intermittent fever and its con- geners are rife, makes some interesting observations with respect to the relation between malarious disease and epidemic cholera. On the cessation of cholera in 1831, intermittents ceased entirely in Marienwerder, and did not occur in the epidemic form until 1849. Even in 1844, after an inundation had subsided, and the atmosphere was poisoned with effluvia of decomposing vegetable matter, inter- mittents did not appear. But in 1849, ^^^^'^ the cholera, all the forms of intermittent fever retui-ned with greater frequency; in 1850 and 1851 they increased still more j and in 1853, the bad year of the cholera, they were at their maximum, but did not, as in 1831, dis- appear with the cholera, but remained the prominent form of disease until the autumn of 1856, since whicli tune they have diminished. Gairdnee, in a paper on the treatment of gout, recommends in sthenic cases small bleedings from the arm, or cupping to the neck; the employment of mild, warm pui-gatives ; the vegetable salts of the alkalies; tonics in the later parts of the disease. He does not seem to liavc a higli opinion of colchicmn, advising it only to be usedREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 150 when tlie malady is declining, as, c. g., in sthenic cases two days after the venesection. 'Neem, or Manjosa (Meliacea;), found abundantly in India, is a tree M'liose bark is extensively used by the natives as a tonic and anti- periodic, in skin diseases, old ulcers, &c. Otto Veit gives a good description of hsemorrhagic measles, as observed by Mmself. He met with it eleven times in 160 cases. Bad hygienic circumstances did not appear to exert any notable influence in producing it, nor were the cases in which it occurred particularly grave, or in any other way peculiar. The spots, about the second or fourth day of the exanthem, assume a deeper colour, and gradually become dark, or even black. Their dimensions vary, some are like flea-bites, others as large as peas or beans (spht). Some form bands or patches of large size. They retain their deep colour for a day or two, and then undergo the same changes as ecchymoses. The at- tendant fever was generally sthenic. Brauw and Beoeks recommend the old but disused practice of applying ligatures to the lunbs in intermittent fever. By inter- rupting the paroxysm, the habit of continuance of the disease is broken. It may be sufficient to hgature two Umbs, but in obstinate cases it is better to act with fom-. Heyfelder observed, at the Military Hospital at Helsiugfors, and at the Workmen's Hospital at St. Petersbm-g, a general prevalence of diphtheritic exudation on the wounds of the patients. An ill- looking, -whity yellow layer formed on their sm-faces, wliich adliered beneath to the tissues, was sometimes di-y and consistent, sometunes of pultaceous aspect. In crowded, unheahhy hospitals, the morbid state was evidently contagious, its spread bemg averted by removal of those affected, and originating from the introduction of a sufi'erer into a ward previously free from it. Crusell's pyro-caustic, and Pagliovi's hemostatic fluid, were found very useful. GuNSBERG has used colchicine for five years in the treatment of gout. He gives one-sixtieth graui ier (He. It pui-ges briskly, and makes the attacks of much rarer occurrence. In acute rhemnatism it has been of no avail. Bamberger records the following interestuig facts relative to variola, and its co-existence with other diseases. A scarlet-fever patient was taken to the ward set apart, for variolous cases, whicli had been unused for six weeks, continually aerated and fumigated with cldorine. As soon as the patient had arrived at the stage ofDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 151 desquamatioiij a well-marked variolous eruption came out upon liim. A case of measles, after one da/s exposure to the atmosphere of the same ward was removed, but nevertheless on the nineteenth day showed variolous eruption. Two other cases afford evidence as to the possible co-existence of constitutional syphilis and variola. Bamberger infers that a cliild vaccinated with lymph taken from a sj^liihtic subject, may, by this means alone, contract sj'phihs. 01. terebinth, has been found successful in trismus neonatorum, administered in frequent small doses. Banking pubhshes a lecture on diphtheria, in which he de- scribes the disease as one wholly new to this country. The symptoms may be very slight at first, and unless the throat be inspected, and the false membrane discovered, no alarm would be felt. In other cases the child sickens, with rigors and vomit- ing and general prostration, the tliroat becomes tumid and vas- cular, and rapidly coated with false membrane, which extends ere long to the air passages, and produces croupy breatliing. Deceptive appearances of improvement sometimes occur, even after the breath- ing has been embarrassed, and presented the croupy sound. The duration varies from two days to two weeks or more. Among the consecutive lesions have been observed paralysis of the muscles of deglutition, as well as a state approaching more or less to complete hemiplegia. Post-mortem examination shows the mucous sui-face livid and excoriated, but free from ulceration or slougliing. In cases " where there has been much external swelling, the submaxillary glands will be found engorged, and the svu-rouuding cellular tissue infiltrated \xit\i a sanious pus." Dr. Banking disbeheves in the theory of diphtheria essentially depending upon a parasitic fimgus growing on the site which the disease affects. He considers the great dis- tinctive mark between diphtlierite and croup to be the locality chiefly affected. The former commences in the fauces, and extends to the larynx; the latter commences in the larynx and trachea, and may not extend upwards at aU. From mahgnant scarlatma and putrid sore-tlu:oat he tliinks diphtheria can always be distinguished by a careful examination of the parts. Infectious he considers it to be only in a limited degree. In the matter of treatment no deplet- ing measures are admissible. Tr. Ferri Muriatis, Pot. Chloras., and quinine may be used; but Dr. Ranking prefers the former, wliich he also recommends as a local application to the tlu'oat, rather than nitrateREl'OllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 152 of silver. Liq. soda) cliloriiiat. has also been found very useful. Ti'acheotoiny lie discountenances. ' The Lancet Sanitary Commission Eeport ou Diphtheria' will well repay perusal. The historical introduction, among many facts of interest, contains some showing that the disease is not solely dependent on tlie un- healthiness of the localities where it prevails. Wherever it has existed, among many varieties of its seat and symptoms, it has always pre- served its distinctive characters, and required the same kind of treat- ment. As yet, no influence or condition has been detected to which the production of diphtheria can be ascribed. It has prevailed at all seasons, and in all weathers; but it appears that excessive alterna- tions of temperature, or of the density of the air, favour its develop- ment. Its spread, the writer believes, to be occasioned in great measui-e by contagion; and relates some remarkable instances in which it was evidently thus commimicated. Diphtheric affection of the skin (after the epidermis had been removed) was often observed in the Trench epidemics; sores of this kind are peculiarly inapt to heal. The first ajjpearance of dijolitheria in England (at least, of the present epidemic) occurred in the south-eastern counties, at the be- ginning of 1857. Almost simultaneously a disease, which probably was diphtheria, prevailed in Cornwall. It spread throughout the country, not appearing by any means to restrict its ravages to marshy and unhealthy districts, though in Essex and Somersetsliire it proved very fatal. In some places scarlatina w£is prevalent at the same time; and there is much reason to suspect that cases of tliis disease, of diphtheria and of other tkroat affections, have been confounded together. The writer corroborates the usual opinion, that, as a rule, there is no loss of substance of tlie afl^ected part; the surface, after the removal of the diphtheric membrane, being found uitact, but more or less congested and bleeding at the points where the exudation was adherent. Sometimes, however, ulceration does occur. The struc- ture of the diphtheric membrane shows that it is cliiefly to be re- garded as altered and thickened epithelium, than as a fibrinous exudation. It consists of molecular particles, matted epithelixmi- cells of all kinds and shapes, pus, and blood-corpuscles. As to con- sistence, it may be hard or soft, variously coloured, and more or less putrid. Tlu-ee distinct forms may be distinguished under whicli diphtheria has appeared. The first may be called simple. There is some fever and headache and difficulty of deglutition. The exuda-DISliASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 153 tion is cliiefly confined to the tonsils and soft palate. The best treatment is by nitrate of silver locally (sss ad Bj) with Tr. Terri Muriat. and Pot. Chloras. internally. The second form is crotipal diphtheria^ which is more frequent in children than adults^ and has occasioned the greater part of the mortality from this disease. It sets in Avith active fever^ intense headache, engorgement of the glands behind the jaw, and perceptible difiiculty of deglutition. The tlu-oat and mouth are foiuid covered "nith yellowish leathery exudation. Symptoms of croupal suffocation soon supervene, from the extension of the diphtheric formation to the air passages; and when this is the case, recovery is exceptional. Yiolent fi^ts of coughing sometimes expel false membrane, which may have extended far down the bronchi; bu.t this only affords a temporary relief; the morbid process soon renews the obstruction, and, after repeated struggles, death closes the scene. The best treatment is by diligent cauterization fldtli nitrate of silver solution, or mui'iatic acid, an ipecacuan emetic, and the combination of Tr. Terri Mui-iat. and Pot. Chloras., before mentioned. Tracheotomy should be performed before it is too late, if the symp- toms show that the disease, without being arrested by the cauteriza- tion.s, has gravely affected the larynx. The third form is the malig- nant, in wliich the most prominent featui-e is profound adynamia. The glands, submaxillar}^, parotid, and cervical, and the areolar tissue become prodigiously swollen, and the interior of the tliroat is covered with a deposit which early exliales an intolerable foetid odour. Death may occur early through sudden and extreme adjaiamia, or later in a state of coma. The treatment must be similar to that of the second form, but support by wine and such nutriment as can be adminis- tered must be diligently pressed. Liquor Sod. Clilorinat. is a highly useful local application. Convalescence in such cases is tedious and difficult; tliere is often loathing of food; and swelling is inter- fered with to some extent by paralysis of the soft palate or pharyn- geal muscles. Hemiplegia may occur, or severe otalgia, amaurosis, and headache. Eamskill makes some observations respecting the local treat- ment of cases of diphtheria, in wliich difficulty of swallowin"- and breathing does not occur very early—not before the end of the^'third day. He is convinced " that any treatment, such as tlie appHca- tion of strong caustics, which causes rapidly increasing swelling of the cervical submaxillary and neighbouring glands, is bad, and sure to be attended by corresponding extension of the disease witliin andREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 154 below the fauces, by declension of power, and increase in the diffi- culty of breathing, swallowing, &c." He recommends, in such cases, syringing the throat by Coxeter's laryngeal syringe, with Liq. Calcis Chlorinat. in chamomile infusion (5!] ad ^xv), or with a few drops of creosote in the same. The vapour of these liquids is also to be in- haled, and the throat M'ashed out tlu-ee or four times a day. A poul- tice of chamomile flowers is to be put round the tliroat, and quinine, in infusion of the same, given internally. A report on diphtheria., by Ellis, from Crowle, Lincolnshire, gives a total of 133 cases in six months, the disorder not prevailing epidemically for the first two. Out of these 29 were adults, or above the age of 13. The number of deaths was 17. The soil is alluvial, well di-ained, and higlily cultivated. The usual treatment was employed, and its effects were sometimes magical. Tso scarlatina prevalent. EiGDEK furnishes a report from Canterbury, stating the number of cases occurring in his practice, of the foUo\^ing morbid states during the two years 1857, 1858 :—Of diphtheria 55, of pharyngitis 14, of stomatitis 5, of croup 3, of cancrum oris i, of scarlatina 57. Of the diphtheria cases 24 were adults, or above the age of 13. The total number of deaths from diphtheria were 13 in Mr. Eigden's practice, and 13 more occurred in Canterbm-y dui-ing the same time. All the deaths in Mr. Eigden's cases occurred among the children, and only one adult is found among the other 13 fatal cases. The scarlatina and diphtheria cases were " perfectly distinct." In several instances the lU'ine was examined, but no albumen was found. Ure recommends following M. Gamberini's recommendation—the employment of iodide of sodium in place of the potash salt in all cases in which the latter is foimd useful. It is blander, more assi- milable, and better borne by the stomach. Mahcet has found oxide of zinc an eiiicient remedy in cases of clu'onic alcoholic intoxication. It induces sleep, removes tremblings of the body and limbs, headache, giddiness, and hallucinations. The dose at fu'st was two grains bis die, one hour after a meal, increasing it gradually to six or eight grains bis die. MuECHisoN sliows, from the records of the London Fever Hos- pital, that while typhus and relapsing fevers (the epidemic) have, during eleven years, varied considerably, and recently diminislied in freciuency very much; the endemic fever, typhoid or pythogenic, maintains, and has throughout, a much more uniform nimiber.DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 155 111 1856 there were 1,063 cases of typlms j in 1858 oiily 15. The average of typhoid for ten years is 183; in 1858 it was 180. Several commimications are made respecting syphHisation by Pleischl, Michaelis, Danielsen, and Stenbeug. The latter, from careful, unbiassed observation of tliree cases on whom he tried it, arrives at the following conclusions, (i.) In repeated inoculations of an individual with syphilitic pus, the chancrous sores which are produced gradually diminish in size, until at last pus, which shows itseK fully capable of inoculating others, comes to have no effect upon the recipient. The time necessary to obtain this immunity varies according to idiosyncrasy and the mode of syphilization. (3.) Syphilitic sjTnptoms already present vanish during syphilisation, and the inocvdated chancres heal without further treatment. (3.) Syphi- lisation has no injurious influence on the general health; on the contrary, it improves during the process. Panum has performed a series of highly interesting experiments with the view of elucidating the subject of putrid or septic infection. The details are far too copious for our Hmits, but we subjoin the principal conclusions, (i.) The putrid poison is fixed, not volatile. (3.) It is not destroyed by boihng and evaporation, even if the boil- ing be continued ten hom-s, and the evaporation be carried to com- plete di-yness. (3.) It is insoluble in absolute alcohol, but soluble in water, and is contained in the vvatery extract of the dried putrid substance. (4.) The albuminoid substances often contained in putrid fluids are not in and of themselves poisonous, but condense the poison on their surface, so that it may be removed from the latter by washing. (5.) The putrid poison, as respects its intensity, can only be compared with snake-poison, woorari, and vegetable alkaloids, iiiasmuclias 13 milligrammes of it (-184 grains) are almost sufiicient lo kill a dog. Clauk, of the Bengal Medical Service, highly recommends the use of selenite as a febrifuge (in place of quinine) and a general tonic. Tlic dose is 5—10 gi-ains for an adult, and i—3 for children every four lioui's. Apropos of two cases in which syphilis followed immediately on, or ratlier was blended witli, variola. Bambeugeu makes tlie follow- ing remarks :—"Tlie interest of these cases consists not so much in the circumstance of syphilitic subjects being attacked by variola, but rather in this, that under the eye of the observer the specific vario-156 IIKPORT ON I'UACTlCAli MKDICINK lous pustule passes into the equally specific product of constitutional syphilis, tlie change taking place iii such a manner that it cannot be determined when the eniorcsccncc ceases to be the one and begins to be the other. It is impossible not to assume tliat the individual efflorescence, as soon as it is placed under the influence of tlie two forms of disease holding sway over the system, contains also in itself the product of both." According to this, it seems undeniable that if a healthy child were inoculated with vaccine matter from another labouring under constitutional syphilis, the latter disease might also be communicated as well as the vaccine infection. A highly interesting controversy is debated between Lohinseu and Eeder, as to the evils arising from the use of mercury in syphilis. The former considers such symptoms as ckronic extensive periostitis, circumscribed tophi, caries, necrosis, nocturnal osteal pains, serpigi- nous skin ulcers, and various skin eruptions, to be the result of chronic mercui-ial poisoning. He affirms that on testing the mine of various patients Avho had taken mercury before and after the administra- tion of pot. iodid., the metal was detected in the secretion after and not before the use of the iodide, so that it appeared to have remained in the system luitil eliminated in this way. Eeder rephes that on careful examination of the mine of various syphilitic patients who had taken mercury, and were under the influence of potass, iodid., the metal in no case could be discovered. He points out that sucli symptoms as Loruiser mentions develope themselves without the in- fluence of mercury, and are then equally amehorated by potass, iodid.; that in other cases m here mercury has been taken, thev arc cui'ed by further administration of mercury; and that potass, iochd. does not, though ever so long continued, obtain always a certain cure, although it efl'ects the removal of mercury from the system. Fm'- ther, he remarks, that patients M'ho have taken no mercury for syphilis have just the same relapses as those who have taken it; that patients who take mercuiy for other diseases (as of the eye) do not have such symptoms as syphilitic; and that workmen mIio are exposed to merciuial influence suffer in a very difl'erent manner from those who are the subjects of constitutional syphilis. The following are some of the results obtained by Duchek, at Lembcrg, from 120 autopsies of ])ersons dying of intermittent fever. The blood was scanty, contained dark pigment in the form of small, roundish, well-defined granules, which were present in nearly equal amount in all tlie vessels; they were not contained in pigment cells;157 DISEASES AEEECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. there was no increase of the colonrless corpuscles. The spleen was constantly enlarged; only in fifteen cases was there any amyloid or bacony degeneration of it, wliich always then existed also in the liver and kidneys. This kind of change only affected patients who had been free from paroxysms for some length of time. The liver was mostly of normal size, small only after many relapses, but without alteration of its substance, except that it. contained much pigment. Cirrhosis Avas never observed; from which, as the Lembergians are prone to excessive indulgence in alcoholic potations, Duchek concludes that the eflBcacy of this cause has been over-estimated. The stomach and the lower part of the ileum were fTcquently in a state of clironic catarrh. The large intestine presented the catarrhal state in all degrees of severity, up to follicular ulceration, the ulcers being often so close together, that they were only separated by narrow bridges of healthy mucous membrane. The muscular coat was sometimes hypertrophied a little, or its inner layers were destroyed; sometimes the serous membrane was inflamed. In the kidneys pigment was observed deposited in the capillaries and urinary tubules, though albimiinm-ia was not constantly present. Morbus Brightii only occm-red in cases where the paroxysms had long ceased. Eecent tubercles in the lungs and other organs were not rarely observed, together with traces of by-past intermittents, which had ceased long- before the appearance of the fii-st symptoms of tubercle. It was more rare to find fresh or relapsing intermittents together with healed pulmonary tuberciUar disease. There was nothing very re- markable in the symptoms or course of the disease; the type was usually tertian. Diarrhoea constantly occurred in all the cases of dropsy of notable duration; it was speedily foUowed by marasmus and if It lasted fourteen days was fatal. Dropsy occurred in the majonty of patients, began usually in the legs, and extended to the A^^ole integument and the cavities. It came on sometimes even after the fifth to the tenth attack, passed awV again usua%, if suit- able treatment was employed, except in individuals who were already lowered by relapses, and in tliem was almost constantly fatal It occurred not uncommonly in individuals convalescent from acute diseases who had previously suffered from intermittents, but liad no resh attacks as well as in others, as the mere expression and con- sequence of the malarious cachexia. Tlie dropsy sometimes left, Z kin bu persisted in the cavities; sometimes\he reverse occm-ie^ If the dropsy exceeded' three weeks' duration, it was almost con'RErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 158 stantly fntal. Tlio skin was consiantly (lie scat of pigment deposit in diU'ereiit degrees, increasing with the duration of tlie disease, bin present even during the prodromata. ^Vlien dropsy set in, it be- came paler. Tlie cachexia did not always yield witli the fever, bul sonTctinics increased in spite of favorable e.\.ternal conditions; its cause did not appear to be simply poverty of blood, but rather it should be regarded as the result of disturbances which are certainly present during the fever, but precede and surnve it, and, independ- ently of it, interfere with normal nutrition. These disturbances pro- bably consist in the destruction of the cell-constituents of tlie blood in the spleen. In an appendix, Duchelc states that 8 per cent, of the liospital patients at Lemberg suffered from tuberculous disease, althoug-li ague was endemic iu tlie vicinity. Diseases of the nervous system were very rare. SoHUAMM, in recording his experience of " genuine intermittent" fever at Bodenwohr, in the Upper Palatinate, mentions that iu the year 1856 the cold stage was often uncommonly short, while an abundant sAveat came on early, attended with consuming heat; the sweat gave no relief, and was attended mth. an eruption of shingles of varying iutensitj^, according to its degree, but always abundant, wliicli occupied the abdomen and forearms, and appeared to bo rather the cause than the consequence of the sweat. The following conclusions are deducible from the tables of case? of diphtheria pubhshed in the ' British Medical Jourual.' (i.) Sex does not appear to influence the liability. (3.) Age is positively influential, childhood and early youth being far more often attacked than more advanced age. (3.) Hygienic conditions, occupation, food, and clothing, purity or impurity of air have not been shown to have much efi^ect, the disease having occurred in many instances where the surrounding circumstances were favorable. (4.) Me- teorology. Our knowledge on this head extends no furtlier than that the disease has prevailed during the most opposite states of tlic weather. (5.) Contagiousness, It appears that, though the disease may be communicated in this way sometimes, this is not the usual mode by which it spreads. (6.) Scarlathia. The evidence is entirely negative as to any connexion between the two diseases. (7.) The symptoms, when first seen, have usually been those of depression, accompanied by dysphagia, and generally external swelling of tlie neck, either from adema or enlarged glands. Eigors and feverisli- ness were only occasionally present. Sometimes the disease com-DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 159 iiieuced as a common sore tlu'oat. Ci'oupy symptoms ensued later. (8.) Tme and situation of the leathery inembrane. In the vast majority of cases, the exudation M'as present when the case was first seen; seldom did it commence after treatment (efficient) had been put in force. The situation afPected is almost always the fauces or tojisUs. After detachment of the membrane, the mucous surface is left Hvid and bleeding, but not ulcerated. (9.) Microscopical ex- amination. It is only in exceptioiial cases that tlie presence of a fungous growth has been discovered. (10.) Complications : none constant, albuminuria rarely present, (it.) Treatment. A general tonic and stimulating plan has always been necessary. Emetics have often had a good effect. CMorate of Potash and Tr. Terri Muriat. have mostly been employed, and caustics locally; among the latter tm-pentine ]\as been used successfully. (12.) Indication and suc- cess of tracheotomy. The operation has often been indicated, rarely performed, and never proved successful in saving life. (13.) Mor- ialitj. Out of the 74 cases tabulated, there were 36 deaths. Erom asthenia 14, asphyxia 7, sudden s_\Ticope 3, bronchitis i, laryngitis (occmTing during recovery from imprudent exposure) i. (14.) Post- mortem appearances. The information given is but scanty. In some cases abscess or ulceration had accompanied the diphtheritic inflammation. HouGHTox records the histories of four cases of diphtheria,, in all of which the sanitary condition of the patients' residence was very .bad, wliile in all other respects the circumstances were favorable to health. In all the cases the disease set in with disorder of the diges- tive organs, vomiting and purging being prominent premonitory symptoms. In every case great prostration, "singularly marked on the countenance," was strikingly apparent. The appearance of tlie exudation was different in diKerent parts of the affected surface. On tlie tongue, lips, and inside of the cheek it formed creamy-looking spots, of various size, like muguet; while on the velum, the tonsil^ and the pharynx, it was deposited in a more or less continuous layer' which, in three cases, looked much like wet wash-leather; in one^ like lialf-fluid taUow. A violaceous lividity of the mucous membrane siirrouncbng the exudation was well marked in every case, thougli it dul not always precede or accompany the first deposition of fibrine. Two of the patients had delirium; in none was there any laryngeal aftection. Tr. Terri Muriat., and strong mui-iatic acid lotion to the atlected parts, were of marked efficacy; the acid appeared to dissolveREPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 160 tlie exudation, forming a gummy product. The free and persistent use of nutrients and stimulants was all-important. MuiicuisoN records two instances in which it appears very pro- bable that the origiii of typhus fever maybe traced to overcrowding. In the first, seven human beings occupied 1139 cubic feet of space; in the secoiul, eight occupied 1378 feet. The drainage, in the first in- stance, was good; in the second, it is not specially mentioned. The disease spread by contagion to several persons in the second in- stance, only to one in the first. No source of contagion could be traced in either. BuDD discusses at some length the question as to the contagious- ness of intestinal, alias pythogenetic, alias typhoid fever, main- taining the affb-mative side of the question. This has been done before by Bretonneau, Louis, Gendron, Ruef, and Piedvache. The evidence adduced bv the author liimself consists of a number of cases, minutely observed and recorded, with the express object of showing that this form and the maculated t^^hus are totally dis- tinct species. The following is a brief abstract of part ot this evidence " From the village of North Tawton, where fever was rife, A returned to his home at Morchard, took to bed, and died m five weeks Two of his cliildren took the disease. B also went to Mor- chard, and had fever, communicated it to C, from whom it spread to three other persons. L went to Chaffcombe and lay ill there several weeks with fever ; her nurse T, and the husband, T, and seven other persons, took the same disease. One of these seven was sent to Loosebeare, and from lier the disease spread to a large proportion of the inhabitants. Troin Chaffcombe ^-f^^J^^^l home to one of two cottages, lying between Bow ^nd North Taw ton He communicated the disease to two persons m the one where he iay rck, whence the disorder extended to every one mtlie other .dioinin^. Another married daughter, who had come from a dt nee to take care of her rieli relatives, being at length iiifeeted, tcameonlierreturnb^^^ L yeranother quarter." In all the localities where ever appeared a Ze detailed, Wre wa. no other f Zl rise to k except the arrival of a diseased person. The s. . C conditions were just what they had been for years past. The !v Lnee of a period of latency, and the immumty afforded by an H Tof this fever against recurrences, are dwelt upon by Dr. Budd :rll!^:^^i«ifying the disease with the exantbematousDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 161 group, which " require in the human body, not only a subject for their action, but conditions for their growth and development." He remarks, that in well-drained houses, the j)ropagation of the disease by infection is much less likely to occur, because the intestinal discharges are at once removed and swept away in the sewers. It is in their intestinal excretions that the chief virulence, in his opinion, exists. Gaiedxer, in clinical notes on fever, admitting fully the distinct- ness of typhus, and enteric or typhoid fever, remarks on the great comparative rarity during late years of typhus, as, indeed, of all kinds of fever. During the twelve years preceding 1849, the admissions of fever cases to the Royal Infirmary were in four years below 1000, in three between 1000 and 2000, in two between 2000 and 3000, in two more between 3000 and 4000, and in one they amounted to 4693. The immense majority of these cases were either t}T3hus or relapsing fever. During the four years following 1849, average number of cases of epidemic fever was from 530 to 960 a year. In 1854 the number of cases admitted diminished to between 100 and 300, and it has never since risen above the latter of these numbers. Dr. Gairdner's experience of the fever cases admitted during the last four years has led him to the following conclusions as to the differences of character manifested between them and those of previous years, (i.) The relapsing fever, or synocha, which formed so large a part of the epidemics of 1843-4 and 1847-8, has absolutely disappeared. (2.) Typhus fever has become less fatal to those attacked, than it was ten years ago. Among Dr. Gairdner's cases the mortality has been about one in fifteen; while in the 1848-9 epidemic it is stated by Dr. Eobertson as nearly one in four, or excluding all accidental disturbing causes, one in five. (3.) The eruption and course of typhus fever have been modified. The eruption has been peculiar in the earliness of its appearance and disappearance. The course in respect of the earlier occurrence of crisis:—This crisis is rarely rapid or sudden, usuaUy extending over two or three days, and often barely appreciable till it has been forty-eight hours or more in progress. Nor is it a crisis by sweating, or by any other form of discharge, in the majority of mstances. On the contrary, profuse sweating is almost always non- cntical and injurious; and the same may be said of diarrhea and other so-called 'critical' discharges. In aU these respects, to say nothing of the eruption, typhus fever diflers greatly from relapsing 11REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 162 fever; and lUc diflcrcnccs are as perfectly preserved in the typhus of 1859 as they were in that of 1848." BuDD argues for the specific difference between typhoid and typhus fever from the circumstance that not only in Paris, bul throughout Prance, typhoid is the constantly prevailing form, except on some rare occasions, when typhus is imported, as M as the case in 1854, on the return of the army from the Crimea. Similarly in Bristol typhoid is the indigenous and common fever of the town, but during the Irish famine typhus was imported by the hundreds of starving and fevered immigrants who came over. Tliis fever was at once recognised by those who saw it, as distinct from the disease which usually prevailed. He regards the intestinal exanthem as the specific eruption of a contagious fever, and argues that the most \'irulent part of the poison by which the contagion takes effect is east off by the diseased intestine of the fever patient. SiGMUND gives a full detailed account of the method pursued by him for a long time in the treatment of various forms of sj^liihs by inunction with mercurial ointment. He premises a preparatory and enjoins an after treatment. The method seems to require a considerable interruption of the ordinary course of life. He has never seen any beneficial effects produced on the iitfants of syphi- litic mothers, subjected to the method, by means of their milk. GuuBEU examines the influence exerted by mercurials on the nutrition of the human body, while affected by syphilitic disease. He took the weights of thirty males and tliii-ty females suffering under blennorhoeal discharge, or primary sypliilitic symptoms, to whom no mercury was administered, and also of 103 patients affected with secondary disease, who had been subjected to mercurial treatment from the date of their admission into the hospital. The first question examined was, how the weight of the body at the period of recovery stands, as compared to that at the commencement of treatment in patients to whom no mercury was given. It was found that out-patients in poor circumstances increased remarkably in weight gaining often five to nine pounds in twenty to thirty days. On the contrary, those who were better off lost in weight. The second question regarded the difference between the weight of the patient convalescent from syphilis and his weight before the mercurial treatment was commenced. Some of the patients lost, some remained the same, others gained. The author concludes that theDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 163 judicious use of mercury in sj^ihilis, if it causes no notable distui-b- ances, exercises absolutely no injurious influence on the patient's economy. The third question relates to the variations in weight of the mercurialized patient, at different periods of the treatment, compared w ith his weight at the beginning; and to the comparison of these with the variations occurring in the non-mercurialized at the same periods. The tenth and twentieth days of the treatment were those selected for observation. In the non-mercurialized the weight only varied, as was shown in the answer to the first question; in the mercurialized the weight on the tenth day showed constantly a decrease, amounting in most cases to from two to four pounds, in some to eight. On the twentieth day, however, in the latter increase of weight was observed, and led on to the result obtained in answer to question two. Question four relates to the degrees of influence which might be exerted by different mercurial preparations upon the nutrition of the body. A difference was found to prevail diiring the first twenty days, the bichloride occasioning the greatest loss in weight, though subsequently, in spite of the dose being increased, assimila- tion went on in an increased ratio. The general result is that mercury judiciously administered, has no injm-ious influence on nutrition. Ballard has carefully studied the conditions pertaining to eighty fatal cases, returned as diphtheria, in the parish of Islington during 1858-9. He classifies the cases as follows, in respect of their truly diphtheritic character : Class i, cases in which he obtained satisfactory evidence of the presence of the true diphtheritic exuda- tion upon the throat, or in which he saw it liimself during life. Class II, cases which Avere certified as deaths from diphtheria by the medical attendant, but in which he obtained no particulars of the appearance in the throat. Class iii, cases in which he was assured by the medical attendant that tlie exudation was absent. Class i consists of 31 males, 35 females—56 total. Class 11 of 4 males, 9 females—13 total. Class in of 6 males, 5 females—11 total. General totals—41 males, 39 females. As to age, 5 deaths occurred under i year, 12 from i to 2, 11 from 2 to 3, 13 from ^ to 4, 7 from 4 to 5, 19 from 5 to 10, 7 from 10 to 20, 6 at 20 and upwards. Br. Ballard concludes,—!. Tliat the disease was comparatively rarely fatal to infants in their first year. 2. That it has been chiefly fatal to children under ten years of age. 3. That up to ten years of age, the greater number of fatal cases were in males, the numbers being161. nUPOKT ON PRACTICAL MEDfClNK., 39 males and 28 females; and that in ages above ten years, the preponderance of fatal cases was in females, the numbers being 2 males and 11 females. As to the duration of the disease, in four in- fants iinder one year, the main duration was four days; at each of the other ages, it was from nine to eleven days. As to the modes of death, and the period at wlifch they prevailed, it appears from Dr. Ballard's tables, that " the danger from which a fatal result is mainly to be apprehended, in the course of the fu-st week of the disease, is exten- sion of the latter to the upper part of the air-passages, and conse- quent asphyxia. The sudden deaths in this week are probably due I0 the same cause, giving rise to spasmodic closure of the glottis. As the malady advances into the second week, the chances of death from tliis cause are only equal to those from the general prostration of the vital powers. In the third and foui-th weeks, the latter is the condition mostly to be dreaded; the sudden deaths at this time being probably due to syncope." As to the social position of the patients, it appears that "the fatality of epidemic sore-throat_ and diphtheria appears to have been half again as great in the middle as in the lower ranks of society, when a comparison is made with the mortality arising out of diseases of all kinds." As to the rela- tion of scarlatina to diphtheria. Dr. Ballard's researches are opposed to the views of their identity. Of forty-seven cases no less than twelve were persons who had suffered an attack of scarlatina pre- viously He mentions a case in which scarlatina attacked a child and proved fatal tlu-ee or four months after its recovery bom diph- theria. In no case has diphtheria been commumcated from n patient having scarlatina, unless the latter disease was also commu- nicated. The mortality of diphtheria and scarlatina has not variei in a like manner. The relation of diphtheria to other forms of sore-throat appeared very similar to that of diarrhoea to mabgnanl cholera. Out of forty-seven families in which a death from diph- theria occurred, there were oiily fifteen in wliich all the other members escaped either diphtheria or sore-throat. Several instances are adduced in which the infectious nature of diphtheria was very apparent. In more than half the number of houses w nch were examined the sanitary arrangements were more or less defective, 111 most tlie drainage was at fault. <• 1 ■ Eade, of Norwich, after recording several cases of paralysi.^ occurring as the sequel of diphtheria, subjoins the followingDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 165 observations : " lu conclusion^ I would observe that the pheuoanena produced by the presence of the diphtheric poison in the s_ystem appear to be separable into two distinct classes—the one referable to the throat and air-passagesj and shomng themselves in the irritation and familiar membranous exudation upon these parts; the other referable to some special chemical influence exerted upon the nervous matter, which shows itself in the first instance, {a), by depression of this system, in common Avith (and probably as the primary cause of that of) the other powers of life ; {b), during the whole of the acute stage of the disease, by the relaxed and often perspiring skin, the feeble pidse, the listless and often indifferent manner, &c.; [c), at a later period, by the occasional rapid and sudden sinking, wlieu the patient appears to be steadily progressing towards convalescence; {(I), at a still later date, by the occurrence of various degrees of palsy, even after convalescence may have been fairly established, jind in reference to the light reflected upon the natm-e of the disease by the residts of treatment, I would say, that as all appear- to be agreed that this, even in the early stages of the malady, should be tonic, and in every way such as to stimulate and support flagging nervous power, so the fact that these forms of palsy which occur- (liu-ing convalescence—after failing to get well vni\ alteratives or when left to the nnaided powers of natui-e—readily yield to the in- lluence of the nervine tonics, such as steel, zinc, and quinine, is a fiu-ther proof of what I have endeavoured to illustrate, that the diph- theric poison is essentially a nerve-poison, one of the effects of which —and that not the least important—is its power of destroyin"- or preventing the evolution of nervous force." ^ In the 'British Medical Journal' for July i6th, 1859, besides .^hort papers on diphtheria by Messrs. Cross, Bottomley, and Jen- mugs, there is a longer commiuiication from Mr. T. H. Smith, of St. Mary Cray, Kent. His remarks are in the main confirmatory of fhose of other observers. He testifies to the remarkable exemption of the pauper class of patients, to the distinctness of the disease from scarlatina, and to the absence of any peculiar locahzatiou of the disease m the haunts of fever and cholera. The testimony which he gives as to the change of type of disease, after an expe- rience of upwards of thirty years, is as follows. After stating that lie had seen no case of diphtheria before 1857, he proceeds- "In observing the progress of tliis epidemic, I have been histinctively led to reflect on the altered type of disease in general. I have myselfUEPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 166 uo doubt of that alteration in the type of disease, observed since the year 1833, in England. Prom that date there has been a departure from the old sthenic type, and tliis has been more pronounced the last few years, until at length a genuine sthenic form of illness is almost, if not quite, unknown amongst us. We have instead low types of inflammation, low forms of cutaneous diseases, low types of fever, having more and more a tendency to the remittent form ; and a very marked increase in localities where it was before ahnost mi- knowu, and where no known local causes have arisen to occasion it, of intermittent fever. AYhat was before a mere chill, a slight cold, tlu-own oS with the first reaction, becomes now an attack of ague." BoGGE, of Newthorpe, gives a report of twenty-two cases of diph- theria, occui-ring for the most part in the village of Kimberley, Notts. The soil is ferruginous and sandy, but the sanitary arrange- ments generally very defective. All the patients were childi-en, fi-om four- to nine years of age, and sufficiently fed. Measles prevaUed ex- tensively at the same time as diphtheria, and the two diseases often attacked simultaneously, or in succession, the measles generally taking the lead. A table gives the foUomng particulars : 12 females to 10 males; 4 cases of simple diphtheria, 8 of croupal, 10 of malig- nant ; total number of deaths, 7 ; average duration of fatal cases, 6i days; longest period, 12; shortest, 53 9 cases were idiopatluc with 6 deaths; 13 occim-ed in connection with measles, with i death; ot the idiopatluc cases, 7 were malignant, and 2 croupal. MuECHisoK has examined the question as to the possibility of the coexistence in the human system of two or more disease, which are supposed to originate from specific morbid poisons. (a) As respects the coexistence of variola and scarlatina, he quote- examples of the primary appearance of scarlatina, of the simultaneou^ manifestation of the two diseases, and of the primary appearance u variola. At the Smallpox Hospital, seven cases have been observed by Mr. Marson in which uneciuivocal scarlatina supervened on variola {b) Of the coexistence of variola and rubc-ola, he gives ten illustrations, quoted from various authors, (c, d, e) Variola has been observed coexisting with erysipelas, pertussis, and varicella (f) Numerous cases are recorded of the coexistence of variola ami vaccinia, the variola being modified in some cases, but not m aU. („ h i and k) Vaccinia may coexist with scarlet-fcver, rubeola peWssis, and varicella. {I and m) llubeola and pertussis may exjs Itlher, and even variola, rubeola, and pertussis, (n) In Pans, theDISEASES APPECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 167 coexistence of scarlatina and rubeola has been observed in immerons instances, (o) Typlius and scarlet-fever liave not been unequivo- cally observed simultaneously in tbe same case, (p) Dr. Murchison gives foul" positive cases of the coexistence of the eruptions of typhoid and scarlatina, the latter having supervened on the former. "With regard to the converse, there is no satisfactory evidence, (q) Of the contemporaneous, or almost contemporaneous, existence of the symp- toms of t}^3hus and typhoid fever, Dr. Mui'cliison adduces eight instances, tlu-ee of them having been carefully and repeatedly ex- amined by liimself. Prom the foregoing facts the author argues that " the doctrine of the incompatibility of two or more contagious diseases is erroneous; and consequently that upon the mere occa- sional coexistence of the peculiar eruptions of typhus and pytho- genic fever, no argument can be based as to the identity of the poisons of these two diseases." Lebeet records a case of inveterate and hereditary scrofula cured by the sole use of iodized bread, after all direct medical treatment had failed. From infancy the cervical glands had been swollen and suppurating, the right mastoid process had become diseased, the general health was very bad, and there was extreme anaemia. After eight months' use of the medicated bread, the patient's condition had undergone a complete metamorphosis, the disease was cured, and the health was perfect. M. Lebert remarks, that clu-onic diseases yield only to the slow and gradual use of remedies. GiGOT speaks favorably of the local application of percliloride of iron in cases of membranous angina (diphtheritis.) Crocq recommends the employment of acid nitrate of silver (a solution of nitrate of silver in nitric acid) in preference to acid nitrate of mercui-y or solid lunar caustic. The medical report of the General Hospital at Vienna for the years 1856-7, contains in its first chapter a detailed notice of the typhus epidejnic which raged from November, 1855, to March, 1856, with uimsual violence. In December and January the in! crease m the number of typhus cases was from tluee to six times as gi-eat as that which occurred during the same months of precedino- years. A peculiarly frequent symptom in this epidemic was the typhus roseola wliicli appeared on all parts of the body except the face. In some cases (the severest) a greater extent of the cutaneous surface was occupied by the maculae than was left free. The spots appeared 0.1 the fifth or sixth day, first, on the breast or Jms}REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDlCINlf. 168 the individual ones were perceptible from five to eight days. Two or three fresh crops often came out at various later periods. Tar more frequent was the papulous eruption, which was present in nearly every marked case. The usual seat was the surface of the abdomen, or the thorax. No connection could be ascertained between the appearance of the papulous and maculous exanthem; neither deter- mined nor excluded the manifestation of the other. Herpes zoster occurred with about the same frequency as usual, and occasionally herpes labialis. Inilammation of the lungs was more frequent than in former epidemics, not hypostatic only, but rapidly issuing in exuda- tion, wliich solidified a large extent of tlie lungs. In some cases this was preceded by violent pulmonary hemorrhage. Diarrhoea and bloody stools occurred very often. Enlargement of the spleen was frequent, but by no means corresponded in degree with the seve- rity of the disease. In almost all the grave cases the chlorides of the urine were considerably diminished; their complete absence was always ominous; if it lasted more than twenty-four hours, it was one of the very worst signs. Albumen was also more than usually fre- quent in tlie urine ; it was rarely foUowed by Bright's disease, wliicli however appeared in several cases in which the urine contained much blood. In one remarkable case {typhus ambulatorius), the patient, a stout joui'neyman baker, died suddenly, after tliree weeks of slight feverish disorder, with apparently rheumatic pains not severe enougli to confine him to bed. Typhous ulceration was found in the intes- tines, with a minute perforation, through which some fsecal matter had escaped. In numerous cases infiltrations of the subcutaneous areolar tissue took place, never before the third week, and not dm-- ing convalescence, but while the disease was at its height. They Avere very painful, extensive, and attended fldth stony induration. Suppuration in most cases succeeded, though tardily. Their appear- ance was attended with aggravation of all the symptoms. The arms, legs, and especially the vicinity of the parotid glaiid, were the parts oftenest affected. In several cases sudden shrinking of indistinctly fluctuating tumours was followed by abscess in the lungs, the spleen, and the kidneys, and by speedy death. Sometimes there occurred eruptions of pustules and pm-ulent vesicles scattered over the body, attended by increased or relapsing fever, and increased danger. Relapses were not uncommon, and patients suffering with advanced tuberculosis and with intermittent fever sometimes were attacked in the hospital by typluis. The post-mortem appearancesDISEASES AFl'ECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 169 were those of typhoid fever, with the usual iutestiual ulcerations, lu cases pro\aug fatal very early, nothing was observed beyond hypersemia of the brain and lungs, some enlargement of the spleen, and a very thinly fluid condition of the blood. In the matter of treatment, nothing of particular interest is mentioned, except that quinine was very often administered in fidl doses (3i in twenty-four liours) in severe typhus, and even in cases of high reaction. The remedy thd not fulfil all the expectations that had been formed, but never- theless some of the results, especially in cases of severe cerebral symptoms, were so surprising as to encourage strongly further trials of it in similar cases. The disease is estimated to have affected 3 per cent, of the whole population (450,890 souls), and the mortality amounted to 25 per cent, of the whole. The districts selected by cholera and typhus were not closely identical. A detailed account is given of the cholera epidemic of 1855. All the observations go to make the contagiousness of the disease very doubtful. An experiment is related, proving that even in the advanced stage of choleraic collapse absorption of ingesta still takes place. In several fatal cases, shortly before death, small doses of Potass. lodid. were given, which was subsequently detected in the blood. Under the head of rheumatism and gout, it is mentioned tliat some cases were observed which showed at first aU the symp- toms of acute or chronic rheumatism, and did not betray their essen- tially different nature till a later period. Ice locally, tincture of bryony, and aconite, seem to be the remedies employed in the acute dis- ease. In cases of pulmonary tuberculosis, enlargement of the cer- vical glands was always observed. [The contrary has been the experience of the Brompton Hospital.—Ed.] Nimierous cases were admitted of ague and aguish cachexia, a large number being work- men employed on the railroad in Hungary, They were alf higldy cachectic, and suffered from all kinds of dropsy. These were placed in a separate establishment, and it was observed that whole series of paroxysms came on periodically, following the increasing phase of the moon. The cycles ended at full moon, after having lasted from eio-lit to twelve days. Each cycle mostly consisted of three, five, or seven pa- roxysms, the smaller number occurring in the tertian, the larger in the ([uotidian type. The first attacks in a cycle were very difiicidt to sup press by medicine; the latter yielded readily. In one case, whizzing was observed m all the arteries accessible to touch on the fever days' and on tliosc only. Throe times a systolic cnrcbac murmur was noticedREPOET OH PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 170 which gradually vanished during recovery. During the highest period of the disease the capillaries were found obstructed by pig- ment-masses in the intensely brown-coloured cortical substance of the brain, in the tissue of the liver, in the splenic pulp, in the Mal- pighian bodies of the kidneys, and in the glands; and many of the most prominent symptoms of the disease dui-ing life corresponded to the post-mortem appearances occasioned.by accumulation of pigment. In none of these cases was any trace of tubercle discovered at the autopsy. In the treatment of various nem-algise, croton oil exter- nally was found of striking [eclalanie) efficacy, more so than cliloro- form. In pjieuniotiia it is stated that affection of the right lung was more fatal than that of the left, in the ratio of twenty-one to five. Tar- tar emetic and ipecacuanha were the principal means employed, in doses varying according to the severity of the dyspnoea. Venesection was employed in individual cases with good results, according to the known indications for its use. With regard to pulmonary ewphy- sema, it was observed that dyspncEa, even in extreme cases, was by no means a constant symptom; nor was hypertrophy of the recti abdominal muscles ever discovered. Turpentine inhalations were more useful than any other means in the treatment of the actual dis- ease. A case is mentioned in wliich the heart was already displaced far beyond the median line, and resumed its normal position com- pletely under the use of these inhalations. One yomig patient was quite restored by the cold douche; and another, a middle-aged female, by strychnia carried to the degi-ee of producing shght poi- sonous effects. In inflammatory affections of the mouth and tliroat, tannin washes were usually sufficient; but in severe cases, thi-eaten- ing suffocation and suggesting a resort to tracheotomy, ice-lumps and pencilling with tincture of iodine proved imiformly successful. Of cases of variola, there occui'red, in 1856—vaccinated, 412, of wliicli 8 died; non-vaccinated, 51, of which 12 died. In 1857 there were 368 vaccinated, with 34 deaths; 59 non-vaccinated, with 8 deatlis. Fsoriasis was treated with apphcations of soap and tan, and with a weak calomel and iodine ointment. iU'senic was of httle avail. In lupus, repeated paintings with strong tinctm-e of iodine were found most useful, or nitrate of silver M'ith full doses of 01. !Menth. in- ternally. In acne rosacea the application of the foUowiug was very useful: Liq. Sulph., 5j; Alcohol. Rectif., yEther Sulph., ana Sss. A report of the results of numerous examinations of the urine and other secretions by IIelleii contains some interesting state-DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENEKAL SYSTEM. 171 meuts. In cases of mei'ciaiial tremor, no mercury was found iu the urine, except in two. In no case of this kind did the urine show the presence of mercury after the internal administration of Potass, lodid. Mercury was detected in the m-ine and fseces after it had been taken by the mouth and rubbed into the skin. The appear- ance of ui'ate of ammonia in the urine in pneumonia is one of the earhest signs of commencing resorption, and precedes the return of the clilorides. In pneumonia., typhus and puerperal fever, albumen appears iu the ui-ine on the disappearance of the chlorides, and vice versil during recovery. In all cases of the most serious exudations the chlorides were not only absolutely, but relatively, in excess. They were always m a far higher proportion to albumen than in the blood-serum. Most gall-stones were found to be formed upon a nucleus of ammonio-phosphate of magnesia. Bristowe records liis experience of diphtheritis as follows. The false membrane consists essentially of fibrine entangling epithehum, which latter is scantily present or absent in the deeper and later- formed layers. Pungi are only present in it accidentdly. The kid- neys appear healthy to the naked eye, but under the microscope have always shown signs of iuflamanatory disease. Transparent casts, swollen and abnormal epithehum, and traces of intra-tubular haemorrhage, are the aherations detected. The blood has usually appeai-ed healthy, but iu some cases shows a tendency to extrava- sate. Eruption on the skin and di-opsical effusion have not been observed. With regard to the relations of the disease. Dr. Bristowe acknowledges that cases of scarlatina may occur which it would be almost impossible to distinguish from diphtheria. The relation be- tween croup aud diphtheria, he thinks also, is closer than is usually admitted. In the matter of treatment he dissents from those who apply strong caustics to the diseased sm-foce, and prefers in all cases mild, detergent gargles. His reasons ai-e the constitutional character of the disease, the impossibility of cauterizing the air-passages effec- tually, where alone the exudation is hkely to prove fatal, the inutihty of cauteiiznig the surface of a tliick, false membrane, aud the neces- sity of applying the escharotic also around the diseased tract. In a paper on the recent Windsor epidemic of -typhoid fever MuucHisoN dwells on the foUowing points, (i.) That the disease was only an increase of a usual endemic. (3.) That it prevailed at the time of the year when typhoid is especially prevalent, viz., towards the end of autumn. (3.) That the disease chiefly occurred in per-REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 172 sons under the age of thirty, and that both sexes were about equally affected. (4.) That botli the upper and lower classes suffered alike; and therefore (5.), that famine and destitution, the especial causes of typhus and relapsing fever, were not influential here. (6.) That the fever M'as most prevalent in districts consisting of middle- and first-class houses. (7.) That recent residence in an infected locality predisposed to the fever. As to exciting causes, it appeared—(i.) That the prevalence of the disease could not be attributed to con- tagion, though in several instances it was undoubtedly communicated from one person to another. (2.) That there was conclusive evi- dence of its having been produced by the putrid emanations from decaying animal matter, and more particularly from the sewage in the drains. The unusually high temperature of the year 1858, and the protracted di'ought, are the causes to which Dr. Murcluson ascribes the epidemic, which raised, or contributed to raise, the mortality from an annual average (of fourteen years) of 265 to 375. For the details of the evidence on Avhich the above statements are based the reader must consult the paper itself. A report by Lawson on an outbreak of yellow fever at Newcastle, in Jamaica, will be read with much interest. Tlie principal conclusions he arrives at are—(i.) That yellow fever prevailed at Newcastle in 1856, in well-defined zones, alternating with others which presented a much smaller amount, and for the most part a different form of fever, attended with a much smaller mortahty. (2.) That bodies of men moving from an unhealthy to a healthy locality soon lost the disease, though they carried most of their bedding and their clotliing with them, and in the healthy spots did not communicate the disease to others who were from other healthy spots. (3.) Persons going from healthy to unhealthy locaHties to reside caught the disease. (4.) The activity of the causes of the fever seems to have been much diminished by a. course of wet weather, commencing on November 4th, accompanied by a severe storm and heavy rain on the 5th and 7 th; and yellow fever disappeared after December 21st, on the accession of strong, cool, northerly winds. (5.) The disease showed itself in its most malignant form in persons who had not Been away from Newcastle for many months, and who were not exposed to others previously affected with it, or to their clothes, or other media usually considered as likely to convey con- tagion. (6.) Persons in contact with the sick in a healtliy locality did not contract the disease more frequently, or indeed as frequently, asDISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 173 tliose iu barracks. Mr. Lawsoii believes tlie disease to have origi- nated from local causes, but that these would not have been effective had not an epidemic constitution also prevailed wliich favoured their action. Yellow fever prevailed dui'iug the summer of 1856 pretty extensively in the West Indies and around the GuK of Mexico. It does not appear that there was anything especially defective in the sanitary arrangements. Although the prixdes were frequently offen- sive, yet the rooms nearest to them were not those where the fever prevailed most. The occurrence of yellow fever at a level about 4000 feet above the sea is an rmusual circumstance, such an eleva- tion having been generally considered to give immunity. Diphtheritis appeared at Albany, 150 miles to the north of New York, during the end of last year. Scarlet fever at the same time was rare. ViucHOW enters at length into a discussion as to the nature of constitutional syphilitic affections. He dissents from a complete separation of the secondary and tertiary accidents, stating that though a distinction in a certain sense is justifiable, yet it cannot be maintained for the M'hole disease of any individual, either according to the date, the seat, or the nature of the morbid process. The primary disease of one organ may correspond as to time with the secondary or tertiary of another. He divides the constitutional symptoms into two great groups, one of wliich has a passive, the other an active or ii-ritative, character. To the latter belong all the \ arious forms of inflammation and new growth met with in secondary and tertiary affections; to the former syphilitic marasmus, loss of hair, and anaemia, with, in some cases, bacony or waxy degenera- tion of glandular organs. Though he is no antimercui-iahst, he ad- mits the following facts as reasons for hiniting the use of mercury (i.) Mercury may produce a cachexia perse, and so give rise to fresh local disease. (2.) There is no certain criterion of a mercm-ial cure being complete. Virchow thinks that the special abiding place of the syphilitic poison is in the tissues, to wliich, however, it is conveyed by the blood. In a paper on the recently prevalent malarious affections. Dr. Peacock states, and illustrates, the increased prevalence of ague during late years. He compares the mortality from this cause in three districts, viz.. North Aylesford, in Kent, Huntingdon, and Wisbeach, in Cambridgeshire, since 1850, all these being aguish locahties, with a nearly stationary population. The general resultREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 174 is, that the prevalence of ague was liigh at the commencement of the period j very liigh in 1853 and 1853; low in 1855; and again high in 1856 and 1857; and the higher ratio was continued in North Aylesford and Wisbeacii throughout 1858. A high tempe- rature and dry weather seem to be the most influential conditions ui causing the prevalence of ague and its congeners. Dr. Peacock classes the forms of malarious affection recently prevalent under the heads of—(i) ordinary intermittent fever; (3) remittent fever; (3) spon- taneous ansemia, probably dependent on malarious poisoning; (4) various painful and spasmodic affections^ assuming a regular or irregular periodic character. After a detailed description of the attacks of remittent fever, which chiefly vary in being more or less active or acutCj the author gives some instances of the third class, Avhich he states are characterised by marked and rapidly increasing nnfemia, sometimes combined with purpura and jaundice, and occa- sionally with paroxysms bearing a more or less close resemblance to any ordinary attack of ague, or of an epileptic or syncopic character, and recurring at regular periods. Sometimes the paroxysms have been absent, very imperfect, or irregular. "In the fatal cases of this and the last form of disease the only peculiarities detected on post-mortem examination have been the extreme paleness and tliinness of the blood, bloodlessness of the different organs and all parts of the body, and considerable enlargement of the spleen." Whitley gives cases (twenty-tluee) illustrative of the treatment of rheumatic fever. He thus sums up: " In fifteen of these cases salts of jrotash were given, either at first or after the failure of other means. W[\en cardiac complications existed, these remedies were combined with calomel, antimony and opium, and with blisters, while in several of the simple cases of joint-affection they were administered quite alone. In no case did they fail to effect a cure, which even in some cases was sometimes attained very rapidly. The latter remark applies, indeed, to some recent acute cases treated with lemon-juice, but in many instances this remedy unfortunately proves ineffectual." Large doses of Soda; Bicarb. (5vj ad sj in twenty-four hoiirs) in fifteen cases treated by Dr. Weber produced very good effects in five, wliich were of the acute type, in five or six others only some relief was afforded, and in the remaining no effect was observed. Three cases of the treatment of rheumatic fever by quinir intoxication, as practised by Beau in Paris, at La Charite, arc civeninthe 'Medical Times and Gazette,' October 29th, 1859.DISEASES AFFECTING THE GENERAL SYSTEM. 175 Au antimoiiial emetic is premised. The cases were under treatment thirteen, fourteen and eleven days respectively. In all the cases tlie pulse was full and strong, and the phenomena were those of sthenic, acute rheumatism. In all there was cardiac disease, but probably of old standing. BuDD adduces some very xjroving instances of the production of intestinal (typhoid) fever from contamination of ail- or water -with sewage. The last is briefly as follows. Out of thirty-four good-class houses, forming a terrace, thirteen obtained their drinking-water from a weU into which it was subsequently found that sewage matter had leaked. The contamination of the water was first observed towards the end of September, and early in thefollo\ring October intestinal fever broke out nearly at once in aU the thirteen houses in wliich the tainted water had been drunk. Mauj of the houses where the fever prevailed were side by side with others that were quite free. Sub- sequently e^adence is adduced to show, that in spite of careful isolation of the sick, fever infection has continued to spread exten- sively in establishments (such as schools) where no other cause could be assigned for the extension of the disease except that the healthy resorted to the same latrines into which the discharges were thrown wliich proceeded from the fever patients. In one instance, the women of a large retail establishment alone were attacked by fever, the water-closet appropidated to their use having been the receptacle of the discharge fi^om the first casual case. Dr. Budd also argues for the special poisonous influence of the intestinal discharges, from the circumstance that of the two kinds of fever (tyiDhus and typhoid) the latter is the only one that originates in sewage emanations A case of diphtheria, fully detailed, is given by Dr. Eansomb in wluch, towards the end of the chsorder, aneesthesia affected the tongue. Hps, cheeks, neck, and sides of the head, and next day the arms. About the same time the hand lost the power of graspino- and soon after the muscles aU over the body became greatly impaired in their voluntary power, so tliat he could scarcely waUc across a room His sight and hearing also failed considerablv. Dm-ing this time he was improvmg in general appearance. intim;tely he quite recovered SiBSON gives a tabular record of cases of rheumatism (acute) treated by large doses of opium together with other means. From eVT'f ^" twenty-four hours, with the effect of relieving the pam more or less quickly, but con.timtion sopor, or contraction of the pupil, were never mtked T^ o!176 RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. cynth given witli the opium may, of course, liave prevented the constipation. No prophyhictic virtue against cardiac affection was exercised by the opium. The average duration of twelve cases recorded as cured is twenty-six days. May gives a brief but able communication on the subject of diphtheria. He strongly commends the use of turpentine {v\\y for a dose) in the advanced stages of the disease. Tinct. Pcrri Mu- riatis he finds the best local application. MiCHAELis endeavours to show that scrofula and tuberculosis are not the results of a general morbid state affecting the whole system, but of purely local causes. His essay may be usefully referred to, but we cannot give his arguments in our narrow limits. Heymann describes Beri-Beri as a combination of acute rheu- matism and intermittent fever. The symptoms were regular or irregular febrile paroxysms, surprisingly great debility, with paretic and hvpersesthetic phenomena, sometimes bilious diarrhoea and vomiting, swelling of the ancle-, knee-, and hand-articulations, seldom oedema and ascites, and only in exceptional cases delirium and con- tinued fever. The only constant alteration observed in autopsies was a thin-fluid, dark state of the blood. A short statement of all the most important particulars in nineteen cases of diphtheria is given by Newman. His experience corrobo- rates that of most other observers. He records an instance in which it seems probable that the disease was commvuiicated by contagion. LoRiNSER endeavoui-s to show that the phenomena usually con- sidered to prove the existence of constitutional syphilis are often reaUy owing to tlie effect of mercury which has been taken for the cure of the primary affection. He tliinks the natural course of constitutional sypliilis has never yet been duly studied, and that there is danger of error in too hastily admittnig that a patient is not suffering from the efl^ects of mercury in his system, altliougli he may not have undergone regular mercurial treatment. He thinks there is no positive sign whereby to distingmsh a s^Tohilitic from a non-syphilitic eruption. Hassing, of Christiana, sums up a long discussion respecting tlie nature of mucous tubercles by the statement that they must not be reo-arded solely as a secondary sj^hilitic symptom, but also as a nrimary and local accident; and further, that it remains for future inquiry to decide whether in the last case they are to be considered as of syphilitic or of blennorhoic character. He says that mDISKASKS AFFECTINO Tllli GENERAL SYSTEM. 177 Copenhagen the prostitutes are carefully examined every tlu-ee or four days, and that it has been observed occasionally that mucous papules liave developed in the interval between the visits, no chancre having pre\iously existed. Such were, of course, primary. He has observed, not uncommonly, mucous papules existing for months about the arms and genitals, and especially in children from seven to thirteen years old, without their presenting any other symptom of sypliilis or their constitution suffering in any way. Local treatment suiRces to cure these. A long and interesting discussion of the subject of sypliilization as a remedial means has been held at Christiana. Tlie lead was taken by Professor Bock, who gave the results he bad arrived at after four years' trial of the procedm-e. These may be summed up as follows : (i.) It is positively useful as a remedy against sypliilis; it is the only sure means we know wliich has no injurious effect on the orgaiusm, and thus enables us to reject mercury, which Bock believes to be often positively injurious. (3.) It is to a certain extent useful as a remedy against syphilis which has been treated by mercury; but it must also be always used to counteract the latter. (3.) The application of sypliilization against other diseases besides syphilis appears worthy of careful trial. The conclusions of Bock were to a certain extent confirmed by a commission of three other physicians appointed to inquire into the subject. The procedure is available in cases of hereditary syphihs, or congenital, as well as m acquired. The general health seems abiost always to improve considerably dui'iug the successive inoculations. In a report of diphtheria prevailing at Crowle, in Lincolnshire, Ellis states that, "with respect to the conimuuicability of the disease from person to person, there have been the clearest and most irrefragable proofs, the period of incubation varying from three or four days to nearly a month." It is remarkable that the Irisli residents, wlioso sanitary condition is utterly defective, have escaped entirely, ^ The following are the conclusions arrived at by Siblky in a paper on the statistics of cancer, (i.) In respect of age, it wa'=^ observed that nearly all the patients had arrived at maturity, four only being attacked under the age of twenty years. The averao-o age of those attacked with the disease in the uterus was forty-tluJo vears and a quarter; in the breast, forty-eight years and a half. The patients with epithelial cancer were somewhat older than those with 12REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 178 uterine or breast cancer. (2.) Cliildbearing appears as one of the predisposing causes to the formation of cancer, sterility being to a certain extent a protection against it. Among the female cancer patients, 5^5 out of 315 were single ; and among the uterine patients, taken separately, there were la single women out of 135. Of the married women 86 per cent, among the uterine patients, and 71 per cent, of those suffering from cancer in other organs, luid borne cliildren. The average number of children produced by eacli married woman was 5-3 among the uterine cases, and 3-89 among those with cancer in other situations. (3.) The duration of life was found to vary greatly, according to the seat of the disease. In the cases of cancer of the breast, those who had been ope- rated on lived 53 months, whilst those in whom the disease was allowed to take its natural course lived only 3a months. (4.) As regards the hereditary nature of the affection, it was found that cancer was traced in 81 per cent, of the cases. Tliere were five instances in whicli the patients had two cancerous relations, and in one very remarkable case five relatives were affected with cancer.' (5.) Phthisis was traced in 37 per cent, of the families of the cancer patients. (6.) In reference to secondary cancer, it was found that the disease was either local or did not extend beyond the lymphatic glands in about half the cases. There were secondary tumours in '79 per cent, of the breast cancers, in 33 per cent, of the uterine cases, and in 54 per cent, of the instances of true cancer in other oro-ans. (7.) That a great variety of diseases was found in thi bodies of those dying with cancer. Tubercle was found in 15 out of 173 examinations; it was recent in 11. (8.) That cachexia appears to be rather an effect of ulceration than the sign of a state of system preceding the evolution of cancer. NERVOUS SYSTEM. Brady.—0" ^''^ Medicinal Action of Glonoine. Med. Times and Gaz., March i2tli, i8^o- Kidd.—On the Diagnosis of Hysterical Puerperal Convulsions. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., March 15th, 1859. Handfield Jone?.—On Inhibitory Influence. British Med. Jour., Feb. fi", 1859. Parked.—Case of a Blow on the Head followed by Diplopia and Cerebral Symp- toms; Death from Coma. lb., Feb. 19th, 1859.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 179 Camps.—Hysteria considered as a Connecting Link between Mental and Bodily Disease. Tb., March iQtli, 1859. Brittan.—Case of Entozoon in the Brain. lb., April 2d, 1859. Handfleld Jones.—Cases of Nerve-Disorder. Series III. lb., April i6th and 23(i, 1859. De Morgan.—On the Treatment of Tetanus. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859, pp. 486—495. Bi'ic[Uet.—De quelques especes de Rhumatisraes peu connus quoique fort com- munes, et de leur guerison par la Faradisation. [Cure of some little-known forms of Rheumatism by Faradization.] Annuaire de Med. et Chir. pratique, 1859, par Jamain, pp. 63—69. Michel. — Nevralgie de la faee; section des nerfs sous-orbitaire, dentarie in- ferieure, buccale, et linguale. [Facial Neuralgia, Neurotomy.] lb., p. 93. Fox,—Delirium Tremens caused by exposure to cold and wet. Lancet, May 7th, 1859. Gillette.—Emetique centre la choree. [Tartar Emetic in Chorea.] Ann. de Therapeut., 1859, p. 102. Bourguignon.—Du traitement de la choree. [On the Treatment of Chorea.] lb., p. 279. Pirrie.—On Insolatio, Sunstroke, or Coup de Soleil. Lancet, May 21st and 28th, 1859. Wythes.—Observations d'apoplexie infantile. [Cases of Infantile Apoplexy.] Annuaire de Noirot, 1859, p. 230. Skues.—Tetanos gueri par I'extrait de Cannabis indica. [Tetanus cured by Ex- tract. Cannab. Indie] lb., p. 257. Burdach.—Moyen facile et certain de guerir le tic-douleureux. [Easy and certain Means of Curing Facial Neuralgia.] lb., p. 322. De Franque.—Observation d'auesthesie du nerf olfactif. [Case of Anaesthesia of the Olfactory Nerve.] lb., p. 337. Riccard.—On a Case of Epilepsy treated by Tracheotomy. Lancet, Jan. ist, 1859. Wright.—Report of a Case of Hydrophobia. lb., May 28th, 1859. „ Longmore.—Heat-Apoplexy. Summary of a Report of Sixteen Cases in Her Majesty's 19th Regiment, Barrackpore. lb., March 26th, 1859. Merz.—Zur Aetiologie und Behandlung der Hemikranie. [On the /Etiology and Treatment of Hemicrania.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. loi, p. 48. Bang.—Ueber Forraen und Behandlung des Schwindels. [On the Forms and Treatment of Giddiness.] lb., p. 173. Max-Simon.—Der nervoseSchwindel. [On Nervous Giddiness.] lb., pp. 174,175. Forget—Ueber der Rheumatismus cerebralis. [On Cerebral Rlieumatism.] ' lb ' p. 176. Frank.—Ueber Gesichtsschmerz u. seine Heilung durch Neurotomie. [On Facial Neuralgia and its Cure by Neurotomy.] lb., pp. 291—293. Paravicini.—Ueber die durchschneidung des N. dentalis inf. vor seinem Eintritt in der Unterkiefer. [On Section of the Inferior Dental Nerve before its entrance into the Canal of the Lower Jaw.] lb., p. 293. Gjor.—Beitrag zur kenntniss der Nervenkrankheiten, die in Folge von Syphilis cnstchen kiinncn. [A Contribution to our knowledge of Nerve-disordcrs arising from Syphilis.] lb., pp. 299—306. Thamhayn.—Zur Lchre von der Ilundswuth und Wasscrcheu. [On Rabies and Hydrophobia.—Report.] lb., p. 336—360.180 REPORT ON TRACTICAL MEDICIMC. Bamberger.—Saltatorischer Reflexkrampf, cine merkwiirdige Form von S|)iiial- irrituiion. [Cases of Reflex Saltatory Convulsions.] lli., vol. 102, pp. 2.?, 24. Trousseau.—llysterisdies Zittern und sein Unterscliied von dcr Cliorca. [On Hysterical Tremor, and its difference from Chorea.] 11)., p. 24. Bric[Uet.—Die Anaesthesie der Hysterischen. [The Anaesthesia of the Hysterical.] lb., pp. 25, 26. Spring,—Fall von Gehirnembolie. [Case of Emboli in the Cerebral Arteries.] lb., p. 293. Hosier.—A Case of Convulsive Sneezing. Med. Times and Gaz., June 25th, 1859. On the Therapeutic Uses of Electricity. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan.', 1859, pp. 92—110. Watson.—Croton Oil as a Counter-irritant in Hydrocephalus. Brit. Med. Jour., July 9th, 1859. Levick.—Remarks on Sunstroke. American Jour, of Med. Sciences, Jan., 1859, pp. 40—55. Packard.—Remarks on some Affections of the Spinal Column. lb., pp. 62—67. Briquet.—0" Ibe Treatment of Lead Colic by Faradization.—Case. Med. Times and Gaz., July 23d, 1859. ^ Martin.—The inhalation of Chloroform always attended with Danger. Btit. Med. Jour., July 23d, 1859. Harvey.—O" t'^^ comparative value of Bloodletting and Purging in the Early Stage of the Acute Hydrocephalus ; and on the extent to which each of them should be carried. Glasgow Med. Jour., April, 1859. Barralier.—Treatment of Nervous Headache by the Hydrochlorate of Ammonia. Edinb. Med. Jour., Aug., 1859, p. 173. Oppenheimer.—Ueber elnige Falle von Neuralgia trigemini. [Some Cases of Neuralgia of the Fifth Pair.] Schmidt's Jabrb., vol. 103, p. 178. Barwinkel.—Anaasthesia dolorosa N. trigemini. Paralysis NN. abduc, olfact., et petros. major, dextr. [Case of Painful Ansestbesia of the fifth nerve, with Paralysis of the sixth, olfactory, and right greater petrosal.] lb., p. 179. Bobert.—Fa" von sypbilitiscber Hemiplegie der rechten seite. [Case of Syphi- litic Right Hemiplegia.] Ih., p. 189. Briquet. Ueber die bysteriscben Convulsionen. [On Hysterical Convulsions.] lb., pp. 306—308. Moore.—^leport of a Case of Reflex Paraplegia, in which Strychnia was success- fully exhibited. Lancet, Sept. 17th, 1859. Stone.—Cases of Chorea treate l by Sulphate of Zinc. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. I7tb, 1859. Hooker.—Division of the Popliteal Nerve for Neuralgia in the Leg. Lancet, Oct. ist, 1859. Sloane.—Neuralgia of (he Brachial Plexus, simulating Wasting Palsy. Brit. Mfi'- Jour., Oct. ist, 1859. ■ On the Treatment of Delirium Tremens. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1859, p. 355. Fleming.—On the late Accident by Lightning in the AVest-end Park, Glasgow. Glasgow Med. Jour., Oct., 1859. Wilks.—Sanguineous Meningeal Effusion (Apoplexy), spontaneous and from injury. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, 1859, pp. 119—127. Gull.—Cases of Aneurism of the Cerebral Vessels. lb., pp. 281—304.XEllVOUS SYSTKM. 181 • Gubler—Die altcrnirenden Lahmungen, und die altern. Ilemiplegie im Besou- dern, als Folge von Leiden des Pons. [On Alternating Palsies, and especiallv Alternating Hemiplegia, as the result of affections of the Pons.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 104, pp. 57, 58. Dumenil.—Liihmung der Bewegungsnerven des Gesichts, und der obern Extre- mitaten theils mit, theils ohne Atrophic der betreffenden Muskeln. [Para- lysis of the Motor Nerves of the Face and of the Upper Extremities, &c.] lb., p. 58. Schuberg.—Das Hoematoma durae raatris bei Erwachsenen. [Hematoma of the Dura Mater in Adults.] lb., pp. 164, 165. Ulrich.—Falle von Gesichtsliihmung. [Cases of Facial Palsy.] lb., p. 166. Posner. — Encephalopathia rheumatica. [Rheumatic Head-affection.] lb., 16;. Schramm.—Die Neuralgia ischiadica. [On Sciatica.] lb., p. 167. Txxrck.—Ueber die Beziehung gewisser Krankheits herde des grossen Gehiriis zur Anaesthesie. [On the relation between AuKsthesia and the site of certain Diseases of the Cerebrum.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 104, p. 36. Landry.-Ueber die Paralysis adscendens acuta. [On Acute Ascending Paralvsis.l II)., p. 307. ° • Hillairet und Lnys.—FUlle von Interessanten Nervenleiden. [Cases of Inte- resting Nerve-affeclions.] lb., p. 308. Coldstream.-On the Employment of Pot. lod. in Diseases of the Brain in Cluldren. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec, 1859, PP- 503-507 Reynolds.-Report of a Case of Paralysis Agitans removed bv the Continuous Galvanic Current. Lancet, Dec. 3d, 1859. Durrant-Observations on Partial Paralysis. Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 3d, 18,0 Aran.'-On the Treatment of Chorea by Arsenious Acid. Br t. and For M^d - Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 251. Marce.-On the State of the Mental Powers in Chorea. lb p 2=6 Duchenne.—On Ataxie Locomotrice Progressive lb v ■>■(, Hamon.-Kauterisation gegen Chorea. [Cauterisation in Chorea.] lb p„ Trousseau.-Rheumatismus cerebralis. [On Cerebral Rheumatism.] lb., Schramm.—Die Neuralgie der V. Nerven nnnvoc r\T„. 1 • , , Nerves.] lb, p. „ 7 ^ [Neuralgia of the Fifth Pair of STayne.-Cerebro-spinal Meningitis. Dublin IIn,n c ^ . „ Minchin.-Case of Rotatory Convulsions l". '' '''' Jgle.—Case of Paralysis as to Voluntarv Power nf n,„ t • 1 Body, attended by Ilvperajslhesi-i as rrtZl h " °" ''"^^ °^ pricking on the correspXg"de of tl Sec ■' "/"f P'-W"S a-nl Cerebral Paralysis. Ld.-cL;.^ ?Tlller.-On the Administration of Bellado ,L a J T 'r^^''- modify its Action. lb., pp. 389-308 ^^'''<--'' \zara.-A new Mode of producing Anaesthesia. Lancet, Dec. ,7,b, 1859.182 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Maxtin.—On Heat-Apoplexy, Coup de Soleil, or Sun-fever. 11)., Jan. ist, 8lli, ami istli, 1859. Hillairet.—Ilcmorrhagie Ceiebelleuse. [On Haemorrhage into the Cerebellum.] Anuuuirc de Med. et Chir. pratiq., par Jamain, 1859, PP- 39~(>3- BiiADY states liis experience of glouoiue as coiiiinriatory of ^Ir. l^ielcVs; sickuess, faiiituess, and unconsciousness, being produced Ijy an over-dose ; neuralgic pain being speedily and sometimes perma- nently relieved by a smaller. One minim of Morton's solution is a sufficient dose. In speaking of the diagnosis of hysterical puerperal convulsions from epileptic, Kidd says, that he observed in two cases tlic symptoms to be quite the same as in epileptic attacks, excepting that consciousness was retained, and therefore agrees with Dr. Todd as to loss of consciousness being pathognomonic of epilepsy. Handfield Jones publishes a paper on inhibitory influence, iu which the view is maintained that sensory or afferent nerves being affected by some injuiious, abnormal impression, induce a paralytic state of the nervous centre with wliich they are connected, and that in tliis way musculo-motor nerves, vaso-motor nerves, or nerves of special sensation, or common, may suffer paralysis more or less com- plete. This view is a modification of the one previously adopted by Mr. Lister. A case which came under the care of Parkes affords a good instance of the important truth, that the most marked and severe cerebral symptoms, proving ultimately fatal, may occur without any anatomical change discoverable on the most careful inspection. Camps, in liis remarks on hysteria, says that he regards it as a connecting link between bodily and mental disease. He considers the functional activity of the brain and spinal cord to be perverted, and rather from some morbid state of the blood than from organic change of the nervous tissue. Bmitaj^ records a most interesting case of entozoon in the brani. The creatiu-e had the head of a Tania sol'mm, and a long, segmented neck; it was enclosed in a cyst lodged in the fourth ventricle. The symptoms were, pain in the head, irritation of the stomach, and frequent vomiting, prostration, loss of appetite, and some febrile excitement. At a later period she was unable to Hft her head from the piUow, from the dead, dull, heavy pain, and sensation of ^^'eigl't^ nor could she move it, on account of excessive pain and stiffness of neck. On two occasions she had vomited much blood. She die I183 NERVOUS STSTEir. without my convulsion. No notable disease was foiuid except the en- tozoon; the heart was large and fatty^ the stomach free from ulceration. PLi?«DFiELD Jones publishes a third series of cases of nerve- disorder, consisting of instances of paralytic affections, which ap- peared to depend solely on functional derangement of the nervous centres, or nerves. Db Morgan narrates the particulars of a case of tetanus (trau- matic), in which recovery took place under the administration of Tine. Aconiti (Ph. Lond.), d]^. v—viij, 2dis horis. A similar but more severe case is quoted, as having recovered under the same treat- ment, at CarHsle, under Mr. Page's care. A trial was made in ilr. De Morgan's case of strychnine, which has been stated in some American jom-nals to have proved successful in several cases, but this agent proved useless, if not injurious. About three weeks after the tetanus had quite disappeared, some trials were made upon the patient as to the effect of the tincture of aconite. It now speedily produced marked symptoms of poisoning, which appeared after tlnee doses were taken. ^ Pmquet describes two forms of muscular rheumatism, in which Faradization is of great efficacy. One is induced by exposure of llie eye to full sunshine, the pain is seated around the orbit and in the forehead, and resembles a megrim (hemicrania). To prevent its^ recurrence, gray glasses must be worn for half an hour after going out. The other affects chiefly the upper part of the head, and the neck, and is produced by sleeping during tlie night with the head bent forward. It always occurs in the morning, and is avoided by placing the pillow so as to avoid the tension of the muscles. These pains seem neuralgic rather than rheumatic. A case of aggravated neuralgia of the divisions of the trifacial nerve was successfully treated by Michel by section of the -usta- tory nerve, after division of the supra- and infra-orbital, buccal, and mental nerves had failed to procure more than temporary relief. A case of cerebral disorder, caused by exposure to cold and M-et, IS recorded by Fox. He entitles it delirium tremens, but is positive that no indulgence in intoxicating liquors had anythino- to do withnts production. After an emetic to produce diaphoresis'' and a mustard poultice to the neck, aU the symptoms disappeared, navmg lasted only six or seven hours. Inhalation of cliloroform for foiu- and a half hours proved sue cesslui in a case of poisoning by two grains of strychnia. (Jewctt.)184 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Alistna planlmjo and Peucedanum Auslriacum recoinmended auti-epileptic remedies. GiLLK'iTK finds great advantage from treating chorea by the fol- lowing method. I'or three days tartar emetic is given, in quan- titles increasing from 3 J gi-ains the first day to 5 grains the third. Then three days' rest. After this three more days of tartar emetic, beginning with 5 grains, and reaching 9I grains on the third. Again three days of rest, and so on. The average duration of the treatment is seventeen days. The tartar emetic is not given with the view of producing vomiting; the object is to obtain tolerance of it. BouKGUiGNON, in speaking of the treatment of chorea, insists on the good effects of regulated gj-mnastic exercises, baths of sulphurt t of potassium, and electricity, associated, if need be, with other means adapted to particular cases. PiURiE describes the various forms of sunstroke which he has witnessed in India, their predisposing causes, the pathology of tin; disease, and its treatment. In the severest form death occurs \wi\\ creat rapiditv, preceded by perfect unconsciousness and gasping re- spiration. In the others the respiration is embarrassed, hurried, and gasping; there is extreme prostration, and giddiness or confusion of vision. The predisposing causeis are all such as produce exhaustion, and the want of acclimatization. Extreme engorgement of the lungs was the most marked morbid appearance observed in autopsies. In all except the most rapidly fatal cases death is by apnoea; in them it occurs as tlie result of a shock to the brain. Venesection, in his experience, was always prejudicial, but persevering cold effu- sion to the head, diligent friction to the limbs, brisk purgation, and the administration of diffusible stimuli, with smapisms, &c., to the chest, were of much avail. Continual arousing the patient, as m coma from opium, seemed to be advantageous sometimes, Wythes records three cases of apoplexy occurruig m young children who previously had been in good health, except a pain about the left instep of the first. There was effusion of blood within tlie skull in all three, and marked softening of the bram m one. le. , 1 Case of tetanus recorded by Skues in a girl, fct. 9, who recovered under treatment by Indian hemp, nourishing broths and wine. She took from 4 to 18 grains daily, and was kept m a continual state of narcotism.NERVOUS SYSTEM. 185 A case of hysteria simulating hjdi'opliobia, with fatal event, is recorded by GuGix. HuRDACH lias never failed for tliii'ty years to cure tic douloui'eux with tlie foUoAviug medication : Hyd. bicliloridi, gr. s\ to Tinct. Somin. Colch., viS, adis horis. It is essential to give the bi- chloride in the liquid form. Db FiiAisQUE records the foUomng cuiious instance of loss of smell and taste. A laboui-er^ set. 34, got overheated and chilled^ and liad in consequence a stiff neck, which got well Math poultices. Some days afterwards he was found to have lost the senses of smell and taste, and a small, sensitive tumour was discovered opposite the last cervical vertebra. Eepeated blistering of this tumour restored first the taste and afterwards the smeU. An interesting case of epilepsy treated by tracheotomy is recorded by EicCAJiD. A single female, fet. 30, had suffered for seven years from attacks, latterly occurring two or tliree in a day. Tracheotom\- was performed October 5th, 1856, and she continued fi-ee from de- cided fits till the beginning of May, I857. She had then some severe fits, and it was found that the tube had escaped from the trachea., and was lying outside it. The tube does not seem to have been replaced, and she died on May 31st. An interesting case of chorea, associated with hysteria and fol- lowed by temporary dementia, is recorded in the 'Lancet,' March latli, 1859. The patient was cured by Liq. Arsenic., shower-baths, and some doses of morphia. A case of hydrophobia is recorded by Wbight, occurring in an artillery soldier at Aldershott. Death occui-red about six weeks after he was bitten by a dog which had appeared sickly and had foamed at the mouth. The symptoms lasted about four days. LoNGMOiiE reports liis observations on sixteen cases of heat-apo- plexy occurring at Barrackpore, between May 23d, and June I4tli, 1858. None of the officers who wore solar helmets, were attacked. Only tlu-ee of the cases occurred in men exposed to the direct rays of the sun. Ten cases occurred between 2 and 5 p.m.; five be- tween 5 and 9i p.m. The weather was exceedingly hot, sultry, and oppressive, the thermometer at 97° or 95°. During the period in question ninety-four cases of remittent fever occurred. Both this disease and heat-apoplexy were put a stop to by the first heavy fall of rain in conjunction with a thunderstorm. NervousREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. depression seemed to predispose to tlie attacks. Irritability of the bladder was a constant and early symptom. The symptoms and treatment were similar to those observed by others. Venesection Avas not found useful. Mekz reports that he has found liemicranial pain, attended with increased determination of blood to the head, permanently removed by compression of the corresponding carotid artery. The pressure may be applied by the thumbs, or by a kind of truss. ScHLEGEii records a case in which paralysis of the right facial and hypoglossal nerves appeared to depend on dilatation and rigidity of the external carotid. Bang devotes a paper to the consideration of the forms and treatment of giddiness. Besides giddiness arising from various easily removable causes, he enumerates (i) hypersemic ; {2) anaemic, or nervous J (3) dyscrasicj (4) sympathetic; (5) traumatic; (6) or- ganic. As well as the ordinary measures, he recommends, as a specific in certain cases, guaiacum. Max-Simon, in his prize essay on nervous giddiness, considers the idiopathic, the sympathetic, that occasioned by venereal ex- cesses and attending on hypochondiiasis, that occurring during con- Vtdescence fi'om serious diseases ; and that accompanying sea-sick- uess. In Ids treatment there is nothing remarkable. JForget dissents from the opinion that rheiunatic meningitis should be considered a distinct species fi-om meningitis of a different origin. Its symptoms, its perils, its treatment, are the same as in simple meningitis. He recommends the free use of opium, which has proved itseK most effectual in meningitis attending on typhus, pneumonia, and erysipelas. The presumed hypera;mia of the brain is no counter-indication, and is not always present. Peank relates the particulars of five cases of facial neuralgia, in Avliich section of the affected nerve Avas practised with a suc- cessful result in four. In some subjoined remarks the author expresses liis opinion that congestion of the trunk of the nerve is one of the most frequent causes of neuralgia, and that the pulsation of the accompanying arteries affects the nerves injuriously. Central ueui-algia, he tliinks, is more common than peripheric or s} mpathetic. He strongly recommends resection in severe cases of neuralgia, even though the disease be diagnosed as central. The objection from the law of peripheral nervous action, he thinks, is set aside by the results of the operation and by the cutting off external causes187 NERVOUS SYSTEM. of initation. In the first case the operation had to be repeated, and in the other cases there is no proof given that the relief from para was permanent. Paravicixi recommends in cases of mental neui-algia, division of the dental nerve before its entrance into the bony canal, Avhich he states can be easUy effected. Gjob has given a contribntion to onr knowledge of . nervous disorders produced by syphihs. He reports thirty cases, M^hich he divides into two classes—(a) those in wliich paralysis came on wliile manifest signs of syphihs were still present; (b) those in which they had disappeared, and treatment had been omitted for a longer or shorter time. A restme of existing knowledge respecting hydrophobia is given by Thamhayx. It is well worth reference by inquirers, but is far too long for our limits. A curious case of " saltatory reflex convulsions" (as he terms the state) is recorded by Bamberger. The patient Avas a youth, pet. 19, convalescent from pneumonia. As soon as he touched the ground with, his feet all the muscles of the lower extremities fell into a state of tetanic rigidity, interrupted by the most violent sudden contractions, which threw the patient upwards, and diu-iiig then- rapid recurrence increased in intensity, so that the patient had to be supported. At the same time the face was flushed and dis- torted; the pidse accelerated and extremely forcible; distress was experienced, but no pain, only great exhaustion after the attack. The moment that the patient sat or lay down aU the'movements ceased. If, while lying in bed, the soles of his feet were pressed, the same phenomena appeared, but with mucli less intensity. After some days the distortion of the features became permanent, tlie tongue was put out and withdrawn hastily and by jerks, the heart's action, even during rest, was violent, the respiration panting, both irides rapidly contracted and dilated, trembling movements came on m the right foot, the reflex contractions were produced by touching any part of the feet, and affected even the unirritated foot All else was normal, there was no tenderness in the course of the spine. Bamberger regarded the symptoms as dependent on undue reflex excita])ihty of the spinal cord, and prescribed sedatives and cold affusion. The disorder was at fii-st increased, but by steady perseverance in the same was gradually subdued. A shght attack of typhus preceded complete recovery. A similar case oc-\ REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. curred in a female, fst. 30, wlio suflered from clilorosis and gastralgia. Treatment was of no avail; she recovered spontaneously. TnoussEAU publislies a case of hysterical tremor a good deal resembling chorea, but distinguisliable, as he remarks, by the greater power of co-ordinating the movements. Briquet gives the following description of the anaistliesia of (he hysteric. It does not occur in all cases; leaving out of considera- tion the very frequent aneesthesia of the left conjunctiva, it was only met vnth in 60 per cent. It occurs not only after paroxysms, but sometimes before their occurrence. Psychical influences favour its supervention, and so do cutaneous hyperassthesia or muscular. It may come on gradually as an alteration of the quality of sensation, or suddeidy, and is then usually attended by lowering of the tempe- ratiu'C and ^\■eakness of the circulation in the anesthetic part. A case of convulsive sneezing is recorded by Mosler, in which a scrofulous female, fet. 33, long subject to disease of the right ear, suffered diuing eighty hours from attacks so fi-equent and violent, that she is computed to have sneezed 50,000 times, and the whole ueighboui'hood was alarmed ! She was amenorrhceal, and a month after the first attack the sneezing retui'ned. It often reappeared subsequently, and appeared to be relieved by discharge from the diseased ear. Warm baths, with cold applications to the head and alternate cold and warm douches to the spine, seemed to control the paroxysms. Chloroform produced a very temporary effect. Laycock argues strongly against the ordinary plan of treating delirium tremens by opium and stimulants. He finds that the ordinary cause of the attack is not the Avithdrawal of the accustomed stimulus, but a prolonged debauch. The patient should be kept quiet, the elimination, of the alcoholic poison promoted, food admuiis- tered, and complications mainly consisting in sub-iuflammatorY states of the stomach, duodenum, liver, or kidneys, should be attacked by mild sedatives and dc])urants. Experience has shown repeatedly that sleep M ill come on naturally without having recourse to any narcotics. Watson, of Southampton, bears strong testimony to the efficacy of croton-oil liniment applied to the scalp in grave and almost des- perate cases of hydroceplialus. In one case where leeching, cold lotions to the shaved head, calomel, and antimony, had been employed luiavailingly, improvement soon took place after pustula- tion had been produced in this way, and subsequent recovery.NlillYOUS SYSTEM. 189 Fuller has hitely observed a reuiarkable circumstance connected Avith the administration of belladonna, viz., that childi-en can tolerate much larger doses than adults; it seems that a much larger dose than is usually prescribed is well borne, from the first, by children of tender years, and that the dose may be safely increased, rapidly, but gradually. One girl, set. lo, took 70 grains of good extract daily, and a total amount of 1019 grains in twenty-six days; wliile another, set. 14, took 37 grains of atropine in eighteen days. This extraordinary tolerance, on further research, did not appear to depend on the existence of chorea, as in the above cases, seeing that other chddi-en took similar doses witliout experiencing any remark- able effects. The chorea w as not benefited by it so much as might be expected. The dx-ug was found in abundance in the f^ces and urine, proving that it was not decomposed in tlie alimentary canal, nor altogetlier uuabsorbed into the blood. Puller suggests the administration of belladonna in larger doses than are usually given ni pertussis, epilepsy, and other spasmodic affections. Levick, of Philadelphia, in some remarks upon sunstroke, compares tlie post-mortem condition in this disease with that observed in typhus, and finds, moreover, an " astonishing identity in the symp- toras preseqied during life." He thinks, " these facts indicate that there ism sunstroke, as there is in typlius fever, a poisoned condition of the blood, and that it is to this that we are to refer the various morbid phenomena of the disease, an explanation wliich has also Ijecn given m cases of death from lightning. I cannot, however c ivest my imnd of the belief that in sunstroke this imnatm-al con- i ition of the blood is a secondary affection, not the primary one • tl>at there is, in the first place, an exhaustion or depression of the nerve-forces wliich regulate nutrition, respiration, circulation, and the other acts of organic life." In the way of treatment, he coun- sels cold effusion, at nitervals, over head, chest, and epi^-astrium iHitil consciousness and tlie power of swallowing return. If how^ ever, the depression be extreme, tlie cold afliision must be used antmus y or forborne. In the same condition ice to the liead -i.^t not l)e applied indiscriminately. In some cases oil of tur- P|;.. ine may be of service, both by the mouth and rectum. Prictions "( he surface of t le body with ice have proved advantageous. In a ],aper entitled 'Affections of the Spinal Column ' by P.ckikd .'ttarks of rlieumatism, which were succeeded in the fall of 1857 byllErORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 190 paraplegia. She recovered under tAic use of pliospliate of iron, witli powerful counter-irritation by moxas to the spine. Shortly after, the rheumatism recurred severely, affecting all the liinbs and the pericardium. In the fall of 1858, after she had shaken off the rheumatism, the paraplegia recurred, and continues still. Sensibility is lostj as well as motor power. The author asks, can we assume any connexion between the two diseases ? " And if so, why is it that pain is so insignificant a symptom in the former, and so excruciatingly severe in the latter ? ^¥i\y is it, moreover, that the two conditions come on at different times, jaeld to different reme- dies, and disappear independently of one another ?" Briquet, after considerable experience of lead colic at "La Charite," has discarded all other theories as to the seat and produc- tion of the pain in favour of that originally promulgated by Giacomini, who affirms that the pain in lead colic "has its seat, not in the digestive tube at all, but in the muscular parietes of the abdomen and the diaphragm." His reasons for holding this opiuion are—(i) that moderate pressure, affecting only the skin and subjacent' muscles, will produce in patients suffering under this disease acute pain, identical with that of a paroxysm; (2) that acute pain can be produced in these patients by pressure over.^)arts of the abdominal muscles beneath wliich there is no intestine; (3) that the pain of colic often extends to the muscles of the back and limbs. The constipation, he thinks, has no connexion with the abdominal pain, and the nausea and vomiting he looks on as sympathetic distur- bances. The treatment he employs is cutaneousraradization to remove the abdominal pain, sulphixr baths every other day, sulphm-ic acid lemonade (Oiv dailv), 5ss—5ij of alum in solution, and gr. j of watery extract of opium each night. The pain does not disappear untd the faradization has weU reddened the skin, Avhich, Ave are warned, is often a pretty severe proceeding. In some remarks on the danger attending the use of chloroform, Mautijs- observes, that it must not be supposed that the sliock of an operation is altogether aiuudled by obtaining antcsthesia. He rather considers that this is likely to be greater wlien the powers of the great organs are depressed by tlie influence of chloroform. MvRTTX contributes some valuable experience with respect to the disease known as " coup-de-soleil." He points out, that direct expo- ^ure to the sun's rays is by no means necessary, many fatal seizures occurrin"- in one division of soldiers about 3 a.m., long before theNERVOUS SYSTEM. 191 siin was above the horizon. It lias becu observed that uewlj^ ar- rived recruits are more prone to suffer than those M'ho are accUma- tised. In some cases the native soldiers have escaped altogether, wliile the Em-opean suffered severely; in other instances the Euro- pean officers have remained free, while powerful native troopers fell off their horses, vomiting, convidsed, cold, and covered with clammy sweat. The symptoms are universally vertigo and headache, with sense of burnijig in the eyes, a fidl and frequent pulse, vomiting, great heat of skin, and a devouring thirst, oppressed respiration, swollen face, blindness, sinking of the pulse, clammy sweat, ex- hausted nervous energy, faltering of the tongue, some convulsions, and speedy death." There is a close resemblance between the' phenomena of heat-apoplexy and those of the ardent fever of the hot Bengal season, the cliief difference being that the former disease proceeds at a much greater rate than the latter. Extreme congestion of the lungs is the most constant pathological alteration, the bram being also congested, but in a less degree. The slower the progress of the case, the greater is the degree of cerebral conges- tion; in rapidly fatal cases, there have been but slight traces of cerebral disease. The treatment may be shortlv summed up a^ timely bloodletting, general and local, with simdtaneous adminis- tration of diffusible stimuli and laudanum, cold applications to the head, pm-gatioii, antunonials, rest, darkness. If the time for blood- letting IS past, heat is to be applied to the extremities, sinapisms to the epigastric region, and cold affusion to the head and chest, witli warm aloetic purgatives and frictions to the surface. The means of preservation are abstinence from spirituous Hquors and from excess of animal food, protection of the neck and head, an open order of marchmg, and a flannel suit to change afterwards HAuyKY considers the question as to the comparative value of bloodletting and purging in the early stage of the acute hydroce- phalus and as to the extent to wliicli each of them should bo cai-ned. He assumes-(i) that the diagnosis of the diseasemay h most such cases be confidently made out witliiu a day or two fL s onse ; (.) that the disease is of the nature of aci inflamm on, either simple or associated with recent tubercrdar dep sTon he membranes of the brain; (3) that in a large proportion of nso may be readily cured if brought under suitable' tLtment w , t^^^Z:CT T' \ there is certam number, "and it may be an actual majority, of cases, whichIIICPOIIT UN I'llACTlCAI- MKLUCINIC. 192 110 practice will save, and which at the lirst no head can clearly diagnose." These the author excludes from his consideration. He passes in review the treatment practised by Dr. Maxwell, of Dum- fries, Dr. Abercrombie, and Dr. Watson. The first bled largely and more than once from the jugular, employing at the same time free purging as an accessory means. The second seems to have relied chiefly on purging, while not neglecting bloodletting. Tlie third recommends only moderate local depletion, and " the regu- lated exhibition of mercury in small doses (as a purgative chiefly)." After reference to the facts that bloodletting greatly facilitates the operation of purgatives, and allays the irritability of the stomach, Dr. Harvey contends that bloodletting displays its chief efficacy in the early stages of the disease in question, while purging is more appropriate to the later stages when the more alarming symptoms have declared themselves. Dr. MaxweU's treatment is said to have been remarkably successfid, the results showing sixty recoveries out of ninety cases. In answer to the first question, then. Dr. Harvey concludes that bloodletting is to be regarded as the chief, and purg- ing as a secondary, remedy. With regard to the second questum, there exists no doubt that purging "should be used to the fullest extent consistent with ordinary prudence," while bloodlettmg, both •veneral and local, in acute cases, is to be employed, not only- early, but as fuUy and repeatedly as can be considered safe. In the later .ta-es free bloodletting may be injui-ious by increasmg the asthema ^^•h?ch the state of the brain has induced. In cases of more clu-omc course also bloodletting has less control over the morbid action and is less tolerated. '. , Bakealieu recommends the hydrochlorate of ammonia as the best therapeutic agent in cases of nervous headache. 1^ is to be ^iven during the paroxysm, three doses at ha f-hour intervaL If ^cbiiiiistered during the absence of the headache, no remarkabl effects are produced. " Besides the temporary rehef, it was ob^en ed tluat in eases of headache returning in periodical paroxysms several times a month the intervals gradually became longer, he attacU diminished in intensity, and ended by disappearing completely,^aftu having been several times arrested by the ammoniacal potion. _ 1 Ins proved effectual in idiopathic hemicrania and menorrhagia, lu d ches consequent on repeated attacks of "f"-«ent fever IlLe occurring in the decline of low fevers, and m the period of irritation in typhus.193 NERVOUS SYSTEM. Oppexheimer draws attention to the cure of obstinate neuralgia of the fifth pair by previously curing existing catarrh of the nasal cavities. Baravixkel records a case of anfcsthesia dolorosa of the right fifth nerve, with paralysis of the sixth olfactory and nerv. petros. superfic. major of the same side. The symptoms had lasted six months, and were attributed to a chill, but as there was a history of constitutional syphilis eighteen years before, and some swelling as from caries of the hard palate, the diagnosis of a bony enlargement pressing on and irritating the nerves involved was made. Under lod. Pot. almost complete recovery ensued. ^ Egbert records a case of syphilitic hemiplegia affecting the right side, wliich Avas caused by Potass. lod. c. Hydr. Protiod. The right side of the face was paralysed, there was continual violent pain in the left side of the head, radiating from thence over the wliole. The organs of sense were unaffected, A well-marked case of reflex paraplegia, resulting from prolonged exposure to wet, is recorded by Moore. Strychnia was adminis- tered to produce its special effects, and recovery ensued in two days. Stone connuuuicates shortly the details of sixteen cases of chorea treated chiefly by Zinci Sulph., and compares the results with those of other cases treated by ferruginous and arsenical remedies. In most cases the cold or tepid shower bath was also used. "The general statistics are as follows : Of i5 cases treated by sulphate of zinc, 13 went out cm-ed, 3 relieved, but 3 of the latter were in a fair way of recovery, and may probably be set to the credit of the medicament. On the other hand, three of those ultimately cured owed then- improvement partly to ferruginous preparations, and in one case the zinc had no eftbct whatever. It may, then, be stated generally, that advantage was derived from the /.mc in 14 out of 16 cases. The longest stay in the hospital amono- these cases was 123 days; the shortest, 14; the average stay, 44-6 days. Pourteen cases were treated during the same period with pre parations of ii-on; all were cured. The longest stav in hospital was i6i days; the shortest, 6 days; average stay, 44-3 days. Twenty eases were treated with Liq. Potass. Arsenitis; 18 cured, i relieved • died, nie longest stay in hospital was 55 days ; the shortest, 6 • average stay, 26-3 days. Average stay in hospital of the 50 cases submitted to tliree principal remedies, 27-2 days," The ca^es put under the arsenical treatment were rather more severe tliau 13194 BEPORT ON rHACTICAL MEDICINE. the othersi, yet its action seems to have been more certain aiul speedy. BiuQUET cndeavoui-s to show—(i) that the occurrence of hyste- rical paroxysms is only apparently accidental and arbitrary; tlrnt, on the contrary, all the phenomena depend npon positive conditioii- Avliich can be predicted, and whicli belong to the snnplest laws ol pathology, (a) That in the great majority of cases hystencal pjixoxysms can be accurately distingiushed from those of epilepsv and eclampsia. And (3) that art possesses means capable of sup- pressing them at om pleasure. He entirely dissents from the vle^v winch regards the uterus as the starting point of the morbid process, as in his cases (254) indications of this could only be traced m nnio. He considers, that in its simple form the hysterical paroxysm is nothing but an expression of some psychical affection, or pamlul sensation, and he derives all the manifold varieties of the pheno- mena from one of the five foUowing conditions : (i.) Certam group of muscles are either of themselves unduly Writable, or subserA^e th expression of some habitual temper, or by frequent use have come to act semi-automatically. (2.) Certain physical or moral pecu- liarities may determine the prominent featin:es of the paroxysm. Thus the spitefid bite and strike those around them, the violent- tempered have violent convulsions, &c. (3.) The excitmg cause ol the attack is influential. (4.) So is the age. (5.) The impressions diu-ing the mtervals of the paroxysms have most influence of all; they determine the prevaihng character of an epidemic The material and psychical symptoms are only the xim-estrauied myo- ^r^Jd of the 'egilar bodily and mental conchtion durmg the period of health; in short, an analogue of -y^^^^" diagnosis turns on the following points: -f^^^^^, f ^^^^ convulsions in epilepsy compared with those «f ^^jt denness or slight warning of the epileptic seizye con rastcd .ith precursory phenomena or mamfest cause of the ^3 i tt presence of foaming at the mouth m one, and its f^-^^^^^ other • the shorter dm-ation and consecutive sopor of the epileptic, om ired with the freauent prolongation rarity of.sopo. so^^^^^^^^ and crying, and following depression, which dishngu sh the h; ster . S Briqne gives chloroform in the way of inhalation dm-uig ti e pLx^ls, Ll also applies it locally to any painful part dmang the '"til relates a ciu:e of a very severe neuralgia of the lingual nerveNERVOUS SYSTEM. 195 by division. The dental nerve was previously divided without success, A case of lu-ethralgia, by Cortes, yielded to frictions of chloro- form liniment after quinine and various other means had failed. A successful case of di\dsion of the i^opliteal nerve for neuralgia in the leg is related by Hooicer. After the operation some ulcers on the leg speedily healed, the pain disappeared, and the health improved. A case is recorded by Sloane, which he entitles "neuralgia of the l)rachial plexus simulating wasting palsy." Wet cold seems to have been the exciting cause. After exposure to tliis every day for a week he was attacked with violent pain in the left shoulder, left neck, and upper arm. The pain continued for eight months or so, and then gradually ceased; but the deltoid was then greatly wasted, and lie had no power of flexing the left elbow. Sensation was at this time perfect, but Ave months later was greatly impaired in the left upper arm. Two months later, he suddenly lost the use of all liis hmbs, and gradually sank in the course of five days, retaining his cerebral fimctions unimpaired to the last. ^ The same report also gives the notes of a case of wasting palsy. An account of the effects of lightning upon eight persons —four males, four females—is given by Fleming. These were cliiefly scorclung, as by intense heat, of parts of the dress and person, and phenomena of nervous prostration, numbness and debility. Tour of the whole number appeared at fii-st to have been struck dead, but in half an hour recovered sufficiently to be removed to their homes. The scorched parts of the body became the seat of troublesome sores, which were some months in heahng. Case of hemiplegia, with symptoms resembling paralysis agitans and movements like those of chorea, cured by a pill containing Ol' Crotoms, m^; Extr. Col. co., gr. iij; o. n., in eighteen days. A paper on alternating palsies, especially hemiplegias, as the con- sequence of disease of the pons Varolii, by A. Gubler. An account of a remarkable case of paralysis of the motor nerves of the face and of the upper extremities, as weU as of the tongue and oesophagus, is given by Dumenil. At the post- mortem the facial, hypoglossal, and anterior spinal roots, except the lower, were found notably atrophied. The gustatory, glosso-pharyn- gea^^ chordae tympani, fifth pair, and the vagi, were quite normal. VA ILKS, m a paper on sanguineous meningeal effusion, sponta-Ur.rOHT ON PRACTICAL MKDICINE. 19G ncous and from injury, di-aws attention to tlie occurrence of dubious cases, in Avhicli, except disease of the blood-vessels, the autopsy affords no means of determining whether the heemorrhage was spontaneous or not. The symptoms during life, being also entirely similar, afford no assistance in the inquiry. In a paper on aneurism of the cerebral vessels, Guix first alludes to the causes which led to the erroneous opinion that the disease was extremely rare. His following observations are partly statis- tical, partly descriptive, and do not admit of abbreviation, but the following numbers, relating to the seat of iutra-cranial aneurism, are important. Vertebral arteries and their branches: vertebrals, 4; basilar, 20; smaU vessel in substance of pons; posterior cerebral, 3. Carotid and branches : internal carotids by sella turcica, 8; middle cerebral, 15; anterior cerebral,6; anterior communicating, i; posterior ditto, 4. AYhole total, 62. After a synopsis of symptoms observed in twelve cases of basilar aneurism, the author proceeds: "The symptoms of aneurism of the basilar artery, though not diagnostic of the nature of the particular lesion, form, upon the whole, a natural group indi- cating its presence and its seat. It is not so, however, where the middle cerebral artervis affected, for it will be seen {vide Tahhs) that in such cases thereVas often no clinical history pre^^ous to the rupture of the sac; or if any, none to indicate unequivocally the pre- sence of organic lesion. Exceptions to tliis there are when the sac has become large, so as to compress the central parts about the base, as in Case iv. Where the arteries of the circle of Willis are the seat of the aneurism, there may also be the same vagueness in the ludrca- tions of organic disease ; but in two cases, where the posterior com- municating artery was affected, ptosis from compression of the third nerve was an early symptom. As with other tumours, so with intra-cranial aneurism; headache, though difficult to estimate strictly, is one of the most important symptoms. The one character of it which should most arrest our attention is its constant recur- rence, and its after distresshig severity, with concomitant disturbance of the cerebral functions. All care, however, will often fail to enable us to form a correct opinion, even should we, as some have mic'^ested, auscultate the cranium for an aneurismal murmur ! Intra- cranial aneurism often serves to illustrate to us how much the whole nutrition of the brain may be affected by the operation of a strictly local lesion. It may lead to subarachnoid and ventricular eflusion, and produce symptoms of insanity and epilepsy.^' The morbid d.s-NEllVOUS SYSTEM. 197 (ui-baiice may be very various, according to tlie quaHty of the normal action M-Iiicli IS deranged by tlie special cause. ScHUBERG gives au liistorical sketch and an account of the patho- ogy and symptoms of Ju-ematomata of the dui-a mater. He assents 0 the view of HescliI, Virchow, and Cruveilliier, as to the affection being the result of a fibrinous inflammation, attended with a copious development of new vessels, from w]iich the haemorrhage proceeds. The disease usuaUy is of months' dm-ation, and always ends fatally, it IS most frequent in advanced life, and in the male sex. The symptoms at the commencement are, dimmntion of intelligence and memory, mth giddiness and head-pain, sometimes with intervals of remission At a later period the power of speech is impaired, the hands and legs are enfeebled; there is mental dulness and stupidity, comb ned with an excessive appetite. Paralysis may occur on one 01 both sides and hemiplegia may exist, with efi-usion of blood on bot I hemispheres. Facial palsy is crucial to that of the paralysed tiL. r S''^'''^ ^^^^^^^^'1 lo^^s of Con- sciousness, with or without convulsions ca Jse'of '''''^''^ Ulbich. In one the tt i h^half^f ?r "'""^ '""^^^ ^^^'^^ ^^-^0- tne light half of the pons and medulla oblongata wIiichTdrf T- '"''"'''^'^ '''' ^lieumatism, in fe^dted^^^^^^^^^^ '''' '-^-^ ^'^^^^ the briin, Theag^ o.th:S^a^St^ ~ I J ine tieatment was by quinme and arsenic . is found efficacious by HeuptI in onil gives one to four ounces of the powder in tLTours of ^'^"^l ^''i continues tliis several months198 REPORT ON PIUCTICAL MEDICINE. situation of the morbid al'terations, viz., the tract superior and external to the optic thalamus, for the space of eight lines to two inches. , , « , Landuy describes a form of paralysis, Avluch he names acu c ascending." It begins at the extremities, advances slowly towards the centre, then quickly invades the muscles which are important to life, and sometimes kiUs quite suddenly. The bladder and the rectum are usually spared, and the mental faculties are unaffected. Sensation and motion may both be alike impaired, l^ut uSuaUy latter is most so. The muscular power becomes gradually lost, and the Hmbs become flaccid, without any twitchings, contractions con- vulsions, or reflex movements. The palsy affects the muscles in tl^ following order : those of the feet and toes the posterior s^fa^ f the thigh and the pelvis, of the anterior and inner part of the t ugh^ then those of the fingers, hands, shoulders, and elbows, next the tmnk the resphatory m-des, the tongue, the tliroat esophagus. The c u^se of the diseaseis always rapid-from eight to fourteen days " some houi-s. If improvement takes place, 1- disaunear in the inverse order of theii- appearance. In the only t^ o ips that have been made, nothing was found to explam the Nothing positive has yet been ascertamed respectmg exceptpeiaps that it generally seemsto followon some "^l^^ the left facial and sixth nerve, in consequence of tuberculous meningitis, recorded by Teissier. A case of pecuHar alteration of the gait in walking, recorded b HiLLMUET The patient in walking took ten regular stej^s, tliei f ^^fT raised the ric^ht foot somewhat above the ground, raised *dH:tS^eWti^^ upon tljeleft^theii^^^^ or three times with the right foot, and went on. He "^ered from apoplectic seizm-es, inducmg paralysis of the light side which in great measure had passed away. lV^L the alterations found in the nerves in tliree cases 1 eont"ofthelimbs. These consisted chiefly in fatty degenera-199 NERVOUS SYSTEM. tnil organs of the nervous system, or tlicir envelopes, arc in any degree aftected with strumous inflammation (tubercular cerebritis, or meningitis) or its consequences, after moderate purging, and per- haps application of leeches to the head, I am in the habit of pre- scribmg the iodide, in doses of from half a grain to three grains, every thi-ee or foiu- hoiu-s, generally dissolved in some carminative water, and continuing it in doses varied according to the symptoms for many days, or even until convalescence is fully established; and I am quite satisfied that mider this treatment, with the occasional adthtion of bhsters to the shaven scalp, I have seen far more prompt and decided effect produced upon the disease than I used to see under the old treatment." In the case, however, of robust and full- blooded cMdreu, he has no doubt of the superior efficacy of the mercurial treatment, combmed with antimonials and salines. EussELL Eey^s-olds reports a case of paralysis agitans removed by the continuous galvanic cm-rent from an 120-link Pulvermacher's cham. ^ The disorder affected the whole of the right upper limb, wluch in the situation of the biceps was foiu- degrees hotter than the other. The sensibility was unaffected. After five applications, of an hour each, the spontaneous jactitation completely ceased. Por another month the ciu-rent was passed every other day, the arm gamed strength, and only some slight tremor was present when any weight was raised in the hand towards the mouth, m medicine was given till after this date. The disorder came on with vertigo and gene- ral disturbance about fifteen days before treatment was commenced. DuBRAKT records four cases of partial paralysis, affecting the face U), tongue, and tliree fingers of left hand. Ammonia was prescribed 111 all the cases, with one sixteenth of a grain of bicliloride of mer- cury, at night, in the first tlu-ee. He is inclined to regard the para- ly=sis as dependent upon some exudative deposit or tliickenino- in the course of the nerve. _ In the treatment of chorea, Aran considers that arsenic should be given at first m doses of one thii-tieth to one twentieth of a grain to children seven years old, and that the amount should be rapidly in- creased, so as to reach in three or foiu- days one sixth to a quarter of a grain. -Tins rapid mode of administration is better than the J^StlTl lTr '\TV''''' ^^'^-^^^^the economy habituates itselt to the latter, and the tlierapeutical effects may be lost • and this the saturation of the economy, and consequently to tntolerance."llEPORT ON PllACTlCAIi MEDICINK. 200 ]\Iatice iidopts the following conclusions with respect to llie state of the mental powers in chorea. " (i.) The moral and intellectual functions are very commonly affected in choreic patients; at least two tliirds show some affection of the kind. The immunity enjoyed by the remaining third cannot be explained either by the age or the sex of the subjects, by the acuteness or chronicity of the disorder, nor by the extent or intensity of the convidsions. (2.) Pour morbid ele- ments, Avhich are sometimes isolated, but most frequently associated, should be studied together in the mental condition of chorea patients. —{a) Derangements of the moral sensibility, consisting in a notable change of character, which becomes irritable and capricious, and may be unusually animated, but is more frequently depressed. {L) Derangements of intellect, characterised by a loss of memory, by too great a flow of ideas, and by the impossibility of fixing the attention. (c) Hallucinations which occur in the state intermediate between sleeping and waking," commonly limited to the sense of sight. " {d) Chorea may, fi'om its commencement, be complicated with maniacal delirium; this frequently terminates in death, or if recoveiy takes place, intellectual disturbance remains." CH.iJPix " argues that the defective nutrition of the brain resultnig from the syphihtic diathesis" may i^roduce insanity. He bases his opinion upon a series of cases, partly cidled from his own experience, partly from that of other writers, in which the subsidence of the mental ahenation coincided with the effect of the treatment directed against syphilitic manifestations. DucHEXNE relates the following illustrative case of^ the disorder which he has termed " ataxie locomotrice progTcssive." A painter, ict. 28, has double but incomplete paralysis of the si.xth pair ot nerves ; characteristic boring and flying pains, recurring especially al night J integrity of the muscular force, contrasting with the coiu- plete loss of co-ordination of the lower Hmbs, which rendered walk- ing im])ossible, even when assisted by the eyesight; formication ami numbness of the last two fingers of each hand of only a few mouths dale; sensibilitv in the feet and legs much diminished; electro- muscular contractility intact. The disease had commenced two year> before. Its apparent cause was syphilitic disorder. An autopsy wa^ made ith great care after death had occurred from an intercurreni allection, but no appreciable lesion coidd be discovered 111 the brain and spinal cord. A case of softening of the spinal cord in its lower halt, with apo-N KB VOL'S SYSTEM. iOl ])k'otic efTusioii, is recorded by Duuiax. The symptoms came on suddenly, as severe paiu in tlie loins, extending like a girdle round the abdomen, not increased by pressure on the vertebral coliuiin, and complete paraplegia yvith. unimpaired sensation. Death occurred on the eighteenth day. Post-mortem showed no other essential disease than is above stated. Hajion records two cases of chorea treated by numerous cauter- izing applications of concentrated nitric acid to the dorsal and lumbar spinal regions. From sixty to eighty slight ulcers were made, Avhicli Iicaled without apparent cicatrices. Other means had been tried in vain. Improvement speedily ensued, and after two repetitions of the proceeding the first case (a severe one) was cured in tlu-ee weeks. Henoch directs attention to the occurrence of paiu in the Iiead, depending on disorder of the female sexual organs. The pain may be frontal, \^ertical, occipital, or unilateral. The uterus is most fre"- queutly the organ in fault. He mentions two cases, in one of whicli a head pain had continued for four and in the other six years. In both a cure was effected by treatment directed to the healing of erosions of the uterus. He remarks on the efficacy of emetics in lieadaches, but contests tlie view that they act as mere evacuants. After relating a case of cerebral rheumatism. Trousseau subjoins the following general remarks. There are tlirce forms of cerebral rheumatism. The first and most dangerous is the so-called apoplectic (in the sense imderstood by older writers), characterised by collapse and coma alone, without paralytic phenomena. Trousseau, however, himself met with a case in which, after pains in the back and para- plegia, there came on suddenly hemiplegia and amam-osis of the oppo- site side, while the dorsal pain disappeared. These latter symptoms soon gave way, and recovery ensued. A second form is the menin- geal, as in a case related by Gosset, in Mhich, after delirimn and violent excitement, coma came on, and the autopsy showed acute meningitis. The tliird form is the delirious; it is the most impor- tant, but the most difficult to diagnose, because it is easily con- founded with similar states. Thus, such cases are to be excluded m which delirium ensues in the course of acute rheumatism, because 111 many individuals all notable febrile movement is attended with delirium.- The same is true of delirium occurring in topers. On the other hand, many cases arc to be included of insanity or mania which show themselves in llu; course of acute rheumatism. Evenheport on practical medicine. 203 the possibility of a primary rlieiiraatic mania camiot be denied, since there is certainly a primary rheumatic endocarditis. Moreover, rheumatic chorea, so common in cliildren, is closely related to cere- bral rheumatism. It is not unfrequently complicated with deHrium; and in a case reported by Mesnet, together with rheumatic dehrium and insanity, persistent clonic convulsions were present. A case of tetanus, not apparently traumatic, in which the patient became extremely emaciated and exhausted, but recovered under the pretty free use of stimulants, is recorded in the ' British Medical Journal,' August aoth, 18^9. A case of rotatory convulsion in a child, aged four and a half years, suffering under strumous hydrocephalus, is recorded by Minchin. In the surface of the left cerebellar hemisphere was a firm, oval tubercle, of the size of an almond, adherent to the dura mater, and at the corresponding point on the right there was a rough, tubercular elevation of the dui-a mater. The day before death the body rolled longitudinally from left to right for several minutes at once four times in the course of the day. Schramm, from 1854 to 1858, observed 195 cases of nem-algia of the fifth pair, of the particulars of which he gives a summary. His field of observation was Bodenwolu?, in the Palatinate, where malarious disease is endemic. The affection sometimes supervened instantly on the cessation of some other disorder. Quinine and car- bonate of iron, given in small doses, quickly succeeding each other, were successful in the majority of cases. In obstinate cases, arsemc was invaluable. In Ogle's case the symptoms were the result of compression of certain lateral parts of the brain, from an intra-cranial aneu- rism. Ogle believes that the aneiurism produced irritation of the crus cerebelli, from whence the morbid inhibitory action was trans- mitted to certain motor fibres on the other side of the brain, whidi were consequently prevented from discharging their function. The term "induced cerebral" he prefers to those employed by BroAm- Sequard, who fii-st proposed this hypothesis to account for cases of paralysis occurring on the same side as the lesion. The aneurism iu the case in question was of the size of a small nutmeg, proceeded from the anterior cerebellar artery, and rested immediately upon the inferior siuface of the left middle crus cerebelli. The fifth and seventh nerves were pressed upon by the aneurism, tire latter benig especially implicated and stretched.PSYCHIATRIK. 203 AzAM lias repeated Mr. Braid's liypnological experiments, and finds that catalepsy and ansesthesia can be obtained in the way lie indicates. M. Broca and M. PoUin have nsed this method success- fully in one case, and in some others it has been more or less effec- tual. Mr. Braid's original paper is in the 'Edinburgh Monthly Journal/ July, 1853. The principle of the method is to cause the patient to gaze intently for some time on a bright object. A detailed account of heemorrhage in the cerebellum is given by HiLLAiRET, wlaich we can do little more than mark for reference; it is very full and complete. In one form its course is gradual, in the others so rapid as to kill instantaneously. Vomiting is a special symptom, and so is loss of power in the limbs, not amounting to actual paralysis. Hemiplegic paralysis occurs in a third only of the cases; it is always crossed. Crossed facial paralysis and deviation of the tongue are exceptional. Speech is generally di'awly and slow. Sensibility is imaffected except towards the fatal close, and the same is the case with the special senses. Convulsions do not occur if the cerebellar lesion is uncomplicated. PSYCHIATRIK. Austen.—A Practical Account of General Paralysis, its mental and physical symp- toms, statistics, causes, seat, and treatment, pp. 225. Robinson.—On the Prevention and Treatment of Mental Disorders, pp. 228. Schlager.—Beobachtungen uber die Hyperplirenie. [Observations on Maniacal Excitement.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, p. 346. • Psychiatrische Mittheilungen aus den Russischen Gouveniemeiils Ilospitalern. [Psychiatric Communications from the Russian Government Hospitals.] lb., p. 347. Girolami.—Zur Irrenstatistik des Kirchenstaates. [Statistics of Insanity in llic Slates of the Church.] lb., p. 348. Brugnoni.—Bericht iiber das Irrenhaus zu Astino, fdr das J. 1857. [Report of the Asylum for the Insane at Astino, for 1857.] lb., p. 348. HofBnann.—Beobachtungen und Erfahrungen liber Seetenstorung und Epilepsie in der Irrenanstalt zu Frankfurt a. M. [Observations and Experience relating to Insanity and Epilepsy in the Frankfort Asvlum.] lb., vol. 104, pp. 1,0 — 133- Hobixsok's work is divided into three ]oarts. The first compnses the general introduction, and the physiology and pathology of the nervous system; the second treats of the forms and the causes,204. REPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. physical and moral, of mental disorders; and the tliird is devoted to their treatment, medical and general. After (|uoting the statistical statements of various authors as to tlie greater inlluence of moral or physical causes in producing insanity, the author affirms that his " own experience is wholly in favour of the idea that in the great majority of cases insanity is directly or indirectly tlie effect of sources of mental disturbance originating in the will or feelings of the persons affected, and which may tlierefore properly be considered as moral in their nature." As physical causes of insanity, he ranks hereditary predisposition, temperament, scrofula, fever, and the metastasis of gout, rheumatism, erysipelas, &c. On the subject of the nervous temperament he quotes some admirable remarks of Dr. Trotter, Dr. Gillies, and Sir J. Sinclair. He approves highly of the practice of the Greeks and Romans in enforcing the cultivation of atliletic exercises. Great stress is laid on the importance of training the mind to habits of self-control, of the education of the moral affections, and the avoidance of all kinds of vice, dissipation, and excess. Recognising the great influence of intemperance as a cause of insanity, especially among the lower classes, he looks for its removal rather to the improvement of their homes and of their moral education than to any pledge or promise given at a moment of excitement or remorse. Under the head of treatment, he speaks very favorably of the effect of oil of turpentine in purgative doses (Sss to 5j) as a means of cutting short attacks of acute mania. A solution (saturated) of phosphorus in chloroform he states is an excellent stimulant (dose, tnj—x). AVith regard to general treat- jnent, he entirely approves of Dr. BuckuiU's caution, that " between amusements and occupations a due proportion ought to bt- observed," and cites a case fi'om his own experience to show how a suicidal purpose may be cherished and contrived at the veiy time that a patient is joining in dances and festivities. Tinally, lie recommends various means for checking the progress of insanity in tliis country. ■ ScHLAGEK states that in maniacal hyperphrenia constant and palpable anatomical changes are not always found, thougli he doc^ not consider tliis to disprove tlie dependence of mental disorders on cerebral morbid alteration. In fifteen cases of the above kind tlic disease ran its coiu'se during the first stage with the phenomena of cerebral hypcrfcmia, and tliere -were found in three (after pre- vious epileptic attacks and furious delirium) serous infiltration.205 rSYOIIlATRIK. and opacity of the internal membranes, with ecchymosis and hy- liertemia of the brain and serous cflfusion iji the ventricles. In the I'omainder there was serous infiltration of the brain and its mem- branes, aiul in one case of pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis there were meningeal tubercles. In the cases of periodic mania, which perished iu the third stage, the author mostly observed opa- cities and serous infiltrations, adhesions of the inner membranes, Paccliionian granulations, more poverty of blood and softness of ihe brain, except where, after epileptic attacks, a greater degree of firmness of the cerebral substance was observable. In the asylums and hospitals for the insane in Russiii, there were treated in the year 1856, on the whole, 3616 patients, of whom 2087 (57-4-per cent.) were sent out cui-ed or improved, 388 (107 percent.) died, and 1150 remained under care. The form of the insanity in one sixth was drunkard's delirium, in four sixths mama or monomania, and in one sixth melancholy or imbecility Alcoholic intoxication was by far the most common' cause, so that in Poltowa, out of 108 patients, 95 (52 males out of 55) owed their disease to this cause. Among these patients there prevailed a special tendency to imbecility, attended with phenomena of motor jiaralysis and hallucinations of vision. From a paper by Gibolami, on the statistics of insanity in the States of the Church, it appears that there exists about one lunatic to every 2364 mhabitants. In regard to treatment it is mentioned, that a case of intermittent mania, wliich had been in no way benefited by a seton in the neck, was completely cured bv valerianate of atropine. In this form there was less apparent ad- vantage from the use of valerian and oxide of zinc. Yalerianate 0 atropine effected also considerable improvement in two cases <) epileptic mania. In two cases of lypemama stupida, sidphato 0 strychmne was of extraordinary benefit; and in a third 01. Morrhua>, with cold affusion and bitter tonics. In cases of pellagra not ye arrived at the third stage, not only the mental disoiir waS many times removed but also the dyscrasia to a very great extent by the use of vegetable juices, especially those of vine b'anche7!nd 0 ucifero^ and also by the administration of cliloride of iron chronic diarrhoea was arrested by tannin and opimn, and the' sleep r^To?" "f^^^ by hyoscyamus and morphia, ^t tt •osult 0 curing even the disease itseU" in some cases of iCpem-in e.specially the hypochondriacal. ^ypemania.-20G EEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. In a report from the asylum'for the insane at Astino, drawn uphy Le BuuGNONi, for the year 1857, it is stated that the number of admissions Avas 120 (74 males, 46 females), the whole number under treatment was 236, the majority being cases of mania, me- lanchoHa, and clu-onic deinentia. Of the whole number, 62 wer(,' improved, while 26 (17 males, 9 females) died. Most admissions took place in the summer months, the fewest in the autumn. Tlu> greatest mortality was in the spring, the least in the autumn. Tn 125 cases, pellagra appeared as the predisposing cause; in 135,he- reditary influence. Of the fatal cases, 17 died of marasmus in con- sequence of slow (creeping) cerebro-meningitis; of tuberculosis, i; of cerebral apoplexy, 2; of pidmouary phthisis, i; of intestni:il ulceration, 2 ; of sphacelus of the brain, i ; of inflammation of thr brain, i; of inanition, i. At the autopsy of these 26, there was found thickening of the dui-a mater and adhesion to the skull-caj) in 14; serous and sero-plastic exudation between the menmges and the brain in 17; extraordinary vascularity of the pia mater in 21; inflammatory injection of the brain-substance m 12; induration of the cerebral meduUa in 9; softening of the gray substance in 9; pappy, pale-red softening of the whole cerebral mass in I. . . -n m! ^ HoPFMAXN gives a report of his experience at the Irankiort asylum for the insane, daring a period of six and a half years. In tliis time there were in the asjdum 336 cases (53 of them relapses , including 45 epileptics with 4 relapses; of these 283 mdnaduals iqq were males, 144 females. The new cases amounted to ibo (84 males, 96 females); and of these there suffered from melan- cholia, 50 (21 males, 29 females); from mania, 65 (29 males 36 females); from partial insanity, 23 (8 males, 15 females); from mental confusion (verwiiTtheit), 9, (7 males, 2 females); from mi- becility, 33 (19 males, 14 females). -Wlaile, on an average, the ad- missions of epileptics remained the same, the increase m the number of insane was so svu-prising that the number of admissions was ulmost doubled, the relative proportion of males and females re- maining unaltered. Of the whole number, there were 63 recoveries (2q males, 40 females), and 26 improved (9 males, 17 females); comprising 34 melancholies, 36 maniacs, 7 cases of partial m- sZl 7 of mental confusion, 4 imbeciles. There were 22 uot cured (18 males, 4 females); comprising 5 melanehohcs, maniac^ 4 cases of partial insanity, 4 of mental confusion, i imbecile. Tlierc207 MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Avere 57 deaths (33 males, 35 females); comprisiug 5 melaucliolics, 16 maniacs, 3 cases of partial insanity, 34 imbeciles, Tlie author then gives short descriptions of the various forms of insanity as he classifies them, and concludes with an account of 73 autopsies. Of these he says that hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart and non-sjTumetry of the brain were surprisingly frequent, the latter bemg especially evident in the posterior horns of the lateral ven- tricles. Those who died in the fii-st stages presented far fewer anatomical changes in the brain than the cases of the secondary forms, especially the imbecile. In epileptic cases in general there were found no prominent and special post-mortem appearances, except some local hypertemias, and the author holds epilepsy to be much less connected with material change than mental disorder. MUSCULAR SYSTEM. Eodet—Atrophia muscularis progressiva syphilit Ursprungs. [Pro'>-ressive Mus _ cularAtrophy of Syphilitic Origin.] Schmidt's Jahrb., i8s9,voL io2, p. ,8.; J?nedberg-.-The Pathology and Therapeutics of Muscular Paralysis. (Review ) Bnt. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 82. A case of progressive muscular atrophy, of sypliilitic origin, is re- corded by EoDET, of Lyons. A male, xt. 56, was treated with bichlo- ride of mercury for an indurated chancre. During tliis time he got head-pam sleeplessness, and dull pains in the thighs, with extraordi- nary debility, especially of the right side, the right arm being most affected. Omission of the mercury, and afterwai-ds its resumption, made no cbfference in the disorder, wliich continued to increase and mdiKied atrophy of the muscles of the baU of the thumb of the nght, fore, and upper arm, and of the whole right lower ex- tremity. In aU the atrophied muscles fibrillary contractions oc- curred. Under a course of Potass. lod., prolonged for nine months, all the symptoms, both of syphilis and of atrophy, vanished, and th re r 1 '"^-""^^^ ^^^1^^.' An analogons cas reco ded by Nicper, in the 'Union Me'dicale' of April 31st 18 , treated .Mth Pot. lod., whereupon atrophy and eruption both got taBBBiiG considers that the derangement of nutrition of theKKl'ORT ON PRACTICAL MRDICINK. 208 muscles, inducing paralysis, may arise—(i.) ^rom propagation of a similar morbid process from adjoining organs (myopathia propagaia). (2.) Prom mechanical injviry (mvopathia traumatica). (3.) Prom sudden change of tcmi)crature (myopathia rhcumatica). (4.) From diseased concUtions of the blood (myopathia dyscrasica). (5.) 1 rom diminished supply of blood and diminished exercise (inyopatlua marasmodes). (6.) From causes which are beyond our reach (myo- l)athia simplex) ! Instances of myopallda propagaia are paralysis ot the abdominal muscles in peritonitis, of the intercostals in pleuntis, of the heart's fibre in pericarditis. Excessive fatigue or a sudden .train mav, in mijopaiJtia traumatica, so alter the nutrition ot the muscles tliat they subsequently degenerate. Myopathia rheumatica IViedberg defines as that variety of the affection in which degene- ration of the muscles results from exposure to sudden changes 0 temperature. It maybe acute or clu:ouic, and lead to universal degenerative atrophy and palsy of the muscles. He seems to con- sider that it affects invariably the interstitial areolar tissue of the muscles. Myopathia dyscrasica is noticed by Triedberg as a sequel of cholera, dysentery, typhus, gastric fever, and the exanthema a. Myopathia marasmodes is not necessarily caused by deficient exer- cis4 of the muscles, but occurs when this element of disease exists, and is accompanied by other morbid tendencies m the muscle Myopathia si,nplex may affect single muscles or numerous sets It has usually been regarded as resulting from paralytic at^ectioi. of iXduaUierves. ^''The chief remedy for the protivac^^ Iturbance of the muscle consists in stimulatmg it methodically to contract." This is best effected by electricity and suitable gym- nastic exercises. CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. Ogle and Mead0WS.-0n Clubbing of '^'f'"e^-n-ls - a Sign of Thoracic Dis- ^ easp Mc<l. Times and Gaz.., March .Qth and 26th, .8S9. , 1T n„ Runture of the Heart. Med. Times and Ga7... April 9th, iS.sg- ^^^iT-^ToTv^:^^^^^^^ of the Heart. Brit. Med. Jour., Jan. .st, Gairdner -On Pericarditis. Edin. Med. Jour., April. ,859- P- 904- Sr«cr..m ot II,. Tl.o,.cic Dun. H., M.«, .8.9. V-CrRCULATORY SYSTKM. 209 Held.—Case of Chlorosis—Anncraic murmurs at apex of heart. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., June Tst, 1859. Beau.—Normal Hypertrophy ef the Heart during Pregnancy. Edin, Med. Jour., June, 1859, p. 1138. Chauveau.—Ueher die Geriiusche in derGefiissen undihve seniiotische Bedentung. [On Murmurs in the Vessels, and their semiotic import.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, p. 228. Kolisko.—Ueber das continuirliche Halsgeriiusch. [On the Continuous Murmur in the Neck ] lb., p. 233. Kennedy.—Cursory Remarks on the Diagnosis of Fatty Heart. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1859, P- i.^ Talley.—Ulceration of the Aorta, (Case.) Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan., '859. P- 259- Da Costa.—On the occurrence of a Blowing-Sound in the Pulmonarv Artery, associated with affections of the Lung; on the Sounds of the Artery in Health, and on the effect on them and on the Heart of the act of Inspiration. American Journ. of the Medical Sciences, Jan., 1859, P- ii9- Humphry.—The Formation of Clots in the Venous System during Life. Brit. Med. Journ., July 23d and 30th, Aug. 6th and 13th, 1859. Moorhead.—Case of Angina Pectoris, with remarks. Lancet, July 3olh, 1859. Wlllebrand.—On the Secale Cornutum in Disturbance of the Accommodation- power of the Eyes. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 1859, P- 175- Vanzetti.—On the Treatment of Inflammation by Digital Compression. Brit and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, p. 248. Markham.-The Pathology, Diagnosis, and Treatment of Cardiac Diseases — Pencarditis. Brit. Med. Jour., Aug. 2olh, Sept. loth, Oct. ist and i,th, Nov. sth, Dec. loth, 1859. rox.-On Cyanosis, and the nature and value of temporary Basic Systolic Murmur Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 27ih, Sept. loth, 1859. Duehek.-Zur Aetiologie der Perikarditis. [The Etiology of Pericarditis.] bchraidt s Jahrb., vol. 103, p. 313, 1859. Cregeen.-On a Case of Rupture of the Right Auricle of the Heart. Lancet, Oct. IStflS^Q. ' Reid.-Cases of Aneurism, with Remarks. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Oct. x^th 1850 Robinson.-On some Obscure Cases in Medicine. TAneurisra.) Brit Med Jour., Oct. 8th, 1859. " ^""^S^^^n^r r"'^^" ™' Blood-corpuscles during the last Stage of Cachectic Diseases. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Oct., 1859 P Wallmann.—On the Foramen Ovale of the Adult lb p 542 ' '"Sw";p:^;o::;ti.':,:^:7" "-"^ °^ ''-'^ ^^''i7";;^i"36V"''''''""'' ^""'"^^ Enlargement of the Heart. lb., ^TtToftu?^^'-"?'''''-'""' K^an^-schlagader des Herzcns. [Lace- ration of the Coronary Arteries of the Heart.] Fall von He.vrnnt,,,- rr of Rupture of the Heart.] Zerreissung der sLienfL: Tr Column^ V v"e1 'sJ^rr S,"""'"? ^"^ ^""''-^ '•="'1'"- Of t'e Zn^ vaive.J Schmidt s Jahrb., 1859, vol. 104, pp. 1C8, 1O9. ItREPORT 0>' PRACTICAL MEDICINE. no Worms—Ucber EntzViudung dcs Ductus Thorac. [On lunararaation of the Tho- racic Duct.] lb., p. 169. FlOgel—Pleuritisches u. perikardiales Exsudat, Eintritt der Quergrimmdarms in die Brusthiihle, Tliiombose beider Scbcnkelartcricn, u. cines Tlieiles dcr gemciuscbaftlichen lliiftpiilsadcrn. [Pleuritic and Pericardial Exudation, the Transverse Colon intruded into the Thorax, Thrombosis of both Crural, and oi' a part of the coniraon Iliac, Arteries.] lb., p. 171. Whalley.—On a Case of Purpura, readily yielding to Gallic Acid and Mercury, Lancet, Dec. loth, 1859. Cockle.—On certain Points of Physical Diagnosis in Mitral-Valve Disease. lb , Dec. 17th, 1859. Gail'dner.-Case of Aneurism of the Thoracic Aorta, which opened into the Trachea and Left Bronchus; ILnemoptysis four years before Death. With Remarks on the Rupture of Aneurisms. Med.-Chir. Transact., vol. xlii, 1859, p. 189. CliMing of He finger-ends as a symptom of ihoracic disease — Ogle and Meadows eacli relate a case bearing on this subject. As a consequence of aueurisinal tumour pressing on one side, the fingers of tlie corresponding hand presented the appearance 111 question. Maekham contributes an analysis of twelve cases of rupture of the heart recorded in the first seven volumes of the 'Transactions of the Pathological Society.' In eight, symptoms of disordered circiilation or respiration, or both, preceded the rupture. Two only enjoyed good health. Two had suffered previous attacks of hemiplegia, and in these two intracranial disease was found after death. Fatty degeneration of the heart, in one instance limited to the seat of rup- ture, was in aU cases the cause of the occurrence. In nearly aU, if not in all, the cases, the coronary arteries were diseased, and the circulation especially obstructed in that particular branch which led to the seat of ruptm-e. Markham draws attention to the probability of the finer cerebral arteries being diseased in such cases, and considers that the symptoms may in ]iart proceed from impairment of the actions of the brain, in consequence ot such A paper is published by GAiEnNER on pericarditis. He does not treat the subject in a systematic manner, but oflers liis experience on various points connected with the diagnosis, prognosis, and treat- ment of the disease. With regard to tlie first, he observcs- (i ) That though friction-sound is perhaps always present at some period in the com-se of pericarditis, yet it may be so fugitive aiicl trnnsitorv that we cannot at all reckon upon finding it. lue amount of effused fluid will not always account for the i.iconslaucyCIRCULATORY SYSTEM. 211 of friction; it may be moderate, yet friction be absent, and very copious, and yet friction exist. (2.) That the presence of friction- sound is not necessarily a proof of the existence"of pericarditis; a ■ loose, floating piece of organized fibrous tissue, or roughened sur- faces, may produce the sound. Both milk-patclies and very close adliesions Gairdner believes may occasion quasi-fi-iction-sound. (3.) That tlie distinction of exo- from endocardial murmurs is by no means always easy j the former may be confounded with mitral-valve murmiu-, or regm-gitant tricuspid, or arterial puLnonic murmui-, or with aneurismal. Sappey affirms that in cirrhosis of the Hver a collateral venous circulation is formed by the enlargement of small veins in the sus- pensory ligament, which communicate with veins in the anterior abdominal parietes, and form a channel tlirough wliich the blood passes downwards to the crural vein and so ou to the heart. By this means the occuiTcncc of ascites is obviated, TuENER publishes two cases of aneurism of the thoracic aorta producing obstruction of the thoracic duct. In neither was there any emaciation, collateral chamiels for the Ijonph having probably been developed. A case of aneurism of the hepatic artery is recorded by Wallmanx, of Yienna. Tlie tumour was as large as a small child^s head; it had obliterated the cystic duet, but not apparently the hepatic nor the common duct. Reid records a case of chlorosis, in which a murmur was heard at the apex of the heart as well as over the piUmonary artery. As the patient improved, the latter murmui- became much less distinct, and the one at the apex was not constant. Beau has recently tested tlie statement of M. Larcher as to the existence of hypertrophy of the left ventricle of the heart during pregnancy. Observations made upon a hundi-ed cases of women between the ages of twenty and thirty, dying during childbirth, have satisfied liiin that M. Larcher's views are entirely correct. _ Chauveau pubHshes the following researches respecting murmurs in the vessels and their semiotic significance. He satisfied himself first of all that, in the normal condition, no murmur is produced bv the circulating blood. He then shows by experiment—(I) That muxmurs stand in no direct connection with the quantity or qualitv of the mass 6f the blood. (II.) That unevennesses of the inn r surface, if they do not modify tlic form of the vascular canal, pro-21:2 liKl'OltT ON I'lJACTK^AI, MKDK INK. dace uo murmur. (HI.) That dilatations in the course of a vessel give rise to a murmur. (IV.) That contractions in the course of a vessel may also ])roduce a murmur, but not from the circumstance of the blood" passing from a wider channel into a narrower one, or through a narrowed space, but from its passing into the wider part just beyond the contraction. The resiilt is the same whetlier the above experiments are performed on veins or arteries. (V.) Abso- lute or relative dilatation alone does not suffice to produce a mur- nuu-; for this it is further requisite that there should be—(x) a considerable excess in the original diameter of the vessel above that of the constriction ; (2) a certain strength of the blood-current. An experiment with the carotid artery of a horse shows that, with a degree of contraction sufacient to produce a murmur, none will be heard if the heart's impulse, from any cause, is too weak, or, on the other hand, with a contraction inadequate to generate se a miu-mur, one may be produced if the heart's action is increased as by a dose of strychnine. (YI.) If the communication between the contraction and dilatation is proportionally too smaU, the murmur is thereby weakened in its intensity; this decreases with the volume of the blood-wave, and is considerable when the blood passes with a great wave into the wider part of the tube. Thus if an artificial aneurism is formed on the course of an artery, as by inserting an india-rubber ball provided with an in-and-out-leadmg tube, the murmur is far less distinct when the entrance into tlie dilatation is constricted. , p ^ j. KoLiSKO assigns various reasons for his behcf that the venous murmur proceeds from.the vibrations of the cervical fascia, which are excited by the changes in shape of the artery, and have the magnitude of their .individual excursions determinexl by traction from the thoracic cavity, and the degree of tension of the sheath of the vessels. . _ . » p ,, 1 < Kennedy contributes a pai)er on- the diagnosis of fatty hear, a summary of which is contained in the foUowing propositions, witli which the paper concludes, (i.) That fatty change in the heart is rarely attended with valvular disease. (2.) That, with oiu- presen knowledge, the proportion seems to be as six to one. (3.) mat when valvular disease exists witli fatty heart, it is commonly ihe aortic valves tliat arc affected, and these are thickened and Miy U ) That this state of the valves rarely allows of regurgitation. ( 5-) - atat itiT^ay give rise to a soft souffle with the first sound of tl.cClllCULATOllY SYSTEM. 213 heart, leiiviug tlic second healthy, as observed hy Dr. Stokes. (6.) Tliat there are grounds for supposing that this Mty state of the aortic valves may go on for years M-ithoiit affecting the diiration of Hfe. (7.) That visible pulsation of the arteries often attends this state, but as there is no regm-gitation, it so differs from the disease described by Dr. Corrigan. (8.) That enlargement occurs in more than half the cases of fatty heart. (9.) That in keeping with this, a large diffluent pulse is the most common kind to meet in fatty lieart. (10.) That either a very slow, unequal, or rapid pulse is only met ni exceptional cases. (11.) That the French way of exclusion is, iii the absence of vahadar disease, the chief ^vay of arriving at the diagnosis of fatty heart. (13.) That there is often a marked dispro- portion between tlie complaints of the patient of dyspucea and the physical efforts made to relieve it. (13.) That'tliis is possiblv most marked when the right heart is the farthest advanced in disease. Talley records a case of ulceration of the aorta near its origin, winch caused death suddenly by opening into the pericar- dium. The orifice T^•as as large as the end of the middle fino-er its edges wre indurated, and the lining membrane, for an inch'and a hal t,o the oi-igm of the vessel, of a dark-red colour, and coated with lymphy deposits. There was no aneurismal dilatation of the aorta, ilie patient was in the third stage of phthisis Da Costa has recently studied the blowing ^sound in the pulmonary artery, which was originally pointed out as a symptom occurring in tuberculous patients by Dr. Latham. After giving- he particulars of eight cases in which tliis physical sign occmTec{ proceeds to describe it as '^a mmunur attending the imprdse 0 he heart, almost always soft and low-pitched, although occasionally harsher, of higher pitch, and simulating a sibilant r-de. Its situ, tion IS 111 the second intercostal space on the left side, not an inch from the edge of the sternum. It may be audible higher up again opposite the third rib, or the sternum. The space i l li rf f very limited, and can be accurately circi^c beH , the stethoscope. It is not heard dm-ing a full inspiration • I f very distinctly after inspirarion, or with txpirati n T place of he hrs sound at the spot it is heard, but is fol W b a distinct second sound. When the patient is breathin-.- c uicklv and the heart s action excited, it is best disringuisher^ T u ^ always of equal distinctness, or of ecpial pitch; but i s not tr 1214 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MliDlClNK. sitory, as it may be observed extending over a long space of time. The sounds of the heart are not influenced by it. They are heard with the usual clearness at the apex, immediately above the ensi- form cartilage; at the third rib, or second intercostal space, on the right side; at midsternum; and even at the third costal carti- lage and edge of sternum, on the left side. In a paper on the formation of clots in the venous system during life, by Humphhy, after detail of some cases, and general facts observed, the author describes the process of formation of the clot as follows: " It appears that, as a general rule, the formation of the clot commences on the outside, that is, uear to the coats of the vein, where the current must be somewhat slower than in the axis of the tube; and the first stage in the process is the settling of a patch or layer of fibrine upon the inner surface of the vein. This is increased by the addition of successive layers upon the interior, whereby the channel for the blood is diminished. Soon the tube is completely obstructed; this result being commonly accelerated, more or less, by the clotting of the blood, in addition to the setthng of the fibrine. The two processes—fibrinous deposit and blood- clotting—which differ, probably, only in the circumstance that the greater rapidity of the latter causes the entanglement of the red globules with the fibrine, go on somewhat irregularly, whence the mottled appearance of the coagula; but as a general rule, the clots are fii-mer and more fibrinous near the exterior, softer and darker in the middle The exterior of the clot is usually smooth; sometimes having quite a polished appearance, except at the points where it has become adherent to the side of the vein. Tliese adhe- sions arc not usually very extensive; tlioy are most commonly found where the clot began to form, and vary in their firmness with the period of their duration." MooiiHEAD records a case of augina pectoris, with fatal result, m which the post-mortem showed a large heart, very fatty, weighing seventeen ounces, witli all its valves healthy, but the coronaiT arteries, for an inch and a half from their origin, converted into rigid tubes by calcareous deposit. Lungs healthy, but congested. Death probably occurred by way of syncope during an asthmatic attack. Symptoms of angina had existed fifteen years, and he had had two or three slight paralytic seizures. The patient was a male, Vn!LEBiiA>-D, of Helsingfors, finds the use of secale cornutum215 CIRCULATORY SYSTEM. advantiiguous in cases where local liyperfeiuia is depeudeiit upon a laxity of the wails of the blood-vessels. It has proved effectual in several cases of acute aud clu'onic inflammation of the eye, in indurations, tumefactions, aud catarrhal affections of tlie uterus, in enlarged spleen after iutermittents, when quinine had failed, and in exophthalmos with thyroid enlargement. Vakzetti has recently employed, witli great success, digital com- pression of the main artery of a limb in cases of severe inflam- mation. In a paper on pericarditis, Maukham insists on the circumstance that the inflammation and the changes it produces are not essentially the disease, but rather the prior state which gives rise to the local disorder. This consideration is of high importance in directing the treatment. With regard to the various effects produced by pericarditis on the heart itseK, he is of opinion that the organ ati'ophies or undergoes degeneration if its muscular tissue has been damaged by the inflammatory process ,• on the other hand, if the muscular tissue is sound, but the valves have been damaged by con- curring endocarditis, hypertrophy, with or without dilatation, may result. Fox records a case of well-marked but temporary cyanosis coming on in an infant of eleven days old, previously quite healthy, and disappearing subsequently in a gradual way, without any dvspncea or lowering of temperature, or any notable symptom except* rather considerable hsematnria. Fox discusses the causation at length, aud concludes that probably obstruction existed somewhere, and that Its seat was at some point beyond the ductus arteriosus. In the second part of his paper he states the grounds which lead him to believe that a murmiu- produced at the foramen ovale must be presystohc in point of time, and criticises Markliam's and Da Costa's observations. Crkgeen records a case of ruptm-c of the right auricle of the heart. The pericardimn was distended with coagidated blood, which had issued from a rent on the anterior aspect of the right auricle, sitiiated between the entrance of the inferior vena cava and the ri-ht auriculo-ventncular opening, about six lines in length. The wall of tlic right auricle was, if anytliing, a little thinner than usual, but the remainder of the heart, its valves included, was perfectly healthv. I here was no fatty degeneration (it is not stated that the microscopettlirOET ON I'UACTJCAL MKDlCINJf,. was used). Tlic man was aged 38, robiisi, in good lieallli, and Mas' sitting still in an easy chair at the time of his fatal seizure. Maiikham discusses the physical signs and general symptoms of pericarditis. Eeid records four cases of thoracic aneurism, with clinical remarks, especially relating to contraction of the pupil, and the modus operandi of belladonna in producing dilatation. The tliii-d case is one of that peculiar disorder of respiration, in which every few seconds the movements become greatly accelerated and laboured, and again in a few seconds decline to the normal rate. The pulse was accelerated remarkably from the latter half of the period of rcspii-atory distress to the end of the tb-st half of the same period. Orthopnoea existed. After tliree weeks'rest in the hospital, the respiratory distress almost entirely disappeared. Autopsies were obtained of the second and fourth cases; in the first and third they were refused. In some remarks on some points iu the diagnosis and treatment of heart disease, Barlow contrasts the differences of the pulse and other symptoms in aortic and mitral-valve disease. The latter far more than others gives rise to pulmonary and hepatic congestion, and to impeded biliary and urinary excretion. Stimulants are far more useful (especially senega) in aortic disease than in mitral, in which we must cliieiiy look to relieving the engorged portal circula- tion by catharsis, and the pulmonary by inducing expectoration. Barlow remarks that a dilated ventricle in an aneemic person wath lax arteries will present most, if not all, the symptoms of aortic-valve disease, and the same may be said of disease of the ascending aorta. Other forms of pulmonary obstruction may present all the symptoms of diseased mitral valve, murmur inclusive. A case of latent thoracic aneurism is described by Eobinson. The patient suffered from pains referred to the left side of the chest, and to a s])ot opposite the fourth or fifth dorsal ver- tebra. He had puri form expectoration and paroxysmal cough, of a very peculiar sound. After many months a low, deep-seated systolic murmur was detected, certainly not proceeding from the heart. Death occurred suddenly, but not from biu-stiug of the aneui'ism. GuBLER records two cases in which, after the proportion of white and red corpuscles had been observed during a cachectic malady toCrilCULATOUY SYSTKM. 217 rciujiiii normal for a long time, the number of the former suddenly increased to such an extent as to constitute well-marked " leucocy- Ihannia." The first case was a scrofulous male, tet. 21, who suf- fered from intermittent fever rebellious to quina. Pneumonia set in and proved fatal in thi'ee days ; on the fu'st day a great increase of white corpuscles was observed, which was still greater on the second. Wallmaxn, in 300 autopsies of persons of aU ages, and dying of the most various diseases, found the foramen ovale patent in 130; Klob, in 224 out of 500. MusHET publishes a brief review of the pathology of angina pectoris, with two cases (one fatal, with autopsy) from his own ex- perience. He considers angina pectoris to be a " neuralgic affection always connected with some heart disease, in wliich respect it differs from simple neui-algia, being an accidental complication of the latter," induced generally by the usual causes wliich excite neuralgia in other parts. He believes that it is not the peculiar pang (the neurosis) which causes death in fatal cases, but the coexistiu"- organic disease. The intercostal nerves he regards as those specially implicated. Baelow gives various cases illustrative of the aetiology of enlarge- ment of the heart; he enumerates the following causative conditions : (i.) Obstruction from changes in the orifices of the heart, or in the course of the circulation. (2.) Obstruction arising from changes in the quantity or physical properties of the blood. (3.) Deficiency of strength in' the parietes of the heart itself. lu several of the cases narrated, there was no apparent organic change that could account for the hypertrophy. He refers to Gairdiier's view, that cardiac hypertrophy may result from pulmonic adhesions preventing the due expansion of the lungs, and so necessitating an ex- pansion of the heart to occupy their place. From this he dissents. ^ Maukham, on the treatment of pericarditis, emphasises the neces- sity for distinguishing between rheumatic and non-rheumatic in- stances. The latter is a secondary affection, and is rarely of sucli intensity as to require special modification of the general treatment. The former generally becomes the prominent phenomenon, and the object of especial care. Venesection is to be employed with modera- tion and caution; it cannot stop the inflammation, or prevent218 HEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. exudation, but it may give temporary relief to tlie sufferings ot the patient, and relieve the congostioji of the lieart aud lungs. liOcal bleeding by leeches or cupping is much more safe, aud often of great service; yet iu feeble subjects even this mode may be in- jurious. Markham has seen it produce puerperal luemorrhage, or choreal symptoms, in each case followed by death. i\Iercury used to salivation Markham regards as altogether miscliievous aud useless, quoting an analysis of Taylor's cases by Bennett. A case of laperation of one of the coronary arteries of the heart is reported by Feigxeaux. The tendinous centre of the diaplu-agm was also torn. The author ascribes the occm-rence to violent efforts in vomiting, A case of rupture of the heart by Buys, and one of rupture of some of the cordse tendinese of the mitral valve, is given by Allix. A highly interesting case of acute inflammation of the thoracic duct is related by Wokms. The whole length of the vessel from the cisterna chyli to the subclavian vein contained an extraordinary quantity of pus; its walls were thickened, opaque, and adherent to the surrounding tissue. The inner surface was rough, like felt, denuded of its epithelium, aud presented numerous red, ecchymosed spots. Numerous sAvoUeu glands surrounded the cisterna chyH, the efferent lymphatics from which contained pus. There were j^uru- lent collections in the left kidney and spleen, but the author does not regard these as having set up the inflammation in the duct. The symptoms were those of fever, severe pain, enormous swelling of the left arm, and distension of the superficial veins. There were also intense jaundice, delirium, and finally death by coma. Whalley relates a case of severe piu'pui'a, the urine being loaded with blood, wliich was arrested in two days by calomel and galHc acid, ana gr. ij—iij, 4tis horis, with gr. j of quinine. Ptyalism was produced. The patient was in robust health before the attack, aud had not been without vegetables. Cockle observed 178 cases of cardiac valvular disease, being 90 males and 88 females ; 90 had mitral disease, 71 aortic, 17 both mitral aud aortic. In 58 rheumatic fever was the assigned cause^ viz., in 35 with mitral, 16 with aortic, and 7 with both mitral aud aortic disease. After citing the opinions of Skoda, Ludwig, Budge and Schiff, Weber and Browu-Sequard, as to the causes of the heart's rhythmic action and movement, and the mode iu which it isRESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 219 iufluencecl by the vagiis Jiud other nerves, he states his o^^■u opiuioiij relative to the fii'st souudj tliat it is produced by the reaction of the lower column of blood in the ventricles upon the upper layer of blood in the aui-icles (the valve intervening). He disputes Skoda's statemeutj that intensification of the pulmonary second sound is the pathognomonic sign of mitral regiu-gitation, and points out two other phenomena wliicli aid in diagnosing and even measure to some extent the degree of regui'gitation. One of these is the state of coUapse, and want of filling of the arteries. The other is the re- duphcation of the second sounds of the heart. The discussion of various other points does not admit of beiug abstracted. KESPIRATORY SYSTEM. Whitehead,—Treatment of Pertussis, Third Report of Clinical Hospital for Diseases of Cliildren. London, 1859. Bonafos-Lazermes,—Broncliitd Capillalre. Effets tlierapeutiques des vapeurs hydrosulfiireuses d'Amelie-les-Bains (Pyrenees orientales). [Capillary Bron- cliitis; therapeutical effects of the hydrosulphurous vapours of the baths at Amelia (Eastern Pyrenees).] Annuaire de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., 1859, p. 32, Holl.—On the Treatment of Whooping-Cough. Med. Times and Gaz., April 30th, 1859. Hyde Salter,—On the Varieties of Asthma. Edin. Med. Jour., May, 1859, P- 96.V Verhaeghe,—On the Comparative Rarity of Phthisis on the Sea-coast, lb., p. 1063. Trousseau,—De I'asthme et de son traitement. [On Asthma and its Treatment.] Annuaire de Med. et de Chir. pratiq., 1859, p. 102. Lupre.—De la phthisie pulraonaire cancereuse. [On Cancerous Pulmonary Phthisis 1 lb., 116. Internes de rHopital des Enfans,—Note sur le croup et la trache'otomie, ^ [Note on Croup and Tracheotomy.] Annuaire de The'rapeut., 1859, P- 116- Loiseau.—Tannin et Alum dans le traitement des angines couiinneuses. [Tanniu and Al urn in the Tre.itment of Membranous Angina.] lb., 1859, p. j 14 Trousseau.—Traitement topique du croup. [Topical Treatment of Cronp.] lb , P- 253. Mandl.—Fumigations en bronchite. [Fumigations in Bronchitis.] lb., p. 274. Corson.—On Management of the Shoulders in E.xaminations of the Chest, Med. Times and Gaz., May 14th, 1859. Bourgade,—On Jerking Respiration. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir, Rev,, April, . J859. p. S.l'. Griesinger,-Des injections de solute d'azotate d'argent dans les bronches. [On lujecuon of Nitrate of Silver Solution into the Bronchi.] Annuaire par Noirot, '859. P-83. ^2:10 lllil'Oirr ox PRACTICAL MEDKINK. TurnbuU.—Oil the Causes of Pulmonary Coiisumiiliou. Uiit. Med. Jour., .May 7th and 21st, 1859. Green.—Snr Ics lesions de I'epiglotte. [On Lesions of the E|)iglottis.] Anuuaire par NoLrot, 1859, P- '47- Oppolzer,—Sur les rdtrecissements du larynx. [On Contractions of the Larynx.] lb., p. 176. Green.—Sur I'antagonisme de la ficvre intermitteiite et de la plithisie pulnioiiairc. [On the Antagonism of Ague and Phthisis.] lb., p. 204. De la vaccination com me rcmede contre la coqueluche. [On Vaccinatiou as a Remedy in Pertussis.] lb., p. 207. Posner.—Glossoplegie et alalie gueiies par I'electricite. [Paralysis of the Tongue and Loss of Voice cured by Electricity.] lb., p. 208. ScMele,—Observation d'abces au larynx a, la suite d'une ficvre typhoidc. [Case of Abscess in the Laryn.v after Typhoid Fever.] lb., p. 214. Keyser.—observation de pleuresie du cote droit avec embolie de I'artere pulmo- iiaire droite. [Case of Pleurisy of the Right Side, with iibrinous concretion ia the Right Pulmonary Artery.] lb., p. 216. Bebenham.—Sur I'utilite des inhalations de vapeur d'eau chez les sujets qui viennent du subir la tracheotomie. [On the Utility of the Tracheotoraized inhaling Steam.] lb., p. 240. Lnzsinsky.—f u traitement du croup. [The Treatment of Croup.] lb., p. 331. Cotton,—Action of certain substances upon Phthisis.—Chloride of Sodium. Med. Times and Gaz., May 28th, 1859. Hyde Salter.—On some Points in the Treatment and Clinical History of Asthma. Edin. Med. Jour., June, 1859, P- ii°9- Bamberger.—BronchieUtasis sacciformis. [Saccular Dilatation of the Bronchi.] Sclimidt's Jahrb., 1859, V- Martini,—Ueber Tracheotomie. [On Tracheotomy. — Report.] lb,, pp. 73— 110. Gesenius,—Der Katheterismus des Larynx und sein Verhaltniss zur Tracheotomie, nach den neuern Veihandlungen besprochen. [Calheterisra of the Larynx, and its relation to Tracheotomy, according to recent inquiries.] lb., pp. 235— 244, Bnlley,—Surgical Reports and Observations.—Acute Laryngitis; Laryngotomy; Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., June i8lh, 1839. Russell.—Clinical Lecture on Asthenic Pneumonia. Brit. Med. Jour., July 2d, 1859. Peacock.—On the supposed Antagonism of Consumption and Ague. Brit, and For. Med.-Cbir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 202. WiUemin.—On the inhalation of Carbonic Acid in Granular Pharyngitis. lb , P- 245- Semeleder,—On the Practical Use of a Laryngeal Speculum in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Diseases of the Tongue. lb., p. 257. Hyde Salter.—On the yEtiology of Asthma. Brit. Med. Jour., July 9th, 1859. Keyser,—F'dl von Pleuritis und Embolie der Arteria pulinonalis. [Case of Pleurisy and Embolia of the Pulmonary Artery.] Schmidt's Juhrb., 1859, P- ^94' Hyde Salter,—Some of the principal Events in the Clinical History of Asthma. Brit. Med. Jour., July 16th, and Aug. i3tli and 27tli, 1859. Niemayer,—On the Treatment of Pneumonia. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 1859, p. 164.RESriRATOllY SYSTEM. 221 Coquerel.—DiplitheroHS Larvae developed in the Frontal Sinus and Nasal Fossai of Man. lb., p. 171. Missoux.—On the peculiar ElRcacy of Sulphate of Coi)per in exciting Vomiting in the Treatment of Croup. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 245- Moore.—Case of Pleuritis and Empyema terminating by Vicarious Secretion. Dublin llosp. Gaz., Aug. ist, 1859. Tudor.—The Treatment of CEdema Glottidishy Scarifications. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Conway Evans.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. ^yth 1859. Pollock.—On the Elements of Prognosis in Phthisis. lb., Sept. 17th, 1859. Skoda.—Die resorption Pleuritischen Exsiidate. [The Resorption of Pleuritic Effusion.] Sciimidt's Jahrb., 1859, "*'ol- i°.3> P- 185. Hyde Salter.—The Consequences of Asthma. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. 17th, 1859. Hyde Salter,—The Treatment of Asthma by Sedatives. lb., Oct. ist, 1859. Gairdner.—Clinical Notes.—Pleuritic Effusion; its cure by remedies and by Thoracentesis. Edin. Med. Journ., Oct., 1859, P- 3.^9- Flint.—Clinical Study of the Heart-sonnds in Health and Disease. American Journal of .Vied. Sciences, July, 1859, p. 292. Eobin.—On the Causes of the Independence of Bronchitis in Relation to Pneu- monia. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 22d, 1859. Daly—On the Use of the Preparations of Larch Bark in Pulmonary HKraorrhage lb., Nov. i2th, 1859. Budd.—On some of the Effects of Primary Cancerous Tumours within the Chest Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xlii, p. 215. GoodfeUow.-Two Cases of Empyema, illustrating the Advantage of makinic two Opemngs, and adopting the Plan of Drainage in the Operation of Paracentesis in that Disease. Followed by some Remarks on the Operation and on the Plan of Treatment by Drainage generally. Cotton.—On the Action of certain Substances upon Phthisis.-No II Iodide of Potassium. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 24th, 1859. Report on the Results of Tracheotomy. lb., Oct. ijth, 1859 - -Comments on Tracheotomy for Scalds of the Glottis.-Comments on Tracheotomy for Cronp.-Tabular Statement of Fifteen Cases of Tracheotomy -Comments on the Series of Tracheotomy for Foreign Bodies.-Commenls S.atemen o Tlnrteen Cases of Tracheotomy for Foreign Bodies in he W d pipe.-Tabular Statement of Thirty-seven Cases of Tracheotomv for lJZ^I Affections. lb., Oct. 29th, 1859. • "'^"'.^"geai Gull.-On the Destructive Changes in the Lung from Diseases in the Mediastinum invading or compressing the Pneumogastric Nerves and Pulmon^v P Z Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1859, vol. v, p. 307—3,5. ■ WiiiTEHEAD adduces evidence to prove liow mucli the duration of I'oopntg-cougl, can be diminished by treatment. Thirty-five c.ses not treated tdl the disease had lasted three montlK^ v-^i cm-ed on322 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. an average, in less than twenty-five days; and eighty-seven, whose treatment was commenced within fourteen days after the onset, were cured in the same time. Opium, usually as :Dov('1-'s powder, and belladonna were the pi-incipal remedies, the latter being given some- times in the form of a salt of atropia. Emetics and repeated small doses of calomel were associated with the other remedies occasion- ally with very good effect. , ■ , «. Boxafos-Lazeumes records a good example of bronchial atlec tion, with asthmatic paroxysms succeeding to an habitual perspira- tion of the feet, and resisting all treatment except that of thehydro- sulphui'ous baths at AmeUa. The mode of application was by vapour baths and inhalation of the vaponr. , , , . HoLL recommends the application of small blisters to the back ot the neck, encroaching a little on the scalp, as exceedingly efficacious in the treatment of pertussis. One or two blisters will generaUy ''"h^de Salter pubhshes a paper on the varieties of asthma. He starts from the assumption that the essential state m asthma is always constant, whatever may be the cause or comphea- tion The bronchial constriction is always there, whether there be bronchitis or a^one, whether the paroxysm be apparently canselcss or created by ipecacuanha, hoy emanations, or gastric i";tation or uterine tie gives the follo^dng table, winch we modi y a httle: (1.) I'diopathic, uncomplicated, or spasmodic asthma.-(a.) Intrinsic, .•; irritant applied to the lungs themselves-(i) As from fog smoke &c.; (2 from ipecacuanha; (3) from hay; (4) froma„imal emanations: 5 from certain airs; (6) toxha^nnc. (b ) Exeito- ZX o 'reL asthma-(i) Peptic astlnna; (.) asthma from oil nervous irritation; (3) asthma from periphera cerebro- 3 irritation, (c.) Central asthma (epileptic, emotional . Pen- r sthm without iny apparent exciting cause, forms a subdrvision of the above (II.) Symptomatic, complicated, or organic astl ma.- ofgan e use^^.^^^^ (asthma compheatingbronelntis humid lenile, fardiae astlima. (2.) Organic cause, nervous (Heberdeu. " wLhb shows, from the results of If experience at^ Os^^^^^^ romnared with that of others in inland towns, that Laennec s oSon as to the comparative rarity of phthisis on the sea-coast is o^nn on as to i ^^^^^ ^^^^^.^ amounted to 19 ;::'::nt. fr^m phthisis in the civil hospital at Ostend 4RESPIRATORY SISTEM. 223 were 6-6o per cent.; among seamen, 4-6 per cent. He lays stress on the two following conditions as most probably exerting a power- ful influence in the limitation of plithisisj viz., the constant and free use of marine animals for food, and the nature of tlie employ- ment of seamen and port labom-ers, which require them to be much in the open air and to exercise the chest-muscles, Tbousseau communicates the following observations on the treatment of astlima. T]ie cautious application of diluted Liq. Ammoniae ,to the tonsils is beneficial, but care must be taken to increase gradually the strength of the solution. In order to prevent the recurrence of the attacks, the patient is to take gradually increased doses of belladonna for the fu-st ten days of each montli at bedtime; during tlie second ten days he takes a spoonful of 01. Terebinth, daily, and during the remainder of the month he smokes each day an arsenical cigarette. This plan to be followed for two years, and besides for one year he takes every ten days, sumtiio mane, 5j of calisaya bark in a cup of sweetened coffee. Bvmi draws a distinction between what lie calls cancerous pul- monar)/ phthisis, where the cancerous growth forms disseminated nodules tlii-onghout the liuig, and another form where the cancer forms masses, either pusliing the lung before them or else invading and infiltrating its substance. A case is related of the fii-st patho"^ logical state in wliicli the right lung was excavated by several caverns in the two lower lobes, while whitisli, encysted tumours were scattered through its extent. The left lung was similarly affected, but the caverns were fewer and smaller. The tumours, he says, were clearly encephaloid. There was no pleural effusion. The symptoms were those of pneumonia and pleui-itic effusion (^go- phony), with hectic fever, general earthy paUor, and extreme ema- ciation. Death occurred in about four months from the com- mencement of the disease. Chuhchill records several cases of pertussis greatly relieved or arrested by the inhalation of a little chloroform. Some valuable remarks are made by the internes of the HGpital dos Enfans Malades respecting the kind of cases of croup and diph- theria m which tracheotomy should be performed, and where it flioiild be abstained from. LoiSEAU strongly recommends the application of tannin and either by insufflation or a sponge. The application is to be made12:21. liKroHT on I'Iiacticai. mi'-dicink. every quarter of an hour, or hour, antl the two substances are to be used alternately. No niedicine is given, but a generous diet and Corson strongly recommends the adoption of certain positions of the shoulders and the tension of certain thoracic muscles as an important aid in physical examination. He thinks that "these expedients for thlnninc.-, condensing, and tightening the fleshy walls of the chest, add fully one third to our power of detecting the earliest signs of consumption." A quotation from Trousseau's report on the treatment of croup (which is evidently purely diphtheritic, not our inflammatory disor- der) may be referred to with advantage. He shows the utter use- lessness of leeching, blisters and emetics, and that topical treatment is the only one that avails. Mandl recommends, in the forms of bronchitis which he denomi- nates seche (di-y), fumigations with the following mixture: acetic acid, 3iss; creosote, 5iss; water Oj. M. This is to be placed m a two-orificed glass balloon, to be heated, and the vapoui- to be inspired. . . , ,, BouuGADE directs attention to jerking respiration, as one ot the earliest physical signs of puLnonary tuberculosis. He gives the details of a post-mortem to show that it is not necessarily dependent on the presence of adhesions. ^ ^ -i Gkiesixgeu describes his experience of injecting nitrate of silver solution into the bronchi, after the manner of Horace Green. He trdy remarks that the operation is not without its difhculties, and that it requires a previous preparation of some days to aceustom the larynx to the introduction of the foreign body. Jur her, h sees no means of determining the passage of the tube into the right or left bronchus, but he believes it will usually enter the right, for anatomical reasons. , • i i f ,i,ir, Ulbich records two cases of asphyxia from the inhalation of chlo- roform, in which life was saved by artificial respu-ation. _ Horace Green describes the lesions of the epiglot is as consisting cither in erosions of the mucous membranes or -leerations^of^ and of its glands, or in CEdemaof its areolar tissue. Ihe erosions nd ulcerations are sometimes of tuberculous f--'^^^^.^^ lot Unchecked disease of the epiglottis may, he thinks, ouginate S:Sdera shortly the various causes of laryngeal con-225 hespieatory system. traction or impediment. Acute catarrh may cause tlie well-known "oedema circa glottidem" in the aryteno-epiglottic folds. The effused material is sometimes fibrinous, and produces abscess. In- llammation of the perichondrium is not very rare; it occurs chiefly in connection with typhoid fever, or pyaemia. Chronic catarrh may cause laryngeal contraction by inducing hypertrophy of the mucous tissues. So may diphtheritic exudation. Epithelial growths, fibrous polypi, lipomata, syphilitic disease, the Greek leprosy, tuberculous ulcerations, typhoid ulcers, variolous pustules (the cicatrices of), scurvy, spasm of the glottis, foreign bodies, external tumours, &c.,' may all have the above effect. ' Green relates the following fact relative to the antagonism be- tween phtliisis and ague. A marsh in Eutland (U.S.) having been converted into a pool, ague disappeared, but pulmonary phthisis became so rife that, at the request of the inhabitants, the marsh was restored, whereupon the fevers resumed their sway and phthisis ceased. In pertussis, vaccination has sometimes had a beneficial effect the vaccine pustule pursuing its regular course. Tannin in doses of about five grains daily, with saline infusion of senna, has been very successful. A case is recorded by Poskek in which a phthisical girl, of scrofu- lous habit, suffering under puhnonary phthisis and hysteria, together with a perfect paralysis of the tongue as to motion and sensation and complete aphonia, was cured of these latter symptoms by con' tinued Faradization. ' Case of pleiuisy of the right side, ^ ith emboli of the ri-ht pul monary artery, recorded by Keyser. The patient lived five days after the first symptoms of arterial obstruction. There was some tuberculosis of the lungs. Dense fibrinous clots existed in the right ventnclc, in the pidmonary artery, and especially in its riaht division, M-hich was completely obstructed by them. Tlie diffusion of watery vapoui- in the air is strongly recommended by Debi^-hah as a moans of warding-off bronchitis in patients who nave undergone tracheotomy. LuzsiNSKY, from his large experience at the Vienna Children's ofT! n'T '''r? as a disease depending on a particular crasis of the blood, "which determmes pseudo-membranous deposits these being only the local and simple expression of the general 1522G REPORT ON rEACnCAL MEDICINE. diathesis." To modify this crasis of the blood he relies on alkalies, the carbonate of potash or soda, the doses of which should be 5SS to ^ij in the day. To prevent the localization of the inflammation in the larynx, he does not advise leeches, but the cautious application of cold to the throat, the rest of the body being kept warm, and small spoonfuls of milk and cold water being given internally. If cold cannot be appUed, blisters should be placed over the sternum. He gives opiates to lull laryngeal spasm. To destroy the false mem- branes, or expel them, Luzsinsky employs a solution of Arg. Nitras, or, if this fail, emetic doses of sulphate of copper. During tliree years, among 15,000 cliildren, 30 cases of croup have occurred; and during three other years, 60 took place among 23,000. Of these 90 cases, 55 were boys, 35 girls. Among children one year old there were 11 cases; from one to two, 16 cases; from two to thi-ee, 16 cases; from three to foui*, 8 cases; from four to five, 9; from five to six, 15 ; from six to seven, 14 cases ; i occurred at the age of nine. Of the 90 cases, 75 recovered, 15 died. The earlier the treatment was commenced the more success was generally obtained. Cotton, experimenting with various substances at the Brompton Hospital on cases of phthisis, comes to the foUowing conclusions respecting chloride of sodium. In some cases it increases the appetite and acts as a general tonic, equivalent to the bitter drugs. In doses of one to two drachms, gradually administered, it does not ■ usually derange the digestive organs or occasion thu-st. It does not appear to be a substance deficient in the tuberculous crasis, or to have any direct effect upon phtMsis when fully developed. Hyde Salter has some remarks on the treatment of asthma by coffee and mental excitement. He thinks that both act in the same way, viz., by exalting the voluntary power, andpreventmg tlie dominance of excito-raotory action. In a long report on tracheotomy, :Maetixi quotes the fol- lowing observations, made by Neudorfer, respecting a condition inducing laryngo-stenosis. "There exists a pathological condition of the air-passages, consistmg in an infiltration and subsequent shrinking of the cartilages, entirely analogous to the shrinking of the cartilage of the eyelids in tracheotoma. This shrinking may re- main limited to the larynx, or extend also to the air-tubes, even as far as the most minute (that are provided with cartilages). SucliRespiratory system. 227 slu-inkiiig of the cartilages of the lai-ynx occm-s in stenosis certainly far more frequently than is usually supposed. The only sign by wliich this pathological state can be recognised when it is limited to the larynx, is the small size of the latter. If it extends to the air-tubes, it may be detected—(a) by'a deviation of the larynx to the right or left of the median line; (d) from the relative smallness or narrowness of the air-tubes; (c) from the spiral or axial twisting of the air tubes; (d) from the wrinkles and folds detectable by the finger on the inner (!) surface of the air-tubes, provided only that they are ascertained not to be the callous margins of ulcers; (e) from the oblique position of the anterior lamina of the canula, supposing trache- otomy to have been performed exactly in the middle of the crico- thjaoid ligament In the majority of cases sypliilis is probably the cause of the slmnking." A completely recorded case of acute laryngitis, in which life was in all probabihty saved by the early performance of laryngotomy, is communicated by Bulley. The tube was finally removed twelve days after the operation, and she was in a fair way of the most com- plete recovery six weeks later. Calomel, gr. ij, 6tis horis, was ad- ministered for two days after the operation till diarrhoea set in; at the same time the atmosphere of the room was kept humid and warm by means of the difl^usion of steam through it. Wine and stimu- lants were required after the calomel had been discontinued. In a clinical lecture on asthenic pneumonia, Russell observes, that the low forms of pneumonia, at any rate in towns, are far more common than those of a more sthenic character. Of tlie general signs, the respiration is the one which varies least, Ijcing much increased in frequency, except in instances of great prostration. The fever, pain in side, cough, and expectoration are very varymg. On the other hand, the physical signs arc very declaratory of the disease. The diagnosis fi-om pleuritic effusion may often be assisted by observing that the dullness follows a line sloping downwards and forwards along the side of the chest, supposing the inflammation to be limited to tlie lower lobe. Ihe disease may, however, afi'ect the upper lobe, or be deep seated at the outset. It is necessary to be on om- guard against he possibility of suddenly fatal syncope. Stimulants are frequently the most necessary and important remedies; blisters are also of much service, and sometimes a few leeches. Peacock examines the question, whether there exists any antago-228 llEPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. nism between phthisis pulmoiialis and ague. After noticing the observations of previous writers, he remarks that the question \\'oul(l appear to admit of ready solution, by comparing the mortality fron\ phthisis in different districts of a similar cha- racter, except that in some, aguish affections should be prevalent, and in others, that they should be absent or only rarely seen. He objects to a comparison of this kind made by Greenhow, that no account is taken in it " of the relative number of persons at different ages, nor of the influence of climate, though these are most im- portant considerations in estimating the relative prevalence of con- sumption in different localities." He then proceeds : "To effect a satisfactory comparison, the districts compared must not only con- trast as regards the prevalence of ague, but they must possess similar climates, and must correspond in the density of the popu- lation, the proportion of persons at the ages most prone to con- sumption, and in the social position and occupations of the inha- bitants. The population must be but little affected by immigration, and the mortality must not be modified by the existence of large public hospitals,' or institutions in which persons are received from other localities." Peacock beheves that he finds the requisite in- stances in certain districts situate near each other in the counties of Cambridgeshire, Northamptonshire, Huntingdonshire, and Bed- fordshire, and has constructed a table showing the annual pro- portion of deaths from ague and remittent fever combined, from ague only, from phthisis, fi-om other diseases of the respiratory organs, and from all causes, per 100,000 persons of botli sexes, and of each sex separately. The table also includes a statement of the population in 1851, the extent of. the districts, the proportion of persons to the square mile in each, and the relative proportion of persons between the ages of fifteen and forty-five inclusive. The general result afforded by these data is this: "While as a general rule a Cirgc prevalence of aguish affections coincided with a low rate of mortality from consumption, and a small prevalence of ague witli a high rate of mortahty from consumption, this rule is liable to such marked exceptions that we arc not warranted in inferring that the susceptibility to phthisis is in any great degree influenced by the causes which give rise to ague." WiLLEMiN states that diluted carbonic acid gas, employed m iuhalations, is especially efficacious in chronic inflammations, with atonv of the mucous membrane and exaggerated secretion, and inRESPIRATORY SYSTEM. 229 uervous affections of the respiratory passages, but that it is iiiju- nous m phthisis. Its primary action is to produce excitement, which is followed by a sedative effect. In addition to tliis general action, the gas possesses an anaisthetic power over wounds and parts denuded of epidermis. It is recommended in granular pharyn- gitis. Semeledee recommends the use of the laryngeal speculum employed by Garcia and Czermak for the examination of the fauces and lar^mx. Not only the entrance of the larynx and the epiglottis, but the chordae vocales, the inner surface of" the trachea, and^even its bifurcation (occasionally), may be recognised. Keyser relates how a man, set. 38, convalescent from plem-isy of the right side, after violent mental emotion was seized by corpse- bke paUor and icy coldness of the whole body, with cold sweat and difficult breathing. The action of the heart was stormy and irre- gular,its sounds normal. Death occurred on the fifth day,'in the way of asthema. At the autopsy the results of pleui-isy were found, and some smaU tuberculous deposits. The left ventricle was empty the right contamed two fibrinous coagula. In the puLnouary artery were several firm coagula, extending a long ;vay into the right branch, but only a little into the left. A continuous musical murmur, at fii-st of piping character, after- ^vards moi;e hke the ratthng of a wheel, stronger at each inspii-ation, especiaUy m qmck respiration, heard in the mid and lower part u the sternum, and also in the back, is connected by its observer Lk,ui.e, with the condition of the liver, which was g th ~ ^lEMAYEK lias the foUowing observations on the treatnienl of pneumonia After remarking upon its eminently cy S course, and its almost invariable termination spontaneousiri e overy when the patients are strong and the disLe of modL^^^^ sivc use of and can confident]/r rZend mv n f it"' the highly favorable results whi^h I hTe b"Ld t " lengthy series of observations. I cover tlfe ILsf o ' the affected side with napkins wrung out coS\ te^aii 1 t"' T renewal of the cold appHcations ev'ery five Snutlf in ^ n cases the patients feel greatly reliev d afte^ few^r th230 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. pain and dyspncxja are diminished, the pulse becomes less rapid, and the high temperature falls, often as much as a degree. The improvement is often surjn'ising, and generally is permanent through out the illness, so that the attendants, who may at first object to the somewhat troublesome mode of treatment, gladly persevere in its application. In very few cases does the use of cold cpithems fail in giving relief. The experience of the French surgeons at Cayenne has proved the possibility of diplitherous larvfe being developed in the nasal fossae and frontal sinuses of human beings. From one of the larvae a perfect insect has been obtained, to which the name Lucilia homini vorax has been given. The symptoms are itching in the nasal fossae, intense supra-orbital headache, oedema of the nose, extending to the face, abundant epistaxis, indications of intense inflammatory action, which may extend to the membranes of the brain and occasion death. In favorable cases a cm-e may be effected; but loss of substance, more or less extensive, and consequent deformity in the nose and its neighbourhood, may always be looked for." Injections of liquid which may destroy the larv^, as chlorine water, solution of corrosive sublimate, constitute the best treatment. Missoux considers sulphate of copper of peculiar efRcacy m the treatment of croup, not only on account of its emetic action winch is attended with less prostration than that of antimony, but because it possesses the property of so modifyhig the secreting sui-faces, that after the false membranes are detached they cease to be re-formed, "or if they are formed, they no longer possess the plasticity whicli renders them so adherent to adjoining parts." Tliis topical action may be observed in cutaneous diphtheria, and in that of the vulva and nose. To young children he administers one eighth of a gram iu a teaspoonful of water every ten minutes, until vomiting is pro- duced. To adults he gives half a grain in the same way. Out ot thirty diphtheritic cases, Missoux only lost two. . MooEE records a caseof pleuritis and empyema occui-ringm a female cliild tct. 8, in which the eflused fluid appeared to be removed by a v'ry profusi fetid expectoration. The left side of the chest gave on auscultation, a muco-crepitating rale down to the mannnar^ egion in front; and the mid-scapular belihnl; below these p^m nothing but indistinct tubular respiration could be hea d. Ther was bvd^Bg of the side and some displacement of the heart In Z course of recovery the muco-crepitatins r.Me pervaded the lower231 IIESPIRATORY SYSTEM. part of the luug, extending joan pa&m with the absorption of the fluid. It did not appear in this case that any fistulous communica- tion had been formed between the pleura and the bronchi. Tudor strongly recommends the practice of scarifying the epi- glottis in cases of oedema glottidis. Patients who were suffering the most urgent distress from dyspnoea and inability to swallow even iluid, in a few hours after the operation breathe with comfort and swallow beef tea well. A weU-cuiwed, sharp-pointed bistoury, with its edge either blunt or guarded, is to be introduced with the right hand, guided by the left forefinger, and carried to the base of the epiglottis, where three or fom- incisions are rapidly made thi-ough the mucous membrane. " The patient is then directed to clear out the tlu-oat with forcible expii-ations, and gargle with water as hot as he can bear." Belief is immediate. A repetition of the operation may be required. Evans, in a paper on ' Ti-acheotomy in Croup,' expresses his dissent from the opinion of those eminent authorities who dis- suade the operation. He grounds his own view on the following considerations: (i.) The liigh rate of mortality from croup, both M-ith and without treatment. (3.) The immediate cause of death in a large majority of the fatal cases of the disease, viz., asphyxia. (3.) The recorded cases of croup in which tracheotomy has been re- sorted to when the patient has been aU but suffocated, and in which complete recovery has foUowed the operation. (4.) The great success whicli has attended the performance of tracheotomy for crouiD in France. Skoda observes, that in many cases the resorption of pleimtic cllusions IS prevented by the cii-cumstance that the capillaries in the !<ub-pleural tissue are obUterated. He explains the beneficial effect of injected iodine, &c., by its producing inflammation, which is necessary to the development of new capillary vessels. Paracen- tesis thoracis, m cases of long-existing effusion, he thinlcs only ad^ missible when the dyspncea produced is so great as to tln'eaten suffocation He notices particularfy the impossibility of emptying the pleural cavity as long as the lung is bound down by thick, false inembranes, whicli also prevent the diapliragm from rising As to he efficacy of external applications, Skoda is very doubtful on theoretical grounds, but aUows that he has, in individual instances, obtamed stnking results with mercurial, iodine, and copper oint^232 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. incntSj withoui, however, being able to state the special indications that should determine the use of one rather than another. Pollock has a paper on the ' Elements of Prognosis in Phthisis.' He is inclined to consider the average duration of the disease as much greater than has been usually stated, exceeding the period of three years, which is about the medium assigned by liigh authorities. The disease always proceeds by a succession of attacks, even when most rapid. In chronic, diffused tubercle, the deposit often proceeds in the following order ; first, one apex; next, the op- posite ; third, the base of the side last attacked. " The most chronic is, however, often diagonal, as right apex, left base, left apex, right base, successively." A curious result of some thousand observations may be thus stated: " Wlien the observed and customary order of physical signs is reversed, or in any important respect anomalous, the chances of prolonged life are greater The more each case approaches to the ordinary type of the disease, the more rapidly fatal is it sure to be." The presence of the conditions antagonistic to tubercle, or rarely coexisting with it, indicates great prolonga- tion. This is especially true of the complication wiih emphysema. In 190 cases, hereditary predisposition was observed in 69, all these having lasted upwards of four years. An absence of hemo- ptysis Avas noted in 65, and of diarrhoea in 151. Moderate or great emaciation was present in 93, slight in 97. Hyde Salter re\dews the principal remedies we possess for the relief of asthma, enumerating tobacco, cliloroform, opium, Indian hemp, stramonium, lobelia, a?ther. Cldoroform he considers to arrest the astlimatic paroxysm move speedily and certainly than any other remedy. It is to be inhaled, but not to the extent of pro- ducing deep insensibility. It is not safe to allow patients to inhale it themselves. Slramou 'mm is sometimes marvellously efRcacious, but often disappoints the practitioner. This great inconstancy of effect he thinks may depend on the mode of preparing the drug. Tlie varieties Datura ferox and Balura tatula are more powerful than BaHra stramonium. He states, on Alexander's authority, that the seeds arc far more potent than the leaves; they are to be used in smoking cautiously, in small and gradually increasing quan- tities. Salter is in favour of the practice of smoking a pipe every night on going to bed, whether the asthma is threatemng or not. Lobelia has not proved of much benefit in Salter's hands, but he is233 RESPIKATORY SYSTEM. inclined to believe that it may be. very efficacious if given in the very large doses employed by some American physicians. It then produces sym^jtoms identical with those of tobacco-poisoning. It is tolerated very diiierently by different individuals. He approves of Elliotson's plan of giving small and gradually increased doses frequently. iEther has only acted well in a single case of Salter's, but in that it was like a charm. The use of opium he discoun- tenances in Mo. Of tobacco, employed as a sedative, he states that " asthmatics are very commonly smokers, and many of them find in the habit an almost unfailing antidote to their disease." But it is rather useful as a prophylactic than as a remedy for the spasm when present. Gairdneu, in his clinical notes, relates two cases of pleuritic effusion, in one of wliich thoracentesis was employed, both re- covering about equally well. He regards the operation as usually performed as merely a palliative measiu-e, to be employed for the sake of obtaining temporary immediate rehef in cases of great dis- tension. Only that portion of the fluid wliich distends and bulges the. cavity can be di-awn off by the simple trocar, though by means of an exhausting syringe, employed ])y Bowditch, evacuation cau be effected much more completely. Gairdner is incHned to expect good residts from the use of this instrument. In the 'Buffalo Medical Journal,' Plixt has given a cli- meal report on fifteen cases of pneumonia. Ten of them were complicated with delirium tremens. One proved fatal. Quiua, opium, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious diet, constituted the treatment. The first of these remedies was rather used as a preventive of iutermittent fever, which is a dangerous complication than as a remedy for the pneumonia. Opium, he tliinks, lessens the perturbatory effects in the economy of the local inflammation if indeed It does not diminish its intensity. AH the patients were aUowed to take food as nutritious in quality and as freely as they desired. Neither bloodletting, general or local, tartar emetic, mei-. cury, cathartics, or counter-irritants, were employed. The author makes some useful observations on the use of tliese means and remarks, in conclusion, that the natural history of a disease and its mtnnsic tendency to life or death, constitute the true point of departure for the study of its therapeutics. Robin, remarking on the independence of bronchitis in relation to pncumoma, dwells at some length on the modification of stn rue-234 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ture wliicli tlie mucous lining undergoes, and on the different soui'cc of the capillary plexus of the bronchi and air-cells, which lie thuiks are fidly adequate to account for the distinctness of the two diseases. O'Daly speaks very favorably from his experience of the use of tincture of laricis (larch-bark) in pulmonary haemorrhage and in epistaxis. It succeeded wlien other remedies failed. A case of syphilitic laryngeal disease, in which tracheotomy was successfully performed, recorded by "Whauton. In a paper 'On some of the Effects of Primary Cancerous Tumours within the Chest,' Budd draws special attention to the inflammatory changes which liad occurred, such as pleural tliickeu- ing, inflammatory disorganization of the pulmonary tissue and the formation of pockets of pus, adhesion of the pericardium, and abun- dant effusion of lymph on its outer sm-face. He attributes these changes to the destruction of the pulmonary nerves by the cancerous tumour, wliich in all the cases was situated at and involved the root of the right lung, and states that inflammation of the gall-bladder is probably also caused sometimes in the same way, by cancerous tumours in the portal notch of the liver. GooDFELLOW records two cases of empyema, illustrating the advantage of making two openings, and adopting the plan^ of " drainage," in the operation of paracentesis. The pus flows off as it is formed, and does not decompose. CorroN, after carefully observing the action of Potassii lodidum upon twenty-five phtliisical patients, found that it was productive of no noticeable efl'ect, except that it occasionally caused dyspepsia and some loss of weight. Gull records tlu-ee cases in which gangrenous pneumonia appears to have supervened in consequence of aneurismal, cancerous, or fibroid tumoui's having involved the root of the lung and tlie corre- sponding nervous plexus. In each case one lung was affected. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Brinton —Tlie Diseases of the Stomach, pp. 406. Churchill, 1S59. T eared —On the Treatment of Tapeworm. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 15th, iS^fJ. riemin'g.-Note on a new mode of treating Severe Dyspepsia and Chronic Inflam- mation of the Stomach. lb., Jan. 29th, 1859. wiiipT—On Diphlherite. lb., Jan. 29th, Feb. sth and 12th, 1859- HutchillS0n.-l3 " Ulcerative Stomatitis" a Diphtheritic Affection ? lb., March 19th, 1859.235 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. Kennedy,—On a Single Point in the Diagnosis of Tumours in the Stomach. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Jan. ist, 1859. Banks,—Clinical Reports of Medical Cases.—Ascites; Recovery after the Operation of Paracentesis had been repeatedly performed. lb., Feb. 1st, 1859. Behrend aud Leiben,—Employment of Sugar in the Diseases of Infants. lb., Feb. 15th, 1859. Oke.—The Stomach and its Ailments practically considered. Brit. Med, Jour., Feb. 19th and 26th, March 5th and 19th, 1859. Rattray.—Remarks on the more Prevalent and Important Diseases of China, especially Acute Dysentery. Edin. Med. Jour., Feb. 1859, p. 705. Brinton.—Croonian Lectures on Intestinal Obstruction. Lancet, April 30lh; May 7th, 14th, 2ist, and 28th ; June 4th, 1859. Mertivier.—On Bleeding from the Lingual Veins. Edin. Med. Jour,, May, 1859, p. 1062. Bercioux,—Belladonne contre evacuations involontaires chez les enfants. [Bella- donna in the Involuntary Evacuations of Children,] Annuaire de Thera- peutique, 1859, P- 20. Virchow,—On Acute Inflammation of the Parotid Gland, Brit, and For. Med.- Chir. Rev., April, 1859, p. 531, Lehmann,—Catarrhe del'estomac; vomissements ; emplol de I'amidon ; gu^rison. [Catarrh of the Stomach, with Vomiting, cured by the use of Starch.] Ann. par Noirot, 1859, P- 36. Luncan.-On Vomiting of Food. (Clinical Lecture.) Dublin Hosp. Gaz., May 15th, 1859. Wallman.—Sur la gastrite sous-muqueuse. [On Submucous Gastritis.] Annu- aire par Noirot, 1859, P- "86. Bokai.—Des Abces retropharyngiens chez les enfants. [Post-pharyngeal Abscesses in Cliildren.] lb., p. 327. Breithaupt.-Des deplacements de I'intestin commc cause de constipation cliro- mque a la suite des fiovres typhoides. [Displacements of the Intestine as the Cause of Chronic Constipation succeeding Typhoid Fevers.] lb., p. 349. Clemens.—Merycisme abdominal comme symptOme d'une fievre intermitteute larvee, [Abdominal Merycisra (regurgitation of-chyme) appearing as the symptom of a masked Ague.] lb., p. 355. Harley,—On inoculations with Diphtheritic Exudation. Lancet, Jan. ist, iS^o Corvisart,—On Duodenal Dyspepsia, lb., Feb. 26th, 1859, Steele,—On a Caseof Intus-snsception. lb., March 19th, 1859, Dufresne.—Durchbruch von Blut und Eiterherden der Leber nach dem Darin kanal. [Discharge of Collections of Blood and Pus in the Liver into the In testinal Canal.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. loi, p. 51. Habershon, Gnnther, Hillairet, Gendron, Bernard, Trousseau, Mever. Ha&er, Gunsburg:, Ancelon.-Ueber Dysphagie, ihre Formen'^'S Behandlung. [On Dysphagia, Us Forms and Treatment.] Schmidt's Jahrb , 1859, vol. lOI, pp. 176—184. ' Bamberger -Ueber die Perforation des wurmformigen Anhangs. [On Perfora- tion of the Vermiform Appendix.] lb., p, 184. miman.-SchwielenbiIdung auf der Zunge. [Fomation of Cicatrices upon the longue.J lb., p. 297. '■ Le Liberder nnd Fauvel.—Blutbrechen in FoIm von Varirp. ?m n?c., i „ , [H^matemesis from Varices in the (Esophagus.] Ih!!^ ^^' (Esophagus.REPORT ON PRACTICAL MKDICIXK. Gradenwitz. —Verengerung der Speiserblirc ueber der Kardia, und bedeuteiide Erweiteung oberlialb dcrselben. [Contracliou of the (Esophagus near the Cardiac Orifice, and considerable dilatation just above.—Case.] lb., p. 298. Betz.—Ueber Intus-susception. [On Intus-susccption.] lb., p. 318. Frommaim, Hennet, Cabaret, Theile und Aberle, Brug^oli, «"d Stl'eubel.—fall vom Intus-susception.—Abstossung des Cockalendcs dcs Dick- darms in Folge einin Intus-susception.—Invagination des Colon bei einem Kinde, reponirt nacli Le PcUeticr's Verfahren.—Falle von obstructio sterco- racea.—Ileus durch verwaclisung des Ileum mit der Harnblase bcdingt.—Fall von Achsendreliung am untern ende des Dunndarma mit Verschluss. [Case of Intus-susception.—Detachment of the Cajcura in consequence of an Intus-sus- ception.—Invagination of the Colon in a Child replaced by Le Pelletier's method.—Cases of Stercoraceous Obstruction.—Ileus produced by Adhesion of the Ileum with the Urinary Bladder.—Case in which the lower end of the Small Intestine was twisted on its axis and the canal closed.] lb., pp. 320— 325- Leared.—On Pepsin. Med. Times and Gaz., June i8th, 1859. Klob.—Schwielige Degeneration der Siibmucose des Magens. [Cicatricial Degene- ration of the Submucous Coat of the Stomach.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, p. 176. Oppolzen,—Aetiologie des Ascites. [.Etiology of Ascites.] lb., p. 233. Liljeborn.—Todtliches Blutbrechen in Folge von Geschwiiren im Duodenum. [Fatal Vomiting of Blood from Ulcers in the Duodenum.] lb., p. 296. Weisse.—On the use of Raw Meat in the Colliquative Diarrhcea of Children at the Breast. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, p. 253. Bean.—On Treatment of Acute Idiopathic Peritonitis by Quinine. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2d, 1859. Easton.—Case of Obstruction of the Bowels, continuing during five days and a balf, accompanied by profuse Stercoraceous Vomiting, and terminating favorably. Glasgow Med. Jour., April, 1859, P- 4'' Cox.—Death from Impaction of the Small Intestine with Lumbrici. Edin. Med. Jour., 1859, p. 168. Corrigan,—Clinical Observations on Pica, or Dirt-eating of Children. Dublin llosp. Gaz., Aug. ist, 1859. WallmaiUl.—Perforirende Geschwiire des Duodenum. [Perforating Duodenal Ulcers.] Schmidt's Jahrbuch., 1859 i°3' P- 27. Girdwood.—On Diarrhoea and Dysentery coetaneous with Conception. Lancet, Sept. 3d, 1859. Ranking.—Ulceration of the Duodenum, causing Death by Erosion of the Pyloric Artery. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 3d, 1859. Heslop.—Tlie Cerebro-spinal Symptomatology of Worms, especially Tapeworms. Dublin Med. Jour., May, p. 257 ; Aug., p. 133 ; 1859. Firth.—Soft Medullary Cancer of the CEsophagus, which ulcerated into the pericardial cavity, producing Pericarditis and Death. Lancet, Sept. 17th, 1859. Bergeron.—Ueber die stomatitis ulcerosa der Soldatcn. [On the Ulcerative Stomatitis of Soldiers.] Schmidt's Jahrbucher, 1859, vol. 103, p. 315. Batty.—Stricture of the CEsophagus. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 24ih, 1859. Sturgeb.—Report of a Case of Intestinal Obstruction. Lancet, Oct. ist, 185Q.DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 237 Thornhill.—Peculiarities regarding the Location of certain Organs of the Abdo- minal Viscera, in a Case of Dysentery complicated with Aneurism of the dorsal portion of the Aorta. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Oct. ist, 1859. Canton.—On a Case of Digestive Solution of the (Esophagus. Lancet, Oct. 8th, 1859. Bovero.—Ueber die organischen Verengerungeu des Mastdarms in Folge von Syphilis. Schmidt's Jalirb., 1859, vol. 104, p. 69. Wade.—Clinical Illustrations of the Diagnosis and Treatment of Ulcer of the Stomach. Brit. Med. Jour., Oct. 22d, 1859. Habershon.—Malposition of the Abdominal Viscera, in relation to the Causes and Diagnosis of Disease. Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1859, vol. v, p. 164. Wolff—Chronischer Katarrh der Darme. [Chronic Intestinal Catarrh.] Schmidt's Jabrb., 1859, i°4> P- ^7^- Steinberg.—A Case of Inflammation of the Vena Portae. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Nov. 15th, 1859. Habershon.—On Pain as a Sign of Disease of the Stomach. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 26th, 1859. Donaldson. —On the Diarrhoea and Dysentery of India and China. Edin. Med. Jour., Dec, 1859, p. 5^3- Clark.—Clinical Illustrations of Mucous Disease of the Colon, from notes of various cases. Lancet, Dec. 17th, 1859. Wells.—Alkalies or Acids in Stomach Disorders Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 24th, 1859. Beinton's work on diseases of the stomach consists of a series of lectures, preceded by a chapter on its anatomy and physiology. The first lecture treats of the s^Tuptoms of gastric disease gene- rally, particularising pain, eructation, regurgitation, vomiting, hemorrhage, and flatulence. Lecture 11 examines cia-cumstauces coimected with the examination of the stomach after death- gastritis, gastric catarrh, hfemorrhagic erosion, and follicular ulceration. Lecture iii treats of ulcer of the stomach. Lecture IV of cancer. Lecture v comprises cirrhotic inflammation, or plastic hmtis of the stomach, suppurative linitis, tumoui-s, hyijer- ti'ophy, atrophy, dilatation, secondary inflammation. Lecture vi treats of dyspepsia. AYith regard to vomiting, he propounds the general rule, "that the facility with which an irritation produces N omitmg vanes (other things being equal) with the closeness of .•illiance between the stomach and the irritated part.'' The pro duction of flatulence by secretion of gases from the mucous mem .ranc itself he entirely rejects. On the subject of gastric catarrh he observes, that a careful review of details "perhaps justifies us in •suspending our judgment as to the nature (or even the sul^stantive existence) of gastric catarrh, until larger and more exact infor mation ,s before us.- Hsemorrhagic erosion he thinks is often cbstrnguishable during life, and may be regarded as ulcerative gastritis. Yet he entertains doubts whether, in manv cases "which238 UEPOllT ON PllACTICAL MEDICINE. cau scarcely be distinguisliccl from it," the post-mortem appearances are not in a greater or less degree the result of change occurring shortly before or after death. In ulceration of the stomach, Brinton does not believe there is anything special or peculiar, such as to distinguish tlic process entirely from ulceration affecting other parts. It may conimence from a variety of morbid states, none of ^\'hich per se would have been sufficient to cause the destruction of tissue. The circumstances wliich interfere with the healing of the gastric ulcer are paralleled by those that interfere with the healing of one in external part. The treatment of the vomiting most frequent in any cases of gastric ulcer is best arranged by limiting the amount of ingesta, relieving flatulence, and neutralizing acidity. If the sto- macli is extremely irritable, it is better to afford it as complete and prolonged a repose as possible, forbearing the administration of drugs, wliich oftener fail than do good. A properly regulated diet the author considers aU-important; without its aid, drugs are powerless for good. In the commencement of the treatment, milk, given in small quantities and at frequent intervals, is most beneficial, and after some improvement has been obtained, ground rice may be mingled with it advantageously. As a njle, aU alcoholic stimulants should be forborne. Bismuth and ice internally, and blisters, &c., externally, for the pui-pose of relicAang pain, gallic acid, -n-ith dilute sulphuric, to arrest hfiemorrhage, and tonics to improve the strength, are the chief remedies wliich the author advises. Opium he also believes to be endued with the same ef&cacy in the cure of gastric ulcer that it has been known to possess in the case of ulcers of the limbs. The pathology of gastric cancer is very fully inquired into. The author finds that the maximum liabibty is between the ages of 60 and 70. " Up to the age of 30, the whole risk is less than one-fiftieth of what it reaches between 30 and 30. Tlie latter lia- bility, again, is multiplied in the following decades of years by 3, 6, 8 and 10, respectively. The maximum then seems to sink to little more than half for the two next decades, ending at the extreme age of 100. Comparing the risk of gastric cancer with that of gastric ulcer, it would seem that the former is, on an average, barely one fourth of the latter; and that though much more distinctly and exclusively a disease of old age, its climax or maximum of risk occurs at least twenty ycai-s earlier than that of the gastric ulcer." The greater liability of the male to gastric cancer is shoAvn by tlie division of 784 cases among 440 males and 344 females. AsDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 239 regards the situation of the cancerous growth, it was found to oc cupy the pylorus in 219 out of 360 cases. Leaked gives his experience and that of Adams relative to the treatment of tapeworm. He ranks kamala as equal in efficacy to spirits of tui-pentine and oil of male fern, and superior to kousso. Adams does not think it has any superiority over other acknow- ledged anthehnintics. The dose of kamala is (for adults) one di-achm or more of the powder, or two drachms of the tincture, to be taken every tlu-ee hours till six doses. If the griping or other effects are severe, or if the worm is all expelled before the above quantity is taken, the remedy may be omitted earlier. It is well to combine it with hyoscyamus. rLEMiXG recommends the administration of nitrate of silver in severe dyspepsia and clironic inflammation of the stomach, after a more efficient manner than has been yet employed. The local action IS what he looks to. He therefore either gives a dose, from half a grain to four grains in solution on an empty stomach at bed-time desu-ing the patient to roll about afterwards, or he injects it hy means of a flexible tube. He is weU satisfied of the thoroue'li efficiency of the proceeding. HiLLiER contributes a paper on diphtheria, giving an historical account of tlie disorder, or of such as seem to have resembled It closely, and reviewing the experience Avliich has been recenth- gamed m our own country respecting it. His conclusions are"- (i.j iJiat there has been in London and tliroughout England tor many months past, an epidemic of scarlatina and of scarlatinal angina, which has frequently taken a diphtheritic form. That there has been a great prevalence of many other varieties of andnn (2. That there has been in some parts of the country an epidemic" and m this part of London (St. Pancras) some isolated cases, of tru,' pnmary diphtherite, such as described by Brelonneau. (o ) That in some places the epidemics have coexisted. (4.) That some observers both of late and m ancient times, have confounded tlie two diseases ' HuTCim-soN records a case of severe "ulcerative stomatitis" (^0 caUed) which was cured by the local application only of strono- 0 anvLf 't'""- """"^ ^^^^-^^ °f ^'^^ ^bsenc^ ot anj notable ulceration, and considers, in conformity with Bre- onncau s view, that buccal diphtheria would be the most corrl t term to designate the disorder. Kenxedy makes some remarks on the diagnosis of aneurismal240 REPORT OX PRACTICAL MEDICINK. from other abdominal tumours, by means of observing tlie effect of ii deep inspiration upon the tumour. Banks records an interesting case of ascites apparently depending upon hepatic disease, in M'hich tapping was performed twenty times in the course of fifteen months. After the last tapping there has been no recurrence of dropsical accumulation, and now, at the expi- ration of seven months, she declares she was never in better health. Banks looks on the case as important, as showing that we ought not to despair in every case of ascites appearing to depend on ob- structive disease of the liver. No remedy was of any avail to arrest the peritoneal effusion. The strength was weU sustained by a generous diet. Two cases of severe and dangerous diaiThoca are quoted from the ' Presse Med. Beige,' which were cured by the admhiistration of half an ounce of white sugar every four- hours. No other food or medicine. A paper of interest by Dix, respectmg the diagnosis of renal and hepatic tumoui-s in the ' British Medical Journal,' January ist, 1859. Chlorine inhalation (Liq. Chlorin. in boiHng water) found verj- useful in a bad case of diphtheria, by Hodson. Some papers on the ailments of the stomach are contributed by Oke. He describes the following states : the neuralgic, the arid, the acid, the bilious, the inflated, the depraved, the spasmodic, the hsmor- rha"-ic, the inflamed, and the cancerous. Some remarks are made by Eattuay on the acute dysentery of China. In two autopsies, the large intestine was found to be tlie cMef «eat of the disease; the mucous membrane higldy inflamed, extensively ulcerated, and more or less gangrenous. The most com- mon cause of the disorder is a chill caught by sleeping in draughts, uncovered, or on deck in the open air. Brixton, in the 'Croonian Lectm-es,' considers the pathology, varieties, and treatment of intestinal obstruction. He demonstrates the inco;rectness of the opinion, that faecal vomiting is due to an antiperistaltic movement, and shows that the ordinary propulsiv action will, under circmnstances of obstmction, produce a central returning cmTent. The paralytic state of the bowel for some di.- Ince above the obstruction he refers partly to distension of the n u cuW layer, partly to inflammatory action. The pam winch Xers explri;nce is, lie thinks, of two kinds-one occasioned hstensiou of the vessels teUing upon their nervous plexuses win h .rcompanv them, the other produced by distension ol the intestine.241 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. The latter is the more characteristic of obstruction. He believes that ru2)tui-e of the thinned and softened intestine is not so frequent during life as the records of its occurrence seem to show, since such ruptm-e might very easily be produced by the intestinal gases deve- loped after death, or in post-mortem examinations. Lectm-e ii treats of the chief varieties of intestinal obstruction. Bleeding from the lingual veins is recommended by Mertivier in inflammations of the throat admitting of depletion. " As a direct local evacuant it is particularly useful in the cases of women, chil- dren, and lymphatic individuals, proving a perfect abortive even in many cases of angina maligna." Bercioux recommends the employment of belladonna in cases of ffecal incontinence in childi-en, attended or not with incontinence of urine. The remedy is taken internaUy, and in some instances also applied locally by means of a skein of thread introduced into the anus. St. Germain tea in habitual constipation, lauded by Hufeland and Tessier : Elder flowers Fennel seed Anise . Pot. Bitart. Senna leaves 27s grains. 75 II 75 >i ■ 360 The seima leaves are to be steeped for twenty-four hours in alco- Jiol, which IS to be allowed to evaporate spontaneously. Tlie whole IS to be made mto packets, containing each seventy-five grains, and the patient is to take a cup of infusion prepared with one of them every mormng. YiRCHOw finds, as the result of his examinations, that in secon- dary and metastatic parotitis, the gland-tissue is the essential seat of he morbid action. The acini appear as red grains, and gradually use down into smaH abscesses. Subsequent^ difixise pWegmonouI inflammation may take place. b^^wious JfnU^'t? ^ S""^''" "-ntability, in whicli all food taken was vomited together with frothy mucous fluid f 0 five minutes to two hours after swaUowing it. A vast varie v o means were fruitlessly employed, but finally, M^ieii th p n 'wa a^lop cd of resting the irritable viscus entirely by adminis eHn^pu t^^tloZ:^:^^^ ^^'^^'^^ g-tL'digestion,^L;rr commenced; and by perseverance, with cautious additions, at243 EEPOUT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. first of milk, afterwards of bread, the patient completely recovered, llic absence of emaciation in this case shows, however, that all the ingesta could not have been rejected. Tinctura lodinii has been found effectual in some obstinate vomit- ings, including that of pregnancy. In a clinical lecture upon vomiting, Duncan points out, a propos of a case, that vomiting is a very common accompaniment of inflam- mation of the lungs, both acute and chronic, and is best removed by the treatment appropriate to the pulmonary disease. Wallmann describes submucous gastritis as a purulent, diffuse infiltration, sometimes forming abscesses with cribriform openings in the superjacent mucous membrane. It extends to the perito- neum, or even to the iileiu-fe and pericardium. It is mostly observed as a secondary phenomenon in pyaemia, grave puerperal fevers, malignant variola, &c. Its occurrence is also favoured by certam epidemic influences. Its immediate cause is probably the formation of emboli in the vessels. BoKAi divides retro-pharyngeal abscesses into—(i) idiopathic; (2) such as result from suppuration of lymphatic glands; (3) those connected witli disease of the cervical vertebra?. The symptoms are, difficulty in swaUowing, stiffness of the neck, nasal voice, reversion of the head. Abscesses connected with bone run a slower course than the others. The prognosis is favorable usually in the first class if the pus is evacuated early. Bkeithaupt describes the occurrence of considerable displace- ments of the large intestine occurring consecutively to typhoid fever and attended with obstinate constipation and gaseous distension ot the gut. It does not appear that the distension was occasioned by tlie contracting cicatrices of ulcers. Clemens records the foUowing curious case. A male, a;t. 23 was freed from a tertian ague by an attack of diarrhffia and tenes mus, having previously sulTered from severe gastric derangement A year later he consulted Clemens for copious vomitmg of chylous matter, which was preceded by borborygmi, malaise, and cohck) pains, and was followed by a copious sweat. It occurred alternate davs, and was attended with constipation. One eighth of a gram 0 ar.seiiic witli potash, daily, eftected a cui-e in eight days. Haiiley related to the Pathological Society the results of expen ..icnts mad. on two young puppies, a sickly dog, a healthy dog, an a common snake. The object was to see whether inoculation MitDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 243 cliphtlieritic exudation wodd commimicate the disease. The mate- rial ;yas taken from the fauces of a woman, in University College Hospital, supposed to be laboui-ing under diphtheria. The fauces and pharjTix of each of the dogs were scarified, and the abraded surfaces of two well rubbed over with the solid membrane, while the otlier two were inocidated in a similar manner with the yellow mucus. All the inoculations remained without effect. CoRAasABT, havmg satisfied himself of the power of the pancreatic secretion to digest albuminoid materials, points out that there may occur a duodenal dyspepsia, caused by the vitiation, insuificiency, or absence of this fluid, the symptoms of which appear only from the second or third hour of digestion, attended by a deeper-seated pam than is felt in gastric dyspepsia. If the quantity of gastric jmce be excessive, if the pylorus be unclosed, if the bile is not secreted in sufiicient amount, the action of the pancreatic juice wiU be interfered with, inasmuch as the gastric juice wiU be unneu- trahzed. A caseof intus-susception is recorded by Steele, of Abergavenny riiere the prolapsed bowel was replaced by powerful upward injec' ion of warm water per anum, and subsequent cautious narcotism Lhe intus-susception could be felt by the finger in the rectum. The :ase was seen and treated early. Two cases are related by DurBES>^B, in which he considers that ilood, or blood and pm-ulent matter, were discharged from the liver 7 ruptui-e into the intestine. The fii-st case is not conclusive • in lie second, a painful sweUing of the Hver subsided after evaiua- lons, per anum, of blood and pus. A summary of a paper by Eambeiigee, on perforation of the ermiform appendix, contains much matter of detail, wliich is weH orth reference. We can only notice some points. In six out of 'u cases, the lower tliirdof the vermiform appendix was perforated • . tlie same number the perforation was a hole; in the four others le whole circmnference was destroyed. The attendant peritonitis as three times circumscribed, seven times general, but in the latter .se here were always large, encysted coUections in the right abdo- mal region. In two cases fistida, had formed in the intestines yond the immediate vicinity of the original disease; in six cases ^Zt'aZ f .^"T''''^ ""^t'^' ^""^^^'S-^^- ^t'^t- the most -quent cause of the disease to be the formation of concretions ^rymg in size from that of a cherry to that of a bean. SJll^;;:REPORT ON PKACTICAL MKDICIN'H. 214 liou and iiilosliiuil torpor do not appear to have any notable influ- ence. Eight cases occurred in the male, two only in the female sex. ■.I-hght of the patients were below the age of tliirty, two above. As to symptoms, in most cases the disease set in with sudden, violent pain in the right lateral region of the abdomen. Pever occurred early. Constipation was not constant, nor vomiting. Almost all the patients had manifest tumour when they came under inspection. At a later period diarrhoea often occurred, even under the use of opium, but it was by no means of favorable omen. In five cases there occiu-red, in the course of the second or third week, a deceptive improvement of some days' duration, quickly followed by a violent increase of the malady. As to duration, in seven cases, whose course could be clearly traced from beginning to end, the penod varied from twenty to fifty days, the mean being tlurty-one. Prognosis and treatment.—persons dying of other diseases, the traces of by-past inflammation have often been discovered m the shruDk-up remnants of the vermiform process. In these cases, however, it does not appear that actual perforation had occurred. It seems, however, probable that even after perforation a comp ete cure might take place, though Bamberger has not yet met with a positive instance of the kind. The treatment which Bam^berger approves of most is that of opium, joined with leeclung and poul- tices to the part. Purgatives, appropriate to cases of feecal accu- mulation free from peritonitis, must in those here considered be employed very cautiously. . ■\]uMm describes a case of cicatrix-like formations on the tongue They formed patches of intense-white colour, sharply defined in some places, incapable of being peeled off, and when removed by the knife, leaving the subjacent papdl^e swollen and red When portions were separated, they were soon reproduced. The patches consisted of layers of epithelial scales, with a te^ patches and fungi-filaments. There were no symptoms. Two interesting cases of vomiting of blood, in consequence o varicose veins in the oesophagus, are recorded by Le Diberdeu and Eauvel. In one case the liver was cirrhosed, and the kiduej. de-enerated; in the other, the organs appear to have been lieaitli except a double pneumonia. The dilated veins were pronnne upon the mucous surface, but no rupture could be detected as t source of the bleeding. i ,r • A case is recorded by GRADEJsWiTZ,_in wluch the oesophagus w245 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. notably contracted, and its walls greatly thickened, for some space above the cardia, wliile still higher up it was dilated. The stomach, liver, and intestines, were atrophied. The general nutrition had been well maintained during the whole period of forty-tln-ee years, diu-ing which the patient had suffered from a difficulty in swalloAV- iug. He was obliged to force onward the food which collected above the obstruction into the stomach, by stretching his body upwards. The accumulation then passed with a loud gm-gle. Betz, in a memoir on intus-susception, has the following observa- tions. He tliinks the peristaltic movements have not so much to do with the occurrence of invagination as has been supposed. He rather refers to sucli circumstances as the smaller diameter of one segment of intestine than that of the succeeding, the impulse of gas on ffecal masses, the weight of these masses, or of polypi, the liigher position of a portion of bowel than of the part succeeding, the pres- sure of the diaphragm and intestinal walls, as the causes which produce and increase intus-susceptions. An interesting and well-recorded case of intus-susception is com- muuicated by Frommann in which recovery ensued after tlie separa- tion and discharge of a vohailus consisting of at least tliirty-two inches of smaU intestiiie. Improvement commenced immediately after the administration of enemata, quickly repeated, the last of which was retained. One hour after there was a copious discharge of gas and of pultaceous, faecal matter. After the discharge of the volvulus an elongated, resisting, scarcely moveable, very sensitive swellmg, which had existed in the right lower abdominal region vanished. ' A case is recorded by Cabahet in which the colon was invagina- ted and prolapsed through the anus for a distance of twelve inches while at the same time a sound could be introduced a long way upwards between the margin of the anus and the prolapsed mucous membrane. After other attempts had failed. Cabaret succeeded by cmploynig the proceeding recommended by Le PeUetier. A case of ileus is recorded by Brugnoli, in which the obstruction seems to have been occasioned by a band of adlicsion formed between the bladder and the lower part of tlie ileum. The con traction of the bladder, by stretching tlie hitestine, brought its walls together, and so formed an obstacle to the onward passage of the contents. ^ A case is recorded by Steeubel in which the small intestine.246 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. about tlu-ee iuclies above the ctecuin, was so twisted upon its own axis as to obstruct the canal. Tlie large intestine was shrunk to the size of the little finger. The patient was a new-born child; death ensued forty hours after birth. Greenish matter, like meco- nium, had been vomited. Leaued, having found pepsin much less efficient than he had hoped from the favorable reports made of it, has examined its actual digestive power, and affirms that, instead of a fifteen-grain dose being adequate to digest a mutton chop, nineteen times that quan- tity would be requisite. The dose just mentioned can only be considered equivalent to five drachms of gastric juice. Klob records a case in which fibroid thickening of the sub- mucous tissue of the stomach was found after death. The mucous coat was thinned, sliiny, adherent to the subjacent layers; its glands had disappeared; it consisted chiefly of a dense connective tissue. The submucous coat was from two to three lines thick, tendinous, and milk-white, very de use and tough. The muscular coat was from three to four lines thick, stiff", traversed by whitish septa. The patient, a male, had suffered with bad digestion. Oppolzer enumerates the following conditions of the abdominal organs as causative of ascites, not taking into consideration hydrse- mia and the effect of cardiac and pidmonary disease: (i.) Chrome inflammations of the peritoneum, set up often by moveable tumours, as ovarian, &c. (a.) Thickening of the subserous peritoneal areolar tissue, in which the veins are compressed by the exudation between the layers of the mesentery, and the intestines drawn backwards towards the vertebral column, so that they cannot float up. Other results are icterus, from pressure on the ductus communis cole- dochus, obstinate constipation, from contraction of the rectum o^ shortening of the mesocolon, and wasting of the ovaries. (3.) Tuberculosis of the peritoneum. (4.) Cancer of peritoneum. (5.) Mechanical obstructions in the com-se of the portal vein. The? may be very various, e.g. masses of retro-peritoneal cancer, enlarg lymphatic glands in the hilus of the hvcr, clots conveyed into th trunk of the portal vein, or secondary inflammation, occasioned b them or propagated from the vicinity. (6.) Morbid states ofth liver itself, as granulating cu-rhosis, red atrophy, excessive dilatatio of the biliary ducts. WE1S5E, director of the Cldldren's Hospital at St. Petcrsbur maintahis, after the confirmative experience of twenty years, thDIGESTIVE SYSTEM. 247 raw, scraped beef, to tlie exclusion of all other medicatiou, is a true speciiic iu the destructive diarrlicea which affects weaned childi-en. Beau, having obtained marked success in the treatment of puer- peral peritonitis by means of full doses of quinine, has been . encouraged to apply the same medication to idiopathic peritonitis. He has obtained such results as convince him of the superiority of this proceeding to the former practice of bleeding and mercmializa- tion. The able reporter of Beau's practice relates his surprise at witnessing for the first time a genuine case of idiopathic peritonitis treated and cured by quinine, gr. x, 8vis horis, continued for about ten days, to the exclusion of all other medication except a blister to the most tender part of the abdomen, and an emetic at the outset, with a purgative enema. LiLJEBORN records a case of perforating ulcer iu the duodenum which caused repeated hsematemesis, at last proving fatal. An artery was found eroded by the ulcer, as well as the pancreatic duct. 'No symptoms were present during life except the heemorrhage. Easton records a case of obstruction of the bowels, wliich con- tmued five days and a half, and was accompanied by profuse sterco- raceous vomiting, prostration, and intense abdominal pain, but which terminated favorably by copious alvine evacuations, after which all unfavorable symptoms disappeared. The disease set in with severe pam in the abdomen, accompanied by nausea and vomiting, the patient having been previously in perfect health. The abdomen became hard and tense, but was never tympanitic. An opiate enema, sulphate of magnesia, two tobacco enemala, and twelve doses of calcined magnesia and nitric acid, constituted the treatment employed. A sraaU quantity of ftecal matter was passed after the hrst tobacco enema, the final clearing out took place some hours (probably about eight or ten) after the second. Easton ascribes he obsti-uction of the bowel to the occurrence of spasmodic con- traction of Its muscular coat, and on this view the tobacco was pre- scribed. _ A very remarkable case is recorded by Cox, U.S., in wliich an intelhgent girl, eet. 12, died in about three days, apparently from impaction of the small intestine with lumbrici. The symptoms were an unnatural coolness or coldness of aU parts of the surface uncovered by clothing, and of the extremities, without any subiec- tive feehng of cold, extreme thirst, a frequent, quick, and exceed- "'gly small, feeble, thread-lilce pidse. She had little appetite forREPOilT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, 218 food, wliich produced nausea or vomiting. After the administration of turpentine five lumbrici were vomited; after this the vomiting became continual. Although evidently sinking, she was buoyant and cheerful in spirits, and Avalked down one flight of stairs two days before her death. A tumour, of the size of an orange, extremely sensitive to pressure, was discovered the day before she died, but it vanished in a few hours. At the post-mortem the only morbid state of any consequence that was found was a mass of round worms, 365 in number, occupying the small intestines, except a few which were in the caecum. In some observations on pica, or dirt-eating of children, Coimi- GAN records tlu-ee cases, in two of Avhich it came out that the cliild was in the habit of swallowing gravel, and in tlie third, clay and twine. The symptoms often resemble those that usher in tuber- cular meningitis, hydrocephalus, or mesenteric disease. Case of perforating ulcer of the duodenum, recorded by "\A all- MA>-N. The subject was a soldier, who had long suffered from periodic gastric pain. One day he suddenly fell on the ground during a paroxysm; the symptoms for a short Avliile were incon- siderable, but soon fatal peritonitis declared itself. The stomach was healthy; there were two ulcers in the duodenum, one of which, on the posterior wall of the gut, had made a small per- foration. GiEDWooD records some cases illustrating the occurrence of diarrhcEa and dysentery coetaneously with conception. In one patient diarrhoea sef in, together with pregnancy, on eight succes- sive occasions. In a second intractable dysenteric diarrhoea set m, and continued until abortion occurred at the fourth month. In a third, severe dysentery and vomiting, M'ith burning in the tliroat and stomach, appeared soon after the cessation of the catamema. Bepeated leeching of the abdomen, over the tender caput cjeci, was employed, and the symptoms gradually subsided. Delivery took place at the full period. A case of ulceration of the duodenum, proving fatal by erosion of the pyloric artery, is recorded by Eanking. The symptoms were chiefly those of chronic functional dyspepsia, vith loss of flesh and strength, until ha;morrhage set in, and caused fatal prostration. The patient was a male, fct. 50. Heslop contributes a paper on the cerebro-spinal symptomatology of worms. After detailing in abstract fifty cases, he describes as249 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. follows the phenomena of a typical case of verminous disorder: "A man, with a jjale face^ but fair embonpoint^ presents himself, complaining of dull headache, not limited to any particular region of the cranium, but perhaps more marked in the frontal region than elsewhere. Tliis headache does not offer any marked exacerbations or remissions, but is almost constant, and sufficiently severe, Avith- out being excruciating, to render life, if not a burthen, at least uidiappy. Giddiness is so severe that he often staggers about like one intoxicated, and when tliis symptom is present to a less degree there is still almost continuously a sense of confusion and insecurity, A\hich renders Avalking a serious effort. The ears are affected with a constant buzzing and a great variety of noises, described some- times as being like that produced by the boiling of a teakettle, sometimes like the letting-off of steam from a boiler, not rarely like the rumbling of thunder. The acuteness of the sense of hearing is at the same time unimpau-ed. His vision is dull. Kne webs seem to be constantly before the eyes, so that every object wears a hazy aspect; at other times dark spots, or brilliant flashes, obstruct Aision. Case of medullary cancer of the oesophagus, which ulcerated into the pericardium, producing pericarditis and death, recorded by TiRTH. The patient was a female, eet. 36; her illness extended over seven months. On admission, she could only swallow tliin fluids, but after dilatation with oesophagus bougies, she was able to take finely minced solids. In spite of a liberal diet she did not iniprove; the use of the bougies had to be discontinued, on account of acute pain, and soon even swallowing became so distressing that beef-tea enemata were resorted to. At the post-mortem a massy, sliining, milky growth was found, of annular form, commencing opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, and terminating foiu and a half inches below. At about the middle, on the left side, a round, ulcerated opening led into the upper part of the pericai-dial cavity! Tiie stomach was healthy. Bergeron, from observation of an epidemic of stomatitis ulcerosa in the French army, describes the disease as a specific, contagious malady, characterised by ulcers of various form and extent, which may develop themselves on all points of the buccal mucous mem- brane, but pnncipally attack the gums and the inside of the cheeks and are constantly attended by an abundant flow of saliva, most otlensive breath, and more or less marked swelling of the sub-250 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE, maxillary glands. Direct experiment sliows the disease to be cou- lagioiis. The aggregation of soldiers the author assigns as the chief originating cause of the disease; moist heat is the most favor- able meteorological condition for its development. The affection is quite distinct from diphtheritis; its ulcerations, the character of the false membranes (limited to the ulcers), its non-extension beyond the buccal cavity, and the absence of toxic phenomena, are positive points of difference. The treatment is by Potass. Chloras. A case of stricture of the ojsophagus in a female, &t. 19, is recorded by Batty. The post-mortem showed an annular stricture, of cartilaginous hardness, just above the cardiac orifice of tlie stomach, with masses of soft, grumous, tubercular substance extending downwards behind the oesophagus from about the cricoid cartilage. A bougie was passed, which at first produced no remarkable effect, but in about two hours symptoms of collapse appeared, and emphy- sema soon followed, and became very extensive. Death ensued in four days. Sturges records a case of intestinal obstruction, terminating favorably, by the use of opium, on the seventh day of the attack. The patient was a female, set. 65. The obstruction appeared to be seated in the small intestines. Thounhill records a case of fatal dysentery, with a small aneu- rism of the abominal aorta, in which, on autopsy, the spleen and the stomach were found in tlie usual site of the liver, and vice versa. Canton records a case of digestive solution of the oesophagus, the stomach remaining in every respect healthy, and being full of soaked bread. Some small particles of food were found in the left pleura. Two openings were found in the oesophagus, nearly a quarter of an inch from the diaplu-agm, having thin, fringed margins. The mucous membrane corresponding to these openings was filmy and almost diffluent. The rest of the oesophagus was healthy. Miliary tubercles were scattered through the lungs, and enlarged, suppurating glands were found in the thorax. The trachen was lined by a very thin pellicle of Ijonph. Two hours after a meal the child, xt. 6 months, became insensible, and remained so till death, eight hours later. A paper on the organic contractions of the rectum, resulting from syphilis, by Boveho, is of some interest. He states the diagnosis from cancerous constriction, as determined by the age, the less amount of suppuration, the formation at first of plates and hard251 DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. knots attended with a iixed pricking pain. Antisyplulitic remedies are of course essential, as well as astringent injections and cau- terizations, while incisions and bougies are employed to produce dilatation. Wade gives some clinical illustrations of the diagnosis and treatment of ulcer of the stomach. After detailing the several symptoms which he considers to indicate the existence of this lesion, lie emphasises the injunction to be guided in forming a conclusion by the presence of all, or the majority, rather than by the promi- nence or severity of any one, even though that should be the im- portant one of haemorrhage. His treatment consists in a milk diet, the quantity taken at one time being restricted to the amount that does not cause pain, together with pills of Argent. Mtr., Opii, aa gr. i; Extractii Bellad., gi: ^; ter die. The patient must return very cautiously to ordinary diet. ^ Habershon records a case of lateral transposition of all the viscera, followed by some remarks on various abnormal positions that may be assumed by the several parts of the gastro-intestinal canal. A case of inflammation of the vena port« is recorded by Stein- berg, occui-ring in the Copenliagen hospital. The patient, a male, a3t. 33, was lU for twenty-seven days, with symptoms at fii-st closely resembhng those of the tyL^hus prevalent the year before, but sub- sequently leading to the diagnosis of pyeemia. At the autopsy the hver was found much enlarged, and aU the ramifications of the portal vein distended with pus. ■ Habershon has pubHshed a paper on pain as a sign of disease of the stomach, in which he advances the foUowing propositions (I.) Acute inflammation and disease of the stomach may be entirely free from pain if the mucous membrane only be affected Some cases of poisoning by corrosive hquids are cited, in which tliere was no pam, or not for some length of time. U.) Oro-anic disease of the mucous membrane, as cancer, may be comparatively free from pam. (3.) Disease extending to tlie muscular or peri- toneal coats produces generaUy severe pain. (4.) Over-distension ot the stomach produces severe pain. (5.) Disease of the perito neum causes severe pain. (6.) As Osborne states, the position of greatest ease may serve to show the seat of dceration as beino- proba ly opposite. (7.) In disease of the lesser curvatui; neav^ pyloric orihce, pam is sometimes experienced by the patient as soon252 RKPOllT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. as the food enters tlie stoiniicli, and in some cases conveys the idea of disease at the oesophageal oi'ilice. (8, 9.) In some peritoneal diseases of the stomach there is no pain, in others it is very severe. (11, 12, 13.) Pain may be absent in consequence of destruction of the pneumogastric nerves. (14.) Pain at the epigastrium, simu- lating disease of the stomach, often ai-ises from spinal disease. (15.) Severe pain at the epigastrium is frequently present in any state which leads to over-distension of the right cavities of the heart. (16.) In abdominal aneurism (aortic) pain of a most intense kind is sometimes observed. Donaldson, Madi-as Army, advocates powerfully the treat- ment of dysentery (Indian) by repeated doses of ipecacuanha, with general and local bleeding. He condemns the treatment by calomel as most injuiious. The paper contains many valuable remarks, Claek describes mucous disease of the colon as an affection of frequent occurrence. He divides it into three stages: in the fu-st, the characteristic discharge from the bowel consists of flakes or masses of more or less inspissated mucus; in the second, of tubular casts of the gut; in the third, of membranous shreds of lymph', mixed with blood and pus. The circulation in tliis disease is feeble, giving rise to local capillary congestions; the nervous centres are very excitable; the blood is tliin, deficient in fibrin, and red discs; the skin dry and acting imperfectly, and all the mucous surfaces excrete an excessive quantity of vitiated mucus. Wells contributes a paper entitled 'Acids or Alkalies iu Stomach Disorders ?' He states, that pain situated at the cardiac end of the stomach is best relieved by alkalies, while pain at tlie pyloric end, depending on derangement of the liver, is most amenable to acids. The bark of the fresh root of the Samhucus niffra, squeezed to yield a juice, is an excellent purgative in dropsy; it does not cause pain, and jss will produce twenty to thirty stools. If boiled, the juice becomes diuretic instead of purgative.SECRETORY SYSTEM. 253 SECRETORY SYSTEM. Davey.—Case of Complete Disorganization of both Supra-renal Capsules, -without discoloration of the skin. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan. 8th, 1859. Kinn.—Terminaison insolite d'une ascite par secretion sereuse des mammelles. [Unusual Termination of a Case of Ascites by a serous flow from the Breasts.] Annuaire par Noirot, 1859, P- 324- Jackson.—De I'oxyde de Zinc centre les sueurs profuses des phthisiques. [Oxide of Zinc in the profuse Sweats of Phthisis.] lb., p. 326. HeWSOn.—Some Facts in relation to the Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine in Children. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Jan. 1859, P- 260. Hammond.—On the Action of certain Vegetable Diuretics. Amer. Quar. Jour, of the .Med. Sciences, Jan., 1859, P- 275. Dickinson,—Two essentially distinct Conditions of Kidney, giving rise to what is called BrighL's Disease. Brit. Med. Jour., July 30th, 1859. Garnier.—On the Employment of Tannin in large Doses in Albuminous Anasarca. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 241. Scott—On the Influence of Mercurial Preparations upon the Secretion of Bile. Beale's Archives of Med., No. 3. Jackson.—Notes on the Management of Abscess of the Liver. Lancet. Aue. i ?lh 1859. ' 6 i , Herard.-Tkterus gravis. [Dangerous Jaundice.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 18so _ vol. 103, p. 27. Willshire.—Chronic Diuresis in a Man aged 40, who passed fifteen pints of Urine daily; employment of Belladonna, &c. Lancet, Sept. 3d, 1859. Alexander.—Cases of Suppression of Urine. Edin. Med. Jour., Sept., 1859. Goodwin.—Case of Haeraaturia; Cancer of Bladder and Kidneys; Tuberde in Lung. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 17th, 1859. Parkes.—On the Value of Albumiuuria as a Symptom of Kidney Diseas" Med Times and Gaz., Jan. ist, 1859. Basliam.-On particular forms of Renal Dropsy-Suppurative or Non-tubular *orm of M. Bnghtii. Lancet, April 9th, 1859. Hinds.-Paraplegia in relation to Renal Diseases. Brit. Med. Jour., April oth 1859. ' f y I Kennedy -Two Cases of Albuminous Urine treated by Mercury. Dublin Hosp Gaz., March 15th, 1859. Budd.-Hydatid Cyst of the Liver; Withdrawal of the Fluid bv Tapping ; Perma- nent Collapse of the Cyst. Brit. Med. Jour., April 2d, 18,9 ^^"'^"^''^ ^■•'■S'" (albuminuric chromque) J8S9 p " 6a ' °' '''""•^ ^""""'^^ Therapeut?qut' --Observation de diabete traumatique. [Case of Traumatic Diabetes! Annuaire par Noirot, 1859, P- 4? "umatic jjiauetes.] Hasse.—Catarrhe vesical: emnloi rlo I'on, 1 cured by the use of Cold Water.] lb p. 2 "j'^' t^'^^'"^REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINJJ. 251 Boettger.—Moyen sur et facile decouvrir la presence du sucre dans I'urine. [Certain and easy mode of discovering the presence of Sugar in tiie Urine.] lb., p. .315. Fournier.—Fiille von Wachsleber. [Cases of Waxy Liver.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. loi, p. SI. Pleischl iiiid Folwarczny.—Ueber akute Leber atrophic. [On Acute Atrophy of the Liver.] II)., p. 51. Kuhne.—Beitrilge zur Lehre vom Ikterus. [Contributions to the Knowledge of Icterus.] lb., p. 52. Rosenstein.—Zur Aetiologie der parenchymatciser Nephritis. [On the .(Etiology of Parenchymatous Nephritis.] lb., p. 186. Bertulus,—Zur Aetiologie und Diagnose der Hepatitis. [On the JItiology and Diagnosis of Hepatitis. lb., vol. 102, p. 176. Hiboli.—Pankrcatitis suppurativa. [Case of Suppuration of the Pancreas.] lb., p. 177. Behrend.—On the Employment of Extract of Belladonna in the Treatment of Irritable Bladder. Lancet, June 25th, 1859. Trousseau.—Ori the Diagnosis and Treatment of Hepatic Colic. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1859. Wuuderlich,—On General Enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands. Med. Times and Gaz., July 9th, 1859. Ward.—Clinical Illustrations of Diseases of the Ahdominal Viscera.—Jaundice. Lancet, July 9th and i6th, 1859. Pavy.—Case of Anaemia Lymphatica, a" new Disease characterised by enlargement of the Lymphatic Glands and Spleen. Lancet, Aug. 27th, 1859. Bouchardat.—Hygienic Treatment of Diabetes. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Oct. ist, 1859. Qj^ —Case of Brigbt's Disease, in whicli permanent recovery took place, the results being verified by dissection, the patient dying of obstruction of the bowels eight years after. Glasgow Med. Jour., October, 1859, p. 263. Rosenstein.—Ueber parenchymatose Nephritis. [On Parenchymatous Nephritis.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 104, p. 60. Traube.—Ueber den Zusammenhang von Herz- und Nlerenkrankheiten. [On the Connection between Cardiac and Renal Diseases.] lb., p. 62. Wilks.—Cases of Morbus Addisonii, Melanaemia, Anoemia Idiopathica, Leucocythe- mia Splenica and Lymphatica. Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1859, vol. v, p. 89—118. Ballot.—Epidemischer Ikterus. [Epidemic Jaundice.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. 104, p. 172. Sclinitzler.—Akute Leber atrophic mit giinstigem Ausgange. [Acute Atrophy of the Liver terminating favorably.] lb., p. 172. Thudiclium.—The Pathology and Treatment of Gall-Stones.- Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 19th, 1859. Henderson.—Moveable Kidney in connection with Spinal Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. i9lh, 1859. Lees.—Case of Great Enlargement of the Spleen, with Observations. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Nov. 13th, 1859. Oppolzer,—Morbus Brightii. [Brigbt's Disease.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1S59, vol. 104, p. 309. Burdel.—Clucosuria in Marsh Fevers. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 3d, 1859. Howitz.—A case of rapid and considerable Increase of the Volume of the Liver. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. ist, 1859.SECRETORY SYSTEM. 255 Johnson—Case of Encephaloid Cancer affecting a Testicle that had been retained within the Cavity of the Abdomen. Med.-Cliir. Trans., 1859, vol. xlii, p. 15. Johnson.—On the Forms and Stages of Bright's Disease of the Kidneys, with especial reference to Diagnosis and Prognosis. lb., p. 153. Martini.—Die extirpation der Milz am Menschen. [Extirpation of the Spleen in the Human Subject.—Report.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. loi, pp. 228— 236. Pavy.—On certain Points connected with Diabetes. Brit. Med. Jour., Dec ivth 1859. Fuller.—On certain Points connected with the Treatment of Renal Anasarca. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. loth, 1859. Harris.—Report of a Case of M. Brightii, with Amyloid Degeneration of the Mal- pighian Bodies. Lancet, Dec. 17th and 24th, 1859. Moissenet.—On Puncture of Hydatid Cysts of the Liver with the Capillarv Trocar. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 264. A case of complete disorganization of botli supra-renal capsules, \^ithout discoloration of the skin, is recorded by Davey. A remarkable case is recorded by Kinn, in wliich a copious ascitic accumiUation was removed in twenty-foui- hours by a serous flow from the nipples. This came on spontaneously. The ascites had succeeded a tj^ihoid fever, and paracentesis had been once performed. Jacksox finds oxide of zinc, in five- to seven-grain doses, very eftcient in profuse sweating, whether from phthisis, rheumatism or intermittent fever. ' Hewson relates tliat among 293 boys in the Philadelphia House of Refuge no less than 78 had nocturnal incontinence of m-ine' Ul these, 63 remamed continuously under observation, 20 hems whites, and 34 negroes; and as the total number of wliites and blacks was respectively aoj and 91, the affection was more than t«ice as prevalent among the blacks than the whites. Bromide of potassium was fii-st tried and cured 9. l^nct. Ferri Muriat. and cantharides w^ere both ineffectual. Belladonna, aided by aperient the cold douches, drv sum-)pr inrl t,^rv,o ^+1 j 'i^cijuius, the rest. P^'^^^'^t^ons, cured Hammond reports the result of some expermients made with reference to the influence of squills, juniper, digitalis, and okW cum, over the quantity of the urine, its specific gravity and th amount of its solid organic and inorganic colistituents. ThT Vo^ n performed upon healthy adult males. The following table si 0 the averages of each series of investigations.256 IIEPOIIT ON PRACTICAL iMEDICINli. Quantity of urine ui cub. c. Spcciflc Gravity. Total Sulids. Inorganic Solidi!. Organic Solidi. Normal standard . Digitalis .... I474'.S 1823-8 1024-30 1015-87 75-31 67-00 30- 17 31- 54 45-14 35-43 Normal standard . Juniper I237'S 1763"2 1022-50 1016-28 61-23 61-50 23-12 25-03 38-11 3642 Normal standard . Squill 1358-0 153.3-5 1023-51 1020-20 69-35 60-15 27-22 30-60 42-13 29-55 Normal standard . Colcliicum .... 1280-0 1556-8 1025-08 1023-58 63-12 77-28 29-83 35-23 .^3-29 42-04 Erom the foregoing iuvestigations lie deduces that neither digi- talisj juniper, nor squills, increase the total amount of solid matter eliminated by the kidneys, and that the organic matter is considera- bly reduced through their influence. Although they do increase the amount of inorganic matter removed through the urine, yet, as it is the organic matter which is generally considered as contaminatmg the blood in disease, it is evident they exert no effect whatever in depurating this fluid, bu{, on the contrary, are positively injurious. Colcliicum, on the other hand, acts in a materially different manner, eliminating an increased quantity of organic and inorganic matter. Dickinson maintains that "there are two essentially distinct conditions of kidney giving rise to what is called Bright's dis- ease, and these may be distinguished from each other by the presence or absence of external granulations." In one, the non- granular, the disease is essentially tubular, and is marked by altera- tions of the epithelium. In the other, the granular, the chsease is inter-tubular, and is marked by thickening and adhesion of tlie capsule, and the extension of fibrous processes from it into tlie kidney; it has two periods, one of enlargement, that wliich is com- monly seen; one of diminution, which is rare. Of 357 cases, 250 were granular, 107 smooth. Of the latter, the average age was twenty-eight years; of the former, fifty; "proving that the one disease is not a sequel or stage of the other." In 17 cases of granular disease the gouty or rheumatic diathesis existed; in i only of the smooth variety was there any trace of such having been present. Gaunieb, from his own experience, as well as that recorded by others, is led to recommend the administration of tannin, in doses of half a drachm to a drachm, daily, in cases of anasarca developnlSECRETORY SYSTEM. 257 passively in connexion with albuminm-ia. "Its curative action is manifested by abundant urine, gradually resuming its physiological characters, by perspiration, early alvine evacuations, return of appe- tite, &c." Its primary action seems to be on the fluids of the economy, " the albuminous principles of which it coagulates and renders plastic," wliile its secondary action on the solids appears to 1)e tonic and astringent. Scott records the results of experiments made on dogs whose gall-bladder was made to open externally by a fistulous orifice after the common duct had been tied. After the normal amount of bile secreted in twenty-four hours had been determined for two days, a large dose of calomel was given, and then the average amount' of bile secreted diu-ing the two succeeding days was ascertained. The result in all the foiu- experiments was the same, viz., that tliere was a diminution in the amount of fluid bile and bile-solids secreted after the administration of large doses of calomel. JacksOxV gives some useful experience respecting the manage- ment of abscesses of the Hver. He warns earnestly against con- tmumg a mercurial coui-se after suppuration has taken place. Heeaud relates two cases of rapidly fatal jaundice, death occur- rmg m one on the sixth and in the other on the eighth day. The autopsy m both showed local jaundice of the Hver in scattered spots • the hepatic cells were normal. There was bloody extravasation mto the cavity, and m the mucous membrane of the stomach and intestines. No other important alteration, except considerable pul- monary congestion. The disease set in, during oppressive, hot weather, Mith headache, vomiting (subsequently bloody), and dee,) depression. Jaundice occurred on the third day. The liver was not enlarged. The cerebral functions were unimpaired A case of clu-onic diuresis, in which the absence of sugar was positively determuied, is recorded by Willshiee. The urine amounted to fifteen pints in the twenty-fovu: houi-s, very pale, sp gr. 1002 quite clear. There was great tliirst, bad appetite, dJv skin. Under treatment by quinine, Tinct. Ferri Miuiat., anil opium, the unne was reduced to six and a half pints daily. Two cases of Addison^s disease are reported in the same number Alexander records five cases of suppression of urine of whicli wo proved fatal. Tlie last was specially remarkable, f r f^ ' weeks not one ounce of water was passed by the patient, a o 10. It did not appear that any deception was practised. No 17258 REPORT ON rRACTICAL MI'DICTNK. nvinary smell was observable either in the ffcoes or perspiration, which was little, if at all, increased. Tlic secretion graduallv returned sponte sua. Byerley recommends one of our indigenous plants, the Brodiuni cicutamm, or Stork's-bill, common in sandy situations, as an effi- cient diuretic. Goodwin records the case of a male, set. 60, who died under his care with cancerous formation in the liver, kidneys, and bladder, and ^^dth suppurating tubercular deposit and small cavities in the left lung. " The urine contamed pus-globules, red and white cor- puscles of blood in large quantities, squamous epithelium, with large, granidar nuclei and nucleoli, large, round epithelium, contam- ing many resplendent granules, probably from the fundus of the bladder, and caudate and round cells, Avith resplendent granules." The disease seems to have run its course in about three months. The value of albuminuria as a symptom of kidney disease.— the result of his hospital experience, Pahkes concludes that the existence of permanent albuminuria indicated kidney disease m tlmty-two out of tliirty-six cases ; and if heart disease be excluded, it indicated kidney disease invariably. Temporary albuminuria was observed in six out of ten cases of acute pneumoma, m aU of thi-ee cases of acute morbus Brightii, in four out of nineteen cases of acute rheumatism, in one out of eight cases of subacute, m five out ot nineteen cases of typhoid fever. In a clinical lectiu-e on a case of renal dropsy, attended witli a copious, purulent deposit, not containing any tube-casts Basham concludes witb the following remarks: "We may, therefore con- sider that when the spnptoms of renal dropsy are associated with a purulent, non-tubular sediment in the urine, in proportion to he amount of that purulent sediment will be the probabihty that the interstitial structm-es of the kidney are the source of the pus; anrt that as this condition is consequent upon the destruction 0 tlie renal parenchyma, the prognosis must necessarily be unfavorable^ In a paper on paraplegia in relation to renal disease. Hinds advances the opinion that the paralysis is produced by the extension of the renal disease to the lumbar plexus. Kennedy publishes two cases of albumhiuria treated by mercury, ,vith some interesting remarks. He lays stress on the fact that un tional is frequently united to organic disease of the kidney, and Hes that he has known instances in which albumen was presentSECRETORY SYSTEM. 259 ill the urine for mouths, aud subsequently entirely disappeared, the patient remaining in excellent health. Lo\G has found Tinct. Aconiti effectual in preventing the febrile attacks produced by catheterism. A French author recommends as the result of his experience in Bright's disease—(i.) A generous diet, including wine. (2.) Exer- cise daily in the open air. (3.) General sponging Avith cold water containing one tenth to one foiu-th of muriatic acid. (4,) Protio- dide of iron for fifteen days every month, in the intervals arsenious acid. (5.) Cod-liver oil, if the nutritive power is failing. (6.) Salines of nitrate and clilorate of potash, with tartaric acid in case of tliirst; if there be no thirst, gallic acid. A case of diabetes is recorded, which supervened in a boy, sixteen years old, after a blow on tlie occiput. Gradual recovery took place under an animal diet, with medication by Bicarb. Sodte (seven and a half drachms daily). EosER publishes several cases to prove the highly beneficial eff'ect of Potass. lodid. in the dropsy attendant on morbus Brightii. The usual dose is half a drachm to a drachm in the twenty-fom- hom's. In some cases the urine ceased to be albuminous. BoETTGER proposes, as an improved test for sugar in the urine, to boil the lu-ine, to which an equal volume of strong carbonate of soda solution has been added, with a small quantity of tris-uitrate of bis- muth. If sugar is present, the bismuth becomes darkened. In a clinical lecture on a fatal case of scarlatinal dropsy, Basham insists on the identity of this disease with acute morbus Brio-htii He points out that the characters of urinary sediment are siiSilar* as well as the condition of the kidneys ascertained by post-mortein examination. Eive cases of waxy Kver observed by Pouunieii occurred in sub jects all of whom had abscesses connected with diseased bone IVo of the patients were scrofulous. In several there existed also Avaxy degeneration of the kidneys and albuminuria, or fibrous indu culo'lis''^' '''''' """^^^P^^uiouary tuber- _ Pleischl records three cases of acute atrophy of the liver occur ring in Oppolzer's clinic. In one the ductus communis clioledochus «-as blocked up by a gall-stone, the dnct distended, the hepatic cells extensively destroyed, leaving much fat and molecular detritus Ihe cardiac muscular fibres and the renal tubules showed futty200 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. (logeneratiou. In two other cases death was preceded by gastric disorder, vomiting of blood, and cerebral symptoms. KtiiiNE has studied carefully the pathology of icterus. He does not adopt the view of Prerichs amd Stadeler, that the biliary acids are changed in the blood into bile-pigment, but shows that blood- pigment is changed into bile-pigment under tlie influence of tlie biliary acids. By adopting the method of Hoppe, he was able to determine constantly the presence of the biliary acids in the urine of persons suffering under icterus, as well as in that of dogs whose biliary ducts had been tied. When dog's bile, or solution of the biliary acids was injected into a vein, bile-pigment and the salts were detected in the urine. Even in large quantities of healthy urine no biliary acids could be found. EosENSTEiN has studied the cetiology of parench}anatous nephritis in 162 individuals, of whom 85 were male, 77 female. The ma- jority of cases occurred between the twentieth and fiftieth years of life, viz., 100 out of the whole number. The most frequent cause of the disease was found to be intermittent fever—\i was noted m 23 per cent. In some of the cases dropsy set in as soon as the febrile paroxysms ceased, and preceded the occurrence of albumi- nuria. This di-opsy and the foi-mation of splenic tiunour, by increasing the watery constituent of the blood, gave a further im- pulse to the renal disease. • • .1 x Bektulus states, as the result of Ids experience of hepatitis, that it is principaUy induced by malaria and alcohoUc or other irritating ingesta. Persons who live temperately are much less liable to tlie disease than those who cannot forbear stimulants. Alkaline waters, as those of Vichy, he thinks, are the best remedial means. A case is recorded by Eiboli, in which the pancreas was found, after death, destroyed by suppuration. The patient was a female ^t a, who had sufl-ered with symptoms of the disease more than tweiSv years. These consisted in continuous fever, with evemng exacerbation, vomiting of saHvary fluid, deep-seated pain sublet eric tineeing of the skin, stools wliitish, non-offensive, sabva-like, some- times mucous, in salivation, lieartbiu-n, bui-ning tliirst, and emacia- Behrend records a severe case of irritable bladder, in which, after the failure of other remedies, extract of beUadonna adnnm ■ tered in increasing doses tUl the specific symptoms were fully de.e- loped, procured an almost complete and a permanent cure.SECRETORY SYSTEM. 261 The Mowing is au abstract of the chief peciUiunties observed in two cases of general enlargement of the IjTiaphatic glands, occurring m the practice of Wdxderlich. In the first case, a male, the lungs contained tubercles; in the second, a female, they did not. "Tlie most remarkable cii-cumstance in both of the cases was the enormous enlargement of such great numbers of lymphatic glands. To such an extent had they increased, that they not only disfigured the form of the body, but fi-om want of space to develop in, became themselves squeezed and flattened into various shapes. The change which the glands had undergone was in nowise of a carcinomatous or of a tuberculous nature, but consisted in an enormous hyper- trophy produced with great rapidity, a portion of the nutritive material bemg deposited in an amorphous condition in the hyper- trophied gland. The increase of the peculiar glandular parenchyma was less m the second than in the first case, there being in the former a good deal of coagulated fibrine, and infiltration of incom- pletely orgamzed matter. The change observed in the spleen is, as tar as the author is aware, peculiar, and liitherto undescribed. To he unaided eye, it most resembled innumerable points of suppm-a- tiou, save that it was nowhere soft and fluidiform, but, on the con- trary, very firm, and ahnost of cartilaginous hardness. Exactly the same change, but in far less numerous spots, was observed in the livei-^ The resemblance of this infiltration with the condition of the swoUen lymphatic glands leads to the inference of both being due to a common constitutional affection, and it might be indicated as sp een or hver scrofula. The causes of the affection were discover- able m neither case. The glandular swellings were not secondary to a periphenc affection. They might be regarded, in fact, as the expression of a constitutional disease. The general condition was one of extreme an^; leuc^mia was suspected, but repeated microscopic examination of the blood set this view aside " ^^Anv records a number of cases of jaundice arising from -dif- ferent functiona and structui-al derangements of the liver, which W^\f W by any one studying the subjec LK. has applied the term anc^mia hjmphatica to a morbid named. ihe essential features of the disease are the most extreme pallor or anaemia, enlargement of one or more of the various Soum onymphafc glands, either internal or external to tliTb d ' "7 peculiar morbid condition, with occasional enlargem nt^^c^ h263 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. spleen; the lust depencliiig upon the deposition of an opaque, white, lardaceous material, in isolated masses, or diffused throughout the substance of the organ, and resembling bacon-rind." There is no excess of white corpuscles in this disease, but a deficiency of the red. The structure of the enlarged gland is tibro-nucleated. The disease may occur at all periods of life, may extend over a period of two or more years, and proves fatal by slow prostration. Wilks has given an account of the affection in 'Guy's Hospital lleports/ vol. ii, series 3. In some remarks on the hygienic treatment of diabetes, Bou- CHAUDAT states that the replacing of the feculent food by alcoholic drinks is as important as the abstinence from feculent foods. He prefers the red Burgundy and Bordeaux wines, but all red wines which are more astringent than sweet do equally well. In the twenty-four hours he gives a litre (one pint and three quarters) or more. Bordeaux wine allays the thirst of the diabetic better than any other liquid. Case of tuberiform cancer of liver, combined with a large aneu- rism of abdominal aorta. iVicIe ' Glasgow Med. Jom-n.', Oct. 1859.) In a paper on parenchymatous nephritis, Eosexsteix gives the results of his observations on the lu-ine. The average amount of urea was 7-26 grammes per day, contrasting with that of healthy individuals, 35-16 grammes. The amount of chloride of sodium fell very rapidly, on the coming-on of fever, fi-om 17-2 grammes to 1-25 gramme ; and towards the end of the disease its maximum amounted to 15-3 grammes, its minimum to 076 gi-amme. The quantity of albumen varied between 18-9 and 0-50 • grammes per day; it was sometimes absent, even during dropsy, for weeks, once for months. About the middle of the course of the clu-onic cases decrease of the amount of cliloride of sodium corresponded to increase of the albu- The amount of urea showed no constant ratio to that of the men. albumen and chloride of sodii;m, and certainly no inverse ratio to the former. Traube states, that in sixty-one cases of insufficiency of the car- diac valves, and similarly operating affections of the circulating and respiratory organs, renal disease leading to granular atrophy occur- red only once. After noticing Bamberger's contrary opnnon, he concludes that the renal disease, consecutive on valvular msuft- ciencv, is a disease sui generis, which only arises when the disturb- ances of the circulation find no equalisation, or cannot retain it. luSECRETORY SYSTEM. 263 liearfc disease ursemic poisoning does not occm^ and the results of uiicroscopic examination of the kidneys (post-mortem) is qnite dis- tinctive. The characters of the mine, also, are different in the secondary renal affection, and in the primary diffuse nephritis and amyloid degeneration before shrinking lias taken place. Thudichum mentions, in a paper on the pathology and treatment of gall-stones, that he had discovered in the pulpy central part of one a number of cylindrical, tliread-like fibres, many of which were branched or divided dichotomously. These appear from the figures to have been covered over with crystals of cholesterine, and the author states his opinion that they were casts of the biliary ducts. He considers the etiology of biliary calculi, and offers various specu- lations as to the possible or probable circumstances wliich may pro- duce them. "With respect to treatment, after noticing the usual means employed, he suggests the feasibility and desirableness of estabHsliing, in appropriate cases, a biliary fistula, and introducing an instrument to crush the calculi, and so get rid of them. BuRDEL affirms the existence of a true, though temporary, dia- betes in marsh-fevers. It coexists with the fever, and disappears along with it. The more violent the paroxysm, and the more in- tense the shivering, the greater is the amount of sugar-. When the paroxysms are shghter, and the cachexia is estabhshed, the amount of sugar is less. MoissENET having himself lost a patient in peritonitis resulting from a palliative punctui-e with a capillary trocar of a large hydatid cyst in the liver, examines minutely the different methods which have been employed to evacuate the liquid contained in the sac and to destroy the hydatids. He gives the two following sets of con- clusions : " A. (i.) That the hydatid liquid, whether limpid or puri- form, when poured into the peritoneum, whether as the result of accident or of an operation, induces acute or clu-onic inflammation, which is abnost always, if not invariably, fatal. (3.) That capillary puncture, though commonly not injurious, may induce effusion into the peritoneum of hydatid fluids, when there are no adhesions between the cystic and abdominal parietes; and that this effusion has taken place when the puncture has been made for exploration or paUiation only; that is, when the cyst has been imperfectly emptied. (3.) That the puncture of the hydatid cysts, whether made with a capillary or with an ordinary sized trocar, may prove fatal by inducing inflammation of the cyst itself, b. (1.) That capil-REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 264 lary punctiu'e of an hydatid tumour, made even without the exist- ence of adhesions, may be curative when followed by as complete an evacuation of the liquid as possible. (2.) That this result may be obtained by a single puncture, or by two or tliree successive punctiu'es. (3 ) That tlie treatment commenced by capillary punc- ture must sometimes be completed by another method, as in the case of Rees, in which a larger trocar was used at the tliird punc- ture, and a gum-elastic sound left in the orifice." CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Moore,—0" the " Sapo Lands" in Cutaneous Diseases. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., March isth, 1859. Moore.—On the Nature and Treatment of some of the more Ordinary Diseases of the Skin. lb., April isth, 1859. Valerius.—Traitement du Lupus. [Treatment of Lupus.] Annuairc de Thcra- peut., 1859. P' 252- Kletzinsky.—Sur I'emploi Dermato-Therapeutlque de I'Acide Hydrochlorique. [On the use of Hydrochloric Acid in Skin Diseases.] Annuaire par Noirot, 1859, p. 109. Poor,—Lupus Erythematodes. Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, p. 28, 1859. Schonheit "nd Malmsten. — Pemphigus Chroiiicus, Cases of. lb., pp. 29, 30, 1859. Barensprung.—Ueber Area Celsi. [On Porrigo Decalvans.] lb., p. 182. Harvey.—Case of Stearrhoea Nigricans. Dublin Med. Jour., Feb., 1859, p. 233. Flechsig.—Bericht iiber die neuern Leistungen auf dem Gebiele der Balneologie. [Report on the more recent Contributions to the Science of Balneology.] Schmidt Jahrb., vol. 102, pp. 323—363 ; vol. 103, pp. 73—9^ > ^^59- Lowe.—On the True Nature of Parasitic Diseases. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Bourguignon.—Glycerine Ointment for the Itch (Formula). Lancet, Aug. 27th, 1859- Durrant.—Treatment of Boils. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 3d, 1859- Ludkiewick,—Heilung eine hautniichigen Flechte durch Wein DKmpfe. [Cure of an Obstinate Eruption by the Vapour of Heated Wine.] Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, p. 187, 1859. Edwards.—Human Horns. Edin. Med. Jour., Nov., 1859, P* 4^°- Smith.—Some Remarks on the Action of the Skin in the Production and Treatment of Disease. lb., Dec, 1859, P- S'*. Hutchinson.—Clinical Report on Favus. Med. Times and Gaz., Dec. 3d, lotli, 31st, 1859. ScOUtetten,—Preservative Treatment against Consecutive Effects of Measles and Scarlatina. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., Dec. 15th, 1859. On the Influence of Baths on the E.vcretions. Brit, and For. Med.-Cliir. Rev., p, i3Si Janv '"859.265 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. Thomson—On the External Use of Medicines. Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1859, p. 41. Gull.—On Factitious Urticaria, Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, 1859, PP- 316—318. Barensprung.—Ueber Prurigo. [On Prurigo.] Schmidt's Jahrbuch., 1859, vol. 102, p. ;8o. Cerate of opium (Opii, ^ss, ad Cerate simpl., 3ij), highly recom- mended in carbuncle. Sapo Laricis is found by Mooee very efficacious in the local treatment of psoriasis, pityriasis, chronic herpetic and eczematous affections; it may be applied once or twice daily, and allowed to dry. The ingredients of the soap are—wheaten bran, siv; white curd soap, ^xxiv; pure glycerine, xiij; extract of larch-bark, 5iv—Bj; rose-water, 3xij. Thomson shows, by a number of facts which he has collected, that the male has the chief influence over the propagation of the texture, colour, and peculiarities of the skin and hair. Moore details several cases of skin disease which may be referred io advantage. He seems to shun arsenic, and to employ chiefly mild alteratives, demulcent and alkaline applications, and Extr. Laricis internally and externally. KLETZiJfSKY recommends the use of hydrocMoric acid as a power- ful means of increasing the cutaneous cii-culation and the excretion of carbonic acid by the skin. It is very useful in acne and cM- blams. The acid employed shoidd be as pure as possible, and as strong as can be borne \vithout causing vesication. After it has been in contact Anth the skin from fifteen to sixty seconds, it is to be washed off and soap applied. Glycerine is the best diluent. Several cases of lepra, under Willshiiie^s care, are noticed in the ' Lancet,^ March 12th, 1859, in which a material part of the treat- ment seems to have been abstinence from meat and fermented liquids, with a diet including plenty of watercresses and sometimes cmon-juice. Two cases of clironic pemphigus are related, one by Schoxheit he other by Malmsten. The first ended in recovery after tlu-ee rears duration, the second ended fataUy with pneumonia and lifirrhcea. Bran and sulphur baths were beneficial in the first case • irsemc faded although the eruption was eomphcated with clu-onic utermittent fever. A case of slearrhm nigricans is recorded by Haevey, in which266 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINK. both lower eyelids were affected. Under a general tonic plan of treatment the disorder ceased. The menstrual function was normal. In a paper on the external use of medicines, Thomson asserts the great efficacy of narcotic and other drugs rubbed into the skin, and observes, that the elfect produced is greater and more rapid when they are applied to the epigastrium than to other parts of the cutaneous surface. In delirium tremens he has adopted for many years endermic medication by opium, in preference to its internal use. He confirms Deschamp's observation, that iodide of potassium can be detected in the urine after friction of the skin with a soap or ointment containing it. A very full and complete report on balneology is contained in ' Sclrmidt's Jalirbucher/ p. 323, vol. 102, and pp. 73—92, vol. 103. Jasee's itch-ointment: IJ. Flowers of sulphur, ^ss; sulphate of zinc, 5iss; powdered root of white hellebore, ; soft soap, 5xiij; hog's lard, §ij; essence of caraway, jss. M. A soap bath is always to be premised, and is " the most essential condition of the treatment." DuuRANT advises the following treatment for boils : Extr. Col. co., Pil. Hyd., Extr. Acet.Colch., alt. noct., with a warm aperient, if ne- cessary, the following morning. During the day. Pot. Acet., with small doses of Tr. Colch. and Spt. Ammon. co. On the fu-st appear- ance of a fresh boil, it is to be painted with a strong solution of Arg. Nitr. (5ij ad 51). If the boil be already formed and indolent, the nitrate is to be used, and poultices. LuDKiEWiCK (himself the patieiit) relates the cure of an obstinate skin eruption, designated as herpes squamos. humid., by the use of vinous-vapour baths, after aU sorts of treatment had failed. The eruption he attributes to the spurting of a drop of puriform fluid into liis right eye during the autopsy of a patient dead from glanders. A case of acute purpura treated by venesection, alkalies, muriatic acid, and lemon-juice, is recorded by Aldekson. The case terminated favorably in about six weeks. There was a good deal of rheumatic pain. The venesection appeared to be decidedly beneficial. Devergie speaks well of the effect of chloriodide of mercuri/ in acne rosacea and in the other forms of acne. Grand-Clement recommends the juice of Chelidonium majus iu itching eruptions. The juice of the fresh plant may be kept mingled with equal parts of glycerine. Sjiith makes some remarks on the action of the skin in the production and treatment of disease. Prom his own expen-267 CUTANEOUS SYSTEM. lueiits he is satisfied that the skin is not and cannot act vicariously to the lungs. Hutchinson contributes a clinical report on favus. After giving a total of forty-four cases observed by himself or others, he proceeds to remark upon its nomenclature, pathology, results, in- veteracy, age, sex, and social condition, in respect of comparative liability to favus; the question as to the occurrence of favus in con- nection with debility or with any marked form of general cachexia; its connection with scrofula; its hereditary transmission, contagious- ness, diagnosis, and treatment. The following is his summary of conclusions : (i.) That favus is a disease wholly depending on the implantation of a fungus. (2.) That it is contagious, and, in fact, spreads solely by contagion; but that its fungus being difficult of transplantation, it is but rarely communicated. (3.) That the con- ditions which favour its communication are, neglect of personal cleanliness, the existence of tinea tonsurans, and any irritation, such as the rough use of a comb, &c., which approaches to the per- formance of inocidation. (4.) That the young only are liable to its outbreak, but that it may be produced by intentional inoculation in adults. (5.) That the fungus develops itself chiefly in the hair- follicles. (6.) That its crusts consist almost solely of fungus- elements, and that thus it is easily diagnosed by the microscope. (7.) That the state of the patient's general health has little or nothing to do with favouring its outbreak. (8.) That it has no connection whatever with struma. (9.) That it usually attacks children between the ages of one and twelve, and that when once well established m the scalp it is rarely got rid of before adult age. (10.) That if it continues long unarrested, it destroys the hairs and thm foUicles. (11.) That it is a disease never seen among the better {u e. more cleanly) classes. (12.) That it is of infrequent occurrence, and that it appears to occui- with almost equal rarity in proportion to population in London, Edinburgh, DubHn, and Paris. (130 Ihat when it occurs on the naked integument it is easily curable but when on the scalp it is most intractable; the difference probably being that in the latter position its spores spread deeply into the long hair-foUicles, where they escape the influence of pai-a- s.t.cidal remedies. (14.) That the only available treatment is by the persevering employment of one or other of the parasiticidal fn.^^ TTi^ '-r"'"*'' "''''^y' °f ^^l^cl^ is greatly tacihtatcd by epilation of the parts. ^ ^268 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. ScouTErrEN praises the preservative effects of frictions with oil, alternated with batlis, against morbid sequela3 of scarlatina and measles. It is rare that more than four frictions and two baths are required. Gull points out the fact, that in persons whose skin is very irritable, slight friction produces i}henomena similar to those of urticaria. This depends, he believes, on contraction of the muscular tissue of the skin. Bauensputjxg considers prurigo as a dermatosis rather than as a neuralgia, and locates the morbid action in the papillary bodies of the skin. The latter, he believes, minister to the sense of touch; the nerves alone either at their extremity or in then- course to com- mon sensation. Hypersesthesia of the nerves gives rise to neu- ralgia, hyperesthesia of the papillary bodies to itching or burning. In support of this view, he refers to cutaneous eruptions, the deeper- seated of which, as furuncles, never occasion itching, but only pain; wliile the more superficial are attended with severe itcliing. The author specially recommends baths containing Hyd. Bichlorid. (two drachms to a bath), which proved speeddy curative iji a very severe case of four- years' dm-ation, in which a variety of other means had been employed without success. Sulphur baths and sulphur ointment, tar ointments, and huile de cade, diluted with two parts of fat, have proved also more or less useful. SUBJECTS or GENERAL INTEREST. TVr_„„p--Medical Notes from the Continent; or, Sketches of the Universities. Hospitals, Lunatic Asylums, and Mineral Baths of Holland, Belgium. Germany, and Austria, Bavaria, Wurzburg. Edin. Med. Jour., Jan., 1859, p. 595- On Foreign Substances in various parts of the Body. lb., Feb., 1859, p. 7t>9- Chavasse.—Case of Poisoning by drinking water from a Leaden Cistern. Bnt. Med. Jour., April 23d, 1859. TTmm—On Idiosyncrasies. lb., June i ith, 1859. wXter.-The Influence of Weather on Disease and on the Human Frame. Lancet, June I Ith, 1859. , Thompson.-Observations on the Medical Administration of Ozonized uns. Mcd-Ciiir. Trans., 1859, vol. xlii, p. 349- . ,„.,„,i. a„d Beddoe.-A Comparison of the Mortality from different Causes in Austraha England. Edin. Med. Jour., Aug., 1859, p. loi. Cleland,—On the Use of Saccharated Lime in Medicine. lb., p. 113-SUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 269 Macario.—Terpentindanipfbader gegen Gicht, Rlieumatismus, Neuralgien und Cliioii. Katarrhe. [Turpentine-vapour Baths in Gout, Rheumatism, Neuralgia, and Chronic Catarrh.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. 103, p. 26. Fountain.—On the Ciilorate of Potash. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 27th, 1859. Lehwess.—On Destruction of Animal Poisons by Disinfectants. Canst. Jahrb., 1859, vol. ii, p. 130. Bacon.—On Elimination of Lead from the System. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 17th, 1859. Nevins.—The internal Employment of Medicines in Vapour. Brit. Med. Jour., Sept. 24th, 1859. Jackson.-On Cold Affusion in Narcotic poisoning. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. 8th, 1859. Drnitt.—Houses in relation to Healtb. (Lecture.) lb. Gallwey.—On Two Cases of unusual Discharge of Carbonaceous Matter from the Nares and Intestines. Lancet, Oct. 15th, 1859. Coote.—Cancer of the Storaacli associated with Tubercular Disease of the Lungs, Medical Times and Gaz., Oct. 15th, 1859. Garrod.—The Specific Chemical and Microscopical Phenomena of Gouty Inflam- mation, lb., p. 393. Schroeder van der Kolk.—Einige untersuchungen zum Beweis dass Entzun- dung nur von dem Arteriellen system ausgeht. [Researches proving that In- flammation has its Starting-point in the Arterial System alone.] Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, ^°4< P- loi- Samuel.—Eiitziindung durch Nervenreiz. [Inflammation produced by Nervous Irritation.] lb., p. 102. Bernard.—Ueber das Fieber. [On Fever.] lb., p. lo^ Hoppe.—Die Arznei wirkungen des Tartarus stibiatus an den irritabeln Gebilden und an der Nervensubstanz. [The Action of Tartar Emetic on Contractile Tissues, and on the Nervous.] lb., p. 161. Montegazza.—SuUe yinh igieniche e Medicinali della Coca, e sugli alimenti nervosi in general. [On the Hygienic and Medicinal Virtues of Coca, and on Nervous Foods in general.] II)., pp. 348—357, Birch.-On Oxygen as a Therapeutical Agent. Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 24th and 31st, 1859. ^ An instructive gi-oup of instances of foreign bodies hdmns: in various parts of the body is afforded by a discussion which took place at the Medico-Chirui-gical Society of Edinburgh, with rela- tion to a case m which a needle was extracted from the pharynx after penetrating the neck. Thompson has made trial of ozonized oils in phtliisis, the oils beiuo- ozomzed by exposure for a considerable time to the direct rays of the sun, after previous saturation with oxygen gas. Out of fourteen ca.ses there were only two in which the frequency of the pulse was not reduced; m the majority this effect was very marked, and tin's too, independent of the particular kind of oil whicli was employed '270 REPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. Beddoes contributes a paper entitled ' A Comparison of the Mortality from different Causes in Australia and America.' The following is the summary -which he supplies himself, but the whole communication is replete M'ith facts which scarcely admit of con- densation. Tlie principal features of the medical geography of Vic- toria may now be summed up shortly as follows : " (i.) Excess of violent deaths, (a.) Excess of deaths from diseases of the bowels (alvine flux) and of the liver. (3.) Excess of diseases of the heart, (4.) Excess of some affections of the nervous system. (5.) Small proportion of deaths from tubercular and pulmonary diseases and from croup. (6.) Small proportion of deaths from the exanthemata and from hooping-cough. (7.) Absence of malarial fever. (8.) Gradual decrease of mortality from dysentery, typhus, measles, &c." The death-rate of Victoria in the year 1856-7 was 1672 per 1000; that of England, 21-98 ; and of Scotch towns, 26-82. On account of the paucity of aged persons in the Austrahan population, the death-rate appears lower than it really ought to be; when corrected for this peculiarity, it is raised to 20-43 per 1000. The most fre- quent causes of death are violence (accidents and the like), and dysentery, debility, phthisis, and typhus follow in the order named. All malarious diseases are absent, or very nearly so. Aneurism appears to be remarkably frequ.ent—86 in Australia, 16 in England; this the author thinks may be owing in part to the equestrian habits of the settlers. Macario praises the virtue of turpentine-vapour baths in cases of gout, rheumatism, neuralgia, and clironic catarrh. The baths are not to be taken more frequently than every other day; they cause considerable sweating, and usually acceleration of the pulse. Nerv- ous excitement is sometimes produced, and contra-indicates the use of the baths. The appetite becomes vigorous; sudamina and often furuncles form on the skin. The results do not seem to have been very briUiant. Lehwbss performed several experiments with rabbits, the result of which was to show, that freshly prepared chloride of brae and chlorine liberated by Guyton Morveau's process can alone be relied on for the destruction of animal poisons, such as is generated in gangi-ene of the spleen (Milzbrand). Rabbits inoculated with this poison died in twenty-four to forty-eight hours, although the dead matter from which the poison was taken had been exposed for twenty-four hours to the action of a mixture of ordinary cliloride ofSUBJECTS OF GENERAL INTEREST. 271 lime and water. When freslily prepared cliloride was used, they survived. Tiie rabbit, after being inoculated with the same poison from an ox's spleen wliicli killed another, survived after it had been freely exposed to chlorine vapoui's (generated from manganese, chlo- ride of sodium and sulphuric acid) in a stable. Nevins relates several cases in illustration of the good effects that may sometimes be obtained by the employment of medicines in the state of vapoui-. Jacksox praises cold affusion as a remedy for narcotic poison- ing, and narrates tliree cases in which it was successfully em- ployed. One of these was a lady who had been poisoned by an overdose of belladonna. Case of a male, fet. 49, whose ears became, and remained, per- fectly blue, cold, and Hvid, after an attack of jaundice, of no great seventy. Except cold feet and hands, he suffers no other inconve- nience. Case of profuse, constant, serous discharge from one thio-h m a middle-aged female, of seventeen years' duration. The flmv took j)lace from a number of vesicles. Gallwey records two cases of unusual discharge of carbona- ceous matter from the nares and intestines. CooTE records a higldy interesting case, in which cancer of the stomach was associated with tubercular chsease of the luno-g The ^ver contained several cancerous masses. The extreme fuSdus and the pylorus of the stomach were the only parts unaffected : aU the rest was converted into a hard substance, three quarters of an inch m luckness, which was in a state of uniform ulceration internally. Yet, dui-ing life, to the last the man's appetite had been good • he had no pam before or after food, no vomiting or nausea^ and hi. bowels acted regularly. There was not only old, but also recent^ tubercular disease in the lungs. also recent, ScTiEoDEEVAK DEitKoLK, from the resiUts of injections, arrives .t the conclusion, that inflammation always occui-s in the arte rial"nd never in the venous system. On examining hepatic abscesses after vessels m the wall of the cavity. Sometimes the hepatic-vein- branches were filled up to the wall of the abscess, showing ZJt Z ^o portal-vem branches were ever found in the wall of the abs e ' ^^hlclL had been injected by the bronchial arteries, while atREPORT ON PRACTICAL MEDICINE. 273 the same time the capillary network surrounduig the air-cells was entirely obstructed. Beunaud considers fever always as a pure nervous phenomenon, since the organic conditions of it can be produced by acting on the nervous system alone. Tlie cause of it may be an internal, as a poison absorbed into the veins, or an external, as an influence o])e- rating on the skin and through sensory nerves on the nervous cen- tres. In all cases the efPect is produced of paralysis of the sympa- thetic. The facts to which Bernard appeals are chiefly the well- known results of division of the sympathetic, as well as that of galvanic irritation of sensory nerves, which at first produce lowering, and subsequently, by exhaustion, elevation of the temperature. HOPPE relates the results of numerous experiments on frogs, made for the purpose of determining the action of tartar emetic on con- tractile tissues and on the nervous substance. The heart was at first excited to increased pulsation, and afterwards enfeebled. On the vessels it seemed generally to have a contracting power. The nerves, brain, and spinal cord were enfeebled, and semi-paralysed by its action. Mantegazza, in an elaborate treatise on coca, describes—(i) tlie plant, its mode of culture, and the preparation of the leaves; (2) the mode in which it is used; (3) its physiological action, and its hygienic application; (4) its therapeutic action and employment; and (5) gives illustrations of its use in practice. Biucii, in a paper on oxygen as a therapeutic agent, states, " that abundant evidence can be brought forward to prove, beyond moral doubt, that in certain lowered conditions of the vital forces, tliis gas cannot unfrequently exercise an alterative and tonic ijiflueiic- upon the entire animal economy which no other medicinal agent a present known can exert."EEPOET ON 8UEGEEY. Br J. W. HULKE, F.E.C.S., ASSISTANT-SURGEON TO KINo's COtLEGE HOSPITAL, AND TO THE ROTAL LONDOV OPHTHALMIC HOSPITAL. TEXT-BOOKS. S^i?*~A^AfT7n^''^'^""'"- John Churchill. 8th edition. SmitL-A Manual of Operative Surgery on the Dead Body. 8vo. cloth. Tondon 1859, Longman, Green, and Co. ... i^unaon, ^^w'!f^~"'''°?^\^'"^''"' Beurtheilung und Behandlung der Schutz wunden vom funftehnten Jahrhundert bis auf die neueste Zeit. [In His ori a Sk ch of tlie op.„.ons which have prevailed respecting Gunshot Woundr nd of their treatment, from the fifteenth century to the present tim/l « ; 1859, George Reimer. ' ^ WiUiamson.-Notes on the Wounded from the Mutiny in India, with a description 8v L^h'T'r °' - Museum at F^^i t 8vo, cloth. London, 1859, John Churchill ' BEuirfs Bew edition contains a fresh chapter on inflammation and that on gunshot wounds has hcen enlarged anT those on the eye, on the radical cure of hernia on n^Z^, i on excsion of the knee-Joint, contain JmZ^T'''''- WiLLiAMsox has drawn up a statistical analysis of -cervcd at the InvaUd Dcp6t, Chatham, ftorS ndLn tfuthf; Jhe large proportion of recoveries from fractures "S ISREPORT ON STJRGliUY. 274 during the Indian Mutiny, as contrasted with the experience of the Crimean campaign, is interesting. Appia's is a short practical treatise. According to him delride- meni is no longer practised in gunshot wounds by Trench military surgeons, except for a specific object, as the removal of the ball, kc. Instead of it he recommends long cuts througli skin and fascia when there is nmcli inflammatory swelling; the muscles bulge tlirough tlie cuts, but tins is of no moment. If the bullet can be extractefl without a grave operation, this should always be done; but if not, it should be left. It was the "Ercncli practice in the Crimea to remove all splinters of bone immediately, and Baudens insists upon it - but Stromeyer waits till large splinters have become loose as by so doing the periosteum is spared, and he also shows that mmshot fractures often heal with very sHght exfoliation. _ The fk-st di-essing should be simple-a handful of charpie soaked in cold water. Continual irrigation is especiaUy iiseful m modera- tins the fii-st inflammatory swelling. In secondary haemorrhage, requiring dehgation, the artery should be tied above the wound. During the Eevolution m Pans 1848, and in the Crimea, primary amputations were more successful than secondary. In 1848, fractures of the femur were barely cvirable and in aU comnWed fractm-es in the lower two tlnrds mme ha e amputation shoidd be performed; but this rule does not apply to those in the upper third, because amputation near the lup, or d^- Sation, is so generaUy fatal, that it is betier to try to save he mnb. AftJr the battles of Alma and Inkermann tiurteen amputati n at the hip were performed, and all the Pat-ts died; bu^ fractin-es at the hip, ^mamputated, three ^^J^ /^^^ from Italy Apnia mentions that amongst 10,000 Mormded in i\irm luTel ewhet he did not see a single case of resection. Tetania :1 tlnfreauent; one case, which was ^^^f^f^^^ curara,, i gramme to 80 centigrs. of water, recovered _ 1"^^*^^^^^^^ Znds of the chest were freciuently left open, and in gen ral n especial care was taken to close them; but he subsequentl, add. that few of these patients recovered. INFLAMMATION. Van.etti-On Treatment of External Innammation by Digital Compression. (Padua, I'Union, ,,5. '858.) Schmidfs Jalnb.. No. 2, 1859.275 ECRASEUR. Manso.-On the Application of Permanent Water-baths in the Treatment of the Larger Operation Wounds. .(Forhandl. ved. de Skandinav. Naturforskeres. Maede i Christiana, p. 384.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Vaxzetti, from the known efficacy of the digital compression of the artery ni aneunsm, was induced to try it in external inflamma- tions where the artery concerned was in reach of the fin"-er In many instances his expectations were fully realised, and he men- tions a case of severe plilegmonous erysipelas of the left forearm where digital pressm-e on the subclavian artery was employed with good success. J\Ianso reports on nine experiments. The cases were incisions on account of large abscesses, caries, &c. The limbs were placed in .inc vessels, filled with water, at 24° E., which was changed twice daily. J he aUeged advantages are-dhninution of pain and fever easier and more complete escape of the discharges, and promotion of the heahng process. ^ ECRASEUR. passes a bent probe through the fistul. 72 L 1 1S76 REPORT ON SURGERY. AMPUTATION. BurOW.—On the Causes of Frequent Deaths after Amputation. (Deutsche Klinik., 21, 22, 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., p. 212, 1859- Hancock.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Painful Cicatrix and Irritable Stump. Lancet, July 23d, 1859. Flower.—Epithelial Cancer occurring in the Cicatrix of a Burn on the Arm, ne- cessitating Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. lb., March 26th, 1859. Johnson.—Malignant Tumour of the Arm after Fracture; Amputation at the Shoulder-joint. lb., March 26th, 1859. Solly.—Clinical Lecture on Partial Amputation of the Hand. lb., Jan. ist, 1859. Burgess.—Case of Partial Amputation of the Hand. lb., April 2d, 1859, Eager.—Partial Amputation of the Hand. lb., Jan. 8th, 1859. Coulson-—Recurring Filjro-plastic Tumours ; Partial Resection of the Hand. lb., Feb. 26th, 1859. Sedgwick.—Amputation at the Carpo-metacarpal Articulation. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 170, 1859. Clement.—Tumour of the Upper Third of the Thigh; successful Amputation at the Hip-joint. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. ist, 1859. Cock.—Epithelioma of the Right Leg and Tibia; Amputation; Recovery. Lancet, Jan. isth, 1859. Watson.—Clinical Remarks on Pirogoff's Operation. lb., June nth, 1859. Curling.—Pirogoflf's Amputation. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 59, 1859. BuROW performed 6 s amputations in the course of twenty-five years, and 3 only were fatal; 15 were amputations of the forearm, 20 of the arm, 15 of the thigh, 11 of the leg, and i through the foot. The great success is ascribed to the after-treatment. No bandage should be applied, and the wound is not to be closed immediately, but exposed to the air for twenty or thirty minutes. Circular amputation is alone permissible when sufficient material for flaps is wanting. Hancock points out that the excision of painful scars of stumps and neuromata frequently fails; and he proposes instead the subcu- taneous separation of the cicatricial tissue from the bone. By sub- sequently moving the part over the bone daily, union is to be prevented. Tloweu's patient, a pale, delicate woman, jet. 27, had been severely burned when nine years old. She had extensive scars upon the right arm, shoulder, back, chest, and neck. There was an open sore upon the inside of the arm, having all the characters of epithelial cancer and reaching from two inches above the elbow almost to theAMPUTATION. 277 armpit, aud in breadth it occupied nearly oue third of the circum- ference of the limb. The axiUary glands were enlarged, and the skiu covering them M'as ulcerated. Together with the ai-m, the diseased contents of the axilla were removed. The patient, at the time of tliis report, was doing favorably. JoHxsoN^s patient, set. 38, had broken his arm about the middle, nine mouths previously. A tumour, of the size of a cocoa nut, formed at the site of fractui-e. It was considered to be malignant. Amputation, with lateral flaps, was performed at the shoulder, with httle loss of blood, but an hour afterwards free lisemorrhage, requiring tliirty ligatures to arrest it, took place. The patient recovered. Solly's lecture contahis reports of five cases of severe injury of the hand. The duty of preserving any portion of the thumb or fingers left entire is strongly insisted on. BuiiGESs reports a severe accident from a tlu-esliing macliiue. The fii-st, second, and tliird fiugers of the left hand were wholly crushed, and the little finger and thumb partially so. The pahn and back of the hand were greatly lacerated. The mutilated phalanges were alone removed, and an excellent hand was preserved. Eagee says a powder-flask had exploded in the hand. The Kttle finger was blown off; the metacarpal bones of the other fiingers were broken; the thumb was dislocated. Amputation was rejected. The torn joints were adjusted, and a most useful hand was preserved. CouLsox describes a tumour-, as large as a small apple, over the metacarpal bone of the thumb. He removed the growth with the metacarpal bone and part of the radius. It had been previously twice removed. Sedgwick says the pabn of the hand, the tlm-d and foui-th fingers, were shot away, and the second finger hung by the skin ordy. The metacarpal bones of these fingers, together with the OS magnum and unciform bone, were removed. The thumb and forefinger were saved; fair movement was preserved. Clement's patient was a married woman, 32 years old, and the tumour- reached to witliin two inches of Poupart's ligament; its circumference was tliii-ty-foui- and a half inches. A short anterior flap was made by transfixing the limb, and a longer one cut from behind. On the third day the line of incision had united m nearly its whole extent, and at the end of a month she was on crutches. The growth was a soft, liver-like substance, intersected278 REPORT ON SURGERY. by fibrous bauds. It extended to the periosteum, but the bone M as healthy. Watson reports a severe injury of the foot, for Avhicli he am- putated at the ankle in the manner practised by Pirogoff. lie suggests a modiiication of Pirogoff's operation, by which tlie foot is removed Avithout disarticulating at the ankle-joint. Curling cut the os calcis obliquely, after Busk's modification. SUTURES. Aveling.—Antiquity of Metal Sutures. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- 82. AvELiNG quotes Pabricius Aquapendente, to show that he employed flexible needles of iron or brass, wliich he passed tlurough the lips of the wound, afterwards twisting their ends together. He says that Pabricius Aquapendente was aware of the advantages of these sutures over those of thread. HEAD AND NECK. MALFORJIATIONS, DISEASES, AND INJURIES OP THE MOUTH, PHARYNX, AND (ESOPHAGUS. Friedberg.—On the Pathology and Treatment of Hare-lip. (Frag. Viertel- jahrsdi., vol. Ixi, 1859, PP- 91—ii3-) Schmidt's Jabrb., No. 1859. Ward.—Congenital Fissure of the Right Cheek; Operation ; Recovery. Lancet, May 28th, 1859. De Merle.—Svphllitic Gangrene of the Mouth, with impending Suffocation i Laryn* gotomy; Recovery. Lancet, Fcl). 26th, 1859. Ward.—Laceration and Detachment of the Soft Palate; Readjustment by Sutures) Perfect Union. Med. Times and Gaz., June i8th, 1859. BaizeaU.—On Perforations and Clefts of the Palatial Vault. A report by If. Larry on Baizeau's vrork on this subject. (Union, Nos. 13 and 15, 1859 ) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Fiddes,—Case of Extirpation of the Tongue. Edin. Med. Jour., June, 1859. Thompson.—Severe Ilajmorrhage from the Tonsil arrested by the Solution of the Perchloridc of Iron. Lancet, Nov. 19th, 1859. Johert de lamballe.—On Polypi of the Nose and Fauces. {Gat. des Hop.i No. 85, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859. Roeser.—a Polypus of the Pharynx removed by Twisting and Tearing it off, (Wiiitcmb. Corr., vol. xxi, 1859.) Schmidt's Jalirb., No. 9, 1859.HEAD AND NECK. 279 Erichsen.—A Clinical Lecture on the Surgical Diagnosis of Difficult Deglutition. Lancet, Ahirch 26tli, 1859. Addison and Foi'Ster.—Stricture of the (Esophagus in a Child from swallowing a Corrosive Fluid; Threatened Starvation ; Gastrotomy; Death. lb. PuiEDBERG describes a dissection of a case of double hare-lip, with cleft palate and microplitlialmos, and states that after operations on the hare-hp the cleft in the palate often closes spontaneously. Waed says the cleft ran horizontally backwards from the natural position of the right commissure of the lips to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Its edges were pared, the fissure was closed Avith twisted sutures, and perfect union took place. De Meric's patient was a prostitute, -whose health was broken by privation, excesses, and by the abuse of mercury, which she had taken by a friend's advice. The canula was removed on the third day. ^ Waud relates that a boy, three years old, fell down stairs with a piece of wood in his hand, wluch ran into his mouth and tore nearly the whole of the soft palate from the bone. The loose flap had an attaclunent a quarter of an inch broad, just above the right tonsil. Under cldoroform, the torn part was secured in position with four stitclies. Baizeau di\ades clefts of the palate into those which are acquii'ed, as by wounds, Src, and those wliich are coiigenital. Wlien of small extent, cauterization may suffice to close them. The various obtm-ators wliicli have been devised for larger clefts ai-e described, and the different autoplastic operations are sketched out. _ TiDDES performed complete extirpation of the organ for car- cmoma, and the patient, a woman, tliirty-live years old, recovered. Deglutition was but little impaired, and speech still sufficiently ])reserved to allow her to engage in conversation. The importance of securing one lingual artery before the other is divided is pointed out. THOMPso^-'s is a case of acute tonsiUitis. The tlu-oat was lanced by a surgeon; no pus escaped, but about a pint of blood was lost. Next day another lancing, and another bleeding, to half a pint. On the second day she was admitted into the Marylebone Infirmary, and that night had a profuse hEemorrhage, to the extent of three pmts and a half. Thompson found a smaU opening in front of the right tonsil, from which the blood was rapidly flowing; this he compressed with his fijiger till he coidd apply the solution of iron,UliPOllT ON SUllUERV. 280 wliich was clone freely two or three times. A return of the bleeding, a quarter of an hour afterwards, was checked in the same way. The patient did well. De Lamballe reports a case of fibrous polypus, attached by a broad root to the base of the skull. He removed it by first dividing the soft palate, which was di-awn upwards with a forceps by an assistant; then seizing the polypus with Muscaux's forceps, he cut through its root with a curved bistoury, and cauterized the rest.^ The result was satisfactory. EoESER describes a tumour of fibroid structure, wliich grew from the lower part of the back of the pharynx. The patient's head was bent forwards, and any attempt to sit upright caused a paroxysm of suffocation. He seized the tumour with a vulsellum, drew it for- wards, and then forcibly wrenched it away with a lithotomy forceps. There was hardly any bleeding, and a rapid recovery ensued. Eeichsen points out eight conditions, independent of strictui-e, which may cause dysphagia by compressing the cesophagus. They are—I. Tumours of the pharynx. 2. Morbid states of the larynx, 3. Tumours in the neck. 4. Aneui-ism of the innominate artery. 5. Aortic aneurism. 6. Intra-thoracic tumom-s in the posterior mediastinum. 7. Dislocation of the sternal end of the collar-bone backwards. 8. Impaction of a foreign body in the CEsophagus. Three kinds of stricture are described: i. Hysterical or spasmodic stricture, a. Kbrous stricture. 3. Carcinomatous stricture. Addison and Torstee's patient was a cliild, four years old, who had swaUowed, nineteen weeks before his admission, a corrosive alkahne fluid, wliich caused an ahnost impermeable stricture of the oesophagus. He was apparently dying from starvation, when Forster performed gastrotomy. Prom that time he took food freely, and his sense of hunger diminished; he became more Hvely, and seemed to be doing weU. Pour days afterwards, sudden acute pain in the bowels, foUowed by death in about five hours. The contents of the stomach had escaped into the peritoneum, and caused inflammation.281 AIR-PASSAGES. AIR-PASSAGES. Martini.—On Tracheotomy, Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, 1859, PP- 73—no. Gesenius.—Catheterism of the Larynx, and its Relation to Tracheotomy. lb., No. 5, 1859. Statistical Eeport on the Results of Tracheotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. i5tli, 1859. Tudor.—On the Treatment of (Edema Glottidis by Scarification. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Buller.—Acute Laryngitis; Laryngofomy; Remarks. Med. Times and Gaz., June 18th, 1859. Barker.—Chronic Laryngitis; Sudden Asphyxia; Tracheotomy; Recovery. lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. Porter.—Chronic Ulceration of the Larynx; Death by Asphyxia, from food becom- ing impacted in the Glottis. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., March ist, 1859. Jeafifreson.—Syphilitic Laryngitis; Recovery; Inabihty to dispense with the Canula. Med. Times and Gaz,, 1859, P- 8. Barker and Simon.—Diphtheria; Impending Suffocation; Tracheotomy; Death; Autopsy. lb., 1859, p. 112. Forster.—Foreign Body in the Trachea; Tracheotomy; Death; Autopsy. Guy's Hosp. Skey.—Tracheotomy performed for the Removal of a Tamarind-stone from the Trachea. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, 1859. MAUTiNf s memoir commences with a brief historical sketch of this operation, and contains reports of a large number of cases, systematicaUy arranged under—(«) croup; {d) cedema of glottis' acute and chi-onic laryngitis, and stenosis of the larynx and trachea; (c) foreign bodies in the air-passages; (d) tumoui's com- pressing the air-passages. Martini figures several special instru- ments, Gesenius thinks that tubage of the larynx may be indicated whenever the free passage of air into the trachea is impeded; or it may be done to facilitate the topical application of remedies to tlie interior of the air-passages, and for this latter purpose a common, flexible, male catheter is most useful Kecently the introduction' and retention of a sliort tube in the larynx has been proposed by Bouchut as a substitute for tracheotomy in croup and other obstruc- tions of the air-passages. The tube is slightly conical, and lias a double belt about the middle. It is to be pushed down into the larynx, so that the lower vocal cords He in the chink of the belt, and the epiglottis moves freely above it. The commission appointedREPORT ON SURGERY. 282 by the Academy of ^Medicine of Paris to investigate the value of this proceeding passed an unfavorable opinion upon it. This RioroiiT contains particulars of eighty-eight cases, comprising— I. Tracheotomy for laryngeal disease, not including true croup (this series contains many cases of sypliilitic); laryngitis. 2. Ti-acheotomy for scalds of the glottis. 3. Tracheotomy for croup—fourteen cases, with four recoveries. 4. Ti-acheotomy for foreign bodies in the air-passages—thirteen cases; eight recoveries, and five deaths. At- tempts to seize the foreign body with forceps were generally unsuc- cessful J in the cases which recovered, it was ejected by coughing. Tudor confidently recommends, from personal experience, the scarification of the cedematous submucous tissue over the epiglottis, and figures a curved bistoiu-y for the purpose. This treatment has long been practised at the " Dreadnought." Buller's patient was a stout but scrofulous woman, set. 21. Suffocation was imminent. The operation was difficult, from the swollen state of the neck. Several arteries and one or two turgid veins bled profusely. Complete recovery took place. Some critical remarks upon inflammatory affections of the larynx, and the after- treatment of laryngotomy, are appended. Barker's patient, fifty-two years old, had had syphilis thii-ty years previously. Laryngeal symptoms had existed for four months. Several Aveeks after he entered the hospital, he fell one evening nearly suffocated. The trachea was at once opened by the house- surgeon ; immediate relief followed the introduction of the canula. The man was discharged a month afterwards. Porter tells us that symptoms of laryngeal disease had existed two years. Sudden death. A piece of mutton was found finuly impacted in the rima. Tlie epiglottis was destroyed, the stem of it only remaining. Jeaffreson describes a case of lai'jaigitis in a prostitute, who had first contracted syphihs fourteen years pre\iously. Hoarseness first noticed nine weeks before her admission into the hospital. Never any cough. Leeching, antimony, and mercury had been already tried, but the symptoms were so urgent that tracheotomy was proposed, but not performed till two days afterwards. In the interim the mercurial treatment was persisted in, and temporary relief was obtained by two bleedings to twenty-four and eighteen ounces. The patient recovered, but could not breathe when the tube was removed.TUMOURS OF THE NECK. 283 Baukee and Siicon's case of a horse-boy, thirteen years okl, admitted with urgent dyspnoea. Pances red, and a wloite patch on tlie riglit tonsil and uvula. Hydrargyrum given, but symptoms becoming more pressing, Simon opened the trachea next day. Great immediate relief. On the day following, increasing dyspncea, and death forty-eight hom-s after the operation. The false mem- brane had extended down the trachea, and completely blocked many of the smaller bronchial tubes. roESTEu's patient, a httle boy, three years old, swallowed a Trench bean, which lodged in the right bronchus. The trachea was freely opened, but the bean was not expelled, nor coiQd it be Avithdrawn with forceps. At the autopsy it was found much swollen, and firmly fixed in the bronchus. Skey opened the trachea freely an horn- and a half after the acci- dent. Attempts to catch the stone with forceps were ineffectual; but the edges of the tracheal wound being held apart with hooks, it was forcibly ejected by a cough. The child recovered. TUMOURS OF THE NECK. Pitha.—The Diagnosis and Treatment of Tumours in the Neck. (Oesterr. ZtcUr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. v, p. i8, 1859. Beilage.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 9, 1859. Thamhayn.—The Surgical Treatment of Diseases of the Thyroid Gland. A Report of cases treated hy Werner, Schuh, Erichsen, and Chelius. lb., No. 2. 1859. Blittl.—Cystoid Tumour in the Front of the Neck in a Child two years old ; Ex- tirpation and Cure. (Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. v, p. 6, 1859.) lb., No. 9, 1859. NelatOn.—Extirpation of a large Tumour in the Neck; Recovery. rOaz des Hop- 33. 1859-) Ih. Ferg:usson.-Case of Serous Brouchocele treated by Incision. Lancet, May 28th 1859. ' PiTHA says, tumours in the neck are of great moment to the sUf. goon, on account of the difficulties which occasionaUy attend an exact diagnosis of their nature and anatomical relations. The sweUing and tension which attend acute inflammatory depo- sits make them appear to be more deeply seated than they really are, whilst deeply seated tumours of slow growth gradually thin the overlying tissues, and push aside the vessels and nerves tiU they reach the surface, when their more rapid eidargement, perhaps, fii-stIIEPOUT ON SUllGERY. attracts the notice of the patient, and gives a fallacious idea that they are snperlicial. Ill illustration of this, a case is related of an apparently super- ficial cyst in the neck, an incision into which was followed by such profuse lucinorrhage that a temporary ligature was placed on the common carotid artery. This did not arrest the bleeding that came fi'oin a large vessel running forward from the back of the cyst, which overlaid the vertebras, to the upper angle of the wound. It M'as an offset from the vertebral artery, as large as a crow-tiuiU. Other cases of cysts in the thyroid gland are reported, wliich are all remarkable for the dangerous hsemorrliage which took place M'hen they were opened. Pitha recommends iodine injections. Thamhayn quotes from Werner a case of tliyroiditic suppui-ation, wliicli M-as treated by incision and terminated favorably, and one of large extravasation of blood in the thjToid region, which formed a prominent livid swelling on the right side of the neck. It burst, and blood freely oozed away. The opening was enlarged, and a quantity of black, broken coagiilum was removed; the cavity granulated and liealed. Prom the direction whicli a probe took, it must have been situated witliin the substance of the right lobe of the gland. A case of parenchymatous broncliocele, in which Werner tried to extirpate the tumoui-, wliich reached from the cliin to the sternum, ended fatally. The attempt was abandoned after having lasted an hour and a quarter. The bleeding was very free; twenty-four ligatures were used. Gangrene set in, and death fol- lowed on the twelfth day. Schuli recommends the injection of cystic broncliocele with iodine. Chehus treated eleven cases of cystic bronchocele by free incision; he stitched the cyst to the edges of the external wound. The memoir contaius a collection of remarkable cases of cystic, cavernous, and coUoid tumours. The injection of cystic broncho- celes with iodine is certainly preferable to incision, wliich in all the reported cases was foUoM^ed by very profuse and dangerous hfemor- rhage. Diii'rn/s patient had a congenital cyst, reacliiug from the chin to the sternum, and outwards on both sides of the median line beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its extirpation was difficult, on account of its connexion with the hyoid bone, the lar)-nx, and trachea. The cliild made a rapid recovery. "Nelaton removed a fibro-fatty tumour, which reached fi-om the285 CHEST-WOUNDS. chin to the sternum, and from the middle line outwards on the right side of the neck to the spines of the vertebra). Its extir- pation was efPected with small loss of blood. The external and internal jugular veins, the carotid and subclavian arteries, were exposed in the dissection. Eeegussox's patient, a young M^oman, had had, during fifteen years, a progressive enlargement of the tliyroid gland, which formed a considerable swelling in front of the neck. The chief part of it consisted of a large fluctuating cyst. This was punc- tured, and then slit up. Several ounces of dirty-brown serum escaped. The cyst was filled with lint, but free oozing from the interior continued for some time. Tergusson thought that the tendency to bleeding from the inner surface of these cysts renders them unfit for injection with iodine. CHEST-WOUNDS. Jackson,-—Case of Gunshot Wound of the Heart, &c., where the patient survived three hours and a half. Lancet, Nov. 19th, 1859. Johnson.—Laceration of the Lung without Fracture of the Ribs. Brit. Med. Journ., March 5th, 1859. Jackson relates, that the man, whilst sitting at his door, was shot, November 3d, 1856, at a quarter before eight o'clock p.m., with a pistol, fired by a person in front of him, at several paces' distance. Two bullets struck the centre of liis sternum; one pierced the bone, and the other glanced ofi". The hfemorrhage was inconsiderable. There was great dyspncea, and much pain in the loins and about the bladder, with an intense desire to pass urine. He died at a quai-ter past eleven o'clock p.m., three and a half hours after the injury. The ball which pierced the sternum had traversed the pericardium, struck the apex of the heart, and made a liole in the right ventricle, through which the tip of the little finger could be passed. The pericardium was nearly fidl of clotted blood and serum. The ball afterwards passed through the diapliragm, behmd the stomach, and lodged loosely in the recto-vesical poucli of the peritoneum, having in its course bruised the intestines in several places without perforating them. The bullet which glanced off the sternum was traced for some distance between the abdo- minal muscles, but had not penetrated the cavity.llEPORT ON SURGERY. 286 Johnson's patient, a little boy, set. 7, was struck down by a cab, and the wheels passed over his chest. He Iwd great pain in the belly and left side of the chest, which was dull, and over which 110 respiratory sound could be heard; he also vomited blood. Tour liours afterwards the intercostal spaces were distended. Great dyspnoea, and deatli on the following day. The ribs wore found to be uninjured; but the lung was extensively lacerated, and tlie j)leuval cavity was full of blood. ABDOMEN. INTERNAL INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION, FROM ADHESIONS, INTUS-SUS- CEPTION, TORSION, IMPACTION OF F.'ECES, AND STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. Brugnoli.—^l^us caused by Adhesion of the Ileum to the Urinary Bladder. (Press. Med., 37, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 3, 1859. Streubel.—Case of Twisting, with Obstruction at the lower end of the small intes- tine. lb. Hennett.—Exfoliation of the C.-ecal End of the Large Gut in consequence of an intus-susception. (Pr. Ver. Zgt. n. F. i, 31, 1858.) lb. Cabaret.—invagination of the Colon in a Child replaced by the method of Pelletier. (Rev. de Ther. Med.-Chir., 13, 1858.) lb. M'Kidd.—Case of Invagination of the Ciiecum and Appendix. Edin. Med. Journ., March, 1859. Betz.—On Intus-susception. Mem. a. d. (Praxis 11, 23, and 24, 1858.) lb. Theile and Aberle.—Cases of Stcrcoraceous Obstruction. (Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., vol. iii, pp. 40—52, 1857.) lb. Thompson.—stricture of tlie Sigmoid Flexure'; Constipation during forty-one days, relieved by opening the colon behind the peritoneum ; Death from perforation above the seat of stricture. Med. Times and Gaz., April 23d, 1859. Todd.—Remarks on Stricture of the Rectum. lb., Aug. 6tb, 1859. Frommann,—Case of Intus-susception. (Deutsche Klinik, No. 35,1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 3, 1859. Brugnoli says the obstruction was preceded by diarrhoea and great pain in the belly. Tliree inches from the ileo-crecal valve there Avas a firm adhesion of the ileum to the summit of the bladder, which prevented the passage of the contents of the gut. The mucous membrane of the bowel presented eight oval ulcers, and a perforation had taken place at the adherent part. Streubel's patient was an infant. The symptoms set in a few hours after birth, and persisted despite of the rupture of auABDOMEN. 287 adhesion which, was foinicl iu the rectum. It lived forty hours. The ileum was t^visted on itself about three inches above the cfecum. Hexnett saj's the csccura, with processus vermiformis, was cast off, and the patient recovered. Cabaeet mentions that a considerable length of colon protruded tlirougli tlie anus; it was returned by pressure with a gum-elastic sound, wliich Avas \vorn for several hours to prevent the boMel descending again. j\I'IviDD reports that a boy, eet. 7, had paroxysms of severe pain about an inch below the navel, but pressure could be borne at first over the whole belly. Afterwards pressure in the right iliac region gave pain. No constipation. Death one month after the first appearance of the acute symptoms. The child had occa- sionally had pain in the belly for a month before M'Kidd saw him. The caput cfecum and vermiform appendix were invaginated in such a way that the appendix was placed across the ileo-ccecal valve, and imperfectly blocked the apertiu-e. The invaginated parts were inflamed and gangrenous. Betz discusses the various theories of intus-susception, and lays little stress on the share Avhich the peristaltic movements of the bowel are supposed to take in producing intus-suscep- tion. He explains it by a mechanical theory. He supposes that a lump of fpeces sticking firmly in a narrow portion of gut is pushed forcibly downwards by flatus or ffeces from above into a wider piece of gut directly below it, the lump dragging doMai with it the narrower gut in which it is impacted; or traction from below, as by a polypus, may cause it. He confirms Billiets' and Tliompson's statements, that it occurs more often in men than in women. It is probable that in some cases the symptoms do not immediately manifest themselves. The first symptom is pain, winch, in little children, is very slightly increased by pressure. The passage of blood by the anus is a very important sign, and is always present in children. The separation of the gangrenous portion of gut is often preceded by an abundant flow of blood, inixed fl'ith fetid, gangrenous matters, and Ad here the small intes- tine lias been much distended, it is followed by a copious stool. Thompson's patient, set. 39, was five months pregnant when ad- mitted into the St. Marylebone Infirmary, 9th of March, 1859, and288 REPORT ON SURGliRY. was quite sure tlvat she liad not passed a motion since the 31st of January preceding. Two or three days before that time she felt something give way in her abdomen wliilst Ufting a heavy weight. She had taken croton oil and other purgatives without relief. Large quantities of fluid faeces were discharged through the artificial opening. She sank on the afternoon of the second day. The sigmoid flexure of the colon was drawn across to the right side of the spine, and fixed there by constricting bands of lymph to the mesentery. Above tliis part there was a small hole in the gut. There were signs of general peritonitis. Todd describes and figures an instrument which dilates the stricture without distending the anus. PuoMMANN reports tliis remarkable case from the practice of Professor Lelu-buschen. The passage of 3 a" of small intestine per anum was followed by rapid amendment and recovery. HERNIA. James.—Practical Observations on the Operations for Strangulated Hernia. 8vo, cloth. London, John Churchill. Paupert.—The Resection of the Omentum in Operations for Hernia. (Bull, de Ther., vol. iii, p. 502, Dec, 1857.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 5, 1857. Heath.—strangulated Umbilical Hernia; Removal of the Sac and adherent Omentum with Success. Lancet, April 2d, 1859. Erichsen.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Congenital Hernia complicated with an Undescended Testis, lb., July 9th, 1859. Ravoth.—Successful Operation for Strangulated Hernia in an Infant. (Deuische Kliuik, No. 29, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859. Curling.—Direct Inguinal Hernia in a Female. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 264, 1859. Musset.—Successful Operation on a Strangulated Inguinal Hernia in a Woman, fifty "years old. The Strangulation had existed four days. Journ. de Bord., June, 1858. Estevenet.—ffccal Fistula after the Operation for Strangulated Hernia. (Journ. de Toulouse, March, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. i, 1859. BezZOnicO.—Cure of an Artificial Anus by Palliative Treatment. (Ann. Univ., April, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. i, 1859. Schmidt.—Strangulated Crural Hernia, with Rupture of the Coverings. (Bayer. aerzt." Intell., vol. xlv, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 5, 1859. Legendre.—Crural Hernia through Gimbernat's Ligament. (Gaz. de Paris, 13, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., 18!;9. Adams and •Wood.—strangulated Inguinal Hernia; Descent of Intestine in a distinct Sac behind a large Hydrocele. Lancet, Feb. 26ih, 1859. Dieulafoy.—Three Cases of Inguinal Hernia reduced "en masse." (Journ. de Toulouse, May, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. i, 1859.289 HERNIA. Perrin—Scrotal Hernia; a second Sac. (See. Med. demulalion. L'Union, 1858.) Schmidt's Jalirb., No. I, 18,159. " ' Hartung.-Formation of a Poucli or Pocket of tlic Sac in Strangulated Inguinal Hernia, by the separation of the fascia transversalis from tlie mu'=el transv (Deutsche Klinik, 20, 1858.) Schmidt's .Tahrb., No. i, 1859. Eedfern Davies.—Femoral and Ventral Hernia Radically Cured. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 158, 1859. Redfern Davies.—On the Radical Cure of Hernia, with an Account of an Im. proved Instrument, and Notes of Forty Cases, lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. Lister.—Two Cases of Radical Cure of Hernia. lb., p. 31,"1859! James's memoir contains an analysis of thirty-six cases operated on by himself, and an inquiry into the causes of death. He notices the extreme rarity of strangulated inguinal hernia in females though this form of hernia, without strangulation, has been shown to be not infrequent. The difficulty of diagnosis in the female, when the hernia is so large that Poupart's'ligament cannot be traced, is alluded to, and an additional sign is pointed out, VIZ., if true inguinal, the hernia, escaping through the ring must descend into the groin and labium; but when femoral and large, the tumour moimls toAA^ards the spine of the ihum With a single exception, James had opened the sac. As an auxiliary means to the taxis, he thinks that tobacco cannot be replaced by chloroform as the latter does not unload the capiUaries or excite the peristaltic action of the bowels. PouPEUT discusses the treatment of omentum which cannot be reduced on account of its volume, induration, and adhesions or Its gangrenous condition. Richter and many others are quoted to show that deligation is not only unnecessary, but even iniu- nous; unnecessary, because the bleeding after excision of the omentum is slight, and injurious, because the ligature provokes suppuration. If tlie spontaneous separation of the gangrenous omentum is waited for, a dangerous suppuration is maintained, ami the recovery is tardy. Haemorrhage, which is regarded as the great danger of resection, is shown from several authorities not to be a catisc of anxiety; but whilst deligation en masse IS reprehensible, it may be requisite to tie the vessels separatX K.chter advises the cut to be made througli the gang enoX ,t^e' Sin tile b^^^^^^ Tl *r to be tlirown off ecoL 1 ' • ' other hand, strongly recommends the incision to ])e carried througli healthy tissui. 19290 REPORT ON SURGERV. Demarquay lias remarked tliat dangerous inflammation oftens follows the reduction of omentum, in confirmation of which he cites three cases. Heath's patieut, ret. 55, had had an umbilical hernia for twenty years. It was as large as the fist, and had been strangulated two days. The apertiu'c in the abdominal walls was immediately below the navel, and its margin having been divided downwards, the gut was returned. Heath then dissected the sac from its connexions and passed a double tluread tlirough its base, and through a large piece of adherent omentum, after Avhich he cut both the sac and omentum away. The subsequent treatment consisted of the free exhibition of opium. The M'ound healed without any ajipearance of protrusion. EuiCHSEN, after alluding to the common form of congenital hernia in which the testis is in the scrotum, calls attention to a second and more uncommon form of hernia, -where the testis has been retained above the external inguinal ring, and adduces some cases of tliis nature. Eavoth reports an inguinal hernia in a boy fourteen months old. A truss had been worn from the sixth month, the spring broke, the bowel came down and became strangulated. Porty-eight hours after the onset of the symptoms Eavoth operated. The large size of the swelling made it probable that the caecum formed part of the pro- trusion. The sac was imopened, the ring dilated with a blunt hook, and the contents retm-ned without further difficulty. Cicatriza- tion was complete on the twenty-first day. Eeference is made to seventeen cases of herniotomy in children, nine of which proved fatal. ' Cuuling's patient, eet. 60, had had an irreducible hernia for nine- teen years. Strangulation during foiu- days; the sweUing, as large as an egg, occupied the left labium. The sac was opened; the stricture was very tight; some dark, congested omentum was re- turned and a portion that was adherent and irreducible was cut ott. She died twenty-one hom-s afterwards. The neck of the sac was internal to the epigastric artery ; the conjoined tendon was to its inner side. The strangulated gut was three inches long, claret- coloured, and coated with Ijnnph. . Ill Musset's case, the bulk of the hernial tumour, which was as large as a fist, consisted of omentum, closely adherent to the sac. A small loop of gut was returned, but the omentimi left down It came away in shreds, without any dangerous symptoms.HERNIA, 291 Estevexet's is a case of strangulated crural hernia, \vliere the sac was opened and the bowel replaced. Shortly afterwards, fteces came through the wound, and a fsecal fistula' formed, wlrich gra- dually contracted and healed. In Bezzoxico's case the artificial anus was the result of an inguinal liernia, which had suppiu'ated. The patient, an old woman, aet. 72, first sought medical advice fifteen months afterwards. She was restricted to slops, and after more than a ]no]ith ffeces were passed by tlie rectum, and came tlirough the wound in smaller quantity. The cure was permanent, and she was dismissed the hospital in nineteen weeks. Schmidt reports a case of crural hernia in a vigorous old woman of seventy. The hernia, as large as a chikVs liead, had been stran- gulated and operated on eight years before. Having dined largely on beans and potatoes, distressing distension of the stomach ensued during the afternoon, and the liernial tumour became more promi- nent. In the evening she felt a sudden pain in tlie belly and hernia, and some fluid ran do^ii ]ier legs. The hernia had burst, and a loop of gut protruded. A desire to go to stool, attended by straining, only led to a further protrusion.' Several loops of gut (a portion of ileum and csecum) were tightly griped by the rent in the skin. Wlien this had been enlarged with a bistoury, the hernial coverings were found to consist of skin and condensed celMar tissue only. The bowel could not be returned nutil the gas distending it had been evacuated through a small trocar. Thirteen days after- M-ards, the patient was able to go about her house-work. Legexdue showed this preparation at the Soc. de Biologic, Oct., 1857. The neck of the sac was one cen'tim. from the femoral vessels in the middle of Gimbernat^s ligament. This rare form of liernia was first observed by Langier in 1853, and afterwards by Cruveil- Iner, Velpeau, Thompson, Deveau, and Melm. In ADA:*rs and Warb^s case the sac of the hernia was small and placed internally to and behind the hydrocele, which extended upwards as far as the inner rins:. DiEULAFOY, referring to the preceding case of Perrin, advances the opnnon that in all cases of strangulated inguinal hernia in whicli tlie symptoms persist notwithstanding an apparently succe<.s- ful reduction, an exploration should be made; the inguinal canal should be exposed and examined, even when no swelling can be felt In proof of its correctness, lie narrates three cases in which thisREPORT ON SURGERY, 293 measure was successfully adopted. In each of tliem, after slitting up the inguinal canal, the sac was found behind the interior ring, drawn doM'n and opened. Perhin's case Avas an old, strangulated, scrotal hernia, deduction in a warm bath on the fourth dny. The inguinal canal free from swelling, but a moveable membranous fold could yet be felt in it. Symptoms unrelieved; death. The sac contained a little seriun; the neck, greatly contracted, admitted a goosequill only; it cor- responded Avith the exterior ring. There was a second, narrow sac occupying the whole length of the inguinal canal, and in it a flaccid, broM'nish-red loop of gut, attached to the sac by recent adhesioiLS. ILvKTiXG says, the heruial tumoiu-, when first seen, consisted of an upper and a lower part, separated by a constriction; the lower could be partly reduced, but not the upper. At the time of the operation, on the third day, this distinction no longer existed. A brownish-red loop of gut outside the external inguinal ring was returned after division of this part, but came down agaui with every movement of the patient. The symptoms persisted, and death ensued. A large loop of bowel was found in a pouch of the sac formed by the detachment of the fascia transversalis from the trausversalis muscle. Davies reports four cases of femoral and two of ventral hernia, treated by invnginating the integument with a metallic suture. One death took place on the fifth day from perforating ulcer of the colon, unconnected with the operation. The other cases were all successful. He tliinks the occasional failure of Wutzer's operation depends on the non-obliteration of the back of the inguinal canal—" the gut shps down behind the plug." This happens because the pres- sure of the instrument is almost Avholly exerted upon the front of the canal. By adopting a plug, the lower part of which expands on turning a liandle, and so presses upon the back of the canal, Davies has sought to overcome this cause of faihu-e. He appends an analytical table of forty cases. LisTEu's first patient, a dock-labourer, jet. 56, had had a right, oblique, inguinal hernia eight years. The external abdominal nng was relaxed, and the inguinal canal much shortened. Wutzer's operation was performed, and Rotiimund's instrument employed. Tliis was reapplied with a longer needle on the third day, havnig ^.lipped on account nf the shortness of the needle first used. On tlio293 THE URINARY BLADDER. eighth day the instrument was removed^ and the adhesions were ahready strong. One month after the operation there was not the slightest disposition to a retui-n of the hernia. The second, a Liboui-er, forty-nine years okl, had a reducible bubonocele twenty-four years, on the left side. The same operation was practised as ui the previous case. The instrument was discon- tinued on the tenth day. In both cases a small slough formed round the exit-hole of the needle. DISEASES OF, INJURIES TO, AND OPERATIONS UPON, THE URINARY BLADDER. PROLAPSE OF THE VESICAL MUCOUS MEMBRA XE. Patron.—Du renversement de la muqueuse de I'uretre, et de la muqueuse vesi- cale. Seconde partie. [On Prolapsus of the Mucous Membrane of the Urethra and Bladder.] (Archlv. Ge'n. de Med., Dec., 1857.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1857. Patkox found only a single example of prolapse of the mucous membrane of the bladder on record. He communicates the follow- ing remarkable case :—An otherwise healthy girl, foiu'teen years old, began two years before to experience difficulty in passing mine; the stream was sometimes broken, and occasionally a few di-ops of blood flowed with the urme. A year afterwards, she noticed a small, red tumour between the labia, which prevented the escape of the m-ine, but which disappeared spontaneously after two hours. The tumour soon reappeared, and caused retention, which did not yield till next day on the subsidence of the tumoiu-. At that tijue, when Patron examined the patient, he found only a relaxed state of the vaginal mucous membrane; but a month afterwards, when the tumour again made Its appearance, with great pain, he saw a roundish, smooth, red bleedmgsweUing, of the size of a walnut, between the labia majora seated at the meatus urinaiius, resembling a swoUen htemorrhoid. It was tense, transparent, and could be returned without difficulty through the uretlua into the bladder; the introduction of a catheter at once relieved tlic retention of urine. Patron diagnosed a prolapst^ of the vesical mucous membrane, and ordered a decoction of cypress berries for a lotion, cold hip-baths, and iron internally. In spite of this, the vesical complaint progressed; the girl wasted and became29-4 HEl'OIlT ON SURGERY. cliloi'otic. The tumour repeatedly showed itself, and was found to be pedunculated; the peduncle Avas encircled by the urethra, and a sound could be passed on all sides between them into the bladder. The tumour became swollen when it was not immediately replaced. The vagina M^as normal. Horizontal position, the introduction of a large catheter, injections of sulphur-water, cauterization of the neck of the bladder, and sea-bathing, aU failed. Her general condition grew worse, and periodical accessions of fever, headache, and sickness, set in. To relieve this constant distress, Patron decided to remove tliis tumour by ligature. The extruded tumour was encir- cled with a loop of thread, wliich was tied round the peduncle within the urethi-a, at the dei)th of nine centimetres. On puncturing the tumour-, a urinous fluid escaped. A thread was then passed tlirough the collapsed tumour, which, together with the instrument, was pushed further into the bladder. The loop was tightened daily; it came away with the instrument on the ninth day. Tlakes came away with the mine; and lastly,the shrunken fetid tumour, still eight centimetres long, was expelled. The reaction, at first considerable, gradually decreased; the patient made a complete and permanent recovery. Patron thinks that prolongations of the mucous membrane, when they occiu- at the neck of the bladder, may give rise to tumoui's of this kind, which can be distinguished from a prolapse of all the coats by theu" tensity and transparency. EPISPADIAS. Voss-Invevslo vesica uimariaj og Luxationes feraorura congemtiaj hoc some In- divid rinversion of the Urinary Bladder and Congenital Luxation of the H.ps in the same person.] Christiarda, 1857- (Sehnndfs Jahrb., 1858, No. 7, and Vlrchow's Archiv, vol. xiv, i u. 2.) Canstatt's Jahrh., 1859. The coexistence of congenital luxation of the liips with epis^ padias constitutes the pecidiarity of this case. The child wivs a female. The irmbilicus, as usual, was veiy low, only one centuuetre above the horizontal rami of the pubes. The symphysis pubis was absent.STONE, LITHOTOMY, AND LITHOTRITY. 295 STONE, LITHOTOMY AND LITHOTRITY. Statistical Analysis of 177 Lithotomy Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., July 2, 1859. Wise.—Observations on the History of Lithotomy and on the Treatment after the Operation. Edin. Med. Journ., March, 1859. Smith-—Clinical Lectures on Lithotomy, delivered in the Leeds General Infirmary, Jan. ist, loth, 15th, 22d, 29th, 1859. Statistical Analysis of i86 Lithotomy Operations, between January, 1854 and July, 1857. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan., 1859. Adams,—Lithotomy in Children. A Clinical Lecture delivered at the London Hospital. Lancet, Jan. 22d, 1859, P- 78- The 'Modern Treatment of Stone in the Bladder, and its Results. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 20th, 1859. Different Modes of Performing Lithotomy in the London Hospitals, and a Sta- tistical Analysis of seventeen Lithotomy Cases in Provincial Hospitals. Med. Times and Gaz., July 9th, 1859. Statistical Analysis of twenty-one Lithotrity Operations. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- 59- Browne.—A. Case of Lithotomy in which Allarton's Operation was performed. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., Feb. ist, 1859. Brown.—A Case of Allarton's Operation for Stone. Lancet, Jan. isth, 1859, P- 54- Wheelhouse.—On three Cases of Median Lithotomy, vfith Remarks upon the Operation. Lancet, May 28th, p. 531 ; June 4th, p. 551. Hewitt.—The High Operation for Stone in the Bladder performed upon an original plan, with essential modifications and improvements. New York Journ. of Med., March, 1859. Bryant.—Remarkable Instance of Misinterpreted Symptoms of Stone in the Bladder. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- 236. Wormald.—Symptoms of Stone ; Passage of Calculous Matter; Death; Calculous Concretion lining the Interior of the Bladder. lb., Nov. 19th, 1859. Cutler.—A fine Glass Tube in the Bladder of a Boy. Removal by Lithotomy three years afterwards. Lancet, Feb. 15th, 1859, P- 185. Browne.—Allarton's Operation for a Foreign Body in the Bladder. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., July 15th, 1859. Boberts.—Vesical Calculus foi-med upon a piece of Slate Pencil swallowed six months previously. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, 1859. Sautesson.—Formation of Stone around Foreign Bodies in the Bladder. (Hrgeia vol. xviii.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 103, No. 8, p. 217. ' \ -b > Coulson,—Extraction of a Thermometer-tube from the Urinary Bladder Lancet July 2d, 1859. ' ' Wish gives a brief notice of the early history of the operation. The necessity of an improved after-treatment is enjoiued, and irrita- tion of tlie wound by the urine flowing over it is stated to be the cause of death in two thirds of the fatal cases. To remove this29G IIKI'OIIT O.N SLllGEllV. soui'cc of danger, Wise suggests—first, tlie evaciiiitioii of llu; urine before the operation, and its substitution by mucilage; secondly, the drainage of the bladder by a gutta-percha siphon fastened in the M ound. The siphon to contain a cotton wick, which is to remove the urine from tlie bladd(.'r by capillary attraction. The cases reported in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' occurred in London hosjntals. Of a total of 186 cases, 146 recovered aiul 40 died, Tweuty-six of the fatal cases were adults; whilst of 137 cases under twenty years of age, only fourteen died. The influence of age on the prospects of lithotomy is strikingly demonstrated by these facts. The rarity of renal comphcatious in children explains the comparatively little risk of the operation at this age; and conversely, the frequent co-existence of kidney disease with vesical calculus in adults accounts for the higher rate of mortality. The heavier the stone, the greater the danger, is a falla- cious idea. As a general rule, children have smaller calculi than adults ; their immunity, however, does not lie in the smaller size of theii' calculi, but in their freedom from kidney disease. The tables adduced show that at all ages renal disease is the most important cause of death. Haemorrhage, pyaemia, and peritonitis, rank next. Adams recommends the use of a beaked knife in dividing the neck of the bladder. The ' Medical Times and Gazette' draws a comparison between London and provincial practice. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report on lithotrity embraces cases treated in London hospitals between January, 1854, and July, 1857. Of these cases—twenty-one in number—twelve recovered and seven died. In five of the seven fatal cases death was caused by pyaemia. BiiowN performed AJlarton's operation on a boj', a3t. 13, who had had stone symptoms two years. He left the hospital twenty-eight days afterwards. The stone was one and seven eighths inch in its greater circumference, and one and a half inch in its lesser. Brown operated by Allarton's method on a boy, ret. 6. The stone weighed 125 grains troy. Haemorrhage occurred to the extent of a teacupful on the third day, and recovery was complete on the eighteenth. Two of AViieelhouse's cases were chihken; the third, a man, set. 57. All recovered.STONE, LITHOTOMY, AND LITHOTRITY. 297 llEwirr exposed the bladdei-, previously injected with water through a catheter, by the usual incisions above the pubis. The water was then drawn off, the flaccid bladder, raised on the point of the catheter, was opened, the incision prolonged dowuAvards, and the stone readily removed. The wound in the bladder was closed with four silk sutm-es, and the external wound was secui-ed with stitches passing deeply through the abdominal muscles. The accumulation of urine in the bladder was provided against by an elastic catheter passed thi'ough the luethra. More reaction followed than is com- mon after the usual lateral operation. The bladder acted indepen- dently on the fiftli day, and the catheter was removed, but some difficulty was soon afterwards experienced by the boy, the bladder became distended, the jiew adhesions were broken through, and lu-ine flowed out by the side of the ligature. No harm followed; the tracks had abeady become flstulous. On the teutli day the thread came away. The patient was convalescent on the twenty-first day. Brya^jt's patient, a pallid lad, eet. 17, had had an irritable bladder almost from birth, but had never before been sounded. A large stone, weighing foui-teen drachms, was discovered and removed by Bryant. The boy died at the end of a week with symptoms of peritonitis. The left kidney was atrophied, and the right urethcr much dilated. In Wormald's case, the whole inner surface of the bladder was coated with a mortar-like concretion. The kidneys were tuber- culous, and the urethra was ulcerated. The patient, a boy, ait. 19, had been ill a year only. On several occasions impaction of the mortar-like matter in the urethra had caused retention of urine. In Cutler's case, the tube, a capillary one, for holding pencil-leads, had been pushed into the uretlira by the patient, a boy, tet. i %. The calculus which had formed round it was two and a-half inches long. Browne's patient, set. 50, had passed a bone pin, part of the handle of a crotchet needle, doM-n his m-ethra a few months before. Phos- phates had been deposited around it, and the calculus removed by AUerton's operation by Browne measured two and one eighth niches long, and one and a half inch in circumference. lloHERTS relates a case in which a piece of slate pencil, wliich had been swaUowed six months previously, was two and a half inches long, and bluntly pointed at one end. The calculus which had formed around it was from three and a half to four inches lono- by from one and three quarters to two inches wide. It was removed by lithotomy.298 REPORT ON SURGERY, Sautesson relates that a man fell upon a pointed stake, which ran into his perineeum, just in front of the anus. Shortly after the healing of the wound symptoms of stone in the bladder appeared, and on sounding him two large stones were detected. They were removed by lithotomy, and their nuclei consisted of two large pieces of cloth which had been torn from his trousers. Coulson's patient had passed the tube as a bougie into the bladder, and it broke whilst trying to withdraw it. The piece, extracted by lithotomy, measured between three and four inches in length. OPERATIONS FOR STONE IN "WOMEN. Statement of Twenty-four Cases. Med. Times and Gaz., July 23d, 1859. Gendron.—Spontaneous Escape of two considerable Urinary Calculi, in a Case of Vesico-Vaginal Hernia. (Bull, de I'Acad., vol. xxiv, p, 47, Oct., 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol, 103, No. 8, p. 218. McEwen.—stone in the Bladder of a Female; Fistulous Opening from the Bladder into the Left Groin; Operation j Recovery. (Brit. Med. Journ., Aug. 13th, 1859. Genduon says the stones were discharged through an opening in the wall of the vagina, after long straining. Bladder symptoms had existed during eight years. In McEwen's case the neck of the bladder was occupied by a very large calculus, which obstructed the orifice of the urethra, so that all the urine was passed tlirough the groin. Lithotomy was performed, and a stone weighing two ounces minus eighty grains was extracted; after this a second was discovered; the bladder seemed to be tied around it, and it lay in the right ihac fossa. It was removed A«th some difficulty. Its weight was one ounce five scruples. PARACENTESIS AND INJURIES OF THE BLADDER. Coote, Holmes.—Extravasation of Urine. St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Briti Med. Journ., Nov. 12th, 1859. Paget.—On Retention of Urine, Puncture of the Bladder, and Perineal Section. lb., July 2d, 1859. Holt.—Puncture of the Bladder through the Rectum. Lancet, Jan. 8th, 1859- Mercier.—Observation de retention d'urine, causee par un engorgement de la prostate, datant de neuf annees et gnerie radicalement. [A Case of Retention of Urine, caused by an Engorgement of tlic Prostate of nine years'date, and radically cured.] (Soc. Med. Prat, de Paris, et Union Med., 1857, No. 154.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859.PARACENTESIS, AND INJURIES OF THE BLADDER. 299 Tatum—Stricture and Enlarged Prostate, and Puncture of the Bladder from the Rectum. Brit. Med. Journ., March sth, 1859. Gillespie.—A Case of Rupture of the Urinary Bladder. Edinb. Med. Journ., March, 1829. Cusack.—A Case of Injury of the Urinary Bladder. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., July isth, 1859. Coote's case is interesting, on account of the youth, of the patient, a boy, set. 8, and the treatment, which consisted in an incision upon a grooved staff tlu-ough the prostate into the bladder, just as in the lateral operation of lithotomy. The boy recovered, but subsequently applied with stricture. Paget reports three successful cases of puncture of the bladder above the pubes. In twenty-five cases Paget had never seen any bad result, no urinous infiltration, suppuration, nor inflamma- tion. "Without previous incision of the integument, &c., he thrusts a well-curved trocar, half an inch or an inch above the pubes, at once into the bladder, the point of the instrument being directed upwards towards the lumbar vertebrae. Holt tapped the bladder on account of an impermeable stricture; perineal section had failed. Meeciee narrates a case in winch a prostatic valvule had been repeatedly incised, so that the use of a catheter was no longer necessary. Unfortunately the after-treatment was omitted, and a year and a half afterwards the old symptoms retui-ned; they were greatly aggravated by inappropriate treatment. Phlegmonous in- flammation and suppuration took place in the scrotum, and castra- tion of the left testis became necessary. Pive years after liis fii-st operation Mercier completely overcame the retention by excision of the prostatic valvule. Death occurred some yeai-s after from diarrhoea. Two pedunculated tumours were found right and left of the opening of the ui-ethra; they had evidently originally formed a single one. The lateral lobes of the prostate were moderately enlarged. Tatum's patient, set. 70, was admitted with retention; his urine was dribbling away, but no catheter could be got into tlie bladder, which was tapped through the rectum. Tliis was repeated a second time, the canula having slipped out. He sank three days afterwards, The kidneys were extensively diseased. Gillespie's patient lived nine days after the iiijmy. A rent, one inch long, involving aU the coats of the bladder, was found in its posterior wall.300 RKPOllT ON SURGERY. ^ CusACK reports a fracture of the pelvis, witli extensive laceration of the peritoneum and bladder; extravasation of urine; and death on the third day. Commenting on the fatal nature of this accident, he suggests the advisability of opening the abdominal cavity, washing out the extravasated urine with pure w^atcr, and afterwards stitching up the wound in the bladder. URETHRA. STKICTUHES, CALCULI, INJURIES, ETC. Flemming.—Clinical Observations on Injuries and Diseases of the Urinary Organs. Illustrated by Cases. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., January ist, 1859. Wade.—Practical Observations on the Treatment of Urethral Stricture. Med. Times and Gaz., June x8th and 25th, 1859. Thompson.—The "Value of Internal Incision in the Treatment of Obstinate Stric- tures of the Urethra. Lancet, Oct. 15th and 22(1, 1859. Thompson,—Two Cases of old-standing Strictures of the Urethra successfully treated by Internal Urethrotomy. Lancet, p. 107, Jan. 29th, 1859. Leroy d'EtiolleS, Pere.—Observation sur un cas de retrecissement de I'urethre cause par un rupture de ce canal, et traite par I'urethrotomie. [Observations on a Case of Stricture of the Urethra caused by Rupture of the Canal, and Treated by Urethrotomy.] (Bull, de I'Acad. de Med. de Belgique, 2d series, i, 2.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. ITytterhoeven.—Nouveau precede de guerison dans les cas de retrecisseraents de I'urethre infranchissables. [A new Method of Cure in Cases of Impenetrable Strictures of the Urethra.] (Journ. de Med. de Bruxelles, February.) Can- statt's Jahrb., 1859. Civiale.—De I'appreciation des principales methodes de traitement des coarcta- tions de I'urethre. [On the relative Value of the principal Methods of Treating Strictures of the Urethra.] (Bull, de Therap., March isth.) Civiale.—De I'urethrotoraie interne ou section intra-urethrale. Aper9u Hisforique. [On Internal Urethrotomy, or Intra-urethral Section. An Historical Sketch.] (Moniteur des Hop., 1859, Nos. 138, 140, 144, 145, 148.) Canstatt's Jahrb. Boinet,—Nouvel urethrotome sur conducteur pour pratiquer rurethrotoniie d'avant cn arriere et sans dilatation prealable dans les retrecissements rebelles a la dilatation. [A New Ureihrjtonie, or a Staff for dividing the Urethra from before backwards, without previous Dilatation, in Strictures which do not yield to Dilatation.] (Gaz. Med. de Paris, pp. 41 —43.) Can- statt's Jahrb., 1859. Sedillot.—De rurcthrotomie interne. [On Internal Urethrotomy.] (Gaz. llebdom., 35, 37, 39, 41 ; and Soc. de Med. de Strasbourg, May 6th. Gaz. Med. fie Strasbourg, 6.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Heath.—0" ^ Case of Large Calculus removed from the Urethra of a Boy, on whom Lithotomy had been performed five years previously. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 27th, 1859.URETHRA. 301 Henry.—Urethrofomy for Impacted Calculus. Removal of four other Stones from the Bladder. lb., p. 136, 1859. Williamson.—A Case of Fistula in Perineo. Lancet, Jan. t, 1859. Wormald.—Retention of Urine in a Child; Death; Extensive Tuberculosis of the Genito-urinary Organs. Med. Times and Gaz., Nov. 19th, 1859. Demarquay.—Memoire sur la contusion et dechirure de I'uiethre ; nouveau pro- cede operatoire pour rctablir la continuite de ce canal. [A Memoir on Con- tusion and Laceration of the Urethra; anew Operative Procedure to re-esta. blish the Continuity of this Canal.] (Union Med., 36.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Blondeau.—Obstruction traumatique de I'urethre. [Traumatic Obstruction of the Urethra.] (Bull, de la Soc. Anat., July, 1857.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Flemming illustrates tlie clangers of forcible and unskilful catheterism by Uo cases of extravasation of urine following the formation of false passages, and narrates the case of a child with re- mittent fever who had complete retention of urine during twenty-four hours. The urine contained a flocculent precipitate, probably lithate of ammonia. Its scrotum and prepuce were much swollen. Some cases of retention of urine from the impaction of calculi in the urethra are also described. In one very violent haemorrhage was produced by a fragment of calculus sticking in the prostatic portion of the urethra. Wade gives a critical examination of the various modes of dilata- tion and division, with remarks on the use of Potassa fusa. Thompson advocates the treatment of stricture by incision in those exceptional cases in the management of which dilatation proves only a slight palliative. These cases fall into two series- first, long, unyielding strictures, of many years' duration; second, dilatable, but resilient strictures, which are ameliorated temporarily by dilatation, but which recur in an aggravated form. In the fii-st series of cases incision meets the existing evil; in the second series it is used with the additional object of preventing the accession of those bladder and kidney affections which tend to shorten Hfe in severe stricture. The complete division of the stricture is essential to success. Internal division is only apphcable when the indiu-ated tissue does not require a deep incision for its complete division • when It does, external urethrotomy is the less hazardous operation! ihe unyieldmg character of certain strictiues seems to be developed in proportion to their nearness to the external orifice of the uretlira Internal incision should not be performed unless an instrument of some size can be passed through the stricture into the bladder.302 REPORT ON SURGERY. The incision should be made from behind forwards, and great care shouhl bo taken to divide the whole length of the contracted part. This is absolutely essential to success, and the lips of the wound are to be maintained apart, and healing by first intention prevented by subsequent catheterism. The non-dilatability and contractility of a stricture, and not its jncrc narro^Tiess, constitute its gravity. Thompson has generally employed Civiale's urethrotome, the bulb of M'liich nearly equals No. 5; for smaller strictures, Thompson figures an instrument of his own contriving. Trom notes of forty- two cases, he says, that in two only in which incisions w-ere made in the bulbous portion of the urethra was there free hfEraorrhage; and in all the other cases it was slight. He had never seen perineal abscess, extravasation, or pyremia, follow incisions of the kind he recommends. Leeoy reports a case of traumatic stricture, which was twice treated by division through the periuEEum; a relapse, attended by threatening symptoms, followed each operations which was the " boutonniere" performed without a guide. Uytteehoeven has added a sort of cutting cork-screw^ to CiAdale's scarificator. He has employed tliis modified instrument with advan- tage in one case of impenetrable strictm-e. CiviALE di-aws a parallel between the principal modes of treatment, and defends the internal division of strictui-es, because it is simple and certain to divide the morbid tissue without toucliing the healthy, and because the -n ounds, not being exposed to the air, heal without suppuration or general symptoms. BoiNET had used seven times, with success, a shght modification of Bonnet's scarificaieur perfore. Sedillot figiures Maisonneuve's instrument with the improvement that the blade is concealed during its passage to the stricture. He does not employ dilatation with the bougie afterwards, and considers the patient cui-ed directly, in proof of which he reports eleven suc- cessful cases. The first of these were operated on two years ago, and in none has a relapse taken place. Heath says the calculus, impacted in the urethra, formed a tumour of the size of a wakut, in the median line at the back of the scrotum. It was removed through an external incision, and resembled the head and beak of a bird; it measured rather more than two inches in length, and rather less than one inch and a quarter across.303 URETHRA. Heney removed a stone impacted in tlie membranous i)ortion of the lu-ethra, producing retention of urine, through an incision betAveen tlie scrotum and anus. It was pyramidal, and about the size of a bean, and had polished facets. Tour other stones, of similar shape and size, were extracted from the bladder tlu-ough the same opening. Williamson relates a case of gonorrhoea with abscesses in perineo communicating with the urethra; urinary iistula?. He performed the external section; perfect recovery ensued. Wobmald's patient, an emaciated child, nine years old, was brought to the out-patient room, complaining of pain in the lower part of the belly. Tlu-ee days afterwards the bladder was found to be distended; there was some dribbling of urine, and a circumscribed extravasation into the perinajum. Tliis M-as at once incised, and the bladder was emptied with a catheter; no obstruction of the urethra was encountered. The child gradually fell away, and died in three weeks. Both kidneys were found to be totally disorganized by tuberculous deposit. The ureters were filled with tuberculous matter, and the prostate riddled with tubercu- lous abscesses. In front of the bulb an abscess, from tubercle beneath the mucous membrane of the uretlu-a, had burst and given rise to the extravasation. The lungs and mesenteric glands con-" tained large deposits of tubercle, Demaequay's patient, twenty-five years old, had complete division of the uretlu-a, in consequence of a contusion of the perineeum and subsequent suppuration. The ends of the divided canal were two fingers' breadth apart. No instrument could be passed into the bladder. Demarquay made a curved incision across the perinteum, as in the bilateral operation for stone, and cut through the tissues' layer by layer, till he reached the spot where the end of the canal ought to be; he then drew downwards the anterior wall of tlie rectum and found the opening by desiring the patient to micturate He now passed a small, flexible bougie tlu-ough it into the bladder and pushed its anterior extremity through the front part of tlie urethra. Over this bougie he slipped a large catheter into the bladder. Four months afterwards the cure was perfect. Bloxdeau's case, a boy, nine years old, got retention of urine from a fall upon the pennajum, wliich was relieved by puncturino- the bladder above the pubis. Guersant passed a catheter through the abdominal fistula into the bladder, and so along the posterforREPORT ON SURGERY. 304 portion of the urethra, till he encountered the obstruction in the membranous portion. Tlic end of tlie catheter was cut upon, and through this opening a pointed director was thrust through the obliteration. Tlie vesical end of a large catheter was passed through the wound backwards into the bladder, and its free end passed forwards through the penis. The abdominal and perineal fistula closed, and the boy recovered. DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE, SPERMATIC PASSAGES, PENIS, AND SCROTUM. Godard.—Etudes sur la monorchidie et la cn'ptorcliidie cbez I'homme, avec qiiatre planches et figures dans le texte. [Researches in Monorchidism and Cliryp- torchidism in Man, with four plates and figures.] Paris, 1857. Ganstait's Jahrb., 1859. Atrophy of the Testicle after an Operation for Hernia on an Infant. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- '^9^- Holthouse.—Ei)ilepsy for thirt5'-two years in a Man, aged forty-four, with Dis- coloration of the Skin from Nitrate of Silver; Castration. Lancet, Jan. 22d, 1859. B,eport on Malignant Disease of the Testis. Med. Times and^Gaz., Sept. loth and 17th, 1859. Tabular Statement of thirty-six Cases of Malignant Disease of the Testis, lb., Sept. 17th, 1859, De Meric.—Fungus of the Testis in Syphilis. Lancet, March 19th, 1859. Curling.—^lalignant Cystic Disease of the Testicle, the Cysts containing Cancer- cells, Cholesteatoma, and Bone ; Successful Removal. lb., Sept. loth, 1859- Eogers.—Des obliterations des voies speimatiques et de la retention spermatique. These p. 1. d. [On the Obliterations of the Spermatic Passages and the Re- tention of the Semen.] Pans, 1857. Canstatl's Jahrb., 1859. Pitha.—Galvanokaustische Heilung der Varicocele nebst praktischen Bemerkungen iiljer diese Krankheit. [The Galvano-caustic Treatment of Varicocele, with Practical Remarks upon this Disease.] Vortrag gebalten in der Sitzimg der Section fur Tlierapie, April 23, 1858. (Zeitscbr. der k. k. Gesellschaft d. Aertz zu Wien., Nos. 20, 21.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. j^ge —Case of Varicocele treated by Subcutaneous Section of the Veins. Brit. Med. Journ., Feb. slh, 1859. Kelaton.—On Varicocele. (Gaz. des Ilopit., No. 88, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 4, 1859. Gillespie. — New Treatment of Hydrocele. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. loih, 1859. Young.—New Treatment of Hydrocele. lb., p. 207. Guinlan.—On t''^ Radical Cure of Hydrocele by the Introduction of Iron Wire. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., April 1st, 1859.305 DISEASES OF THE TESTICLE. Very-De I'hydrocele de la tunique vaginale, et de la cure radicale par un nouveau precede. [On Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis, and of its Radical Cure by a New Method.] Paris, 1858, These. Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Report on Amputation of the Penis for Epithelial Cancer. Med. Times and Gaz., Oct. ist, 1859. Walton.—Elephantiasis of the Scrotum—Operation and Result, with Remarks, lb., Aug. 6th, 1859. GoDAED gives a complete account of the unclesceuded testis, and all the circumstances associated with this condition. He states, that undescended testis does not secrete spermatozoa. HoLTHousE castrated an epileptic patient, but the fits continued afterwards. The 'Medical I'imes and Gazette' gives a summary of the cases wliich have been recorded in tliis journal during the last six years. De Memc points out the rarity of this complication of sypliilis, and reports a case in which he had removed the protruded fungus and degenerated testis. A similar case is quoted from EoUet. In Curling's case the cysts were numerous, and varied from one eighth to one inch and a quarter in diameter. Some meshes of the tumour were filled with colloid, others with encephaloid matter. EoGEUs classifies the causes of obliteration of the seminal passages under—I. Anomahes of development; 2. Wounds; 3. Inflamma- tion; 4. Compression; 5. Calculi; 6. Tuberculosis; 7. Degenera- tion of the walls of the canal. Obliterations from the first cause are very rare; they are explained by the separate development of the testis and its excretory duct. The author thinks, that many cases of irritable testis (Cooper) depend on retention of semen in con- sequence of obstruction of the duct. PiTHA first encircles the bundle of enlarged veins with a strong platinum wu:e, which he then heats with a galvanic battery and cuts them through. He does tliis at two points. The section is easy, and the divided surfaces as smooth as if made with a sharp knife. There is no hajraorrhage. Lee having passed two needles three-quarters of an inch apart beneath the dilated veins divided them subcutaneously between the needles The principle being, to allow the cellular connections on each side to form a vascular union across the divided vessels Nelaton in most cases advocates palliative treatment^by an india- rubber nng. The testis should be pushed upwards towards tlie . abdominal ring, the dependent portion of scrotum, emptied by pres- ' 20REPORT ON SURGERY. 306 siire and encircled by tlie ring, the ends of wliicli are to be made fresh, in order that they may join. Nelaton says he liad often made cnres in tliis Avay. GiLi-ESPiE relates two cases of hydi'ocele which he had treated by the wu-e-seton. Suppuration ensued in both cases. Young records two cases of liydrocele of the tunica vaginalis which he treated successfully with a seton of fine ii'on wires. QuiNLAN treated a case with a seton of eight tlneads of iron wire. The inflammation was as great as usually follows the treatment by iodine-injectionj wliich he liad undergone two years previously for a liydrocele of the left side. Depee, adopting Metz's proceeding, caustics lightly the interior of the tunica vaginalis with sulphate of silver, introduced upon a probe through an ordinary trocar. He reports ten successful cases. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report contains particulars of thirty-five cases. Walton reports a case of elephantiasis, where the scrotum weighed eight or nine pounds. He removed as much of it as he could, having provided against haemorrhage by previously tjang the parts beyond the line of the intended incisions. Tlie patient made an excellent recovery. WOUNDS, AND DISEASES OP THE BLOOD-YESSELS. Porter,—Case of Penetrating Wouud of the Abdomen. Division of tlie Left Renal Artery. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., April ist, 1859. Patterson.—Aneurism of the Left Internal Carotid Artery. Edinb. Med. Jour., Feb., 1859. Stanley.—Ligature of the Common Carotid, on account of Hemorrhage following the Puncture of an inflamed Tonsil. Med. Times and Gaz., 29th Oct., 1859. Stanley.—Axillary Aneurism of Seven Months' Growth in a Soldier; DeUgation of the Subclavian Artery in the third part of its course; Death on the third day. Lancet, p. 55, July 15th, 1859. Clarke (Le GrOS).—Successful Deligation of the Subclavian Artery for Aneurism of the Axillary Artery. Med. Times and Gaz., April 9th, 1859, p. 365. Clarke (Le GrOS).—Axillary Aneurism; Ligature of the Subclavian Artery; Death ; Autopsy. lb., 1859, P- 237- Green.—Femoral Aneurism in a Man, seventy-five years of Age, cured by Pressure. Brit. Med. Jouru., ist Jan., 1859. Teale.—I'oi'liteal Aneurism treated by Corapressiou and Manipulation. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859, P- ^^5- Childs.—Popliteal Aneurism treated by Compression. lb., 1859, p. 59. Bone.—On a Case of Aneurism of the Right Popliteal Artery, terminating in Re- covery witbout Ligature of the Vessel. Lancet, p. 314, March 26th, 1859.WOUNDS, AND DISEASES OF THE BLOOD -VESSELS. 307 Pemburton.—Aneurism of the Popliteal Artery successfully treated by Flexions and Compression. lb., 3d Sept., 1S59. Ward.—Aneurism of the Riglit Popliteal Artery; Compression Treatment; Sloughing over the Artery; Ligature; Recovery. Med. Times and Gaz., ist Oct., 1859. A Case of Popliteal Aneurism ; Ligature of the Femoral Artery; Return of the Disease; Amputation. Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859. Bulteel.—Wound of the Femoral Artery near its Termination ; Single Ligature in Scarpa's Triangle ; Recovery without Secondary Hferaorrhage. Hawkins.—Rupture of the Popliteal Vessels; Amputation. °Brit. Med. Journ., 29th Jan., 1859. ' PoRTEE relates that a woman was stabbed in the left side of the belly, and fatal collapse rapidly ensued. The weapon went through the cartilages of the false ribs; transfixed the stomach and divided the left renal artery. The cavity of the beUy was fiUed with- blood, but none was found in the stomach. Patterson says a sempstress, eet. 47, was seized with' slight paralysis of the right arm on the loth of July, dm-ing two or three weeks previously vision had been much impaired; on the 37th she had sudden coma, next day the left pupil was exceedingly contracted, and the right dilated. Death at nine a.m. on agtli. The fissure of sylvius and left cerebral hemisphere were covered with a layer of semi-coagulated blood. A small aneurism of the internal carotid artery was found close over the optic foramen, and the haemorrhage had flowed from a rent in its posterior wall. Stanley's patient, a deHcate man, twenty-four y ears-old, had a punc- ture made in liis left tonsil wliich was inflamed. Considerable bleedina- ensued, but he was able to walk home. On the foui-th night, bleedinS to about a pint occurred; it was arrested by the solid nitrate of silver. On the following morning, between ten and two o'clock, another loss of florid blood to one and a half pint. Ice was appHed, and dunng the next twenty-four hours very little blood was lost • but then a fourth hfemorrhage took place, and after a consultation, Stan- ley put a ligature upon the common carotid artery. Stanley's deligation of the subclavian artery occupied fifty-eia-ht nnnutes. At the autopsy diffuse suppuration of the ceUular tisSie of tlie neck, extending to the ant. mediastinum, was found, and the right pleural cavity contained one and a half pint of curdy serum In Clarke's case the aneurismal tumour was as large as a sma'u billiard ball; its pulsation could be stopped bv pressure on the308 R14P0RT ON SURGERY. artery above the collar-bone, and it immediately ceased when the vessel was tied. The ligature separated on the nineteenth day, and tlie patient recovered rapidly. Clarke's second patient, set. 40, was an engineer, of dissipated habits. The aneurism occupied the upper part of the axilla. It seemed to have commenced four or five months before, suddenly, Avhilst at M'ork. The subclavian artery was tied in the third part of its course. No cldoroform was given. Secondary haemorrhage oc- curred on the foui'teenth day, and recurred several times on the three following days, the patient dying on the fourth. Sectio cadaveris.— 1'he subclavian artery was completely divided. The ends, half-an-inch apart, and both open, the proximal without any clot; but the distal end, one inch distant from the aneurism, contained a semifluid clot. Semiflmd blood surrounded the end of the vessel and filled the clavicular triangle. The sac was thin and contained but little clot. In Green's case, the tumour, the size of a small hen's egg, was at the lower end of the superficial femoral artery. Pressure was made with two pear-shaped leaden weights over the upper part of the vessel. A complete cure was obtained. Teale treated an oval anem'ism, about the size of a small lemon, in the left ham by digital compression of the femoral artery against the pubes, from the a6th to the 30th of October, during twelve hours each day. After this date, a ring tourniquet was applied. The swelling became a little smaller, harder, and pulsation was less strong. November 12th and 14th, Teale manipulated the sac, with a view to disturb the fibrine within it; and, an hour and a half after the last manipulation, pulsation ceased, and the tumour had become solid. Child's patient was young and healthy. The aneurism at first filled the ham, bulged prominently, and pulsated vigorously. After one week's compression, the tumour had considerably solidi- fied, and a favorable result was expected. Bone's patient, set. 37, was in broken health from long service in the East Indies. The aneurism was recent. The treatment con- sisted in compression and the exhibition of salines. Pemberton treated a case by light pressure upon the middle tliird of the femoral artery with a tourniquet, the leg being flexed upon the thigh. In twelve hours the tumour had become hard and perfectly free from pulsation, and a perfect cure resulted.WOUNDS, AND DISEASES OP THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 309 Ward's patient, a coal-wliipper, aet. 51, had noticed the swelling the ham for one month before his admission. Pressure was ap- plied alternately with a meat-fl-eight and Bigg's instrument. Not- withstanding great care, on the fourth day, the skin over the arter^^, at the lower quarter of Scarpa's triangle, begun to slough; and M-hen the eschar fell away, an inch and a-half of the artery could be felt at the bottom of the wound covered by sloughy connective tissue. Granulation commenced, and on the fourteenth day after separation of the slough, the artery was tied in two places—above and below the wound; the distance between the two ligatui-es was two inches and a-half. Good recovery. The ' British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Eeview' contains a case of popliteal aneurism—a quarryman, set. 24. The aneurism increased rapidly, inflamed, and suppuration impended. The femoral artery was tied, with immediate relief—locally and con- stitutionally. Thirty-one days afterwards, when he left the hospital, the tumom- had disappeared, except at the upper and inner part of the ham, where it was about as large as an egg. Some months afterwards, it enlarged again, and burst into the knee joint, when amputation was performed. Death followed on the fifth day. In Bulteel's case the femoral artery was wounded near its termination with a gouge. Profuse hsemorrhage took place, and life was nearly extinct. Deligation of the vessel in Scarpa's tri- angle, four inches above the wound was preferred to searching for, and tying the vessel at the wound. No secondary htemorrhage! Recovery. Hawkins' case is a macliinery accident, followed immediately by great ecchymosis and swelling of the ham, with great pain. Pour- teen days afterwards, gangrene of the leg having occurred, amputa- tion through the lower third of the tliigh was performed. The artery and vein were both found torn across, and the ends were about one inch and a half apart.REPORT ON SURGERY. 310 DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. Stone—Cases of Acute Necrosis followed by Pycemia. Med. Times and Gaz., i6th and 23d Jan., 1859. Curling.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Acute Periostitis. Lancet. Sept. 3d, 1859. Elose.—Die Epiphysentrennung, eine Krankheit der Entwicklungzeit. [On the Separation of the Epiphyses, a Disease of the Period of Development.] (Prager Vierteljahresschrift, vol. i.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Goselin,—Mdmoire sur les osteitis epiphysaires des adolescens. [Memoir on In- flammaliou of the Epiphyses in Youth.] (Archives G^n. de M^d., Nov.) Can- statt's Jahrb., 1859. Bouisson.—Consideration sur quelques tumueurs pulsatiles des Os. [An Investiga- tion of some Pulsating Tumours of Bone.] These, Paris, 1859. Canstatt's Jahrb. 1859. Meier,—Pulsating Tumour of the Bones of the Right Side of the Pelvis; Ligature of the common Iliac Artery. (Deutsche Klinik., 47, 48, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7. 1859. Bowman:—Medullary Tumour of the Clavicle; Successful Removal of the outer half of the Bone. Lancet, Feb. ^ih, 1859. Flower.—Fibrous Tumour of the Scapula, expanding beneath the Bone, and pro- jecting into the Axilla; Successful Removal. Lancet, July i6th, 1859. Haimilton.—Cases of Diseases of the Bones requiring Operation. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., ist and 15th June, 1859. Weber.—Ueber die Veraenderungen der Knorpel in Gelenkkrankheiten. [On the Changes in the Cartilage in Diseases of the Joints.] (Virchow's Archiv, vol. xiii, part i.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Bennett.—New Methods of treating Diseases of the Joints. An Exposition and Demonstration given at Paris, 1858. J. Bailliere and Son. Parts, 1859. Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 8, 1859. Bonnett.—immediate Stretching and Cauterization beneath a Starch Bandage in the Treatment of Inflamed Joints. (Gaz. des Hop., 90, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 3, 1859. Bryant.—Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Joints, delivered at Guy's Hospital. Lancet, pp. 128—155, 1859. Bryant.—On some of the Injuries and Diseases of Joints; illustrated by Cases from Guy's Hospital. Med. Times and Gaz., April 2d, 1859. Skey.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Hysterical Affections of the Joints, delivered at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Lancet, March 12th, 1859. Gjor.—On the Formation of Callus. (Norsk Magazin, vol. ii, parts i and 2.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. LaWSOn.—Case of Fractured Femur in a Child, and Post-mortem Examination of the Bone eight weeks after the Injui-y. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 19th, 1859. FergUSSOn.—Ununited Fracture of the Thigh; Three Operations without benefit; Amputation. lb., July 9th, 1859. Kinlock.—Surgical Cases. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, July, 1859.DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 311 Simbom.—Successful Treatment of a Case of Ligamentous Union of Fractured Radius and Ulna by Drilling and Wiring, after failure of other means. lb. Morgan.—Fracture of the Neck of the Femur in a Young Man. Med. Times and Gaz., p. 137, 1859. Adams.—Fracture of the Neck of the Femur in a Young Man ; Delayed Union, lb. Corner.—Separation of the lower Epiphysis of the Tibia and Fibula: Reduction, lb. Adams.—Separation of the lower Epiphysis of the Tibia and Fibula. lb., p. 163, 1859. Costes.—On Emphysematous Tumours upon the Skull. (Journ. de Bord., Oct., Nov., Dec, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859. lunn.—Compound Fracture of the Skull; Trephining. Med. Times and Gaz., July 23d, 1859. Curling.—Compound Fracture of the Skull; Use of the Trephine; Death on the seventeenth day from Rupture of the Renal Vein. Lancet, ist Jan., 1859. Mumey.—A Series of Cases of Injuries to the Head. Belfast Chir. and Med. Soc. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., March ist, 1859. Birkett.-Compound Fracture of the Skull by a Hatchet, with Hcemorrhage; Re- moval of loose Bone, and exposure of the Dura Mater; Recovery. Lancet, July 9th, 1859. Report on Tumours of the Jaws, and their Operative Treatment. Med. Times and Gaz., Sept. 3d, 1859. Nussbaum.—Ein Knochenabscess im Unterkiefer. [A Bone-Abscess in the Lower Jaw.] (Bayer. Aerztl. Intelligenzblatt, No. 2.) Canstatt's Jahrb.. 1859. Coote (Holmes).—Necrosis of the Lower Jaw from the Fumes of Phosphorus • _ Complete Removal of the Bone ; Recovery. Lancet, July 2d, 1859 auinlan.-Disease of the Upper Jaw; Removal; Recovery. Dublin Hosp Gaz 1st July, 1859. "' Berend.-Discussion sur les injections iodees dans le traitement des alterations osseuses ou articuli^res, et des absces qui en dependent. [An Inquiry into the use of Iodine Injections in the Treatment of Bony or Articular Changes, and the Abscesses which result from them.] (Gaz. des H6p., Nos. 9, 12, and 16.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. ^"^^2?t!w8-9'"" ^"^""^ °^ ^^'''^ Broca (Paul).-On the Two principal Forms of Pott's (spinal) Disease. Gaz des Hop., 42, 43, 48, S3, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., vol. 102, No. c, i8<;o T^c^-;;:, ^^T,"" °' °' ^imes an? Oaz., ^^o^TJ^T:^':^^'' ''''' Head of the Humerus; ^"tS;:;:\t?an.8Th,X'"^^^-'^^^^"^ Price.—Contributions to the Surgery of Diseased Toint. Triti, . ■ 1 j- the Operation of Excision, 'no. i Tr ifnee ^m LT"'. ^^^^^ ChurchilL Pamphlet. London, John312 IILPOIIT ON SUllGKlir. Solly.—Clinical Lecture on Excision of tlie Knee-joint. April 2d, 1859. Watson.—On Excision of the Knee-joint, Glasgow Med. Jouin., Oct., 1859. Erichsen.—strumous Disease of the Knee-joint, with deposition of Tubercle in the Osseous Structures; Excision; Death from Erysipelas. Lancet, April 9th, 1859. Erichsen.—Excision of the Knee. Brit. Med. Journ., March 5th, 1859. FergUSSOn.—Excision of the Knee-joint with a single Incision. lb., Feb. 26th, 1859. Craven.—Excision of the Knee-joint; Subsequent Amputation ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., July 30th, 1859. Kinlock,—Resection of the Knee-joint for Disease of the Synovial Membrane and Cartilages, in a Patient fifty-eight years of age. Amer. Journ. of Med. Sciences, July, 1859. Lister.—Excision of the Patella. Brit. Med. Journ., Sept. loth, 1859. Adams.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Surgical Openings into the Knee-joint. Lancet, Aug. 13th, 1859. Coulson.—Penetrating Wound of the Knee-joint in a Girl, with escape of Synovial Fluid; Successful Treatment by Irrigation. Lancet, Jan. 8th, 1859. Hodge.—A Case of Hydrarthrosis of the Knee-joint treated by Tapping and Iodine externally. lb., Jan. 29th, 1859. Erichsen.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Diseases of the Tarsus. Lancet, June i8lh, 1859. Stillman,—Extensive Caries of the Os Calcis cured by Operation. lb., April i6th, 1859. Hancock.—Practical Clinical Remarks on Resection of the Ankle-joint. lb., Oct, ist, 1859. Hancock.—Excision of the Ankle-joint in a Child for extensive Disease; Recovery with a Useful Foot. lb., April 9th, 1859. Stone describes tliree cases of very acute necrosis of large bones, terminating fatally from pyaemia. CuKLiNG advocates the treatment of acute periostitis of deep- seated bones by early and free incisions, and illustrates its advan- tages by successful cases. Klose describes under this title acute inflammation, commencing in the medullary-membrane, extending to the periosteum, and termi- nating in the separation of the diaphysis from the epiphyses. In the first stage of the disease, dissection shows liyperaemia of the medulla with scattered apopletic extravasations, and exudations under the periosteum which partially sloughs. Subsequently sup- pvu-ation takes place, and the epiphysis becoming soaked with pus, its connection with the shaft is loosened. Deatli takes place from exhaustion or pyaemia. GossELiN shows Klose's "Epiphysentrennung" to be identical with Chassaignac's "Osteomyelitis," but considers both names objectionable; the first because it only indicates the consequenceDISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 313 and not the nature of the disease ; the second because it has been hitherto applied to quite another affection, Gosselin agrees with Klosse's remarks on the absence of oil from the pus, a sign upon which Chassaignac insists. Gosselin describes two forms—the one acute and suppiu-ating, the other clironic and unattended by the formation of pus. BouissoN sajs the characteristic sign of these tumours wliich liave been also termed "Erectile bony tumours," and "aneui-isms by anastomosis," is the union of cancerous and vascular elements. The cancellous tissue is always their primitive seat, the compact tissue is only secondarily implicated. They have an especial prefer- ence for the head of the tibia. The existence of true aneurism of bone without cancer is doubtful, and, at aU events, extremely rare. Pulsating tumours begin beneath the periosteum, or within the bony tissue wliich they expand and destroy. They never attack articular cartilages, and when they break into a joint it is by an extension along the synovial membrane. The author shows from six cases, treated by deligation of the main vessel of the limb on wliich the tumour was seated, that this mode of treatment is useless, and recommends early amputation before the establishment of a cancerous diathesis. Meier relates that the iliac fossa was fiUed with a firm, pulsating swelling wliich also extended downwards beneath Poupart's ligat ment, and occupied the whole buttock. In some parts obscure fluctuation was felt. The whole swelUng pulsated synchronously Avith the heart's impidse, and the pulsation was attended by a beUows'-sound. The neck of the femur was broken. A pulsating bony tumour, "aneurism of the arteries of bone," was diagnosed. Dehgation of the art, iliaca com. was practised as the only^means of checking the destructive process in the pelvis, Dii-ectly the vessel was tied the tumour ceased to pulsate and diminished very considerably. On the following day gangrene commenced in the foot and leg; it involved the whole limb, the wound also became gangrenous, and death took place on the thirteenth day after the operation, _ In Plowek's case %e tumour formed a rounded projection ]n the armpit, which was quite independent of the humerus but followed the movements of the scapula. During its removal it was found to extend as a broad, thin lamella, between the ventral surface of the scapula and the ribs, nearly to the dorsal border of314. REPORT ON SURGERY. the bone; it was not comiected with the axillary margin, as liad been previously supposed. Hamilton reports three cases of exostosis; one of the meta- tai-sal bone of the great toe, the other two of the humerus. One of Weber's principal objects is to explain the intracellular production of pus and the formation of vessels in diseased articular cartilage. BoNNETT recommends the treatment of white swellings by imme- diate extension and cauterization beneath a plaster-bandage; the employment of an exercising apparatus in distortions of the trunk, and the embarrassed respiration dependent on them; and the treat- ment of ckronic disease of the hip-joint. Bonnett points out the difference between traumatic luxations and those which result from strumous diseases of the joints. In coxalgia there are two prin- cipal positions, in one of which the thigh is commonly placed. It is flexed and turned outwards, in which case it appears to be length- ened ; or turned inwards, when it seems to be shorter than natural. Bennett's plan consists in the forcible rupture of the adhesion, under cliloroform; the limb is rotated, flexed, and extended during a quarter or half a hour; the adductors, flexors, and extensors are to be cut, if resistant. The limb is afterwards to be retained in a proper position by plaster of Paris bandages. Wlien bony anchy- losis is present, or Avhen the scars of numerous healed fistulse indi- cate a too strong fibrous union, this treatment is inapplicable. BoNNEiT advocates immediate forcible extension in aU deformities of joints, unaccompanied by organic changes (?). The limb is to be immoveably fixed for several weeks afterwards. Bonnett treats subsequent inflammation by cauterization, beneath a starch bandage, with caustic potash or chloride of zinc. The application is almost painless, and the suppuration very slight. Beyant's article embraces dislocations and fractures of the phalangeal joints. Mr. Bryant shows that however praiseworthy the general rule to save as much of the thumb and finger as pos- sible, yet this rule has its limits. Two cases of luxation of the ungual phalanx backwards and one forwards are narrated. In compound dislocations of the last phalanx Ijackwards the projecting head of the second phalanx was removed when the reduction could not be otherwise performed. Early motion was enjoined to favour the formation of a moveable joint, but this result was not usually obtained.DISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 315 Skey tliinks that in tlu-ee foui-tlis of the cases of diseases of the kuee-joi]it occurring in young women, from fifteen to twenty-five, the traces of hysteria are more or less palpable. Local sedatives in the form of strong solutions of opium are valuable, and should be freely used. Gjoe's prize essay at the University of Christiana contains an historical sketch of the views respecting caUus which have prevailed from the time of Galen, and investigations into the nature of the jorocess. Lawson's patient, a cliild set. 9 months, had fallen on a fender six weeks previously. The plaster of Paris bandage was used. Death was caused by pneumonia. The shaft of the femur had been broken about the middle. The medullary canal was obhterated at the seat of fracture, and the broken ends were ensheathed by a ferrule of pro^'isional caUus. Pergusson's patient broke his thigh at sea. The bones were badly set, and united in such a bad position that when he reached port the surgeons, under whose care he came, advised him to have it re-broken. This was done, but re-union did not take place. Subcutaneous scraping of the ununited ends of the bone; partial re-section of them, and ivory pegs put in them, had failed to pro- duce union; the limb was, therefore, removed. Kinlock's case was an oblique fi-acture of the body of the lower jaw, just in front of the masseter muscle. The broken ends over- rode, and could not be kept in position by the usual means j but each having been perforated by a fine drill, they were tied together with a strong silver wire. Eapid union ensued. ScuLBORN having unsuccessfully used the seton, subcutaneous laceration, and driU, one year after the accident, laid bare the frac tore of the radius, pierced the broken ends with a smaU gimlet, carried a piece of stout silver wire through the holes, and twisted Its ends tightly together; it was subsequently tightened and union ultimately took place. A similar operation was performed upon the ulna with an equally good result. MoRGAN^g and Adams' patients were lads, ^t. 17 and 19 and in both firm union took place. Corner's patient, a boy, ^t. 14, feU from a cart and his foot turned inwards. The signs resembled those of luxation of the foot backwards.REPORT ON SURGERY. 31G Adams's patient was a boy, set. 14. Reduction was difficult, but firm uuiou Mas obtained. Co STES lias made a coUectioji of recorded cases of emphyse- matous tumours on the skidl, with remarks. These rare tumours occur in the temporal region and are due to erosion of the outer table of the mastoid process, which permits the escape of air fi-oin the mastoid cells and from the tympanum. The characteristic signs are crepitation and tympanic resonance, and the tumour disappears when compressed. The surface of the subjacent bone becomes irregular. Lunn's patient, a boy, set. 10, fell down the hold of a vessel and fi-actured his skull. Symptoms of cerebral irritation having set in, a portion of bone was removed with Hey's saw. Hernia cerebri followed, and after death. About four ounces of pus were found under the dura mater. Curling's patient had a fracture in the right frontal region, lozenge-shaped, about three quarters of an inch broad. It was caused by the kick of a horse. The patient, an ostler, set. 40. The trephine was applied the following day, and the depressed bone was raised. No symptoms of compression had occurred; convulsions and death on the seventeenth day. Nearly the Avliole left side of the belly was found filled with blood, which had been poured out from a rupture of the left renal vein, near its union with the lower cava. MuuNEy's series comprises tlu-ee cases of fracture of the base of the skuU and one of fracture of the parietal bone. In two the middle meningeal artery was torn; and in two rupture of the kidney happened, one of which recovered. KiRKET removed several large portions of bone and other smaller pieces exfoliated. The patient left the hospital in six months with the wound quite healed. The 'Medical Times and Gazette' report contains a summary of the cases wliich have been recorded during the last six years. NussBAUM describes an abscess in the lower jaw resembling a cystic growth. He removed a portion of the bony wall with a cliisel and forceps, and effected a cure. Coote's patient was a wax dipper, set. 39, and the duration of the disease was thirteen months. The lower jaw was denuded of periosteum, quite black, and slightly moveable; it was sawnDISEASES AND INJURIES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. 317 through at the symphysis, and the halves were pulled out separately; the left condyle remained. The periosteum began to throw out new bony matter, and a new jaw was in process of formation when he left the hospital. QuiNLAN removed the whole of the upper maxilla including the floor of the orbit. It was laid bare by two incisions, one from the inner cauthus, along the side of the nose, and through the middle of the lip; the other from the same point outwards, along the lower margin of the orbit. The bone was divided with a chain-saw. Berend speaks very decidedly against opening psoas abscesses, maintaining an expectant treatment to be the best. They should only then be opened when the skin is thinned and inflamed. Iodine injections are not to be practised tiU the diseased condition of the bone has ceased to exist, and the abscess only remains. At a meeting of the Societe de Chirurgie, Paris, on the 14th June, the beneficial action of iodine directly applied to carious bone was maintained by Boinet and Vernueil. Chassaignac and Mar- jolm, on the other hand, held that in abscesses connected with canes iodine injections were quite ineffective, and the latter related the case of a cliild with psoas abscess, which he injected tmce with iodine; the second time, at the moment of injecting, the child gave a loud scream, and died two hours afterwards, from peritonitis and iodine-poisoning. At the upper third of the abscess the peritoneum had burst; the iodine had not reached the carious vertebra. BiEKETT reports five cases of fracture and dislocation of the vertebras. Bkoca reduces the various forms of Pott's disease to two heads • tuberculosis of the vertebrae without antecedent inflammation • and caries, necrosis, and arthi-itis, resulting fi-om inflammation of the bone or Its appendages. TuberciUar infiltration of the spongy tissue of bones IS extremely rare, and he had not met with any instance of it inthevertebrce; but encysted tubercular deposits in the vertebras are frequent. The difierential diagnosis between caries and tuber- culosis of the spine is carefully given. Fergusson's patient had sinuses about the shoulder-ioint duiine fourteen years. Grating could be distinctly felt on moving the humerus. The head of the bone, denuded of cartilage and much eroded, was first removed, and then some exfoliations were taken Irom the glenoid cavity. Bryant exposed the joint by a single long incision, parallel tollEPORT ON SURGlillY. 318 the fibres of the deltoid; then cut off the head of the humerus with Butcher's saw. The cartilage had almost wholly disappeared, and the bone was acutely inflamed. The man was up on the eighth day, and out of doors on the fourteenth. Bryant sketches the different forms of dislocation of the shoulder- joint. Skjly narrates four cases; the first of which was a severe com- pound comminuted fracture of the upper part of the humerus. The lower fragment projected to the extent of four inches through a large, lacerated wound. Two and a half inches of the bone were removed before reduction could be efl'ected. Tlus and the other cases happened in boys. A case of dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle is also mentioned. The reduction was not difficult, but the bone constantly resumed its faulty position; it was sub- sequently kept in place by a truss, and the integrity of the joint was restored. Eeichsen's lectui-e contains the history, diagnosis, and prognosis of this disease, which may be mistaken for neuralgia of the liip, sciatica, spinal disease, coxalgia, and disease of the pelvic bones. Price reprints several articles, wMch, during the last two years, have appeared in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' and the ' Lancet,' on the treatment of strumous disease of the knee-joint by excision; on the mechanical treatment of the limb after the operation; and on some of the causes which have occasionally rendered the operation unsuccessful. Watson's analysis comprises eleven cases which had been treated in Glasgow, four of which succeeded and seven failed. Watson operates by a single incision across the patella, and he cuts the bones with a bow-saw in such a mamier that the surface of the femux is convex, and fits into the opposed surface of the tibia, which he makes concave. Solly gives an historical review of the operation, with a report of the cases treated in St. Thomas's Hospital, and du-ections for the operation and the after-treatment. Erichsen's patient, ret. 80, was a maid-servaut. She had alto- gether a tuberculous aspect. The commencement of the disease of the knee dated from four years previous to her admission. The structiu-es of the joint were extensively destroyed, and there were large deposits of tubercle in the tibia and femur. She caughtDISEASES AND INJURIES OV THE BONES AND JOINTS. 319 erysipelas, wliich was prevalent at the time, and sank on the twenty, tliird day after the operation. Ericiisen excised the knee of a woman, set. 30, for strumous disease of the joint of foui- years' dm-ation. She progressed favora- bly for tlu-ee weeks after the operation, and then succumbed under an attack of erysipelas. Teegusson's patient, a boy, set. 8, had had strumous disease of the knee-joint during several years. The articular surfaces of the bones were sa-rni off tlu-ough a single incision across the front of the joint. A very useful Umb was obtained. Ceaven says, three and a haK months after the excision the wound had not closed, and no union of the bones had taken place. The tliigh was amputated, by the circular method, in the upper third. Death on the tliu'd day. Kinlock's patient had been bedridden two years. The disease was of long standing. The patella was removed, together with the articular sui-faces of the femur and tibia. A firm bony union, and very iisefid limb was obtained. For five or six days after the operation opium was freely given. In Lister's case the whole bone was carious, and a profuse puru- lent discharge riin fi-om the knee-joint. The pateUa was excised, and the wound healed rapidly. Pour months afterwards the patient was able to walk without a stick, with the support of an elastic knee- bandage only. Adams recommends that, when the joint is distended with pus, free incisions should be made into it. Erichsen relates a case of caries of the calcis, astragalus, and cuboid bones. The diseased bony tissue was gouged away; erysi- pelas supervened, and rendered amputation of the whole foot neces- sary. A good sketch of the surgical anatomy of the tarsus is given and the subject is further illustrated by examples of disease of the various tarsal bones successfully treated with the gouge. Stillma^Vs is a case of caries of the os calcis, foUowing a bruise on the heel The patient had been previously treated for tubercular disease of the left lung in an early stage. Nearly the whole of the canceUous tissue of the bone was gouged away through an incision below and rather behind the external malleolus. The wound healed perfectly, and the lung-disease became stationary. Hancock's lecture contains a report of four cases, three of which were successful. Hancock carries an incision from above andREPORT ON SURGERY. 320 behind tlie malleoli, across the instep; this goes through the skin only, and should not divide the fascia. He raises the flap of skin thus marked out, dislodges the peronei tendons from behind the external malleolus, one inch above which he divides the fibula with bone-forceps, and removes it, after cutting through the inferior tibio-fibular ligament. The foot and leg are now turned on the outside, and the tendons of the flexor communis digitorum and tibialis posticus are dissected from the malleolus internus, after which the internal lateral ligament is divided. The end of the tibia is now to be dislocated through the wound, and removed with an amputating saw; and afterwards the upper articular process of the astragalus is sUced off with a metacarpal saw placed between it and the tendo-Achillis. Hancock remarks that the success of this operation depends on not injuring the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and on no account should the sheaths of the tendons be opened. Hancock's patient, a boy, set. 6, who had had sHght pain in the ankle for several months, leaped from a wall and injured the painful joint, which became acutely inflamed. When admitted into hospital, there were sinuses leading to the interior of the joint, which was disorganized. The articular surface of the tibia, with both the malleoli and the astragalus, together with the upper arti- cular surfaces of the os calcis, and a large portion of its cancellous tissue, were removed. Six months afterwards he coidd stand and walk without pain. The wound was quite healed. NEW-GROWTHS AND CYSTS. Birkett.—Contributions to the Practical Surgery of New Growths or Tumours, Series iii. Cysts. Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. v, pp. 247—279. Gunter.—Report of Cases occurring in ' Pitlia's Clinie,' 1854-9. Johnson.—Sebaceous Tumour causing Absortion and Perforation of the Cranium. Biit. Med. Journ., March, iztb, 1859. Foucher—The Treatment of Cystic Tumours by the Application of Sulphuric Acid." (Rev. de Th^r. M^d. Chir. No. 2, 1859.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 6, i8s9- Birkett reports a series of cases of cysts of the skin and mucous orifices. He says, sebaceous cysts of the scalp are peculiar hi having a dense homy capside in contact with the tunica propria. This is not the321 SYPHILIS. true cyst-wall altered by pressure, as formerly supposed, but it cou- sists of laminated epithelium, as was demonstrated by Prescott llewett iu his lectures at the Koyal College of Surgeons. The ex- cision of the fibrous tunic does not seem to be so necessary in these, as in other tegumentary cysts; but when large and of long duration, and Avlien they have been inflamed, its removal is necessary. He points out the resemblance of some cystic and follicular growths which have suppurated, and are filled with granulations, and which exude a fetid sanies, to some varieties of cancer, and insists on the excision of every portion of the new growth. Small growths from the mucous follicles of the lip occasionally simulate epithelial caucer, and Birkett tliinks many cases of irlceration of the lip stated to be cancer, have been of this nature. He thinks that ranula, formed by dilatation of Wharton's duct, is extremely rare, and he does not record any case of this kind. He believes that, in most instances, subbngual cysts depend on a morbid state of Eivini's glands which are small vesicles in the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, and at the sides of the tongue. The injection of stimulating fluids often fails, and the most certain mode of cure is, by exciting suppuration. Gdnteu's report includes thi-ee cases of unusually large ranula. In two of them, a bristle could be passed through the orifice of Wharton's duct into the cavity of the cyst. Johnson's patient had a small "subcutaneous dermoid cyst" (Lebert) upon the forehead. It adhered firmly to the periosteum, and after its removal, a perforation was found in the subjacent bone, PoucHEB, firmly presses a pen dipped in the acid upon the centre of the swelling for four or five minutes. Simultaneously with the separation of tlie eschar, the cyst itself becomes separated from the surrounding tissues, and both may be pidled away together without pain or bleeding. SYPHILIS. lee.—Clinical Lecture on Sypliilitic Inoculation. Lancet, Jan. 29tli, 1859, P- 103 Ricord.—Lectures on Chancre, delivered by .M. R., Surg, to Hop. du Midi Paris" Published by Mr. Fournier, vvitli Notes and Cases, and translated from the French by C. F. Maunder, F.U.C.S., &c. 8vo, cloth, 8s. London, 1859, J- Churchill. Lbe teaches that those primary sypliilitic sores wliich axe charac- terised by specific adhesive inflammation, and which do not, unless 21333 RKPOIIT ON SLllGEllY. irritated secrete pus, arc not readily iuociilablc in the ordinary way ; but that the same sores, Avlieii irritated, do fui-iiish a secretion, inoculation with which produces some form of specific inflammation. EicoED insists upon two distinct kinds of chancre—the simple and the iiofecting, of these the simple chancre is the more common; it is very often nuiltiple; and occurs upon all ])arts of the Ijody except on the head. It is in the highest degree contagious, and confers no immunity against subsequent ones. Its propagation is favoured by a breach of surface in which case the inoculation is immediate; but, the unbroken surface of the skin or mucous mem- branes may become vesicated in consequence of the acridity of the chancrous pus, and the cuticle being raised, the denuded surface is contaminated; this is what Bicord terms " retarded inoculation." Chancrous pus long retains its virulence. Eicord has inoculated successfully with pus, which had been preserved in a stoppered bottle during seventeen days. Both the simple and infecting chancres commonly, though not invariably, commence as pustules. The diagnosis is founded on the state of the base, and of the nature of the buboes which accompany them. In the simple chancre this is soft; or if it be firm, its hardness resembles the brawny consolidation around aboil, and is very different from the cartilaginous induration of the infecting chancre. The bubo from a simple chancre is acute; it occurs in the superficial glands of which one only is inflamed, and this does not contaminate its neighboiu-s. It may be caused—first, by simple mitation, in which case it is a sunple adenitis that may be resolved, or may end in abscess ; or, secondly, it may result from the dii-ect transmission of virulent chancrous pus from the surface of the sore along the lymphatic vessel to the interior of the gland which it inoculates. The gland thus contaminated, necessarily sup- purates, and finishes a virident pus. The edges of the simple chancre are perpendicular as if punched out; it tends to spread siiperficially, and is more prone to phagedena than the indm-atod one;. The' only certain sign is its inoculability. The simple chancre is a local, and never a constitutional affection; hence local treatment is alone necessary. The destruction of the specificity of the chancre, and its consequent change into a simple idcer, is best attained by caiiterization. Tor this piu-posc, llicord prefers a paste made by mixing sulpluu-ic acid with vegetable charcoal. It cauterization f^iil, or it be objected to, sijnple astringent lotions M ill office in case the chancre be not spreading; but if it extends, theSYPHILIS. 323 " via aromatiqiic" slioiJd be used. Pliagedeua is to be ai-rested by oue-drachm doses of the potassio-tartrate of iron taken three times a day, and by dressing the sore twice daily with the same solution. Ricord de])recates the use of fatty matters, particularly those contain- ijig mercury as beiug most iujuiious to chancres. The simple chancre is transmitted to a person who has never had syphilis, only in the form of a simple chancre. The infecting chancre has sloped edges and not cupped; its base is indiu'ated, the hardness being elastic and cartilagi- nous, and abruptly circumscribed. Tliis induration never precedes ulceration. It begins in the &st Aveek, and developes itseK during the second. In chancres, on the verge of the anus and upon the mucous membrane of the vagina, it is but slightly marked; and here it feels like a piece of parchment subtending the siu'face of the chancre. This peculiar indm-ation of the base of the infecting chancre may be masked for a time by simple inflammatory swelling, but it becomes obvious Avhen the latter subsides. The infecting chancre is generally a sohtary one, but it is occasionally multiple. It gives rise to an indolent multiple bubo wliich does not, of itself, suppurate, although it is not insusceptible of suppuration, and abscesses may, indeed, ■ result from struma, &c. The indurated indolent bubo is a very per- sistent symptom. There can be no infecting chancre without an indurated symptomatic bubo. When indurated, the chancre is no longer a pm-ely local affection. The indiu-ation is the &st symptom of a diathesis; it is the prelude to constitutional syphilis, and is neces- sarily followed by the symptoms peculiar to syphilis within six months. In non-s3i)hilitic subjects the infecting chancre is always trans- mitted in the same species. _ EicoED divides syphiUs into tlu-ee stages :—i. Indurated chancre with corresponding bubo. 2. Within the first few months, affections of the superficial tissues, the skin and mucous membranes. 3. Mec- tions of the deeper tissues, wliich rarely appear before six months. The virus is only inoculable diu-ing the first period. The indu- rated chancre is never produced more than once in the same subject. Inoculation with the virus of an indiu-ated chancre, performed upon a person who has ah-eady had such a chancre, is either sterile, or it gives rise to a sore M-ith a soft base, resembling a simple chancre in appearance, but propagating itself in a third healthy person as an mclurated chancre. Kicord has never seen constitutional symptoms iollow a chancre that has been destroyed within the first four days lie therefore cauterizes and kiUs syphilis in the germ. When mk\.REPORT ON SURGERY. 324 ration is present, Eicorcl gives mercury at once. He prefers tlie internal exhibition, bnt wlien this is inadmissible, he employs inunr- tion or fumigation. Salivation is not desirable, but if it should ha])pen, he arrests it with chlorate of potash, two scruples to one di'achm of M'hich are to be given daily. The mercurial is followed by a course of iodide of potassium, one scruple to three scruples a day. Li a resume of these lectures, llicord teaches the unity of the syphilitic virus, and the existence of a second venereal or clian- chrous pus, wliich gives rise to the simple chancre, and is indepen- dent of syphilis. The latter half of the book is an appendix of notes and cases, to which is tacked on a description of a urethrotome con- trived by the translator. TETANUS. Elichsen. — Pfictical Clinical Remarks on Tetanus. Lancet, Feb. 261I1, i8-;9, p. 206. Canton.—Traumatic Tetanus from a Lacerate(l|Wound of the Forearm and Radial Artery. Treatment by Belladonna and Cliloroforra. Fatal result. II)., Feb. 5tli, 1859. P- 133- Hughes.—Traumatic Tetanus following a Simple Fracture of the Fore Arm. Median Nerve found stretched over the spiculated upper fragment of the Ulna. Dublin IIosp. Gaz., Feb. 1st, 1859. Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. Glasgow Med. Jouvn., July,- 1859, pp. 197—204. M'Ghie—Two Cases of Traumatic Tetanus. lb., Oct. 1859, p. 321. EmcHSEN advocates the division of the nerve leading from the wound in acute traumatic tetanus. Hughes relates that a girl, set. 7, feU and broke her forearm. She went on well for several days, when acute tetanus set in, and death took place two days afterwards. The median nerve was found stretched over and in close contact with the spiculated supe- rior fragment of the broken ulna. The ' Glasgow Medical Journal' gives a report of three cases; one treated with cannabis incUcus, one with chloroform, and one with digitalis. All died. In botli M'Gjiie's cases tetanus followed a severe crush of the foot, and both were treated with cannabis indicus. One recovered.DISEASES AND WOUNDS OF THE EYE, ETC. 325 DISEASES AND WOUNDS OF THE EYE AND ITS APPENDAGES. Dixon.—A Guide to the practical study of Dieases of the Eye. Post 8vo, cloth 9s. London, John Churchill. Cooper.—On Wounds and Injuries of the Eye. 8vo, cloth 12s. London, John Churchill. Martin.—On Diseases of the Eye, their modifications, &c., as observed in India. Brit. Med. Journ., Jan. 15th and 22d, 1859. Sichel.—On Epithelioma of the Eye and its Appendages. (Gaz. Hcbdom. 1858, vol. V, pp. 9, 12.) Schmidt, Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Gyyomar.—Re.herches sur les ophthalmies contagieuses. Quelqiies mots sur les urethrites contagieuses. [Researches in the Contagious Ophthalmia. A few words on Contagious Inflammations of the Urethra.] These, p. 1. d. in Med. Paris. Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 4, 1859. VanRoye.—Betrachtung ilber die Entwicklung's und Verbreitungsweise der Ojih- thalmia granulosa, purulenta, contagiosa. [An Inquiry into the Origin and Mode of Propagation of Granidar, Purulent, Contagious Ophthalmia.] Aus. Prof. Phny's KUnik.) Journ. de Med. Bruxelles. Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. £endZ.-Quelques considerations sur la nature de I'oplithalmie militaire par rap. port a son appantion dans I'armee danoise en 1851. [Some Reflections upon the nature of Military Ophthalmia with reference to its appearance in the Danish army in 1851.] M^m. presents au Congres d'Ophthalmologie de Bruxelles, session 1857. Copenhagen, 1858. Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. Valentmi -Ueber die im Fueselier Bataillon des k. Preuss. Franz. Regiment's beobachteten und behandelten Erkrankungen der Conjunctiva. [On the Diseases of the Conjunctiva observed and treated in the Fusilier Batallion of the Royal Pi-ussian Franz Regiment.] (Deutsche Klinik, No. 10.) Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. ' MoeUer -Bericht des Prof. Bcndz an das k. daenische Krlegsministerium Ul,er die Verhandlungen des Opthalmologischen Congresses zu Bruessel, 18,7, die M.htaer Augenkrankheit betreffend. [Prof. Bendz's Report to the Roval Danish War-Ministry on the Proceedings of the Ophthalmdogical Congress, held at Brussels 1857, ^viih reference to Military Eye Diseases.] (Deutsche Klinik, No. 30.) Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. Warlemont.-Die sogen Ophthalmia militaris auf den Congress zu Bruessel Antwort au J. F. Vlemincka. [The so-called Military Ophthalmia, at the Brussels Congress A Reply to J. F. Vlemincka.] Annales d'occulist, M ^ Juin, vol. xxxix. Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. wai, Panli.-Memoire sur la nature de I'Ophthalmie d'Egypte. [Memoir on the nature of Egyptian Ophthalmia.] ^wr^^W, 1858. . Canstatt's Jahrb ,8sq Sommer.-Dc ophthalmia ^gyptiaca. [On Egyptian Oohthalmia;] Diss". inau<r 15iiol. S. in 8. Canstatfs Jahrb., 1859. Muller.-Einspruch zur Abwehr irriger Lehrsaetze bei Beurtheilung der con- tagioesenAngenliderkrankheit; nebst einen darauf fol^enden Deii ,.1, ff T Jenseiben Gegenstand. [A Protestation against Faulty'St p^e "i C ntagious Disease of the Eyelids; with a consequent Memoir on this conIIEPOIIT ON SURUEllV. 3:26 Costetti.—Uolicr die Ophthalmia militaris iind ihre Bcliandlung. [Ou Military Ophthalmia and its Treatment.] Lo Spcrimcntale, No. 2, Febr. Canstatt's Jahrl)., 1859. Cordier,—Etiologie de rophtlialmie punilente spoiitam-e. Considerations sur sa nature et sou traitement. [The Etiology of Spontaneous Purulent Ophthalmia, lleflections upon its Nature and Treatment.] These p. 1. d. de Med. Paris. Canstatl's Jahrb., 1859. Stellwag von Carion.—Ueber die Behandlung des BindehautschleimflusBes bei Neugebornen und Kindern. [On the Treatment of the Conjunctivitis of the Newly Horn and of Children.] Jahrb. fuer Kinderheilk, vol. xi, No. 3. Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. De Conde.—Ucber cine neue Behandlungsweise der Ophthalmia purulenta. [On a New Mode of Treatment of Purulent Ophthalmia.] (Ann. de la Soc. de Med. d'Aiivers. Sept.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859- De Conde,—Ueber ein neues Curvenfahren bei der Ophthalmia purulenta. [On a New Method of Cure in Purulent Ophthalmia.] (Annales d'ociilist. Jul., vol. xl.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Wilde.—On Gonorrhoea! Ophthalmia. Med. Times and Gaz., Feb. 27th, 1859. Paoli.—Inoculation des blennorrhoischen secrets als Heilmittel des Pannus. [Ou the Inoculation with the Blennorrhoeal Secretion as a means of Curing Pannus.] (Lo Sperimentale de Firenza, Jan.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Maraeacci.—Pannus der Hornhaut. Heilung durch inoculation blenorrhoischen Secrets. [On the Cure of Pannus of the Cornea by Inoculation with Blen- norrhoeal Secretion.] Schreiber au Prof, Paoli. (Lo Sperimentali di Firenza, Oct., No. 10.) Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Hancock,—Cases of Gonorrhosal Ophthalmia cured under Stimulant and Support- ing Treatment. Lancet, Sept. 12th, 1859. Hulme,—Obstruction of the Lachrymal Passages. A new mode of " Treatment by Dilatation." Med. Times and Gaz., May, 21st, 1859. Wharton Jones.—Unguentum sulphuris as a Remedy in Granular Ophthalmia. Med. Times and Gaz., Jan., 1859. Pean.—On a peculiar Tumour of the Cornea. (Gaz. des Hflp., 1859, No. 53.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 9, 1859. IToizet. —On Staphyloma Posterius. (Gaz. Hebdom., 1858, No, 17, 21, 23,27.) lb., 1859, No. I. Jaeger,—Glaucoma and its Treatment by Iridectomy. (Wien Zeitschr. 1858. u. F. 30, 31.) Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859. Hildige.—On a Case of Intraocular Haemorrhage consecutive to the operation for Cataract by Extraction. Lancet, Sept. 17th, 1859. Daniell. —Suppurative Iritis and Continental Practice, with its results. lb., March 26th, 1859. Geissler.—IlEemeralopia and its Treatment. A Report of Papers, &c., by Deval* Foussagrives, Baizeau, Doumie, Despont, Netter. Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, No. 2. Kuchler,—The Oblique Illumination of the Eye as a diagnostic aid. (Deutsche Klinilc, 1858, No. 48.) lb. Carron du Villards.—On the DifTerent Kinds of Exophthalmos. (Ann. d'ocuhst Sept. ct Oct, 1858.) lb.. No. 3. Foucher.—On a Peculiar Form of Orbital Tumour. Gaz. del Hdp., 1858, No. 14'i lb.327 DISEASES AND WOUNDS OP THE EYE; ETC. Giantonio Gioppi. — Aneurism of tlie Ophtlialmic Artery cured by Digital Conipressiou. (Giorn. d'Ophtalraol., Aprile et Maggie; et Ann. d'Oculist, Nov. ct Dec., 1858.) lb. Vanzetti.—A second Case of Aneurism of the Orbit. lb. Wordsworth.—On a large Cyst in the Orbit, cured by the cauterant action of Iodine on its Interior. Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 20, 1859. Aiken,—E.\ostosis of the Orbit. Charleston Journ., Nov., 1858. Dixon's wovk is the second edition of liis already weli-kiiowii text-book, with considerable additions. Coopee's is a profusely illustrated monograph. SicHEL insists on the importance of an early diagnosis of this disease at its veiy commencement, when sm-gical interference may be successful. The first stage of its development is less generally known than the later ones where idceration has taken place, when advice is usually first sought. Usually one or several distinct, more or less rounded nodides, appear on the free border of the lid, or close to it. They are hard, and either of the colour of the skin, or greyish and semi-transparent. Besides upon the edges of the lids, they are prone to occur at the inner canthus, which is destroyed M-hen they ulcerate. The isolated nodules or beads become con- lluent, involve the subcutaneous tissues, and adhere to the tarsus. Up to tliis period the disease is best removed with the knife, and Sichel recommends a strict autiscrofulous treatment after the opera- tion, because he has noticed this cancer especially in persons of a lymphatic temperament. But when the surface is ulcerated, and the nodule is fixed to the tarsal cartilage or bone, Sichel deprecates extirpation with the knife, and considers the energetic use of caustic more appropriate. Paoli and Mauacacoi report the successful treatment of pannus by inoculation with matter from cases of purulent ophthakiia, from the urethra, and from a case of traumatic ophthalmia. Hancock reports two cases. The local treatment consisted in poi^py fomentations; in the fii-st case a solution of nitrate of silver, eight and a half to one ounce of distHled water, was also used. The general treatment was quinine, porter, and full diet. HuLME having slit tlie punctum and canalicidus, introduces a piece of silver wire, of suitable thickness, into the nasal duct, the upper end js then bent over the edge of the lid at the inner canthusj and cut short off.328 KEPORT ON SURGERY. "Wharton Jones scarifies the conjunctiva, and then insinuates a small piece of the sulplmr ointment of tlic PharmacojKEia beneath the upper eyelid, wliich he rubs over the eyeball with the finger for a minute or two, in order to spread the ointment over the whole conjunctiva, Jones was led to employ the ointment by the idea that the disease might depend on, or be maintained by the presence of a parasitical organism. Peaiicb says, the development of tlie tumour is attended by in- flammatory sjinptoms. The gi-owth fills the anterior cliamber, and is connected with the cornea and sclerotica at their junction, which seems to be its starting-point; corresponding to it externally a ciHary stapliyloma (?) appears. If the front of tlie globe be re- moved, the posterior part is found to be healthy. The growth is semitransparent, semi-elastic, and homogeneous. NoizET remarks that the very frequent occurrence of posterior sta- phyloma in myopia renders it important that every sm-geon should be familiar with this condition. His description of tliis affection is very complete, and embodies the results of forty dissections by French and German observers. The antero-posterior diameter of the globe is always lengthened so that it has more or less the shape of an egg or pear. The staphylomatous projection Avhen single, wliich is most common, is always at the outer side of the optic nerve, encircling it. Occasionally the nerve is compressed or pushed to the inner side of the fundus. It has been found atrophied. When a second staph\-- loma coexists at the inner side of the optic nerve, it is always smaller than that at the outer side. The whole posterior hemi- sphere has been found projecting. Math the optic nerve inserted into the centre like a stalk. The sclerotica is much tliinned, Hke paper. Seen from witliin, the staphyloma is marked by a pearly-white spot, rarely of a dirty-yellowish colour. Early in the disease its shape is a crescent, accurately encircling the margin of the optic nerve at its outer side. As the white spot enlarges it loses the cresccntic shape, and its edge is ill-defined. The sclerotica always retains its fibrous structure. The choroid is stretched, and has lost its pigment. In advanced cases there are black patches at the edge of the wln'U- spot; they are irregular collections of new ])igracnt. The retina generally preserves its integrity, even over the jiearly-wliite spot, except in very advanced stages of tlie disease. The vitreous humour is more fluid than in health, and the back of the lens becomes more opaque in advanced cases.329 DISEASES AND WOUNDS OF THE EYE, ETC. Spnptoms.—Noizet follows Jiiger's division into three stages. I St. The eyes soon tire; and after looking at anything for a little while lachrymation occurs^ and a sensation of tightness in the eye- ball is felt. Objects are distinctly seen. By far the majority of patients are shortsighted. The optic entrance embraced by a white crescent, ad. Myopia notably increased. The elongation of the antero-posterior axis is apparent when the eye is turned strongly inwards towards the nose. The white crescent enlarges at its con- vex border. The macula lutea is yet intact. Looking at near objects, even with a concave lens, is painful. 3d. The secondary phenomena make their appearance. These are varying dimness of vision; great sensitiveness to light; dark spots and clouds; pupil sluggish and dilated; anterior chamber large. Staphyloma i^oster'ms is a common disease. It occurs most fre- quently in young persons. Nature.—Widely different opinions are held. Sichel regards it as an inflammation of the choroid. Jtiger assumes an intra-uteriue sclerotitis as the cause. Arlt mechanical distension by muscular pressui-e. Graefe designates it sclero-choroideitis post. Noizet retains the name originally given it by Scarpa, Staph, post., which involves no theory. Treatment.—{^^xthA avoidance of all occupation which demands efforts of accommodation, attention to the general health, and local abstraction of blood. Jagee understands by glaucoma that morbid state of the eye in which, with or without inflammation, in addition to the symptoms recognisable by tlie unaided eye, excavation of the optic nerve exists. Jilger considers the arterial pulse of little value, because it is not in direct proportion to the degree of tension of the globe and occurs in other diseases. The excavation of the entrance of'the optic nerve cannot be dependent on intraocular pressui-e for Die following reasons, i. It frequently occurs without increased intraocular pressure. 2. It does not take place in other iuflam matory and other processes which are attended with increased ten sion. 3. It does not lessen after iridectomy, whilst other staphy lomata recede after this operation. The results obtained bv jk-er coincide with those by Graefe, only he does not give quite as favor- able a prognosis in acute glaucoma. HiLDiGE relates that the haemorrhage began dming vomiting an330 llEPORT ON SURGEllV. hour after the operation, aiul continued for upwards of tweuty-four hours. Damkl gives a critical renew of tlu-ee cases of suppurative iritis published by Dr. llildige, in the '])ublin Hospital Gazett<»/ October 15th, 1858. Daniel remarks that the disease is quite uiikuowii in this country. He recommends a tonic treatment, and deprecates ])araceutesis of the cornea and iridectomj^, wliich had been employed by Arlt and Jiiger, under whose care the cases had occurred. Daniel doubts the value of iridectomy in glaucoma. KiiciiLEii strongly recommends tlic oblique illumination of the front of the eyeball, by throwing a cone of light upon it with a convex lens, when a careful examination of the cornea, iris, &c., is neces- sary. Caruon du Villard follows the usual division of tliis subject into the following heads, wdiich are illustrated by cases, i. Exoph- thalmus caused by change in the bony tissues of the orbit, 2. Exoplithalmus caused by tumours in the orbit. 3. Exophthalmus caused by tumours in the neighbouring bony canties. 4. Ti-au- matic exophthalmus. 5. Htemorrhagic effusions not traumatic in origin. EoucHEK reports a case of a very remarkable tumoui- at the imier part of the roof of the left orbit, which he supposed to be a dilata- tion of the ophthalmic vein. Gioppi's patient was a woman, fet. 42. The symptoms appeared suddenly during labour. All the chief signs of anem-ism were pre- sent. The pulsation and bruit ceased when the carotid was com» pressed, and the eyeball receded. Digital compression was main- tained by relays of dressers. Eour days afterwards the patient was free from the beating and ruslnng, and the bruit could not be heard with the stethoscope. The tumour gradually diminished. Vanzetti's case, also a -woman, a;t. 49. She had had dilatation of the heart and aorta for five years. The orbital aneiu-ism appeared after the third paroxysm of a severe intermittent with cerebral con- gestion. A cure was also obtained by digital compression. To these a notice is appended of pubhshed cases of protrusion of the eye by dilatations of the orbital vessels, by Wixtek. ■Wordsworth says, the cyst had existed during several years; it projected from the roof of the orbit, and had throAvn the eye for- wards and outwards. Its close relation with the eyeball, and itsORTHOPEDIC SURGERY. 331 linn adhesion to the fibrous covering of the bone^ made its com- plete extirpation impracticable; "VYordsworth, therefore^ painted its interior with a strong alcoholic solution of iodine. Youx months afterwards no vestige of the tumour remained^ and the eye had re- sumed its normal position. AiKiN says, the tumour, first noticed by the patient, a woman, tlu-ee years before, had the size of a hen's egg; it appeared to occupy two tliirds of the orbit, and to spring from its roof. After it had been laid bare by an incision parallel to the eyebrow, not the shghtest interspace could be distinguished between the tumour and the roof of the orbit; both seemed to form one continuous mass. Bone-forceps and chisels failed to cut it, and only a small piece was cliipped off the surface; the hot iron was therefore apphed to it, to cause exfohation. Three weeks afterwards, not the shghtest change having taken place, holes, 4—i" deep, were bored with a fine drill, in various directions, but always parallel to the orbital roof, to avoid perforating this. Into these holes strong nitric acid Avas in- troduced. The portions of bony tissue between the holes became smaller and smaller; in process of time portions broke away; and after nearly foru- months the last remains of it were removed. The eyeball was easily replaced in the orbital cavity, and vision retui'ned ten minutes afterwards (?) Subsequently, during the ensuing month, there were very serious symptoms j violent headache, hot, di-y skm, and great tliirst. A small, fistulous opening remained at the inner canthus, and the eye could not be turned fully inwards, on account of the division of the muse. rect. int. ORTHOPiEDIC SURGERY. Henke,—Contractions of the Tarsus. (H. u. Pf's. Ztscbr., 3, vol. v, pp. 44—82.) Schmidt's Jahrb., p. 2, No, 7, 1859. Heiberg.—An Operated Valgus Pedis. (Norsk Magazin, vol. ix, p. 506.) Sclmiidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Delore.—Pied P'^it valgus douloureux, nach Bonnet's Klin. Vostriigen. [On Painful Flat-foot.] (Bull, de Ther., vol. liv, pp. 489—536, De'c, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 7, 1859. Brodhurst.—Division of the Tendon of the Rectus Fcmoris. Lancet, 37th Aug., 1859, p. 215. Borelli.—Contraction of the Fingers and Hand after Injury of a Nervous Filament in Bleeding. (Gazz. Saida, 45, 1858.) Schmidt's Jahrb., No. 3, 1859. Henke'3 memoir begins with general remarks upon the natureREPORT ON SURGERY. 332 and causes of conti-actioiis of joints. His analysis of the complicated contractions of the tarsus is based on the assumption of two joints, with independent motions and separate axes between the leg and the foot. Of these—the upper one, called by him the " spring joint/' has flexion and extension; and the lower one, the "foot joint," abduction and adduction. The contractions are gi'ouped in three series :— I.—Contractions of the Spring Joint. I. Pes fexus.—The foot is kept in a pointed position chiefly by the approximation of the bones of the leg, by reason of the decreas- ing breadth posteriorly of the trochlear surface of the astragalus, Avhicli become fixed by fibrous adhesions. The posterior portion of the trochlea, wedged between the bones, forms an angle with the anterior portion which projects beyond the bones of the leg, and gradually loses the character of an articidar surface, and becomes adherent to the capsule. 3. Pes extensus.—The heels point downwards, the toes upwards. A lateral displacement of the astragalus, upon which common club- foot depends (according to Cruveilhier and Stromeyer), does not occur. II.—Contractions of the Foot Joint.—(Calcaneo-astragaloid.) I. Pes adductus.—The toes are turned inwards; the inner border of the foot looks upwards, the outer downwards. In excessive adduc- tion, the astragalus presses on the Sustentaculum Tali, and causes its absorption; a defect which Henke has found in all preparations of club-foot. The anterior articular surface of the astragalus eu- laro-es in the inner side, and becomes impressed so as to form an obtuse angle with the neck of the bone. Tliis change is brought about by the inward displacement of the scaphoid bone. 3. Pes akluciiis.—The most important change lies in a subluxa- tion of the scaphoid upon the astragalus. The inner border of the foot looks downwards, the outer upwards. The foot is pointed out- wards and somewhat upwards. 3. Pes injlexus.—ka. excessive arcliing of the sole of the foot. 4. Pes recursns.—T\\Q inner border of the foot becomes flat, the outer convex. The plantar muscles are too weak to support the weight of the body.OKTIIOP/EDIC SURGERY. 333 III.—Cowimmd Cuntractions, 1. Pes fiexus, addncias, hijlexus, or p. varus.—The most com- mon form of distortion. The distinction of a simple varus, and eqnino-varus, is considered unnecessary, because there is no case of varus in which the position of the ankle-joint is not that of equinus. The cuboid bone is twisted inwards upon the os calcis. 2. FesJIems, injlcxus or p. efpihuis, does not occur as a congenital dcformit}'. 3. Pes eiHeusus, injlex2ts, or p. calcaneus. 4. Pes alduchis, injlexus.—Exceedingly rare. Henke ackno-sv- ledges this form only from a drawing by Little. 5. Pes fiexus, ahdiictus, refiexus, or pes valgus.—Mat-foot. In all recent cases Henke recommends Eoeser's plan of treatment wdiieh consists in overcoming the contraction of the antagonistic muscles Avith cliloroform, bending the foot into the position of equino-varus, and fixing it so with a plaster bandage. 6. Pes exlensiis, ahductiis, refiexus.—An exceedingly rare form. Tlie dorsum of the foot lies upon the front of the tibia. Heibeeg reports that the valgus was due to \veakness of the plantar- ligaments and aponeuroses, consequent on rheiunatism. Heiberg sought to obtain contraction of the relaxed fascia by the introduc- tio)i of an irritant; and from previous experience, he employed for this purpose wooden pegs, which he introduced through the canula of a trocar, and then snapped them short off, closing the wound with collodion. One was placed in a line from the heel towards the great too, and another from the same point towards the little toe. Suppu- ration with cicatrization and contraction of the fascia took place, and the valgus disappeared. The operation was repeated on account of a too great laxity of the ankle joint, in consequence of which in walking the foot had a tendency to twist outwards. One peg was introduced in front, and another behind the malleolus internus. Moderate reaction ensued and convalescence was estab- lislied, when tetanus supervened. (The patient escaped with his life and the cure was iraner- feet.—Tks.) • ^ Dklose shortly gives the signs, causes, and treatment of this deformity, and reports a few cases. Buodhurst's case is a badly-united fracture of the femur. The rectus fem. was so contracted, that the knee-joint was nearly im-REPORT ON SURGKRY. 334.. moveable. The tendon was dividecl subcutancously about two inches above tlic patella, to avoid wounding the bursa. The leg could be subsequent I}' Hexed at a right angle, and the motion of the knee was so far free. BoitELLi says that, ou extending the forearm, a tight tlu-ead could be felt under the skin at the spot where the vein had been opened. This was divided subcutaneously, and extension was at .once accomplished. DENTAL SURGERY. Tomes.—A System of Dental Surgery. 8vo, cloth. London, John Churchill. Grimshaw,—Lectures delivered in Steeven's Hospital, Duhlin. Dublin Hosp. Gaz., 15th June, ist and 15th July, ist Aug., 1859. Bruek.—l^ie scrophiUose Zahnaffection. [Scrofulous Affection of the Teeth.] Leipzig, 1859. Canstatt's Jahrb., 1859. Tomes' riclily illustrated manual embraces descriptions of the development and irregularities, the ininute structure, and the disease of the teeth, with their treatment. Bkxjck makes a distinction between scrofulons cases and that from other causes. He adopts an anatomical classification of dis- eases of the tooth-pulp.REPORT ON MIDWIFEIIY AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CPIILDREN. BY CIEAILT HEWITT, M.D. Loxd., M.E.C.R, PHYSICIAN TO THE BRITISH LYING-IN HOSPITAL, AND LECTURER ON MIDWIFEUY AND DISEASES OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN, AND ON COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AT ST. MARV's HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL. MIDWIFERY. GENERAL ANATOMY AND PIIYSIOLOGT OP MOTHER AND rCETUS, ETC. Madge.—Remarks on the Anatomical Relations between the Mother and Fccfus. Fcap. 8vo, pp. 49. Rensliaw, Lond., 1859. Priestley.—Leclures on the Development of the Gravid Uterus. 8vo, pp. 107. Cliiircliill, Land., 1859. Schwartz.—Die Vorzeitigen Alhembewegungen. Ein Beitrag zur Lchre von den Einwirkungen des Geburtsactes auf die Fiiicht. pp. 308. [Premature Resiii- ratory Movements of the Foetus. Influence of Parturition on the Fcetus.l (Canst., vol. iv, p. 465.) With respect to tlie natm-e of the anatomical relations subsisting bet\yeen tlie motlier and the foetus, Madge's conclusions are widely opposetl to those usually received. Tlie " utero-plncental" arteries and veins are, he contends, too small, either to be tlie medium of noiirisliing the foetus, or to give rise M lien niptiu-ed to tlie tioodings atteiulnnt on childbirth; they are only vessels of nutrition to the ])arts in wliicli they arc found. The frctus is noimshed by endos- mosis, throiigli, first, the utero-placental decidua, and secondly <he membrane covering the extremities of the umbilical vessels. ' Htc- morrhages, occur, he beheves, iu consequence of the giving way of llieutcnnc decidun in places and the con.sequeiit opening of theREPORT ON MlDWIl'KRY, ETC. 33G uterine sinuses. The term "maternal portion of the phicenta/' he rejects aUogether. Priestley's lectures on the development of the gravid uterus contain a summary of the more important recent researches on this subject, witli which arc incorporated the results of personal obser- vations. The histology of the subject has received particular atten- tion in this work. In reference to the early development of the placenta, Priestley found in an ovum of the second month that the villi of the chorioi rooted in the decidua serotina became each of them surrounded by a maternal vascular loop, which ramified into capillaries around the chorion villus. He concludes that by continued growth these ca- pillaries increase in size and number, and each chorial digitation becomes wrapped in the coats of the mother's vessels. On the condition of the interior of the uterus after delivery he offers the following conclusions : The muscular substance of the uterus is nowhere laid bare, nor is there any inflammatory false membrane spread over the surface ; when the membranes are thrown off at the end of labour, a portion of the decidua remains attached to the uterine surface, as a protection against external agencies; a new mucous membrane begins to be formed in the latter months of preg- nancy between the decidua and muscular coat, which undergoes a rapid development after the uterus is emptied of its contents; and as it is gradually perfected it assiunes the functions of the original mucous coat. The work is iUustrated with numerous drawings on wood. Schwartz's essay is an inquiry into the causes, nature, and effects of respiratory movements of the foetus before complete de- livery has occurred.' Dubois had observed that compression of the funis excited movements on the part of the child, and that when, the compression being continued, the mouth approached tlie ex- ternal genitals, inspiratory efforts took place, and air, or in breecli cases meconium and amnionic fluid, passed into the air-passages. Krakmer pointed out that fa-tal respiratory movements have an effect varying according to the surromiding medium, and the pa- tulous or non-patidous state of the respiratory orifices. Thus, the oiienings being free and the foetus in the ammonic fluid, the latter will pass into the lungs. If the openings be closed, the en- Inrgement of the chest will produce certain alterations m the lungs, trace'' of which Krahmer professed to have seen. Inspiratory337 PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. efforts are produced, according to Krahraer, by access of cold air to the skin, or impediment to the umbilical circulation. From the fact that tlie placenta is the medium of respiration for the foetus, it is argued that respiratory movements are a constant result of impediment to the foetal placental circulation. The alterations in cases of asphyxia neonatorum are to be sepa- rated into two series: the one includes the consequences and symptoms of gaseous poisoning of the blood; the other, the effects of mechanical disturbances of the circulation. The muscular action of the uterus is the chief cause of impediment to the foetal respiration and purification of the blood. The respiration ceasing, mspu-atory efforts foUow, and these being fruitless, life becomes extmct, the meconiiun escapes, &c. The author believes that the rhonchus heard in stillborn children in process of being recovered betokens previous futile inspiratory efforts. In stillborn children, also, meconium, blood, &c., have been found in the bronchial tubes. The meconium and urine are evacuated, as a rule, in stillborn cbldren before or during birth. The absence of this phenomenon IS not conclusive as to the fact of the foetus being stiU alive: its presence indicates death or danger thereof. TREATISES, PAPERS, ETC., HAVING REFERENCE TO SPECIAL BRANCHES OF OBSTETRICS, ON PREGNANCY AND PAETUBITION. Liegard.-Prolonged gestation. Gaz. des H6p., 62, 1859. (Sch., 0 p 320 ) Case of Protracted Gestation. Boston Jour., May, p. 345, and Med. Times, 40, 263. ^ ' Hecker.-Zur Schwargerscliafts diagnostik. [On the Diagnosis of Pregnancy ] Mon.-Sch. f. Geburtsk, sii, p. 401, Dec, 1858. (Sch. 5, 188 ) ^^^r^r^^T^^""""'""'^ ^'•^'Ke5'=hw"ngerten am Ende der Schwangerschaft [The Os Uteri of Primiparae at the end of Pregnancy.] Mon -Sch f Geb xiv, 33. (Sch., II, 183.) ■ ■ Matthews Duncan.-On the Cervix Uteri in Pregnancy. Edin Med Jour March and .\pril, 1859. * " Braxton Hicks.-New Tests for the Kiesteine of Pregnancy. Lancet, ii. 281, 1059- Schniitt.-Beitrage zuv Lchre von der Entstehung und Bedeutung des Nabel- schnurgera.,sches. [On the Cause and Signification of the Funic Souffle i Scanzoni's Beurage, vol. iii, p. ,73. (Canst., vol. iv. p. 469.) 22338 EEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Mattel.—On the Diagnosis of Pregnancy. Journ. des Conn. Med.-Chir., July and Sept. (Canst., vol. iv, p, 469.) Frankenhauser.—Ueber die llerztonc der Fruclit, und ihre Benutzung zur Diagnose des Lebens, der Stellniig, der Lage u. des Gescblechts derselben [The Sounds of the Fojtal Heart as Diagnostic of the Vitality, Position, and Sex of the Foetus.] Mon. Sclir. f. Geb., xiv, 161. (Sch., 12, 320.) Adams.—On Foetal Auscultation. Med. Times and Oaz., vol. xiv, p. 615. Charien.—On the Retrogression of Labour. Gaz. des Hop., 1858, No. 12. Schubert.—On the Phenomena of Delivery, &c. Bull, de I'Ac. de Med. de Bclg., 2 sen, i, 5, p. 325. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 469.) Simpson.—On the Nature of Spurious Labour-pains, Edin. Med. Journ., Oct., •859. P- 371- Butignot.—On the Prevention of Laceration of the Perinjeum during Delivery. Gaz. des Hop., 70, 1859. (Sch., 8, 194.') Schllltze.—Ueber Erhaltung und Zerreissung des Dammes bei der Geburt. [On Laceration of the Perinaeura during Delivery.] Mon.>Sch, f, Geb., vol. xii, p. 241. (Sch., 6, 305, and Canst., vol. iv, p. 469.) Soanzoni.—Zerreissung der rechten Synchondrosis sacro-iliaca wahrend der Geburt. [Laceration of the Right Sacro-iliac Synchondrosis during Labour.] Allg. Wien. Med.-Ztg., 8, 1859. (Sch., 7, 31.) Bishop,—Case of Extensive Emphysema occurring during Labour. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 412, In one of Liegaed's cases pregnancy was presumed to be pro- longed thirty-eight days, and in another the term extended to 303 days. In " tlie case of protracted gestation/' pregnancy had lasted 330 days. The osseous system was remarkably developed. Hecker finds that, as a general rule, the os uteri is open and pervious shortly before labour begins j in a primipara the pervious condition may in most cases be taken as a sign of approacliing labour. In a multipara also labour may in most cases be expected fourteen days after the pervious condition has been arrived at, Hecker's conclusions are founded on observations on 723 multi- parse and 223 primiparse, HuTEE, in order to determine the disputed point as to whether the OS uteri is open or not in primiparse at the end of pregnancy, examined the condition of the os uteri at the end of pregnancy in 1000 primiparee. The general conclusions are, that in most cases, the external os uteri opens in the last four weeks of pregnancy; that in most cases the internal os uteri opens in the last week before birth, and tliat in only a few cases the external os uteri remains closed up to the period of the commencement of labour. In muUlpam the os uteri, internal and external, opens a little earlier. Matthews Duncan states that—i. The lentjith of the cavity of thePREGNANCY AND PARTITRITION. 339 cervix uteri undergoes little or no change during pregnancy. The shortening felt by examination is, the author contends, only appa- rent ; contracted dimensions produced by the finger's pressure on tlie soft cervix may be mistaken for it: introduction of the finger into the cervix, in commencing labour, vnll afford evidence in favour of this proposition. The evidence of the dissections made by the author shows a marked uniformity of length of cervix at all periods of pregnancy, the general measurement being that of about one inch. Six drawings accompanying the paper illustrate this view. 2. The capacity of the cervical cavity becomes gradually greater as pregnancy advances. 3. The length of the vaginal portion of the cervix, or the amount of its projection into the vaginal cavity, ge- nerally diminishes as the uterus rises into the cavity of the abdomen, though this is not a constant phenomenon of pregnancy. He main- tains also that tlie apparent shortening of the cervix felt at the middle of pregnancy does not extend to its cavity. In the second paper Duncan publishes a letter from Barnes, together with a drawing made by him of the cervix uteri in the beginning of the fifth montli of pregnancy. The drawing represents the interior of the cervix uteri as one incli and a half long. Hicks suggests a method of treating the urine of supposed preg- nant women, by which the appearance of the kiesteine is hastened and its quantity increased. The suspected urine is to be mixed with rennet, in the proportion of two teaspoonfuls of the latter to tliree ounces of mine. ScHMiTT concludes that the funic miffle may arise from valvular defects, from twisting of the cord round the neck, or from com- pression of the cord produced in any other manner. Feankenhausee believes that much information is to be gained by investigating the position, &c., of the sound of the fretal heart in pregnancy. The various modifying circumstances are pointed out, together with the sources of fallacy likely to be encountered. He believes that the sex of the child can be determined by this method of examination, finding that in the male foetus the heart beats 124, in the female 144 times a minute, on an average; but these num- bers only hold good when the observation is made before labour has begun. CiiAraEN cites four cases to prove the fact, that during the latter months of pregnancy labour having commenced so far as opening the OS IS concerned, complete retrogression for several days may occur.340 KEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. With reference to tlie nature of spurious labour-pains, Simpson be- lieves that tlicy have their scat in the uterus itself, and are produced, like true labour-pains, by contraction in the walls of the uterus. BuTiGNOT recommends that in cases where the vaginal outlet is so narrow that laceration is threatened, small incisions be made on one or both sides, near the posterior commissure of the labia. In Schultze's essay the mechanism of the causes or circum- stances leading to perineal rupture are pointed out. ScANzoNi relates the particulars of a rare obstetrical accident. The patient experienced very severe pain in her second labour, the pain being situated in the sacral region. The head was imusually resistant, and all the diameters greater than usual. Severe pain in the right hip and back of the thigh was felt after the labour, gra- dually increasing in intensity ; crepitation M'as recognised during motion, which latter was very painful. Finally, an abscess ap- peared at Poupart's ligament, which was evacuated; a probe having been introduced, passed into the sacro-iliac articulation^ and the diagnosis was thus clearly established. Bishop relates a case in which extensive emphysema occurred in consequence of severe straining during labour. The patient re- covered. PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PAETURITION. A. ON DEFECTIVE CONDITIONS ON THE PAUT OF THE MOTHER. Kussmaul.—D'^ Ueberwandemng des Menschlichen Eies als Ursache der Eileiter- schwangeischaft. [On the Migration of Ova as a Cause or Tubal Pregnancy.] Verhandl. des naturh. med. Ver. zu Heidelberg, iv, p. 102, 1858. (Sch. 5, 188.) Pierson.—Case of Fallopian Pregnancy, New York Journ. of Med., July, 1859, p. 141. Harley,—Case of Tubal Pregnancy. Obst. Trans., vol. i, p. loi. HanCOX.—Tubal Pregnancy. Brit. Med. Jour., 1859, p. 1022. RizzO.—Extrauterinschwangerscbaft mit fast reifem Fotus, Durcbbobning der Scheide durch cinen Arm desselben. [Perforation of the Vagina by an Arm of the Foetus in a Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy.] Gazz. Sarda., 2, 1858. (Sch., 9, 329.) Van Geuns ""fl Schrant.—Graviditas cxtra-uterina. Verhand. Ph. van bet Genoosschap der verbordering der Geneesen lleelkunde te Amsterdam, ii, i, p. 17. (Sch., 2, 194.)PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 341 Miiller.'-Fall von Extrauterinschwangerschaft. [Case of Extra-uterine Preg- nancy.] Aertz. Mittlieil. aus Baden, xii, 5, 1858. (Sch., i, 65.) Waller.—Case of Extra-uterine Foetation. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 99. Heymann.—Geburtshiilfliclie Fiille. [Obstetric Cases.] Pr. Ver. Ztg N F ii 12, 1859, (Sch., 10,81.) ' • •' ' Cahen.—Fall von Gravid. Extrauterin. [Extra-uterine Pregnancy.] AUgera. Medic. Cent.-Ztg., No. 91. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 470.) Chevlllon.—Case of Extra-uterine Pregnancy. Gaz. Med. de Paris, 22. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 470.) Hall Davis.—Ovarian Gestation. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 241, Kros.—Over het sclieef vernaauwde bekken. [On the Obliquely Distorted Pelvis.] 8vo, pp. 146. Leyden, 1858. (Sch., 5, 255.) Meissner.—HUlfswege fUr den Geburtshelfer in Fallen derartiger Verunstaltungen des mutterlichen Beckens dass im reifes Kind unverkleinert nicht hindurch- geleitet werden kann. [On the Treatment of those Cases in which, the Pelvis being deformed, a Mature Child cannot be delivered intact.] Mon.-Sch. f. Gebursk, xi, 1858. (Sch., 3, 314.) Schwegel.—On a Rare Pelvic Deformity. Allgera. Wisner Med. Ztg., No. 40. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 471.) lambl-Ueber das Wesen und die Entstehung der Spondylolisthesis. [On the Nature and Origin of Inter-vertebral Inflammation.] Scanzoni's Beitriige, vol. lu, p. I. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 471.) Bimbaum.—Case illustrative of the Influence of Angular Curvature in the Lum- _ bar Region on Dehvery. Monatsch. f. G. B. S., 35. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 472.) Eaimbert.—On a new Pelvimeter. Journ. de Med. de Brux., Feb., p 138 (Canst vol. iv, p. 473.) Cuppaidge.—Case of Obstructed Labour from Occlusion of the Vagina. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May, 1859, P- i32- Branco.—Stricture of the Vagina impeding Delivery. L'Union, 80, i8<!q. (Sch 12,319.) ^ •' Moritz.—Geburt in der Vagina bei vblliger Verwachsung desselben. [Delivery in a Case of complete Closure of the Vagina.] Mon. Sch. f. Geb„ Jan.. p 60 (Sch., 12, 318.) Bamsbotham.—On Prolapsus of the Bladder before the Child's Head in Labour Med. Times and Gaz., vol. xxxix, p. 3. Carson.—Prolapsus of the Bladder during Labour. lb P171 Hecker und Kiferle.-Falle von Retroversio Uteri Gravidi. Jcases of Retrover- 6.on of the Gravid Uterus.] Mou.-Sch. f. Geburtsk, Oct., 1858. Zeitsch f Wundartz. u. Geb., xii, 3, 1858. (Sch. 3, 310.) ^ Zeitsch. f. ^"^Si^fn'fT'?" ^V''''"'"^"" ^^P°^'"°"- [Retroversion and Reposition of the Gravid Lterus.] Rev. Th6r. du Midi, xii, p. 525. (Sch., 2, ^""^^159 76^9^''°"' complicated, by Retroversion of the Uterus. Brit. Med. Jour., '''^^L:!:!X:T^. °^ ^^^^^^ ^^^^ Labour, at Term. ^^"^8597^ Ssf'' " ^Retroversion of the Uterus in Pregnancy. Lancet,REPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 343 Godefroy.—Repositionsverfaln-en bei Retrovcrsio Uteri in der ersten Hiilfte der SclnvaiigciscliaCt. [On tiie Reposition of the Retruverted Uttrus during the first lialf of Pregnancy.] Gaz. des Hop., 54, 1859. (Scli., 10, 75.) Evans.—Oil Retroversion of llie Uterus and Retention of Urine. Lancet, 1859, 556. Basham.—Retroversion of the Uterus, causing Retention of Urine. H)., p. 439. Hall Bakewell.—On a Case of Retroversion of the Uterus and lletcntion of Urine. lb., p. 363. Lehmann.—Ueber die Ruptur des Uterus und der Vagina. [On Rupture of the Uterus and Vagina.] Mon.-Scb. f. Geburtsk, xii, p. 408. (Sch., 5, 191.) Thorn.—Rupture of tlie uterus before Delivery. Rep. of Obstet. See. of Edinb., Edinb. Med. Journ., Oct., 1859, 370. Kapler.—Fail von spontauer Ruptur des Uterus. [Spontaneous Rupture of the Uterus.] Wien. Zeitsch. N. F., i, 50, 1858. (Sch., 5, 193.) Meacham.—Rupture of the uterus. New York Jour, of Med., March, 1859, p. 287. Braxton Hicks.—Cases af Ruptured Uterus during Parturition. Guy's Hosp. Rep., 1859, P- 84. Atkins.—Case of Ruptured Uterus. Dub. Med. Press, 1859, p. 116. Todd.—A Case of Laceration of the Uterus. N. Anier. Med.-Chir. Rev., Nov., 1859, p 1052. Hoss,—Rupture of the Cervix Uteri. Med. Circ, xv, 138. Aveling.—Difficulty of Delivery in Rupture of tlie Uierus. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, p. 502. Pagenstecher.—Ruptur des Uterus bei osteomalachischer Becken. Entbindungen bei hiiclignidiger Beckenverengerung. [Rupture of the Uteius in Osteo-mala- cliial Pelvis.] Monats. f. Geb., xii, p. 146. (Sch., 3, 311.) Wardleworth.—On a Case of complete Inversion of tlie Uterus. Lancet, 1859, ii, 82. Lyall.—Is the usual treatment of Post-partum Haemorrhage correct.' Edin. Med. Jour., July, 1859, 84. Blease.—Case of severe Post-partum Haemorrhage. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, P- 43- Wallert—On Transfusion of Blood; its history and application in cases of severe heemorrliage. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 61. Purefoy.—Cases of Labour complicated with HEemorrhage. Dub. Quar. Journ., Nov., 1859, 307. Plagge.—Zur Diagnostik der Uterushiimorrhagien. [A Case illustrating the Diagnosis of Uterine Hasmorrhage.] Mon.-Sch. f. Geb., xiv, 55. (Sch., 11, 183.) Klaproth,—Haemorrhage during Labour frnm the neighbourhood of the Clitoris. Monatsch. f. Geb., 11, p. 81. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 475.) Godfrey.—Case of Internal Uterine Haemorrhage. Med. Circ, xv, 49. Hoist.—J'all von Schwangerschaft bei uterus bilocularis. [Pregnancy in a case of Uterus Bilocularis.] Scanzoni's Beitrage z. Geb., vol. iii, p. 158. (Canst.t vol. iv, p. 473.) Klaproth.—Two Cases of Labour, in which Fibroid Tumours of the Uterus were present. Monatsch. f. Geb., vol. xi, p. 85. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 474.) jSpiegelberg.—Labour complicated with Carcinoma of the Cervix. Monatsch. f. Geb., vol. xi, p. i lo. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 474.)PATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 343 lu one case described by Kussmaul, and in live others quoted, tlic oviile had apparently crossed the uterus and taken up its position in the Fallopian tube of the opposite side to that in wliichthe corpus luteum ^yas formed. In Hancox's case, the foetus appeared to be over eight months old. The right Fallopian tube was enlarged to the size of the uterus at nine months, and rupture of the cavity had occurred, the foetus being found in the abdomen. PiERSON relates a case of (left) Fallopian pregnancy, fatal at about six weeks from rupture of, and haemorrhage from, the posterior wall of the tube. Harley's case was fatal at the fifth month. Cases of extra-uterine foetation are described by Eizzo, Yan Geuns and ScHRANT, Muller, Cahen, "Waller, Chevillon, Eeymann, and Hall Davis. In Van Geuns and Schrant's case, a woman set. 42, who had had seven children, the last four years before, died of pneumonia in the hospital at Amsterdam. For twelve years there had been a swelling in the abdomen towards one side, somewhat moveable, firm, and hard. On examination, the tumour M^as dis- covered to be the remains of a foetus, enclosed in a firm, dense cyst, which cyst was adherent by a band to the anterior waU of the abdomen. In Cahen's case, the remains of the foetus were found in the abdomen. The woman died three months after the expected end of the pregnancy. In Chevillon's case, the remains of a foetus were removed from the abdomen four years after the commencement of the pregnancy. The mother did well. In Waller's case, the remains of fcetal bones were passed by the rectum ten years after a supposed pregnancy. In Hall Davis's case of ovarian gestation, the foetus was con- tained in a cyst developed from the ovary, which cyst was situated between the uterus and rectum. It was punctured, and fluid eva- cuated, but the patient died, and the remains of the foetus were found in the cyst. The memoir of Kros, on the obHquely distorted pelvis, contains aii account of those cases which occurred before 1839, unknown to Naegek<, also of the cases which have been published since that time. The progress of the labours in these cases is described, and the diagnosis pointed out.344 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Meissneh gives a critical account of the several methods of treat- ment applicable when pelvic deformity prevents the delivery of a mature fcctus. These are-i. Paracentesis, when dropsy of the head or abdomen of the foetus, or cysts, are present. 2. Diminishiufr or perforation of the head. 3. Cephalotripsy, or compressure of the head generally, after perforation only. 4. Embryotomy, rarely necessary. 5. Symphysiotomy and pelviotomy, not to be recom- mended. 6. Artificial abortion, admissible when the patient is not m a state of health to allow of the performance of the Caisarean .sec tion with the prospect of a good termination, or when the cou- tmued growth of the foetus would imperil the life of the mother. 7. Artificial premature labour, best undertaken at the tliirty- fifth or thirty-sixth week of gestation. Or, 8. The CECsarean section, concerning wliich the author makes several interesting remarks. ScHWEGEL describes a pelvis in which the ilia were spread out and flattened, increasing the size of the greater pelvis. Such a deformity is likely to lead to transverse positions of the cliild. Lambl gives the results of his inquiries into the nature and origin of inter-vertebral inflammation. BiRNBAUM relates a case in wliich angular cim^ature in the lumbar region anteriorly prevented the head passing into the pelvis, and cephalotripsy was performed. CupPAiDGE and Branco relate the particulars of cases in wliich the vagina had become nearly closed by adhesions after delivery. In the former, these adliesions were cut tlirougli, and labour fol- lowed normally. In the latter, the septum was cut through, and a calculus an inch long was found between the septum and the cliild's head ; the calculus is supposed to have escaped from the bladder through a fistula subsequently healed. Eamsbotham relates a case in which the bladder was prolapsed during labour. The treatment adopted, and wliich was efficacious, consisted in the use of the catheter. Carson also relates a case somewhat similar. Hecker relates a case of retroversion of the uterus during preg- nancy, discovered and reduced at the sixth month. Miscarriage, however, followed. In Kiferle's case reduction was efi'ected at the third month, and tlie pregnancy went its fidl time. In Pingault's case reduction was effected at the same period. Negrier states, that primiparse are rarely affected with retroversionPATHOLOGY OF PREGNANCY AND PAllTURITION. 315 during pregnancy. The cause is generally a sudden shake or exertion, or fall; the distension of the bladder is an effect. The method of repo- sition recommended is by the introduction of the hand into the vagina, and pressure upwards. Gueaves's patient was six months preg- nant. The displacement was corrected, and a dead foetus extracted. Oldham relates a case in which the patient had gone her full time, and labom- supervened. The uterus was found completely retro- flexed. Much difficulty was experienced in effecting the reposition of the uterus, when delivery easily followed. The retroflexion had existed apparently throughout the whole period of pregnancy. Barnes describes four cases of retroversion of the uterus diiriug pregnancy. Retroversion of tlie gravid uterus may, according to him, occur gradually or in a sudden manner. In effecting the reposition of the retroverted uterus, Godefroy places the patient with her hands and head on the floor and the pelvis and legs on the bed. Tlu-ee or four fingers are then intro- duced into the rectum, and the restitution effected. Evans, Basham, and Hall Bakewell record cases of retroversion of the uterus in which retention of urine formed the prominent symptom. Lehmann states that, of 7000 women deHvered in the ' Gebar- anstalt' at Amsterdam, rupture of the uterus occurred only three times : in private practice he has observed eight cases. In all the rupture took place diuing labour. It is in the third or fourth stages of labour that the uterine waU gives way, seldom until after the membranes have been broken. The author divides cases of rupture of the uterus into two classes—the spontaneous, and the accidental or mechanical ruptures. Under the first head are in- cluded cases where the cause is a pathological condition of the uterus Itself, a degenerated state of the uterine tissue, fibroid formation combined with irregular contraction, or abnormal thin- ness of the uterus, softening, hysteromalachia, or thickening of cer- tain parts on the fundus and body combined with great tenuity of the cervix. But rupture may occur when these pathological con- ditions are absent as in cases of pelvic deformity," disproportions between the size of the child and the pelvis, transverse presenta- 10ns, or in cases of hydrocephalus in which the pains are ex- tremely violent. Here, however, the uterhie tissue is rarely in a normal condition at the time of the rupture. The author behoves that rupture only occurs in such cases when part of the uterine346 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. M-all has, iu consequence of pressure, undergone contusion, soften- ing, detritus, or even gangrene. To the accidental or mechanical class of cases belong those in which the rupture occurs in conse- quence of operations badly or roughly performed, such as turning, perforation, the use of hooks, tearing of the vagina by splinters of bone, &c. Rupture of the uterus occurs more frequently in mul- tiparas. The lo\A'er segment of the organ is generally the seat of the rupture; the placental surface is not more liable to rupture than other parts; it occurs more frequently on the posterior than the anterior wall; its direction is more generally horizontal than longi- tudinal ; the body may be entirely torn from the neck. The edges of the rupture are jagged, the extent various. There may be simply small perforations in a portion of the uterus, the texture being there softened from continued pressure. The rupture may be complete or incomplete; in the latter case the whole thickness of the uterus is not torn through. The cervix uteri and the vagina are frequently involved in the rupture j more rarely the bladder and rectum. The rupture occurs suddenly, severe pain in the abdomen, followed by cessation of pains, escape of blood from the vagina, fainting, pulselessness, coldness of extremities, &c. The abdomen is changed, the parts of the foetus can be felt. Emphysema of the cellular tissue the author has not observed. The prognosis is very unfavorable, death generally occurring soon after the rupture. In rare cases the fcfitus has been retained in the abdomen, as in a case of extra- uterine pregnancy. In reference to the prophylaxis, it is recom- mended that the uterus be supported from without. As to the treatment, the foetus is to be extracted as quickly as possible; if it have escaped into the abdomen and is alive, the Csesarean section is to be performed. In Thorn's case of rupture of the uterus, the patient had been in labour two days. The child was delivered by the forceps. Death took place four days after, when it was found that the uterus was ruptured transversely at its lower and anterior part, the rent ad- mitting all the fingers of one hand. There was no contraction of the pelvis. Ka.pler's patient had been the subject of metritis, after a forceps delivery, four years before. On examination, it was found that there was pelvic deformity, prolapsus of the cord, and rupture of the uterus. Finally, turning was performed, and the child ex- tracted, the Head having been perforated. Death fifty-one hoursPATHOLOGY Or PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 347 after. The rupture was found to have occurred on the right side of the cervix; old adhesions existed posteriorly. Meacham''s patientj a primipara, experienced severe rigor and prostratiouj and died in a few hours after delivery of foetus and pla- centa. The uteruSj posteriorly and above the cervix^ was very soft and diffluent over a space two inches square^ and there was a perfo- ration at this spot. Hicks relates one case in wliich the cervix uteri was ruptured dmnng parturition; a second, in which the rent affected the body of the uterus, and blood escaped into the peritoneum; and a third, in which the child escaped th)-ough the opening into the peritoneal cavity. All the patients died. The frequency of this accident isj. he believes, for undoubted cases, i in 5345; and including uncer- tain cases, I in 3563. Atkins records an instance of rupture of the uterus after laboui" had lasted four hours, and death in fifty-two hours. The head was "jammed" between the sacrum and pubis; the child, secundines, and much blood, had escaped into the abdomen through a rupture posteriorly. There was no external haemorrhage, vomiting, col- lapse, or recession of head. In Todd\s case the liquor amnii had been discharged when the rupture (at the fundus) occurred; it was the tenth pregnancy. Death followed. Eoss records a case of rupture of the cervix uteri dui-ing labour. The patient did well. In Aveling's case, the ams presented, one foot was brought down, but further attempts at delivery failed, and the patient died. The right lower extremity was found protruding through a rent in the anterior and upper part of the body of the uterus, and formed an impediment to delivery. In Pagenstecheu's case of osteo-malacliial deformity of the pelvis, labour suddenly ceased, after lasting all day. The fcetus had escaped through a rupture of the right side of the uterus, Waedlewouth describes a case of complete inversion of the uterus, the placenta remaining attached. The cord was unusually short. The placenta was removed, and the uterus reduced. Sub- sequently a partial inversion occurred, which was reduced. In the treatment of post-partum hjemorrhage, Lyall disapproves of the removal of clots from the interior of the uterus by the hand. It is better, lie contends, to leave them alone, they being348 REPOllT ON MlDWn'EllY, ETC. nature's chief instruments in putting a stop to the further loss of • '^^^^f^^ paper contains an historical account of the "transfu- lon o blood " He relates cases of post-partum h^rrW^c- cessfully treated by his metliod of transfusion. ^ PuRKFOY relates six cases in wliich haemorrhage complicated labour. He offers practical comments on the cases in question, and on the general treatment of heemorrhage. In HoLST's case of uterus bilocularis, labour supervened on two occasions before the proper time. Klapkoth records tM^o cases of fibrous tumours of the uterus and pregnancy, one of wliich ended fatally. In Spiegelbekg's case of carcinoma uteri, a living cliild was ex- tracted by the forceps. The mother died of the disease ten months subsequently. B. ON Ux\USUAL CONDITIONS ON THE PAET Oi THE CHILD. SpondU.-Ueber mebrfache Geburtcn. [On Plural Births.] Mon-Sch f Ge buitsk, xii, p. 456. (Sch., 10, 79.) Fennerley.-Case of Triplets. Gaz. de Par., 28, 1859. (Sch., 11 ,87) Elsasser.-Case of Triplets. Wurtemb. Corresp. Bl., No. i. (Canst vol iv p. 477.) Domerc.-Case of Triplets. Monit. ties H6p., 2. (Canst, vol. iv, p 47- ) Marx.—Case of Triplets. Journ. de Bord, Oct., 1858. (Sch 2 193 ) ' Gasne.-Case of Triplets. Gaz. des Hop., 139, ,858. (Sch. 2, 193 ) Martin.-Four Children at a Binh. Monatsch. f. Geb., 12, p 2->4. rCnn^t vol. iv, 477.) ' ^ Madge.-Report of a Case of Arm Presentation terminated by Spontaneous Evolu- tion. Lancet, 1859, 535- Evershed.—Case of Arm Presentation terminated by Spontaneous Expulsion lb p. 487. ■ •' Metzler.—Fall von Selbstentwicklung. [Case of Spontaneous Evolution.] Met Ztg. Russl., 43, 1858. (Sch., 3, 311.) Bogg.—On a Case of Spontaneous Evolution. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 30. Spiegelberg.—On a Mechanical Impediment to Labour not sufficientlv noticed Monatsch. f. Geburtsk, 1858. Lize.—Tedious Labour in a Case of Pelvic Presentation; Emphysematous Condi- tion of Foetus, for some days previously dead j Sudden Death of Mother. L Union, 57, 1859. (Sch., 8, 195.) Myrtle.-Obstetric Cases. Med. Journ., Aug., 1859, J78- Doig.-The Result and Treatment of Cross Presentations. Med. Times and Gaz. xl ,627. 'PATHOLOGY 01? PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 349 Fountain.—Death and almost entire Absorption of a Foetus of six months' deve- lopment. New York Journ. of Med., May, 1859, P- 4i8. Lize.—0" "le Difficulty of the Diagnosis of Hydrocephalus in Cases of Breech Presentation. L'Union, 71, 1859. (Sch., 8, 194.) Schultze.—Die Gehurtsgeschichte und section eines wasserkopfigen Kindes. [Deli- very of an Hydrocephalic Fcetus.] Monatsch. f. Geb., xi, p. 105. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 478.) Jacquemier.—Extreme Size of the Foetus considered as a Cause of Dystocia. Ann. de Med. et Chir., Jamain et Wahu, 1859, P- ^95* Salzgeber.—Verjauchungdes Uterus. [Suppuration of the Uterus.] Allg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 46 and 47, 1858. (Sch., 3, 313.) Loescher.—Birth of a Double-headed Monster. Monatsch. f. Geb., xi, p. 432. (Canst., vol. i, 477.) Marnitz.—Birth of Twins united at the Trunk. Org. fiir die ges. Heilk. des Med.. Chir. Vereins. Jahrg., 6, part 4, p. 197. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 478.) Eamis und Breslau.—Fall von Doppelmisbildung. [Double Malformation.] Aertz. Int. Bl. Bayerns, No. 8. (Canst., vol. iv, 478.) Koch.—Death of the Foetus at the twenty-fourth week ; Retention in the Uterus for twenty.four weeks afterwards, "Wurtemb. Med. Corresp., No. 17. (Canst. vol. iv, p. 478.) Spondli states, that in the Vienna hospital, triijlets only occurred tlu-ee times in 27,000 births. It most commonly happens that two of tlie three, present by the head, the tliird by the pelvis. The prognosis is unfavorable for mother and children. The contents of the uterus should be removed as quickly as possible. In PenneeleVs case the placentpe were connected by membranes. There was no vascular connexion between them. Each chUd had a special chorion and amnion. The children were living. In Maux's case the diagnosis was made out before deliverv. The woman was safely delivered of three boys; the first two were' each a cranial, the third a breech presentation. Two of the placentfE were adherent at the edges, the third isolated. Both mother and children did well. In the case of Gasne, the first child was a female and tlie second a male, both cranial presentations. The third a male, a foot presentation. The first two had a common placenta, tlie third a distinct placenta. The mother and children all did "well. In Mautin's case a woman, set. 43, was delivered prematurely of four children. There were two males and two females. Tliree of the children lived a few days. In Evershed's case of spontaneous evolution the child was putrid. In Metzler's case, the conjugate diameter measured 3^" The cord was twisted round the neck, and still pulsated, but theREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC, 850 child could not be made to breathe. The whole delivery took place in ten minutes. In Bogg's case the child was stillborn. Spiegelbekg calls attention to the fact, that labour is frequently arrested in its course by a too great flexion of the head upon the breast. It rests on the perinscuni; and the labour is delayed unne- cessarily. In such cases, licretofore considered as cases of weak uterus, the careful use of the forceps is recommended. In each of the two cases related by Myetle, the presentation was facial. The usual term of pregnancy was believed to have been exceeded in each case fourteen days, and in both, too, it was neces- sary to apply the long forceps. In Fountain's case the expulsion of the foetus did not take place until five months subsequently to its death. In a case of hydrocephalus recorded by Lizl5, there was a breech presentation. He remarks on the difficulty of the diagnosis in this and similar cases. In Schultze's case the breech also presented, the head was perforated, and delivery easily effected. Jacquemiek relates two cases in which, the head having been de- livered, the extreme size of the body prevented the completion of the labour. In one case, the abdominal viscera were removed; in the other, the woman died undelivered. In the first case, the weight of the child was 5600 grains (about 13i lbs.), in the second, 9 lbs. In the latter the symphysis pubis was divided (after death) before ex- traction could be performed. Salzgebee records a case in which the foetus appears to have re-' mained in the uterus for nearly two years, at the end of which time a purulent discharge from the vagina, and from an opening at the umbilicus, occurred. The remains of a foetus were found in the uterus. The umbilical opening communicated with the uterus. The patient died. In LoscHEu's case of double-headed foetus, one head being de- livered, it was necessary to amputate it, in order to perform the operation of turning. In Marnitz's case the twins were united from the sternum to the umbilicus. There was a single funis umbilicus and placenta. In Eamis and Beeslaxj's case the double child was born alive, but both died shortly after, the death of one preceding that of the other by seven minutes.PATHOLOGY OP PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. 351 C, ON ;U3X0EMAL CONDITIONS OF THE PLACENTA AND TOSTAL APPENDAGES. Donkin.—Suggestions on the Pathology and Treatment of Placenta Prrevia. Ed. Med. Journ., April, 1859, p. 883. Glisczynski,—Ueher Placenta praevia untl deren Behandlung. [On Placenta Pra;via and its Treatment.] Med. Ccntz. Ztg., ioi,*i8s8. (Sch., 5, 191.) Barnes.—Some recent Cases (fourteen) illustrating the Physiology and Treatment of Placenta Prajvia. Obstet. Trans,, vol. i, p. 83. Morris.—Case of Placenta Prasvia. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 270. Stephens.—Case of Placenta Prsevia. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, 244. Foucart.—Placenta Praevia; Hiemonhage continuing for six weeks ; Death. Ann. de Med. et Chir., Jamain et Wahu, 1859, P- 284. Jardine Murray.—Placenta Prjevia; Air-pessary used to plug and dilate the Os Uteri. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 596, Rainy.—Case of Placenta Praevia. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec, 1859, P- 533- Spiegelberg.—Cases of Placenta Prtevia treated by the use of the Colpeurynter. Monaiscli. f. Geb., xi, 120. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Ramsbotham.—Case of Dropsy of the Amnion ; Twins. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 261. On the Inefficacy of Cold Injections into the Umbilical Veins in Cases of Adhesion ^ of the Placenta. Gaz. des Hop., 74. (Canst, vol. iv, p. 478.) Fritz.—Ueber Entstebung der Hydiitidenmole. [On the Origin of the Hydatid Mole.] Wiinemb. Corr. Bl., 20, 1859. (Sch., 9, 329.) Hamon.—Hydatid Mole complicated with Albuminuria. Gaz. des Hod 121 1858. (Sch., 2, 195.) Graily Hewitt.—On the Hydatidiform or Vesicular Mole; its nature and mode of origin. Obstet. Transact., vol. i, p. 249. Koeberle^—On the Death of the FcEtus in Utero, Presse Med., 45, 1858. In cases of placenta prEEvia, Donkin insists on the importance of the shortening of the cervix, which is, he contends, a necessary consequence of its expansion, and a chief cause, by constricting the vessels, of the cessation of the hemorrhage. He suggests, as a method of treatment, the mechanical expansion of the cervix by means of a sponge-tent specially constricted for the purpose, conjoined M'ith the use of ergot or galvanism. Glisczynski states, that from the records of the Klinik at Breslau it appears that in 10,540 cases, placenta preevia occurred ninety times' Deficient involution of the uterus in women who have quickly suc- ceeding pregnancies, or diseased conditions—such as uterine catarrh mflammation after former labours, &c.—are, he believes the chief causes of this condition, which is mostly present in multiparte In the 90 cases, 63 children lived, ^8 died; 76 mothers lived, 14 diedREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 353 Inq cases, the accouchement ford was necessary; two of the mothers died. Barnes relates fourteen cases of placenta prajvia. The deduc tions drawn by him are as follows : Arrest of ha?morrhage occurs when the placenta has become detached for a certain distance from the cervix—physiologically^ therefore. The posterior or usual posi- tion of the placenta in these cases favours the occurrence of trans- verse presentations. When the cord is attached to the edge of tlie placenta, it is very liable to be prolapsed in these cases. Uterine inflammation and puerperal fever are likely to ensue in cases of pla- centa prajvia, a danger increased by forcible manual efforts, and the now very vascular condition of the lower part of the uterus. In some cases, the haemorrhage having ceased and the os being dilated to the size of a crown-piece, interference in labour is not necessary quoad the placenta. It is expedient to hurry tlie period of dilatation of the os in these cases, as after a certain point of dilatation is reached no haemorrhage occurs. Eupturing the membranes, plugging the cer- vix, ergot and galvanism, often suffice to produce the requisite ex- pansion. In those cases where forced delivery or artificial total detachment of the placenta are dangerous operations, the separation of the cervical zone by the index finger is safe and feasible. Stephens and Eainy record cases in which separation of the placenta was performed, and no hfemorrhage followed. In Mokkis's case, the haemorrhage continued after such separation. Jardine Murray records a case in wliich the air-pessary was employed use- fully as a plug and dilator of the cervix uteri. In two cases of pla- centa prajvia treated by the use of the colpeurynter, Spiegelberg states that the cliildren were bom dead, and that he would prefer using linen on the next occasion. In Eamsbotham's case of twins there was an excessive quantity of fluid present, but in one amnionic cavity only. Tlie point in Tritz's case to which attention seems to be directed is the fact of an ovum from an ovary afl'ected with cystic disease, giving rise subsequently to an hydatid mole. Hamon records a case of hydatid mole. The uterus was as large as at six months. In addition to the usual symptoms, the woman suffered from albuminuria and anasarca. Graily Hewitt, after describing the particulars of a case in which a very perfect and early specimen of the hydatidiform or vesicular mole was expelled from the uterus, offers the following conclusionsOBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 353 respecting the uatui'e and mode of origin of the change in question. He dissents entirely from the " cyst" view of Mettenheimer and Paget, and considers that the bladder-like enlargements are merely altered chorion villi; not a new formation, but simply an alteration and degeneration of previously existing structures. He contends that the generally received opinion as to its mode of origin is in- correct, and that the foetus dies first: the chorion villi becoming thus arrested in their development, but not in their growth, the effects witnessed result. After the villi have passed a certain period of development, no hydatidiform change can take place. Lastly, the author considers—i. The question as to the possibility of a portion of retained placenta taking on the change in question. The question as to whether true hydatids can be expelled from the uterus, and the means of distinguishing the true, from the vesicular bodies the result of chorionic degeneration. By the term " internal abortion of the ovum," Koebeele under- stands the death of the foetus in utero at any period of pregnancy. In such cases the ovum is not always expelled; its coverings continue to grow, whilst the foetus degenerates or is mummified. These ova do not remain in the uterus longer than nine months, seldom longer than six. Mostly, those expelled before the third month contain no foetus. Such foetal ova become later " moles." The growth and de- velopment of the foetus are arrested suddenly, or may not have begun at all. The causes of tliis arrest are disease or death of the ovum, from mechanical disturbance thereof, from disease of the mother, or other unknowTi causes. These moles generally contain a good deal of fluid, which may be expelled in consequence of the bursting of the amnionic sac, and the bag collapsing, the mole may remain in the uterus a considerable time. After the fifth month, ballottement enables us to distinguish between a foetal and an afcetal ovum. The author does not believe in the existence of hydrometra without previous conception. ON OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. Godefroy.—Incision of the Os Uteri. Journ. des Connais. Med., p. !;4o fCanst vol. iv, 479.) 1 ot Braun—Die uteiinale Katheterisation mit Darmsarten beliuf der ErweckuriK der kuMsiliohen FruLgeburt. [Induclion of Artificial Premature Labour bv the use of Catgut.] A¥ien. Med. Wchnsch., 46, 1858. (Sch., 5, 190.) 23354 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Reymann.—Kiinstliclie Fruhgebui t mittels Press-Sclnvamni. [Induction of Arli- flcial Labour by the Spongctent.] Pr. Ver.-Ztg. N. F., ii, 2!, 1859. (Sch., 8, 193-) Hausmann und Brock.—Kunstlicbe Frii!igel)urt nacli Cohen's Methode. [In- duction of Artificial Premature Labour by Cohen's Metliod.] Wiirtemb. Corr.- Bl., 32 und 39, 1858. (Sch., 3, 311.) Guerdan.—Die Kiinstliche Friihgcburt als Ersatz des Kaiserschnitts. [Artificial Premature Labour as a suljstitute for Craniotomy.] Aertzl. Mittheil. aus Baden, 24, 1858. (Sch., 5, 190.) Maimomy.—induction of Premature Labour in the eighth month by means of Warm Injections into the Neck of the Uterus. Gaz. de Paris, 3, 1859. (Sch., S. 190-) Trouncer.—On the induction of Premature Labour in a Case of Distorted Pelvis. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 236. Germami.—Fiille von klinstUchen Erregung der Frubgeburt, &c. [Cases of In- duction of Premature Labour.] Mon.-Sch. f. Geh., xii and xiii. (Sch., 11, 185.) Birnbaum.—Cases of Artificial Premature Labour. Deutsch Kl., 17, 19. (Canst., vol. iv, 479.) Lumpe.—Cases of Artificial Premature Labour. Wiener Wochens., i, p. 10. (Canst., vol. iv, 479.) Riedel, Hecker, Crede, and Hanemann.—Cases of Artificial Premature Labour. Monatsch. f. G., xi, i, 11, 126, and 388. (Canst., vol. iv, 480.) Coesfeld.—Artificial Premature Labour. Medic, preuss. Zeit., No. 9. (Canst, vol. iv, 480.) Groeningen.—Artificial Premature Labour. Grig. f. die ges. Heilk. des Med.-Chir, Vereins., 6 Jabrg., part 4, p. 213. (Canst., vol. iv, 480.) Stolz.—Artificial Premature Labour. Gaz. Med. de Strasb., No. 3. (Canst. vol. iv, 481.) Godefroy,—Six Cases of Artificial Premature Labour, Jouru. des Conn. Med., 24, 1859. Finizio.—Artificial Premature Labour. Gaz. des Hop., No. 24. (Canst, vol. iv, 481.) Mayer.—On Artificial Premature Delivery, Monatsch. f, Geburts., xi, 100. (Canst., vol. iv, 481.) Giordano.—Artificial Premature Labour. Gaz. Med. Ital, Lomb., No. 51, p. 444. (Canst., vol. iv, 481.) HOSS.—Case of Premature Labour. Med. Circ, xiv, 98. Mackenzie.—Notes of a Case of Cancer of the Uterus and Rectum, in which Abortion vcas produced. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 11. Esterle.—Beobachtungen ubcr die aussere Wendung. [On External Turning.] Ann. Univ., April, 1859. (Sch., 10, 76.) Noeggerath.—The Operation of Turning by External Manipulations, considered from an historical and practical point of view, with cases. New York Jour, of Med., Nov., 1859, 329. Mardurowicz.—Umwandlung-einer Gesichts in eine Beckenendlage, &c, [Turn- ing of a Facial into a Pelvic Presentation, &c.] Oesterr. Ztsch.f. Prakt.'Heilk., V, 20, 21, 1859. (Sch., 8, 195.) Alex. B. Simpson.—Turning V, the Long Forceps; illusirative cases. Med. Jimes and Gaz., xxxix, 465.OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 355 Bllluien.—Accouchement force. Wiirtemb. Merl. Coriesp., 6i, 33. (Canst., vol. iv, 482.) Fleming.—The Operation of Turning as a Substitute for Craniotomy in Head Pre- sentations in Cases of Deformed Pelvis. Med. Circ, xiv, 158. Mackenzie,—Case of Craniotomy, in which Delivery was readily effected by Turning after Perforation, instrumental extraction being found impossible. Obstet. Transact., vol. i, p. 267. Lehmann.—Case of Craniotomy and Turning. Monats.f.Geburt.,xi, 54. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Kirsteller.—Der Mechanismus der Zangenoperation. [On the Mechanism of Forceps Operations.] Mon.-Sch. f. Geburtsk, xiii, pp. 396—414, Jan., 1859. (Scb., 9. 326.") Harper.—On the more frequent Use of the Forceps as a means of lessening both Maternal and Foetal Mortality. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 142. Cummins,—On the Use of the Forceps. Dub. Quart. Jour., May, 1859, 476. Kamsbotham.—Case of Labour terminated by the Long Forceps. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 536. Priestley.—A Case of Labour complicated with Fibrous Tumour of the Uterus; Delivery by Long Forceps, &c. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 217. Mattei.—Description of the Leniceps. Lancet, 1859, h 151. Pagenstecher.—Entbindungen bei hochgradiger Beckenverengerung. Kaiser- schnitt. [Delivery in cases of extreme Pelvic Deformity ; Cesarean Section.] Monats. f. Geb., Sept., 1858. (Sch., 3,311.) AlonsO.—Intra-uterine Pregnancy of Twenty-two Months' Duration; Csesarean Section, witli favorable result. (El Siglo Med., July, 1858, p. 236.) M'Clelland.—Case of Cajsarean Section in which both the Mother and Child were Saved. (North Araer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, P- 7o7-) Hafner.—Kaiserschnitt mit Gliicklichem Ansgange fiir das Kind. [Case of Cesarean Operation in which the Child was Saved.] Wurtemh. Corr. Bl., 30, 1859. (Sch. 12, 320.) Murphy.—Report of a Case of Caesarean Section. (Dubl. Quart, Journ. of Med. Science, Feb., 1859, 108.) Duclos.—Case of Cajsarean Section. Gaz. des Hop., No. 35. (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) GuiUaume.—Case of Caisarean Section. Rev. Med., Mars, p 270 (Canst vol. iv, 483.) Groesbeck and Freeriees.—Cases of Csesarean Section. Nederl. Tydsch., ii Jaarg. 1838, 17, 19. (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) ' ' Galligani.—Case of Ca;sarean Section. Lo Sperim. Firenz., torn, i, 161. (Canst vol. iv, 483.) ' ■' Giordano.—Four Cases of Caesarean Section. Gaz. Med. Ital., Stati Sard. No. 4.2 (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) '' Esterle.-Case of Caisarean Section (after death of mother). Ann. Univers Marz, 546. (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) Tyler Smith.-On tl,e Abolition ofCraniotomy from Obstetric Practice in all cases in winch the Foetus is Living or Viable. Obstet. Transact., vol. i, p. 21 Greenhalgh.—On Craniotomy. Lancet, 1859, >. P- 48C. Braun.—Uebcr die Neuen Methoden der Craniotomie des Fotus [On the New Methods of performing Craniotomy.] Wien. Ztsch., N. F. ii, 3, 1859 Simpson.—Cranioclasra. Ed, Med. Journal, July, 1859, P- 83.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 356 Druitt.—Case of Craniotomy. Obslet. Trans., vol. i, p. 8i. Levy.—Ueber die Abliisung ties Scliultcrblattes vom Kiirper als Metliode dcr Embryotomie. [On the Separation of the Shoulder-blade from the Dody as a method of Embryotomy.] Bihliothek for Laeger, vol. lo, p. 431. (Sch., iv, 38.) Becker.—Do Cephnlotripsia. Dissert. Inaugur. Leipzig, i%cfi. (Sch., 1,63.) Schultze.—Ueber dei Indikation zur Kephalotripsie. [On the Indications for the Performance of Ceplialotripsy.] Med. Centr. Ztg., 50, 51, 1858. (Sch., i, C3.) Dubois.—Case of Cephalotripsy. Rev. Med., Janvier, p. 89. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Richard.-On Cephalotripsy by the combined use of the Perforator and the Hand. Monatsch. f. Geb., xi, 389. (Canst., vol. iv, 484.) Wolf.—Kephalotripsis iiach Perforation dcs Kopfes, wegen Beckenenge. [Cepha- lotripsy after Perforation of the Head.] Aertz, Mitth. aus Baden, \iii, 8, 1859. (Sch., 12, 320.) NllSSer.—Trepanation iind Entliirnung des Kindesschadels wegen Stirnlage bei einer Zehntgebiironder. [Trepanning and Excerebration in a Case of Frontal _ Presentation.] Oesterr. Ztschr. f. prakt. Heilk., v, 28. (Sch., 12, 319.) Cristoforis.—Die Resectio Pubica sul)periostea als Ersatz fiir die schwerern geburtshiilflichen Operationen. [On Subperiosteal Pubic Resection as a Sub- stitute for the Severe Obstetric Operations.] Ann. Univ. Agosto, Sett., 1858, Genn., 1859. (Sch., 8, 196.) Jocolucci.—Case in which Synchondrotomy was performed. Lo sperimentale Okb., 10. (Canst., vol. iv, 483.) GoDEFEOY relates two cases iu which the os uteri was incised in cases of convulsions. Both mothers did well. Braun's new method of inducing premature labour consists in the introduction of a piece of catgut^ several inches long, into the uterus, between the membranes and the uterine parietes, and allow- ing it to remain until the membranes have been ruptured by the pains which are excited by its presence. The catgut is from two to three lines in thicknesSj its extremities softened by hot water, and well oiled previous to the introduction. Labour begins in from six to twenty hours after the operation. Eeymann relates two cases in which the sponge-tent was success- fully employed for the purpose of inducing premature labour. Cohen's method of inducing artificial premature labour consists in the injection of warm water into the uterus. In two cases reported by IIausmann labour set in after two injections in one case, and after three injections in the other. In Brock's case three injections aiid two doses of ergot were employed. The children were born alive, but one died soon after. In GuERDA?v''s case, Cohen's method Avas had recourse to in two successive pregnancies, at the thirtieth week and at the thirty-fifth week. The first child sui'vived seven hoiu:s only, the second did well.357 OBSTETUICAL OPERATIONS. In the case related by Mauxouhy^ warm injections into the neck of the uterus were employed, and the child preserved. The patient had previously been delivered by the forceps, the cliild not sui'viving. In TiiouNCEE^s case, premature labour was successfully induced in two successive pregnancies by the use of injections into the cervix uteri. Germaxn records, as the basis of an elaborate paper, twenty-three cases of the artificial induction of premature labour, out of 339 operations and 1019 laboui's, the large proportion of which he explains by the unusual frequency of raclritic pelvic distortion in the parti- cular neighbourhood the scene of his observations, and his practice of ascertaining by examination the state of the pelvic diameters during pregnancy. The greater mortality for the children the earlier the operation is performed, is not dependent, he remarks, entirely upon the degree of pelvic contraction, state of develop- ment, &c., but is partly explainable by the fact that the pre- sentation is often found defective in operations performed too early. The general indications for the operation, to be gathered from the examination as to the state of the pelvis, are given. The mode adopted in the twenty-tliree cases was various; in only nine of them was one method exclusively adopted, viz., one by the method of Kiwisch, five by that of Cohen, two by that of Braun, and one by that of Scanzoni (mammary). In the other cases, a combination of more than one method was necessary. Cohen's method was employed singly or otherwise in nine cases, and of these nine cases the children were born alive in seven instances. BiENBAUM finds uterine injections most eflPectual in inducing labour. Lumpe gives the preference to the so-called Cohen's method, employed also in cases related by Riedel, Heckeii, Cuede, and CoESFELD. The latter uses water colder (50—59° Fahr.) than that usually employed, by Avliich the effect is more rapidly produced. In the cases by Groningen, Stolz, and Godefeoy, the uterine douche (Kiwisch's method) was employed. Pinizio records the fii-st case of the induction of artificial premature labour in Naples. The method employed was the use of the warm douche. Giordano employed cauterization of the " condutto uterino" as a means of inducing labour in a case of pelvic deformity. The principal conditions in wliich the operation for the induction of premature labour is indicated are, according to Mayer—extreme358 REPOUT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. degrees of pelvic deformity; extreme iiarroM'ing of tlie vagina; presence of large tumoui's in the rectum and vagina; retroversion of the uterus, where the reposition cannot be effected. In Eoss's case, other measures having been unavaihng, the membranes were pujic- tured. In Mackexzie's case, abortion was induced at the fom-teentli week by means of the warm douche and galvanism. ^ EsTEKLE, in an essay on external turning, states that from the sixth to the eighth month of pregnancy, he has frequently noticed spontaneous turning to occur in cases in which the position was unnatural. He proposes the operation of external turning in those cases where the position is, towards the end of pregnancy, ascertained to be not natural. Full particulars are given as to the best methods of performing the necessary examination and operation. In 500 cases examined in the eighth month, 22 instances of cross presentation were met with; of these 9 were rectified spontaneously, and in 10 the external tm-ning was performed. In 2 cases the turning upon the head was performed by internal combined with external manipidation, and in i case iuternal turning upon the breech was performed. In the 10 cases of external turning, placenta praevia was present once; in 2 cases, pelvic narrowing of the first degree ; in 3, excessive obliquity of the uterus. Of these 10 cases, 9 had been delivered regularly, the tenth was still undelivered. NoEGGERATH gives an liistorical account of external turning, and records the experience of obstetric operators in reference thereto. The chief difficulty in reference to the operation is in the diagnosis of the position; tliis is . only to be got over by great care and attention. In a case related by Maudueowicz, the presentation was a facial one, and Braun's colpeuiynter was used to prevent the escape of the liquor aronii. At the end of a certain time tliis presentation was changed, under the influence of the contractions of the uterus, from a facial to a pelvic one, and the delivery effected. Alex, E. Simpson relates tlu-ee cases in which turning was had recourse to, mth success, in place of the use of the long forceps. Buhelen relates a case of turning, followed by the accouchement force, in a patient suffering from convulsions at the eighth month. There was great rigidity of the os uteri, but the delivery of the clidd (putrid) was effected in two hoiu's. The mother did well. In Mackenzie's case, the conjugate brim-diamcter was two and three eighths inches. Craniotomy was performed, and delivery effected after subsequent version.OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 359 111 Leh.\la.>'.n''s case, recourse was liad to a similar expedient. According to Kirstellee, tlie effects produced by the forceps may be divided into foui' groups. Pressiu-e, is the most important and the most simple of these : its degree depends on the lengths of the handles and blades of the instruments. The amount of pres- siu-e exercised by the hands varies, in slight cases being five to eight pounds, in very extreme cases fifteen to thirty pounds. If the pressure be too great, difficulty is created rather than removed. Traction, generally exercised in the direction of the axis of the instrument. Transverse movement, in effecting which the two blades of the forceps act as a single lever. And rotatory movement. Haupeu, in advising the more frequent use of the forceps, insists that the iU effects usually attributed to the instrument are due to its abuse. Mere duration is, he contends, an element in the mortahty in unassisted tedious labours, and this affords an argu- ment for the more frequent use of the forceps. The various states during wliich the use of the forceps is called for are alluded to, and especial reference made to cases of inertia or sluggishness of the uterus, in which class of cases he invariably u.se3 the short forceps in preference to the administration of ergot. He is of opinion that the earHer the forceps are used, in proper cases, the more maternal and foetal Hves will be saved. CujiMiivs also advocates the more frequent use of the forceps, considering that much infant and maternal mortality might thus be prevented. .Ramsbotham and Peiestley relate cases of delivery by the long forceps J in the former's case the brim was contracted, in the latter's case a fibrous tumour impeded delivery. ]\lArrEi has invented a new instrument for the extraction of the cliild, differing from the ordinary forceps in being very short, and by the branches working upon a transverse wooden handle. It is stated that the instrument can be used without knowledge of the mother, and that it acts very gently on the cliild. Page:sstechee relates four cases of Ca^sarean section. In the first there was pelvic nan'owing from osteo-malacliia. The ihac bones were so contorted that tlie pelvic aperture resembled in shape that of a keyhole. The result was favorable for mother and child. In a second case, in which the conjugate diameter measured a J" (rachitis), the Csesarean section was also performed with a suc- cessful issue to both mother and child. In a third case, the operasREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. tiou liad been already performed once, with a favorable result. Ihe pa lent was much deformed from osteo-malachia, and died eighty hours after the operation. A foui-th case, reported in the Mem de 1 Acad.,' 1858, p. 468, by Borie, had a favorable issue lor mother and cliild. The patient was rachitic, and the conjugate diameter from two to two and a half inches. In Alonso's extraordinary case, no means were effectual in over- coming what appeared to be rigidity of the os uteri, and after a time portions of a fcetus, with much puriform matter, were expelled. Ihe uterus could not be made to contract, nor could the os be dilated. Finally, the Caesarean section was performed, and the re- mains of a foetus extracted. The result promised to be a favorable . one as regarded the mother. McClelland reports a case successful for both mother and cliild. The autero-posterior diameter was one inch and five eighths, the transverse one inch and a half, the sacrum curved, and the pubic angle very acute. In Hafneu's case the child was saved, the mother died six days after. The antero-posterior diameter was i" 6"'; transverse, 4" 8-"; oblique, 4'' 2" (Wurtemburg measure). In MuKPHr's case the conjugate diameter was barely two inches; the space round the brim was liardly larger than a florin; the cause of the deformity was mollities ossium. The child was dead before the operation was commenced. The mother died two days after. The author discusses the general question of the necessity and justifiability of the operation. The paper concludes with a table of cases of Cesarean section reported in Britain and America. In DucLOs's case, fibrous tumours of the uterus impeded deliverv. Mother and child were saved. Guillaume reports a case of Cgesarean section under like conditions. The child was saved; the mother died in six days. Guoesbeck and Treeriees report suc- cessful cases. Galligani's case was successful for mother and child. Giordano has operated four times in sixteen years. The cliildren were saved; the mothers died. Esterle's was a post- mortem operation. The child lived for two hours. Tyler Smith endeavours to show that, "witli the proper and scientific use of all the means at our command, it may be laid down as a general rule, that craniotomy should not be performed in tlie case of a living foetus after the period of viability has been reached."OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 361 He contends that up to the present time the measures which are the alternatives of craniotomy have never been carried out in prac- tice to their full and legitimate extent. Turniug, the use of the forceps, the induction of premature labour, &c., are measm'es which miglit be adopted very much more extensively than they have been, and the necessity for craniotomy in the case of a viable foetus thus altogether obviated. Geeenhalgh contends that there is little, if any, difference in the mortaHty to the m'others from craniotomy in great distortion of the pelvis, and the Csesarean section, when performed shortly after the commencement of labour; whereas there is a great saving of foetal life in the latter case. Beaux details the new methods of performing craniotomy. He speaks most favorably of Kiwisch's method, by means of a straight trepan, followed by the use of the cephalotribe. Simpson introduces a new variety of craniotomy, under the name cranioclasm. The peculiarity of the operation is the fracturing of the base of the foetal skull beliind the foramen magnum and at other points. After perforating the skull in the usual manner, a pair of forceps is applied, one blade within, the other outside, the skull, so as to grasp the occipital bone close up to the foramen magnum, when, by a slight twisting movement, the fracture is effected and the head diminished at its fii'mest and most unjdelding part. Druitt relates a case in which, after the operation of tui-ning, the head could not be extracted, and craniotomy was had recourse to. The head was extremely hard. Levy proposes a new operation in certain cases of arm presen- tation, where turning cannot be effected, and evisceration, &c., are usually contemplated. The operation consists in the separation of the scapula and arm, as a substitute for the expedients usually had recourse to. After the separation in question has been effected, turn- ing can be easily performed. The method has been found by expe- rience to be practicable and useful. Beckeu relates tlu:ee cases in which cephalotripsy had been per- formed. He rejects the instrument of Baudelocque, and prefers that of Busch. The result, so far as the mother was concerned, was favorable in the three cases. Schultze considers that a conjugate diameter of is not an absolute contra-indication to the use of the cephalotribe. In one case the conjugate diameter was 2" 3"',362 IIEPOIIT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. and after the use of the instrument a mature foetus M^as extracted -UuBOis and Won- also record cases of cephalotripsy. Ntjssee's case was one of frontal presentation, in wliicli, the for- ceps havnig been unsuccessfully used, the trepan was employed, and delivery ellected. • CiiiSTOFOiiisproposes as a substitute for symphysotomy, pubiotomj-, and the Csesarean section, a new operation, viz., the partial or total superiosteal resection of the os pubis, at the horizontal and descending rami. He describes six modifications of the operation, adapted to differ- ent cases, m each of wliich different parts of thebonesare toberemoved according to the varying degrees of narrowing of the pelvic cavity, ihese several operations he has performed on the dead body, and has practised them on Hving bitches. He beUeves that he has proved, that the operation is practicable, the chief difficulty con- sisting in the separation of the periosteum behind the pubic bone; that it answers its purpose j that it must be considered a priori as less severe than the operations it is proposed to be substituted for; and that the parts removed are replaced subsequently. JocoLUCci relates a case in wliich, at the eighth month, sjTichon- di-otomy was performed, to allow the head to enter the pelvis. The conjugate diameter was %\" The child died soon after delivery, the mother eighteen days subsequently. ON EMPLOYMENT OF CHLOllOPORM, SPECIAL REMEDIAL AGENTS, ETC. Levy.—On the Employment of Chloroform in the Royal Lying-in Hospital at Copenhagen. Bibliothek for Laeger, vol. lo, p. 443. (Sch., 4, 40.) Kidd.—Cliloroforra in Midwifery Practice. Med. Circ, xiv, 1859, 29°- Silbert.—On the Employment of Local Bloodletting in Pregnancy. Ann, de Med. et Chir., Jamain and Wahu, 1859, P- 272. Beauvais. —On Uva Ursi, considered specially as an Obstetrical Agent. Ann. de Therap., 1859, 49- Deville.—Statistical Researches on the Action of Ergot in Parturition. Arch. Gen., March, 1859. (Brit, and For. Med.-Ch. Rev., July, 1859,277.) Levy details the general result of the employment of clJoroform inhalation in a number of cases of natural labom-, in most of wliich the full narcotism was produced. Chloroform lias the same effect on pregnant women and on women during labour as on other individuals;OBSTETRICAL OPERATIONS. 3G3 In two cases oiilvj bad results (convulsions, extreme faintuess) followed. In no case was the cliild injuriously affected by tlie use of tlie chlo- roform. Chloroform has, he believes, a weakening action on the contractions of the uterus, but this only applies to the periodic " pains" dependent on the spinal nervous system ; the contractility of the uterus derived from the sympathetic is not, he thinks, affected by the cliloroform. The use of chloroform does not predis- pose to post-partum heemorrhage, or to retention of the placenta. Chloroform has a disturbing action on labour, and it somewhat post- pones the period of delivery. In abnormal laboiu's, cliloroform is advantageously employed. In very rapid labours, the pains are too quick to allow of fall inhalation. In cases of hj^Derassthesia of the internal sexual organs, causing delirium or hysterical convulsions, and where spasmodic conditions of the uterus are present, it is very useful; also in tetanic conditions of the uterus, deformity, cross-pre- sentations, fee, previous to the necessary operative delivery, especially before turning. \n puerperal convulsions, its use is, he thinks, con- tra-indicated, lu two cases, after copious venesection, it had no decided efPect. In 53 cases, the operation of turning was performed under full narcotism, and in % cases after embryotomy; 3 out of the 53 died, i was a case of embryotomy, i after tetanus uteri, and I of acute peritonitis; 30 of the 53 childi-en were born alive. In forceps operations he has not extensively tried it. In the few cases in which cutting-instruments or the cephalotribe had been used, cliloroform was always employed. Kidd's paper, on " Chloroform in Midwifery Practice,'' contains the recently expressed opinions of Eigby and Mm-pliy on the subject, and an account of discussions thereon in Paris and in Germany. SiLBEET contends that local depletion is of very great service in various accidents and disorders to which the pregnant woman is liable, and several cases are cited to show the advantages which have been derived from this mode of treatment. Beauvais is of opinion that ergot may be perfectly replaced by Uva ursi. It is given in the form of infusion or decoction in cases of tedious labour or in menorrhagia. Deville asserts that he has, from the examination of various documents, arrived at the conclusion that one seventh of 515 still- born children perished from the use of ergot.361 REPORT ON MIDWU'ERY, ETC. STATISTICS, ETC. ^^^^jC?859!"o8.' "'^"^'^"""^ °" "'•^ ^-'^"i'y t° Abortion. Glasg. Med. Journ., ^^"^urinT^d f V °^ c'' «°>'«' ^^^"'^nity Charity Aug .859 ' °' ^^'^ Ellis.-Analysis of 2157 Cases of Labour. Brit. Med. Jour. ,8,0 46 Qrenser.-Forty third Annual Report of the Lying-in Hospital of the' Royal Med - Clnr. Acad, at Dresden. Monats. f. Geburts, xii, Dec, 18^8 f "S;";: fsS' TT^'r" ^^"-''^"S'-l Clinic of Jena. Monatscb. I. ueo., xn. 3, 1858. (Canst, vol. 1, p. 485 ) ^""^/^Cnt"." r^'r? f f°'-Midwives in Vienna for .850 Zeitsch. d. Gesell d. Aertz. zu Wein., 21, 22, 23 1858 Schmidt-Report of the Obstetrical Clinic of Prof. Scanzoni at Wiirzburg, from 1833 to 1856. Scanzoni's Beitr. z. Geburtsk., 3 1858 cS;7Reriri85r'''' ^'"'^ leC-CIinical Midwifery. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxiv, 440; xl, ,,0 ,77 Tllanus.-ContTibutions to the Statistics of the Mechanism of Deli'very ' Ir^hiv f. d. Holland Beit., i, p. 144, (Sch. 7, 30.) Eousset.-Report of the Obstetric Clinique at Bordeaux for the years i8<i:;-c6 Journ. de Me'd. de Bordeaux, Mai. '055-SO- Elsasser.-Report of the Lying-in Hospital at Stuttgart, from July, :856, to Julv, 1857. Med. \Vurt. Corrcsp., Bl. 1. ■ SmitL-A Statistical Report of thirteen hundred Midwifery Cases attended in private practice. Lancet, 1859, 481. Duim.-On the Statistics of Midwifery from Private Practice (4049 cases). Obst Trans., vol. 1, p. 279. ^ ^^^?f^,'"T^" °^ consecutive Cases in Midwifery Practice. Brit Med. Journ., 1859, 867. Harrinson.-Statistics of 1000 Cases in Obstetrics. Brit. Med. Journ. 181:0 860 BeU.-On the relative frequency of the different Positions of the Child's Head at the Commencement of Labour, &c. Glasg. Med. Journ., Oct., 1859 29" R. Uvedale West.-A statistical study of the causes and relative proportions of Still-b.rtlis in Private Country Practice. Lancet, 1859, ii, 478. Hadaway—Stillborn children. Lancet, 1859, ii, 481.365 DISEASES OF WOMEN. DISEASES OF WOMEN; INCLUDING THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF THE FEMALE SEXUAL ORGANS. GENERAL TREATISES, PHYSIOLOGY, ETC. Neuville.—Histoire pliilosopliique et rnedicale de la femme, consideree dans toutes les epoques principales de la vie, &c. [A Treatise on the Piiilosophical and Medical History of Woman, &c.] Second edition, Paris, 1858, 3 vols. (Scli., 10, 141.) Mattel.—Appearances of the Yearly Ripening of Ova in Woman. Gaz. des Hop., 22, 1859. (Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Kev., Oct., 1859, SS3-) Ronget.—Researches on the Erectile Organs of Woman, and on the Muscular Tubo-ovarian Apparatus, in their Relations with Ovulation and Menstruation. Brown-Sequard's Journ. de^Phys., Oct., 1858. (Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., April, 1859, p. 550.) Simpson.—Clinical Lectures on the Diseases of Women. Med. Times and Gaz., 1859. Duncan.—On the Development of the Female Pelvis. Edin. Med. Jour., Oct. and Dec, 1859. Harvey.—On the Foetus in Utero as inoculating the Maternal with the peculiarities of the Paternal Organism, and on the transmission thereby of Secondary or Constitutional Syphilis from the Male to the Female Parent. Glasg. Med. Jour., Jan., 1859, p. 385. Gooch-—On some of the most important Diseases peculiar to Women; with other papers. Prefatory Essay by Robert Ferguson, M.D. New Syd. Soc, 1859, PP- 235- Aran.—Coup d'oeil sur la therapeulique generale des maladies de I'uterus et de ses annexes. [Therapeutics of Uterine Diseases, &c.] Bull, de Therap., April 30th and May 15th, 1858.;;^ (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Mattei believes that for eacli ovary only one annual ripening occurs. This yearly ripening, for which the months of January, February, March, and April are most favorable, mostly ceases at the same epoch as the germination of plants and the rut of animals. The body of the uterus is, according to Ronget, an erectile organ; the ovary has also an erectile bulb attached to it. He finds that in all vertebrata, especially all mammifera, a special muscular apparatus embraces the oviduct and ovary, and effects their mutual adaptation. The action of this muscular apparatus has the effect of retaining the blood within the erectile structures, and this con-UliroilT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 3G6 traction persists during the periods of ovulation. Menstruation is a consequence of tliis erection. SiMPSoN^s lectures (twenty-six in number) on the diseases of women comprise dissertations on, and clinical illustrations of, the following subjects: vesico-vaginal fistula, cancer of the uterus and mamma; dysmenorrhoca, closiu-es and contractions of the vagina, caruncles of the urethra, neuroses &c. of the vulva, abscess of the vulva, surgical fever, phlegmasia dolens, coccyodynia, pelvic cellulitis, peh'ic hffiraatoinata, pudendal varix, spurious pregnancy, and ovarian di'opsy. Du.\CA?f, in an inquiry having reference to the development of the female pelvis, states his belief that the ultimate form assumed by the adult pelvis is greatly determined by the mechanical forces to the action of which it has been previously subjected, and at a time when the bones have been themselves softer and the parts of the OS innominatum only connected by cartilage. The nature of these mechanical forces the author then proceeds to explain. The normal development of the female pelvis having been thus eluci- dated, the same principles are illustrated by a reference to the con- ditions present in the pelves of Naegele' and Eobert, and it is con- tended that the whole plienomena of the diseased pelves in question are explained by, and support the theory of, the natural develop, ment of the pelvis maintained by the author. Haevey, having in the first place shown, by an appeal to facts, that the pecuKarities of a male animal which has once had fruitful intercoiu-se with a female, may be, more or less clearly discernible in the progeny which that female may subsequently have by other males, reasons therefi-om, that morbid qualities may be transmitted to the female in like manner. With reference to sjqohilis, cases axe cited in which it would appear that the kind of transmission referred to did actually take place. A reprint of Goocii's celebrated work has been superintended by Ferguson, who, in a prefatory essay of forty-seven pnges, intro- duces the various subjects treated of in the original treatise. Fer- guson furnishes at the same time original and critical remarks on these several subjects, bringing the state of knowledge respecting them up to the present time, and incorporating therewith the results of his OflTi experience.367 DISEASES or WOMEN. TREATISES, ETC, ON SPECIAL DISEASES. I. UTEEUS. DEVELOPMENT;—DISLOCATIONS, KuSSinaill,—Die einhornige Geliiirmutter oline und mit verklimmertem neben- liorne. [On the Uterus Unicornis, &c.] Verb, des nat.-med. Vor. zu Heidelb,, V, p. 139, 1858. (Sch., 5, 189.) Duigan,—Case of Absence of the Vagina and Uterus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., May, 1859, 131. Tuppert,—Ein Fall von atresia uteri congenita mit nachfolgender Schwangerschaft. [A Case of Congenital Atresia Uteri; Pregnancy subsequently.] Scanz. Beitrage z. Geburtsk, iii. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Dietz,—Verscbluss der Gebiirmutter. [Atresia Uteri.] Aertz. Intell. Bl., No. 28, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Aran.—Etudes anatomiques et anatomico-pathologiques sur la statique de I'uterus. [Anatomical and Pathological Researches on the Statics of the Uterus.] Arch. Gen., Feb. and March, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Eounet,—Du soulevement et de la cauterisation profonde du col-de-sac, retro- nterin dans les retroversions de la matrice. [On Deep Cauterisation of the Eetro-uterine Pouch in the Treatment of Retroversion of the Uterus.] Gaz, Med. de Lyons, 2 and 3, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Sohultze,—Ueljer Mutlerkriinze nnd Ilysterophore, nebst einem Falle von 30 J, lang verhaltenen Miitterkranze. [On Pessaries, &c. Case in which a Pessary •was retained for thirty years.] Aus der gynaekologisch. KUnik des Prof. Martin zu Berlin. Deutsche Klinik, 27, 1859. (Sch., 12,316.) Mayer.—Ueber Gebarmutter nnd Scbeiden-Vorfalle, die Brauchbarkeit des Zwankschen Ilysterophors und die Verhiiltnisse, welche die Anwendung des- Belben erschweren oder unmoglich machen, [On the Employment of Zwanke's Pessary in Prolapsus of the Uterus and Vagina ; the indications for its use, &c.] Verbandl. der Ges. f, Geb. in Berl. Monats. f. Geburtsk, xii, i. (Canstatt, vol. iv, 401.) Mayer,—Ueber die Amputation der hypertrophischen Vaginalportion bei Gebiir- mutter-Vorfall, [On Amputation of an Hypertrophied Cervix Uteri in Cases of Prolapsus.] Verb, der Gesells, f. Geburts., in Berl. Monatsch. f, Geburtsk, xi, 3. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Huguier,—Note sur I'allongement hypertrophique de son col, dans I'affection im- proprement designee sous les noras de prolapsus; de precipitation de la matrice, et sur son traiteraent par I'ablation du col uterin on de la partie inferieure de I'organe suivant le degre de I'afTection. [On Hypertrophy and Elongation of the Cervix Uteri, improperly designated Prolapsus; Treatment by Ablation, &c.] Gaz. Heb., 20, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 401.) Ollivier.—On the Employment of Pessaries in Deviations of the Uterus. Gaz, des Hop., 91,1828. Bourjeaurd.—Patent Mnshroom Pessary. Lancet, 1859, h p. 348. Bonorden.—Prolapsus uteri heilbar durch innere Mittel. [Internal Remedies in the Cure of Prolapsus.] Medic. Zeitung, Jan. 13th, 1858. (Noirot Annuairc, p. 119, and Canst., vol, iv, 401.) 'RErORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 8G8 Noui'Se.—0" a Case of Prolapsus Uteri cured witliout Operation or the necessity of wearing a Pessary. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 81. Gaillard,—Complete Prolapsus Uteri; Cauterization; Cure. Gaz. de Par., 14, 1859- (Sell., 7, 30.) Breslail.—Prolapsus des uterus durch ein grosses Fibroid dcr vordern Lippe bedingt; iorasement. [Prolapsus produced by Fibroid Tumour of the Cervix; Ecrase- ment.] Mon. Sch. f. Gcb., xiii, 435. (Scb. 11, 189.) Greaves.—Procidentia Uteri from Lacerated Perinmum cured by I. B. Brown's Operation. Brit. Med. Jour., 1859, 363. Houth,—Complete Prolapsus Uteri. Lancet, 1859, ii, 389. Dillon Kelly.—Recurrence of Retroversion of the Uterus after two years and a half. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1859, p. 70. Virchow ""'^ Eokitansky,—Uebcr die Entstehung von Uternsflexioncn. [On the Origin of Uterine Flexions.] Allg.Wien. Med. Ztg.,4—6, 17, 18, 21,1859. (Sch., 9, 323.) Cazenave.—Du diagnostic differeiiticl des Polypes utdrines, et des renversemcnts de la Matrice. [The Differential Diagnosis of Uterine Polypi and Versions of P the Uterus.] Journ. de Med. de Bordeaux, Nov., 1858. (Canstatt., vol. iv, 402.) Teale.—Case of Chronic Inversion of the Womb reduced by Taxis. Med. Times and Gaz., xiv, 181. West.—Account of a Case in which the Inverted Uterus was Replaced after a lapse of nearly twelve months. lb., 425. Bissill.—Inversion of the Uterus. Transact, of the Med. Soc. of the State of New York, 1859, p. 170. ftliackenbush,—A Report on Inversion of the Uterus. lb., p. 162. McClintOCk.—Extirpation of an Inverted Uterus by Ecrasement. Dub. Quar. Jour., Feb., 1859, p. 137. KussMAUL finds that iu tlie uterus unicornis, witli or without a second imperfectly formed cornu—i. Menstruation appears to pro- ceed as regularly as in the case of the symmetrical uterus. 2. That it does not produce sterility. 3. That the impregnated ovum maybe developed in the imperfectly formed as well as in the perfectly formed cornu. 4. That pregnancy in an imperfectly formed cornu is usually associated with impervious condition of the passage leading to the other cornu; probably this apparent imper\dousness is due to swelling of the tissues only. 5. That women with one ovary and a uterus unicornis may give birth to children of both sexes. 6. That it is not incompatible with the existence of repeated pregnancies, and does not predispose to abortion. 7. Tliat abortion, viz., rup- ture of the ovum and its escape into the abdomen, always happens when the ovum is developed in the second, imperfectly formed cornu. In four cases of uterus unicornis, without a second cornu, the right side of the uterus was the one developed. Pregnancy inDISEASES OF WOMEN. 369 the imperfectly formed cornu is frequently mistaken for tubal preg- nancy. TuppERT records a case of congenital closure of the os uteri. The woman was twenty-nine years old, and had never menstruated. By means of a trocar, five ounces of fluid were evacuated from the uterus, but the operation was performed three times before the opening was made complete. Finally, she became pregnant. According to Aran's researches, the uterus is held in its place by the utero-sacral, the broad, and the round ligaments, and by the bladder and vagina; the junction of the body with the cervix of the uterus is a fixed point—"axe de suspension," about which the different movements of the organ occur. Of thirty-seven women, m seven tenths of those under twenty-nine years old, the uterus was anteflexed; of women above that age, only one fifth. Anteflexion was more often present when pregnancy had not occurred. BoxNET proposes deep cauterization of the upper and back part of the vagina with Vienna paste and chloride of zinc, so as to obli- terate the recto-uterine fossa, for the cure of retroflexions of the uterus. In three cases the excessive sufferings of the patients were removed, m a fourth the result was not so satisfactory. A case is recorded by Schultze, in which a pessary of wood was retamed in the vagina for thirty years. Its extraction was very difficult. Some remarks foUow on the best form of pessary to be used in cases of prolapsus. Mayee gives statistics referring to 300 cases of prolapsus of the uterus and vagina which occurred in the practice of his father In 203 cases Zwank's pessary was used, and in 179 with consider- able benefit. It IS necessary, in order that good results maybe obtained from the use of this instrument, to carefully adjust its size to the width and direction of the pubic arch. Mayer reports four cases, in which he amputated the .cervix uteri for hypertrophy of this part of the uterus. HuGuiER, in an elaborate memoir on the subject of prolapsus uten, takes up a position widely antagonistic to previous ideas, con- tending hat what IS usually considered to be prolapsus is, in most cases, only hypertrophy and elongation of the cervical part of the uterus of which there are two varieties, viz., the sub- and supra- vaginal The author recommends amputation of the cervix uteri when the disease gives rise to serious symptoms, and we are certain that medical and other means are inefficient. 24370 RliPOllT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Ollivieii recommends the employment of leeches to reduce tlie bulk of the organ, in preference to the employment of pessaries, for prolapsus uteri. BoNOEXiEN, with the same view, recommends ergot, galbanum, and inunction. NouRSE relates a case cm-ed by weai-ing a pad, bandage, and tannic-acid suppositories. Gaillaud reports a case of cure by cauterization of the posterior wall of the vagina by the hot iron, at intervals of one to two months. Grea-s^es and Eouth record cases of cure of prolapsus uteri by plastic operations. Dillon Kelly records a case of retroversion of the uterus recur^ ring after two years. The tumour produced prolapsus of the pos- terior wall of the vagina. Eeduction was easily effected. ViRCHOW, in explaining the tendency to retroflexion, calls atten- tion to certain anatomical facts; the extension of the recto-uterme pouch lower down than is usually supposed, and the adhesion of the cervix anteriorly to the neck of the bladder. Retroflexion very frequently follows childbirth. He does not find that relaxation of the uterus is specially present in such cases, on the contrary, often hardness and hypertrophy. The natural movements of the uterus about the bladder produce a certain amount of bending forwards of the fundus, easily increased by undue fulness of the rectum. Peritonitis is a frequent cause of flexions, and congenital shortness of the ligaments, over-distension of the bladder, long retention of its contents, have also an influence of the same cha- racter. EoKiTANSKY agrees with Yirchow on three points, viz., as to the internal os uteri being generaUy the seat of the flexure, as to retroflexions occurring more fi-equently after the puerperal state, and as to anteflexions being more fi'equently found m young women or those who have not had children. Eokitansky thinks, however, that at the seat of the flexion there is a real primary atrophy of the sub stsucc In the case of chronic inversion recorded by Teale, the inversion was partial, and had existed for two years and a half. The recum- bent position, cliloroform, pressure by the air-pessary and hand, formed the elements of the treatment. In West's case the inver- sion was also not complete, the sound being admitted to the extent of half an inch. Efforts made by mampulation and theDISEASES OF WOMEN. 371 air-pessary to reduce the tumour failed. Finally, an air-pessary was introduced into tlie os itself and kept in situ by an external apparatus, and inflation performed. Eeduction was then effected in forty-eight hours. BissiLL details particulars of three cases of recent inversion of the uterus, which occurred, certainly in two out of the three, inde- pendently of traction on the cord. In two cases reduction was effected, but not in the third. Quackenbush refers to a case in which reduction was effected by White, of Buffalo, after fifteen years' duration; and to a more recent one of his own, also reduced. McCLrNTOCK relates the case of a woman with inversion of the uterus of fourteen months' standing. The inversion was not complete. Several attempts to reduce the tumour failed; the operation of removal by the ecraseur was practised, and the patient recovered. II. ANOMALIES OF THE UTEEINE SECE^ITIONS, TEXTUEAL DISEASES OF THE UTEEUS, NEUEOSES, ETC. Eosicki.-Interesting Case of Menstrual Deviation. Med. Ceutral-ZeitunR Nov 24ih, 1858. Noirot's Annuaire for 1858, p. 341. Blair.—Case of Vicarious Menstruation in a Female at. 53. Ediu Med Jour April, 1859, P- 882. Leute.-A Case of Regular Menstruation during Pregnancy. New York Journ of Medicine, March, 1859, P- 285. Taylor.-Case of Amenorrhoca successfully treated by the application of Elec tricity. Lancet, 1859, ii, 235. Moses.-Cases of Disordered Menstruation producing Phenomena simulating the Symptoms of Grave Diseases. Amer. Jour, of Med. Science, Oct., i8,q p EagOn.-EpiIepsy succeeding a Suppression of the Menstrual Discharge &c lb =60 Trousseau.-Secalis Comutum and Digitalis in large doses in the'treatment of Uterine Haemorrhages. L'Union, 36, 1859. (Sch. 7 29) Beau.-Passive Metrorrhagia quickly checked by the use of Powder of Rue and Savin. Gaz. des H6p., 141, 1858. (Sch., 5, 188.) Burns.-Arsenic in Menorrhagia, LeucorrhcBa, &c. Amer. Jour, of Med. Science uct., 1059, 39.^- ' Decaisne -Metrorrhagia during Menstruation, in consequence of Fungosities of he Uterus; Advantages of Digitalis after failure of Abrasion and'cauteriza tion. Gaz. des Hop., 41, 1859. (Sch., 7, 29.) ^--^^ Dysmenorrhoe. [On Dysmenorrhcea.] Gaz. des Hop., 32, '038. (tanst., vol. IV, 407.) e'a >REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 372 Aran.—Note sur remploi des lavements purgatifs dans le traitement du catarrbe uterin. [On Purgative Enemnta in Cliroiiic Uterine Caiarrh.] Bull, de Tlierap., March istli, 1858. (Scli., i, 60; and Canst., vol. iv, p. 407.) Becquerel.—Neuralgia of the Uterus. Gaz. des Hop., 47, 1858. Coghill. —The Pathology and Treatment of Irritable Uterus. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, 1859, 177- Namias and De Christoforis.—On Tuberculosis of the Uterus and Appendages. Ann. Univ. Agost. et Sett. (Scli., 9, 326.) Langston Parker.—On Primary and Secondary Syphilis of the Uterus. Brit. Med. Jour., 1859, 484. Kollock.—A- Case of Chancre of the Uterus. Charleston Med. Journ. and Rev., March, 1859. (Brit, and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, p. 273.) Langenbeck.—Ueber die Extirpation der interstiiiellen Uterusfibroide. [On the Extirpation of Interstitial Uterine Fibrous Tumours.] Deutsche Kl., i, 1859. (Sch., 3, 309.) Elkington.—Reports of Cases of Polypus of the Uterus, veith Clinical Observa- tions. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 112. Hardy.—Remarkable Case of Uterine Polypus. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., June, 1859, 163. Maier.—Ueber Polypenbildung im Uterus. [On the Formation of Polypi in the Uterus.] Verbandl. d. Naturf. Ges. zu Freib., i, 209. (Sch., 4, 36.) Wagner.—Fibrinous Polypus of Uterus. Schmidt's Jahrb., 1859, vol. ii, p. 37. (Sch., 4, 37.) Dn crayon du charbon caustique et des principales applications dont il est sus- ceptible, en particulier au traitement des affections de I'uterus. [The " Crayon du Charbon Caustique" in the treatment of Uterine Affections.] Bull, de Therap., May 15th, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) ScanZOni.—Ein Todesfall, hervorgerufen durch das Einstromen von Kohlensiiure in die Uterushbble. [Death from the injection of Carbonic Acid into the Uterine Cavity.] Scanzoni's Beitr. z. Geburtsk, vol. iii, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Noeggerath.—On Uterine Injections. New York Journ. of Med., May, 1859. Sack.—Uel>er das Sitzbad bei Frauenkrankheiten. [On the Hip-bath.] Monatsch. f. Geburtsk, xi. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Jacobovics.—Zur Behandlung der chronischen Gebarmutterentzundung. [Treat. ment of Chronic Inflammation of the Uterus.] Oester. Zeitsch. f. prak. Heilk., 28,1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Brosius.—Ueber Uterinal Congestion und Gemiithsleiden. [Uterine Congestion and Cerebral Affections.] Allg. Med. Centr. Ztg., April 3d, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Nonat. Hysteric te retention d'urine symptomatiques d'une metrite interne et d'u'n phlegmon peri-uterin. [Hysteria and Retention of Urine symptomatic of Metritis and Perimetritis.] Gaz. des Hop., 31, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) Storer.—The Use and Abuse of Uterine Tents. Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, Jan., 1859. Becquerel.—The Chronic Inflammations of the Uterus. Gaz. des H&p., 87, 93, 1859. (Sch., II, 182.) De Meric—Case of Recurrent Fibroid Tumour attached to the Os Uten. Lancet. 1859, ii. 114-373 DISEASES OF WOMEN. Breslau.—Scirrhus des uterus, fibroser Polyp, Pyometra. [Scirrhus and Fibrous Polypus of the Uterus.] Mon. Sch. f. Geb., xiii, 435. (Sch., 11, 188.) • Ein Fall von Ecrasement lineaire einer Carcinomatosen Vaginalportion. [Case in which Ecrasement of a Cancerous Cervix Uteri was performed.] Scanzoni's Beitriige z. Geb., iii. (Canst., vol. iv, 408.) Fano.—Successful Amputation of the Cervix Uteri for Carcinoma. Gaz. des II3p., 40, 1859. (Sch. 8, 191.) Setz.—Zur Therapie des Clarke'scben Blumenkohlgewiichses. [On the Treatment of Clarke's Cauliflower E.xcrescence of the Uterus.] Memorab. a. d. Praxis V, S, 1859. (Sch., 8, 192.) Costilhes.—Remarks on Chronic Metritis granulosa interna, and its treatment by Cauterization. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 2, 1859. (Sch., 10, 72.) Tilt.—Chronic Uterine Disease; Haamorrhage from the Bowels for the last twenty years; Internal Haemorrhoids, &c. Lancet, 1859, SS9- Charnal.—Considerations sur I'amputation du col del'uterus par I'ecraseur lineaire. [On Amputation of the Cervix Uteri by the Ecraseur.] Monit. des Hop., 13 et 14, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 407.) McRuer.—On the Frequency, Importance, and Treatment of Ulcerations of the Os and Cervix Uteri. Bangor, Maine, U.S., [859. 8vo., pp. 46. (North Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, July, 1859, P- 215-) In EosiCKi's case of menstrual deviation, an ulcer on the leg was the seat of monthly recurring pain and discharge of blood, which state of things continued during five years. The cure was finally effected by iron and quinine. In Blaie's case, haemoptysis was observed on three successive occasions at the time the catamenial flow would otherwise have been observed. In Leute's case, menstruation continued during seven months of pregnancy. Moses relates several cases in which " vicarious menstruation " occurred, from the umbilicus, the skin, ulcers, lungs and intestines, and stomach; also cases of amenorrhoea associated with epilepsy, tetanic symptoms, &c. Eagon reports a case of epilepsy following on amenorrhoea, cured on supervention of dysentery and restoration of catamenia. Taylor records a case of amenorrhoea, associated with mania. Electricity, by means of Pulvermacher's apparatus, was had recourse to, and with a beneficial result. Tkousseau, in reference to the use of ergot and digitaHs, states that, when given just after delivery, ergot produces an effect of a very quick and decisive character. After abortion and in hfEmorrhages of carcinomatous origin, ergot acts very beneficially. Trousseau'sREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 374 experience of the efficacy of digitalis is limited, but so far he is dissatisfied with the results obtained. Beau aiBrms that rue has a specific action on the uterus, as digitalis has on the heart. He combines rue with savin, in doses of rather less than a grain of each. Burns insists on the efficacy of arsenic in cases of haemorrhagia and leucorrhoea. In the treatment of uterine catarrh, Aran recommends the injection of enemata containing aloes, gamboge, rhubarb, jalap, scammony, castor oil, croton oil, or purgative salts. Becquerel considers an idiopathic neuralgia of the uterus to be not unfrequent. The disease is chronic, mostly iutermittent, and difficult of removal in ansemic subjects. CoGHiLL considers that the affection known as " irritable uterus" consists in a disordered state of the innervation of the organ. An increased vascularity, always present, brings with it morbid sensi- bility. This vaso-motor irritation has a further result in the excessive activity of the sensitive apparatus, accounting for the presence of leucorrhcea. This doctrine is founded on considerations suggested by Brown-Sequard^s recently expressed ^^ews. Namias believes that tubercle occurs in the genital organs more frequently than is usually supposed, and that it does not often occur pmnurily in the genital organs. He has usually found tubercle in the uterus in the crude stage. When the Fallopian tubes are affected, the canal is not obliterated. In the ovaries the author has found tubercle in great quantity. De Christoforis contests the vaHdity of some of the above generalisations. On the subject of syphilis of the uterus, Parker arrives at the conclusion that the uterus is capable of being primarily inoculated with syphilis, the sores being situated on the external surface of the neck, within the os or canal, or more deeply; that the uterus is liable to be attacked with the symptoms of secondary sypliilis, Avliich consist in discharges from the canal of the cervix, general or partial enlargement of the neck and lips of the uterus, with congestion, inflammation, and superficial ulceration ; and that the affection often persists for years. KoLLOCK records a case of chancre of the os uteri, proved by inoculation to be a genuine syphilitic sore. In cases of fibroid tumour of the uterus, Langenbeck advocatesDISEASES OF WOMEN, ?>7~) the more frequeut employment of operative procedures. In 12 cases (3 of which are by Laugenbeck), operations have been per- formed, and in 7 of them with success. The operation is contra- indicated, if the tumours are situated in a part of the uterus covered by peritoneum. If the tumour be in the uterine cavity, the OS is to be enlarged by sponge-tents, and the tumour removed. The several steps of the operation are then described. Elkinston relates the particulars of six cases in which large uterine polj^i were present, chiefly remarkable for the size of the tumours and the difficulties experienced in effecting their removal. In Hardy's case death followed the ligature of a large fibrous polypus. In Maiee's case a substance was expelled from the uterus, which the author concludes was a coagulum of blood, the surface of which had become organized. Wagner ('Schmidt's Jalirb.,' 18^9, vol. ii, p. 36) considers it more likely to have been a fibrous polypus spontaneously detached, or possibly, an abortion. Aran recommends the use of a caustic pencil, composed of charcoal, tragacanth, and saltpetre, in induration and granular ulcers of the cervix uteri. ScANzoNi records a case of death, in less than two hours, from the use of the carbonic-acid uterine douche. Noeggerath relates four cases in which uterine injections were used; one of the pa- tients died. Sack states that his new hip-bath obviates the tendency to pro- duce prolapsus, &c., connected with the use of the ordinary form of bath. Brosius records two cases in which psychical disturbances were consequent on the presence of uterine congestion, and disappeared on the removal of the latter. Stouer details the purposes for which uterine tents are applicable. Becquerel ascribes a powerful remedial effect to tannin, applied in the form of solution, in cases of inflammation of the uterus. After the local affection is relieved, the concomitant anaemia is to be treated. De Meric removed a tumour as large as the fist from the cervix uteri of a patient, eet. 40. The tumour is described as " albuminous sarcoma." In Fano's case, the cervix uteri, enlarged by encephaloid disease, was amputated. In Breslau's case the ecraseui- was the instrument employed. In cases where the radical operation for the cure of cauliflower376 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, HTC. excrescence of the uterus is not admissible, Betz recommends the frequent use of caustics. CosTiLiiES recommends the use of nitrate of silver, applied in the solid state, for the removal of the fungus-like granulations present in chronic granular metritis. Tilt relates a case of chronic uterine disease and internal haemorrhoids; a tumour of the uterus was also present. The patient had lost much blood, the source of which was not perfectly clear. McRuER believes that simple ulceration of the uterus is not " so formidable a malady as it is maintained to be by certain writers." The author advocates cleansing of the vaginal passage by emollient or slightly astringent fluids, attention to the general health, rest, &c., in order to remove the leucorrhoca. Caustic agents ought never to be made destructive, and the demonstrative use of the speculum is seldom justifiable or required in the diagnosis. m. DISEASES OP THE OTAEIES, ETO. Eulenberg,—Ovarian Cyst; Pregnancy; Compression of the Tumour by the Uterus; Radical Cure. Wien. Medizin. Wochenschrift, Med. Neuigkeiten, Peb. 27th, 1858. (Noirot's Annuaire, 1858.) Lumpe,—OvariencYste liei einer Woclinerin in Folge spontaner Ruptiir und Entlee- rung durch den Dickdarm gelieilt. [Spontaneous Rujjture of Ovarian Cyst into the Large Intestine; Cure.] Zeitsch. d. Geseil, d. Aeriz. ru Wien., No. 2i, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Clay.—Ovarian Cyst coexisting with Pregnancy, &c. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 226. PreUSS.—Radikalheiluiig eines Hydrovarium. [Radical Cure of Ovarian Dropsy.] Deutsche Klinik, 48, 1858. (Sch., 3,309.) Hergott.—Ovariotomy. Gaz. de Strasb., 2, 1859. (Sch. 6, 304.) Simon.—Znsaramensiellung von 61 in Deutscliland theils ausgefiihrten, theils ver- suchten Ovariotoinien. [Report of Si.\ty-one Cases of Ovariotomy.] Scan- zoni's Beilriige z. Gelinrtsk, iii, pp. 98—142. Spencer Wells.—Five Cases of Ovarian Disease, in three of which Ovariotomy was performed successfully; with remarks on tlie means of diminishing the Morlality after this Operation. Proc. of Roy. Med. and Cliir. Soc. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 186. Spencer Wells. Three Cases of Ovarian Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 159. Three Cases of Ovariotomy. lb., 11, 31, 59. Unilocular Ovarian Cyst; Injection with Iodine; Successful result. lb., xxxix, 548.377 DISEASES OV WOMEN, Spencer Wells. Two Cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 605. Eight Cases of Ovariotomy, -with remarlis on the means of diminishing the Mortality of this Operation. Dub. Quar. Journ., Nov., 1859, 27- Black.—On a Case of Ovarian Dropsy; Iodine injection; Cure. Lancet, 1859,1!, 262. Ovarian Disease; Rupture of Cyst; Recovery; Subsequent reaccumulation ; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 342. Baker Brown.—Fi^^ Cases of Ovariotomy; Three successful; with practical re- marks. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, 4^2—44o- Case of Ovarian Disease; Operation ; Death. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 318. Death afier Paracentesis for Ovarian Dropsy at St. George's Hospital. Reported in Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 183. Holt.—Polycystic Ovarian Tumour; Tapped fourteen times; Ovariotomy; Fatal result. Lancet, 1859, ii, 461. Borlase Childs.—Ovariotomy. Med. Circ, xiv, iii. Terry,—Polycystic Ovarian Tumour; Ovariotomy; Death. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, S99- Patterson.—Case of Encysted Tumour of the Ovary. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., July, 1859, 209. Fotir Cases of Ovariotomy. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 211. Miller.—Two Cases of Encysted Tumour of the Ovary successfully treated by Excision, and an attempt to justify the Operation of Ovariotomy under certain circumstances. North Amer. Journ. of Med. Science, April, 1859, 3'8. Crouch.—Childbirth after Ovariotomy. Lancet, 1879, i, p. 142. Graily Hewitt.—Description of the Ovarian or Abdominal Sound, a new Instru- ment for the Exatnination of suspected Ovarian Cystic Tumours, ^:c. Lancet, 1859, i, 362, and Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 55. R. Xlvedale West.—A Fatal Case of Puerperal Peritonitis, complicated with Ovaiian Disease, &c. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 187. Puech.—O1 Haemorrhage of the Fallopian Tubes. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 3, 1859. (Sch., 9, 322.) Gaucliet.—Acute Development of Tumours within the Pelvis. L'Union, 28 and 30, 1859. (Sch., 10, 71.) Tilt.—On Peritonitis in relation to Uterine Pathology. Lancet, 1859, ii 367 ; ii, 133,211,257. Trousseau.—Hsematocele retro-uterina catamenialis. Gaz. des Hop., 75, 1858. Mahn.—Ueber Haematocele retro-uterina. [Retro-uterine Hematocele.] Inaug. Diss. Rostock, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Voisin.—De I'hematocele retro-uterine. [Retro-uterine Hematocele.] These, Par., 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Nonat.—Note sur ^hematocele peri-uterine. [Peri-uterine Hematocele.] Gaz. Hebd., 23, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Qallard.—Sur les hematoceles peri-uterines. [Peri-uterine Hematoceles.] Bull. de la Soc. Anat. de Paris, April, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Becquerel.—De riiematocele peri-uterine. [Peri-uterine Hematocele.] Gaz. (les Hop., 41, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.) Breslau. — Recto-Vaginalabscess, Mastdarm Scheidenfistel, spontane Heilung. [llecto-vaginal Abscess; Recto-vaginal Fistula; Spontaneous cure.] Monats.' f. Geburtsk, xi, 5. (Canst., vol. iv, 410.)378 REPORT ON MIDWIFKRY, KTC. EuxENBERG records a case in which a tumour of supposed ovarian nature disappeared during pregnancy, and had not appeared again after a year from the time of delivery. In Lumpe's case, paracentesis was about to be performed for the second time, when diarrhoea set in and lasted for nearly five weeks. The tumour disappeared. The matters passed resembled, after a time, those which had been evacuated from the cyst by the operation. Clay records a case in which the ovarian cyst liad apparently evacuated its contents tlirough the bladder. In Preuss's case, paracentesis had been performed twice. Inflam- mation followed the last operation, and thirteen years after, the patient was perfectly well and the mother of four children. The report by Simon, of ovariotomy in Germany, contains 6i cases, 23 of which have been before published. Of the 61 patients a radical cure was obtained in 12 cases (195! per cent.) In 5 (Sg^T per cent.), the operation was useless or of transitory benefit; and 44 (775T per cent.) died from its immediate effect. The operation was complete in 44 cases ; of these 44, 33 died (72^ per cent.), I died subsequently of cancer, and 11 (25 per cent.) were radically cured. In 15 cases the operation was attempted, but abandoned or incomplete; of these, in i, radical cure; in 3, no advantage; in 11, death. In 2 cases, diagnosis at fault; I died. Hergott records a case of ovariotomy in a woman, set. 50; death took place twenty-three hours after. Spencer Wells had, up to the end of the year 1859, performed the operation of ovariotomy in hospital practice ten times, with a result of seven recoveries and three deaths. These cases are re- ported at length. The mortality after this operation is to be dimi- nished, he remarks—(t) by the selection of proper cases; (2) by determining the stage of the disease proper for operation; (3) by careful precautions against unnecessary sources of danger; (4) by the use of anaesthetics; (5) by various precautions in the operation itself; (6) by carefid after-treatment. The propriety of the opera- tion he justifies by the results of experience and by comparison of the results of this and other surgical operations, as lithotomy. In- jections are suitable only for cases of unilocular disease, or cases in which the secondary cysts are few and small. Spencer Wells re- cords also three cases of ovarian disease, in two of which iodine was injected and a cure followed. In a third, death took place after the operation of paracentesis from cyst-inflammation.379 DISEASES OP WOMEN. In Black's case of iodine injection, the cyst was unilocular. The cure was complete. Bromt?? records five cases in which ovariotomy was performed, and in three of which a successful result was obtained. In a case of ovariotomy by Chilbs, the result was unfavorable; a part of the pedicle slipped from the clamp, and haemorrhage into the abdomen was fatal twenty-two hours after the operation. In Holt's case of ovariotomy, the patient died the following day. In Teeey^s case death took place about twenty-fouj hours after the operation. MiLLEU relates the details of two successful cases of ovariotomy. He discusses the several objections which have been made to the operation, and expresses himself as very favorably disposed towards it. He attributes very great importance to the administration of continued doses of opium, in order to keep the bowels quiet for some days after the operation. Crouch states that the results of nine cases of ovariotomy prove that each ovary is capable of producing children of both sexes. Graily Hewitt describes a new instrument for the diagnosis of suspected ovarian cysts. It resembles the uterine sound, but is much longer, and can be used to probe the interior of the cavity, the contents of which are prevented from escaping during the exa- mination by a simple contrivance. PuECH analyses tlu-ee observations of cases in which hemorrhage occurred, and is of opinion that the cases in question prove the existence of tubal haemorrhage of an independent character. Gatjchet relates three cases in which he believes peri-uterine haematocele to have been present. Pelvi-peritonitis is, according to Tilt, of very frequent occur- rence, associated in some cases with haemorrhagia, in others with ovaritis, originating in ovulation, &c. Pain is usually experienced in the iliac regions, and a tumefaction surrounding the neck of the uterus may be felt per vaginam. Eepeated attacks cause adhesion of the adjoining sui-faces of the organs affected, and leave bands of adhesion liable to cause serious accidents, such as incarceration of the intestines, flexions of the uterus, &c. Sterility is frequently caused by previous pelvi-peritonitis. Leeches, calomel, and opium are recommended. ' Trousseau considers that the retro-uterine htematocele is consti- tuted by the pouring out of blood in the space between the rectumREPORT ON MlUWirERY, VA'C. 880 and the uterus. The neck of the uterus is thereby pushed upwards and forwards. The first symptom is pain, and there is great pale- ness of the skin, which symptoms occurring in a young woman at the menstrual period, the usual discharge being absent or less than usual, indicate that uterine haimatocele is present. In the treat- ment of menorrhagia, which is believed to be often followed by hsematocele of this character, the author recommends quinine in large doses. VoisiN has collected forty-two cases of retro-uterine hsema- tocele, ten of these observed by himself. The hsemorrliage is, he believes, always intra-peritoneal. The most favorable time for its occurrence is at the time of menstruation, especially in conjunction with traumatic influences, such as blows, falls, &c. The diagnostic points are—the commencement of the disease at the time of men- struation, the profuseness of the flow, the sudden occurrence of attacks like those of peritonitis, the sudden formation of the retro- uterine tumour, the quickly following anaemia, &c. IV. DISEASES OF THE VAGINA AND EXTEENAL GENERATIVE ORGANS. Simon.—Ueber die Heilung der Blasen-Scheiden- und Blasen-Gebarmutterfisteln. [On the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal and Vesico-uterine Fistulas.] Monatsch. f. Geburtsk, July, 1858. Monnu.—On the Treatment of Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Arch. f. Physiol. Heilk., 1858. Tanner.—On a Case of Vesico-vaginal Fistula, Lancet, 1859, P- Marshall.—Vesico-vaginal Fistula cured by Bozeman's Operation. lb., p. 289. MacGhie.'—Cases of Operation for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Glasg. Med. Journ., July, 1859, P- 191. and Oct., p. 318. Fenner.—Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Am. Jour, of Med. Science, Oct., 1859, p. 3153. Baker Brown.—Four Cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, 267. Case of Vesico-vaginal Fistula of seven years' duration; Twenty-four opera- tions ; Ultimate cure. Lancet, 1859. vol. i, p. 143. Coghill.—Case of Successful Operation for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Lancet, 1859, i, p. 455. , Pollock.—Two Operations for Vesico-vaginal Fistula; Death. At St. George. Hospital. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 315. Watson.—On Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Lancet, 1859, vol. i, p. 233.DISEASES OF WOMEN. 381 Baker Brown.—On Vesico-vaginal Fistula, illustrating a new Mode of Operation. Lancet, 1859, S^*- Battey.—A. new Principle of Treatment and Apparatus for Vesico-vaginal Fistula. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 275. Thorp.—Case of Vesico-vaginal Fistula, in which a second Operation was success- fully performed. Dub. Quart. Journ. of Med. Science, Feb., 1859, 87. Birkbeck NevillS.—Vesico-vaginal Fistula of fifteen years' duration; Successful employment of a Pessary. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, 770. Breslail.—Grosse Blasenscheidenfistei, &c. [Case of Extensive Vesico-vaginal Fistula.] Mon.-Sch. f. Geb., xiii, 435. (Sch., 11, 187.) Hergott.—Deux observations de fistules vesico-vaginales gueries, I'une a la suite de I'operation et de la cauterisation, I'autre spontanement. [Two Cases of Vesico-vaginal Fistula; one cured by Operation, and one by Cauterization.] Gaz. Med. de Strasbourg, April 23d, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 412.) Euchler,—Vortrag iiber die Wirkung de Doppelnabt zur Sicherung der Herstel- lung eines soliden Dammes und Scheideneinganges bei der Episioraphie. [On the Operation for Ruptured Perineum.] Monatsch. f. Geb., xi, (Canst., vol. iv, p. 413.) Breslau.—Neue Methode der Episioraphie. [On the Operation for Ruptured Perineum.] Monatsch. f. Geb., xi. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 413.) Bagot.—Laceration of the Perineum. Dub. Med. Press, 1859, 1°'- Breslau.—Heilung einer vollkommenen Incontinenz des Urins durch abtragung beider hypertrophischen Nymphen. [Hypertrophy of the Nymphre causing Incontinence of Urine; Cure by removal.] Beitrage zur Geburtsk. und Gynoekol., 1858, No. 3, p. 89. Faravicini.—Atheromatous Cyst of one of the Labia Majora, removed by means of the Ecraseur. Ann. Univ. Agost. e Sett., 1858. (Sch. 9, 322.) Thomas.—The Hymen; an Essay delivered before the New York Medical Union. New York Journ., March, 1859, 196. Caillat.—Cas remarquable d'imperforation de I'hymen. [Imperforate Hymen.] Gaz. des Hop., 17, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 412.) Paget,—Imperforate Hymen; Fatal result after its Division. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859. 579- Sydney Henson.—Retention of the Menses from Imperforate Hymen. Lancet, 1859, i' 4°2- Anselmier.—On Narrowing of the Vagina after the use of the Actual Cautery in the treatment of Uterine Affections. Gaz. des Hop., 70, 1859. (Sch., 9, 192.) Eigby.—On Pruritus Pudendi Muliebris. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 4; and xl, 500. Paupert—On the Employment of Glycerine in Cases of Vulvar Hyperssthesia. Ann. de Therap., 1859, 125. Ladreil de la Charriere.—Sur les cystes qui se developpent sur les parois du vagin. [Cysts of the Walls of the Vagina.] Arch. Gen., May, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 412.) Simon operated on nineteen cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, and of these, ten were healed completely; five incompletely, requiring subse- quent caustic treatment; only one sent back uncured. Two women382 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. died after the operation, and a third after a preliminary operation. The suture used was of silk. MoNNU proposes to treat obstinate cases of vesico-vaginal fistula by obliterating the vagina altogether, and allowing the menstrual discharge to pass tlirough the bladder. Tannbb, records a case of cure by Bozeman's operation. The opening was high up and of long standing. In Marshall's case also Bozeman's operation was successful. In MacGhie's cases, operated upon after the method of Bozeman and Simon, of nine hospital cases, seven were cured by an operation, and two partially. Of three private cases all were cured. Tenner cured two out of four cases by the same operation. Baker Brown records four cases of Bozeman's operation performed by liim successfully. The operation successful in a case of seven years' standing was also Bozeman's. Coghill rejects the button of Bozeman and the circular ring of Simpson; he employs iron-wire sutures, and simplifies the process of paring the margins of the fistula by emplojang only one convex knife for the purpose, and bent-steel spatulae. The success of the operation depends, he believes, on the iron-wire suture. In Watson's case, a leaden plate was used, perforated as in Bozeman's button, but having little leaden tubes soldered to the holes, whereby the use of shot is avoided. Baker Brown uses a separate bar-clamp to each suture, the suture being a metallic one. In seven cases thus treated, six were cured. Battey proposes a new modification of Bozeman's operation, by which more perfect coaptation and greater readiness in the performance of the operation are secured. In Thorp's case, the quilled suture was the means used to effect the cure of the fistula. Nevins succeeded in preventing the escape of urine, in a case of vesico-vaginal fistula, by the employment of a gutta-percha pessary. Breslau believes it to be very difiicult to obliterate the vagina, as a curative measure, in cases of large vesico-vaginal fistula. A case is related in which the attempt was made. Bagot relates a case of laceration of the perineum, produced during a first intercourse, in a young lady, set. i8. The perineum was torn as by a sharp instrument, the hymen torn, and the vagina completely laid open. Breslau relates a case in wliich excessive hypertrophy of the nympha; was associated with incontinence of urine, the urethraDISEASES OF WOMEN. 383 admitting the little finger. The nymphse were removed, and a cure followed. Thomas arranges the disease of the hymen as follows : i. Fibroid or cartilaginous degeneration. 2. Ossification. 3. Aphthous ulce- ration. 4. Inflammatory ulceration. 5. Irritability, accompanied by spasm. 6. An imperforate condition. These heads are seve- rally considered and illustrated by cases. In Paget^s case death from acute peritonitis took place five days after the operation for imperforate hymen. The contained fluid of the uterus and Fallopian tubes (the latter enormously distended) had escaped into the peritoneal cavity. Henson relates a case of retention from imperforate hymen, of the ordinary kind. Anselmiee caUs attention to the fact that the use of the actual cautery as above may produce a very serious amount of narrowing of the vagina. In one case incisions of the vagina were neces- sary, in order that delivery might be effected, and in others very serious inconvenience resulted. RiGBY relates a case of pruritus pudendi cured by removal of con- stipation and gastro-biliary derangement; and subsequently, another, in which the pruritus was removed by assiduous constitutional treat- ment. Paupert calls attention to the benefit resulting from the appHcation of glycerine in cases of hypersesthesia of the vulva, with ecthymatous eruptions, and also in cases of pruritus of the same parts. L. de la Chaeriere reports five cases of cysts situated in or beneath the walls of the vagina. V. diseases of the breast. Hess.—Extirpation d. beider Bruste. [Removal of both Breasts.] AUg. Wien. Med. Ztg., 49, 1858. (Sch., 3, 308.) Fano.—On the Treatment of Lacteal Fistulas by Compression of the Breast. L'Union, 14, 1859. (Sc^i-. 7. 32.) Anselmier.—On the Treatment of Sore Nipples during Lactation. L'Union Med., I, 1859. Routh.—Defective Lactation, and its Remedy. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 467, 494, 520.384 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Stewart.—Anti-lactescent Properties of Compressed Sponge. New Yorlc Journ. of Med. Science, Nov., 1859, 347. CoUis.—Cystic Mammary Tuinoiir. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1859, P- S^. Barton.—Two Specimens of Mammary Tumour. II)., p. 22. Skey.—On Tumours of the Mammary Gland in Females, and the Degeneration into Malignant or Benign Growths. (A Clinical Lecture.) Med. Circ, xv, 26. Hess records the case of a patient, ajt. ai, in wliich both breasts, one weighing 10 lbs., the other 5 lbs., were removed. Menstru- ation, previously absent, soon after commenced, and later, preg- nancy supervened. Fano successfully treated a case of lacteal fistula by carefully applied compression of the breast by means of strips of plaister. For the treatment of sore nipples during lactation, Anselmiee re- commends the employment of nipple-shields, which must not be too thick or resistant. Collodion to be used locally. When deep fissures are present finely powdered benzoin is employed with advantage. KouTH describes three varieties of defective lactation : 1. That due to hypereemia. a. That due to anaemia. And 3. That due to functional paralysis or inertia of the breast, usually present in masculine women or those married late in life. The remedies for the latter condition are local, hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal. Treatment includes suction, titillation of the nipple, &c. The sepa- ration of man and wife during the suckling period is, he considers, prejudicial to lactation. As lactagogues, the leaves and stalks of ricinus and fennel are spoken favorably of. Stewart relates a case in wliich the breasts were covered by com- pressed sponge, in order to prevent the formation of milk. The treatment was completely successful. VI. DISEASES OF PREGNANCY AND CHILD-BED. Brucke—Ueher die Glycosurie der Wochnerinnen. [On the Glycosuria of Lying- in Women.] Wien. Med. Wochensch., 19 and 20, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 416.) Die Drihurger Kur bei Schwangeren. [On the Efficacy of the Driburg Baths during Pregnancy.] Monatsch. f. Geburts., vol. xi. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 416.)DISEASES OF WOBIEN. 385 Maydell.—fall von habituellem Ahslerben der Frucht. [Repeated Dealli of Ihe Pectus.] Med. Ztg. Russl., 24, 1859. (Sch., 11, 322.) Braun.—Zur Pathogcnie der Hydrorrlioea gravidarum. [On the Pathogenesis of Ilydrorrhoea gravidarum.] Zeitsch. d. Ges. d. Aertz, z. Wien, 17, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 416.) Murray.—Exomphalos, in which the Gravid Uterus formed the Hernial Mass. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 77. Cooper Willis,—On After-pains. Lancet, 1859, h P- 130. Kimkler.—A Case of Uterine Haemorrhage three weeks after Delivery. North Anier. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Jan., 1859, P- 89. McClintock.—On Scarlatina after Parturition. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 1859, p. 55. Draper Mackinder.—Sudden Death from Occlusion of the Pulmonary Arterie-s seventeen days after Parturition. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 213. Charcot and Ball.—Sudden Death during the Puerperal State from Embolic Plugging of the Pulmonary Artery. Gaz. Hebd., v, 44, 46, 49, 1858. (Sch., n, 187.) Baart.—Fall von Phlebothrombosis bei einer Neuentbinden. [Case of Phlebo- thrombosis in a Woman recently Delivered.] Nederl. Tijdschr., pp. 167—174. (Sch., 9, 330.) Bertin.—On the Treatment of Syphilis in Pregnant "Women. Gaz. Heb., Dec. 10, 1858. (North Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., March, 1859.) Larcher.—On Normal Hypertrophy of the Heart during Pregnancy, and its Patho- genetic Influence. Arch. Ge'n., March, 1859. (Sch., 10, 74.) Breslau.—Into.\ikation zweier Schwangern mit Leuchtgas. Tod, und vorzeitige Geburt eines kindes. [Toxic Effects of Coal Gas on two Pregnant Women.] Mon.-Sch. f. Geb., xiii, 435. (Sch., n, 189.) Freimd.—Intoxikation mit Kohlenoxydgas. [Toxic Effects of Carbonic Oxide Gas during Pregnancy.] Monatsch. f. Geb., xiv, 31. (Sch. 11, 189.) Martin.—De I'incontinence d'urine apres les couches, et de sa retention. [On In- continence and Retention of Urine after Labour.] AbeiUe Med., 5, i8t8. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) ' Spiegelberg.—Zur geburtshUlflichen Casuistik. [A Case of Chorea during Preg- nancy.] Monatsch. f. Geburts., xi. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 417.) Litzmann.—Neue BeitrKge zur Lehre von der UrHmie der Schwangeren Geba- i-endv.n und Wbchnerinnen. [On Uraimia during Pregnancy, Delivery, and Childbed.] Monatsch. f. Geb., xi. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Paget (a la Roche).—Cas reraarquable d'e'clampsie. [Case of Eclampsia.] Gaz. des Hop., 14, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 417.) Broadbent.—Al)ortion, with Albuminuria and Convulsions, in Six successive Free nancies. Obst. Trans., vol. i, p. 108. Pesch.-Fall von Eclampsia puerperalis mit glucklichem Ausgange. [Eclampsia luerperalis; Recovery.] Monats. fiir Geburtsk, xii. (Sch., ,12- and Canst., vol. iv, p. 417.) ' Eignami.-Eclampsia on the Thirteenth day after Delivery, with consecutive J leuro-pneumonia. Ann. Univ. Agosto, Sett., 1858. (Sch., 10 81 ) BarOZZi.-Eclanipsia Puerperalis. Gaz. Med. d'Orient., May,' 1858. ' (Sch., 3, ^°7el'u7!tT'''"-'"'"r '""'^'^ erossesse,guerison; accouchement de deux enfants reun.s snr les cotds. [Eclampsia at the Eighth Month of I regnancy, Recovery, &c.] L'Union Med., June, 18,8. (Canst., vol. iv p 4 7 Kamsbotham.-Puerperal Convulsions. Med. Times and Gaz., x.xxix, 2/3. 25886 llEPOET ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Overton—Piicperal Convulsions successfully treated by Croton-oil Suppositories, lb., 4^o. Dupeau.—Ciiloroforin-iiilialation ii» the Treatment of Puerperal Convulsions. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 9, 1859. (Sch., 10, 81.) Keen.—Case of Convulsions during Pregnancy. Lancet, 1859. i, p. 2 J8. Kidd.—On the Diagnosis of Hysterical Puerperal Convulsions. Dub. Hosp. Gaz., 18159, p. 86. Marce —Traits de la folie de ferames enceintes, des nouvelles accouchees et des nourrices, &c.{[OnPuerperal Mania,&c.] 8vo,Pam, 1858, p.294. (Schm., i J,263.) Barker —Case of severe Vomiting and Dysenteric Diarrha:a in the early months of Pregnancy; Abortion ; Recovery. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859. (>oo. Girdwood.—On Diarrhcaa and Dysenterj' coetaneous with Conception. Lancet, i8s9, ii, 234. Tyler Smith.—Case of extreme Emaciation, the result of obstinate Vomiting in Pregnancy. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 335. HerffOtt—Hartniickiges Erbrechen wabrend der Schwangerschaft, Kunstheher Abortus und Ileilung. [Obstinate Vomiting during Pregnancy; Artificial Abortion; Cure] Gaz. de Strasb., 8, 1859. (Sch., 12, 317-) DeZOn (de Toulon).—Vomissement des femmes grosses giieri par des applications froides. [Vomiting during Pregnancy cured by Cold Applications.] Journ. des Connais. Med., 17, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, p. 417-) TJlrich-Lethaler Fall von vomitus gravidarum. [Fatal Case of Vomiting during Pregnancy.] Verb. d. Ges. f. Geb. zu Beriin. Monatsch. f. Geb., xi. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) . . rr> Ap-nstiTio Marae-lio —Sur la causa della morte di una puerpera primipera. [On ^ thfcauTeTtfe Death of a Primipera during the Puerperal State.] Gaz. Med. Ital. Lomb., 38, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) , c. . r tj «.oi Discussion sur la fievre puerperale. [Discussion on the Subject of Puerpcial Fever.] Bull, de I'Ac. imp. de Med., t. xxiii, Nos. 11-20, 1858. (tanst., Aiih^r-De kSle puerperale, devant VAcad^mie de Medecine Par., 1858. [On the Puerperal Fever discussion at the Acad, of Medicine.] (Canst., vol. .v 4.7- Behier -Lettres sur la maladie dite fiSvre puerpei-ale a M. Trousseau. On the Dis'ease kno^vn as Puerperal Fever.] Un. Med., Nos. 31-64, 1858. (Canst., P^flmix^-Notes sur la fievre puerperale, a I'occasion des debats acad^miques r "ever, &c.] Un M^d., Nos. 48-81. 1858. (Canst vol .v, 4.7.) Mat£ -Du rSle que joue la precipitation de la lymphe plastique dans la produc- Nos ^ and 8, i8i;8. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) , LeJoux -Con iderationlsur la nature et Ic traitement J «-re puerperale. ^^To^ the Nature and Treatment of Puerperal Fever.] Bull. gen. de Thcrap., por^^;-—r;;r;iiue; I=pi^^".iedcfi.vre^c.e^. CT^er- peral Fever at the HGpital d'Accouchement at Prague.] Gaz. llebd.. No. 9. PeoX.^JJe;!"'^''^- puerperale. [Case of Puerperal Fever.] Rev. • Me<l,, March, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.)DISEASES OF WOMEN. 387 Villeneiive.—Sui' la question des maternites, et de leur suppression regrettable. [On Lying-in Hospitals.] Rev. Med., April, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Surmay.—Note sur la fievre puerperale. [On Puerperal Fever.] Union Med., No. 99, i8j8. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Schnepp.—De la fievre puerperale dans I'ecole Allemande. [Puerperal Fever in the German School.] Un. Med., No. 56, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Prosper de Pietra Santa.—De la fievre purperale dans I'ecole de Florence. [Puerperal Fever in the School of Florence.] Un. Med., No. 74, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Mascari.—Cenni sulla febbe puerperale. [On Puerperal Fever.] Gaz. Med. Ital. Stati-Sardi, Nos. 35—42, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) lehmann.—Rapports de la Commission d'obstetrique, communiques au circle medical d'Amsterdam. Traduit par Dieudonne. [Reports of the " Commis- sion d'obstdtrique" at Amsterdam.] Journ. de Brux., Sept. and Nov., 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) ^°^y-~'^°"^'"^^^^^^°^^ ^"^ suppression des loche'es dans les maladies puerperales. Moyen simple et sans danger pour re'tablir cet ecoulement. [The Suppression of the Lochia in Puerperal Diseases; Method of re-establishing the same.] Bull, de Therap., Oct., 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Bonfils.-De I'emploi de I'huile essentielle de terebinthine et de I'opium k hautes doses dans le traitement des accidents puerp^raux graves. [Oil of Turpentine and Opium in the Treatment of severe Puerperal Afi^ections.] Bull, de The'ran May, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Thibaut-Fievre puerperale grave, traite'e par la methode du docteur Vandenzaude a Anvers. [Severe Puerperal Fever treated after the method of Vandenzaude.] Annal. de la Soc. de Med. d'Anvers, Oct., 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) D.scuss,on sur les maladies regnantes. [Discussion on prevailing Diseases.] Bull, de la Soc. de Mdd. de Gand., April, 1858. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Schulten (zu Ganodernheim)._Ergebnisse einiger Blutuntersuchungen in Puerpe- ralkranldieiten. [The Blood in Puerperal Diseases.] Virchow's Arch., xiv 5 and 6. (Canst., vol. iv, 417.) Vkehow.-Uebfir die in der Charitd vorgekommenen Puerperalkrankungen. [Puerperal Diseases in the Charite at Berlin.] Monatsch. f. Geb xi Martm.-Ou inflammation of the Fallopian Tubes as a Cause of Puerperal Perito. n.tis. Monatsch. f.Geburtsk, 1859, xiii, II. and~Gar xl'775°^ Pregnancy during and after Uterine Phlebitis. Med. Times Dove^-The Essential Oils in the Treatment of Puerperal Fever. Brit. Med. Journ., BnucKE sMes, that an increase in the amount of sugar excreted bj the unne of I3.ng.n1 women is not a pathological phenomenon. BnucKE found that a woman was delivered of well-formed children V th fh 'T.i pregnancies dm-ing vluch the baths were not used terminated in the birth of micro- ccphalous chddren. Maydell relates the case of a cHorotic woman who had been re- peatedly dehvered of dead cliildren. She was treated in the next388 EEPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. pregnancy by repeated venesections, and tlie result was favor- able. Braun was led to believe, from examination of a case of " lij'dror- rhoca gravidarum," tliat the exudation in question proceeded from a delicate membrane situated between the placenta and uterus. MuEUAY records a case of exomphalos, two thirds of the bulk of the gravid uterus at eight months passing tlirough the umbilical ring. It was reduced, and the patient did well. McClintock found, that of twenty-eight patients treated in the Eotunda Hospital for scarlet fever after parturition, twenty-five per cent. died. He attaches great importance to the early administra- tion of stimulants in the treatment of such cases. Mackhsdeu relates a case in which a large, branching, fibrinous plug was foimd completely stopping up the right pulmonary artery, and a less considerable one in the left, in a patient who had died suddenly seventeen days after parturition. In Charcot and Ball's case, the patient died a few days after labom-. There had been pUegmasia dolens, and the puhnonary arteries contained clots, some recent, others older. The clots m the pulmonary artery had, it was inferred, been transported from the common iliac vein. In Baart de la Faille's case, plilegmasia alba dolens occurred twelve days after labour, and death five weeks later. The iiterme and pampiniform veuus plexuses contained coagulated blood, the common iliac veins, the hjToogastric and crural, as far as examined, contained clotted blood. So also, the inferior vena cava for a short distance contained a coagulum. No pus was found, and the uterus is described as healthy. Bertin records facts and observations to show that the anti- syphilitic treatment of the mother by mercury is not injurious to the foetus, and should not, therefore, be postponed on account of the presence of pregnancy. Larciier examined the heart in 130 cases of death soon after labour, and in all found the organ hypertrophied. The hypertrophy was limited to the left ventricle, which was from one quarter to two thirds thicker than usual, and was also firmer and more red. If several pregnancies follow quickly one on the other, the h^Jortropliy may, it is contended, become permanent. Tlie disturbances of the circulation, &c., to which women with large families are so subject, are set down to this cause.DISEASES OF WOMEN. 889 Breslau states, tliat two womeu who slept iu a room into wliicli coal gas was escaping were fonud in the morning in a state of considerable danger, and one of the women aborted the next daj. In Pueuxd's case, carbonic oxide gas, iiUialed for some tune, is set down as the cause of the death of a foetus of seven months, and its subsequent expulsion. In BiiOADBEX'/s case, the association of albmninmia and mwul- sions was noticed in six successive pregnancies. Spiegelberg records a case of chorea dui-ing the latter half of pregnancy; the woman was anaemic. After deHvery the chorea nearly disappeared, but not completely until after the lapse of two months. LiTZMAjjN records a case in which marked m-^mia was present durmg the last week of pregnancy, but the quantity of albumen in the m-me was niconsiderable. The intensity of tlie lu'ajmia is, he beheves, m relation to the degree of the interference with the excre- tion of m-ea. In Pesch^s case of eclampsia, (primipara), the convulsions began AvitJi labour, and continued after delivery by the forceps The mme was highly albuminous. Small doses of opium were given for two hours after delivery, and afterwards chloroform internally The patient recovered. Bignam^s patient was a primipara, ^t. 17 Atropine was administered, and to it the cure which foUowed is ascribed. In Bakozzi^s case, convulsions set in during labour, ac- companied by perfect loss of consciousness and right hemiplegia The convulsions continued for seventy hours from their commencement and consciousness was perfect for the first time six days afterwards • convalescence after five months^ iUness. The urine was not examined! Cbdema of the legs M^as present. Boubsier^s patient became affected at the eighth month with convulsions, preceded by cBdema of legs and hands. She was largely bled, and delivered of twins united together In EA.1SBOTHAM s case the convulsions occm-red at tlie seventh &c Thev?"""r^ ^T^'"^ <lrowsiness,-puffy hands and face, st;.n \ .'1 ''P^'*"^^ '""^ '^'^^ insensibility and stertorous breathing. The patient was freely bled, and later the membranes ruptured, and labour completed. L albumen foi^ m the unne. Recovery perfect. In Overton's case croton 0 supposi ones .vcre of service. Anasarca was present. Dupeah f und six Intr ''"'f'"^^ of chloroform eLtual. Iveb^s"at 't! SIX months pregnant, was seized with convulsions after cLin^ aREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 390 hearty uieal, and died in five hours. The os was uudilatcd throughout. KiDD relates two cases observed in the Coombe Lying-in Hospital, in which the diagnosis of hysterical from epilejitiform convulsions was difficult. The only reliable diagnostic point in these cases was the preservation of consciousness by the hysterical patients throughout. Mauce's work on puerperal mania is a complete analysis of psychical derangements in women during the periods of pregnancy, parturition, and lactation. The pathology and treatment of these afl'ections and the medico-legal bearings of the subject are fully discussed. Details of seventy-nine cases observed are incorporated in the text. BjUikek, in relation to a question raised in the coui-se of discus- sion respecting the late " Smethurst" trial, relates the case of a patient, set. 43, pregnant for the first time, who became affected immediately after conception with vomiting, and two months and a half after, with dysenteric diarrhcsa. Abortion occurred at the end of the fourth month, and recovery followed. Giedwood also cites four cases in wdiich dysentery or diarrhoea was associated with vomiting during early pregnancy. In Tyler Smith's case, obstinate vomiting set in coincidently with conception, and the patient was so reduced as to weigh only forty-seven pounds. With great difficulty she was kept alive. At the end of five months abortion occurred. Death, some months subsequently, from phthisis. Dezon foimd benefit in three cases of vomiting fi-om applications of cold water to the epigastrium. Uleich records a fatal case of vomiting in pregnancy. In Paris a discussion on the subject of puerperal fever occupied numerous sittings of the Imperial Academy of Medicine. Depaul, who contended for the nou-essentiaUty of the disease, stated that cases were not rare in which local alterations were quite wanting. The unknown poison affects not only women in cliildbed, but preg- nant women, the foetus, and even women not pregnant. He had only seen two or three recoveries out of some hundreds affected. Deepech had found no good results from the use of quimne ihe disease is developed, he contends, almost exclusively m lying-m hospitals; is seldom fatal in private practice. Beau stated that he reason other observers had not been successful with quinine was that they had not used it in the proper manner. His method was to giveDISEASES OE WOMEN. 391 very large closes, a pm-gative and an emetic being given beforehand. Hebvey de Chegoin distinguishes a putrid and a purulent form, and he recommends iiijections into the uterus as a prophylactic measure. Tuousseau beheves the disease identical with pyaemia after operations, surgical typhus, &c. A specific infection of the placental wound is the cause. Dubois believes the cause of the disease to be an unknown primary affection of the blood. He is not convinced of the contagious character of the disease. In true puer- peral fever he had found all measures useless. Cruveilhieu beheves that the disease is a traumatic fever of lying-in women. He recommends the substitution of smaller for the present large lying-in institutions. Danyau contends that puerperal fever is a peculiar disease, of miasmatic origin. Cazeatjx is a firm opponent of the doctrine of the essentiality of puerperal fever. Its contagious character is not to be disputed. He had never seen a patient die who had been freely salivated with calomel, but on the other hand it was very difficult to produce tliis free salivation. Bouillatjd, in the main, agrees with the views of Hee^tlz de Chegoin. Velpeau beheves that the disease is an inflammation of the peritoneum, lym- phatics, and veins, or a purulent or putrid infection modified by the puerperal state. Therapeutic measures are of more service than many others seem to allow. According to Gtjeein, the presence of the placental wound is the cause of the fever. If ah- be admitted mto the uterus, the coagula and lochia become altered, and the altered fluids absorbed. Behier ('Lettres,' &c.) gives an account of the necropsies of eighty- five women who died from puerperal fever, and of the symptoms ushering in the disease, PiDorx believes that the uterus is the centre of the disease, but uot necessarily its point of origin. According to Mattei, the cause of the disease is neither a certain miasm nor a peculiar conta- gion, but an altered condition of the fibrin and plastic lymph, depen^ dent on certam circumstances, one of the most important of which IS absorption of the lochia. The lymph fails thus to close the open orifices, and the blood thus becomes afl"ected. Chavanne sees a complete identity between the various forms of puerperal fever and those affections witnessed after surgical operations. Legroux is a partial believer in the essentiahty of the disease; the fever with him IS primary, the local affections secondary. Dor foimd that, during an epidemic at the Lying-in-Hospital at Prague, during the yea?REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 392 1857, tlie state of the weather had a cousiderable influence. A much larger proportion of the women delivered in cold and wet days were affected than others. ScuuLTEN records the microscopic appearances of the blood of several M'omen suffering from puerperal diseases. The chief of the changes observed Avas a fatty condition of the white corpuscles, but this was not present in all cases. ViRCHOW states, that Irom the autumn of 1856 to the spring of 1858, eighty-three fatal cases of puerperal disease occurred in the Charite of Berlin. The disease was most fatal in the winter months, a fact attributed by the author to sparing ventdation. Then follows an account of the chief post-mortem appearances obsei-ved. Martin believes that there is a form of puerperal fever depen- dent on a propagation of the endometritis into the Tallopian tubes, and an effusion of the pm-ulent products of this inflammation into the peritoneal cavity. It is important not to use too much palpa- tion, or the contents of the tubes may be pressed into the cavity. DISEASES OF CHILDREN. GENERAL TREATISES, HYGIENE, STATISTICS, ETC. Barker.—On the Hygienic Management of Infants and Children. Churchill, Lorulon. 8vo, pp. 115. Plath.—Briefe eines Arztes an eine junge Mutter. [Letters from a Physician to a Young Mother.] Hamburg, 18^8. (Sch , 10, 129.) West—Lectures on the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood. 4th ed., pp. 755. London, 1859. Declat.—Hygiene des enfants nouveau-ncs. [Hygiene of Infancy.] Paris, 1858- 59. pp.316. Samson.—Hygiene oculaire de I'enfance. Paris, 1858. pp. 48. (Sd"-. '2- .^6o.) Kilttner.—Ueber den Einfluss des Geschlechts auf Kinderkrankheiten. [The In- fluence ofSe\ on the Diseases of Children.] Journ. f. Kinderkr., i and 2, 1839. (Sch., 7,32.) ^ „ ., Gerhardt.—Krankhciten des ersten Lehensjahres. Mitthcilungen aus der PohUhiuk zn Wiir/.hurg. [Diseases of the First Year of Life.] Deutsche Ki., 9, 1858. (Sch., 6, 309.)DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 393 Condie.—Report on the Diseases of Children. In North Amer. Med.-Cliir. Rev., Jan. 1859, p. 120. Luszinsky.—Dritter Jahreshericht des cifFentlichen Kinderltrankeninstituts zii Marialiilf in Wien. [Third Report of the Hospital for Children, Vienna.] Jourii. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1859. (Sch., 8, 199.) Ammon.—Die ersten Mutterpflichten und die erste Kindespflege. [First Duties of the Mother, &c.] 8vo. durchgesehene Auflage. Leipzig, li^S. (Canst., iv, 428.) Meier.—Das Kind in seinen ersten Lehensjahren. Skizzeu viber Leibes- und Geisteserziehung. [The Infant's First Year.] Leipzig, 1858. (Canst., iv. 428.) Cha.ncerel.—Soins hygieniques a donner a I'enfant depuis sa naissance jusqu' au sevrage. [Hygiene of Infants.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Amblard.—De I'allaiteraent. [On Lactation.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Naudeau.—De I'allaitement. [On Lactation.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Patron.—De i'allaitement maternel. [On Lactation.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Schreber.—Zur physischen Erziehung der Kinder. [Physical Education of Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., part iv, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Streng,—Die einfachsten und natiirlichsten Mittel, die Kinder ohne Anwendung der Arzneien fortwahrend gesund zu erhalten. [The Preservation of the Health of Children by simple and natural means.] 2d ed. Augshurg, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Wittmaack,—Populares Handbuch der Diatetik. [Popular Handbook of Die- tetics.] Leipzig, j8s8. (Canst., iv, 428.) Pollitzer-—Ideen zur Anbahnung einer wissenschaftlichen Diiitetik und physischen Erziehung des Kindes. [Physical Education, &c., of Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderheilkunde, Jahrg. i, part iii, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Pollitzer,—Zur Therapie der wichtigsten krankheiten des kindlichen Alters. [Therapeutics of the more important Diseases of Childhood.] Jahrb. f. Kin- derk., ii, 144, 1859. (Sch., 12, 323.) Schauenstein und Spaeth.—Ueber den Uebergang medikamentarer StofFe aus dem Kreislaufe der Siiugenden in ihrer Milch. [On the Conveyance of Medi- cines from the Mother to the Child by means of the Milk.] Jahrb. f. Kinder- heilk., Jahrg. ii,part i, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Letoumeau.—Quelques observations sur les nouveau-nes. [On New-born Chil- dren.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Meigs.—Ueber Semiotik und das Verfahren bei der Untersuchung kranker Kinder. [Seraeiology and Investigation of Diseases of Children.] J. f. Kinderk., 7, 8, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Mayr.—Ueber Untersuchung und Semiotik des kranken Kindes. [Seraeiology and Investigation of Diseases of Children.] Jahrb. f, Kinderheilk., Jahrg. ii, part i, W'ien, 1858. (Canst., iv, 428.) Herrmann.—Die Veriinderungen in der Physiognomie und den Geberden kranker Kinder. [On the Alteration in the Physiognomy and Gestures of Sick Children.] Journ. f. Kinderkrank., i u. 2, 1858. (Canst, iv, 429.) Loeschner.—Sechzchnter Jahreshericht iiber den Stand und die Wirksamkeit des Franz-Joseph-Kinderspitales in Prag ira Jahre 1857. [SLsteenth Report of the Hospital for Ciiildren at Prague.] (Canst., iv, 429.) Mauthner.—Bricniche Mitthellungen aus dem St. Annen-Kinderspitale in Wien. [Reports from the St. Anne's Hospital at Vienna.] Journ. f. Kinderk., i, 2, 1858. (Canst., iv, 429.) ' ' 'KEPOllT ON MIDWU-'ERY, ETC. Schoepf-Merei—i^weiterBcricht iiber das klinische Hospital furKiiiderkrankhciten zii Manchester. [Second Report of the Clinical Hospital for Diseases of Chil- dren, Manchester.] Journ. f. Kinderkraiik., 9, 10, 1858. (Canst., iv, 429.) Fage.—Das Kiuderhospital in Cliristiania wahrend der Jahre 1855—1857. [The Children's Hospital at Christiana during the years 1855-57.] Journ. f. Kin- derkrank., u, 12, 1858. (Canst., iv, 429.) Hauner,—Therapeutisches aus dein Kinderhospitale zu MUnchen. [Therapeutics at the Children's Hospital, Munich.] Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., ii, p. 49, 1859. (Sch. 12,322.) The treatises of BakkeRj Plath, Declat, Ammon, MeieEj Chanceuel, SchuebeBj Stueng, and Pollitzee.^ have reference to the hygiene of infancy, and the various precautionary and other measures to be taken in order to preserve the health of cliildren. The new edition (fourth) of West's 'Lectures on the Diseases of Infancy and Childhood/ contains- additional and new matter on diphtheria, disorders of the mind in children, idiocy, &c. Yaluable statistical information is contained in the several "reports" of cluldren's hospitals, above enumerated, by Kuttkee, Geehaedt, Luszinsky, Loeschnee, Matjthnee, &c. SPECIAL TREATISES, ETC. I. DISEASES OF THE BEAIN, SPINAL COED, NEEVES, AND OEGANS OE THE SENSES. Vogt.—Die essentielle Liihmung der Kinder. [On the Essential Paralysis of Children.] Berne, 1858. pp. 86. (New York Journ., Jan., 1859, "7-) West.—On Cerebral Symptoms independent of Cerebral Disease. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 623. Kidd.—On Distortion of the Features in Newly Born Infants. Dub. Quar. Journ., Feb., 1859, I5S- Philson.—Chronic Hydrocephalus. Lancet, 1859, '> P- ^9- Kohler.—Falle von opisthotonus, abhangigvon Riickenraal-kserkrankung bei hydro- cephalisch erkrankten Kindern. [Cases of Opisthotonos dependent on Disease of the Spinal Cord in Hydrocephalic Children.] Journ. f Kinderkr., 5 and 6, 1859. (Sch., 9, 331.) Brainard.—On the Treatment of Chronic Hydrocephalus by Injections of Iodine. Chicago Med. Journ., April, 1859. (North Amer. Med.-Chir. Rev., July, 1859, 7*3-) Watson.—Croton Oil as a Counter-irritant in Hydrocephalus. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859. S4°- Bang.—Uebcr der Heilharkeit der tuberkulfisen Meningitis. [On the Curabdity of Tuberculous Meningitis.] Biblioth. for Laeger, vol. vii, p. 241. (Sch., 5, 196.)395 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. HaXVey.—'I'C Comparative Value of Blooclletting and Purging in the early stages of the Acute Hydrocephalus, and on the Extent to which each of them should be carried. Glasg. Med. Journ., April, 1859, P- i- Coldstream.—On the Employment of Iodide of Potassium in Diseases of the Brain in Children. Edin. Med. Journ., Dec., 1859. Carson.—Iodide of Potassium in Hydrocephalus. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 245- Ballard.—Light the only Cause of Purulent Ophthalmia of Infants. Lancet, 1859, i, 540- Valenta-Wallmann.—Ueher Hydromeningocele. [On Ilydromeningocele.] Zeitschi-. der k. Gesellschaft der Aerzte in Wien, 1858, No. 25. (Canst., iv, 43°-) Facen.—Delia siriasi infantile. [On Infantile Meningitis.] Gaz. Med. ItaL Lomb., 1858, No. 27. (Canst., iv, 430.) Koechlin.—Sur quelques cas de tubercules de I'encephale chez les enfarits. [Cases of Cerebral Tuberculosis in Children.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 430.) Horwitz.—De meningitide tuberculosa. BeroHni, 1859. (Canst., iv, 430.) Chaplin,—Eingebalgter Abscess der linken Gehirnhemisphare mit Gehirnwasser- sucht. [Abscess of the left Cerebral Hemisphere, &c.] Jour. f. Kinderkrank- heiten, 1858, parts 11, 12. (Canst., iv, 430.) Betz.—Hyperasthesie rachitischer Kinder. (On the Hyperesthesia of Rachitic Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinder-Heilkunde, 1858, part 3. (Canst., iv, 430.) Grey.—Ueber den Natzen der Chloroforradampfe gegen den Veitstanz. [On Chlo- reform in the Treatment of Chorea.] Journ. f. Kinderkrank., 1858, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 430.) Gilette.—Behandlung der Chorea mit grossen Gaben tartarus stibiatus. [On Large Doses of Tartar Emetic in the Treatment of Chorea. [Med. Ztg., No. 46. Berlin, 1858. (Canst., iv, 430.) Hochstetter (aus Preussen).—Die Wurzel Aliqua plantago gegen Chorea und Epilepsie. [On the Employment of the roots of Aliqua plantago in Cases of Epilepsy and Chorea.] (Canst., iv, 430.) Graefe.—Ueber die diphtheritische Conjunctivitis. [On Diphtheritic Conjuncti- vitis.] Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., 1858, part i. (Canst., iv, 430.) Desmarres.-Conjunctivite pumlente des nouveau-nes. [On the Purulent Con- junctivitis of New-born Children.] Gaz. des H6p., 1858, No. 82. (Caust iv 430-) ■' ' Morvan.-Blutung aus dem Ohre in Folge eines Trauma des Kiudes. [BieedinR from the Ear in a Child in consequence of a Dream.] (Arch, gen vol v Jahrb. der Kinderheilk., 1858, part 2.) (Canst., iv, 430 ) Voltolini.-Pathologi3ch-anatomische Untersuchungen durch Scharlach erkrankter ? ri M7! '''"fy °^ ^''""""^ °' '''' P™^1"^^'1 Scarlet ^^^'o^ihTrf T "'^""^ ^^t' "■'•"^"'"^ bei otitis interna. [On Inflammation (Unit, i" 430.)'""" " ''"'"^ '^^"•^^^'^ 3, 1858. VoGT draws the foUowing general conclusions on the subject ofRliPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 396 essential infantile paralysis : That form of infantile paralysis which has been called essential, is a nervous paralysis, tlie residue of a con- gestive or inflammatory condition of the nervous centres or nerves, and this condition, together with the paralysis, may be removed sooner or later by natural processes. KiDD believes that the distortion of the featui-es occasionally noticed in newly born children is caused by paralysis of the portio dura, difl'ering from McClintock, who is disposed to attribute it to " spasmodic tic." In Philson^'s case of hydi'ocephalus, GoUs's treatment, by small and repeated doses of calomel, was found e£B.cacious. KoHLEii states that the condition of the spinal cord in cases of hydi'ocephalus has been too frequently overlooked; the convulsions, &c., observed in cases of hydrocephalus are not always due to cere- bral irritation. Three cases are related exemplifjang these views. BuAiNAJiD relates two cases in which iodine was injected into the lateral ventricles of the brain, one by liimself, the other by Towmesko, of Bucharest. In neitber case was the injection followed by serious consequences. The permanent good effected does not appear to have been considerable. Watson observed symptoms of hydrocephalus a few weeks after tlie core of an eczematous eruption of the scalp in a child, set. 2. Croton oil was applied with perfect success. Bakg remarks that although tubercular meningitis is considered incurable by some authorities (Camper, Trousseau), he has been able to collect eigliteen weU-anthenticated cases of cure. Tuberculous meningitis is characterised by its attacking scrofulous children. A cure is only to be hoped for when improvement can be effected in the state of the blood. Bleeding is only admissible at the commencement. Prophylaxis, by the use of anti-scrofulous remedies and derivants, is very important. Bbsters, cold affusion to the head, and, if the dis- ease has reached the exudative stage, blisters, croton oil, or tartar emetic, rubbed in over the shaved scalp, are recommended. In the early stage of the affection, to which period alone Hauvet's observa- tions refer, tliis author considers bloodletting as very important, its action being subservient to the action of purgatives, and the benefit derived from it being that it reduces the irritability of the stomacli, and thus allows pui-gatives to be given. " A case Avhich does not admit of bleeding does not admit of cure." This remedy has of late, it is contended, been too mucb neglected.DISEASES OP CHILDUEN. 397 Coldstream has found iodide of potassium a very valuable re- medy in the treatment of those numerous ailments of children indi- cative of a tendency to hydrocephalus. It is more especially serviceable when there exists more or less of the scrofulous diathesis. Causon records a case in -wluch a patient in the last stage of hydrocephalus was cured by the administration of two grains of this medicine every two hours. Other measures had been tried unavail- ingly. Ballard believes that the only cause of purulent ophthalmia in infants is exposure to the bright light during the day. Wallmann proposes the name hydromeningocele for that patho- logical condition in whicli there is an external tumour filled with serous fluid and communicating with the arachnoid cavity. Yalenta describes a case of this kind in which the tumour was of considera- ble size. The safest treatment is that by compression, Betz states that the hypersesthesia in racliitis is situated in the nerves of the periosteum and bones. A painful condition of the bones is^ according to this author^ an early symptom of rachitis. Grey speaks very highly of the efficacy of cliloroform inhalations in the treatment of chorea. The chloroform is given with safety in large quantities^ precaution being taken to allow of free respiration and access of fresh air. This remedy is stated to have a much more rapid effect than other methods of treatment. II, DISEASES OF THE ORGANS OF RESPIRATION AND CIRCULATION. Pickford,—On the Marshall llall-Method of Treatment in Asphyxia. Lancet, i, 19, 1859. Wertheimer.—Ueber Angina pharyngea oedematosa im Kindesalter. [On the Angina Pharyngea CEdematosa of Childhood.] Journ. f. Kinderk., i and 2, 1859. (Sch., 7, 35.) Plagge.—Schwellung der dem Vagus auliegenden Drusenpaquete als warschein- liche Ursache des Asthma Millari. [Enlargement of the Glands near the Vagus as a probable Cause of Millar's Asthma.] Memorab. a, d. Prax,, iii, 7, 1858, (Sch., 4, 43.) Schottin.—Ueber Asthma thymicum. [On Thymic Asthma.] Arch. f. Physiol. Ileilk. N. F., iii, p. 205. (Sch. 7, 33.) Jendrassik.—Ueber den Bau der Thymusdriise. Jahrb. f. Kind., part ^, i8-8. (Canst., iv, 442.) Friedleben.—Die Physiologic der Thymusdriise in Gesundheit und Krankheit [The Physiology of the Thymus in Health and Disease.] Frankfurt a M., 1858. (Canst., iv, 443.)REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 398 Moore.—Aflfections of the Chest in Young Persons and Children. Dub. Hosp. Gnz., June and Aug., 1859, pp. 181—226. KEUchfuss.—Ueber die Lungenerwcichung der Sauglinge. [On Softening of the Lungs in Infants at tlie Breast.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1859. (Sch., 6, 3'i-) Behrend.—Ueber die clironisclie lleiserlteit der (Kinder; deren Ursache und Debandlung. [On the Chronic Hoarseness of Children.] Journ. fur Kinderk., 9 and 10, 1858. (Sell., i, 61.) West.—On Sudden Death in Infancy and Childhood. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 521. Bouchut,—Ueber die Syniptome und die Behandlung der Koryza der Neugebor- enen. [The Symptoms and Treatment of the Coryza of Infants.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 5 and 6, 1858. (Canst., iv, 437.) Forsyth Meigs.—Ueber acute und chronisclie Koryza der Kinder. [The Acute and Clironic Corj'za of Cliildren.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 11 and 12, 1858. (Canst., iv, 437.) Bohn,—Die Croupepidemie 1856-57 zu Kiinigsberg in Pr. [The Epidemics of Croup at Konigsberg in 1856-57.] Konigsb. Med. Jalirb., parts i and 2. (Canst., iv, 437.) Kerli.—Studien und Erfahrungen in Betreff des Croup, des Pseudocroup und des Millar'schen Asthma. [On Croup, &c.] Deutsche Klinik, 1858, No. 5. (Canst., iv, 437.) Bouchut et Empies.—Memoire sur I'albuminurie dans le croup. [Albuminuria in Croup.] Conipt. Rend., No. 2, 1858. (Canst., iv, 437.) Bouchut.—Sur la mortalite du croup a domicile et dans les hopitaux de Paris. [On the Mortality of Croup in private houses and hospitals at Paris.] Gaz. des Hop., 1858, No. 118. (Canst., iv, 437.) Kortlim.—Praktische Bemerkungen zur Behandlung des Croup. [Treatment of Croup.] Deutsche Klinik, 1858, No. 20. (Canst., iv, 437.) Pudon.—Behandlung des Croup durch r.asskalte Umschliige und Kupfersulphat. [Treatment of Croup by Wet Applications and Sulphate of Copper.] Journ. fiir Kinderkrankh., 1858, parts i and 2. (Canst., iv, 437.) Hauner.—Einige Bemerkungen zu der Darstelluiig des Dr. Luszinsky in Wien iiber den Croup und dessen Behandlung. [Criticism of Dr. Luszinsky's State- ments in reference to Croup and its Treatment.] Journ. fiir Kinderkrankheiten, 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 437.) Bouchut.—D'une nouvelle niethode de traitement du croup par le tubage du larynx. [A new Method of Treatment of Croup by Tubage of the Larynx.] Moniteur des Ilopit., 1858, No. no. Union, Gazette, &c. (Canst., iv, 437-) GrOS.—Croup, Cathetcrisme du Larynx. [Catheterism of the Larynx in Croup.] Union Med., 1858, No. 109. (Canst., iv, 437.) Barthez.—De I'emploi du chlorure de potasse en instillations dans la trachee artcre apres I'operation de la tracheotoinie dans le croup. [On the application of Chlorate of Potash to the Trachea after the Operation of Traclieotomy for Croup.] Jour, de Connaiss. Med. et Th., 1858, No. 27. Union, Bullet,, &c. (Canst., iv, 437.) Crequy.—Notice sur le croup et les affections diphthcritiques, observes a I'hopital St. Eugenie, &c. [On Croup and Diphtheritic Affections at the St. Etigenie Hospital.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 437.)DISEASES OF CHILDEEN. 399 Demartis.—Sur la nature cryptogamique du Croup. [The Cryptogaraic Nature of Croup.] Abeille Med., 1858, No. 34. (Canst., iv, 437.) Luszinsky.—Jodkaly gegen Croup. [Iodide of Potassium in Croup.] Med. Ztg. Russlaiids, 1858, No. 25. (Canst., iv, 437.) Mayer.—Glycerin bei Croup. [Glycerine in Croup.] Allg. Med. Centr.-Ztg., 27, 1858, p. 77. (Canst., iv, 437.) Bonnet.—Ueber die Ursachen des Todes nach der Traobeotomie beim Croup. [The Causes of Death after Tracheotomy in Croup.] Journ. f. K., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 437.) Chailly.—Zur Bemtheilung des Werthes der Tracheotomie gegen Croup. [The Value of Tracheotomy in Croup considered.] J. f. K., 1858, parts 7 and 8. (Canst., iv, 437.) E. G,—Ueber Croup und Tracheotomie. J. f. K., 1858, parts i and 2. Canst., iv, 437-) Bellaspect.—Du croup. Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 437.) Millard.—De la tracheotomie dans le cas de croup. [Tracheotomy in Croup.] Pai-is, 1858. (Canst., iv, 438.) Assanis.—Du croup, &c. Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 438.) Bouchut.—De I'anestesie, nouveau symptome de croup, &c. [On Annesthesia, a new Symptom of Croup.] Gaz. des Hopit., 1858, No. 108. (Canst., iv, 438.) Saxer.—Der Luftrbhrenscnitt im Croup der Kinder. [Tracheotomy in Croup.] Wunderlich's Archiv, 1858, parti. (Canst., iv, 438.) Broadbent.—Croup ; Tracheotomy. Brit. Med. Journ., 1859, 59. West.—A Case of Membranous Croup. Obstetrical Trans., vol. i. Conway Evans.—On Tracheotomy in Croup. Rep. of Med. and Chir. See, Lancet, 1859, ii. 2IS- Trousseau.—On the Treatment of Croup. Bull, de I'Acad., 1858. On the Treatment of Croup. Ann. de Therap., 1859, 104. Hauner.—Aphorisms on Croup. Journ. fiir Kinderkranls., vol. 30. Semanas.—^Note sm- I'existence d'un rhonchus bronchique enfantile sympathetique de la dentition. [Infantile Bronchial Rhonchus sympathetic with Dentition.] Gaz. Med. de Lyon, 1858, No. 19. (Canst., iv, 438.) Foville. —Traitement de la pneumonic des enfants alamamelle. [Treatment of the Pneumonia of Infants at the Breast.] Rev. de Therap. Med.-Chir., i8i;8, No. 7. (Canst., iv, 438.) Bennet.—Chronische Pneuraonie ira Kindesalter. [Chronic Pneumonia in Child- hood.] J. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1858. (Canst., iv, 438.) Beau.—Ueher Silz und Wesen des Keuclihustens. [The Seat and Nature of Hoop, ing-cough.] J. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1858. (Canst., iv, 438.) Emploi de marum verum centre le toux spasmodique et la coqueluche. [On Manim Verum as a Remedy for Spasmodic Cough and Hooping-cough.] Jour, de Med. Bruxelles, 1858. (Canst., iv, 438.) ° Schubert.—Bitter Almond-watcr in Hooping-cough. Ann. de Therapeutiquc, '859, p. 32- Atcberley.—On tlie Treatment of Hooping-cough by diluted Nitric Acid. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 210. Vaccination as a Remedy for Hooping-cough. Allgera. Med. Central Zeituni? Oct. ad, 1858. (Noirot, 207.) ^400 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. Cormak.—Ueber die Nntur und Behandlung der Liingenscliwindsuclit. [On Uie Nature and Treatment of Pulmonary Consumption.] Erluny, 1858. (Cansl., iv, 438.) Schuh.—Blutgefi'sschwiimme liei Kindern. [Vascular Tumours in Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderk., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 434.) Legendre.—Bcseitigung der Gefiissmuttermiiller durch Vaccination. [Vaccination for tlie removal of Najvi Materni.] Arcliiv. Gdn. J. f. Kinderk., 3 and 4, 1858. (Canst., iv, 434.) Bokai,—Kephalohxmafoma der Ijciden Scheitelgcgcnden. [Double Cephalo-lise- matomata.] Jahrb. f. Kinder., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 434.) Bierbaum.—Encephalo-hfcmatoma verura. M. Z. v. V. f. II. in P. Jahrg., i, 1858, No. 38. (Canst., iv, 434.) Rigby.—Two Cases of Cranial Blood-swelling, witli remarks on the Nature of these Tumours. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 231. PiCKFOUD relates a case of asphyxia neonatorum successfully treated on the Marshall Hall method. Under the term angina pharyngea oedematosa, Wertheimee dis- tinguishes an inflammatory serous infiltration of the submucous cellular tissue of the throat. The respiration is quickened, difiicult, and accompanied by a peculiar gurgling sound. It occurs chiefly in sickly cliildren, with white skin and imperfect osseous development. Emetics are of great efficacy in the treatment of the affection. Plagge relates the case of a child, otherwise healthy, set. 2i who was affected with enlargement of the glands under the right ear. Larjmgismus set in, and was cured by the application of iodine over the cervical enlargement. As examples of thymic astlnna, Schottin relates three cases, two of which were fatal. The superior part of the thymus was enlarged, tliickened, and structui-aUy altered. The pressiu-e of the thymus on the vagus, or the large vessels in the neighbourhood, and induced primary or secondary irritation of the vagus or of its recurrent, which latter, reflected on the glottis, produced the disease. Jendrassik considers that the structure of the thymus gland is analogous to that of the organs connected the lymphatic system, especiaUy with that of the follicles of Peyer's glands m the intestine. . , 1 • . The work of Priedleben is an elaborate inquiry into the lustory, structure, diseases, &c., of the thymus gland. A very ^copious analysis of the work is given in 'Canstatt's Jahresb., 1858, vol. iv, p. 443. . .^ Moore relates a fatal case of bronchitis lu a dnld, ret. 9 months. In subsequent papers cases are related, and remarks appended by the401 DISEASES OP CHILDREN. same author, on various points in the pathology, &c., of bronchitis and bi-oncho-pneumonia, and on pleuritic affections, in children. Eauchfuss gives the results of his investigations on the patholo- gical or cadaveric nature of softening of the lung, as described by Kostlin and Bednar. In four hundred cases examined, the indepen- dent form of the affection was fomid only eight times. Softening of the lung was found in twenty-nine cases in all. The age in the eight cases varied from ten days to six months. The other post-mortem appearances in these cases are described in detail. The conclusions of the author are, that there are two kinds of softening of the lung- substance—the one dependent on local and general pathological con- ditions, the other of a cadaveric nature, and due to the acid contents of the stomach passing into the trachea (confirming Bednar's origmal views on this subject). That these two kinds of softening may exist together. Behee?^d records three cases of obstinate hoarseness in children successfully treated by the appHcation of solid nitrate of silver to the mucous membrane of the throat and entrance to the windpipe. The author considers that there is a mild form of cedema of the mucous membrane present in such cases, perhaps identical with that known as "clergyman's sore throat." West remarks on the extreme frequency of sudden death during the first year of life. Of 627 cases of sudden death in London, ]ii 1854, 236 were cases of infants under a year old. Such death IS oftenest produced, the author beHeves, by sudden interference with the respiratory process, and in tlu-ee out of four cases it is probably due to laryngismus stridulus. Any spasmodic disorder ot respiration, sudden impressions on the nervous system .udden change of temperature, position, &c., may, by exciting convulsions cause death m this sudden way. Another cause of sudden death in infancy is extensive and sudden invasion of the respiratory organs by disease, as whe^e large portions of the lungs become collapsed orjliere serous effusion takes place suddenly into the cavity of the BoucHiJT recommends the insertion of silver, curved canulas in the nostrils m cases of coryza in infants, in order that the act of sucknig may not be interfered with, this being contemporaneous Mitli Other treatment. ^ ^ntous Bo„N describes very fatal epidemics of croup in Kom^sbero- .11.0 mortality was seventy-six per cent. False membranes, varvii*;^ 2GREPORT OiN MlDWIFlillY, liTC. 402 in thickness autl cliarncter, occupied the upper portions of the respi- rntory passages, extending h)M er down in most cases. Tiie lungs exhibited hypostasis, lobuhir and lobar pneumonia, collapse, oedema, and emphysema. Tlic duration of the disease varied from half a day to eleven days. The ])ronchial and lung affections were, in the author's opinion, the chief efficient causes of death. Tracheo- tomy was em])loyed in four cases, without success in all. Lus- zinky's method of treatment, viz., by carbonate of potash, was not found to be of service. BouciiUT and Empies found, that in eleven out of fifteen cases of croup, albuminm-ia was present, disappearing with the disease. BouciiUT states that the mortality from croup has been increasing very rapidly during the last fifteen years, which he attributes to the surgical treatment of this disease of late in vogue. BouciiUT proposes a new method of treatment in cases of croup, viz., catheterism, or tubage of the glottis. The silver tube used for the purpose is cylindrical, straight, nearly an inch long. Two rounded projections receive, as in a kind of slit, the inferior vocal cords on each side, and the tube is thus kept vt sUu. The tube is introduced by means of a male catheter, open at its two ends. In Bouchut's cases the treatment was, however, not successful. Gros reports a case of croup treated by Bouchut's method, and which ended favorably. Maitlu states that favorable results have followed the application of glycerine to the interior of the larynx in cases of croup. BoucHUT describes a new phenomenon in the latter stages of croup—auEEsthesia of the skin. This, which is the commencement of asphyxia, is, he states, tlie period for operative measures. Beoadbext records a case of tracheotomy for croup in a child ten months old. The operation was for a time successful, but death took place without any apparent cause thirty-three hours after. In reference to tlie operation of tracheotomy in croup, Coxway Evans contends that the objections entertained in this country and in America to the operation are Avithout vahd foundation. These objections he severally examines and discusses, with the view of showing that the operation is really less dangerous and difficidt than usually su])posed. The early performance of tlic operation is insisted on; the causes of death, when death occurs after the operation, examined, and the circumstances whicli tend to dimmish the chances of success from the operation referred to. On the403 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. operation itself, Tkousseau remarks tliat it is necessary to have a large, double caniila; the neck is to be surromided by a '^cravate/' in order that the air inspired may be M-arm and moist. The wound must be cauterized, to prevent false membrane forming, and gi-eat caxe taken to give sufficient alimentary matter. He' lays great stress on the topical remedies. Beau asserts that hooping-cough is nothing more tlian aninflam- matron of the mucous membrane just above the glottis. The attacks of coughing are brought on by the secretions from tliis situation descending into the larynx. As a remedy for hoophig-cough, Schubert gives every thi-ee horns bitter-ahnond water, in doses of one to two drops, gradually increased to eight or ten drops, and mixed with a smaU quantity of water. Atcheeley administers five to fifteen minims of diluted nitric acid every two or three hom-s, employing at the same time a stimu- lating embrocation to the chest, and taking care that due attention is paid to the state of the bowels, &c. On the effect of vaccination as a remedy for hooping-cough, an experiment was made on an ex- tensive scale, in the year 1856, in the government of Kowno, in liussia. In many cases no efFect was observed on the progress of tlie malady, but in others it was modified in a favorable manner. iJie vaccme disease proceeded regularly in all cases ScHUH prefers the knife to the use of the electric puncture in tlie treatment of vascular tumoui-s in chHdren. Legendre proposes vaccmation for the cure of najvi materni. Ey BoKAi, BiERBAUM, and EiGBY, the particulars of cases of cephalo-h Womata are related. In Bokai^s case there was a tumour on each side. Alluchng to the diagnosis in cases of this affection, he states that the conditions which may be confounded with it are-^ the caput succedaneum, encephalocele, and hydrenceplialocele Rigby, in reference to the treatment, states that he follows Nae* gcle s plan, which is, to do notliing- and that the effusion will always disappear. " ni. DISEASES OP THE ORGANS OP DIGESTION AND THEIR APPENDAGES.401. REPORT ON MIDAVIFERY, KTC. Schwartze—Pathologisch-anatomisclies Dild der cholera iiifantura. [Pntliologi- cal Appearances in Cholera Infantum.] Journ. f. Kinderk., g and 6, i85<j. (Sch., 9, 332.) Smith.—Post-mortem Appearances in Cholera Infantum, with Cases. New York Journ. of Med., Jan., i8i;9, p. 61. Kuttner.—Einige Bemerkuiigen uber die Dystrophic der Kinder. [On the Dys- trophy of Cliildren.] Jour. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 450.) Steinberger.—Ueber Bildung der Milchziihnc uud die ihren Durchbruch beglei- tenden Erscheinungen. [First Dentition, its accompanying Symptoms.] Jahrb. f. Kinderk., 1858, part 1. (Canst., iv, 450.) Blandin.—De la "premiere dentition et de scs accidents. [First Dentition, its Effects.] Pflm, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.) Haimard.—Des accidents de la premiere dentition. [Id.] Pam, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.) EOSS.—Cancrum Oris. Med. Circ, xiv, 75. Henriette —De la gingivite ulcereuse chez les enfants et de son traiteraent. [Ll- cerative Gingivitis; its Treatment.] Journ. de M^d. de Bruxelles, March, i8.s8. (Canst., iv, 450.) _ Delvaux.-Apropos des considerations de M. le Dr. Henriette sur la g>ngj|'e ulcereuse des enfants. [Remarks on the foregoing paper.] Journ. de Med. de Bru.Kelles, April, 1858. (Canst, iv, 450.) Resultate der Heilversuche mit Pepsin im St. Joseph-Kinderspitale. [Results ot the use of Pepsin in St. Joseph's Hospital.] Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk., 1858, part 3. (Canst., iv, 450-) „ Gubler -Ueher den Urspiung und die Bedingungen der Entwickelung des Soor- pilzes. [On Thrush.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 5 and 6. (Canst., 'y. 4S0.) Briauet.-Ueber die Ansteckuugsfahigkeit des Soor. [On the Communicability of Thrush.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 5 and 6. . , ™u , n FlugeL-Behandluug des Soor bei jungen Kindern. [Treatment of Thrush.] Basger iirtz. Int. Bl., 29, 1859. (Sch., 12, 324O Fanre.-Ueber die Nachkrankheiten der Diphtheritis. [The Sequelie of Diph- theritis.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts i and 2. (Canst., iv, 450-) Bokai- Die Retropharyngealabscesse bei Kindern. [Pharyngeal Abscess in Children.] Jahrb. fiir Kinder., 1858, 4- (Canst., iv, 450.) _ Schulter -Die Behandlung der Diarrhoe bei Kindern in den ersten Lebensjahren. Yrre^tment of Diarrhea in Infants.] Jahrb. f. Kinderh., ,858, part 3. (Canst., Gueidan-Die Diarrhoea ablactatorum, Brechruhr und Gastromalacie der Kinder nS" deren spezifischer lleilraethode. [Treatment of Diarrhoea, &c., in Children.] Ilcilbronn, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.) Blondeail-Du sevrage et de ses rapport avec le cholera enfantile. [\A ean.ng, Us iStions to Cholera Infantum.] Gaz.desHop., i858,Nos. 28, 29. (Canst.. Ricordetu-De I'entcrite chok^riforme, survenant chez I'enfant nouveau-ne dans ^ ks S"p-nie. s jours de naissance. [On the Choleroid Enteritis occurnng in Infants during the first five days of Life.] Paris, .858. (Canst., iv 45°.) Hexamer-Die Kinder-Cholera oder Summer-Complaint ^^^'"f ^ sua!';, ihre Natur, Verhi.tung, &c. [Cholera Infantum in the United States.] AV»o lor/r, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.)405 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Weisse.—Riickblick auf den Gebraucli des rohen Fleisclies in der Diarrhoe entwohiiter Kinder. [On the Employment of Raw Meat in the treatment of Diarrhoea of weaned Cliildren.] Journ. fiir Kinderk., 1858, parts i and 2, and S and 6. (Canst., iv, 450.) Marcus.—Schreiben iiber die IHufigkeit des Bandwurmes nach dem Genusse des rohen Fleisches, &c. [Frequency of Tapeworm after the use of Raw Meat.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 5 and 6. (Canst., iv, 450.) Barnes.—Fatal Obstruction of the Bowel by Meconium. Lancet, 1859, "> ^^3- Farre.—Acidum nitro-muriaticum gegen gastrische Fieber der Kinder. [Nitro- niudatic Acid in the Gastric Fever of Children.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts II and 12. (Canst., iv, 450.) Moreau.—De I'ictere chez les nouveau-nes. [Icterus Neonatorum.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 450.) On Kamala as a Vermifuge for Young Children. Med. Times and Gaz., xxxix, 599. Mertens.—Vier Falle von Verschwiirung und Durchlocherung des wurmformigen Anhanges. [Perforation of the Appendix Vermiformis.] J. f. Kinderkrank., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 450.) Clar,—Zur Patbologie und Therapie eiuiger der wichtigsten Dickdarmkraukheiten im kindlichen Alter. [Pathology and Therapeutics of Affections of the Lai-ge Intestines in Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderhlkde., 1858, part 4. (Canst., iv, 450-) Guersant.—Ueber die Mastdarravorfall bei Kindern. [Prolapsus Ani in Children.] J. f. Kinderk., 1859, P^rts i and 2. DuchaUSSOy.—Ueber die Anwendung des Strychnins gegen den Mastdarmvorfall bei Kindern. [On the Employment of Strychnine in Prolapsus Ani in Children.] J. f. Kinderkrankh., 1858, parts 11 and 12. (Canst., iv, 450.) Littre.—Bildung eines kunstl. Afters bei einem neugeborenen Kinde. [Formation of an artificial Anus in a New-born Child.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3 and 4. (Canst., iv, 450.) The object of Eouth's paper is to show that defective assimila- tiou is a cliief cause of the mortality of infants, and that tliis is almost always the result of want of breast-milk and tlie use of inju- dicious food. Ballaud believes that the exercise of the instinctive act of sucking by infants, under cncumstances unfavorable to the infant obtaining the necessary supply from the breasts, is attended by an excessive reflex secretion of gastric juice; that the effect of the action of the secretion in question on the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal is the production of frequent green and loose stools. The author attributes many of the ailments, popularly ascribed to teething, to a persistence of this morbid state. In forty childi-en who died of cholera infantum, Schwautze found m many cases a hyperse.mic coiidition of the cerebral coverings, some- times extravasations. As a rule, the sinuses of tlie dura mater were filled with fresh blood-coagula, and with fibrinous formations, more or406 REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. less adherent and firm. In one case tlie venous tlirombosis affected all the cerebral veins. The author concludes that, owing to the rapid loss of ^^'ate^ by the blood, interference with the cii'culation of the brain and lungs is produced, and that tliis explains the rapid mode of death in such cases. The thrombus-formation in the veins of the head and elsewhere is thus favoured, and the fatal result ensues. Smith relates four cases of " cbolera infantum," with theii- autop- sies. In all the cases there was inflammation of the colon, which he considers a constant element in the disease. GuBLER states, that the aphthous patches appearing in the mouth of infants, known as muguet or thrush, and constituted by the presence of the parasitic growth Oldium albicans, appear only in those diseases accompanied by an alkaline condition of the oral cavity. Strong alkaline washes and mechanical removal of the patches are the means recommended. Beiquet considers the in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the mouth to be the first condition present in cases of this affection. Plugel recommends the use of a strong solution of common-salt in the cure of the disease. Eatjue alludes to a peculiar condition following attacks of diph- theritis in many patients, characterised by excessive prostration, paleness of tlie skin, pains in the limbs, faintness, inability to move, &c., a condition liable to have a fatal termination. Bretonneau considers this condition to be one of clironic diphtheritic poi- soning. Eetro-pharyngeal abscesses may arise, according to Bokai, fi'om idiopathic inflammation of the parts themselves, from suppuration of glands in the neigbbourhood, and from disease of the adjacent ver- tebree. Dif&culty of swallowing, alteration of the voice, stiffness of the neck, redness and swelling of the tlu-oat, are the chief signs. Twelve cases of this affection are related. Weisse bas extensively used raw meat as a remedy for diarrhoea in children, and, it is stated, with great success. The remedy appears to have become, as it were, naturalised in the tovm of St. Petersburg. Barnes relates the case of a cliild who died two days after birth. The lower part of the ileum was filled with meconium in a Very hardened state; the bowels had never acted. GUERSANT applies the actual cautery very lightly at oppositeDISEASES OE CHILDREN. 407 ])oiiits around tlie anus for the cm-e of prolapsus ani in children. Tiiis treatment is only had recourse to when others fail. IV. DISEASES OP THE KIDNEYS AND GENEUATIVE OEGANS. Bierbaum.—Ki-ankheiten der Harn- und Geschlechtsorgane. [Diseases of the Kidneys and Sexual Organs.] Journ. fiir Kinderk., 7—10, 1858. (Sch., i, 67.) Anizon.—On the Action of Sulphate of Qumine in Albuminuria after Scarlet Fever. Gaz. Hebd., vi, 7, 1859. (Sch., 9, 333.) Arnold.—Ueber die Nierenaffektionen in Begleitung des Scharlachprocesses. [On the Renal Affections associated with Scarlet Fever.] Memorab. a. d. Praxis iv, 3, 1859- (Sch., 7, 35.) Bercioux.—On the use of Belladonna in the treatment of Involuntary Micturition in Children. Gaz. Hehd., v, 25, 28, 30, 1858. (Sch., 4, 44.) Destouches.—De I'incontinence d'uriue essentielle chez les enfants. [Inconti- nence of Uiine in Children.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) Plimez.—Ueber die Mittel gegen das nachtliche Bettpissen und namentlich iiber eine raechanische Einwirkung bei Knaben. [On a Mechanical Treatment of Nocturnal Incontinence of Urine in Boys.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, i and 2. (Canst., iv, 454.) BiEEBAUM states that the anuria observed in infants, some- times of from twelve to twenty-foui- hours' dm-ation, is due, not to any special diseased condition of the kidney, but to insufficient fluidity of the nourishment taken. The dymria observed is due to the same cause, and is easily remedied by giving more fluid or by the use of baths. Enaresis nocturm is partly a bad habit, and in part an actual disease. It is intermittent in character, is more often seen in scrofu- lous cluldren or those of arthritic tendency, and dui-ing the fii-st den- tition; it seldom continues till puberty arrives, but if it does not then cease, is often persistent. The author disapproves of the applica- tion of a ligature to the penis, the method of treatment recom^ nicnc ed by Pluviez. The most efficacious treatment is the rousing he child for the purpose of evacuating the bladder in the middle of he night, and _gi-adually later and later during tliis period, in order to accustom this viscus to retain a larger quantity of fluid iVNizox believes that the tubuli m-iniferi are the seat of the change which resiilts m the production of albuminuria after scarlet lever and as quimnc all passes olT by the urine, it is a medicine pecuharly adapted to modify favorably the interior of the tubuli. Arnold gives the result of examinations of the urine in 37 cases ofREPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 408 scarlet fever. In 17 there was no consecutive dropsy; in 13 of these more or less albumen and epithelial scales M'ere found at the period of the eruption and desquamation; in 1 case fibrinous casts as well as blood-corpuscles, and in 3 cases no albumen, casts, or epitheliimi. In 5 out of the 7 dropsical cases, casts, globules, and albumen were found during the attack, and in the other 2 cases albumen and epithelial scales. Bercioux remarks that the good eft'ects of the use of belladonna in cases of involuntary micturition depend on its giving tone to muscles previously in a relaxed, atonic condition. Other remedies— the application of cold, the administration of iron, &c.—he beUevcs act in the same way. V. DISEASES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS. Schreher,—Ueber Veihiitung der Kyphosis osteopatbica. [Angular Curvature.] Jahrb.' f. Kinderkheilk., ii, 3, 1858. (Scli., 8, 206.) Mueller.—Ueber die Entwickbing der Knochensubstanz iiebst Bemerkungeii iibcr dea Bau racbitiseher Knocben. [The Development of Bone in relation to Rachitis.] Leipzig, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) Goutay.—Du rachitis ou rachitisme et mieux osteomalacie. [Rachitis, &c.] Pans, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) Bouchut.—Du rachitisme. Gaz. des Hop., 1858, No. 82. (Canst., iv, 454.) Huschke'.—Ueber Cranioscleiosis totalis rachitica und verdickte Schadel uber- haupt." [Cranial Rachitis, &c.] /ena, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) "Wedl —Einige Bemerkungen uber racbitische Rohrenknocben und Rachitis. [On Rachitis of the Tubular Bones, &c.] Zeitsch. f. die k. k. Ges. in Wien, Marcli, 1858, No. II. (Canst., iv, 454.) Klose.—T^ie Epipbysentrennung eine Krankheit der Entwicklungszeit. [Separation of the Epipbyses a Disease of Development.] Allg. Med. Centralz. B., i8i8, Jabrg. 27, Siiick 10. (Canst., iv, 454.) Behrend.—Zur Gescbicbte der Spina bifida. (See p. 416.) Flemming.—Die Riickgratskrummungen. [Spinal Curvatures.] Dresden, 1858. (Canst., iv, 454.) ^. , Friedberg.-Bebandlung der Hiiftkontrakturen. [Treatment of Contractions of the Hip.'] Woebb. der Zeitsch. der Gesells. d. Aertz. iu W.; and Jahrb. f. K., 1858, part 4. (Canst., iv, 455.) Ueber die gutcn Erfolge der Ausschneidung des Hiiflgclenkes bei Huftgelenkkar.cs der Kinder. [Good EtTects of Excision in Caries of the Hip-joint.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, S and 6. (Canst., iv, 455.) Eulenberg.—Einige iiber Pathologic und Therapie der Deforraitiiten des Fussrs. [Deformities of the Foot.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, i and 2. (Canst., iv, 455.) BoUVier.—L'^9ons cliniques sur les maia.iies cbroniqnes de I'appareil locomot. ,;r professees a I'bopital des enfants malades pendant les annecs 1855, 1856, 1857. Paris, 1858. pp. 53'-409 DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Bouvier,—Lefons cliniques, &c. Deviations de la colonne vertebrale, Atlas de 20 planches. [Clinical Lectures, &c., on Chronic Diseases of the Organs of Loco- motion, at the Hospital for Children, Paris.] Paris, 1858. Angular curvatui-e of the spine begins, according to ScjieebeKj mostly during tlie first dentition period, in dyscrasic, scrofulous, Aveakly children; sometimes in those of good constitutions after attacks of measles, scarlet fever, &c.; also in children placed under unfavorable hygienic conditions. Absolute rest, good food, expo- sure to air and light, are the chief measures recommended. MiiLLER^s treatise contains an account of the histology of osseous substance, and of the softening processes which occur in rachitis. VI. DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND CELLULAR TISSUE. Hardy.—On the Treatment of Purpura Hsemorrhagica by the Administration of Tincture of Larch Bark. (Dublin Hosp. Gaz., 1859, p. '9-) Behrend.—Cod-liver-oil Soap in the Treatment of Chronic Eczema of Children. Ann. de Therap., 1859, '.iS- Mai ago.—Tenia cured in eight minutes. Ann. de Therap., 1859, 259. Caillaut.—Traite pratique des maladies de la peau chez les infants. [Disease of the Skin in Children.] Pa)-is, 1858. (Canst., iv, 456.) Bazin.—Lefons theoriques et cliniques sur les affections cutanees parasitaires, [Parasitic Cutaneous Affections.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 456.) Hardy.—Legons sur les maladies de la peau. Dartres, Syphilides, &c. [Diseases of the Skin.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 456.) PoUak.—Leber die acuten contagibsen Exantherae in Teheran und seiner Urage- bung. [Acute Contagious Exanthemata in Teheran, &c.] Wochenbl. der Z. d. G. d. Aerzle in Wien, 1857, 44, 45. Jahrb. d. Kinderheilk., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 456.) Paasch.—Padriatische Mittheilungen. [Pjediatric Contributions.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 45C.) Jessop.—Practical Remarks on the Recession of the Eruption in Scarlet Fever. Lancet, 1859, '> 29. Trousseau.—Ueber den Scharlach—eine klinische Vorlesung. (Hotel Dieu in Paris.) [On Scarlet Fever.] J. f. Kinderk., 1859, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 456.) leubuscher.—Bemeikungenubereine Scharlach Epidemic im J., 1857, bis Aufang, T858,in Jena uiul Umgehend. [Epidemic of Scarlet Fever in Jena in i85?-s8 1 _Pr. Ver. Ztg. N. F., i, 26-28, 1858. (Sch., 5, 197.) Graily Hewitt.—Ueber das Verhilltniss der wassersiichtigen Ergiisse zum Schar- lach. [The Relation of Dropsy and Scarlet Fever.] J. f. Kinderk i8c8 parts 5, 6. (Canst., iv, 456.) ' ' Morris.—Die schiilzende Kraft der belladonna gegen Scharlach. [The Protective Power of Belladonna against Scarlet Fever. J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 11, 12. (Canst., iv, 456.) Chayasse.-Beiirilge zur Therapie des Scharlachfiebers. [Therapeutics in Scarlet I'cver.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 9, 10. (Canst., iv, 456.)410 llJiPOllT ON MIDWIFERV, ETC. Kllttner—Zur Ver\vand(scliaft8fiage zwisclieu Scliarlach iiiiJ Masern. [Tlie Affinities between Searlet Fever and Measles.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 456.) Scoutetten.—On the Prevention of the Sequelae of Measles and Scarlet Fever. Gaz. llebd.,vi, 13, 1859. (Sch., 6, 313.) Kerschensteiner.—Das Incubationsstadiuni der Masern. [The Incubation of Measles.] Jahib. f. Kinder!;., 1858, part 4. (Canst., iv, 456.) Gelmo.—Uebcr Eubeola. Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1858, part 3. (Canst., iv, 456.) Koestlin.—Beobachlungen bei einerMasernepidemie. Wurtemb. Com.Bl., 35,1858. [Observations on Measles.] (Sch., 5, 197.) Gunsberg.—Notizen iiber die Masernepidemie im Breslau im J., 1857. Giinsb. Ztsch., i.^, 4, p. 274. [On Epidemics of Measles in Breslau.] (Sch., 4, 43.) Veit.—Ueber hamorrhagisclie Masern. Virchows Archiv, xiv, i, 2, p. 64, 1858. [On IlaenioiThagic Measles.] (Sch., 2, 199.) Trousseau.—On Measles and its Complications. L'Uuion, 106,111, 116, 1858. (Sch., II, 191.) Schutz.—Bosartige Masern. [Virulent Form of Measles.] Wurtemb. Corr. Bl., S, 1858. (Sch., II, 103.) Mayr.—Eiytliema nodosum bei Kindern. [Erythema Nodosum in Children.] Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv, 456.) Gintrac—Betrachtungen iiber die fragliehe Verwandtschaft der Varicella mit der Variola und den Varioloiden. [Relations of Varicella, Variola, and Varioloid.] Journ. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 456.) Friedinger.—Ueber die Einftihrung einer neuen Genitur der Kuhpockenlymphe, sowie iiber den M'erth und die Geschichte der Regenerirung. [On the Intro- duction of a new source of Cowpock Lymph, its Value, &c.] TFien, 1858. (Canst., iv,456.) Grunder.—Die Schutzpockenimpfung, eine brennende Frage der Gegenwart. [On Vaccination, &c.] Breslau, 1858. (Canst., iv, 456.) Andrews.—Aufbewahrung der Vaccinalymphe. [On the Preservation of Vaccine Lymph.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 7, 8. (Canst., iv, 456.) Laudell.—Lmere Anwendung der Vaccinelymphe wahrend einer Pockenepidemie [Internal use of Vaccine Lymph during an Epidemic of Smallpox.] J. f. Kin- derk., 1851, parts 7, 8. (Canst., iv, 456.) Friedinger.—Mittheilungen aus den Kinderheilanstalten. [Contributions, &c.] Jahrb. f. Kinderh., 1858, part 2. (Canst., iv,'4s6.) Letourneau,—Quclques observations sur les nouveau-nes. [Nevr-born Children.] Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 456.) LegrOUX,—Emploi du massage dans le traiteraent du sclereuse des enfants. [Sham- pooing in the Treatment of Sclerema.] Gaz. des Ilopit., 1858., No. 118. (Canst., iv, 456.) Chapelle.—Behandlung der tinea favosa durch Oleum uaphae. [Oil of Naphtha in Tinea Favosa.] J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 5, 6. (Canst., iv, 456.) Neligan,—Gegen den Kopfgrind (Porrigo). J. f. Kinderk., 1858, parts 3, 4. (Canst., iv, 456.) Hutchinson.—Clinical Report on Favus. Med. Times and Gaz., xl, 353, 577, 653- 111 the treatment of tlie eczema of cliildreii, Beheend disapproves of an exclusively local treatment. The crusts are to be removed by411 DISEASES OP CniLiUlEN. poultices or other meanSj and the soap then appKed; constitutional remedies are at the same time to be made use of. JIalago's remedy for tenia is composed of sulphate of limCj dry, and lime recently slacked, the two intimately mixed and applied to the part afl'ected. It is to be carefully watched, and removed at the end of a few minutes. Jessop relates the particulars of tb-ee cases of scarlet fever where, the eruption having been suddenly checked, the danger was immi- nent. Flannels steeped in hot mustard and water were applied to the tlu-oat, chest, abdomen, upper arm, and thigh, and stimulants given. The issue was successful. Leubuschee's observations refer to 12,0 cases of scarlet fever. The various forms which the disease assumed in the different cases are minutely described. In reference to the affections of the pha- rynx, we find the following :—In sbght cases there were reduess and swelling of the tonsils, pharynx, and parts adjacent. In more severe cases the appearances were of a diphtheritic character. In the latter a flaky substance separated (in favorable cases) in a few days, leaving a somewhat raw surface beneath. In worse cases ulceration followed. The pharygeal affection extended either to the nasal fossae, giving rise to an irritating discharge therefrom, or to the larynx, producing respiratory disturbances, the patients so affected dying with typhous symptoms and oedema of the lungs. Dropsy was observed in fifteen cases, and of these four died. The author considers the dropsy a part of the fever produced by the disturbance of the cutaneous cii-culation. The scarlet-fever in- toxication (as the author terms it) is not dependent on the presence of uraemia, inasmuch as it is often observed when no retention of urea in the blood is suspected. ScoTJTETTEN recommeuds the inunction of oil in order to prevent the sequel£E of measles and scarlet fever. The method is identical with that for some time followed in Germany. KosTLiN gives an accoimt of an epidemic of measles, and Guns- BEKG of another epidemic which prevaHed at Breslau In the latter case the epidemic differed from ordinary rubeola in respect to the character of the eruption, which resembled that described bv Veit as "h^emorrhagic measles." Laryngeal complications were fre- quent, and m some cases actual croupous exudation was observed in the larynx and trachea Wlien the eruption was severe, diarrhcBa was frequently observed about the second day.REPORT ON MlDWllERY, ETC. 412 \ EiT describes a form of measles characterised by the presence of petecliial patches instead of an eruption of tlie normal cliaracter, and which the author designates as hsemorrhagic measles. It occurs, according to his experience, chiefly amongst individuals in indigent cii'cumstances. In i6o cases it occurred eleven times. In sucli cases the fever is of a sthenic rather than of an asthenic character. The coiu'se of the disease was in all cases mild and without compli- cations. Cases of acute hfemorrhagic form of measles must not be confounded with those in wliich petechias appear at a later period during convalescence. TiioussEAU remarks, that during the eruptive period of measles diarrhoja, occasionally bloody, is not uncommon. The appearance of croupou.s affectioiis is unfavorable. Capillary bronchitis is almost always fatal when occuiTiug in cliildren under two months. Convidsious, at a later period of the disease and in young cliildren, are of very unfavorable omen. Schutz reports that in Nagold, in the year 1856, measles, of a very virulent character, carried off 10 per cent, of those attacked. Eespiratory complications had a large share in producing the mortality. Maye. states that erytheina nodosum is occasionally observed in infants, but more generally in older childi'en. In its simple form it is cliiefly seen on the leg and forearm, appears suddenly, lasts fi'om tive to seven days, and is unaccompanied by general disturbance. A hsemorrhagic form is also described. GiNTRAO examines the relations subsisting between varicella, variola, and varioloid. A'^aricella, he concludes, does not originate from variola, but varicella may arise imder the same conditions as variola. He does not think it proved that varicella can produce variola. With respect to the actual relation of the two, variola does not exclude varicella; the one may foUow the other in the same person; they have the relation of two independent poisons. Lastly, there is no apparent analogy between variola and varioloid on the one hand, and varicella on the other. Letouhneau believes that the sclerema and oedema of new-born cliikben is a condition depending primarily on congenital weakness, imperfect expansion of the kings, and defective hajmatosis. It is a slow asphyxia, the body becoming gradually cooled down, and the child remaiiiing in a state of organic torpor until death occurs. To establish his positions, the author adduces histories of seventeen cases.DISEASES OF CHILDREN. 413 JIl'tchixsox gives a tabulated account of forty-four cases of favus^ collected from various sources, the sporules and tlialli of a fungus being in all cases present. He believes that the fungus (tlie Ac/iorion Sc/ionleinii) develops itself within the hair-follicles. The disease is very inveterate, occurs only amongst the poorer {i. e. uncleanly) classes; it is very rare, occurs for the most part in per- sons of good health; may be inoculated, but does not spread readily, and the general health is unaffected by it. After remarks on the differential diagnosis, the author states that the only treat- ment available is the employment of sulphui-, creosote, or mercury, combined with epilation of the parts affected. VII. DYSCRASIiE; TUMOTJES. Tanner.—A. case of Infantile Syphilis. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 132. O'DonOVan,—Case of Infantile Sj'philis. Dublin Qiiar. Journ.,May, 1859, 3°^. Diday.—A Treatise on Syphilis in New-born Children at the Breast. Translated from the French by G. Whitley, M.D. New Syd. Soc., 1859. pp. 272. rriedingcr, Mayer, "nd Zeisl.—Die Syphillden im Kindesalter. [Syphilis in Children.] Jalirb. f. Kinderheilk., 1858, part i. (Canst., iv, 456.) Bouchut.—De la fievre interniittente chez les enfanls. Gaz. des Hop., 1858, No. 56. [Intermittent Fever in Childhood.] (Canst., iv, 459.) BartlOt.—Qiielques considerations sur la fievre typhoide en general, &c. Paris, 1858. (Canst., iv, 459.) Perrin.—Beobachtungen iiber der Scrophelkrankheit. Journ. f. Kinderk., 1858, I, 2. [On Scrofula.] (Canst., iv, 459.) Lotzbeck.—Die angeborenen Geschwiilste der hinteren Kreuzgegend. Miinchen, 1858. (Canst., iv, 459.) Tanner relates the case of a child who died suddenly about six weeks after birth, having been just before treated, apparently sue cessfnlly, for syphilis derived from the parents. O'DoNOVAN relates a case of syphiHs in an infant, the parents of which had had no secondary symptoms, but the father had suffered from " gonorrhoea." The first or ^etiological part of the treatise of Diday, now trans- lated and published by the 'New Sydenham Societv, is devoted to studying the mechanism of the development of the disease, its different origins, and the respective part played by each of them m Its ulterior evolution. In the second or semeiological part, we find a description of the various forms and no less variable pro- gress of the disease. The third part, having reference to prognosis,414 UEPOllT ON MlDWirEIlY, ETC. treats of tlie clangers peculiar to sypliilis at an early age, of the transmissibility of the lesions M'hich it occasions, and of the mor- tality which it causes. In the fourth part, the medico-legal bearings of cases of this kind; and in the fifth part, the subject of treatment in all its details are considered. LoTZBECic gives an elaborate account of the various forms of tiunours which arc observed in. the sacral region in new-born ■ childi-en, YIII. jrALPOEMATIONS, ETC., OF THE FCETUS. Ehrmann.—Foetus monstreiix (Derodelpbe). Gaz. Med. de Strasb., 1858, No. 4. (Canst., iv, i.) Heiner.—Glucklich vorgenommene unblutige Trennung zweier zwischeii Sitzknorren uiid Steiss miteinander verwacbsener Kinder. [Successful Separation of Two adbereiit Foetus.] M''iener Wocheusch., 31—33, 1858. (Canst., iv, i.) Luschka.—Ueber ein angebornes Hygroma cystieum perineale mit Foetus in Foetu. [Case of Congenital Cystic Hygroma; Foetus in Foetu.] Vircbow's Arcbiv, xiii, p. 411. (Canst., iv, 1.) Xenhossek,—Ueber eine Zwillingsbildung der Medulla spinalis. [Double Spinal Cord.] Woehenbl. d. Zeitsch. d. Wiener Aertz, 1858, No. 52. (Canst., iv, I.) Flogel.—UeberzEiblige Hoden. [Supernumerary Testicles.] Oesterr. Zeitsch. f. prakt. Ileilk., 39, 1858. (Canst., iv, i.) Charcot.—Rupture of the Spleen in a Foetus. Gaz. des Hopt., 144, 1858. (Sch., 4, 42.) Virchow,—Hydrops ascites bei einera neugebornen Kinde. [Ascites in a New- born Child.] Mon-Sch. f. Geburtsk, xi, p. i6r. (Sch., 6,308.) Smallman.—Cystic Disease of the Liver in a Foetus. Lancet, 1859, ii, 573. Clay,—On Anasarca of the Foetus. Wicn. Ztsch., N. F., ii, 13, 1859. (Sch., 6, 308.) Widerhofer,—Ein Fall von lleus bei einem neugebornen Kinde. [Ileus in a New- born Child.] Jahrb. f. Kinderk., ii, i, 37. (Sch., 11, 190.) Bilii.—Unusual Tvpisting of the Cord, and its probable cause. Ann. Univ., Feb., 1859. (Sch., 8, 191.) Houel.—Memoire sur les adberences du placenta ou des enveloppes a certaincs parties du corps. [Adhesions of the Placenta or Membranes to certain parts of the Body.] Gaz. Med., No. 3, 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.) Goldberg.—Seltene Zwillingsgeburt. [Unusual case of Twins.] Oesterr. Zeitsch. f. prak. Ueilk., No. 39, 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.) Bernard.—Case of Superfoctation. Dublin Quart. J., Feb., 1859, 221. Moraud.—Ri'chcrchcs sur Ic cataracto congeiiilale. These. [On Congenital Cataract.] i'(fm, 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.)415 DISEASES OP CHILDREN. Meyer.—Ueber angeborne Enge oder Verschluss der Lungenarterienbahn. [Con- genital Stricture or Closure of the Pulmonary Arteries.] Virch. Arch. f. path. Anat. u. Phys., xii, 6, p. 497. (Canst., iv, 6.) Dorsch.—Anomalcr Ycrlauf der Ilohlvenen. [Anomalous Course of the Venaj Cavie.] Aertz. Intell. f. Bay., No. 20, 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.) Bochdalek.—Beschieibung einer sehr merkwurdigen Abweicliung der Lun- genvenen. [Remarkable Abnormity of the Pulmonary Veins. Prager Viert., iv, 1858, p. 160. (Canst., iv, 6.) Jagielski,—De luxationefemoris congenita. Diss, inaug. [Congenital Luxation of the Hip-joint.] Berol., 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.) Luton.—Observation d'hydrocephale congeuitale par epanchement dans les ventri- cules ; trois ponctions successives, &c. [Congenital Hydrocephalus, &c.; Three Successive Tappings. Gaz. Med., 1858, No. 13. (Canst., iv, 6.) DelacOUSe.—De I'albinisme chezrhomme de regions equatorials du nouveau con- tinent. [On Albinism in the Inhabitants of the Equatorial Regions of the New Continent.] Journ. des Con. Med., No. 20, 1858. (Canst., iv, 6.) DelacOUr,—Note sur un cas de monstrosite du genre peracephale. [Monster of the genus "Peracephale."] Gaz. des Hop., Oct., 1858. (Canst., iv, 13.) Maclachlan.—Case of an Acranial Fcetus. Glasg. Med. Journ,, July, 1859, p. 228. R. TJvedale West.—Description of an Anencephalian Monster. Obsfet. Trans,, vol. I, p. 105. Martin.—Amputation spontanee chez le foetus. [Spontaneous Amputation in the Fffitus.] Gaz. Hebd., 22, 1858. (Canst., iv, 13.) Gressy.—Des imperforations et atresies congenitales de la face. [Imperforations and Congenital Atresia of the Face.] These, Par., 1858. (Canst., iv, 13.) Duncan.—Singular Malformation of the Urinary Organs. Am. Journ. of Med. Science, Oct., 1859, 569. Seilftleben.—Angeb. Missbildung der Nieren bei Atresia ani. [Congenital Mal- formations of the Kidneys in Atresia Ani.] Deutsche Klin., 8, 1858. (Canst iv, I3-) Picardat.—Recherclies sur les anomalies congenitales du canal de I'urethre. [On the Congenital Anomalies of the Urethra.] These, Par., 1858. (Canst iv Godard.—Etudes sur I'absence congeuitale du testicle. [Congenital Absence of the Testicle.] These, Par., 1858. (Canst., iv, 13.) Milroy.—Case of Human Monstrosity. Edinb. Med. Journ., June, 1859, 1098. lirieger.-Ueber atresia ani und uleras bicornis. [On Atresia Ani and Uterus IJicornis.] Mon-Sch. f. Geb., xii, 172. (Sch., 11, 178.) Eokitansky.—Ueber atresie des Uterus und der Vagina bei Duplicitiit desselben [On Atresia of the Uterus and Vagina in cases of Duplicity of the same ] Wien' Ztsch. N. F., ii, 33, 1859. (Sch., 11, 180.) Friedlander.-Inversio vagina, Afterschluss Kloakenbildung und Hydroracbis bei einem rcifgeborcncu Knaben. [Inversion of the Vagina, Closure of Anus Cloacal lormaliou, and Hydrorachis, in a Full-grown Child.] Jahrb. f. Kind. 1858; I, ' Vines,—On a Case of Congenital Encephalocele. Lancet, 1859, 410.REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 416 Houel ct Arnault.—Foetus Pseudencephalien. [Pscudciiceplialic Foetus.] Bull, de I'Acad. de Mod., No. lo, p. 298; and No. 24, p. 1153. (Canst., iv, 21.; Behrend.—Zur Gescluchte der Spina liifida, dereii Verlauf und Debandlung, nebst Miltlieilung einer gliickliclieu Kur durch Anwendung der Collodiutii. [Tlic History, Progress, and Treatment of Spina Bifida; Case of Cure Ijy means of Cullodiiim.] Journ. fiir Kinderkr., 11, 12, 1858. (Sell., 5, 194.) Robin.—Du Spina bifida. [Spina Bifida.] Tiiiise, Par., 1858. (Canst., iv, 21.) Debout.—Coup d'oeil siir I'etat dc la tberapeiitique concernant le spina bifida. [The Therapeutics of Spina Bifida.] Bull, de Therap., March, 1858. (Canst., iv, 21.) Ebra.—Du traitement du spina bifida par les injections iodees. [Treatment of Spina Bifida by Iodine Injections.] Tliese, Par., 1858. (Canst., iv, 21.) Allix.—Case of Congenital Hydrocephalus, with Spina Bifida. Presse Med., 31, 1858. (Scb., I, 66.) Messer.—Description of a Foetus with Spina Bifida, Umbilical Hernia, and two peculiar Supra-scapular Bones. Ediiib. Med. Journ., Sept., 1859, 231- Shearer.—Case of Malformation of the Abdomen in a Child. Ed. Med. Journ., Sept., 1859, 237. Sedgwick.—Fcetus in which the Abdominal Wall was deficient. Obstet. Trans., vol. i, p. 239. Widerhofer.—Hernia diaphragraatica sinistra bei einem Siiugling. [Diaphrag- matic Hernia in an Infant.] Jahr., f. Kinderb., ii, i, 39. (Sch., 11, 191.) Moeller.—Fissura steini congenita. Kouigsb. Med. Jabrb., i, parts i and 2. (Canst., iv, 310.) DebOUt.—Rapport de la commission chargee d'examiner le memoire de M. Debout relatif a la hernie ombilicale congenitale. [Report on M. Debout's Memoir on Congenital Umbilical Hernia.] Bull, de I'Acad. de Belgique, 2 ser., i, 4. (Canst., iv, 21.) Restin.—Description d'un cas remarquable d'exstrophie de la vessie. [Extrophia of the Bladder.] An. de la Soc. Med.-Chir. de Bruges, An. xviii, ser. ii. (Canst., iv, 21.) Ehemaxn describes a monstrous foetus—monoceplialous, witli two bodies. The double character was fu-st e\adent at the base of the skull. The vertebral canal double; two spinal cords; oesojihagns single; stomach single and small, giving off a single small intes- tine; this intestine ended in a pouch, from which Avere given off two small intestines, each ending in a separate CBCCum and large intes- tine. The sexual and urinary organs double; both females. Res- piratory apparatus perfectly double. One heart supplied the two bodies. Eeixer gives the description of a well-formed cliild, having an excrescence situated between the ischial tubpro:*ity and sacrum. This excrescence proved on examination to be a foetus of about three weeks, which had become adherent to the body of the healthy child. A ligature was placed round the pedicle of the excrescenw-,DISEASES OF CHILDRKN. 11 and its removal safely accomplished. In Luschka's case of In groma cysticimi perineale, a very large cyst was attached to the loM-er part of the body, whereby the labour was so protracted that the child died. The pelvis was filled with cysts, varying in size. There were also found within the tmnom- the remains of a fcctus, viz., bones, intestines, &c. The case Avas one, not of simple hygroma cysticum, but a combination of the same with inclusion of a foetus. Lenhossek describes a case in which the medulla spinalis was double in a female fcctus, born dead at six months old. In Tlogei/s case a man labouring under syphilis was foimd to have a double testicle on eacli side. The testicles were arranged on each side one above the other, the lower one being on both sides the larger. In Charcoi-'s case a woman M'as delivered of an eight months' cliild, which survived its birth half an hour only. The spleen was found ruptured, and blood effused into the abdomen. The rupture appeared to be due to one of two falls which the patient had sustained, the first one month, and the second a fortnight, before deliver3^ In a case of congenital ascites related by Yiuchoav, the mother had prcAdously given birth to six chilch-en, tlu-ee of which had died of ascites when young. In Smallman's case the abdomen was greatly enlarged, and in the centre of the liver was a large cyst, covered, not completely, by skm anteriorly. The child lived ten minutes after birth. '' " Clay relates two cases, in each of which the foetus was oedema- tons and dead. In one case the placenta was soft, thickened, ami partly covered with so-called lymph ; in the other case the placenta was hypertrophied. WiDEEHOFEE rccords a case of ileus and death in an infant pro- duced by a cyst in the wall of the lower end of the ileum, so situated as to prevent faecal matters passing into the colon. BiLLi reports the case of a woman who suffered in the ein-hth month of her pregnancy from Hvely aud painful movements of^'tho fcctus, which suddenly and finally ceased after eight days Delivery took place, after two weeks, of a dead child. The cord was very mucli twisted and rendered impervious. The cerebellum of the itttus was smaller on one side than on the other. Tlie author sun poses that this unequal development of the cerebellmn caused^L niovoments of the child, as in animals in which one side of the cerebellum has boon removed, and that these rotatory movements, 27REPORT ON MIDWIFERY, ETC. 418 being constantly in one direction, caused tlie twisting of the cord. HouEL states that there are only two points of the body of the foetus at which adhesions of the placenta or membranes are found to exist, viz., the head and the abdomen; of these, the former are by far the most common. Prolapsus of the intestines is always noticed in conjunction with these adhesions, the cause of wliich the author believes to be the shortness of the umbiHcal cord, and the consequent constrained position of the foetus. Meyeu believes that when narrowing or obliteration of the pul- monary arteries coexist with a ventricular communication, the former is a cause of the latter; and that the deviations in respect to the mode of origin of the aorta, the foramen ovale, &c., are de- pendent on the same circumstance. Dorsch describes a case in which the inferior vena cava passed through the diaphragm and upwards on the left side of the aorta, finally crossing over and join- ing the superior vena cava. Bochdalek gives the particulars of a very interesting and rare variation in the arrangement of the pulmo- nary veins and other vessels of the heart in a child, who, neverthe- less, lived four days. Luton relates a case of congenital hydro- cephalus winch was punctured tliree times. The two ventricles were found on the death of the child to be very largely distended with serum. Delacouse believes that the albinos of the equatorial region of the New World are individuals in wliom the scrofulous or l^onphatic diathesis exists. There is a grade intermediate between the albinos and normal individuals, viz., periios—individuals whose skin exhibits patches of coloiu-, giving it a mottled aspect. Both varieties are of weak constitution. The albinos are not capable of propagation. In Delacoue's case, the lower part of the body was normal, but terminated above the umbilicus. There were oidy five dorsal verte- bree and five ribs; the liver large; the kidneys, pancreas, heart, aorta, umbilical arteries, internal genitals, wanting. The foetus thus formed lived till the fifth month. In Maclachlan's case, the cranium was abnost entirely absent. The case related by West was that of a foetus in which the brain and the superior part of the cranimn were Avanting. Maktin relates a case in which a child was born with the iclt arm wanting. The placenta and the spontaneously amputated i419 DISEASES 01;' CHILDREN. member were expelled after the child. The mother had a severe fall eight weeks before the labour began, to wliich the amputation is attributed. Gbess/s memoir consists of an analysis of seventy-six observa- tions respecting imperforations, &c., of the face. DuNCAX relates, that in an infant which died three days after birth, there the bladder, vagina, and rectum, opened in a single cavity; all communicating externally by a single duct, not more than two lines in diameter. Senftleben remarks on the frequency with which atresia ani and malformations of the kidneys and internal organs are associated, and he believes that the mortality following operations for atresia ani is attributable to this. Two cases are related in which atresia ani and defective formation of the kidney coexisted. PiCAEJDAT states that complete absence of the urethra is more common in women than men; the mine in such cases escapes at the umbilicus. Hypospadias, of which there are tliree varieties, is witnessed in the female as well as in the male sex. The deviations in the form and direction of the urethra, the double urethra., fee, are next described. Godard describes the various_^malformations, &c., of the testicle. In Mileoy's case the foetus was bom at about the eighth month. The head was disproportionately large; there was no anus, no trace of the generative organs. A caudal-like appendage was situated over what corresponded to the sacrum. There was only one lower extremity. According to GeofFroy St. Hilaire's arrangement, the foetus belonged to the family " Symeliens/' The uterus bicoruis is produced, according to Kuiegeu, in conse- quence of persistence of that connexion between the allantois and the rectum which subsists at an early period; the fundus of the uterus does not then become developed. The relation of atresia ani to the double conditions of the uterus is minutely analysed. Atresia ani may occur without partial or entire duplicity of the internal sexual organs, and vice versa. Eokitansky relates two cases, in one of which the uterus bicomis was present, but only one of these divisions opened into the vagina, the other being closed. In the other case one of the divisions opened into a rudimentary vagina, which terminated in a blind extremity below. These cases have a practical interest in relation to the diagnosis of retention of the menses.IIKPOIIT ON MIDWirEllY, ETC. 1:20 In Yixii's case of encepluilocele, the tumour ineasiu-ed nhie inches round, and the greater part of tlic contents consisted of cerebelhim. Tlic patient lived five weeks. Tlie foetus described by IIouel and j\jiXAUi;r was seven months old, and presented several defects of development, the greater part of the cranial vault being wanting, the upper lip fissiu'ed, the fissure extending through tlie nose, the bones of M'hich M ere absent, the ^eyes unequally developed, the ring and middle finger of the right side had but one plialanx, on the other side the little finger was provided witli only one phalanx, thc! right leg fractured, the skin unbroken. Bkiiuend states that spina bifida most frequently afl'ects the liunbar region or the junction of this with the dorsal, more rarely the sacral region, still more rarely the cervical, but most rarely the inferior part of the sacral region. Generally the size of the external tumour is proportionate to the extent of the osseous defect, but not always. According to Chaussier, it occurs in the proportion of one in a thousand cases. The number of vertebrae affected varies ; even the whole canal may be affected. It is often fatal soon after birth, and more quickly if seated high up. If life continue, the child is \A-eak and thin, often paraplegic, and affected with involuntary mictu- rition and defascation, club-foot, &c. The rupture is generally gradual, preceded by inflammatory attacks and convulsions. Life is rarely prolonged over the third year, but cases are on record of life continuing to ten, twenty, and even fifty years. An operation should only be attempted, when the child is otherwise healthy, the tumour pedunculated and single, the integument covering it not ulcerated, not painful on pressure or on being moved, and fluctua- tion is distinct. Of all the various proposed operations, simple compression, -with or without puncture, appears the best. In the case of a child seven weeks old, who had a spina bifida over the last lumbar vertebra, the tiuuour was painted ^vith a mixture of castor oil and coUodium, and when it had become hard, a wadding compress was applied. The next day the appHcation Avas renewed, the proportion of collodium being increased. Calomel was now criven night and morning, the head being hot and thc child restless. The tumour cpickly diminished in size, and after a few days was no longer visible. The cm-e was complete. Debout gives the particulars of several cases in which iodine injections have been used by various surgeons, in the first instance by Brainard. Of eleven cases, eight were cured. The resiilts appeared to show that theDISEASES QF CHILDREN. iiijocliou of the tmcture of iodiiic_, M heu in the proportion of a tliircl, is at all events not an injiu'ious operation. It is recoiuniendecl that the injection be made by a very small cauula; tliat the injection be at first of very slight strength, gradually to be increased, the object being to excite a slow process of inflammation only in the cyst. The cases in Avhich the tumour is pedunculated are the most favorable. Compression forms a subsequent part of the treatment. In Alux's case, spina bifida, affecting nearly the whole canal, but during life apparently limited to the lumbar region, was associated with hydrocephalus. In Messer's case the spina bifida was asso- ciated with umbilical hernia and two peculiar supra-scapular bodies. In two cases related respectively by Sheareii and Sedgwick, the anterior abdominal wall was deficient. Widerhofer relates the case of an infant M'ho lived only two days. On examination, the left side of the thorax was almost filled by intestines, an opening existing in the diapliragm.REPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE, PUBLIC HYGIENE, AND DIETETICS. BY WILLIAM ODLING, M.B., T.E.S., FELLOW OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYStClANS; PROFESSOR OF PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY AT GUY'S HOSPITAL; HONORARY SECRETARY TO THE CHEMICAL SOCIETY ; ETC. MANUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. Casper,—Practical Manual of Forensic Medicine, based upon original experience. Thanatological part. With an atlas and nine coloured plates. 2d edition, i Biological part. Berlin, 1858. Wald.—Forensic Medicine. A Manual for Medical Jurists, based upon A. S. Taylor's ' Medical Jurisprudence.' Vols, i and ii. Leipzig, 1858. Nusser.—Medicine of the Present Day, in its relations to the Administration of Justice. (Oesterr., 4, 50.) Albert,—^ Defence against the Reproaches which Lawyers make to Forensic Phy- sicians. (Henke, 38, 3.) On the Definition of Mutilation. (Friedreich, 9, 3.) Buchner.—What injury is immediately Fatal? and what Injury is Fatal by an intermediate Cause, put into activity by the Lesion itself? (Henke, 1858, 47, Supplement.) Hofinaim.—Reply to the Question of Buchner, with special reference to Buchner's Reply. (lb., 38, 3-) Boecker,—inability to Work; Serious Injury, threatening Life. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) On Matrimony and Divorce. (Friedreich, 9, 6.) Jessen.—Mental Diseases, considered as Reasons for Divorce. (lb., 9, 4.) The handbook of Casper is avowedly based upon original re- searches and experiences; which the author, as the principal member of a scientific commission, that in Prussia, has finally to decide all medico-legal matters, has had the best opportunities forMANUALS AND GENERAL TREATISES. ■123 collecting. The cominissiou just mentioned is called " Tlie Scieutilic Deputation for Medical Affaii's/' and stands in connection with the Miuistiy of Justice and the Interior. The opinions and reports delivered by this commission are bureaucratically styled " super- arbitria." Of such superarbitria most of Casper's cases were the subjects. Of the fii'st/or thauatological part of Casper's workj we have simply to record the publication of a second, unchanged edition. The second, or biological part is a new publication. It is divided into a general and a special part. The first chapter of the general part treats of medical jurists, and their position in Prussia and other countries. The second chapter gives tiseful advice on medico- legal examinations, and introduces, as a new doctrine, the question whether all persons are able to bear imprisonment, be it for debt, or as a punishment for smaller or greater crimes; and whether, if persons are not in a condition to bear it without injury, such imprisonment is justifiable. This doctrine is described as that of the " zweifel- hafte Yerhaftungsfiihigkeit," a compound word of the bureaucratical genus, in which, we regret to say, tliis otherwise excellent work, like the majority of German productions on medico-legal science, abounds. The first section of the special part relates to disputed matters connected with sex; in particular, impotence and defloration. Un- natural modes of satisfpng sensual desires occupy the third chap- ter. The second section treats of disputes about pregnancy, cases in wliich, according to the author, a medico-legal decision is not very often requLi-ed. The third section, relates to disputed birth and abortion : the fourth, to injuries not fatal: and the fifth, to disputed bodily diseases. The sixth section treats of disputed mental con- ditions. This chapter is highly practical, and free from those sophistical and mostly unintelligible definitions and distinctions in which forensic psychology so frequently abounds. The work of AVald is a free translation of Taylor's 'Medical Jurisprudence,' with additions from the literature of Germany and Trance. It is interspersed with cases from the practice of the author. Many chapters show much originality. Prom a consideration of the great progress which medicine has made of late, NussEii comes to the conclusion that, iii order to ensure progress in forensic medicine, a division of labour in that branch of science is required*IIEI'OIIT ON LEGAL JJEDICI.VL, ETC. (lb., 9, 4.) As linvyci's now and Iheu reproach medical praclitioiiers for judging forensic cases witli exaggerated humanity, Aimkivv v.n- deayours to show, by examples, that these reproaches are unfounded. The article on the definition of "mutilation" advises the legisla- ture to avoid this expression, because it is capable of many inter- pretations. BucHNER comes to the conclusion that those injuries are imme- diately fatal Mliich do not cause death by an intermediate agencv. This negative deliuitiou is criticised by Hoiouxx, who correctly defines, as immediately fatal, those injuries which, from their nature, are necessaiily fatal. The paper of Boecker contains remarks about legal and otlier definitions of the words forming its title. The essay in ' Friedreich' relates to diseases which may be consi- dered, or alleged to be, sufficient reasons, either for legally preventing marriage altogether, or for breaking a promise of marriage, or for dissohdng marriages abeady existing. Such diseases are stated to be epilepsy, deaf-dumbness, psychical diseases, female hermaphroditism, ]iarrow vagina, absence of vagina and womb, anomalies in the for- mation of the pelvis, mole-pregnancy, excessive sexual desire, and excessive age. Of these last two points, the natm-al legal standard is not indicated. The debates in the Prussian House of Deputies, relative to a bill on the law of divorce, caused Jessen to consider the medical grounds upon wliicli a dissolution of marriage might become requi- site, particularly in reference to mental disorders. He finds that most practical arguments are against any dissolution in these cases, but brings forward some few reasons for which a dissolution, under certain limited circmnstances, might be granted. SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER, INCLUDING IN- JURIES OF THE HEAD, ABDOMEN, SPINAL MARROW, ETC. Bliimlein.—Can any Legal Conclusion, relative to the intention of any person womiriing another, be drawn from the situation and natnre of the injury indicted? (Casper, i,^, i.) History of Critical Days. (Friedreich, 9, 2.) On Poisoned Woiuids (poisoned arms; gunsliot wounds; bites; cadaveric poison),SOMATIC INJURIJLS AiND MANSLAUGHTEK. '135 Eulenburg.—Deatli by Accident, or Murder by Criminal Neglect. A remarkable Trial by Jury. (Casper, 14, i.) Albert,—A Case of Murder of a Mother (matricide). (Ilenke, 38, 3.) Death by Inhalation of Sulphuric Ether. (Friedreich, 9, 4.) Pelikan.—Contributions to Forensic Medicine, Pharmacology, and Pharmaco- dynamics. Experimental Physics of Gunshot Wounds, in which the missile is supposed to wound by means of compressed air. (pp. 151.) Mair.—Wounds in general. House-Library of Practical Surgery. Anslach, 1858. Maschka.—Report on Medico-Juridical Examinations, instituted between May 1st and Aug. 31st, 1837. (Prager, ii, 81.) I. Lesions observed upon living per- sons, twenty-five in number. Forensic-Medical Communications. (Casper, 13, 2.) Case 2. Ill-treatment of a man suffering from severe disease of the heart. Death after sis days, not capable of being brought into immediate connection with tlie ill-treatment. Forensic Medical Opinions. (Henke, 38, i.) Alleged ill-treatment of a factory woman, forty-two years of age, who had not menstruated for eight weeks; the hnemorrhage from the womb, and catarrh of the bladder, could not be proved to be direct consequences of the ill-treatment. III. Complicated injuries in consequence of continued brutal ill-treatment; residuarv disease of brain and spinal marrow, with loss of speech. Tardieu.—Medico-legal Report on the Attentat of the 14th of January, 18,8 (Ann. d'llyg., April, 1858.) Casper.—(Loc. cit., ii). a. Serious injuries.—i. Mulilailon. Case 102. Bite of hnger; amputation. 103. Knocking in the peg of an aiaificial tooth: does it constitute mutilation .> 104. Amputation of the breast: is it mutilation ' 11 Loss of speech. 105. Temporary loss of speech after injuries. 106. Non- development of speech, in consequence of general ill-treatment, nr. Loss of sight. 107. Loss of both eyes through milk of lime. 108. Loss of an eve by sulphuric acid. 109. Loss of an eye by a knock or puncture with an instru- ment. 110. Loss of an eye by a missde. iii. Alleged loss of an eye by a strike on the face. 112. Apprehended loss of an eye by strokes of a whin IV. Loss of hearing. 113. Whether a box on the ear has caused loss of hearing upon one ear. 114. The same question, in consequence of two boxes on the ear. 115. The same by a knock with the fist. v. Loss of virile power. i, 6 S.rangulation of the penis. 117. Alleged loss of virile power after a kick' B. Less serious injuries.-i. ConsideraUe impairment of health or the me of limbs. 1,8. Multifarious illness, and alleged inability to make a living 119. Flex.on of the knee-joint, and alleged inability to make a living 120 Alleged considerable disadvantages from extractions of teeth. 121 Fracture' after having been thrown out of window. 122. Did the fracture occur before or after the 2d of October? u. InaLilily to raori continued for some ime 123. Many cuts and punctured wounds. 1.24. Cut into the arm by a knife' 12s and 126. Blows on the head; peculiar "inability to work." 1.7 Blows' on the head; alleged tearing out of hair. ,28. Blows on the head with I hatchet. ,29. Dog-bites. ,30. Man-bite of the right thumb. Z P1 tnred wound of the back, with dilatation of the wound. , ,2 111 tJ.lST^ growing ,lown. 133. Uc^ng a person to a log of .oo^i^'J^^^l C. L.ght .njur,es.-,34. Acadental poisoning by caustic ley. Blow by fist and st,ck 136. Atfusion of cold water; boxes on the ei';'ncrvou fe>er. -37. Kicks ,n the abdomen; inflanimation of the liver. ,38 K cks -R14P0RT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 426 inguinal lieniia. 139. Blows with the liandle of a broom; abortion. 140 and 141. I'lmctured wounds of the chest by means of a knife and poniard. 142. Tlirow on the chest; peritonitis. 143. Throwing down; peritonitis. 144. Blows with a fist on the head; alleged concussion of brain. Hafher.—Case of Fracture of the Skull, with Medico-forensic Remarks. (Deutsche II, 2.) Kiirner,—Some Observations from the Criminal Court. (Wiirtemb., 28, Nos. 7, and 8.) B.Oth,—Fatal Disease of the Brain, caused by Blows of the Hand against the Temples. (Henke, 38, 3.) Ou the Fatal Consequences of a Box on the Ear. (lb.) Maschka.—Contributions from Medico-forensic Practice. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) Fatal injury of the head, very probably accidental. Wounds of the head, in a person with wet clothes; unexpectedly rapid death; necessarily fatal injurj'. Dead body found suspended by the neck; discovery of fracture of the skull, together with several other injuries, probably caused by violence of a second person ; exclusion of suicide. (Henke, 38, i). Ill-treatment of a Man seventy-four years of age, consist. ing in blows upon the head; supervening pneumonia; death; no connection traceable. (Casper, 13, 2). Wounds of the Head; unexpected death after some days; copious extravasation of blood in the pericardium; no connection traceable; serious injury. Injuries on the head and thumb of a drunkard; cold and irregular living; tetanus; death ; lesion which, from its general nature, is not necessarily fatal. On the Psychical Consequences of Lesions of the Head. (Friedreich, 9, 2.) Birkett.—Compound Fracture of the Skull by a Hatchet, with haemorrhage; re- moval of loose bone, and exposure of the dura mater; recovery. (Lancet, 1859.2.32-) Maschka.—Inguinal Hernia, alleged to have been caused by an assault; connec- tion not evident; slight injury. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) ToulmOUChe.—On Mortal Wounds of the Abdomen from a Medico-legal Point of View. (Ann. d'Hyg., July, 1858,19.) Rupture of the anterior part of the cajcum by a kick, followed by the escape of fecal matter into the abdominal cavity; rapidly fatal peritonitis. Rupture of the anterior wall of the ileum by a kick upon the ab- domen ; escape of fecal matter, casing peritonitis and death. Detachment of the jejunum from the mesentery,and rupture of the kidney.by a carriage-wheel passing over the abdomen ; rapidly fatal peritonitis. Rupture of the iliacs, with effusion of blood into the abdominal cavity, caused by great compression of the belly, and accompanied by hsemorrhage from the labial artery, and other rapidly fatal injuries. Comminuted fractures of the last seven right ribs, incomplete fracture of the fifth, seventh, and eighth left ribs; ruptm-e and contusion of the liver; rupture of the ureter, of the left renal artery and vein ; caused by the passing of a cartwheel over the body; almost immediate death. Comminuted fracture of the pelvis and sacrum, denudation of the cauda equina, and extensive extravasation of blood, caused by the passage of a cart-wlieel; almost instantaneous death. The belly ripped open by a knife; prolapsus of the intestines; unmethodical reduction; acute fatal peritonitis. Perforation of the ileum in four places; lesions of branches of the upper mesenteric artery, and of other more con- siderable arteries; the intestines, which had prolapsed through a cut woundSOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 427 ill the left side of the abdomen, pulled about by the injured man; fatal hemor- rhage. Nothling'.—Punctured Wound of the Neck. (Baden, 12, 10.) Scluvaiulner.—A Case of Injury to the Spinal Marrow. (Wiirtemb., 28, 11.) Maschka.—(Casper, 13, 2.) A Child, eight days old, dies suddenly; dislocation of the second vertebra of the neck ; violent death through the agency of the mother. (Deutsche, 12, 2.) Fall upon the Knee, followed by inflammation of the joint; phlegmonous inflammation of the leg; remaining stiffness of the knee; absence of medical treatment in the beginning of the case; scrofulous disposition; serious injury. Clement-Lacroix.—On Hanging, considered principally from a medico-legal point. These inaug. Paris, 1858. Kriigelstein.—Remarks and Opinions on the Doctrine of Priority of Death. (Henke, 38, i.) rommes.—Complete Skeleton of a Man made by Maggots and Insects. (Casper, Maschka.—Post-mortem Examinations of Adult Persons. (Prag., ii, 81.) Death of a Peasant-boy, aged 14 years, twenty-four hours after falling into a pit fiUed with the boiling-hot refuse of a distillery. The greater part of the surface of the body denuded of epidermis ; the cutis dark, reddish-brown, hard, dry, and parchment like; on the places retanning the epidermis numerous blackish ecchyraoses and vesicles the size of peas, filled with a clear fluid, and sur- rounded by a narrow halo, of a rose-red colour, with minute injection of the cutis; blood fluid and dark; brain, with its membranes, hypersmic; mucous membrane of the trachea dark, blueish-red, in parts finely injected; lungs nor- mal; under the pleura of the right lung, ecchymoses from the size of a hemp- seed to that of a pea. Hauska,—Medico-forensic Studies. I. Physiognomy of Dead Bodies fWieuer I. 5-) ^ Huber.—The Medico-legal Relations of Fissures in Bones. (Oesterr., 4, 12 ) Pehkan—Essay on a more precise Definition of Rigor Mortis. (Loc cit igi ) Wallmann.-On Rupture of the Internal and Intermediate Membrane in Arteries (Oesterr., 4, 6.) Robm.-Memoir on the Comparison of Hairs, found with their Roots, in the pre sumed Locality of a Murder, with those of the Victim. Heller.—On Ha:matine and its Diagnosis. (Wien Aerzt., 1858 i 48 ) Bryck -On Blood-crystals and their Import in Forensic E.xaminations for Blood (Wien, 8, 42.) Coulier.-Note on a Constant Microscopic Character of Blood-stains. (Monit Hop., 1858, I.) V'iJmi. Choillette and Musculus.-New Researches on the Diagnosis of Blood^stains parhcularly stains which have been washed. (Conn. Med., i8c8 ^ "^'^ Mascllka.—Examination of Blood-like Stains. (Prag 28) ^ ' Eobin-Memoir on the Medico-legal Comparison of'Me'nslrual Blood-stains and other Blood-stains. (Ann. d'Hvg., Oct., 1858 20) Lannenberg.-Diagnosis of Spermatic Stains in Medico-legal Inquiries. (Hirzel Lassaigne,—Observations on some Reactions which Suermatir <?f.;n= 1'I.v8 llEl'OKT ON LJXAl; MEDICINE, ETC. Robin.—Memoir on the Medico-legal Examination of a Blood-blain, Mliiuh con- tallied Iiuiuan adipose tissue. (lb.) Gaultier de Claubry.—On the Appearance of Arms discharged with Guu-cotlun, or witli Powder made witli Ferro-cyanide of Potassium. (II)., Jan. 17, 1858.) Busch.—Obstetric Malpraxis? Prussian Superarbitriura. (Casper, 14, 1.) Ill a case of gunshot wound reported by him, Blumleix answers his question in the affirmative. Tlie article in ' Friedreich' is a historical relation of the doctrines concerning critical days after injmiesj which are of no practical value in our present courts of justice. The article on poisoned wounds is a recasting of known materials. The case reported by Eulenbueg is that of a girl eight years old, who died of suffocation and apoplexy, in consequence of having been obliged to force herself into a cupboard. The case of death from sulphuric ether is that of an illegitimate child. The father ackuowleged its death to have resulted from sul- phuric ether, which he himseK had made the child inhale. According to the reporter, however, the murder was not proved, because the child might have died from the effects of the vapour which was dispersed in the air of the room. Pelikax finds by experiment that a cannon-ball, or other missile, can only cause injury by immediate contact. Taudieu enumerates the injuries caused by the attentat upon the life of the Emperor Napoleon, and gives an account of thek natui-e, importance, and ultimate results. Mair, in the chapter entitled " "Wounds hi General," makes some remarks on their medico-legal relations. Hafneu reports the case of a man who, in consequence of blows with a stick, had sustained fractures of the lower angle of the right parietal, and the squamous part of the right temporal bones; which detached seven pieces of bone, and produced four fissures, runnuig in various directions. He died on the third day, probably from an extensive extravasation. He got up dm-ing the second night after the injury, for the purpose of passing urine. The case reported by KiiKNEii is that of a fatal fractui-e of the skull, in which the injuiy extended to the base of the cranium. A wound of one of the meningeal arteries caused an enormous extrava- sation. The first case of Eoth is that of a girl, ret. 11, who died on the 2ist of November, after having received a box on the ear early inSOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 429 September. The post-mortem examination revealed clu'onic intiam- mation of all the membranes of the brain^ with exudation and ul- ceration in brain, membranes, and bones. It is sought to connect these lesions -with the box on the ear. The second case is that of a girl of the same age, who also received a box on the right ear, and upon whose petral bone, a fungus of the dura mater was discovered at the post-mortem examination. In the leading article in ' Triedreich' it is maintained, that all in- juries of the head are capable of producing psycliical anomaUes; and that in some cases these anomalies appear a long time after the injury The case of BiRKETT refers to a woman, set. 46, who had been attacked by her husband with a hatchet, whilst she was asleep, her head being on a pillow. There were tlu-ee scalp wounds, and certain e\adence of a fracture. On the eighth day symptoms of compression set in, which necessitated the removal of two large pieces of bone, leaving the dui-a mater covered by a thick coagulum. There was repeated haemorrhage. In the course of the case some fur- ther pieces of bone came away. But granulations springing up from the sides of the wound, it became ultimately cicatrized. The woman, who had been admitted on July 25th, 1858, left Gu/s Hospital in March, 1859, and was then able to give evidence at the police court. Prom his series of observations Toulmotiche draws some general conclusions. In the case of Nothung, the left brachial plexus and some lym- phatic glands had been injured in the coui-se of a punctured wound, passing between the tliird and fourth vertebrse of the neck. ScHWANDNEK reports on an injury of the spinal marrow, conse- quent upon a punctured wound near the third dorsal vertebra: there was paralysis of the right foot, shortness of breath, and in- voluntary discharge of fseces and urine. An impaired function of the foot remained permanently. Clement-Lacroix gives a laborious compilation of the physiolo- gical, morbid, anatomical, and forensic relations of death by han"-ino- Krugblstein has furnished a complete account of the materia!" by which the question of priority of death can be decided. Hauska is of opinion that no conclusion can be di-awn from the expression of the face of dead persons, as to any circumstances piecedmg death. HuBEii points out that the presence of fissures in long l)ones s430 RErORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. does not necessarily involve dislocation of fragments, which may be only a secondary efl'ect of volnntary muscular contraction. He states that most malformations in bones and joints, subsequent to injuries, are due to undiagnosed, and badly treated fissures. The essay of Pelikan contains a reconsideration of known facts relative to rigor mortis, Wallmann has never observed rupture of the internal and inter- mediate membranes of the carotids in hanged persons, nor was he able to produce their rupture experimentally j from which expe- riences he comes to the conclusion that such an occurrence must be very rare. According to Heller, ha3matine is best extracted from blood by sulphuric acid and alcohol. After neutralization of the acid, the alcoholic extract is evaporated. The watery solution of the residue is mixed with an equal volume of healthy mine, the mixture heated to boiling in a test-tube, and concentrated liquor potassse then added. It thereby becomes of a green colour, and a blood-red precipitate of earthy phosphates forms, which under the microscope appears yellow and amorphous. If the mixture is afterwards shaken with air and allowed to stand, the hsematine-phosphates begin to discolour from above downwards, and tlie green colour of the fluid gradually fades. Of all tests for blood, Bryck believes the production of the characteristic crystals to be the best. Dried blood is soaked in water, and afterwards treated witli glacial acetic acid. In this way, blood on linen, wood, metal, clay, and lime, can be recog- nised. If the blood is dried ia substance, it may be scraped off the surface on which it is found. The powder is placed upon a shp of glass, ground down with a glass rod, and covered with a piece of thin glass. One or more drops of glacial acetic acid are next brought in contact with the powder, and the preparation is then gently dried on a sand-bath. When all the acid is evaporated, the preparation is allowed to cool, washed cautiously with a Httle water, and submitted to microscopic examination. The rhombic, ])rown-red crystals of liEemine, discovered by Teichmann, are evi- dence of the presence of blood, Bryck adverts also to some modifications of the test, and to the so-called polychroic test, viz., the changes of colour which residues of blood undergo by the'alternate action of glacial acetic acid, caustic potassa, and concentrated sulphuric acid.SOMATIC INJURIES AND MANSLAUGHTER. 431 CouLiEK believes that tlie colourless blood-corpuscles cau be easily discovered iu blood-stains, and that they are important diag- nostic elements of blood. Choulette and MuscuLirs arrive at the following conclusions. Blood-stai]is, even very old ones, if they have never been washed, always leave a sufficient amount of soluble matters to give charac- teristic chemical reactions. But when washed, their analysis by ordinary means is impossible. Water containing one tenth of car- bonate of potash makes all blood-stains disappear, fresh or old, washed or unwashed, and precludes all further analysis. Hypo- chlorous acid acting upon blood-stains for two or tliree minutes gives them a brown colour, which is very decided upon linen, for example : continued action of the acid, however, destroys all colour and evidence of blood. EoBiN states that menstrual differs from other blood, by the ad- inixtui-e of epithelial cells and mucus-globules, which are discover- able under the microscope. Dannenbeeg states that solutions of spermatic stains do not coagdate on boihng. He has observed the crystals, described by liheinsch as forming on a microscopic slide when the fluid is allowed to evaporate. Some appear to be chloride of sodium : two other modifications, square plates and radiating needles, he could not identify. Lassaig>^e has enumerated a series of chemical reactions which serve to distinguish seminal from other albuminous stains. In a case of murder, Kobin ascertained the existence of some adipose tissue in blood, and established its diagnosis from the fat of sheep or cows. Gaultieb de Claubky describes the appearance of guns, after discharge, when they have been loaded with gun-cotton, or with a powder prepared from sugar, clilorate of potash, and ferro cyanide of potassium. In the case of Buscii, a midwife and an accoucheiu- were accused of malpraxis. The membranes had been ruptured too early, and tlie forceps used before sufficient dilatation, and without effect.' No subsequent assistance was afforded, and the woman was left to die of hemorrhage, without being delivered.IIKPORT ON LEGAL .MliDlCINK, KTC. III. POISONS AND POISONING. A. Diseases simulating Poisoning. On Apparent Poisoning. (Friedreicb, 9, 2.) In this article, it is assumed that symptoms simuhitiiig extraneous poisoning may be produced by spontaneous generation of organic poison in the human body during life, by indiosyncrasy, and by natural diseases having symptoms analogous to those produced by poisons. B. Alleged Poisoning, with poison not identified. (Piiarm., Dec, 341.) At the Central Criminal Court, on October 27 th, 1859, G. F. Eogers was indicted for the wilful murder of Z. Wright, a female, with whom he had cohabited, and who died about a M eek after her confinement. The scientific evidence of Letheby went to show the absence of mineral poison; but from a quantity of treacle- like fluid he obtained about a drop of an oily body, Avhich was very acrid, and on application to his lip produced blisters : some of the same description of oily matter was found in the vomit and in the contents of the stomach. The oily matter was not from cantha- rides, as he had once supposed. A guinea pig was killed by some of it, and the same substance was again extracted from the guinea pig, and then killed several sparrows. Letheby, together with Baker and Garrod, were of opinion that death in this case did not arise from any natural disease, but from the adminis- tration of some foreign irritant. Tor the defence it was urged, that as the real nature of the acrid matter discovered in the stomach could not be determined by chemical experiment, it might have been generated by disease. The jury returned a verdict of Not guilt]/. (See remarks upon this casein a leader of 'Medical Times,' November 5th, p. 460.) c. Disproved allegations of Poisoning. On Poisoning by Cigars. (Friedreich, 9, 3.) In relation to a case which occurred in Italy, and is reported in the 'Gaz. di Tribunali,' Buxsex made some experiments, a^POISONS AND POISONING. 433 the result of which he affirms, that the possibility of a person being poisoned by cigai-s, impregnated with as much arsenic as they will bear without presenting a spoiled appearance, cannot be denied; and that tlie smoking of one such cigar introduces a notable quantity of poison into the mouth; but that it is unrea- sonable to suppose that any sane person, whether with a view to enjo}Tnent or from courtesy to another, should take so many whiffs of a cigar so poisoned, as to produce a fatal result; for the taste of such cigar-smoke is horrible beyond description. . V. Sj7ecial Poimis, in alpltdbetical order. I. Aconite. Case of Death from Aconite. (Lanset, i, 46.) Suicide by Aconite Root. (Lancet, ii, 561.) In January, 1859, Mr. Alfred Dowsom, sm-geon, died at Nor- wich. He had misread the labels on the bottles, and taken as a stomachic, a dose from what he believed to be Tra Aurant but what was reaUy marked Tra. Aconit. Shortly afterwards the usual symptoms of poisonmg by aconite commenced, and terminated fatally, m spite of the most prompt and efadent mecHcal as- sistance. A gardener had dug up some aconite root, and di-ied it One evening he purposely ate some of it. Three hours afterwards he caUed m some neighbours, and complained of most severe pain in the stomach He had vomiting and purging, was occasionally verv dizzy, and lost consciousness for a moment, but at other "times was sensible He was admitted into St. Mar/s Hospital, undei the care of Dr. Alderson, five hours after eating the poison He was in a state of collapse, and notwithstanding antidotes, died twenty minutes after admission. j 2. Alcohol. Poisoning by Brandy. (Guy's, 131.) A vagrant, fet. 27 saw a bottle, containing about a gallon of brandy, fall from another man's shoulder, and tiie contents Lo 28431 llEPOET ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. a gutter. He stooped doAvii and drank his fill, when, on again attempting to rise, he staggered and became totally intoxicated. At the police-station, the stomach-pump and emetics were admiuLs- tercd. Continuing insensible, he was brought into Guy's Hos- pital. He was collapsed, cold, and unable to swallow. He lived twenty-two hours after his debauch, and died with dilated pupils and slow respiration. The post-mortem examination showed intense congestion of all the organs, particularly of the lungs and brain. 3. Antimoiii/. Lassaigne. -Diagnosis of Antimony in the Dead Body, after Poisoning. (Ann. d'Hyg., u, 192.) Lassaigne, from experiments made in conjunction with Lorain, has come to the conclusion that antimony cannot always be dis- covered by Marsli's method for arsenic. Of all the organs of an individual who had been poisoned by repeated doses of antimony, the liver alone yielded faint traces of antimony with Marsh's appa- ratus. But when the organs were incinerated, and the carbon and ashes extracted witli nitric and hydroclaloric acids, this extract yielded an orange precipitate with sidphuretted hydrogen. Li this way the liver, spleen, and kidneys yielded considerable amounts of antimony (liver = grains of tartar emetic); the stomach and intestinal canal gave traces. 4. Arsenic. Huber.-History of a Case of Poisoning, in ^hich the poison could not be detected. ChrSon.-On the Quantity of Poison ^N-hich has heen found in the Stomach, in Murders by Poisoning with Arsenic. (Edinb., Dec, 1857.) T^lnndlot -Analyses for Arsenic by Marsh's Method. (Acad. Med., Dec. 4, i857.) oS -0" the Failure of Marsh's Process for the Detection of Arsenic. (Guy s. qphaeffer-Detection of Poisoning by Arsenic in a Burnt Body. (Casper, ,4. i-") oSa!-!poisoning by Arsenious Acid. Medico-legal Researches. (Gaz. Hop., 1857, No. 139.) The Bradford Poisoning Cases. (Pharm., Jan. 1, 390-) Trial of Dr. King (America) for the Murder of his W>fe. (Edmb., 81.) Rose (H. Cooper.)-Case of Poisoning by the Arsenite of Copper in an Infant. (Lancet, :, 237.) , ... ^ n AVpo-o. -Case of Poisoning by Arsenic and Strychnia. (Schmidt, 6, 292.) Tlial of Dr. Smetliurst for the Murder by Poison of Isabella Banks. (Central Cnm. Court. Short-hand Report.)POISONS AND POISONING. 435 HuBEu reports the case of a woman, forty years old, who died under symptoms of arsenical poisoning. The probability was strengthened by the result of the post-mortem examination, but no poison could be discovered in the body by chemical analysis. CiiEiSTisoN- records a number of murders by arsenic, in which the doses of poison were enormous, and in wliich large residues could be chemically discovered. Bloxdlot comes to the conclusion, at which most people had pre- viously arrived, that the process of Danger and Elandin, as pre- limmary to that of Marsh, may gfve rise to considerable losses of nrsemc, to prevent ^^-hichhe gives a long series of precautious. Prom several analyses of soil containing arsenic, of grass grown on arsemcal soil, and of animal matter mixed with arsenic, Odling comes to the conclusion that MarsVs process cannot be relied upon to detect mmute quantities of arsenic in the presence of organic matter; that is, under conditions in which arsenic most frequently has to be detected, and in wliich it can be most satisfactorily detected by Reinsch's process. The plan now adopted by Odlino- IS the same as that recommended in 1858 by Eose, of Berlin The organic matter to be analysed is dissolved in dilute, warm, hydro- chloric acid, and the solution distilled nearly to dryness The residue is then mixed with some fresh concentrated hydrochloric acid, and again distiUed with caution, to avoid the effects of a inomentary frothing. The residue is free from arsenic, which has aU passed mto the distillates, in which it can be recognised by Marsh s, EemscFs, or the sulphuretted hydrogen, and subsequent other tests. Ai-senic may also be separated, by distillation with hydrochloric acid, from certain metalHc salts which, according to the author, interfere mth Ma,rsh's reaction. The article by Schaeffeb refers to a woman, eet. 40, whose body liad been found very much burnt externaUy. In the tolerably well preserved gastro-intestinal canal, there was evidence of strong in flammation Arsenic was detected in the canal, and also in some vomited matters. ^uuic Obfila repeats that the spots and rings, obtained by the various arse„,c, .nstead of "terra alba," or "daff," j^.%te;"of T^S.436 REPORT ON LEOAL MEDICINE, ETC. The poison was inanufactured into lozenges. Tlie jury acquitted tlie prisoner, by direction of the judge, as there had been no criminal negligence of the druggist, but an ignorant mistake of his boy only, who had been duly' cautioned. At the date of the trial, De- cember aist, 1858, this sad mistake had resulted in the death of twenty-one persons. In America, a Dr. King, having had adulterous intercourse with an unmarried young woman, murdered his lawful wife and mother of his clrild, by administering to her repeated large doses of white arsenic, of which, after death, aS much as eleven grains were found in the stomach by Professor Croft, of Toronto, to whom the m- testiues had been transmitted for analysis. King was condemned and executed. n , et. Eo<^E reports the case of an infant nine months old, who after sucking a green cake of colour from a child's paint-box, was taken severely iU, but under treatment recovered. The paint was arsenite of copper. ■ ■ -u Abegg observed a case of what appeared to be poisonmg by strychnia. The man died, notwithstanding medical aid. After death large quantities of arsenic were found in the stomach, and absorbed strvchnia in the tissues. The suicide had taken arsemc first, and hastened his death by a subsequent dose of strychma. At the Central Criminal Coiut, Dr. Smethurst, a married man, was arraigned for the murder, by poison, of IsabeUa Banks, a lady with whom, after a sham marriage, he had cohabited. The pra - titioners who had attended the deceased durmg life, as also the gentlemen who had performed the post-mortem «a ion and L medico-legal chemists retained by the prosecutioi, by .10m arsenic had be'en detected in one -acuation, and sniaU q^^^^^^^^ of antimony in portions of the intestines, contended that the de c ased had died from repeated doses of irritant poison. The defence W on the other ha^d, the probability of natm-al disease, com- p itt d by pregnancy, which the medical attendants of the deceased trnot lfgno'sed, logether with the absence of several leach^ig features of arsenical and antimonial poisomng; and accounted foi t m 1 ute portions of antimony found in the body, by suggesting TatTmight have been contained in the gray powder or trismtra 0 bismuth, which the deceased had taken as mechcin s. Tl 0 sen'n ti e evacuation they also contended might have been de-POISONS AND POISONING. 437 rived, if not from the copper gauze used in the analysis, from one or other of the drugs above mentioned. The jury returned a verdict of guilty, and the prisoner was condemned to deatli. A consider- able portion of the press was opposed to the verdict, and the Home Secretary, after hearing all appeals, granted a respite. The whole of the evidence was submitted to Sir Benjamin Brodie, who de- cided, that although the case was full of suspicion against Smetliurst, yet there was not complete and satisfactory evidence of liis guilt. In consequence of this opinion, a free pardon was granted to the convict by the Queen. In the course of the analyses for the prosecution an error occurred. Owing to the use of copper gauze contaminated with arsenic, a solution of chlorate of potash, found in the prisoner's possession, was alleged to contain arsenic. The mistake was discovered before the trial. 5. Airojnne. Holthouse.—Case of Poisoning by Atropine. (Med. Times, 2, 601.) Five Cases of Poisoning by Extract of Belladonna. (Lancet, 2, 560.) Seaton,—Poisoning by Belladonna. (Med. Times, z, 551.) Leistner.—Poisoning by Hyoscyamus and Stramonium Seeds. (Casper, 14, 2.) HoLTHOUsE gives the details of a case of poisoning by atropine in a child tlu'ee years and eight months old. The dose was from a drachm and a half to two drachms of a solution containing two grains of atropine in an ounce of water ; so that the child, who got at the bottle accidentally, took less than half a grain of atropine. Tlie cliild, when fu-st observed, was strange, irritable and excited, but unconscious, with its face in maniacal distortion. The pupils were fully dilated. Sulphate of zinc and mustard and water were given, but vomiting did not take place till three quarters of an hour after- wards. Some of the vomited fluid entered tlie author's eye, and, within an hour, fuUy dilated the pupil. Brandy and water, ether, and ammonia were now given promiscuously every quarter of an hour, but the attempts to make the child swaUoAV almost suffocated it! The child was insensible till i o'clock p.m., or till four houi's after the commencement of symptoms; the pupils were Midely dilated and immoveable, the eyes open, and the lids not affected by passing the finger in front of them; there was occasional jactitation; the skin was pungentlyhot and dry, and covered with a scarlatina-like rash, which the cldld was frequently scratching;IIEPOIIT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 438 the pulse was 170, and somewhat feeble. After that the child gradually recovered, under symptoms exactly like those of delirium tremens. He vomited twice in the course of the afternoon, and had two evacuations of the bowels after an enema of two drachms of turpentine with two drachms of castor oil in six ounces of gruel. More evacuations were produced by jalap, calomel, sahne mixtm-e, &c., during the night. He also passed urine. About midnight the Httle fellow was out of danger, but the pupils remained dilated for nearly a week. The excretions and vomited matters were analysed by Dr. Marcet, who found traces of atropine in each. Some cases of poisoning by extract of belladonna occurred in tlie Charing Cross Hospital, under the care of Dr. Golding. Tliese, and one occurring in the Middlesex Hospital, were the most severe out of sixteen cases which occurred to some little boys who had partaken of extract of belladonna which they had pilfered from Covent Garden Market. In all cases there was delirium, in none coma; dysphagia in few, cutaneous eruption in one. In the first two cases the urinary organs were affected, little or no urine being passed, even with the catheter. The pupils were remarkably dilated, but in two cases, one being the severest of aU, the pupil of one eye was described as " partially contracted." The stomach- pump, emetics, and cutaneous stimulants were employed: aU the cases recovered. The dose of the extract actually swallowed could in no case be ascertained, but in the majority it must have been small, as out of sixteen who partook of the poison, only five sought hospital relief; the extract had been taken mixed with water. Seaton reports ten cases of poisoning by belladonna berries, one only, in a scrofulous subject, being fatal. There was dryness of mouth and tliroat, dilatation of pupils, and subsequent dehrium. Emetics were given. The delirium was successfully treated by tincture of opium, which made the patients sleep. There were no cutaneous symptoms. In the case reported by Leistnee, a man, seventy years of age, had been feloniously poisoned by seeds of datm-a and hyoscyamus. Nine days after death the body was exhumed, and in the intestinal canal were found fifty-four grains of datiu-a, and five grains of hyos- cyamus seeds, wliich were identified by microscopical examuiation. Death had ensued twelve hours after the administration, under symptoms characteristic of these poisons.439 POISONS AND POISONING. 6. Barium, chloride of. Walsh.—Report of a Case of Poisoning by Chloride of Barium. (Lancet, i, 211.) A healthy young woman, twenty-two years of age, took less than a teaspoonful (not exceeding one drachm) of cliloride of barium, mistaking it for Epsom salts. Half an hour afterwards she had severe vomiting and purging. An hour later, her face was pale and anxious, the eyes deeply sunken, surface of the body cold, heart feeble and ii-regular. There was paralysis of the volun- tary muscles, but sensation remained intact. Under stimulating treatment, and after administratioji of a large dose of sulphate of magnesia, she improved. But in the night a relapse took place, the most marked change being a slow and laboured state of the respiration, with copious effusion into the bronchial tubes. Coma, and then convulsions, supervened. She died seventeen hours after having taken the poison. 7. Bichromate of Potash. Pelikan (loc. cit., 35).-On Bichromate of Potash, in relation to Forensic Medicine. These researches confirm the opinion that the bichromate is a powerful irritant poison : doses of from one to six grains produce irritation, inflammation, and death, like bicliloride of mercury or arsenic. The tests for bichromates are given at length. 8. Cliloroform. Bain.—Poisoning by Chloroform. (Lancet, i, 400.) A woman took about two oimces and a half of cliloroform. She was found insensible some hours afterwards. The stomach-pump was apphed, and the stomach emptied. After twelve hours of in- sensibility, she recovered from the narcotism j but the inflammation of the stomach, set up by the irritant action of the cldoroform, caused her death on the eighth day after taking the poison, notwithstanding medical treatment. On post-mortem examination, inflammation of the s omach, with ulceration round the cardiac and pyloric orifices was discovered; •*EErOllT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 410 9. Colchicum. Cilsc of Fatal Poisoning by Colchicum Wine. (Phaim., Feb., 438.) A cliildj aged nine inouthsj was taken ill with diarriifi;;!, to relieve which, tlie mother scut for a pennyworth of antiuionial wine. But the shopboy served colchicum wine instead, and of this the child took successively fifteen, twelve, and ten drops. After the discovery of the mistake, by the non-production of vomiting, an emetic was administered. But the child died early on the fol- lowing morning. 10. Indian Hemp {HascJiisch). Croudare,—Case of Catalepsy from an Overdose of Indian Hemp. (Med. Times, I35-) . ... SchrofF.—Case of Poisoning with Haschisch. (Pharra., Aug., 125 ; from Dublin Quart. Journ.) The case by Crou&aue is that of a young Indian, eighteen years of age, wlio in the' morning had been seen smoking bhang, or guujah, i.e. Indian hemp. He was found unconscious. The limbs could be placed in any position, and remained in it until moved again. This lasted for three days. After that he gradually recovered. ScHUOFF reports at great length the symptoms experienced by Heiurich, liis assistant, who had taken ten grains of a new description of Indian-hemp extract, called "birmingi," which had been obtained tlu-ough an apothecary, Dr. Steege, of Bucliarest, and was labelled, besides the name, with "produces laughter, ten grains." Ii'ritatiou of the tlii-oat, eructation, and slight nausea, foUowed the chewing of the extract. After two hours he began to talk irrationally. The excitement passed into sadness, anxiety, and a feeling as if of approaching death. Paro'xysms of un- consciousness foUowed. AVater had been drunk in large quantities. The flow of ideas was most extraordinary, confirming the opinion that preparaiions of Indian hemp exceed those of every other known a£?( lit in their immediate exciting action upon the imagi- nation. But they seem to be so uncertain in their remedial action, that the physician must, in every instance, use them with great caution.POISONS AND POISONING. 441 II. Hydrochloric Acid. Budd.—Case of Poisoning by Hydrochloric Acid, half an ounce proving fatal in eighteen hours. (Lancet, 2, 59.) A feeble woman, aet. 63, took half an ounce of the acid for tlie piu-pose of sclf-clestfuotion. She vomited, and soon afterwards had an antidote administered to her. Burning pain in the throat and stomach, retching, and collapse were the leading symptoms. She took alkaline earths, but vomited them, together with blood and shreds of mucous membrane. The mouth, pharynx, and epiglottis were found swollen and corroded; and, from the symptoms, it is probable that death was immediately due to suffocation caused by the irritation surrounding the glottis and epiglottis. ■ 12. Hj/dropliohia. Bagsky.—Analysis of Blood in Hydrophobia. (Clinique Europeenne. Lancet, I, 285.) Scriven.—On Laryngotomy in Hydrophobia. (Lancet, i, 409.) Wright.—Report of a Case of Hydrophobia. (lb., 532.) Thamhayn.—On Rabies and Hydrophobia. (Schmidt, loi, 336.) No conclusion can be drawn from Ragsky's analysis. The cases of hydi-ophobia in animals are so numerous, that our space will not aUow us to record them. They present, more- over, no peculiarities. ScRiVEx reports at length a case, which, although not referable to a bite of a dog, closely resembled hydrophobia, and was saved from death by prompt laryngotomy with a penknife. Wright's case was fatal; the subject a soldier, who had been bitten by a mad dog. It is to be regretted that laryngotomy was not performed in this case. Thamhayn gives a very complete rc'sumt' of nil tliat is at present known on the. subject. The article, behig itself a condensed report admits of no extract. ' 13. Mercury. Maschka.-Adnu„istration of Metallic Mercury in Coffee to a Tuberculous Child • death ; no connection traceable. (Casper, 2.) ' Prince.-T«o Cases of Poisor.iiig by Red Prccipi't.ife. (Lancet 2 -06 ^ Lassaigne.-Cben,ical Observations upon the Organs and Vi'.c'ra of a Person Pcsoned wuh Corrosive Sublimate. (Ann. d'Hyg., July :9.h, ,858 )REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 4A2 Roberts—Poisoning by Corrosive Sublimate. (Med. Times, i, 210.) Suicide by Bichloride of Mercury. (Pharm., July, 43.) In the fii-st case of Prince, a woman took, witli suicidal inteu- tion, two scruples of the precipitate powder. She complained of pain in the stomach, had an emetic given her, and afterwards a laxative. She rapidly recovered, and but slight salivation resulted. In the second case, rather over two draclims were taken. Vomiting was early induced : blood was present in the vomited matters and in the ejecta per anum. Effervescent draughts and opium mitigated these symptoms. On the third day most violent saUvation ensued, so that the tongue protruded about an iuch from the enormously swollen mouth. This state lasted for about a month, in spite of all treatment. The whole of the anterior portion of the mucous membrane of the cheeks, gums, and under surface of the tongue, sloughed away, and four teeth were lost. As the parts healed, the jaws became completely closed, and the tongue adherent to the floor of the mouth and cheeks. Egberts records the case of a man who took about half a drachm of the bichloride. Ten minutes afterwards white of egg was freely administered. Copious vomiting ensued. He passed liquid, dark, and subsequently bloody stools. The mouth, fauces, and oesophagus were corroded, and became very much swoUen. His aspect was choleraic, and he had cramps in his legs. During the next ten days there was much piu-ging, ulceration of the mouth, and mer- curial fetor. The patient died on the eleventh day after the mis- take. Stomach generally inflamed, pulpy and gangrenous at the pyloric end. (Esophagus denuded of its lining membrane. Intes- tinal canal presented the appearance of intense inflammation passing into gangrene. A man, tet. 70, was found dead in his counting-house. In his stomach were found large quantities of corrosive sublimate, of which he had no doubt, partaken, with suicidal intention. 14. Nicoiia. MelsenS.—Note on tbe Search for Nicotine in Dead Bodies which have been in- terred for a long time, and after putrefaction of the animal matter. (Acad. Belg., 12, 9.) Taylor.—On Poisoning by Nicotia, and Detection of the Poison. (Pharm., June, 620.) Suicide by Nicotia. (lb., Sept., 195.)443 POISONS AND POISONING. From a series of experimeutSj Melsens comes to the following conclusions. IX'icotia can be discovered in bodies long after death ; it is not changed by slow putrefaction under a limited access of air; tlie salts of nicotia resist longer than the pure base; but when a body putrefies at a higher temperature, and with free exposure to air —circumstances which favour the volatilization and change of the base—then even the analytical process of Stas gives only negative results. Tayloe describes at length the post-mortem appearances of, and the processes adopted by liim for discovering nicotia in, the organs of a young man who had destroyed himself by that poison. The nicotia was detected by distilling, with caustic potash, an etherial extract of one-half of the stomach, with a portion of its contents; also by the processes of Orfila and Stas. This last process yielded the best result. Taylor then describes the properties of nicotia, and its effects on animals, illustrated by an experiment upon a rabbit and subsequent analysis. The paper concludes with a review of the experiments and opinions of Claude Bernard upon the same subject. Taylor attributes the speedy action of nicotia to its effecting a rapid deoxidation of the blood, and a stagnation in the over-filled capiUaries. A case of suicide by nicotine occurred in August, 1858, in Loudon. As in former cases, death was very rapid. 15. Opium. Death from Laudanum taken by Mistake. (Pharm., Feb., 436) Two Deaths and Two Dangerous Intoxications by Syrup of Poppies and Laudanum respectively. (lb., Feb., 437, 438.) Poisoning by Laudanum. (lb., April, 528.) Suicide by Laudanum. (lb., Aug., 150.) Poisoning by Acetate of Morphia. (Gaz. Hop., Sept., 13.) Poisoning by Dover's Powder. (Pharm., Jan., 390.) The above accidents by laudanum or opium have been caused bv imstake, felonious intent, the neghgence of diaiggists, or the quacbng of ignorant mothers. They present no pecidiar features oi interest m a medico-legal point of view. In the last case, a yomig druggist took fifteen grains of acetate of morphia wrapped m a wafer, his stomach being full at the time Narcotism set m and probably suspended digestion, so that the greater part of the morphia was afterwards rejected tlirough theREPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 444 agency of an emetic. The patient tasted the morphia'in the vomited matters. He perfectly recovered. A woman was found dead : the verdict of the coroner's jury waa "that she took poison (Dover's powder) by mistake, and that she obtained it at some institution or shop, but there was not sufficient evidence to identify the person or persons who supplied her." 16. Oxalic Acid. Rul-Ogez.—Poisoning by Oxalic Acid. (Gaz. Hop., 1858, 137.) Webb.—Case of Poisoning by Binoxalate of Potash. (Med. Times, 2, 378.) A healthy woman, set. 49, took about half an ounce of oxalic acid, which a druggist had given her instead of cream of tartar. She died, after a quarter of an hour, with pain in the stomach, colic, diarrhoeaj vomiting, convulsions, and stertorous breatliing. A man, set. 40, took by mistake a quarter of a teaspoonful of the binoxalate of potash. Two hours afterwards he was attacked with vomiting, burning in the throat, and heat in the chest and sto- mach. Afterwards, there were muscular Aveakness, cramps, and head affection. The vomiting continued for several days, although so small a dose only had been taken. 17. FliospJionis. Casper.—The Chemical Criterion in Cases of Poisoning. Poisoning by Phosphorus. (Superarbiti ium, &c.) (Casper, 14, 2.) Kletzinsky.—On the Analysis for Phosphorns, in its Diagnostic and Forensic Relations. (Oesterr., 4, 16.) Lassaigne.—Chemical Observations made upon the Occasion of an Attempt at Poisoning by a Preparation containing Phosphorus. (Ann. d'Hyg., April, 1858, 18.) Birkner.—Some Observations on the Poisoning of Animals with Phosphorus, in relation to recognising it in the dead body. (Casper, 14, i.) Lewinsky.—Case of Acute Poisoning by Phosphorus. (Wien Aerzt., 1,52.) In a case of poisoning, apparently by phosphorus, this poison could not be found in the body by chemical analysis. Nevertheless, Caspeii and liis colleagues in the " deputation " assumed that death was due to phospliorus, upon the basis of the symptoms during bfe, the post-mortem appearances, and certain signs upon the articles of food, of which the deceased had partaken. IvLEXZiNSKY bclicves that, in real cases of poisoning by phospho-POISONS AND POISONING. 445 rus, some of this poison always remains uncliangedj and gives elabo- rate directions for finding it. Of the three different processes described, two are very troublesome and uncertain, while the third is entirely antiquated. Lassaigke enlarges upon the difficulty of finding phosphorus in organic matters. BiKKNEU shews by experiments, that the process of Lipowitz for discovering phosphorus in organic matters, which is based upon the property of phosphorus to form a peculiar compound Math sulphur, is very safe and certain. In the case of Lewinsky, the poison (phosphorus) produced no violent symptoms in the digestive organs during life, nor yet any remarkable effects discoverable after deatli. General decomposition of tlie blood seemed to be the cause of death. 18. JPicrotowine, Giinkel—Analysis for Picrotoxine in Cases of Poisoning, (Archiv der Pharm., 144, 14.) GiiNKEL extracts the organic substances with alcohol, after acidu- lation with tartaric acid. Picrotoxine (and strychnine) pass into solution. Erom the evaporated extract ether dissolves picrotoxine, while tartrate of strychnine remains undissolved. On evaporation, the ethereal solution deposits picrotoxine, which can be recognised by the usual tests. 19. Prussic Acid. Poisoning by Essential Oil of Almonds. (Pliarm., May, 583.) Two Suicides by Prussic Acid. (lb., July, 43.) Death from Prussic Acid. (lb., Nov., 294.) Brame.—Case of Death from Prussic Acid; Discovery of the Poison in the body three weeks after death. (Schmidt, 102, 292.) Hornidge.- Case of Poisoning by Cyanide of Potassium. (Med. Times, i, 80.) Schauenstein.—On Poisoning with Cyanide of Potassium. (Wicn. Aerzt!, 2, i.) In the first of the above cases, a child died after a dose of essen- tial oil of bitter almonds, sold instead of oil of sweet almonds, bv a druggist's assistant. ■* " In the case of deatli from prussic acid, the jury found that tlie deceased died from the effects of an over-dose of prussic acid, taken to relieve himself from pain. '446 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. « BiUME found prussic acid, three weeks after death, in tlie Biomach of a young man who liad killed himself with it. The contents of the stomach did not smell of prussic acid. The details of the analysis leave many desiderata. HoKNiDGE describes the post-mortem appearances and analysis of the contents of the stomach of a man, who had destroyed himself by taking about a di-achm of cyanide of potassium. Vomiting had taken place. The raucous membrane of the stomach was intensely congested. ScHAUENSTEiN furuislies notes on five cases, in which cyanide of potassium produced almost immediate death Avith tetanic symp- toms, which appeared with apoplectic alacrity. 20. 8oaj}-lees. Poisoning by Soap-lees. (Guy's, 133.) A child, Eet. ij year, had drunk about a moutliful of soap-lees from a cup. The alkali had the greatest effect upon the lower part of the oesophagus. The child died after eleven hours. The post- mortem appearances are minutely described. 21. Strychiia. Bennett.—Poisoning by Strychnia; Recovery. (Lancet, 2, 434.) Pindell.—On tlie Prevention of Stryciinine—Poisoning by Fat. (Wittstein. Edinb., Jan., 667.) Smith.—Case of Recovery from Poisoning by Strychnia. (Edinb., Dec, 508.) Simon.—Case of Poisoning by Strychnia. (Lancet, 2, 140.) Suicide by Strychnia. (Pharm., Oct., 247.) A lady took, in despondency, a packet of "Battle's rat poison." Bennett was called in, who administered emetics, but without effect. On the occurrence of the spasms, he administered tincture of iodine in water. Vomiting afterAvards came on. The patient recovered, probably because the dose was small. Bennett believes that the tincture of iodine did act, but how there is no evidence to show. One of the rat powders was analysed, and jielded a grain of strychnia. Pindell states, that half a grain of strychnia Mall kill a dog, but that three grains, mixed with fat, produce no effect. In eleven dogs strychnia alone caused death each time; in nine dogs, who had aPOISONS AND POI.SONING. 447 greatly increased close of the alkaloid mixed witli fat, uo effect was produced. A soldier, after a debauch, took a sixpenny packet of " Battle's Lincoln vermin killer/' Tetanic spasms came on, and a mustard emetic was given him. Vomiting almost immediately ensued, and was kept up. He was removed to the hospital, where, after a great number of severe spasms and general tetanic fits, he gradually recovered. The packet contained about three grains of strychnia. The account of this case, which occmred at Winchester, M^as trans- raitted by the author (Smith) from India. The case of poisoning by stryclinia occurred to Simon, of Alker, in Belgium. A child seven years old, to whom santonine had been prescribed, died of strychnia, supplied by a druggist instead of tlie santonine. A chemist, who took strychnia for self-destruction, died with the usual tetanic symptoms, 32. SulpJmrio Acid. Three Cases of Fatal Poisoning by Sulphuric Acid. (Guy's, 134.) A man, set. 56, had drank, by mistake, about a dessert-spoonful of oil of vitriol. The usual antidotal treatment was adopted. The symptoms were mild, but on the fourth day he died unexpectedly. Mouth and oesophagus were of a yeUow colour; and the walls of tlie oesophagus enormously swoUen. The stomach contained a yellow fluid; its fmidus was in a slougliing condition. The charring of the stomach ended at the pylorus. No poison was discoverable. The second case exhibited the effects of dilute sulphuric acid, and was fatal in eleven days. The woman, ast. 55, had drunk a wineglassful of dilute vitriol (one acid to fom- water) upon an empty stomach. She became collapsed, ahnost pulseless, cold, aiid unable to swallow the magnesia which was prescribed. Reaction occurred: after two hours she vomited blood and passed blood by tlie bowels. After manifesting a variety of symptoms she died unexpectedly. The mucous membrane of the stomach was found entirely detached by sloughing. The third case occurred to a child, st. 17 months, to whom her mother, m mistake for syrup of buckthorn, administered a tea-RliPORT ON LEGAL MICDICINE, ETC. spoonful of oil of vitriol. The mouth and cesophagus fl-ere much corrodedj and the stomach extremely charred. The report of these cases winds up with a description of the effects of sulphm-ic and nitric acids upon the moutlij of each of which lesions a case was observed. 23, Siia/ce FOlsons. Weston.—On the Poison of the Common Adder. (Lancet, i, 522.) The author caught a viper^ coluier lerus, and holding it up by the tail, was instantly bitten. He strangled the bitten finger and sucked the poison from the wound. In about fifteen minutes the finger became swollen and painful; a sense of numbness and rigi- dity extending up the ann, with giddiness and confusion in the head ensued; violent retching came on, and he staggered home like a drunken man. His mouth and tongue became swollen and pro- truding. Diarrhffia supervened. Next day erysipelas of the hand and arm sliowed itself, and spread over the body down to the hips. That subsiding, he got better, when, after a fortnight, numerous abscesses formed on the bitten arm, and had to be opened. He gradually, but perfectly, recovered. 24. Upas Aniiar. Kblliker.—On the Nature of the Action of the Upas Aniiar. (Vvurzburg, 8, 3.) j This poison acts in the same manner, whether introduced by the stomach or a wound. It first causes a loss of the power of voluntary movement, and after a time, the animal (frog) dies without tetanus. The most remarkable symptom consists in the motionless state of the heart. The first effect of the upas on the frog is paralysis of its heart, exactly as Brodie, in t8i2, had observed with regard to mammalia. 25. Urari. KoUiker. (Virchow's Archiv, x. Edinb., Jan., 602.) Betzold and Haidenhain. (Schmidt, loi, 35.) Summary of Literature on Urari. (Edinb., Dec., 548.) Urari has been corrupted by English writers into wourali, by the French into curare. Schomburgh says that the Macusis, whoPOISONS AND POISONING, 449 make it, call it invariably urari. (Cliristisoii, 'Edinb./ note, April, 873.) According to Kollikeu, the urari causes death by paralysing the nerves of respiration; it destroys the excitability alike of motor and sympathetic, but does not affect the functions of sensory nerves. It does not destroy muscular irritability, or arrest the action of the heart. Concerning the action of urari, the discussion between Betzold, IIatdexhaix, and Kollikee, is of so comphcated a nature that, owmg to the pressiu-e of space, we are prevented from even noticing 1 ts principal points. It has increased in dimensions since the publit cation m 1859 of an article by Funke. The periscope in the'Edinburgh Monthly Journal' gives the liistory of the poison, its preparation, analysis, and the theories of Its action by Bee>-ard, Kolliker, and others. Its employment as a remedy m tetanus is extensively discussed. Some information by Hammond and Mitchell relative to the varieties of urari-the one caUed "corroval," the other, less powerfiU, termed "vao^'-is ot great importance, as suggesting caution in the application of this agent in the practice of medicine. 36. Wu-tsau. Christison.-On a New Poison from the Interior of China. (Edinb., April, 869.) This new poison, described in the 'Northern China Journal' of April 4th 1857, as possessed of marveUous properties, naost of them fabulous was sent to Cheistison by McGervan, an American phj-sician residing at Ningpo. It was accompanied by the leaves and roots_ of the plant, which Christison found to be a species of Acomtum, not A. Napellus of Europe, nor A.ferox of the Himalayas but a new species. When a piece of the root, the size of a pin's head IS chewed. It produces intensely that strange combination of numbness and tinghng which characterises all poisonous species of the known Aconites. The extract sent from China produced precise^ the same impression as the plant, from which it had no doubt been made. The Wu-tsau is also caUed Tsau wi 29450 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 27. Zinc. Case of Poisoning by Burnell's Solution (Chloride of Zinc). (Guy's, 128.) Ogle.—Poisoning by Sulphate of Zinc. (Lancet, 2, 210.) SantesSOn,—Poisoning by Impure Sulphate of Zinc. (Schmidt, 102, 19.) The first ease proved fatal after the expiration of fourteen weeks. Vomiting had occurred ten minutes after taking the dose of poison (in mistake for gin), and had continued during the -whole time, not- withstanding suitable treatment. In the stomach, which was very much contracted, were discovered two perforating ulcers. The case of Ogle, under the title of "Death from slow poi- soning," refers to a man who was found dead, with Avounds in his throat, which, howevei', did not account for death. The stomach looked like tripe, and on analysis was found to contain sulphate of zinc. The man had used this salt as a wash for his eyes, and had during several years made frequent attempts at suicide. Santesson's case is that of a poor, reduced woman, who got a large dose of impure sulphate of zinc instead of Epsom salts. She died after much torture. The case is very compUcated, and teaches little. The impurities of the zinc were not further inquired into, and seem to have had no share in the result. A2)penclix. Por medico-legal analyses the following statement of Pettenkofetj, concerning the solubility in chloroform of the following alkaloids, is of great interest: too parts of cliloroform dissolve 0*57 of mor- phia, 31-17 of narcotia, 4-31 of cinchona, 37-47 of quina, 20-19 of stryclinia, 56-70 of brucia, 51-19 of atropia, 58-49 of veratria. IV. SUICIDE. Several cases of suicide by prussic acid, cyanide of potassium, essential oil of almonds, corrosive sublimate, laudanimi, nicotia, strychnia, and oxalic acid, have already been noticed under the head of poisons. To those cases of suicide by poison we must add the following: Grabbacher.—Fatal Case of Poisoning by Arsenic. (Oesterr., 4, 45.) JSUICIDE. 451 In this case the suicide took fifty grains of arsenic. Paterson—(7) Cases of Suicidal Poisoning with Arsenic. (Edinb., Nov., 1857.) Pellischek.—Suicide by Concentrated Sulphuric Acid. The foUowing cases of what may be called suicide by mechanical means reqime to be noticed: Casper.—Murder or Suicide.' Superarbilrium, &c. (Casper, n, 2.) Linhardt.—Fracture of the Lower Jaw in the Symphysis, by the Explosion of a Pistol charged with Gunpowder, the Muzzle being inserted into the Mouth for the purpose of Suicide. (Oesterr., 4, 43.) lederle.—Two Eeniarkable Cases of Suicide. (Baden, 1858, 11.) Neudorfer.—Attempt at Suicide under peculiar circumstances. (Oesterr 4 2a ) Berg.-On Suicide, &c., in Sweden. (Henke, 47, Supplement.) " ' The case upon which Caspee reports is a case of true suicide, forensico-medically diagnosed from murder. Ledehle reports the case of a man, fet. 6g, who hung liimself ui consequence of long-continued suffering caused by cancer of the pancreas; and the case of a young man, ajt. 30, who selected the same mode of self-destruction in consequence of painful dysentery Ihe case observed by Nexjdoreeii is that of a man, ^t. yr: year", who attempted to destroy himself with his left hand, his rio-ht beino- qmte unserviceable. He managed to punctm-e the abdominal waU and also to cut into the larynx, but did not succeed in producing latal wounds. ° From 1843 to 1851 there occm-red, in Sweden, 1308 cases of suicide, or, on an average, 145-3 per annum. But in reality the annual number has been a progressive and not a stationary one V. SIMULATED AND CONCEALED DISEASES. ^"-^^^"-^ conscnpts. ';''^Efi£;r%"'e::;^^^^^ on Simulated Zink.-Simulation of Idiocy by a Murderer and Ravisher. (Jb., 12,2.) PlELLEE mentions the foUowing fraudulent admixture, to urine • blood, milk, sputa, cane-sugar, sulphate of indigo, lenTeo-4.52 REPORT ON LliGAL MEDICINE, ETC. podii, and fragments of oil silk obtained by rubbing; to each of which he gives a long commentary. ScHNKiDER, by frequent personal observation, convinced himself that a person accused of many thefts simulated epilepsy. ZiXK reports the case of a young man 17 years old, who was con- victed of ravishing and murdering a girl, act. 9 years. By dexterous simulation, he caused the jury to believe him of unsound mind, although the forensic physicians had given evidence to the contrary. VI. DOUBTEUL SEX; ILLEGAL AND UNNATURAL COITUS; ILLEGITIMATE PREGNANCY AND PARTURITION. Canella Constantino.—Medico-legal Question. (Italian, 8, 49 ) Goldberg.—Who's the Father? (Oesterr., 4, 52.) Maschka.—Two Cases of Stuprum. (Frag. 6.) Hauska.—On Ravishing and the Attempt at Ravishing. (Wiener, 1857, 49.) Tardieu—Medico-legal Studies upon Immoral Assaults (Ann. d'Hyg., July and October, 1857; 15th and 16th Jan., 1858, 18). Indecent assault; negative signs; constitutional leucorrhoea. Ditto, with incomplete rupture of the hymen. Ditto, with simple and very acute inflammation of the vulva and vagina. Ditto upon a child five years of age; considerable disorder; inflammation and blen- iiorrhagic discharge. Ditto on a girl four and a half years old; inflammation of the vulva; discharge from the urethra; gonorrhoeal infection. Ditto com- mitted by an old man of seventy upon a child eight years old; violent inflam- mation of the vulva; gonorrhoeal infection. Ditto on little children; inflam- mation of the vulva; injuries to the sexual organs; injuries to the mouth and lips. Ditto; injuries of the vulva. Repeated assaults by a father upon his child ; relaxation of the hymen, admitting, notwithstanding its integrity, com- plete introduction of the penis. Ditto repeated by a father upon his daughter; incomplete sexual connection, followed by pregnancy. Determination of vir- ginity ; malformation of the vagina; deformed vulva. Diito ; partial rupture of hymen by forcible introduction of finger. Ditto and violence committed upon two voung children; complete defloration; inflammation of vulva and vagina. Attempted violation; traces of great violence. Ditto; suicide of the victim; traces of violence. Violation and complete defloration of a child twelve years of age Violation and complete defloration ; the signs present after three weeks Violation ; complete defloration, without retraction of the ruptured hvmen. Violation; complete defloration; false allegation of magnetic sleep. Violation; complete defloration; the hymen retracted; syphihs communicated. Violation; complete defloration; turning in of the fragments of the hymen Ditto, with impaired general health. Ditto. Violation, followed by murder, of a woman sixty-eight years of age; deep wounds. Violation, oUowed by mur- ders Immoral assaults upon six young girls. Sodomy, of a husband with h-s wife; characteristic signs; grave disorder. Active and passive sodomy; cha- ruteristic signs. Ditto, active. Active and passive sodomy; peculiar shape of453 DOUBTFUL SEX, ETC. penis. Ditto; peculiar shape of sexual organs. Inveterate habits of active paedarasity; syphilis commuiiicaterl; pulmonary phthisis. Murder by strangula- tion, committed by a paedarast. Elsaesser.—On Premature Births, in their Forensic Relations. (Henke, 14, i.) Trentrop.—Birth after Death. (lb., 13, i.) Casper.—(Loc. clt., part ii.) Cases 17, 18, 19, and 20. Whether husband and wife are of an age capable of begetting children? 21. Questionable sterility. 22. Questionable capability to impregnate a woman, on account of juvenile age. 23. Questionable capability to cohabit and impregnate, on account of old age. 24. Questionalile ability to cohabit, on account of old age. 25. Questionable potence. 26. A man denies having got his daughter with child, pleading im- potence. 27—30. Actions of married women against their husbands for impotence. 31—33. Actions for refused connubial duties. 34 and 3c. Alleged impotence, on account of deformed sexual organs. 36 and 37. Alleged impotence, on account of the absence of testicles. 38 and 39. Alleged excessive sexual desire in a man. 40. Alleged inability to cohabit in a woman. 41. Virginity and pregnancy. 42. Alleged violation of pudicity. 43—47. Rape of adult women. 48. Repeated criminal intercourse with a consanguine adult woman. 49. Alleged rape of a woman forty-seven years old. 50. Alleged rape. 51. Violent gradual dilatation of the sexual organs of a child. 52 and 53. Rape before eye-witnesses. 54. How the rape was committed. 55—57. Dis- covery of spermatozoa. 58—60. Whether and when rape was committed on a former occasion ? 6i~66. Alleged syphilitic infection as alleged proof of rape. 67 — 72. Gonorrhcea in different stages as consequence of rape. 73—79. Sodomy. 80. Forced sodomy. 81—86. Irritations from masturbation in boys and girls. 87. Forced sodomy of a boy upon ahoy; spermatozoa; pu- berty ? 88. Sodomy diagnosed upon a corpse. 89. Whether the woman F— has borne five or six months ago ? 90. How old was the foetus, which was born three weeks ago ? Kesteven.—On the Evidence of Rape on Infants. (Med. Times, i, 361, 417 _ 442-) ' Wilde.—Observations on Kesteven's paper. (lb., i, 518, 544.) Tlie question, discussed by Canella, is answered upon tlie basis of tlie opinions of various authors. In the case related by Goldberg, a married lady was confined 378 days after the departure of her husband, who had been suffering from delirium tremens and mental alienation, with great excitement of mind and body; maniacal attacks had alternated with clear in- tervals. It could not be doubted that he was the father of the child born at due time. The paper of Ravska contains meditations on the definition of rape. The observations of Tardieu, based upon an immense mate- rial, are of a highly practical nature. They open the curtain upon pecuhar descriptions of crime, which are not met with so often in other countries as in Prance, and seem thereto be upon the increase. Ihus, pubhc seduction of pudicity, practised in public places by menEEPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 454 of old age, appears to be a frequent crime. Immoral assaults upon cliikben, and cases of rape ou infants, are increasing at a terrible rate. Prom 18216 to 1830 there occurred annually about 130 cases of that kind; but from 1830 to 1850 the average of these cases, of which the majority happened at Paris, was 420 per annum. The medical diagnosis of these crimes is minutely described. Elsaesseb. considers premature births, and their relative fre- quency among married and uiamarried women. The latter most frequently bring forth stillborn children; amongst 540 prematm-e extra-matrimonial births, 125, that is, almost one fourth, were of dead children; and of these, two tliirds at least had died in the womb before the beginning of labour. The diagnosis of death in the womb from death after birth is elaborately given. LoESCHER reports the case of a woman who, after having been repeatedly confined before, suddenly died during labour. The child was expelled spontaneously twenty-four hours after death. A similar case is reported by Teekteop. ICesteven's paper is elicited by the case of Amos Greenwood. The introductory remarks are those of caution to the forensic phy- sician, as lesions, similar to those from rape, are sometimes inten- tionally produced for the purpose of extorting money. In India such cases are frequent. The crune of rape is, according to Chevers, more common in India than in England. Hence our Indian possessions have afforded a more profitable field for ob- servations upon this crime. Crimes of all kinds, and of the deepest dye, are revealed as common practices, in Clievers's work on ' Medical Jui'isprudence for India.' A person named Amos Greenwood was convicted at the Liverpool Assizes, December, 1857, of rape upon an infant. Wilde published animadversions upon the case, believing the verdict to be contrary to evidence. Upon this Kesteven publishes the present paper, in wliich he discusses the opinions of twelve medical men, wliich had been given in reply to a series of questions addressed to them by Wilde. The paper concludes with a reprint of a paper by Kinder Wood, from the seventh volume of the 'Med.-Chir. Trans- actions,' on " Nomte pudendi." Upon tliis Wilde pubUshes observations, in wliich he shows that Mary Johnson, the aUeged ^dctim of the above charge of man- slaughter by rape, died of noma pudendi; that the charge of violence committed by Greenwood, and abandoned by Ivcstevcn,455 CRIMINAL ABORTION, ETC. is unfouucled; and consequently that Greenwood is now suffering unjustly the highest penalty which the law has in store for man- slaughter, namely, penal servitude for life. VII. CRIMINAL ABORTION j DOUBTFUL CAUSES OiP DEATH 01' NEW-BORN CHILDREN ; INFANTICIDE. Duncan.—On a Criticism of William Reid's Trial for Murder and Abortion. (Edinb., Feb., 700.) Tardieu.—New Medico-legal Studies on Abortion. (Ann. d'Hyg., July 19, 1858.) BroughtOn.—Account of a Case in which Impalement of the Uterus occurred iu the production of Criminal Abortion. (Transact, of the Bombay Med. and Surg-, Soc, 1857.) Darien.—Are Green Soap and Saffron Abortive Remedies ? (Casper, 13, i.) Maschka.—(Loc. cit., Prag. 2.) Three Criminal Abortions attempted; the first with some concentrated sulphuric acid, the second with a mixture of decoc- tions of innocuous or medicinal herbs, the third by rubbing with hog's lard. Williamson,—The Condition of the Lung not invariably to be depended on as a proof that the Infant has been born alive. (Edinb., Feb., 1858.) Bohm.—On the Forensic Importance of the Bony Nucleus in the Lower Epiphysis of the Thigh-bone in New-born Children. (Casper, 14, i.) Vogler.—The Credit of the Hydrostatic Test for the Lungs again rising. (Preussen, 1. 34-) Ancelot.—Medico-legal Considerations of the Signs of Life in New-born Infants. (Gaz. Hop., 1857, No. 147.) Oscar von Leupoldt.—On the Lung-test. Diss. Berlin, 1858. Zeissing.—Theory: A New-born Child which does not breathe is yet alive. Prac- tice : A New-born Cliild which does not breathe is not alive. (Casper, 13, 2.) Lowenhardt.—Critical Communications, &c. Prenzluu, 1858. 3. Are Life and Breathing identical in Courts of Law ? A Contribution to the Doctrine of Infanticide, p. 121. Arata.—On Tying the Umbilical Cord in its Medico-legal Relations. Effects of different Ligatures upon tlie Cord. In what cases can a Ligatured Cord be found without the Ligature ? Differences by which a Ligature put on after Death can be distinguished by one applied during Life. (Lo Sperimentale No 7. Juglio, 1858.) ' Lowe.—Opinions on the Age of a Cliild of A. M. in R. (Casper, 14.) Behr.-Fatal Lesion occurring in a Child in Utero, by Rupture of a Blood-vessel and Extravasation. (Henke, 47, Supplement.) Maschka.-(Loc. cit. Henke, 38, i.) 4. New-born Child, found in a putrid state probably Sullborn. Alleged Stillborn Child, hid in aheap of branches; signs of the child having breathed; deficient Post-mortem Examination; uncertain opinion. (PraS. 2 and 3.) 5. Post-mortem Examinations of Children. In a case in which the child had breathed during two or three days, the stomach continued to stand perpendicularly. A child, born dead and putrid, contained lungsREPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 456 which floated on water; wlien the vesicles filled wiili gas were punctured, an the lungs slightly pressed, they sank again. Difl"crenco from lungs wiiich have breathed. Tlicre were also present in these lungs the peculiar ecchjmoses which form in utero. Maschka.—(Casper, 13, 2.) New-born Child, without signs of having breathed; several marks, which were interpreted as indicating the existence of non- breathing life having been terminated by violent measures. ■ (Deutsche, 12, 2.) New-born Child, found dead in a Dung-pit. Interrup- tion of breathing caused death; cause of interruption not ascertained. Casper.—(Loc. cit., ii.) Case 91. Disputed Criminal Abortion. 92. Doubtful Abortion after ill-treatment. 93. Whether mechanical attempts at Abortion have been made, and whether St. — has borne repeatedly ? 94—96. Three Accu- sations against Medical Practitioners of Criminal Abortion. 97. Black Soap, Pepper and Savin used as Abortive Remedies. 99. Pulv. Jalap, and Sapo Jalap, used as Abortive Remedies. 100. Redstone and Brandy used as Abor- tive Remedies. loi. A Midwife accused of repeated Criminal Abortions. Duncan replies to some criticisms which were made by the editor of the ' Medical Times and Gazette/ upon his evidence for the de- fence in Eeid^s trial. Taedieu gives descriptions of the various modes by which cri- minal abortion is produced^ and the means by which attempts at abortion^ and their consequences^ may be distinguished from natural disease. Powdered savin can sometimes produce abortion, but it never causes symptoms of poisoning. Beoughton reports a case of criminal abortion, in the fifth month of pregnancy, of a woman fifty years of age. After death, the pointed piece of wood, by which tliis crime is usually accomplished in India, Avas found stiU impaled in the uterus. Dauie^" believes that safeon and green soap can, under certain conditions, have an abortive action. Williamson draws the attention of observers to the condition of the umbilical cord in cases of infanticide, as it may so strangle the chihVs neck as to make respiration impossible. BoHM makes some observations on the bony nucleus in the thigh of children, and infers the age of the foetus from its absence or size. His conclusions are based upon 186 observations, of which forty are by himself. VoGLER gives a case in M'hich the lungs of a child, which had not breathed, floated. It is reported that the mid\vife "blew air into the child, wliosc face Avas still covered by the fcetal mem- branes," so that it is not clear whetlier she only endeavoured uusuccessfully to do so, or whether she partially succeeded.457 FORENSIC PYSCIIOLOGY. Ancelot observes, that the presence of coagulated blood in the caput succedaneum would only prove that the child was living at the time when the caput was forming. Leupoldt's dissertation once more discusses, and approves of the hydrostatical test for new-born lungs. T]ie pages of Zeissikg defend the propositioii, that a child which has not breathed shall be considered as not having lived. The disquisition of Lowenhaedt combats this view of forensic medicine, and sustains the counter-proposition, that a new-born child, even if it has not yet breathed, may live, and consequently may be kiUed and murdered. The proposition of Zeissing is well adapted for the convenience of those who wish to confine the evidence of life to the floating of the lungs on water. Akata remarks, that the cord may be tied in two ways, namely, efficiently, so as to close the blood-vessels, and inefficiently, so as to leave them entirely or partly open. Lowe examined the bony residues of an almost entirely decom- posed corpse of a child, and pronounced them to be derived from a foetus which had probably died in utero, and had consequently been born dead. Lucas remarks on the signs by which accidental strangulation of the cliild, by the cord, may be distinguished from intentional strangu- lation after birth. Behh communicates the case of a new-born child wliich had died of apoplexy, caused probably by an inflammatory condition of tlie brain existing wliile in utero. VIII. FORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. ^"^^rf^ff^^^sT^ of Forensic Psychology, for the use of physicians and jurists. Schwebes.-On Legal Responsibility, in the sense of the new Crinunal Code foro-medically considered. (Casper, 14, 2.) Mair.-On tl>e Present State of the Question of Legal Responsibility. Baver' sches arztl. Intell. Blatt., May, 1858, No. 21. Sclineider.-The Position of Psychology relative to Criminal Law and Practice . represented by the discussions of the Psychiatric Section of the Thirt."o ,h Meeting of German Naturalists and Physicians. (Deutsche 12 ^ / Pla8:ge.-Aphoristic Thoughts on the question-Is the assumption 0 reasons for legal responsibility admissible or necessary in practice ' (lb ) Lowenhardt.-(Loc cit., p. 7.) First Examination of the Question-Is a " dimi -shed," or, as others call it, " a conditional," legal responsibility to be assurd"REPOllT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 458 in practice, and wliat advantage can be expected to accrue from its introduction into criminal law ? A coulribution to the doctrine of legal responsibility in general. Schlager.—On the present Scientific Starting-point of the Medico-forensic Psy. chologist. (Oesterr., 4, 10.) Bbcker.—On the Functions of Judge and Physician in the determination of Legal Responsibility, (llenke, 38, 4.) On the Legal Responsiliility of Juvenile Criminals. (Friedreich, 9, 4.) On the Legal Responsibility of Drunken Persons (according to the Prussian laws). (lb.) On Transitory Mania. (Freidreich, 9, 2.) Erichter.—Revision of the Doctrine on the Foro-medical Relations of Mania. (Casper, 14, 2.) Kiimer.—(Loc. cit. Wiirtemb., 38, 9.) Legal Responsibility of a Person convicted of Arson. Maschka.—(Loc. cit. Henke, 38, i.) Opinion on the Legal Responsibility of A. 0—, xt. 16, being of sound mind, accused of Arson. 8. Opinion on the State of Mind of a Married Woman V. N—, accused of Arson, but being of sound mind. Hofinaim.—On the Mental Condition of Seven Persons committing Arson. (Heuke, 47, Suppl.) Brunner.—Are not the A—s, husband and wife, legally responsible.' or is the highest weakness of intellect to be assumed, which does not exclude legal responsibility ? (lb.) Vezin.—Did the Proprietor, L. H—, at W—, who otherwise appeared of sound mind, commit the Breach of the Peace, of which he stands accused, during a sudden Attack of Insanity. (lb.) Schneider.—(Loc. cit., iv.) Supreme Foro-medical Opinion on a Case of Question- able State of Mind. (Deutsche, 11, i.) Supreme Foro-medical Opinion on a Case of Arson. (lb., 12, 2.) Hafner.—Medico-forensic Opinion on a Case of Attempted Murder and Suicide by a melanchohc person, through Poisoning with Arsenic. (lb., 11, 2.) Falret and De PietrO-Santa,—Assassination of Mrs. Loalier by her Husband during a Fit of Alcoholic Delirium. Repeated attacks, increasing in number and severity; general intermittent alienation; complete feebleness. (Ann. d'Hyg., April, 1858, 18.) Pontier.—Medico-legal Report on the Mental State of Marie Pons, accused of Attempts at Murder. (Annal. Medico-psycholog., 1858, torn, iv.) Dragonet.—Medico-legal Report on the Mental Condition of B. A—, accused of Murder. (lb., April.) Cazeiiave.—Medico-legal Report on the Mental State of C. B—, accused of Devas- tations of the Harvest and Assaults on the Public Force. (Partial insanity.) (Heid., April.) Levincart and Billod.—Medico-legal Reports on the Mental State of one Charles. Attempt to Murder a Magistrate. (lb.) Schubert,—inclination to Murder (or Impulse = Mordtrieb). (Berliner Med. Zeitung, 1858, No. 10.) Mahliert.—Report on the Bodily ond Mental Condition of a Woman accused of Arson. (Casper, 13, i.) /rORENSIC PSYCHOLOGY. 459 Maschka,—(Loc. cit., Prag. 2, 9.) Examinations of Lunatics. Medico-foreusic Report oil tlie Mental Condition of the Murderer L. P—. (Oesterr., 4, 39.) Lang,—Contribution of a Medico-forensic Case. (II)., 4, 41.) KrailSS.—Legal Responsibility of a Libeller. (Deutsclie, 12, i.) D'EggS and Dragonet.—Medico-legal Report on the Mental State of the Girl M. 0—, accused of Thefts. (Archiv. gen. de Med., Oct., 1858.) Billard,—Medico-legal Report on the Mental State of A. S—, accused of Beating and Wounding. Casper.—(Loc. cit., ii.) L Doubtful insanity.—145. Carl Schreber, the Mecklen- burgh Prince. 146. Attacks of mania during legal proceedings. 147. Alleged weakness of memory; perjury. 148 and 149. Alleged mental -weakness after illegal acts, of educated accused persons; doubtful capability of administering affairs. 151. Alleged "fear-of-being-persecuted insanity" (" Verfolgnngswabn,") in a dangerous criminal. 152. Fraud in alleged idiocy. 153. Case of the woman Glaser, who sees the devil. IL So-called amentia occulta and mania transitoria. —154. Melancholic insanity; Blaik, the murderer of his children. 155. Me- lancholic insanity; Dietrich, the murderer of his son. 156. Melancholic in- sanity; infliction of a wound on the head. 157. Kilhng a boy during melan- cholic insanity. 158. Severe injury to a child; apparent transient mania. 159. Sudden transient attack of mania, produced by somatic causes. 160. Attempt at murder during a doubtful state of mind. IIL Insanity ; lucid in- tervals!; fixed insanity. —161. Domination of a fixed idea. Capability of administering affairs. 162. Killing a supposed rival. 163. Attempt at mur- der during fixed insanity. 164. A querulous madman. 165. A querulous madwoman. 166—169. Querulous mad people. IV. Insanity of drun/cenness. —170. Injury caused during intoxication and state of congestion. 171. Neg- lectful bankruptcy; doubtful capabOity of administering affairs. 172. Man- slaughter during the after-effects of a strong intoxication; diminished legal responsibility. Y. Insanity of somnamlulism; sotnnaml/ulism.— i'j3. Coitus allowed during sleepiness. 174. Condition approaching upon somnambidism. VI. Insanity; passions, and effects.—I'j5. Insanity of anger. VII. Insanity; the so-called morbid tendencies.—t. 76. Doubtful state of mind of a thief. 177. Ditto. 178. Theft during alleged morbid desire caused by pregnancy. 179. A giri, ajt. 15, committing arson. 180. Similar case. 181. Again the "inter- nal voice" of a young person committing arson. 182. Poisoning and attempt at arson by a young apprentice. 183. A young devastator of graves. 184. A young swindler, without apparent motive. VIII. Idiocy.—i^t,. Can the tes timony of an idiot be received ? 186. Legal responsibility of an epileptic idiot 187. Legal responsibility of a weak-minded young person who has committed arson, i88. Theft by an idiot. IX. Deaf dumbness.-i^c). Attempt by a deaf-dumb man to commit rape and manslaughter. 190. Capability of a deaf dumb person to administer affairs. 191. Capability to administer affairs reob- ained by a deaf-dumb person. 192. Limited capability of a deaf-dnmb person to administer his affairs. 193. Incapability of a deaf-dumb person to ad- minister his affairs. 194 and 195. Two brothers born deaf and dumb A. Murray's Trial for Murder. Defence of Insanity. Edinb., 2, 754. ScHWEBER criticises the new Prussian laws relative to le-al responsibility, and vindicates to physicians the right of infiuenchio-460 REPORT ON LKGAL MEDICINE, ETC. i decisions upon this point in courts of law; as also the right and duty to give evidence, not only in accordance with the letter, but also the spirit of the law. Maib, reports the discussions upon the question of legal responsi- bility which occurred in the Bavarian Representative Chambers, and points out the great difference of opinion which existed upon the principles involved in the question. Schneider details nineteen propositions, which were made by Fleming, and discussed by the meeting mentioned. Trom them we gather- that the forensic physician, in psychological cases, has, or may have, two distinct functions—namely, the first, to determine how far a case of mental alienation is dependent upon somatic disease; and the second, to ascertain whether mental alienation is really present. Those who believe that mental, are always the consequences of somatic diseases will not agree with this proposition. Plagge, starting from certain speculations, assumes that there must be several degrees of legal responsibility. LowENHAUDT combats the views of diminished legal responsi- bility, which had been assumed by Ideler in two Prussian " superar- bitria," and shows that the proposed distinctions and gradations would lead to great practical difficidties. ScHLAGEU publishes some psychiatrical speculations. BoCKER, after considering the German law, comes to the con- clusion, that, in questions of legal responsibility, the judge must put special questions to the medical witness, referring to the individual case, and that a formula for putting questions relative to legal re- sponsibility does not exist. Priedreich reports the case of a boy, ten years old, who mur- dered his sister. Poverty, immorality, and a tendency to beg and steal, with absence of all instruction, were urged as mitigating con- siderations. The contents of the remaining articles of tliis section appear to be sufficiently indicated by their headings.461 PRIVATE HYGIENE. EEPORT ON HYGIENE AND PUBLIC HEALTH. A. PRIVATE HYGIENE. I. DIETETICS. a. Journals. The Treasury of Health; a Journal edited by Lubach and Egeling. Haarlem, C. Zwaardemaker. ' Hygiene seems at last to make some progress in Holland, where formerly it was little cultivated. The States General want a reform of the laws concerning the medical profession and public health. Meanwhile scientific men are endeavouring to inform the people on matters of hygiene. The above journal is popularly written, and appears calculated to fulfil its object. b. Treatises, Ideler.—Hand-book of Dietetics for Friends of Health and Longevity. ,d edit Berlin. Wittmaack.—Popular Hand-book of Dietetics. Leipsic. Eeich.—Manual of General Etiology and Hygiene. Erlangen. Wittmaack, well known as the author of a book on rational therapeutics, has entitled his work a popular one; but it is so scientifically fl-ntten that few laymen will be able to' read it with- out a commentary. The section on the evil consequences of pre- mature study and over mental exertion, and on the premature practice of music, is fuU of useful warnings. In another chapter he proves to youth of both sexes, that early fruition is the grave of all late enjoyment. The author, like Ideleu, is a great advocate for gvm nasties, wluch he terms the principal agent for the rejuvenescence of body and mind It is satisfactory to find that gymnastics, M'hich during the last half century have mainly been reintroduced by enlightened schoolmasters, are now being warmly advocated by medical men.REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. I 463 Eeich's book has a political tendency, whence it has become the subject of a legal prosecution in Bavaria. He wants to take educa- tion out of tlic hands of the clergy altogetlier, and to have it su- perintended by a central medical council. . His book is one of those impractical declamations, wliich, being useless to the people, meet with no support, and being offensive to the parties in power, bring down persecution upon the authors. II. FOOD. Artmann (Captain on the Staff of the Imperial Austrian Engineers, and rrofessor at the Military Engineering Academy, Klosterbruck). — Treatise on Food, Prayue. The author begins with the elementary chemistry of the general materials entering into the composition of plants and animals, and describes in outline their compounds and alterations. The principle of the conservation of force he illustrates in a practical manner, and then passes on to the consideration of nutrition. A definition of food and nutritive materials is then arrived at; and it is stated that experience only can teach whether a substance is food or not, and that, without experience, science could not teach it. This distinction between science and experience, though doubtless un- pliilosophical, may perhaps be pertinent to the position from wliich the author's intended readers maybe supposed to regard the sub- ject. He then treats of albiiminous substances, their qualities and powers. Alcohol, the author believes, has the property of retarding the decomposition or disintegration of matters in the body, as well of the fluids as of the tissues: by thus lessening the necessary amount of food it acts as a saving agent. But beyond tliis hypo- thesis, and an admission of the usefulness of alcoholic ch-inks as general and special stimulants, we meet with no specific knowledge on this most important subject. According to the author, alcohol, in the form of the usual beverages, excites the imagination more than the other forms of cerebral activity; Avhilc tea and colTee raise the intellect. But wHle alcohol excites not only the bram but also the rest of the body, tea and coffee have a sedative effect upon the rest of the body. The author enunciates the general prmciple, that food must be so adapted to the individual that he can attain therewith the highest development of his physical and spu-itual463 PUBLIC HYGIENE. powers. He tlieu offers, as a practical suggestion, tlie mixing of food wliich is easily digestible with otlier food which is less so, in order that the former, by being obHged to remain longer in the intestinal canal, may be more exhausted. The chapter on cookery is interest- ing. Special attention must also be di'awn to the chapters treating of the dieting of soldiers in Austria and other states. III. ILLUMINATION OF PEIVATE DWELLINGS. Chiapelli.—Treatise on Private Hygiene. Le Sperimenlale, Nos. 9 and 10. The author speaks of the various changes which air undergoes in inhabited houses. lie considers the relative vitiation of th.e air, effected by the different combustibles used for the purposes of arti- ficial illimiination; and objects strongly to the use of gas in houses, nhhough on very questionable grounds. PUBLIC HYGIENE. I. LAWS CONCERNING THE MEDICAL PROFESSION. Wernert—Condition of state Medicine in France. On the principal Points of Public Hygiene, and its application in the Department of the Upper Rhine, witli a Comparative Review of Public Health and Disease in Germany. (Deutsche II, I.) Menges.—Medical statistics in their Application to the internal Administration of the State. (Henke, 4.) Vogler.—The renewed desire for Reform in the Medical Laws of Nassau, expressed ill the Representative Chambers of the Year 1856. (lb.) Horn.—The Medical Profession in Prussia. Represented from ofEcial sources 2 vols. Berlin, 1851 and 1858. Lohr.—Discussion of some Questions from the Sphere of Medical Police (Henke, 3.) Bloefeld.—Further Report on Instruction in State Medicine at the Universitv of Kasan. ' Menges publishes contemplations, instigated by Tonnay's statis- tical communications concerning teeth. He considers hygiene to be tlie most useful sphere of the physician, and believes that the subordmate value of therapeutics may be proved by statistics. Yogler's paper concerns the laws by which the medical profes- sion in Nassau is governed. In that part of Germany, all medical practitioners are appointed by the state, which also pays their464 RErOlJT ON LEGAI, MEDICINE, ETC. salaries, and prescribes special charges for services rendered to individuals. The salary is generally small, M'hile the charges are ridiculously small. In consequence, the financial condition of Nassovian practitioners is bordering upon poverty, particularly since the great rise in price of all the necessaries of life which has taken place in Germany during the last ten years. A more intolerable interference with the natural laws of free trade and professional liberty, or a more abject slavery than that of a Nassau practitioner of medicine, cannot be imagined. The sooner the Representative Chambers leave the practice of medicine a free profession, as in the rest of Germany, the better, Horn's work affords proof that the medical laws in Prussia are good and well administered. There is, no doubt, a little too much scope for interference from above, but it is generally not abused. The collection of laws concerning the medical profession in Prussia is complete and well arranged, and accompanied by good com- mentaries and suggestions for improvement. The article of Werneut shows that the hygienic condition of the Department of the Upper Rhine (Alsatia) is far from satisfactory. The condition of lying-in hospitals, foundling hospitals, asylums for orphans, the bhnd, and the deaf and dumb, is either deficient or badly arranged and managed. The condition of the poor, of pauper lunatics, and of convicts, is successively described and dis- cussed. The laws concerning the certificates of the causes of death which prevail in country places prevent the collection of useful statistics upon that subject. The laws regarding burials are very deficient. Thus, only five years are fixed as the period wliich must elapse from one interment before another can take place upon the same spot. Prom all this we gather, that, while in Paris, hy"-iene interferes in all pubhc and private arrangements with exaggerated assiduity, on the Upper Rhine it requires much ad- van cement. LoHU desires that medical poHce should be taught at the umver- sities in a more practical manner than has hitherto been customary. Bloefelb reports the lectures on pubHc health, forensic medicine, and aUied sciences, which are given at the University of Kasan. The different branches are laid out in a very systematic manner. The Bavarian medical officers of health and state medicine have petitioned the Bavarian Chamber of Representatives for an increase of their salaries.PUBLIC HYGIENE. 465 II. MEDICAL STATISTICS AND TOPOGUAPHY. Oil Statistics of Mortality and Morbility. Report of the Royal Prussian Scientific Deputation for Medical Affairs, relative to a Schedule to be used for Registers of Mortality. (Casper, 14, 2.) Guerard.—Nosological statistics of Deaths. (Ann. d'Hyg., 17.) Majer.—On the Fluctuation of the Population in Middle Franconia during the years 1851 to 1856. From official sources. (Henke, 3.) ■ On the Fluctuation of the Population in the Grand Duchy of Baden during the period from 1852 to 1855. (Deutsche, 12, i.) Spengler,—Medical Mecklenburgh; Notes collected during a Journey in 1855-56. (lb.) Zelting.—Registers of Population, Births, Marriages, and Deaths, in the Princi- pality of Ostfriesland, from 1837 to 1852. (Henke, 2.) Boudin.—Statistics of Diseases which have caused Death in Belgium during the period from 1851 to 1858 inclusive. From the newest Official Documents. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 17.) On the Movements of the Population in France and Algeria, according to Official Documents. (lb., 18.) Trebuchet.—Researches on the Mortality of Paris in 1853. (lb.) Report on Public Health, and the Activity of Civil Hospitals in the Russian Empire, for the Year 1856. Berlin. Majer. —The Sanitary Condition of the Bavarian Penitentiary, Lichtenau. (Deutsche, 11, i.) Fonssagrives.—Medical and Hygienic Visit to La Trappe de Notre Dame de Grace de Bricqueber. (L'Union Med., No. 66.) Dutrouleau.—Medical Topography of Intertropical CUmates. (Ann. d'Hyg., to ) [Concerns six French Colonies.] Kropf.—Studies concerning the Medical Topography of the Kingdom of Bavaria, and the application to Pathogenesis of Tables of Mortality. Om- limited space does not admit of any extracts from the above statistical articles. SPECIAL TREATISES. ^^^fvi'^'.wf.'"''"''""^ °^ ''''''^ °"e''>"l Researches. This work is a compendious dictionary, considered to be of use to berman officers of health. 30REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 466 I. PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS. a. Charities. Blondel.—On Public Assistance, and its Relations to Hygiene. (Ann. d'Hvg., 17.) Blondel's paper gives a description of the administration of tlie poor-laws in Trance, including hospital relief, which there is afforded by the communes. In 1856, the total sum of money expended at Paris by all the charitable institutions amounted to 15,600,000 francs, equal to £634,000. I. Foundling Instittdions. Routh.—On tlie Mortality of Infants in Foundling Institutions, and generally as influenced by the absence of Breast-milk. (Brit. Med.) EouTH is of opinion that foundlings should not be brought up in towns, but in the country, whereby the mortality is lessened. He advises the transformation of large wards into smaller, well-ven- tilated, rooms, to hold not more than four cribs each, to the inmates of which the entire attention of one nurse should be devoted. Wet-nurses are to be provided, but preference is to be given to the mothers of the children themselves. The extensive inquiries of tlie author have yielded liim a rich harvest of statistics, which serve as the basis of thoroughly practical advice. c. Dead-houses. Brunner.—Tbe Constitution and General Arrangements of the Dead-bouse at Volkach-upon-the-Maine. (Henke, 47, Supplement.) A country practitioner describes how, with limited means and against many obstacles, he contrived to build a dead-house, and to induce the people to deposit their dead in it preAaous to burial. Those who are acquainted with the evils arising from the manner in wliich the London poor keep their dead relatives and friends, would wish similar institutions to be provided here. The only dead-houses we possess are the sheds of the workhouses, which are both insufacient and iuappro]Kiate for the purposes of a sanitary institution.467 PUBLIC HYGIENE. d. Slmtffhterhouses. Feit.—On Public Slaughterhouses, and their Advantages before Private Slaughter- houses. (Casper, 14, 2.) The author again, and exhaustively, urges tlie reasons for which slaughterhouses ought to be public institutions. The sale of meat from diseased animals, which is so common a source of disease, would thereby be prevented. e. Feniilation, Warming, and Lighting. Kinnell—System of "Ventilation. (Med. Times, May, 58.) Tripier.—On the Ventilation and Lighting of Theatres. (Ann. d'Hyg., 19.) Guerard.—On the Explosions of the Water-apparatuses which are used for Heat- ing and Ventilating Public and Private Buildings. (Ann. d'Hyg., 18.) Kinnell adopts two concentric tubes, made of zinc, which lead from the ceiling to the roof of the house. By the inner and higher tube the contaminated air rises; through the outer tube the fresh air descends, Tripier has contrived a system of ventilation for theatres which meets many of the disadvantages to wliich the plans at present in use are liable. In Prance many private and public buildings are now being warmed Math hot water, wliich is conducted through the house by a continuous system of iron pipes. In public buildings, Duvoir's and GrouveUe's patents are most commonly used. Explosions are not of uncommon occurrence, and hence Guerard has devised certain safety-valves, which seem calculated to obviate the evil consequences of excessive tension. Leopold reports the accidental death, by coal gas, of a person forty-one years of age, who slept in a room in which a considerable escape of gas took place fi'om an ill-secured pipe. In the same house a man, a child several years old, and a baby, had all suffered from stupor, vertigo, and shortness of breath, sickness, and great prostration, produced by the gas escaping from the room in which the unfortunate man met his death. /. Water-supply. Xnolz.-On the Noxious Influence of the Wien River, and the Deficient Water- supply of Vienna. (Oesterr., No. 42.)468 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. Snow.—Drainage and water-supply in connection witli the Public Health. (Med. Times, No. 398, 1858.) . In Vienna there is great dearth of drinking-water. Knolz considers the construction of a large aqueduct for bringing a supply of wholesome water into the town an absolute necessity. There are many rivulets near the town, from wliich an abundant supply might be procured. Their water comes from the glaciers and snow of the high mountains, wliich are only about fifty miles (Enghsh) distant from Vienna. g. Sewers, Drains, and Privies. Barker.—On the influence of Emanations from Drains and Cesspools. Duponchel.—A. new System of Closets for great Public Establishments, particu- larly Barracks, Military and Civil Hospitals. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 20.) Hofmann and Frankland.—Report on Sewage. (Lancet, 2, 270.) Bernays.—Disinfection of the Thames, and of Sewage. (Med. Times, 2, 155-) Barker subjected animals to the influence of the foul air from privies and sewers, and found various pathological conditions pro- duced, wliich he compared with, and found similar to, the effects produced upon animals by diluted sulphuretted hydrogen gas. DupoNCHEL^s system would be an improvement for most parts of Trance, but offers no new features of interest for tliis country. HoFMAi^N and Prankland have presented an elaborate report to the Metropolitan Board of Works on London sewage. An enormous variety of suggestions were passed in review. They had to consider proposals for disinfection by protosulphate of iron; by superphosphate of magnesia and lime; by galvanic or electric agency; by the manganates and permanganates ; by the ferruginous sulphate of alumina; by clilorine; by " the antiseptic hydrochloric acid, liquefied protosulphate of iron, and chloride of sodium com- bined by perchloride of iron; by sulphuric acid; by the abohtion of waterclosets, and the substitution of boxes containing peat char- coal (G. Garbert, Esq.); by " cendre noire," a pjTito-alurainous lignite much used by the scavengers of Paris; by " pyi-itous peat by " dosing the river at various points with common salt" (C. N. Gattolo, Esq.); by carbolate of lime in solution, and the use of a solid mixture of sulphites and carbolates; by the use of scrap-iron and subsequent filtration; by the separation of the sewage from the rainfall, a plan hitherto impossible, but rendered feasible " by the discovery, in November last, of something in the nature of steam, which was liitherto unknown" (Eev. H. Moule); by a469 PUBLIC HYGIENE. mixture of sulphate, oleate, and chloride of zinc and of sulphate of manganese; and by other chemical and mechanical methods, either unexplained or too elaborate for description. The trials made by Hofmanu and Prankland led them to recommend a con- centrated solution of percliloride of iron, to which Ellerman had caUed their attention. It is superior to cliloride of lime, both in its immediate and permanent effects. Moreover, it effects a very rapid clarification of the sewage. The authors propose to add one gallon of the perchloride to 15,000 gallons of sewage, and, after subsidence, to separate the clarified liquid from the deposit of filth, and ran it only into the stream. The cost of the disinfection is estimated at a probable sum of £14,000 per annum. The actual process of deodorization will present less difficulty than the separation of the spontaneous deposit by filtration or subsidence. The reporters suggest that the disinfecting operation should, as fax as possible, be conducted at a distance from densely populated districts. Beenays found that sewage of the worst description, emitting the most deleterious gases, could be rendered perfectly sweet and harmless, emitting only the odoui- of the impure coal creasote, by the disinfectant of Messrs. Smith and McDougall, of Manches- ter, namely, a mixtui-e of carbolic acid and bisulphite of magnesia. At the suggestion of Miller, experiments on a large scale were instituted in the sewer of Tavistock Street, Tottenham Court Eoad. These were sufficiently satisfactory to warrant the application of the same reagent to the Thames. The details of these experiments are given in Bernays' paper. II. CLIMATES A^D THEIE INFLUENCE. DutrOUleau.—Medical Topography of Intertropical Climates. (Ann. d'Hvir No. 20.) ^ Milroy.-Advantages of Mountain Sites for Barracks in Hot Climates. (Lancet 2. S9-) ' Notes on Barracks and Military Hospitals in Hot Climates. (lb i esi • 2. 333-) ' > b6^> ^i^^^ffstone and Kirk.-African Fever on the Lower Zambesi. (Med. Times, 2, The paper of Duteouleau is an inquiry into the climatic pecdiarities of the stations possessed by France between the tropics. The nature of the soil and the local meteorology are summed up as tlie principal conditions of salubrity.REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 470 About twenty years ago tlie mortality among the English troops in Kingston, Jamaica, amounted to ia8 in looo per annum. Tlie barracks were in consequence removed to a high, mountain station, about 3800 feet above the level of the sea. In the first ten years the mortality remained as low as 14 per 1000 per annum, scarcely exceeding the mortality at Eome. But since 1851 the new station, Newcastle, has been visited by cholera and yellow fever successively, teaching the important lesson that mere elevation and healtliiness of a site will not suffice as safeguards against the deadly diseases of the plains. During the first ten years fever and dysentery prevailed amongst the troops, wliich diseases diminished, however, as the ground around the cantonment was freed from underwood and rank vegetation, and well trenched and drained. When MiLEOY visited Newcastle, in 1851, the latrines of the barracks were in a very offensive state, although fifty pounds had been spent for quicklime to improve them. Newcastle is situated at an inconvenient height. The cantonment of Maroon Town is only about 2000 feet high. Stoneylull barracks are 1200 feet high, and though, Hke Maroon Town, situated most salubriously, have nevertheless been abandoned. It is clear that local and domestic hygiene only can keep a good climate and a good site salubrious. Livingstone and Kiek describe some cases of fever observed daring their latest expeditions. They are not very typical in symptoms, and are amenable to treatment, purgatives and quinine proving generally successful. Quinine did not prove a preventive. They found existing within a short distance from the coast a healthy region, well suited for the residence of Europeans. III. HYGIENE OF AUTS, TEADES, MANTJFACTUEES, AND PEOFESSIONS. The 'Medical Times' of January a2d, 1858, gives a leading article on the health of the English army and navy. a. Lucifer-match mannfacture. Measures which are to be taken for the protection from Phosphorous Disease of the Workpeople in Lucifer-match Manufactories. Report of the Royal Prussian Deputation for Medical Atfairs. (Casper, 13, 2.) This is a compilation of the results of the reports of all the provincial governments, and the presidency of police, upon the471 PUBLIC HYGIENE. diseases caused by pliospliorus to workpeople in lucifer-match manufactories. In seventy-five manufactories there occurred about forty-five cases of necrosis of bones. Most of the cases occui-red amona: the men who have to prepare the phosphorus mixture and those who have to dip the matches into it. Weakly, scrofulous persons, and those having decayed teeth, were particularly predisposed. The hygienic rules given by the Medical Council of Prussia may be summed up as follows:—Airy position of the manufactory; large, high, well-ventilated workrooms; great cleanhness; frequent relays of workpeople; and distribution of varied work to all in rotation. But these precautions are not sufficient. Common phosphorus is, therefore, to be superseded by the red, amorphous modification. d. Compositors and Printers. Heins van Holzbeeck.—On the Principal Diseases of Compositors and Printers, and their Prevention. (Oesterr., No. 48.) The causes of disease among printers and compositors are im- piu-ity of the atmosphere from gas, tallow-candles, moistiue, and turpentine; crowding; and working at night. c. IFnhnen with noxious colours. I. Wliite-lead. Chevallier.—Note on the Health of Workmen who prepare the Fine Colours. (Ann. d'Hyg., April.) Chevallier describes the "occupation and diseases of these workmen, and gives preventive measures. 2. Copper-colours. Prosper de Pietro Santa—is there a Disease peculiar to Workmen who handle Paper stained with Schweinfiirt Green. (Ann. d'Hyg., 20.) On the Non-existence of Copper Colics. (lb., 19.) Schweinfurt green is a double salt of arsenite and acetate of copper. The process of staining paper with it is described. The colour, by immediate contact, produces vesicles, pustules, or ulcera- tions, on fingers, toes, genitals, particularly the scrotum,- but they may be easily prevented by cleanliness. General symptoms have not been observed.472 llEPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. d. Manufacture of Silk. Reybaud.—Report to the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences upon the Moral, Intellectual, and Material Condition of Workpeople who live by the I'reparation of Silk. (Ann. d'Hyg., 18, 19.) Tins interesting report is based upon original observatioris M'liicli tlie author made during a jom-ney on which he liad been sent by the academy. The journey extended over France, Ehenish Prussia, and Switzerland, the principal seats of industry in silk. e. Trades in which dust is inhaled—Coalheavers and Metal- founders. Vernois.—On the influence of various descriptions of Dust on the Health of the Artisans. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 18.) The author arranges the various descriptions of dust under three categories, corresponding to the materials from which it is produced. We have animal, vegetable, and mineral dust, and various descriptions of mixtures, most of M'hich the author enume- rates. The author mainly confined his statistical inquiries to coalheavers, or dealers in coals, and to metal-founders, which trades were reported in Paris to predispose to tuberculosis and astlmia. He found that the inhalation of coal-dust does not in- crease the proportion of persons suffering from phthisis or emphy- sema over that existing in the ordinary population of the same rank; that phthisis, instead of being favoured, was rather arrested by coal-dust; and that the proximity of coal seemed to protect those trading in it from a variety of diseases to wliich other persons hving under similar circumstances of an unfavorable kind, e.g. in damp, ill-ventdated, and badly hghted houses, are more liable. In 1855, an examination of 96 foundries was instituted, at the request of the President of PoUce. In 67 only was there any work going on, wlule 39 were on the eve of closing their career. The number of artisans employed in the active estabhshments was 1476. Of 1089 workmen employed in 41 manufactories, only 98 were engaged in moulding, a process in which coal, or coal and clay, are employed. Prom the particulars given by Vernois, it appears that the coal-dust produced'iiv^Jie, course of moulding is not detrijnental to the health of the moulders.PUBLIC HYGIENE. 473 IV. FOOD, STIMULANTS, AND MEDICINES. The 'Lancet' of October 29th, 1859, p. 443, contaiiis a leading article advocating legislation on the subject of the adulteration of food. Passages from speeches of Lord Brougham and the Hon. W. Cowper are quoted in support of a biU introduced into the House of Commons by Mr. Scholefield. a. Flour and Bread. Kmg'elstein.—On the Medico-legal Inspection of Flour and Bread. (Henke,3.) Griepenkerl,—On Ergot of Rye, and of other Graminese. (Casper, 13, i.) Niemann (of Magdeburg).—Communication of an Opinion of the Medical Council for the Prussian Province of Saxony, relative to the Noxious Influence of Ergot of Rye. (lb., 14, i.) Anonymus.—Bread of " Quick-grass" and Potatoes. (lb., 13, 2.) Besides the accidental admixture of the flour of wheat and rye with the flour of the seeds of other graminese, wliich, like diseased rye^ or ergot, are very unwholesome, Kuugelstein enumerates a variety of adulterations ascribed to the malice of man. Thus we hear of sand, ashes, bone, lime, and white lead, as frequent in- gredients ; and are informed that in England the cheap sulphate of baryta is daily bought by millers and bakers in quantities of many hundredweights, to be mixed with flour and bread. These ground- less denunciations are but the echo of the gross exaggerations of a portion of oui- EngHsh press. The author, after having shown that good flour may spoil by undue exposure to moistiure, enumerates the methods of testing flour for its qualities. One is to make a mass of dough with water, and test it for its elasticity; another consists in pressing a handful of flour, and placing the compressed lump upon the table. To be good, it must retain the shape given it by the hand, and not collapse. The admixture of gypsum or bone-earth causes immediate collapse of the lump. (The best flour if very dry and not over-finely dressed, wiU frequently not retain its shape, but coUapse, while flour rendered moist by exposure to the atmosphere, or preservation in a damp place, will retain it) The addition of prepared chalk may be discovered by addiu"- hydro- clilonc acid to a mixture of flour and water; the adcfition of common salt and alum, by the taste. The author then refers to the traces of copper natui-aUy found474 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. in floul-, and the ashes of vegetables in general. Finally, he descriljes the properties of bread, good and bad. The elasticity of bread, tlie crispness of its crust, the wluteness of. its crum, and purity of its flavour, constitute its fom- cardinal virtues. In two districts of tlie south-western part of the Ducliy of Brunswick, on the slopes of the Hartz and Lolling Mountains, an epidemic of ergotism occuiTed during the years 1854 to 1856, whicli was throughout of the convulsive type. Of the patients who came imder Griepenkeul's care, not one died; but in other districts, where the corn contauied as much as 25 per cent, of ergot, many persons succumbed to the disease. i\jnong nearly 40,000 inhabitants, there were 155 cases of ergotism, of which 25 terminated fatally. Of 155, 62 were persons below fourteen years of age, and of these 11 died; so that almost half of the fatal cases were those of children. Infants at the breast did not take the disease, although the mothers were severely affected. According to Griepenkerl, women are less predisposed to ergotism than men, wlule the reverse is stated to be the case by Niemann. According to the former, muscular exercise favours the production of ergotism. It is evident that the largest quantity of ergot of rye taken in the shortest time produces the most certain appearance of peculiar toxic sjonptoms, and is doubtful whether there is any special predisposition on the part of individuals. The paper of Ajsonymus contains impracticable propositions for making cheap bread in hard times. b. Vegetables. Chevallier and Son.—Chronological Researches on the Means for Preserving Food from the Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms. (Ann. d'Hyg., No. 17.) The authors enumerate in chronological order the means which have been adopted up to the present time for preser^g vegetable food. They next demonstrate that green vegetables can be com- pletely preserved by drying. The process, however, in order to be profitable, must be carried on on a large scale. By a 7iew extensive industry, they are of opinion aU classes of society could constantly be supplied with sound vegetables.4.75 PUBLIC HYGIENE. c. Meat and Sausages. On the Nature of the Sausage Poison, and the Poison sometimes found in Smoked Meat. (Casper, 13, i.) Fifty per cent, of the cases of poisoning by sausages or smoked meat occur in April, a fact wliicli points towards the conclusion that the poison is a product of decomposition resulting from the influence of an increasing temperature. All attempts to save persons poisoned by these products of decomposition have hitherto proved unavailing. Yan Den Corput beheves the poisonous principle to be an elementary plant, an alga or fungus, belonging to the Sarcinae, for which he proposes the name of Sarcina hotulina. The phos- phorescence observed on decomposing organic matter is also due to cryptogamic plants—Khizomorphse. Tliis fact was first noticed by Heller, who termed the microscopic alga Sarcina noctiluca, and as- certained that it belonged to the group of the Isocarpeae. d. Fish. WolflF.—Poisoning of several Persons by Fried Sturgeon-liver. (Casper, 14, 2.) A healthy young woman, a boy seven years old, and two female servants, were taken ill four hoiu-s after having partaken of fried stm-geon's liver. The symptoms were violent headache ; pulsation and pricking in the temples; sweUing of the whole face, the sur- face of which became dark-red and very hot; violent burning in the nose, mouth, tongue, and throat; red, painful eyes; noises in the ears; a white-coated tongue, and gTeat inchnation to vomit. After four days of appropriate medical treatment the symptoms disap- peared, and desquamation of the epidermis and of the epithelium of the cavities of mouth and nose, as in scarlatina, began. The other members of the same family, who had only eaten of the flesh of the sturgeon, but not of the Hver, had no signs of indisposition. e. Wine. Chevallier.—On Plastered Wine. Researches made by Order of the Minister of War. (Ann. d'llyg., No. 19.) On the Plastering of Wine, the Effects of Plastered Wine upon the Economy, and the Value of such Wine as a Beverage. Should Plastering be permitted, or considered as a Falsification ? (lb., 20.)476 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. The " piritrage" of wine consists in strewing gypsum over the grapes just collected. It is a very ancient process, and is said to offer the following advantages:—!. It gives a more brilliant colour to the wine, by preventing the solution of the whole amount of colouring matter contained in the pellicle of the grape, the gypsum probably forming an insoluble compound with the red matter. 2. In consequence of the diminution of colouring matter, the wine is more easily preserved. 3. The abstraction of water from the juice increases the relative quantity of alcohol, and, con- sequently, the vinosity or strength of the wine. The soldiers of the French army, particularly the army of Algiers, receive a ration of wine. It having been learned that the con- tractors supplied plastered wine, the Minister of "War requested men of science to give then- opinion, whether or not the use of plastered wine was detrimental to health. Several distinguished chemists examined a variety of wines, com- paring the composition and properties of plastered with those of unplastered sp'ecimens. Chevallier reports, with great care and acuteness, upon these researches, wliich show a great harmony in their results, and draws the following conclusions. IN^on-plastered wine contains water, alcohol, tartrate of potassa, clilorides, phosphates, and sulphates in smaU quantity. Plastered wine, on the other hand, contains water, alcohol, sulphate of lime, sulphate of potassa, acetate of potassa, and, in case the plaster contained alum, sulphate of potassa and alumina, acetate of alumina, acetate of magnesia, &c. There is, therefore, a considerable difference in the composition of the wines, and tlieir influence upon the human economy must also differ. If the plastered wines are injurious to health, the operation of plas- tering should be interdicted; if they are not injurious, it should be publicly announced, in order to protect the makers of these wines against the imputation of adulteration or falsification. The dkect question, whether or not these wines are injurious, Chevallier has not answered. f. Beer. Kriigelstein.—On the necessity for Control over the Purity and Genuineness of Beer, (llenke, 3.) The author informs us that he has found great difficulty in esta- blishing what should be normal or standard beer, and describes the477 PUBLIC HYGIENE. influences M'liich necessarily occasion varieties of beer. Thus, if barley be used for malting wliicli has grown on a field manured with sheep's dung, the beer prepared from such malt does not become clear and bright, and is easily spoiled. After having de- scribed the properties of good beer, he enumerates the causes of its badness, and advocates the interference of the sanitary police. When so-called turned, or spoiled, acid beer has been made sweet again by means of lime, potassa, or other alkahes, it is flat, not spirituous, and causes colic, diarrhoea, and affections of the urinary organs. The article describes at length the modes of discovering adultera- tions. After all, the organs of taste seem to be the principal and most infallible judges of beer, as they are of wine. g. Mineral waters. Ossian Henry, father aud son—Practical Treatise on the Chemical Analysis of Drinkable and Useful Mineral Waters, and on their principal Applications to Hygienic and Industrial Purposes. Paris, Germer-Bailliere. This work is a sort of encyclopaedia of all that is known relative to the chemistry of mineral waters, their hygienic and industrial applications, the geology of the environs of springs. It comprises accounts of natural and artificial mineral waters and of ordinary drinking-water. The chapter, on the medical effects of mineral waters in general, is very interesting to the practical physician. An entire chapter is devoted to the description of animals and plants which live in mineral waters. The sixteenth chapter treats of the puri- fication of unwholesome waters. The work comprises the whole science of water, is written in a very practical style, and will no doubt prove interesting and useful to the medical practitioner, the chemist, farmer, geologist, and manufacturer. V. CONTAGION AND MIASMA. Guerdan (of Bllligheim).—On the " Genesis organica" of Contagions, and the " Genesis tellurica" of Miasmata. (Deutsche, ii, i.) Hennigson.—Contributions to the Doctrine of Contagion. (Casper, n i ) Krilgelstein.-On the Sanitary Relations of the Trade in Mattresses", Beds and Bed-feathers. (Henke, 4.) ' When an author begins an inquiry into a subject of natui-al and medical science with such a sentence as tliis : that ordinary genera- tion IS nothing else but an act of infection of the female by the478 EEPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. genital virus of the male," the reader is naturally prejudiced against him. And despite the elaborate character of Guerdan's argument, the prejudice finds ample justification in the entirely speculative and hypothetical character of all that he advances relating to these great causes of disease. Hennigson relates some cases from his own experience, which go to prove, that when healthy persons are for a short time in one and the same room with patients suffering from cholera, this disease may be transferred to them, although they may live in a place where cholera is not epidemic. Keugelstein believes that phthisis is propagated by the bedding of persons who have suffered or died of that disease; fever, skin diseases, ulcers, particularly cancerous ones, syphiHs, and gout, he believes capable of similar dissemination. In support of tliis pro- position he adduces various results from his own experience and that of others. VI. ENDEMIC AND EPIDEMIC DISEASES. a. Idiotism. ElOSe,—On Idiotism in Silesia, a Politico-medical Slcetcb. (Henke, i.) The author draws a Hue of distinction between cretins and idiots, and allots the former exclusively to mountainous districts, the latter to the plain. Idiotism thiives where water and vegetation are abundant, where the atmosphere is quiet, and the evaporation con- siderable. In the rich, flat portion of Silesia there is one idiot to every 3402 iuliabitants. Idiotism in Silesia has a predilection for the male sex, of which every 8942 include one idiot, while as many as 12,214 females are required to furnish one. Idiots are only taken care of when they become dangerous to public security. But the author desu-es that institutions should be established, in which they might be trained and made more useful. b. Epidemic Ophthalmia. Laveran and Lustreman.-On the Epidemic Ophthalmia of European Armies. (Ann. d'Hyg., 19.) The authors were members of the congress which met at BrusselsPUBLIC HYGIENE. 479 towards the end of the year 1857, and made a report of the results of their labours to the Erench Minister of War, of which tliis paper is an abstract. Of the predisposing influences—(i.) Age appears to be one. Eecruits are most hable, and in proportion to their youth. Wlien the conscripts were called in at twenty-one years of age, instead of, as formerly, at eighteen years, a considerable decrease in the number affected with ophthalmia was perceived. (2.) Delicate persons are also more liable than robust ones. (3.) Stormy weather, the cold and wet winds of autumn, the heat of the sun, night-watches, and hardships, are accused by military surgeons as direct causes. (4.) Clu'onically congested conjunctivae in connection with former catarrhal or exanthematous diseases. (5.) Mercurialism and other pharmaceutic diseases. (6.) Tlie most fruitful cause is the congre- gation of many persons in barracks. (7.) The specific cause, the virus from the granulations. Bad ventilation favours the disease. The greatest number of cases occur in the months of September, July, August and June. The prophylactic and curative measures advocated are of a very stringent nature. In barracks, wards are to be set aside for those having granulations on their conjunctivae. Patients showing the shghtest degree of blenorrhoea are immediately to be sent to the hospital. These barrack-wards must be large and aiiy, and under good control, so that healthy soldiers may not come in contact with those who are affected. In the hospital the soldiers suffering from ophthalmia are again to be strictly isolated, and classified according to certain categories, particularly the degree of the disease and the amount of purulent discharge. The convalescents are to be placed in particular wards, and subjected to constant supervision. These wards must be kept clean, and ventilated with especial care. Beyond their hours of rest, the patients are not to remain in them' Every individual is to be provided with a separate towel and waslung-basin for cleansing the eyes. When the patient leaves the hospital and returns to his respective corps, he is there to be in- spected daily, and if a trace of granulation should be discovered or reappear, he is to be returned to the granulation ward Conva lescents who go home on fiu:lough are to be dismissed only after a searchmg exammation, by which the freedom of their eves from gi-anulations and every secretion has been established.480 REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. c. Smallpox and Faccinalion. I. Pamphlets. Boefeld (Bicslau).—Vaccination or Inoculation ? A word to establish a good understanding relative to the Smallpox Question. Brcslau, Goschorsky. Nitting^er.—The Season of Vaccination, and the Protestants against the Poison and Witchcraft of Jenner before the Wiirtcmbcrg Chamber of Deputies in Sep- tember, 1858, and before the English Parliament in July, 1858. Leiptic, Gustav Brauns. BoEPELD wishes to make vaccination more protective, by letting it be succeeded by inoculation witliin a twelvemonth. The pro- posal is discussed in a quiet and impartial manner, and the discourse should be studied by those who have given the subject their special attention. NiTTiNGEU has, during several years, obtained a small but de- plorable notoriety by his unmeasured attacks upon vaccination. The above outburst is less violent, but, if possible, more perverse and ludicrous, than any of liis earlier performances. He concludes an address to the authors of the ' English Blue Book on Yaccination' Avith a chorus, to be sung "by schools, the police, church, and medicine," in which there is a refrain, of wliieh the following is a translation: " Vaccination is the monkey's duty ; Apes, my brethren, therefore let us be." 2. Papers in Journals. Riecke.—On the Value of Vaccination. (Henke, 2.) Cause (Gensingen).—On Vaccination and Revaccination. A pium desiderium from the Grand Duchy of Hesse. (lb.) Eerailly.—Oil Re-vaccination in Public Schools (Lyceums). (Monit. Hop., 57.) M'Donnell.—On the statistics of Smallpo.\ and Vaccination in Ireland. (Dublin Hosp. Gaz., No. 11.) Winter.—Vaccination and its Compulsion. (Deutsche, 11, 2.) Faber (Schomdorf).—Vaccination in 1858. (Ibid., 12, 2.) Paber supports compulsory vaccination upon the basis of an experience of forty-one years, and refutes certain imputations against vaccination which had been uttered before the Wiirtemberg Chamber of Deputies by a person named Hochstetter. BiECKE beUeves variola and variolois to be identical. Variola, he481 PUBLIC HYGIENE. believes, can be generated, whence the circumstance that the se- clusion of patients afl'ected with smallpox rarely prevents the spread of an epidemic. A'accination is the main remedy, with which re- vaccination must be combined. By these two measures the danger and fatality of variola are reduced to the narrowest limits. Cause makes a scries of good proposals for securing the efficiency of vaccination. He also urges the propriety of making revaccination, at intervals of ten years, compulsory. Of 241 pupils in the Lyceum at Versailles, 63, on revaccination, liad genuine, and 78 spurious, pustules. Eemilly believes revac- cination in lyceums to be higlily necessary. The mortality iu Ireland during the ten years preceding the 30th of March, 1851, was 1,360,000. Of these, 38,700 were due to smallpox. This gives an average of 39 deaths from smallpox in 1000 deaths from all causes, which is nearly double tlie proportion of deaths from smallpox occurring in London, and from ten to fifteen times greater than the mortality from this disease in many European states. M'Dojjnell discusses the causes of this state of affairs, and fears it will be long before it can be amended. Winter is an antagonist, "sub rosa," of vaccination. He wants the government of Hanover to abandon compulsion in vaccination. The medical council properly repHed to his request to put certain questions to be answered officiaUy by all medical practitioners of Hanover, that long and favorable experience had sanctioned the practice and compulsion of vaccination. 7. Appaeent Death. Inspection of the Dead. Koschate.—On the Certain Signs of Death and Apparent Death, and on the Means for preventing Premature Burials. Breslau, L. U. Kern, Collongues.—Application of the Dynamoscope for ascertaining the Occurrence of Death. Memoir presented to the Academy of Sciences. (Gaz. M^d de Pnri, No. 9.) ' ^""-'•i The disquisition of Koschate reveals no new or strikinj? intelH. gcnce. ° Collongues has constructed a peculiar instrument of ausculta tion, with which in many persons only just dead, a peculiar noise or murmur bourdonnement," is heard. When complete somatic death lias taken place, this murmur ceases. He says that in various cases of apparent deatli, in Avhich the heart had ceased to beat, but 31■REPORT ON LEGAL MEDICINE, ETC. 483 in wMch this murmur was yet apparent, lie succeeded in restoring life. Now that the dynamoscope is invented, Collongues says that the dead-houses in Naples and Germany may be abolished. 8. Prostitution. Parent-Ducliatelet.—Prostitution in Paris, considered in its relation to Public Hygiene, Morals, and the Administration. Third edition, completed by Tre- BUCHET and Poirat-Duvai,, Chefs de Bureau a la Prefecture de Police. With an Account of Prostitution in the principal Towns of Europe. With Maps and Tables. Paris, 2 vols., Bailliere and Son. Sanger.—Tlie History of Prostitution ; its Extent, Causes, and Effects throughout the World. New Yor^. 8vo, pp. 683. We cannot give an extract of this comprehensive and, so far as Prance is concerned, no doubt, accia-ate work. It gives an account of one of the saddest aberrations of the natural impulses of man, and reveals social conditions of an appalling nature. But the information relating to England, and particularly to London, contained in this volume is of a very unreliable nature. The following passage will, no doubt, be considered a curiosity: " In the quarter [of London] called Meet Ditch, where nearly all houses have brothels on the ground-floor, there is an enormous aqueduct, wliich stands in communication with the Thames. Into this aqueduct the proprietors of brothels, or their helpmates, throw the dead bodies of their victims, which are carried by the water far out into the river, so that it becomes impossible to ascertain where the murder has been committed." Some more material of this kind is heaped together in the production of Sanger. Its fii-st part is a mere ab- stract of the work of Pauent-Duchatelet. It is, moreover, as the reviewer in the 'Medical Times and Gazette' for Api-il 2d, 1858, expressed it, " an accumulation of all the dirt and filthiness which may be gleaned by diligent search in the storehouses of antiqiiity." The last 230 pages are devoted to the history of prostitution in the capital of the New World. They are full of the most astounding and evidently groundless assertions. Thus, the average duration of life of a New York prostitute is said not to exceed four years from the time she begins her career, an assertion which is as ridiculous as the assertion of Parent-Duchatelet, that at Edinburgh the average age attained by prostitutes was from twenty-two to twenty-five years, which only few outlive,PUBLIC HYdlENE. 483 State medicine requires correct information of the actual state of affairs^ and can dispense with accounts of the bestialities of by- gone times. The social evil is only indirectly a medical subject, viz., as a cause of virulent and dire disease. So long as statesmen and the legislature refuse to deal with this subject, which daily assumes more gigantic dimensions, we cannot hope, by professional exertions, even to register accurately the facts, much less to remedy the consequences or to stay the practice.1INDEX yjj Sefereiices to the coiUeiUs of divisions and sections are printed in Italics. The numbers of the pages are arranged in two columns; the first column refers to the titles of the icorA-s and papers, the second to the reports on them. Abdomen, intestinal obstruction . 286 Abdomen, malformation of (Shearer) 416, 421 — mortal wounds of (Toulraouuhe) 426 — penetrating wound of (Porter) . 306, 307 Abdominal wall, deficiency of (Sedgwick) 416, 421 Aeegg, poisoning by arsenic and strychnia 434, 1-36 Abeele. See Theile. Abortion, statistics of (Clay) . 364 — with albuminuria and convulsions (Broad- bent) . . . . 385 _ Abortion, criminal . • 455 Abortion (Brougliton, Casper, Darien, Maschka, Tardieu) . 455-6,456 Abscess of brain (Chaplin) . 395 — in larynx, after typhoid fever (Schiele) 220 — of liver (Jackson) . . 253, 257 — pharyngeal, in children (Bokai) 404, 406 — post-pharyngeal, in childi-eu . 235, 242 — recto-vaginal (Breslau) . 377 — bone, in lower jaw (Nussbauni) 311, 316 Absorption ... 74 Absoqstion, relative, in animals, fasting and digesting (Kohler) . . 74, 76 — of fat(Haidenhain) . . 74, 76 — by tlie lacteals (Meder) . 74, 76 — cutaneous (Waller) . . 74 Acid, benzoic, influence on metamorphosis of tissue (Kletzinsky) . . 95,103 — carbonic, expiration of (Meyer) . 62, 65 — cvnuric, in urine of the dog (Liebig) 94, 100 — hippuric, in man (Mack, Weissmann) 94,100 — do. in urine of lierbivora (Hall- wachs, AV'eisamann) . . 94,100 — hydrocvanic, action of (Kiedrowski) 105,110 — oxalic, origin of (Neubauer) . 95,101 — phosphoric, excretion of (Hammond) 95,102 — pyrophosphoric, as reagent for albumen (Oigon) .... 95,103 — succinic, transit into the urine (Hall- wachs) .... 94,100 Acid, uric (Schiff) . . .94,100 — do., proportions in urine (Seller) 94, 97 — do., behaviour towards I'ehling's liquid for detecting sugar (Babo) . 94, 100 — do., absence of, in urine of yellow fever (Porcher) . _ . ' . 95,103 Aconite, cases of poisoning by . 433 Actinias, how they kill their prey (Waller) 104,100 Ad Airs, fractiu'e of neck of femur . 311,315 — lithotomy in children . _ _ . 295, 296 — separation of epiphysis of tibia and fibula 311,316 — surgical openings into knee-joint 312, 319 — foital auscultation . . 338 Adams and Wabd, strangulated inguinal hernia .... 288,291 Adder, poison of (Weston) . 104,105 Addison's disease (Wilks) . . 254 Addisos^ and Foestek, stricture of oDsopha- gus from corrosive fluid j gastrotomy 279, 280 Adipose tissue found in blood-stains (Robin) 428, 431 Aebt, symphysis pubis and ossification of cartilage. . . .4 — do. . . . . 14, 19 After-pains in parturition (Willis) . 385 Age, old, effect of, on the vital capacity (Geist) . . . .67 Ague, connection of heat of body with excretion of urea, &c., during (Ringer) 91, 99 — do. . . . . 141,177 — at Bodenwohr (Sc;hrainm) . 140,158 — at Lemberg (Uuchek) . . 140,15G — and phthisis, antagonism of (Green) 220, 225 — do. (Peacock) . . 220,227 .^JKEN, exostosis of the orbit . 327, 331 Air, introduction of^ into cellular tissue and peritoneum (Leconte) . . 77, 79 Air-passages . . . 281. Albert, fucus amylaceus . . 148 — defence of forensic physicians . 422, 424 — murder of a mother . . 425 Albinism in the equatorial regions (Dela- couse) .... 415, 418486 INDEX. Albumen, animal, digestion of (Arnold) 69, 72 — of cow's milk (Trommer) . 78, 81 — non-oxistence of, in normal urine (Bec- querel) .... 95,103 — action of pancreatic juice on (Keferstein) 68, 70 — imcertainty of chloroform in detecting (Becquerel) . , . 95,103 — inferiority of pyropliospboric acid as re- agent for (Gigon) . . 95,103 —vegetable, digestion of (Coopmanns)69 Albuminous bodies, digestion of, by pancreas (Corvisart) . . .69, 70 Albuminuria (Beckmann) . . 125 — as symptom of kidney disease (Parkes) 253, 258 — sulphate of quinine in (Anizon) 407,407 Alcohol, case of poisoning by . 433 Alcoholic intoxication, chronic (Marcet) 139,154 AiDEESON, acute purpura . . 266 AxEXANDEE, suppression of urine . 253, 257 Alimentary canal, peripheral ganglia in (Remak) . . .37, 46 AiisoN (Scott),intensification of sound 56, 57 Alkalies or acids in stomach disorders (WeUs) 237, 252 AUantoid fluids, composition of (Majewski) 78, 82 Allantoine, presence in the urine (Kohler) 94,101 Allarton's operation in lithotomy (Brown, Browne) .... 295, 296 — for foreign body in bladder (Browne) 295, 297 AiLiX, congenital hydrocephalus . 416, 421 Almeida, new stereoscope . . 55 Alonso, intra-uterine pregnancy of twenty- two months . . . 355,360 Althaus, medical electricity . 138,144 — action of electric current on the motor nerves and muscles . . 35, 45 — do. . . . 138,144 Alum in membranous angina (Loiseau) 219, 223 Amblaed, lactation . . 393 Ambeosoli, preserving anatomical prepara- tions by glycerin . . 2, 6 AiiELUNa, poisoning \vith sulphuretted hy- drogen .... 105, lio AiTMON, duties of mother . . 393, 394 Amnii {liquor) ... 78 Amnii, liquor, composition of (Majewski) 78, 82 Amnion, dropsy of (Ramsbotham) . 351, 352 Amputation . . . 276 Amputation, causes of death after (Burow) 276, 276 — by diaclasis (Maisonneuve) . 275, 275 — partial, of the hand (Burgess, Eager, Solly) .... 276, 277 — at carpo-raetacarpal articulation (Sedg- wick) .... 276, 277 I Amputation at shoulder-jomt, in e))ithcli:,: cancer (Flower) . , . 276, 27ii — do. in malignant tumoin (Johnson) . . . 276,277 — at hip-joint (Clement) . . 276, 277 — of right leg, in epitlielioma (Cock) 276 Anajmia idiopathica (Wilks) . 254 — lymphatica (Pavy) . . 251,261 Anasmic murmurs at apex of heart (Reid) 209, 211 Anccslhesia . . . 110 Anajsthesia, production of (Azam) . 181, 203 — local, by voltaic narcotism (Richardson, Waller) . . . 110,111-12 — and site of diseases of cerebrum (Turck) 181,197 — of the hysterical (Briquet) . 180,188 — of olfactory nerve (Franque) . 179,180 — painful, of fifth nerve (Barwinkel) 180,19:; Anffisthetics (Baehrens, Daub, Geutebruck) 111 Anaesthetic, carbonic acid gas as an (Herpin, Ozanam) .... Ill, 113 Anasarca of foetus (Clay) . . 414, 417 — renal (Fuller) . . . 255 — albuminous, tannin in (Gamier) 253, 256 Anatomical subjects, on preserving (Budge) 2, 6 — do. with gly- cerin (Ambrosoli) . . 2, 6 Anatomy, cyclopa;dia of (Todd) , 1, 5 — contributions to (Eckhard) . 1, 5 — relation to physiology and pathologv (Knox) . . . . 1 ■ — special . . . .1 — do. (Perrone) . . 2 — surgical, homolographical (Le Gendre) 1 — patliological (Wilks) . . 124,126 — topographical (Hyrtl) . . 1, 5 — do. from sections on frozen bo- dies (Le Gendre) . . 1 — comparative (Auzeux, Edwards) 2, 10 Ancelon, dysphagia . . 235 Ancelot, signs of life in new-bom infants 455, 457 Andeews, vaccine lymph . . 410 Aneurism, cases of (Reid, Robinson) 209, 216 — rupture of (Gairdner) . . 210 — axillary, deligation of subclavian (L. Clarke, Stanley) .... 306, 307 — of left carotid artery (Patterson) 306, 307 — of the cerebral vessels (GuU) . 180,196 — femoral, cured by pressure (Green) 306, 308 — of hepatic artery . • 211 — of the orbit (Vanzetti) . . 327, 330 — of ophthalmic artery; compression (Gioppi) 327, 330 — popliteal, treated by compression (Childs, Teale) .... 306, 308 — do. compres8ionandHgature(A\ ard) 307, 309 — do. treated by flexions and_oora- l)ression (Pemberton) . . 307,308INDEX. 487 Aneurism, popliteal, ligature of femoral ar- tery . . • • 307,309 — do. recovery without lignture(Bone) 30G, 308 — of thoracic aorta (Gairdner) . 210 — of descendiiif' thoracic aorta (Turner) 208, 211 Anffina, membranous, tannin and alnm in (Loiseau) . • • 219,223 — pectoris (Moorhead, Mushet) 209, 214-17 — pharvnsea of childhood (Wertheimer) ^ ^ ° 397,400 Animal fluids (Bernard) . . 3, 10 Animals, growth, &c., of, influence of Ught on (Beclard, DobeU) . • 117,120 Ais'izo^f, sulphate of quinine in albuminuria 407, 407 ANSELinEE, narrowing of vagina from cau- tery , . . • 381,383 — sore nipples . . • 383,384 Anthiar and anthiarine poisons (Pelikan) 105,109 Antiai-, upas (Koelliker) . . 448 Antimony, poisoning by (Lassaigne) 434, 434 Anus, anatomy of (Linhart) . 20 — prolapsus of (Guersant) . 405, 406 — do. strychnine in (Duchaussoy) 405 — atresia of (Priedlander, Krieger, Senft- leben) .... 415, 419 — artificial (Bezzonico) . . 288,291 — do. in new-born child (Littre)405 Aorta, abnormal (Panas) . . 27, 33 — ulceration of (TaUey) . . 209, 213 — thoracic, aneurism of (Gairdner) 210 — do. descending, aneurism of (Turner) 208, 211 Aortic branches, abnormal number of (Hyrtl) 27, 33 — system, increase of pressm-e in (Beck- mann) .... 125,132 Apoplexy, spontaneous and from injury (Wilks) .... 180,195 — of spinal cord (Duriau) . . 181, 201 — infantile (Wythes) . _ . 179,184 Appendix vermiformis, perforation of (Mer- tens) .... 405 ArpiA, siwgeon at the ambulance . 273, 274 AEAif, arsenious acid in chorea . 181,199 — statics of uterus . . 367, 369 — uterine diseases . . . 365 — caustic pencil in uterine affections 372, 375 — enemata in uterine catarrh . 372, 374 Aeata, tying of umbilical cord . 455, 457 AbnaIiLT. See Souel. KwsoiiD, human vital capacity . 67 — action of thoracic muscles in respiration 62, 66 — irritability of heart and other muscles 20, 22 — effect of food on the secretion of bile 83, 88 — digestion of animal albumen . 69, 72 — renal affections in scarlet fever . 407, 407 Arnold, physiological institution at Heidel- berg . ■ • -2 Arsenic, cases of poisoning by, analyses, &c. (Abegg, Blondlot, Christison, Huber, Odling, Orfila, &c.) . 434,435-6 — the Bradford poisonings by . 434, 435 Arsenious acid in treatment of chorea (Aran) 181,199 Ai'son, legal responsibility of persons accused of (Kiirner, &c.) . . 458 Arteries, sounds of, in health (Da Costa) 209, 213 — parts of nervous system regulating con- traction of ... 67 — rupture of membrane in (Wallmann) 427, 430 — do. internal and middle coats of (Scott) .... 25, 28 — common carotid, ligature of (Stanley) 306, 307 — cerebral, emboli in (Spring) . 180 — coronary, laceration of (Feigneaux)209, 218 — femoral, wound, &c. (Bulteel) . 307, 309 — iliac, ligature of (Meier) . 310, 313 — meningeal, perforating branches of (Hyrtl) 27, 33 — pulmonary, blowing-sound in (Da Costa) 209, 213 ■— do. congenital closure of (Meyer) 415, 418 — do. embolia of (Keyser) 220, 229 — do. embolic plugging of (Charcot) 385, 388 — do. occlusion after parturition (Mackinder) . . . 385,388 — right pulmonary, fibrinous concretion in (Keyser) .... 220, 225 — pyloric, death from erosion of (Ranking) 236, 248 — subclavian, abnormal distribution of (Fischer) . . .27, 33 — do. ligature in axillary aneurism (L. Clarke, Stanley) . 306,307-8 Aetmann, food . . . 462,462 AsCHE, function of the pneumogastric nerve 39 Ascites, oetiology of (Oppolzen) . 236, 246 — in new-born child (Virchow) . 414, 417 — recovery after paracentesis (Banks) 235, 240 — terminated by serous flow from the breasts (Kinn) .... 253,255 Asphyxia, M. Hall's method in (Pickford) 397, 400 AsSANiS, croup . . . 399 Assaults, immoral (Tardieu) . 452, 453 Assimilation, defective, in infants (Routli) 403, 405 Asthma, fctiology, &c. (Salter) 219-20, 222 — treatment (Salter) . . 220,226 — do. (Trousseau) . . 219,223 — do. by sedatives (Salter). 221, 232 — consequence's of (Salter) . 221, 232 — thymic, no such disease. . 127488 JNDEX, Asthuiu, thymic, (Scliottin) , 397, -lOO — Milliir'a (Phigge) . . 397, -100 Ataxie locomotriee progrcBsivo (Duclienne) . 181,200 Atcheelev, nitric acid in liooping-cough 399, 403 Atkins, ruptured uterus . . 342, 317 Atresia, congenital, of the face (Gressy) 415,419 — or anus (Ivnegor, Sonftlebcn) . 415, 419 — of uterus and vagina(RokitansIv.v)415, 419 Atrophy, acute, of tlie liver (Pleisdil) 254, 259 — progressive muscular, syphilitic (Uodet) 207,207 Atropine, poisoning by (Holthouse, Leistner, Seaton) .... 437, 438 Atjbeh, puerperal fever . . 386 ArBEHT, accommodation of the eye 51, 54 Auricle, right, rupture of (Cregeen) 209, 215 Auscultation, foetal (Adams, Frankenhauser) 338, 339 Austin, general paralysis . . 203 AuzEux, comparative anatomy and physio- logy . . , .2 AvELiNG, metal sutures . , 278,278 — rupture of uterus , , 342, 347 AzAM, production of anaesthesia . 181, 203 Eaaet, phlebothrombosis . . 385, 388 Babo and Meisskeb, behaviour of uric acid towards Pehling's liquid for detection of sugar .... 94,100 Bacon, elimination of lead from the system 269 Baehbens, ancesthetics . . Ill Bagot, laceration of perina;um . 381, 382 Bahe, accommodation of the eye . 51, 54 Bain, poisoning by chloroform . 439, 439 Baizeau, perforation of palatial vault 278, 279 Bakewell (H.), retroversion of uterus Bail. See Charcot. [342,345 Baxlabd, diphtheria . . 140,163 — light, cause of purident ophthalmia of infants .... 395, 397 — diseases of infants . . 403, 405 Ballot, epidemic jaundice . 254 Balneology, report on (Flechsig) . 264 Bambeeoeb, saccidar dilatation of bronchi 220 — reflex saltatory convulsions . 180,187 — variola in combination with other diseases 139,150 — do. combined with syphilis . 140,155 — perforation of vermiform apjjcndix 235, 243 Bang, forms of giddiness . . 179,186 — tuberculous meningitis . . 394, 396 Banks, ascites, recovery after paracentesis 235, 21« Barbot, typhoid fever in children. 413 Barclay, bloodletting in acute disease 139,145 Babclat, tapeworm from use of raw meat Babdeleben, influence of gastric juice on the transformation of «tarch into sugar „ , 69, 72 Bakenspuung, porngo decalvami . 264 -prurigo . . .265,268 Banum, chloride of, poisoning by (W'alslij , . 439,439 iUuKEn, liygiene of infants . 392, 394 — chronic laryngitis . . 281, 282 — vomiting in pregnancy . . 386, 390 — emanations from drains . 468, 468 — and Simon, diphtheria, tracheotomy' 281 283 Babkow, on male and female urethra 96, lot Harlow, heart disease . . 209 216 — enlargement of the heart . 209 217 Baenes, Royal Maternity Charity 364* " — obstruction by meconium . 405 MJ6 — placenta prajvia. . . .35]'352 — retroversion of gravid uterus . 341, 345 Baeozzi, eclampsia puerperalis . 385, 389 Barracks, mountain sites for, in hot climates (Milroy) .... 469, 470 Baeealieb, hydrochlorate of ammonia in nervous headache . . 180,192 Baetuez, chlorate of potash in croup 398* — injection of chlorate of soda . 148 Baeton, mammary tumour . 384 Baewell, nutrition, inflammation, and ulce- ration of articular cartilage . 14, 18 Baewinkel, painful anaesthesia of the fifth nerve .... 180,193 Basham, renal dropsy, suppurative form of morbus Brightii . . . 253, 258 — identity of scarlatinal dropsy with acute morbus Brightii . . . 259 — retroversion of uterus . . 342, 345 Basslinger, lacteals of birds . 74, 76 Baths, influence on the excretions . 264 — Driburg, in pregnancy . . 384, 387 — Tmijentine vapour, in gout, &c. (Macario) 269, 270 Batteries, eftects of difl'ereut (Rosenthal) 36, 40 Battey, vesico-vaginal fistula . 381, 382 Batty, stricture of oesophagus . 236, 250 Battye, on a sixth sense . . 58, 61 BArMGARTNEE, case of one eye regaining power of distinguisliing colours before tlie other . . . .52 Bazin, parasitic cutaneousafl'ections 409 Beale, urine, urinary deposits and calculi 91, 98 — blue deposit in tirinc . . 94 — urinary calculi, and dumb-bell crystals of oxalate of lime . . .91, 98 — straight vessels in the pyramids of tlie kidney . . . ' . 94, 98 Beau, hypertrophy of heart in pregnancy 209," 211 — papilla; of the tongue . . 58489 INDEX, Beau, hooping-cough . • 399, -103 — quinic intoxication in rheumatism 141, 174 — quinine in idiopathic peritonitis 236, 247 — powder of rue in metrorrhagia . 371, 374 Beatjvais, uva ursi in parturition . 302, 363 Becke, death hy chloroform . Ill Beckeh, cephalotripsia . . 356,361 Beckmann, experimental pathology 125 — pressure in aortic system and alhuminuria 125,132 — cardiac hypertrophy . . 125 Beclaed, influence of light on animals 117,120 Becquerel, non-existence of alhumen in normal urine . . .95,103 — dysmenorrhoea . . . 371 — peri-uterine hcematocele . 377 — chronic inflammation of uterus . 372, 375 — neuralgia of uterus . . 372,374 Beddoes, mortality in Australia and Eng- land .... 268,270 Beer, control over purity of (Krugelstein) 476, 477 Behiee, on dry cupping in typhoid 148 — Bottger's reagent for detecting sugar in diahetic urine . . . 125,133 — puerperal fever . . . 386, 391 Behe, fatal lesion of child in utero 455, 457 Behbend, belladonna in irritable bladder 254, 260 — cod-liver oil in chronic eczema . 409, 410 — chronic hoarseness of children . 398, 401 — spina bifida . . . 408 — do. cure by coUodium . 416, 420 — and Leiben, employment of sugar in diseases of infants . . 235, 240 Beins, action of galvanism . 36 Bell, position of child's head in labour 364 Belladonna, administration of (Fuller) 181 — in chronic diuresis (Willshire) . 253, 257 — in irritable bladder (Behrend) . 25-4, 260 — in involuntary evacuations of children (Bereioux) . . . 235,241 — protectiveagainstscarletfever (Morris) 409 — poisoning by . . . 437-8 Bellaspect, croup . . 399 Bendz, military ophthalmia in Danish army, 1851 . . . .325 Besnet, pneumonia in childhood . 399 Bennett, poisoning by strychnia . 446, 446 Bexvemsti, retrograde metamorphosis of sugar . . . . 82, 87 Benzoic acid, influence on. the metamorphosis of tissue (Kletzinsky) . . 95,103 Bebabd and Colin, extirpation of the pan- creas . . . . 69, 71 Behaud, termination of the longitudinal fibres of the rectum . . 20, 23 BEBCnox, yellow fever and marsh fevers 139, 147 Beecioux, belladonna in involuntary evacna- tions of children . , . 235, 241 Beecioux, belladonna in involuntary mictu- rition .... 407, 408 Beeend, iodine injections in bony changes 311, 317 Bebg, suicide in Sweden . . 451, 451 Beegeeon, ulcerative stomatitis of soldiers 230, 249 Beriberi (Heymann) . . 141,176 Beelin, cells containing blood-corpuscles 4 — striated muscular fibres. . 20 — structure of cerebral convolutions 37 Beenabd, animal fluids . . 3, 10 — nervous system . . . 35, 43 — intervertebral ganglia . . 39 — amount of electricity necessary to excite difierent tissues . . .36 — oxygeninthevenousbloodofglands77 — variation of colour in the venous blood of glands . . .77, 80 — do., influence of the nerves on . 77, 80 — dysphagia . . . 235 — fever, a nervous phenomenon . 269, 272 — on irritability . . . 36, 46 — superfcEtation . . . 414 Bernays, disinfection of the Thames 468, 469 Berthelot, transformation of sugar into "immediate principles" . . 82, 87 Beetin, syphilis in pregnant women 385, 388 Beetultjs, hepatitis . . 254, 260 — quinine in typhoid fever . 148 Betz, cauliflower excrescence of uterus 373, 375 — hypera'sthesia of rachitic children 395, 397 — intus-susception . . 236,245 — do. . . 286,287 Betzold, on urari . . . 448, 41-9 Bezold, chemistry of skeleton . 13, 16 — physiology of the heart's action 26, 31 — ci'ossingof nerve-fibres in the cord 38, 48 Bezzonico, artificial anus ; care . 288, 291 BiCH AT (Xavier) sequel to life of (Knox) 1 Bieebaum, encephalo-ha3matoma verum 400, 403 — diseases of kidneys . . 407, 407 BiGNAMi, eclampsia . . 385, 389 Bile, function of the . . 5 -— jiassage of substances from blood into (Hosier) . . . . S3, 88 — efffect of food on secretion of (Arnold) 83, 88 — analysis of eft'ect of food on . 88 — influence of mercury on secretion of (Scott) 253, 257 — of the shad-fish, analysis . 89 — of the whale (Schlossberger) . 83, 89 BiLLARD, mental state of A. S. . 459 BiLLi, twisting of cord . . 414,417 Billroth, on epithelium . . 4 — nerves of the intestines . . 37, 46 — gunshot wounds . . 273, 273 — ossification in exostoses. Sec. . 126-7 Biiicir, oxygen as a tlierapsutical agent 209, 272-190 INDEX. Birds, laoteals of (Basslinger) . 71, 7G BiEKETT, compound I'rncturo of skull 311, 31G — do. 42G, 429 — injury of tlio spino . . 3] ], 317 — new growths or tumours . 320, 320 BiKKNEU, influenco of tlie water in the nerves . . . . 35, 44 — poisoning of animals with phosphorus 444,445 liiKNBAUJr, angular cui-vature in lumbar region • . . . 841,314 — artificial premature labour . 354, 357 Births, plural (Spondli) . . 348,349 — prematm-e (Elsaosser) . . 453, 454 — unusual case of twins (Goldberg) 414 — triplets (Domerc, Elsiisser, Pennerley, Gasne, Marx) . . . 348,349 — fom- children at birth (Martin) 348, 349 BiSOHOFF, discom-se on Prof. Miiller 3 — diflerence between man and beast 2 Bishop, emphysema during labour 338, 340 Bi,ssiLL, inversion of uterus . 368, 371 Black, ovarian dropsy, iodine . 377, 379 Bladder, virinary (Barkow) . 96,104 — involuntary muscular tissue of (Ellis) 19, 21 Bladder, urina/ry, diseases, injuries, &c. 293, 298 Bladder, urinary, cancer of (Goodwin) 253, 258 — extrophia of (Eestin) . . 416 — injury of (Cusack) . . 299, 300 — inversion of (Voss) . . 294, 294 — irritable, belladonna in (Behrend) 254, 260 — prolapsus of mucous membrane of (Patron) 293, 293 — do. during labour (Carson, llams- botham) .... 341, 344 — ruptm-e of (Gillespie) . . 299, 299 — glass tube in (Coulsou, Cutler) 295, 297-8 — substances discharged from (Farre) 113,115 — puncture of, for retention of urine (Paget) 298, 299 — do. through rectum (Holt, Tatum) 298, 299 Blaie, vicarious menstriiatlon . 371, 373 Blandin, first dentition . . 404 Blease, post-partum hemorrhage 343 Bleeding from the ear in a child (Morvan) 395 — from lingual veins (Mertivier) . 235, 241 — in acute diseases (Barclay) . 139,145 — in diseases (Markhani) . . 138,144 — in acute hydrocephalus (Harvey) 395, 396 — and purging in hydrocephalus (Harvey) 180,191 — local, in pregTiancy (Silbert) . 362, 363 Blindness, colour (Horscliel) . 50, 52 BxOEFELD, state medicine at University of Kasan .... 463,464 BiONDEAU, cholera infantum . 404 — obstruction of urethra . . 301, 303 BLONDEL,publicassi8tanceinhygi&ne466, 466 BiONDLor, acid of gastric juice . 69, 71 Blondlot, artificial gastric fistula 69, 71 —analysisofarsonicMarsh'siiietliod 431, 435 Blood, experiments on (Browu-Sequard) 27, 32 — physiology of (Heidenhaiii) . 27, 3] — table of average quantity, in fish, aiiiplii bia, birds, and inaiumaliu , — chemical analysis (Ueusner) . 27 — difference between arterial and venous 'dz — absorption and exhalation of gases by (Fernet) . . . .02, (j'r, — cause of movement of (Gunning) 20, < — movement and stasis of (Gunning) 124,1'Z^ — retrograde movement in large veins neai- the heart (Busch) . . 26, 3ij — circulation of (Marey) . 26, 29 — do. hydraulic experiments (Marey) 26 — l)ressure of (Moilin) . 26 — passage of substances from, into the bili (Mosler) . . , . 83, 8b — relation to ozone (His) . . 27 — colour of (Brachet) . , 27 — colour of goat's, action of gases on (Chev- reul) . . . .27, 33 — venous, red colour of (Gluge) . 77, 80 — do. of glands, variation of colour in (Bernard) . . .77, 80 — do. influence of nerves on do. . 77, 80 — do. quantityofoxygenin(Bernard) 77 — carotid, temperature of (Ludwig) 78, 81 — indican in (Carter) . . 94, 97 — pathological variations of fibrin in (Par- chappe) .... 125,132 — initial phenomena of determination of (Ranzi) .... 124,130 — coagulation of (Lister) . . 25, 29 — do. (Hecht) . . 27 — vomiting of, from ulcers in duodenum (LUjeborn) . . . 236,247 Blood-corpuscles,numberof(Welcker) 27, 31 — cells containing (Berlin) . 4 — action of salts on (Botkin) . 26, 30 — red, influence on ozone (Schonbein) 27, 33 — white, in cachectic diseases (Gubler) 209, 216 —in the embryo, dividing of (Radlkofer) 4 — of cryptobranchus japonicus (Harting) 28, 34 Blood-crystals (Buchner) . . 28, 34 — formation of . . . 10 — forensic imi)ort (Bryck) . 427, 430 Blood-discs, granulated (Pollock) . 28, 34 Blood-glands ... 83 Blood-stains, microscopic character, &c. (Cou- Her, Choulette, Maschka, Robin) 427, 4-30-1 Blood-vessels ... 25 Blood-vessels,contractilityof(Vulpian)26, 30 — of the lung (Waters) . . 25, 28 Blood-vessels, wounds and diseases of 306 Blood-vessels, transverse wounds of (Savorv) 25, 28 — popliteal, rupture (Hawkins) . 307, 309 Blowing-sound in pulmonary arterv (Da Costa) .... 209, 213INDEX. 491 BLriTE, entozoa found in man . Ill ULriiLEiN, intention of wounding 421, 428 Blvth's transliitiou of Liebig on clieiiiistry 3 BOCHDAIEK, abnonnity of pulmonary veins 415, 418 BOECK, syphilization . • 141,177 Boecke:r,injuries; inabilitytowork 422, 424 — legal responsibility . _ . 458, 460 BoEFELD, vaccination or inoculation 480, 480 BoGG, spontaneous evolution . 348, 350 Bog GE, case of diphtheria 140,166 BoHM, bony nucleus in epiphysis of thigh- bone . . • 455,456 BoH?r, croup epidemic . . 398,401 Boils, treatment of (Durrant) . 264, 266 BoiXET, urethrotome . . 300,302 BoKAi, cephalo-hteinatomata . 400, 403 — pharyngeal abscess . . 404,406 — post-pharyngeal abscesses in children 235, 242 BoiMAPOZ-LAZEEMES, capiUary bronchitis 219, 222 Bone, formation of (Eainey) . 14, 18 — chemistry of (Bezold) . . 13, 16 — earthy constituents of young (Reckling- hausen) . . • . 13, 16 — development of (MuUer) . 13, 17 — nutrition of (Budge) . . 13, 16 — laws of the forms of (Fick) . 13, 16 — artificial production, by transplantation of periosteum (Oilier) . . 13, 15 Bones of the ear and membrana tympani (Bonnafont) . • .56, 57 — human lachrymal (Luschka) . 13, 16 — peculiar supra-scapular (Messer) 416, 421 — abnormal (Schwegel) . . 13, 17 Bones, diseases and injuries of . 310 — diseases of, in children . . 408 Bones, diseases requiring operation (Ham ilton) 310, 314 — rickety (Muller) . . 13, 17 Bone, popliteal aneurism, recovery without ligature .... 306, 308 BoxFiLS, oil of turpentine in puerperal affections . . _ . 387 BoNiEAS, spontaneous generation . 117 BoNKAFOXT, certain conditions of the ear and eye . . .56 — bones of the ear and membrana tympani 56, 57 BoJNEEijr, on passing electric currents through the nerve-centres . 36 BoxNET, diseases of joints . . 310, 314 — stretching and cauterization in inflamed joints . . . ■ 310,314 — cauterization in retroversion of uterus, 367, 369 — death after tracheotomy in croup 399 BoNOEDEJf, cure of prolapsus . 367, 370 BoREixi, contraction of fingers after injury of nervous filament . . 331," 334 BoTKiN, action of salts on living blood- corpuscles . . .26, 30 BoTTC'UEK, nutrition and decay of muscular fibres . . . . 20, 2^1 Bottger's reagent for detecting sugar in diabetic urine (Behier) . . 125,133 BoTTGEE, sugar in urine . . 254, 259 BoTTCHAEDAT, diabetes . . 254,263 BoucHTTT, ana3sthesia, symptom of croup 399, 402 — coryza of infants . . 398, 401 — mortality of croup in Paris . 398, 402 — tubage of larynx in croup . 398 — intermittent fever in childhood 413 — rachitis . . . 408 — and Empies, albuminuria in crotip 398, 402 BouDiN, deaths from diseases in Belgium 465 BouissoN,p\ilsating tumours of bone 310, 313 BoFEGADE, jerking respiration . 219, 224 BouEGTJiGNON, chorea . . 179,184 — glycerine ointment for the itch 264 Bottejeaud, mushroom pessary . 367 BouEsiEE, eclampsia . . 385, 389 BoUTiEE, diseases of organs of motion in children .... 408-9 BoTEEO, contractions of rectum resulting fj;pm syphilis . . . 237,250 BowMAN,medullarytumour of clavicle 310 Beachet, colour of the blood . 27 Beady, action of glonoine . 178,182 Brain, spinal cord, (^c, diseases of, in children 394 Brain, chemical composition (Muller) 83, 91 — connectivetissuein(Leubuscher) 124,127 — microscopic examination of, while fresh (Jacubowitsch) . . 37, 46 •— diseases of, treated by potass, iod. (Cold- stream) .... 181,198 — entozoon in (Brittan) . . 179,182 — parasites in (Davaine) . . 38 Beainaed, iodine in hydrocephalus 394, 396 Beajie, deaths from prussic acid 445, 446 Beanco, stricture of vagina . 341, 344 Beaun, induction oflabour by catgut 353, 356 — craniotomy . . . 355, 361 — hydi'orrhoea gravidarum . 385, 388 Beatjw and Beoees, ligature of limbs in intermittent fever . . 139,150 Bread, medico-legal inspection (Kriigelstein) 473, 473 — of quick-grass and potatoes . 473, 474 Breast, diseases of . , 383 Breast, removal of (Hess) . . 383, 384 BEEiTHAtJET, displacements of intestine cause of chronic constipation, &c. 235, 242 Breslau, Physiological Institute of (Reichert) 2 Beesiau, recto-vaginal abscess . 377 — vcsico-vaginal fistula . . 381, 382 — hypertrophy of nymphaj . 381, 382 — prolapsus from fibroid tumour of cervix 368 — ruptured perina3um . . 381 — scirrhus of uterus . . 373, 375 — toxic effects of coal gas . 385, 38941)2 INDEX. BiujSLATj. See Itumls. Briprht's disenao (Opi)olzc'r) . 254 — I'oi-iiis and stages of (Johnson) . 255 — two distinct conditions of kidney giving rise to (Dickinson) . . 253,25G — witli amyloid dogfueratioii of Mal])ighian bodies (Harris) , . . 255 — 8uppurativoornon.tubularforra(Hasl)an)) 253, 258 — synnttonuitic dropsy of (Roeser) 253, 259 — treatment of . . . 253, 259 — treatment recommended liy a Frcncli author .... 259 — permanent recovery in (Orr) . 251 BiiinjiEVUu, diflusion of gases through moist membranes . . 62, 64 BEp'TON, diseases of the stomach . 234, 237 — intestinal obstruction . . 235, 240 — digestion of protein substances by the pancreas . . . 09, 70 BBiQTJET,ana!sthesiaofthehystericall80,188 — hysterical convulsions . . 180, 194 — Faradization in lead colic . 180, 190 — do. in rheiunatism . 179, 183 — comnimiicability of thrush . 404, 406 BnisTOWE, diphtheria . . 140,171 BiUTTAN, entozoon iii the brain . 179,182 ]3noADBENT, abortion with albuminuria 385 — tracheotomy in croup . . 399, 402 Beoca (Paul), treatment of tetanus by ■woorara .... 101,108 — Pott's [spinal] disease . . 311, 317 Beock, diabetes mellitus . . 95 — See Hausmann. Beodhuest, division of tendon of rectus femoris .... 331, 333 Beoehs. See Bramo. Bronchi, saccular dilatation of (Bamberger) 220 l^ronchitis, its independence of pneumonia (Robin) .... 221,233 — fumigations in (Mandl) . 219, 224 — (capillary) liydrosulphurous vapours of Baths of Amelia (Bonafos-Lazermes) 219, 222 Bronchocele, serous; incision (Fergusson) 283, 285 Bhosius, uterine congestion . 372, 375 BEOTJGnTON, impalementof uterus in criminal abortion .... 455, 456 Beown, Allarton's operation for stone 295, 296 Bhown (I. B.) cases of ovariotomy 377, 379 — vesico-vaginal fistula . 380-1, 382 Beowke, lithotomy, Allarton's operation, 295, 296 — Allarton's operation for foreign bodv in the bladder . . . 295,'297 Bbown-Skquaed, physiology, &c., of the spinal cord . . .38 — cause of death after removal of the vital point . . . .38, d9 — influence of the lateral half of the spinal cord on the opposite side of Ihehecd 38 Bbown-Skqcaud, cases to disprove the cross- ing of nerve-fibres high iiithecord 38 —occurrence of epilepsy alter injury to the cord . . , . 'sg — rellex movements . . 38 — nervous system . . .35, 40 — influence of oxygen on nerve-substance 37, 18 — on tlie K])lunchnic nerves . 39, 50 — diminution or suspension of the heart'* action during forced inspiration . 26, .'io — experiments on the blood . 27, —blood of Im-ds injected into animals 27 — means of measuring tactile sensibility 59 — rigor mortis . . . 21- — on the supra-renal capsules . 83, 91 — See Smith BEfjCK, scrofulous affection of teeth 334, 3: — Driburg Baths in pregnancy . 384, 3h7 Beueoke, muscular fibrilla; . 20, 2 I — sugar in normal urine . . 95, IdL' — reduction of oxide of copper 1)y healtl, ui'ine . . . . 95, H i-' — glycosuria of lying-in women . 384, 3S7 Beugnoli, ileus,from adliesion of ileum \<< bladder do. 236,2).-. 286, 2b(j insane at 2on, 45 s 460, 466 310, 314 310, 314 311, 318 311, 317 Beu&noni, i-eport of asylum for Astino BETJNifEU, legal responsibility — dead-house at Volkach . Beyant, diseases of joints . — injuries of joints — do. — resection of head of humerus —misinterpreted symptoms of stone 295, 297 Betck, blood-crystals in forensic examina- tions for blood . . . 427, 430 BucHNEE, question of fatality of injuries 422, 424 — and SiMOK, blood-crystals . 28, 34 BUDD, hydatid cyst of liver, <S:c. . 253 — intestinal fever . .110 160,162,173 — primary cancerous tmnours, drainage in 221, 234 — poisoning by hydrochloric acid . 141, 441 BuDaE, preserving anatomical "subjects" 2, G — genito-spinal centre of the sympathetic 39 — second spinal centre of the sympathetic 39 — sensibility of the abdominal tranglia 30, 50 j — growth of muscles . . 19, 231 — structure of muscular fibres . 20 — and Leavison, nutrition of bone. 13, 161 — See Ileincke. Buhl, on neuromata . . 127.' BirnELKN, forced labour . . 355, 35S ■ Bui.atowics, ac^tion of the imeumogastric in vomiting . . 39, 48iINDEX. 493 BCLTJIY, aente larvns^itis . . 220, 227 — do. " 281,282 EuLTEEi,, wound of femoral ai-tovy 307, 309 Bi'iiDACii, on the external ear . 5(5, 58 — cure of I'acial neuralgia . 17!}, 185 BURDEL, gUicosuria in niarsb fevers 254, 263 BrEGESS, partial amputation of the hand 276, 277 BrRXS, arsenic in monorrhagia . 371, 374 BUEOW, deaths after amputation . 276, 276 BrscH, physiology of the digestive organs 69, 72 — loss of sensibility in transplanted skin 59 — retrograde movement of the blood in the large veins near the heart . 26, 30 — obstetric nialpraxis . . 4 28,431 BiTTiGNOT, laceration of perlnseiim during delivery .... 338,340 BtTTS. See Feigwattx. BxEBLET, stork's bill as a diiiretic. 258 Cabaeet, invagination of colon . 236, 245 — do. 286,287 C.Tcum, detachment of, from intus-susBception (Hennet) . . .236 — do. 286, 287 — invagination (M'Kidd) . . 286, 287 Cassarean section (Alonso, Duclos, Esterle, Galligani, Giordano, Groesbeck, Guillaume, Haftier, M'Clelland, Miu-phy, Pagen- stecher) . . . ' . 355,"360 Cahex, extra-wterine pregnancy . 341, 343 Cailiat, imperforate hymen . 381 Caili-al't, disease of skin in children 409 Calculous concretion lining the bladder (Wormald) . . . 295,297 C'alctilus, Uthotomii and lithoMti/ . 295 Calculi, urinary (Beale) . . 94, 98 — symptoms (Bryant, AVorniald) . 295, 297 — modern treatment . . 295,296 — large, from urethra (Heath) . 300, 302 — in vesico-vaginal hernia(Gendron) 298, 298 — formed round foreign bodies (Sautesson) 295, 298 — formed on slate pencil (Koberts) 295, 297 Calculus in women, operations for 298 Calculus in bladder of female (M'Ewen) 298, 298 CALTjBrncES, peristaltic movements of the digestive canal . . .20, 22 Callus, formation of (Gjor) . . 310, 815 Camps, hysteria, a mental and bodily disease 179,182 Cancer, statistics of (Sibley) . 141,177 — ofbladder and kidneys (Goodwin) 253, 258 — of the stomach (Coo'te) . . 269, 271 — of uterus andrectum (Mackenzie) 354, 358 — cncephaloid, of testicle retained in abdo- men (Johnson) . . . 255 epithelial, in cicatrix of bnm (Flower) 270, 276 — medullary, of wsophagns, producing peri- carditis and death (Firth) . 236, 249 Cancer, melanotic, diagnosis by urine (Eiselt) 139, 149 Cancerous tumours, effects in the chest (Budd) 221, 234 Cancrum oris (Ross) . . 404 Canton, digestive solution of oesophagus 237, 250 — traumatic tetanus; belladonna and chloro- form . . . .324 Capezztjoli, chemistry applied to medicine 3 Carbonaceous matter from nares and intes- tines (Gallwey) . . . 269, 271 Carbonic acid, expiration of (Meyer) 62, 65 — inhalation in granular pharyngitis (Wille- min) .... 220, 228 — introduction into cellular tissue (Leconte) 77, 79 — injection into uterus (Scanzoni) 372, 375 — gas, as an anaesthetic (Herpin, Ozanam) 111, 113 Cardiac valves, mechanism of (Riidinger) 26 Cardiac and renal diseases, connection be- tween (Traube) . . . 254, 262 Caries of os calcis (Stillman) . 312, 319 Carmine, colouring of tissues with (Wittich) 4 CabeondtjVillaeds, exophthalmos 326, 330 Caeson, prolapsus of bladder in labour 341 — iodide of potassium in hvdrocephalus 395, 397 Caetee, indican in the blood and urine 94, 97 Cartilage .... 14, Cartilage, ossification of (Aeby) . 4 — do. . . 14, 19 — changes in, in diseases of joints (Weber) 310, 314, — articular; nutrition, inflammation, &c. (Barwell) . . . 14, 18 — loose, from the knee-joint (Webb) 14, 18 — rib-, histology of (Frennd) . 14, 19 Caspek, handbook of legal medicine 422, 422 — legal questions on serious injuries 425 — criminal abortion . . 456 — insanity, various questions . 459 — poisoning by phosphorus . 444, 414 — cases of questionable sterility and impo- tence .... 453 — murder or suicide . . 451 451 Castration in ease of epilepsy (Holthouse) 304., 305 Cataract, artificial production of (Kohnhorn) 74, 77 — congenital (Moraud) . . 414 Catarrh of the stomach, with vomiting, cured by starch (Lehniann) . " . 235. 241 —vesical, cured l)y cold water (Hasse) 253 Catheterism of larynx (Gesenius) . 281, 281 CausIc, vaccination . . 480,481 Caustic pencil in uterine affections 872, 375 Cauterization in chorea (Hamon) . 181, 2014.94 INDEX. Cazenate, on tho urethra . . 96 — uterine polypi unci vcrsioas of uterus 3G8 — mental state of C. B. . . .158 Cellular pathology (Vircliow) . 8, 12 — tissue, introilnotion of air, oxygen, &e. (Lecontc) . . . 77, 79 Cells containing blood-corpuscles (Berlin) 4 Cephalo-liromatomata (Bierbauin, Bokai) 400,403 Cephalotripsy (Becker, Dubois, Richard, Schultze, Wolf) . . 350, 361-2 Cerebellum, structure of (Gerlach) 37, 4G — physiology of (Reuzi) . , 38, 49 — hicmorrhage into (Hillairet) . 182, 203 Cerebral symptoms (West) . 391 — convolutious, structure (Berlin) . 37 Cervix uteri in pregnancy (Duncan) 337, 338 — amputation (Charnal, Fano) . 373, 375 — do. (Huguier, Mayer) . 3G7,369 — cancerous (Fano) . . 373, 375 — carcinoma of (Splegelberg) . 342, 318 — ulceration of (M'Ruer) . . 373, 376 — rupture of (Ross) . . 342, 347 CnAiLLT, tracheotomy in croup . 399 Chajtceeel, hygiene of iiifants . 393, 394 Chancre, lectures on (Ricord) 321, 322-3 Change of type in disease (Kennedy) 139,145 Chapelle, oil of naphtha in tinea fiivosa 410 Chapin, mental disease from syphilitic in- fection .... 181,200 Chaplin, cerebral abscess . . 395 Chaecot, rupture of spleen in fa3tus 414, 417 — and Bail, embolic plugging of pulmonary artery .... 385,388 Chaeien, retrogression of labour . 338, 339 Charities, public (Blondel) . 466 Cecaenal, amputation of cervix uteri by ecraseur .... 373 Chauyeatj, murmurs in the vessels 209, 211 Chatanne, puerperal fever . 386, 391 Chavasse, poisoning by water from leaden cistern .... 268 — scarlet fever . . . 409 Chelidonium majus in itching eruptions 266 Chemistry, letters on (Liebig) . 3, 11 — for schools (Lardner) . . 3, 11 — of the skeleton (Bezold) . 13, 16 — applied to medicine (Capezzuoli) 3 — animal (Kletzinsky, Lehmann) 3, 11 CJiemi.Hry, 'pathological . . 133 Chest,aftectionsof,in children (Moore) 398,400 Chest-wovnch . . . 285 ChetaI/Lier, health of workmen in colours 471, 471 — on preserving food . . 474, 474 — plastered wine . . . 475, 47G CHEVENlN-CoNQlfEEET, impulse of the heart 25, 29 Chevillon, extra-uterine pregnancy 341, 343 CnEVEEUL, action of gases on the colour of goat's blood i t '27, 33 CiiEVEETJL, contrasts of colours . 52 Chiai'Elli, private hygiene . 4(53 Children, dineases of . . 392 Children, diseases oi"(Condie, Pollitzer, West) 392-3, 394, — do. semeiology (Herrmann, Mavr, Meigs) . , . . 393 ' — do. influence of sex on (Kuttner) 392 Children, hi/f/ibne, slatidics, Sfc. . 392 Children, hygiene of (Barker, Pollitzer, .Schreher, Streng) , 392-3,394 Children, diseases ofhrain, spinal cord, nervr s, and organs oj'senses , . ;j — diseases of organs of respiration and c,. culalion . . . 397 — diseases of organs of digestion and their appendages . . , 403 — diseases of kidneys and generative orgo r, t '\' 7 — diseases of hones and joints , A' ■ — diseases of skin and cellular tissue . A' ■ — dgscrasicB, tumours . . 4] : — malformations, Sfc. . . 41 Childs (B.) popliteal aneurism; compression 306, 308 — ovariotomy , ' . . 377,379 China,prcvalentdiseasesof(Rattray) 235, 240 Chlorate of potash (Fountain) . 269 Chloride of sodium in phthisis (Cotton) 220, 22o Chlorine inhalation in diphtheria . 240 \ Chloroform, uncertainty of, in detecting ' albumen (Becquerel) . . 95,103 ' — administration of (Todd) . Ill, 113 ' — as an anesthetic (Kirsten) . Ill j — danger of inhalation of (Martin) 180,190 ' — death by (Becke) . . Ill — death of limbs by its injection into arteries (Kussmaul) .. . 125,131 — &c., employment of, in midivifery 363 1 — in parturition (Kidd, Levy) 362, 362-3 — poisoning by (Bain) . . 439 Chlorosis (Reid) . . . 209,211 Cholera infantum (Blondeau, Hexamer, Schwartze, Smith) . 404,405-6 Chorda tympani (Zlemssen) . 39 Chorea, mental powers in, (Marcfe) 181, 200 — treatment (Bourguignon) . 179,184 — arsenious acid in (Aran) . 181,199 — aliqua plantago in (Hochstetter) 395 — cauterization in (Hamon) . 181, 201 — chloroform in (Grey) . . 395, 397 — tartar emetic in (Gillette) . 179,184 — do. . 395 — sulphate of zinc in (Stone) . 180,19 — during pregnancy (Spiegelberg) 385, 38 CnoTTLETTE and Muscultts, diagnosis 0 blood-stains . . 427,431 CiiEiSTisoN, poison in stomach in case of poisoning by arsenic . . 434,436 — Ciiinese i)oison, Wd-tsau . 449, 4 Chryptorchidism in man (Godard) . 301, 30 Chyle, quantity formed in a given tim (Schwarida) . . .74, m495 INDEX. Chyle, sugar in (Colin) . . 82, 85 Cliynie, regurgitation of, a symptom of a masked ague (Clemens) . . 235, 2i2 Cicatrix, painful (Hancock) . 276, 27G Cigars, poisoning hj arsenic in . 432 Circulation of the blood (Marey) . 2G, 29 — researches on (Pippinskold) . 25 — hydraulic experiments (Marey) . 26, 29 — etl'ectofthecolddoucheon(Flcury) 26, 30 — in fish (lleichert) . . 2 Circulation, organs of, diseases of, in cldldren 397 Circulatory system . . 208 Cirrhosis, anatomy of (Sappey) . 208, 211 CrriAiE, stricture of urethra . 300, 302 — internal urethrotomy . . 300, 302 C'lapakede, determination of the horopter 55 — the stereoscope . . .55 — action of woorara . . 105 CiAE, affections of lai'ge intestines in children 405 C'lABK, mucous disease of the colon 237, 252 — selenite as a febrifuge . . 140,155 Claeke (Le Gros), ligature of subclavian, in axillary aneurism . 306, 307-8 C'liAEUS, action of solanine and dvdcamara 141 CiAUDET, the stereomonoscope . 55 Claudius, organ of hearing in the whale 56, 58 CiAT, anasarca of foetus . . 414, 417 — liabihty to abortion . . 364 — ovarian cyst in pregnancy . 370, 378 Cleland, saccharated lime . 268 Clemens, abdominal merycism . 235, 242 Clement, tumour of thigh; amputation 276, 277 Clement-Laceoix, on hanging . 427, 429 Climates and their influence . 469 Climates, intertropical (Dutrouleau) 469, 469 — hot, influence on Europeans (Gestin) 125, 132 Clinical fragments (Hlrsch) . 125,136 Clots, formation ofj in venous system during life (Humphry) . . . 209, 214 Clubbing of finger-ends in thoracic disease (Ogle) .... 208, 210 Coagulation of Blood (Hecht) . 27 — do. (Lister) . 25, 29 Coca, medicinal virtues of (Montegazza) 269, 272 Cock, epithelioma; amputation . 276 Cockle, mitral-valve disease . 210, 218 COESFELD, artificial premature labour 354, 357 CoGHiLL, structure of nervous system at the periphery . . .35, 43 — irritable uterus . . . 372, 374 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 380, 382 CoHN, resuscitation of dried and apparently dead animals , . . 118 Coitus, illegal and unnatural . 452 CpLBY, physiology of larger intestines 69 Colchicine in gout (Gunsburg) . 139,150 Colchieum, as a poison . . 440 Cold afl'usion in narcotic poisoning (Jackson) 269, 271 Cold douche, effect on the circulation (Fleury) 26, .30 CoiDSTEEAM, iodide of potassium in diseases of brain .... 181,198 — do . . 395,397 Colic, hepatic (Trousseau) . . 254 Colic, lead, treated by Faradization (Briquet) 180,190 Colin, force of the heart . . 25, 29 — origin of sugar in chyle . 82, 85 — See Berard. CoLLiNGWOOD,microscope in medicine 3 CoLLis, cystic mammary tumour . 384 CoLLONGUES, dynamoscope in apparent death .... 481, 481 Colon, invagination of, in a child (Cabaret) 236, 245 — do. . . 286,287 — mucous disease of (Clark) . 237, 252 — transverse, intruded into the thorax (Flogel) . . . .210 Colour of the blood (Brachet) . 27 — red, of venous blood (Gluge) . 77, 80 — variation of, in venous blood of glands (Bernard) . . .77, 80 — of goat's blood, action of gases on (Chev- reul) .... 27, 33 Colom'-blindness (Herschel) . 50, 52 Colouring of tissues -with carmine (Wittich) 4 Colours, accidental (Seguin) . 52, 54 — complementary (Weicker) . 52 — distinguished by one eye before the other (Baumgartner) . . .52 — contrasts of (Chevreul) . . 52 — noxious, health of workmen in (Chevallier) 471 — copper, do. (Prosper) . 471 Coma, death from (Parkes) . 178 182 Comatula rosacea, embryogeny of (Thomson) n . 117,121 Compression, digital, in inflammation (Van- =^etti) .... 209, 215 — do. (Vauzetti) 274,275 CONUE, purulent ophthalmia . 326 CoNDiE, diseases of childi-en . 393 Conjunctiva, diseases of (Valentinij 325 Conjunctivitis (Stelhvag von Carion) 326 — diphtheritic (Graefe) . . 395 — purulent (Desmarres) . . 395 Constipation, from stricture of sigmoid flexure (Thompson) . . . 286,287 — chronic, from displacements of intestine m typhoid fever (Breithaupt) . 235, 2-12 — habitual, St. Germain tea in . 241 Consumption. See Phthisis. Contagion and Miasma . . 4.77 Contagion, genesis of, &c. (Guerdan, Hennicr- «°") • . . ,477,478496 INDKX. Contractility of tlio heart, its duration . after death (Vuli)iiiu) . . 125, 131 — of ureters (Vuliiiau) . . 96,101 Contraction of tinfjors after injury of nervous tilanient (Horolli) . . 331, 334 Convulsions, rcllcx saltatory (Banil)erf(er) 180,187 — rotatory (Miiicliiu) . .18], 202 — liystorioal (Hriqnpt) . .180, liH — hysterical iiuerperal (Ki(ld) . 178,182 — puerperal (Dupeau, Keen, Kidd, Overton, Ifamsbothani) , . 885-6, 389-90 — Hoe Eclampsia. Cooke, pregnancy during uterine phlebitis 387 COOPEH, wounds and injuries of the eye 325, 327 CoorMAUNS, digestion of vegetable albumen 69 CooTE (C. T.) cancer of the stomach, &c. 269, 271 — (H.) extravasation of urine . 298, 299 — necrosis of jaw from fumes of phosphorus 311, 316 Copper, oxide of, in healthy urine, on re- ducing (Bruecke) . 95,102 —- sulphate of, for exciting vomiting in croiTp (Missoux) . . . 221, 230 COQrEEEii, diphtherous larvce in frontal sinus 221, 230 CoRDiEE, spontaneous purulent ophthahnia 326 COEMAK, pulmonary consumption . 400 CoENER, separation of epiphysis of tibia and fibula . . . . 311,315 CoENOCHAN, division of superior maxillary nerve . . . .39 CoEBiGAN, pica, or dirt-eating, of children 236, 218 Corrosive sublimate, physiological action (Joseph) . . . 105,110 CoESON, management of shoulders in exami- nations of chest . . . 219, 224 CoETES, urethralgia . . 195 CoETiSAET, digestion of albuminous bodies by the pancreas . . 68-69, 70 — duodenal dyspepsia . . 235,243 Coryza, in infants (Bouchut, Meigs) 398,401 CosTES, emphysematous tumours on skiill 311, 316 CoSTETTi, military ophthalmia . 326 COSTILHES, chronic metritis . 373, 376 Cotton, chloride of sodium in phthisis 220, 226 — iodide of potassium in phthisis . 221, 234 CoTJLiEE, microscopic characters of blood- stains .... 427, 431 CoTTLSOlf, fibro-])la.stie tumours . 276, 277 — thermometer-tube from urinary bladder 295, 298 — wound of knee-joint . .312 Coup de soleil. See Snn-slroke. COTTTAEET, identity of blue and green co- louring of pus . t 134 Cox, impaction of small intestine with lum- '"••'•i .... 230,247 Cranial blood-swelling CRigby) . 400, 403 Craniotomy (Braun, Druitt, Oreenhalgh, JiCluuttnn, Mackcn/.ie, Simpson) 355, 358-9-61 — abolition of (Smith) . . 355, 36fJ Ceaven, excision of knee-joint . 312, 319 Creatine in urine of dog (liiebig) . 94,100 Cuede, artificial premature labmir 354, 357 CnKOEEN, rui)ture of right auricle 2fJ9, 215 CiiEQUV, croup and diphtheria . 398 CuEUTZ, paralysis of the muscles . 51 Ceistofoeis, subperiosteal pubic resection 356, 362 Croton oil in hydrocephalus (Watson) 180,188 — do. 394,396 Ceotjch, childbirth after ovariotomy 377, 379 CroudAEE, catalepsy from overdose of Indian hemp .... 440,4-10 Croup, anajsthesia a symptom (Bouchut) 399, 402 — cryptogamic nature (Demartis) . 399 — albuminuria in (Bouchut) . 398, 402 — mortality of, in Paris (Bouchut) 398, 402 — treatment of (Luzsinsky) . 220, 225 — do. (Assanis, Bellaspect, Bouchut, Crequy, Hauner, Kerli, Kortiini, Pudon, Trousseau, West) . 398-9,402 — topical treatment (Trousseau) . 219, 221 — catheterism of larynx in (Gros) . 398 — sulphate of copper in (Missoux) 221, 230 — glycerine in (Mayer) . . 399, 402 — iodide of potassium in (Luszinskv) 399 — tracheotomy in . . . 219, 223 — do. (Evans) . 221,231 — do. See Traclieoiomt/, Crusk, on saccharine urine . 95,102 Cryptobranchus Japonicus, blood-corpuscles bf(Harting) . . .28, 34 Crystals, formation of, in the blood 10 — See Blood-crystals. — dumb-bell, of oxalate of lime (Beale) 94, 98 Cummins, use of forceps . . 355, 359 CUPPAIDGE, occlusion of vagina . 341,314 CUBIE, motor branch of the lachrymal 37 CUELING, inguinal hernia in a female 288, 290 — acute periostitis . . 310, 312 — PirogofTs operation . . 276,278 — compound fi-acture of skull; trephine 311, 316 — cystic disease of testicle . 304, 305 Curvature, angular (Schreber) . 408, 409 do. in lumbar region (Birnbaum) 311. 34-1 CrsACK, injury of Ijladder . . 299. 300 Cutaneous si/xlem . • • 264 ^ CUTME, glass tube in bladder . 295, 297497 INDEX. Cyanosis (Fox) . . . 209,215 Cvuuric acid in urine of the dog (Liebig) 91; 100 Cysts, productioJi of walls of, round pus (Robin) ... . . 125, 131 — in the orbit, cured by iodine (Wordsworth) 327, 330 — of vagina (Ladreil) . .381,383 CzEHMAK, acconmiodation of the eye 51, 54 — influence of the nerves on the salivary se- cretion . . . . 78, 81 — larvngeal speculum . . 62, 67 — ' do. . . 126,137 Da Costa, blowing-sound in pulmonary artery in aflections of the lung . 209, 213 Dalton, human physiology . 1, 4 Daniell, suppurative iritis . 326, 330 Danielsen, syphilization . . 140,155 Danxenbeeg, spermatic stains . 427, 431 Dahien, abortive remedies . 455, 456 Darkness, influence of, on growth of animals (DobeU) .... 117,120 Daub, anassthetics . . . Ill Dataine, parasites in the brain . 38 Davet, disorganization of supra-renal cap- sules, without discoloration of skin 253, 255 Dayies (Eedfern) radical cure of hernia 289, 292 — femoral and ventral hernia radically cured 289, 292 Datis (Hall) ovarian gestation . 341, 343 Datt, electrical condition of the egg of the fowl .... 117,120 Dead bodies, physiognomy of (Hauska) 427, 429 Dead-house at Volkach (Brunner) 466 Death, doctrine of priority of (Kriigelstein) 427, 429 — from falling into boiling-pit of a distillery 427 Death of neto-bom chilcb-en, douhfful causes of ... . 455 Death, sudden, in infancy (West) . 398, 401 — by chloroform (Becke) . . Ill Death, appa/rent, inspection of the dead 481 Death, apparent, signs of (Collongues, Kos- chate) .... 481 —do., in animals; resuscitation (Cohn) 118 DEiiENHAir, inhaling steam by tracheoto- mized . . . ' . 220,225 Debout, umbilical hernia . . 416 — spina bifida . . . 416,420 Deoaisxe, metrorrhagia from fimgosities of uterus .... 371 Declat, hygiene of infancy . 392, 394 Deformities of the foot (Eulenberg) 408 Deglutition, difficult (Erichsen) . 279, 280 Delacotj R, monster " Peracephale" 415, 418 Dei.acouse, albinism in equatorial regions 415, 418 Delirium tremens . . . 180 — from cold and wet (Fox) . 179,183 — against opium and stjjnnlants in 188 Deloiie, blue ])us . . . 125,133 — painful fiat-foot . . 331, 333 Delvaux, ulcerative gingivitis . 404 Demaequat, contusion of urethra 301, 30.3 — See Leconte. Demaetis, cryptoeamic nature of croup 399 De Meeio, fungus of testis in syphilis 304, 305 — syphilitic gangrene of mouth . 278, 279 — fibroid tumour of OS uteri . 372, 375 De Moegan, tetanus . . 179,183 Dental surgery . . . 334 Dental surgery (Tomes) . . 334, 334 — tissues, formation of (Rainey) . 14 Dentition, fu-st (Blandin, Hannard, Stein- berger) .... 404 Desmaeees, purulent conjunctivitis 395 Destouches, incontinence of ui'ine in chil- dren .... 407 Development . . . 117 Development of animals, influence of light on (Dobell) . . . 117,120 — of the female pelvis (Duncan) . 117,121 DETEEaiE, chloriodide of merbury in acne rosacea .... 266 Dettile, ergot in partm-ition . 362, 363 Dezon, cold in vomiting in pregnancy 386, 390 Diabetes (Brock, Stadfeldt) . 95 — (Pavy) . . . .255 — origin of the sugar in (Eschricht) 82, 86 — lesions of nervous system producing (Pavy) . . . .82, 84 — hygienic treatment of (Bouchardat) 254, 262 — traumatic . . . 253,259 Diabetic sugar (M'Donnell) . 82, 84 Diaclasis, amputation by (Maisonneuve) 275, 275 Diagnosis, medical . . 125, 134 Diarrhoea of India and China (Donaldson) 237, 252 — severe, cured by sugar . . 2 JO — coetaneous with conception (Girdwood) 236, 248 — do. . 386,390 — of infants (Guerdan, Schulter) . 404 — do. use of raw meat in (Weisse) 236, 246 — do. . 405,406 Dickinson, conditions of kidney giving rise to Bright's disease . ' '. 253,256 Did AT, infantile syphilis . . 413, 4] 3 Dietetics .... 4(ji Dietetics (Ideler, Wittmaack) . 461, 461 — for children (Wittmaack) . 393 Dtetz, atresia uteri . . 367 DiEFLAFOT, inguinal hernia reduced "en masse" .... 288,291 Difference between man and animals (Bis- schoff) . . . .2 Digestion . . . . G8 Digestion (Plorent) . , 69, 72 — experiments on (Blondlot) . 69, 71 32498 INDEX. Digestion of nniiual albumen (Arnold) 09, 72 — of albuminous bodies by pancreas (Corvi- sart) . . . . 69, 70 — of vegetable albumen (Coopmanns) 69 Digestive canal, peristaltic movements of (Calliburces) . . ,20, 22 — organs, physiology of (Busch) . 09, 72 .'Diffexlive organs, diseases of, in children 403 Digestive system . , , 234 Digitalis in inflammation and pneumonia (Schneider) . . . 139, m7 DiphiDmctric (compass (Ogle) . 68, 00 Diphtheria (Ballard) , . 140,163 — (Hillier) . . . 234,239 ~ (May) .... 141,176 — (Smith, &c.) . . . 140,165 — lecture on, by Ranking . 151 — cases of (Bogge) . . 140,166 — do. (Bristowe) . . 140,171 — summary of cases (Houghton) . 140,159 — conclusions from tables of cases in ' Bri- tish Medical Journal' . . 158 — Report of 'Lancet' Commission on 139,152 — at Canterbury (Rigden) . 139,154 — at Crowle (Ellis) . . 139,154 — do. . . 141,177 — nature of the exudation in . 12 — parasitic nature of (Harley, Laycock) 114,117 — paralysis ; recovery (Ransome) 141,175 — of traumatic surfaces (Heyfelder) 139,150 — local treatment (Ramskiil) . 139,153 — tracheotomy (Barker) . . 281, 283 — sequelae of (Faure) . . 404, 406 — paralysis as sequela of (Eade) . 140,164 Diphtheritic exudation, inoculation of (Har- .ley) .... 235,242 Diplopia from a blow on the head (Pavkes) 178,182 Diseases affecting the general system 138 Diseases, simultaneous existence of two or more, from specific morbid poisons (Mur- chison) .... 140,166 — causation and prevention of (Pai-kin) 138,141 — statistics of mortality of . 465 Dislocation, congenital, of the hips (Voss) 294, 294 Dissection, manual of (Holden) . 1, 5 Distance between two pomts on the limb, eflect of practice in recognising (Volk- mann) .... 59, 61 — tactile recognition of (Wundt) . 59, 61 Distortion of features in infants (Kidd) 394, 396 Diuresis, chronic (Willshire) . 253, 257 Diuretics, action of vegetable (Hammond) 253, 255 Divorce, mental disease as reason for (Jessen) 422,4 24 Dix, renal and hepatic tumours . 2-10 Dixoy, diseases of the eye. , 325, 327 Doi)i!Li>, influence of white light, coloured rays, and (krkness, on growth of animals 117,120 Doio, cross presentotions . . 34S DoMiiuc, case of triplets . , 348 DoMMTis, skeleton of man, made by maggots and insects . . . 427 Donaldson, diarrhcea and dysentery of In- dia and China . . ' . 237,252 DONKIN, placenta prasvia . . 351, 35J Don, puerjieral fever . . 386, 391 DoKNBLUTii, senses . , 51 DoEScn, anomalous vena) cavse . 415, 418 Dove, binocular vision in calculating dis- tance . . . ,55 — essential oils in puerperal fever 387 DiiAOONET, mental condition of murderer 458 — See Eggs. Drainage in paracentesis for empyema (Good- fellow) .... 221,231 Drains, emanations from (Barker) . 468 Deittl, cystoid tumour of neck . 283, 284 Dropsy, symptomatic, of Bright's disease (Roeser).... 253, 259 — renal (Basham) . . . 253, 258 Druitt, ' Surgeon's Vade Mecum' 273, 273 — craniotomy . . . 356,301 — houses in relation to health . 269 DuBEN, microscope in clinical medicine 3 Dubois, cephalotripsy . . 356, 302 DuBOIS-BETlIO^^), animal electricity 36 — on the electrical shad-fish . 36 — polarization of porous electrolytes 36 —• do. dissimilar electrolytes 36 DuOHAtrssOT, strychnine in prolapsus ani in children .... 405 DucHEK, on ague at Lemberg . 140,156 — pericarditis . . . 209 DtrcHENKE," ataxic locomotrice progressive"' 181, 200 Dtjclos, Csesarean section . . 355, 360 Dtotenhopee, senses of educated people 51 DuEEESNE, discharge of blood and pus in liver into intestinal canal . 235, 213 DuiGAN, absence of vagina and uterus 307 Dulcamara, action of (Clarus) . 141 Dttmenh, paralysis of motor nerves of face, &c. . ■ . . . 181,195 DuMEEii,, organs of smelling, tasting, and hearing, in fish . . .58 Dttncan, development of the female pelvis 117,121 _ do. . 305,300 — malformation of urinary orgons 415, 410 — cervix uteri in jjregnancy . 337, 338 — vomiting of food . . 235,2)2 — W, Reid's trial for abortion . 455, 450 Dunn, statistics of midwifery jiractice 304 Duodenal dyspepsia (Corvisart) , 235, 243 Duodenum," perforating ulcers of (Wall- mann) , . . .236,248499 INDEX. DiKxlemini, ulceration of, causing iloath by erosion ot'pylovicartery (Ranking) 23G, 218 — vomiting of blood from ulcers in (Lilje- born) .... 236,247 DuPEAU, chloroform in puerperal convulsions 386, 389 DupoNCHEL, new system of water-closets 468, 468 DuPEi, cancerous pulmonary phthisis 219, 223 Dura mater, htematoma of (Schuberg) 181,197 DrHiAir, apoplexy of spinal cord . 181, 201 DUEEANT, treatment of boils . 264, 266 — functional affections of the heart 208 — partial paralysis . . 181,199 Dirscn, communication between the venti-i- cles . . . .28, 34 Dnst, influence of, on health of artisans (Vernois> . . . 472,472 Dtjteouieau, intertropical medical topo- graphy . . . 465-9,469 Dysentery of India and China (Donaldson) 237, 252 — acute, of China (Rattray) . 235, 240 — with aneurism of aorta (ThornhiU)237, 250 — coetaneous with conception (Girdwood) 236, 248 — do. . 386,390 Dysmenorrhoja (Becquerel) . 371 Dyspepsia, treatment of severe (Leared) 234, 239 — duodenal (Corvisart) . . 235, 243 Dysphagia, forms and treatment (Gunther, Habershon, &c.) . . . 235 Dystocia from size of foetus (Jacquemier) 349, 350 Dystrophy of children (Kuttner) . 404 Eade, paralysis as a sequela of diphtheria 140,164 Eagee, partial amputation of the hand 276, 277 Eagox, epilepsy succeeding menstrual sup- pression .... 371,373 55 58 58 57 Har, the Ear, the (Sturm) . . .57 — of the whale (Claudius) . 56, — the external (Unrdach) . . 56, — certain conditions of (Bonnafont) 56 — See Hearing. — bones of the (Bonnafont) . 56, „, — affections of, from scarlet fever (Volto- I'ni) • . . .395 -— bleeding from, inachild(Morvan) 395 Eaexshaw, mathematical theory of sound Easton, obstruction of bowels, and sterco- raceous vomiting . . 236,247 Ebba, iodine injections inspinabifida 416 Echinococci (Levison) . . 114 — reproduction of (Van Beneden) 114,116 Echinococcus fluid (ReckHngshauscn)125,133 Eckhaed, anatomy and physiology 1, 5 ECKHAED, the heart's action . 27, 31 — influence of the nerves on the salivary se- cretion . . . . 78, 81 — Electrical organ of the ray . 36 Eclampsia puerperalis (Barozzi, Bignami, Boursier, Paget, Pesch) . . 385, 389 — See Convulsions. jEcraseur .... 275 Ecraseur in operation for anal fistula (Quinlan) 275, 275 Eczema, cod-liver oil soap in (Behrend) 409, 410 Edwaeds, human horns . . 264 — (Milne) comparative anatomy and phy- siology . . . . 2, 10 Egg of the fowl, electrical condition (Davy) 117,120 Eggs (D') and Deagonet, mental state of a girl . . . .459 EnEMANX, monstrous foetus . 414, 416 EisELT, diagnosis of melanotic cancer by the mine .... 139, 149 Electrical condition of the egg of the fowl (Davy) .... 117, 120 Electrical current, action on the motor nerves and muscles (Althaus) . . 35, 45 — do. . 138,144 — passage of, through nerve-centres (Bon- nefin) . . . .36 •— eft'ects of a constant (Pfluger) . 35 Electrical organ of the ray (Eckhard) 36 — shad-flsh (Dubois-Reymond) , 36 — stimuli (Schifl') . . .35 Electricity, therapeutic uses . 180 — modes of applying (Stein) . 35 — locally applied (Lucius) . 35 — power of muscles over local action of (Kupfter) . . .20, 22 — amount necessary to excite different tissues (Bernard) . . .36 — pai-alysis of tongue cured by (Posner) 220, 225 — animal (Dubois-Reymond) . 36 — medical (Althaus) . , 138^ 144 Electro-physiology (Matteucci) . 36' — among the ancients (Linati) . 36 Electi-o-physiologicalexperiments(Eegnauld) 35 Electrolytes, polarization of (Dubois-Rey- mond) . . . .36 Elephantiasis of scrotum (Walton) 305, 306 Elkington, polypus of uterus . 372, 375 Ellis, involuntary muscular tissue of the bladder . . . . 19 21 — statistics of labour . , 364' — diphtheria at Crowle . . 139,154 — '^o- . . 141,177 Elsaessee, case of triplets , 348 — lying-in hospital at Stuttgart . 364 — premature births . . 453, 454 Emboli in the cerebral arteries (Spring) 180 Embryo, dividing of blood-corpuscles in (Radlkofer) . , , ^INDEX. 5U0 Embryogeny of comatuln rosacea; (Tlionmon) 117,121 Embryotomy (Levy) . . 35(i, 301 Kinphyscmiv durinj; liibour (IVishop) 338, 310 Kmpies. See Bouchvl. Empycm", terniinatiug by vicnriouB secretion (Moore) . . ' . . 221,230 — plnn ot'drainnge in paracentesis for (Good- fellow) .... 221,234 Ems, waters of (Spengel) . . 3 Enccphalocele, congenital (Vines) . 41.5,'120 Jindemic and epidemic dixeasen . 478 Endosmose, physiology of (Lndwig) 74 Endosmotic equivalent of peptone (Funke) 74, 76 Engeht, histology. . .3 Entopics (Jago) . . .50, 53 Entozoa, development of(Wagener) 114,117 — in man (Bluine) . . 114 — in the brain (Brittan) . . 179,182 — in the heart of the seal (Jolly) . 114,117 Epiglottis, instrument for examining (Price) 62 — lesions of (Green) . . 220, 224 Epilepsy, physiology of (Foville) . 88 — after injury to the cord (Bro^^^l-Sequard) 38 — tracheotomy in (Kiccard) . 179,185 — castration for (Holthouse) . 304, 305 — snnulated (,Schneider) . . 451, 452 Epiphyses, separation of (Klose) . 310, 312 do. . '108 ■— inflammation of (Gosselin) . 310, 312 — of tibia and fibula, separation of (Corner) 311. 315 _ do. (Adams) 311,316 JSpiJspadias . . • 294 Epithelioma of the eye (Sichel) . 325,327 — of right leg and tibia (Cock) . 276 Epithelium, on (Billroth) . • 'i" , Erectile organs of women (Ronget) 365, 365 Ergot of rye, noxious influence (Griepenkerl, Niemann) . . • 473,4 r4 — in parturition (Deville) . . 362, 363 EEIcnsEN, diflicult deglutition . 279, 280 — congenital hernia, with undescended testis 288, 290 — excision of the knee . . 312, 319 — strumous disease of knee-joint; excision 312, 318 — sacro-iliac disease . • 311, 318 — diseases of tarsus . • 312, 319 — tetanus . . ... 324,321 Erodium cicutarium as a diuretic . 258 Eruption, obstinate, cure<l liy vapour of heated w iiie (Ludkiewick) . 261, 266 Erythema nodosum (Mayr) . 410, 412 EscimiCHT, SCHAELIKG and HA^■^•oTER, on diabetes . . • . 82, 86 EsPTNE (Marc d') sternal fissure in M. Groux ^ 25, 29 EsTEKLE, Cajsarcan section . .^55, 360 — external tiirning . • SS't. 358 EsTEVEKET, fojcul fistula after operation for strangulated hernia . . 268,291 Ether, suli)liuri<-, death by . . 425, 42H Ei'M;xni:ii(i, ovarian cyst, &c. . 376, 378 — deformities of the foot . . ■108 — murder by criminal neglect . 42.5, '128 Evacuatidns, involuntary, of children, bella- donna in (Bercioux) . .235,21] Evans, retroversion of uterus . 342, 3J.> — (Conway) tracheotomy in croup 221, 231 — do. . 399,402 EvERSiiEB, arm ))resentation; sjwmtaneous expulsion . . , 348,319 Evolution, spontaneous (Bogg, Evershed, Madge, Metzler) • 318,349-50 Exanthemata, contagious,in Teheran (PoUak) 409 Excisifm of ankle-joint (Hancock). 312, 319 — of head of humerus (Brvant, Fergusson) 311,317 — of the knee-joint (Craven, Erichsen, I'er- gusson, Price, SoUv, Watson) 311-12, 318-19 — for disease of synovial membrane (Kinloch) 312, 319 — of the patella (Lister) . .312,319 — partial, of the hand (Coulson) . 276, 277 Excretion of solids by the lungs (Wiederhold) 62, C,i Exhalations, putrid, innocuousness of (Parkin) 138,111 Exomphalos of gravid uterus (Murrav) 385, 388 Exophthalmos (Carron du Yillarcb) 326,330 Exostosis of orbit (iUken) . . 327, 331 Extrophia of bladder (Bestin) . 416 JEi/e, ike .... 50 Eye, the (Kau, Sturm, Yallee) . 51 — certain conditions of (Bonnafont) 50 — appearance of light in (Wilhgen) 51, 51 — accommodation of (Aubert, Bahr, Czermak, Mannhart, Muller) . . 51, 51 — do. in fish (Manz) 52, 54 — do. secale cornutum in dis- turbance of ("SVillebrand) . 209, 211 — oblique ilhimination of, in diagnosis (Kiiclder) . . • 326,330 Eye, diseases and wounds of Hie . 32.5 Eye, diseases of (Dixon) . . 325, 327 — do. in India (Martin) . 325 — epithelioma of (Sichel) . . 325, 327 — wounds and iujiu-ies (Cooper) . 325, 327 Eyeball, paralvsis of muscles of (Ciraefe, "Schuft) . ■ . • -51 Eyelids, movements of (Henke) . 51, 51 — contagious disease of (Muller) . 325 F-VBER, vaccination in 1858 . -l^W, -ISO Facen, infantile meningitis . 395 F vGE, children's hosiiital, Christiania 391 Fallopian tubes, linoniorrhnge of (Puech) ii77,379 Fai,PET, alcoholic delirium . 1-58501 INDEX. Fa N O, amputation of cei'vix uteri for eari'l- iiouia .... 873, 375 - lacteal listula^ . . . 3S3, 384 Faradiisation in rlieiunatism (Brl(^uet) .179,183 — in lead colic (Briquet) . . 180,190 Fabke, substances dischargetl from bladder 113,115 — nitro-muriatic acid in gastric fever of children .... 105 )'"at, a normal element of supra-reual capsules (Vulpian) . . .83, 92 — excess ofj in human milk (fSchlossberger) 78, 81 — absorption of (Ilaidenhuin) . 71, 76 Fatty heart, diagnosis of (Kennedy) 209, 212 — liver and kidneys (Gluge) . 83, 87 Fauee, sequelaj of diphtheritis . 404,406 FArvEL. See Le Dihevder. Favus, report on (Hutchinson) . 264, 267 — do. . 410,412 FEcn^-I:E, muscular exercise . 20, 22 — eflect of practice in perfecting the sense of touch in the op])osite limb . 59, 61 Fehling's liquid for detection of sugar (Babo) 94,100 Feeling, sense of . . . 58 Feigxeaux and Buxs, laceration of coronary arteries .... 209, 218 Feit, public slaughterhouses . 467, 467 Femur, li-actured, in a child (Lawson) 310, 315 FE^'^-EB, vesico-vaginal Hstida . 380, 382 FE^^^-EE1ET, case of triplets . 348, 349 FEEaussojf, excision of head of humerus 311, 317 — excision of knee-joint . . 312, 319 — serous bronchocele ; incision . 283, 285 — ununited fracture of thigh . 310, 315 FEn>"ET, absorption and exhalation of gases by blood and saline solutions . 62, 65 Fever, clinical notes (Gaii-dner) . 140,161 — a nervous phenomenon (Bernard) 269, 272 — selenite in (Clark) . . 140,155 ^ village (Newham) . . 139,146 Fevers, continued, causes of (Mm-chison) 140,171 — do.,prevalencein 1858 (Murchison)139,154 — epidemic, at Windsor (Murchison) 140,171 — intermittent (Duchek) . . 140,156 — do. (Heidenhain) . 139,149 — do. (Schramm) . 140,158 — do. ill childhood (Bouchut) 413 — do. ligature of limbs in (Brauw) 139,150 - intestinal (Budd) . 140,162-175 do. contagious (Budd) . 140, 160 — marsh (Berchon) . . 139,147 — rheumatic (Wliitley) . . Ill, 174 — typhoid (Rostan) . . 139, 147 — yellow (Berchon) . . 139,' 147 — African, on Zambesi (Livingstone) Am, 470 Fibres, longitudinal, of rectum (Beraud) 20, 23 Fibrillic, muscular (Bruccke) . 20, 24 Fibrin, patli(jlogical variations of, in the blood (Parchappe) . . . 125,132 Ficic, human physiology . . 2 — form of bones . . .13, K? FxDDi;3, extirpation of tongue . 278, 27fl Fijrizio, artificial premature labour 354, 357 FiExn, medullary cancer of ojsopliagus 236, 249 FiscHEE, nature of rigor mortis . 21 — abnormal subclavian artery . 27, 33 Fish, circulation in (lleichert) . 2 — organs of smelling, tasting, and hearing, in (Dumeril) . . .58 — skeleton of (Huxley) . . 14, 17 — osseous, microscopic structure (Kolliker) 13, 15 Fissures in bones (Huber) . . 427, 429 Fissure, congenital, of right cheek (Ward) 278, 279 — of sternum, congenital (Moeller) 416 — sternal, in M. Groux (M. d'Espine) 25, 29 Fistula, gastric, artificial (Blondlot) 69, 71 — lacteal, treatment by compression (I'auo) 383, 381 — peruieal (Williamson) . . 301, 303 — recto-vaginal (Breslau) . . 377 — vesico-vaginal (Battey, Breslau, Brown, C'oghill, Fenner, Hergott, MacGhie, Mar- shall, Monnu, Kevins, Pollock, Simon, Tanner, Thorp, Watson) . 380-1, 381-2 FixsEN, on the frog's tongue . 27, 33 FiECHSiG-, contributions to balneology 264 Fleming, accident by Hghtning . 180,195 — severe dyspejisia, &c. . . 234', 239 — injuries and diseases of ui'inary organs 94, 98 — _ do. . 300,301 — turning v. craniotomy . . 355 — spinal curvatures . . 408 Fleuet, effect of the cold douche on the circulation . . .26, 30 Flint, heart-sounds, pneumonia . 221, 233 Flogel, pleuritic and pericardial exudation, >^'P- • . . .210 — supernumerary testicles . 414, 417 Florent, on digestion . . 69, 72 Flour, medico-legal inspection (Kriigelstein) 473, 473 I'LOUEENS, life and intelligence 2 — observations on the vital point . 38, 49 I'circulation nerveuse," recurrent sensi- bility in motor roots of spinal nerves 39 Flowek, epithelial cancer in cicatrix of burn; amputation . . 276, 276 —• fibrous tumour of scapula . 310, 313 Flu GEL, treatment of thrush . 404, 406 Fluids, animal (Bernard; . 3, 10 Faiius, general analomg and yhjsiologg 335 Fa3tus, premature respiration (Schwartz) 335, 33GINDltX. Pojtus, influence of parturition on (Schwartz) 335, 336 — anatomical relation with mother (Mi»df?e) 335, 335 Fatus, unusual conditions . . 318 FoBtus, einphj'semutous (Lizd) . 348 — hydrocephalic (Schultze) . 349,350 — pseudencephalic! (llouel) , 416, 420 Fcetm, malformations, Sfc, of . 414 Foetus in footu (Luschka) . . 414, 417 — spontaneous amputation in (Martin) 415, 418 — separation of two adherent (Eeiner) 414, 416 — acranial (Maclachlan) . . 415, 418 — monstrous (Ehrmann) . . 414, 416 — death in utero (Koeberlo) . 351, 353 — do. and retention of (Koch) . 349 — do. and absorption of (Fountain) 349, 350 — repeated death of (Maydell) . 385, 387 FoLWAECZNY. See Pleischl. FoMEEis.functionofthethyroidgland 84, 92 FoNSSAaMTES, hygiene of La Trappe, Bric- queber .... 465 Food .... 462,473 Food, treatise on (Artmann) . 462, 463 — guide to collection at S. Kensington (Lankester) . . .68 — popular treatise on (Moleschott) 69 — phosphates in (Sick) . . 95,102 — actionof,onresi)iration(E.Smith) 62, 65 — effect of, on secretion of bile (Arnold) 83, 88 — analysis of effect of, on bile . 88 — means of preserving (Chevallier) 474 — of young animals, earthy phosphates in (Lehmann) . . .69 — table of do. . . . 73 — inorganic (Lehmann) . . 69, 72 — animal, composition of, and relation to bread (GUbert) . . .68, 69 Foot, painful flat-foot (Delore) . 331, 333 Foramen ovale, patent, Ln the adult (Wall- mann) . . . . 27, 34 — do. . 209,217 Forceps, use of, in parturition (Cummins, Harper, Kirsteller, Priestley, Ramsbotham) 355, 359 FoEGET, cerebral rheumatism . 179,186 Foreign substances in the body . 268, 269 Form, laws of organic (Spencer) . 117,119 FoBSTEE, foreign body in trachea; tracheo- tomy .... 281, 283 — See Addison. Fossil mammals of Australia (Owen) 13, 15 Fossil marsupial carnivore skull (Owen) 13, 15 FotrcABT, placenta prajvia . . 351 FoucHEB, orbital tumour . . 326, 330 — sulphuric acid in cystic tumours 320, 321 Foundling institutions, mortality of infants in (Routh) . . . 406,466 Fountain, absorption of foetus . 349, 350 — chlorate of potash . . 269 Fotjekiee, waxy liver . . 254,259 FoviLLE, physiology of epilepsy . 38 — pneumonia of infants . . 399 Fox, identity of parasitic fungi of liuman surface . . . . 114,116 — delii'ium tremens from exposure to cold and wet .... 179,183 — cyanosis, and temporary basic systolic murmur .... 209, 215 Fractures of the skull . . 420, 428 — of skull, compound (Birkett, C'urlin;.'-, Lunn) .... 311,316 —compound, ofshoulder-joint(Skey) 311, 318 — radius and ulna, treatment by drilling and wiring (Sanborn) . . 311,315 — of femur in a child (Lawson) . 310, 315 — do., ununited (Fergusson) . 310, 315 — of neck of femur (Morgan) . 311, 315 — do. delayed union (Adams) . 311, 315 Feakk, facial neuralgia; cure by neurotomy 179,186 Feankenhausee, diagnostic sounds of the fa;tal heart . . . 338,339 Feanqtje (De) anaesthesia of the olfactory nerve .... 179,185 Feeund, histology of rib-cartilage 14, 19 — toxic effects of carbonic oxide gas in preg- nancy .... 385, 389 Feet, sketch of animal life . 2 Peiedbeeg, hare-lip . . 278,279 — muscular paralysis . . 207,208 — contractions of hip . . 408 Feiedingee, children's hospitals . 410 — conqjock lymph . . 410 FEiEDLANDEE,inversion of vagina,&c.415 Feiedleben, physiology of the thymus gland 84, 92,127 — thymus in health and disease . 397, 400 Feiedlinqee, syphilis in children. 413 Feitz, hydatid mole . . 351, 352 Frog, cutaneous pigmentary system of 7 — tongue of (Fixsen) . . 27, 33 — poisoned by animal exhalations (Vulpian) 105 FEOMMAirir, intus-susception . 236, 245 _ do. . 286,288 Fticiis, glucogenic function . 82 FuLXE 11, administration of belladonna 181 — renal anasarca . . • 25o Fumigations in bronchitis (Mandl) 219, 221^ Fungi. See Parasitic fungi. — of testis in syphilis (De Meric) . 304, 305 Fungoid productions in alkaline and albu- minous urine (Hassall) Funic souftlo (Schmitt) Punk, laryngeal si)eculum FuNKE, text-book of physiology — cutaneous jierspiration . — function of the pancreas — endosmotic equivalent of peptone — action of woorara, &c. . Gadeiac, impulse of the heart Gaillaed, prolapsus uteri; cauterization 308, 370 114,110 337, 339 126 2 77, 69, 74, 105 25, 10 78 71 76 29503 INDEX. Gaikd>"eh, aneurism of thoracic aorta, &c. 210 — fever .... 1-10,161 — on gout.... 139,149 — pericarditis . . . 208,210 — pleuritic efl'usion . . 221, 233 Gall-bladder, glands of (Luschka) . 83, 89 — function of mucous membrane of (Kemji) 83, 88 Gallaed, peri-uterine hffimatocele 377 Galiigani, Cesarean section . 355, 360 Gall-stones (Thudiclium) . . 254, 263 Gallwey, carbonaceous matter from nares and intestines . . . 269,271 Galvanic batteries, effects of ditl'erent (Rosen- thal) . . , .36, 46 — current, in paralysis agitans (Eeynolds) 181,199 Galvanism, action of, on nerves (Beins, Halle, Rousseau) . . . 36, 46 — introduction of substances into body by (Pelikan) . . . 111,113 Ganglia, abdominal, sensibility of (Budge) 39, 50 — cardiac, influence on the movements of the heart (Wittich) . . .27, 31 — peripheral, in alimentary canal (Remak) 37, 46 Gaxnal, hydropisine . . 125,133 Gaeniee, tannin in albuminous anasarca 253, 256 Gabeod, on gout . . . 138,142 — gouty inflammation . . 269 Gas, carbonic oxide, toxic effects during pregnancy (Preund) . . 385, 389 — coal, toxic effects on pregnant women (Breslau) . . . 385,389 — do., accidental death from . 467 Gases, absorption and exhalation ofj by blood and saline solutions (Fernet) . 62, 65 — diff'usion ofj through moist membranes (Brimmeyer) . . .62, 64 — action of, on colour of goat's blood (Chev- veul) . . . . 27, 33 Gasjje, insensible transpiration . 77 — case of tri])lets . . . 348, 349 Gastric juice, influence of, on transformation of starch into sugar (Bardeleben) 69, 72 — acid of (Blondlot) . . 69, 71 Gastric fever, nitro-muriatic acid in (Farre) 405 Ga.stric fistula, artificial (Blondlot) 69, 71 Gastritis, submucous (Wallman) . 235, 242 Gatjchet, tumours in pelvis . 377, 379 Gaultiek de Clauhey, appearance of arms charged with gun-cotton, &c. . 428, 431 Geisseee, ha;meralopia . . 326 Geist, efl'ect of old age on the vital capacity 67 — composition of urine . . 95 Gelmo, mciusles . , . 4io Gendeon, calculi in case of vcsico-vaginal liernia .... 298; 298 — dysphagia . . .235 Generation and development , 117 Generation, spontaneous (Bonifas) 117 Generation, organs of . . 93 — do. female, physiology and pathology . . . 365 — do. diseases of, in children 407 Generation, organs of, diseases of (Bierbaum) 407, 407 Genito-urinary organs . . 93 Geehaedt, dulness-area of the heart 125,135 — diseases of infancy . . 392 Geelach, histological researches . 4 — structure of the cerebellum . 37, 46 — on tactile papiUa3 . . 37, 47 Geemann, induction of labour . 354, 357 Gesenius, catheterism of larynx . 220 — do. . 281,281 Gestation, prolonged (Liegard) . 337, 338 — See Pregnancy. — ovarian (Davis) . . 341, 343 Gestin, influence of hot climates on Euro- peans .... 125,132 Geutebeuck, on ana;sthesia . Ill Giddiness (Bang) . . . 179,186 — nervous (Simon) . . 179,186 GiGON, inferiority of pyrophosphoric acid as reagent for albumen . . 95, 103 Gilbeet, composition of animal food 68, 69 Gillespie, hydrocele . . 304,306 — rupture of" bladder . .299,299 Gillette, tartar emetic in chorea 179,184 — do. 395 Gingivitis, ulcerative (Delvaux, Henriette) 404 GiNTEAC, relations of varicella, variola, and varioloid . . . 410,412 Gioppi, aneurism of ophthalmic artery 327, 330 Giordano, arti^cial premature labour 354, 357 — CsBsarean section . . 355, 360 GiEALDES, glandular organ in spermatic cord 96,104 Gieaud-Tetilon, theory of "relief in bino- cular vision . . .55 GiEOLAMi, insanity in the States of the Church 203, 205 GiEDWOOD, diarrhoea and dysentery coeta- neous with conception , . 236, 248 — do. . 386,390 Gjoe, nerve-disorders, from syphilis 179,187 — formation of caUus . . 310, 315 Glands, inorganic constituents of (Oidtmann) 83, 89-91 Glands, Mood- , . .83 Glands of the gall-bladder (Luschka) 83, 89 Glass tube in bladder of a boy (Cutler) 295, 297 Cilauconia; iridectomy (Jaeger) . 326, 329 (}lisuzyxski, placenta pra;via . 351, 351 Glonoine, medicinal action (Brady) 178,182 Glucogenicfunction(Fuclis,Morea"u) 82, 85 Glucose in the body (Poiseuille) . 82, 85INDKX. (llui'().snriii in uinrsh f'overs (Hurdol) 25 !•, 2(53 (iLUGK, on lutty liver niid kidneyx. 8;J, 87 Gltjok and TiiiJJitNKijeiL', red eolo'ur of voiious hlooA . . . . 77, 80 Glycerine, preserving anatomical preparations with (Anihrosoli) . . 2, 6 — in vuh ar hyperiBsthesia (Paupert) 381, 383 Glycerine ointment for the itch (Bourguignon) 264 Glycosuria of lying-in women (Brueke) 38 |., 387 GoDABD, monorchidiam and chryptorchidism 301, 305 — absence of testicle . . 415, 419 GODEFEOT, reposition of retroverted uterus 3J2, 345 — incision of os uteri . . 353.. 356 — artificial premature labour . 354', 357 GoDPHEY, internal uterine hoemorrhage 342 GoLDBEEG, case of twins . . 414 •— question of paternity , . 452, 453 GooCH, diseases of women . . 365, 366 GooDFELLOW, drainage in empyema 221, 234 Goodwin, liajuiaturia, cancer of bladder, &c. 253, 258 GossELi>%infiammation of epiphyses 310, 312 Gout(Garrod) . . . 138,142 — treatment of (Gairdner) . 139,149 — colchicine in (Gunsburg) . 139,150 — rheumatic (Garrod) . . 138, 142 Gouty inflammation (Garrod) . 269 GouTAT, rachitis . . . 408 Geabbashee, poisoning by arsenic 450 Geadektvitz, contraction of oesophagus 236, 244 Gbaeee, derangement of mutual vision 55 — paralysis of the muscles of the eyeball 51 — diphtheritic conjunctivitis . 395 GkAND-Clement, juice of chelidonium majus in itching eruptions . . 266 Geatiolet. See Leuret. Gbeates, procidentia uteri . 368, 370 — retroversion of gravid uterus . 341, 345 Geeen, antagonism of ague and ijhthisis 220, 225 — femoral aneurism cured by pressure 306, 308 — lesions of epiglottis . • 220, 224 GREENHALon, craniotomy . 355,361 Greenwood, Amos, case of his imjust convic- tion for rape . . . 454 Gbensee, Dresden Lying-in Hospital 364 Gresst, imperforations of face . 415, 419 Ghet, chloroform in chorea . 395, 397 (4niEPENKEKE, ergot of rye . 473, 474 Griesingek, injection of nitrate of silver solution into the bronchi . 219, 224 Geimsiiaw, lectures on dental sm-gcry 334 (iHOENnfOEK, avtiticiul i)re)nature labour 351, 357 GUOEBBECK, Ca»surean section . 355, 3()U Guori,catheterisni of larynx incrouji 3'.l8 Groux (M.), sternal iisHure in (D'Ksijinc, ■i-), 29 light on 117, 120 320 1 iO, 102 410 Ituhle) Growth of uniuialu, influence of (Dobell) OrowUm, new, and cysts Ghubeu, mercury in Byphiliu — See Wenzcl. GuuNDEK, vaccination Guanin in jiancreas of the ox (Scherer) 81, 93 — transformation into xanthic oxide (Strecker) . . . 81, 93 GuBLEE, white blood-corpuscles in caclicctic diseases . . . 209,216 — alternating palsies . . 181,195 — thrush .... -101, 106 GuEEAED, nosological statistics of deaths 405 — explosions of water apparatus for heat- ing ... . 467, ■1(;7 GrERDAN, genesis of contagions . 177, 478 — diarrhcea in children . . 101 — premature labour, a substitute for cranio- tomy .... 354, 3.50 Gtjersant,prolapsus ani inchildi-en -10.5, 106 GuEETiN, normal rajjidity of the pulse 20 GuiET, pernicious fever In childi'en 139,110 GuiLEAUJiE, Ca;sarean section . 355, 360 GurtiOT, development of the teeth 11, 19 GtriL, aneurism of cerebral vessels 180, 190 — diseases in mediastinum, &c. . 221, 234 — factitious urticaria . . 265,268 GiiNKEL, analysis for picrotoxine in poison- ing .... 445, 4-15 Gtjnning, cause of the movement of the blood do. GuNSBtTEG, colchicine in gout — dysphagia — epidemics of measles GuNTER, cases in ' Pitha's Clinic' GuKxnEE, dysphagia Gyyomar, contagious ophthaluiia; — contagious inflammations of the urethra 325 26, 30 121,128 139,150 235 410, 411 320, 321 235 325 Habee, action of woorara on the nerves 105,109 Habeeshon, &c., on dysphagia . 235 — pain as sign of disease of the stomach 237, 251 — malposition of abdominal viscera 237, 251 Habit, Obstetric Clinic, Vienna . 361 Hadawat, stillborn children . 361 Hajmadynamometer(Kedtenbacher) 26, 29 Ha!matemesis from varices in a'sojihagus (Le Diberder) . . • 235,244 Ha-matine, diagnosis of (Heller) . 427, 430 Hamatocele, peri-uterine (Becquerel, Gallard, Nonat) . . . .377INDEX. 505 Hfpuiatoeele, retro-uterine (Mahu, Trousseau, Voisin) . . . 377,379-80 llaJHiatouiii of dura mater (Schuberg) 181,197 Hx'uiaturia (Goodwin) . . 253, 258 Hwmeralopia (Geissler) . . 336 Hoimoptysis in case of aneurism of thoracic aorta (Gairdner) . . 210 Hoemorrhage from tonsil (Stanley) 306, 307 — do. arrested by per- cliloride of iron (Thompson) . 278,279 — u\to cerebellum (Hillairet) . 182, 208 — intraocular, after cataract extraction (Hildige) . . . 326,329 — from clitoris during labour (Klaprotli) 342 — post-partum (Blease, Lyall, Purefoy) 342, 347-8 — uterine (Godfrey, Plagge) . 312 — do. after delivery (Kunkler) 385 — do. digitalis in (Trousseau) 371, 373 Ha3morrhoids, internal (Tilt) . 373, 376 Ha^jteh, Csesarean section; child saved 355, 360 — fractiu-e of the skull . . 426, 428 — l)oisoning by arsenic . . 158 — dysphagia . . . 235 Haidexhaiu, absorption of fat . 74, 76 — on urari . . . 448,449 Halle, action of galvanism on motor nerves 36 IIallwachs, origin of hippm-ic acid in urine of herbivora . . . 94,100 — transit of succinic acid into the lu-ine 94, 100 — See Keferstein. Hamekxik, anatomy, &c., of the heart 28 — heart and its motion . . 125,134 Hamilton, diseases of bones; operation 310, 314 Hammokd, excretion of phosphoric acid 95,102 — vegetable diuretics . . 253,255 Hamox, cauterization in chorea . 181, 20l — hydatid mole, with albuminuria 351, 352 HA2fC0CK, painful cicatrix-and irritable stump 276, 276 — excision of ankle-joint . 312, 319-20 — gonorrha-al ophthalmia . 326, 327 Hancox, tubal pregnancy . . 340 Hand, partial amputation of (Uurgess, Eager, Solly) .... 276,277 — partial resection (Coulson) . 276, 277 Hanemann, artificial premature labour 354 Hanging, medico-legal view of (Clement- Lacroix) . , . 427,429 Haxnahd, first dentition . 404 Hannovek. See EschricM. — hospital statistics . . 2, 10 Hansen, ophthalmoscope . . 51 Hardy, treatment of purpura hiemorrhagica by tincture of larch bark . 139,144 — dp. . '109 uterine polypus . . 372,375 Habdy, diseases of the skin . 409 Hare-lip (Friedberg) . . 278,279 Haeless, importance of the nerve-sheath 35 — molecular changes in nerve-substance 35, 45 Haeley (Dr. G.) report on the institutes of medicine . . . 1-123 — parasitic nature of diphtheria . 114,117 -- inoculation with diphtheritic exudation 235, 242 — tubal pregnancy . . 340, 343 — treatment of tetanus by woorara poison 104,106 HABPEE,morefreqnentuseofforcei)s 355, 359 Haheinsox, cases in obstetrics . 364 Haeeis, morbus Brightii, with amyloid de- generation of Malpighian bodies 255 HAETIN&, construction and application of the microscope . . .3 — blood-corpuscles of the cryptobranchus japonicus . . , 28, 34 Haetuxg, ]iouch of the sac in strangulated inguinal hernia . . . 289, 292 Haetey', bleeding and pin-ging in acute hydrocephalus . . . 180,191 — do. . . 395,396 — stearrhcea nigricans . . 264, 265 — transmission of syphilis from male to female parent . " . . 365,366 Haschisch, poisoning by (Croudare, SchrofT) 440, 440 Hassall, m-lne in health and disease 93, lOG — fungoid production in alkaline and albu- minous urine . . . 114,116 Hasse, vesical catarrh, cured by cold water 253 Hassixg, mucous tubercles . 141,176 Haughtox, natural constants of healthy urine . . . .93, 97 — table of specific gravity of urine 97 Hauxek, Cliildren's Hospital, Mimich 39-1. — croup . . . .399 — Dr. Luszinsky on croup . 398 HArsKA, on ravisliing . . 452,453 — physiognomy of dead bodies . 427, 429 Hausmank and Beock, induction of labour by Cohen's method . . 354, 356 Hawkins, rupture of popliteal vessels ^ 307,309 Mead and neck, malformations, i^'c. 278 Head, injm-ies of (Murney) . 311, 316 — lesions of (Ilafner, Kurner, Maschka, ^^otl') • • . 426,128 — blow on, followed by cerebral symjjtoms (Parkes) .... 173^ Headache, consensual (Henoch) . 181, 201 — nervous, treated by hvdroclilorate of am- monia (Barralier) " . . 180,192 IIeale, vital causes . . 2 Health, houses in relaticn to (Druitt) IT ■ -'59 Jiearinr/, sch?? of ... 55506 INDEX. Hearing, i)liysiolopry of (Moorhead) 55, 56 — organn of, in lisli (l)unieril) 58 — do. in the vvliale (Claudius) 56, 58 — See Ear. Heart • • • . 83 Heart, anatomy, &c. (Hamernik) . 28 — action of the (Bezold) . . 26, 31 — do. (Eclduwd) . 27, 31 — do. (Hamernik) . 125,131 — do. influence of cardiac Ranirlin ou(Wittich) . . . 27, 31 — do., influence of on (Pfluger) 27^ 31 — do., diminution of, during forced iuHpira- tion (Brown-Sd(iuiird) . . 20, 30 — do., dui-ation after death (Vulpian)26, 29 — do. do. 125,131 — impulse of the (Chevenin - Conqueret, Colin, Gabriac) . . .25, 29 — sounds of, in health and disease (Flint) 221, 233 — do., foetal (Adams, Prankenhauser) 338, 339 — dulness-area of (Gerhardt) . 125,135 — valves of (Joseph) . . 83, 91 — disease of (Barlow) . . 209,216 — do., influence of deep respiration on (Piorry) .... 125,136 — functional affection (Durrant) . 208 — enlargement of (Barlow) . 209, 217 — hypertrophy of, during pregnancy (Beau) 209, 211 — normal hypertrophy, in pregnancy (Lar- cher) .... 385,388 — irritability of (Arnold) . . 20, 23 — laceration of coronary arteries of (Feign- eau.x) .... 209,218 — rupture of (Feigneaux). . 209, 218 — do. (Markham) . . 208,210 — fatty, diagnosis of (Kennedy) . 209, 212 — and kidney, connection between diseases of (Traube) . . . 254,262 Heat-apoplexy (Longmore) . 179,185 — do. (Martin) . . 182,190 — of the body, connection vnih. excretion of urea, &c., during ague (Ringer) . 94, 99 — do. . 141 Hbath, strangulated umbilical hernia 288, 290 — calculus from urethra . . 300, 303 Heckee, diagnosis of pregnancy . 337, 338 — artificial prematm'e labour . 354, 357 — tubal pregnancy . .118,123 — and KiFEELE, retroversion of gravid uterus .... 341,344 Hecht, coagulation of the blood . 27 Heibebg, ojjerated valgus pedis . 331, 333 Heidelberg University, Physiological Insti- tution of (Arnold) . . 2 HEroENHAiN, physiology of the blood 27, 31 — intermittent fever . . 139,149 — mechanical tctanomoter . 35, 44 Heincke and Budge, irritability of muscles, and its relation to rigor mortis . 24 Heinejiaku, pneumogastric nerve 39, 50 HEr.LEn, examinations of urine . 17] — sinmlated adulterations of ui-ine 451, 4.01 — luematine . . , 427,430 Helmjioi.tz, telestereoscope . 55 Homicrania (Merz) . . I7y, Hemiplegia, alternating, from atlections u\' the iwns ((iubler) . . 181,11)5 — syphilitic right (Ilobert) . 180,193 Henueuson, moveable kidney in spinal dis- ease .... 254 Henke, movements of the eyelids . 51, 51 — contractions of the tarsus 331, 332-3 Henle, text-book on the muscles . 20, 23 Hennet, detachment of CKCum in conse- quence of intus-susception . 236 — exfoliation of ceccal end of large gut 286, 287 Henmgsox, contagiosity . , 477,47s Hexoch, consensual headache . 181, 201 Hexeiexte, ulcerative gingivitis . 404 Heney, urethrotomy for impacted calculus 301, 303 — (0.) mineral waters . .477,477 Henson (S.) imperforate hymen , 381, 3b:i Hepatitis (Bertulus) . . 254, 26u Heeaed, dangerous jaundice . 253, 257 Heegott, vesico-vaginal fistula . 381 — ovarrotomy . . , 376,378 — obstinate vomiting in pregnancy 386 Heeemaiji.-, physiognomy of sick children 393 Hernia .... 28S Hernia, congenital, with undescended testis (Erichsen) . . . 288,290 — resection of omentum in (Paupert) 288, 289 — radical cure (Davies) . . 289 — do. (Lister) . . 289 — crural, through Gimbernat's ligament (Legendre) . . . 288,291 — diaphragmatic, in infant (Widerhofer) 416, 421 — femoral and ventral (Davies) . 289 — inguinal, reduced " en masse" (Dieulafov) 288, 291 — do. caused by assault (Maschka) 426 — do. direct, in female (Curling) 283, 290 — scrotal, a second sac (Perrin) . 289 — umbilical, of gravid uterus (Murray) 385, 383 — do. in foetus (Messer) . 416,421 — do. congenital (Debout) . 416 — strangulated (James) . . 288, 289 — do. in an infant (Ravoth) 288, 290 ,— do. fa;cal fistula after operation (Estevenet) . . .288,291 — do. crural (Schmidt) . 288,291 — do. inguinal (Adams) . 288,291 — do. do. in female (JIusset) 2«8. 290 — do. do. pouch of the sac (Hartung) . . .289 1 — do. do. (Heath) . 288,290,INDEX. 507 Heepiu, carbonic acid gas as an anoesthetic 111, 113 — salinum palustve in epilepsy . 197 Hekscudl, colour-bliudiiess . 50, 52 IIeslop, cerebro-spinal symptomatology of worms . . . • 236,248 Hess, removal of breast . . 383, 384 Heusneh, chemical analysis of the blood 27 Hewit, high operation for stone . 295, 297 Hewitt (Dr. Graily) report on midwifery and diseases of women and children 335-421 Hewitt (GraUy) hydatiditbrm or vesicular mole .... 351, 352 — relation of di'opsy and scarlet fever 409 — ovarian or abdominal sound . 377, 379 Hewson, nocturnal incontinence of urine in chilcb-en .... 253, 255 Hexameh, cholera infantum . 404 Heiteeldee, diphtheritis of traumatic sur- laccs .... 139,150 HEYMAior, beriberi . . 141,176 HEYXSirs, uraemic poisoning . 96,104 Hice:s (B.) tests for the kiesteine of preg- nancy .... 94, 98 — do. . 337, 339 — ruptured uterus during parturition 342, 347 Hildi&e, intraocular haemorrhage from operation for cataract . . 326, 329 Hillaieet, dysphagia . . 235 — hajmorrhage into the cerebellum 182, 203 — and Ltjts, interesting nerve affections 181,198 Hilliee, Diphtherite . . 234,239 Hi>^ds, paraplegia in relation to renal dis- eases .... 253, 258 Hip, contraction of (Friedberg) . 408 •— congenital dislocation (Voss) . 294, 294 Hip-joint, congenital luxation (Jagielski) 415 — excision in caries of . . 408 Hip-bath (Sack) . . . 372,375 Hippurio acid in man (Mack, Weissmami) 94,100 — in urine of herbivora (HaUwachs, Weiss- mann) .... 94,100 HiESCU, clinical fragments . 125,136 His, relations of ozone and blood . 27 Histological researches (Gerlach) . 4 Histology (Engert) . . 3 — human (Kolliker) . . 3, 12 Hoarseness, chronic, of children (Behrend) 398,401 HocnsTETTEE, aliqua plantago in epilepsy 395 lIODaE, hydrarthrosis of knee-joint 312 HoDSON, chlorine inhalation in diphtheria 210 Hoffmann, on insanity and epilepsy in Frankfort Asylum . . 203,206 Hofjiann, re])ly to Buchner's question on fatality of injuries . . 422, 421. — mental condition of persons committing arson .... 458 Hofmann, sewage . . 468,468 Hogg, vegetable parasites of skin . 113,116 Holden, manual of dissection . 1, 5 Holl, hooping-cough . . 219,222 Hoist, pregnancy, case of uterus bilocularis 342, 348 Holt, puncture of bladder through rectum 298, 299 — polycystic ovarian tumour . 377, 379 HoLTHorrsE, epilepsy; castration . 304, 305 — poisoning by atropine . . 437, 437 HoLZBEECK, diseases of printers . 471 HooKEE, division of popliteal nerve for neu- ralgia of the leg . . . 180,195 Hooping-cough, treatment (Holl) . 219, 222 — do. (Whitehead) 219, 221 — remedies (Atcherley, Beau, Schubert) 399, 403 — vaccination, a remedy . . 220, 225 — do. do. . 399,403 HoPPE, tartar emetic, action on contractile tissues . ■ . . . 269,272 — recovery of nerves and muscles after sec- tion in poisoned animals . 105,109 — action of woorara . . 105,109 HOE>", medical profession in Prussia 463, 464 HoRKiDGE, poisoning by cyanide of potas- sium .... 445, 446 Horopter, determination of the (Claparede) 55 Honis, human (Edwards) . . 264 HoEWiTZ, tuberculous meningitis . 395 Hospital statistics (Hannover) . 2, 10 Hospitals, Russian, psychiatric communica- tions from . " . . 203,205 — do. civil, report on 465 — Vienna General, report (Lebert) 140,167 — for children, reports (Fage, Haimer, Loeschner, Mauthner, Merei) 393-4 HouEL, adhesions of placenta . 414, 418 — and Aenatjlt, pseudencephalic fcetus 416, 420 Houghton, diphtheria . . 140,159 Howitz, rapid increase of liver . 254 HiTBEE, fissures in bones . . 427, 429 — case of poisoning not detected by analysis 434, 435 Hughes, traumatic tetanus . 324, 324 HuGUlEE, hypertrophy of cervix uteri 367, 369 HuLKE (J. W.) report on surgery . 273-334 HuLME, obstruction of lachrymal passages 326, 327 Humerus, excision of head of (Fergusson) 311, 317 HuMPHET, human skeleton . 1, 5 — formation of clots in venous system during life . . . 209,214 lIUNTEii, hypodermic treatment of diseases 138,144 Husband, public vaccination . 139,147 HusCHKE, cranial rachitis . . 408 Hutchinson, report on favus . 264, 267 — do. . 410,412508 INDEX. IliTTCUiNSON, tilcerativo stoinatititi 231, 239 HuT>:ii, OS utori ori)riinii)imL> . 337,338 Huxley, tlevelopiuent of the skeleton of fishes .... It, 17 Hydatid cyst of the liver (Ihidd) . 253 — do. ])uncture of, with caiiilliivy troiuir (Moissenet) . 255, 263 l lydnirtlii-osis of knee-joint (Hodge) 312 Hydrocele (tiillesi)ie, Yo\ing) . 304, 306 — radical cure, with iron wire (Qninlan) 304, 306 — of tunica vaginalis (Vcvy) . 305 Hydrocephalic fictus (Schult/.e) . 349, 350 — hydrocephalus, diagnosis of, in breed) presentation (Lize) . .319,350 — congenital (Allix) . . 410, 421 — do. (Luton) . . 415,418 — bleeding andpui'ging in (Harvey) 180,191 — do. ' 395,396 — croton oil in (Watson) . . 180,188 — iodide of potassium in (Carson, Cold- stream) .... 395, 397 — chronic (Pliilson) . . 394, 396 — do. injections of iodine iu (Brainard) 39 J, 396 Hy(bochloric acid in skin diseases (Klet- zinsky) .... 264,205 — do. poisoning by (Budd) 441, 441 Hydrocyanic acid, action of (Kiedrowski) 105,110 Hydrogen, introduction of, into cellular tissue and peritoneum (Leconte) . 77, 79 — sidphuretted, poisoning with (Amelung) 105,110 Hydi'omeuiugocele (Wallmann) . 395, 397 Hydi-ophobia (Thamhayn) . . 179,187 — case of (Wright) . . 179,185 — cases, &c. (Kagsky, &c.) . 141, 441 Hydrophone ... 57 Hydropisine (Gannal) . . 125,133 Hydrorrhoea gravidarum (Braun) . 385, 388 Hygiene and pnllic health, re/poH on 401 Hygiene (Reich) . . . 461,462 Hygiene, jJublie . . . 463 — private .... 461 Hygiene, jjrivate (Chiapelli) . 463 Hygiene of arts, trades, manufactures, and professions . . . 470 Hvgroma, congenital cystic (Lusdika) 414, 417 Hymen, the (Thomas) . . 381,383 — imperforate (Caillat, Henson, Paget) 381, 383 Hypersesthesia of rachitic children (Betz) 395, 397 — of one side of face (Ogle) . 181, 202 Hypertrophy of heart during pregnancy (Beau) .... 209, 211 — do. in pressure in aortic system (Beckmann) . . 125 Hypodermic treatment of diseases (Hunter) 138,144 HyuTL, topographical anatomy . 1, 5 HrBTL, ttbnonuul number of aortic brandies 27 — ]ierforuting branches of middle ineningeiil H'-tei-y .... 27, 33 — sterno-clavicularis muwle . 20, I Hysteria, a mental and bodily disease (Camjfs) 179, }Hi Hysterical anassthesia (Briquet) . 180, lh>s — convulsions (Hriquet) . .180,19) — tremor, dilference from chorea (Trousseau) 180,188 Icterus (Kuhue) . 254, 200 — neonatorum (Moreuu) . . 405 Ideleb, dietetics . . . 461 Idiocy, sinudated (Zink) . . 4'51 Idiosyncrasies (Nunn) . . 268 Idiotism, in Silesia (Klose) . 478 Ileum, adliesiou of, to urinary bladder (Brug- noli) .... 236,245 Ileus in a new-bom child (Widerhofer) 414,417 — from adhesion of ileum to urinary blad- der (BiTignoli) . . . 236,245 — do. . 286,280 Uhnnination of private dwellings . 4(i3 Inperforations of the face (Gressy) 415, 419 — See Atresia. Impotence, questions of, &c. (C'as])er) 453 Indian mutiny, wounds in (Williamson) 273 Indican in blood and urine (Carter) 94, 97 Infanticide . . . 455 Infants, hygiene of (Aumion, Barker, Clian- cerel, Declat, Meier) . 392-3,394 — diseases of (Condie, Gerhardt, West) 392-3, 391 — new theory of diseases of (Ballard) 403, 405 Infection, putrid or septic (Panum) 140,155 Injlammalion . . . 274 Inflammation, origin of, in arterial system (Sdiroeder) . . . 269,271 — Virchow's theory of the process of 12 — essence of (Ranzi) . . 124,130 — early stages of (Lister) . . 125, 130 — influence of nerves on (Samuel, Snellen) 124,128-9 ;— from nervous irritation (Samuel) 269 — of articular cartilage (Barwell) . 14. 18 — of thoracic duct (Worms) . 210, 21S — intervertebral (Lambl) . . 341, 344 — acute, of parotid gland (A'irchow) 235, 241 •— of vena porta (Steinberg) . 237, 251 — parenchymatous (Virchow) . 124,130 — treated by digital compression (Vanzetti) 209, 215 —- do. 274.275 — digitalis in (Schneider) . . 139.1)7 Inhibitory influence (Jones) . 35, 40 — do. . 178,183 Injuries, serious (Casper) . . 425 Injian, influence of vitality on secretion and excretion . . . 77. 73 — remarks on ditto. See Spender.INDEX. 509 Inoculation of diphtheritic exuclntion (Hai-ley) 235, 243 Insanity, statistics of (Robinson) . 204 — medico-legal questions on (Caspei") 459 — do. in Eussia . . 203,205 — do.inStates of theChurch (Giroliimi) 203, 205 Insects, ova and pseudova of (Lubbock) 117,122 Inspiration, eflect on the heart and pnlmo- nary artery (Da Costa) . . 209, 213 Intelligence and life (Flourens) . 2 Intermittent fever (Heidenhain) . 139,149 — ligature of limbs in (Brauw) . 139,150 Intestines, influences of j^neuinogastric and splanchnic nerves on movement of(Kupfl'er) 39, 50 — ner\'es of the (BiUi-oth) . . 37, 46 — afiections of, in children (Clar) . 405 Intestinal catarrh, chronic (Wolft') . 237 Intesiinalohstructionfrom adhesions, cfc. 286 Intestinal olistruction (Brinton) . 235, 240 — do. case of (Sturges) 236, 250 — do. and stercoraceous vomiting (Easton) .... 236, 247 Intestine, large, physiology of (Colby) 69 — small, twisted on its axis, with obstmction (Streubel) . . . 236,245 — do. _ do. (Streubel) 286, 286 —• do. impaction of with lumbrici (Cox) 236, 247 Intus-susception (Betz, Fi-ommann) 236, 245 — do. . . 286,287-8 — case of (Steele) . . . 235, 243 — detachment of csecum from (Hennet) 236 — do. (Hennet) . . 286,287 Inzani, neuralgia of lingnal nerve . 194 Iodide of sodium (Ure) . . 139,154, Iodine injections, in bony changes and abscesses (Berend) ." . 3ii, 317 — in cyst in the orbit (Wordsworth) 327, 330 — in chronic hydrocephalus (Brainard) 394, 396 — action on carious bone . . 317 Iodized food, in scrofula (Lebcrt) . 140,167 Iritis, suppurative (Daniell) . 326, 330 Iron, perchloride of, in haemorrhage fi-om tonsil (Thom])son) . . 278,279 Irradiation (Volkmann) . . 52, 55 Irritability (Bernard) . . 36, 46 — of muscles (Heincke) . . 24 Irritable stump (Hancock) . 276, 276 Itch, glycerine ointment for (Bourguignon) 261 — .laser's ointment . . 266 .Iackson, abscess of liver . .253,257 — gun-shot wound of heart . 285, 285 — cold afhision in narcotic poisoning 269, 271 — oxide of zinc in the sweats of phthisis 253, 255 JacobO'N'ics, chronic inflammation of uterus 372 Jacquemiee, size of foetus, as cause of dystocia 349, 350 Jacuboavitscit, nervous system of difl'erent animals . . . .37 — on examining niieroscopieaUy the brain and spinal cord while fresh . 37, 46 — do. critique on ditto by Owsjannikow 37, 47 .lAEaEE, glaucoma; iridet'tomy . 32G, 329 Jagiet.ski, congenital luxation of hip-joint 415 Jago, eutopics . . .50, 53 James, strangulated hernia . 288, 289 .Taschkowitz, on the splenic plexus 39, 50 Jasee, itch ointment . . 266 Jaundice, dangerous (Herard) . 253, 257 — epidemic (Ballot) . . 254 Jaws, tumour of . . . 311, 316 Jaw, upper, disease of, removal (Quinlan) 311, 317 — lower, bone abscess in (Nussbaum) 311, 316 — do. necrosis oi) from phosphorus (Coote) 311, 316 JEAFFEESOJf, syphilitic laryngitis . 281,282 Jeitteeer, who discovered reflex action? 38, 49 JEJfDEASsiK, anatomy of thJ^nus . 397,400 Jessejj, mental diseases as reason for divorce 422, 424 Jessop, recession of eruption in scarlet fever 409, 411 JoBEET DE Lamballe, polypi of nose and fauces . . ." . 278 280 JocoLiTcci, synchondrotomy . 356, 362 Johnson, Bright's disease .* . 255 — encejihaloid cancer of testicle retained in abdomen . . . 255 — laceration of lung without fractiu-e of ribs 285, 286 — sebaceous tumour; perforation of cranium 320, 321 — malignant tiunour of the arm . 276, 277 Joints, contractions of (Henke) . 332-3 Joints, diseases and injuries of . 310 Joints, diseases of (Bonnet, Bryant) 310, 314 — injuries and diseases (Bryant) . 311, 3] 8 — hysterical afiections of (Skey) . 310, 315 — inflamed, stretching and cauterization in (Bonnet) . . . 310,314 Jolly, entozoa in the heart of the seal 114,117 J OLY, suppression of lochia . 387 Jones (Handfield) report on. loractical medi- cine, imlliology and therapetitics 124-272 — inhibitory influence of nerves . 35, 40 ~ 'lo- . . 178,182 — nerve disorder . . , 179 133 — (P.) catalogue of St. Thomas's Hospital Museum . . . 3 — (Wharton) unguentvun sulphuris in gra- nular ophthalmia . . 326,328INDEX. 510 Joseph, valves of the heart . 83, 91 — physiological uction of corrosive sublimate 105,110 Kiimnln ns a vermifuge . . 405 Kammler, power of didbrent parts of the skin in detecting slight weights . 59, 61 Kapler, spontaneous rupture of uterus 342, 34G Keen, convulsions during pregnancy 386, 389 Kefehstein and Hallwaoiis, action of pancreatic juice on albumen . 68, 70 Kellt, recm-rence of retroversion of uterus 368, 370 Kemp, function of mucous membrane of the gall-bladder . . ,83, 88 Kennedy, cliange of type in disease 139,145 — mercury in albuminous urine . 253, 258 — diagnosis of fatty heart . 209, 212 — tumours in the stomach . 235, 239 Kekli, croup . . . 398 Kehschensteinee, incubation of measles 410 Kesteyen, rape on infants . 453, 454 Ketsee, pleurisy of right side, &c. 220, 225 — pleurisy of pulmonary artei-y . 220, 229 Kidd, chloroform in midwifery . 362, 363 — hysterical puerperal convulsions 178,182 — do. . . 386,390 — distortion of features . . 394, 396 Kidney, straight vessels in pyramids of (Beale) 94, 98 Kidneys, diseases of, in cldldreii . 403 Kidneys, diseases of (Bierbaum) . 407, 407 — two conditions of, giving rise to Briglit's disease (Dickinson) . . 253,256 — cancer of (Goodwin) . . 253, 258 — fatty (Gluge) . . .83, 87 — moveable, with spinal disease (Henderson) 254 — congenital malformation (Senftleben) 415, 419 — effect of stimuli applied to (Vulpian) 26, 30 KlEDEOTTSKl, action of hydrocyanic acid 105,110 Kiesteine of pregnancy (Hicks) . 94, 98 — do. . 337,339 KiFEELE. See HecJcer. King, (Dr.) poisoning of his wife by arsenic 434, 436 KiNLOCH, surgical cases . . 310, 315 — resection of knee-joint . . 312, 319 KrNN, ascites terminated by serous flow from breasts . . . 253,255 KiNNELL, ventilation . . 467,467 Kikstelleu, forceps operations . 355, 359 KiRSTEN, chloroform as an ann?sthetic 111 KiiAATSCH and Stich, locality of taste 58 Klaproth, hoBmorrhage from clitoris, in labour .... 342 — fibroid tumours of uterus, in labour 342,848 Kletzinsky, animal chemistry , 3 — inlluence of benzoic acid on tissue 95,103 — hydrodiloric acid in skin disease 264, 205 — presence of xantliic oxide . 94,101 — analysis for phosjihorus in poisoning 444,4-41 Klincner, composition of human urine 95 Klod, degeneration of 8ub-raucou8 coat of stomach . . , , 236,2W Klose, separation of epiphyses . 310,312 — , do. , 408 — idiotism in Silesia . . 478, 478 Knee, injury from fall upon (Maschka) 427 Knee-joint, loose cartilage I'rom (\Vel)b) 14, 18 — hydi-arthrosis of (Hodge) . 312 — strumous disease (Jlrichsen) . 312, 318 — penetrating wound of (Coulson) 312 — sm-gical openings into (Adams) . 312, 319 — See Excision. Knolz, noxious influence of the Wien River 467, 468 Knox, relation of anatomy to physiology and pathology. , .. .1 Koch, retention of dead fcetus . 349 Koebeele, death of foetus in utero 351, 353 KoEOHiiiN, cerebral tuberculosis in children 393 KoniEE, presence of allantoine in urine 91,101 — relative absorption in animals fasting and digesting . . .74, 76 — opisthotonos in children . 394, 396 Kohnhorn, artittcial production of cataract 74., 77 KoiiSKO, continuous murmur in the neck 209, 213 KoLLiKEE, human histology . 3, 12 — vitality of the nerve-fibres . 35, -l-t — structure of osseous fishes . 13, 15 — on urari.... 41S, 449 — action of the upas antiar . 44-8, 4!8 — physiological experiments wth woorara 105,108 — vegetable parasites in hard structures of animals .... 113,115 — and Pelikan, alcoholic extract of tan- ghinia venenifera . . 105,110 — See Pelikan. KoLLOCK, chancre of uterus . 372,374^ KoETiiJt, treatment of croup . 398 I Koschate, signs of death . .481 KoSTLiN, measles . . . 410, 411 KoTTJiEiEE,ligatm-eofhepaticvessels 83 Krabbe, phosphates . . 95 Krieoer, atresia ani, &c. . . 415, 4lS Kratjse, mode in which nerves terminate 37, 4T — do. remarks on, by Luschka 37 Krauss, legal responsibility of a libeller 459 Keopf, meiUcal topography of Bavaria 463INDKX. 511 Kros, obliquel}' distorted pelvis . 311, 343 Keugeisteix, doctrine of priority of death -127,429 — medical inspection of bread . 473,473 — on purity of beer , . 476 — hygiene of trade in mattresses, &c. 477, 478 KiiCHENMEiSTEB, parasites of human body 114 KiiCHlEE, oblique illumination of the eye in diagnosis.... 326', 330 — ruptured perinajum . . 381 KuHXE, on icterus . . . 254, 260 — development of rigor mortis . 24, 25 K'cr^^KLER, uterine Iwmorrhage . 385 KurFFEE, power of muscles over local action of electricity . . . 20, 22 — and LuDWia, influence of the pneumo- gastric and splanchnic nerves on the move- ments of the intestines . . 39, 50 KuP.>"EE, legal responsibility in conviction for arson. . . . 458 — observations from the Criminal Court 426, 428 KussiTATO, emigration of the human ova 118,123 — migration of ova, cause of tubal pregnancy 340, 343 — death of the limbs . . 24, 25 — death of limbs from injection of chloro- form into arteries . . 125,131 — uterus unicornis . . 367, 368 KtiTTNEH, influence of sex on diseases of children .... 392 — dystrophy of children . . 404 — scarlet fever and measles . 410 Laboede, chlorate of potash . 148 Labia majora, atheromatous cyst of (Paravi- «ni) • . . .381 Labour. See Parturition. Lachrymal passages, obstruction of (Hnlme) 326, 327 Lactation, defective (Eouth) . 383, 384 — of infants (Amblard, Naudeau, Patron) 393 Lacteal circulation, origin of (Reclam) 74, 76 Lacteals, absorption by (Medcr) . 74, 76 — of birds (Basslinger) . . 74, 76 Ladeeil, cysts of vagina . . 38l' 383 Lajibl, intervertebral inflammation 341, 344 Lamellibranchiate molluscs, aquiferous and oviductal systems of (Kollcston) . 117,121 Lancet commission on diphtheria . 139,152 Landell, internal use of vaccine lymph' 410 Lakdry, acute ascending paralysis 181,198 Laxg, mcdico-forcnsic case . 459 Lanoenbeck, uterine fibrous tumours 372, 374 J>a.vke3teb, food collection in South Ken- sington Museum. . .68 — parthenogenesis in plants and animals 118 Larch bark, use in pulmonai-y ha;morrhagc (O'Daly). . . . 221,234 — tincture in purpura hajmorrhagia (Hardy) 139,144 Laechee, normal hypertrophy of heart during pregnancy . . 385, 388 LAEDNEii, chemistry for schools . 3, 11 Larvfc, diphtherous, in nasal fossce, and their effects (Coquercl) . . 221, 230 Laryngitis, acute, laryngotomy (Bulley) 220, 227 — do. 281,282 — chronic, tracheotomy (Barker) . 281, 282 — syphilitic (Jeaflreson) . . 281, 282 Laryngotomy in syphilitic gangrene of mouth (De Meric) . . 278, 279 Larynx, abscess in, after typhoid fever (Schiele) . . . ' . 220 — contraction of (Oppolzer) . 220, 224 — chi'onic ulceration of (Porter) . 281, 282 — catheterism of (Gesenius) . 220 — do. . 281,281 — speculum for (Czermak, Price, Turk) 62, 67 — do. (Czermak, Funk, Semeleder, Stork) 126,137 — do., in diseases of the tongue (Semeleder) 220, 229 Lassaigne, spermatic stains . 427, 431 — antimony in dead body after poisoning 434, 434 — poisoning by corrosive sublimate 441 — poisoning by phosphorus . 444, 445 Laveean, epidemic ophthalmia . 478, 479 Lawson, fractured fenmr in a child 310, 315 — yellow fever in Jamaica, 1856 . 140,172 Latcock, against opium and stimulants in delu'ium tremens . . igg — parasitic nature of diphtheria . 114, H7 Lead, elimination from the system (Bacon) 269 Leaeed, pepsm . . . 236,246 — treatment of tapeworm . . 234, 239 Lebeet, internal otitis . . 395' — scrofula cured by iodized food . 140,167 — Vienna General Hospital Report 140^ 167 Leconte, calculation of urea by hypochlorite of soda . . . .95 103 — and Demaequay, introduction of' air, oxygen, &c., into the cellular tissue and peritoneum . , . 77 79 Leciwes, <^-c. . . _ ' Ledehle, cases of suicide . . 451 4.52 Le Dibeedee and Pautel, hismateuiesis from varices in (esophagus . 235, 244 Lee (R.), clinical midwifery . 364' Lee (H.), syphilitic inoculation '. 321, 321 — varicocele ; section of veins . 304.^ 305 Lees, enlargement of spleen . 254' Lefoet. See roismdlle. Le Gendee, homolographic surgical anatomy — crural hernia . . . £88 291 — vaccination for removal of najvi mate'rni 400,403512 JNDKX. Leguoux, puorpernl fever . . 38G, 391 — shampooing in sclcrcniii. . 410 Leiimann, nnimiil olieuiistry • 3, 11 — succlinvino function of the liver . 82, 85 — inorjruiiic food nnd curtliy phosphates in food of younpf animals . . 69, 72 — table of results of his experiments 73 — catarrh of the stonuicli . . 235, 211 — craniotomy and turning , 355, 359 — obstetric reports . . 387 — rupture of uterus and vagina . 312, 315 Lehwess, disinfectants for animal poisons 269, 270 Leiben. See Behreml. Leistneu, poisoning by hyoscyamus 437, 438 Lemaiue, musical murmur, connected with cirrhosed liver . . . 229 Lenhossek, double spinal cord . 414, 417 Leniccps (Mattel) . . . 355, 359 Leeoy d'Etiolles, stricture of urethra; urethrotomy . . . 300,302 LEsrnE. See Moiissean. LEXOPBNEAr, new-born childi-en . 393 — do. . 410,412 Leubuscher, epidemic of scarlet fever 109, 411 — pathological development of connective tissue in the brain . . 121., 127 LErcKAET, development of the pentastoma tajnioides . . . 114 Leucocythemia splenica and lymphatica (Wilks) . . . .254 Leupoldt, lung test . . 455, 457 Leueet and Geatiolet, comparative ana- tomy of the nervous system . 36, 46 Leutb, menstruation during pregnancy 371, 373 Levator ani, the male (Luschka) . 20, 23 — female (Luschka) . . 20, 23 Letick, sun-stroke . . 180,189 Letincaet, mental state of murderer 458 Letison, echinococci . . 114 Lett, ciliary muscle . . 51, 54 — chloroform in midwifery . 362, 362 — embryotomy . . • 356,361 Lewinsky, poisoning by phosphorus 114, 445 Lewison. See Budge. Liebig, letters on chemistry . 3, 11 — creatine and cynuric acid in urine of the dog . . • ■ 94100 Liegaed, prolonged gestation . 337, 338 Liegeois, physiology of the facial nerve 39, 50 Life, animal (Pi"ey) • • 2 — facts and laws' of (Eeynolds) . 2 — and intelligence (Flourens) . 2 Ligaments of jjericardium (Luschka) 26 Lisiht, appearance of, in the eye (Willigen) " 51, 54 — infliience of, on growth of animals (Dobell, l$eclard) . • • 117,120 Lightning, accident by (Fleming) . 180,195 LiWEUORN, vomiting of blood from ulcers in dnodonuin . • • 236,217 Liinhs, death of, by injection of chloroform into arteries (Kussmaul) . 125,131 Lime, saccharated, in medicine (Cleland) 268 LiNATi, olectro-])hy8iology . 36 LiNiiAUDT, fjucture of lower jaw by explosion of pistol . . . 451 LiNUAET, anatomy of the anus . 20 Listek, ))hysiology and j)athology . 2, 0 — early stages of inrtamniation . 125,130 — coagulation of blood . . 25, 21) — radical cure of hernia . . 289, 292 — excision of patella . . 312,319 — and TuBNEU, structure of nerve-fibres 37, 47 Lithotomy (Smith) . . 295 — statistics of . . . 295,290 — different modes of . . 295, 2!)*; — and after-treatment (Wise) . 295, 2'J.') — in children (Adams) . . 295,291; — high operation (Hewit). . 295, 2U7 —■ AUarton's operation (Brown, Browne) 295, 296 — median (Wheelhouse) . . 295, 29(i Lithotomy and Lithotriiy , . 295 LiTTEK, artificial anus . . 405 LiTZJiAKN, \ira;mia during pregnancy 385, 389 Liver .... 82 Liver, table of analyses of . . 90 — inorganic constituents (Oidtmann) 83, 89-91 — saccharine function (Lehmann, Moos) 82, 85 — ofl'ect of stimuli applied to (Vulpian) 26, 30 — artificial formation of substances in (Schottin) . . .82, 87 — difference of, in animals fasting and di- gesting (Xasse) . . . 83, 87 — inttuence of deep respiration on diseases of(Piorry) . . . 125,136 — blood and pus in, discharged into intes- tinal canal (Dufresne) . . 235,213 — rapid increase of (Howitz) . 254 — abscess of (Jackson) . . 253, 257 — acute atrophy of (Pleischl, Schnitzler) 254, 259 — hydatid cysts of, puncture of (Moissenet) 255, 263, — cystic disease, in fuetus (Smallman) 414, 417: — fatty (Gluge) . . .83, 87 — waxy (Fournier) . . 254, 259' — ligaturing of hepatic vessels (Kottmeier) 83 LiTiNGSTONE, On the Ts(?tsd . 101,106 — African fever on Zambesi . 469, 470 LiZK, diagnosis of liydrocephalus in brce^ presentation . • . 3 '9,3r — pelvic presentation, emphysematous fati 318 puerperal diseas Lochia, suppression in (Joly) . 387INDEX. 513 LOESCHER, double-lieaded monster, 319, 350 LoEscnxEK, childi-en's hospital, Prague 393 LoHR, sphere of medical police . 463, 464 LoiSEATT, tannin and alum in membranous angina . . . . 219,223 LoxG, tinct. aconiti in fever from catheterism 259 LoxGET, treatise on physiology . 2, 9 LoxGMOEE, heat-apoplexy . 179,185 LoRiNSER, diagnosis of syphilis . 141,176 — and Eeder, mercury and syjihilis 140,156 LOTZBECK, congenitartumom-s . 413,414 Lowe, parasitic fungi . . 114,116 — parasitic diseases . . 264 — age of a child . . . 455, 457 LOwEiVHARDT, it' life and breathing identical 455, 457 — conditional legal responsibility . 457,460 LowENTn.u,, delicate test for sugar 95,102 LowIjS-sohx, action of the pneumogastric in respiration . . .39^ 49 Lubbock, ova and pseudova of insects 117,122 LUBIMOFP, apparent size of objects 52, 54 Lucifer-match manufacture . 4.70 Lucilia homini vorax, insect in nasal fossa? _ 230 Ltjcius, electricity locally applied . 35 LuDKiEwicK, vapour of heated wine in ob- stinate eruptions . . 264,266 LrDwiG, physiology of endosmose . 74.' — text-book of physiology. . 2, 8 — See Ktipjfer. ' — and Spiess, difterence in temperature of the saliva from the submaxillary gland and the carotid blood . . 78, 81 Lumbrici, impaction of small intestine with (^'o-'') .... 236,247 LvMPE, artificial premature labour 354, 357 — rupture of ovarian cyst . 376, 378 Lunatic asylum at Astino, report (Brugnoni) . T. , 203,206 — at Frankfort, report (Hoffmann) 203, 206 Lungs,anteriormarginof (Luschka) S3, 91 — blood-vessels of (Waters) . 25, 28 — laws of the capacity of (Rameaux) 67 — vital capacity of (i\jnold, Geist, Schnepf) 67 — do. (Schnepf) 126,136 — excretion of solids by (Wiederhold) 62, 64 — changes in, from disease of mediastinum (P''") • • . . 221,234 — mfluence of deep respiration on diseases of (Piorry) . . . , 135^ igg — laceration, without fracture of ribs (John- • . . 285,286 — sortemngof,minfants(Rauchfuss) 398, 401 Lung-test of life in new-born infants (An- celot, Leupoldt, Vogler, &c.) . 455, 457 LUNN, compound fracture of skullj trephining T X . 311,316 Lupus, treatment of (Valerius) . 264 Lupus erythematodes (Poor) . 261 LuscniCA, human lachrymal bones. 13, 16 — glands of the human gall-bladder 83, 89 — female levator ani . . 20, 23 — congenital cystic hygroma . 414, 417 — ligaments of the pericardium . 26 — anterior margin of the lung . 83, 91 — human transversus colli muscle. 20, 23 — remarks on Krause's paper on mode in which nerves terminate . . 37, 48 — cervical ribs . , .13 — synarthrosis of the body . 13, 16 — position of anterior mediastinum 125,136 — male levator ani . . 20, 23 LrsziNSKY, children's hospital, Vienna 393 — croup .... 220, 225 — iodide of potassium in croup . 399 LrssANA, physiology of some nervous dis- eases . . . . 38, 49 Ltitos^, congenital hydrocephalus . 415, 418 Ltiys. See Rillairet. Ltall, post-partum haemorrhage . 342, 347 Lying-in hospitals (Villeneuve) . 387 Lymphatic circulation (Reclam) . 74, 76 — glands, enlargement of (Pavy, Wun- derUch) . . . 254,261 Macaeio, turpentine-vapour baths 269, 270 M'Clelland, successful Ciesarean section 355, 360 M'Clintoce, scarlatina after partui-ition 385, 388 — inverted uterus, extirpation . 368, 371 M'DoNNELL, diabetic sugar in the animal economy . . .82, 84 — vaccination in Ireland . . 480, 481 M'Ewen, stone in bladder of female 298, 298 MacGuie, vcsico-vaginal fistula . 380, 382 — traumatic tetanus . . 324, 324 Mack, origin of hippuric acid in the animal economy .... 91,, loi Mackenzie, cancer of uterus and rectum; abortion . . . 354^ 353 — craniotomy and turning . 355^ 353 M'KiDD, invagination of caacum . 286* 287 Mackinder, occlusion of pulmonary arteries after parturition . . 335, 388 Maceachlan, acranial foetus . 415, 4i8 M'RuER, ulceration of os and cervix uteri 373, 376 Madge, anatomical relation of mother and f'**"^ .... 335, 335 — arm presentation . . 34.8 Magitot, development of the teeth 14., 19 Maun, retro-uterine hajmatocele . 377' ilAHNEiix, mental condition of woman ac- cused of arson . , . 453 Maiee, polypi in uterus . . 372, 375 Mair, wounds in general . . 425,' 428 — legal responsibility . . 457,46O Maisonneuve, amputation by diaclasis' ,r 275,275 JVIAJEB, sanitary condition of the Peniten- tiary, Lichtenau . . 455 3351<t INDEX. Majer, fluctuation of popiilntion in Fnm- coniu, kv. . . , 465 Majewski, ullnntoid and amniotic fluids 78, 82 Mat. VOO, tmnia . . . 400,411 Maluvious Hflcctionji (Peacock) . 111,173 Multbvuitttion, double (Uamis) . 349, 350 Malformalions of foetus, tfr. . 414 Mall'ovmations of urinary organs (Duncan) 415, 419 Malmsten. See Schonheit. Alaliiighian bodies, amyloid degeneration of (Harris) . . .255 Malpraxis, obstetric (Buscli) . 428, 4-31 Man and animals, dilfevence between (Bischolf) . . .2 Mandl, fumigations in bronchitis . 219, 224 Mania, medical relations of (Eichter) 458 — inierperal (Mavcc) . . 386, 390 Maniacal excitement (Sclilager) . 203, 204 Ma^tnhaet, accommodation of the eve 51, 54 — answer to do. See Milller. Manslav.gltter . . . 424 Manuals, S(c. ... 1 Manso, water baths iii operation wounds 275, 275 Ma^z, accommodation of the eyes of fish 52, 54 Mahacacci, blennorrhoeal inoculation in pannus .... 320, 327 Maeaglio, death of a primipara . 386 Matice, state of mental powers in chorea 181, 200 — puerperal mania . . 386, 390 ■— chronic alcoholic intoxication 139,154 Marcus, tapeworm after use of raw meat 405 Maedueowicz, turning of facial into pelvic presentation . . . 354,358 MiVEET, circulation of the blood . 26, 29 — hydraulic interpretation of the double pulse . . • .26 Maekhaji, bleeding in diseases . 138,144 — cardiac diseases; pericarditis 209, 215-17 — rupture of the heart . . 208, 210 JTaenitz, twins united at trunk . 349, 350 Marsh fevers (Berchon) . . 139,147 — glucosuria in (Burdcl) . . 254 Maeshall, ves"co-vaginal fistula . 380, 382 Maetin, heat-apoplexy . . 182,190 — diseases of the eye . • 325 — spontaneous amputation in foetus 415, 418 — four childi-en at a birth . 348, 349 — incontinence of urine after labour 385 — inflammation of Fallopian tubes 387, 392 — danger of chloroform . . 180,190 — obstetrical clinic of .lena . 364 Maetin-^Iagron. See Rousseau. JIaetini, effect of santonine on the vision 52, 54 — extirpation of the spleen . 255 — tracheotomy . • • 220,226 — do, , , . 281,281 MAETiNf?, thoracic and pelvic members in man and animals . . 13, 17 Marx, case of tri))let8 . . 348, 340 Mascari, puerperal fever . . 387 Mascuka, criminal abortions . 450 — blood-like stains . . 427 — breathing, os test of life in infants 456 — dislocation of second vertebra of neck 427 — medico-juridical examinations . 425 — jiost-mortem examinations . 427 — do. of infants 455 — examination of lunatics . 459 — fatal injuries of the head . 426 — inguinal hernia . .426 — fall upon the knee . . 427 — lesions on living persons . 425 — metallic mercury given in coffee to a tuber- culous child . . . 4-11 — state of mind of persons accused of arson 458 — cases of stuprum . . 452 — ill-treatment of man with disease of the heart . . . .425 — ill-treatment of a factory woman 425 Mason, practical obstetrics . 361 Mattei, lenicops . . . 355, 359 — yearly ripening of ova . . 305, 3G."> — diagnosis of pregnancy . . 338 — exuded plastic lymph, cause of puerjjeral fever . '. . . 386,391 MATTErcci, electro-physiology . 36 MATTNOtrHT, induction of labour by warm injections . . . 354,357 Matjthnee, children's hospital, Vienna 393 Mat, diphtheria . . .141,176 Matdell, repeated death of foetus 385, 387 Matee, glycerine in croup . 399, 402 — artificial premature delivery . 354, 357 — Zwanke's pessary in prolapsus . 367, 369 — syphilis in children . . 413 Matxe, cerebro-spinal meningitis . 181 Mate, diseases of children . 393 — erj'thema nodosum . . 410,412 Meacham, rupture of uterus . 342, 347 Meadows. See Ogle. Measles (Gelmo, Guusberg, Kerschensteiner, Koestlin, Schutz, Trousseau) . 410, 411 — hemorrhagic (Veit) . . 139,150 _ do. . . 410,413 — consecutive effects of (Scoutetten) 264, 268 Meat, raw, use in diarrhoea of infants (Weisse) . . . 236,216 _ do. . 405,406 Meconimn, obstruction by (Barnes) 405, 406 Medee, absorption by the lacteals 71, 76 Mediastinum, position of anterior (Lusohka) 125,136 Medical laws of Nassau (Vogler) . 463,463 — notes from the Continent (fiercer) 268 Medical profession, laws concerning 463515 INDEX. Medical profession in Prussia (Horn) 463, 464 Medical statistics and topography ' 465 Medicine, institutes of, report on, hy O. Jfarlei/, M.D. . . . i-123 — practical, report on, by Sandfield Jones, M.JS. .... 124-272 — legal, public Tii/giene, and dietetics, report on, hg William Odling, M.B. . 422-483 — do. treatises and text-books . 422 Medicine, legal (Casper, Wald) . 422, 423 — do. pamphlets on (Albert, Buch- ner, Hofmann, Nusser, Bocker) . 422, 424 — state, in France (Wernert) . 463, 464 — chemistry applied to (Capezzuoli) 3 Medicines, external use (Thomson) 265, 266 Medulla oblongata, minute structure (Schroe- der V. der Kolk) . . .35, 40 jrEiER, infant's fost year . . 393, 394 — pulsating tumour of bones of pelvis 310, 313 Meigs, coryza of childi-en . . 398 — diseases of children . . 393 Meissnee, involuntary muscular fibres diu-ing contraction . . .20, 22 — cases of deformed pelvis , 341, 344 — See Babo. Melanajmia (Wilks) . . 254 Melanotic cancer, diagnosis by urine (Eiselt) 139,149 Melsexs, persistence of impressions on the I'etina . . . . 51, 54 — nicotine in dead bodies . . 442, 443 Membranes, diffusion of gases thi-ough moist (Brimmeyer) . . .62, 64 Membrane, mucous, of gall-bladder, function of (Kemp) . . - . 83, 88 — do. of urethra, &c. (Patron) 293, 293 Menges, state medical statistics . 463,463 Meningeal efiPusion, sanguineous (Wilks) „ . 180,195 Meningitis, infantile (Facen, Horwitz) 395 — cerebro-spinal (Mayne) . 181 — tuberculous (Bang) . . 394.^ 395 Menon-hagia, &c., arsenic in (Burns) 371, 374 Menstruation, disordered (Blaii-, Leute, Moses, Rosicki) . . 371,373' — suppression of (Eagon, Taylor) . 371, 373 Mental condition, medico-legal reports on (Cazenave, Dragonet, &c.) . 458 — disorders (Robinson) , . 203,204 Meecer, medical notes from the Continent 268 AlERCiEB, retention of urine . 298,299 Mercury, influence on the secretion of bile (^cott) .... 253, 257 — in syphilis (Gniber) . . 140,1G2 — do. (Lorinser and Reder) 140,156 — in albuminous urine (Kennedy) 253, 258 — poisoning by (Lassaignc, Maschka, Prince, Roberts).... 441, 442 — chlonodide of, in acne rosacea , 266 Meeei, children's hospital, Manchester 394 Meetens, Perforation of appendix vermi- formis .... 405 Meetitiee, bleeding from lingual veins 235, 241 Merycism, abdominal, a symptom of a masked ague (Clemens) . . . 235, 242 Mekz, hemicrania . . , 179,180 Messee, foetus with spina bifida, &c. 416, 421 Metaphysical aspects of physiology (Seller) 3 Metritis, chionlc, cauterization in (Cos- tilhes) .... 373,376 Metrorrhagia (Beau, Decaisne) . 371, 374 Metzlee, spontaneous evolution . 348, 349 Metee, expiration of carbonic acid 62, 65 — independence of the spinal cord 38 — congenital stricture of pulmonary arteries 415, 418 — dysphagia . . . 235 Meter (G.), Veenois, &c., on traces of sugar in persons dying of different diseases 132 Mialhe, effect of santonine on the vision 52, 55 Miasma, genesis of (Guerdan) . 477, 478 MiCHAEiiis, larger bloodless operations 275, 275 — scrofula and tuberculosis . 141,176 — syphilization , . , 140,155 — facial neuralgia . . . 179,183 Microscope, essays on (Reinicke) . 3 — construction and application (Harting) 3 — application to clinical medicine (Duben) 3 — influence of, in medicine (Collingwood) 3 Midwife)-y and diseases of women and chil- dren, report on, by Graily Hewitt, M.D. 335-421 — obstetrical operations . . 353 — employment of chloroform and remedial agents in ... 362 — statistics of . . . 3Q4 Midwifery, statistics of cases (Dunn, Har- rison, Lee, Mason, Rigden, Tilanus) 364 — reports of hospitals (Barnes, Ellis, Elsasser, Grenser, Habit, Martin, Rousset, Schmidt) 364 Milk • • . . 78 MUk, volumetric analysing of (Monier) 78, 81 — human, containing excess of fat (Schloss- berger) . . . . 78, 81 — mother's, conveyance of medicines by, to child (Schauenstein) . . 393 — cow's, albumen of (Trommer) . 78, 81 MiLLAED, tracheotomy in croup . 399 MiLLEE, encysted tumour of ovary 377, 379 MiiEOY, human monstrosity . 415, 419 — mountain sites for barracks . 469, 470 MiNoniN, rotatory convulsions . 181, 20gINDEX. 516 Mineral waters, chemical analyajs (Henry) '177.477 IMissoxTX.sulphateof copper incrou]) 221, 230 Mitral-viilvo disoaso (Cockle) . 210, 218 — ruptm-o of corcla) tendincu,' of (Feipnoaux) 201), 218 Moelleu, fissure of Btornum . 416 — military eye diseases . . 325 MoiLiN, pressure of the Wood . 20 MoissENET, puncture of hydatid cysts of liver .... 255,203 Mole,hydatid(Frit7,,IIamon,irewitt) 351, 352 Molecular changes in ncrvc-substancc (llar- Icss) . . . .35, 45 MoLESCiiOTT,populartreatiseonfood G9 Molluscs, lamellibranchiate (Rolleston) 117,121 MoNiEE, on analysing milk . 78, 81 MoNNtr, vesico-vaginal fistula . 380, 382 Monorchidism in man (Godard) . 304', 305 Monster, twins united at trunk (Marnitz) 319, 350 '— anencephalian (West) . 415, 418 — double-headed (Loescher) . 349, 350 — " Peracephale " (Delacour) . 415, 418 Monstrosity, human (Milroy) . 415, 419 MoNTEGAzzA, virtues of coca . 269, 272 MooEE, affections of chest. . 398, 400 — reflex paraplegia . . 180,193 — pleuritis and empyema . 221, 230 — diseases of the skin . . 264, 265 — sapo laricis in cutaneous diseases 264, 265 Moohhead, angina pectoris . 209, 214 — physiology of hearing . . 55, 56 Moos, saccharine function of liver 82, 86 MoEATJD, congenital cataract . 414 MoBEAtr, motor and sensory roots of spinal nerves in fish . . .39 — glucogenic function . . 82, 85 — icterus neonatorum . . 405 MoE&AN, fi-acture of neck of femur 311, 315 MoEiTZ, closure of vagina in delivery 3 41 MoEHis, belladonna, protective against scarlet fever . . . 409 — placenta praivia . . . 351, 352 Mortality, statistics of (Guerard, &c.) 465 — comparative, in Australia and England (Beddoes) . . . 268,270 — of Paris (Trebuchet) . .465 MoEVAN, bleeding from the ear . 395 Moses, disordered menstruation . 371, 373 MosLEE, passage of substances from the blood into the bile . . 83, 88 — comoilsive sneezing . . 180,188 Motion, organs of, diseases (Bouvier) 408 Mouth, pharynx, and cBsophagus, malforma- tions, S^c. • . . 278 Miiller, Professor (Bisclioff and Vii-chow) 3 MiiLLEE, chemical composition of the brain 83, 91 — accommodation of the eye . 51 — contagious disease of eyelids . 325 — extra-uterine pregnancy . 3 Jl MiiLLEE, development of bone in rachitis 13, 17 — do. . 408,409 — theory of resjjiration . . 62, (51 MuuciiisON, Windsor epidemic . 110,171 — continued i'evers . . 139,15-1 — do. . . 140,171 — simultaneous diseases from specific morbii poisons . . . .110,16t — typhus from overcrowding . 140,16< Murmur in the vessels (Chauveau) 209, 211 — basic systolic (Fox) . .209,21: — continuous, in the neck (Kolisko) 209, 21;^ — musical, in cirrhosod liver . 22'. MuENEY, injuries to the head . 311, 311 MuEPHY, Caisarean section . 355, 36 MuEEAY, exomphalos . . 385,38 MuEEAT (.1.) placenta praevia; air-jjcssan' 351, 35: Muscles, human, text-book (Henle) 20, 2 — growth of (Budge) . . 19, 2 — action of electric current on (Althaus) 35, 4: — do. 138,14 — power 'of limiting local action of electri city (Kupffer) . . . 20, 2 — action of poisons on (Pelikan) . 105 — recovery of, after section in poisoned ani mals (Hoppe) . . . 105,10 — irritability of (Arnold) . . 20, 2 — do. inherent . . 4 — do. in relation to rigor mort' (Heincke) . . .24 -— contracted, action of, on the atmospher (^^alentin) . . . 20, 2 . — paralysis of (Creutz) . . 51 — ciliary (Levy) . . . 51, 5 — of the eyebail, paralysis of (Graefe, Schuft 51 — transversus colli (Luschka) . 20, 2 — sterno-clavicularis (HjTtl) . 20, 2 — thoracic, action of, in respiration (Arnold 62, 6 Muscular system . . . 19; 20. Muscular action, from electrical point f view (Radclifle) . . . 19, 2^ — exercise (Feclmer) . . 20, 2 — influence on the constitution (Thonvenin) 20 — movement (Wundt) . . 20, 2 — atrophy, syphilitic (Rodet) . 207, 20. — fibres, structure (Budge) . 20 — do. nutrition and decay (Bottcher) 20, 2 — do. involuntary, during contractioi (Meissner) — do. striated (Berlin) . — fibrilla3 (Bruecke) — paralysis (Friedberg) — tissue of the bladder (Kills) MuscuLrs. See Choulelie. Museum of St. Thomas's Hosi)ital (Jonea) 3 MrsHET, angina pectoris . . 209,217 20. 20 20. 2'- 207. 208 19, 21517 INDEX. MussET, strangulated inguinal hernia in a woman .... 288, 390 Mutilation, on ilefmition of . 423, 424 Mydriasis (Petrlnus) . . 51 Myktlj;, obstetric cases . . 3i8, 350 Nrovi matemi, vaccination for removal of (Legendre) . . • 400,403 Najiias, tuberculosis of uterus . 372, 374 Naphtha, oil of, in tinea favosa (Chapelle) 410 Na)3oleon, " attentat" on his life, Jan., 1858 (Tardieu) . . .425,428 Narcotism, voltaic, for local anesthesia (Richardson, Waller) . 110,111-12 Nasal fossa;, diphtherous larvre in (Coc[uerel) 221, 230 Nasse, diflerence in livers of animals fast- ing or digesting . . . 83, 87 Naxjdeau, lactation . . 393 Nausea (Stich) . . .58 Neck, iumottrs of the . . 283 Necrosis, acute,' and pyasmia (Stone) 310, 312 — of lower jaw, from phosphorus (Coote) 311, 316 Neglect, criminal, murder by (Eulenburg) 425, 428 Neoeiee, retroversion of pregnant uterus 341, 344 Neeaton, extirpation of tumour in neck 283, 284 — varicocele . . . 304,305 Neligan, porrigo . . . 410 Nephritis, parenchymatous (Rosenstein) 254, 260-2 Nerve-centres, passage of electric currents through (Bonnefin) . . 36 Nerve-fibres, origin . . 40 — structure (Lister) . . 37, 47 — vitality (Kolliker) . . 35, 44 — crossing ot", in the spinal cord (Bezold, Vulpian). . . 38, 48 — non-crossing of, high in spinal cord (Brown-Sequard) . . 38 Nerve-force, questions of its source and nature .... 9 Nerve-sheath, importance of (Harless) 35 Nerve-substance, molecular changes in (Harless) . . .35, 45 — influence of oxygen on (Brown-Sequard) 37, 48 Nerve-affections (Hillairet) . 181,198 Nerve-disorder (H. Jones) . 179,183 — from syphilis (Gjor) . . 179,187 Nerves, circulation of (Flourens) . 39 — reflex movements (Brown-Sequard) 38 — termination (Krause and Luschka) 37, 47 — influence on inflammation (Samuel, Snellen) . . . 124,128-9 — do. on salivary secretion (Eckard, Czermack) . . .78, 81 — action of galvanism on (Rousseau) 36, 46 — influence of water in (Birknor) . 35, 44 — action of woorara on (Haber) . 105 Nerves, section and degeneration of (Bernard) 39 — recovery, after section in poisoned ani- mals (Hoppe) . . . 105,109 — of the intestines (Billroth) . 37, 4G — supplying the joints (Rudinger) 37, 48 — fifth, painful anesthesia of (Barwinkel) 180,193 — do. neuralgia of (Schramm) . 181, 202 —r do. do. (Oppenheimer) 180,193 — sixth, paralysis of (Barwinkel) 180,193 — acoustic, termination of (Schultze) 37, 47 — inferior dental, section of (Paravicini) 179,187 — facial (Liegois) . . ' 39, 50 — superior maxillary, section of (Comochan) 39 — olfactory (Oehl) . . 37, 48 — do. . . 58 — do. anesthesia of (Franque) 179,185 — pneumogastric, function of (Asche) 39 — do. experiments on (Heine- mann) . 39, 50 — do. section of (Van Biervliet) 39 — do. action in vomiting (Bula- towics) . . 39, 49 — do. action in respiration (Low- insohn) . . 39, 49 — do. influence on movements of the intestines (Kupffer) . . 39, 50 — popliteal, division of, for neuralgia in the leg (Hooker) . . 180,195 — spinal, recurrent sensibility in motor roots of (Flourens) . . .39 — do. on distinguishing motor from sen- sory roots, in fish (Moreau) . 39 — splanchnic (Brown-Sequard) . 39, 50 — do. influence on movements of the intestines (Kupfl'er) . . 39, 50 — splenic plexus (Jaschkowitz) . 39, 50 — sympathetic, spinal centres of (Budge) 39 — do. human cervical (Wagner) 39, 50 — motor, action of electric current on (Althaus) . . . 35, 45 — do. 138,144 — do. action of galvanism on (Halle) 36 — do. of face, paralysis of (Dumenil) 181,195 — do. lachrymal (Curie) . 37 Nervous diseases, physiology of (Lussana) 38, 49 Nervous system . . . 35; 178 Nervous system, physiology and pathology of (Bernard) . . . 35, 42 — do. (Brown-Sequard) 35, 40 — comparative anatomy of (Gratiolet) 36, 46 — of difl'erent animals (Jacubowitsch) 37 — structure at the periphery (Coghill) 35, 43 — lesions of, producing diabetes (Pavy) 82, 84I 518 INDKX. Nervous system, ellect of cold water on (Preiss) . . . . 35, 45 Neubaukh, origin of oxalic acid . 95,101 — and VooEL, analysis of the urine 94,100 Neudorfer, suicide . , 451, 4,51 Neuralgia, electricity iu (AHhaus) 138,144 — of brachial plexus (Sloane) . 180,195 — facial (Burdach, Frank, Michel) 179,183-5-6 — of the fifth pair (Oppenheimer). 180,193 — do. t'^chramm) . 181,202 — of lingual nerve . . 194 — of uterus (Becquerel) . . 372 — in the leg, division of popliteal nerve for (Hooker) . . . 180,195 Neurology of organs of special sense (CoghiU) 35, .43 Neuroma, the true (Virchow) . 124,126 Neuro-muscular sensibility (Zantedesclii) 59 Neurotomy in neuralgia (Michel) . 179,183 — in facial neui'algia (Prank) . 179,186 Neuville, medical history of woman 365 Netins, medicines in vapour . 269, 271 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 381, 382 Newham, a fever village . . 139,14.6 Nicotia, poisoning by (_Melsens, Taylor) 442, 443 Niemann, ergot of rye . ' . 473, 474 NiEMATEH, treatment of pneumonia 220, 229 Nipples, sore, during lactation (Anselmier) 383,384 Nitrate of silver, injection of solution into bronchi (GriesLnger) . . 219,224 NiTTiNGEB, season of vaccination . 480, 480 NoEGGEEATH, external turning . 354, 358 — uterine injections . . 372, 375 NoizET, staphyloma posterius 326, 328-9 NoNAT, hysteria and retention of urine 372 — peri-uterine hsematocele . 377 Nose, polypi of (Jobert) , . 278, 280 NoTHtiNG, punctured wound of the neck 427, 429 NouESE, prolapsus uteri; pessary 368, 370 Ntjnn, idiosyncrasies . . 268 Ntjssbaum, bone-abscess in lower jaw 311, 316 NusSEE, trepanning in frontal presentation 356, 362 — medicine in relation to administration of justice .... 422,423 Nutrition of bone (Budge) . . 13, 16 — of animals, influence of light on (DobcU) 117,120 Nymphse, hypertrophy of (Breslau) 381,382 Objects, apparent size of (Lubimofl') 52, 54 Obstruction, stercoraceous (TheUe) 286 O'Dalt, larch bark in pulmonary hsemorrliage 221, 234 Odling (William) report on legal medicine, public hygiene, and dietetics . 422-483 , Odlino (W.) Marsh's process for dotectiiv ^."••»enic .... 431,435 O Donovan, infantile syphilis . 413, 413 (Edema glottidis, scarification of (Tudor) 221, 231 — do. 281,282 Oehi, on the olfactory nerve . 37, 48 — do. . 58 (Ei-TINGEH, potass, iodid. internally 148 (Esophagus, medullary cancer of (Firth) 236, 249 — contraction near cardiac orifice (Graden- witz) .... 236, 214 — hajmatemesis from varices in(Le Diberder) 235, 2t4 — digestive solution of (Canton) . 237, 250 — stricture of (Batty) . . 236, 2.j0 — do. from swallowing corrosive fluid (Addison) . . . 279,280 — ligature of (Orfila, Trousseau) . 69, 71 Ogle, diphaemetric compass . 58, 59 — paralysis and hyperaesthesia of one side 181, 202 — poisoning by sulphate of zinc . 450, 450 — and Meadows, clubbing of finger-ends in thoracic disease . . . 208, 210 OiDTMANN, inorganic constituents of hver, spleen, &c. . . 83,89-91 Oke, stomach and its ailments . 235, 240 Oldhaji, retroflexion of uterus . 341, 345 Olliee, artificial production of bone 13, 15 OiLiTiEE, pessaries in deviations of uterus 367, 370 Omentum, resection of, in operations for hernia (Paupert). . . 288, 289 Operations, larger bloodless (Michaelis) 275, 275 Ophthalmia, contagious (Gyyomar) 325 — Egyptian (Pauli) . . 325 — do. (Sommer) . . 325 — military (Costetti) . . 326 — do. (^''arlomont) . . 325 — do. (Laveran) . . 478,479 — do. in Danish army in 1851 (Bendz, Moeller) . . . .325 — granular, contagious (Van Roye) 325 — do. unguentumsulphurisin(W. Joiie:-) 326, 328 — purulent (Conde) . . 326 — do. ofinfants,causedbylight(Ballard) 395, 397 — do. spontaneous (Cordier) . 326 — gonorrhccal (Wilde) . . 326 — do. stimulant treatment (Hancock) 326, 327 Ophthalmoscope (Reute) . . 51 — practical application (Hansen) . 51 Opisthotonos in hydrocephalic children (Kohler) .... 394, 396 Opium in puerperal diseases (Bonfiis) 387 — poisoning by . • • 44.^, I 1 I Oppenheimer, neui'algia of the fifth pair 180, iINDEX. 519 OrpoizEE, Briglit's disease — contractions of larynx . — a'tiology of ascites OuriLA, ligature of the oesophagus. — poisoning hy arsenious acid Organic form, "laws of (Spencer) Organs, particular, of the hody Organs of the senses (Rau) — auditory and visual (Sturm) 251. 220, 224 236, 216 69 434, 435 117,119 82, 85 51 51 Oek, recovery fi-om Bright's disease 254 831 312, 319 337, 338 353, 356 373, 376 13 Orthopmlie surgery Os calcis, caries of (Stillman) Os uteri of primiparse (Huter) — incision of (Godefroy) . — ulceration of (M'Euer) . Osseous system Ossiculum tegraenti tympani (Wenzel) 13, 17 4 14, 19 126-7 1, 5 sinuses in Ossification of cartilage (Aeby) — do. — in exostosis, &c. Osteology, human (Ward) . Otitis, inflammation of cerebral (Lebert) . . . . 395 _ Ova, yearly ripening of, in woman (Mattel) 365, 365 — emigration of (Kussmaul) . 118,123 — migration of, cause of tubal pregnancy (Kussmaul) . . . 340,343 — and pseudova of insects (Lubbock) 117,122 Ovarian cysts and tumours (Black, Brown, Clay, Eulenberg, Hewitt, Holt, Lumpe, Milier, Patterson, Preuss, Terry, Wells) 376-7, 378-9 Ovaries, diseases of . . 376 Ovariotomy (Brown, Childs, Crouch, Hergott, Holt, Miller, Simon, Terry, WeUs) 376-7, 378-9 Oa'eetox, croton oU in puerperal convulsions 386, 389 Oviductal system in lamellibranchiate mol- luscs (Rolleston) . . . 117,121 Ovum (lladlkofer) . . .4 Owen, fossil mammals of Australia, mar- supial carnivore . . . 13, 15 — vertebrec of pterosauria . . 13, 14 OwsJANNiKOW, critique on Jacubowitsch's paper . . . . 37, 47 Oxalate of lime, dumb-beU crystals of (Beale) 94, 98 Oxalic acid, origin of (Neubauer) . 95,101 — poisoning by (Rul-Ogez, Webb) 444, 444 Oxide of copper in healthy urine, on reducincj (Bruecke) . . . 95,102 Oxide, xanthic, on presence of (Kletzinskv) 94,101 — do. normal in the body (Scherer) 84, 93 — do. transformation of guanin into (Strecker) . . . 84, 93 Oxygen a therapeutical agent (Birch) 269, 272 — influence on nerve-substance (Brown- Sequard) . . ■ . 37, 48 Oxygen, introduction into cellular tissue (Leconte) . . -77, 79 OzANAM, carbonic acid gas as an anaesthetic 111, 113 Ozone, discovery of its existence in the body 8-9 — relation to blood (His) . . 27 — influence of red blood-corpuscles on (Schonbein) . . .27, 33 Ozonized oils, medical administration of (Thompson) . . . 268,269 Paasoh, psediatria . . . 409 Packaed, affections of spine . 180,189 Pagenstechee, rupture of uterus in osteo- malachial pelvis . . . 342, 347 — delivery in pelvic deformity . 355, 359 Paget, eclampsia . . ■ 385 — imperforate hymen . ' . 381, 383 — retention of urine, &c. . . 298, 299 Pain as a sign of disease of the stomach (Habershon) . . • 237,251 Palate, perforation and clefts of (Baizeau) 278, 279 — soft, movements during speaking and swallowing (Scbuh) . . 69, 71 — do. laceration; sutures (Ward) 278, 279 Palsies, alternating, from aflections of the pons(Gubler) . . _ . 181,195 — wasting, simulated byneviralgia of brachial plexus (Sloane) . . . 180,195 — See Paralysis. Panas, abnormal aorta . . 27, 33 Pancreas, ftinction of (Funke) . 69, 71 — imperfectly known function of (Corvisart) 68, 70 — digestion of protein substances bv (Brinton) 69, 70 — action of juice of, on albumen (Corvisart, Keferstein) . . 68-9, 70 — suppuration of (Riboli) . . 254, 260 — extirpation of (Berard) . . 69, 71 — of the ox, guanin in (Scherer) . 84, 93 Pannus, blennorrhceal inoculation as cure for (Paoli) .... 326,327 — do. (Maracacci) 326,327 Panum, binocular vision . . 55 — putrid infection . . 140,155 Paoli, blennorrhceal inoculation in pannus 326, 327 Papilla;, tactUe (Gerlach) . . 37, 47 — of the tongue (Beau) . . 58 Pappenheim, sanitary police . 465 Paracentesis and injuries of the Madder 298 Paracentesis, recovery after, in ascites (Banks) 235, 240 Paralysis, general (Austin) . 203 — electricity in (Althaus) . . 138,14-;l. — acute ascending (Landi-y) . 181,198 ■— as sequela of diptheria (Eade) . 140,16-J. — of children (Vogt) . . 394, 395 — partial (Durraut) . . 181,199 — cerebral, induced (Ogle) . 181, 202 — facial (Ulrich) . . . 181,197520 INDEX. Paralysia of motor nerves efface (Dumenil) 1«1,]95 — of the sixth ncrvo (Biirwinkel) . 180,193 — of muscles (Creiit/.) . . 51 — do. (Friuilbevfr) . . 2()7-208 — do. of the cyebiiU (Gracfe, Scliuft) 51 — of tongue, cured by electricity (Posner) 220, 225 — and liypencsthesia of one side (Ogle) 181, 202 — agituns, removed l)y galvanic current (Reynolds) . . . 181,199 Paraplegia in relation to renal di8eases(Hind.s) 253, 258 — reflex, strychnia in (Moore) . 180,193 — reflex and du-ect forms . . 41 Parasites .... 113 Pai-asites of human body (Kuchenmeister) 114 — in the brain (Davaine) . . 38 — vegetable, of the skin (Hogg) . 113,116 — do. in hard structures of animals (KoUiker) . , . 113,115 Parasitic diseases (Lowe) . . 2G4 — nature of diphtheria (Harley, Laycock) 114,117 — fungi (Lowe) . • . Ill, 116 — do. of human surface (Fox) . Il l, 116 Paeaticini, section of dental nerve 179,187 — atheromatous cyst of labia . 381 Paechappe, pathology of fibrine in blood 125,132 Parenchymatous inflammation (Virchow) 121,130 Parent, influence of male and female, on progeny (Thomson) . . 117,118 — table, showing the chief influence of the male .... 118 Paeent-Duchatelet, prostitution in Paris 482, 482 Parietal angle, instrument for measurmg (Quatrefages) . . .13 Paekee (L.) syphilis of uterus . 372, 374 Paekes, albuminuria as symptom of kidney disease .... 253,258 — blow on the head, followed by diplopia 178,182 Paekin, causation of disease . 138,141 Parotid gland, acute inflammation of (Vir- chow) .... 235,241 Parthogenesis in plants and animals (Jjan- kester) . . . .118 Partiiriiion . . . 337 Parturition, phenomena (Schubert) 338 — arm presentation (Kvershed, Madge) 34S, 349 — cross presentations (Doig) . 34-8 — pelvic presentation (Lize) . 348 — spurious pains (Simpson) . 338, 340 — difficult, from size of foetus (Jacquemier) 3 l i), 350 — emphysema in (Ijislioj)) . . 338, 310 — retrogression of (Chai-ien) . 338, 339 Parturition, chloroform in (Kidd, Levy) . , 362,362-3 — ergot m (DeviUe) . . 3G2, 3(J3 I'aHurUion,2)aUiolug_i/ of . . 3Jo Parturition, laceration oi' perinajum in (Hutignot, Schultze) , . 338,310 — laceration of sacro-iliac synchondrosis in (.Scanzoni) . . . 338,3'10 — induction of premature, by catgut (Uraun) 353, 356 — do., by sponge-tent (Reyinann) . 354, 356 — do., by Cohen's method (Ilausmann) 354, 356 — do., V. craniotomy (Guerdan) 354, 356 — do., by warm injections (Maunoury) 354, 357 — do. (Birnbauin, Coesfeld, Crede, Finizio, Germann, Giordano, Godefroy, Groeningen, Hanemaun, Hecker, Lumpe, Mayer, Riedel, Ross, Stok, Trouncer) . 351, 357 Pateeson, suicidal poisoning with arsenic 451 Pathological experiments (Picard) . 2 Pathology, report on, ly Bandjiehl Jones, .... 121-272 — general, and symptomaiology . 124 Pathology, contributions to (Lister) 2, 6 — relation of anatomy to (Knox) . 1 — conti-ibutions to experimental (Beckmann) 125 — cellular (Virchow) . . 3, 12 Pateon, lactation . , . 393 — prolapsus of mucous membrane of urethra 293, 293 Patteeson, aneurism of left carotid artery 306, 307 — encysted tumour of ovary . 377 Pauli, Egyptian ophthalmia . 325 Paupeet, glycerine in vulvar hyperajsthesia 381, 383 — resection of omentmn in hernia. 288, 289 Patt, diabetes . . . 255 — lesions of nervous system producing dia- betes . . . . 82, 84 — and WiLKS, anaemia Jympbatica 254, 261 Peacock, antagonism of consumption and ague .... 220, 227 — raalai'ious afl'ections . . 141,173 — tape-worm from use of raw meat 113,114 Pean, tumour of coniea . . 326, 328 Pecholiee, pueii)eral fever . 386 Peiikan, antluar and antliiarine poisons 105,109 — ])liysics of gunshot wounds . 425, 428 — poisoning bv bichromate of potash 439, m — rigor mortis . . . 427,430 — and KoLLiKEE, action of certain poisons on the muscles . . . 105,108 — See KoUiker. — and Saviki-iefi", introduction of sub- stances into the body by galvanism 111, 113INDEX. 521 P£Li-iJTiEii's method, in invagination of colon (Cabaret) . . . 28G, 287 I'iiiuscnEK, suicide by sulphuric acid 451 Pjcllizzari, puerperal fever . 127 Telvic members in man and in animals (Martins) . . .13, 17 Pelvimeter, new (Eaimbert) . 341 Pelvis, female (Duncan) . . 365, 366 — development of (Duncan) . 117,121 — cases of deformed (Meissner) . 341, 31-4 — rare deformity (Schwegel) . 341, 344 — obliquely distorted (Kros). . 341, 343 Peitbektox, popliteal aneurism; flexion, and compression . . . 307,308 Pemphigus chronicus (Schonheit) . 264, 265 Penis, amputation for epithelial cancer 305, 306 Pentastoma, some kinds of (Van Beneden) 114 — tfflnioides (Leuckart) . . 114 Pepsin, use of . . . 404 — (Leared) . . . 236,246 Peptone, endosmotic equivalent of (Punke) 74, 76 Perforation of vermiform appendix (Bam- berger) .... 235,243 Pericardial exudation (Plogel) . 210 Pericarditis (Gairchier) . . 208,210 — (Markham) . . 209,215-17 — ffitiology of (Duchek) . . 209 Pericardium, ligaments of (Luschka) 26 Perinoeum, laceration of, during delivery (Butignot, Schultze) . . 338,340 — ruptured (Bagot, Breslau, Kuchler) 381, 382 Periosteum, transplantation of (Oilier) 13, 15 Periostitis, acute (Curling) . 310, 312 Peristaltic movements of digestive canal (Calliburces) . . .20, 22 Peritoneum, introduction of air, oxygen, &c., into (Leconte) . . .77, 79 Peritonitis, acute idiopathic, treated by qui- nine (Beau) . . . 236,247 — puerperal (Tilt, West) . . 377, 379 — do., from inflammation of Fallopian tubes (Martin) .... 387, 392 Pernicious fever in children (Guiet) 139,146 Pekkin, scrofula . . . 413 — scrotal hernia, second sac . 289, 292 I'ekkoke, special anatomy. . 2 Perspiration, cutaneous (Punke) . 77, 78 — table of amounts of, during exercise 79 Pescu, eclampsia puerperalis . 385, 389 Pessaries (Ollivier, Sehultze) 367, 369-70 — Zwanke's, in prolapsus (Mayer). 367, 369 — patent mushroom (Bourjeaurd) . 367 Petkixus, mydriasis . . 51 Vflvoer, effects of a constant electrical current . . . .35 — tetanus induced I)y the constant current 36, 46 — influence of vagi on heart's action 27, 31 Pharyngitis, inhalation of carbonic acid in (Willemin) . . . 220,228 Pharynx, polypi of (lloeser) . 278, 280 Pjiilipeaux, extirpation of the supra-renal capsules .... 83, 91 Philson, chronic hydrocephalus . 394, 396 Phlebitis, uterine, pregnancy during (Cooke) 387 Phlebothromhosis after delivery (Baart) 385, 388 Phosphates (Ki-abbe) . . 95 — in food and in urine (Sick) . 95,102 — earthy, in food of young animals (Leh- mann) . . . .69 — table of do. ... 73 Phosphoric acid, excretion of (Hammond) 95,102 Phosphorous disease . . 470 Phosphorus, poisoning by (Birkner, Casper, Lassaigne, &c.) . . 444,445 — fumes, necrosis of jaw from (Coote) 311, 316 Phthisis (Cormak) . . . 400 — causes of (Turnbull) . . 220 — prognosis in (Pollock) . . 221, 232 — rarity of, on the sea coast (Verhaeghe) 219, 222 — chloride of sodium in (Cotton) . 220, 226 — iodide of potassium in (Cotton) . 221, 234 — oxide of zinc, in sweats of (Jackson) 253, 255 — cancerous (Dupre) . . 219, 223 — and ague, antagonism of (Green) 220, 225 — do. (Peacock) . . . 220, 227 Physiological experiments (Picard) 2 — Institute of Breslau (Reichert) . 2 — do. at Heidelberg (Arnold) 2 Physiology, text-book (Funke, Schiff') 2, 10 — do. (iSciiiff) . , . 35, 44 — cyclopasdia of (Todd) . . 1, 5 — contributions to (Eckhard) . 1, 5 — do. (Lister) . 2, 6 — relation of anatomy to (Knox) . 1 — metaphysical aspects of (Seller) 3 — human (Dalton) . . 1, 4 — do. (Longet) . . 2, 9 — do. text-book (Ludwig) . 2, 8 — comparative (Auzeux) . . 2 — do. (M. Edwards) . 2, 10 — electro (Linati, Mattcucci) . 36 Pica of children (Corrigan) . 236, 248 PiCAKD, physiological and pathological ex- periments . . . . 2' PiCAiiDAT, anomalies of urethra . 415, 419 PiCKEOMD, asphyxia, Marshall Hall's method 397, 400 Plcrotoxine, poisoning by (Gmikel) 415, 44 5 PiDOUX, puerperal fever . . 386, 391 PiERSON, Fallopian pregnancy . 3-JO, 343 Pigment-cells of the frog's skin . 7 PiNDELL, strychnine poisoning prevented by ft)t .... 446,446 PiNGAXTLT, retroversion of gravid uterus 34], 314522 INDEX. PiORBT, influence of deep respiration on dis- eases of heart, &c. . . 125,136 PiPi'iKSKOLD, researches on the circulation 25 Pirogoff's operation (Watson) . 276, 278 — do. (Curling) . . 276,278 PiKRiE, sun-stroke . . . 179,18i Pith A, tumours in the neck . 283, 283 — galvano-caustic treatment of varicocele 801, 305 ' Pitha's Clln'e,' cases in (Gunter) , 320, 321 Placenta and foetal appendages, abnormal conditions . . . 351 — adhesions of (Houel) . . 414, 418 — do. cold injections into umbilical veins in . . . . 351 Placenta prajvia (Barnes, Donkin, Foucart, Glisczyiiski, Morris, Murray, Kainy, Spie- gelberg, Stephens) . 351,351-2 Plagge, Millar's asthma . . 397, 400 — diagnosis of uterine hsemorrhage 342 — legal responsibility . . 457,460 Plath, letters to young mothers . 392, 394 Pleischi, syphilization . . 140,155 — and FOLWAECZNY, acute atrophy of the liver .... 254, 259 Pleurisy of right side (Keyser) . 220, 225 — and embolia of pulmonary artery (Keyser) 220, 229 Pleuritic effusion, resorption of (Skoda) 221,231 — do., cure by thoracentesis, &c. (Gairdner) 221, 233 — exudation (Flogel) . . 210 Pleuritis, terminating by vicarious secretion (Moore) .... 221, 230 PiuviEZ, incontinence of urine in boys 407,407 Pneumonia, treatment (Niemayer) 220, 229 — digitalis in (Schneider) . . 139,147 — of infants (Bennet, Foville) . 399 — asthenic (Russell) . . 220, 227 PoGGiAiE, origin of sugar in the body 82, 86 — report on Sanson's paper on sugar in the body . . . . 82, 86 PoiSEtriLLE and Lefoet, glucose in the body . . . . 82, 85 Poison of adder (Weston) . . 104,105 — do. ... 448,448 Poisons and jiolsoninc/ . . 452 — special {in alphabetical order) . 433 — physiological action of . ■ 104 Poisons, action on the muscles (Pelikan) 105,108 — animal, destruction by disinfectants (Lehwess) . . . 269,270 Poisoning, treatment of . . 41 — cold aifusion in (Jackson) . 269 — alleged, case of llogers for nnirder of P. Wright .... 432 — by arsenic in cigars . . 432 — by water from leadeu cistern (Chavasse) 268 . Poisoning, apparent . . .^o^ Polarization of electrolytes (Dubois-Keymond) 36 POILAK, contagious exanthemata in Teheran 409 PoiLiTZEu, physical education of children 393,394 — diseases of childhood . . 393 Pollock, granulated blood-discs . 28, 34 — vesico-vaginal fistula . . 380 — prognosis in phthisis . . 221, 232 Polypi of nose and fauces (Jobert) . 278, 280 — of pharynx, removed by twisting (Rocier) 278, 280 — of uterus (Elkington, Hardy, Maier, Wagner) . . 372,375 — do. diagnosis (Cazenave) 368 — fibrous, of uterus (Bresku) . 373, 375 Pons varolii, comparative anatomy of (Rol- leston) . . . . 37, 47 PoNTiEE, mental state of Marie Pons 458 Poor, lupus erythematodes . 264 Population, in Franconia, Baden, Mecklen- burgh, Bavaria, &c. . . 465 PoECHEH, absence of urea and uric acid in urine of yellow fever . . 95,103 Porrigo (Neligan) . . . 410 — decalvans (Barensprung) . 264 PoETEE, division of left renal artery 306, 307 — chi'onic ulceration of larynx . 281, 282 PosxEE, paralysis of tongue cured by electri- city . . . .'220,225 — rheumatic head affection . 181,197 Potash, bichromate of, as a poison (Pelikan) 439 Potassium, iodide of, in diseases of brain (Coldstream) . . . 181,198 — do. in hydrocephalus (Carson, Coldstream) . . . 395,397 — do. in phthisis (Cotton) 221,234 Practice, effect of, in perfecting the sense of touch (Fechuer, Volkmann) . 59, 61 Pregnancy and parturition . 337 — pathology of . . . 340 — diseases of . . . 384 Pregnancy, diagnosis of (Hecker) . 337, 338 — dol (Mattel) . . 338 — kiestcine of (Hicks) . . 94, 98 — local bloodletting in (Silbert) . 362, 363 — extra uterine, (Cahen, Chevillon, JIuller, Van Geuns, WaUer) . 310-1,313 — do. perforation of vagina in (Riz/.o) 340 — tubal (Hecker) . . 118,123 — do. CHancox, Hai'ley, Pierson) 310, 343 — do. from migration of ova (Kussniaul) - 310,313 , Pregnancy and parturition, illegitimate 452 Pkeiss, effect of cold water on the nervous system .... 35, 45 Preparations in St. Thomas's Hospital Mu- seum (.Tones) . . .3523 INDEX. PEEtrss, 1-adieal cure of ovarian dropsy 37G, 378 Pkice, excision of knee-joiufc . 311, 318 — instrument for examining the base of the tongue and epiglottis . . 62 Peiestlet, development of gi'avid uterus 335, 336 — fibrous tumour of uterus in labour 355, 359 Prixce, poisoning by red precipitate 441, 442 Printers, diseases of (Holzbeecli) . 471 Pkospee, puerperal fever . . 387 — diseaseof worlvnien in green papers 471 Prostate, engorgement of (Mercier) 298, 299 — enlarged (Tatum) . . 299, 299 Prontitution . . . 482 Prostitution, history of (Sanger) . 482 — in Paris (Parent-Duchatelet) . 482 Protein substances, digestion of by the pan- creas (Brinton) . . 69, 70 Prurigo (Barensprnng) . . 265, 268 Pruritus pudendi muliebris (Rigby) 381, 383 Prussic acid, poisoning by (Brame, &c.) 445, 445-6 Psychiatric communications from Eussian hospitals .... 203, 205 Psychology, forensic (Wilbrand, &c.) 457-8 Pterosauria, vertebral character (Owen) 13, 14 PuDOX, wet applications in croup . 398 PtJECH, haemorrhage of Fallopian tubes 377, 379 Puerperal convulsions, hysterical (Kidd) 178,182 Puerperal diseases (Virchow) . 387, 392 — the blood in (Schulten) . . 387, 392 Puerperal fever (Auber, Behier, Chavanne, Dor, Dove, Legroux, Mascari, Mattel, Pecholier, Pidous, Prosper, Schnepp, Surmay, Thibaut) . 386-7,391 — discussion at Academy of Medicine 386, 390 Pulse, normal rapidity of (Guertin) 26 — double, hydraulic interpretation (Marey) 26 — radial, stoppage of (Verneuil) . 26, 29 Pupil, voluntary contraction and dilatation (Wright) . . .50, 53 P'JEEFOY, hemorrhage in labour . 342, 348 I'uqjura, yielding to gallic acid and mercury (Whalley) . . . 210,218 — acute .... 266 — ha;morrhagici (Hardy) . 409 — do. treated by tincture of larch bark (Hardy) . . . 139,144 Pus, blue (Delore) . . . 125,133 Putrid infection (Panuui) . . 140,155 QuACKENBUsn, inversion of uterus 368, 371 QuATEET^AGEs, instrument for measuring the parietal angle . . .13 Quinine in acute idiopathic peritonitis (Beau) 236, 247 QxJlNLAN, ecraaeuT in anal fistula . 275, 275 QuiNLANi radical cure of hydi-ocele 304, 306 — diseases of upper jaw . . 311, 317 Eabies (Thamhayn) . . 179,187 Eachitis (Bouchut, Goutay, Huschkc, Wedl) 408 — development of bone in (Mueller) 408, 409 Eadcliefe, muscular action from an electri- cal point of view . . 19, 21 Eadius and ulna, fracture of, treatment by drilling and wiring (Sanborn) . 311, 315 Eadlkopee, the ovum . . 4 Eagskt, blood in hydrophobia . 441 Eaimbeet, pelvimeter . . 341 Eainey, formation of shells, of bone, &c. 14, 18 — structui-e of the dental tissues . 14 Eaint, placenta proevia . . 351, 352 Eameaux, laws which regulate the cai>acity of the lungs . . .67 Eamis and BEESLirtr, double malformation 349, 350 Eamsbotham, dropsy of amnion, twins 351, 352 — prolapsus of bladder in labour . 341, 344 — puerperal convulsions . . 385, 389 — long forceps . . . 355, 359 Eamskill, local treatment of diphtheria 139,153 EAifKiNG-, on diphtheria . . 151 — ulceration of the duodenum . 236, 248 Eansome, diphtheria; paralysis ; recovery 141,175 Raxzi, determination of blood, &c. 124,130 Eape, evidence of, on infants [Greenwood's Case] (Kesteven, Wilde) . 453, 454 Eatteat, acute dysentery of China 235, 240 Eau, organs of sense, especially the eye 51 Eaucheuss, softening of lungs in infants 398, 401 Eavishing (Hauska) . . 452, 453 Eatoth, strangulated hernia . 288, 290 Eay fish, electrical organ of (Eckhard) 36 Eeckeijtghausen, earthy constituents of young bones . . .13, 16 — echiuococcus fluid . . 125,133 Reclam, lacteal and lymphatic circulation 74, 76 Eectum, longitudinal fibres of (Beraud) 20, 23 — stricture (Todd) . . 286, 288 — contraction of, from syphilis (Bovero) 237, 250 Eedee. See Lorinser. Eedtenbachee, the liKmadynamometer 26, 29 Eeed, revaccination in anny . 139,147 Eeflex action, who discovered (Jeitteler) 88, 49 — movements (Brown-Sequard) . 38 EEoxArLD, electro-physiological experiments 35 Eeich, etiology and hygiene . 461, 461 Eeicheet, physiological studies . 2INDEX. Keid, caios ofnueurUm . . 2j9, 21G — chlorosis, iiniuuiic muriaurs iit apox of • . . . 211 Ueid's (W.) trial for abortion (Duncan) ' 455,456 KniNEit, separation of two adherent fa'tuses 414, 41G JIkinickk, microscopo . , 3 Itclnjiscs in diseases running a typical course (VN'underlicli) . . ' . 120,138 Remak, periplierul ganglia in the alimentary «anal_ . . . .37, 4(3 — dividing of blood-corpuscles in the cni- ^ryo . . . .4 Kemilly, revaccination . . 480,481 Kenzi, physiology of the cerebellum 38, 49 Resection, subperiosteal pubic (Cristoforis) 356, 362 — See Excision. Respiraiion ... 62 Respiration, theory of (Muller) . 62, 64 — phenomena of (E. Smith) . 62, 63 — action of pneumogastric in (Lowinsohn) 39, 49 — do. of thoracic m\iscles in (Arnold) 62, 66 — do. of food on (E. Smith) . 62, 65 — deep, influence on diseases of heart, &c. (Piorry) .... 125, 136 — jerking (Bourgade) . . 219,224 — pi-emature, of fostus (Schwartz) 335, 336 — artificial, in poisoning with woorara (Vul- pian) .... 105 Respiration, organs of,diseases of, in children 397 Respiratory system . . 219 Responsibility, legal, question of (Boeclier, Mair, Schweber, &c.) . 458,460 Resuscitation of dried and apparently dead animals (Cohn) . . . 118 Restin, extrophia of bladder . 416 Retina, persistence of impressions on (Mel- sens) . . , . 51, 54 Reute, new ophthalmoscope . 51 Retbaud, condition of workpeople in silk 472 Retjiann, obstetric cases . 341 — induction of labour bysponge-tcnt 354, 356 Reynolds, facts and laws of life . 2 — paralysis agitans removed by galvanic current .... 181,199 Rheumatic head affection (Posner) 181,197 — fever (Wiitley) . . 141,174 Rheumatism, acute, treatment by quinic intoxication (Beau) . . 141,174 — do. by o])ium (Sibson) 141,175 — Faradization in (Briquet) . 179,183 — cerebral (Forget) . . 179,186 — do. (Trousseau) . . 181,201 Rhonchus, infantile bronchial (Semanas) 399 Rib-cartilage, histology of (Frcund) 14, 19 Ribs, cervical (Luschka) . . 13 KiBOLi, suppuration of pancreas . 25'1, 260 I lUccxuD, tracheotomy in epilepsy 179,185 Itu iiAHD, cc))lialotri])sy . . 3B6 KiciiAKDHoN, voltaic "narcotism for local anuL'stliesia in o))eratioiiH 110-11, 111 — do. exi)eriniei)lKon by Waller 110-11 RiCJiTEii, feroniedical relations of mania 458 lUCOUD,chancre,kindsandstagexof 321, 322 RicoHDEAU, choleroid enteritis . 404 Rieoei., &c., artificial premature labour 354, 357 RiECKE, value of vaccination . 4^*0,480 Hia I)V, cranial blood-Hwelling . 400,403 — pruritus pudendi , . 381, 383 RiGBEN, diphtheria at Canterbury 139,151 — cases in midwifery practice . 364 Rigor mortis . , , £1 Rigor mortis, definition of (Pelikan) 427, 430 — (Brown-Scquard, Fischer, Kuhne) 24, 25 — death of the limbs in (Kussmaul) 21, 25 — relation of irritability of mnscles to (Hemcke) . . .24 RlNQEH, connection of heat of body witli excreted urea, &c., in ague . 94, 99 — do. 141 Rizzo, perforation of vagina by arm of fajtus 340 RoBEET, syphilitic right hemiplegia 180,193 Roberts, vesical calculus formed on slate pencil .... 295,297 — poisoning by corrosive sublimate 442,442 RoBEETSON. See RoHeston. Robin, bronchitis, its independence of pneu- monia .... 221, 233 — production of walls of cysts round pus 125,131 — spina bifida . . . 416 — menstrual and other blood-stains 427, 431 — stain containing human adipose tissue 428, 431 — comparison of hairs found on locality of a murder with those of victim . 127 Robinson, aneurism . . 209,216 — mental disorders . .203,204 RoDET, muscular atrophy, of syiihilitic origin 207, 207 RoESER, symptomatic dropsy of morbus Brightii . . . 253,259 — polypus of the pharjnix . 278, 280 Rogers, obliteration of spermatic passages 30], 305 RoKiTANSKY, atresia of uterus and vagina 415, 419 — See Virchow. RoLLESTON, comparative anatomy of the pons varolii . . . 37, 4/ — and Robertson, aquiferous and oviductal systems in the lamelli-branchiate molluscs 117. l-'l RoNGET, erectile organs of woman, &c. 365,525 INDEX. EosE (Cooper) poisoning by nrsenite of copper .... 43i, 436 KosENSTEiN, parenchymatous nephritis 254, 260 Rosenthal, effects of different batteries 36, 46 KosiCKi, menstrual deviation. . 371, 373 Ross, cancnim oris . . 404 -— premature labour . . 354, 358 — rupture of cervix uteri . . 342, 317 RosTAX, typhoid fever . . 139,146 ROTii, diseases of brain from blows of the hand on the temples . . 426,428 — fatal consequences of a box on the ear 426, 428 RorssEAU, Lesttee, and Maetin-Maoeojt, action of galvanism on nerves . 36, 46 RorsSET, potass, iodid. for arresting mam- mary secretion . . . 148 — obstetric clinic, Bordeaux . 364 RoUTH, defective assimilation in infants 403, 405 — do. lactation . 383,384 — mortality of infants in foundling insti- tutions .... 466, 466 — prolapsus uteri . , . 368, 370 liUDisGEE, mechanism of the cardiac valves 26 •— nerves supplpng the joints . 37, 48 RuHiE, on M. Groux . . 25, 29 Eel-Ogez, poisoning by oxalic acid 444, 444 Rupture of the heart (Markhain) . 208, 210 — of the heart and mitral valve (Feigneaux) 209, 218 — of right auricle (Cregeen) . 209, 215 RrssELL, asthenic pnemnonia . 220, 227 Saccharine function of liver (Lehmann, Moos) 82, 85 Sack, hip bath . . . 372,375 Sacro-iliac diseases (Erichsen) . 311, 318 Saline solutions, absorption and exhalation of gases by (Fernet) . . 62, 65 Saliva, temperature of (Ludwig) . 78, 81 Salivary secretion, influence of nerves on (Czermack, Eckard) . . 78, 81 Saltee (Hyde) varieties of asthma 219, 222 — asthma .... 220, 226 — consequences of asthma . . 221, 232 — treatment of asthma by sedatives 221, 232 Salts, action of, on living blood-corpuscles (Rotkin) . . . . 26, 30 Saezgeeee, suppuration of uterus . 349, 350 Samson, oculistic hygiene of infancy 392 SA3irEL, influence of nen'es on inflammation 124., 129 — inflammation from nervous irritation 269 Saneoen, uni(m of fractured radius and ulna. by wiring . . . 311,315 SA^■f;EK, history of prostitution . 482, 482 Sanitary police (Papponlieira) . 465 Sanitary in.Hilv,lions, pnhlio . 466 Sanson, origin of sugar in the body 82, 86 Sansoit, origin of sugar in the body, report on. See Pogyiale. Santesson, poisoning by sulphate of zinc 450, 450 Santonine, effects on the vision (Martini, Mialhc) . . . .52, 54 Sapo-laricis in cutaneous diseases (Moore) 264, 265 Saepey, anatomy of cirrhosis . 208, 211 Sarcina ventriculi, fatal case (Stone) 113,115 Sarkin (Strecker) . . . 84, 93 Sausage poison . . . 475 Sautesson, formation of stone round foreign bodies .... 295,298 Savielieee. See Felikan. Satohy, shape of transverse wounds of blood- vessels . . . . 25, 28 Saxee, tracheotomy in croup . 399 ScANZONi, death from injection of carbonic acid into uterus . . . 372, 375 — laceration of sacro-iliac synchondi-osis during labour . . . 338,340 Scarification in oedema glottidis (Tudor) 221, 231 — do. 281,282 Scarlet fever (Chavasse, Leubuscher, Trous- seau) .... 409,411 — power of belladonna against (Morris) 409 — recession of eruption (Jessop) . 409, 411 — after parturition (McClintock) . 385, 388 — relation to dropsy (Hewitt) . 409 — affinities with measles (Kuttner) 410 — sequeliB (Scoutetten) . . 264, 268 — do. . . 410,411 •— renal affections after (Anizon, Ai-nold) 407, 407 Schaepeee, detection of poisoning by arsenic 434, 435 ScHAEEiNG. See EscliricM. ScHAUEKSTEiN, poisouing with cyanide of potassium . . . 445,446 — and Spaeth, conveyance of medicines to child by the mother's milk . 393 Schekee, guanin in the pancreas of the ox 84, 93 — xanthic oxide, normal in the body 84, 93 — table of Oidtmann's analyses of liver and spleen .... 90 SCHiELE, abscess in larynx after typhoid fever 220 ScHiFF, text-book of physiology . 2 — . do. . 35, 44 — function of posterior column of spinal cord 37, 48 — sensibility of the posterior column 37, 48 — electrical stimuli . . 35 — uric acid . . .94,100 ScHLAQEE, medico-forensic psychology 458, 460 — maniacal excitement . . 203,204 SCHEossEEiiGEE, bile of the whale. 83, 89526 INDEX. SoniossDEnoEB, human milk coitiiiniiiff excess of tut . . .78, 81 SoiiMiDT, obstetric clinic at Wurzburt,' 301. — strangfulatod crural hernia . 288, 291 ScnMiTT, I'unic soudle . . 337,331) SouNEiDEB, digitalis in inflammation 139,147 — simulated epilepsy . . 451,452 — psychology in criminal law . 457, 400 — questionable state ol" mind, &o. . 458 SCUNEPF, vital capacity of lungs . 120,136 — influence of tlie circumference and elas- ticity of the thorax on the vital capacity 07 — relation between the vital capacity and pulmonary aftections . . 07 SCHNEPP, puerperal fever . . 387 SCHNITZLER, acute atrophy of liver 254 SCHoXBEiN, influence of red blood-corpuscles on ozone . . .27, 33 SoHoNHEiT and Malmsten, pemphigus chronicus . . . 204,205 SCHOTTIN, artificial formation of hepatic substances . . .82, 87 — thymic asthma . . . 397, 400 SoHEAMii, on ague at Bodenwohr 140,158 — neuralgia of the fifth pair . 181, 202 — sciatica .... 181,197 SCHBEBEE, physical education of children 393, 394 — angular curvature . . 408, 409 SCHEOEDEB VAN DEE KOEK, structure of spinal cord and medulla oblongata 35, 40 — inflammation, first in the arterial system 269, 271 SCHEOPE, poisoning with haschisch 440, 440 SoHTTBEBa, heematoma of dura mater 181,197 SOHTTBEBT, almond water in hooping-cough 399, 403 — phenomena of delivery . . 338 — inclination to murder . . 458 ScHTJFT, paralysis of the muscles of the eye- ball . . . . 51 ■ ScnuH, movements of the soft palate 09, 71 — vascular tumour in children . 4-00, 403 ScHULTEN, blood in puerperal diseases 387, 392 ScHTTLTEE, diarrhoea in infants . 404 SOHITLTZE, termination of the acoustic nerve 37, 47 — cephalotripsy . . . 356,361 — hydrocephalic foetus . . 319, 350 — laceration of perinaeum during delivery 338, 340 — pessaries . . . 367,309 SOHUTZ, virulent measles . . 410, 412 SCHWANDA, quantity of chyle formed in a given time . . • 74, 76 SoHWANDNEB, injury of spinal marrow 427,429 SciiWAETZ, respiratory movements of foetus 335, 330 ScnwABTZE, cholera infantum '. 401-, 405 SciiWEUEii, legal resijonsibility . 457, 459 ScjiWEOEi,, abnormal l)one8 . 13, 17 — pelvic deformity . .341,344 Sciatica (Schramm) , , 181,197 Hcirrhus of uterus (Hreslau) . 373, 375 Sclerema, shampooing in (Logroux) ^llO Scott, rui)ture of internal and middle coats of the arteries . , .25, 28 — influence of mercury on secretion of bile 253, 257 bCOOTETTEif,sequelae of measlesandscarlatina 204, 208 — do. 410,411 ScEiVEN, larjmgotomy in hydrophobia 441, 441 Scrofula (Michaelis) , . 141,170 — (Perrin) . . . 413 — cui-ed by iodized food (Lebert) . 140,107 Scrofulous aff'ection of teeth (Bruck) 331, 331 Scrotum, elephantiasis of (Walton) 303, 300 Seal, new entozoa found in heart of (Jolly) 114,'ll7 Seaton, poisoning by belladonna . 437,4-38 Secale cornutum in disturbance of the ac- commodativepowerof theeyes(Willebrand) 209, 214 Secretion, influence of vitality on (Inman, Spender) . . .77, 78 Secretory system . . . 253 SEca^viCK, deficient abdominal wall 416,421 — amputation at carpo-metacarpal joint 276, 277 Sediliot, internal urethrotomy . 300, 302 Seguin, accidental colours . 52, 54 Selenite as a febrifuge (Clark) . 140,155 Seelee, metaphysical aspects of phvsiology 3 — natural acid reaction of urine, &c. 94, 97 Semanas, infantile bronchial rhonchus 399 Semeledee, laryngeal speculum . 126,137 — do. . 220,229 Semen, retention of (Rogers) . 304, 305 Senftleben, malformations of kidneys in atresia ani . . . 415,419 Sense, special, neurology of organs of (CoghiU) 35, 43 — on a sixth (Battye) . . 58, 61 Senses, the organs of (Dornbluth, Dudten- hofer, Eau) . . .51 Sensibilitv, neuro-mnscular (Zantedeschi) 59 — of abdominal ganglia (Budge) . 39, 50 — loss of, in transplanted skin (Busch) 59 — tactile, means of measuring (Brown- Sequard) . . .59 Sebbe d'Uzes, stereoscopic eflects. 55 Sewage of London (Bernays, Hofmann) 468, 4<39 Sex,douiif"^ t . ,458INDEX. 527 Shampooing in sclerema (Le Growx) 110 Sdeabee, malformation of abdomen -116, 421 Shells, formation of (Rainey) • 14, 18 Shoxilders, management of, in examination of chest (Corson)' . . • 219, 224 Sibley, statistics of cancer . 141,177 SiBSOX, opium in acute rheumatism 141,175 — experiments on woorara . ^ 108 SiCHEL, epithelioma of the eye . 325, 327 Sick, phosphates in food and uriue 05,102 SiEGEET, single vision and stereoscopic eliects 51 ^glit, sense of . . • 50 Sight.causeof longandshort(Wright) 50, 53 Sigmoid flexure, stricture of (Thompson) 286, 287 SiaMrND, cure of syphilis by inunction 140,162 SiLBEBT, local blood-letting in pregnancy 862, 363 Silk, condition of workpeople in (Eeybaud) 472 Silver, nitrate of, discoloration of skin from (Holthouse) . . . 301,305 Simon, nervous giddiness . . 179,186 — vesico-vaginal fistula) . . 380, 381 — ovariotomy . . . 376,378 — poisoning by strychnia . . 446, 447 — See Barker, Bucliner. •SiiiPSON, diseases of women . 365, 366 — spurious labour-pains . . 338, 340 —■ turning v. long forceps . . 354, 358 — cranioclasm . . . 355,361 Simulated diseases . . . 151 SiRELirs, urajmic poisoning . 95 Size, apparent, of objects (Lubimoff) 52, 54 Skeleton, chemistry of (Bezold) . 13, 16 — human (Humphi'y) . .15 — of fishes, development of (Huxley) 14, 17 Skey, compound fracture at shoulder-ioint 311, 318 - hysterical affections of joints . 310,315 ■ mammary tumours . . 384 - tracheotoiuy for removal of tamarind- stone .... 281,283 Skin, absorption of (Waller) . 74 — influence of male parent over colour of 118 — power of the, in detecting slight weights ■ (Kammler) . . . 59, 61 — loss of sensibility in transplanted (Busch) 59 — action of, in ])rodtiction of disease (Smith) 264, 266 — diseases of (Moore) . .261,265 — do., sapo-laricis in (Moore) . 261, 265 — do., hvdrochloric acid in (Kletzinsky) 264, 265 — do., in children (Caillaut, Hardy) 409 — parasitic affections (Bazin) . 409 Skoda, resorption of pleuritic efl'usion 221, 231 SKt7E3, tetanus cured by extract, cannab. indie 179,184 Slaughterhouses, public (Feit) . 467 Sloane, neuralgia of brachial plexu.s 180,195 Smalljian, cystic disease of liver in foetus 414, 417 Smelling, sense of . . ■ 58 Smelling, organs of (Oehl) . . 58 — do., in fish (Dumeril) . . 58 Smethurst, murder of Isabella Banks by 434, 436 Smith (A.), poisoning by strychnia; recovery 446,447 Smith (Edward), phenomena of respiration 62, 63 — action of food on the respiration 62, 65 — action of the skin in the production of disease .... 264,266 — and Bho-wn-Seqfaed, transformation of starch into sugar in the stomach 69, 72 Smith (J. L.), cholera infantum . 404, 406 Smith (T. H.), diphtheria . . 140,165 Smith (T.), surgery on the dead body 273 Smith (Tvler), vomiting in pregnancy 386, 390 — abolition of craniotomy . . 355, 360 — statistics of midwifery practice . 364 Sneezing, convulsive (Hosier) . 180,188 Snellen, influence of nerves on inflamma- tion .... 124,128 S^row, drainage and water supi)ly . 468 Soda, hypoclilorite of, calculation of urea by (Leconte) . . . 95,103 Soap lees, poisoning by . . 446 Sodium, chloride of, excretion of, in connec- tion with heat of body (Ringer) . 94, 99 Solauine, action of (Clarus) . 141 Solids, excretion of, by the lungs (Wieder- hold) . . ' . . 62, 64 SoLET, partial amputation of the hand 276, 277 — excision of knee-ioint . . 312, 318 Somaiio injuries . . . 424 SoMMEE, Egyptian ophthalmia . 325 Sore throat, epidemic (Ballard) . 140,163 Sound, mathematical theory of (Earnshaw) 56 — velocity of . . .57 — intensification of (Alison) . 56, 57 — undulations of, from membrana tympani to the labyrinth (Toynbee) . 56 Spaeth. See Sehauenstein. Speaking, movements of soft palate during (Schich) . . . . 69, 71 Speculum for the larynx (Czermak, Price, Turk) . . . . 62, 67 — in diseases of the tongue (Semeleder) 220, 229 Speitcee, on the laws of organic form 117,119 Spendeb, remarks on Inman's pajicr on vitality . . . . 77, 78 Spenoel, microscopical observations on Ems' Waters . . .3 Spenglee, Medical Mecklenburgh 465 Spermatic cord, new glandular organ in (Giralde's) , . , 96,104528 Spermatic passages, obliteratioiig of (Uogoi-B) 301,305 — stains, diagnosis of (Dannenborg, lins- , siiigno) .... 427,431 SpiEQKLUEna, carcinoma of cervix 312, 318 — chorea during pregnancy . 385, 38'J — placenta prajvia, treated by Coljjouryntor 351, 352 — mechanical impediment to labour 318, 350 SpiEiis. Sec Ludwig. Spina bifida (Beln-end) . . 408 — (AUix, Behrond, Debout, Messer, Mobin) 416, 420 — cure by collodiuni (Uohrond) 41G, 420 — iodine injections in (Hl)ra) . 410 Spinal centres of the sympathetic (Budge) 39 Spinal cord, minute structure (Schrocder V. d. Kollv) . . .35, 40 — microscopic examination of, while fresh (Jacubowitseh) . . .37, 46 — crossing of nerve-fibres in (Bezold, Vul- pian) . . . . 38, 48 — non-crossing of nerve-fibres high up in (Brown-Sequard) . . 38 — physiology of (Bro\vn-Sequard) 38 — independence of (Aleyer) . 38 — reflex movements (Brown-Sequard, Jeit- teler) . . . .33 — influence of lateral half on the opposite sides of the head (Brown-Sequard) 38 — posterior column (SchifF) . 37, 48 — double (Lenhosseli) . . 414,417 — apoplexy of (Duriau) . .181,201 — epilepsy after injury to (Brown-Sequard) 38 — injury of (Schwandner) . 427, 429 Spine, aflections of (Packard) . 180, 189 •— curvatures of (Bouvier) . 409 — do. (Flamming) . 408 — injury of (Bukett) . , 311, 317 — Pott's disease of (Broea) . 311, 317 Spleen, table of analyses of . 90 — inorganic constituents of (Oidtmann) 83, 89-91 — enlargement of (Lees) . . 254 — extirpation of human (Martini) 255 — rupture ofj in foetus (Charcot) . 414, 417 Splenic plexus of nei"ves (Jaschkowitz) 39, 50 Spondli, pliiral bii-ths . . 348,349 Sponge, compressed,anti-lactescent (Stewart) 384, 384 Sphino, emboli in cerebral arteries 180 Stadfeldt, diabetes . . 95 Stanley, ligature of common carotid in hasmorrhage from tonsil. . 306, 307 — deligation of subclavian, in axillary aneu- rism .... 306,307 Staphyloma poflterius (JToizet) . 326,328 — description, symptoms, &c, . 328-9 Starch, transformation of into sugar in tht stomach (Bardeleben, Smitli) . 69, 72 — use in catarrh of the stomach (Lelimann) cu i- . . 235,211 StjitiHtics, hospital (Hannover) . 2, 10 -— medical (Vierordt) . . io2 Steam, inhaling of, Ijy the tracheotoniiy.ed (Delienham) . . . 220,225 Stearrhcea nigricans (Harvey) . 264, 265 Stukle, case of intus-suscei)tion . 235^ 243 Stein, modes of applying electricity 35 Steinbeko, inliannnation of vena portaj 237, 251 Steinbeeger, first dentition . 404 Stellwao von Cahion, conjunctivitis of newly born . . ' . 326 Stenberg, syphilization . . no, 155 Stephens, placenta pnevia . 351,' 352 Stercoraceous obstruction (Theile) . 230* — do. 286 — vomiting (Easton) , . 236, 217 Stereomonoscope (Claudet) . 55' Stereoscope (Claparede, D'Almeida) 55 Stereoscopic eflects (Siegert) . 51 — do. (SeiTe) . . 55 Stemo-clavicidaris muscle (Hyrtl) . 20, 21 Sternum, congenital fissure of (Moeller)' 416 Stewaet, compressed sponge, antilactescent 384,381 Stich, on nausea . . .58 — See Klaalsch. Stillborn childi-en (Hadaway, West) 364 — legal questions on (Maschka, &c.) 455-6 —■ See Lung-test. Stillman, caries of os calcis • 312, 319 Stimuli, electi-ical (Schifl") . . 35 Stolz, artificial premature labour 354, 357 Stomach, diseases of (Brinton) . 234, 237 — do. (Oke) . . 235,210 — do. pain as a sign of (Haher- shon) .... 237, 251 — do. alkalies or acids in (Wells) .... 237, 252 — catarrh of, cured by starch (Lehmann) 235, 241 — degeneration of submucous coat of (Klob) 236, 246 — chronic inflammation of (Leared) 234, 239 — tumours in (Kennedy) . . 235, 239 — ulcer of (Wade) ' . . 237, 251 Stomatitis, ulcerative (Hutchinson) 23i, 239 — do. of soldiers (Bergeron) 236, 219 Stone; UiJiotomy and lilhotrHif , 295 — See Calculus. Stone, chorea treated by sulphate of zinc 180,103 — acute necrosis; pysomia . 310,312 — sarcina ventriculi . .113,115 Stohet!, uterine tents . . 372,375 Stokk, laryngeal speculum . 126529 INDEX. of guanin into . 84., 93 . 84, 93 .393,394 tested on its 236, 245 286, 286 SxEECKEB, transformation xanthic oxide — on sarkin Stbeng, health of children StheubeIi, small intestine axis — do. Stricture of oesophagus (Addison) . 279, 280 — of rectum (Todd) . .286,288 Strychnia in reflex paraplegia (Moore) 180,193 — in prolapsus ani (Duchaussoy) . 405 — poisoning by (Bennett, Simon, &c.) 446, 446 Stuprum, cases of (Maschka) , 452 Sturgeon-liver poison ("Wolff) . 475, 475 Stueg-es, intestinal obstruction . 236, 250 Sttjem, auditory and visual organs 51 Succinic acid, transit into the urine (Hall- wachs) .... 94,100 Sugai', immediate principles (Berthelot) 82, 87 — retrograde metamorphosis (Benvenisti) 82, 87 — employed in diseases of infants (Behrend) 235, 240 — in the body (Poggiale, Sanson) 82, 86 — in the chyle (Colin) . .82, 85 — in chyle and lymph, quantitative analysis 85 — transformation of starch into, in the stomach (Bardeleben, Smith) . 69, 72 — in normal urine (Bruecke) . 95,102 — in the m-ine (Boettger) . 254, 259 — in diabetes (Eschi-icht) . . 82, 86 — do. (M'DonneU) . 82, 84 — do. reagent for detecting (Behier) 125,133 — in severe diarrhoea . . 240 — Fehling's liquid for detection of (Babo) 94,100 — delicate test for (Lowenthal) . 95,102 Suicide .... 450 Suicide by poisoning (Berg, Casper, Lin- hardt, &c.) . . 450-1,451 Sulphuric acid, poisoning by . 447 Sun-stroke (Levick) ' . 180,189 — (Longmore) . . . 179,185 — (Martin) . . . 182,190 — (Pirrie) .... 179,184 Superfoetation (Bernard) . . 414 Suppuration, VirchoVs theory of . 12 Supra-renal capsules . . 83 Supra-renal capsules (Brown-Sequai-d, Vul- Pian) . . , . 83, 91 — (ZeUweger) . . . 84, 92 — fat a normal element of (Vulpian) 83, 92 — disorganization of, without discoloration of skin (Davey) . , . 253, 255 — extirpation of (Philipeaux) . 83, 91 Surgery, report on, ly J. W. EulJce 273-334 — text-looJcs . , . 273 Surgery, ' Vade Mecum' (Drtiitt) , 273, 273 Surgery, cases (Kinloch) . • 310, 315 — on dead body (Smith) . . 273 SuEMAT, puerperal fever . . 387 Sutures ■ . . • • 278 Sutures, metal (Aveling) . . 278, 278 Swallowing, movements of soft palate during (Schuh) . . . . 69, 71 Symphysis pubis, human (Aeby) . 4 — do. . 14, 19 Symptomatology ' . . 124; 134 Synarthrosis of the human body (Luschka) 13, 16 Synchondrotomy (Jocolucci) . 356, 362 Syphilis . . • .321 Syphilis, errors of diagnosis of (Lorinser) 141,176 — constitutional (Virchow) . 141,173 — transmission by foetus from male to female parent (Harvey) . . 365, 366 — contraction of rectum from (Bovero) 237, 250 — nerve disorders from (Gjor) — variola with (Bamberger) — cure by inunction (Sigmund) — mercury in (Gruber) — do. (Lorinser and Eeder) — in pregnant' women (Bertin) — of uterus (Parker) — infantile (Diday, Friedinger, O'Donovan, Tanner, Zeisl) Syphilitic infection, mental (Chapin) 179,187 140,155 140,162 140,162 140,156 385, 388 372, 374 Mayer, 413,413 disease from . 181,200 "gangrene of month (De Meric) 278, 279 — right hemiplegia (Robert) . 180,193 — laryngitis (Jeaffi-eson) . . 281, 282 Syphilization (Danielsen, Michaelis, PleischI, Stenberg) . . . 140,155 — (Boeck) .... 141,177 — (Lee) .... 321, 321 — (Eicord) . . . 322-3 Tactile papilla) (Gerlach) . . 37, 47 TiBnia solium from use of pork in diet 115 Tallet, ulceration of aorta . 209, 213 Tanghinia venenifera (KbUiker) . 105,110 Tanner, vesico-vaginal fistula . 380, 382 — infantile syphilis . . 413, 413 Tannin in albuminous anasarca (Gaxnier) 253, 256 — in membranous angina (Loiseau) 219, 223 Tape-worm from use of raw meat (Barclaj"^, Peacock) . . . 113,114 — do. (Marcus) 405 — cerebro-spinal symptomatology of (Heslop).... 236, 248 — treatment of (Leared) . . 234, 239 Tapping in hydatid cyst of the liver (Budd) 253 Taedieu, immoral assaults . 452, 453 — abortion . . . 455,456 — attentat of 14th Jan., 1858 . 425, 428 Tarsus, contractions of (Henlce) . 331 — diseases of (Erichsen) . . 312, 319 34530 INDEX. Tartar emetic in chorea (Ciilletto). 179,181 — in contractile tissues (lloppe) . 2C9, 272 Taste, sense of . . . ' 58 Taste, locality of (Klnatsch) .' 58 — organ of, in fish (Diuneril) . 58 Tatum, stricture and enlarged prostate, &c. 299 299 Tatlob, amenorrlioDu treated by electricity 371 373 — poisoning by nicotia . . 442^ 44.3 lEAiiE, popliteal aneurism; compression . . 306,308 — chronic inversion of womb . 368, 370 Teeth • ... 14 Teeth, lecture on (Grimshaw) . 334 — development (Guillot, Magitot) 14, 19 — formation of tissues of (Rainey) 14 — scrofulous aflfection of (Bruck) . 334, 334 Teeth, surgery of . . .334 Telestereoscope (Helniholtz) . 55 Temperature, difference in, of saliva and the carotid blood (Ludwig) . . 78, 81 Tendon of rectus femoris, division of (Brod- hurst) .... 331 333 Tenia, cure of (Malago) . . 409^ 411 Terry, polycystic ovarian tumour . 377, 379 Testicles,2Jenis, and scrotum, diseases of 304 Testicles, malignant disease of . 304 — malignant diseases, cases . 304, 305 — retained in abdomen, encephaloid cancer of(Johnson) . . . 255 — atrophy of, in infant . . 304 — malignant cystic disease of (Curling) 304, 305 — fimgus of, in syphilis (De Meric) 304, 305 — congenital absence of (Godard) . 415, 419 — supernumerary (Plogel) . 414, 417 Tetanomoter,mechanical(Heidenham)35, 44 Tetanus .... 324. Tetanus (Erichsen) . . 324,324 — induced by the constant current (Pfluger) 36, 46 — treatment of (De Morgan) . 179,183 — do. by woorara (Broea, Harley, Wells) .... 104,106 — do. by extract, cannab. indie. (Skues) . . . 179,184 — traumatic, cases of . . 324, 324 — do. (M'Ghie) . . 324,324' — do. from wound of radial artery (Canton) . . . 324 — do. ft'om fracture of the forearm (Hughes) . . . 324,324 Thamdatn, rabies and hycb-ophobia 179,187 — do. 441,441 — diseases of thyroid gland . 283, 284 Theile and Adeele, stercoraceous obstruc- tion .... 236 — do. 286 Therapeutics, report on, hy Handfield Jones, M.B. . . . 124-272 Thennometer-tube in bladder (Coulson) 295, 298 TuiBAUT, puerperal fever . . 387 TuiuuNESSE. See Oiuye. Thigh, ununited fracture (Ferguason) m . 310,315 IHOMAS, the hymen . .381,383 Thompson, on the prostate . 127 — stricture of sigmoid flexure . 28G, 287 — internal urethrotomy in stricture of urethra . . . 300,301-2 — hajinorrhage from tonsil arrested I>y per- ehloride of iron . . . 278, 279 — (T.) administration of ozonized oils 268, 269 inOMSON, external use of medicines 265,266 — influence of male and female parent on the progeny . , . 117,118 — table of do. , , . us — embryogeny of comatula rosacete 117,121 Thoracentesis in pleuritic efFiision (Gairdner) 221, 233 Thoracic duct, inflammation of (Worms) 210, 218 Thoracic members in man and in animals (Martins) . , .13, 17 Thoen, rupture of uterus . . 342, 346 Thoenhili, dysentery, with aneurism of aorta .... 237,250 Thoep, vesico-vaginal fistuk . 381, 382 Thoutenin, influence of muscular esercbe 20 Thrombosis of crural arteries (Flogel) 210 Thrush (Briquet, Flugel, Gubler) . 404, 406 Thudichum, gall-stones . . 254,263 Thymus gland (Priedleben) . 84, 92 — (Priedleben, Jendrassik) . 397, 400 Thyroid gland, function (Fomeris) 81, 92 — diseases of (Thamhayn) . 283, 284 TiLANTJS, mechanism of delivery . 364 Tilt, peritonitis . . . 377,379 — chronic uterine disease . . 373, 376 Tinea favosa, oil of naphtha in (Chapelle) 410 TissEiEE, bite of viper bicorne . 139,11-9 Tissue, connective, in the brain (Leubuscher) 124,127 — colouring of, with carmine (Wittich)4 — metamorphosis of, influence of benzoic acid on (Kletzinsky) . . 95,103 Todd, cyclopaedia of anatomy . 1, 5 — (A.) stricture of rectmn . 286, 288 — administration of chloroform . Ill, 113 — (L. B.) laceration of uterus . 342, 347 Tomes, dental surgery . . 334,334 Tongue, papillaj of (Beau) . . 58 — formation of cicatrices on (UUman) 235, 244 — extirpation of (Piddes) . . 278, 279 — base of, instrument for examining (Price) 62 — of the frog (Pixsen) . . 27, 33 Touch, recognition of distance by (Wundt) 59, CIINDEX. 531 Touch, on practice iicrfectirig the sense of (Feehner) . . .59, 61 — sensibility of, means of measuring (BrouTi- Sdquard) . . .59 TouiMOUCHE, mortal woimds of abdomen 426 ToTNBEE, sonorous undulations from mem- brana tympani to the labyrinth . 56 Trachea, foreign body in (Forster). 281, 283 Tracheotomy, statistics of . . 281, 282 — tables of 'cases and of results . 221 — (Martini) . . . 220,226 — do. ... 281, 281 — in croup . . . 219,223 — do. (Evans) . . ^21,231 — do. (Barthez, Bonnet, Broadbent, Chailly, Evans, E. G., Millard, Saxer) 399, 402 — do. death after (Bonnet) 399 — in diphtheria (Barker) . . 281, 283 — in epilepsy (Riccard) . . 179,185 —for foreign body in trachea(Forster)281, 283 — for tamarind-stone in trachea (Skey) 281, 283 Transfusion of blood (Waller) . 342, 348 Transpiration, insensible (Gasne) . 77 Transversus colli muscle (Luschka) 20 Traube, connection of cardiac and renal diseases . . . 254,262 Teebuchet, mortality of Paris . 465 Teentbop, birth after death . 453, 454 Trepanning in frontal presentation (Nusser) 356, 362 Trephining in compound fracture of skull (Lunn) .... 311,316 — do. (Curling) 311,316 Tbipiee, ventilation of theatres . 467, 467 Teommee, albumen of cow's milk . 78, 81 Teouncee, induction of labour in distorted pelvis .... 354, 357 Teousseau, asthma . . 219, 223 — hepatic colic . . . 254 — topical treatment of crouj) . 219, 224 — do. . 399,403 — dysphagia . . .235 — retro-uterine hematocele . 377, 379 — secale comutum in uterine hecmorrhages 371, 373 — hysterical tremor . . 180,188 — measles .... 410, 412 — ligature of the oesophagus . 69, 71 — cerebral rheumatism . . 181,201 — scarlet fever . . . 409 Tsetse, on the (Livingstone) . 104,106 Tubercle in lung (Goodwin) . 253, 258 Tubercles, mucous (Massing) . 141,176 Tuberculosis (Michaelis) . . 141,176 — cerebral, in children (Koechlin) 395 — of uterus (Namias) . . 372 — of genito-urinary organs (Wormald) 301, 303 TtTDOB, scarifications in oedema glottidis 221, 231 — do. 281,282 Timoitr.t, cj-c, of children . . 413 Tumours, congenital (Lotzbeck) . 413, 414 Tumour of the cornea (Pean) . 326, 328 — of orbit (Foucher) . . 326, 330 — of the jaws . . • 311,316 — in the neck (Pitha) . . 283, 283 — do. extirpation (Nelaton) 283, 284 — within pelvis (Gauchet) . 377, 379 — in the stomach (Kennedy) . 235, 239 — of thigh (Clement) . .276,277 — cancerous, effects in the chest (Budd) 221, 234 — cystic (Birkett) . . . 320, 320 — do. treated by sulphuric acid (Foucher) 320, 321 — do. mammary (CoUis) . 384 — cystoid, in neck (Drittl) . 283, 284 — emphysematous, on the skull (Costes) 311, 316 — recurring fibro-plastic (Coulson) 276, 277 — fibroid, of uterus (Klaproth) . 342, 348 — do. recurrent, of os iiteri (De Meric) 372, 375 — fibrous, of scapula (Flower) . 310, 313 — do. uterine (Langenbeck) . 372,374 — malignant, of arm, after fracture (Johnson) 276, 277 — mammary (Barton, Skey) . 384 — medullary, of clavicle (Bowman) 310 — pulsating, of bone (Bouisson) . 310, 313 — do. of pelvis (Meier) . 310, 313 — sebaceous, perforation of cranium (Johnson) 320, 321 — vascular, in children (Schuh) . 400, 403 Tunicine, organic part of the invertebrate skeleton. ... 87 TuppEET, congenital atresia uteri 367, 369 TiiECE, antesthesia and diseases of the cere- brum .... 181,197 TiiEK, speculum for the larynx . 62, 67 — do. . 137 TuenbuIiIj, causes of consumption 220 Ttjenee, aneurism of thoracic aorta 208, 211 — See Lister. Turning in parturition (Buhrlen, Fleming, Lehmann, Mackenzie, Mardurowicz, Simp, son) . . . 354,358-9 — external (Esterle, Noeggerath) 354, 358 Turpentine, oil of, in puerperal diseases (Bonfils) . . .387 — vapourbathsingout,&c.(Macario) 269, 270 Twins, unusual case of (Goldberg) 414 Tympani, chorda (Ziemssen) . 39 — membrana (Bonnafont) . 56, 57 — do. sonorous undulations from, to the labyrinth (Toynbee) . 56 Type, change of, in disease (Kennedy) 139,145 Typhoid fever (Barbot) . . 413 — do. (Rostan) . . 139,146 — do. displacement of intestines in (Breithaupt) . . . 235,242 Typhus,originfrom overcrowding (Murchison) 140,16053.3 INDEX. Ulceration of tlio norhi (Tnllcv) . 209, 213 — of articuhir cnvtilngc (Uiirwell) 14, 18 — chronic, oFlnrynx (Porter) . 281, 282 — of duodomini (Kanking) . 230,218 — do. vomiting of blood from (Liljeborn) . . . 230,217 — do. perforating (Wallmann) 230, 218 — of the stomach (Wade) . 237, 251 — of 0.S and cervix uteri (M('Rner) 373, 370 Ulljian, cicatrices on the tongue . 235, 214 UiJtiCH, asphyxia from chloroform 221 — facial palsy . . . isi, 197 — vomiting in pregnancy . . 386, 390 Umbilical cord, tying of (Arata) . 455, 457 — unusual twisting (HiEi) . 414, 417 Uriemia diu-ing pregnancy (Litzmann) 385, 389 UrcDmic poisoning (Sirelius) . 95 — do. (Heynsius) . 96,104 Urari (Betzold, Koellilcer) . . 448 — See Woorara. Uee, iodide of sodium . . 139,154 Urea, proportions in urine (Seller) 94, 97 — excretion of, in connection with heat of body (Ringer) . . . 94, 99 — calculation of amount by hypochlorite of soda (Leconte) . . .95,103 — absence of, in urine of yellow fever (Por- clier) .... 95,103 Ureters, contractility of (Vulpian) 96,104 Urethra (Cazenave) . . 96 — congenital anomalies (Picardat) 415, 419 — contusion and laceration (Demarquay) 301, 303 — contagious inflammations (Gryyomar) 325 — traumatic obstruction (Blondeau) 301, 303 — prolapsus of mucous membrane of (Patron) 293, 293 Urethra, striettires, calculi, Sfc. . 300 Urethra, stricture of (Wade) . 300, 301 — do. (Ci%aale) . 300,302 — do. uretlirotomy (Leroy d'EtiolIes) . . . 300,302 — do. internal urethrotomy (Thompson) . . 300,301-2 — do. impenetrable (UjH;ter. hoeven) .... 300,302 Urethralgia . . . 195 Urethrotome, new (Boinet) . 300, 302 — for impacted calculus (Henry) . 301, 303 —• internal (Civiale, Leroy, Sedillot, Thompson) . . " . 300,302 Uric acid (Schifif) . . . 94,100 — proportions in urine (Seller) . 94, 97 — absence of, in urine of yellow fever ( Porcher) 95, 103 — liehaviour towai-ds Fehling^'s liquid for detecting sugar (Babo) . . 94, 97 Urinary deposits, lectures on (Beale) 94, 98 — as microscopic objects (Beale) . 94, 98 Urinari/ organs . . . 93 Urinary organs, injuries and diseases (Fleming) . . . 94, 98 Urinary orgauH, injuries and diseages (Fleming) . . . 3OO, .301 — malfonnation (Duncan) . 415,419 Urine, lectures on (Beale) . . 94, 98 — analysis of (Neubauer) . . 94,100 — resiilts of examination of, by Heller 170 — composition of human (Geist, Klingner) 95 — table of specific gravity of . 07 — normal, natural constants of (Haughton) 93, 97 — do. presence of sugar in (Bruecke) 95,102 — do. non-existence of albumen in (Becquerel) . . . 95,103 — in health and disease (Hnssall) . 93, 96 — natural acid reaction (Seller) . 94, 97 — excretion of, in connection with heat of body (Ringer) . . . 91, 99 — uric acid and urea in (Seller) . 94, 97 — allantoine in (Kohler) . . 94,101 — blue deposit in (Beale) . . 94, 98 — indican in (Carter) . . 94, 97 — on reducing the oxide of copper in (Bruecke) . . .95,102 — phosphates in (Sick) . . 95,102 — on discovering sugar in (Boettger) 254, 259 — albuminous,treated by mercury (Kennedy) 253, 258 — fongoid productions in alkaline and albu- minous (HassaU) . , 114,116 — diabetic, reagent for detecting sugar in (Behier) .... 125,133 — saccharine (Cruse) ■ . . 95,102 — diagnosis of melanotic cancer by (Eiselt) 139,149 — of yellow fever, absence of urea and tu-ic acid'in (Porcher). . . 95,103 — of the dog, creatine and cynuric acid in (Liebig) . . . . 94,100 — exti-avasation of (Coote) . 298, 299 — retention of, in a child (Wormald) 301, 303 — do., from engorgement of prostate (Mercier) . . . 298,299 — do., symptomatic of metritis (Nonat) 372 — do. J puncture of bladder (Paget) 298, 299 — suppression of (Alexander) . 253, 257 ■— incontinence and retention, after labour (Martin). . . .385 — do., in children (Hewson) . 253, 255 — do. (Bercioux, Destouches, Pluviez) .... 407 — simulated adidterations of (Heller) 451, 451 Urticaria, fiictitious (Gull) . . 205, 268 Uterine flexions (Virchow) . 368. 370 — tents (Storer) . . . 372, 375 Uterus, statics of (Aran) . . 367, 369 — gravid (Priestley) . . 335, 336 Uterus, S(C., defective conditions . 310 — development, dislocations , 367INDEX. 533 uterus, anomaVtes of utenne secretions, tex- tural diseases, 4'c. ■ . 371 Uterus, diseases (Aran) . . 365 — do., cbronie (Tilt) . . 373, 376 — absence of (Duignn) . . 367 — atresia of (Eokitansky) . . 415, 419 — congenital atresia of (Dietz, Tuppert) 367,369 — catarrh, purgative enemata in (Aran) 372, 374 — chancre of (Kollock) . . 372, 374 — Clarke's cauliflower excrescence (Betz) 373, 375 — congestion (Brosins) . ' . 372, 375 — chronic inflammations (Becquerel) 372, 375 — do. (Jacohovics) . .372 — inversion of (Bissill, M'Clintock, Quacken- bush, Teale, West) . 368,370-1 — do. (Wardleworth) . . 342,347 — irritable (CogbiU) . . 372, 374 — neuralgia of (Becquerel) . 372, 374 — polypus of (Elliington, Hardy, Maiei", Wagner) . . . 372,375 — prolapsus of (Bonorden, Breslau, Gaillard, Greaves, Nourse, Routh) 367-8, 370 — retroversion of gi-avid (Barnes, Godef'roy, Greaves, Hecker, Negrier, Oldham, Pin- gault) . . . 341-2,344-5 —"do. (Kelly) . . . 368,370 — do., cauterization (Bonnet) . 367, 369 — do., with retention of urine (BakeweU, Basham, Evans) . . . 342, 345 — rupture of (Atkins, Aveling, Hicks, Kapler, Lehmann, Meacham, Thorn, Todd) 342, 346-7 — do., in osteo-uialachial pelvis (Pagen- stecher) .... 342,347 — scirrhus and fibrous polypus of (Breslau) 373, 375 — suppuration of (Salzgeber) . 349, 850 — syphilis of (Parker) . . 372,374 — tuberculosis of (Namias) . 372, 374 — fibroid tumours of (Klaproth) . 342, 348 — injections into (Noeggerath, Scanzoni) 372, 375 — bilocularis (Hoist) . . 342,348 — bicomis (Krieger) . . 415,419 — unicornis (Kussmaul) . . 367, 368 IJva ursi, as obstetrical agent (Beauvais) 362, 363 UTTTEEHOE-\-Eir, impenetrable strictures of urethra .... 300,302 Vaccination (Grander) . , 410 — (Boefeld, Nittinger) . . 480,480 — public (Husband) . . 139,147 — as a remedy in pertussis . 220, 225 — do. . 399,403 — for removal of nsDvi (Legendre) 400, 403 — and revaccination (Cause, Faber, &c.) 480, 481 — do. in the army (Reed) , 139,147 Vaccine lyiwph (Andrews, Friedlnger, Lan- dell) .... 410 Vagi, influence of, on the heart's action (Pfluger) . . .27, 31 Vagina and external generative organs, diseases of . . , 380 Vagina, absence of (Duigan) . 367 — atresia of (Eokitansky) . . 415, 419 — closure of, imjieding delivery (Branco, Cuppaidge, Moritz) . . 341,344 — cysts of (Ladreil) . . 381, 383 — inversion of (Priedlander) . 415 — narrowing,from use of cauterv(Anselmier) 381, 383 — perforation of, in extra-uterine pregnancy (Rizzo) .... 340 — rupture of (Lehmann) . . 342, 345 Valenta and Wallmann, hydromeningocele 395, 397 Valentin, action of contracted muscles on the atmosphere . . . 20, 22 Vaientini, diseases of conjunctiva 325 Valeeius, treatment of lupus . 264 VaeI/EE, anatomy of the eye . 51 Valgus pedis, operated (Heiberg) . 331, 333 Valves of the heart (Joseph) . 83, 91 — do., mechanism of (Rudinger) . 26 Van Beneden, reproduction of echinococci 114,116 — pentastoma . . . 114 Van Bieetiiet, section of the vagi 39 Van Geuns, extra-ixterine pregnancy 340,343 Van Rote, propagation of granular, puru- lent, contagious ophthalmia . 325 Vanzetti, aneurism of orbit . 327, 330 — treatment of inflammation by digital compression . . . 209,215 — do. 274,275 Vapour, employment of medicines in (Nevins) 269, 271 Varicocele (Nelaton) . . 304,305 — galvano-caustic treatment (Pitha) 304, 305 — subcutaneous section of veins in (Lee) 304, 305 Variola, combination with other diseases (Bamberger) . . . 139,150 — combined with syphilis (Bamberger) 140,155 — relations with varicella and varioloid (Gintrac) . . . 410,412 Vascular system . , . 25 Veins, pulmonary, abnormity of (Bochdalek) 415, 418 Veit, hEemorrhagic measles . 139,150 — do. , 410,412 Vena cava, anomalous course of (Dorsch) 415,418 Vena porta?, inflammation of (Steinberg) 237, 251 Ventilation, warming, and lighting (Kinnell, Tripier) . . . .467INDJCX. Ventilation, explosions of water-apparatus for (CJuoraril) . . . 4,(37 Ventricles, communication between the (Duseh) , . . .28, 31 Veiibaeohe, rarity of phthisis on seaconst 210, 222 A ermiforui appendix, perforation of (Ham- berger) .... 235,213 VjiRNKUiL, stoppage of the radial pulse during foi-cible extension of arm 20, 20 Vebnois, influence of dust on health of artisans .... 472,472 Vertebrm, dislocation of second, of neck (Maschka) . . . 427 Vertebral characters of pterosauria (Owen) 13, Id. Veht, hydi-ocele of tunica vaginalis 305 Vezin, question of sound mind . 458 ViEEOEDT, medical statistics . 95,102 ViLLENEUVE, lying-in hospitals . 387 Vines, congenital encephalocele . 415, 420 Viper bicorne, bite of (TisseLre) . 139,149 ViBCHOW, discourse on Prof. Miiller 3 — cellular pathology . . 3, 12 —■ do. and on irritation . 127-8 — inflammation and suppuration . 12 — ascites in new-born child . 414, 417 — parenchymatous inflammation . 124,130 — acute inflammation of parotid gland 235, 241 — the true neuroma . . 124,126 — puerperal diseases , . 387, 392 — constitutional syphilis . . 141, 173 — and RoKlTANSKT, uterine flexions 368, 370 Viscera, abdominal, malposition of (Haber- shon) .... 237,251 — do. location of, in case of dysentery, &c. (Thornhill) . 237, 250 — do. diseases (Ward) . 254, 261 Vision, single (Siegert) . , 51 — derangement of mutual (Graefe) 55 — eft'ects of santonine on (Martini, Mialhe) 52, 54 — binocular (Panum) . . 55 — do., theory of "relief" in (Giraud-Teulon) 55 — do. influence in calculating distance (Dove) . . . .55 Vital capacity of the lungs (Arnold) 67 — do. relation with pulmonary afl'ec- tion (Schnepf) . . .67 — do. effect of old age on (Geist) 67 — causes (Heale) . . .2 — point, cause of death after removal of (Brown-Sequard) . . 38, 49 — do., new observations on (Flourens) 38, 49 Vitality, influence of, on secretion (Inman, Spender) . . .77, 78 — of nerve-fibres'(K6lliker) . 35, 44 VooEL. See Neuhauer. VoGLEB, hydrostatic test for the lungs 455,456 — medical laws of Nassau . . 463,463 VoOT, paralysis of children . 391., 395 Voice, loss of, cured by electricity (Posn'er) 230, 225 voisry, retro-utenne hajraatocele , 377, 380 VoLKMANN, on irradiation , 52, 05 — eflect of practice in recognising the dis- tance between two points placed on the limb at the same moment . 59, (!i Voltaic narcotism for local anassthesia (Richardson, Wallei-) . 110,111-12 VoLTOLiNi, aflections of the ear from scarlet fever . . . .395 Vomiting, action of pneumogastric in (Bula- towics) . , . .39^ 4y — m catarrh of the stomach (Lehmann) 235,211 — in pregnancy (Barker,' Dezon, Hergott, T. Smith, Ulrich) . . 386, 300 — of blood from idcers in duodenum (Liljeborn) . . . 236,217 — of food (Duncan) . . 235, 212 — stercoraceous, in obstruction of the bowels (Easton) .... 236, 217 Voss, inversion of urinary bladder and luxa- tion of hips . . . 294,291 VuLPiAN, contractility of the blood-vessels 26, 30 — duration of the heart's action after death 26, 29 — do. 125,131 — crossingofnerve-fibresin the cord 38, 49 — effect of stimuli applied to the liver and kidneys . . . , 26, 30 — on the supra-renal capsules . 83, 92 — normal presence of fat in the supra-renal capsules . . . . 83, 92 — contractility of ureters . . 96,10 !• — frogs poisoned by animal exhalations 105 — artificial respiration in poisoning with woorara .... 105,109 Vulvar hypereesthesia, glycerine in (Paupert) 381, 383 Wade, ulcer of the stomach . 237, 251 — urethral stricture . . 300, 301 Wagexeb, development of entozoa 114,117 Wagner, physiology . . 10 — human cervical sympathetic . 39, 50 — on uterine cancer . . 127 — fibrinous polypus in uterus . 372, 375 Waid, legal medicine . . 422,423 Waller, transftision of blood . 342, 348 — cutaneous absorjition . . .74 — extra-uterine fretation . . 341, 343 — on section and degeneration of nerves (Bernard) . . .39 — experiments on Richardson's mode of voltaic narcotism . 110-11,112 — how actinioj kill their prey . lOi, 106 Wallmann, patent foramen ovale in the adult . . . .27, 34 _ do. . 209,217 — aneurism of hepatic artery . 211INDEX. 535 Wailmank, submucous gastritis . 233, 212 — perfoi'iiting duodenal ulcers . 236, 218 — rupture of internal membrane in arteries 427, 430 — See Valenta, Wm-SH, poisoning by chloride of barium 439, 439 "Walton, elephantiasis of scrotum . 305, 306 Waelomont, military ophthalmia . 325 ^Vaed, diseases of abdominal viscera 254, 261 — popliteal aneurism; 'compression 307, 309 — congenital fissure of cheek . 278, 279 — laceration of soft palate . 278, 279 — human osteology , . 1, 5 — See Adams. Waedlewoeth, inversion of uterus 342,347 Water in the nerves, influence (Birkner) 35, 44 — cold, effect on the nervous system (Preiss) 35, 45 — baths, permanent, in larger operation wounds (Manso) . . 275,275 — supply (Snow) . . . 468 — do. of Vienna (Knolz) . 467, 468 — closets for public establishments (Du- ponchel .... 468 Wateks, blood-vessels of the lung . 25, 28 Watson, vesico-vaginal fistula . 380, 382 — croton oil in hydrocephalus . 180,188 — do. . 394,396 — excision of knee-joint . . 312, 318 — on Pirogoff's operation . . 276, 278 Weather, infiuence on disease (Webster) 268 Webb, loose cartilage from the knee-joint 14, 18 — poisoning by binoxalate of potash 444, 444 Webee, new vessels in cartilage during articular inflammatioii . . 126 — changes in cartilage in disease of joints 310, 314 Webstee, influence of weather on disease 268 ^VEDl, rachitis of tubular bones . 408 Weicker, complementary colours . 52 Weights, slight, power of the skin in detect- ing (Kammler) . . .59, 61 Weisse, raw meat in diarrhoea of infants 236, 246 — . do. 405,406 U EISSMANX, origin of hippuric acid in urine of herbivora . . .94 100 ~ ilo. in man 94,'100 Welokee, number 6f blood-corpuscles 27 31 AVells (E.) alkalies or acids in stomach disorders , . _ £37 252 Wells (Spencer) ovarian disease . 376* 378 — unilocular ovarian cyst . . 376, 378 — cases of ovariotomy , 376-7* 378 — treatment of tetanus by woorara 104,' 107 Wexzel and Gettbeb, ossiculum tegmenti tympani . . . , . 13, 17 Weenert, state medicine in France (Upper Khine) . . . . 463,464 Weetheimee, angina ])haryngea . 397, 400 West, cerebral symptoms . . 394 — membranous ci-oup . . 399 — diseases of infancy . . 392, 394 — sudden death in infancy , 398, 401 — replaced inverted uterus . 368, 370 — (E. U.) stillbirths in private practice 364 — puerperal peritonitis . . 377 — anencephalian monster . . 415, 418 Weston, poison of the adder . 104,105 — do. . 448,448 Whale, bile of (Schlossberger) . 83, 89 — ear of (Claudius) . . 56, 58 Whallex, purpm-a, yielding to gallic acid and mercury . . . 210,218 WHEELHorsE, median lithotomy . 295, 296 Whitehead, treatment of pertussis 219, 221 Whitley, rheumatic fever . 141,174 Wideehoeee, diaphragmatic hernia 416, 421 — ileus in new-horn child . . 414, 417 WiEDEEHOLD, excretion of solids by the lungs . . . . 62, 64 WiLBEAND, forensic psychology . 457 Wilde, gonorrhoeal ophthalmia , 326 — rape on infants . . . 453, 454 WiLKS, pathological anatomy . 124,126 — morbus Addisonii, melansemia, &c. 254 — sanguineous meningeal effusion 180,195 — See Pavy. WiLLEBEAND, secale cornutum in disturb- ance of accommodation-power of the eyes 209, 214 WiLLEMiN, inhalation of carbonic acid in granular pharyngitis . . 220,228 Williamson, on the wounded from mutiny in India .... 273 Williamson, fistula in perineo . 301, 303 — condition of lung in infants born alive 455, 456 WiLLiGEN, appearance of light in the eye 51, 54 Willis (C.) after-pains . . 385 WiLLSHiEE, chronic diuresis, employment of belladonna . . . 253,257 Windsor, epidemic of fever at (Murchison) 140,171 Wine, plastered (Chevallier, &c.) . 475, 476 Winter, vaccination . . 480,481 Wise, lithotomy and after-treatment 295, 295 WiTTicir, colourmg of tissues with carmine 4 — infiuence of cardiac ganglia on movements of the heart . . .27, 31 WiTTMAACK, popular dietetics . 393 — do. .461,461 Wolf, cephalotripsy . . 356,362 WoLEF, chronic intestinal catarrh . 237 — poisoning by fried sturgeon-liver 475, 475 Women, rlixrri<;e.i of . . 3G5INDEX. 536 Women, diseases of (Good), Simpson) 8G5. 366 Woorara, action of (Claparedo, l\inke, Haber, Hoppe, KOlliker) , 104,108-9 — do. (Betzold, Kdlliker) 449 — Dr. Sibson's experiments on . 108 — treatment of tetanus by (Broca, Harley, Wells) _ . . . . 104,107 — artiiicial respiration in poisoning with (Vulpian) . . . , 105,109 WoEDswoETH, cyst in the orbit . 327, 330 WoEMALD, symptoms of stone, &c. 295, 297 — retention of urine in a child . 301, 303 Worms, cerebro-spinal symptomatology of (Heslop) . . . 236,248 Works, inflammation of thoracic duct 210, 218 Wounds (Mail-) . . . 425,428 Wounds of the cliest . . 285 Wounds, in mutiny in India (Williamson) 273 — in Italian campaign (Appia) . 273 — transverse, of blood-vessels (Savory) 25, 28 — poisoned . . . 424,428 — of the neck, punctured (Nothling) 427,429 — gunshot (Appia, Billroth) 273,273-4 — do. of the heart (Jackson) . 285, 285 — do. by compressed air (Pelikan) 425, 428 — do preparations of (Williamson) 273 Weight, long and short sights, and volun- tary contraction and dilatation of pupil 50, 53 WniOHT, case of hydrophobia . 179,185 — do. . . 441,4-11 WcNDEBLicu, relapses in typical diseases 126,138 — enlargement of lymphatic glands 254, 261 WuNDT, muscular movement . 20, 22 — tactile recognition of distance . 59, 6] Wu-tsau poison (Christison) . 4-19,419 Wytues, infantile apoplexy . 179,181 Xanthic oxide, on presence of (Kletzinsky) 94,101 — normal in the body (Scherer) . 84, 93 — transformation of guanin into (Strecker) 84, 93 Yellow fever (Berchon) . . 139,147 — at Jamaica, in 1856 (Lawson) . 140,172 — absence of urea and uric acid in urine of (Porcher) . . . . 95,103 Young, hydrocele . . . 304, 306 Zantedeschi, neuro-muscular sensibility 59 Zeisl, syphilis in children . . 413 Zeissing, breathing of child as test of life 455,457 Zellwegee, on the supra-renal capsules 84, 92 Zelting, registers in Ostfriesknd. 465 ZiEMSSEN, chorda tympani . 39 Zinc, poisoning by (Ogle, Santesson) 450, 450 — oxide of, in sweats of phthisis (Jackson) 253, 255 — sulphate of, in chorea (Stone) . 180,193 ZiNK, simulation of idiocy , . 451,452 J. E. ADLAttD, PRINTER, BARTUOI.OMKW CLOSE.