369 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. that if the £300 shall be restored within 12 years he or his heirs shall grant unto this Comply for the same use the like sum of £24 per annum out of some of his Lands or Tenements. And do nominate & appoint for feoffees Mr Dunn Mr Collings Mr Kings Mr Pinder Mr Fleete Mr Arris Mr Boone&Mr Bennett. 24 Mar: 1645—This day M3^ Edward Arris paid the sum of £300 to the use of this Comp^ and is the purchase money for the annuity of £24 per Annum for the use of the new Public Anatomy. Whereupon the Deed of Grant of the Sd Anny & for establishing the sd new Anatomy was sealed with the Common Seale & delivered to the Donor and the several Feoffees intrusted in the matter. 17 July 1646—Whereas £300 hath been worthily given to this House for the discharge of all expenees to be laid out in & about a public Anathomy to be henceforth had yearly for ever between the Feasts of Michs & Xmas in every year. And for that Dr Prudion [Prujean] who formerly read the Anatomical Lectures hath desired to be excused from reading the lectures on the next Anathomyes to be dessected between Michs and Xmas next, this Court doth think fit that Dr [L. ?] Wright be desired to performe the same. And tbe Mr of the Anathomy for the time being when the said Anatomy shall be dissected do always in their several & respective times of Masrs of Anatomy dissect the sd Anatomy. And this Court doth think fit that the dis- section of the sd Anatomy be of the Muscles of the Body. But that the manner thereof be left to the Judgm* of the readers and the Dissectors. 21 Sept 1646—Our Master acquainting the Court that Docr Prudion [Prujean] & divers other learned Physicians have recommended Doctor [Jn0] Goddard as a man well qualified & very able to read the Anatomical Lectures, this Court doth order that Dr Prudion be requested to perform the Lectures on the next public Anatomy himself: but if he shall deny it, that then Dr Goddard or such other as Dr Prudion shall think more fitt be desired to read the Lectures. 7 Jan: 1646—Whereas this Court is well satisfied that