2 MEMORIALS OF they acted partly, as became their priestly office, by prayer and the laying on of hands, by amongst the divination, and by charm, and partly in a more scientific manner. The numerous human sacrifices which they must of necessity have witnessed would lead to their acquiring a fair amount of anatomical knowledge of the truest and best kind, since it was derived from the actual inspection of the bodies of men. They were well versed also in medical botany, and their veneration for the mistletoe is too well known to require more than a passing notice.1 The marsh wort and vervain were held in high esteem, whilst the Britannica, whether the great water dock or scurvy grass,2 was known to the whole civilised world and derived its name from the island whence the supply was obtained. The Druids, moreover wTere no mean pharmacists, since they could extract the 1 In the words of Pliny (book xvi. chap. 44), " They call it in their language All Heale (for they have an opinion of it that it cureth all maladies whatsoever). And when they are about to gather it, after they have well and duly prepared their sacrifices and festivall cheare under the said tree, they bring thither two young bullocks, milke white, such as never yet drew in yoke at plough or waine, and whose heads were then, and not before, bound by the home; which done, the priest, arraied in a- surplesse or white vesture, climbeth up into the tree, and with a golden hook or bill cutteth it off, and they beneathe receive it in a white souldiour's cassocke or coat of amies. Then fall they to kill the beasts aforesaid for sacrifice, mumbling many oraisoiis and praying devoutly. That it would please God to blesse this gift of His to the good and benefit of all those to whome he had vouchsafed to give it. Now this persuasion they have of Misselto thus gathered, That what living creature soevei (otherwise barraine) doe drinke of it, will presently become fruitful] thereupon; also, that it is a soveraign countrepoison or singular remedic against all vermine " (= venom). Pliny, " Natural History," translated bj Philemon HoUand, p. 497 D. 1601. 2 See, upon this point, Paris' " Pharmacologia," p. 54, note 2. Ed. 8.