\ THE CBAFT OF SURGERY. 187 Master by Indenture bearinge date the last of June anno dom : 1601 .and gave to his Master the somme of eight pounds in money and three suits of apparrell, with whom hee contynued a diligent servant and was of his said Waster soe accompted of, till the daie of the solempnisaczon of his highnes coronaczon last when the said Wrighte pretendeinge That his said apprentice had robbed him did bringe his said apprentice before one of his Ma/esties Justices of peace who committed the said apprentice may be vsed. And thus crauing earnestlie at your hands, that you would hencefoorth studie to deserue well of him, who was at such great cost, and tooke such intollerable paines for your benefit and advance- ment, I bid you hartilie farewell. "ED. CALDWALL. "From my lodging at Ludgate Hill 16 Julie 1585." " Tables of Svrgerie by Horatius Morns, a Florentine Physician, and Faithfullie Translated out of Latine into our English toong, by Richard Caldwall doctor of physicke. At London 1585 " (p. 32). Holinshed, in his " Chronicles" (ed. J. Hooker, vol. iii. p. 1,349), gives the following interesting account of Dr. Caldwell, and the foundation of the Lumleian lectures on surgery : " This yeare, 1582, was there instituted and first founded a publike Lecture or Lesson in Surgerie, to begin to be ture of Sur-" read in the College of Physicians, in London, in Anno Londondand 1584, the sixt day of Maie, against that time new reedified presentlie red in a part of the house that doctor Linacre gaue by testa- iffe^of the t 6 ment to them, by John Lumleie, Lord Lumleie, and Richard Jounder) by J doctor Forster, Caldwell, doctor in Physicke, to the honour of God, the to his high common profit of hir Majesties subjects, and good fame, credit.aU(i with increase of estimation and credit, of all the Surgians of this realme. The reader whereof to be a doctor of physicke, and of good practise and knowledge, and to haue an honest stipend no lesse than those of the vniversities erected by King Henrie the eight, namelie, .of law, diuinitie, and physicke, and lands assured to the said college for the maintenance of the publike lesson; whereunto such statutes be annexed as be for the great commoditie of those which shall give and incline themselues to be diligent hearers for the obteining of knowledge in surgerie, as whether he be learned or unlearned that shall