THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. 333 nede shall be required And at the leste at the thyrde dressyd to the said iiij wardens for the tyme beyng or any other person or personys that is to seye, to one of yche of the seyde felishippis. and the same wardens ^i£ them seme nedefull shall call unto them ij or iij or more if nede require of the wysest and beste experte men of the said felishippis occupyeng the said faeulte of surgery as them semeth most expedyent for the cause or causis aforesayde. Also in this composicyon yt is ordeyned and agreyd that none of the iiij wardens for the 3ere beyng neyther any other person of the sayde felishippis ocopyeng the crafte of surgi Put any man of thes sayde felishipis oute of ther cure otherwyse then the honeste of the crafte wolle but that yche of them be redy }ef nede be to helpe eche other with counsell or deed that worship, profite and the honeste of the crafte and helpyng of the seke be had and done on all sydes. And if any of thes iiij wardens for the tyme beyng or eny other person or personys of the seyde felyshippis do the contrary that eche suche doer content the valuye of the cure after discressyon and Juge- ment of the same iiij wardens for the 3ere beyng. And also for his trespas to paye after discression and Jugement of the iiij wardens. Also if any person of the sayde felishippis dislaunder or depute any of the said felishippis onrightfully ounonestly ^ef it so may be prouyd upon hym by two or thre witnesse that he paey for that trespas iijs [& iiijcl] and ouer that to make amendis to the seide persons the whiche he hath so dislaundered aftur Jugement of onest men of the seyd felyshippis not founden in non suche defaute. This composicyon was made the daye and ^ere abowe wreton by Roberd taylour, Rob* Halyday, Thomas Koppesley, Thomas Thornton, Jhon Herte : John Martun Roberd Beuerley: James Stote : James Ingoldsby: John Taylour Richard Suodenham Nicholas Leueryng John Wilson. Inrowlid in Raffle Osterigis2 tyme mayer. Immediately after the Composicyon comes the following rule, which probably had been omitted by accident: Also that what person or personys of the seide ij craftes or of 1 dressing. 2 Sir Kalph Astrie, Mayor in 1493.