THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. 393 perquisites of Coal & Candle that of Turnery is added & he has also an ample allowce for a Serv*- & many other advantages. The Coal and Candle are extended (deducting" what is neces- sary for your Committee Rooms) greatly beyond the Expence of most private Families. What think you of a charge of £84 for Coals Candles Wood & Turnery during this last year on the Clerk's own account only ? I am ready to acknowledge that his place ought to be a good one, sufficient to retain a Man of Credit and Ability in your service, but at the same time it ought, I think, to bear some proportion to your Income and his trouble. Perquisites are in all cases improper, and therefore it would be adviseable for you to give your Clerk a competent Salary, and allow him no more perquisites. The Apartments in the Hall as they were originally granted must be equal to £70 Annum as Taxes and repairs of every kind are charged to your account. Now what ought our Company whose whole expenditure shod not exceed £900 ^ Ann., and if the proposed alterations take place, can never greatly exceed that Sum ; what, I say, ought such a Company to allow their Clerk for assisting them at their Meetings, paying their Bills & collecting their Revenue. Is not a Stipend of 25 C*- with the advantages of such apartments rather too much ? I really think it is. Your Beadle also has been indulged in the same manner as your Clerk since to £33 : 5 Ann. being the Sum which was paid four years ago for the Beadle's Salary Gratuity and Dinners you have added a second and third Gratuity of £5 : 5 : 0 each; and besides these he is permitted to have many other advantages, of the propriety of which, little or no enquiry was ever made. I am of opinion that your Beadle ought to be put on a good footing, as good an one as your Clerk, allowance being made for the difference of their situations; and as you should pay your Beadle properly, so have you a right to his services. I could wish that the distinct duty of your Servants was a little better explained, as well as many other points relative to our Customs