MEMORIALS OF 392 Servants. Respecting* your Servants Gentlemen, The Clerk and the Beadle are objects of very great importance. I see with much surprize, the expence of this establishment increasing upon you very fast indeed. The original Salaries remain the same, and so do the Gratuities as they were settled formerly but of late you have appointed additional Servants,and allowed extra Gratuities. You have submitted to many new Articles of Expense, & as far as I can learn no perquisites have been asked, which have not been granted, without your shewing the least inclination to resist, and without taking any time to examine or compare. These Excesses appeared first in the year 1786 and have increased, so rapidly since that time, that the perquisites now are in general one-third greater than they used to be in some cases twice as much; and these irregularities, enormous as they are, have been suifered to continue, without the least endeavour on your part to reform them. Two Years before this period, the Establishment of the Clerk, including the Salary, Gratuity & perquisites of Coal, Candle, Wood, & Turnery amounted to £160 or £170 ^ Ann. and even then the allowance for some of the Articles was too great. In the year 1786 an additional Sum of £25 was allowed to the Clerk for a Servant, so that his Establishment amounted then to £180 f- Ann. and upwards. In 1787 & 88 it amounted to £195 in 1788 and 89 to £225; in 89 and 90 to £230 nearly. The original Establishment of your Clerk is as follows (viz1-) He accepts his office to hold it, and does hold it, during your pleasure only. He was at first allowed £60 'vjp Ann. and it was expressly stipulated that he should have no perquisite of any kind whatever. To this Stipend of £60 Ann. the Yearly Sum of £40 was added by way of Gratuity, then an Apartmt within the House was granted him, and an allowance of the two articles of Coal and Candle. Besides the Apartmt which was at first granted to the Clerk he has now the use of the Library & Committee Room. To his