385 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. of their prayer & those are their Words. Auditors from 3 to 8 were appointed on the annual change of Officers for the examina- tion of Accounts & giving discharges. They met in July to examine the Accounts of their Officers of the preceeding year, whose Duties terminated in the beginning of the same month; sometimes earlier in the month, sometimes later. Within a short space of time they deferred this Report till August & soon afterwards till September ; at length it was deferred till the February & March of the succeeding year & i sometimes later, & this Order, if it can be so called was observed ' till the Resolutions of 1778. There were amongst others, two considerable defects in this S plan. Your Officers were dismissed before their Accounts were j passed & when properly speaking they were not responsible, you subjected them to an Enquiry. In fact these Officers or Governors or Servants, which ever you please to call them, ought not to have been dismissed till they had made up their Accounts ; & there was no regularity in the Audit, late as it took place, whether on the 1st month or on ye 9th. To the above respecting your Accounts or Bills, I must add, that there is scarce any instance on your Books of Check, Complaint, or Defalcation, or prompt payment. The Bills were brought in late, paid late, & audited late; at last they scarcely made their appearance at all. However and at length, whether there was a Suspicion or not that things were going on wrong with respect to their late Clerk to whom the conduct of almost every thing had been Itrusted I cannot tell, but the Court of Assistants came to certain resolutions on the 2d July 1778 which had they been dulv observed would have saved the Company from the loss which , soon followed. The resolutions were these ;" 1st That the Court I of Examiners should be a standing Committee of Accounts with an Auditor General, the Master or Auditor with any two to Le a Quorum. 2ndiy Tj)at t^ey gh^id mee£ everv Month at 1/2 an hour after 2 o'Clock that their business might be done before Dinner, Z