362 MEMORIALS OF 1 Left blank in the original. etc., of those useinge Barbery or Surgery within those lymmitts, as well to trye theire skill and experience as their instru- ments, vnguents, implaisters, medicynes, and recepts, and how theie do vse or misvsen, or not rightly vse or applye, the same. 8th. And to give tolleraczon or allowance to the skillfull in such parts wherein he shall so be found skillfull, so as theie submit themselves to the government of the Companie, accordinge to his Majesty's pleasure signified, And shall paie quarteridge as the freemen shall doe. 9th. And to suppresse the insufficient and vnskillfull, and to burne or destroy the vnguents and playsters, instruments, etc., wnich theie shall find corrupt, vnwholsom, or not fytteinge to be vsed. 10th. The Masters or Governors, by themselues or others, by warrants under three, or twoe of theire handes and seales, to attach and imprison the contemptious infringer of theire ordi- nances, and the resister, refuser, or denier of search, etc. 11th. That such person so to contynue imprisoned, and be received and deteyned by the gaolers, till hee shall haue sub- mytted himself and become bounden to the Masters or Gouernors in 1 pbundes, neuer to vse anie such vnwholsom or vnfytteinge vnguents, playsters, etc. 12th. It ordayneth and establisheth an assistance of xxvi of the said Company from tyme to tyme, to contynue for theire seueral lives, except removed uppon iust occasion by the M^ers and assistance, or the greater part of them. 13th. The fower M^ers or Governors to be yearely chosen oute of the xxvi. 14th. The now present fower Masters or Gouernors, after theire yeare expired, to be and contynue of thassistance, to the ende that there shalbe alwayes xxvi besides the fower Masters or Governors, and no more, except for necessitie some of the Masters or Gouernors shalbe chosen oute of the Livery, not beinge of thassistance, and then such, after his yeare expired, to contynue, notw^nstandinge, of thassistance. Uppon death or remove of