MEMORIALS OF 370 Dr Prndion is desirous to be excused from reading the next anatomical Lectures; this Court doth order that Doctor Goddard be desired to performe the same. 15 Ffeb 1646—This Court doth think fit & so order that the Tuesday lectures be again revived & read by surgeons freemen of this Compy in their turnes according to their Authority in the Livery. The Eldest Asst Surgeon to read the first lecture, & that to be on the first Tuesday in May next, and the other to be from thence monthly & no oftener viz The first Tuesday in every month. Provided nevertheless, that when as any such Tuesday shall not be within the time limited in & by an order of a Court of Assist3 of the 11 Aug 1563 in that behalfe or shall happen to be on any the days thereby excepted that then every such Tues- ! day be no Lecture day. 29 March: 1647—This Court doth explain the order of the last Court of Assists concerning the Tuesdays Lectures That it is the meaning of this Court and the Cor1 doth accordingly order That the sd Lectures be read as well by the ancient Masters Surgeons & Examrs in their course as by any others. 7 July 1647—This day Mr Coppinger moved this Court That inasmuch as two of our ancient Masters having been appointed to read the Tuesdays Lectures in their turns & had not read those lectures according15" That this Court would be pleased to honor him so much as to permit him to read the next Lecture. This Court answered him that the next Lecture will not be till after ! Michs next & in the meantime it should be considered of. 23 Sept: 1647—Doctor Prudion excused reading the next Anatomicall Lectures & Dr Nurse appointed. j 14 Jan: 1647—Dr Nurse appointed constant Anatomical reader. 8 Oct: 1649 — This Court taking into cons? deration several werthy Physicians of whom one might be elected reader of the Anatomicall Lectures at the public dissections of this C°: do think fit that Dr Scarborough be elected thereunto, who being m| desired to come to this Court appeared during the sitting thereof 1 & declared himself very willing to perform the same & rendered