THE GRAFT OF SURGERY. 31 ;he 3ere1 of oure Lord 13492 duellid in Newerk in l^otyngham sliire vnto3 the 3ere of oure lord 1370 and ;her I lielid many men of fistula in ano, of Whiche the irst was sire Adam E^/yngham of Laxton in the clay fpy side Tukkesford Whiche sire Adam forsoth Was in Grascone with sir henry that tyme named Erie of Derby md after was made Duke of lancastre a noble and ^orthi lord. The forsaid sir Adam forsoth suffrand4 ustidam in ano made for to aske counsel at all the lechez ind cirurgions that he my3t fynde in Gascone at Burdeux atBressac Tolows and Neyrbron5 andPeyters6 md many other places And all forsoke hym for mcurable whiche yse7 and yherde8 ye forsaid Adam I1 The character 3 has various forms. At the beginning of a word it is 0 be sounded as y, so that }ard is our modern yard; in the middle of a vord it had a guttural sound, still represented in our spelling by gh, as in mt for light; at the end of a word it either had the same sound or stood jpr z. In fact, the character for z was commonly made precisely like it, although sparingly employed; yet we find marchauntz for marchaunts, jsvhere the z, by the way, must necessarily have been sounded as s. This ase of the character is French, and appears chiefly in French words. In 3arly French MSS. it is very common, and denotes z only. (" Specimens of Early English," by Morris and Skeat. Clarendon Press, 1879, part ii. p. xvi.) 2 24 Edw. III. 3 The characters v and u require particular attention. The latter is (freely used to denote both the modern sounds, and the reader must be prepared at any moment to treat it as a consonant. Thus the words haue, Mue, diuerse are to be read have, live, diverse; where it will be observed that the symbol appears between two vowels. The former is used sparingly ((except when written in place of / in Southern MSS.), but sometimes !denotes the modern u, chiefly at the beginning of a word. The following [are some of the common examples of it . . . viz. vce or vse (use), \vtter (utter), vp (up), etc. (Morris and Skeat; op. cit. p. xiv.) 4 suffering from a. 6 Narbonne. 6 Poictiers. 7 Y, prefix answering to the German and Anglo-Saxon ge, is usually [prefixed to past participles, but also to past tenses, present tenses, [adjectives and adverbs. (Morris and Skeat; op. cit. p. 483.) 8 seen and heard.