368 MEMORIALS OF Assist53 for the performance thereof. And to that purpose a Rent charge of £20 per annum be granted out of our Lands at Holborn Bridge. 24 Nov: 1645—This Court taking into consideration in what manner the public Bodies hereafter shall be dissected and by whom that Anathomy which is now newly about to be established shall be performed doth think fit & so order that the present Masrs of Anathomy or such others as shall be appointed by the two Masr Surgeons for the time being and the more part of the Examiners shall performe the same and that the manner of dissections of every public Anathomy shall be such as they the sd two Mrs or Governors for the time being & the Examiners & the more part of them shall direct. 13 Janry 1645—The Draught of the Instruments for establishing an Anathomy to be yearly hereafter betwixt the feasts of S* Michael the Archangel & of the Birth of our Lord God haviug been perused by the Commrs on the part & behalf of the Company and of the Donor is read & allowed of. And do order that the present examrs shall be the feoffees to be joined with the donor in the deed. And that the same be engrossed and sealed with the Common seal of an ordinary Court upon payment of the £240. And the Donors and Feoffees sealing the Counterp1 there of. 6 ¥ehTy 1645—This Court being informed from the Counsele that forasmuch as the Deed for the setting of the new Anatomy cannot be granted to all the Examiners as Feoffees Two of them being two of the present Governors unless the Deed be first made to a particular person & afterwards conveyed to them. This Court doth refer the manner of the Conveyance to the Donor his Councell whether it shall be granted to all the Examiners or to those Eight that are not now governors or to any other Brethren of this Company. 20th Feb: 1645—This Court doth agree that the Deed of an annuity formerly granted to the use of the new public Anathomy be made for £24 upon the consideration of £300. And it is promised by Mr Arris on the behalf of the Donor