233 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. the dead bodyes of such Malefactors without faile assist him or them for that purpose, and goe along with and attend every such dead body to the Common Hall of the said Company, as they will answer the same at their perills. For which the said Company are content to allow and pay each time unto such officers vjs viijd more than the ordinary ffees." 1 Even this order was not effectual, for in the very next year, 1674, "Upon complaint made unto this Court by the Company of Barber Surgeons against Edward Barber and William Jacob, the Sheriffes officers that notwithstanding severall Orders of this Court . the said Edward Barber and William Jacob attending the Malefactors at the last Execution refused to execute and comply with the said orders; and that the said Wilh'tfm Jacob did publickly trafficke for their Bodyes and disposed of them to other private persons,2 who ! would give most money for them." Which matter being now clearly proved . . . " this Court doth therefore 1 Repert. lxxix. fol. 68. ; 2 The following entry shows that the private persons here alluded to were in some cases distinguished surgeons, who occasionally allowed their i' thirst for knowledge to outstrip their consideration for the Company of ; which they were members. " At a Court of Assistants of the Company of Barbers and Surgeons held on the 25th March, 1714. Our Master acquainting the Court that Mr. William Cheselden, a member of this Company, did frequently procure the Dead bodies of Malefactors from the place of execution and dissect the same at his own house, as well during the Company's Publick Lectures as at other times without the leave of the Governors and contrary to the Company's By law in that behalf. By which means it became more difficult for the Beadles to bring away the Companies Bodies and likewise drew away the members of this Company ! and others from the Public Dissections and Lectures at the Hall. The said Mr. Cheselden was thereupon called in. But having submitted himself ! to the pleasure of the Court with a promise never to dissect at the same