397 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. for if that had not been the case, why should any proposal of this kind have been made. Indeed whoever considers but the bare outline of your plan must be satisfied, that it could not be attended with success. For this business was put under the management of no less than 6 persons, 2 Masters, 2 Wardens & 2 Professors, & how could an Establishment of so mixed and complex a nature be properly carried on ? and accordingly your Lectures were bad or your demonstrations were bad, or your parts were ill prepared, or ignorant persons were appointed who disgraced you by acting, or thought themselves hardly treated by being obliged to fine. But tho' you rejected the proposal yet you took the blame and suspecting that your plan was capable of further improve- ment ; you directed that your Lectures should be read at fixed times, between Michaelmas & Christmas and between Christmas and Lady day. The first period assigned was for those to be read on the Muscles, and the last for those on the Viscera. The Osteological Lectures were to be read in June. But still the mode of giving them remained unaltered & their number was undetermined. The Committee of Anatomy which had been appointed to meet on this Business continued to proceed, and they appear no where to have been dismissed. But your plan, with these improvements, did not answer, and after giving it the long Tryal of 13 years, in the year 1760 I think, you came to the following resolutions, viz*- : That the present mode of giving the Lectures not having ansd- the intended purposes, a Professor should be appointed annually, to be rewarded with a Gold Medal, who should read his Lectures at fixed times, as specified in your resolution of 1775 and that the whole number to be given should be 15. This was an improvement on the 2d plan inasmuch as an Annual Professor was to be appointed of known ability (which took place) and a certain number of Lectures was stipulated to be given, which I believe did not take place; and this plan well executed would have been of real use to the Public.