389 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. How many Hundred Pounds (I am inclined to think 1500 or 2000) would have been saved by this means ? But nobody as an Individual being interested in it & the attendance being1 inconvenient no regard was paid to this salutary measure. It* the present ffee for such an attendance be tho* insufficient let it be doubled, as I am convinced that the resolution is a wise one, & if properly pursued will produce the happiest consequences. And now taking leave of the Accounts as far as they relate to ye Committee I propose that the Bills, if they are not paid monthly, should be paid quarterly at the furthest; that no money should be left with any Banker, nor more in the hands of your Clerk, or in your Chest, but what is necessary for one Months Current Expence. You will by these means know the Expences incidental to each year, you will discharge them all within the }^ear; and you will have your articles cheaper for prompt payment. To this care of your Account succeeds the consideration of retrenching many unnecessary Expences, or at least the not suffering them to be continued. The Expences incidental to your Committee have on an Average for the last 4 years amounted to about £420 or £430 Ann. For the succeeding four I hope and believe they will be within £250 each Year if we proceed with due care and caution. I have further to recommend to you Gent, to insert the Summons in the Minutes of each Court of Assistants, & to suffer no Business to be transacted but what is expressly mentioned in the Summons ; to enter at large whatever comes before you by way of Motion, & to keep Minutes of the transactions of the Court of Examiners. That all Minutes be signed by the Master in the course of the ensuing Week if not immediately. I recom- mend it to you likewise that a Book be made out containing all the rules & customs which are not printed but which ought to be known, that we may not be obliged to depend on any one for the information of the moment. I will close this Article but with one observation more. I am confident Gents that you are insensibly led into many Expences