364 MEMORIALS OF THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. 22nd. And to leveye fynes and amercement by distresse, and Commytt offenders to pnson till submission. 23rd. And in defalt of paiment wit Am xx dayes, then to sell the distresses and retayne to the value of the fyne and Cbardges, and deliuer the rest to the owner. 24th. It freeth e very e person of this Society or incorporacion from constableship, watch, warde, all office or duety of bearinge arms, inquests, Juryes, appearinge at musters, fyndeinge of men by sea or land, and taxe or assessment toucheinge such levies. 25th. Where a Charter of E. iv°1 gave them power to purchase lands to the value of five marks per annum; when theie weare onelye the Companie of Barbers ; when by reason of the vniteicge of them and the Surgeons into one Company, and theire mayntenance and relief of the poore, and other occasion of Chardge and expence. This Charter confirmeth vnto them all lands graunted vnto them by anie name or tytle, and to receive other lands to the value of 2 pounds per annum, not holden of his Majestie in capite or knight's service. 26th. In respect of the lykely occasion of the Kinges Majesty and his successors for his service in the warres of skillfull Surgeons whose skill is best knowen to the Surgeons of London, this Charter giveth poure to the Wasters or Governors, uppon notice given vnto them, to Chardge and empress within the aforesaid Lymmytts hable men for such service, and to take from the vil- li able to serve such instruments and stuffe of Surgery, as theie shall think fytt and necessary for the furnisheinge of them so impresst to service ; and to such purpose to allowe or disallowe the pro- vision of Surgery of the persons imprest. 27th. And to such purpose, the Masters or Gouernors, by themselves or other hable persons authorized to take view of the Chests, Caskets, and provisions, from London to Lee, of anie person so imprest, or to be ymployed, and to take away all Defective stuffe, and the same to destroy, that noe abuse be therby in the sayd seruice. 1 King Edward the Fourth. 2 Left blank in the original.