TEE CRAFT OF SURGERY. 185 them to this company to be distributed amongst the professors of Chirurgery freemen of this Company." The Company exercised a censorship over the writings of its members, for as early as 1588, " yf any man of this misterie shall at anye tyme hereafter make any Booke or Bookes of Surgerie the same shall not be published unles the same booke or bookes be firste pre- sented unto the masters governors and examinoitrs of this Companie for the tyme beinge upon payne of xh." The rights of the masters over their apprentices were upheld during the Stuart dynasty Apprentices, with much greater severity, even when the masters els, had begun it 20 yeeres sooner, what time, for freshnes of memorie, wit and reading, lie was far more readie and pregnant for such an enterprise. Which thing was manifested in the sequele. For not long before his end, acknowledging his owne defects, feeling in himselfe the assured signs of an vtterlie decaied nature, and forseeing that his daies would be ended, before his bookes were finished, he gaue me verie streightlie in charge to gather his notes and writings diligentlie together : to reduce them into that method which he intended, and wherewith he made me throughlie acquainted : to commend them to some deere familiar friends of his, whome he named vnto me, to be perused, censured, and allowed, and so foorthwith to be committed to the printer's presse. Not- withstanding that I haue not published anie of his dooings, before this .time, diuers iust occasions haue restreined me, but especiallie two aboue others: whereof one is the great ingratitude and negligence you shew to be in your selues, in not frequenting the lecture which he founded onelie for your sakes : and so much the more is your fault therein aggrauated, sithens he hath procured so rare and excellent a learned man as M. D. Forster is, to be your reader; whose eloquence (in my opinion) is of sufficient force to, allure you to his schoole, if men, of purpose, were not wilfullie bent to giue occasion to be thought more froward and obstinate than those craggie rocks and hard stones, which were mooued with the musicke of Orpheus harpe, to come and couch themselues in the building of the walls and towers of Thebes. Againe, his method, perspicuitie, and plainnesse in teaching is such, that there is no man so simple and grossewitted, but that he may seeme to be capable of the doctrine which he deliuereth. Seeing therefore the paines is wholie his, and the profit