188 MEMORIALS OF close prisoner for seaven daies. And findeing as yt sliold seeme noe iust cause to detaine liim hee was dischardged as wee understand. And afterwards his said M.astev arrested him uppon an accfon of trespas for carryinge away with him (when his blaster had geven him leave to become an auditor or hearer of the lecture, he may find himselfe not to repent the time so imploied. First, twise a weeke through out the yeare, to wit, on Wednesdaies and Fridaies, at ten of the clocke till eleuen, shall the reader read three-quarters of an houre in Latine, and the other quarter in English, wherein that shall be plainlie declared for those that vnderstand not Latine what was said in Latine. And the first yeare What exer- to read Horatius Morus Tables, an Epitome or briefe folfowed in the handling of all the whole arte of surgerie, that is, of theSvm^the swellings or apostems, wounds, ulcers, bonesetting, and Founder. The healing of broken bones, termed commonlie fractions : ercises.areS 6X~ an(l to read Oribasius of knots, and Galen of bands, such workes as haue beene long hid, and are scarselie now a daies among the learned knowen, and yet (as the Anatomies) to the first enterers in surgerie and nouices in physicke; but amongst the ancient writers and Grecians well kuowne. At the end of the yeare, in winter, to dissect openlie in the reading place, all the bodie of Man, especiallie the inward parts, for fiue daies togither, as well before as after Dinner; if the bodies may so last without annoie. , " The second yeare to read Tagaultius Institutions of The second yeares exer- surgerie, and onelie of swellings or apostems, in the winter cises' to dissecte the trunk onelie of the bodie, namelie, from the head to the lowest part where the members are, and to handle the muscles especiallie. The thirde yeare to read of wounds onelie of yeares and Tagaultius, and in winter to make publike dissection of fourth yeares the head onelie. The fourth yeare to read of vlcers onlie exercises. J . the same author, and to anatomize or dissect a Jeg and an arme for the knowledge of muscles, sinewes, arteries, veines, gristles, The fift and ligaments, and tendons. The fift year to read the sixt sixt yeares ex- booke of Paulus Aegineta, and in winter to make anatomie to^eontinue S° °^ a skeleton, and therewithall to show and declare the with Repetitis Vse of certeine instruments, as Scamnum Hippocratis, and JOVtiLCVftlh. x x ' other instruments for setting in of bones. The sixt yeare to read Holerius of the matter of surgerie, as of medicines for surgians to use. And the seventh yeare to begin again and continue still. A godlie and charitable erection doubtlesse, such as was the more needfull, as hitherto hath beene the wante and lacke so hurtfull: sith that onelie in ech