MEMORIALS OF 184 The teaching of surgery was not quite neglected, surgery lec- for attendance on a surgery lecture was strictly enforced; and in 1604 <c Mr ffenton presented to this Courte 500 bookes of Horatius Moms tables translated into Englishe and delivered them to the Master of this Company in the name and behalf of Mr Deputie Caldwell1 whoe freely gave 1 Richard Caldwell was born in Staffordshire in 1513. He was educated at Oxford, and was a Fellow of Brasenose and Christ Church. He subsequently studied physic, and was chosen censor of the College of Physicians. In 1570 he became president. Lord Lumley was by his influence induced to found and endow with a liberal salary a lectureship on surgery, which is still known as the Lumleian bequest. Caldwell translated into English the " Tables of Surgery," by Horatius Moras, a Florentine physician, copies of which still exist in the Bodleian Library, in the British Museum, and in the Library of the Medico-Chirurgical Society. The work was published in the year after his death, 1585, and is dedicated posthumously by his son or nephew, the Mr Deputy Caldwell spoken of in the text, in the following words : "TO THE COMPANIE OF SURGEANS WITHIN THE ClTIE OF LONDON, MUCH HEALTH, WITH GOOD SUCCESSE IN THEIR PRACTISES AND CURES. " He which translated these tables of surgerie into our vulgar toong, is entred (as you know) the waie of all flesh, and dooth now rest (I .hope) with the faithfull. That he was one, who sought by sundrie meanes to promote learning, and to doo the countrie good, which bred him up, manie deedes of his doo clearlie witnesse, and are confirmed as vndoubted testimonies thereof to continue vnto the verie end of the world. Againe, if you knew the man well in his latter daies, you cannot be ignorant, how feeble and crazie he appeered in the state of his bodie, and how well neere spent his spirits were: and yet, euen in that extreme weaknes, he toiled himself both night and day, and was a most painfull student for your furtherance, not refusing, beyond the strength of his drie and withered carcase (numbering then almost fourescore yeeres) to giue himself up to the compiling and writing of diuerse commentaries and other woorks, all which concerned your art onelie and profession, not vnlike herein to the candle or lampe, that wasteth it self e whilest it giueth light to others. Although (to confesse simplie what I thought) I haue oftentimes wished with all my hart, that either hee had not:. at all giuen himselfe to writing, namlie of such obscure and darke matters, so late : or