363 THE CRAFT OF SURGERY. anie of thassistance, another to be chosen by the "Masters, or twoe of them, and the greater part of Assistance. 15th. Item it giveth power of assemblyes of the M^ers, Gouernors, and A ssistance, when theye shall appoynt; and the same to be called a Courte of Assistance. 16th. It sheweth the openinge, searinge, and embalmeinge of the dead corpes to be properly belongeinge to the science of Barbery and Surgery, and the same intruded into by Butchers, Taylors, Smythes, Chaundlers, and others of divers trades, un- skillfull in Barbery or Surgery, and vnseemly and vnchristian- lyke defaceing, disfiguringe, and dismemberinge the dead corpes, And so that by theire unskillfull searinge and embalmeinge the corpes corrupteth, and growethjyresentlie contagious, and ofensive to the place and arsons approachinge. 17th. Wherefore it jor^hibiteth all persons from so medling therein, Except such only of the said incorporacion as doe actually and vsually exercize the facultie of Barbor and Surgeon, and are allowed and approued accordeinge to the Statute. 18th. And giveth power to the Masters and Go?^rnors to arrest and imprison such as doe to the contrary, till theire sub- mission unto such fyne as shalbe payable by the said orders of the said Company confirmed, or to be confirmed accordinge to the statute of the 19th H. vii. 19th. For the better gouemment of the said Companie, by reason of the increase and multitude of them, It giveth power to the Masters or Gouemors and Corte of assistance to con- stitute a yeomanry and rules for the better gouemment of them and the comminaultye of the said Companie. 20th. For the better enforceinge of obedience to the rules and ordinances of the said Companie, The said Charter giveth further power to the Masters or Gouemors to make ordinances for the good of the Companye in and by theire Cortes of Assistance. 21st. And the Gouemors to ponish freemen foraynes and strangers w?'^in the Lymmytts for offences contrary to theire ordinances made or to be made.