190 MEMORIALS OF Masters of this Companie of that and other wronges by the said Wrighte done to the said apprentice It was thouglite fitt by the Masters of this Companie to dis- chardge the apprentice from his Master unles hee wold or a ripe apple falling from the tree, so departed lie out of this world, at the doctors Commons where his vsuall lodging was; and was verie wor- shipfullie buried (but of his death hereafter in the yeare 1584, where the daie of his decease being mentioned, matter worth the reading shall be remembred)." Page 1369 : " 1584, in this yeare and the twentieth daie of Maie, de- parted out of this life, that famous Father of physicke and surgery, the English Hippocrates and Galen, I mean doctor Caldwell, and was buried on the sixt of June, immediatelie following at S. Benet's Church by Paules Wharfe, at the vpper end of the chancell. His Bodie was verie solemnlie accompanied to the Church with a traine of learned and graue doctors, besides others of that facultie, the heralds of armes doing him such honor at his funeral as to him of dutie apperteined. Of this mans rare loue of his countrie hath beene spoken before, where mention is made of the institution to a surgerie lecture perpetuallie to be continued for the common benefit of London, and consequentlie of all England : the like whereof is not established nor vsed in anie vniversitie of christendome (Bononie and Padua excepted), and, therefore, the more to be esteemed. Indeed, the like Institution was in towardnesse whiles Francis the French of that name the first liued; but when he died, as the court that he kept in his time was counted an vniversitie, but after his deth made an exchange thereof with another name, so likewise discontinued or rather vtterly brake off that purposed institution of a surgerie lecture at Paris, so that in this point London hath a prerogative excelling the vniversities." The Chronicle goes on to tell of numerous charitable bequests, etc., and among them " He left large sums of monie to be emploied by his executors at their discretion where charitie moued; as also to the publish- ing of such learned bookes of physicke and surgery (with sundrie chargeable forms grauen in copper and finished in his life), as he meant (if he had liued) to see extant." In the margin it mentions : " His commentaries upon some part of Paulus Aegineta and other bookes." Holinshed further states that there is a monument erected to his memory in St. Benet's, with his arms, and the arms of the College of Physicians under it. " On either side of this latter scutchion are set certeine binding bands and other instruments of surgerie in their right formes, with their proper vse, also to be practised upon ech member; be the same head, leg, arm, hand, or foot, all worke- manlie wrought."