MEMORIALS OF THE GRAFT OF SURGERY. xvi These elaborated portions appear to have formed part of the Hunterian oration, which he delivered before the Eoyal College of Surgeons in the year 1844. More fortunate than his predecessor, Mr. South gained unrestricted access to the valuable records of the Corporation of Barbers and Surgeons, which are now in the custody of the Barbers5 Company at their hall in Monkwell Street. These records he made the centre of his work; and the most important, viz. the Court Minute Books, he, with immense labour and indefatigable industry, copied word by word, letter by letter, and abbreviation by abbreviation, a toil which can only be duly appreciated by those who have had experience in deciphering the crabbed writings of clerks living under the Tudors and Stuarts. The materials thus obtained were supplemented by extracting from the Letter Books and Eepertories belonging to the City of London,1 as well as from the various state papers in 1 The Letter Books (Stow's "Books of Remembrances") are described by the late Mr. H. T. Riley in his " Memorials of London and London Life in the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Centuries " as " a series of folio volumes (the early ones of somewhat smaller size than those of later date) in manuscript on parchment; containing entries of the current matters of the day in which the City has been in any way interested or concerned, downwards from the early part of the reign of King Edward the First. . . . Though for convenience' sake styled ' Letter Books' since the latter part of the reign of Edward the Third, the earliest volumes were originally known as the ' Lesser Black Book,' the ' Greater Black Book,' the ' Red Book,' and the ' White Book,' from the respective colours of their original bindings, no doubt. From Novem- ber, 1416, the proceedings in which the mayor and aldermen alone have taken part, have ceased to be entered in the Letter Books, the Journals having then superseded them for that purpose. At a later date the ' Reper- tories ' were devoted to the record of proceedings in the Court of Aldermen."