MEMORIALS OF 388 preferable to the Dinner. It would be rather a saving to the Company, as the charge for each Dinner would seldom be less than £6 and this could never exceed 5 Guineas & be sometimes less. Your Accounts would be well inspected, & you wod be less heated & sooner ready for your Examinations. Every thing that is really for the good of the Company you have the power to do, tho' nothing to its prejudice. To the alteration of a Custom so much to your advantage, no solid objection can be made. You have encreased your own Fees, you have added others & you have raised the Emoluments & Gratifications of your Servants in points not quite clear & rather problematical. The Meeting 4 times a year of the Court of Assistants, the governing part of our Society, seems to be quite sufficient to answer any solid purposes ; and the proposed alteration, which is certainly for the good of the Company, being a matter which principally relates to the Court of Examiners, did they but agree to it, 1 should hope that the Court of Assistants at large could have no objection. But if the Gentlemen should be of a contrary opinion & prefer the usual custom to the method now proposed, I should then think that a Committee of 3 should be appointed to meet quarterly on the Thursday preceeding the Meeting of the General Court, to inspect, regulate and check the Bills, & that their Members should be paid the usual ffee for such attendance. I apprehend that such an appointment, even at this expence, would prove good management upon the whole, & that it would fully answer the purposes of its Institution. If Gentlemen will not be prevailed on to do their duty with- out being paid for it (a custom very frequent now in much higher concerns than ours) let any reasonable allowance be made to them. I am confident it will be much to your Interest to invite fc-hem in this manner to do their duty. After having resolved in the year 1778 that the Court of Examiners which met every Month shod be a Committee of Accounts, why did they not pay some attention to this important matter.