THE GRAFT OF SURGERY. 171 Leycocke beinge not there present the garlande1 accor- dinge to the manner and custome of the house was by the Maister for the yeare paste placed uppon the heade of Mr Doctor Browne as deputye for the saide John Leycocke. After which another garlande was likewise placed uppon the heade of the saide John Burgis by the upper governor. And a like garlande tendered to the said John Pecke which he utterlye refused. And for the same was fined at ffortie shillings which fyne he paide Accordinglye. Likewise another garlande was placed by the youngeste Governor uppon the heade of the saide Eoberte Johnson and by him gratefullye accepted. And the said Maister Burgis and Mr Johnson were sworne standinge for the due execucion of their offices. Afterwarde a newelecczon was made by the saide Electors of the seconde Governor and therein Lewis Atmer was chosen, and the garlande proffered 1 Mr. Shoppee, in his Description of the pictures and other objects of interest in the hall and Court Room of the worshipful Company of Barbers, Lond., thus writes of the successors to the garlands here mentioned. There are "four [three of which are visible lying upon the table behind the fire-screen in Plate YIII.] very handsomely wrought and chased silver garlands or wreaths for crowning the Master and Wardens, which are still used and worn by them on Court days in receiving guests. . . . Each of these is silver with the Company's arms and badges (the rose and crown) and other devices well rendered, and all mounted with silk velvet. The Master's, Prime Warden's and Middle Warden's being red and the Third Warden's being green." In the court minutes 20th June, 1629, is the following entry: "It is alsoe ordered that there slialbe made fower Garlands of silver enamelled garnished and sett forth after the neatest manner according to the discretion of the present governors for the choice of new Maisters and the coste thereof to be borne of the stock of this house." The green colour of the third warden's garland perhaps signified his office of rent collector, at a time when the Company owned green fields.