63 METHODS OF TEACHING would have to go elsewhere for lectures on other subjects which were required by Apothecaries’ IIall. From the fact that Mr. Jordan always had it in his mind to minimize for the student the risks of a Metropolitan life (see the writings of Albert Smith), and from internal evidence I am inclined to think that his school met the requirements of the Examining Boards to a greater extent than is apparent merely from what is stated in his advertisements. Mr. Jordan’s lectures, apart from their practical value, would not have been of much use to a student as regards shortening his sojourn in London, if thereby he was relieved only of his Anatomical studies, for he could easily have attended to these along with his other subjects. I question whether the regulations as regards attendance on lectures were strictly enforced, because, for instance, it was exceptional for the College of Surgeons to have recognised Mr. Jordan’s lectures on Anatomy, and to have continued the recognition after the celebrated bye-law Londinenses ”; the reading of the last and of physician’s prescriptions being the Latin test at Apothecaries’ Hall. His preliminary education supplied his knowledge of the Classics, for they were regarded as the foundation of all education worthy of the name. He was instructed in the bones, and in midwifery, and was encouraged to become thoroughly familiar with these branches of knowledge. Some of his work would be looked upon by the modern student as drudgery, and payment of a fee of three hundred to five hundred guineas made no difference in his duties. He had to wash bottles, keep the shelves, bottles and drawers clean, post the books, attend to the door, show the patients out, and to make himself generally useful; and on vaccination days he had to assist by keeping babies quiet and by making things pleasant for the mothers while the doctor punctured the arms with the lancet. All this did no harm and was nothing of which the apprentice need be ashamed. He learnt to be orderly, neat and handy, and if his master happened to be of an exacting turn of mind his wits were sharpened. This drudgery diminished with the arrival of a new apprentice or when he became of use as an assistant.