PROFESSIONAL CAREER 31 bo properly directed, the number of qualified medical men would increase to the advantage of the country towns. Finding that his school was flourishing and that it met the wants of the time, Mr. Jordan applied to Apothecaries Hall,* and the Colleges of London and Edinburgh, to have his certificates accepted. He was encouraged in so doing by the fact that in a few instances they were in courtesy received, the candidates being found proficient in anatomy; but he was at first unsuccessful. In spite of this discouragement Mr. Jordan persevered, giving as he had always done from the first courses of lectures precisely according to the requirements of the Hall and College, viz., 140 in each course, with demonstra- tions and dissections from October 1st to the end of April. A still more forcible appeal was afterwards made in which Dr. Hull was eminently useful, and in the year 1817 The Apothecaries’ Company took an enlightened view of the subject, and formally notified Mr. Jordan that his certifi- cates would in future be accepted by the Board of Examiners as in every way equivalent to those given by Metropolitan teachers. This was a very important event in the history of provincial Medical Schools, for the license of this Society was the one essential portal to the profession, * I may note in passing that The Apothecaries' Company was incor- porated in 1606, and was united with the Company of Grocers; their authority did not extend beyond the Metropolis and its immediate neighbourhood. But in 1815 an Act was passed which placed the Society in a new position, by giving the Court of Examiners, composed of twelve members of the Society of not less than ten years standing, the sole right of examining and licensing Apothecaries throughout England and Wales. The Act provided that the Examiners should be appointed by the Master, Wardens and Assistants of the Society, and that candidates for examination should have attained the age of twenty-one years, and have served an apprenticeship of at least five years with an Apothecary.