67 METHODS OF TEACHING The bye-law of 1824 was unjust to Mr. Jordan’s School, if it ever were applied in his case, because no evidence was adduced of inefficiency, and it at once put a stop to medical education in Manchester; for it practically compelled all medical students to attend the lectures of some five, or at any rate very few, persons in London. Notwithstanding this regulation, however, Mr. Jordan continued to lecture as usual, and Mr. Turner even had the temerity to start another school which, from the point of view of the College of Surgeons, could only be regarded as a preparatory school, so long as the objectionable bye-law remained in force. That public medical opinion was against it is proved by the fact that Mr. Turner’s school was recognised some years afterwards. Medical schools of those days are not to be judged by the standard of the present time; medical teaching was in its infancy, and every change that occurred was merely a step in advance. Mr. Jordan's School was complete (except as regards hospital attedance) for the period that it served, and so were the other schools; then came the Chatham Street School with a larger staff and more commodious premises; and finally came the amalgamated school, which was the outcome of the experience gained in the develop- ment of the earlier institutions of the kind. Each new school stimulated the older ones to increased exertion to keep pace with the requirements of advancing knowledge.* •The following remarks, though applied to other matters, are quite applicable to the early medical schools. Sir James Paget, in his intro- duction to the Memorials of the Craft of Surgery in England by Sir John Flint South says “A more careful reading will show that the strange things were usually fitted to the times and the circumstances in which they happened; and that like the organs and the changes in an embryo, and in spite of many errors and defects of human manage- ment, they were in the progress towards better things . . . .”