LIFE OF JOSEPH JORDAN 62 for students other than his own apprentices, and special mention is made of practitioners renewing their Anatomical knowledge. The teaching of Anatomy was associated, as was custom- ary, with that of Surgery and Physiology, the latter of which at the time I am writing of was in its earliest infancy. The regulations for examination at the College of Surgeons would, with the exception of hospital practice, be met entirely by the course of study at Mr. Jordan’s school, combined with an apprenticeship for a period of five years; or according to the regulations of 1824, six years spent in the acquisition of professional knowledge.* For the benefit of his students Mr. Jordan used to induce poor patients, surgical cases, I presume, who otherwise would have gone to the Infirmary, to come to his house for treatment. Students would thus be well prepared in a practical manner for examination. But as it was only the lectures on Anatomy that were recognised, students * An apprentice was taught how to dispense medicine and to make preparations from crude drugs, of which there was a large collection, for there were, at that time, no wholesale druggists from whom pills, plasters, tinctures, decoctions, and infusions could be obtained. These had to be made in the surgery by the apprentice and the assistant. I remember well the first time a traveller brought machine-made pills, not coated, to the surgery. They were viewed with some interest, and were admired for their uniformity in size and appearance; especially by the apprentice whose duty it was to wield the pestle. Some years afterwards this same apprentice was shown by a patient, an interesting box of pills which had been sent by an old practitioner; they excelled, in pill making, anything of which the apprentice had ever been guilty; truly there was a variety in both shape and size, a family box in fact. The apprentice became familiar with roots, dried plants, and chemical salts. He assisted in the routine of general practice, and he learnt the therapeutic properties of materies medicae. The principal books to guide him in his work were, besides the “ Pharmacopoeia Domestica,” which was written in Latin, “ Gregory’s Conspectus,” and “ Pharmacopoeia