CHAP. XXVIII.] 571 DESSERT DISHES. ORANGE SALAD. Take off the outer rinds, and then strip away entirely ihe white inside skin from some fine China oranges; slice them thin, and remove the seeds, and thick skin of the cores, as this is done; strew over them plenty of white sifted sugar, and pour on them a glass or more of brandy: when the sugar is dissolved serve the oranges. In France ripe pears of superior quality are sometimes sliced up with the oranges. Powdered sugar-candy used instead of sugar, is an improvement to this salad; and the substitution of port, sherry, or Madeira, for the brandy is often considered so. The fruit may be used without being pared, and a little curaqao or any other liqueur may be added to the brandy; or this last, when unmixed, may be burned after it is poured on the oranges. TANGERINE ORANGES. These beautiful little oranges, of which the rinds have a most peculiar, and to many tastes not a very agreeable flavour, are re- markably sweet and delicate when in their perfection; but they come later into the market than the more common varieties of the orange, and disappear from them sooner. They make a very refined salad, and also an ornamental dessert dish : their cost is somewhat higher than that of the Malta and St. Michael oranges. There is another species of this fruit known commonly as the blood-oi'ange which has many admirers, but it is not we should say greatly superior to the more abundant kinds usually served at our tables. PEACHES IN BRANDY. (Rotterdam Receipt.) Prepare and stew some fine full-flavoured peaches by the receipt of page 459, but with two ounces more of sugar to the half pint ot water; when they are tender put them, with their syrun, into glass or new stone jars, which they should only half fill; and when they are quite cold pour in white, or very pale, French brandy to within an inch and a half of the brims: a few peach or apricot kernels can oe added to them. The jars must be corked down. BRAN DIED MORELLA CHERRIES. Let the cherries be ripe, freshly gathered, and the finest that can be had; cut off half the length of the stalks, and drop them gently into clean dry quart bottles with wide necks; leave in each sufficient space f >r four ounces of pounded white sugar-candy (or of brown, if better liked); fill them up entirely with the best French brandy,