CHAP. XXIV.] PRESERVES. 511 Red currants boiled from 5 to 7 minutes, pressed with one-fourth of their juice through a sieve, boiled from to 2 hour. To each pound 7 oz. pounded sugar : 25 to 30 minutes. Obs.—Confectioners add the pulp, after it is boiled dry, to an equal weight of sugar at the candy height: by making trial of the two methods, the reader can decide on the better one. FINE BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Stir some black currants over the fire until they have yielded their juice ; strain, weigh, and boil it for twenty minutes; add to it three pounds and a half of sifted sugar of good quality, made quite hot, and when it is dissolved boil the jelly for five minutes only, clearing off the scum with care. This, though an excellent preserve, is too sweet for our own taste, and we think one made with less sugar likely to be more acceptable in cases of indisposition generally. Juice of black currants, 4 lbs.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 31 lbs.: 5 minutes. COMMON BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Boil from three to six pounds of the juice rapidly for twenty minutes, stirring it well; then mix with it off the fire, half a pound of sugar for each pound of juice, and continue the boiling for ten minutes. Juice of black currants, 3 to 6 lbs.: 20 minutes. To each pound juice ^ lb. good sugar : 10 minutes. Obs.—This jelly may be made with Lisbon sugar, but will then require rather more boiling. BLACK CURRANT JAM AND MARMALADE. No fruit jellies so easily as black currants when they are ripe ; and their juice is so rich and thick that it will bear the addition of a very small quantity of water sometimes, without causing the preserve to mould. When the currants have been very dusty, we have occa- sionally had them washed and drained before they were used, without any injurious effects. Jam boiled down in the usual manner with this fruit is often very dry. It may be greatly improved by taking out nearly half the currants when it is ready to be potted, pressing them well against the side of the preserving-pan to extract the juice: this leaves the remainder far more liquid and refreshing than when the skins are all retained. Another mode of making fine black cur- rant jam—as well as that of any other fruit—is to add one pound at least of juice, extracted as for jelly, to two pounds of the berries, and to allow sugar for it in the same proportion as directed for each pound of them. For marmalade or paste, which is most useful m affections of the