on.r. xxiii. J SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. 457 with them, as well as to those who may have a distaste to the com- mon “stewed fruit” of English cookeiy. If well made they are peculiarly delicious and refreshing, preserving the pure flavour ol the fruit of which they are composed; while its acidity is much softened by the small quantity of water added to form the syrup i:> which it is boiled. They are also more economical than tarts or puddings, and infinitely more wholesome. In the second course, pastry-crust can always be served with them, if desired, in the form of ready baked leaves, round cakes, or any more fanciful shapes; or a border of these may be fastened with a little white of egg and flour round the edge of the dish in which the compute is served; but rice, or macaroni simply boiled, or a very plain pudding is a more usual accompaniment. Computes will remain good for two or three da}rs in a cool store- room, or somewhat longer, if gently boiled up for an instant a second time ; but they contain generally too small a proportion of sugar to preserve them from mould or fermentation for many days. The syrup should be enriched with a larger quantity when they are in- tended for the desserts of formal dinners, as it will increase the trans- parency of the fruit: the juice is always beautifully clear when the compotes are carefully prepared. They should be served in glass dishes, or in compotiers, which are of a form adapted to them. Compote of spring fruit.— (Rhubarb). Take a pound of the stalks after they are pared, and cut them into short lengths; have ready a quarter of a pint of water boiled gently for ten minutes with five ounces of sugar, or with six should the fruit be very acid ; put it in, and simmer it for about ten minutes. Some kinds will be tender in rather less time, some will require more. Obs— Good sugar in lumps should be used for these dishes. Lisbon sugar will answer for them very well on ordinary occasions, but that which is refined will render them much more delicate. Compote of green currants.—Spring water, half-pint: sugar, fivo ounces; boiled together ten minutes. One pint of green currants stripped from the stalks ; simmered five minutes. Compote of green gooseberries.—This is an excellent compote if made with fine sugar, and very good with any kind. Break five ounces into small lumps and pour on them half a pint of water ; boil these gently for ten minutes, and clear off all the scum ; then add to them a pint of fresh gooseberries freed from the tops and stalks, washed, and well drained. Simmer them gently from eight to ten minutes, and serve them hot or cold. Increase the quantity for a large dish. Compote of green apricots.—Wipe the down from a pound of quite young apricots, and stew them vei'y gently for nearly twenty minutes in syrup made with eight ounces of sugar and three-quarters of a pint of water, boiled together the usual time. Compote of red currants.—A quarter of a pint of water and five ounces of sugar : ten minutes. One pint of currants freed from the