chap, xxl] 427 BAKED PUDDINGS. with very thin puff-paste for three-quarters of an hour, in a slow oven. Butter, 4 oz.; sugar, £ lb.; yolks of 6, whites of 2 eggs; largo lemon, 1 : f hour, slow oyen. LEMON SUET PUDDING. To half a pound of finely grated bread-crumbs, add six ounces of fresh beef-kidney suet, free from skin, and minced very small, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, six ounces of currants, the grated rind and the strained juice of a large lemon, and four full-sized or five small well-beaten eggs; pour these ingredients into a thickly- buttered pan, and bake the pudding for an hour in a brisk oyen, but draw it towards the mouth when it is of a fine brown colour. Turn it from the dish before it is served, and strew sifted sugar over it or not, at pleasure: two ounces more of suet can be added when a larger proportion is liked. The pudding is very good without the currants. Bread-crumbs, 8 oz.; beef-suet, 6 oz.; pounded sugar, 3£ oz.; lemon, 1 large; currants, 6 oz.; eggs, 4 large, or 5 small: 1 hour, brisk oven. BAKE WELL PUDDING. This pudding is famous not only in Derbyshire, but in several of our northern counties, where it is usually served on all holiday- occasions. Line a shallow tart-dish with quite an inch-deep layer of several kinds of good preserve mixed together, and intermingle with them from two to three ounces of candied citron or orange-rind. Beat well the yolks of ten eggs, and add to them gradually half a pound of sifted sugar ; when they are well mixed, pour in by degrees half a pound of good clarified butter, and a little ratifia or any other flavour that may be preferred; fill the dish two-thirds full with this mixture, and bake the pudding for nearly an hour in a moderate oven. Half the quantity will be sufficient for a small dish. Mixed preserves, l.| to 2 lbs.; yolks of eggs, 10; sugar, £ lb.; butter, \ lb.; ratifia, lemon-brandy, or other flavouring, to the taste . baked, moderate oven, f to 1 hour. Ohs.—This is a rich and expensive, but not very refined pudding A variation of it, known in the south as an Alderman’s Pudding, is we think, superior to it It is made without the candied peel, and with a layer of apricot-jam only, six ounces of butter, six of sugar the yolks of six, and tbs whites of two eggs. RATIFIA PUDDING. Flavour a pint and a half of new milk rather highly with bitter almonds, blanched and bruised, or, should their use be objected to,