CHAP. XXVI ] 541 CAKES. Amongst those which have the worst effects are almond, and plum pound cakes, as they are calle.l; all varieties of the brioche and such others as contain a large quantity of butter and eggs. The least objectionable are simple buns, biscuits, yeast and sponge cakes, and meringues; these last being extremely light and delicate, and made of white of egg and sugar only, are really not un- wholesome. The ingredients for cakes, as well as for puddings, should all be fresh and good, as well as free from damp; the lightness of many kinds depends entirely on that given to the eggs by whisking, and by the manner in which the whole is mixed. A small portion of carbo- nate of soda, which will not be in the slightest degree perceptible to the taste after the cake is baked, if thrown in just before the mixture is put into the oven, will ensure its rising well. To guard against the bitterness so often imparted by yeast when it is used for cakes or biscuits, it should be sparingly added, and the sponge should be left twice the usual time to rise. This method will be found to answer equally with bread For example: should a couple of spoonsful of yeast be ordered in a receipt, when it is bitter, use but one, and let it stand twro hours instead of half the time: the fermentation, though slow, will be quite as perfect as if it were more quickly effected, and the cake or loaf thus made will not become dry by any means as soon as if a larger portion of yeast were mixed with it. The German yeast when fresh is preferable to any other for all light cakes, being made without hops and therefore never bitter. All light cakes require a rather brisk oven to raise and set them ; very large rich ones a well-sustained degree of heat sufficient to bake them through ; and small sugar-cakes a slow oven, to prevent their taking a deep colour before they are half done : gingerbread, too, should be gently baked, unless it be of the light thick kind. Me- ringues, macaroons, and ratafias, will bear a slight degree more of heat than these. For sponge and savoy cakes the moulds should be thickly and evenly buttered, and fine sugar shaken in them until they are equally covered with it: the loose sugar must be turned out before they are used. To ascertain whether a cake be done, thrust a larding needle or bright skewer into the centre, and should this come out clean, draw it from the oven directly; but should the paste adhere to it, continue the baking. Several sheets of paper are placed usually under large plum-cakes. Cakes are rendered heavy by moving or shaking them after they have risen in the oven, and before they have become firm. They should be gently loosened and turned from the moulds when suf- ficiently baked and set for a short time just at the mouth of the oven to dry the surface, then laid upon their sides on a sieve until cold.