[chap. XV. 288 MODERN COOKERY. is sometimes larded, and the other not; but a much handsomer appearance is given to the dish by larding both. About three quarters of an hour will roast them. f hour; a few minutes less, if liked very much underdone; five or ten more for thorough roasting, with a good fire in both cases. BOUDIN OP PHEASANT A LA RICHELIEU. (ENTREE.) Take, quite clear from the bones, and from all skin and sinew, the flesh of a half-roasted pheasant; mince, and then pound it to the smoothest paste; add an equal bulk of the floury part of some fine roasted potatoes, or of such as have been boiled by Captain Kater's receipt (see Chapter XVII.), and beat them together until they are well blended ; next throw into the mortar something less (in volume) of fresh butter than there was of the pheasant-flesh, with a high seasoning of mace, nutmeg, and cayenne, and a half-teaspoonful or more of salt; pound the mixture afresh for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, keeping it turned from the sides of the mortar into the middle; then add one by one, after merely taking out the germs with the point of a fork, two whole eggs and a yolk or two without the whites, if these last will not render the mixture too moist. Mould it into the form of a roll, lay it into a stewpan rubbed with butter, pour boiling water on it and poach it gently from ten to fifteen minutes. Lift it out with care, drain it on a sieve, and when ifcis quite cold cover it equally with beaten egg, and then with the finest bread-crumbs, and broil it over a clear fire, or fry it in butter of a clear golden brown. A good gravy should be made of the remains of the bird and sent to table with it; the flavour may be heightened with ham and eschalots, as directed in Chapter IV., page 96, and small mushrooms, sliced sideways', and stewed quite tender in butter, may be mixed with the houdin after it is taken from the mortar; or their flavour may be given more delicately by adding to it only the butter in which they have been simmered, well pressed, from them through a strainer. The mixture, which should be set into a very cool place before it is moulded, may be made into several small rolls, which will require four or five minutes’ poaching only. The flesh of partridges will answer quite as well as that of pheasants for this dish. SAL?,11 OF PHEASANT. {See page 292.) PHEASANT CUTLETS. {See page 275.) TO ROAST PARTRIDGES. [In season from the first of September to the second of FebnJJtry, and as long as they can be preserved fit for table from that time.] Let the birds hang as long as they can possibly be kept without becoming offensive; pick them carefully, draw, and singe them;