4 65 CHAP, xxiii.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. Strong calf’s feet stock, 1.] pint; strained orange-juice, mixed with a small portion of lemon-juice, 1 pint; sugar, G oz. ; rinds of oranges, 3; of lemon, 1 : 10 minutes. Obs.—A small pinch of isinglass thrown into the jelly when it begins to boil will much assist to clear it. When the flavour of Seville oranges is liked, two or three can be used with the sweet ones ORANGE ISINGLASS JELLY. To render this perfectly transparent the juice of the fruit must be filtered, and the isinglass clarified ; but it is not usual to take so much trouble for it. Strain as clear as possible, first through a sietge or muslin, then through a thick cloth or jelly bag, one quart of China orange-juice, mixed with as much lemon-juice as will give it an agree- able degree of acidity, or with a small proportion of Seville orange- juice. Dissolve two ounces and a half of isinglass in a pint of water, skim it well, throw in half a pound of sugar, and a few strips of the orange-rind, pour in the orange-juice, stir the whole well together, skim it clean without allowing it to boil, strain it through a cloth or through a muslin, many times folded, and when nearly cold put it into the moulds.* This jelly is sometimes made without any water, by dissolving the isinglass and sugar in the juice of the fruit. Orange-juice, 1 quart; water, 1 pint; isinglass, oz.; sugar, ^ lb. VERY FINE ORANGE JELLY. (Sussex Place Receipt.) On two ounces and a half of the finest isinglass, pour a full but an exact pint of spring water; press down the isinglass and turn it over until the whole is well moistened; then place it over a gentle fire and let it dissolve gradually; remove the scum after it has simmered for two or three minutes, then pour it out, and set it aside to cool. In another pint of spring water boil a pound of highly refined sugar for five or six minutes ; turn this syrup into a bowl, and when it is only just warm, throw into it the very thinly pared rinds of two fine lemons, of two Seville oranges, and of two China oranges, with the juice of five China, and of two Seville oranges, and of three lemons. When this mixture is cold, but not beginning to thicken, mix it well with the liquid isinglass, and strain it through a fine lawn sieve, or through a square of muslin folded in four; pour it into moulds which have been laid in cold water, and when wanted for the table, loosen it from them by wrapping about them, closely, a cloth which has been dipped into boiling water, and by passing a knife round the edges. Nothing can be more refined and delicate in flavour than the above; but the appearance of the jelly may be improved by clari- fying the isinglass, and its colour by boiling the fruit-rinds in the syrup for three or four minutes, and by leaving them in it until it is * In France, orange-jelly is very commonly served in the halved rinds of the fruit, or in little baskets made as we shall hereafter direct, page 4C6. n H