333 chat. xvii.] VEGETABLES. previous page of this chapter; the pan shoulci be left uncovered, and every precaution taken to prevent the smoke from reaching its con- tents. Endive, sprouts, and spring greens, will only require copious washing before they are boiled; but savoys, large lettuces, and close- leaved cabbages should be thrown into salt and water for half an hour or more before they are dressed, with the tops downwards to draw out the insects. The stems of these last should be cut off, the decayed leaves stripped away, and the vegetable halved or quartered, or split deeply across the stalk-end, and divided entirely before it is dished. Very young greens, 15 to 20 minutes ; lettuces, 20 to 30 minutes, large savoys, or cabbages, 1 to 1£ hour, or more. Obs.—When the stalk of any kind of cabbage is tender it is ready to serve. Turnip-greens should be well washed in several waters, and boiled in a very large quantity to deprive them of their bitterness. STEWED CABBAGE. Cut out the stalk entirely, and slice a fine firm cabbage or two in very thin strips; throw them after they have been well washed and drained, into a large pan of boiling water ready salted and skimmed, and when they are tender, which will be in from ten to fifteen minutes, pour them into a sieve or strainer, press the water thoroughly from them, and chop them slightly. Put into a very clean saucepan about a couple of ounces of butter, and when it is dissolved add the cabbage with sufficient pepper and salt to season it, and stir it over a clear fire until it appears tolerably dry; then shake lightly in a tablespoonful of flour, turn the whole well, and add by slow degrees a cup of thick cream: veal gravy or good white sauce may be sub- stituted for this, when preferred to it. TO BOIL TURNIPS. Pare entirely from them the fibrous rind, and either split the turnips once or leave them whole; throw them into boiling water slightly salted, and keep them closely covered from smoke and dust until they are tender. When small and young they will be done in from fifteen to twenty minutes; at their full growth they will require from three quarters to a full hour, or more, of gentle boiling. After they become old and woolly they are not worth dressing in any way. When boiled in their skins and pared afterwards, they are said to be of better flavour and much less watery than when cooked in the usual way. Young turnips, 15 to 20 minutes: full grown, f to 1 hour, or more. TO MASH TURNIPS. Split them once or even twice should they be large after they are pared; boil them very tender, and press the water thoroughly from