336 [ciiap. xvii. MODERN COOKERY. broth, little salt and sugar: \ hour, or more. Sauce : thickened gravy, bechamel made without meat, or common white sauce. Obs.—The carrots dressed thus are exceedingly good without any sauce beyond the small quantity of liquid which will remain in the stewpan with them, or with a few spoonsful more of gravy added to this, and thickened with butter and a little flour. SWEET CARROTS. (ENTREMETS.) Boil quite tender some fine highly-flavoured carrots, press the water from them, and rub them through the back of a fine hair- sieve ; put them into a clean saucepan or stewpan, and dry them thoroughly over a gentle fire ; then add a slice of fresh butter, and when this is dissolved and well mixed with them, strew in a dessert- spoonful or more of powdered sugar, and a little salt; next, stir in by degrees some good cream, and when this is quite absorbed, and the carrots again appear dry, dish and serve them quickly with small sippets a la Heine (see page 5), placed round them. Carrots, 3 lbs., boiled quite tender: stirred over a gentle fire 5 to 10 minutes. Butter, 2 oz. ; salt, ^ teaspoonful; pounded sugar, 1 dessertspoonful; cream, | pint, stewed gently together until quite dry. Obs.—For excellent mashed carrots omit the sugar, add a good seasoning of salt and white pepper, and half a pint of rich brown gravy; or for a plain dinner rather less than this of milk. MASHED (or BUTTERED) CARROTS, (A Dutch Receipt.) Prepare some finely flavoured carrots as above, and dry them over a gentle fire like mashed turnips; then for a dish of moderate size mix well with them from two to three ounces of good butter, cut into small bits, keeping them well stirred. Add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, and serve them very hot, garnished or not at pleasure with small sippets (croutons') of fried bread. CARROTS AU BEURRE, OR BUTTERED CARROTS. (French.) Either boil sufficient carrots for a dish quite tender, and then cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, or first slice, and then boil them: the latter method is the most expeditious, but the other best preserves the flavour of the vegetable. Drain them well, and while this is being done just dissolve from two to three ounces of butter in a saucepan, and strew in some minced parsley, some salt, and white pepper or cayenne $ then add the carrots, and toss them