[chap. XXIII. MODERN COOKERY. 490 ticularly after it begins to thicken ; and it will be better not to add the entire quantity of milk at first, as from a quarter to half a pint less will sometimes prove sufficient. The grain should be thoroughly tender, but dry and unbroken. COCOA-NUT ROCE. This is merely fine fresh lightly grated cocoa-nut stewed until tender in syrup, made with one pound of sugar to half a pint of water (or more to the taste) and flavoured with orange-flower water. BUTTERED CHERRIES. (CERISES AU BEURRE.) Cut four ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf into dice, and fry them a light brown in an ounce and a half of fresh butter; take them up, pour the butter from the pan, and put in another ounce and a half; to this add a pound of Kentish cherries without their stalks, and when they are quite warmed through, strew in amongst them four ounces of sugar, and keep the whole well turned over a moderate fire; pour in gradually half a pint of hot water, and in fifteen minutes the cherries will be tender Lay the fried bread into a hot dish, pour the cherries on it, and serve them directly. Bread, 4 oz.; butter, lg oz. Cherries, 1 lb.; butter, 1^ oz.: 10 minutes. Sugar, 4 oz.; water, \ pint: 15 minutes. Ohs.—Black-heart cherries may be used for this dish instead of Kentish ones : it is an improvement to stone the fruit. We think our readers generally wT0Uxd prefer to the above Morelia cherries stewed from five to seven minutes, in syrup (made by boiling five ounces of sugar in half pint of water, for a quarter of an hour), and poured hot on the fried bread. Two pounds of the fruit, when it is stoned, will be required for a full-sized dish. SWEET MACARONI. Drop gently into a pint and a half of new milk, when it is boiling fast, four ounces of fine pipe macaroni, add a grain or twTo of salt, and some thin strips of lemon or orange rind: cinnamon can be sub- stituted for these when preferred. Simmer the macaroni by a gentle fire until it is tolerably tender, then add from two to three ounces of sugar broken small, and boil it till the pipes are soft, and swollen to their full size; drain, and arrange it in a hot dish; stir the milk quickly to the well-beaten yolks of three large, or of four small eggs, shake them round briskly over the fire until they thicken, pour them over the macaroni and serve it immediately; or instead of the eggs, heat and sweeten some very rich cream, pour it on the Irained macaroni, and dust finely-powdered cinnamon over