177 BOILING, BOASTING, ETC. CHAP. IX.] point. Steaks and cutlets should be seasoned with salt and pepper, and dredged on both sides lightly with flour before they are laid into the pan, in which they should be often moved and turned that they may be equally done, and that they may not stick nor burn to it. From ten to fifteen minutes will fry them. They should be evenly sliced, about the same thickness as for broiling, and neatly trimmed and divided in the first instance. Lift them into a hot dish when done; pour the fat from the pan, and throw in a small slice of butter; stir to this a large teaspoonful of flour, brown it gently, and pour in by degrees a quarter of a pint of hot broth or water; shake the pan well round, add pepper, salt, and a little good catsup, or any other store sauce which may be preferred to it, and pour the gravy over the steaks: this is the most common mode of saucing and serving them. Minute directions for fish, vegetables, omlets, and different pre- parations of batter, are given in their proper places; but we must again observe, that a very small frying pan (scarcely larger than a dinner-plate) is necessary for many of these ; and, indeed, the large and thick one suited to meat and fish, and used commonly for them is altogether unfit for nicer purposes. The saute-pan, shown in the preceding page, is much used by French cooks instead of a frying-pan ,* it is more particularly con- venient for tossing quickly over the fire small collops, or aught else which requires but little cooking. All fried dishes, which are not sauced, should be served extremely dry upon a neatly-folded damask cloth : they are best drained upon a sieve reversed placed before the fire. A wire basket of this form is convenient for frying parsley and other herbs. It must be placed in o pan well filled with fat, and lifted out quickly when the herbs are done: they may likewise be crisped in it over a clear fire, without any fat. The frying-pans fitted with wire linings that lift in and out of them, which have lately come much into use in good kitchens, are so excel- lently adapted to save trouble, and so convenient for preparing de- licately light patties, croquettes, rissoles, and other dishes of a similar nature, that no cook who is expected to serve them in the best manner should be without one. They should all be arranged upon this wire lining, and plunged together into the boiling fat; and well drained on it when they are lifted out. Wire Basket for Frying.