[chap. XXXI. MODERN COOKERY. 598 leave it more liquid when the sponge is set, and let the whole be lightly kneaded into a lithe dough : the bread thus made will be ex- cellent when new, and for a day or so after it is baked, but it will become dry sooner thon the other Flour, 1 gallon; salt, 1 teaspoonful; skimmed milk, 2| pints, to rise from 1 to hour. Additional milk, 1 to 2 pints : to rise 1 hour. 3 loaves, baked 11 hour. Ohs. 1.—A few spoonsful of cream will wonderfully improve either of the above receipts, and sweet butter-milk, substituted for the other, will give to the bread the shortness of a cake : we would particularly recommend it for trial when it can be procured. Obs. 2.—Shallow round earthen pans answer much better, we think, than tins for baking bread; they should be slightly rubbed with butter before the dough is put into them. GERMAN YEAST. (And Bread made with German Yeast.) This has very generally superseded the use of English beer-yeast in London, and other places oonveniently situated for receiving quickly and regularly the supplies of it which are imported from abroad; but as it speedily becomes putrid in sultry weather, and does not in any season remain good long after its arrival here, it is un- suited for transmission to remote parts of the country. Bread made with it while it is perfectly sweet, is extremely light and good, and it answers remarkably well for light cakes and biscuits. An ounce is the proportion which we have always had used for a quartern (half a gallon or three pounds and a half) of flour, and this, with the ad- dition of some salt and nearly a quart of milk, or milk and water, has produced excellent bread when it has been made with care. The yeast should be very gradually and perfectly moistened and blended with the warm liquid; for unless this be done, and the whole ren- dered smooth as cream, the dough will not be of the uniform texture which it ought, but will be full of large hollow spaces, which are never seen in well-made bread The mass should be mixed up firmly and well kneaded at once, then left to rise for about an hour ; again kneaded thoroughly, and again left to rise from three-quarters of an hour to an hour; then divided, and lightly worked up into loaves, put into round slightly buttered earthen pans, and sent immediately to the oven.* A leaven may be first laid with the yeast, and part of the liquid when it is preferred, as directed for bread made with beer-yeast, but the result will be equally good if the whole be kneaded up at once, if it be made quite jirm. • We give tlie proportions used and the exact manner of making this bread, which w8 have had followed for more than twelve months, with entire success.