323 VEGETABLES. CHAP. XVII.J Obs.—If yery young, cucumbers are usually dressed without being pared, but the tough rind of full-grown ones being extremely indi- gestible, should be avoided. The vegetable, though apt to disagree with persons of delicate habit, when sauced in the common English mode, with salt, pepper, and vinegar only, may often be eaten by them with impunity when dressed with plenty of oil. It is difficult to obtain this perfectly fresh and pure here ; and hence, perhaps, arises in part the prejudice which, amongst us, is so often found to exist against the use of this most wholesome condiment. MANDRANG, OR MANDRAM. ( West Indian Receipt.') Chop together very small, two moderate-sized cucumbers, with half the quantity of mild onion; add the juice of a lemon, a saltspoonful or more of salt, a third as much of cayenne, and one or two glasses of Madeira, or of any other dry white wine. This preparation is to be served with any kind of roast meat. ANOTHER RECEIPT FOR MANDRAM. Take three or four cucumbers, so young as not to require paring; score the ends well, that when they are sliced they may fall into small bits ; add plenty of young onions, cut fine, the juice of half a lemon, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar. DRESSED CUCUMBERS. (Author's Receipt.) Cut into lengths of an inch or rather more, one or two freshly ga- thered cucumbers, take off the rind, and then pare them round and round into thin ribbons, until the watery part is reached:—this is to be thrown aside. When all are done, sprinkle them with cayenne and fine salt, and leave them to drain a little; then arrange them lightly in a clean dish, and sauce them with very fine oil, well mixed with chili vinegar, or with equal parts of chili and of common vinegar. Cucumbers, 2 or 3 ; salt, 1 to 2 saltspoonsful; little cayenne; oil, 6 to 8 tablespoonsful; chili vinegar, or equal parts of this and common vinegar, 2 to 4 tablespoonsful. Obs.—When the flavour of eschalots is much liked, a teaspoonful or more of the vinegar in which they have been steeped or pickled may be added to this dish. STEWED CUCUMBERS. {English mode.) Pare, and split into quarters, four or five full-grown but still young cucumbers; take out the seeds and cut each part in two $ sprinkle