MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxrv. 620 moulded, when more convenient, and kept until it is wanted for table, in a very dry place. In France, where the fruit is admirably con- fected, the pate de coigns, or quince paste, is somewhat less boiled than we have directed, and dried afterwards in the sun, or in an ex- tremely gentle oven, in square tin frames, about an inch and a half deep, placed upon clean slates. JELLY OF SIBERIAN CRABS. This fruit makes a jelly of beautiful colour, and of pleasant flavour also: it may be stored in small moulds of ornamental shape, and turned out for dessert. Take off the stalks, weigh, and wash the crabs ; then, to each pound and a half, add a pint of water and boil them gently until they are broken, but do not allow them to fall to a pulp. Pour the whole into a jelly-bag, and when the juice is quite transparent, weigh it, put it into a clean preserving-pan, boil it quickly for -fifteen minutes, take it from the fire, and stir in it until dissolved three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar roughly powdered to each pound of the juice; boil the jelly from fifteen to twenty minutes, skim it very clean, and pour it into the moulds. Should the quantity be large, a few additional minutes’ boiling must be given to the juice before the sugar is added. To each I5 lb. of crabs; water, 1 pint: 12 to 18 minutes. Juice to be fast boiled, 15 minutes ; sugar, to each pound, £ lb.; 15 to 20 minutes. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES. Take the finest barberries without stones that can be procured ,tie them together in bunches of four or five sprigs, and for each half pound of the fruit (which is extremely light), boil one pound of very good sugar in a pint of water for twenty minutes, and clear it well from scum ; throw in the fruit, let it heat gently, and then boil from five to seven minutes, when it will be perfectly transparent. So long as any snapping noise is heard the fruit is not all done; it should be pressed equally down into the syrup until the whole of the berries have burst; and should then be turned into jars, which must be covered with skin or two or three folds of thick paper, as soon as the preserve is perfectly cold. The barberries thus prepared make a beautiful garnish for sweet dishes, or for puddings. Barberries, tied in bunches, 1| lb.; sugar 3 lbs.; -water 1£ pint : 20 minutes. Barberries boiled in syrup : 5 to 7 minutes. BARBERRY JAM. (First and best Receipt.') The barberries for this preserve should be quite ripe, though they should not be allowed to hang until they begin to decay. Strip them from the stalks, throw aside such as are spotted, and for each pound