FISH, CHAP. II.] 73 mustard should be stirred to the sauce before it is poured over the fish. Fillets of mackerel, 2 ; butter, 2 oz.; flour, 1 teaspoonful; rind of ^ lemon; salt, cayenne, pounded mace : 2 minutes. Fish, 4 to 5 minutes. Port wine, two large glassesful; Harvey’s sauce, 1 table- spoonful; soy and lemon-juice each, 1 teaspoonful: 4 to 6 minutes. Mustard, 1 teaspoonful. Ohs.—Trout may be dressed by this receipt. Haddock. water salted as for mackerel. TO BOIL HADDOCKS. In the best season in October, November, and December. Scrape the outsides very clean open the fish, empty them, wash the insides thoroughly, take out the gillet curl the haddocks round, fasten the tails to the mouths, arrange them on a fish-plate, and Jay them into hot Take off all the scum, and simmer them from seven to ten minutes or longer, according to their size, which, as we have said in the directions for “ the best mode of cook- ing various kind of fish,” at the commencement of this chapter, varies greatly, as they are sometimes very large ; they must then be brought more slowly to boil, and more time must be allowed for them. Send them very hot to table, with a tureen of melted butter, and one of anchovy sauce. 7 to 10 minutes. Ohs.—In Scotland haddocks are skinned before they are boiled, and the heads are taken off; but we see no advantage in this mode of dressing them. Whitings, fresh herrings, and codlings, may all be dressed by this receipt, the time only being varied according to the size of the fish. BAKED HADDOCKS After they have been cleaned, dry them thoroughly, then bake them, as directed in the common receipt for pike, or fill them with oyster forcemeat, or with Ho. 1 of Chapter VIII., if more convenient, and proceed as for baked mackerel. 20 to 30 minutes ; longer if very large. TO FRY HADDOCKS Follow the directions given for fillets of whitings; or, should a more simple method be preferred, clean and dry the fish well, cut off the heads and tails, take out the backbones, cut each fish in three, egg and crumb them, fry them in boiling lard a fine golden brown, and serve them, well drained and dried, with the same sauces as boiled haddocks. \