4G9 cliAf. xxiii.] SWEET DISHES, OH ENTilEMETS. chapter ; drain the syrup from the strawberries very closely, add to it two or three tablespoonsful of red currant juice, and the clear juice of one large or two small lemons 5 and when the isinglass is nearly cold mix the whole, and put it into moulds. The Trench, who excel in these fruit-jellies, always mix the separate ingredients when they are almost cold ; and they also place them over ice for an hour or so after they are moulded, which is a great advantage, as they then require less isinglass, and are in consequence much more delicate. When the fruit abounds, instead of throwing it into the syrup, bruise lightly from three to four pints, throw two table- spoonsful of sugar over it, and let the juice now from it for an hour or two ; then pour a little water over, and use the juice without boiling, which will give a jelly of finer flavour than the other. Water, 1 pint; sugar, f lb.: lo minutes. Strawberries, 1 quart; isinglass, 2| oz.; water, 1 pint (white of egg, 1 to 2 teaspoonsful) ; juice, 1 large or 2 small lemons. No. 1. FANCY JELLIES. Description of Belgrave Mould. Figure No. 1, repre- sents the mould in its entireness. No. 2, shows the interior of it (inverted). A is a thin metal plate which when turned down- wards forms the bot- tom of the mould, and which is perforated in six places to permit the fluted columns B to pass through it. There is also a larger aperture in the middle to admit the centre cylinder. The plate is fixed, and the whole No. 2. is held in its place by the part which folds over the larger scallop D at either end. There is also a cover which fits to the mould, and which is pressed on it before it is dipped into water, to Drcvent its. getting into the cylinders. Transparent jelly is shown to much ad- vantage, and is particularly brilliant in appearance, when moulded in shapes re- sembling that of the engraving here, which j| are now very commonly used for the purpose. The centre spaces can be filled, after the jelly is dished, with very light whipped cream, coloured and flavoured so as to eat agreeably with it and to please the eye as well : this may be