542 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxvi. - r TO BLANCH AND TO POUND ALMONDS. Put them into a saucepan with plenty of cold water, and heat it slowly; when it is just scalding turn the almonds into a basin, peel, and throw them into cold water as they are done : dry them well in a soft cloth before they are used. If the water be too hot it will turn them yellow. Almonds are more easily pounded, and less liable to become oily, if dried a little in a very gentle degree of heat after they are blanched ; left, for example, in a warm room for two or three days, lightly spread on a large dish or tin. They should be sprinkled during the beating with a few drops of cold water, or white of egg, or lemon- juice, and pounded to a smooth paste : this is more easily done, we believe, when they are first roughly chopped, but we prefer to have them thrown at once into the mortar. TO REDUCE ALMONDS TO A PASTE. (The quickest and easiest way.) Chop them a little on a large and very clean trencher, then with a paste roller (rolling-pin), which ought to be thicker in the middle than at the ends, roll them well until no small bits are perceptible amongst them. We have found this method answer admirably ; but as some of the oil is expressed from the almonds by it, and absorbed by the board, we would recommend a marble slab for them in pre- ference, when it is at hand; and should they be intended for a sweet dish, that some pounded sugar should be strewed under them. When a board or strong trencher is used, it should be rather higher in the middle than at the sides. TO COLOUR ALMONDS OR SUGAR-GRAINS, OR SUGAR-CANDY, FOR CAKES, OR PASTRY. Blanch, dry, and chop them rather coarsely ; pour a little prepared cochineal into the hands, and roll the almonds between them until they are equally coloured ; then spread them on a sheet of paper, and place them in a very gentle degree of heat to dry. Use spinage- juice (see page 455), to colour them green, and a strong infusion of saffron to give them a yellow tint. They have a pretty effect when strewed over the icing of tarts or cakes, especially the rose-coloured ones, which should be rather pale. The sugar is prepared in the same way, after being first broken into lumps, and then, with the end of a paste-roller, into grains about the size of a pea ; but unless it he dry and hard, and carefully done, it will absorb too much of the cochineal: when but slightly coloured it is very ornamental dropped