[chap. xxvl. MODERN COOKERY. £56 sufficiently before they are baked. We regret that we cannot mul- tiply our receipts for them. Sultana raisins are an excellent sub- stitute for currants in these and other common cakes. ISLE OF WIGHT DOUGII-NUTS. Work smoothly together with the fingers four ounces of good lard, and four pounds of flour ; add half a pound of fine brown sugar, two table spoonsful of allspice, one drachm of pounded cinnamon, half as much of cloves, two large blades of mace, beaten to powder, two tablespoonsful of fresh yeast which has been watered for one night, and which should be solid, and as much new milk as will make the whole into a rather firm dough; let this stand from an hour to an hour and a half near the fire, then knead it well, and make it into balls about the size of a small apple ; hollow them with the thumb, and enclose a few currants in the middle; gather the paste well over them, and throw the dough-nuts into a saucepan half filled with boiling lard; when they are equally coloured to a fine brown, lift them out and dry them before the fire on the back of a sieve. When they are made in large quantities, as they are at certain seasons in the island, they are drained upon very clean straw. The lard should boil only just before they are dropped into it, or the outsides will be scorched before the insides are sufficiently done. Flour, 4 lbs.; lard, 4 oz.; sugar, £ lb.; allspice, 2 tablespoonsful ; pounded cinnamon, 1 drachm; cloves and mace, each 5 drachm ; yeast (solid), two large tablespoonsful: to rise, 1 to l.^hour. Cur- rants, at choice : dough-nuts boiled in lard, 5 to 7 minutes. QUEEN CAKES. To make these, proceed exactly as for the pound currant-cake of page 546, but bake the mixture in small well-buttered tin pans (heart-shaped ones are usual), in a somewhat brisk oven, for about twenty minutes. JUMBLES. Hasp on some good sugar the rinds of two lemons; dry, reduce it to powder, and sift it with as much more as will make up a pound in weight; mix with it one pound of flour, four well-beaten eggs, and six ounces of warm butter: drop the mixture on buttered tins, and bake the jumbles in a very slow oven from twenty to thirty minutes. They should be pale, but perfectly crisp. A GOOD SODA CAKE. Break down half a pound * of fresh butter into a pound of fine * Six ounces would to many tastes be quite sufficient, and the less butter tho cake contains the better.