BREAD. CHAP. XXXI.] 599 professor liebig’s bavarian brown bread. ( Very nutritious and wholesome.') Baron Liebig pronounces this bread to be very superior to that which is made with fine flour solely, both in consequence of the greater amount of nutriment which it contains, and from its slight medicinal effect, which renders it valuable to many persons accus- tomed to have frequent recourse to drugs, of which it supersedes the necessity. It is made with the wheat exactly as it is ground, no part being subtracted, nor any additional flour mingled with it. He directs that the wheat should not be damped before it is prepared: but few millers can be found who will depart from their ordinary practice to oblige private customers ; and this determined adherence to established usage intervenes constantly between us, and all improvement in our modes of preparing food. The bread is made in the usual wy, with water only, or with a portion of milk added to the yeast, as taste or convenience may dictate. The loaves should be well baked at all times ; and the dough should of course be perfectly light when it is placed in the oven. Salt should be mixed with the meal before the yeast is added. ENGLISH BROWN BREAD. This is often made with a portion only of the unbolted meal re- commended in the preceding receipt, mixed with more or less of fine flour, according to the quality of bread required ; and in many fami- lies the coarse bran is always sifted from the meal, as an impression exists that it is irritating to the stomach. If one gallon of meal as it comes from the mill, be well mixed with an equal measure of flour, and made into a dough in the manner directed for white household bread, the loaves will still be sufficiently brown for the general taste in this country, and they will be good and wholesome, though not, perhaps, so entirely easy of digestion as Baron Liebig’s Bavarian bread. UNFERMENTED BREAD. This bread, in which carbonate of soda and muriatic acid are sub- stituted for yeast or other leaven, has within these few years been highly recommended, and much eaten. It may possibly suit many persons better than that which is fermented in the usual way, but it is not in general by any means so pleasant in flavour; and there is much more chance of failure in preparing it in private families, as it requires some skill to mix the ingredients with exactness and despatch; and it is absolutely necessary that the dough should be set into the oven the instant it is ready. In some hydropathic and other large