MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxxf. 600 establishments, where it is always supplied to the table in lieu of the more common kinds, it is, we have been informed by patients who had partaken of it there for many months together, exceedingly and uniformly good. More detailed information with regard to it, will be found in our “ Cookery for Invalids,” a work for which our want of space in the present volume compels us to reserve it. “ For each pound of flour (or meal) take forty grains of sesqui- carbonate of soda, mix it intimately with the sugar and flour, then add fifty drops of muriatic acid of the shops, diluted with half a pint of water, or with as much as may be requisite to form the dough, stirring it constantly into a smooth mass. Divide it into a couple of loaves, and put them immediately into a quick oven.” Bake them thoroughly. Authors note.—Dr. Pereira, from whose book on diet the sub- stance of the above receipt is taken, says that delicious bread was made by it in his presence by the cook of Mr. John Savory, of Bond Street, equal to any bread fermented by the usual process. AVe would suggest that the soda, mixed with the sugar, and a small portion of the flour, should be rubbed through a hair sieve with a ■wooden spoon into the remainder of the flour, and stirred up with it until the whole is perfectly mingled, before the liquid is added. Should lighter bread be desired, the soda may be increased to fifty or even sixty grains, if the quantity of acid be proportionately aug- mented. As common salt is formed by the combination of these two agents, none beside is needed in the bread. Flour, 1 lb.; sesquicarbonate of soda, 40 grains; sugar, 1 tea- spoonful ; muriatic acid of the shops, 50 drops; water, l pint (or as needed). POTATO BREAD. One pound of good mealy potatoes, steamed or boiled very dry, in the ordinary way, or prepared by Captain Kater’s receipt (see Chapter XVII.), and rubbed quite hot, through a coarse sieve, into a couple of pounds of flour, with which they should be well mixed, will pro- duce excellent bread, which will remain moist much longer than wheaten bread made as usual. The yeast should be added imme- diately after the potatoes. An ounce or two of butter, an egg and some new milk, will convert this bread into superior rolls. DINNER OR BREAKFAST ROLLS. Crumble down very small indeed, an ounce of butter into a couple of pounds of the best flour, and mix with them a large saltspoonful of salt. Put into a basin a dessertspoonful of solid, well-purified yeast, and half a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; mix these with half a pint of warm new milk ; hollow the centre of the flour, pour in the yeast gradually, stirring to it sufficient of the surrounding flour to make a thick batter; strew more flour on the top, cover a thick