489 :hap. XXI.] BAKED PUDDINGS. only a crust of about an inch thick in every part, and pour into it some preserved fruit warmed in its own syrup, or fill it with a com- pote of plums or peaches (see Chapter XXIII.) ; or with some good apples boiled with fine sugar to a smooth rich marmalade. This is a very good as well as an elegant dish : it may be enriched with more butter, and by substituting cream for the milk in part or entirely but it is excellent without either. Rice, £ lb.; new milk, 1 quart: \ hour. Fresh butter, 2 oz, $ pounded sugar, oz.; rasped rind, 1 lemon : | hour or more. Ohs.—The precise time of baking the pudding cannot well bs specified : it only requires colour. VERMICELLI PUDDING WITH APPLES OR WITHOUT, AND PUDDINGS OF SOUJEE AND SEMOLA. Drop gradually into an exact quart of boiling milk four ounces of very fresh vermicelli, crushing it slightly with one hand and letting it fall gently from the fingers, and stirring the milk with a spoon held in the other hand, to prevent the vermicelli from gathering into lumps. Boil it softly until it is quite tender and very thick, which it will be usually in about twenty minutes, during which time it must be very frequently stirred; then work in two ounces of fresh butter and four of pounded sugar; turn the mixture into a bowl or pan, and stir it occasionally until it has cooled down. Whisk five good eggs until they are very light, beat them gradually and quickly to the other ingredients, add the finely grated rind of a lemon or a little lemon-brandy or ratifia, and pour the pudding when nearly cold into a buttered dish, and just cover the surface with apples pared, cored, and quartered; press them into the pudding-mixture, to the top of which they will immediately rise again, and place the dish in a very gentle oven for three - quarters of an hour, or longer if needed to render the fruit quite tender. The apples should be of the best quality for cooking. This is an exceedingly nice pudding if well made and well baked. The butter can be omitted to simplify it. Milk, 1 quart; vermicelli, 4 oz.: boiled about 20 minutes. Butter 2 oz.; (when used) pounded sugar, \ lb.; eggs, 5: baked slowly f hour or more. For a plain common vermicelli pudding omit the apples and one egg : for a very good one use six eggs, and the butter; and flavour it delicately with orange-flower water, vanilla, or aught else that may be preferred. We have often had an ounce or two of candied citron sliced very thin mingled with it. Puddings of soujee and semola are made in precisely the same manner, with four ounces to the quart of milk, and ten minutes boiling.