MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XX. 412 GERMAN PUDDING, AND SAUCE. (VERY GOOD.) Stew, until very tender and dry, three ounces of whole rice in a pint and a quarter of milk; when a little cooled, mix with it three ounces of beef-suet finely chopped, two ounces and a half of sugar, an ounce of candied orange or lemon-rind, six ounces of sultana raisins, and three large eggs well beaten, and strained. Boil the pudding in a buttered basin, or in a well-floured cloth, for two hours and a quarter, and serve it with the following sauce Dissolve an ounce and a half of sugar broken small in two glasses of sherry, or of any other white wine, and stir them when quite hot, to the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs; then stir the sauce in a small sauce- pan held high above the fire until it resembles custard, but by no means allow it to boil, or it will instantly curdle; pour it over the pudding, or, if preferred, send it to table in a tureen. We think a full teaspoonful of lemon-juice added to the wine an improvement to this sauce which is excellent; and we can recommend the pudding to our readers. Milk, 1| pint; rice, 3 oz.; 1 hour, or more. Suet, 3 oz.; sugar. 2\ oz.; candied peel, 1 oz.; sultana raisins, 6 oz.; eggs, 3 large : 2f hours, Sauce: sherry, 2 glasses; sugar, 1^ oz.; yolks of eggs, 3 ; little lemon-juice. We have already, in a previous part of the volume, directed that the German sauce should be milled to a fine froth, and poured upon the pudding with which it is served: when this is not done, the quantity should be increased TEE WELCOME GUEST’S OWN PUDDING. (LIGHT AND WHOLESOME.) (.Author's Receipt.') Pour, quite boiling, on four ounces of fine bread crumbs, an exact half-pint of new milk, or of thin cream; lay a plate over the basin and let them remain until cold ; then stir to them four ounces of dry crumbs of bread, four of very finely minced beef-kidney suet, a small pinch of salt, three ounces of coarsely crushed ratifias, three ounces of candied citron and orange-rind sliced thin, and the grated rind of one large or of two small lemons. Clear, and whisk four large eggs well, throw to them by degrees four ounces of pounded sugar, and continue to whisk them until it is dissolved, and they are very light; stir them to, and beat them well up with the other ingredients ; pour the mixture into a thickly buttered mould, or basin which will contain nearly a quart, and which it should fill to within half an an inch of the brim ; lay first a buttered paper, then a well floured pudding-cloth over the top, tie them tightly and very securely round, gather up and fasten the corners of the cloth, and boil the