CHAP. X.] 203 BEEF. of the juniper-oerries prevail too much, or be disapproved, they may be in part, or altogether, omitted; and six ounces of sugar may be rubbed into the tongue in the first instance when it is liked better than treacle. Tongue, 7 to 8 lbs. ; saltpetre, 1 oz.; black pepper, l oz. ; sugar, 2 oz.; juniper-berries, 3 oz.: 2 days. Bay salt, 8 oz. : 3 days. Treacle, £ lb.: 14 days. Obs.—Before the tongue is salted, the root end, which has an un- sightly appearance, should be trimmed away: it is indeed usual to take it off entirely, but some families prefer part of it left on for the sake of the fat. BEEF TONGUES. (A Suffolk Receipt.) For each very large tongue, mix with half a pound of salt two ounces of saltpetre and three quarters of a pound of the coarsest sugar; rub the tongues daily, and turn them in the pickle for five weeks, when they will be fit to be dressed, or to be smoked. 1 large tongue ; salt, ± lb.; sugar, f lb.; saltpetre, 2 oz. : 5 weeks. TO DRESS BEEF TONGUES. When taken fresh from the pickle they require no soaking, unless they should have remained in it much beyond the usual time, or have been cured with a more than common proportion of salt; but when they have been smoked and highly dried, they should be laid for two or three hours into cold, and as much longer into tepid water, before they are dressed: if extremely dry, ten or twelve hours must be allowed to soften them, and they should always be brought very slowly to boil. Two or three carrots and a large bunch of savoury herbs, added after the scum is cleared off, will improve them. They should be simmered until they are extremely tender, when the skin will peel from them easily. A highly dried tongue of moderate size will usually require from three and a half to four hours’ boiling; an unsmoked one about an hour less; and for one which has not been salted at all a shorter time will suffice. BORDYKE RECEIPT FOR STEWING A TONGUE. After the tongue has been soaked, trimmed, and washed with extreme nicety, lay it into a vessel of fitting size, and place round it three or four pounds of the neck, or of any other lean cuttings of beef, with some bones of undressed veal, and pour in sufficient cold water to keep it covered until it is done; or, instead of this, use strong unseasoned beef broth made with the shin, and any odd bits or bones of veal which may be at hand. Let the tongue be brought to boil very gradually, that it may be plump and tender. Remove the scum when it first rises, and when it is quite cleared off add a large