CHAP. I.] SOUPS. 25 whole into a hair-sieve placed over a large pan, and if the liquid should not run through freely, knock the sides of the sieve, but do not force it through with a spoon, as that would spoil the appearance of the stock. The head in the meanwhile should have been cut up, ready to add to it. For the finest kind of mock turtle, only the skin, with the fat that adheres to it, should be used ; and this, with the tongue, should be cut down into one inch squares, or if preferred into strips of an inch wide. For ordinary occasions, the lean part ot the flesh may be added also, but as it is always sooner done than the skin, it is better to add it to the soup a little later. When it is quite ready, put it with the strained stock into a clean pan, and simmer it from three quarters of an hour to a full hour: it should be perfectly tender, without being allowed to break. Cayenne, if needed, should be thrown into the stock before it is strained; salt should be used sparingly, on account of the ham, until the whole of the other ingre- dients have been mixed together, when a sufficient quantity must be stirred into the soup to season it properly. A couple of glasses of good sherry or Madeira, with a dessertspoonful of strained lemon - juice, are usually added two or three minutes only before the soup is dished, that the spirit and flavour of the wine may not have time to evaporate; but it is sometimes preferred mellowed down by longer boiling. The proportion of lemon-juice may be doubled at will, but much acid is not generally liked. We can assure the reader of the excellence of the soup made by this receipt; it is equally palatable and delicate, and not heavy or cloying to the stomach, like many of the elaborate compositions which bear its name. The fat, through the whole process, should be carefully skimmed off. The ham gives far more savour, when used as we have directed, than when, even in much larger proportion, it is boiled down in the stock. Two dozens of forcemeat-balls, prepared by the receipt No. 11, Chap. VIII., should be dropped into the soup when ic is ready for table. It is no longer customary to serve egg-balls in it. First broth :—shin, or neck of beef, 4 lbs.; water, 4 quarts; carrots, 2 or 3 ; large mild onion, 1 ; celery, small head; bunch savoury herbs ; mace, 1 large blade ; peppercorns, \ teaspoonful; cloves, 6 ; salt, 1 oz.: 5 hours or more, very gently. For stock : the broth and 3 lbs. neck or knuckle of veal (bones of head if ready) : 4 to 5 hours. Boned half-head with skin on and tongue, 1 to II hour. Lean of un- dressed ham, 6 to 8 oz. (6 if very salt) ; shalots, 4, or onion, 1 ; fresh butter, 4 oz.; cloves, 6; middling-sized blades of mace, 2; pepper- corns, § teaspoonful; small sprigs of thyme, 3 or 4 ; minced parsley, 3 large teaspoonsful; minced savoury and lemon-thyme mixed, 1 small teaspoonful (thin rind \ small lemon, when liked) : 1 hour. Flour, 2 oz.: 5 minutes. Stock, full five pints; flesh of head and tongue, If to 2 lbs.: f of an hour to 1 hour (salt, if needed, to be added in interim). Good sherry or Madeira, 2 wineglassesful; lemon- juice, 1 to 2 dessertspoonsful; forcemeat-balls, 24. Ois. 1.—The beef, veal, bones of the head, and vegetables may he