407 CHAP. XX.] BOILED PUDDINGS. mould or basin for an hour. Before it is served, cut the top quickly into large dice half through the pudding, pour over it a small jarful of fine currant, raspberry, or strawberry jelly, and send it to table without the slightest delay. Flour, 3 tablespoonsful; eggs, 3 ; salt, \ teaspoonful; milk, from \ to whole pint: 1 hour. BLACK-CAP PUDDING. Make a good light thin batter, and just before it is poured into the cloth stir to it half a pound of currants, well cleaned and dried: these will sink to the lower part of the pudding and blacken the surface. Boil it the usual time, and dish it with the dark side uppermost; send very sweet sauce to table with it. Some cooks butter a mould thickly, strew in the currants, and pour the batter on ( hem, which produces the same appearance as when the ingredients are tied in a cloth. All batter puddings should be despatched quickly to table when they are once ready to serve, as they speedily become heavy if allowed to wait. BATTER FRUIT PUDDING. Butter thickly a basin which holds a pint and a half, and fill it nearly to the brim with good boiling apples pared, cored, and quar- tered; pour over them a batter made with four tablespoonsful of flour, two large or three small eggs, and half a pint of milk. Tie a buttered and floured cloth over the basin, which ought to be quite full, and boil the pudding for an hour and a quarter. Turn it into a hot dish when done, and strew sugar thickly over it: this, if added to the batter at first, renders it heavy. Morelia cherries make a very superior pudding of this kind; and green gooseberries, damsons, and various other fruits, answer for it extremely well: the time of boiling it must be varied according to their quality and its size. For a pint and a half mould or basin filled to the brim with apples or other fruit; flour, 4 tablespoonsful; eggs, 2 large or 3 small; milk, \ pint: 1^ hour. Ohs.—Apples cored, halved, and mixed with a good batter, make an excellent baked pudding, as do red currants, cherries, and plums of different sorts likewise. KENTISH SUET PUDDING. To a pound and a quarter of flour add half a pound of finely minced beef-suet,* half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter one of * A very common fault with bad and careless cooks is, that of using for paste and nuddings suot coarsely chopped, which is, to many eaters, distasteful to tbs last degree.