16 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. i. may be allowed. When the soup has been thoroughly cleared fr-om scum, which should be carefully taken off from the time of its first beginning to boil, throw in an ounce of salt to the gallon (more can be added afterwards if needed), two mild onions, a moderate-sized head of celery, two carrots, a small teaspoonful of whole white pepper, and two blades of mace; and let the soup stew very softly from five to six hours, if the quantity be large : it should simmer until the meat falls from the bones. The skin of a calf’s head, a calf s foot, or an old fowl may always be added to this stock with good effect. Strain it into a clean deep pan, and keep it in a cool place till wanted for use. Lean ham, 1 lb.; veal, 7 lbs; water, 4 to 6 quarts; salt, 1| oz. (more if needed) ; onions, 2; celery, 1 head; carrots, 2; pepper- corns, 1 teaspoonful; mace, 2 blades : 5 to 6 hours. MUTTON-STOCK FOR SOUPS. Equal parts of beef and mutton, with the addition of a small por- tion of ham, or dried beef, make excellent stock, especially for winter- soups. The necks of fowls, the bones of an undressed calf’s head, or of any uncooked joint, may be added to it with advantage. According to the quality of soup desired, pour from a pint to a pint and a half of cold water to each pound of meat; and after the liquor has been well skimmed, on its beginning to boil, throw in an ounce and a half of salt to the gallon, two small heads of celery, three mild middling- sized onions, three well-flavoured turnips, as many carrots, a faggot of thyme and parsley, half a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, twelve cloves, and a large blade of mace. Draw the soup-pot to the side of the fire, and boil the stock as gently as possible for about six hours; then strain, and set it by for use. Be particularly careful to clear it entirely from fat before it is prepared for table. One third of beef or veal, with two of mutton, will make very good soup ; or mutton only will anstver the purpose quite well upon occasion. Beef, 4 lbs.; mutton, 4 lbs. (or, beef or veal from 2 to 3 lbs.; mutton from 5 to 6 lbs.) ; water, 1 to 1^ gallon; salt, 4 oz.; mild turnips, 1 lb. ; onions, 6 oz.; carrots, f lb. ; celery, 6 to 8 oz. ; 1 bunch of herbs ; peppercorns, i teaspoonful; cloves, 12; mace, 1 large blade: 6 hours. Oos.— Salt should be used sparingly at first for stock in which any portion of ham is boiled; allowance should also be made for its reduction, in case of its being required for gravy. MADEMOISELLE JENNY LINd’s SOUP. (Authentic Receipt) This receipt does not merely bear the name of “ Mademoiselle Lind,” but is in reality that of the soup which was constantly served to ber, as it was prepared by her own cook We are indebted fol it