506 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxiv. No skimmer or other utensil of tin should be used in makine it • and preserving-pan is preferable to any other ffr allred fruit. It becomes very firm often after it is stored, when it armears S^aTonce.6184 * * however, desirable 'SETS Fruit kept hot to draw out the juice, £ hour or longer Boiled 10 20 miautes To each ^ TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES OR RASPBERRIES, FOR CREXUa OR ICES, WITHOUT BOILING. Let the fruit be gathered in the middle of a warm dav in verv dry weather; Strip it from the stalks directly, weigh it’bruile W slightly, turn it into a bowl or deep pan and miv f weight of fine dry sifted sugar, and put immediately into small, wide- “hetns ifelZm in'86 Z, withou‘delay, a£d tie bladder over the tops. Keep them m a cool place, or the fruit will ferment The mixture should be stirred softly, and only just sufficient!v to blend the sugar and the fruit. The bottles must be perfectly dry, and the bladders, after having been cleaned in the usual way, and allowed to become nearly so, should be moistened with a little spirit on the side \1Ch i8 i° bG t0 the cork* ^less these Vecautions be bFnnn?’ there w'li be some danger of the whole beinf spoiled. Kqual weight of fruit and sugar. ° “ raspberry jam. This is a very favourite English preserve, and one of the most easily made that can be. The fruit for it shield be ripe and per- fectly sound; and as it soon decays or becomes mouldy after Ft is gathered, it should be fresh from the bushes when it is^used. That ich grows in the shade has less flavour than the fruit which receives the full warmth of the sun. vvmcn Excellent jam for common family use may be made as follows • — and rfrpsh?ent ^L Vlthi the bvack -°f a wo°den spoon, six pounds of ripe fo/ tweSlyfigvpher’ed ,rasPbeFies’ and boil them over a brisk fi?e lor twenty-five minutes; stir to them half their weight of irood oufcklv°fn^ly and. when [t is dissolved, boil the preserve qumkiy for ten minutes, keeping it well stirred and skimmed/ Raspberries, 6 lbs.: 25 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. VERY RICH RASPBERRY JAM OR MARMALADE. Wo. I .—Weigh the finest fruit that can be procured, and bruise it with