MODERN COOKERY. [CEIAP. XVIII, 848 after it is melted into lard. Clear it quite from skin, and slice it very tliin into the flour, add sufficient salt to give flavour to the paste, and make the whole up smooth and firm with cold water ; lay it on a clean dresser, and beat it forcibly with a rolling-pin until the flead is blended perfectly with the flour. It may then be made into cakes with a paste-cutter, or used for pies, round the edges of which a knife should be passed, as the crust rises better when cut than if merely rolled to the proper size. With the addition of a small quantity of butter, which may either be broken into the flour before the flead is mixed with it, or rolled into the paste after it is beaten, it will be found equal to fine puff crust, with the advantage of being more easy of digestion. Quite common crust: flour, 1£ lb.; flead, 8 oz.; salt, 1 small tea- spoonful. Good common crust: flour, 1 lb.; flead, 6 oz.; butter, 2 oz, Rich crust: flead, \ lb.; butter, 2 oz.; flour, 1 lb. The crust is very good when made without any butter. COMMON SUET-CRUST FOR PIES. In many families this is preferred both for pies and tarts, to crust made with butter, as being much more wholesome; but it should never be served unless especially ordered, as it is to some persons peculiarly distasteful. Chop the suet extremely small, and add from six to eight ounces of it to a pound of flour, with a few grains of salt; mix these with cold water into a firm paste, and work it very smooth. Some cooks beat it with a paste-roller, until the suet is perfectly blended with flour ; but the crust is lighter without this. In exceed- ingly sultry weather the suet, not being firm enough to chop, may be sliced as thin as possible, and well beaten into the paste after it is worked up. Flour, 2 lbs.; beef or veal kidney-suet, 12 to 16 oz.; salt (for fruit-pies), f teaspoonful, for meat- pies, 1 teaspoonful. VERY SUPERIOR SUET-CRUST. Strip the skin entirely from some fresh veal or beef kidney-suet; chop, and then put it into the mortar, with a small quantity of pure- flavoured lard, oil, or butter, and pound it perfectly smooth : it mav then be used for crust in the same way that butter is, in making puff-paste, and in this form will be found a most excellent substitute for it, for hot pies or tarts. It is not quite so good for those which are to be served cold. Eight ounces of suet pounded with two of butter, and worked with the fingers into a pound of flour, will make an exceedingly good short crust; but for a very rich one the pro- portion must be increased. Good short crust: flour, 1 lb.; suet, 8 oz.; butter, 2 oz.; salt, \ teaspoonful. Richer crust: suet, 16 oz.; butter, 4 oz.; flour, 1| lb. • salt, 1 small teaspoonful