513 PRESERVES* cu\p. XXIV.] half a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit, and again boil the preserve quickly, keeping it well stirred and skimmed, from fifteen to twenty minutes. Cherries, unless they be morellas, must first be stewed tender apart, as they will require a much longer time to make them so than any other of the first summer fruits. A GOOD MELANGE, OR MIXED PRESERVE. Boil for three-quarters of an hour in two pounds of clear red gooseberry juice, one pound of very ripe greengages, weighed after they have been pared and stoned ; then stir to them one pound and a half of good sugar, and boil them quickly again fof twenty minutes. If the quantity of preserve be much increased, the time of boiling it must be so likewise : this is always better done before the sugar is added. Juice of ripe gooseberries, 2 lbs.; greengages, pared and stoned, 1 lb. : f hour. Sugar, 1^ lb.: 20 minutes. groseillIe. (.Another good preserve.') Cut the tops and stalks from a gallon or more of well-flavoured ripe gooseberries, throw them into a large preserving-pan, boil them for ten minutes, and stir them often with a wooden spoon ; then pass both the juice and pulp through a fine sieve, and to every three pounds’ weight of these add half a pint of raspberry-juice, and boil the whole briskly for three-quarters of an hour; draw the pan aside, stir in for the above portion of fruit, two pounds of sugar, and when it is dissolved renew the boiling for fifteen minutes longer. llipe gooseberries, boiled 10 minutes. Pulp and juice of goose- berries, 6 lbs.; raspberry-juice, 1 pint: f hour. Sugar, 4 lbs.: 15 minutes. Obs.—When more convenient, a portion of raspberries can be boiled with the gooseberries at first. SUPERIOR PINE-APPLE MARMALADE. (A New Receipt.) The market-price of our English pines is generally too high to permit their being very commonly used for preserve; and though some of those imported from the West Indies are sufficiently well- flavoured to make excellent jam, they must be selected with judg- ment for the purpose, or they will possibly not answer for it. They should be fully ripe, but perfectly sound: should the stalk end appear mouldy or discoloured, the fruit should be rejected. The degree of flavour which it possesses may be ascertained with tolerable accuracy by its odour; for if of good quality, and fit for use, it wil* L