SOUFFLES, OMLETS, ETC. CHAP. XIX.] 889 Obs.—These croustades are equally good if dipped into cla’ificd butter or marrow, and baked in a tolerably quick oven. It is well, in either case, to place them on a warm sheet of double white blot- ting-paper while they are being filled, as it will absorb the super- fluous fat. A rich mince, with a thick, well-adhering sauce, either of mutton and mushrooms, or oysters, or with fine herbs and an eschalot or two; or of venison, or hare, or partridges, may be ap' propriately used for them. SMALL CROUSTADES A LA BONNE MAMAN. {The Grandmamds Patties.') Prepare the croustades as above, or use for them French rolls of very even shape, cut in thick equal slices. If quite round, the crust may be left on ; mark each slice with a small cutter in the centre, dip the croustades into butter or marrow, fry them lightly, or bake them without permitting them to become very hard; empty, and then fill them ; dish them without a napkin, and pour some good brown gravy round, but not over them. Obs.—From being cooked without butter, these and the preceding patties are adapted to a Jewish table. CURRIED TOASTS WITH ANCHOVIES. Fry lightly, in good butter, clarified marrow, or very pure olive oil, some slices of bread, free from crust, of about half an inch thick, and two inches and a half square ; lift them on to a dish, and spread a not very thick layer of Captain White’s currie-paste on the top ; place them in a gentle oven for three or four minutes, then lay two or three fillets of anchovies on each, replace them in the oven for a couple of minutes, and send them immediately to table. Their pun- gency may be heightened by the addition of cayenne pepper, when a very hot preparation is liked. Obs.—We have spoken but slightly in our chapter of curries of Captain White’s currie-paste, though for many years we have had it used in preference to any other, and always found it excellent Lat- terly, however, it has been obtained with rather less facility than when attention was first attracted to it. The last which we procured directed, on the label of the jar, that orders for it should be sent per post to 83, Copenhagen Street, Islington. It may, however, be procured without doubt from any good purveyor of sauces and other condiments. It is sold in jars of all sizes, the price of the smallest oeing one-and-sixpence. We certainly think it much superior to any of the others which we have tested, its flavour being peculiarly agreeable. TO FILLET ANCHOVIES. Drain them well from the pickle, take off the heads and fins, lay ibera separately on a olate, and scrape off the skin entirely; then