CHAP. XT.] TEAL. 201 MINCED VEAL AND OYSTERS. The most elegant mode of preparing this dish is to mince about a pound of the whitest part of the inside of a cold roast fillet or loin of veal, to heat it without allowing it to boil, in a pint of rich white sauce, dr bechamel, and to mix with it at the moment of serving, three dozens of small oysters ready bearded, and plumped in their own strained liquor, which is also to be added to the mince; the requisite quantity of salt, cayenne, and mace should be sprinkled over the veal before it is put into the sauce. Garnish the dish with pale fried sippets of bread, or with fleurons* of brioche, or of puff- paste. Nearly half a pint of mushrooms minced, and stewed white in a little butter, may be mixed with the veal instead of the oysters; or should they be very small they may be added to it whole : from ten to twelve minutes will be sufficient to make them tender. Balls of delicately fried oyster-forcemeat laid round the dish will give another good variety of it. Veal minced, 1 lb.; white sauce, 1 pint; oysters, 3 dozen, with their liquor ; or mushrooms, l pint, stewed in butter 10 to 12 minutes. VEAL-SYDNEY. (GOOD.) Pour boiling on an ounce and a half of fine bread-crumbs nearly half a pint of good veal stock or gravy, and let them stand till cool; mix with them then, two ounces of beef-suet shred very small, half a pound of cold roast veal carefully trimmed from the brown edges, skin, and fat, and finely minced; the grated rind of half a lemon, nearly a teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne, the third of a tea- spoonful of mace or nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs. Whisk up the whole well together, put it into a buttered dish, and bake it from three quarters of an hour to an hour. Cream may be used instead of gravy when more convenient, but this last will give the better flavour. A little clarified butter put into the dish before the other ingredients are poured in will be an improvement. Bread-crumbs, 1| oz.; gravy or cream, nearly \ pint; beef-suet, 2 oz.; cold veal, \ lb.; rind of | lemon ; salt, small teaspoonful; third as much mace and nutmeg; little cayenne; eggs, 4 large or 5 small: f to 1 hour. FRICASSEED VEAL. Divide into small, thick, handsome slices of equal size, about a couple of pounds of veal, quite free from fat, bone, and skin ; dissolve a couple of ounces of butter in a wide stew pan, and just as it begins to boil lay in the veal, and shake it over the fire until it is quite firm * Fleurons, flowers, or flower-like figures, cut out with tin shapes.