SOUPS, CHAP. I.] 13 MACARONI SOUP. Throw four ounces of fine fresh* mellow Naples maccaroni into a pan of fast-boiling water, with about an ounce of fresh butter, and a small onion stuck with three or four cloves.j' When it has swelled to its full size, and become tender, drain it well, cut it into half-inch lengths, and slip it into a couple of quarts of clear gravy-soup : let it simmer for a few minutes, when it will be ready for table. Ob- serve, that the macaroni should be boiled quite tender; but it should by no means be allowed to burst, nor to become pulpy. Serve grated Parmesan cheese with it. Macaroni, 4 oz.; butter, 1 oz.; 1 small onion; 5 cloves; | hour, or more. In soup, 5 to 10 minutes. Obs.—The macaroni for soups should always be either broken into short lengths before it is boiled, or cut as above, or sliced quickly into small rings not more than the sixth of an inch thick after it is boiled, unless the cut or ring macaroni, which may be purchased at the Italian warehouses, be used; this requires but ten minutes’ boiling, and should be dropped into the soup in the same way as vermicelli.^ Pour ounces of it will be sufficient for two quarts of stock. It may be added to white soup after having been previously boiled in water or veal-broth, and well drained from it: it has a rather elegant appearance in clear gravy-soup, but should have a boil in water before it is thrown into it. If served in very clear bright stock (consommeJ, it should be boiled apart until tender in a little good broth, which ought also to be clear and entirely free from fat; then well drained, and put into the soup for a minute, or into the tureen, the instant before the soup is dished. SOUP OF SOUJEE. The soujee is of Indian origin, but is now well manufactured in England,§ and is, we think, somewhat more delicate than semoulina in flavour; and being made from wheat of the finest quality, is also quite as nutritious, or more so. For each quart of soup allow two ounces of soujee (the proportions can always be otherwise adapted to the taste after the first trial); drop it gradually into the boiling liquid, and simmer it for ten or twelve minutes. Bullock’s semola is another preparation which may be used in exactly the same manner to thicken soup; but both this and soujee are more expen- sive at present than semoulina. < * We must here repeat our warning against the use of long-kept macaroni, vermicelli, or semoulina; as when stale they will render any dish into which they are introduced quite unfit for table. r For white soups omit the onion. I For the different varieties of macaroni and vermicelli, and the time required to boil each of them, see Chapter XXI. § By Messrs. Stephens and Co., 2 White’s Row, Bishopsgate.