CHAP, xxiii.] BWEET DISHES. 433 sugar, 2 to 3 oz.; juice of \ large lemon; prepared cochineal, or carmine, 20 to 40 drops. CHOCOLATE CUSTARDS. Dissolve gently by the side of the fire an ounce and a half of the best chocolate in rather more than a wineglassful of water, and then boil it until it is perfectly smooth; mix with it a pint of milk well flavoured with lemon peel or vanilla, add two ounces of fine sugar, and when the whole boils, stir it to five well-beaten eggs which have been strained. Put the custard into a jar or jug, set it into a pan of boiling water, and stir it without ceasing until it is thick. Do not put it into glasses or a dish until it is nearly or quite cold. These, as well as all other custards, are infinitely finer when made with the 3Tolks only of the eggs, of which the number must then be increased. Two ounces of chocolate, a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, two or three ounces of sugar, and eight yolks of eggs, will make very superior custards of this kind. Basped chocolate, 1^ oz. ; water, 1 large wineglassful : 5 to 8 minutes. New milk, 1 pint; eggs, 5; sugar, 2 oz. Or : chocolate, 2 oz.; water, f pint; new milk, 1 pint: sugar, to-3 oz.; cream, *- pint; yolks of eggs, 8. Obs.—Either of these may be moulded by dissolving from half tc three quarters of an ounce of isinglass in the milk. The proportion of chocolate can be increased to the taste. COMMON BAKED CUSTARD. Mix a quart of new milk with eight well beaten eggs, strain the mixture through a fine sieve, and sweeten it with from five to eight ounces of sugar, according to the taste ; add a small pinch of salt, and pour the custard into a deep dish with or without a lining or rim of paste, grate nutmeg or lemon rind over the top, and bake it in a very slow oven from twenty to thirty minutes, or longer, should it not be firm in the centre. A custard, if well made, and properly baked, will be quite smooth when cut, without the honey-combed appearance which a hot oven gives; and there will be no whey in the dish. New milk, 1 quart; eggs, 8 ; sugar, 5 to 8 oz.; salt, \ saltspoon- ful; nutmeg or lemon-grate : baked, slow oven, 30 to 40 minutes, or more. A FINER BAKED CUSTARD. Boil together gently, for five minutes, a pint and a half of new milk, a few grains of salt, the very thin rind of a lemon, raid six ounces of loaf sugar; stir these boiling, but very gradu* lly, to the well-beaten yolks of ten fresh eggs, and the whites of four; strain the