MODERN COOKER'?. 580 [chap. XXIX. sufficient sifted sugar to till up more than half of the remaining space* and then as much good French brandy as will cover the fruit, and reach to the necks of the bottles. Cork them securely, and let them stand for two months before they are opened: the liqueur poured from the cherries will be excellent, and the fruit itself very good. The morella cherry-brandy of the preceding chapter would often be preferred to this. OXFORD PUNCH. Extract the essence from the rinds of three lemons by rubbing them with sugar in lumps; put these into a large jug with the peel of two Seville oranges of two lemons cut extremely thin, the juice of four Seville oranges and of ten lemons, and six glasses of calf’s feet icily in a liquid state Stir these well together, pour to them two quarts of boiling water, cover the jug closely, and set it near the fire for a quarter of an hour, then strain the mixture through a sieve into a punch bowl or jug, sweeten it with a bottle of capillaire, add half a pint of white wine, a pint of French brand}', a pint of Jamaica rum, and a bottle of orange shrub; stir the punch as the spirit is poured in. If not sufficiently sweet, add sugar in small quantities, or a spoonful or two of capillaire. Rinds of lemons rubbed with sugar, 3; thin peel of lemons, 2; of Seville oranges, 2 ; juice of 4 Seville oranges, and 10 lemons : calFs feet jelly, 6 glasses; water, 2 quarts: } hour. Capillaire, 1 bottle; white wine, Spirit; French brandy and Jamaica rum, each 1 pint * orange shrub, 1 bottle. OXFORD RECEIPT FCll DISIIuP “ Make several incisions in the rind of a lemon, stick cloves in these, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice, with a race of ginger, into a saucepan with half a pint of water : let it boil until it is reduced one- lialf. Boil one bottle of port wine, burn a portion of the spirit out of it by ap- plying a lighted paper to the saucepan ; put the roasted lemon and spice into the wine ; stir it up well, and let it stand near the fire ten minutes. Rub a few knobs of sugar on the rind of a lemon, nut the sugar into a bowl or jug, with the juice of half a lemon ^not roasted), pour the wine into it, grate in some nutmeg, sweeten it to Ihe taster and serve it up with the lemon and spice floating in it.”