CAKES. CHAP. XXVI.] 551 peamnce shown in the plate. Spikes of pistachio nuts, or almonds, can be stuck over them, as represented there, at pleasure. They afford always, if well made, a second course dish of elegant appear- ance, and they are equally ornamental to breakfasts or suppers of ceremony. They are made in perfection by the pastry-cooks in France, being equally light, delicate, and delicious. Much of their excellence, it must be observed, depends at all times on the attention they receive in the baking, as well as in the previous preparation. They must, of course, be quite cold before the preserve or cream is laid into them. From four to six ounces of almonds, finely pow- dered, may be smoothly mixed with the other ingredients for them ; and they may be flavoured with citron, lemon, or orange-rind by rasping the skins of the fruit with part of the sugar with which they are to be made; then drying, and reducing it to powder. Whites of very fresh eggs, 6; sugar, f lb.: gentle oven, 20 to 30 minutes. ITALIAN MERINGUES. Take for these the proportion of whites of eggs and sugar already indicated in the receipt for Nesselrode pudding, page 491, that is to say, six to the pound, or half that quantity for a small number of meringues. Boil the sugar with a pint of water until it whitens, and begins to fall in flakes from the skimmer; have the eggs whisked to a perfectly solid froth quite ready at the proper moment, and when the sugar has stood for two or three minutes, and been worked well from the sides of the pan, mingle them gradually, but very quickly, with it, that the mass may be quite smooth ; continue to stir them until they become firm enough to retain their shape perfectly when moulded with a teaspoon ; lay out the cakes on paper, and place them in an oven so slow as to harden without giving them colour. As they are not to be filled, but merely fastened together, they may be baked on tins. Part of them may be varied by the addition of three or four ounces of pounded almonds mixed thoroughly with the remainder of the eggs and sugar, when a portion of the meringues have been moulded : these, however, will require to be much longer baked than the others; but they will be excellent. They should be lightly browned, and crisp quite through. Sugar, 1 lb.; water, 1 pint; whites of eggs, 6 : very slow oven, 20 to 30 minutes, or longer. THICK, LIGHT GINGERBREAD. Crumble down very small, eight ounces of butter into a couple of pounds of flour, then add to, and mix thoroughly with them, half a Eound of good brown sugar, two ounces of powdered ginger, and alf an Dunce of ground carraway-seeds; beat gradually to these, first two pounds of treacle, next three well-whisked eggs, and last