SAUCES, CHAP. V.] 121 put them, at the instant of serving, into half a pint of thickened veal gravy (see sauce tournee), mixed with the yolks of a couple of eggs, and well seasoned with salt and cayenne, or white pepper, or into an equal quantity of good melted butter : add to this last a squeeze of lemon-juice. The asparagus will become yellow if reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before it is served. Asparagus points, \ pint: boiled 10 to 15 minutes, longer if not quite tender. Thickened veal gravy, \ pint; yolks of eggs, 2. Or: good melted butter, £ pint; lemon-juice, small dessertspoonful, sea- soning of salt and white pepper. CAPER SAUCE. Stir into the third of a pint of good melted butter from three to four dessertspoonsful of capers; add a little of the vinegar, and dish the sauce as soon as it boils. Keep it stirred after the berries are added: part of them may be minced and a little chili vinegar sub- stituted for their own. Pickled nasturtiums make a very good sauce, and their flavour is sometimes preferred to that of the capers. For a large joint, increase the quantity of butter to half a pint. Melted butter, third of pint; capers, 3 to 4 dessertspoonsful BROWN CAPER SAUCE. Thicken half a pint of good veal or beef gravy as directed for sauce tournee, and add to it two tablespoonsful of capers, and a dessert- spoonful of the pickle liquor, or of chili vinegar, with some cayenne if the former be used, and a proper seasoning of salt. Thickened veal, or beef gravy, £ pint; capers, 2 tablespoonsful; caper liquor or chili vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful. CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH. To nearly half a pint of very rich melted butter add six spoonsful of strong veal gravy or jelly, a tablespoonful of essence of anchovies, and some chili vinegar or cayenne, and from two to three tablespoons- ful of capers. When there is no gravy at hand substitute a half wineglassful of mushroom catsup, or of Harvey’s sauce; though these deepen the colour more than is desirable. COMMON CUCUMBER SAUCE, Pare, slice, dust slightly with pepper and with flour, two or three young cucumbers, and fry them a fine brown in a little butter, or dissolve an ounce and a half in a small stewpan or iron sauce- pan, and shake them in it over a brisk fire from twelve to fifteen minutes; pour to them by degrees nearly half a pint of strong beef broth, or of brown gravy; add salt, and more pepper if required;