MODERN COOKERY. 8G0 [chap, xviii. about an ounce of butter has been dissolved, and just begins to simmer; strew in a slight seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne, and stew the chicken very softly indeed for about ten minutes, taking every precaution against its browning : turn it, into a dish with the butter, and its own gravy, and let it become cold. Mince it with a sharp knife; heat it, without allowing it to boil, in a little good white sauce (which may be made of some of the bones of the fowl), and fill ready-baked patty-crusts, or small vol-au-vents with it, just before they are sent to table; or stew the flesh only just sufficiently to render it firm, mix it after it is minced and seasoned with a spoon- ful or two of strong gravy, fill the patties, and hake them from fifteen to eighteen minutes. It is a great improvement to stew and mince a few mushrooms with the chicken. The breasts of cold turkeys, fowls, partridges, or pheasants, or the white part of cold veal, minced, heated in a bechamel sauce, will serve at once for patties: they may also be made of colil game, heated in an Espagnole, or in a good brown gravy. PATTIES A LA PONTIFE. (ENTIRE.) (A fast day, or Maigre dish.) Mince, but not very small, the yolks of six fresh hard-boiled eggs; mince also and mix with them a couple of fine truffles.* a large salt- spoonful of salt, half the quantity of mace and nutmeg, and a fourth As much of cayenne. Moisten these ingredients with a spoonful of thick cream, or bechamel maigre (see page 109), or with a dessert- spoonful of clarified butter ; line the patty-moulds, fill them with the mixture, cover, and bake them from twelve to fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. They are excellent made with the cream-crust of page 347. Yolks hard-boiled eggs, G ; truffles, 2 large; seasoning of salt, mace, nutmeg, and cayenne; cream, or bechamel maigre, 1 table- spoonful, or clarified butter, 1 dessertspoonful : baked moderate oven, 12 to 15 minutes. Obs.—A spoonful or two of jellied stock or gravy, or of good white sauce, converts these into admirable patties: the same ingre- dients make also very superior rolls or cannelons. For Patties a la Cardinale, small mushroom-buttons stewed as for partridges, Chapter XIII., before they are minced, must be substituted for truffles ; and the butter in which they are simmered should be added with them to the eggs EXCELLENT MEAT ROLLS. Pound, as for potting (see page 305), and with the same propor- tion of butter and of seasonings, some half-roasted veal, chicken, oi The bptllcd ones will answer well for these.