MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xi. 220 can depend, and which we have not therefore considered it necessary to test ourselves, is for a joint which weighs ten pounds before it is boned. ROAST NECK OF VEAL. The best end of the neck will make an excellent roast. A force- meat may be inserted between the skin and the flesh, by first separating them with a sharp knife; or the dish may be garnished with the forcemeat in balls. From an hour and a half to two hours will roast it. Pour melted butter over it when it is dished, and serve it like other joints. Let it be floured when first laid to the fire, kept constantly basted, and always at a sufficient distance to prevent its being scorched. 1^ to 2 hours. For the forcemeat, see No. 1, Chapter VIII. From 8 to 10 minutes will fry the balls. NECK OF VEAL A LA CR^ME. {Or Au Bechamel.') Take the best end of a neck of white and well-fed veal, detach the flesh from the ends of the bones, cut them sufficiently short to give the joint a good square form, fold and skewer the skin over them, wrap a buttered paper round the meat, lay it at a moderate distance from a clear fire, and keep it well basted with butter for an hour and a quarter; then remove the paper and continue the basting with a pint, or more, of bechamel or of rich white sauce, until the veal is sufficiently roasted, and well encrusted with it. Serve some bechamel under it in the dish, and send it very hot to table. For variety, give the bechamel in making it a high flavour of mushrooms, and add some small buttons stewed very white and tender, to the portion reserved for saucing the joint. 2 to 2j hours. VEAL GOOSE. (City of London receipt.) “ This is made with the upper part of the flank of a loin of veal (or sometimes tha’j of the fillet) covered with a stuffing of sage and onions, then rolled, and roasted or broiled. It is served with brown gravy and apple sauce, is extremely savoury, and has many admirers.” We transcribe the exact receipt for this dish, which was Erocured for us from a house in the city, which is famed for it. We ad it tested with the skin of the best end of a fine neck of veal, from which it was pared with something more than an inch depth