Chap. vi.'J COLD SAUCES, SALADS, ETC. 143 fish with very good effect; and the forced eggs of page 137 may be placed at intervals round the edge of the bowl as a decoration, and an excellent accompaniment as well. Another mode of making the salad is to lay the split bodies of the fish round the bowl, and the claws, freed carefully from the shells, arranged high in the centre on the herbs; the soft part of the bodies may be mixed with the sauce when it is liked; but the colour will not then be good. Obs.—The addition of cucumber in ribbons (see Author’s Receipt, Chapter XVII.), laid lightly round it, is always an agreeable one to lobster salad : they may previously be sauced, and then drained from their dressing a little. A more wholesome and safer mode of imparting the flavour of the cucumber, however, is to use for the salad vinegar in which that vegetable has been steeped for some hours after having been cut up small. AN EXCELLENT HERRING SALAD. (Swedish Receipt.') Soak, skin, split, and bone a large Norway herring; lay the two sides along a dish, and slice them slopingly (or substitute for this one or two fine Dutch herrings). Arrange in symmetrical order over the fish slices of cooked beet-root, cold boiled potatoes, and pickled gher- kins ; then add one or two sharp apples chopped small, and the yolks and whites, separately minced, of some hard-boiled eggs, with any thing else which may be at hand, and may serve to vary tastefully the decoration of the dish. Place these ingredients in small heaps of well-contrasting colours on the surface of the salad, and lay a border of curled celery leaves or parsley round the bowl. For sauce, rub the yolk of one hard-boiled egg quite smooth with some salt; to this add oil and vinegar as for an ordinary salad, and dilute the whole with some thick sour cream. Obs.—“ Sour cream ” is an ingredient not much approved by Eng- lish taste, but it enters largely into German cookery, and into that of Sweden, and of oilier northern countries also. About half a pound of cold beef cut into small thin shavings or collops, is often added to a herring-salad abroad : it may be either of simply roasted or boiled, or of salted and smoked meat. TARTAR SAUCE. (Sauce a la Tartare). Add to the preceding remoulade, or to any other sauce of the same nature, a teaspoonful or more of made mustard, one of finely-minced shalots, one of parsley or tarragon, and one of capers or of pickled gherkins, with a rather high seasoning of cayenne, and some salt if needed. The tartar-mustard of the previous chapter, or good French mustard, is to be preferred to English for this sauce, which is usually