Chap, xxx.] COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, EtC, m door of the cylinder, and looking at it occasionally towards the end of. the process, spread it quickly upon a large dish, and throw a thickly folded cloth over it. Let it remain thus until it is quite cold; then put it immediately into canisters or bottles, and exclude the air carefully from it. A FEW GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING COFFEE. When good coffee is desired, let it be procured if possible of a first- rate London house* which can be depended on; and we would re- commend that it should be of the finest quality that can be obtained; for there is no real economy in using that which is nominally cheaper, as a larger quantity will be required to give the same amount of strength, and the flavour will be very inferior. It should always be freshly roasted; but when a constant and large demand for it exists, * We could indicate several houses where unadalterated coffee maybe procured, but it is not always to be had from them so choice in quality as it might be ; and it is in general too highly roasted. By far the finest we have ever tasted we had on two occasions, some years since, from Mr. Cobbett, of Pall Mall. The fra- grance of it was too remarkable to be easily forgotten, and the flavour was exqui- site; but it was apparently an accidental sample which he had met with in the market, for though very good, that with which we were supplied afterwards never equalled it. Messrs. Staniforth and Co., 138, Oxford-street, are deservedly noted for the excellence of their coffee. It is always ground at the instant of serving it to a customer; and they have the complaisance of roasting even so small a quantity as two pounds, to suit the taste of the purchaser: it may therefore be procured of them as pale-dried as it can be wished. The house of Messrs. Decastro and Peach, next door to Hatchett’s Hotel, Piccadilly, may likewise, we think, be quite depended on for supplying genuine coffee to the nublic; and they have an immense demand for it. Patent Percolator, with Spirit Lamp.