chap, xix ] SOUFFLES, OMLETS, ETC. 381 For other varieties of the omlet, see the observations which pre. cede this. Eggs, 5; butter, 2 oz.; seasoning of salt and pepper: 5 to 7 minutes AN OMLETTE SOUFFL^E. SECOND COURSE REMOVE OF ROAST.* Separate, as they are broken, the wdiites from the yolks of six fine fresh eggs; beat these last thoroughly, first by themselves and then Avith four tablespoonsful of dry, white sifted sugar, and the rind of half a lemon grated on a fine grater. Whisk the wrhites to a solid froth, and just before the omlet is poured into the pan, mix them well, but lightly, with the yolks. Put four ounces of fresh butter into a very small delicately clean omlet or frying pan, and as soon as It is all dissolved, add the eggs and stir them round that they may absorb it entirely. When the under side is just set, turn the omlet into a Avell-buttered dish, and send it to a tolerably brisk oven. From five to ten minutes will bake it; and it must be served the instant it is taken out; carried, indeed, as quickly as possible to table from the oven. It will have risen to a great height, but will sink and become heavy in a very short space of time: if sugar be sifted over it, let it be done with the utmost expedition. Eggs, 6; sugar, 4 tablespoonsful; rind, % lemon; butter, 4 oz. omlet baked, 5 to 10 minutes. Obs.—This omlette may be served on a layer of apricot-marmalade which must be spread over the dish in which it is to be baked, and sent to table before the omlette is turned into it. PLAIN COMMON FRITTERS. Mix with three well-whisked eggs a quarter of a pint of milk, and strain them through a fine sieve ; add them gradually to three large tablespoonsful of flour, and thin the batter with as much more milk as wTill bring it to the consistence of cream; beat it up thoroughly at the moment of using it, that the fritters may be light. Drop it in small portions from a spouted jug or basin into boiling lard ; when lightly coloured on one side, turn the fritters, drain them wel l from the lard as they are lifted out, and serve them very quickly. They are eaten generally with fine sugar, and orange or lemon juice : the first of these may be sifted quickly over them after they are dished, and the oranges or lemons halved or quartered, and sent to table with them. The lard used for frying them should be fresh and pure-flavoured: it renders them more crisp and light than butter, and is, therefore, better suited to the purpose. These fritters may be agreeably varied by mingling with the batter just before it is used, two or three ounces of vTell cleaned and well dried currants, or three * Served also as an entremets.