197 BEEF. CHAP. X.] HAMBURGH PICKLE FOR BEEF, HAMS, AND TONGUE. Boil together, for twenty minutes, two gallons of water, three pounds of bay salt, two pounds of coarse sugar, two ounces of salt- petre, and two of black pepper, bruised, and tied in a fold of muslin ; clear off the scum thoroughly, as it rises, pour the pickle into a deep earthen pan, and when it is quite cold lay in the meat, of which every part must be perfectly covered with it. A moderate-sized round of beef will be ready for table in a fortnight; it should be turned occasionally in the brine. Five pounds of common salt may be substituted for the quantity of bay salt given above; but the meat will not be so finely flavoured. Water, 2 gallons ; bay-salt, 3 lbs.; saltpetre, 2 oz.; black pepper, 2 oz.; sugar, 2 lbs.: 20 minutes. ANOTHER PICKLE FOR TONGUES, BEEF, AND HAMS. To three gallons of spring water add six pounds of common salt, two pounds of bay-salt, two pounds of common loaf sugar, and two ounces of saltpetre. Boil these over a gentle fire, and be careful to take off all the scum as it rises: when quite cold it will be fit for use. Bub the meat to be cured, with fine salt, and let it drain for a day in order to free it from the blood ; then immerse it in the brine, taking care that every part of it shall be covered. Young pork should not remain more than from three to five days in the pickle; but hams for drying may be left in it for a fortnight at least tongues will be ready in rather less time. Beef may remain from one week to two, according to its size, and the degree of saltness desired for it. A little experience will soon teach the exact time required for the different kinds of meat. When the pickle has been m use for about three months, boil it up again gently, and take the scum carefully off. Add to it three pounds of common salt, four ounces of sugar, and one of saltpetre : it will remain good for many months. Water, 3 gallons ; common salt, 6 lbs. ; bay salt, 2 lbs.; loaf sugar, 2 lbs.; saltpetre, 2 oz.: boil 20 to 30 minutes. DUTCH, OR HUNG BEEF. For fourteen pounds weight of the round,the rump, or the thick flank of beef, mix two ounces of saltpetre with the same quantity of coarse sugar; rub the meat with them in every part, and let it remain for two days, then add one pound of bay. salt, four ounces of common salt, and one ounce of ground black pepper. Bub these ingredients thoroughly into the beef, and in four days pour over it a pound of treacle ; rub and turn it daily for a fortnight; drain, and send it to be smoked. When wanted for table, put it into plenty of