VEGETABLES CtlAP. XVII. 825 amongst them, and as soon as they are quite tender, lift them out with a slice, drain them well, and place them lightly over the hash or mince. A small portion of onion may be fried with them when it it is liked. MELON. This in France and in other parts of the Continent is served and eaten with the bouilli (or beef boiled tender in the soup-pot), with a seasoning of salt and pepper only; but the fruit is there far more abundant, and of infinitely finer growth than with us, and requires so little care, comparatively, that it is planted in many places in the open fields, where it flourishes admirably. TO BOIL CAULIFLOWERS. Trim off the outside leaves, and cut the stems quite close to the cauliflowers ; let them lie for an hour in plenty of cold water with a handful of salt in it, to draw out any insects that may be amongst them ; then wash them very thoroughly, and examine them well, to be assured that none remain in any part of them ; throw them into a large pan of boiling water salted as for asparagus, and quite cleared from scum; for this, if not removed, will adhere to the cauliflowers and spoil their appearance. When the stalks are tender lift them out, dish them neatly, and send good melted butter to table with them. 20 to 30 minutes. CAULIFLOWERS. (French Receipt.) Cut the cauliflowers into small handsome tufts, and boil them until three parts done, drain them well, toss them for a moment in some thick melted butter or white sauce, and set them by to cool. When they are quite cold, dip them separately into the batter of Chapter V., fry them a light brown, arrange them neatly in a dish, and serve them very hot. CAULIFLOWERS WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. Take all the green leaves from two or three fine white cauliflowers, and cut the stalks off very closely, so that they will stand upright in the dish in which they are served; boil them tolerably tender, but not sufficiently so as to hazard their breaking; drain them well, and dish them, so as to give the whole the appearance of one cauliflower ; pour a little good white sauce equally over the tops, and on this strew grated Parmesan cheese, drop over it a little clarified butter, add another layer of cheese, and cover the whole with the finest bread- crumbs ; moisten these with more clarified butter, and brown them