CHAP. XII.] LAMB. 245 should be laid between them; if the cook be an expert carver, this had better be done before the lamb is sent to table. The cold Maitre d'Hotel sauce of Chapter VI. may be substituted for the usual ingredients, the parsley being omitted or not, according to the taste. Serve good mint sauce, and a fresh salad with this roast. A leg, shoulder, or loin of lamb should be cooked by the same directions as the quarter, a difference only being made in the time allowed for each. Fore quarter of lamb, 1| to 2 hours. Leg, hour (less if very small); shoulder, 1 to 11 hour. Obs.—The time will vary a little, of course, from the difference in the weather, and in the strength of the fire. Lamb should always be well roasted. SADDLE OF LAMB. This is an exceedingly nice joint for a small party. It should be roasted at a brisk fire, and kept constantly basted with its own dripping : it will require from an hour and three quarters to two hours roasting. Send it to table with mint sauce, brown cucumber sauce, and a salad. 1 f to 2 hours. Obs. — The following will be found an excellent receipt for mint sauce :—With three heaped tablespoonsful of finely-chopped young mint, mix two of pounded and sifted sugar, and six of the best vinegar : stir it until the sugar is dissolved. ROAST LOIN OF LAMB Place it at a moderate distance from a clear fire, baste it frequently, froth it when nearly done, and serve it with the same sauces as the preceding joints. A loin of lamb may be boiled and sent to table with white cucumber, mushroom, common white sauce, or parsley and butter. 1 to hour. STEWED LEG OF LAMB WITH WHITE SAUCE. (ENTREE.)* Choose a small plump leg of lamb, not much exceeding five pounds in weight; put it into a vessel nearly of its size, with a few trimmings or a bone or two of undressed veal if at hand ; cover it with warm water, bring it slowly to a boil, clear off the scum with great care when it is first thrown to the surface, and when it has all been skimmed off, add a faggot of thyme and parsley, and two carrots of moderate size. Let the lamb simmer only, but without ceasing, for an hour and a quarter; serve it covered with bechamel, or rich English white sauce, and send a boiled tongue to table with it, and some of the sauce in a tureen 1 i hour. * This may be served as a remove in a small unceremonious dinner,