529 CHAP. XXIV.] PRESERVES. worked in it with the back of a spoon ; a strong clear jelly will be obtained by this means, which must be washed otf them by pouring their own liquor through the sieve in small portions over them. This must be added to the fruit when it is first set on the lire.”' Oranges, 3 lbs.; water, 3 quarts; sugar, G lbs. Ob.?.—This receipt, which we have not tried ourselves, is gua- ranteed as an excellent one by the Scottish lady from whom it was procured. CLEAR ORANGE MARMALADE. (Authors Receipt.') This, especially for persons in delicate health, is far more whole- some than the marmalade which contains chips of the orange-rinds. The fruit must be prepared in the same manner, and the pulp very carefully cleared from the pips and skin. The rinds taken off in quarters (after having been washed and wiped quite clean from the black soil which is sometimes found on them), must be boiled extrerqely tender in a large quantity of water, into which they may be thrown when it boils. They should be well drained upon a large hair sieve reversed, so soon as the head of a pin will pierce them easily; and the white skin and fibres should be scraped entirely from them while they are still warm. They should then be pounded to a paste, and \fell blended with the pulp and juice, these being added to them by degrees, that they may not remain in lumps. A quarter of a pint of water, in which the seeds have been immersed for an hour or two, well worked up with them, and then passed through a net strainer* or coarse sieve, will soften the flavour of the marmalade, and assist its jellying at the same time. Boil it rather quickly without sugar for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, then finish it by the directions for “ Orange Marmalade, Portuguese Receipt,” of the preceding page, but regulate the proportion of sugar and the time of boiling as follows :— Pulp and juice of Seville oranges, lb.; water strained from pips, \ pint; pounded orange-rinds £ lb. : 15 to 20 minutes. Sugar, 2| lb. (3 lb. if the fruit should be very acid), half added first, 10 to 15 minutes; with remaining half, 15 to 20 minutes, or until the marmalade becomes quite thick and clear. Obs '—We have occasionally had more water than the proportion given above used in making this preserve, which is very nice in flavour, but which may be made to suit various tastes by adding a larger or smaller quantity of the rinds ; and a larger weight of sugar when it is liked very sweet. When the bitterness of the fruit is objected to, the rinds may be steeped for a night in a plentiful quantity of spring water. * Strainers of coarse bobbin-net, -winch is very cheap, are preferable to muslin for preparations which are jellied, as the water becomes thick when the orange- Reeds are steeped in it. M M