MODERN COOKERY. 20 [chap. I. Artichokes, 3 lbs., boiled in water : 10 minutes. Veal stock, 3 pints * 15 to 20 minutes. Additional stock, 1 £ pint; little cayenne and salt 2 to 3 minutes. Boiling cream, 1 pint. Obs.—The palest veal stock, as for white soup, should be used foi this; but for a family dinner, or where economy is a consideration excellent mutton-broth, made the day before and perfectly cleared from fat, will answer very well as a substitute ; milk too may in part take the place of cream when this last is scarce : the proportion of ar- tichokes should then be increased a little. Vegetable-marrow, when young, makes a superior soup even to this, which is an excellent one. It should be well pared, trimmed, and sliced into a small quantity of boiling veal stock or broth, and when perfectly tender, pressed through a fine sieve, and mixed with more stock and some cream. In France the marrow is stewed, first in butter, with a large mild onion or two also sliced ; and afterwards in a quart or more of water, which is poured gradually to it; it is next passed through a tammy,* seasoned with pepper and salt, and mixed with a pint or two of milk and a little cream. COMMON CARROT SOUP. The most easy method of making this favourite English soup is to boil some highly coloured carrots quite tender in water slightly salted, then to pound or mash them to a smooth paste, and to mix with them boiling gravy soup or strong beef broth (see Bouillon) in the pro- portion of two quarts to a pound and a half of the prepared carrots ; then to pass the whole through a strainer, to season it with salt and cayenne, to heat it in a clean stewpan, and to serve it immediately. If only the red outsides of the carrots be used, the colour of the soup will be very bright * they should be weighed after they are mashed Turnip soup may be prepared in the same manner. Obs.—An experienced and observant cook will know the proportion of vegetables required to thicken this soup appropriately, without having recourse to weights and measures; but the learner had always better proceed by rule. Soup, 2 quarts; pounded carrot, 1^ lb.; salt, cayenne : 5 minutes. A FINER CARROT SOUP. Scrape very clean, and cut away all blemishes from some highly- flavoured red carrots ; wash, and wipe them dry, and cut them into quarter-inch slices. Put into a large stewpan three ounces of the .best butter, and when it is melted, add two pounds of the sliced carrots, and let them stew gently for an hour without browning; pour to them then four pints and a half of brown gravy soup, and when they have simmered from fifty minutes to an hour, they ought to be sufficiently tender. Press them through a sieve or strainer with the soup; add salt, and cayenne if required ; boil the whole gently * Derived from the Ere neb tarnis, which means a sieve or strainer.