[chap. V. MODERN COOKERY. 128 them very gradually nearly a pint of thin cream (or of good milk mixed with a portion of cream), add the turnips with a half-tea- spoonful or more of salt, and when the whole is well mixed and very hot, pour it over boiled mutton, veal, lamb, or poultry. There should be sufficient of the sauce to cover the meat entirely; * and when pro- perly made it improves greatly the appearance of a joint. A little cayenne tied in a muslin may be boiled in the milk before it is mixed with the turnips. Jerusalem artichokes make a more delicate sauce of this kind even than turnips; the weight of both vegetables must be taken after they are pared. Pared turnips or artichokes, 1 lb.; fresh butter, oz.; flour, 1 large teaspoonful (twice as much if all milk be used); salt, \ tea- spoonful or more; cream, or cream and milk mixed, from i to 1 pint. OLIVE SAUCE. Remove the stones from some fine French or Italian olives by paring the fruit close to them, round and round in the form of a corkscrew: they will then resume their original shape when done. Weigh six ounces thus prepared, throw them into boiling water, let them blanch for five minutes; then drain, and throw them into cold water, and leave them in it from half an hour to an hour, propor- tioning the time to their saltness ; drain them well, and stew them gently from fifteen to twenty-five minutes in a pint of very rich brown gravy or Espagnole (see Chapter IY.) ; add the juice of half a lemon, and serve the sauce very hot. Half this quantity will be sufficient for a small party. Olives, stoned, 6 oz.; rich gravy, 1 pint: 15 to 25 minutes. Juice, \ lemon. Obs.—In France this sauce is served very commonly with ducks, and sometimes with beef-steaks, and with stewed fowl. CELERY SAUCE. Slice the white part of from three to five heads of young tender celery; peel it if not very young, and boil it in salt and water for twenty minutes. If for white sauce put the celery, after it has been well drained, into half a pint of veal broth or gravy, and let it stew until it is quite soft; then add an ounce and a half of butter, mixed with a dessertspoonful of flour, and a quarter of a pint of thick cream or the yolks of three eggs. The French, after boiling the celery, which they cut very small, for about twenty minutes, drain and chop it; then put it with a slice of butter into a stew-pan, and season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; they keep these stirred over the fire * The objection to masking a joint with this or any other sauce is, that it speedily becomes cold when spread over its surface: a portion of it at least should be served very hot in a tureen.