YEAL. 225 CHAP. XI ] young they will need the previous boil. Before the harrico is served, skim the fat from it, and add salt and pepper should it not be sufficiently seasoned. A few bits of lean ham, or shoulder of bacon browned with the veal, will much improve this dish, and for some tastes, a little acid will render it more agreeable. Very delicate pork chops may be dressed in the same way. A cutlet taken from the fillet and freed from fat and skin, answers best for this dish. Additional vegetables, cooked apart, can be added to it after it is dished. Peas boiled very green and well drained, or young carrots sliced and stewed tender in butter, are both well suited to it. Yeal, 2 to 3 lbs.; water (or gravy), 1 pint; new potatoes 1£ to 2 lbs.; faggot, parsley, and green onions: 1 hour or more. PLAIN VEAL CUTLETS. Take them if possible free from bone, and after having trimmed them into proper shape, beat them with a cutlet-bat or paste-roller until the fibre of the meat is thoroughly broken; flour them well to prevent the escape of the gravy, and fry them from twelve to fifteen minutes over a fire which is not sufficiently fierce to burn them before they are quite cooked through : they should be of a fine amber brown, and perfectly done. Lift them into a hot dish, pour the fat from the pan, throw in a slice of fresh butter, and when it is melted, stir or dredge in a dessertspoonful of flour; keep these shaken until they are well-coloured, then pour gradually to them a cup of gravy or of boiling water; add pepper, salt, a little lemon-pickle or juice, give the whole a boil, and pour it over the cutlets : a few forcemeat balls fried and served with them, is usually a very acceptable addition to this dish, even when it is garnished or accompanied with rashers of ham or bacon. A morsel of glaze, or of the jelly of roast meat, should when at hand be added to the sauce, which a little mushroom powder would further improve : mushroom sauce, indeed, is considered by many epicures, as indispensable with veal cutlets. We have recom- mended in this one instance that the meat should be thoroughly beaten, because we find that the veal is wonderfully improved by the process, which, however, we still deprecate for other meat 12 to 15 minutes. VEAL CUTLETS A L’lNDIENNE, OR INDIAN FASHION. (ENTREE.) Mix well together four ounces of very fine stale bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of the best currie powder. Cut down into small well-shaped cutlets or collops, two pounds of veal free from fat, skin, or bone ; beat the slices flat, and dip them first into some beaten egg-yolks, and then into the seasoned crumbs ; moisten them again with egg, and pass tiiem a second time through bread-crumbs. AVhen all are ready, fry them in three or four ounces of b itter over a moderate fire, from twelve to fourteen minutes. For Q