[CllAP. XX£. MODERN COOKERY. 592 caf£ noir. This is the very essence of coffee, and is served in nearly all French families, as well in those of many other countries, immediately after the dessert. About two-thirds of a small cupful—not more—■ sweetened almost to syrup with highly refined sugar in lumps, is usually taken by each person; in families of moderate rank, generally before they leave the table; in more refined life, it is served in the drawing-room the instant dinner is ended; commonly with liqueurs after it, but not invariably. To make it, proceed exactly as for the breakfast-coffee, but add only so much water as is required to make the strongest possible infusion. White sugar-candy in powder may be served with it in addition to the sugar in lumps. BURNT COFFEE, OR COFFEE A LA MILITAIRE. (7?i France vulgarly called Gloria.) Make some coffee as strong and as clear as possible, sweeten it in the cup with white sugar almost to syrup, then pour the brandy on the top gently over a spoon, set fire to it with a lighted paper, and when the spirit is in part consumed, blow out the flame, and drink the gloria quite hot. TO MAKE CHOCOLATE. An ounce of chocolate, if good, will be sufficient for one person. Rasp, and then boil it from five to ten minutes with about four tablespoonsful of water; when it is extremely smooth add nearly a pint of new milk, give it another boil, stir it well, or mill it, and serve it directly. For water-chocolate use three- quarters of a pint of water instead of the milk, and send rich hot cream to table with it. The taste must decide whether it shall be made thicker or thinner. Chocolate, 2 oz.; water, quarter-pint, or rather more; milk, 1J : * minute. L Obs.—The general reader will understand the use of the chocolate- mill shown in the engraving with the pot; but to the uninitiated it may be as well to observe, that it k worked quickly round between both hands to give a fine froth to the chocolate. It also serves in lieu of a whisk for working creams, or jellies, to a froth or ichip. A SPANISH RECIPE FOR MAKING AND SERVING CHOCOLATE. Take of the best chocolate an ounce for each person, and half a pint