MODERN COOKERY, 530 [chap. XXIV. FINE JELLY OF SEVILLE ORANGES. (Author's Original Receipt.) Although we have appropriated thi^ receipt to another woik, vrd cannot refrain from inserting it here as well, so delicious to our taste is the jelly which we have had made by it. For eighteen full- sized oranges allow a pint and a half of water. Take off the rinds in quarters from ten of them, and then free them entirely from their tough white skin, and with a sharp knife cut them into rather thick slices, and put them with all the pips into the water. Hal ye the remainder of the fruit without paring it, and squeeze the juice and pips, but not the pulp, to the sliced oranges; and place them by the fire in an enamelled stewpan which they will not more than two- thirds fill. Heat and boil them gently between twenty and thirty minutes, then strain the juice closely from them without pressure, through a large square of muslin folded in four, or, if more con- venient, pass it first through a very thin and delicately clean cloth, and afterwards through the folded muslin. Weigh and boil it quickly for five minutes; then for each pound stir gradually to it fourteen ounces of highly refined sugar, broken small or roughly nowdered; and when it is quite dissolved, continue the boiling for a few minutes longer, when the preserve will jelly easily and firmly, and be pale and beautifully transparent, and most agreeable in flavour, Seville oranges, 18 ; of which 10 pared and sliced. Water, 1 \ pint, and juice of 8 oranges : gently heated and boiled 20 to 30 minutes. Juice boiled quickly 5 minutes. To each lb. 14 oz sugar : 5 to 8 minutes. Ohs.—On our second trial w^e had the very thin rind of three of the oranges stewed with the fruit, which we thought an improve- ment. The jelly in both instances was made, we believe, in April, when the fruit was fully ripe : earlier in the season it would pro- bably require longer boiling. On one occasion it became quite firm very quickly after the sugar was added to the juice; that is to say, in three or four minutes.