MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XXL 436 two ounces and a half of very fine bread-crumbs, and four well whisked eggs. Bake the pudding gently from half to three-quarters of an hour. To make a finer one of the kind, work the fruit through a sieve, mix it with four or five crushed Naples biscuits, and use double the quantity of butter. Green gooseberries, 1 lb.; sugar, 5 oz.; water, full £ pint: 10 to 12 minutes. Bread-crumbs, 2\ oz.; eggs, 4: ^ to | hour. POTATO PUDDING. With a pound and a quarter of fine mealy poHtoes, boiled very dry, and mashed perfectly smooth while hot, mix three ounces oi butter, five or six of sugar, five eggs, a few grains of salt, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for nearly three-quarters of an hour. It should be turned out and sent to table with fine sugar sifted over it; or for variety, red currant jelly, or any other preserve, may be spread on it as soon as it is dished. Potatoes, 1£ lb.; butter, 3 oz.; sugar, 5 or 6 oz.; eggs, 5 or 8; lemon-rind, 1; salt, few grains: 40 to 45 minutes. Obs.—When cold, this pudding eats like cake, and may be served as such, omitting, of course, the sugar or preserve when it is dished. A RICHER POTATO PUDDING. Beat well together fourteen ounces of mashed potatoes, four ounces of butter, four of fine sugar, five eggs, the grated rind oi a small lemon, and a slight pinch of salt; add half a glass oi brandy, and pour the pudding into a thickly-buttered dish or mould, ornamented with slices of candied orange or lemon rind; pour a little clarified butter on the top, and then sift plenty oi white sugar over it. Potatoes, 14 oz.; butter, 4 oz.; sugar, 4 oz.; eggs, 5 ; lemon rind, 1 ; little salt; brandy, £ glassful; candied peel, to 2 oz.: 40 minutes. Obs.—The potatoes for these receipts should be lightly and care- fully mashed, but never pounded in a mortar, as that will convert them into a heavy paste. The better plan is to prepare them by Captain Kater’s receipt (Chapter XVII.), when they will fall to powder almost of themselves; or they may be grated while hot through a wire sieve. From a quarter to a half pint of cream is, by many cooks, added always to potato puddings. A GOOD SPONGE CAKE PUDDING. Slice into a well-buttered tart-dish three penny sponge biscuit3, and place on them a couple of ounces of candied orange or lemon rind cut in strips. Whisk thoroughly six eggs, and stir to them