[chap. I. 88 MODERN COOKERY. large mild onions, 4; large cucumbers, 4 ; or middling-sized, 6 $ apples, or large tomatas, 3 to 6; 30 to 40 minutes. Mild currie- powder, 3 heaped tablespoons ful; salt, one small tablespoonful • 20 to 32 minutes. Water, broth, or good stock, 2 quarts. CUCUMBER SOUP. Pare, split, and empty from eight to twenty* fine, well grown, but not old cucumbers,—those which have the fewest seeds are best for the purpose; throw a little salt over them, and leave them for an hour to drain, then put them with the white part only of a couple of mild onions into a deep stewpan or delicately clean saucepan, cover them nearly half an inch with pale but good veal stock, and stew them gently until they are perfectly tender, which will be in from three quarters of an hour to an hour and a quarter; work the whole through a hair-sieve, and add to it as much more stock as may be needed to make the quantity of soup required for table; and as the cucumbers, from their watery nature, will thicken it but little, stir to it when it boils, as much arrow-root, rice-flour, or tous les mois (see page 1), as will bring it to a good consistence; add from half to a whole pint of boiling cream, and serve the soup immediately. Salt and cayenne sufficient to season it, should be thrown over the cucumbers while they are stewing. The yolks of six or eight eggs, mixed with a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, may be used for this soup instead of cream; three dessertspoonsful of minced parsley may then be strewed into it a couple of minutes before they are added : it must not, of course, be allowed to boil after they are stirred in. SPRING SOUP AND SOUP 1 LA JULIENNE. Throw into three quarts of strong clear broth, or shin of beef stock, or of consomme, half a pint each of turnips and carrots pre- pared by the directions of page 20, or turned into any other shape that may be preferred, with rather less of the solid part of some white celery stems, and of leeks or of very mild onionsf mixed. The latter must, if used, be sliced, drawn into rings, and divided into slight shreds. When these have simmered from twenty to thirty minutes, add the leaves of one or two lettuces and a few of sorrel, trimmed or torn, about the size of half - a - crown. Continue the gentle boiling until these are tender, and add at the moment of serving half a pint of asparagus-points boiled very green, and as many French beans cut into small lozenges, and also boiled apart; or substitute green peas for these last. For the Julienne soup, first stew the carrots, &c. tolerably tender in a couple of ounces of butter; pour the stock boiling to them; skim off all the fat from the surface, and finish as above. Sprigs of * This is a great disparity of numbers ; but some regard must be had to ex* pense, where the vegetable cannot be obtained with facility. + Only a very subdued flavour of these is, we think, admissible for a delicate vActable 90s? of anv kind