290 [chap. xv. MODERN COOKERY. whole into the bodies of the partridges, sew them up, truss them securely, and roast them on a vertical jack with the heads down- wards; or should an ordinary spit be used, tie them firmly to it, instead of passing it through them. Roast them the usual time, and serve them with brown mushroom sauce, or with gravy and bread sauce only. The birds may be trussed like boiled fowls, floured, and lightly browned in butter, half covered with rich brown gravy and stewed slowly for thirty minutes; then turned, and simmered for another half hour with the addition of some mushrooms to the gravy ; or they may be covered with small mushrooms stewed apart, when they are sent to table. They can also be served with their sauce only, simply thickened with a small quantity of fresh butter, smoothly mixed with less than a teaspoonful of arrowroot and flavoured witb cayenne and a little catsup, wine, or store sauce. Partridges, 2; mushrooms, ■§■ to f pint; butter, 1| oz.; little mace and cayenne: roasted 30 to 40 minutes, or stewed 1 hour. Ohs.—Nothing can be finer than the game flavour imbibed by the mushrooms with which the birds are filled, in this receipt. BROILED PARTRIDGE. (Breakfast Dish.) “ Split a young and well-kept partridge, and wipe it with a soft clean cloth inside and out, but do not wash it; broil it delicately over a very clear fire, sprinkling it with a little salt and cayenne; rub a bit of fresh butter over it the moment it is taken from the fire, and send it quickly to table with a sauce made of a good slice of butter browned with flour, a little water, cayenne, salt, and mushroom- catsup, poured over it.” We give this receipt exactly as we received it from a house where we know it to have been greatly approved by various guests who have partaken of it there. BROILED PARTRIDGE. (French Receipt.) After having prepared the bird with great nicety, divided, and flattened it, season it with salt, and pepper, or cayenne, dip it into clarified butter, and then into very fine bread-crumbs, and take care that every part shall be equally covered : if wanted of particularly good appearance dip it a second time into the butter and crumbs. Place it over a very clear fire, and broil it gently from twenty to thirty minutes. Send it to table with brown mushroom sauce, ot some Espagnole. THE FRENCH, OR RED-LEGGED PARTRIDGE. This is dressed precisely like our common partridge, and is excel- lent eating if it be well kept; otherwise it is tough and devoid of