250 [chap. xiii. MODERN COOKERY. In dishing the pig lay the body flat in the middle, and the head and ears at the ends and sides. When very pure oil can be obtained, it is preferable to butter for the basting : it should be laid on with a bunch of feathers A pig of three weeks old is considered as best suited to the table, and it should always be dressed if possible the day it is killed. 1£ to If hour. BAKED PIG. Prepare the pig exactly as for roasting; truss, and place it in the dish in which rt is to be sent to the oven, and anoint it thickly in every part with white of egg which has been slightly beaten ; it will require no basting, nor further attention of any kind, and will be well crisped by this process. PIG A LA TARTARE When the shoulders of a cold roast pig are left entire, take them off with care, remove the skin, trim them into good form, dip them into clarified butter or very pure salad oil, then into fine crumbs highly seasoned with cayenne and mixed with about a half-teaspoonful of salt. Broil them over a clear brisk fire, and send them quickly to table, as soon as they are heated through and equally browned, with tomata sauce, or sauce Robert. Curried crumbs and a currie-sauce will give an excellent variety of this dish ; and savoury herbs with two or three eschalots chopped small together, and mixed with the bread-crumbs, and brown eschalot sauce to accompany the broil, will likewise be an acceptable one to many tastes. SUCKING PIG EN BLANQUETTE. (ENTREE.) Raise the flesh from the bones of a cold roast pig, free it from the crisp outer skin or crackling, and cut it down into small handsome slices. Dissolve a bit of butter the size of an egg, and throw in a handful of button-mushrooms, cleaned and sliced ; shake these over the fire for three or four minutes, then stir to them a dessertspoonful ef flour and continue to shake or toss them gently, but do not allow them to brown. Add a small bunch of parsley, a bay-leaf, a middling-sized blade of mace, some salt, a small quantity of cayenne or white pepper, half a pint of good veal or beef broth, and from two to three glasses of light white wine. Let these boil gently until reduced nearly one third ; take out the parsley and mace, lay in the meat, and bring it slowly to the point of simmering ; stir to it the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs, and the strained juice of half a lemon Serve the blanquette very hot