262 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XIII. and a small dessertspoonsful of pounded mace, would, to many tastes, improve it. This sausage-meat is usually formed into cakes, which, after being well floured, are roasted in a Dutch oven. They must be watched, and often turned, that no part may be scorched. The meat may also be put into skins, and dressed in any other way. Lean of pork, 3 lbs.; fat, 2 lbs.; salt, 2^ oz.; pepper, 1 oz, ? minced sage, 3 large tablcspoonsful. EXCELLENT SAUSAGES. Chop, first separately, and then together, one pound and a quarter of veal, perfectly free from fat, skin, and sinew, with an equal weight of lean pork, and of the inside fat of the pig. Mix well, and strew over the meat an ounce and a quarter of salt, half an ounce of pep- per, one nutmeg grated, and a large teaspoonful of pounded mace Turn, and chop the sausages until they are equally seasoned through- out, and tolerably fine ; press them into a clean pan, and keep them in a very cool place. Form them, when wanted for table, into cakes something less than an inch thick; and flour and fry them then for about ten minutes in a little butter, or roast them in a Dutch or American oven. Lean of veal and pork, of each 1 lb. 4 oz.; fat of pork, 1 lb. 4 oz., salt, 1.1 oz.; pepper, \ oz.; nutmeg, 1 ; mace, 1 large teaspoonful. fried in cakes, 10 minutes. POUNDED SAUSAGE-MEAT. ( Very good.) Take from the best end of a neck of veal, or from the fillet or loin, a couple or more pounds of flesh without any intermixture of fat or skin ; chop it small, and pound it thoroughly in a large mortar, with half its weight of the inside, or leaf-fat, of a pig ; proportion salt and spice to it by the preceding receipt, form it into cakes, and fry it as above. BOILED SAUSAGES. (ENTIRE.) In Lincolnshire, sausages are frequently boiled in the skins, and served upon a toast, as a corner dish. They should be put into boiling water, and simmered from seven to ten minutes, according to their size. SAUSAGES AND CHESTNUTS. (ENTREE.) An excellent disli. {French.) Roast, and take the husk and skin from forty fine Spanish chest- nuts ; fry gently, in a morsel of butter, six small flat oval cakes of fine sausage-meat, and when they are well browned, lift them out and pour into a saucepan, which should be bright in the inside, the greater part of the fat in which they have been fried; mix with it a