[OHAP. VII. 150 MODERN COOKERY. black, Strong beer, 1 quart; anchovies, \ lb. ; 1 head garlic; nut- megs, \ oz. ; cloves, \ oz.; black pepper, £ oz.; mace, 2 drachms \ hour. ANOTIIER GOOD RECEIPT FOR WALNUT CATSUP. Beat a hundred green walnuts in a large marble mortar until they are thoroughly bruised and broken, and then put them into a stone jar, with half a pound of eschalots, cut in slices, one head of garlic, half a pound of salt, and two quarts of vinegar ; let them stand for ten days, and stir them night and morning. Strain off the liquor, and boil it for half an hour with the addition of two ounces of an- chovies, two of whole pepper, half an ounce of cloves, and two drachms of mace ; skim it well, strain it off, and when it is quite cold pour it gently from the sediment (which may be reserved for flavour- ing common sauces) into small dry bottles, secure it from air by sound corking, and store it in a dry place. Walnuts, 100; eschalots, ±lb.; garlic, 1 head, salt, 2 lb.; vinegar 2 quarts: 10 days. Anchovies, 2 oz.; black pepper, 2 oz.; mace, \ oz.: cloves, \ oz.: \ hour. LEMON PICKLE OR CATSUP. Either divide six small lemons into quarters, remove all the pips that are in sight, and strew three ounces of salt upon them, and keep them turned in it for a week, or, merely make deep incisions in them, and proceed as directed for pickled lemons. When they have stood in a warm place for eight days, put into a stone jar two ounces and a half of finely-scraped horseradish, and two ounces of eschalots, or one and a half of garlic; to these add the lemons with all their liquor, and pour on them a pint and a half of boiling vinegar in which half an ounce of bruised ginger, a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper, and two blades of mace have been simmered for two or three minutes. The pickle will be fit for use in two or three months, but may stand four or five before it is strained off. Small lemons, 6; salt, 3 oz.: 8 days. Horseradish, 2| oz.; escha- lots, 2 oz., or garlic 1^ oz.; vinegar, 1^ pint; ginger, % oz.; whole white pepper, | oz.; mace, 2 blades: 3 to G months. Obs.—These-highly-flavoured compounds are still much in favour with a certain class of housekeepers; but they belong exclusively to English cookery: they are altogether opposed to the practice of the 1 rench cuisine, as well as to that of other foreign countries. PONTAC CATSUP FOR FISII. On one pint of ripe elderberries stripped from the stalks, pour three quarters of a pint of boiling vinegar, and let it stand in a cool oven all night; the next day strain off the liquid without pressure,