617 ccap. xxXii.] FOREIGN COOKERY. these to admit of their being placed upright. A slight branch ol parsley, or other foliage, may be stuck in the tops, lloast chickens divested entirely of the skin, can always be substituted for boikd ones in a mayonnaise: they should all be separated into single joints with the exception of the wings. The quite inferior parts need not be used at all. The same sauce rather highly flavoured with cayenne, and other condiments, and more or less, to the taste, with essence of anchovies or anchovy butter, and coloured with lobster-coral, will make an ex- cellent fish-salad, with alternate slices of lobster,—cut obliquely to increase their size,—and of cold turbot or large soles. These can be raised into a high border or chain round a dish when more con- venient, and the centre filled with young fresh salad, sauced at the instant it is sent to table. A French mayonnaise does not vary much from the preceding, except in the composition of the sauce, for which see Chapter VI. It should always be kept very thick. A little rich cold white sauce is sometimes mixed with it. TENDRONS DE YEAU. The tendrons (or gristles) which lie under the flesh of the brisket of a breast of veal are much used in foreign countries, and frequently now in this, to supply a variety of the dishes called entrees. When long stewed they become perfectly tender, and yield a large amount of gelatine ; but they are quite devoid of flavour, and require there- fore to be cooked and served with such additions as shall render them palatable. With a very sharp knife detach the flesh from them without separating it from the joint, and turn it back, so as to allow the gristles to be divided easily from the long bones. Cut away the chine-bone from their outer edge, and then proceed first to soak them, that they may be very white, and to boil them gently for several hours,* either quite simply, in good broth, or with additions of bacon, spice, and vegetables. Foreign cooks braise them somewhat expensively, and then serve them in many different forms; but as they make, after all, but a rather unpretending entree, some economy in their preparation would generally be desirable. They may be divided at the joints, and cut obliquely into thin slices before they are stewed, when they will require but four hours simmering; or they may be left entire and braised, when they will require, while still warm, to be pressed between two dishes with a heavy weight on the top, to bring them into good shape before they are divided for * We think that in the pasted jir which we have described in Chapter IX., in the section if Baking, they might be well and easily cooked, but we have not tried it.