258 [chap. XIII. MODERN COOKERY. For tlie manner of making this, and glaze also see Chapter The ham shown in Plate V., which follows the directions for “ Carving,” is of very good appearance ; but in common English kitchens generally, even the degree of artistic skill required to form its decorations well, is not often to be met with. FRENCH RECEIPT FOR BOILING A HAM. Jfter having soaked, thoroughly cleaned, and trimmed the ham, put over it a little very sweet clean hay, and tie it up in a thin cloth ; place it in a ham kettle, a braising pan, or any other vessel as nearly of its size as can be, and cover it with two parts of cold water and one of light white wine (we think the reader will perhaps find cider a good substitute for this); add, when it boils and has been skimmed, four or five carrots, two or three onions, a large bunch of savoury herbs, and the smallest bit of garlic. Let the whole sim- mer gently from four to five hours, or longer should the ham be very large. When perfectly tender, lift it out, take off the rind, and sprinkle over it some fine crumbs, or some raspings of bread mixed with a little finely minced parsley. Ohs.—Foreign cooks generally leave hams, braised joints, and various other prepared meats intended to be served cold, to cool dowrn partially in the liquor in which they are cooked ; and this renders them more succulent ; but for small frugal families the plan does not altogether answer, because the moisture of the surface (which would evaporate quickly if they were taken out quite hot) prevents their keeping well for any length of time. The same objection exists to serving hams laid upon, or closely garnished with savoury jelly (aspic), which becomes much more quickly unfit for table than the hams themselves. These considerations, which may appear insignificant to some of our readers, will have weight with those who are compelled tc regulate their expenses with economy. TO BAKE A HAW. Unless when too salt from not being sufficiently soaked, a ham (particularly a young and fresh one) eats much better baked than boiled, and remains longer good. The safer plan to ensure its being sufficiently steeped, is to lay it into plenty of cold water over night. The following day soak it for an hour or more in warm w'ater, wash it delicately clean, trim smoothly off all rusty parts, and lay it with the rind downwards into a large common pie-dish; press an oiled paper closely over it, and then fasten securely to the edge of the dish a thick cover of coarse paste; and send the ham to a moderate oven, of which the heat will be wrell sustained until it is baked. Or, when more convenient, lay the ham at once—rind downwards—on