300 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xvf. To each pound of meat, whether veal, mutton, or beef, 1 heaped tablespoonful of good currie-powder, 1 small teaspoonful of salt, and a large one of flour, to be well mixed, and half rubbed on to the meat before it is fried, the rest added afterwards ; onions fried, from 1 to 4 or 5 (with or without the addition of a clove of garlic, or half a dozen eschalots) ; sufficient boiling water to nearly cover the meat: vegetables, as in receipt, at choice; stew'ed, to 2| hours : a fowl, 1 hour, or rather less; beef, 2 lbs., li hour, or more; brisket of veal, 2 £ to 3 hours. Obs. — Rabbits make a very good currie when quite young Cayenne pepper can always be added to heighten the pungency of a currie, when the proportion in the powder is not considered sufficient. selim’s curries. (Captain White's.') These curries are made with a sort of paste, which is labelled with the above names, and as it has attracted some attention of late, and the curries made with it are very good, and quickly and easily prepared, we give the directions for them. “ Cut a pound and a half of chicken, fowl, veal, rabbit, or mutton, into pieces an inch and a half square. Put from two to three ounces of fresh butter in a stewpan, and when it is melted put in the meat, and give it a good stir with a wooden spoon ; add from two to three dessertspoonsful of the currie-paste; mix the whole up well together, and continue the stirring over a brisk fire from five to ten minutes, and the currie will be done. This is a dry currie. For a gravy currie, add two or three tablespoonsful of boiling water after the paste is well mixed in, and continue the stewing and stirring from ten to twelve minutes longer, keeping the sauce of the consistency of cream. Prepare salmon and lobster in the same way, but very quickly, that they may come up firm. The paste may be rubbed over steaks, or cutlets, when they are nearly broiled; three or four minutes will finish them.”* CURRIED MACCARONI Roil six ounces of ribband maccaroni for fifteen minutes, in water slightly salted, with a very small bit of butter dissolved in it; drain it perfectly, and then put it into a full pint and a quarter of good beef or veal stock or gravy, previously mixed and boiled for twenty minutes, with a small tablespoonful of fine currie-powder, a tea- spoonful of arrowroot, and a little lemon-juice. Heat and toss the * Unless the meat De extremely tender, and cut small, it will require from ten to fifteen minutes stewing: when no liquid is added, it must be stirred without intermission, or the paste will burn to the pan. It answers well for cutlets, and for mullagatawny soup also; but makes a very mild currie.