SOUPS. CHAP. I.] 01 r>1 RABBIT SOUP 1 LA REINE. Wash and soak thoroughly three young rabhita, put them whole into the soup-pot, and pour on them seven pints of cold water or of clear veal broth; when they have stewed gently about three quarters of an hour lift them out, and take off the flesh of the backs, with a little from the legs should there not be half a pound of the former; strip off the skin, mince the meat very small, and pound it to the smoothest paste; cover it from the air, and set it by. Put back into the soup the bodies of the rabbits, with two mild onions of moderate size, a head of celery, three carrots, a faggot of savoury herbs, two blades of mace, a half-teaspoonful of peppercorns, and an ounce of salt. Stew the whole softly three hours; strain it off, let it stand to settle, pour it gently from the sediment, put from four to five pints into a clean stewpan, and mix it very gradually while hot with the pounded rabbit-flesh ; this must be done with care, for if the liquid be not added in very small portions at first, the meat will gather into lumps and will not easily be worked smooth afterwards. Add as much pounded mace and cayenne as will season the soup pleasantly, and pass it through a coarse but very clean sieve ; wipe out the stewpan, put back the soup into it, and stir in when it boils, a pint and a quarter of good cream* mixed with a tablespoonful of the best arrow-root: salt, if needed, should be thrown in previously. Young rabbits, 3; water, or clear veal broth, 7 pints : f of an hour. Remains of rabbits ; onions, 2 ; celery, 1 head ; carrots, 3 ; savoury herbs; mace, 2 blades; white peppercorns, a half-teaspoonful; salt, 1 oz.: 3 hours. Soup, 4 to 5 pints; pounded rabbit-flesh, 8 oz.; salt, mace, and cayenne, if needed; cream, 1 £ pint; arrowroot, 1 tablespoonful (or 1£ ounce). BROWN RABBIT SOUP. Cut down into joints, flour, and fry lightly, two full grown, or three young rabbits ; add to them three onions of moderate size, also fried to a clear brown; on these pour gradually seven pints of boiling 7/ater, throw in a large teaspoonful of salt, clear off all the scum with care as it rises, and then put to the soup a faggot of parsley, four not very large carrots, and a small teaspoonful of peppercorns; boil the whole very softly from five hours to five and a half; add more salt if needed, strain off the soup, let it cool sufiiciently for the fat to be skimmed clean from it, heat it afresh, and send it to table with sip- pets of fried bread. Spice, with a thickening of rice-flour, or of wheaten flour browned in the oven, and mixed with a spoonful or two of very good mushroom catsup, or of Harvey’s sauce, can be added at pleasure to the above, with a few drops of eschalot-wine, or vine- gar ; but the simple receipt will be found extremely good without them. * We give this receipt exactly as we had it first compounded, hut Less cream and rather more arrow-root might be need for it, and would adapt it better to the economist.