CHAP. XXXII.] G21 FOREIGN COOKERY. (A) Take butter, four ounces; sugar in powder, t.iree ounces; fine flour, one ounce and a half or two ounces; and the yellow of eight eggs; beat these together in a convenient sized basin till the mixture gets frothy. (The butter should probably first be beaten to cream.) (B) Beat to snow the whites of the eight eggs. (C) Take three pounds (or pints) of new milk, put it in an open stewpan over a gentle fire, and let it boil. (D) Next, prepare a china casserole (enamelled stewpan — a copper one will do) by greasing its internal surface. As soon as the milk boils, mix gently a and b together, and with a small spoon take portions of this shape and size and lay them over the surface of the boiling milk till it is entirely covered with them. Let them boil for four or five minutes to cook them; then put them in con- venient order on the ground of the greased casserole (stewpan). Go on putting in the same manner small portions of the mixture on the surface of the boiling milk, and when cooked, place a new layer of them in the stewpan over the first; and continue the same operation until the mixture is all consumed. Take now the remainder of the milk, and add it to the beaten yellow (yolks) of two eggs, some sugar, and some powdered vanilla. Pour this over the cooked pastry in the stewpan, and set it into a gently heated oven. Leave it there until it gets brown; then powder it with vanilla-sugar, and send it to the table. Author s Note.—The preceding directions were written by a physi- cian of Vienna, at whose table the dish was served. It was turned out of the casserole, and served with the greatest expedition ; but we think it would perhaps answer more generally here, to bake it in a souffle dish, and to leave it undisturbed. We would also suggest, that the yolk of a third egg might sometimes be needed to bind the mixture well together. A good and experienced cook would easily ascertain the best mode of ensuring the success of the pre- paration. We must observe, that the form of the enamelled stewpans made commonly in this country prevents their being well adapted for use in the present receipt: those of copper are better suited to it. Half the proportion of the ingredients might, by way of experi- ment, be prepared and baked in a tart-dish, as our puddings fre- quently are ; or in a small round cake mould, with a band of writing paper fastened round the top. The vanilla sugar is prepared by cutting the bean up small, and pounding it with some sugar in a mortar, and then passing it through a very fine sieve