467 ciiap. xxni.] SWEET DISHES, OR ENTREMETS. is marked in the same way, cut just through the rind with tne point of a penknife, being careful not to pierce the fruit itself; next, with a tea or dessertspoon, take of the quartered rind on either side of the handle ; pass a penknife under the handle itself; work the point of a spoon gently between the orange and the basket, until they are separated in every part; then take the fruit between the thumb and fingers, and press it carefully out through one of the spaces on either side of the handle. Baskets thus made may be filled with any of the jellies of which the receipts are given here : but they should be nearly cold before they are poured in ; and they ought also to be very clear. Some of the baskets may be filled with ratifias, and dished alternately with those which contain the jelly. LEMON CALF’S FEET JELLY. Break up a quart of strong calf’s feet stock, which should have been measured while in a liquid state; let it be quite clear of fat and sediment, for which a small additional quantity should be allowed; add to it a not very full half-pint of strained lemon-juice, and ten ounces of sugar, broken small (rather more or less according to the state of the fruit), the rind of one lemon pared as thin as possible, or of from two to three when a full flavour of it is liked, and the whites with part of the shells crushed small, of five large or of six small eggs. Proceed as for the preceding jellies, and when the mixture has boiled five minutes throw in a small pinch of isinglass ; continue the boiling for five or six minutes longer, draw the pan from the fire, let it stand to settle; then turn it into the jelly-bag. Vie have found it always perfectly clear with once passing through ; but should it not be so, pour it in a second time. Strong calf’s feet stock, 1 quart; strained lemon-juice, short \ pint; sugar, 10 oz. (more or less according to state of fruit) ; rind of from 1 to 3 large lemons ; whites and part of shells of 5 large or 6 small eggs : 5 minutes. Pinch of isinglass : 5 minutes longer. Obs.—About seven large lemons will produce the half pint of juice. This quantity is for one mould only. The jelly will be found almost colourless unless much of the rinds be used, and as perfectly transparent as clear spring water : it is also very agreeable in flavour. For variety, part of the juice of the fruit might be omitted, and its place supplied by maraschino, or any other rich white liqueur of appropriate flavour; and to render it safer eating, some syrup of preserved ginger would be an excellent addition. CONSTANTIA JELLY. Infuse in a pint of water for five minutes the rind of half a Seville orange, pared extremely thin; add an ounce of isinglass ; and when this is dissolved throw in four ounces of good sugar in lumps; sti?