CHAP. XVIII.] PASTRY, 357 comprehend that this sort of pie (with the exception of the cover, for which a portion must at first be taken off) is made from one solid lump of paste, which, after having been shaped into a cone, as Monsieur Ude directs, or into a high round, or oval form, is hollowed by pressing down the centre with the knuckles, and continuing to knead the inside equally round with the one hand, while the other is pressed close to the outside. It is desirable that the mode of iloing this should be once seen by the learner, if possible, as mere verbal instructions are scarcely sufficient to enable the quite-inex- perienced cook to comprehend at once the exact form and appear- ance which should be given to the paste, and some degree of ex- pertness is aftvays necessary to mould a pie of this kind icell with the fingers only. The first attempts should be made with very small pies, which are less difficult to manage. A VOL-AU- VENT, (EKTR&S.) This dish can be suc- cessfully made only with the finest and lightest puff-paste (see feuilletage, page 345), as its height, which ought to be from four to five inches, depends entirely on its rising in the oven. Eoll it to something more than an inch in thickness, and cut it to the shape and size of the inside of the dish in which it is to be served, or stamp it out with a fluted tin of proper dimensions ; then mark the cover evenly about an inch from the edge all round, and ornament it and the border also, wTith a knife, as fancy may direct; brush yolk of egg quickly over them, and put the vol-au-vcnt immediately into a brisk oven, that it may rise well, and be finely coloured, but do not allow it to be scorched. In from twenty to thirty minutes, should it appear baked through, as well as sufficiently browned, draw it out, and with the point of a knife detach the cover carefully where it has been marked, and scoop out all the soft unbaked crumb from the inside of the vol-au-vent; then turn it gently on to a sheet of clean paper, to drain the butter from it. At the instant of serving, fill it with a rich fricassee of lobster, or of sweetbreads, or with turbot a la creme, or with the white part of cold roast veal cut in thin collops not larger than a shilling, and heated in good white sauce with oysters (see minced veal and oysters, page 251), or with any other of the preparations which we shall indicate in their proper places, and send it immediately to table. The vol-au-vent, as the reader will perceive, is but the case, oi pr ist, in which various kinds of delicate ragouts are served in an elegant form. As these are most frequently composed of fish, or of