SAUCES, 119 CHAP, V.] degrees, three dessertspoonsful of vinegar, one of which should be chili vinegar when the horseradish is mild. To heat the sauce, put it into a small and delicately clean saucepan, hold it over, but do not place it upon the fire, and stir it without intermission until it is near the point of simmering; but do not allow it to boil, or it will curdle instantly. Horseradish pulp, 2 oz. (or 2 large tablespoonsful); salt, 1 tea- spoonful ; good cream, 4 tablespoonsful; vinegar, 3 dessertspoonsful (of which one should be chili when the root is mild). Obs.—Common English salad-mixture is often added to the grated horseradish when the sauce is to be served cold. HOT HORSERADISH SAUCE. (To serve with boiled or stewed meat or fish.) Mix three ounces of young tender grated horseradish with half a pint of good brown gravy, and let it stand by the side of the fire until it is on the point of boiling; add salt if required, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a dessertspoonful of garlic or of eschalot vinegar; or the same quantity of ckili vinegar, or twice as much common vinegar. Some cooks stew the horseradish in vinegar for ten minutes, and, after having drained it from this, mix it with nearly half a pint of thick melted butter. Horseradish, grated, 3 oz.; brown gravy, \ pint; made mustard, 1 teaspoonful; eschalot or garlic vinegar, 1 dessertspoonful (or chili vinegar, the same quantity, or common vinegar twice as much). CHRISTOPHER NORTH’S OWN SAUCE FOR MANY MEATS. Throw into a small basin a heaped saltspoonful of good cayenne pepper, in very fine powder, and half the quantity of salt;* add a small dessertspoonful of well-refined, pounded, and sifted sugar; mix these thoroughly; then pour in a tablespoonful of the strained juice of a fresh lemon, two of Harvey’s sauce, a teaspoonful of the very best mushroom catsup (or of cavice), and a small wineglassful of port wine. Heat the sauce by placing the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, or turn it into ajar, and place this in the water. Serve it directly it is ready with geese or ducks, tame or wild; roast pork, venison, fawn, a grilled blade-bone, or any other broil. A slight fla- vour of garlic or eschalot vinegar may be given to it at pleasure. Some persons eat it with fish. It is good cold; and, if bottled directly it is made, may be stored for several days. It is the better for being mixed some hours before it is served. The proportion of cayenne may be doubled when a very pungent sauce is desired. * Characteristically, the salt of this sauce ought, perhaps, to prevail more strongly over the sugar, but it will be found for most tastes sufficiently piquant ar it is.