[chap. 1. 36 MODERN COOKERY. the flesh of part of a calf’s head,* previously stewed almost tender, and cut as lor mock turtle, with a sweetbread also parboiled or stewed in broth, and divided into inch-squares, will make an admirable mullagatawny, if simmered in the stock until they have taken the flavour of the currie-seasoning. The flesh of a couple of calves’ feet, with a sweetbread or two, may, when more convenient, be substituted for the head. A large cupful of thick cream, first mixed and boiled with a teaspoonful of flour or arrow-root to prevent its curdling, and stirred into the soup before the lemon-juice, will enrich and improve it much. Rabbit, 1, or the best joints of, 2, or fowl, 1 ; large onions, 4 to 6 ; stock, 1 quart : f to 1 hour. 2* pints more of stock; currie-powder, 2 heaped tablespoonsful, with 2 of browned flour; meat and all sim- mered together 20 minutes or more; juice of lemon, 1 small; or part of pickled mango stewed in the soup 3 to 4 minutes. Or,—onions, 3 to 6 ; cocoa-nut, 3 to 4 oz.; stock, 1 quart; stewed 1 hour. Stock, 3 pints (in addition to the first quart) ; currie-powder and thickening each, 2 large tablespoonsful: 20 minutes. Flesh of part of calFs head and sweetbread, 15 minutes or more. Thick cream, 1 cupful; flour or arrow-root, 1 teaspoonful; boiled 2 minutes, and stirred to the soup. Chili vinegar, 1 tablespoonful, or lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonsful. Obs. 1.—The brain of the calFs head stewed for twenty minutes in a little of the stock, then rubbed through a sieve, diluted gradually with more of the stock, and added as thickening to the soup, will be found an admirable substitute for part of the flour. Obs. 2.—Three or four pounds of a breast of veal, or an equal weight of mutton, free from bone and fat, may take the place of rab- bits or fowls in this soup, for a plain dinner. The veal should be cut into squares of an inch and a half, or into strips of an inch in width, and two in length ; and the mutton should be trimmed down in the same way, or into very small cutlets. Obs. 3.—For an elegant table, the joints of rabbit or of fowl should always be boned before they are added to the soup, for which, in this case, a couple of each will be needed for a single tureen, as all the inferior joints must be rejected. TO BOIL RICE FOR MULLAGATAWNY SOUPS, OR FOR CURRIES. The Patna, or small-grained rice, which is not so good as the Caro- lina, for the general purposes of cookery, ought to be served with currie. First take out the unhusked grains, then wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a large quantity of cold water; bring it gently to boil, keeping it uncovered, and boil it softly for fifteen minutes, when it will be perfectly tender, and every grain will remain distinct. Throw it into a large cullender, and let it drain for ten minutes near the fire ; should it not then appear quite dry, turn it * The B3alp or skin only of a calf’s head will make excellent mullagatawny, with good broth for stock; and many kinds of shell-fish also.