[chap. XXIV. 502 MODERN COOKERY. Seeded gooseberries, 2 lbs.; sugar, lb.; water, 1 pint: boiled to syrup. Gooseberries, simmered 8 to 12 minutes, or more. Obs.— Large ripe gooseberries freed from the blossoms, and put Into cold syrup in which cherries or any other fruit has been boiled lor drying, then heated very gradually, and kept at the point of boiling for a few minutes before they are set by for a couple of days, answer extremely well as a dry preserve. On the third day the syrup should be drained from them, simmered, skimmed, and poured on them the instant it is taken from the tire; in forty-eight hours after, they may be drained from it and laid singly upon plates or dishes, and placed in a gentle stove. JAM OF KENTISH OR FLEMISH CHERRIES. This is a very agreeable preserve when it is made as we shall direct; but if long boiled with a large proportion of sugar, as it frequently is, both the bright colour and the pleasant flavour of the cherries will be destroyed. Stone, and then weigh the fruit; heat it rather slowly that the juice may be well drawn out before it begins to boil, and stew the cherries until they are tolerably tender, then boil them quickly, keeping them well turned and stirred from the bottom of the pan, for three-quarters of an hour or somewhat longer should there still remain a large quantity of juice. Draw the pan from the fire, and stir in gradually half a pound of sugar for each pound of cherries. An ounce or two more may occasionally be required when the fruit is more than usually acid, and also when a quite sweet preserve is liked. When the sugar is dissolved continue the boiling rapidly for about twenty minutes longer ; clear off all the scum as it appears, and keep the jam stirred well and constantly, but not quickly, to prevent its adhering to the bottom of the preserving-pan. Stoned Kentish or Flemish cherries, 6 lbs.: without sugar, 1 hour or rather more. Sugar roughly powdered, 3 lbs.: (or 3£ lbs.) About 20 minutes quick boiling. Obs.—Heat the fruit and boil it gently until it is quite tender, turning it often, and pressing it down into the juice ; then quicken the boiling to evaporate the juice before the sugar is added. Cherries which are bruised will not make good preserve: they always remain tough TO DRY CHERRIES WITH SUGAR. (A quick and easy method.) Stone some fine, sound, Kentish or Flemish cherries; put them into a preserving pan, with six ounces of sugar reduced to powder, to each pound of the fruit; set them over a moderate fire, and simmer them gently for nearly or quite twenty minutes; let