cn p. xix.] 393 SOUFFLES, OMLETS, ETC. MACCARONI A LA REINE. This is a very excellent and delicate mode of dressing m&ccaroni. Boil eight ounces in the usual way, and by the time it is sufficiently tender, dissolve gently ten ounces of any rich, well flavoured white cheese in full three-quarters of a pint of good cream; add a little salt, a rather full seasoning of cayenne, from half to a whole st It- spoonful of pounded mace, and a couple of ounces of sweet fresh butter. The cheese should, in the first instance, be sliced very thin, and taken quite free of the hard part adjoining the rind ; it should be stirred in the cream without intermission until it is entirely dissolved, and the whole is perfectly smooth : the maccaroni, previously wrell drained, may then be tossed gently in it, or after it is dished, the cheese may be poured equally over the maccaroni. The wdiole, in either case, may be thickly covered before it is sent to table, with fine crumbs of bread fried of a pale gold colour, and dried perfectly, either before the fire or in an oven, when such an addition is considered an improvement. As a matter of precaution, it is better to boil the cream before the cheese is melted in it; rich white sauce, or bechamel, made not very thick, with an additional ounce or two of butter, may be used to vary and enrich this prepa- ration. If Parmesan cheese be used for it, it must of course be grated ; but, as we have said before, it will not easily blend with the other ingredients so as to be smooth. A portion of Stilton, free from the bl ue mould, would have a good effect in the present receipt. Half the quantity may be served. Maccaroni, ^ lb.; cheese, 10 oz.; good cream, f pint (or rich white ^nce) ; butter, 2 oz. (or more); little salt,fine cayenne, and mace. SEMOULINA AND POLENTA A L’lTALIENNE. (GOOD.) (To serve instead of Maccaroni.') Throw into a quart of milk, wThen it is fast boiling, half a teaspoonful of salt, and then shake lightly into it five ounces of the best semoulina; stir the milk as this is added, and continue to do so from eight to ten minutes, letting the mixture boil gently during the time. It should be very thick, and great care must be taken to prevent its sticking to the saucepan, which should be placed over a clear fire on a bar or trivet, but not upon the coals. Pour the semoulina, when it is done, into a basin, or a plain mould which it will not fill by an inch or two, and let it remain some hours in a cool place, that it may become perfectly cold ; it will then turn out quite solid, and like a pudding in appearance. Cut it writh a large, sharp carving-knife, or a bit of thin wire, into half-inch slices ; wash the basin into which it wras poured at first, and butter it well; grate from six to eight ounces of good cheese (Parmesan, or any other), and mix with it Maize.