MODERN COOKERY. 882 [chap. xix. or four apples of a good boiling kind not very finely minced Double the quantity of batter will be required for a large dish. 3; flour, 3 tablespoonsful; milk, £ to \ pint. PANCAKES. These may be made with the same batter as fritters, if it be suffi- ciently thinned with an additional egg or two, or a little milk or cream, to spread quickly over the pan : to fry them well, this ought to be small. When the batter is ready, heat the pan over a clear fire and rub it with butter in every part, then pour in sufficient batter tc spread over it entirely, and let the pancake be very thin: in this ;ase it will require no turning, but otherwise it must be tossed c rer with a sudden jerk of the pan, in which the cook who is not somewhat expert will not always succeed; therefore the safer plan is to make them so thin that they will not require this. Keep them hot before the fire or in the stove-oven until a sufficient number are ready to send to table, then proceed with a second supply, as they should always be quickly served. Either pile them one on the other with sugar strewed between, or spread quickly over them, as they are done, some apricot or other good preserve, and roll them up : in the latter case, they may be neatly divided and dished in a circle. Clotted cream is sometimes sent to table with them. A richer kind of pancake may be made with a pint of cream, or of cream and new milk mixed, five eggs or their yolks only, a couple of ounces of flour, a little pounded cinnamon or lemon-rind rasped on sugar and scraped into them, with two ounces more of pounded sugar, and two ounces of clarified butter: a few ratifias rolled to powder may be added at pleasure, or three or four macaroons. From 4 to 5 minutes. FRITTERS OF CAKE AND PUDDING. Cut plain pound, or rice cake, or rich seed cake, into small square slices half an inch thick ; trim away the crust, fry them slowly a light brown in a small quantity of fresh butter, and spread over them when done a layer of apricot-jam, or of any other preserve, and serve them immediately. These fritters are improved by being moistened with a little good cream before they are fried: they must then be slightly floured. Cold plum-pudding sliced down as thick as the cake, and divided into portions of equal size and good form, then dipped into French or English batter and gently fried, will also make an agreeable variety of fritter. Orange marmalade and Devon- shire cream may be served in separate layers on the seed cake fritters. The whole of the above may be cut of uniform size and shaped with a round cake-cutter.