21 CHAP. I.] SOUPS. for five minutes, take off all the scum, and serve the soup as hot ab possible. Butter, 3 oz.; carrots, 2 lbs.: 1 hour. Soup, 4^ pints: 50 to GO minutes. Salt, cayenne : 5 minutes. COMMON TURNIP SOUP. Wash and wipe the turnips, pare and weigh them; allow a pound and a half for every quart of soup. Cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Melt four ounces of butter in a clean stew- pan, and put in the turnips before it begins to boil; stew them gently for three quarters of an hour, taking care that they shall not brown, then have the proper quantity of soup ready boiling, pour it to them, and let them simmer in it for three quarters of an hour. Pulp the ' whole through a coarse sieve or soup strainer, put it again on the fire, keep it stirred until it has boiled three minutes or four, take off the scum, add salt and pepper if required, and serve it very hot. Turnips, 3 lbs.; butter, 4 02.: | hour. Soup, 2 quarts . f hour. Last time : three minutes. A QUICKLY MADE TURNIP SOUP. Pare and slice into three pints of veal or mutton stock or of good broth, three pounds of young mild turnips ; stew them gently from twenty-five to thirty minutes, or until they can be reduced quite to pulp; rub the whole through a sieve, and add to it another quart of stock, a seasoning of salt and white pepper, and one lump of sugar: give it two or three minutes’ boil, skim and serve it. A large white onion when the flavour is liked may be sliced and stewed with the turnips. A little cream improves much the colour of this soup. Turnips, 3 lbs.; soup, 5 pints : 25 to 30 minutes. POTATO SOUP. Mash to a smooth paste three pounds of good mealy potatoes, which have been steamed, or boiled very dry ; mix with them by degrees, two quarts of boiling broth, pass the soup through a strainer, set it again on the fire, add pepper and salt, and let it boil for five minutes. Take off entirely the black scum that will rise upon it, and serve it very hot with fried or toasted bread. Where the flavour is approved, two ounces of onions minced and fried a light brown, may be added to the soup, and stewed in it for ten minutes before it is sent to table. Potatoes, 3 lbs.; broth, 2 quarts: 5 minutes. (With onions, 2 oz..) 10 minutes. APPLE SOUP. (Soupe a la Bourguignon.) Clear the fat from five pints of good mutton broth, bouillon, or shin of beef stock, and strain it through a fine sieve; add to it when it boils, a pound and a half of good cooking apples, and stew them