EGGS AND MILK* CiiAP. XXii.] 440 lemon-juice. To these minced herbs or eschalots can be added at pleasure. Fill the whites with the mixture, and serve them in a bowl two-thirds filled with salad, sauced as usual; or use them merely as a decoration for a lobster or German salad. TO POACH EGGS. Take for this purpose a wide and delicately clean pan about half- filled with the clearest spring-water; throw in a small saltspoonful of salt, and place it over a fire quite free from smoke. Br^ak some new laid eggs into separate cups, and do this with care, that the yolks may not be injured. When the water boils, draw back the pan, glide the eggs gently into it, and let them stand until the whites appear almost set, which will be in about a minute : then, without shaking them, move the pan over the fire, and just simmer them from two minutes and a half to three minutes. Lift them out separately with a slice, trim quickly off the ragged edges, and serve them upon dressed spinach, or upon minced veal, turkey, or chicken ; or dish them for an invalid, upon delicately toasted bread, sliced thick, and freed from crust: it is an improvement to have the bread buttered, but it is then less wholesome. Comparative time of poaching eggs. Swans’ eggs, 5 to 6 minutes. (In basin, 10 minutes.) Turkeys* eggs 4 minutes. Hens’ eggs, 3 to 3| minutes. Guinea-fowls’, 2 to 3 minutes. Bantams’, 2 minutes, Obs.—All eggs may be poached without boiling if kept just at sim- mering point, but one boil quite at last will assist to detach them from the stewpan, from which they should always be very carefully lifted on what is called a fish or egg-slice. There are pans made on pur- pose for poaching and frying them in good form; but they do not, we believe, answer particularly well. If broken into cups slightly rubbed with butter, and simmered in them, their roundness of shap( will be best preserved. POACHED EGGS WITH GRAVY. (ENTREMETS.) (Eufs Poches an Jus. Dress the eggs as above, giving them as good an appearance as possible, lay them into a very hot dish, and sauce them with some rich, clear, boiling veal gravy, or with some Espagnole. Eacn egg, lor variety, may be dished upon a crouton of bread cut with a fluted paste-cutter, and fried a pale brown : the sauce should then be poured round, not over them. Poaching is the best mode of dressing a swan’s egg,* as it renders it more than any other delicate in flavour; it is usually served on a bed of spinach. Only the eggs of quite young swans are suited to the * We fear that want of space must compel us to omit some other receipts for swans’ eggs, which we had prepared for this chapter. G G