CHAP. XVII.J 321 VEGETABLES. minutes, and serve them directly heaped high in a very hot dish. there will be no sauce except that which adheres to the peas if they be properly managed. We have found marrowfats excellent, dressed by this receipt. Fresh and good butter should be used with them always Peas, 1 quart; butter, 2 oz.: 20 minutes. Water to cover the peas; little salt: 40 minutes. Sugar, small lump; butter, ^ oz.; flour, 1 teaspoonful: 2 minutes. GREEN PEAS WITH CREAM. (ENTREMETS.) Boil a quart of young peas perfectly tender in salt and water, and drain them as dry as possible. Dissolve an ounce and a half ot butter in a clean stewpan, stir smoothly to it when it boils a dessert- spoonful of flour, and shake these over the fire for three or four minutes, but without allowing them to take the slightest colour; pour gradually to them a cup of rich cream, add a small lump of sugar pounded, let the sauce boil, then put in the peas and toss them gently in it until they are very hot: dish, and serve them quickly. Peas, 1 quart: 18 to 25 minutes. Butter, 1| oz.; flour, 1 dessert- spoonful : 3 to 5 minutes. Sugar, 1 saltspoonful; cream, 1 cupful TO BOIL FRENCH BEANS. When the beans are very small and young, merely take off the ends and stalks, and drop them into plenty of spring water as they are done ; when all are ready wash and drain them well, throw them into a large saucepan of fast-boiling water, salted as usual (see page 309), and when they are quite tender, which will be in from twelve to eighteen minutes, pour them into a cullender, shake the water from them, dish, and send them quickly to table with good melted butter in a tureen. When from half to two parts grown, cut the beans obliquely into a lozenge form, or, when a less modern fashion is preferred, split them lengthwise into delicate strips, and then cut them once across : the strings should be drawn off with the tops and stalks. ]Sfo mode of dressing it can render this vegetable good when it is old, but if the sides be pared off, the beans cut thin, and boiled tender with rather more than the ordinary proportion of soda, they will be of excellent colour, and tolerably eatable. FRENCH BEANS A LA FRANQAISE. (ENTREMETS.) Boil, and drain them thoroughly; then put them into a clean stewpan, or well-tinned iron saucepan, and shake them over the fire until they are very dry and hot; add to them from two to foui ounces of fresh butter cut into small bits, some white pepper, a little salt, and the juice of half a lemon toss them gently for a few minutes over a clear fire, and serve them very hot. Should the butter turn to oil, a spoonful or two of veal gravy or boiling watci must be added. V