CHAP. VI.] COLD SAUCES, SALADS, ETC, 183 FINE HORSERADISH SAUCE. (To serve with cold\ roast, stewed, or boiled beef.) The root for this excellent sauce should be young and tender, and grated down on a very fine bright grater, quite to a pulp, after it has been washed, wiped, and scraped free from the outer skin. We have given the proportions for it in the preceding chapter, but repeat them here. Horseradish, 2 heaped tablespoonsful; salt, 1 moderate teaspoonful ; rich cream, 4 tablespoonsful; good vinegar, 3 dessertspoonsful (of which one may be chili vinegar when the root is mild.) When the other ingredients are smoothly mingled, the vinegar 1 must be stirred briskly to them in very small portions. A few drops of garlic or shalot vinegar can be added to them when it is liked. COLD MAITRE d’iIOTEL, OR STEWARD’S SAUCE. Work well together until they are perfectly blended, two or three ounces of good butter, some pepper, salt, minced parsley, and the strained juice of a sound lemon of moderate size. The sauce thus prepared is often put into broiled fish ; and laid in the dish under broiled kidneys, beef-steaks, and other meat. For 2 oz. butter, 1 heaped teaspoonful young minced parsley; juice of 1 lemon; 1 smalJ saltspoonful salt; seasoning of white pepper. Obs.—The proportion of parsley may be doubled when a larger quantity is liked : a little fine cayenne would often be preferred to the pepper. COLD DUTCH OR AMERICAN SAUCE, FOR SALADS OF DRESSED VEGETABLES, SALT FISH, OR HARD EGGS. Put into a saucepan three ounces of good butter very smoothly blended with a quite small teaspoonful of flour, and add to them a large wineglassful of cold water, half as much sharp vinegar (or very fresh, strained, lemon-juice) a saltspoonful of salt, and half as much cayenne in fine powder. Keep these shaken briskly round, or stirred over a clear fire, until they form a smooth sauce and boil rapidly; then stir them very quickly to the beaten yolks of four fresh eggs, which will immediately give the sauce the consistence of custard; pour it hot over the salad, and place it on ice, or in a very cool larder until it is quite cold: if properly made, it will be very thick and smooth, and slightly set, as if it contained a small portion of isinglass. A dessertspoonful of parsley,—or of tarragon,—can be mingled with it at pleasure, or any flavour given to it with store-sauces which is liked. It converts flakes of salt-fish, sliced potatoes (new or old), and hard eggs, into excellent salads.