CAKES. 545 CHAP. XXVI.] Jordan almonds blanched, 1 lb.; sugar, 1] lb. : whites of 7 or 8 eggs . 15 to 20 minutes. VERY FINE COCOA-NrT MACAROONS. Rasp a fresh cocoa-nut, spread it on a dish or tin, and let it dry gradually for a couple of days, if it can be done conveniently; add to it double its weight of fine sifted sugar, and the whites of eight eggs beaten to a solid froth (see page 543), to the pound. Roll the mixture into small balls, place them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a very gentle oven about twenty minutes. Move them from the tin while they are warm, and store them in a very dry canister as soon as they are cold. Cocoa-nut, ^ lb.; sugar, 1 lb.: whites of eggs, 8 : very gentle oven, 20 minutes. IMPERIALS. (NOT VERY RICH.) Work into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and mix wrell with them half a pound of sifted sugar, six ounces of currants, two ounces of candied orange-peel, the grated rind of a lemon, and four well-beaten eggs. Flour a tin lightly, and with a couple of forks place the paste upon it in small rough heaps quite two inches apart. Bake them in a very gentle oven, from a quarter ol an hour to twenty minutes, or until they are equally coloured to a pale browm. Flour 1 lb.; butter, 6 oz.; sugar, 8 oz.; currants, 6 oz.; candied peel, 2 oz ; rind of 1 lemon ; eggs, 4; 15 to 20 minutes. FINE ALMOND CAKE. Blanch, dry, and pound to the finest possible paste, eight ounces of fresh Jordan almonds, and one ounce of bitter; moisten them writh a few drops of cold w'ater or white of egg, to prevent their oiling; then mix with them very gradually twelve fresh eggs wdiich have been whisked until they are exceedingly light; throw in by degrees one pound of fine, dry, sifted sugar, and keep the mixture light by constant beating, with a large wrooien spoon, as the separate in- gredients are added. Mix in by degrees three-quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour of the best qua’ity; then pour gently from the sediment a pound of butter which has been just melted, Lut not allowed to become hot, and beat it very gradually, but very thoroughly, into the cake, letting one portion entirely disappear before another is thrown in; add the rasped or finely-grated rinds of two sound fresh lemons, fill a thickly-buttered mould rather more than half full with the mixture, and bake the cake from an hour and a half to ;wo hours in a well-heated oven. Lay paper over the top when it is sufficiently coloured, and guard carefully against its being burned. s s