CHAP. VI.] COLD SAUCES, SALADS, ETC. 135 THE POET’S RECEIPT FOR SALAD.* u Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve Unwonted softness to the salad give; Of mordent mustard*, add a single spoon, Distrust the condiment which bites so soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town ; True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs; Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl, And, scarce suspected, animate the whole ; And lastly, in the flavoured compound toss A magic teaspoon of anchovy sauce : Then, though green turtle fail, though venison’s tough, And ham and turkey are not boiled enough, Serenely full, the epicure may say — Fate cannot harm me,—I have dined to-day:” Two well-boiled potatoes, passed through a sieve; a teaspoonful of mustard; two teaspoonsful of salt; one of essence of anchovy; about a quarter of a teaspoonful of very finely-chopped onions, well bruised into the mixture; three tablespoonsful of oil; one of vinegar; the yolks of two eggs, hard boiled. Stir up the salad immediately before dinner, and stir it up thoroughly. N.B.—As this salad is the result of great experience and reflection, it is hoped young salad makers will not attempt to make any im- provements upon it. * SAUCE MAYONNAISE. (For salads, cold meat, poultry, fish, or vegetables.) This is a very fine sauce when all the ingredients used for it are good; but it will prove an uneatable compound to a delicate taste unless it be made with oil of the purest quality. Put into a large basin the yolks only of two very fresh eggs, care- fully freed from specks, with a little salt and cayenne; stir these wTell together, then add about a teaspoonful of the purest salad oil, and work the mixture round with a wooden spoon until it appears like cream. Pour in by slow degrees nearly half a pint of oil, continuing * Note.—This receipt, though long privately circulated amongst the friends and acquaintance of its distinguished and regretted author, now (with permis- sion) appears for the first time in print. Y/e could not venture to deviate by a word from the original, but we would suggest, that the mixture forms almost a substitute for salad, instead of a mere dressing. It is, however, an admirable compound for those to whom the slight flavouring of onion is not an objection.