MODERN COOKERY. 614 lChap. xxxii. Bacon, 8 lbs., 1| to 2 hours ; fowls, 2. Rice, nearly 2 lbs. Broth from bacon and fowls, 3£ pints ; onions, 3; cloves and pepper* corns, 5 oz. each ; allspice, 1 drachm: f hour. INDIAN RECEIPT FOR CURRIED FISH. Take the fish from the bones, and cut it into inch and half squares; lay it into a stewpan with sufficient hot water to barely cover it; sprinkle some salt over, and boil it gently until it is about half cooked. Lift it out with a fish-slice, pour the liquor into n basin, and clear off any scum which may be on it. Should there be three or four pounds of the fish, dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, and when it has become a little brown, add two cloves of garlic and a large onion finely minced or sliced very thin ; fry them until they are well coloured, then add the fish; strew equally over it, and stir it well up with from two to three table- spoonsful of Bengal currie powder ; cover the pan, and shake it often until the fish is nicely browned; next add by degrees the liquor in which it was stewed, and simmer it until it is perfectly done, but not so as to fall into fragments. Add a moderate quantity of lemon-juice or chili vinegar, and serve it very hot. BENGAL CURRIE POWDER. No. 1. Mix thoroughly the following ingredients after they have been separately reduced to the finest powder and passed through a fine hair or lawn sieve:— 6 oz. coriander seed 3 oz. black pepper. 1 oz. cummin-seed. \ \ oz. fenugreek-seed. I oz. cayenne pepper. 3 oz. best pale turmeric. Set the powder before the fire to dry, and turn it often; then withdraw it, let it become cold, and bottle it immediately. Keep it closely corked. Obs.—We cannot think a large proportion of black pepper a de- sirable addition to currie powder, as it gives a strong coarse flavour : but as it may be liked by persons who are accustomed to it, we give the preceding and the following receipt without varying either : tlis second appears to us the best. Coriander-seed 8 oz. Chinese turmeric . . . . 4 oz. Black pepper . . 2 oz. Cassia . ^ os. White ginger . . . ..... 1 oz. Cayenne pepper . I oz.