6 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. I. paper, so that they may dry a little before they are used. Drop them gradually into the boiling soup, and in ten minutes they will be done Various other forms may be given to this paste at will. It may be divided into a sort of ribbon macaroni; or stamped with small con- fectionary cutters into different shapes. It is much used in the more delicate departments of cookery, and when cut as for soup, and pre- pared as for the Genoises a la Heine of Chapter XVIII. makes very superior puddings, pastry, fritters, and other sweet dishes. VEGETABLE VERMICELLI. ( Vegetables cut very fine for soups.') Cut the carrots into inch lengths, then pare them round and round in ribands of equal thickness, till the inside is reached; next cut these ribands into straws, or very small strips; celery-is prepared in the same way, and turnips also are first pared into ribands, then sliced into strips ; these last require less boiling than the carrots, and attention must be paid to this, for if broken, the whole would have a bad appearance in soup. The safer plan is to boil each vegetable separately, till tole- rably tender, in a little pale broth (in water if this be not at hand), to drain them well, and put them into the soup, which should be clear, only a few minutes before it is dished. For cutting them small, in other forms, the proper instruments will be found at the iron- monger’s. EXTRACT OF BEEF j OS, VERY STRONG PLAIN BEEF GRAVY SOUP. (Baron Liebeg’s Receipt.) Observation.—This admirable preparation is not only most valu- able as a restorative of the best kind for invalids who require light but highly nutritious diet, it is also of the utmost utility for the general purposes of the kitchen, and will enable a cook who can take skilful advantage of it, to convert the cold meat which often abounds so in- conveniently in an English larder, from our habit of having joints of large size so much served, into good nourishing dishes, which the hashes and minces of our common cookery are not, though they may answer well enough as mere varieties of diet. We shall indicate in the proper chapters the many other uses to which this beef juice—for such indeed it is—will be found eminently adapted. Of its value in illness it is impossible to speak too highly ; and in every family, there- fore, the exact mode of making it ought to be thoroughly understood. The economist who may consider it expensive, must remember that drugs and medical advice are usually far more so; and in cases of ex- treme debility the benefit derived from it, when it is well prepared and judiciously administered, is often remarkable. It should be given m small quantities at first, and in its pure state. It may afterwards be varied by the addition of vermicelli, semoulina, or other preparations