496 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. XXIV. instantaneously raised from the tire when the contents threaten to over-boil or to burn. It is desirable to have three or four wooden spoons or spatulas, one fine hair-sieve, at the least, one or two large squares of common muslin, and one strainer or more of closer texture, kept exclusively for prepara- tions of fruit; for if used for other pur- poses, there is the hazard, without great care, of their retaining some strong or coarse flavour, which they would im- part to the preserves. A sieve, for example, used habitually for soup or Copper Preserving Pan. gravy, should never, on any account, be brought into use for any kind of confectionary, nor in making sweet dishes, nor for straining eggs or milk for puddings, cakes, or bread. Damp is the great enemy, not only of preserves and pickles, but of numberless other household stores; yet, in many situations, it is extremely difficult to exclude it. To keep them in a “ dry cool place ” (words which occur so frequently both in this book, and in most others on the same subject), is more easily directed than done. They remain, we find, more entirely free from any danger of moulding, when covered with a brandied paper only, ami placed on the shelves of a tolerably dry store-room, or in a chiffoneer (in which we have had them keep unchanged for years). When the slightest fermentation is perceptible in syrup, it should immediately be boiled for some minutes, and well skimmed ; the fruit taken from it should then be thrown in, and well scalded also, and the whole, when done, should be turned into a very clean dry jar this kind of preserve should always be covered with one or two skins or with parchment and thick paper when it is not secured from the air with corks. A FEW GENERAL RULES AND DIRECTIONS FOR PRESERVING. 1. Let everything used for the purpose be delicately clean and dry; bottles especially so. 2. Never place a preserving pan fiat upon the fire, as this will render the preserve liable to burn to, as it is .called; that is to say, to adhere closely to the metal, and then to burn ; it should rest always on a trivet (that shown with the French furnace is very convenient^ even for a common grate), or on the lowered bar of a kitchen range when there is no regular preserving stove in a house. 3. After the sugar is added to them, stir the preserves gently at first, and more quickly towards the end, without quitting them until they are done : this precaution will always prevent the chance of their being spoiled. 4. All preserves should be perfectly cleared from the scum as it rises, 5. Fruit which is to be preserved in syrup must first be blanched