151 store sauces, CHAP. VII.] and boil it for five minutes with a half-teaspoonful of salt, a small race of ginger, a blade of mace, forty corns of pepper, twelve cloves and four eschalots. Bottle it with the spice when it is quite cold. Cut half a peck of ripe tomatas into quarters; lay them on dishes and sprinkle over them half a pound of salt. The next day drain the 2 from them through a hair-sieve into a stew-pan, and boil it for an hour with three dozens of small capsicums and half a pound of eschalots; then add the tomatas, which should be ready pulped through a strainer. Boil the whole for thirty minutes longer; have some clean wide-necked bottles, kept warm by the fire, fill them with the catsup while it is quite hot; cork, and dip the necks into melted bottle-resin or cement. Tomatas, £ peck ; salt, \ lb.; capsicums, 3 doz.; eschalots, | lb. % hour. After pulp is added, ^ hour. Obs.—This receipt has been kindly contributed by a person who makes by it every year large quantities of the catsup, which is consi- dered excellent: for sauce it must be mixed with gravy or melted butter. We have not ourselves been able to make trial of it. Mix well, by shaking them in a bottle, a wineglassful of Indian soy, half a pint of chili vinegar, half a pint of walnut catsup, and a pint and a half of the best mushroom catsup. These proportions make an excellent sauce, either to mix with melted butter, and to serve with fish, or to add to different kinds of gravy; but they can be varied, or added to, at pleasure. Indian soy, 1 wineglassful; chili vinegar, \ pint; walnut catsup, | pint: mushroom catsup, 1|- pint. Gather the tarragon just before it blossoms, which will be late in July, or early in August; strip it from the larger stalks, and put it into small stone jars or wide-necked bottles, and in doing this twist aome of the branches so as to bruise the leaves and wring them asun- der ; then pour in sufficient distilled or very pale vinegar to cover the tarragon; let it infuse for two months, or more : it will take no harm even by standing all the winter. When it is poured off, strain it very clear, put it into small dry bottles, and cork them well. Sweet basil vinegar is made in exactly the same way, but it should not be left on the leaves more than three weeks. The jars or bottles should be filled to the neck with the tarragon before the vinegar is added: its flavour is strong and peculiar, but to many tastes very agreeable. It imparts quite a foreign character to the dishes for which it is used. BOTTLED TOMATAS, OR TOMATA CATSUP. EPICUREAN SAUCE, TARRAGON VINEGAR,