SWEET DISHES, 479 chap, xxiii. ]j ends be held and twisted different' ways by two persons, to express the cream from the almonds; put the juice again on the fire, with half a pound of sugar, and when it boils, throw in nearly an ounce of fine isinglass; simmer the whole for five minutes, take off the scum, stir the blanc-mange until it is nearly cold, then mould it for table. Increase the quantity both of this and of the preceding blanc-mange, when a large dish of either is required. Quince-juice, 1 pint; Jordan almond, 4oz.; sugar, ^ lb • isinglass, nearly 1 oz,: 5 minutes. APRICOT BLANC-MANGE, OR Cr£mE PARISIENNE. Dissolve gently an ounce of fine isinglass in a pint of new milk or of thin cream, and strain it through a folded muslin; put it into a clean saucepan, with three ounces of sugar, broken into small lumps5, and when it boils, stir to it half a pint of rich cream; add it, at first by spoonsful only, to eight ounces of the finest apricot jam, mix them very smoothly, and stir the whole until it is nearly cold that the jam may not sink to the bottom of the mould : a tablespoonful of lemon- juice will improve the flavour. When cream is scarce, use milk instead, with an additional quarter of an ounce of isinglass, and enrich it by pouring it boiling on the same proportion of almcnds as for the second quince blanc-mange (see page 478). Cream can in all cases be substituted entirely for the milk, when a very rich preparation is desired. Peach jam will answer admirably for this receipt; but none of any kind should be used for it which has not been passed through a sieve when made. Isinglass, 1 oz.; new milk, 1 pint; cream, \ pint : sugar, 3 oz.; apricot jam, \ lb ; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful. Or, peach jam, £ lb.; cream, \\ pint. CURRANT BLANC-MANGE. In three-quarters of a pint of clear currant-juice, drawn from the fruit as for jelly, and strained, dissolve an ounce and a half of isin- glass ; add nine ounces of sugar broken small, give the whole a boil, strain it, and stir it by slow degrees to three-quarters of a pint of thick cold cream; when it is less than milk-wurm pour it into the moulds. The proportions of juice and cream can be varied to the taste, and a portion of raspberries or strawberries added to the cur- rants. Black currants would, we think, make an agreeable variety of this blanc-mange for persons who like their peculiar flavour, but we have not tried them. Clear juice of red currant, f pint; isinglass, oz.; sugar, 9 oz. ? cream, f pint.