118 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. V. good sherry or Madeira, two tablespoonsful of lemon-juice, some cayenne, a little salt if needed, and a small tablespoonful of flour very smoothly mixed with two ounces of butter. Give the whole a boil after the thickening is added, pour a portion of the sauce over the fish' (it is served principally with salmon and trout), and send the remainder very hot to table in a tureen. Lean of ham, 3 oz.; ^ small carrot; 4 to 6 cloves; mace, 1 large blade; thyme and parsley, 3 or 4 small sprigs of each; butter, 1 to oz.: 50 to 60 minutes. Veal gravy, 1 pint: f to 1 hour. Sherry <or Madeira, 1^ glassful; lemon-juice, 2 tablespoonsful; seasoning of cayenne and salt; flour, 1 tablespoonful; butter, 2 oz.: 1 minute. Obs.— A teaspoonful or more of essence of anchovies is usually added to the sauce, though it is scarcely required. SAUCE ROBERT. Cut four or five large onions into small dice, and brown them in a stewpan, with three ounces of butter and a dessertspoonful of flour. When of a deep yellow brown, pour to them half a pint of beef or of veal gravy, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes; skim the sauce, add a seasoning of salt and pepper, and at the moment of serving, mix a dessertspoonful of made mustard with it. Large onions, 4 or 5; butter, 3 oz.; flour, dessertspoonful' 10 to 15 minutes. Gravy, ^ pint: 15 minutes. Mustard, dessert- spoonful SAUCE PIQUANTE. Brown lightly in an ounce and a half of butter a tablespoonful of minced eschalots oi three of onions; add a teaspoonful of flour when they are partially doue; pour to them half a pint of gravy or of good broth, and when it boils add three chilies, a bay-leaf, and a very small bunch of thyme. Let these simmer for twenty minutes; take out the thyme and bay-leaf, add a high seasoning of black pepper, and half a wineglassful of the best vinegar. A quarter of a teaspoou- ful of cayenne may be substituted for the chilies. Eschalots, 1 tablespoonful, or three of onions; flour, 1 teaspoonful; butter, oz.: 10 to 15 minutes. Gravy or broth, l pint; chilies, 3 ; bay-leaf; thyme, small bunch: 20 minutes. Pepper, plenty; vinegar, | wineglassful. EXCELLENT HORSERADISH SAUCE. (To serve hot or cold with roast beef.) Wash and wipe a stick of young horseradish, scrape off the outer skin, grate it as small as possible on a fine grater, then with two ounces (or a couple of large tablespoonsful) of it mix a small teaspoonful of salt and four tablespoonsful of good cream; stir in briskly, and by