117 CHAP. V.] SAUCES. MAITRH D’HOTEL SAUCE MAIGRE,* OR WITHOUT GRAVY. Substitute half a pint of good melted butter for the gravy, and add to it the same seasonings as above. A double quantity of these sauces will be needed when they are required to cover a large fish; in that case they should be thick enough to adhere to it well. Melted butter, £ pint; seasoning of salt and pepper, or cayenne; minced parsley, 2 to 3 teaspoonsful; juice, 1 small lemon. For Cold Maitre d’Hotel Sauce, see Chapter YI, THE LADY’S SAUCE. (For Fish.) Pound to a very smooth paste the inside coral of a lobster with a small slice of butter, and some cayenne; rub it through a hair-sieve, gather it together, and mix it very smoothly with from half to three- quarters of a pint of sauce tournee or of cream fish-sauce, previously well seasoned with cayenne and salt, and moderately with pounded mace; bring it to the point of boiling only; stir in quickly,- but gradually, a tablespoonful of strained lemon-juice, and serve it very hot. When neither cream nor gravy is at hand, substitute rich melted butter mixed with a dessertspoonful or two of essence of an- chovies, and well seasoned. The fine colour of the coral will be destroyed by boiling. This sauce, which the French call Sauce a VAurore, may be served with brill, boiled soles, gray mullet, and some few other kinds of fish: it is quickly made when the lobster butter of Chapter YI. is in the house. Coral of lobster, pounded; cream sauce, or sauce tournee (thickened pale veal gravy), l to f pint; lemon-juice, 1 tablespoonful; salt, cayenne, and mace, as needed. Or: rich melted butter, instead of other sauce; essence of anchovies, 2 dessertspoonsful; other season^ ing, as above. Obs.—The proportion of spices h$re must, of course, depend on the flavouring which the gravy or sauce may already have received. GENEVESE SAUCE, OR SAUCE GENEVOISE. Cut into dice three ounces of the lean of a well-flavoured ham, and put them with half a small carrot, four cloves, a blade of mace, two or three very small sprigs of lemon thyme and of parsley, and rather more than an ounce of butter, into a stewpan ; just simmer them from three-quarters of an hour to a whole hour, then stir in a teaspoonful of flour; continue the slow stewing for about five minutes, and pour in by degrees a pint of good boiling veal gravy, and let the sauce again simmer softly for nearly an hour. Strain it off, heat it in a clean saucepan, and when it boils, stir in a wineglassful and a half of * Maigre, made without meat.