MODERN COOKERY, i [chap. xxi. 434 until tender, sweeten it witli three ounces of .sugar, stir to it, gradually, three large, or four small eggs, beaten and strained; idd grated nutmeg, lemon rind, or cinnamon to give it flavour, and bake it one hour in a gentle oven. Rice, 6 oz.; in water, 8 to 10 minutes. Milk, 1 quart: f to 1 hour. Sugar, 3 oz.; eggs, 3 large, or 4 small; flavouring of nutmeg lemon-rind, or cinnamon: bake 1 hour, gentle oven. QUITE CIIEAP RICE PUDDING. Boil the rice in water, as for a currie, and while it is still warm, mix with it a pint and a half of milk, and three fresh or four or five French eggs (at many seasons of the year these last, which are always cheap, are very good, and answer excellently for puddings.) Sweeten it with pale brown sugar, grate nutmeg on the top, and bake it slowly until it is firm in every part. RICHER RICE PUDDING. Wash very clean four ounces of whole rice, pour on it a pint and a half of new milk, and stew it slowly till quite tender; before it is taken from the fire, stir in two ounces of good butter, and three of sugar ; and when it has cooled a little, add four well-whisked eggs, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Bake the pudding in a gentle oven from thirty to forty minutes. As rice requires long boiling to render it soft in milk, it may be partially stewed in water, the quantity of milk diminished to a pint, and a little thick sweet cream mixed with it, before the other ingredients are added. Rice, 4 oz.; new milk, 1| pint; butter, 2 oz.; sugar, 3 oz.; eggs, 4; rind of \ lemon: 30 to 40 minutes, slow oven. RICE PUDDING MERINGIlA Swell gently four ounces of Carolina rice in a pint and a quarter cf milk or of thin cream ; let it cool a little, and stir to it an ounce and a half of butter, three of pounded sugar, a grain or two of salt, the grated rind of a small lemon, and the yolks of four large, or of five small eggs. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and lay lightly and equally over the top the whites of four eggs beaten as for sponge cakes, and mixed at the instant with from four to five heaped tablespoonsful of sifted sugar Bake the pudding half an hour in a moderate oven, but do not allow the meringue to be too deeply coloured; it should be of a clear brown, and very crisp. Serve it directly it is taken from the oven. Rice, 4 oz.; milk, cv cream, 1£ pint; butter, 1J oz.; sugar, 3 oz.; rind, 1 lemon; yolks of eggs, 4 or 5 ; the whites beaten to snow, and mixed with as many tablespoonsful of sifted sugar: baked \ hour* moderate oven.