MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxxr. 602 RUSKS. Work quite into crumbs six ounces of butter with a couple of pounds of fine dry dour, and mix them into a lithe paste, with two tablespoonsful of mild beer 3>cast, three well-beaten eggs, and nearly half a pint of Avarrn new milk. When it has risen to its full height knead it smooth, and make it into very small loaves or thick cakes cut with a round cake-cutter; place them on a doured tin, and let them stand in a warm place to prove from ten to tAArenty minutes before they are set into the oven. Bake them about a quarter of an hour; divide them while they are still warm, and put them into a ATery slow oven to dry. When they are crisp quite through they are done. Four teaspoonsful of sifted sugar must be added when sweet- rusks are preferred. Flour, 2 lbs.; butter, 6 oz.; yeast, 2 tablespoonsful; eggs, 3 ; new milk nearly half a pint: baked | hour. For either of the preceding receipts substitute rather more than an ounce of German yeast, when it can be procured quite fresh; or should an ounce of it only be used (which we should consider an ample proportion), let the dough —especially that of the rusks— become extremely light before it is kneaded down, and also pre- viously to its being sent to the oven. A someAvhat smaller quantity of yeast is required in warm weather than in cold. [Remabk.—The remainder of this chapter is extracted from a little treatise on domestic bread-making, which we hope shortly to lay before the public, as it appears to us to be greatly needed; but, as we have already more than once repeated, we are unwilling to withhold from the present volume any information which may be generally useful.] EXCELLENT DAIRY-BREAD MADE WITHOUT YEAST. (Author's "Receipt.) When we first heard unfermented bread vaguely spoken of, we had it tried very successfully in the following manner ; and we have since been told that an almost similar method of preparing it is common in many remote parts both of England and Ireland, AA7here it is almost impossible to procure a constant supply of yeast. Blend well together a teaspoonful of pounded sugar and fifty grains of the purest carbonate of soda ; mix a saltspoonful of salt with a pound of flour, and rub the soda and sugar through a hair-sieve into it. Stir and mingle them well, and make them quickly into a firm but not hard dough with sour buttermilk. Bake the loaf well in a thoroughly heated, but not fierce oven. In a brick, or good iron oven a few minutes less than an hour would be sufficient to bake a loaf of similar weight. The buttermilk should be kept until it is quite acid,