[chap. ii. MODERN COOKERY. 52 varieties of fish which are suited to our tables; we give, tnerefore, only the more essential receipts in detail, and add to them such gen- eral information as may, we trust, enable even a moderately in- telligent cook to serve all that may usually be required, without difficulty. There is no better way of dressing a good turbot, brill, John Dory, or cod’s head and shoulders, than plain but careful boiling. Salmon is excellent in almost every mode in which it can be cooked or used. Boiled entire or in crimped slices; roasted in a cradle-spit or Dutch oven ; baked ; fried in small collops ; collared ; potted; dried and smoked; pickled or soused (this is the coarsest and least to be recommended process for it, of any); made into a raised or common pie, or a potato-pasty ; served cold in or with sa- voury jelly, or with a Mayonnaise sauce; or laid on potatoes and baked, as in Ireland, it will be found Good. Soles may be either boiled, or baked, or fried entire, or in fillets ; curried ; stewed in cream; or prepared by any of the directions given for them in the body of this chapter. Plaice, unless when in full season and very fresh, is apt to be watery and insipid; but taken in its perfection and carefully cooked, it is very sweet and delicate in flavour. If large, it may be boiled with advantage either whole or in fillets; but to many tastes it is very superior when filleted, dipped into egg and bread crumbs, and fried. The flesh may also be curried ; or the plaice may be converted into water-souchy, or soupe-maigre: when small it is often fried whole. Bed mullet should always be baked, broiled, or roasted: it should on no occasion be boiled. Mackerel, for which many receipts will be found in this chapter, when broiled quite whole, as we have directed, or freed from the bones, divided, egged, crumbed, and fried, is infinitely superior to the same fish cooked in the ordinary manner. The whiting, when very fresh and in season, is always delicate and good ; and of all fish is considered the best suited to invalids. Per- haps quite the most wholesome mode of preparing it for them, is to open it as little as possible Avhen it is cleansed, to leave the skin on, to dry the fish well, and to broil it gently. It should be sent very hot to table, and will require no sauce: twenty minutes will usually be required to cook it, if of moderate size. The haddock is sometimes very large. We have had it occasionally from our southern coast between two and three feet in length, and it was then remarkably good when simply boiled, even the day after it was caught, the white curd between the flakes of flesh being like that of extremely fresh salmon. As it is in full season in mid-winter, it can oe sent to a distance without injury. It is a very firm fish when large and in season ; but, as purchased commonly at inland markets, is often neither fine in size nor quality. One of the best modes of poking it is, to take the flesh entire from the hopes, to divide it, dip