MODERN COOKERY, 414 [chap. XX. A VERY FINE CABINET PUDDING. Butter thickly a mould of the same size as for the preceding pudding, and ornament it tastefully with dried cherries, or with the finest muscatel raisins opened and stoned; lay lightly into it a quarter-pound of sponge biscuit cut in slices, and intermixed with an equal weight of ratifias; sweeten with three ounces of sugar in lumps, and flavour highly with vanilla, or with the thin rind of halt a fine lemon, and six sound bitter almonds bruised (should these be preferred), three-quarters of a pint, or rather more, of thin cream, or of cream and new milk mixed; strain and pour this hot to the well-beaten yolks of six eggs and the whites of two, and when the mixture is nearly cold, throw in gradually a wineglassful of good brandy; pour it gently, and by degrees, into the mould, and steam cr boil the pudding very softly for an hour. Serve it with well made wine sauce. Never omit a buttered paper over any sort ot custard-mixture ; and remember that quick boiling will destroy the good appearance of this kind of pudding. The liquid should be quite cold before it is added to the cakes, or the butter on the mould would melt off, and the decorations with it; preserved ginger, and candied citron in slices, may be used to vary these, and the syrup of the former may be added to give flavour to the other ingredients. Dried cherries, 3 to 4 oz.; sponge-biscuits, i lb.; ratifias, 4 oz.; thin cream, or cream and milk, f pint.; sugar, 3 oz.; vanilla, £ pod (or thin rind of t lemon and 6 bitter almonds bruised) ; yolks of 6 eggs, whites of 2; brandy, 1 wineglassful (preserved ginger and candied citron at choice) : steamed, or gently boiled, 1 hour. SNOWDON PUDDING. (Genuine Receipt.') Ornament a well buttered mould or basin with some fine raisins split open and stoned, but not divided, pressing the cut side on the butter to make them adhere; next, mix half a pound of very finely minced beef-kidney suet, with half a pound of bread crumbs, and an ounce and a half of rice-flour, a pinch of salt, and six ounces of lemon marmalade, or of orange when the lemon cannot be procured; add six ounces of pale brown sugar, six thoroughly whisked eggs, and the grated rinds of two lemons. Beat the whole until all the ingredients are perfectly mixed, pour it gently into the mould, cover it with a buttered paper and a floured cloth, and boil it for one hour and a half. It will turn out remarkably well if carefu1' ^nared. Half the quantity given above will fill a mould or ba- will contain rather more than a pint, and will be sufficient^ nbo. . xn ten minutes less than an hour. To many tastes a, slight diminution in the proportion of suet would be an improvement to the pudding;