[chap. yi. MODERN COOKERY. 136 at cacli interval to work the sauce as at first until it resumes the smoothness of cream, and not a particle of the oil remains visible; then add a couple of tablespoonsful of plain French or of tarragon vinegar, and one of cold water to whiten the sauce. A bit of clear veal jelly the size of an egg will improve it greatly. The reader who may have a prejudice against the unboiled eggs which enter into the composition of the Mayonnaise, will find that the most fastidious taste would not detect their being raw, if the sauce be well made; and per- sons who dislike oil may partake of it in this form, without being aware of its presence, provided always that it be perfectly fresh, and pure in flavour, for otherwise it will be easily perceptible. Yolks of fresh unboiled eggs, 2; salt, £ saltspoonful, or rather more; cayenne ; oil, full third of pint; French or tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoonsful; cold water, 1 tablespoonful; meat jelly (if at hand), size of an egg. RED OR GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Colour may be given either to the preceding or to the following Sauce Mayonnaise by mingling with it some hard lobster-coral reduced to powder by rubbing it through a very fine hair-sieve : the red hue of this is one of the most brilliant and beautiful that can be seen, but the sauce for which it is used can only be appropriately served with fish or fish-salads. Spinach-green wid impart a fine tint to any pre- paration, but its flavour is objectionable: that of parsley-green is more agreeable. Directions for both of these are contained in the previous chapter. IMPERIAL MAYONNAISE. (An elegant jellied scuce, or salad-dressing.') Put into a bowl half a pint of aspic, or of any very clear pale jellied stock (that made usually for good white soup will serve for the purpose excellently) ; add to it a couple of spoonsful of the purest olive-oil, one of sharp vinegar, and a little fine salt and cayenne. Break up the jelly quite small with the points of a whisk of osier-twigs, stir the ingredients well together, and then whisk them gently until they are converted into a smooth white sauce. This receipt was de- rived originally from an admirable French cook,* who stood quite at the head of his profession; but as he was accustomed to purvey for the tables cf kings and emperors, his directions require some curtail- ment and simplifying to adapt them to the resources of common English life. He directs the preparation to be mixed and worked— to use a technical expression—over ice, which cannot always be com- manded, except in opulent establishments, and in large towns. It is * Monsieur Careme, to whose somewhat elaborate hut admirable works, pub- lished thirty years or more since, all modern cooks appear to be specially indebted.