MODERN COOKERY* [chap. v. 1‘22 stew the whole for five minutes, and send the sauce very hot to table. A minced ouiou may be browned with the cucumbers when it is liked, and a spoonful of vinegar added to them before they are served. Cucumbers, 2 or 3; butter, U oz.; broth or gravy, nearly | pinta salt, pepper. ANOTHER COMMON SAUCE OF CUCUMBERS. Cucumbers which have the fewest seeds are best for this sauce. Pare and slice two or three, should they be small, and put them into a saucepan, in which two ounces, or rather more, of butter have been dissolved, and are beginning to boil; place them high over the fire, that they may stew as softly as possible, without taking colour, for three-quarters of an hour, or longer should they require it; add to them a good seasoning of white pepper and some salt, when they are half done; and just before they are served stir to them half a tea- spoonful of flour, mixed with a morsel of butter; strew in some minced parsley, give it a boil, and finish with a spoonful of good vinegar. WHITE CUCUMBER SAUCE. Quarter some young quickly-grown cucumbers, without many seeds in them; empty them of these, and take off the rinds. Cut them into inch lengths, and boil them from fifteen to eighteen minutes in salt and water; press the water from them with the back of a spoon, and work them through a sieve ; mix them with a few spoons- ful of bechamel, or thick white sauce ; do not let them boil again, but serve them very hot. A sauce of better flavour is made by boiling the cucumbers in veal gravy well seasoned, and stirring in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, and a little chili vinegar or lemon-juice, at the instant of serving. Another also of cucumbers sliced, and stewed in butter, but without being at all browned, and then boiled in pale veal gravy, which must be thickened with rich cream, is excellent. A morsel of sugar improves this sauce. Cucumbers, 3 : 15 to 18 minutes. White sauce, £ pint. WHITE MUSHROOM SAUCE. Cut off the stems closely from half a pint of small button musk- •ooms; clean them with a little salt and a bit of flannel, and throw hem into cold water, slightly salted, as they are done; drain them well, or dry them in a soft cloth, and throw them into half a pint of boiling bechamel (see page 108), or of white sauce made with very fresh milk, or thin cream, thickened with a tablespoonful of flour aud two ounces of butter. Simmer the mushrooms from ten to twenty minutes, or until they are quite tender, and dish the sauce, which should be properly seasoned with salt, mace, and cayenne.