CHAP. XXVI.] CAKES. 557 dry flour, and work it into very small crumbs; mix well with these half a pound of sifted sugar, and pour to them first, a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, and next, three well-whisked eggs; add some grated nutmeg, or fresh lemon-rind, and eight ounces of currants, cleaned and dried; beat the whole well ana lightly together, then strew in a very small teaspoonful of good carbonate of soda in the finest powder, which has been rubbed through a sieve and well mixed with a little sugar, and again beat the cake well and lightly for three or four minutes; put it into a buttered mould, and bake it from an hour to an hour and a quarter; or divide it in two, when three-quarters of an hour will be sufficient for each part. Flour, 1 lb.; butter, ^ lb.; sugar, f lb.; boiling milk, full | pint * eggs, 3; currants, % lb.; good carbonate of soda, 1 very small tea- spoonful : 1 to hour. Or : divided in two, ^ to f hour. Obs.—This, if carefully made, resembles a pound cake, but is much less expensive, and far more wholesome, while it has the advantage of being very expeditiously prepared. Great care, how- ever, must be taken to avoid mixing with it too large a proportion, or a coarse quality of soda; as either will impart to it a far from agreeable flavour. GOOD SCOTTISH SHORTBREAD. With one pound of flour mix well two ounces of sifted sugar, and one of candied orange-rind or citron, sliced small; make these into a paste wdth from eight to nine ounces of good butter, made suf- ficiently warm to be liquid ; press the paste together with the hands, and mould it upon tins into large cakes nearly an inch thick, pinch the edges, and bake the shortbread in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, or longer, should it not be quite crisp, but do not allow it to become deeply coloured. Flour, 1 lb.; sugar, 2 oz.; candied orange or citron, 1 oz.; butter, 8 to 9 oz. : 20 minutes or more. Obs.—This, to many persons, is a very indigestible compound, though agreeable to the taste. A GALETTE. The galette is a favourite cake in France, and may be made rich and comparatively delicate, or quite common, by using more or less butter for it, and by augmenting or diminishing the size. Work lightly three-quarter j of a pound of good butter into a pound of flour, add a large saitspoonful of salt, and make these into a paste with the yolks of a couple of eggs mixed with a small cupful of good cream, or simply with water; roll this into a complete round, three- quarters of an inch thick ; score it in small diamonds, brush yolk of egg over the top, and bake the galette for about half an hour in a