289 CHAP. XV.J GAME. wipe the insides thoroughly with a clean cloth; truss them with the head turned under the wing and the legs diawn close together, not crossed. Flour them when first laid to the fire, and baste them plentifully with butter. Serve them with bread sauce, and good brown gravy. a little of this last should be poured over them. In some counties they are dished upon fried bread-crumbs, but these are better handed round the table by them- Partridge trussed, selves. Where game is plentiful we re- commend that the remains of a cold roasted partridge should be well bruised and boiled down with just so much water, or unfla- voured broth, as will make gravy for a brace of other birds: this, seasoned with salt, and cayenne only, or flavoured with a few mush- rooms, will be found a very superior accompaniment for roast part- ridges, to the best meat-gravy that can be made. A little eschalot, and a few herbs, can be added to it at pleasure. It should be served also with boiled or with broiled partridges in preference to any other. 30 to 40 minutes. Obs.—Rather less time must be allowed when the birds are liked underdressed. In preparing them for the spit, the crop must be removed through a slit cut in the back of the neck, the claws clipped close, and the legs held in boiling water for a minute, that they may be skinned the more easily. BOILED PARTRIDGES. This is a delicate mode of dressing young and tender birds. Strip off the feathers, clean, and wash them well; cut off the heads, truss the legs like those of boiled fowls, and when ready, drop them into a large pan of boiling water; throw a little salt on them, and in fifteen, or at the utmost in eighteen minutes they will be ready to serve. Lift them out, dish them quickly, and7 send them to table with white mushroom sauce, with bread sauce and ganie gravy (see *• preceding receipt), or wTith celery sauce. Our own mode of having them served is usually with a slice of fresh butter, about a table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and a, good sprinkling of cayenne placed in a very hot dish, under them. 15 to 18 minutes. PARTRIDGES WITH MUSHROOMS. For a brace of young well-kept birds, prepare from half to three quarters of a pint of mushroom-buttons, or very small flaps, as for pickling. Dissolve over a gentle fire an ounce and a half of butter, throw in the mushrooms with a slight sprinkling of salt and cayenne, simmer them from eight to ten minutes, and turn them with the butter on to a plate; when they are quite cold, put the u