82 G MODERN COOKERY. [CHAT. XVII. (See Chapter VI.) with a salamander, or set the dish into the oven, to give them colour ; pour white sauce round the cauliflowers, and send them very hot to table. CAULIFLOWERS A LA FRANQAISE. Strip away all the green leaves, and divide each cauliflower into three or four parts, trimming the stalks quite close ; put them, with the heads downwards, into a stewpan which will just hold them, half filled with boiling water, into which an ounce of good butter and some salt have previously been thrown; so soon as they are quite tender, drain the water from them, place a dish over the stewpan and turn it gently upside down; arrange the vegetables neatly in the form of one large cauliflower and cover it with good melted butter, into which a little lemon-juice has been stirred. 12 to 18 minutes. BROCCOLI. This is boiled, and served in the same manner as cauliflowers when the heads are large; the stems of the branching broccoli are peeled, and the vegetable, tied in bunches, is dressed and served, like aspa- ragus, upon a toast. 10 to 20 minutes. TO BOIL ARTICHOKES. After they have been soaked and well washed, cut off the stems quite close, trim away a few of the lower leaves, and clip the points of all; throw the artichokes into plenty of fast-boiling water, ready salted and skimmed, with the addition of the proportion of soda directed in page 309, as this will greatly improve the colour of the vegetable. When extremely young, the artichokes will be tender in from half to three quarters of an hour, but they will require more than double that time when at their full growth : when the leaves can be drawn out easily they are done. Send good melted butter to table with them. They should be boiled always with the stalk-ends uppermost. Very young, f to f hour ; full-grown, If to 2 hours. Obs.—French cooks lift the tops from the artichokes before they are served, and replace them after having taken out the chokes: this is an excellent plan, but it must be expeditiously done to prevent the vegetable from cooling, FOR ARTICHOKES EN SALADE