284 [chap. xV, MODERN COOKERY. however, who care for it less than for a dish of high artificial savour can have eschalots, ham, and carrot, lightly browned in good butter added to the stew when it first begins to boil. 3| to 4 hours. TO HASH VENISON.* For a superior hash of venison, add to three quarters of a pint of strong thickened brown gravy, Christopher North’s sauce, in the proportion directed for it in the receipt of page 295.f Cut the venison in small thin slices of equal size, arrange them in a clean saucepan, pour the gravy on them, let them stand for ten minutes or more, then place them near the fire, and bring the whole very slowly to the point of boiling only : serve the hash immediately in a hot-water dish. For a plain dinner, when no gravy is at hand, break down the bones of the venison small, after the flesh has been cleared from them, and boil them with those of three or four undressed mutton-cutlets, a slice or two of carrot, or a few savoury herbs, and about a pint and a half of water or broth, until the liquid is reduced quite one third. Strain it off, let it cool, skim off all the fat, heat the gravy, thicken it when it boils with a dessertspoonful or rather more of arrow-root, )r with the brown roux of page 107, mix the same sauce with it, and finish it exactly as the richer hash above. It may be served on sip- pets of fried bread or not, at choice. TO ROAST A HARE. [In season from September to the 1st of March.] After the hare has been skinned, or cased, as it is called, wash it very thoroughly in cold water, and afterwards in warm. If in any degree overkept, or musty in the inside, which it will sometimes be when emptied before it is hung up and neglected afterwards, use vinegar, or the pyroligneous acid, well diluted, to render it sweet; then again throw it into abundance of water, that it may retain no taste of the acid. Pierce with the point of a knife any parts in which the blood appears to have settled, and soak Hare trussed. them in tepid water, that it may be well drawn out. Y/ipe the hare dry, fill it with the forcemeat No. 1, Chapter VIII., sew it up, truss and spit it firmly, baste it for * Minced collops of venison may be prepared exactly like those of beef; and 7enison-cutlets like those of mutton: the neck may be taken for both of these. + Having been inadvertently omitted from its proper place, this receipt is transferred to the end of the present Chapter.