CHAP. III.] FISH. 89 The flesh of two crabs can be served in one shell when a dish of handsome appearance is required, and the sauce can be mixed with it the instant before it is sent to table, though it will be whiter, and of better appearance without it. The Dressed Crab, centre may be filled with a red Imperial Mayonnaise, when a good effect is wanted. For other appropriate sauces see Chapter VI. LOBSTERS, FRICASSEED, OR AU BECHAMEL. (ENTREE.) Take the flesh from the claws and tails of two moderate-sized lobsters cut it into small scallops or dice; heat it slowly quite through in about three quarters of a pint of good white sauce or bechamel; and serve it when it is at the point of boiling, after having stirred briskly to it a little lemon-juice just as it is taken from the fire. The coral, pounded and mixed gradually with a few spoonsful of the sauce, should be added previously. Good shin of beef stock made without vegetables (see page 97), and somewhat reduced by quick boiling, if mixed with an equal proportion of cream, and thickened with arrow-root, will answer extremely well in a general way for this dish, which is most excel- lent if well made. The sauce should never be thin ; nor more than sufficient in quantity to just cover the fish. For a second course dish, only as much must be used as will adhere to the fish, which after being heated should be laid evenly into the shells, which ought to be split quite through the centre of the backs in their entire length, without being broken or divided at the joint, and nicely cleaned, When thus arranged, the lobster may be thickly covered with well dried, fine, pale fried crumbs of bread, or with unfried ones, which must then be equally moistened with clarified butter, and browned with a sala- mander. A small quantity of salt, mace, and cayenne, may be re - quired to finish the flavouring of either of these preparations. HOT CRAB, OR LOBSTER. {In season during the same time as Lobsters.') Slice quite small, or pull into light flakes with a couple of forks, the flesh of either fish ; put it into a saucepan with a few bits of good butter lightly rolled in flour, and heat it slowly over a gentle fire ; then pour over and thoroughly mix with it, from one to two tea- spoonsful or more of common or of chili vinegar ; if with the former, add to it a tolerable seasoning of cayenne. Grate in a little nutmeg, and when the whole is well heated serve it immediately, either in the