CHAP. I.] SOUPS; 15 simmering. When stewed in the stock it may be put at once, after being drained, into the tureen, and the clear consomme may be poured to it. An easy English mode of making rice-soup is this: put the rice into plenty of cold water ; when it boils throw in a small quantity of salt, let it simmer for ten minutes, drain it well, throw it into the boiling soup, and simmer it gently from ten to fifteen minutes longer.* An extra quantity of stock must be allowed for the reduc- tion of this soup which is always considerable. WHITE RICE SOUP. Throw four ounces of well-washed rice into boiling water, and in fi ye minutes after pour it into a sieve, drain it well, and put it into a couple of quarts of good white boiling stock; let it stew until tender; season the soup with salt, cayenne, and pounded mace; stir to it three quarters of a pint of very rich cream, give it one boil, and serve it quickly. Rice, 4 oz. : boiled 5 minutes Soup, 2 quarts: f hour or more. Seasoning of salt, mace, and cayenne; cream, f pint : 1 minute. RICE-FLOUR SOUP. Mix to a smooth batter, with a little cold broth, eight ounces of fine rice-flour, and pour it into a couple of quarts of fast-boiling broth or gravy soup. Add to it a seasoning of mace and cayenne, with a little salt if needful. It will require but ten minutes’ boiling. Soup, 2 quarts; rice-flour, 8 oz. : 10 minutes. Obs.—Two dessertspoonsful of currie-powder, and the strained juice of half a moderate-sized lemon will greatly improve this soup : it may also be converted into a good common white soup (if it be made of veal stock), by the addition of three quarters of a pint of thick cream to the rice. STOCK FOR WHITE SOUP. Though a knuckle of veal is usually preferred for this stock, part of the neck will answer for it very well. Whichever joint be chosen, let it be thoroughly washed, once or twice divided, and laid into a delicately clean soup-pot, or well-tinned large stout iron saucepan, upon a pound of lean ham, freed entirely from skin and fat, and cut into thick slices; or, instead of this, on half a pound of the Jewish smoked beef, of which we have already spoken, and from which the smoked surface, and all fat, must be carefully carved away. Dutch or hung beef also will answer the same purpose, but similar precautions must be observed with regard to the smoked portions of either ; as they would impart a very unpleasant flavour to any pre- paration. Should very rich soup be wished for, pour in a pint only of cold water for each pound of meat, but otherwise a pint and a half * The Patna requires much less boiling than the Carolina.