MODERN COOKERY. 486 [chap. XXIII. early part of their season they will he more acid even than the rhubarb, and rather more sugar must be allowed for them. CREAMED SPRING FRUIT, OR RHUBARB TRIFLE. Boil down the rhubarb with seven ounces of sugar, after having prepared it as above, and when it is perfectly cold, but not long before it is sent to table, pour over it about half a pint of rich boiled custard also quite cold, then heap on this some well drained, but slightly-sweetened whipped cream, which should be good and very fresh when it is whisked, but not heavily thick, or it will be less easily converted into a snow-froth. The rhubarb will be very nice if served with the whipped cream only on it. Fill a deep tart-dish nearly to the brim with stewed pears, and let them be something more than half covered with their juice. Whisk to a solid froth the whites of five eggs; stir to them five tablespoonsful of dry sifted sugar, and lay them lightly and equally over the fruit; put the meringue immediately into a moderate oven, and bake it half an hour. Cherries, bullaces, and damsons, with various other kinds of plums, first either stewed as for compotes (see page 457), or baked with sugar, as for winter use, answer as well as pears for this dish ; which may, likewise, be made of apples, peaches, apricots, or common plums boiled down quite to a marmalade, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them moderately: the skins and stones of these last should be removed, but a few of the blanched kernels may be added to the fruit. Dish filled with stewed pears or other fruit; whites of eggs, 5 ; pounded sugar, 5 tablespoonsful: baked, ^ hour AN APPLE CHARLOTTE, OR CHARLOTTE DE POMMES. the top with slices of bread dipped in butter, and on these place a dish, a large plate, or the cover of a French stewpan with a weight upon it. Send the Charlotte to a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour should it be small, and for an hour if large. Turn it out with great care, and serve it hot. If baked in a slack oven it will not take MERINGUE OF PEARS, OR OTHER FRUIT. Butter a plain mould (a round or square cake-tin will answer the purpose quite well), and line it entirely with thin slices of the crumb of a stale loaf, cut so as to fit into it with great exactness, and dipped into clarified butter. When this is done, fill the mould to the brim with apple marmalade; cover