478 [chap. XXIII. MODERN COOKERY. Strawberries stalked, 1 quart; sugar, 8 oz.; isinglass 2 oz.; new milk, 1 pint; sugar, 4 oz.; cream, 1 £ pint; juice, 1 lemon. Obs.—We have retained here the old-fashioned name of blanc- mange (or blanc-manger) because it is more familiar to many English readers than any of recent introduction; but moulded strawberry- cream would be more appropriate ; as nothing can properly be called blanc manger which is not white. By mingling the cream, after it has been whisked, or whipped, to the other ingredients, the prepara- tion becomes what is called un Froinage Bavarois, or Bavarian cream, somet4£nes simply, une Bavaroise. QUINCE BLANC-MANGE, (Delicious.) This, if carefully made, and with ripe quinces, is one of the most richly-flavoured preparations of fruit that we have ever tasted ; and the receipt, we may venture to say, will be altogether new to the reader. Dissolve in a pint of prepared juice of quinces (see page 456), an ounce of the best isinglass; next, add ten ounces of sugar, roughly pounded, and stir these together gently over a clear fire, from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the juice jellies in falling from the spoon. Bemove the scum carefully, and pour the boiling jelly gradually to half a pint of thick cream, stirring them briskly together as they are mixed: they must be stirred until very nearly cold, and then poured into a mould which has been rubbed in every part with the smallest possible quantity of very pure salad oil, or if more convenient, into one that has been dipped into cold water. Obs.—This blancmanger which we had made originally on the thought of the moment for a friend, proved so very rich in flavour, that we inserted the exact receipt for it, as we had had it made on our first trial ; but it might be simplified by merely boiling the juice, sugar, and isinglass, together for a few minutes, and then mixing them with the cream. An ounce and a half of isinglass and three-quarters of a pint of cream might then be used for it. The juice of other fruit may be substituted for that of the quinces, Juice of quinces, 1 pint; isinglass, 1 oz.: 5 to 10 minutes. Sugar, 10 oz .’ 20 to 30 minutes. Cream, \ pint. QUINCE BLANC-MANGE, WITH ALMOND CREAM. When cream is not procurable, which will sometimes happen in the depth of winter, almonds, if plentifully used, will afford a very good substitute, though the finer bianc-mange is made from the fore- going receipt. On four ounces of almonds, blanched and beaten to the smoothest paste, and moistened in the pounding with a few drops of water, to prevent their oiling, pour a pint of boiling quince-juice ; stir them together, and turn them into a strong cloth, of which Jet the'