512 [CHAi*. xkiV. MODERN COOEURf. throat and chest, the currants must he stewed tender in their own juice, and then rubbed through a sieve. After ten minutes’ boiling, sugar in fine powder must be stirred gradually to the pulp, off the fire, until it is dissolved: a few minutes more of boiling will then suffice to render the preserve thick, and it will become quite firm when cold. More or less sugar can be added to the taste, but it is not generally liked very sweet. Best black currant jam.—Currants, 4 lbs.; juice of currants, 2 lbs. • 15 to 20 minutes’ gentle boiling. Sugar, 3 to 4 lbs.: 10 minutes. Marmalade, or paste of black currants.— Fruit, 4 lbs.: stewed in its own juice 15 minutes, or until quite soft. Pulp boiled 10 minutes. Sugar, from 7 to 9 oz. to the lb.: 10 to 14 minutes. Obs.—The following are the receipts originally inserted in this work, and which we leave unaltered. To six pounds of the fruit, stripped carefully from the stalks, add four pounds and a half of sugar. Let them heat gently, but as soon as the sugar is dissolved boil the preserve rapidly for fifteen minutes. A more common kind of jam may be made by boiling the fruit by itself from ten to fifteen minutes, and for ten minutes after half its weight of sugar has been added to it. Black currants, 6 lbs ; sugar, 44 lbs.: 15 minutes. Or: fruit, 6 lbs. : 10 to 15 minutes. Sugar, 3 lbs.: 10 minutes. Obs. —There are few preparations of fruit so refreshing and so useful in illness as those of black currants, and it is therefore advis- able always to have a store of them, and to have them well and care- fully made NURSERY PRESERVE. Take the stones from a couple of pounds of Kentish cherries, and boil them twenty minutes ; then add to them a pound and a half of raspberries, and an equal quantity of red and of white currants, all weighed after they have been cleared from their stems. Boil these together quickly for twenty minutes ; mix with them three pounds and a quarter of common sugar, and give the preserve fifteen minutes more of quick boiling. A pound and a half of gooseberries may be substituted for the cherries; but they will not require any stewing before they are added to the other fruits. The jam must be well stirred from the beginning, or it will burn to the pan. Kentish cherries, 2 lbs.: 20 minutes. Raspberries, red currants, and white currants, of each 1^ lb.: 20 minutes. Sugar, 3f lbs.: 15 minutes. ANOTHER GOOD COMMON PRESERVE. Boil together, in equal or unequal portions (for this is immateri&lX any kinds of early fruit, until they can be pressed through a sieve; weigh, and then boil the pulp over a brisk fire for half an hour j add