SOUPS. CHAP. I.] 0 flavoured, beef broth, part of the shin or leg, with a pound or two of the neck, will best answer the purpose. When the bouilli (that is to say, the beef which is boiled in the soup), is to be served, bind it into a good shape, add to it a calf s foot if easily procurable, as this much improves the quality of the bouillon; pour cold water to it in the pro- portion mentioned above, and proceed, as Monsieur Careme directs, to heat the soup slowly by the side of the fire; remove carefully the head of scum which will gather on the surface before the boiling com- mences, and continue the skimming at intervals for about twenty minutes longer, pouring in once or twice a little cold water. Next, add salt in the proportion of two ounces to the gallon ; this will cause a little more scum to rise ; clear it quite off and throw in three or four turnips, as many carrots, half ahead ofcelerj’-, four or five young leeks, an onion stuck with six or eight cloves, a large half tea-spoon- ful of peppercorns, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Let the whole stew very softly without ceasing, from four hours and a half to six hours, according to the quantity: the beef in that time will be ex- tremely tender but not overdone. It will be excellent eating if pro- perly managed, and might often, we think, be substituted with great advantage for the hard, half-boiled, salted beef so often seen at an English table. It should be served with a couple of cabbages, which have been first boiled in the usual way, then pressed very dry, and stewed for ten minutes in a little of the broth, and seasoned with pepper and salt. The other vegetables from the bouillon may be laid round it or not at choice. The soup if served on the same day must be strained, well cleared from fat, and sent to table with fried or toasted bread, unless the continental mode of putting slices or crusts of untoasted bread into the tureen, and soaking them for ten minutes in a ladleful or two of the bouillon, be, from custom, pre- ferred. Beef, 8 to 9 lbs,; water, 6 quarts ; salt, 3 oz. (more, if needed) ; carrots, 4 to 6 ; turnips, 4 or 5 ; celery, one small head; leeks, 4 to 6; one onion, stuck with 6 cloves; peppercorns, one small teaspoon- ful ; large bunch of savoury herbs (calf s foot if convenient) ; to simmer 5 to 6 hours. Obs. 1.—This broth forms in France the foundation of all richer soups and gravies. Poured on fresh meat (a portion of which should be veal) instead of water, it makes at once an excellent consomme or strong jellied stock. If properly managed, it is very clear and pale ; and with an additional weight of beef and some spoonsful of glaze, may easily be converted into an amber-coloured gravy-soup, suited to modern taste. Obs. 2.—It is a common practice abroad to boil poultry, pigeons, and even game, in the jjot-au-feu or soup-pot.* They should be pro- perly trussed, stewed in the broth just long enough to render them tender, and served, when ready, with a good sauce. A small ham, if well soaked, washed exceedingly clean, and freed entirely from any * In wealthy families the soup is boiled in a metal soup-pot, called a marmite.