CARVING. XXXVI as evenly as possible, and delicate slices of the fat or udder should b? served with the lean A BRISKET OP BEEP Is carved in slices quite across the bonca. No. 7. leg of mutton. This, whether roast or boiled, is dished as it lie3 in the engraving, unless when fanciful eaters prefer the underside of the joint laid uppermost, and carved quite across the middle, for the sake of the finely grained meat which lies beneath the part commonly called the Tope’s eye. In a general way, the mutton should be sliced, rather thick than thin as directed by the line between a b ; the fat will be found in the direction c d. No. 8. quarter of lams. The shoulder must be divided, and raised entirely from the breast in the direction of the letters abed. A slice of butter sprinkled with cayenne and salt is then usually laid between them, and a little lemon-juice is added, or a cold Maitre d'Hotel sauce is substituted for these. The shoulder may then be removed into another dish or not, as is most convenient. The brisket is next separated from the long bones in the line e /, and carved in the direction g h ; the rib- bones are divided from i i to j j. The choice of the different parts is offered in serving them. No. 9. SHOULDER OF MUTTON OR LAMB. Commence by cutting from the outer edge direct to the bone of the shoulder in the line a b, and carve as many slices from that part of the joint as it will afford: then, if more be required, draw the knife on either side of the ridge of the blade-bone in the direction c c d d. The fat must be carved in the line e f. Some eaters have a preference for the juicy, but not very finely-grained flesh on the under-side of the shoulder, which must be turned, for it to be carved. For the mode of boning a shoulder of mutton or veal, and giving it a more agreeable appearance, see 219. No. 10. A SUCKING PIG. Every part of a sucking pig is good, but some persons consider the flesh of the neck which lies between the shoulders, and the ribs as the most delicate portion of it. The shoulders themselves are pre- ferred by others. They should be taken off, and the legs also, by passing the knife under them at the lettes a b c. The ribs may then