93 CHAP. ITT.] FISH. TO BOIL SHRIMPS OR PRAWNS. Throw them into plenty of fast boiling water, to which salt has been added in the proportion of from five to six ounces to the gallon ; take off all the scum, boil the shrimps for five or six minutes, or rather less should they be very small, and the prawns for about two minutes longer. The shrimpers* of the coast frequently cook them in sea-water, but the flavour is not then so agreeable as when fresh brine is used for them. They are always unwholesome when not sufficiently boiled ; and even mure so when they are stale. As soon as they are tender, drain them well in a cullender, and spread them out on a soft cloth to cool; or dish them on a napkin, and send them hot to table when they are liked so. The large brown shrimps are considered the best, and they are more easily shelled than the red ones : these last, however, are sometimes preferred to them. Prawns, though superior to shrimps only in size, are always much higher in price. Shrimps, 5 to 6 minutes if large. Prawns, 6 to 8 minutes. Obs.—Ready-dressed shrimps or prawns may be preserved fit for eating at least twelve hours longer than they would otherwise keep, by throwing them for an instant into boiling salt and water, when they first begin to lose their freshness, and then draining them as above. TO DISH COLD PRAWNS. When they are quite cold, dish them singly upon a very white napkin neatly arranged over a saucer or small basin reversed in a dish, and garnish the base with a wreath of curled parsley, or with small leaves of the purple endive. TO SHELL SHRIMPS AND PRAAVNS QUICKLY AND EASILY. This, though a most simple process, would appear, from the manner in which it is performed by many people, to be a very difficult one ; indeed it is not unusual for persons of the lower classes, who, from lack, of a little skill, find it slow and irksome, to have resource to the dan- gerous plan of eating the fish entire. It need scarcely be remarked that very serious consequences may accrue from the shells being swallowed with them, particularly when they are taken in large quan- tities. Unless the fish be stale, when they are apt to break, they will quit the shells easily if the head be held firmly in the right hand and the tail in the other, and the fish be straightened entirely, then the two hands pressed quickly towards each other, and the shell of the tail broken by a slight vibrator}7 motion of the right hand, when it will be drawn ofl' with the head adhering to it: a small portion, only will then remain on at the other end, which can be removed in an instant. Or pandlers, as they are often called.