CHAP, xyl] CTTBUIES, POTTED MEATS, ETC. 805 than is generally approved. After the spice is added, keep the meat often turned from the sides to the middle of the mortar, that it may be seasoned equally in every part. When perfectly pounded, press it into small potting-pans, and pour clarified butter* over the top. If kept in a cool and dry place, this meat will remain good for a fort- night, or more. Lean of ham, 1 lb.; lean of roast veal, 6 oz.; fresh butter, 8 oz.; mace, from 1 to 2 teaspoonsful; \ large nutmeg; cayenne, \ to \ tea- spoonful. Obs.—The roast veal is ordered in this receipt because the ham alone is generally too salt; for the same reason butter, fresh taken from the churn, or that which is hut slightly salted and quite new, should be used for it m preference to its own fat. When there is no ready- dressed veal in the house, the best part of the neck, roasted or stewed, will supply the requisite quantity. The remains of a cold boiled ham will answer quite well for potting, even when a little dry. POTTED CHICKEN, PARTRIDGE, OR PHEASANT. Roast the birds as for table, but let them be thoroughly done, for if the gravy he left in, the meat will not keep half so well. Raise the flesh of the breast, wings, and merrythought, quite clear from the bones, take off the skin, mince, and then pound it very smoothly with about one third of its weight of fresh butter, or something less, if the meat should appear of a proper consistence without the full quantity; season it with salt, mace, and cayenne only, and add these in small portions until the meat is rather highly flavoured with both the last * proceed with it as with other potted meats. POTTED OX-TONGUE. Boil tender an unsmoked tongue of good flavour, and the following day cut from it the quantity desired for potting, or take for this purpose the remains of one which has already been served at table Trim off the skin and rind, weigh the meat, mince it very small, then pound it as fine as possible with four ounces of butter to each pound of tongue, a small teaspoonful of mace, half as much of nutmeg and cloves, and a tolerably high seasoning of cayenne. After the spices are well beaten with the meat, taste it, and add more if required. A few ounces of any well-roasted meat mixed with the tongue •will give it firmness, in which it is apt to be deficient. The breasts of turkeys, fowls, partridges, or pheasants, may be used for the purpose with good effect. Tongue, 1 lb.; butter, 4 oz.; mace, 1 teaspoonful; nutmeg and cloves each, £ teaspoonful; cayenne, 5 to 10 grains. * This should never be poured hot on the meat« it should be less than millc- ¥arm when added to it. x