101 GRAVIES. CHAP. IV. ] in small portions, letting each one boil up before the next is poured in, and shaking the pan well round, three quarters of a pint of hot and good veal gravy, and nearly half a pint of Madeira or sherry. When the sauce has boiled gently for half an hour, add to it a small quan- tity of cayenne and some salt, if this last be needed ; then strain it, skim off the fat entirely should any appear upon the surface, and serve it very hot. A smaller proportion of wine added a few minutes before the sauce is ready for table, would perhaps better suit with English taste, as with longer boiling its flavour passes off almost en- tirely. Either of these Espagnoles, poured over the well bruised re- mains of pheasants, partridges, or moor fowl, and boiled with them for an hour, will become most admirable game gravy, and would gene- rally be considered a superlative addition to other roast birds of their kind, as well as to the hash or salmi, for which see Chapter XV. Ingredients as in preceding receipt, with mushrooms 12 to 18 ; Madeira, or good sherry, | to \ pint. JUS DES ROGNONS, OR, KIDNEY GRAVY. Strip the skin and take the fat from three fresh mutton kidneys, slice and flour them ; melt two ounces of butter in a deep saucepan, and put in the kidneys, with an onion cut small, and a teaspoonful of fine herbs stripped from the stalks. Keep these well shaken over a clear fire until nearly all the moisture is dried up; then pour in a pint of boiling water, add half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little cayenne or common pepper, and let the gravy boil gently for an hour and a half, or longer, if it be not thick and rich. Strain it through a fine sieve, and take off the fat. Spice or catsup may be added at pleasure. Mutton kidneys, 3; butter, 2 oz.; onion, 1; fine herbs, 1 tea- spoonful : \ hour. Water, 1 pint; salt, a teaspoonful; little cayenne, or black pepper : 1^ hour. Ohs.—This is an excellent cheap gravy for haricots, curries, or hashes of mutton ; it may be much improved by the addition of two or three eschalots, and a small bit or two of lean meat. GRAVY IN HASTE. Chop fine a few bits of lean meat, a small onion, a few slices or carrot and turnip, and a little thyme and parsley ; put these with half an ounce of butter into a thick saucepan, and keep them stirred until they are slightly browned; add a little spice, and water in the propor- tion of a pint to a pound of meat; clear the gravy from scum, let it boil half an hour, then strain it for use. Meat, 1 lb.; 1 small onion; little carrot, turnip, thyme, and parsley; butter, \ oz.; cloves, 6; corns of pepper, 12; water, 1 pint: \ hour. CHEAP GRAVY FOR A ROAST FOWL. When there is neither broth nor gravy to be had, nor meat of which either can be made, boil the neck of the fowl after having cut