MODERN COOKERY. 152 [chap. Vii. GREEN MINT VINEGAR. Slightly chop, or bruise, freshly-gathered mint, and put it into bottles; till them nearly to the necks, and add vinegar as for tarra- gon : in forty days, strain it otf, and bottle it for use. The mint itself, ready minced for sauce, will keep well in vinegar, though the colour will not he very good. The young leaves stripped from the stems, should be used for this preparation. CUCUMBER VINEGAR. First wipe, and then, without paring, slice into a stone jar some young and quickly-grown cucumbers; pour on them as much boiling vinegar as will cover them well, with a teaspoonful of salt, and two- thirds as much of peppercorns to the pint and a half of vinegar: it may remain on them for a month, or even for two, if well defended from the air: it should then be strained, allowed to settle, and poured quite clear into small dry bottles, which should be well corked. A mild onion can be intermixed with the cucumbers, when its flavour is considered an improvement CELERY VINEGAR. Throw into a pint and a half of ready boiling vinegar a few grains of cayenne, or half an ounce of peppercorns, a large saltspoonful of salt, and a pint of the white part of the roots and stems of some fine fresh celery sliced up thin : let it boil for two or three minutes, turn it into a stone jar, and secure it well from the air as soon as it is cold It may be strained off and bottled in three or four weeks, but may remain as many months in the jar without injury. ESCHALOT, OR GARLIC VINEGAR. On from four to six ounces of eschalots or on two of garlic peeled and bruised, pour a quart of the best vinegar; stop the jar or bottle close, and in a fortnight or three weeks the vinegar may be strained otf for use: a few drops will give a sufficient flavour to a sauce, or to a tureen of gravy. Eschalots, 4 to 6 oz.; or, garlic, 2 to 4 oz.; vinegar, 1 quart: 16 to 21 days Obs,—These roots may be used in smaller or in larger proportion, as a slighter or a stronger flavour of them is desired, and may remain longer in the vinegar without any detriment to it ESCHALOT WINE. This is a far more useful preparation even than the preceding one, since it can be used to impart the flavour of the eschalot to dishes for