eilAP. XX Y.] 539 PICKLES. /has designated when prepared as we have described. Lemons may be converted into an excellent pickle of the same description in the following manner. After having removed from the blossom end of each a circular bit of the rind about the size of a shilling, proceed to scoop out all the pulp and skin with the handle of a teaspoon ; rinse the insides of the rinds until the water from them is clear ; throw them into plenty of brine made with half a pound of salt to two quarts of water, and stir them down in it often during the time. In three days change the brine, and leave them for three days longer ; then drain them from it on a sieve, fill them with bruised or whole mustard-seed, very small chilies, young scraped horse-radish, very small eschalots, a little ginger sliced thin, or aught else that may be liked. Sew in the parts that have been cut out, lay the lemons into a stone jar, and pour boiling on them a pickle made of their own juice, which when they are first emptied should be squeezed from the pulp through a cloth, and boiled with sufficient vinegar to keep it,—a large salt- spoonful of salt, half an ounce each of ginger and of white pepper- corns, and a blade or two of mace to every quart; or prepare them like the whole lemons, omitting the turmeric ; and soften them if wanted for immediate eating as directed for them. They may be filled simply with mustard-seed, horse-radish, and spice, if pre- ferred so. This receipt has been in print before, but without the author’s name. TO PICKLE NASTURTIUMS. These should be gathered quite young, and a portion of the buds, when very small, should be mixed with them. Prepare a pickle by dissolving an ounce and a half of salt in a quart of pale vinegar, and throw in the berries as they become fit, from day to day They are used instead of capers for sauce, and by some persons are preferred to them. When purchased for pickling, put them at once into a jar, and cover them well with the vinegar. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE. Strip off the outer leaves, wipe, and slice a fine sound cabbage cr two extremely thin, sprinkle plenty of salt over them, and let them drain in a sieve, or on a strainer for twelve hours or more; shake or press the moisture from them; put them into clean stone jars, and cover them well with cold vinegar, in which an ounce of black pepper to the quart has been boiled. Some persons merely cover the vegetable with strong, unboiled vinegar, but this is not so well.