Chap, v.] SAUCE! 9. 131 Butter, 2 oz.; water, from £ to nearly 1 pint; little salt; flour, f lb.; whites of 2 eggs, beaten to snow. TO PREPARE BREAD FOR FRYING FISH. Cut thick slices from the middle of a loaf cf light stale bread, pare the crust entirely from them, and. dry them gradually in a cool oven until they are crisp quite through; let them become cold, then roll or beat them into fine crumbs, and keep them in a dry place for use. To strew over hams or cheeks of bacon, the bread should be left all night in the oven, which should, be sufficiently heated to brown, as well as to harden it: it ought indeed to be entirely converted into equally-coloured crust. It may be sifted through a dredging-box on to the hams after it has been reduced almost to powder. BROWNED FLOUR FOR THICKENING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. Spread it on a tin or dish and colour it, without burning, in a gentle oven or before the fire in a Dutch or American oven : turn it often, or the edges will be too much browned before the middle is enough so. This, blended with butter, makes a convenient thickening for soups or gravies of which it is desirable to deepen the colour; and it requires less time and attention than the French roux of page 10 FRIED BREAD-CRUMBS. Grate lightly into very fine crumbs four ounces of stale bread, and shake them through a cullender ; * without rubbing or touching them with the hands. Dissolve two ounces of fresh butter in a frying-pan, throw in the crumbs, and stir them constantly over a moderate fire, until they are all of a clear golden colour; lift them out with a skimmer, spread them nn a soft cloth, or upon white blotting paper, laid upon a sieve reversed, and dry them before the fire. They may be more delicately prepared by browning them in a gentle oven without the addition of butter. Bread, 4 oz.; butter, 2 oz. FRIED BREAD FOR GARNISHING. Cut the crumb cf a stale loaf in slices a quarter of an inch thick ; form them into diamonds or half diamonds, or shape them with a paste-cutter in any another way; fry them in fresh butter, some of a very pale brown and others a deeper colour ; dry them well, and place them alternately round the dish that is to be garnished. They may be made to adhere to the edge of the dish when they are required for ornament only, by means of a little flour and white of egg brushed over the side which is placed on it: this must be allowed to dry before they are served. For Sweet-pudding Sauces, see Chapter XX. * This is not necessary when they are lightly and finely grated of uniform Gize,