[CUAP. X. 202 MODERN COOKERY. gentle fire until the thickening is of a deep yellow brown; then add a pound of rump-steak, finely minced, and keep it well separated with a fork until it is quite hot; next pour to it gradually half a cupful of boiling water, and stew the collops very gently for ten minutes. Before they are served, stir to them a little catsup, chili vinegar or lemon-juice: a small quantity of minced onion, eschalot, or a •particle of garlic, may be added at first to the thickening when the flavour is not objected to. A RICHER VARIETY OP MINCED COLLOPS. Omit the minced herbs from the thickening, and season it with cayenne and a small quarter of a teaspoonful of pounded mace. Sub- stitute beef gravy for the boiling water, and when the collops are nearly done, fill a wineglass with one fourth of mushroom catsup, and three of port wine, and stir these to the meat. Serve the collops very hot, and garnish them with alternate forcemeat balls (see No. 1, Chapter VIII.) and fried sippets. If flavoured with a little gravy made from the bones of a roast hare, and served with currant jelly, these collops will scarcely be distinguished from game SCOTCH MINCED COLLOPS. “ Chop the beef small, season it with salt and pepper, put it, in its raw state, into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter When wanted for ilse put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into the pan and fry them. Add a little water to them, and put in the minced meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve.” BEEF TONGUES. These may be cured by any of the receipts which \^e have already given for pickling beef, or for those which will be found further on for hams and bacon. Some persons prefer them cured with salt and saltpetre only, and dried naturally in a cool and airy room. For such of our readers as like them highly and richly flavoured we give our own method of having them prepared, which is this:—“Bub over the tongue a handful of fine salt, and let it drain until the fol- lowing day ; then, should it weigh from seven to eight pounds, mix thoroughly an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of the coarsest sugar, and half an ounce of black pepper ; when the tongue has been well rubbed with these, add three ounces of bruised juniper-berries ; and when it has laid two days, eight ounces of bay salt, dried and pounded; at the end of three days more, pour on it half a pound of treacle, and let it remain in the pickle a fortnight after this ; then hang it to drain, fold it in brown paper, and send it to be smoked over a wood fire for two or three weeks. Should the peculiar flavour