MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxxi. 604 warding it off, and for preserving the bread eatable for several da}rs longer than it would otherwise be. If large loaves be just dipped into cold water and then placed in a quick oven until they are again thoroughly dried, they will resemble new bread altogether. Pastry, cakes, and biscuits, may all be greatly improved when stale, by heating them in a gentle oven. TO KNOW WHEN BREAD IS SUFFICIENTLY BAKED. When the surface is uniformly browned, and it is everywhere Jinn to the touch, and the bottom crust of a loaf is hard, it is generally certain that it is thoroughly baked. To test bread that has been cut (or yeast-cakes), press down the crumb lightly in the centre with the thumb ; when it is elastic and rises again to its place, it is proof that it is perfectly done; but if the indentation remains, the heat has not sufficiently penetrated the dough to convert it into wholesome eating ON THE PROPER FERMENTATION OF DOUGH. As we have previously said, ' jo large a proportion of yeast, which is very commonly used by persons not well skilled in bread-making, although it produces quickly a light spongy dough, has a very bad effect on bread, which it renders much less easy of digestion than that which is more slowly fermented, and far less sweet and pleasant in flavour: it also prevents its remaining eatable the same length of time, as it speedily becomes dry. It is likewise very disadvantageous to make the dough so lithe that it spreads about in the oven ; and if it be excessively stiff, and its management not thoroughly understood, it will sometimes be heavy, To prevent this, it should be kept quite warm (never heated), and left a much longer time to rise. It will frequently then prove excellent. It will ferment rather more quickly if, when it gives symptoms of becoming light it is made up into loaves with the least possible kneading, and a slight incision is made round them and across the tops, and they are then placed in a warm air, and kept secure from cold currents passing over them