GAME. 295 CHAP. XV.] For a common hash boil the skin and trimmings of the wild-fowl in some good broth, or gravy (with a couple of lightly fried eschalots or not, at choice), until their flavour is imparted to it; then strain, heat, and thicken it slightly, with a little brown roux, or browned flour; add a wineglassful of port wine, some lemon-juice, and cay- enne ; or sufficient of Christopher ISTorth’s sauce to flavour it well; warm the birds slowly in it, and serve them as soon as they are thoroughly hot, but without allowing them to boil. [The following receipt having, from inadvertence, been omitted from the chapter to which it properly belongs—as the reader has already been informed—a place is given to it here.] CHRISTOPHER NORTHS OWN SAUCE FOR MANY MEATS. Throw into a small basin a heaped saltspoonful of good cayenne pepper, in very fine powder and half the quantity of salt; add a small dessertspoonful of well-refined, pounded, and sifted sugar ; mix these thoroughly ; then pour in a tablespoonful of the strained juice of a fresh lemon, two of Harvey’s sauce, a teaspoonful of the very best mushroom catsup (or of cavice), and three tablespoonsful, or a small wineglassful, of port wine. Heat the sauce by placing the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, or turn it into a jar, and place this in the water. Serve it directly it is ready with geese or ducks, tame or wild ; roast pork, venison, fawn, a grilled blade-bone, or any other broil. A slight flavour of garlic or eschalot vinegar may be given to it at pleasure. Some persons use it with fish. It is good cold; and, if bottled directly it is made, may be stored for several days. It is the better for being mixed some hours before it is served. The proportion of cayenne may be doubled when a very pungent sauce is desired. Good cayenne pepper in fine powder, 1 heaped saltspoonful: salt, half as much; pounded sugar, 1 small dessertspoonful ; strained lemon juice, 1 tablespoonful ; Harvey’s sauce, 2 tablespoonsful; best mushroom catsup (or cavice), 1 teaspoonful ; port wine, 3 table- spoonsful, or small wineglassful. (Little eschalot, or garlic-vinegar at pleasure.) Obs.—This sauce is exceedingly good when mixed 'with the brown gravy of a hash or stew, or with that which is served with game cr other dishes.