417 CHAP. XX.] BOILED PUDDINGS, minced very small, one ounce of dry bread-crumbs, ten ounces of stoned raisins, a little salt, the grated rind of a china-orange, and three eggs, leaving out one white. Boil the pudding for two hours and serve it with very sweet sauce; put no sugar in it. VEGETABLE PLUM PUDDING. (Cheap and good.') Mix well together one pound of smoothly-mashed potatoes, half a pound of carrots boiled quite tender, and beaten to a paste, one pound of flour, one of currants, and one of raisins (full weight after they are stoned), three quarters of a pound of sugar, eight ounces of suet, one nutmeg, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt. Put the pudding into a well-floured cloth, tie it up very closely, and boil it for four hours. The correspondent to whom we are indebted for this receipt says, that the cost of the ingredients does not exceed half a crown, and that the pudding is of sufficient size for a party of six- teen persons. We can vouch for its excellence, but as it is rather apt to break when turned out of the cloth, a couple of eggs would per- haps improve it. It is excellent cold. Sweetmeats, brandy, and spices can be added at pleasure. Mashed potatoes, 1 lb.; carrots, 8 oz.; flour, 1 lb.; suet, \ lb. sugar, f lb.; currants and raisins, 1 lb. each; nutmeg, 1; little salt 4 hours. THE AUTHORS CHRISTMAS PUDDING. To three ounces of flour, and the same weight of fine, lightly- grated bread-crumbs, add six of beef kidney-suet, chopped small, six of raisins weighed after they are stoned, six of well-cleaned currants, four ounces of minced apples, five of sugar, two of candied orange- rind, half a teaspoonful of nutmeg mixed with pounded mace, a very little salt, a small glass of brandy, and three whole eggs. Mix and beat these ingredients well together, tie them tightly in a thickly- floured cloth, and boil them for three hours and a half. We can recommend this as a remarkably light small rich pudding : it may be served with German, wine, or punch sauce. Flour, 3 oz.; bread-crumbs, 3 oz.; suet, stoned raisins, and cur- rants, each, 6 oz.; minced apples, 4 oz.; sugar, 5 oz.; candied peel, 2 oz.; spice, ^ teaspoonful; salt, few grains; brandy, small wine- glassful ; eggs, 3: 3| hours. A KENTISH WELL PUDDING. Make into a firm smooth paste, with cold water, one pound of flour, six ounces of finely-minced beef-suet, three quarters of a pound of currants, and a small pinch of salt, thoroughly mixed together