CHAP. XX.] BOILED PUDDINGS. 403 thirds of a glass of rum, with the juice of half an orange, and rather less of lemon-juice : serve the sauce very hot, but do not allow it to boil after the spirit is stirred in. Sugar, 2 oz.; water, | pint; lemon and orange rind: 14 to 20 minutes. Butter, 1£ oz.; flour, 1 teaspoonful; brandy and white wine, each £ wineglassful; rum, two-thirds of glassful; orange and lemon fjuice. FOR CLEAR ARROW-ROOT SAUCE, (See the Welcome Guest's Own Pudding.) A GERMAN CUSTARD PUDDING-SAUCE. Boil very gently together half a pint of new milk or of milk and cream mixed, a very thi,n strip or two of fresh lemon-rind, a bit of cinnamon, half an inch of a vanilla bean, and an ounce and a half or two ounces of sugar, until the milk is strongly flavoured ; then strain, and pour it, by slow degrees, to the well-beaten yolks of three eggs, smoothly mixed with a knife-end-full (about half a teaspoonful) of flour, a grain or two of salt, and a tablespoonful of cold milk ; and stir these very quickly round as the milk is added. Put the sauce again into the stewpan, and whisk or stir it rapidly until it thickens, and looks cream}?-. It must not be placed upon the fire, but should be held over it, when this is done. The Germans mill their sauces to a froth ; but they may be whisked with almost equally good effect, though a small mill for the purpose—formed like a chocolate mill— may be had at a very trifling cost. A DELICIOUS GERMAN PUDDING-SAUCE. Dissolve in half a pint of sherry or of Madeira, from three to four ounces of fimHsugar, but do not allow the wine to boil; stir it hot to the well-beaten yolks of six fresh eggs, and mill the sauce over a gentle fire until it is well thickened and highly frothed; pour it over a plum, or any other kind of sweet boiled pudding, of which it much improves the appearance. Half the quantity will be sufficient for one of moderate size. We recommend the addition of a dessertspoonful of strained' lemon-juice to the wine. For large pudding, sherry or Madeira, \ pint; tine sugar, 3 to 4 oz.; yolks of eggs, 6 ; lemon-juice (if added), 1 dessertspoonful. Ohs.—As we have already said in the previous receipt, it is cus- tomary to froth sweet sauces in Germany with a small machine made like a chocolate-mill. Two silver forks fastened together at the handles may be used instead on an emergency, or the sauce may be . whisked to the proper state, like the one which precedes it. Great care must be taken not to allow these sauces to curdle. The safer plan is to put any preparation of the kind into a white jar, and to place it over the fire in a pan of boiling water, and then to stir or mill it until it is sufficiently thickened : the jar should not be half