[chap. xiii. MODERN COOKERY. 256 of the ingredients is required for each, than for one which is cured by itself. SUPER-EXCELLENT BACON. For several successive years, after first testing the above receipt, we had it adopted for curing bacon, with even more highly satis- factory results, as it was of incomparable flavour, and remained good for a great length of time, the vinegar preserving it entirely from becoming rusted. Well-fed pork of delicate size was always used for it, and excellent vinegar. The ingredients were added in the pro- portions given in the receipt for the Suffolk ham which preceeds this, and the same time was allowed for the salting and smoking HAMS. {Bordyke Receipt.) After the hams have been rubbed with salt, and well drained from the brine, according to our previous directions, take, for each fourteen pounds weight of the pork, one ounce of saltpetre in fine powder mixed with three ounces of very brown sugar; rub the meat in every part with these, and let it remain some hours, then cover it well with eight ounces of bay-salt, dried and pounded, and mixed with four ounces of common salt: in four days add one pound of treacle, and keep the hams turned daily, and well basted with the pickle for a month. Hang them up to drain for a night, fold them in brown paper, and send them to be smoked for a month. An ounce of ground black pepper is often mixed with the saltpetre in this receipt, and three ounces of bruised juniper- berries are rubbed on to the meat before the salt is added, when hams of a very high flavour are desired. Ham, 14 lbs.; saltpetre, 1 oz.; coarse sugar, 3 oz.: 8 to 12 hours Bay-salt, % lb.; common salt, 4 oz.: 4 days. Treacle, 1 lb.: 1 month. To heighten flavour, black pepper, l oz- ; juniper-berries, 3 oz. TO BOIL A HAM, The degree of soaking which must be given to a ham before it is boiled, must depend both on the manner in which it has been cured, and on its age. If highly salted, hard, and old, a day and night, or even longer, may be requisite to dilate the pores sufficient^, and to extract a portion of the salt. To do either effectually the water must be several times changed during the steeping We generally find hams cured by any of the receipts which we have given in this chapter quite enough soaked in twelve hours; and they are more frequently laid into water only early in the morning of the day on which they are boiled. Those pickled by Monsieur Ude’s receipt need much less steeping than any others. After the ham has been