387 SOUFFLES, OMLETS, ETC. CHAP. XIX.] quettes are lightly browned, that they may heat through 5 then heighten the colour, and lift them out immediately. RISSOLES. (ENTREE.) This is the French name for small fried pastry of various forms, filled with meat or fish previously cooked ; they may be made with brioche, or with light puff-paste, either of which must be rolled ex- tremely thin. Cut it with a small round cutter fluted or plain ; put a little rich mince, or good pounded meat, in the centre, and moisten the edges, and press them securely together that they may not burst open in the frying. The rissoles may be formed like small patties, by laying a second round of paste over the meat, or like cannelons; they may, likewise, be brushed with egg, and sprinkled with ver- micelli, broken small, or with fine crumbs. They are sometimes made in the form of croquettes, the paste being gathered round the meat, which must form a ball.* In fiying them, adopt the same plan as for the croquettes, raising the pan as soon as the paste is lightly coloured. Serve all these fried dishes well drained, and on a napkin. From 5 to 7 minutes, or less. VERY SAVOURY ENGLISH RISSOLES. (ENTREE.) Make the forcemeat No. 1, Chapter VIII., sufficiently firm with unbeaten yolk of egg, to roll rather thin on a well-floured board; cut it into very small rounds, put a little pounded chicken in the centre of one half, moistening the edges with water, or white of egg, lay the remaining rounds over these, close them securely, and fry them in butter a fine light brown; drain and dry them well, and heap them in the middle of a hot dish, upon a napkin folded flat: these rissoles may be egged and crumbed before they are fried. SMALL FRIED BREAD PATTIES, OR CROUSTADES OF VARIOUS KINDS. These may be either sweet or savoury, and many of them may be so promptly prepared, that they offer a ready resource when an extra dish is unexpectedly required. They should be carefully fried very crisp, and of a fine equal gold colour, either in clarified marrow, for which we give our own receipt, or in really good butter. DRESDEN PATTIES, OR CROUSTADES. ( Very delicate.) Pare the crust neatly from one or two French rolls, slice off the ends, and divide the remainder into as many patties as the size of the rolls will allow ; hollow them in the centre, dip them into milk or * If our space will permit, more minute directions for these, and other small dishes of the kind, shall he given in the chapter of foreign cookery.