FISH. CHAP. II.] 51 which are considered a great delicacy, should he left untouched; but those of most other fish must be cut off. TO KEEP FISH. We find that all the smaller kinds of fish keep best if emptied and cleaned as soon as they are brought in, then wiped gently as dry as they can be, and hung separately by the head on the hooks in the ceiling of a cool larder, or in the open air when the weather will allow. When there is danger of their being attacked by flies, a wire safe, placed in a strong draught of air, is better adapted to the purpose. Soles in winter will remain good for two days when thus prepared ; and even whitings and mackerel may be kept so without losing any of their excellence. Salt may be rubbed slightly over cod fish, and well along the back-bone ; but it injures the flavour of salmon, the inside of which may be rubbed with vinegar and peppered instead* When excessive sultriness renders all of these modes unavailing, the fish must at once be partially cooked to preserve it, but this should be avoided if possible, as it is very rarely so good when this method is resorted to. TO SWEETEN TAINTED FISH. The application of strong vinegar, or of acetic acid (which may be purchased at the chemists’), will effect this when the taint is but slight. The vinegar should be used pure ; and one wineglassful of the acid should be mixed with two of water. Pour either of these over the fish, and rub ft on the parts which require it; then leave it untouched for a few minutes, and wash it afterwards well, changing the water two or three times. When the fish is in a worse state the chloride of soda, from its powerful anti-putrescent properties, will have more effect: it may be diluted, and applied in the same manner as the acid. Obs.—We have retained here the substance of the directions which we had given in former editions of this book for rendering eatable fish (and meat) tainted by being closely packed or overkept; and it is true that they may may be deprived of their offensive flavour and odour by the application of strong acids and other disinfecting agents, —Beaufoy’s cliloride of soda more especially—but we are very doubt- ful whether they can by any process be converted into unquestionably wholesome food, unless from some accidental circumstance the mere surface should be affected, or some small portion of them, which could be entirely cut away. We cannot, therefore, conscientiously recommend the false economy of endangering health in preference to rejecting them for the table altogether. THE MODE OF COOKING BEST ADAPTED TO DIFFERENT KINDS OF FISH. It is not possible, the reader will easily believe, to insert in a work of the size of the present volume, all the modes of dressing the many