CHAP. XXI.] BAKED PUDDINGS. 437 boiling a pint and a quarter of new milk, in which three ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; grate in the rind of a small lemon, and when they are somewhat cooled, add half a wineglassful of brandy, while still just warm, pour the mixture to the cakes, and let it remain an hour ; then strain an ounce and a half of clarified butter over the top, or strew pounded sugar rather thickly on it, and bako the pudding three quarters of an hour or longer in a gentle oven. Sponge cakes, 3 ; candied peel, 2 oz.; eggs, 6 ; new milk, 14 pint; sugar, 3 oz ; lemon-rind, 1; brandy, \ glass; butter, 1 oz. ; sifted sugar, 1| oz.: | hour. CAKE AND CUSTARD, AND VARIOUS OTHER INEXPENSIVE PUDDINGS. Even when very dry, the remains of a sponge or a Savoy cake will serve excellently for a pudding, if lightly broken up, or crumbled, and intermixed or not, with a few ratifias or macaroons, which should also be broken up. A custard composed of four eggs to the pint of milk if small, and three if very large and fresh, and not very highly sweetened, should be poured over the cake half an hour at least before it is placed in the oven (which should be slow) ; and any flavour given to it which may be liked. An economical and clever cook will seldom be at a loss for compounding an inexpensive and good pudding in this way. More or less of the cake can be used as may be convenient. Part of a mould of sweet rice or the remains of a dish of Aroce Doce (see Chapter XXIII.), and various ether preparations ma)"be"turncd to account in a similar manner; but the custard should be- perfectly and equally mingled with what- ever other ingredients are used.- Macaroni boiled tender in milk, or in milk and water, will make an excellent pudding; and sago stewed very thick, will sup} ly another; the custard may be mixed with this last while it is still just warm Two ounces well washed, and slowly heated in a pint of liquid, will be tender in from fifteen to twenty minutes. All these puddings will require a gentle oven, and will be ready to serve when they are firm in the centre, and do not stick to a knife when plunged into it. BAKED APPLE PUDDING, OR CUSTARD. Wcigli a pound of good boiling apples after they are pared and cored, and stew them to a perfectly smooth marmalade, with six ounces of sugar, and a spoonful or two of wine ; stir them often that they may not stick to the pan. Mix with them while they are still quite hot, three ounces of butter, the grated rind and the strained juice of a lemon, and lastly, stir in by degrees the well- beaten yolks of five eggs, and a dessertspoonful of flour, or in lieu of the last, three or four Naples’ biscuits, or macaroons crushed small. Bake the pudding for a full half hour in a moderate oven, or longer