MODERN COOKERY. * 402 [chap. XX. be rendered so. Lift them into a cullender, untie the cloth, and crush them to a paste with a wooden spoon, stir in a good slice of butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, tie them up again very tight, and boil them for half an hour ; turn the pudding gently into a dish that it may not break, and serve it as hot as possible. This is the common old-fashioned mode of preparing a peas pudding, and many persons prefer it to the more modern one which follows. Soak, and boil the peas as above, drain the water well from them before the cloth is untied, rub them through a cullender or sieve, mix the seasoning and the butter thoroughly with them, then add to them gradually three well whisked eggs, tie the mixture tightly and closely in a floured cloth, and boil it for one hour. Good split peas, 1 pint; soaked in soft water 1 night. Boiled 2 to 2.1 hours. Butter, 1 oz.: salt, pepper : boil again 20 to 30 minutes. Or: butter, 1^ oz.; eggs, 3: boiled 1 hour. Obs.—When soft water cannot be had, half a teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda must be stirred into that in which the peas are boiled. They must have room to swell or they will be hard ; but if too much be given them they will be watery, and it will be difficult to convert them into a pudding at all. WINE SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. Boil gently together for ten or fifteen minutes the very thin rind of half a small lemon, about an ounce and a half of sugar, and a wineglassful of water. Take out the lemon-peel and stir into $he sauce until it has boiled for one minute, an ounce of butter smoothly mixed with a large half-teaspoonful of flour ; add a wineglassful and a half of sherry or -Madeira, or other good white wine, and when quite hot serve the sauce without delay. Port wine sauce is made in the same way with the addition of a dessertspoonful of lemon-juice, some grated nutmeg and a little more sugar. Orange-rind and juice may be used for it instead of lemon. COMMON WINE SAUCE. Sweeten a quarter-pint of good melted butter with an ounce and a half of sugar, and add t© it gradually a couple of glasses of wine ; stir it until it is at the point of boiling, and serve * it immediately. Lemon-grate, or nutmeg* can be added at pleasure. PUNCH SAUCE FOR SWEET PUDDINGS. This may be served with custard, plain bread, and plum-puddings With two ounces of sugar and a quarter of a pint of water, boil very gently the rind of half a small lemon, and somewhat less of orange- peel, from fifteen to twenty minutes; strain out the rinds, thicken the sauce with an ounce and a half of butter and nearly a teaspbonful of flour, add a half-glass of brandy, the same of white wine, two-