248 CHAP. XII.] MUTTON. of cold water, and add, when the stew begins to boil, an ounce of salt; let it simmer gently for two hours, and serve it very hot. When the addition of onion is liked, strew some minced over the potatoes. Mutton cutlets, 2 lbs.; potatoes, 4 lbs.; pepper, { oz.; salt, 1 oz.; water, f pint: 2 hours. Obs.—For a real Irish stew the potatoes should be boiled to a mash : an additional quarter of an hour may be necessary for the full quantity here, but for half of it two hours are quite sufficient. A BAKED IRISH STEW. Fill a brown upright Nottingham jar with alternate layers of mutton (or beef), sliced potatoes, and mild onions ; and put in water and seasoning as above; cover the top closely with whole potatoes (pared), and send the stew to a moderate oven. The potatoes on the top should be well cooked and browned before the stew is served. We have not considered it necessary to try this receipt, which was given to ns by some friends who keep an excellent table, and who recommended it much. It is, of course, suited only to a quite plain family dinner. The onions can be omitted when their flavour is not liked. CUTLETS OF COLD MUTTON. Trim into well-shaped cutlets, which should not be very thin, the remains of a roast loin or neck of mutton, or of a quite under- dressed stewed or boiled joint; dip them into egg and well-seasoned bread-crumbs, and broil or fry them over a quick fire that they may be browned and heated through without being too much done. This is a very good mode of serving a half roasted loin or neck. When the cutlets are broiled they should be dipped into, or sprinkled thickly with butter just dissolved, or they will be exceedingly dry; a few additional crumbs should be made to adhere to them after they are moistened with this. MUTTON KIDNEYS A LA FRANQAISE. (ENTREE.) Skin six or eight fine fresh mutton kidneys, and without opening them, remove the fat; slice them rather thin, strew over them a large dessertspoonful of minced herbs, of which two-thirds should be parsley and the remainder thyme, with a tolerable seasoning of pepper or cayenne, and some fine salt. Melt two ounces of butter m a frying-pan, put in the kidneys and brown them quickly on both sides; when nearly done, stir amongst them a dessertspoonful of flour and shake them well in the pan ; pour in the third of a pint of gravy (or of hot water in default of this), the juice of half a lemon, and as much of Harvey’s sauce, or of mushroom catsup, as will flavour the whole pleasantly; bring these to the point of boiling, and