SOUPS. 17 CHAP. I.] to the kindness of the very popular Swedish authoress, Miss Bremer, who received it direct from her accomplished countrywoman.* The following proportions are for a tureen of this excellent potage:— Wash a quarter of a pound of the best pearl sago until the water poured from it is clear ; then stew it quite tender and very thick in water or thick broth (it will require nearly or quite a quart of liquid, which should be poured to it cold, and heated slowly) : then mix gradually with it a pint of good boiling cream, and the yolks of four fresh eggs, and mingle the whole carefully with two quarts of strong veal or beef stock, which should always be kept ready boiling. Send the soup immediately to table. THE LORD mayor’s SOUP. Wash thoroughly two sets of moderate sized pigs’ ears and feet from which the hair has been carefully removed; add to them five quarts of cold water, and stew them very gently with a faggot of savoury herbs, and one large onion stuck with a dozen cloves, for nearly four hours, when the ears may be lifted out; stew the feet for another hour, then take them up, strain the soup, and set it in a cool place that it may become cold enough for the fat to be quite cleared from it. Next, bone the ears and feet, cut the flesh down into dice, throw a clean folded cloth over it, and leave it so until the soup requires to be prepared for table; then strew upon it two tablespoonsful of sa- voury herbs minced small, half a saltspoonful of cayenne, a little white pepper, and some salt. Put into a large saucepan half a pound of good butter, and when it begins to simmer thicken it gradually with as much flour as it will absorb; keep these stirred over a very gentle fire for ten minutes or more, but do not allow them to take the slightest colour; pour the soup to them by degrees, letting it boil up after each portion is added; put in the meat, and half a pint of sherry; simmer the whole from three to five minutes; dish the soup, and slip into it two or three dozens of delicately fried forcemeat- balls. (See Chapter VIII.) Pigs’ feet, 8 ; ears, 4; water, 5 quarts; bunch savoury herbs ; 1 large onion; cloves, 12 : 3.^ to 4 hours, feet, 1 hour more. Butter, \ lb.; flour, G oz.f : 10 to 12 minutes. Minced herbs, 2 tablespoons- ful ; cayenne and common pepper, each * saltspoonful; salt, \ tea- spoonful or more; sherry, ‘ pint: 3 to 5 minutes. Forcemeat-balls, 2 to 3 dozens. Obs.— We have given this receipt with the slightest possible varia tion from the original, which we derived from a neighbourhood where * We were informed by Miss Bremer that Mademoiselle Lind was in the habit of taking this soup before she sang, as she found the sago and eggs sooth- ing to the chest, and beneficial to the voice. + The safer plan for an inexperienced cook is to weigh the flour, and then to sprinkle it from a dredging-box into the butter. C