CHAP. XII.] 241 MUTTON. good quality, but the excellence of the dish mainly depends on its being most gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly all the gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for table. The cutlets must be turned when they are half done : two or three- spoonsful of water or gravy may be added to them should they not yield sufficient moisture; or if closely arranged in a single layer at first, water may be poured in to half their depth. The advantage of this receipt is, that none of the nutriment of the meat is lost; for that which escapes from the cutlets remains in the gravy, which should all be served with them: any fat which may be perceived upon it should be carefully skimmed off. Cold broth used for it instead of water will render it extremely good. li to If hour. ' TO BROIL MUTTON CUTLETS. (ENTREE.) These may be taken from the loin, or the best end of the neck, but the former arc generally preferred. Trim off a portion of the fat, or the whole of it, unless it be liked; pepper the cutlets, heat the grid- iron, rub it with a bit of the mutton suet, broil them over a brisk fire, and turn them often until they are done ; this, for the generality of eaters, will be in about eight minutes, if they are not more than half an inch thick, which they should not be. French cooks season them with pepper and salt, and brush them lightly with dissolved butter or oil, before they are laid to the fire, and we have found the cutlets so managed extremely good. Lightly broiled, 7 to 8 minutes. Well done, 10 minutes. Obs.—A cold Maitre d’Hotel sauce may be laid under the cutlets when they are dished; or they may be served quite dry, or with brown gravy ; or with good melted butter seasoned with mushroom catsup, cayenne, and chili vinegar or lemon-juice. CHINA CHILO Mince a pound of an undressed loin or leg of mutton, with or without a portion of its fat; mix with it two or three young lettuces shred small, a pint of young peas, a teaspoonful of salt, half as much pepper, four tablespoonsful of water, from two to three ounces of good butter, and, if the flavour be liked, a few green onions minced. Keep the whole well stirred with a fork over a clear and gentle fire until it is quite hot, then place it closely covered by the side of the stove, or on a high trivet, that it may stew as softly as possible for a couple of hours. One or even two half-grown cucumbers, cut small by scoring the ends deeply as they are sliced, or a quarter of a pint of minced mushrooms may be added with good effect; or a dessertspoonful of currie-powder and a large chopped onion. A dish of boiled rice should be sent to table with it. Mutton, 1 pint; green peas, 1 pint • young lettuces, 2; salt, 1 tea- R