[chap. xxiV. MODERN COOKERY. 500 until it appears shrunken and perfectly scalded; then take out the bottles, and with the contents of one or two fill up the remainder, and use great care not to break the fruit in doing this. When all are ready pour scalding water into the bottles and cover the gooseberries entirely with it, or they will become mouldy at the top. Cork the bottles well immediately, and cover the necks with melted resin ; keep them in a cool place ; and when the gooseberries are used pour off the greater part of the water, and add sugar as for the fresh fruit* of which they will have the flavour and appearance ; and they will be found more wholesome prepared in this manner than if simply baked or steamed in the bottles. RED GOOSEBERRY JAM. The small rough red gooseberry, when fully ripe, is the best for this preserve, which may, however, be made of the larger kinds. When the tops and stalks have been taken carefully from the fruit, weigh, and boil it quickly for three-quarters of an hour, keeping it well stirred; then for six pounds of the gooseberries, add two and a half of good roughly-powdered sugar; boil these together briskly, from twenty to twenty-five minutes and stir the jam well from the bottom of the pan, as it is liable to burn if this be neglected. Small red gooseberries, 6 lbs.: | hour. Pounded sugar, 2^ lbs.: 20 to 25 minutes. YERY FINE GOOSEBERRY JAM. Seed the fruit, which for this jam may be of the larger kind of rough red gooseberry : those which are smooth skinned are generally of far inferior flavour. Add the pulp which has been scooped from the prepared fruit to some whole gooseberries, and stir them over a moderate fire for some minutes to extract the juice ; strain and weigh this; pour twro pounds of it to four of the seeded gooseberries, boil them rather gently for twenty-five minutes, add fourteen ounces of good pounded sugar to each pound of fruit and juice, and when it is lissolved boil the preserve from twelve to fifteen minutes longer, and skim it well daring the time. Seeded gooseberries, 4 lbs.; juice of gooseberries, 2 lbs. : 25 minutes. Sugar, lbs. (or 14 oz, to each pound of fruit and juice) : 12 to 15 minutes. iEklY OF RIFE GOOSEBERRIES. (Excellent.) Take the tops and stalks from a gallon or more of any kind of well- flavoured ripe red gooseberries, and keep them stirred gently oyer a