MODERN COOKERY. 102 [chap. iv. it small, in half a pint of water, with any slight seasonings of spice or herbs, or with a little salt and pepper only ; it should stew very softly for an hour or more, or the quantity will be too much reduced. When the bird is just ready for table, take the gravy from the drip- ping-pan, and drain off the fat from it as closely as possible ; strain the liquor from the neck to it, mixing them smoothly, pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, add salt and pepper or cayenne, if needed, and serve it extremely hot. When this is done, the fowl should be basted with good butter only, and well floured when it is first laid to the fire. Many cooks always mix the gravy from the pan when game is roasted, with that which they send to table with it, as fiiey think that it enriches the flavour; but to many persons it is peculiarly distasteful. Neck of fowl; water, \ pint; pepper, salt (little vegetable and spice at choice) : stewed gently, 1 hour; strained, stirred to the gravy of the roast, well cleared from fat. ANOTHER CHEAP GRAVY FOR A FOWL. A little good broth added to half a dozen dice of lean ham, lightly browned in a morsel of butter, with half a dozen corns of pepper and a small branch or two of parsley, and stewed for half an hour, will make excellent gravy of a common kind. When there is no broth, the neck of the chicken must be stewed down to supply its place. GRAVY OR SAUCE FOR A GOOSE. Mince, and brown in a small saucepan, with a slice of butter, two ounces of mild onion, When it begins to brown, stir to it a tea- spoonful of flour, and in five or six minutes afterwards, pour in by degrees the third of a pint of good brown gravy; let this simmer fifteen minutes ; strain it, bring it again to the point of boiling, and add to it a teaspoonful of made mustard mixed well with a glass of port wine. Season it with cayenne and pepper and salt, if this last be needed. Do not let the sauce boil after the wine is added, but serve it very hot. Onions, 2 oz.; butter, 1^ oz. : 10 to 15 minutes. Flour, 1 tea- spoonful: 5 to 6 minutes. Gravy, 3 pint: 15 minutes. Mustard, 1 teaspoonful; port wine, 1 glassful; cayenne pepper; salt. See also Christopher North’s own sauce. ORANGE GRAVY FOR WILD FOWL. Boil for about ten minutes, in half a pint of rich and highly- flavoured brown gravy, or Espagnole, half the rind of a Seville orange, pared as thin as possible, and a small strip of lemon-rind, with a bit of sugar the size of a hazel-nut. Strain it off, add to it a quarter pint of port or claret, the juice of half a lemon, and a table- spoonful of Seville orange-juice : season it with cayenne, and serve it as hot as possible.