MODERN COOKERY* 532 [chap. XXV. the importers, from whom, or whose agents, we have for several years been supplied with it. > Pickles should always be kept quite covered with their liquor, and well secured from the air and from the influence of damp ; the last of which is especially detrimental to them AYe can quite recommend to the reader the rather limited number of receipts which follow, and which might easily be multiplied did the size of our volume permit. Pickling is so easy a process, however, that when in any degree pro- perly acquired, it may be extended to almost every kind of fruit and vegetable successfully. A few of the choicer kinds will nevertheless be found generally more acceptable than a greater variety of in- ferior preparations. Mushrooms, gherkins, walnuts, lemons, escha- lots, and peaches, for all of which we have given minute directions, will furnish as much choice as is commonly required. Very ex- cellent Indian mangoes too may be purchased at the Italian ware- houses, and to many tastes will be more acceptable than any English pickle. YYe have had them very good from Mr. Cobbett, 18, Pall Mall, whose house we have already had occasion to name more than once. TO TICKLE CHERRIES. Leave about an inch of their stalks on some fine, sound Kentish or Flemish cherries, which are not over ripe ; put them into a jar, cover them with cold vinegar, and let them stand for three weeks; pour off two-thirds of the liquor and replace it with fresh vinegar; then, after having drained it from the fruit, boil the whole with an ounce of coriander seed, a small blade of mace, a few grains of cayenne, or a teaspoonful of white peppercorns, and four bruised cochineals to every quart, all tied loosely in a fold of muslin. Let the pickle become quite cold before it is added to the cherries : in a month they will be fit for use. The vinegar which is poured from the fruit makes a good syrup of itself, when boiled with a pound of sugar to the pint, but it is improved by having some fresh raspberries, cherries, or currants previously infused in it for three oi four days. TO TICKLE GHERKINS* Let the gherkins be gathered on a dry day, before the frost has touched them; take off the blossoms, put them into a stone jar, and pour over them sufficient boiling brine to cover them well. The following day take them out, wipe them singly, lay them into a clean stone jar, with a dozen bay leaves over them, and pour upon them the following pickle, when it is boiling fast: as much vinegar as will more than cover the gherkins by an inch or two, with an ounce and a quarter of salt, a quarter-ounce of black peppercorns, an ounce