582 MODERN COOKERY. [ciiap. XXIX. and half a pint of brandy; grate in a fine nutmeg, place the bowl under the cow, and milk it full. In serving it put a portion of the curd into each glass, fill it up with whey, and pour a little rich cream on the top. The rind of a lemon may be rasped on part of the sugar when the flavour is liked, but it is not usually added. Juice of lemons, 2; sugar, \ lb. or more; port wine, 1 pint; sherry 1 pint; brandy, 3 pint; nutmeg, 1; milk from the cow, 2 quarts. 06?..—-We can testify to the excellence of this receipt. AN ADMIRABLE COOL CUP. Weigh six ounces of sugar in lumps, and extract the essence from the rind of a large fresh lemon by rubbing them upon it; then put them into a deep jug, and add the strained juice of one lemon and a half. When the sugar is dissolved, pour in a bottle of good cider, and three large wineglassesful of sherry; add nearly half a small nutmeg lightly grated, and serve the cup with or without some sprigs of fresh balm or borage in it. Brandy is sometimes added to it, but is, we think, no improvement. If closely covered down, and placed on ice for a short time, it will be more agreeable as a summer beverage. THE regent’s, OR GEORGE THE FOURTIES, PUNCH. Pare as thin as possible the rinds of two China oranges, of two lemons, and of one Seville orange, and infuse them for an hour in half a pint of thin cold syrup; then add to them the juice of the fruit. Make a pint of strong green tea, sweeten it well with fine sugar, and when it is quite cold, add it to the fruit and syrup, with a glass of the best old Jamaica rum, a glass of brandy, one of arrack, one of pine-apple syrup, and two bottles of champagne; pass the whole through a fine lawn sieve until it is perfectly clear, then bottle, and put it into ice until dinner is served. We are indebted for this receipt to a person who made the punch daily for the prince’s table, at Carlton palace, for six months; it has been in our possession some years, and may be relied on. Binds and juice of 2 China oranges, 2 lemons, and of 1 Seville orange ; syrup, ^ pint; strong green tea, sweetened, 1 pint; best old Jamaica rum, arrack, French brandy (vieux cognac), and pine- apple syrup, each 1 glassful; champagne, 2 bottles. In ice for a couple of hours. MINT JULEP, AN AMERICAN RECEIPT. “ Strip the tender leaves of mint into a tumbler, and add to them as much wine, brandy, or any other spirit, as you wish to take. Put some pounded ice into a second tumbler ; pour this on the mint and brandy, and continue to pour the mixture from one tumbler to the