GHAP. XXV.]' PICKLES* 537 stone jar or jars, and pour it on them as it is taken from the fire. When the pickle is quite cold, cover the jar securely, and store it in a dry place. Keep the walnuts always well covered with vinegar, and boil that which is added to them. Walnuts, 100; in brine made with 12 oz. salt to 2 quarts water, ind changed twice or more, 9 or 12 days. Vinegar, full £ gallon; salt, 1 teaspoonful; whole black pepper, 2 oz.; ginger, 3 oz.; mace, 1 drachm; cloves, { to \ oz.; small onions, 4 to 6; mustard-seed, 4 oz.: 5 minutes. TO PICKLE BEET-HOOT. Boil the beet-root tender by the directions of page 329, and when it is quite cold, pare and slice it; put it into a jar, and cover it with vinegar previously boiled and allowed to become again perfectly cold: it will soon be ready for use. It is excellent when merely covered with chili vinegar. A few small shalots may be boiled in the pickle for it when their flavour is liked. Carrots boiled tolerably tender in salt and water may be prepared by this receipt with or without the addition of the shalots, or with a few very small silver onions, which should be boiled for a minute or two in the pickle : this should be poured hot on the carrots. To each quart of vinegar, salt, 1 teaspoonful; cayenne tied in muslin, \ saltspoonful, or white peppercorns, i to whole oz. PICKLED ESCHALOTS. (Author's Receipt.') For a quart of ready-peeled eschalots, add to the same quantity of the best pale white wine vinegar, a dessertspoonful of salt, and an ounce of whole white pepper ; bring these quickly to a boil, take oif the scum, throw in the eschalots, simmer them for two minutes onljq turn them into a clean stone jar, and when they are quite cold, tie a skin, or two folds of thick paper over it. Eschalots, 1 quart; vinegar, 1 quart; salt, 1 dessertspoonful; whole white pepper, 1 oz. Ohs.—The sooner the eschalots are pickled after they are ripe and dry, the better they will be. PICKLED ONIONS. Take the smallest onions that can be procured,* just after they are harvested, for they are never in so good a state for the purpose as then ; proceed, after having peeled them, exactly as for the eschalots, and when they begin to look clear, which will be in three or fen minutes, put them into jars, and pour the pickle on them- Th * The Heading onion is the proper kind for pickling.