[ciiAr. xxm. MODERN COOKERY. 45G PREPARED APPLE OR QUINCE JUICE. Pour into a clean earthen pan two quarts of spring water, and throw into it as quickly as they can be pared, quartered, and weighed, four pounds of nonsuches, pearmains, llipstone pippins, or any other good boiling apples of fine flavour. AVhen all are done, stew them gently until they are well broken, but not reduced quite to pulp; turn them into a jelly-bag, or strain the juice from them without pressure through a closely-woven cloth, which should be gathered over the fruit, and tied, and suspended above a deep pan until the juice ceases to drop from it: this, if not very clear, must be rendered so before it is used for syrup or jelly, but for all other pur- poses once straining it will be sufficient. Quinces are prepared in the same way, and with the same proportions of fruit and water, but they must not be too long boiled, or the juice will become red. We have found it answer well to have them simmered until they are perfectly tender, and then to leave them with their liquor in a bowl until the following day, when the juice will be rich and clear. They should be thrown into the water very quickly after they are pared and weighed, as the air will soon discolour them. The juice will form a jelly much more easily if the cores and pips be left in the fruit Water, 2 quarts; apples or quinces, 4 lbs. COCOA-NUT FLAVOURED MILK. (For sweet dishes, Sf'C.) Pare the dark outer rind from a very fresh nut, and grate it on a fine and exceedingly clean grater , to every three ounces pour a quart cf new milk, and simmer them very softly for three quarters of an hour, or more, that a full flavour of the nut may be imparted to the milk without its being much reduced : strain it through a fine sieve, or cloth, with sufficient pressure to leave the nut almost dry: it may then be used for blanc-mange, custards, rice, and other puddings, light cakes and bread. To each quart new milk, 3 oz. grated cocoa-nut: f to 1 hour. Ohs.—The milk of the nut when perfectly sweet and good, may be added to the other with advantage To obtain it, bore one end of the shell with a gimlet, and catch the liquid in a cup; and to extricate the kernel, break the shell with a hammer * this is better than sawing it asunder COMPOTES OF FRUIT. (Or Fruit stewed in Syrup.) Wc would especially recommend these delicate and very agreeable preparations for trial to such of our readers as may be unacquainted