115 CHAP. V.] SAUCES* whole until it toils, put in the oysters, and when they are quite heated through send the sauce to table without delay. Some persons like a little cayenne and essence of anchovies added to it when it is served with fish; others prefer the unmixed flavour of the oysters. Oysters, 2 dozens; their liquor; melted butter, i pint. (Little cayenne and 1 dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies when liked.) SHRIMP SAUCE. The fish for this sauce should be very fresh. Shell quickly one pint of shrimps and mix them with half a pint of melted butter, to which a few drops of essence of anchovies and a little mace and cayenne have been added. As soon as the shrimps are heated through, dish, and serve the sauce, which ought not to boil after they are put in. Many persons add a few spoonsful of rich cream to all shell-fish sauces. Shrimps, 1 pint; melted butter, \ pint; essence of anchovies, 1 tea- spoonful ; mace, \ teaspoonful; cayenne, very little. ANCHOVY SAUCE. To half a pint of good melted butter add three dessertspoonsful of essence of anchovies, a quarter of a teaspoonful of mace, and a rather high seasoning of cavenne; or pound the flesh of two or three fine mellow anchovies very smooth, mix it with the boiling butter, simmer these for a minute or two, strain the sauce if needful, add the spices, give it a boil, and serve it. Melted butter, % pint; essence of anchovies, 3 dessertspoonsful; mace, i teaspoonful; cayenne, to taste. Or, 3 large anchovies finely pounded, and the same proportions of butter and spice CREAM SAUCE FOR FISH. Knead very smoothly together with a strong-bladed knife, a large teaspoonful of flour with three ounces of good butter; stir them in a very clean saucepan or stewpan over a gentle fire until the butter is ■dissolved, then throw in a little salt and some cayenne, give the whole one minute’s simmer, and add, very gradually, half a pint of good cream; keep the sauce constantly stirred until it boils, then mix with it a dessertspoonful of essence of anchovies, and half as much chili vinegar or lemon-juice. The addition of shelled shrimps or lobsters *cut in dice, will convert this at once into a most excellent sauce of ■either. Pounded mace may be added to it with the cayenne; and it ■ may be thinned with a few spoonsful of milk should it be too thick. "Omit the essence of anchovies, and mix with it some parsley boiled 'very green and minced, and it becomes a good sauce for poultry. Butter, 3 oz.; flc ur, 1 large teaspoonful: 2 to 3 minutes. Cream, k pint; essence of anchovies, 1 large dessertspoonful (more if liked) chili vinegar or lemon-juice, 1 teaspoonful; salt, i saltspoonful.