149 CM Ai\ vi r.] STORE SAUCES. do if it be perfectly good) ; keep these stirred occasionally for four days, then drain the liquor very dry from the mushrooms, and boil it for fifteen minutes with an ounce of whole black pepper, a drachm of mace, an ounce of ginger, and three or four grains only of cayenne. Mushiooms, 1 gallon; salt, 3 oz.; mushroom catsup, 1 quart; peppercorns, 1 oz.; mace, 1 drachm; ginger, 1 oz.; cayenne, 3 to 4 grains: 15 minutes. COMPOUND, OR cook’s CATSUP. Take a pint and a half of mushroom catsup when it is first made, and ready boiled (the double is best for the purpose), simmer in it foi five minutes an ounce of small eschalots nicely peeled ; add to these half a pint of walnut catsup, and a wineglassful of cayenne vinegar, or of chili vinegar; give the whole one boil, pour it out, and when cold, bottle it with the eschalots in it. Mushroom catsup, 1| pint; eschalots, 1 oz.; walnut catsup or pickle, \ pint; cayenne or chili vinegar, 1 wineglassful WALNUT CATSUP. The vinegar in which walnuts have been pickled, when they have remained in it a year, will generally answer all the purposes for which this catsup is required, particularly if it be drained from them and boiled for a few minutes, with a little additional spice, and a few eschalots ; but where the vinegar is objected to, it may be made either by boiling the expressed juice of young walnuts for an hour, with six ounces of fine anchovies, four ounces of eschalots, half an ounce of black pepper, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a drachm of mace, to every quart; or as follows:— Pound in a mortar a hundred young wMnuts, strewing amongst them as they are done half a pound of salt; then pour to them a quart of strong vinegar, and let them stand until they have become quite black, keeping them stirred three or four times a day ; next add a quart of strong old beer, and boil the wThole together for ten minutes ; strain it, and let it remain until the next day; then po-ur it off clear from the sediment, add to it half a pound of anchovies, one large head of garlic bruised, half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, the same quantity of cloves and black pepper, and two drachms of mace: boil these together for half an hour, and the following day bottle and cork the catsup well. It will keep for a dozen years. Many persons add to it, before it is boiled, a bottle of port wine ; and others recom- mend a large bunch of sweet herbs to be put in with the spice. 1st llecipe. Expressed juice of walnuts, 1 quart; anchovies, 6 oz. ; eschalots, 4 oz.; black pepper, \ oz.; cloves, £ oz.; mace, 1 drachm , 1 hour 2nd. "Walnuts, 100; salt, £ lb.; vinegar, 1 quart • to stand till