CHAP. XIV.J POULTRY. 269 second 3kewer; then carry it over the pinionc to keep them firmly in their place, and fasten it at the neck. When a cradle spit, of which the engraving below shows the form, and which opens with a joint to receive the roar.t, is not at hand, a bottle jack will be found more Cradle Spit. convenient than any other for holding the turkey; and after the hook of this is passed through the neck, it must be further supported by a string running across the back and under the points of the skewer which confines the pinions to the hook; for, otherwise, its weight would most probably cause it to fall. Flour it well, place it far from the fire until it is heated through, and baste it plentifully and incessantly with butter. An hour and three quarters will roast it well. Break and boil down the bones for gravy in a pint and a half of water, or good veal broth, with a little salt, a few slices of celery, a dozen corns of pepper, and a branch or two of parsley. Brown gently in a morsel of fresh butter, a couple of ounces of lean ham, add to them a slight dredging of flour, and a little cayenne, and pour to them the broth from the bones, after it has boiled for an hour, and been strained and skimmed; shake the stewpan well round, and stew the gravy until it is wanted for table; clear it entirely from fat, strain, and serve it very hot. An eschalot or half an onion may be browned with the ham when either is liked, but their flavour is not, Ave think, appropriate to poultry. The turkey may be partially filled with the forcemeat No 1 or 3 of Chapter VIII., and the sausage-meat may then be placed on either side of it. Hen turkey betAATeen 7 and 8 lbs. weight, boned, filled with sausage-meat, 3 to 4 lbs.; or with forcemeat No. 1, or with ISJo. 3, Chapter VI., 1 lb. (that is to say, 1 lb. of bread-crumbs, and the other ingredients in proportion.) Sausage-meat, ? to 3 lbs. roasted If hour. Ohs.—When a common spit is used for the turkey, it must be fastened to, and not put upon it. Bread sauce can be served with the bird, or not, at pleasure. It will be found an iinpnwement to moisten the sausage-meat with two or three spoonsful of Avater: it should be finely minced, well spiced, and mixed with herbs, when the common forcemeat is not used in addition. In preparing it a pound and a quarter of fat Bhould be mixed with each pound of the lean. To give the turkey a very good appearance, the breast may be larded bj the directions of page 181.