BOILED PUDDINGS. OIIAP. XX.] 413 pudding for two hours at the utmost. Let it stand for a minute or two before it is dished, and serve it with simple wine sauce, or with that which follows; or with pine-apple or any other clear fruit- sauce. (For these last, see page 405). Boil very gently, for about ten minutes, a full quarter of a pint of water, with the very thin rind of half a fresh lemon, and an ounce and a half of lump sugar; then take out the lemon peel, and stir in a small teaspoonful of arrowroot, smoothly mixed with the strained juice of the lemon (with or without the addition of a little orange juice); take the sauce from the fire, throw in nearly half a glass of pale French brandy,* or substitute for this a large wineglassful of sherry, or of any other white wine which may be preferred, but increase a little, in that case, the proportion of arrowroot. To convert the preceding into Sir Edwin Landseer s pudding, ornament the mould tastefully with small leaves of thin citron- rind and split muscatel raisins in a pattern, and strew the inter- mediate spaces with well cleaned and well dried currants mingled with plenty of candied orange or lemon-rind shred small. Four gently in the above pudding mixture, when quite cold, after having added one egg-yolk to it, and steam or boil it the same length of time. A CABINET PUDDING. Split and stone three dozens of fine jar raisins, or take an equal number of dried cherries, and place either of them regularly in a sort of pattern, in a thickly-buttered plain quart mould or basin; next, slice and lay into it three penny sponge-cakes; add to these two ounces of ratifias, four macaroons, an ounce and a half of candied citron sliced thin, the yolks of four eggs with the whites of three only, thoroughly whisked, mixed with half a pint of new milk, then strained to half a pint of sweet cream, and sweetened with two ounces and a half of pounded sugar: these ought to fill the mould exactly. Steam the pudding, or boil it very gently for one hour ; let it stand a few minutes before it is dished, that it may not break; and serve it with good wine or brandy sauce. Jar raisins, or dried cherries, 3 dozens (quart mould or basin) ; sponge biscuits, 3; macaroons, 4; ratifias, 2 oz.; candied citron, 1 £ oz.; yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 3 ; new milk, £ pint; cream, a pint; sugar, 2£ oz.; steamed, or boiled, 1 hour. Obs.—We have given this receipt, for which we are indebted to a friend, without any variation from the original, because on testing it we have found it very exact with regard to quantity and time; but though an extremely delicate and excellent pudding, a little flavour- ing would, we think, improve it: a small portion of the milk may be omitted, and its place supplied by ratifia, lemon-brandy, or aught else that is preferred. * Maraschino, or any delicately flavoured liqueur, m?y be substituted for this with much advantage.