DESSERT DISHES. CSAP. XXVill.] 575 sound lemon?, or Seville oranges, or upon citron, and dried before it is reduced to powder; or add to the mixture a drop of essence of roses, and a slight colouring of prepared cochineal. A little spinach - juice will give a beautiful green tint, but its flavour is not very agreeable. Filbert or pistachio nuts will answer as well as almonds, iced in this way. SMALL SUGAR SOUFFLES. These are made with the same preparation of egg and sugar as the almond-shamrocks, and may be flavoured and coloured in the same way. The icing must be sufficiently firm to roll into balls scarcely larger than a nut: a little sifted sugar should be dusted on the fingers in making them, but it must not remain on the surface of the souffles. They are baked usually in very small round paper cases, plaited with the edge of a knife, and to give them brilliancy, the tops are slightly moistened before they are set into the oven, by passing the finger, or a paste-brush, just dipped in cold water, lightly over them. Look at them in about a quarter of an hour, and should they be quite firm to the touch in every part, draw them out; but if not let them remain longer. They may be baked on sheets of paper, but will not preserve their form so well. For 1 white of egg, whisked to a very firm froth, 8 to 10 oz. of sifted sugar, or more: souffles, baked in extremely gentle oven, 1G to 30 minutes, or longer if needful. Obs.—We have confined our receipts here to the most simple pre- parations suited to desserts. All the confectionary of the preceding chapter being appropriate to them (with the exception of the toffie), as well as various compotes, clear jellies, and gateaux of fruit turned from the moulds; and we have already enumerated the many other dishes of which they may be composed. ICES. There is no real difficulty in making ices for the table; but for want of the proper means of freezing them, and of preventing their being acted on by a too warm atmosphere afterwards, in many houses it cannot very easily be accom- plished unless the weather be extremely cold. A vessel called a freezing-pot, an ice- pail, a strong wooden mallet, and a copper spatula, or an ice-spoon, are all that is positively required for this branch of confectionary. Suitable moulds for iced puddings, and imitations of fruit, must be had in addition when needed. Ice Pail and Freezer.