[CHAP. II. MODERN COOKERY. 82 it up very securely, curl it round, and fasten the tail into the mouth with a thin skewer, then dip it into the beaten yolks of two or more eggs, seasoned with nearly half a teaspoonful of salt and a little pepper or cayenne; cover it equally with the finest bread crumbs, dip it a second time into the egg and crumbs, then pour some clarified butter gently over it, through a small strainer, and send it to a well heated oven for an hour and a quarter or more, should it be very large, but for less time if it be only of moderate size. As it is naturally a very dry fish, it should not be left in the oven after it is thoroughly done, but it should never be sent to table until it is so. The crumbs of bread are sometimes mixed with a sufficient quantity of minced parsley to give the surface of the fish a green hue. Send plain melted butter, and brown caper, or Dutch sauce to table with it. TO STEW CARP. (A common Country 'Receipt.) Scale and clean the fish with exceeding care, lay it into a stewpan, and cover it with good cold beef or veal broth ; add one small onion stuck with a few cloves, a faggot of savoury herbs, three or four slices of carrot, and a little salt, and stew the carp as gently as possible for nearly an hour. Have ready some good brown gravy, mixed with a couple of glassesful of port wine add a squeeze of lemon-juice, dish the carp very carefully, pour the sauce over, and serve it immediately. We would recommend the Genevese Sauce, of Chapter V., as superior to any other for this dish. This receipt is for a fish which averages from five to six pounds in weight, but the carp sometimes attains to a very large size ; and suf- ficient time to cook it perfectly should always be allowed for it. TO BOIL PERCH,® First wipe or wash off the slime, then scrape off the scales, which adhere rather tenaciously to this fish ; empty and clean the insides perfectly, take out the gills, cut off the fins, and lay the perch into equal parts of cold and of boiling water, salted as for mackerel: from eight to ten minutes will boil them un- less they are very large. Dish them on a napkin, garnish them with * The figure of this fish is very aisproportioned in size to that of the carp and other kinds inserted here, as it is quite small at its fullest growth compared with the carp, which sometimes attains to a great weight.