23 SOUPS, CEAP. I.] simmer, and serve it immediately, with a French roll in the tureen. Yeal, 5 lbs.; water, 3 quarts; salt, 1* oz. ; 1 mild onion; 20 corns white pepper; 2 large blades of mace: 5 hours or more. Cream, 1 pint; almonds, 1| oz.; vermicelli, 1 oz.: 1 minute. Little thickening if needed. Obs.—We have given this receipt without any variation from the original, as the soup made by it—of which we have often partaken— seemed always much approved by the guests of the hospitable country gentleman from whose family it was derived, and at whose well-arranged table it was very commonly served; but we would suggest the suppression of the almond spikes, as they seem un- suited to the preparation, and also to the taste of the present day. A RICHER "WHITE SOUP. Pound very fine indeed six ounces of sweet almonds, then add to them six ounces of the breasts of roasted chickens or partridges, and three ounces of the whitest bread which has been soaked in a little veal broth, and squeezed very dry in a cloth. Beat these altogether to an extremely smooth paste; then pour to them boiling and by degrees, two quarts of rich veal stock; strain the soup through a fine hair sieve, set it again over the fire, add to it a pint of thick cream, and serve it, as soon as it is at the point of boiling. When cream is very scarce, or not easily to be procured, this soup may be thickened sufficiently without it, by increasing the quantity of almonds to eight or ten ounces, and pouring to them, after they have been reduced to the finest paste, a pint of boiling stock, which must be again wrung from them through a coarse cloth with very strong pressure: the proportion of meat and bread also should then be nearly doubled. The stock should be well seasoned with mace and cayenne before it is added to the other ingredients. Almonds, 6 oz.; breasts of chickens or partridges, 6 oz.; soaked bread, 3 oz.; veal stock, 2 quarts; cream, 1 pint. Obs. 1.—Some persons pound the yolks of four or five hard-boiled eggs with the almonds, meat, and bread for this white soup ; French cooks beat smoothly with them an ounce or two of whole rice, pre- viously boiled from fifteen to twenty minutes. Obs. 2.—A good plain white soup maybe made simply by adding to a couple of quarts of pale veal stock or strong well-flavoured veal broth, a thickening of arrow-root, and from half to three quarters of a pint of cream. Four ounces of macaroni boiled tender and well-drained may be dropped into it a minute or two before it is dished, but the thickening may then be diminished a little MOCK TURTLE SOUP. To make a single tureen of this favourite English soup in the most economical manner when there is no stock at hand, stew gently down in a gallon of water four pounds of the fleshy part of the shin of