PASTRY. CHAP. XVIII.] 871 PUDDING PIES. (ENTREMETS.) This form of pastry (or its name at least) is, we believe, peculiar to the county of Kent, where it is made in abundance, and eaten by all classes of people during Leci. Boil for fifteen minutes three ounces of ground rice* in a pint and a half of new milk, and when taken from the fire stir into it three ounces of butter and four of sugar; add to these six well-beaten eggs, a grain or two of salt, and a flavouring of nutmeg or lemon-rind at pleasure. When the mix- ture is nearly cold, line some large pattypans or some saucers with thin puff paste, fill them with it three parts full, strew the tops thickly with currants which have been cleaned and dried, and bake the pudding-pies from fifteen to twenty minutes in a gentle oven. Milk, 11 pint; ground rice, 3 oz.: 15 minutes. Butter, 3 oz.; sugar, l lb.; nutmeg or lemon-rind ; eggs, 6 ; currants, 4 to 6 oz. 15 to 30 minutes PUDDING PIES. V(vl commoner kind.) One quart of new milk, five ounces of ground rice, butter, one ounce and a half (or more), four ounces of sugar, half a small nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, four large eggs, and three ounces of currants. COCOA-NUT CHEESE-CAKES. (ENTREMETS.) (Jamaica Ueceipt.) Break carefully the shell of the nut, that the liquid it contains may not escape.f Take out the kernel, pare thinly off the dark skin, and grate the nut on a delicately clean grater; put it, with its weight of pounded sugar, and its own milk, or a couple of spoonsful or rather more of water, into a silver or block-tin saucepan, or a very small copper stewpan perfectly tinned, and keep it gently stirred over a quite clear fire until it is tender: it will sometimes require an hour’s stewing to make it so. When a little cooled, add to the nut, and beat well with it, some eggs properly whisked and strained, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Line some pattypans with fine paste, put in the mixture, and bake the cheese-cakes from thirteen to fifteen minutes Grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz.; sugar, 6 oz.; the milk of the nut, or of * Or rice-flour. I- This, as we have elsewhere stated, is best secured by boring the shell befor8 it is broken. The milk of the nut should never be used unless it be very fresh.