480 MODERN COOKERY. [chap, xxiii. LEMON SPONGE, OR MOULDED LEMON CREAM. Infuse in half a pint of cream the very thin rind of one large lemon, or of one and a half of smaller size; or, instead of this, rasp the fruit with the sugar which is to be used for the preparation. Add three- quarters of an ounce of fine isinglass, and when this is dissolved throw in seven ounces of sugar in small lumps. Do not boil the mixture, to reduce it, but let it be kept near the point of simmering, until the sugar and isinglass are entirely dissolved, and a full flavour of the lemon-rind has been obtained ; then stir in another half-pint of cream, and strain the mixture immediately into a deep bowl or pan. When it is quite cold, add to it very gradually the strained juice of one lemon and a half, whisking the preparation well all the time; and when it begins to set, which may be known by its becoming very thick, whisk it lightly to a sponge, pour it into an oiled mould, and, to prevent its breaking when it is dished, just dip the mould into hot, but not boiling water; loosen the edges carefully, and turn out the cream : to save time and trouble the whisking may be omitted, and a plain lemon-cream take place of the sponge. Cream, 1 pint; rind of lemons 2 middling-sized, or 1 \ large ; isin • glass, f oz.; sugar, 7 oz. ; juice of 1^ lemon. Obs.—For this, as for all other dishes of the kind, a little more or less of isinglass may be required according to the state of the weather, a larger proportion being needed in summer than in winter. AN APPLE IIEDGE-IIOG, OR SU^DOISE. This dish is formed of apples, pared, cored without being divided and stewed tolerably tender in a light syrup. These are placed in a dish, after being well drained, and filled with apricot, or any other rich marmalade, and ar- ranged in two or more layers, so as to give, when the whole is complete, the form shown in the engrav- ing. The number required must depend on the size of the dish. From three to five pounds more must be stewed down into a smooth and dry marmalade, and with this all the spaces between them are to be filled up, and the whole are to be covered with it; an icing of two eggs, beaten to a very solid froth, and mixed with two heaped teaspoonsful of sugar, must then be spread evenly over the suedoise, fine sugar sifted on this, and spikes of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, stuck over the entire surface; the dish is then to be placed in a moderate oven until the almonds are browned, but not too deeply, and the apples are hot through It 13