445 eggs and milk. CHAP. XXII.] both for eating and for putting up in store : they should be collected in dry weather when they are required to be kept.* TO COOK EGGS IN THE SHELL WITHOUT BOILING THEM. {An admirable receipt.) This mode of dressing eggs is not new; it seems, indeed, to have been known in years long past, but not to have received the attention which its excellence deserved. We saw it mentioned with much commendation in a most useful little periodical, called the Cottage Gardener, and had it tested immediately with various modifications and with entire success. After many trials, we give the following as the best and most uniform in its results of our numerous experiments. First, put some boiling water into a large basin—a slop-basin for example—and let it remain for a few seconds, then turn it out, lay in the egg (or eggs), and roll it over, to take the chill off the shell, that it may not crack from the sudden application of heat; and pour in— and upon the egg—quite boiling water from a kettle, until it is com- pletely immersed; put a plate over it instantly, and let it remain, upon the table, for twelve minutes, when it will be found perfectly and beautifully cooked, entirely free from all flavour and appearance of rawness, and yet so lightly and delicately dressed as to suit even persons who cannot take eggs at all when boiled in the usual way. It should be turned when something more than half done, but the plate should be replaced as quickly as possible. Two eggs will re- quire scarcely more time than one ; but some additional minutes must be allowed for any number beyond that. The process may alwa}"s be quickened by changing the water when it has cooled a little, for more that is fast boiling: the eggs may, in fact, be rendered quite hard by the same means, but then no advantage is obtained over the old method of cooking them. 12 minutes Obs.—This is one of the receipts which we have re-produced here from our cookery for invalids, on account of its adaptation to the taste generally. TO BOIL EGGS IN THE SHELL. Even this very simple process demands a certain degree of care, for if the eggs be brought from a cold larder, and suddenly plunged into boiling water they will frequently break immediately, and a large portion will often escape from the shells. In winter they should be * For a sea-store, an old and experienced cook from on board a man-of-war, directs eggs to be rubbed with salt butter, and packed in layers with plenty ot bran between them. He says that the salt penetrates the shell, and tends preserve the eggs, which will require no additional salt when eaten. We give th* information to the reader as we received