MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xvit. 388 water; and when they are about half boiled add a little salt to them. Take them up the instant they are perfectly tender: this will be in from fifteen to twenty-five minutes, so much do they vary in size and as to the time necessary to dress them. If allowed to remain in the water after they are done, they become black and flavourless, Melted butter should always be sent to table with them. 15 to 25 minutes. TO FilY JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES (ENTREMETS.) Boil them from eight to twelve minutes; lift them out, drain them on a sieve, and let them cool; dip them into beaten eggs, and cover them with fine bread-crumbs. Fry them a light brown, drain, pile them in a hot dish, and serve them quickly. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES, A LA REINE. Wash and wipe the artichokes, cut off one end of each quite flat, and trim the other into a point; boil them in milk and water, lift them out the instant they are done, place them up- right in the dish in which they are to be served, and sauce them with a good becha- mel, or with nearly half a pint of cream thickened with a dessert- spoonful of flour, mixed with an ounce and a half of butter, and seasoned with a little mace and some salt. When cream cannot be procured use new milk, and increase the proportion of flour and butter. Art:chokes a la Reine. MASHED JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Boil them tender, press the water well from them, and then proceed exactly as for mashed turnips, taking care to dry the ar- tichokes well, both before and after the milk or cream is added tc them; they will be excellent if good white sauce be substituted for either of these. HARICOTS BLANCS. The haricot blanc is the seed of a particular kind of French bean, of which we find some difficulty in ascertaining the English name, for though we have tried several which resembled it in appearance, we have found their flavour, after they were dressed, very different, and far from agreeable. The large white Dutch runner, is, we believe, the proper variety for cooking; at least we have obtained a small quantity under that name, which approached much more nearly than any others we had tried to those which we had eaten abroad, The haricots, when fresh may be thrown into plenty of