MODERN COOKERY. 98 [chap. iv. three full pints of strong beef or veal broth; or, if this cannot conveniently be done, increase the proportion of meat or dimiuish that of the liquid, substituting water for the broth; throw in some salt after the boiling has commenced, and the gravy has been well skimmed, with one mild onion, a bunch of savoury herbs, a little celery, a car- rot, a blade of mace, and a half-saltspoouful of peppercorns; stew those very gently for four hours; then, should the meat be quite in fragments, strain off the gravy, and let it become sufficiently cold to allow the fat to be entirely cleared from it. A handful of nicely pre- pared mushroom-buttons will much improve its flavour; and the bones of boiled calf’s feet, or the fresh ones of fowls, will be fouud excellent additions to it. A better method of making it, when time and trouble are not regarded, is to heat the meat, which ought to be free of bones, quite through, with from a quarter to half a pint of broth only, and when on probing it with the point of a knife no blood issues from it, and it has been turned and equally done, to moisten it with the remainder of the broth, which should be boiling. Lean of ham, 6 to 8 oz.; neck or knuckle of veal, 3 lbs.; strong broth, 3 pints (or veal, 4 lbs., and water, 3 pints); salt; bunch of savoury herbs; mild onion, 1; carrot, 1 large or 2 small; celery £ small head ; mace, 1 large blade; peppercorns, \ saltspoonful; 4 hours or more. Or: ham, l lb. ; veal, 4 lbs.; broth, third of a pint; nearly I hour. Additional broth, 3 pints : 3^ to 4| hours. RICH DEEP-COLOURED VEAL GRAVY. Lay into a large thick stewpan or saucepan, from half to three quarters of a pound of undressed ham, freed entirely from fat, and from the smoked edges, and sliced half an inch thick; on this place about four pounds of lean veal, cut from the best part of the knuckle or from the neck (part of the fillet, which in France is often used for it instead, not being generally purchasable here, the butchers seldom dividing the joint); pour to them about half a pint of good broth,* and place the pan over a brisk fire until it is well reduced; then thrust a knife into the meat, aud continue the stewing more gently until a glaze is formed as we have described at page 10. The latter part of the process must be very slow ; the stewpan must be frequently shaken, and the gravy closely watched that it may not burn: when it is of a fine deep amber colour, pour in sufficient boiling broth to cover the meat, add a bunch of parsley, and a few mushrooms and green onions. A blade or two of mace, a few white peppercorns, and a head of celery, would, we think, be very admissible additions to this gravy, but it is extremely good without. Half the quantity can be made, but it will then be rather more troublesome to manage. Undressed ham, 8 to 12 oz. : lean veal, 4 lbs.; broth, \ pint; 1 to * When there is no provision of this in the house, the quantity may be made with a small proportion of beef, and the trimmings of the veal, by the directions for Bouillon, Chapter I.