[chap. Y. 126 modern cookery. three or four minutes, pour in only as much broth or gravy as will leave the sauce tolerably thick, season, and serve it. SOUBISE. (jEnglish Receipt.) Skin, slice, and mince quickly two pounds’ weight of the white part only of some fine mild onions, and stew them in from two to three ounces of good butter over a very gentle fire until they are reduced to a pulp, then pour to them three-quarters of a pint of rich veal gravy ; add a seasoning of salt and cayenne, if needed ; skim off the fat entirely, press the sauce through a sieve, heat it in a clean stewpan, mix it with a quarter of a pint of rich boiling cream, and serve it directly. Onions, 2 lbs.; butter, 2 to 3 oz.: 30 minutes to 1 hour. Veal gravy, f pint; salt, cayenne : 5 minutes. Cream, £ pint. SOUBISE. (French Receipt.') Peel some fine white onions, and trim away all tough and dis- coloured parts; mince them small, and throw them into plenty of boiling water; when they have boiled quickly for five minutes drain them well in a sieve, then stew them very softly indeed in an ounce or two of fresh butter until they are dry and perfectly tender ; stir to them as much bechamel as will bring them to the consistence of very thick pea-soup, pass the whole through a strainer, pressing the onion strongly that none may remain behind, and heat the sauce afresh, without allowing it to boil, A small half-teaspoonful of pounded sugar is sometimes added to this soubise. White part of onions, 2 lbs.: blanched 5 minutes. Butter, 2 oz. i 30 to 50 minutes. Bechamel, f to 1 pint, or more. Ohs.—These sauces are served more frequently with lamb or mut- ton cutlets than with any other dishes; but they would probably find many approvers if sent to table with roast mutton, or boiled veal. Half the quantity given above will be sufficient for a moderate- t sized dish. MILD RAGOUT OF GARLIC, OR, L’AIL A LA BORDELAISE. Divide some fine cloves of garlic, strip off the skin, and when all are ready throw them into plenty of boiling water slightly salted ; in five minutes drain this from them, and pour in as much more, which should also be quite boiling; continue to change it every five or six minutes until the garlic is quite tender: throw in a moderate pro- portion of salt the last time to give it the proper flavour. Drain it thoroughly, and serve it in the dish with roast mutton, or put it into