209 MUTTON. CHAP. XII.] it should be managed, indeed, in the same manner as the saddle, in every respect, and carved also in the same way, either in its entire length or in oblique slices. Without the fat, 1 to 1| hour; with 31 to If hour. TO DRESS A LOIN OF MUTTON LIKE VENISON. Skin and bone a loin of mutton, and lay it into a stewpan, or braising-pan, with a pint of water, a large onion stuck with a dozen cloves, half a pint of port wine and a spoonful of vinegar; add, when it boils, a small faggot of thyme and parsley, and some pepper and salt: let it stew three hours, and turn it often. Make some gravy of the bones, and add it at intervals to the mutton when required. This receipt comes to us so strongly recommended by persons who have partaken frequently of the dish, that we have not thought it needful to prove it ourselves. 3 hours. ROAST NECK OF MUTTON. This is a very favourite joint in many families, the flesh being more tender and succulent than that even of the loin; and when only a small roast is required, the best end of the neck of mutton, or the middle, if divested of a large portion of the fat and cut into good shape, will furnish one of appropriate size and of excellent quality. Let the ends be cut quite even and the bones short, so as to give a handsome squareness of form to the meat. The butcher, if directed to do so, will chop off the chine bone, and divide the long bones suf- ficiently at the joints to prevent any difficulty in separating them at table. From four to five pounds weight of the neck will require from an hour to an hour and a quarter of roasting at a clear and brisk, but not fierce, fire. It should be placed at a distance until it is heated through, and then moved nearer, and kept thoroughly hasted until it is done. Tomatas baked or roasted may be sent to table with it; or a little plain gravy and red currant-jelly ; or it may be served without either. When the entire joint, with the exception of the scrag-end (which should always be taken off), is cooked, proportionate time must be allowed for it. TO ROAST A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Flour it well, and baste it constantly with its own dripping; do not place it close enough to the fire for the fat to be in the slightest degree burned, or even too deeply browned. An hour and a half will roast it, if it be of moderate size. Stewed onions are often sent to table with it. A shoulder of mutton is sometimes boiled, and smothered with onion sauce 1 ^ hour