BOILED PUDDINGS. 419 CHAP. XX.] adding more butter, one egg, a small glass of brandy, tbe grated rind of a lemon, and as much sugar as will sweeten the whole richly, a very excellent pudding will be obtained; candied orange-peel also has a good effect when sliced thinly into it; and half a pound of currants is generally considered a further improvement. New milk, 1 pint; sugar, 3 oz.; salt, few grains ; bread-crumbs, \ lb.; eggs, 4 (5, if very small) ; nutmeg or lemon-rind at pleasure: 1 hour and 10 minutes. Or: milk, 1 pint; bread-crumbs, 6 oz.; butter, 2 to 3 oz.; sugar, 4 oz.; eggs, 5 ; brandy, small glassful; rind, 1 lemon. Further ad- ditions at choice: candied peel, oz.; currants, | lb. A BROWN BREAD PUDDING. To half a pound of stale brown bread, finely and lightly grated, add an equal weight of suet chopped small, and of currants cleaned and dried, with half a saltspoonful of salt, three ounces of sugar, the third of a small nutmeg grated, two ounces of candied peel, five well-beaten eggs, and a glass of brandy. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and boil the pudding in a cloth for three hours and a half. Send port wine sauce to table with it. The grated rind of a large lemon may be added to this pudding with good effect. Brown bread, suet, and currants, each 8 oz.; sugar, 3 oz.; candied peel, 2 oz.; salt, | saltspoonful; | of small nutmeg; eggs, 5 ; brandy, 1 wineglassful: 3£ hours. A GOOD BOILED RICE PUDDING. Swell gradually,* and boil until quite soft and thick, four ounces and a half of whole rice in a pint and a half of new milk ; sweeten them with from three to four ounces of sugar, broken small, and stir to them while they are still quite hot, the grated rind of half a large lemon, four or five bitter almonds, pounded to a paste, and four large well-whisked egg?; let the mixture cool, and then pour it into a thickly-buttered basin, or mould, which should be quite full; tie a buttered paper and a floured cloth over it, and boil the pudding exactly an hour; let it stand for two or three minutes before it is turned out, and serve it with sweet sauce, fruit syrup, or a compote of fresh fruit. An ounce and a hrdf of candied orange-rind will improve it much, and a couple of ounces of butter may be added to enrich it, when the receipt without is considered too simple. It is excellent when made with milk highly flavoured with cocoa-nut, or with vanilla. Whole rice, oz.; new milk (or cocoa-nut-flavoured milk), i§ pint; sugar, 3 to 4 oz.; salt, a few grains; bitter almonds, 4 to 6 ; rind of \ lemon; eggs, 4 : boiled 1 hour. * That is to say, pat the rice into the milk while cold, heat it slowly, and 1st it only simmer until it is done.