BOILED PUDDINGS. 415 CHAP. XX.] and the substitution of pounded sugar for the brown, might likewise he considered so. Both the suet and eggs used for it, should be as fresh as possible. This pudding is constantly served to travellers at the hotel at the foot of the mountain from which it derives its name. It is probably well known to many of our readers in consequence. Wine sauce, arrowroot, German sauce, or any other of the sweet pudding sauces to be found in the preceding pages of this chapter, may be poured over, or sent to table with it. VERY GOOD RAISIN PUDDINGS. To three quarters of a pound of flour add four ounces of fine crumbs of bread, one pound of beef-suet, a pound and six ounces of raisins, weighed after they are stoned, a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt, rather more of ginger, half a nutmeg, an ounce and a half of candied peel, and four large or five small eggs beaten, strained, and mixed with a cupful of milk, or as much more as will make the whole of the consistence of a very thick batter. Pour the mixture into a well-floured cloth of close texture, which has previously been dipped into hot water, wrung, and shaken out. Boil the pudding in plenty of water for four hours and a half. It may be served with very sweet wine, or punch sauce; but if made as we have directed, will be much lighter than if sugar be mixed with the other ingre- dients before it is boiled; and we have found it generally preferred to a richer plum-pudding. No. 1. Flour, £ lb.; bread-crumbs, 4 oz.; beef-suet, 1 lb.; stoned raisins, 1 lb. 6 oz.; candied peel, 1^ oz.; \ nutmeg; eggs, 4 large, or 5 small ; little salt and ginger : 4^ hours. Superior Raisin Pudding.—No. 2. Bread-crumbs and flour each 4 oz.; suet, 12 oz.; stoned raisins, 1 lb.; salt, third of saltspoonful; % nutmeg ; ginger, \ teaspoonful; half as much mace ; sugar, 4 oz.; candied citron or orange-rind, 2 oz.; eggs, 4 ; milk or brandy, 3 to 5 tablespoonsful: to be well mixed and beaten together and boiled 4 hours. Obs.— The remains of this pudding will answer well for the receipt which follows. Sultana raisins can be used for it instead of Malaga, but they are not so sweet. THE ELEGANT ECONOMIST’S PUDDING. Butter thickly a plain mould or basin, and line it entirely with slices ofy^1 ’ \olum or raisin pudding, cut so as to join closely and neatly >, fill it quite with a good custard ; lay, first a buttered paper, iu., ,ne* -.floured cloth over it, tie them securely, and boil the pudding gently for an hour ; let it stand for ten minutes after it is taken up before it is turned out of the mould. This is a more