MODERN COOKERY. 136 [chap. X. tlie meat draws strongly towards the fire, it is nearly or quite ready to serve. The time required to roast it will depend on the state of the weather,* the size and strength of the fire, the thickness of the joint, the use or non-use of a meat-screen or reflector, the general temperature of the kitchen, and other contingencies. A quarter of an hour for each pound of meat is commonly allowed for solid, heavy joints, and, if the directions we have given he attended to, this will not be found too much even for persons who prefer beef somewhat rere : it must be left longer at the fire if wished very thoroughly roasted, and quite double the usual time when the plan we have noticed at page 172, is adopted. When likely to be sent to table hashed, minced, or dressed a second time in any way, the juice* of the meat should be dried up as little as possible when it is first cooked. ROAST RUMP OF BEEF. As this joint is generally too much to serve whole, as much of it as will form a handsome dish should be cut from the chump end to roast. It must be managed as the sirloin, to which it is commonly preferred by connoisseurs. When boned and rolled into the form of a fillet of veal, as it sometimes is, nearly or quite an additional hour should be allowed to dress it. TO ROAST PART OF A ROUND OF BEEF. The natural division of the meat will show where the silver side of the round is to be separated from the upper or tongue side, which is the proper part for roasting, and which will be found equally good and profitable for the purpose, if allowed to hang as long as it can be kept sweet before it is dressed. Care should be taken in dividing the meat, not to pierce the inner skin. The silver side, with the udder, if there should be one to the joint, may be pickled, spiced, or simply salted, and will be excellent either way. The outside fat should be drawn tightly round the remainder of the beef, which must be firmly skewered, or bound with tape, to keep it in form. It will require long roasting at a strong, steady fire, and should be kept constantly basted. Beef, 14 lbs.: to 5 hours. Obs.—"We think that larding the beef quite through with large lardoons of firm fat, of udder, or of bacon, would be an improve- ment ; and we ought also to observe, that unless it be delicate and of fine quality, it will not answer well for roasting. * The meat will be much sooner done in hot weather than in cold. If frozen, it must he thawed very gradually before it is put to the fire, or no length of time will roast it; this will he effected better by laying it into cold water for some hours before it is wanted, than by any other means.