178 MODERN COOKERY. [cnAP. ix. BAKING, OR OYEN COOKERY. The improved construction of the ovens connected with all modern cooking stoves, gives great facility at the present day for home baking, even in very small establishments ; and without this convenience it is impos- sible for justice to be done to the person who conducts the cookery; as many and great disadvantages attend the sending to a public oven; and it is very discouraging to a servant who has prepared her dishes with nicety and skill, to have them injured by the negligence of other persons. One of the best modes of cooking with which we are acquainted is by means of a jar, resem- bling in form that shown above, well pasted down, and covered with a fold of thick paper, and then placed in a gentle oven. Eice is most excellent when thus slowly baked with a certain proportion of liquid, either by itself, or mingled with meat, fish, or fruit; but we must reserve for another volume particulars of this little system of slow oven-cookery, in which for some years past we have had num- berless experiments made with almost uniform success: it is espe- cially suited to invalids, from preserving the entire amount of nourishment contained in the articles of food dressed by it; and it is to their use that we hope to appropriate it. The oven may be used with advantage for many purposes for which it is not commonly put into requisition. Calves’ feet, covered with a proper proportion of water, may be reduced to a strong jelly if left in it for some hours; the half-head, boned and rolled, will be found excellent eating, if laid, with the bones, into a deep pan and baked quite tender in sufficient broth or water, to keep it covered in every part until done ; good soup also may be made in the same way, the usual in- gredients being at once added to the meat, with the exception of the vege- tables, which will not become tender if put into cold liquid, and should therefore be thrown in after it begins to simmer. Baking is likewise one of * We have scarcely done justice in the former editions of this work to these very useful little ovens, which we have found, after long trial, better' adapted to some purposes than brick or iron ones, because preparations which require it, (those of Indian corn, for example) can be heated in them more gradually; and when once the management of them is understood, they will answer admirably for delicate sweet puddings, and for cakes, with the advantage of requiring but a very moderate fire. Nottingham Jar.