88 [chap. hi. MODERN COOKERY. brown; or throw them into boiling water for three minutes, drain, and let them become cold, dip them into egg and bread-crumbs, and broil them gently until they are lightly coloured. A small bit should be cooked and tasted before the whole is put aside, that the seasoning may be heightened if required. The sausages thus made are extremely good: the fingers should be well floured in making them up. Small plump oysters, 3| dozens ; bread-crumbs, 10 oz.; beef suet, 10 oz.; seasoning of salt, cayenne, pounded mace, and nutmeg; un- beaten eggs 2, or yolks of 3. TO BOIL LOBSTERS. [In full season from April to October: may be bad all the year.] Choose them by the directions given at the commencement of this chapter, and throw them into plenty of fast-boiling salt and water, that life may be destroyed in an instant. To 1 gallon of water, 5 ounces salt: moderate sized lobster, 15 to 20 minutes ; large lobster, 30 to 40 minutes; very large, 1 hour or more COLD DRESSED LOBSTER AND CRAB. Before a lobster is sent to table take off the large claws, hold each of them firmly with the edge up- wards, and with a quick light blow from a cutlet bat oroughtelse convenient for th e purpose, crack the shell without disfiguring the fish. Split the tail open with a very sharp knife and dish the lobster in the manner shown in the engraving, either with, or without a napkin under it. When the soft part of the body is re- quired to mix with the dressing, take it out before it is served, and add it to the remoulade, or other sauce with which it is to be mingled. The shrimp chatney of Chapter VI. is a wholesome accom- paniment to this fish ; which we must remark here should be sparingly eaten, or altogether avoided, by persons in delicate health, and especially at night. It is too much the fashion to serve it as a supper dish at parties; and it sometimes produces dangerous attacks of indigestion and other illness. The flesh of the crab is much lighter. This is served in the shell, which should be entirely emptied and nicely cleaned out; the sides filled with the white flesh divided into small flakes, and the centre with the soft part or cream as it is called. Dressed Lobjil*-.