CHAP. XVIII.] PASTRY. 875 still hot, where it is marked. The fanchonnettes should be about three inches in length and two in width. In order to lay the second crust over the preserve without disturbing it, wind it lightly round the paste-roller, and in untwisting it, let it fall gently over the other part. This is not the form of pastry called by the French fanchonnettes. Fine puff paste, 1 lb.; apricot or peach jam, 4 to 6 oz.: baked 2d to 25 minutes JELLY TARTLETS, OR CUSTARDS. Put four tablespoonsful of fine fruit-jelly into a basin, and stir to it gradually twelve spoonsful of beaten egg ; if the preserve be rich and sweet, no sugar will be required. Line some pans with paste rolled very thin, fill them with the custard, and bake them about ten minutes.* STRAWBERRY TARTLETS. (GOOD.) Take a full half-pint of freshly-gathered strawberries, without the stalks; first crush, and then mix them with two ounces and a half of powdered sugar ; stir to them by degrees four well-whisked eggs, beat the mixture a little, and put it into pattypans lined with fine paste : they should be only three parts filled. Bake the tartlets from ten to twelve minutes. RASPBERRY PUFFS. Boll out thin some fine puff-paste, cut it in rounds or squares of equal size, lay some raspberry jam into each, moisten the edges of the paste, fold and press them together, and bake the puffs from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Strawberry, or any other jam will serve for them equally well. CREAMED TARTLETS. Line some pattypans with very fine paste, and put into each a layer of apricot jam ; on this pour some thick boiled custard, or the pastry cream of page 373. Whisk the whites of a couple of eggs to a solid froth, mix a couple of tablespoonsful of sifted sugar with them, lay this icing lightly over the tartlets, and bake them in a gentle oven from twenty to thirty minutes, unless they should be very small, when less time must be allowed for them. RAMEKINS A l’uDE, OR SEFTON FANCIES. Boll out, rather thin, from six to eight ounces of fine cream-crust, ©r feuilletage (see page 345) ; take nearly or quite half its weight of * Strawberry or raspberry jelly will answer admirably for these.