18 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. i. trie soup made by it was extremely popular We have better adapted it to our own taste by the following alterations. THE LORD mayor’s SOUP. (Author's Receipt,) We prefer to have this soup made, in part, the evening before it is wanted. Add the same proportion of water to the ears and feet as in the preceding directions ; skim it thoroughly when it first boils, and throw in a tablespoonful of salt, two onions of moderate size, a small head of celery, a bunch of herbs, two whole carrots, a small teaspoon- ful of white peppercorns, and a blade of mace. Stew these softly un- til the ears and feet are perfectly tender, and, after they are lifted out, let the liquor be kept^W simmering only, while they are being boned, that it may not be too much reduced. Put the bones back into it, and stew them as gently as possible for an hour ; then strain the soup into a clean pan, and set it by until the morrow in a cool place. The fiesh should be cut into dice while it is still warm, and covered with the cloth before it becomes quite cold. To prepare the soup for table cle r the stock from fat and sediment, put it into a very clean stew- pan, or deep saucepan, and stir to it when it boils, six ounces of the finest rice-flour smoothly mixed with a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne, three times as much of mace and salt, the strained juice of a lemon, three tablespoonsful of Harvey’s sauce, and half a pint of good sherry or Madeira. Simmer the whole for six or eight minutes, add more salt if needed, stir the soup often, and skim it thoroughly; put in the meat and herbs, and after they have boiled gently for five minutes, dish the soup, add forcemeat-balls or not, at pleasure, and send it to table quickly. Moderate-sized pigs’ feet, 8; ears, 4; water, 5 quarts ; salt, 1 table- spoonful ; onions, 2; celery, 1 head ; carrots, 2 ; bunch of herbs; ] eppercorns, 1 small teaspoonful; mace, 1 blade : 3^ to 4\ hours. St ck, 5 pints; rice-flour, G oz.; cayenne, J teaspoonful; mace and salt, each f of a teaspoonful; juice of 1 lemon ; Harvey’s sauce, 3 tablespoonsful; sherry or Madeira, ^ pint: G to 8 minutes. Savoury herbs, 2 tablespoonsful: 5 minutes. Ohs. 1. — Should the quantity of stock exceed five pints, an ad- ditional ounce or more of rice must be used, and the flavouring be al- together increased in proportion. Of the minced herbs, two-thirds should be parsley, and the remainder equal parts of lemon thyme and winter savoury, unless sweet basil should be at hand, when a tea- spoonful of it may be substituted for half of the parsley. To some tastes a seasoning of sage would be acceptable; and a sl’ice or two of lean ham will much improve the flavour of the soup. Ohs. 2.—Both this soup, and the preceding one, may be rendered very rich by substituting strong bouillon (see page 8) or good veal broth for water, in making them.