[chap. XV. MODERN COOKERY. 286 STEWED HARE. Wash and soak the hare thoroughly, wipe it very dry, cut it down into joints dividing the largest, flour and brown it slightly in butter with some bits of lean ham, pour to them by degrees a pint and a half of gravy, and stew the hare very gently from an hour and a half to two hours : when it is about one third done add the very thin rind of half a large lemon, and ten minutes before it is served stir to it a large dessertspoonful of rice-flour, smoothly mixed with two table- spoonsful of good mushroom catsup, a quarter of a teaspoonful or more of mace, and something less of cayenne. This is an excellent plain receipt for stewing a hare ; but the dish may be enriched with forcemeat (No. 1, Chapter VIII.) rolled into small balls, and sim- mered for ten minutes in the stew, or fried and added to it after it is dished; a higher seasoning of spice, a couple of glasses of port wine, with a little additional thickening and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, will all serve to give it a heightened relish. Hare, 1 ; lean of ham or bacon, 4 to fi oz. ; butter, 2 oz.; gravy, 1 \ pint; lemon-rind : 1 hour and 20 to 50 minutes. Rice-flour, 1 large dessertspoonful; mushroom catsup, 2 tablespoonsful; mace, \ of teaspoonful; little cayenne (salt, if needed) : 10 minutes TO ROAST A RABBIT. This, like a hare, is much im- proved by having the back-bone taken out, and the directions we have given will enable the cook, with very little practice, to remove it without difficulty. Line the inside, when this is done, with thin Rabbit for roasting, slices of bacon, fill it with force- meat (No. 1, Chapter VIII), sew it up, truss, and roast it at a clear, brisk fire, and baste it constantly with butter. Flour it well soon after it is laid down. Serve it with good brown gravy, and with currant jelly, when this last is liked. For change, the back of the rabbit may be larded, and the bone left in, or not, at pleasure; or it can be plain roasted when more convenient | to 1 hour; less, if small. TO BOIL RABBITS. Rabbits that are three parts grown, or, at all events, which are still quite young, should be chosen for this mode of cooking. Wash them well, truss them firmly, with the heads turned and skewered to the sides, drop them Rabbit for boiling. into sufficient boiling water to keep them quite covered until they are cooked, and simmer them gently from thirty to forty-five minutes: