450 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. x%xt. table: one is sufficient for a dish. It may be laid on a large crouton of fried bread, and sauced with highly flavoured gravy, or with tomata-sauce well seasoned with eschalots. CEUF3 AU FLAT. A pewter or any other metal plate or dish which will bear the fire, must be used for these. Just melt a slice of butter in it, then put in some very fresh eggs broken as for poaching ; strew a little pepper and salt on the top of each, and place them over a gentle fire until the whites are quite set, but keep them free from colour. This is a very common mode of preparing eggs on the continent; but there is generally a slight rawness of the surface of the yolks which is in a measure removed by ladling the boiling butter over them with a spoon as they are cooking, though a salamander held above them for a minute would have a better effect. Four or five minutes will dress them. Obs.—We hope for an opportunity of inserting further receipts for dishes of eggs at the end of this volume. MILK AND CREAM. Without possessing a dairy, it is quite possible for families to have always a sufficient provision of milk and cream for their con- sumption, provided there be a clean cool larder or pantry where it can be kept. It should be taken from persons who can be depended on for supplying it pure, and if it can be obtained from a dairy near at hand it will be an advantage, as in the summer it is less easy to preserve it sweet when it has been conveyed from a distance. It should be poured at once into well-scalded pans or basins kept ex- clusively for it, and placed on a very clean and airy shelf, apart from all the other contents of the larder. The fresh milk as it comes in should be set at one end of the shelf, and that for use should be taken from the other, so that none njay become stale from being mis- placed or overlooked. The cream should be removed with a per- forated skimmer (or skimming-dish as it is called in dairy-counties) which lias been dipped into cold water to prevent the cream, when thick, from adhering to it. Twelve hours in summer, and twenty- four in winter, will be sufficient time for the milk to stand for “ creaming," though it may often be kept longer with advantage. Between two and three pints of really good milk will produce about a quarter of a pint of cream. In frosty weather the pans for it should be warmed before it is poured in. If boiled when first brought in, it will remain sweet much longer than it otherwise would ; but it will then be unfit to serve with tea; though it may be heated afresh and sent to table with coffee; and used also for pud- dings, and all other varieties of milk-diet.