533 MODERN COOKERY. [chap. xxV. one; we have had it many times proved, and it is altogether our own. Mushroom buttons (without tffe stems), 2 quarts; palest white wine vinegar, short l gallon; salt, large dessertspoonful, or 1 \ 02.; white peppercorns, 1 oz.; whole ginger, 2 oz.; cayenne, small \ salt- spoonful ; 1 small nutmeg. MUSHROOMS IN Bit INF. l'\jr Winter Use. (Very Good) We have had small mushroom-buttons excellently preserved through the winter prepared as follows, and we therefore give the exact proportions wrhich we had used for them, though the same quantity of brine would possibly allow of rather more mushrooms in it. Prepare them exactly as for the preceding pickle, and measure them after the stems are taken off. For each quart, boil together for five minutes two quarts of wrater, with half a pound of common white salt, a small dessertspoonful of white peppercorns, a couple of blades of mace, and a race of ginger ; take off the scum thoroughly, and throw in the mushrooms; boil them gently for about five minutes, then put them into wTell-w7armed, wide-necked bottles, and let them become perfectly cold ; pour a little good salad-oil on the top, cork them with new corks, and tie bladder over, or cover them with two separate bladders. When wranted for use, soak the mush- rooms in warm water until the brine is sufficiently extracted. Mushrooms, 1 quart; water, \ gallon; salt, f lb.; peppercorns, 1 small dessertspoonful; mace, 2 blades; ginger, 1 race : 5 minutes. Mushrooms, in brine : 5 minutes. TO PICKLE WALNUTS. The walnuts for this pickle must be gathered while a pin caiv pierce them easily, for w hen once the shell can be felt, they have eeased to be in a proper state for it. Make sufficient brine to cover them well, with six ounces of salt to the quart of water ; take off the scum, which will rise to the surface as the salt dissolves, throw in the walnuts, and stir them night and morning; change the brine every three days, and if they are wanted for immediate eating, leave them in it for twelve days; otherwise, drain them from it in nine, spread them on dishes, and let them remain exposed to the air untii they become black: this will be in twelve hours, or less. Make a pickle for them with something more than half a gallon of vinegar to the hundred, a teaspoonful of salt, tw o ounces of black pepper, three of bruised ginger, a drachm of mace, and from a quarter to half an ounce of cloves (of which some may be stuck into three or four small onions), and four ounces of mustard-seed. Boil the whole 0: these together for about five miputes; have the walnuts ready in a