51 MODERN COOKERY. fcnAP. IL all the nourishment which can be derived from it, is of real conse- quence. Directions.—Throw into as much water as will cover the fish entirely, a portion of the salt which is to be added in cooking it, and when it boils quickly take off the scum, lay in the fish, and let it boil moderately fast from three to ten minutes, according to its weight and thickness; then pour in as much cold water as there is of the boiling, take out a part, leaving sufficient only to keep the fbh well covered until it is ready to serve; add the remainder of the salt, draw the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and keep the water just simmering, and no more, until the fish is done. The cook will understand that if a gallon of water be required to cover the fish while it is cooking, that quantity must be made to boil; and that a gallon of cold must be added to it after the fish has been laid in, and kept boiling for a very few minutes. For example :—A large turbot or cod’s head for ten minutes ; a moderate-sized plaice or John Dory, about five; and whitings, codlings, and other small fish, from three to four minutes. That one gallon must then be taken out of the kettle, which should immediately be drawn from the fire, and placed at the side of the stove, that the fish may be gra- dually heated through as the water is brought slowly to the point of simmering. The whole of the salt may be added after a portion of the water is withdrawn, when the cook cannot entirely depend on her own judg- ment for the precise quantity required. Obs.—This is the best practical application that we can give of Baron Liebeg’s instructions. BRINE FOR BOILING FISII. Fish is exceedingly insipid if sufficient salt be not mixed with the water in which it is boiled, but the precise quantity required for it will depend, in some measure, upon the kind of salt which is used. Fine common salt is that for which our directions are given; but when the Maldon salt, which is very superior in strength, as well as in other qualities, is substituted for it, a smaller quantity must be allowed About four ounces to the gallon of water will be sufficient for small fish in general; an additional ounce, or rather more, will not be too much for cod fish, lobsters, crabs, prawns, and shrimps ; and salmon will require eight ounces, as the brine for this fish should be strong: the water should always be perfectly well skimmed from the moment the scum begins to form upon the surface. Mackerel, whiting, and other small fish, 4 ounces of salt to a gallon of water. Cod fish, lobsters, crabs, prawns, shrimps, 5 to 6 oz. Salmon, 8 ozs. TO RENDER BOILED FISII FIRM. Put a small bit of saltpetre with the salt into the water in which it is boiled: a quarter of an ounce will be sufficient for a gallon.