BOILED PUDDINGS. 409 OHAP. XX.] l efore tlie paste is laid into them, and the puddings must be turned from them gently, that they may not burst. Currant, gooseberry, or cherry pudding, 1 to II hour. Green- gage, damson, mussel, or other plum, 1 to 1| hour. Apple pudding, from 1 to 2 hours, according to its size, and the time of year. Obs.—If made of codlings, an apple pudding will require only so much boiling as may be needed for the crust. These are sometimes mixed with Morelia cherries rolled in plenty of sugar, and the two fruits mixed are excellent, but the Morellas by themselves are better A COMMON APPLE PUDDING. Make a light crust wTith one pound of flour, and six ounces of very finely minced beef-suet; roll it thin, and fill it with one pound and a quarter of good boiling apples; add the grated rind and strained juice of a small lemon, tie it in a cloth, and boil it one hour and twenty minutes before Christmas, and from twenty to thirty minutes longer after Christmas. A small slice of fresh butter, stirred into it when it is sweetened will, to many tastes, be an acceptable addition; grated nutmeg, or a little cinnamon in fine powder, may be substituted for the lemon-rind when either is preferred. To convert this into a richer pudding use half a pound of butter for the crust, and add to the apples a spoonful or two of orange or quince marmalade. Crust: flour, 1 lb.; suet, 6 oz. Fruit, pared and cored, l|lb.; juice and rind of 1 small lemon (or some nutmeg or cinnamon in powder). Richer pudding: flour, 1 lb.; butter \ lb.; in addition to fruit, 1 or 2 tablespoonsful of orange or auince marmalade. HERODOTUS, PUDDING. (A Genuine Classical Receipt.) “ Prepare and mix in the usual manner one pound of fine raisins stoned, one pound of minced beef-suet, half a pound of bread-crumbs, four figs chopped small, two tablespoonsful of moist sugar (honey, in the original), two wineglassesful of sherry, and the rind of half a large lemon (grated). Foil the pudding for fourteen hours” Obs.—This receipt is really to be found in Herodotus. The only variations made in it are the substitution of sugar for honey, and sherry for the wine of ancient Greece. We are indebted for it to an accomplished scholar, who has had it served at his own table on more than one occasion; and we have given it on his authority, Without testing it: but we venture to suggest that seven hours would soil it quite sufficiently.