591 Chap, xxx.] COFFEE, CHOCOLATE, ETC. equally, about the third part of a measured pint of fast boiling water. Let this drain quite through before more is added ; then pour in — still quite boiling—in the same manner as much more water, and when it has passed through, add the remainder; let it drain entirely through, then remove the top of the filter, put the cover on the part which contains the coffee, and serve it immediately It will be very strong, and perfectly clear. Fill the breakfast cups two parts full of new boiling milk, and add as much of the infusion as will give it the degree of strength which is agreeable to those for whom it is prepared. When it is liked extremely strong, the pro- portion of milk must be diminished, or less water be poured to the coffee. If nearly an additional half pint of water be added before the toj- of the percolater is taken off, it will still be very good, provided that the coffee used be really of first-rate quality. To make cheaper breakfast coffee to be served in the usual English mode, the same process should be followed, but the proportion of water must be considerably increased : it should always, however, be added by slow degrees. Good breakfast coffee (for three persons). Best Mocha, in mo- derately fine powder, ground at the instant of using it, 3 oz.; boiling water added by degrees, 1 pint; (more at pleasure). Boiling milk served with it, 1£ pint to 1 quart. Common English coffee : coffee- powder, 3 oz.; water, 1 quart, to be slowly filtered; hot milk, half to whole pint. Cream in addition to either of the above, at choice. TO BOIL COFFEE. To boil coffee and refine it, put the necessary quantity of water into a pot which it will not fill by some inches ; when it boils stir in the coffee; for unless this be at once moistened, it will remain on the top and be liable to fly over. Give it one or two strong boils, then raise it from the fire, and simmer it for ten minutes only; pour out a large cupful twice, hold it high over the coffee pot and pour it in again, then set it on the stove where it will keep hot without simmering or moving in the least, for ten minutes longer. It will be perfectly clear, unless mismanaged, without any other fining. Should more, however, be deemed necessary, a very small pinch of isinglass, or a clean egg-shell, with a little of the white adhering to it, is the best that can be used. Never use mustard to fine coffee with. It is a barbarous custom of which we have heard foreigners who have been in England vehemently complain. Coffee, 2 oz.; water,. 1 pint to 1 quart, according to the strength required. Boiled 10 minutes ; left to clear 10 minutes. Remark.—Filtering is, we should say, a far more economical, and in every way a superior mode of making coffee to boiling it; but as some persons still prefer the old method, we insert the receipt for it