84 MODERN COOKERS. [chap. 1. or four eschalots previously boiled tender in a little of the soup, left till cold, and minced before they are put into the mortar. Moisten the mixture with the yolks of two or three eggs, roll it into small balls of equal size, dust a little flour upon them, skim all the fat from the soup, heat it in a clean stewpan, and when it boils throw them in and poach them from ten to twelve minutes, but first ascertain that the soup is properly seasoned with salt and cayenne. We have recom- mended that the birds should be partially roasted before they are put into the soup-pot, because their flavour is much finer when this ia done than when they are simply stewed; they should be placed rather near to a brisk fire that they may be quickly browned on the sur- face without losing any of their juices, and the basting should be con- stant. A slight thickening of rice-flour and arrow-root can be added to the soup at pleasure, and the forcemeat-balls may be fried and dropped into the tureen when they are preferred so. Half a dozen eschalots lightly browned in butter, and a small head of celery, may also be thrown in after the birds begin to stew, but nothing should be allowed to prevail ever the natural flavour of the game itself; and this should be observed equally with other kinds, as par- tridges, grouse, and venison. Pheasants, ; roasted 20 to 25 minutes. Strong beef broth, or stock, 5 pints : 2 to 3 hours. Forcemeat-balls : breasts of pheasants, half as much dry bread-crumbs and of butter, salt, mace, cayenne ; yolks of 2 or 3 eggs (and at choice 3 or 4 boiled eschalots). Obs.—The stock may be made of six pounds of shin of beef, and four quarts of wrater reduced to within a pint of half. An onion, a large carrot, a bunch of savoury herbs, and some salt and spioe should be added to it: one pound of neck of veal or of beef will improve it. ANOTHER PnEASANT SOUP. Boil down the half-roasted birds as directed in the foregoing receipt, and add to the soup, after it is strained and re-heated, the breasts pounded to the finest paste with nearly as much bread soaked in a little of the stock and pressed very dry; for the proper manner of mixing them, see Potage a la Peine, (page 2V). Half a pint of small mushrooms cleaned as for pickling, then sliced rather thickly, and stewed from ten to fifteen minutes without browning, in an ounce or tw’o of fresh butter, with a slight seasoning of mace, cayenne, and salt, then turned into the mortar and pounded with the other ingre- dients, will be found an excellent addition to the soup, which must be passed through a strainer after the breasts are added to it, brought to the point of boiling, and served with sippets a la Peine, or with others simply fried of a delicate brown and wrell dried. We have occasionally had a small quantity of delicious soup made with the remains of birds which have been served at table; and where game is frequently dressed, the cook, by reserving all the fragments for the purpose, and combining different kinds, may often send up a good tureen of such, made at a very slight cost.