[chap. XVII. 313 MODERN COOKERY. it into a large well-tinned stewpan or saucepan, with the water only which hangs about it; throw in a small spoonful of salt, and keep it constantly pressed down with a wooden spoon, and turned often for about a quarter of an hour, or until it is perfectly tender. Drain off the superfluous moisture, chop the spinach quickly on a hot trencher; dish and serve it immediately. Fried sippets of bread should always be served round this vegetable, unless it be prepared for an invalid. TO DRESS DANDELIONS LTKE SPINACH, OR AS A SALAD. ( Very wholesome.') This common weed of the fields and highways is an excellent vegetable, the young leaves forming an admirable adjunct to a salad, and much resembling endive when boiled and prepared in the same way, or in any of the modes directed for spinach. The slight bitter- ness of its flavour is to many persons very agreeable ; and it is often served at well-appointed tables. It has also, we believe, the advan- tage of possessing valuable medicinal qualities. Take the roots before the blossom is at all advanced, if they can readily be found in that state ; if not, pluck off and use the young leaves only. Wash them as clean as possible, and boil them tender in a large quantity of water salted as for sprouts or spinach. Drain them well, press them dry with a wooden spoon, and serve them quite plain with melted butter in a tureen; or, squeeze, chop, and heat them afresh, with a season- ing of salt and pepper, a morsel of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful or two of gravy or cream. A very large portion of the leaves will be required for a dish, as they shrink exceedingly in the cooking. For a salad, take them very young and serve them entire, or break them quite small with the fingers; then wash and drain them. Dress them with oil and vinegar, or with any other sauce which may be preferred with them BOILED TURNIP-RADISHES. These should be freshly drawn, young and white. Wash and trim them neatly, leaving on two or three of the small inner leaves of the top. Boil them in plenty of salted water from twenty to thirty minutes, and as soon as they are tender send them to table well drained, with melted butter or white sauce. Comm on radishes when young, tied in bunches, and boiled from eighteen to twenty- five minutes, then served on a toast like asparagus, are very good. BOILED LEEKS. Trim off the coarser leaves from some young leeks, cut them into squal lengths, tie them into small bunches, and boil them in plenty