MODERN COOKERY. [CHAf. xvit. £28 with it one ounce of fine crumbs of bread, one of butter broken very small, some pepper or cayenne, and salt. Fill the tomatas with the mixture, and bake them for ten minutes in a moderate oven ; serve them with brown gravy in the dish. A few small mushrooms stewed tender in a little butter, then minced and added to the tomata pulp, will very much improve this receipt. Bake 10 minutes. FORCED TOMATAS. (French Receipt) Let the tomatas be well shaped and of equal size ; divide them nearly in the middle leaving the blossom-side the largest, as this only is to be used ; empty them carefully of their seeds and juice, and fill them with the following ingredients, which must previously be stewed tender in butter but without being allowed to brown : minced mush- rooms and shalots, with a moderate proportion of parsley, some lean of ham chopped small, a seasoning of cayenne, and a little fine salt, if needed; let them cool, then mix with them about a third as much of fine crumbs of bread, and two yolks of eggs; fill the tomatas, cover them with fine crumbs, moisten them with clarified butter, and bake them in a brisk oven until they are well coloured. Serve them as a garnish to stewed rump or sirloin of beef, or to a boned and forced leg of mutton. Minced lean of ham, 2 oz. ; mushrooms, 2 oz. ; bread-crumbs, 2 oz. ; shalots, 4 to 8 ; parsley, full teaspoonful; cayenne, quarter salt- spoonful ; little salt, if needed ; butter, 2 oz.; yolks of eggs, 2 to 3 : baked 10 to 20 minutes. Obs'—'The French pound the whole of these ingredients with a bit of garlic, before they fill the tomatas with them, but this is not abso- lutely necessary, and the garlic, if added at all, should be parboiled first, as its strong flavour, combined with that of the eschalots, would scarcely suit the general taste. When the lean of a dressed ham is at hand, only the herbs and vegetables will need to be stewed in the butter ; this should be mixed with them into the forcemeat, which an intelligent cook will vary in many ways. PUREE OF TOMATAS. Divide a dozen fine ripe tomatas, squeeze out the seeds, and take off the stalks ; put them with one small mild onion (or more, if liked), and about half a pint of very good gravy, into a well-tinned stewpan or saucepan, and simmer them for nearly or quite an hour ; a couple of bay-leaves, some cayenne, and as much salt as the dish may require, should be added when they begin to boil. Press them through a sieve, heat them again, and stir to them a quarter of a pint of good cream, previously mixed and boiled for five minutes with a teaspoonful