71 FISH. CHAP. II.] very hot. Or, instead of this, add a large teaspoonful of strong made mustard, and a dessertspoonful of chili vinegar, to some thick melted butter, and serve it with the fish. A spoonful of Harvey’s sauce or of mushroom catsup can be mixed with this last at pleasure. FILLETS OF MACKEREL. (Fried or Broiled.') Take off the flesh quite whole on either side, from three fine mackerel, which have been opened and properly cleaned; let it be entirely free from bone, dry it well in a cloth, then divide each part in two, and dip them into the beaten yolks of a couple of eggs, sea- soned with salt and white pepper, or cayenne; cover them equally with fine dry crumbs of bread, and fry them like soles ; or dip them into clarified butter, and then again into the crumbs, and broil them over a very clear fire of a fine brown. Dish them in a circle one over the other, and send them to table with the Mditre d’ Hotel sauce of Chapter V., or with the one which follows it. The French pour the sauce into the centre of the dish ; but for broiled fillets this is not so well, we think, as serving it in a tureen. The roes of the fish, after being well washed and soaked, may be dressed with them, or they may be made into patties. Minced parsley can be mixed with the bread crumbs when it is liked. BOILED FILLETS OF MACKEREL. After having taken off and divided the flesh of the fish, as above, place it flat in one layer in a wide stewpan or saucepan, and just cover the fillets with cold water ; throw in a teaspoonful of salt, and two or three small sprigs of parsley; bring the mackerel slowly to a boil, clear off the scum with care, and after two or three minutes of slow simmering try the fillets with a fork ; if the thick part divides with a touch, they are done. Lift them out cautiously with a slice ; drain, and serve them very hot with good parsley and butter; or strip off the skin quickly, and pour a Mditre d' Hotel sauce over them. MACKEREL BROILED WHOLE. (An excellent Receipt.) Empty and cleanse perfectly a fine and very fresh mackerel, but without opening it more than is needful; dry it well, either in a cloth or by hanging it in a cool air until it is stiff; make with a sharp knife a deep incision the whole length of the fish on either side of the back bone, and about half an inch from it, and with a feather put in a little cayenne and fine salt, mixed with a few drops of good salad oil or clarified butter. Lay the mackerel over a moderate fire upon a well-heated gridiron which has been rubbed with suet; loosen it gently should it stick, which it will do unless often moved ; and when it is equally done on both sides, turn the back to the fire. About