[chap. XVII. 312 MODERN COOKERY, NEW POTATOES IN BUTTER. Rub off the skins, wash the potatoes well and wipe them dry; put them with three ounces of good butter, for a small dish, and with four ounces or more for a large one, into a well-tinned stewpan or saucepan, and simmer them over a gentle fire for about half an hour Keep them well shaken or tossed, that they may be equally done, and throw in some salt when they begin to stew. This is a good mode of dressing them when they are very young and watery. TO BOIL POTATOES. (Captain Rater's Receipt.') Wash, wipe, and pare the potatoes, cover them with cold water, and boil them gently until they are done, pour off the water, and sprinkle a little fine salt over them; then take each potato separately with a spoon, and lay it into a clean warm cloth, twist this so as to press all the moisture from the vegetable, and render it quite round; turn it carefully into a dish placed before the fire, throw a cloth over, and when all are done, send them to table quickly. Potatoes dressed in this way are mashed without the slightest trouble ; it is also by far the best method of preparing them for puddings or for cakes. TO ROAST OR BAKE POTATOES. Scrub and wash exceedingly clean some potatoes nearly assorted in size; wipe them very dry, and roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire, placing them at a distance from it, and keeping them often turned; or arrange them in a coarse dish, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Dish them neatly in a napkin, and send them very hot to table; serve cold butter with them. 1 f to upwards of 2 hours. SCOOPED POTATOES. (ENTREMETS.*) Wash and wipe some large potatoes of a firm kind, and with a small scoop adapted to the purpose, f form as many diminutive ones as will fill a dish; cover them with cold water, and when they have boiled very gently for five minutes pour it off, and put more cold water to them; after they have simmered a second time for five minutes, drain the water quite away, place the cover of the saucepan so as to leave an inch or more of open space for the * Or second course dish. + This may be procured of any ironmonger.