416 [chap. XX. MODERN COOKERY. tasteful mode of serving the remains of a plum-pu Iding than the usual one of broiling them in slices, or converting them into fritters. The German sauce, well milled or frothed, is generally much relished with sweet boiled puddings, and adds greatly to their good appear- ance ; but common wine or punch sauce, may be sent to table with the above quite as appropriately. Mould or basin holding li pint, lined with thin slices of plum- pudding; | pint new milk boiled gently 5 minutes with grain of salt, 5 bitter almonds, bruised ; sugar in lumps, 2.J oz.; thin rind of £ lemon, strained and mixed directly with 4 large well-beaten eggs; poured into mould while just warm ; boiled gently 1 hour. PUDDING A LA SCOONES. Take of apples finely minced, and of currants, six ounces each ; of suet, chopped small, sultana raisins, picked from the stalks, and sugar, four ounces each, with three ounces of fine bread-crumbs, the grated rind, and the strained juice of a small lemon, three well-beaten eggs, and two spoonsful of brandy. Mix these ingredients perfectly, and boil the pudding for two hours in a buttered basin; sift sugar over it when it is sent to table, and serve wine or punch sauce apart. INGOLDSBY CHRISTMAS PUDDINGS. Mix very thoroughly one pound of finely'grated bread with the same quantity of flour, two pounds of raisins stoned, two of currants, two of suet minced small, one of sugar, half a pound of candied peel, one nutmeg, half an ounce of mixed spice, and the grated rinds of two lemons; mix the whole with sixteen eggs well beaten and strained, and add four glasses of brandy. These proportions will make three puddings of good size, each of which should be boiled six hours. Bread-crumbs, 1 lb.; flour, 1 lb.; suet, 2 lbs.; currants, 2 lbs.; raisins, 2 lbs.; sugar, 1 lb.; candied peel, l lb.; rinds of lemons, 2; nutmegs, 1; mixed spice, l oz.. salt, £ teaspoonsful; eggs, 16 ; brandy, 4 glassesful: 6 hours. Ob.A fourth part of the ingredients given above, will make a pudding of sufficient size for a small party : to render this very rich, half the flour and bread-crumbs may be omitted, and a few spoonsful of apricot marmalade well blended with the remainder of the mixture.* SMALL AND VERY LIGHT PLUM PUDDING. 'With three ounces of the crumb of a stale loaf finely grated and soaked in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, mix six ounces of suet * Rather less liquid will be required to moisten the pudding when this is d me and four hours and a quarter will boil it.