xli CARVING. No. 1,9. A WOODCOCK. The thigh and back are the most esteemed parts of a woodcock* which, being a small bird, may be carved entirely through the centre of the breast and back, or distributed in the same manner as the {>artridge for three, which we have described; or even carved down ike a fowl, if needful. In whatever way it is divided, however, a portion of the toast which has received the trail, and on which it should always be sent to table, must invariably be served to all who partake of it. The very old fashion of trussing the bird with its own bill, by running it through the thighs and body, is again adopted by very good cooks of the present day ; but the common method of preparing either wood- cocks or snipes for table is this : the trussing of the legs is, however, better shown at Nos. 19 and 21 of Plate 6 No. 20. A PIGEON. The breast and wings of a pigeon may be raised in the same way as those of a partridge (see No. 18) ; or the bird may be carved entirely through in the line a b. For the second course, pigeons should be dished upon young delicate water-cresses No. 21. A SNIPE. This bird is trussed, roasted, and served exactly like a woodcock. It is not of a size to require any carving, beyond dividing in two, if at all. No. 22. A GOOSE. The skin below the breast, called the apron, must first be cut off in a circular direction as indicated by the letters a a a, when a glass of port-wine or of claret, ready mixed with a teaspoonful of mustard, may be poured into the body or not, at choice. Some of the stuffing should then be drawn out with a spoon, and the neck of the goose, which ought to be to the right and not to the left hand, as here, being turned a little towards the carver, the flesh of the breast should be sliced in the lines from b b b to c c c, on either side of the bone The wings may then be taken off like those of any other bird, and then the legs, which, in the engraving No. ,22, are trussed so com- pletely under the apron as to render their outline scarcely dis- tinguishable. Graceful and well-skilled carvers never turn birds on their sides to remove any of the joints, but those of a goose, unless it be very young, are sometimes severed from it with difficulty; and the common directions for assisting the process in that case are, to turn it on its side, and with the fork to press down the small end of