[chap. ii» 80 MODERN COOKERY. STEWED TROUT. ( Good common Receipt.') [In season from May to August.] Melt three ounces of butter in a broad stewpan, or well tinned iron saucepan, stir to it a tablespoonful of flour, some mace, cayenne, and nutmeg ; lay in the fish after it has been emptied, washed very clean, and wiped perfectly dry ; shake it in the pan, that it may not stick, and when lightly browned on botli sides, pour in three quarters of a pint of good veal stock, add a small faggot of parsley, one bay leaf, a roll of lemon-peel, and a little salt: stew the fish very gently from half to three quarters of an hour, or more, should it be unusually fine. Dish the trout, skim the fat from the gravy, and pass it through a hot strainer over the fish, which should be served immediately. A little acid can be added to the sauce at pleasure, and a glass of wine when it is considered an improvement. This receipt is for one large or for two middling- sized fish. We can recommend it as a good one from our own expe- rience. Butter, 3 oz.; flour, 1 tablespoonful; seasoning of mace, cayenne, and nutmeg ; trout, 1 large, or 2 moderate-sized ; veal stock, f pint; parsley, small faggot; 1 bay-leaf; roll of lemon-rind; little salt: a to f hour. Obs.—Trout may be stewed in equal parts of strong veal gravy, and of red or white wine, without having been previously browned ; the sauce should then be thickened, and agreeably flavoured with lemon-juice, and the usual store-sauces, before it is poured over the fish. They are also good when wrapped in buttered paper, and baked or broiled : if very small, the better mode of cooking them is to fry them whole. They should never be plain boiled, as, though naturally a delicious fish, they are then very insipid. TO BOIL PIKE. In best season from September to February.! Take out the gills, empty and clean the fish very thoroughly, and soak it for half an hour with a cup of vinegar thrown into as much water as will cover it well, should there be any danger of its having a muddy taste.* Wipe the inside dry, and fill it ♦ Soaking fish is always better avoided when it can be so; well washing the inside with strong vinegar would perhaps icmove the objectionable flavour with- out it. Trout