SOUPS. 27 CHAP. I.] it perfectly from scum. Put into it just before it is ready for table three dozens of small forcemeat-balls ; the brain cut into dice (after having been well soaked, scalded,* and freed from the film), dipped into beaten yolk of egg, then into the finest crumbs mixed with salt, white pepper, a little grated nutmeg, fine lemon-rind, and chopped parsley fried a fine brown, well drained and dried; and as many egg-balls, the size of a small marble, as the yolks of four eggs will supply. (See Chapter VIII). This quantity will be sufficient for two large tureens of soup ; when the whole is not wanted for table at the same time, it is better to add wine only to so much as will be re- quired for immediate consumption, or if it cannot conveniently be divided, to heat the wine in a small saucepan with a little of the soup, to turn it into the tureen, and then to mix it with the remainder by stirring the whole gently after the tureen is filled. Some persons simply put in the cold wine just before the soup is dished, but this is not so well. Whole calf’s head with skin on, boiled li hour. Stock: neck of beef, browned in butter, 8 lbs.; lean of ham, \ to | lb.; onions, 4; large carrots, 3 ; heads of celery, 3 ; large bunch herbs; salt, 2 oz. (as much more to be added when the soup is made as will season it sufficiently) ; thin rind, 1 lemon; peppercorns, 1 dessertspoonful; bones and trimmings of head : 8 hours. Soup : stock, 4 to 5 quarts ; flour and butter for thickening, of each 4 oz.; pounded mace, half- teaspoonful; cayenne, third a« much (more of each as needed) ; sherry, half pint: 2 to 3 minutes. Flesh of head and tongue, nearly or quite 2 lbs.: If to 1^ hour. Forcemeat-balls, 36 ; the brain cut and fried ; egg-balls, 16 to 24. Obs.—When the brain is not blanched it must be cut thinner in the form of small cakes, or it will not be done through by the time it has taken enough colour : it may be altogether omitted without much detriment to the soup, and will make an excellent corner dish if gently stewTed in white gravy for half an hour, and served with it thickened with cream and arrowroot to the consistency of good white sauce, then rather highly seasoned, and mixed with plenty of minced parsley, and some lemon-juice. GOOD calf’s HEAD SOUP. (Not expensive,) Stew down from six to seven pounds of the thick part of a shin of beef with a little lean ham, or a slice of hung beef, or of Jewish beef, trimmed free from the smoky edges, in five quarts of water until re- duced nearly half, with the addition, when it first begins to boil, of an ounce of salt, a large bunch of savoury herbs, one large onion, a * The brain should be blanched, that is, thrown into boiling water with a little salt in it, and boiled from five to eight minutes, then lifted out and laid into cold water for a quarter of an hour: it must be wiped very dry before it is fried.