XXX TRUSSING. For boiling, all poultry or other birds must have the feet drawn off" at the first joint of the leg, or as shown in the engraving. (In the latter case, the sinews of the joint must be slightly cut, when the bone may be easily turned back as here.) The skin must then be loosened with the finger entirely from the legs, which must be pushed back into the body, and the small ends tucked quite under the apron, so as to be entirely out of sight. The wings of chickens, fowls, turkeys, and pigeons, are left on entire, whether for roasting or boiling. From geese, ducks, pheasants, partridges, black game, moor-fowl, woodcocks, snipes, wild-fowl of all kinds, and all small birds, the first two joints are taken off, leaving but one joint on, thus:-- The feet are left on ducks, and those of tame ones are trussed as will be seen at page 278, and upon roast fowls, pheasants, black and moor-game, pigeons, woodcocks, and snipes. The thick coarse skin of the legs of these must be stripped, or rubbed off with a hard cloth after they have been held in boiling water, or over a clear fire for a few minutes. The sharp talons must be pulled out, and the nails clipped. The toes of the pigeons for roasting should be cut off. Geese, sucking-pigs, hares, and rabbits have the feet taken off at the first joint. The livers and gizzards are served in the wings of roast turkeys and fowls only. The heads are still commonly left on pheasants, partridges, and black game and moor-game; but the fashion is declining. Of this this we shall speak more particularly in the ensuing chapter. Poultry and birds in general, except perhaps quite the larger kinds, are more easily trussed into plump handsome form with twine and needles proper to the purpose (for which see page 1), than with skewers. The manner in which the legs and wings are confined is much the same for all; the principal difference being in the arrange- ment of the former for boiling, which has already been explained. There is a present mode of trussing very large fowls for boiling or stewing which to our taste is more novel than attractive. The feet are left on, and after the skin has been loosened from them in every part, the legs are thrust entirely into the body by means of a slight incision made in the skin just above the first joint on the underside, the feet then appear almost as if growing out of the sides of the breast: the effect of this is not pleasing. TO TRUSS A TURKEY, FOWL, PHEASANT OR PARTRIDGE, FOR ROASTING. First draw the skin of the neck down over the back, and secure it from slipping up; then thread a trussing needle of convenient size,”' * These may be had, of various sizes, at any good ironmonger §,