MODERN COOKERY. [chap, xxiii. 476 VERY SUPERIOR WHIPPED SYLLABUBS. Weigh seven ounces of fine sugar and rasp on it the rinds of two fresh sound lemons of good size, then pound or roll it to powder, and put it into a bowl with the strained juice of the lemons, two large glasses of sherry, and two of brandy; when the sugar is dissolved add a pint of very fresh cream, and whisk or mill the mixture well; take olf the froth as it rises, and put it into glasses. These syllabubs will remain good for several days, and should always be made if possible, four-and-twenty hours before they are wanted for table. The full flavour of the lemon-rind is obtained with less trouble than in rasping, by paring it very thin indeed, and infusing it for some hours in the juice of the fruit. Sugar, 7 oz.; rind and juice of lemons, 2 ; sherry, 2 large vvine- glassesful; brandy, 2 wineglassesful; cream, 1 pint. Obs.—These proportions are sufficient for two dozens or more of syllabubs : they are often made with almost equal quantities of wine and cream, but are considered less wholesome without a portion of brandy BLANC - MAN GE S. GOOD COMMON BLANC-MANGE, OR BLANC-MANGER. (Author's Receipt.') Infuse for an hour in a pint and a half of new milk the very thin rind of one small, or of half a large lemon and four or five bitter almonds, blanched and bruised,* then add two ounces of sugar, or rather more for per- sons who like the blanc-mange very sweet, and an ounce and a half Of isinglass. Boil them gently riamange or Cake Mould, over a clear fire, stirring them often until this last is dissolved; take off the scum, stir in half a pint, or rather more, of rich cream, and strain the blanc-mange into a bowl; it should be moved gently with a spoon until nearly cold to prevent the cream from settling on the surface. Before it is moulded, mix with it by degrees a wineglassful of brandy. New milk, l.i pint; rind of lemon, ^ large or whole small; bitter idmonds, 8; infuse 1 hour. Sugar, 2 to 3 oz.; isinglass, 1^ oz.: 10 minutes. Cream, \ pint; brandy, 1 wineglassful. * These should always be very sparingly used.