[chap, xxxii. MODERN COOKERY. C18 table. They are then sometimes dipped into egg and bread-crumbs, and fried in thin slices of uniform size ; or stewed tender, then well drained, and glazed, dished in a circle, and served with peas a la Francaise in the centre, or with a thick puree of tomatas, or of other vegetables. They are also often used to fill vol-au-vents, for which purpose they must be kept very white, and mixed with a good becha?nel-sauce. We recommend their being highly curried, either in conjunction with plenty of vegetables, or with a portion of other meat, after they have been baked or stewed as tender as possible. POITRINE DE VEAU GLAC&E. (jBreast of Veal Stewed and Glazed.) When the gristles have been removed from a breast of veal, the joint will still make an excellent roast, or serve to stew or braise. Take out the long-bones,* beat the veal with the fiat side of a cleaver, or with a cutlet-bat, and when it is quite even, cut it square, and sprinkle over it a moderate seasoning of fine salt, cayenne, and mace. Make some forcemeat by either of the receipts Nos. 1, 2, 3, or 7, of Chapter VIII., but increase the ingredients to three or four times the quantity, according to the size of the joint. Lay over the veal, or not, as is most convenient, thin slices of half-boiled bacon, or of ham ; press the forcemeat into the form of a short compact rouleau and lay it in the centre of one side of the breast; then roll it up and skewer the ends closely with small skewers, and bind the joint firmly into good form with tape or twine. When thus prepared, it may be slowly stewed in very good veal stock until it is tender quite through, and which should be hot when it is laid in; or embedded in the usual ingredients for braising (see Chapter IX., page 180), and sent to table glazed, sauced with an Espagnole, or other rich gravy, and garnished with carrots a la Windsor (see page 335), or with sweet-bread cut* lets, also glazed. BREAST OF VEAL. SIMPLY STEWED.f Omit the forcemeat from the preceding receipt, and stew the joint tender in good veal broth, or shin of beef stock. Drain, and dish it. Pour a little rich gravy round it, and garnish it with nicely fried balls of the forcemeat No. 1, Chapter VIII., or with mushroom- * This is very easily done by cutting through the skin down the centre of each. + We give here the English receipt of an excellent practical cook for “ Stewed Breast of veal,” as it may be acceptable to some of our readers, After it has been bonedt flattened, and trimmed, season it well, and let it lie for an hour or two (this, we do not consider essential); then prepare some good veal force-