[chap. XVIII, 371 MODERN COOKERY. Flour, 1 oz.; yolks of eggs, 3; boiling cream, or milk and cream mixed, f pint: just simmered, 6 to 8 minutes. Butter, oz. sugar, 2 oz. $ little store-flavouring, or rasped lemon-rind; ratifias, 1| oz. Ohs.—This is an excellent preparation, which may be used for tartlets, cannelons, and other forms of pastry, with extremely good effect. SMALL VOLS-AU-VENTS, A LA PARiSIENNE. (ENTREMETS.) Make some small vols-au-vents by the directions of page 361, either in the usual way, or with the rings of paste placed upon the rounds. Ice the edges as soon as they are taken from the oven, by sifting fine sugar thickly on them, and then holding a salamander or heated shovel over them, until it melts and forms a sort of pale barley-sugar glaze. Have ready, and quite hot, some creme patis- siere, made as above ; fill the vols-au-vents with it, and send them to table instantly. These will be found very good without the icing PASTRY SANDWICHES. Divide equally in two, and roll off square and as thin as possible, some rich puff paste;* lay one half on a buttered tin, or copper oven-leaf, and spread it lightly with fine currant, strawberry or raspberry jelly; lay the remaining half closely over, pressing it a little with the rolling pin after the edges are well cemented together; then mark it into divisions, and bake it from fifteen to twenty minutes in a moderate oven. LEMON SANDWICHES. Substitute for preserve, in the preceding receipt, the lemon cheese- cake mixture of page 372, with or without the almonds in it. FANCIIONNETTES. (ENTREMETS). Roll out very thin and square some fine puff paste, lay it on a tin or copper oven-leaf, and cover it equally to within something less than an inch of the edge with peach or apricot jam ; roll a second bit of paste to the same size, and lay it carefully over the other, having first moistened the edges with beaten egg, or water; press them together securely, that the preserve may not escape; pass a paste- brush or small bunch of feathers dipped in water over the top. sift sugar thickly on it, then with the back of a knife, mark the paste into divisions of uniform size, bake it in a well-heated but not fierce oven for twenty minutes, or rather more, and cut it while it is * Almond-paste is sometimes substituted for this.