CHAP. XIV.] POULTRY. 275 those of a boiled fowl; the breast - bone, or bat of the back may be removed at pleasure, and both sides of the bird should be made as flat as they can be that the fire ma}’’ penetrate every part equally: the inside should be first laid towards it. The neck, feet and gizzard may be boiled down with a small quantity of onion and carrot, previously browned in a morsel of butter to make the gravy; and the liver, after having been simmered with them for five or six minutes, may be used to thicken it after it is strained. A teaspoonful of lemon-juice, some cayenne, and minced parsley should be added to it, and a little arrow-root, or flour and butter, to f hour. FRICASSEED FOWLS OR CHICKENS. (ENTREE.) To make a fricassee of good appearance without great expense, prepare, with exceeding nicety, a couple of plump chickens, strip off the skin, and carve them very neatly. Reserve the wings, breasts, merrythoughts, and thighs; and stew down the inferior joints with a couple of blades of mace, a small bunch of savoury herbs, a few white peppercorns, a pint and a half of water, and a small half-teaspoonful of salt. When something more than a third part reduced, strain the gravy, let it cool, and skim olf every particle of fat. Arrange the joints which are to be fricasseed in one layer if it can be done conveniently, and pour to them as much of the gravy as will nearly cover them; add the very thin rind of half a fine fresh lemon, and simmer the fowls gently from half' to three quarters of an hour ; throw in sufficient salt, pounded mace, and cayenne, to give the sauce a good flavour, thicken it with a large teaspoonful of arrow-root, and stir to it the third of a pint of rich boiling cream; then lift the stewpan from the fire, and shake it briskly round while the beaten yolks of three fresh eggs, mixed with a spoonful or two of cream, are added; continue to shake the pan gently above the fire till the sauce is just set, but it must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle in an instant. 5 to | hour. ENGLISH CHICKEN CUTLETS. (ENTREE). Skin and cut into joints one or twTo young chickens, and remove the bones with care from the breasts, merrythoughts, and thighs, vhich are to be separated from the legs. Mix well together a tea- spoonful of salt, nearly a fourth as much of mace, a little grated nut- meg, and some cayenne ; flatten and form into good shape, the boned joints of chicken, and the flesh of the wings ; rub a little of the sea- soning over them in every part, dip them into beaten egg, and then into very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them gently in fresh butter until they are of a delicate brown. Some of the bones and trimmings may be boiled dowm in half a pint of water, with a roll of lemon- peel,