18 FOR YOUTH AND SCHOOLS. LE TRADUCTEUR ; Or, HISTORICAL, DRAMATIC, AND MISCELLANEOUS SELECTIONS, From the best French Writers, on apian calculated to render reading and translation peculiarly serviceable in acquiring the Speaking and Writing of the French Language; accompanied by Explanatory Notes, a Selection of Idioms, and concise Tables of the Parts of Speech, and of Verbs. By P. F. MERLET. In this Edition, the author has made every improvement in the selection of Pieces, as well as the Explanatory Notes, (both of which have been considerably increased,) which constant practice in teaching could suggest. “ We pretend to judge somewhat more accurately of the quality of this work than most of our neighbours; and we have no hesitation in recording our opinion to be, that it has deservedly reached a Second Edition, and that it ought to go through many more. It is decidedly the best work of the kind with which we have yet met, and ought to be in the hands of every one who is desirous of becoming acquainted with the structure, the idioms, and the niceties, of the French language.”—Morning Advertiser. ** A judicious, instructive, and entertaining selection, free from every immoral or irreligious thought or expression which the French language contains.”—Literary Panorama. Second Edition, much improved, Price 5s. 6d. handsomely bound. PETIT TABLEAU LITTERAIRE DE LA FRANCE ; Contenant un Essai sur la Litterature Frantjaise; DEPUIS SON OUIGINE JUSQU’ EN 1832, tcilii Seco Et de nombreux extraits des meilleurs auteurs; suivis de notes sur quelques Difficultes. Servant de Suite au “ Traducteur.” Par P. F. MERLET. “ The author has been careful to select such pieces only as are instructive and entertaining, and may be placed, without reserve, in the hands of youth of both sexes;—to embrace every possible variety in word, phrase, or sentence; and to afford a ready exemplification of the rules of grammar, by appropriate remarks and nume- rous notes on those peculiarities which form the most difficult parts of the French language.”—Gentleman’s Magazine. Kills; Beni? todt Si In a thick Volume, 12mo. Price 7s. 6d, handsomely bound.