23 MISCELLANIES. IM II Stggfc LA ROUS'S. THE FIELD BOOK; Or, SPORTS AND PASTIMES OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. By the Author of“ Wild Sports of the Wrest.” This Volume, compiled from the best authorities, ancient and mo- dern, is unique in arrangement and splendid in embellishment, embracing every subject connected with “ field and floodits utility as a book of reference will render it a valuable and elegant adden- dum to the Sportsman’s Library. “ Is a handsome, convenient, and very entertaining book ; compiled by the clever author of ‘Wild Sports of the West.’ It is a complete encyclopaedia of out-door amusements, and a book which no country family ought to be without. Does the fisherman want to know the best bait for carp, let him look into the * Field Book.’ Does the cricketer wish to see how cricket ought to be played, or the sportsman how to train a pointer, let them look into the * Field Book,’ and they will find full •information upon both subjects. There is no difficulty in referring, as every article is arranged in alphabetical order ; and what Johnson’s Dictionary is in language, the Field Book is in sports and pastimes. The book abounds in choice bits of natural history.”— Brighton Guardian. In One large Volume, 8vo., with 150 Engravings, expressly executed for this work. Price 25s. bound in cloth. THE YOUNG CRICKETER’S TUTOR; Comprising full directions for the elegant and marly Game of Cricket; with a complete version of its Laws and Regulations: By JOHN N Y R E N, A Player in the celebrated Old Hambledon Club, and in the Mary-le-Bone Club. To which is added “The Cricketers of My Time,” or Recollections of the most famous Old Players : By the same Author. The whole Collected and Edited by CHARLES COWDEN CLARKE. “ A pocket volume of some hundred pages; it contains the whole history and science of cricket, and is a present which would at all times—but at none so much | as in the present fine weather—be acceptable to juvenile cricketers and beginners.”— Brighton Guardian. In 18mo., Price 2s. 6d., bound in cloth. A NEW GUIDE AND COMPANION TO THE BILLIARD TABLE. od Exhibiting in an intelligible and comprehensive manner, by means of a Synoptical Drawing, the method of executing the most difficult Strokes ; Rules, Regulations, &c. The whole newly and completely irranged, by AN AMATEUR. With Plates, Price 2s. 6d.