MISCELLANIES. 30 A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF RARE AND UNEDITED From the earliest period of the Roman Coinage, to the extinction otl the Empire under Constantinus Paleologus. By J. Y. A KERMAN, F.S.A. This work, in the production of which no expense or labour has bee) spared, is most extensively illustrated by facsimile engravings from the originals, executed in the first style of the Art. The unique spe cimens are numerous, and none are admitted which have not bee? approved by experienced Numismatists. Among the collections from I which the descriptions have been made maybe enumerated that oi^ the British Museum, the Bibliotheque du Roi, at Paris, th< j Cabinets of Rome, Vienna, St. Petersburg, and Berne, as wel'l as those of many wealthy amateurs, both here and on the Continent i Notices of the prices at which the rarest coins have been sold at pub lie sales in London during the last twenty years, are occasional inserted, and a brief Biographical and Chronological notice is prefix e< to the reign of each Emperor, &c. “ This is a work of superior pretensions and character.”—Asiatic Jovrnal. “The utility of such a work is, of course, not limited to antiquaries; it will b<| found an unerring guide to the students of Roman History and of classical author The modicum of authentic history, and the apt illustrations of ancient manner? supplied by even the commonest coins, are, unaccountably, much neglected by th general class of readers, although it would appear that the ancients, with wonderfi forethought and sagacity, impressed, as far as practicable, recenti facto, their histor I upon their coinage, well aware that a little piece of brass could easily survive acciden; j] which would annihilate codices, and even triumphal arches.”—Times, March 6th. A very limited number of copies are printed in Royal 8vo , witjj Proof Impressions of the Plates on India Paper, for which early up plication should be made. In 2 vols., 8vo. with numerous Plates on steel and wood, Pric I £2. 12s. 6d., neatly bound in cloth. The large Paper copies, Pric £4. 4s. COIN COLLECTOR’S COMPANION A NUMISMATIC MANUAL; or, Guide to the Study of Greek] Roman, and English Coins, with their degrees of Rarity. By J. Y. AKERMAN, F. S. A. With an ample Appendix, including a List of Prices at which somj of the most important of the English Series have sold at late sale: and which may be obtained by former purchasers, gratis. In this volume will be found a condensation of the works of Snelling, Folkel Pinkerton, Ruding, Cardonnel, Simon, Mionnet, &c.} with such corrections as tiir| and experience have proved necessary. “ We can recommend the Numismatic Manual to the young and inexperienced.” In a pocket Vol., with 50 Fac*similes. Price 8s. Cloth. Ath ^ liter In Ibe