MEDICAL BOOKS. 7 IMI®Q(g^[L ®®®G£§0 1 “ Good Teeth, independent of their great utility, are essential to Female Beauty.” ECONOMY OF THE TEETH AND MOUTH; ft) INCLUDING THE Medical, Mechanical, and Moral Treatment of the most frequent Diseases and Accidents incidental to the Structure and Functions of those delicate Parts, with the Means of correcting and purifying 11 tainted or unpleasant Breath, or other Personal or Atmospherical Effluvia arising from Local or Constitutional Causes or Injuries. By AN OLD ARMY SURGEON. j “ In your person you should be accurately clean ; and your teeth should be super- latively so;—a dirty mouth has real ill consequences to the owner, for it infallibly causes the decay, as well as the intolerable pain, of the teeth."—Chesterfield. ** This little work displays considerable knowledge and judgment. Having been id sufferers from tooth-ache, we have been induced to try some of the author's receipts iu for that ‘hell o’ a’ diseases,’ as Burns emphatically terms it; and we have no hesi- tation in pronouncing them superior to any that we have yet met with. We par- ne Ocularly recommend to the attention of our readers those chapters which speak of k ihe danger to be apprehended from the use of powerful acids, and other corrosive liquids; they contain a salutary caution to all those who are afflicted with this horri- >lc complaint. This work is published at a price that renders it available to all ilasses.”— Olio. In a neat Pocket Volume, with a Frontispiece, Price 2s. 6d. “ Delicate Hands and Handsome Feet are indispensable to Female Beauty ECONOMY OF THE HANDS, FEET, FINGERS, AND TOES; WHICH INCLUDES THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND CURE OF CORNS, BUN- NIONS, AND DEFORMED NAILS, ’he Removal of Excrescences, superfluous Hairs, Freckles, Pimples, llotches, and other cutaneous Eruptions; with safe and certain e0 jethods of rendering the Skin white, soft, and delicate, without detri- ment to health. By AN OLD ARMY SURGEON. iit | tibi 'Oli " We should grudge the room which is occupied by this very copious title-page, ►re it not that it so clearly indicates the nature and object of the book, as to render most superfluous, whatever we might be disposed to advance respecting its contents, hich we have no doubt will, in many instances, prove eminently serviceable; in fact, e best evidence that we can offer of our approval is, that we have already set apart 'o or three of its recipes for our Melanges of the month.”—La Belle Assemble, Third Edition, corrected and enlarged, in a neat Pocket Volume, royal 18mo., with a Frontispiece, Price 2s. 6d,