MISCELLANIES. 26 A PEEP INTO ALFRED CROWQUILL’S SKETCH-BOOK “On four plates, we have here between thirty and forty subjects, executed with a freedom and spirit not every day displayed.”—Court Journal. " Contains many cleverly conceived and well executed etchings, full of character and considerable drollery.”—Literary Gazette. “ But for the absence of his name, we should have regarded these sketches, rich in point, and humour, and pictorial pun, as veritable emanations from the pencil of our friend George, the Cruikshank. We cannot pay them a higher compliment”—Court Journal. Nos. 1 and 2, each Price 2s. 6d. Plain, or 3s. 6d. Coloured. On a neat Coloured Card, Price Is. PRINTED IN GOLD, SILVER, AND BRONZE, A LABYRINTH: Formed of a variety of Trees, Shrubs, Water, 4 c. Intended as an amusing puzzle for Young People. The object is the discovery of the Road to the Temple, by means of one of the numerous paths with which it is inter- sected. Whilst its intricacy excites in the explorer a spirit of emulation, it does not induce a propensity to gaming, which is inseparable from many of the amuse ments of youth. “ Portions may be selected which show the beautiful spirit pervading the whole, and which must touch any human heart; but its merit as a piece of legislation,—as a system living and working,—can only be appreciated when studied connectedly and in detail.”—Translator s Preface. ,, leon A GUIDE TO AUTHORS, SHEWING HOW TO CORRECT THE PRESS, According to the Mode adopted and understood by Printers, o Price 6d. NICOTIAN A; Or, THE SMOKER’S AND SNUFF-TAKER’S COMPANION Explaining the History and Uses of Tobacco, with its first importa- tion into Europe. Interspersed with Poetry and Anecdotes. Design- ed as an amusing little Pocket Volume for all genuine lovers of the Herb. By H. J. MELLER, Esq. “ A little volume for the frequenters of the Divan, and the lovers of Tobacco i all its forms, of which it gives a succinct history. To such we recommend it as a pleasant publication, specially designed for their use. In times of Cholera, it is more than commonly a-propos, as this leaf is one of the best preventives against infection.” —Metropolitan. Second Edition, 18mo. Price 2s. 6d. boards. IMl