MISCELLANIES. 25 THE RICHES OF CHAUCER. In which his Impurities have been expunged, his Spelling modernized, his Rhythm accentuated, his obsolete Terms explained; also have been added Explanatory Notes, and a new Memoir of the Poet. By CHARLES COWDEN CLARKE Author of" Tales in Prose, from Chaucer,” and "Adam the Gardener.” “ We have much pleasure in welcoming this book, because we think it likely to promote, in many excellent quarters, a taste for one of the greatest English Poets, whose writings are as real as truth, and deserve to be as universal.”—Examiner. " We highly approve of this publication; the young and fair may here study the father of English Poetry, without encountering matter which the refinement of man- ners has caused to be offensive to delicacy.”—Literary Gazette. “ We cordially recommend this edition to all who have heard of Chaucer and wish to make his acquaintance.”—Spectator. In 2 Vols., with a Portrait by Scriven, and 20 Wood Cuts by Samuel Williams. Price 18s. bound in cloth. School Prize and Christmas Present. TALES FROM CHAUCER, IN PROSE: || DESIGNED CHIEFLY FOR THE USE OF YOUNG PERSONS. By CHARLES COWDEN CLARKE. i “ Mr. Clarke may, we think, be assured of realizing the wish he has expressed tj| in his preface, of adding to the number of those who read and relish Chaucer in the original. The book is altogether an extremely pretty and delightful one, and ^ certainly far exceeds what our reminiscences of the Canterbury Tales would have given us reason to expect of Chaucer turned into prose.”—Atlas. as In One Vol. 12mo., illustrated with 14 Wood Engravings, designed and executed by Samuel Williams, handsomely bound in Cloth, Price 7s. 6d. ADAM THE GARDENER. By CHARLES COWDEN CLARKE, Author of “ Tales in Prose from Chaucer.” | “ For young readers, and, sooth to say, for children of larger growth. It is a guide Jto the Garden, thrown into the form of a Pastoral Drama. We have instructions for horticulture, descriptions of rural scenery, and rustic employments, intermingled with pleasant tales of real life, and faery land; the whole told in a style of symplicity \as adapted to the young, but neither weak nor mawkish, we opine, even to maturer tastes.”—Spectator. In One Vol. 12mo., bound in cloth, Price 5s.