MISCELLANIES. 35 WITH SEVENTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS BY GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, TOUGH YARNS; A Series of Naval Tales and Sketches to please all Hands, from the Swabs pn the Shoulders down to the Swabs in the Head. By THE OLD SAILOR, Author of “ Greenwich Hospital.” "The Old Sailor paints sea scenes and adventures with vigour and gusto,— reminding us of Tom Cringle, and with a strong sense of the comical that approaches Smollett.”—Spectator. "We congratulate the lovers of wit, and the admirers of our British Tars, and the literary commonwealth, with the possession of a volume that will tend, as did the songs of Dibdin, to foster that indomitable spirit among our seaman, that has borne England triumphant through a sea of dangers, over which no other nation could have triumphed but England, nor England without her unconquerable navy.”—Metropo- ’ titan Magazine. S In One Vol., price 10s. 6d., bound in true blue, and ornamented with a “ Union Jack.” il j, i .«•'! LAND AND SEA TALES, °r Bv THE OLD SAILOR, Author of " Tough Yarns," $c. ILLUSTRATED BY GEORGE CRUIKSHANK, “ The Old Sailor, and author of that clever publication, * Tough Yarns,’ is one of the most pleasing of our naval writers. The able sketches he has given in his former works have rendered him extremely popular; his present Tales are not less spirited aid amusing, the volumes are neatly got up, and illustrated by our friend George Cruikshank.”—Naval and Military Gazette We have read them, we could not help it. * * * It is really a very uperior work.”—Metropolitan, (Capt. Marryatt.) " No writer on nautical themes appeals so forcibly to our best feelings, as does the ble and excellent individual who writes under the true colours of the * Old Sailor.’”— 'nited Service Journal. There is one great charm about the narratives of the ‘ Old Sailor,’ they all seem if they had actually happened, they are nature!”—Court Journal. Half-a-dozen yarns by the author of ‘Greenwich Hospital,’ are a woithy fore- nner of Christmas festivities, and will prove a most desirable adjunct to the thorough [if ll joymentof the holidays.”—News. We have rarely experienced more real gratification than has been afforded by the rusal of these very unasuming tales and very delightful volumes; it is quite re- shing to meet the Old Sailor again ; he seems to be quite at home, and is one of the ollett school, his humour sparkles with irresistible wit.”—Sunday Times. We hail, with pleasure, the appearance of another series of tales, under this e, by the author of ‘ Tough Yarns,’ &c. They are, like the former works of the le popular writer, admirably written, full of interest, and highly characteristic, are very happily illustrated by George Cruikshank.”—Bell’s Life in London. In 2 Vols., bound in cloth. Price 16s. *