10R YOUTH AND SCHOOLS. 17 A FRENCH GRAMMAR, Divided into Four Parts. The Pronunciation; the Accidence; the Syntax; and the Appendix. By P. F. MERLET, Professor of the French Language at the University of London. " All the rules we find arranged in this Grammar with the utmost simplicity and perspicuity, none occupying more than two lines, and arranged in so convenient a manner as to render references very easy. At the same time every rule is illustrated be a number of plain practical sentences, such as are wanted in the common intercourse of life, and are made familiar by exercises of a similar kind. The Tables of Declen- sions and Conjugations are also admirably clear. It is almost impossible to represent sound to the eye; yet the rules of Pronunciation laid down In this book are so sys- tematic and precise as to render them a great help to those who have had some oral instruction. The Appendix, or a * Dictionary of Difficulties,’ which also sells sepa- rately, will be found an excellent book of reference to the more advanced student, more useful thaA French works of this kind, as it is evidently the work of a man who, by long practice, has made himself fully acquainted with all those points in his lan- guage which offer difficulties to the English learner.”—Monthly Review. in m We iin In One thick Vol. 12mo., Price 10s. boards, or 10s. 6d. bound. New Editions of the separate Parts may be had at the following Prices : Part I.—Treatise on Pronunciation. Price 2s. 6d. bound. uve Part II.—Tiie Accidence. Offering tabular views of all the Parts of Speech in the French Language, with brief and simple Ex- planations, Examples, and easy Exercises on each. Price 3s. bd. Par III.—The Syntax. Containing the most necessary Rules, clearly and concisely explained. Price 3s. 6d. bound. N. B. These Three Parts form a complete Grammar, bound in one vol. price 8s. Part IV.—The Appendix; or Dictionary of Difficulties, Idioms, Synonymes, Ike. of the French Language. Price 3s. 6d. bound. KEY TO THE EXCERCISES IN MERLETS FRENCH GRAMMAR. 12mo., Price 3s. 6d. bound.