TRADE AND COMMERCE. 12 BOOK-KEEPING. A NEW CHECK JOURNAL UPON THE PRINCIPLE OF DOUBLE ENTRY, Which exhibits a continued, systematic, and self-verifying Reconlf Accounts of Individual and Partnership Concerns, and shews, at Je view, the real state of a Merchant’s or Trader’s Affairs, by a Sii je a Book only, even should a Ledger not have been kept. The wl je “ familiarly explained, and forming a complete and Practical SystBP of Book-Keeping by Single and Double Entry. To which is f- pended, a New and more Simple Method, or Double Entry by Sinl. By GEORGE JACKSON, Accountant. Corrected, Enlarged, and greatly Improved; with copious Illustration m Interest Accounts, Joint Adventures, and Joint Purchases. «* If simplicity, brevity, and clearness, may be esteemed important to the accilt record of commercial accounts, this work of Mr. Jackson’s will be found a valik assistant to all men of business. It places all matters connected with the merca ■.... world in such a plain light, that the confusion attendant upon irregularity or ignorL ; may be avoided and prevented by a mere mechanical observance of the systerm.. lays down. His plan is practical and conclusive, and the improvements he sug p> upon the works of his predecessors are the evident results of long experience I ^ consideration.”—Atlas. Fourth Edition, in One Vol. 8vo., Price 6s. TO BANKERS, MERCHANTS, AND TRADESMEN. TABLES OF INTEREST, On a New Plan, By which the Interest of any Sum, consecutively from One Pol to a Thousand, from One to Three Hundred and Sixty-five D will be found at one View, without the trouble or risk of Additi Also, the Fractional Parts of a Pound, and from One to Ten T1 sand Pounds, at Five per Cent. To which is added, a separate Supplement, that renders t i; Tables equally applicable to any other Rate per Cent. By DAVID BOOTH. “ I have examined ‘ Mr. Booth’s Interest Tablesthe arrangement is novei perspicuous; and I have no hesitation in affirming, that the work will be far useful to the public than any one which has hitherto appeared on the subject. “ Charles Cartwright, Accountant-General to the East India Comp In 4to. Price 1/. Is. half-bound. B' Mil