FOIt YOUTH AND SCHOOLS. 21 THE PHENOMENA OF NATURE Familiarly Explained. A Book for Parents and Instructors, and especially adapted to Schools. Translated from the German of WILHELM VON TURK. “ Its object is to bring before the young pupil, in a familiar manner, the different phenomena of nature. It presents a variety of subjects for the child’s consideration, the knowledge of which is useful, and besides admirably calculated to draw out his powers of observation.”—Journal of Education, No 1. “ This is the best and most practical lesson-book on Nature, in the language. We strongly recommend its introduction into schools, and all places of education, public and private. We would have the work made a school-room companion for three or four years, between the ages of eight and twelve, and, in the course of that time, mastered from end to end by the pupil.”—-Spectator. Price 4s. 6d. cloth. RHYMES FOR YOUTHFUL HISTORIANS, Designed to assist the Memory in Retaining the most Important Events in Ancient and Modern History; With Portraits of all the Sovereigns of England. “You must not laugh at this, for chronologists do not pique themselves on their poetry ; they make use of numbers and rhymes merely as assistants to memory, being so easily learned by heart.”—Mrs. Cliapone. Third Edition, Price Is. 6d. COMPOSITION AND PUNCTUATION jfamtltarlj) <£xplainrtr. FOR THOSE WHO HAVE NEGLECTED THE STUDY OF GRAMMAR. This popular work is now re-produced with very important attractions. Not only is every article revised with great attention, but so much has been added, that the present edition may be considered as almost a new work. By JUSTIN BRENAN, Author of “ The Foreigner's English Conjugator,’’ fyc. “ We have read this little book with much satisfaction. Something of the kind bafc been long wanted, and the want is now very ingeniously supplied. * My object,’ , uf 8ays the author, * is to instruct those who know how to read and write, but who . are unacquainted with grammar. I propose, strange as it may appear, to show such persons how they may compose sentences, of which they may not at least be ashamed, , and how they may express their meaning intelligibly, without exciting a laugh at their expense.’ This object Mr. Brenan has attained in a simple and agreeable manner, arid we, therefore, confidently recommend his book to those whose early education bjffl has been neglected, and who are now afraid to enter upon all the difficulties of gram- mar* We shall ourselves present copies of it to several mechanics and others, in whose progress we take an interest.”—Edinburgh Literary Journal. Third Edition, considerably augmented, 18mo. Price 4s. boards.