HISTORY, POLITICS, AND LEGISLATION. 6 HISTORY OF THE MIDDLE AND WORKING CLASSES, With a popular Exposition of the Economical and Political Principl which have influenced the past and present condition of the Agricc tural, Commercial, and Manufacturing Classes; together with i Appendix of Prices, Rates of Wages, Population, Poor Rates, Mo tality, Marriages, Crimes, Schools, Education, Occupations, and oth Statistical Information, illustrative of the former and present State Society, and the Industrious Orders. By JOHN WADE. “ In discussing the most important questions of social polity, the author has sho himself ineapable of pandering to prejudice for sake of popularity. He has told i portant truths, and told them honestly.”—Westminster Review, No. 38. “ The work before us supplies what has long been a desideratum in histori literature, a systematic and perfect account of those classes of society which prodi the national wealth. " To the middle and working classes this history presents great and permam attractions; it should have a place in every counting-house, and in the libraries every literary and mechanics’ society in the kingdom.”—BelFs New Messenger. In One thick Volume Royal 18mo. Third Edition. Price 8s. clot! A POPULAR HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT, IN ALL AGES AND NATIONS. By WILLIAM HO WITT. “ Passages full of fine feeling and natural eloquence ; of the prose of Milton.”—Athenceum. aud reminds us a good d : “ The author ol' this deeply interesting little volume takes a rapid survey of pri< craft, as it has existed from the earliest periods, and ends with an able exposition the manifold corruptions of the existing Church of England; he has traced, wit] careful hand, the spirit, practices, and tendencies of the craft, from which have < 1 ginated the various superstitions that in turn have swayed the world, and exh :l them in all their errors and deformity.”—Satirist. Ut Fourth Edition, in 12mo. Price 7s. 'W HOWITT'S ABRIDGEMENT OF HIS HISTORY OF PRIESTCRAFT, Being an Abstract of the Facts contained in the larger Work, y In 12mo.