31 MISCELLANIE5, PARACELSUS, A DRAMATIC POEM, By ROBERT BROWNING, Esq. ** It is a philosophical view of the mind of Paracelsus, its workings and mis- workings, its tendencies and efforts, and results, worked out through the pure medium of poetry. A rich vein of internal sentiment, a deep knowledge of humanity, an intellect subtle and inquisitive, will soon fix the reader’s interest, and call forth his ‘warmest admiration.”—Examiner. In 1 vol. foolscap 8vo., price 6s. | GOETHE AAT) HIS CONTEMPORARIES; FROM THE GERMAN OF FALK, VON MULLER, &c. ■With Notes, Original and Translated, illustrative of GermanLiterature. By SARAIi AUSTIN. “We have here a mine of curious observation. Falk’s part is full of interest: we pass from one bold originality of fine thought to another, and each is a theme for reflection; it is well for us that Goethe had a friend in whose ear these jewels I were treasured.”—Examiner. [; ** We are indebted to Mrs. Austin for one of the most elegant and complete translations which ever enriched the stores of the English language. You see the c genius of a foreign language, but it does not appear in a rough or abrupt guise— the stranger appears as much at home as if he had lived with us all his life. The 1C remarkable peculiarity of all that relates to Goethe, seems to be in this—your mind takes a leap after reading his works, or examining his character; nothing lbout him is common place or vulgar ; even his attachment to a courtier’s life is lull of a certain intellectual poetry; he looked upon it as we look upon a play, in vhich the real actors are often but poor creatures, but in which the delusions which ^ lurround them are full of magic and of grace.”—New Monthly Magazine. ■0111' ales “ Mrs. Austin, whose translation of Prince Puckler Muskau’s Tour obtained well* nerited applause, has, in the work before us, set herself a task worthy of her talents, md executed it with considerable ability. In these volumes the English reader can htain a very satisfactory view of Goethe’s character, of his habits and pursuits, of :is companions and friends, and of the intrinsic nature, influence, and personal istory of German Literature.”—Atlas. .do1 “Mrs. Austin’s work contains a great deal of original matter, of a very interesting >rt; and altogether constitutes one of the most Instructive and entertaining books on ' uman literature which we possess.”—Foreign Quarterly Review. ik i In Three Volumes, Post Octavo, with Portraits, he. Price 21s.