AN INTRODUCTORY LECTURE, DBLITERGD AT THE MEDICAL THEATRE, DEAN STREET, BOROUGH, Oiv THE ^st of October, 1827, WRERBIN ARB RRPLAINBD THE NATURE, OBJECTS, AND ADVANTAGES or anatomy, NOT ONLY TO MEDICAL SCIENCE, BUT TO-ART AND SCIENCE IN GENERAL. BY FRANCIS SNAITH, SURGEON, AND DEMONSTATOR OF ANATOMY. If the knowledge of things becoming and honourable be desePTedly held in high estimation, and if there be any species of knowledge more exquisite than another, either^upon account of its accuracy, or of the objecU to which it relates being more excellent or more wonder- fttJ, we should not hesitate to pronounce the history of the animating principle asjnstiy entitled to hold the first rank. ' Aristotle. EonHott: PRINTED FOR JOHN NIMMO, GREAT MAZE POND, GUy’s H08PI- \"drr,^”jgv «r>iNRcno„; and willuh CURRIE, JUN. AND CO. 8ACKVILL* »TREET, DUBLIN. 1827.J-. V. . ^ «* • v‘:7. i ,\. ■ .U|. ^ -■ ■’ • I A' • * ■'*« ^ ^ 0,- ■ ■ ' ' /rt . » • r'■ if r i y, ,*. V',' ;’. ' I- ...' . '•■■ ^ • ^ ir t Iv ' • \ ^ r JT>-' '•.♦,»♦ :0, v •>: ■■• ' .i m 5‘.v • ■( . . >• 11. ■'4l*' l.'iKU- W-1 -< ■ '-".‘‘It ^•■ ^ : •■ . .> •.. 4|r«- • «• T • . f; . \M ’ '■ •' :■ ' 1 J. C. Crabb, Printer, Great George Street, Bermondsey.TO JAMES MACARTNEY, M.D. F.R.S. PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND SURGERY, IN THE UNIVERSITY OF DUBLIN, &c. &c. THIS INTRODUCTORY ADDRESS, IS INSCRIBED, AS AN ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE SINCERE RESPECT AND HEARTFELT GRATITUDE, OF THE AUTHOR. II. m • _. . :'- ■ ■ ' i?G/ I ^:v vriej-:3Vtt^rimfa' vSifiiryv:;. 0 • 'fc ' fti ’ ' * ■ • ••-r 0^ • • ^ . t* • . Ji ' ' ♦ * k \*0 ^ ‘ , ■'•<>.. :• : \\a- ' ^ V 'f' -Jii-rr i ^*’. •:^ r-'V.* 5V .« liCb^ r^4A«U: r - -■ *>1 .-C‘* Vy». .*/,'iT " * ■ % . . fp ■ ' -v/ Sa^- '-;■*?# ^ ^ . ;T’," > ,’.1 ; ; 3A^ I? . ^ ’ > ' ' V.. '•' ^Mfr ■ ‘ ' - ' - ■ ■' s <;- ■«rj*«Nsjf ii. . ^ _• ^ , o - /'v^V •'• * . ^ ■ ■ 'f »L^,. . , ■ ‘ .. ■ .• .' s * Vv jV t ‘-.■, . r ;•> f . . ‘ ‘ , * :-••■■ ' ■ 5 . fINTRODUCTORY LECTURE, 4-c. m $»»m- • Gentlemen, IN entering upon the important, intricate, yet pleasing study of Anatomy, it may be ne- cessary to give a kind of sketch or general history explanatory of its object 5 the result of which, I trust, will show that it is not only interesting to the medical philosopher, but profitable to mankind, and as civilization or knowledge advances, so will prejudices against dissections vanish, and the study of Anatomy, be further facilitated. Anatomy has for its object the exact des- cription of parts, which by their union con- stitute the human body. It is the science of organization. Man, the most complicated of all organized beings,is the principal subject of this science, a knowledge of the different parts of which the human body is composed, is indeed the essential end of Anatomy.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 6 Anatomy has been denominated general when it comprehends a class of organized beings, as for example that of domestic ani- mals. On the other hand Anatomy has been called special or particular, when it refers only to one kind of organized beings; such as the Anatomy .of the Horse, &c. In human Anatomy, the term of General Anatomy has another acceptation which shall be hereafter explained. Comparative Anatomy comprehends the study of all living beings, so by examining and comparing the difference of structure in different animals. Anatomists have made I classifications; and dignified this division of science by the above title. Phytology is the general Anatomy of Vegetables. A knowledge of the structure and functions of animals bears the name of Zoology. Physiology (from the Greek (pmitr nature, and xoyoo- doctrine) must have originally implied, in accordance with its deriva- tion, a knowledge of the Avhble range of Natural Philosopy; but now, its meaning is7 TNRODXJCTORY LECTURE. restricted to a knowledge of the functions of plants and animals, leaving an investigation of their structure, under that branch of science previously mentioned^ Pathology is the doctrine or science of dis- eases. As Physiology teaches the nature of the healthy functions of living bodies, so Pa- thology unfolds the various disorders of those functions which constitute disease. Its objects are to ascertain the various diagnostic and pathognomonic symptoms which characterize different diseases—to investigate the predis- posing and exciting causes by which they are induced—to point out the prognosis of each disease—and to employ such remedies, as the circumstances of disease may require. The study of Pathology presupposes an inti- mate knowledge of the structure, laws, and operations of the Animal Economy, in a state of health. Before proceeding further in our subject, let us take a survey of organization in general, and show the characteristics of dead and living matter. In studying the phenomenaINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 8 of animated beings, every observer must be struck with the difference betwixt their struc- ture and those of minerals. We should consider that it is only by com- paring one thing with another, that we obtain clear notions, so the more accurately we put in force this faculty, the more just will be our ideas of the productions of nature.. How can we form a correct idea of life, except by com- paring organic bodies with those of an inert kind ! Inorganic bodies are governed by physical laws, and possess the properties of gravity, affinity, elasticity, &c.; in fact, they are only endowed with the common qualities of matter. Organic bodies, though not exempt from the influence of physical laws, obey particular laws of their own, and are distinguished from inert matter by their vital properties referable to sensibility and contractility. How simple soever organized bodies may be formed, they are necessarily composed of a multiplicity of elements—an union of solids and fluids, which from their combination re- sult nutrition and developement. Inorganic '9 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. bodies increase only by aggregation, that is by the juxta position of particles, which is widely different from that kind of develope- ment peculiar to organic beings. That per- petual change of materials in living bodies of which they are composed, is a striking ex- ample of the difference betwixt dead and living matter. The old particles are elimina- ted in the form of perspiration, urine, and other excretions; to supply the waste incurred, there is a proportionate influx of new matter, which by the process of assimulation is trans- formed into those parts entering into the com- position of the human body. Finally, let me observe that spontaneous motion and sensa- tion distinguish organic from inorganic bodies, the first belonging to the muscles, the latter confined to the brain and nerves. Having thus cursorily considered the cha- racteristics of organic and inorganic matter, ’ we are led into a comprehensive view of na- ture, and are struck with the dependence and subordination necessary for the existence of all bodies. Thus a vegetable derives its nu- ll10 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. friment from inorganic matter, changes its properties and prepares it for animal food by the operations of vitality. From this subject let us ascend to animal and vegetable Physiology, and show the rela- tions they bear to each other. The difference betwixt vegetables and ani- mals is less striking, therefore more difficult to define. Indeed there is very little diffe- rence betwixt a zoophite and a plant, but that is more marked, as we ascend in the scale of the creation. However, we can as- sign to the vegetable kingdom a character which does not coalesce with the other two kingdoms previously mentioned. In conse- quence of their greater proportion of solids to liquids, they retain their bulk longer. Azote predominates in animal substances, which renders them volatile and diffusible; whereas vegetables are of a more fixed and solid na- ture on account of the predominance of carbon. This circumstance combined with their small quantity of liquids, account for their long duration after death.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 11 In animals, nutrition is effected by two sur- faces ; in plants it results only from an exter- nal surface. Hence internal absorption is the distinguishing characteristic of animal exist- ence. It would occupy too much Of your Valuable time to enter minutely into the system of na- ture, tracing the animal creation, from the crawling worm up to the elevated man: but we have said sufficient to show the beautiful harmony and connection existing throughout the universe. From what has been said it must appear evident, that we are not to observe the laws in Natural Philosophy, for the purpose of un- folding the phenomena of life. Physiology has truths of its own, for the developement of which, we must closely at- tend to those various operations incessantly going on in the animal ceconomy. The time has now arrived, when Physiology is consi- dered an independent science, which demon- strates the absurdity of the ancient doctrines deduced only from observations made in the B 2INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 12 sciences of Natural Philosophy. Mechanics, Mathematics, Hydraulics, and even Meta- physics, have alternately formed the basis of very celebrated Physiological theories, which founded on false data, have been long since exploded, and should warn us from falling into similar errors. However, the writings of the ancients should not be disregarded, for they enlarge the field of enquiry, and promote that vastness of conception so necessary to a man who wishes to distinguish himself in the science of Medicine, where facts are unlimited, and explanations paradoxical. Perhaps every absurd system of Physiology has contributed something to the advancement of medical sci- ence, by the spirit of enquiry it prod need, and by the relation of new facts, which necessarily gave rise to its establishment. Let it not be supposed that I cast derision upon the aid obtained from science in general; far from it: but certainly the most mischievous effects have been produced by philosophers endeavouring to explain the laws and opera- tions of the animal body, by the application13 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. of a single science, such as Chymistry, Hydros- tatics, or Geometry. However the abuse of these sciences should not prevent medical ■% men from studying them. A perversion of knowledge can never be an objection to the attainment of knowledge. The facts obtained from Natural Philosophy must give an expan- sion to the mind, and indirectly assist us in developing some secrets in the animal ma- chine that now appear unattainable ; so our industry should be unwearied in investigating natural curiosities, in order to prepare the mind for the erection of a noble superstruc- ture not to be shaken either by the attack of time or faction. ’Tis true that to obtain a knowledge of the truths which Philosophy displays, may at first wear a forbidding aspect, but difficulties will not deter, but stimulate great minds to exertion. To arrive at a knowledge of nature, is the end of all sciences, but for the attainment of that, different means are employed. Each science must delight us by the charms it un- folds, though occasionally presenting difficul.14 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. ties surmountable only by great labour and perseverance. In the study of Anatomy, no progress can be made without minute observation ; upon this mental faculty must your dependance be placed; by its aid you will be extricated from a dreary labyrinth, and safely conducted to the temple of science, at whose shrine you will rapturously pay devotion: know. Gentlemen, that in proportion as you put into action this power of the mind, your knowledge will be advanced; in descriptive Anatomy, no specu- lation can serve you, and there is no danger of being led away by false doctrines; though slow in your progress, you will ultimately ob- tain a multitude of facts which cannot fail to assist you in that art, you are about to prac- tise, I hope, with no less credit to yourselves, than satisfaction to your patients.. In Physiology, on the contrary, you will be in danger of encountering false doctrines, for the detection of which, the greatest intellect Its requisite. In* making these distinct re- marks upon Anatomy and Physiology,, youINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 15 « may be inclined to think that I have drawn a line of demarcation between them, that ought to be respected, but be assured that the labours of the Anatomist are so intimately as- sociated with the researches of the Physiolo- gist, that such a distinction ought to be ef- faced. Anatomy and Physiology are so closely connected, that to me, they appear in- separable. The immortal Haller first taught a rational method of enquiry, viz. that a knowledge of the functions being the object of our study, and that of the organs to accom- plish that object: both form a whole which cannot be separated without rendering in- complete the division. Physiology is the science of life, whose object is the investiga- tion of the functions performed by our organs, which at once points out the incapability of understanding their mechanism, without pre- viously knowing the instruments by which they are put in order and motion. Descrip- tive Anatomy is in itself so dry and uninterest- ing, that it is absolutely necessary to throw over its details, the fascinating study of Phy-INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 16 siology, which is so fraught with variety, that it must give intense interest to every intellec- tual mind. Analysis is the method to be em- ployed in order to obtain a knowledge of our- selves, and in support of that, I would say that to raise Physiology to the highest eminence, teachers should inculcate the necessity of pu- pils commencing with the study of vegetable physiology, then ascending gradually from the polypus to man, whose structure is the most complicated of warm blooded animals. But alas! few study it as a science; filthy lucre is the great temptation: roused by no laudable ambition to excellence, many are lost in disgraceful ignorance, possess ignoble feelings of which avarice is the parent, and are respected only in proportion as they become rich. The dignity of our pro- fession can only depend upon its scientific character, and be assured that as soon as its connexion with science ceases, it must dwin- dle into mere empiricism. 1 must not indulge in further digression, or I should be tempted to take a survey of the state of Medical Edu-17 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. cation in England, a subject of no pleasing nature either to you or myself. Buffon ob- served, “ That if there existed no animals, the nature of man would be still more incompre- hensible:” w^hich strikingly points out the absolute necessity of studying Comparative Anatomy, to one who is anxious to distinguish himself in the Physiological world. Mr. Lawrence who has combined the inestimable qualities of industry, acuteness, and ingenuity, in the cultivation of Comparative Anatomy, states, that “The extensive examination of various structures, is not only a necessary ground-work for the edifice of general Physi- ology, but it has thrown great light on the or- ganization and functions of the human frame. Whoever will reflect on our present know- ledge of the digestive, respiratory, generative, and other processes of man, and will review the successive stages of its progress, will find that Comparative Anatomy has rendered Ug the most essential assistance.” Some may have foolish prejudices, and dis- like Anatomy, as it may remind them of the c18 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. death of dear friends, and the end to which the law of nature ordains all to arrive. But to those who are feelingly alive to the true interests of mankind, a contemplation of the structure of the human body, must ever be a source of exquisite delight, as it gives strong assurances of the infinite power and wisdom " of our Maker, and moreover induces us to think and hope that that power still continues to watch over and protect us. Independent of its application to Medicine and Surgery, Anatomy is a science of vast importance. The immense mechanical contrivances which so affect the general interest of mankind, no doubt originated from the beautiful mecha- nism observed in the human body. Few can deny the absolute necessity of Anatomy in the cultivation of the fine arts, which so re- fine, dignify, and ornament society. Indeed I know not for what purposes Anatomy might not be studied. What more expands the mind ? What gives it more lively and just views of the great architect of the world ? I answer, nothing within the reach of human19 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. contemplation. Then, I say, that Anatomy might be profitably studied as an accomplish- ment for the Bar and the Pulpit. Having shown the nature, objects, and ad- vantages of Anatomy, let us take a more ini- nute survey of the human body, and endeavour to confine our remarks more particularly to thatsubject. It has been observed, thatin order to understand the different parts of the hu" man body, we must isolate and divide them by dissection, and embrace at one view the different links which enchain the whole m the formation of man—that master-piece of na- ture, whose numerous organs are for many years animated with a vital principle. Betwixt the fluids, solids, and phenomena of life, there is the most intimate connexion. The liquids become solids, and the solids, in their turn, become liquids : so there is a conti- nual waste and re-production of new matter, into which is irradiated a vivifying principle, necessary for the maintenance and prolonga- tion of life. Life can exist in no other bodies, but in c 2INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 20 those which are formed of these organic ele- ments. The fluids which form the greater part of the body, are of three kinds : the blood ; the fluid, called chyle, for repairing the losses of the blood; and those secreted from it, whose uses differ according to their nature. The blood is the great nourisher of the frame, and with the exception of a few parts, is distributed throughout the system. The blood is a red liquid, odorous, saltish to the taste, glutinous to the touch, having a specific gravity above that of water: when recently drawn, it presents the following phe- nomena : At first it emits a gas composed of oxygen and hydrogen, and when its temperature has fallen, it forms a coagulum, from which a yel- low liquid is exuded, called serum. The glu- tinous coagulum contracts, as the serum is separated, which has received the name of crassamentum. It is said that the crassamen- tum amounts to about one third of the weight of the serum. The crassamentum is separableINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 21 into two constituent parts,—the eruor and the fibrin. It is ascertained that the colouring matter only adheres mechanically to the fibrin, as it may be separated from it by ablution. Besides a watery fluid, the blood is composed of serum, the cruor, and fibrin, or the coagu- lable lymph. The serum is the chief cause of the ropiness of the blood, and contains water, albumen, some salts, and a great quantity of mucus. The cruor consists of globules, and has many peculiarities, which has excited great atten- tion, and given rise to many experiments. The red particles, or globules, were minutely examined by Leewenhoek, who formed many wild and visionary theories relative to their use, figure, and connexion. There has been much difference of opinion respecting the size of the globules; of the opinions given, perhaps the most correct, is Dr. Young’s, who found them between and ^ of an inch in diameter. The existence of iron in the blood is ascertained, and some chymists suppose that it imparts colour to the22 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. blood. It is admitted as a probable presump- tioiij but cannot be clearly proved. The fibrin is the basis of the crassamentum, and abounds in carbon and azote. This has been designated by several names, such as coagulable lymph, gluten, fibre of the blood, and fibrin. The philosophical Blumenbach beautifully observes, that “ It is properly de- nominated plastic, because it affords the chief materials from which the similar parts, espe- cially the muscles, are immediately produced 5 nourishes the body throughout life; repairs wounds and fractures in an extraordinary manner ; fills up the area of large blood ves- sels when divided; and forms those concre- tions which accompany inflammations; and that remarkably deciduous membrane found in the recently impregnated uterus, for the attachment of the ovum.” The cause of the coagulation of the fibrin is unknown. Some circumstances affect the coagulation in a man- ner totally inexplicable ; such as sudden death; lightning and electricity; violent blows upon the stomach ; certain vegetable poisons;23 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. also, excessive exercise and mental emotions when they extinguish life. There is good ground for believing in the identity of the nature of muscular contractility, and that of the coagulation of the blood; for it has been observed, that where there is a want of coagu- lability in the fibrin, there is a corresponding dimunition of contractility in the muscular fibres after death. For further information upon this subject, refer to the celebrated Hunter’s work on the Blood, where the ques- tion of its vitality is fully examined. The different substances entering into the composition of the blood, may be all resolved into carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and azote. The capacity for heat is greater in arterial than in venous blood, and upon this fact. Dr. Crawford founded his theory of animal heat, the validity of which, must be discussed else- where. The chyle which repairs the losses of the blood, enters by the digestive organs, and possesses properties analogous to those of blood : when removed from the thoracicductINTRODUCTORY LECTURE.’ 24 it gelatinizes spontaneously, and gradually separates into a whitish coagulum, and a transparent colourless serum, possessing, like the blood, the property of spontaneous coagu- lation. The difference betwixt blood and chyle, merely consists in the colouring matter, and the albumen which it contains, slightly differs from that existing in the blood ; so it appears that in the circulation, the colouring matter is formed, and the albumen perfected. This fluid, and those eliminated from the blood, will be reconsidered in our Lectures upon digestion and the secretions in general. Now we will proceed to a close investigation of the solids. The solid parts of the body, are the organs which determine the form, and impart move- ment to the body. However numerous the organs appear, they may be brought to a cer- tain number of tissues, which, according to Meckel, are again capable of being reduced to microscopical globules like those of the blood, and a coagulable matter. This is certainly an anatomical refinementj butINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 25 whether credence is to be given to the state- ment or not, I cannot tell. The principal varieties of the solids, are the, bones with their appendages, the ligaments and the cartilages, the muscles with their tendons, the vessels, and the membranes, whose textures are as dissimilar as their uses. Physiologists of this and other countries, have made various arrangements of the solids, some reducing the primitive tissues to three, others to more or less. Bostock divides the solids into the osseous matter, the membranous, the muscular, the adipose, and the cellular. The solids necessarily perform manifold functions, as they widely differ in structure; but all, however, are areolar, and more or less permeable. The colour of the organs de- pends upon the fluids contained in them. Their structure departs from softness to extreme density. Cohesion, flexibility, ex- tensibility, and elasticity, appear to be the properties of membrane, but elasticity is its D26 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. peculiar and specific quality, which is of great importance in the functions of respiration and circulation. Haller was the first who paid par- ticular attention to minute anatomy, and disco- vered the uninterrupted continuity of the cellu- lar membrane, which connects all the organs together. In the composition of organs, he has admitted the cellular tissue, the muscular fibre and the medullary substance. To these, Chaussier has added a fourth, called the albu- gineous fibre, which is the basis of the liga- ments. Amongst the primitive tissues. Rich- rand ranks that horny substance, which con- stitutes the basis of the epidermis, the nails, and the hair; but these substances are merely produced by excretion, and should not be classed with the primitive tissues. Bichat admits twenty one tissues, but three of them are considered as giving origin to the rest, which are the cellular, vascular, and nervous. Besides the arrangemeht of the tissues in beautiful order, we are indebted to the splen- did genius of Bichat for many important dis-INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 27 coveries in Physiology, whose deathless fame, no admirer of science can contemplate, but with feelings of the most ardent enthusiasm. The anatomical world can boast of only one Bichat: in my opinion, his talents have never been equalled. He was one of those men who give* a character to the age in which they live 5 his career in this world, though short, was long enough to procure for him immortality. To an inventive genius and amazing industry, he added a brilliancy of imagination, which is diffused throughout his works, that has a tendency to lead unguarded minds unhesitatingly to conviction. Read his works, and learn to appreciate his merit. Bedard has reduced the elementary tissues to the cellular, nervous, and muscular. The cellular tissue is the most important in the body, and may be said to form the basis of organization. The terms tissue, fibre, or organ, may be thought vague or indefinite; so the better to understand them, I will explain their meaning.28 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. * Bedard. A tissue is said to be that part which is dis- tinct from the others, by virtue of its struc- ture. The elementary fibre differs only from the tissue, inasmuch as it is finer; about this fibre, much has been written. Haller speaks of it as a geometrical line, or as possessing length without any sensible thickness. The fibre is the element, the tissue indicates the arrangement of parts, and the organ a com- pound part which performs a special function.* An organ is necessarily composed of many tissues, which, if isolated from the rest, would be incapable of performing the duty of that organ. Bichat designates the treatise of each sim- ple tissue, under the name of system; that of apparatus serves to designate an assemblage of organs, contributing towards the perform- ance of a function ; for instance, the assem- blage of bones and muscles for locomotion; the mouth, oesophagus, and intestines, forINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 29 digestion; the pleurae, lungs, and trachaea, for respiration. The organs essential to life, are the viscera, the most important in office, and the most complicated in structure. They comprise the organs for digestion, generation, secretion, circulation, and respiration, besides the sen- sorial and nervous organs. Various phenomena are displayed in the human body during life. Mechanical and chemical actions take place in it, but they are modified by the principle of life. A remark- able subordination is perceptible. The func- tions are so intimately associated, that those of an inferior kind hold under their controul those of a much more elevated order: indeed, such a mutual dependence exists throughout the body, that the phenomena of life have been compared to a circle, which, when figured, has neither beginning nor end. Functions have been differently classed by different au- thors, but most of them appear to be only mo. difications of the ancient divisions. Chaussier has divided the functions into four classes, viz. the vital, animal, nutritive, and genital.30 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. Richrand divides them into those that are subservient to the preservation of the indivi- dual, and the species. Bichat classes the functions in three orders : 1. Those which re- late to the individual himself, are called the organic functions, because they are common to all organized bodies, plants as well as ani- mals. 2. Those functions, by means of which, the individual maintains his connexion with the external world, are called the functions of animal life, because they distinguish the living animal from all other beings. 3. The func- tions which belong to the re-production of our species, are called generative. , As there is a mutual dependance upon each of those func- tions, some pretend that the arrangement is entirely theoretical, but a distinction must be acknowledged by the unprejudiced, which will finally contribute to improvement in the science of Physiology. This division of Bichat’s, is preferable to any other; the more it is examined, the more beautiful it appears. Such an arrangement was worthy of his ge- nius. Cuvier has divided the functions intoINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 31 three classes—animal, vital, and generative, which is a modification of Bichat^s arrange- ment. The latest physiological writer is Bostock, who divides the functions into the contractile, sensitive, and intellectual; in which, he has imitated Plato, who distin- guished them into the vegetative, sensitive, and rational, placing the first in the belly, the second in the chest, and the third in the head. Novelties of expressions are not novelties of ideas 5 so how careful we should be in assign- ing to authors originality. Modern physiolo- gists have written a great deal upon life and organization, and assumed to themselves much credit in sending to the world original doc- trines and arguments, but most of them may be referred either to Lucretius or Aristotle. Gradual developement and perfection in organized bodies, is presented to the attentive * observer. One period is that of growth and perfection, characterizing youth ; another is that where organization remains in a state of maturity; a third, is that where in the organs are progressively changed, that lead to death and dissolution.32 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. * Bedard. The solids and fluids are not always pro- portionate ; the embryo is almost liquid ; the proportion of the solids gradually increases, until life ceases to exist. At the commence- ment of foetal life, globules are not even visi- ble, but by and bye, the whole body appears globular, and afteiwvards, fibres and vessels become distinct. The organs are formed by isolated parts, which are afterw^ards united.* The spinal marrow is at first a double cord, and then unites. The raphe of the skin is an instance of this formation. Many such examples might be given. Besides those which exist in the organs of generation, there are other differences in the formation of the body, betwixt the two sexes. Each sex has its peculiar form, but the pe- culiarity is not very obvious in the foetus, for the genitals of the male and female bear great resemblance to each other. My much ho- nored friend and late tutor, Dr. Macartney, professor of Anatomy in Dublin, has a foetalINTRODUCTORY LECTURE. S3 preparation illustrative of this statement: often as I have examined it, 1 knov? not to what sex the foetus belongs: if it be a female, the clitoris is very large ; if a male, the scro- tum is proportionably small. The scrotum being of the same structure as the labia, would create some difficulty in distinguishing one from the other. The delicacy and softness of the female, form a striking contrast with the sinewy and robust body of the male. Her general conformation is smooth, whilst that of the male is rough and projecting. The ab- domen and pelvis of the female are of great size, when compared to the thorax, which is narrow and Contracted. The bones and muscles are better devel- oped in man, which account for his superior strength and agility ; whilst the adipose tissue in the female, is more abundant, lax, and yielding, in all probability for the purpose of dilating more readily during pregnancy. In a word, the general texture of parts is softer in the female, which essentially contributes towards her beauty and delicacy. The cha- E34 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. racter of the sexes depends upon the existence and action of the ovary in the female, and the testicle in the male,. Hereditary differences amongst men inha- biting the earth, have been noticed, and divi- ded by Bluemenbach into five varieties,—the Caucasian, Mongolian, Ethiopian, American, and Malay * The Caucasian variety is distinguished from the others, not only by its corporeal particu-- lars, but by its intelligence, civilization, and culture of the arts and sciences. Albinos result from a morbid alteration, and are to be seen amongst all races of men. This variety is common to some mammalia and birds. 1 have often observed it in the rabbit: their eyes are red, arising from an absence of the pigmentum nigrum, which renders the eyes extremely sensible. As I have taken a comprehensive view of organization in general, I think it would be • Vide BlumeubacL Do Generis liumani varietate nativa.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 35 injudicious to conclude this lecture without some remarks upon the changes of structure, to which the human body is liable, before death puts an end to its existence. Neither men nor animals can arrive at the last stage of life without having their organs injured either by accident or disease, which then becomes the subject of Morbid Anatomy. Morbid Anatomy bears the same relation to Pathology, that Descriptive Anatomy does to Physiology. Physiology cannot be profitably studied without Anatomy; neither can a knowledge of Pathology be obtained, without the cultivation'of Morbid Anatomy, Bedard has written so ably upon the changes taking place in organization, that I cannot refrain from quoting him at considera- ble length. He observes, “ That organic de- rangements may affect the general conforma- tion of the body, or only some organs, which are called mal-formations. Some derange- rnents are original or primitive; others, se- condary or acquired. These are as numerous as they arc different. An attentive observa- E 236 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. tioH to the first, has been the means of disco- vering one of the most important laws in organization. These mal-formations are only, indeed, permanent conditions of parts, which should be temporary. Thus, for ex- ample, the numerous deforhiities resulting from a separation of the median line, as the hare lip, or in the fissure of the palate, or roof of the mouth, opening at the sternum, diaphragm, parietes of the abdomen, anterior * part of the bladder, pubis, urethra, perinaeum, the spina bifida, or bifid cranium, &c. are really the permanent states of fissures, which should be only temporary. The union of the fingers, the prolongation of the coccyx, the adhesion of the pupillary membrane, the bifid uterus, the testicle in the abdomen, &c. are again only situations, divi- sions, unions, and states of organs, which should be merely temporary, but which re- main permanent. This part of Morbid Anatomy, which is often regarded only as an object of curiosity, is on the contrary, of very great interest to the Physiologist and Pathologist.INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. 37 \ Adhesion in general, and the differences which it presents in various organs ; pus and other liquids produced by inflammation; the transformation of one tissue into another ana- logous to sound tissues ; the degeneration or formation of an organ into a substance not corresponding with the regular organization ; the soft or hard concretions found in the ducts and reservoirs of follicles and glands, which depend upon an alteration of the secreted li- 1 quid and secreting organ, may be given as examples of the second class, the study of which is of great importance.” Now let us take a survey of death, and the manner by which it is induced. Death is the total and definite cessation of the functions of life, followed soon after by the dissolution of the body. It is the neces- sary and inevitable result of progressive alte- rations in organization.* Without the reciprocal action of the circu- lation of the blood and nervous influence, life • Bichat.38 INTRODUCTORY LECTURE. could not exist: so death must result from a cessation of one or both these actions. It has been observed, that death arises either from accident or disease ; in the former case it re- sults from the pi-imit^ve alteration in one of thesQ functions ; in the latter, from the simul- taneous decay of both. The dead subject has phenomena, which will be displayed in the dissecting room. Before concluding, let me state that Ana- tomy is the basis of Medicine and Surgery; that it is to the surgeon, what the compass is to the mariner, and that without it, medical and surgical practice must be mere emperi- cism, founded upon no correct principles, and more calculated to be destructive than bene- ficial to society. As Anatomy has excited the liveliest inte- rest amongst the most celebrated ancient and modern philosophers, it cannot fail to inspire us with equal, if not stronger sensations, for we may study it not only in a professional, but in a philosophical view—having two motives to incite us.