10 Inteoduction. be made uncomfortable by the incapacity of one member, even if that is the head. Much of the ill health of our American women arises from defective and often neglected physical training. The habits of life pursued by girls is calculated to produce delicacy of constitution, and unfit them for the duties of wives and mothers. Parents are responsible for this also ; often are girls enfeebled by luxury, and softened by sloth, when strength forsakes theii; limbs, and health their constitution. Instruct them in the laws of nature, and of the effects which will necessarily follow when these physical laws are neglected or violated ; this is a mother^s duty. "The practical duties of life enrich the heart and fancy ; for action, like a strong current, clears and deepens the affections ; the discontent induced by a consciousness of wrong-doing will render turbid the whole temper of the mind. Whereas, having done to the best of our abilities, produces a peaceful and happy influence, before which irritability vanishes like a cloud—the for a time withered sympathies of this world and home, again revive and bloom. Do the right and your ideal is perfected ; the exercise of the affections has a most purify- ing effect on the character/' Turn not the daily routine of life's duties into slave labour imposed by a hard task master, although self-sacrifice is needful for the growth and health of conscience ; but feel that all the trials of domestic life are ordered by one who formed woman for the niche she fills, man's counsellor and friend, therefore, let all her duties be performed in a cheerful and affectionate spirit. The acts of housewifery are professional—and consequently must be early commenced. They demand energy of mind and body, every thing must be done by maternal care to produce this. When troubles darken the domestic horizon, woman must be at her post to meet the storm and if possible avert it. And in the performance of all these duties, she must " be happy with- out witnesses, and content without panegyrists"—the exercise of which will not bring celebrity, but improve her usefulness.