Introduction. 9 yet nature's best gifts are rendered poisonous by tlie preparation. We leave the family laboratory too often in the hands of the ignorant and inexperienced. What chemist would commit such a folly as to entrust to an uninitiated workman the preparation of a chemical test ? How much more that which is to be taken into that delicate organ, the stomach—which is in the present arrangement sadly taxed by the compounds introduced by ig- norance and consequent want of skill. One who does not attend to the domestic details and has not a well regulated home, cannot enjoy or fulfil the rites of hospitality, one of the pleasures and duties of life inculcated by Scripture. Being always ready, is the result of well ad- ministered household laws, and makes the guests feel welcome, not by words alone but by evident facts. How often is the pleasure of a long anticipated visit to a friend, entirely de- stroyed by finding on your arrival that it is inopportune, in consequence of some rebellion in the " Kitchen Cabinet," or absence of one of the operatives : and scarcely are the first greetings over, before the budget of domestic troubles is opened, and you are without it being intended, made to feel an intruder by apologies for things being out of sorts, and by a detail of the catalogue of trials occasioned by servants. Quickly vanishes all those long anticipated quiet chats of " Auld lang syne," and pleasant readings of books once enjoyed together, until in very weariness you are ready to exclaim " I wish I was away." How easily all this might be obviated, if left without assistants, by a knowledge of domestic avocations, and by go- ing to work with a willing spirit and a skilful hand. 'Tis true it is annoying, but if skilled, it is not perplexing. Besides you are independent, and believe me, in domestic duties, as in the affairs of life, " knowledge is power." There are cases where ill health prevents such attention to family con- cerns, as is necessary for home comforts 5 then, some ex- perienced person should be procured, and not the whole family