14 Advice for Kitchen and Dining-room. and held sacred to it, thus, a milk sauce-pan should be used for no other purpose. A ^^soup pot" the same; vegetable pots the same, and so on through the whole list of culinary vessels. Not as is too often, one made to pay not a double debt" only—but many. Care should be exercised in their use, and with the requisite supervision of the mistress they will last a long period. In modern days the progress of invention has supplied us with articles which are labor-saving, and most important aids in perfecting the culinary art. The Jelly strainer" is a great improvement on the jelly bag; the Digester" on the ordinary '^Soup Pot;" the variety of ladles, strainers, and spoons are all important to the skilful housewife. The table arrangements require the careful eye of the mis- tress. An elegantly prepared dinner may have all the effect destroyed by untidiness in the laying of the table. A clean cloth and napkins, sharp knives, the castor in order, the plates, in winter especially, well heated. All these details are important as involving the comfort of the family. For guests or set company they are always looked to, but I am now pleading for every day life—the family board, which in- fluences the character by the observance of the little courtesies in household intercourse. The first impressions are received under the domestic roof, how necessary that order and regularity should be amongst the first lessons taught. There are many little details which cost a trifle, yet give a table an inviting appearance: and as to that which is denominated the ad- ministration of the honours of the table," how often those who serve seem not to understand the art of dispensing judiciously the " loaves and fishes!" A good carver will help in an equitable manner the dainty before him. It is an accomplishment which should be learned by men and women. Chesterfield says, ^^A man who tells you gravely he cannot carve, may as well tell you he cannot feed himself It is both as necessary and easy."