8 Introduction. the quiet of their own fireside, there to become familiarized with each other's characters, and binding their young hearts more closely by domestic intercourse, for a man feels his re- sponsibility more in his own home. Their individuality is lost in a crowd, and they soon cease to be necessary to each other's happiness. How many estrangements if nothing worse will boarding-house annals give, all arising from maternal neglect. Club houses are increasing; what a commentary on the times ! American mothers must cease to be like Cir- cassian parents—giving their daughters Mahommedan educa- tions—training them for the ball-room and gala nights as for a market arena. But render them true hearted women, fitting them for each department in the domestic cabinet, and thus enabling them to fulfil the positive duties of life with credit to themselves, and comfort to those whose happiness they have assumed. The first object of a woman's care must be the family labo- ratory—the kitchen. On that being well looked to, the health and happiness of the household depend. She need not degenerate into a drudge, but let her initiate her uninstructed domestic—and then she be only supervisor, not operative. Surely she has a compensation sufficient for a daughter, wife, or sister, in witnessing the pleasure with which those so nearly allied to her, assemble around a neatly ar- ranged table, spread with wholesome food, if not prepared by her hand, at least under her direction; which will produce in her mind the most pleasant emotions 1 A morning spent often in idle loungings and heartless visits, or one given to these much neglected household duties ? I would not be understood as countenancing the " Grour- mand," but only giving attention to that which nourishes, thereby producing health and comfort. One of the most fruitful causes of dyspepsia in our country is the manner in which the food is prepared. We have every thing that can be desired either'in the animal or vegetable kingdom, and