Pastry. 225 Oyster Sauce. Plump the oysters for a few minutes over the fire; take them out and skim the liquor; stir in some flour and butter mixed togeth- er, with a little mace and whole pepper, and salt to your taste; when it has boiled long enough, throw in the oysters, and add a glass of white wine; let all just simmer, and then serve. This is very nice for breakfasts^ or for beefsteaks as a sauce. Pasties. Kub a full quarter of a pound of lard into two pounds of flour. Beat the whites of two eggs light, and mix in two half pints of water; wet the flour, leaving out some to work the crust with ; take one pound of butter, roll out the crust four times, each time putting in with a knife a quarter of the butter. Use flour freely when rolling out. Cut it round, lay in your preserve or apple, which must be dry ; turn over the paste to join a half circle, nip the edge with the thumb and finger to confine the preserve, dip the hand in water, pass it lightly over the paste, then sift sugar thick upon them and bake in a quick oven, Receipt for Shells. Take one pound of sifted flour, and one pound of butter; use no salt; make the flour into a stiff paste, with very cold water, touching with the hand as little as possible; then roll thin; cut the butter in small pieces, and lay half of them on the paste; flatten each down by a quick pressure of the hand; dredge flour lightly over the surface, and fold together, first lengthwise, then cross- wise into a small lump; roll out again, lay on the remainder of the butter in the same way—sprinkle lightly with flour, fold together, and roll out as thin as possible; dredge again, fold together, and roll out into a wafer-like sheet, which, having dredged, fold lightly into a roll about three inches wide; cut the whole of this into squares., flatten each square with the rolling- pin, and cut out with your shell-cutter; having prepared two of these, take with a small round cutter a circular piece from the centre of one, and lay the rim thus made upon the whole shell Eake fifteen minutes in a very quick oven; watch them carefully, as much depends on the baking. When properly made thej v;lll rise to the height of two and a half or three inches.