Roasting Meats. 60 draw it very carefully, and do not break the gall-bag, as no after washing will take off the bitter taste after once broken. In trussing, do not cut off the legs, only the toes ; press them tightly to the sides ; pass a skewer through each foot; they present a better appearance. For a stuffing,—four tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, one lemon grated care- fully, a very little pepper and salt, half a nutmeg grated; mix this all well together with a large spoonful of finely minced butter, and stuff well the craw and belly of the turkey. Put the gizzard and liver, when cleaned, into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water and a little salt. Let it cook while the turkey is roasting. When the turkey is first put down, dredge it with flour. When it begins to cook, put a large spoonful of butter into a ladle, and as it melts baste the bird. Keep it at a distance from the fire for the first half hour, to let it warm gradually ; then nearer, and when it is plumped, it is near enough. Then dredge it lightly with flour, and baste it with butter. This will raise a fine froth, and is much better than the drippings out of the roaster. » The gravy must be made of the liver. When cooked, rub the liver with a large spoonful of flour, to a smooth paste, chop very fine the gizzard and mis with it, boil an egg very hard and mix in the yolk only ; stir all these together ; then drain off the drippings, skim every particle of fat from off the top, and stir the above ingredients into the gravy. -Put it into a saucepan, and let it simmer ten minutes; serve this in a sauce tureen, very hot, with the turkey. Cranberry sauce is a necessary accompaniment to roast turkey. Turkey legs are very nice when cold, " devilled." Warm them on a gridiron, then have heated some of the turkey gravy, and add a spoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of mixed mus- tard. Stir this well together, simmer for ten minutes, or less, only while the legs are broiling; then lay the legs on a hot dish, and pour over some of the gravy. Send the remain- der to table in a sauce boat. Servo hot.