Bread and Rise^^ Cakes. 168 the rice; stir the rice smoothly, add a large teaspoonful of salt, and when the milk boils, stir in the rice as when you make gruel; boil three minutes, stirring constantly, then pour it into a pan, and stir in as much flour as you can with a spoon ; after it is cool enough, (which it must be to prevent the bread from becoming sour) add one gill of yeast, and let it stand until morning ) then knead in flour until it ceases to stick to the hands. It is necessary to make this kind of bread stifl'er on account of the rice, or else it will be heavy. The milk does not sour on account of being boiled. Put this into the pans, and bake as for common bread. Family Bread—Directions tor Setting the Spunge Much depends on the yeast and flour, and judgment in compounding. For five common sized loaves, make one pint of thin water gruel ; use but a little more than half a teacup full of fine corn meal, salt it a little more than if it were to be eaten as gruel, and boil ten br fifteen minutes. This is of importance, as, if the meal is only scalded, the bread will have a coarse taste; add enough milk to make two quarts of the whole, if the milk is new the gruel may be poured into the pan, if not it should be scalded in the kettle with the gruel. This is important in summer, as it will become sour in the dough in a few hours. When the mixture is cool, so that it will not scald the yeast, add a teacup full of yeast, then stir in sifted flour enough to make a thick batter. This is the " spnnge." When prepared in summer, make it in the evening and let it stand in a cool place, and if in the winter, in a warm place. Then add flour enough to make it easy to mould, and knead it thoroughly. The kneading is most im- portant for having good bread, and requires skill and strength ; the hands must be tightly closed, and the fists pressed hard and quickly upon the dough, dipping them into a pan of flour to prevent sticking. It requires at least half an hour for the kneading. Attention to bread making is most important