Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https ://arch i ve. o rg/d etai Is/b20412824THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY South Kensington, S.W. HIGH-CLASS COOKERY EECIPES, AS TAUGHT IN THE SCHOOL. PEEPARED BY MRS. CHARLES CLARKE, THE LADY SUPERINTENDENT ! f i LONDON H. ALLEN & CO., 13 WATERLOO PLACE, S.\T. PUBLISHERS TO THE INDIA OFFICE. 1885. (All rig'Tli's" Y eserved,)PEINTID BY "W. H. ALLEN & CO., 13 WATERLOO PLACE, S.W. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. mSUMMARY OF RULES, FEES, Etc., OF THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Patro»i—H.E.H. T?HE PRINCE OF WALES, K.G. President—THE DUKE OF WESTMINSTER, K.G. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Hon. E. F. Leveson Gowek, M.P., Chairman. The Duke of Beaufort, K.G. The Marquis of Hamilton. The Marquis of Northampton. Lord Arthur Russell, M.P. F.R.G.S. Col. The Hon. W. P. Talbot. Capt. The Hon. John Manners Yorke, R.N. Lord Derwent. Sir Daniel Cooper, Bart., K.C.M.G. Sir Philip Cunliffe-Owen, K.C.M.G., C.B., CLE. Lieut.-Gen. C, Baring. James Bateman, Esq., F.R.S. W. L. A. B. Burdett-Coutts, Esq. Lady Superintendent—Mvs. Charles Clarke. Secrefar]/—Miss Incledon. Students are admitted to train for Teachers either by- paying the Fees or by Votes of Subscribers. Classes for Cooks and Students. £ s, d. Scullery Cleaning, for five Lessons 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Demonstrations 10 a.m. to 12 Noon 0 4 6 Ten High-Class Demonstrations 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. 0 10 6 Ten Plain Cookery Practice Lessons 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2 2 0 Ten High-Class Practice Lessons 10-A.Mi^to. -3 p.m. 3 3 0 Single Lessons, from 6d to 10s. Qd, If the scullery work be omitted by students^ the High-Class Practice Kitchen fee will be j64 4^.; and the Plain Cookery Practice Kitchen fee will be j63 3^. Fees to be paid on entry. Dishes cooked in the School are for sale every day (except Saturday) at cost price. Kecipes of many of the dishes taught at the School are sold there at Id.Classes held in any part of the United Kingdom^ if forty people will take tickets at 4^. 6d. for ten lessons, and thirty at 10^. 6d. for ten lessons. Teachers sent to all parts for private lessons at moderate fees. For full particulars, apply to the Secretary of the School. By Order. Edith Clarke, Lady Superintendents May 1885.PEEFACE. The Eecipes for Plain Cookery," published about a year ago, written in a simple and concise form, have been so kindly received by our Stu- dents and the Public, that I now offer some of our High-Class Recipes, written in the same style, and hope they will give satisfaction, at all events to our Pupils. I have written these somewhat hastily during an extra pressure of work entailed by the Inventions Exhibition; and must^ therefore, ask forgiveness if, in some cases, the recipes are not as neatly worded as they should be. The recipes themselves I believe to be correct, and that is the great point. I have adopted the present style, hoping to avoid the fault of most cookery books, namely, that you must be a good cook before you can cook satisfactorily from the instructions given, which, in quantities at least, leave a great deal to the imagination. From time to time I hope to add to these Recipes, as **new dishes" suggest themselves, and are taught in the School. EDITH CLARKE, Lady Buperintendent, 23rd June 1886. *^* By an unfortunate oversight a fount of type which did not admit of the insertion of the usual accents was selected for the headings to the recipes; each will, however, he found properly accented in the Index.NOTE. To insure good frying, the heat of the fat should be tested by a fryometer, which must show the heat for whitebait to be not less than 400°; for fish, from 360° to 375°; and for meat, from 375° to 380°. If oil is used it must be much hotter than fat or lard.INDEX. Soups: Stock 15 Consomme a la Kachel - - - 20 ,, a la Koyale - - - 16 „ au Kiz - ^ - - 18 Clear Mulligatawny - - - - 19 Potage aux Abatis - - - - 24 „ a TAmericaine - - - 17 „ a la Bonne Femme - - - 23 „ Dupoise- - - - - 30 „ aux Huitres - - - - 29 a la Hollandaise - - - 33 „ a la Julienne - - - - 31 „ a la Puree de Lievre - - 32 „ aux Queues de Boeuf - - 25 „ FausseTortue - - - - - 26 ,, au Tapioca - - - 17 a la Eoyale - - - - 29 Puree de Marrons - - . - - 27INDEX. viii PAGE Soups—cont. Puree de pommes de terre - - - 22 „ a la Princesse - - - - 20 „ de pois verts - - - - 21 „ a la Palestine - - - - 28 „ de tomates - - - - 18 Savoury custard to serve in soup - 16 Fish: Athenian eel 52 Boiled cod and oyster sauce - - 34 Boiled turbot and lobster or horse-radish sauce ----- 35 Bream pie 58 Cardinal sauce ----- 41 Cassolettes of salmon - - - - 56 Dressed mussels - - - - 59 Eel pie - - - - - - 53 Fillets of mullet a Tltalienne - - 44 Fish cakes ----- 54 Lobster cutlets 42 Lobster soufEee ----- 45 Oyster soufflee 46 Petites souf&ees d'homard - - - 48 Salmon and Tartare sauce - - - 43 Scollops of turbot - - - - 43 Slice of salmon baked - - - 57 Sole a la maitre d'hotel - - - 36 „ au gratin 37 „ a la Bohemienne - - - - 38 a la Portugaise - - - - 39INDEX. ix PAGE Fish—cont. Sole a la Colbert . - - - 40 „ a la Rouenaise - - - - 41 „ al'Horly 60 Stewed eels 49 „ trout . . - - - 55 Supreme de crabe aux tomates - - 53 Tartelettes a I'lndienne - - - 57 To warm up perch - - - - 51 cooked salmon - - 50 Water Souchy ----- 50 Whitebait ------ 51 Entrees: Beef olives - - 61 Bengal curry ----- 62 Bouchees a la Reine - - - - 63 Chaudfroid of chicken - - - 64 Croquettes or rissoles of chicken - 65 Calf's head. Sauce piquante - - 63 Chicken saute a la Marengo - - 66 Civet de lievre ----- 67 Cutlets a la Bretonne - - - - 69 „ chaudfroid a la Russe - - 69 „ a la Milanaise - - - 70 5, a la Proven9ale - - - 71 „ a la Rachel - - - - 72 „ a la Reforme - - - - 73 a la Venetienne - - - 77 €omp6te of pigeons - - - - 68 Escallopes de Poulet a la Financiere - 74X INDEX. PAGE Entries—cont. Filets de boeuf a la Bearnaise - - 75 „ a la Mirabeau - - 76 „ „ a la Pompadour - - 77 Filets de veau a la Talleyrand - - 80 Fricassee of chicken - - - - 78 Gibelotte de Lapin - - - - 82 Mauviettes en caisses - - - - 100 Pigeons a la Duchesse - - - 82 ,, a la Financiere - - - 83' a la Sainte Menehould - - 84 Quails a la Lucullus - - - - 85- Eis de veau a la Supreme - - - 99 5, a ?ltalienne - - - 81 Kissoles a la Victoria - - - - 86 Kognons a TEpicurienne - - - 87 Soufflee of partridge - - - - 87 Stewed steak aux huitres - - - 88' Tartlets of chicken - . - - 89^ Veal cutlets 89 Vol au vent a la Toulouse - - - 90* Sauces: Bearnaise ------ 91 Bread 92 Brown 92 Financiere ----- 96 Hollandaise ----- 93 Italienne ------ 101 Mayonnaise ----- 93 Piquante - - - - - - 94INDEX. xi PAGE Sauces—cont. Poivrade - - - - - - 95 Supreme ------ 97 Tomate 96 White No. 1 98 No. 2 - - - - - 99 Vegetables, Salads, and Savouries : Asparagus ----- 114 Artichokes a I'Ttalienne - - - 114 Brussels Sprouts - - - - 112 Cheese d'Artois - - - - 109 > „ aigrettes - . - _ 109 „ tartlets - - - - 110 ^ Cauliflower au gratin - - - - 102 French Beans a la maitre d'hotel - 116 CEufs a I'aurore - - - - 105 „ farcies a la Kusse - - - 111 „ Provencale - - 107 5, a la Bonne Femme - - - 10& a la Suisse - - - - m Potato scollops - - - . 110 „ chips - - - . - - 117 „ croquettes - - - 113 Potatoes saut6 - - - - - 116 Plain salad 108 Eussian salad - - . . - . 107 Spinach ------ 115 Sea-kale ------ 115 Sardines a la Piedmontaise - - - 106 Scotch eggs - - - - - 105Xll INDEX. PAGE Vegetables, Saladsy and Savouries—cont. Pastry: Cheese pastry - - - - - 135 Flaky „ 138 Genoese 134 PufF „ - - - - - 136 Eough puff pastry - - - - 137 Short pastry - 137 Puddings and Boufflees: Amber pudding - 121 Alexandra - - - - 128 Brown Bread pudding - - - 127 Baked lemon . - . 122 Cabinet „ - - _ 131 Cold Cabinet „ - - - 129 Cocoa-nut „ - _ . 126 Chocolate tarts ----- 125 Cheese soufflee ----- 133 Fig pudding ----- 122 Omelet soufflee ----- 134 Pine-apple „ - 118 Plum pudding 130 Princess „ 124 Kaspberry pudding - - - - 117 Semolina soufflee - . - - II9 Spanish - . - - 123 Vennoise pudding - - - - 120 Tomates farcies au gratin - Young carrots - - 104 - 113Xlll INDEX. PAGE Puddings and Soufflees—cont. Vanilla soufflee - - - - 132 West Eiding pudding - - - 119 Pudding Sauces : Brandy sauce ----- 127 Custard „ 132 German ----- 126 Wine „ 127 Omelets : Cheese omelet ----- 139 Kidney „ 139 Oyster „ 140 Savoury 140 Sweet „ - - - - - 141 Tomato „----- 142 Jellies, Crea7ns, and Ices : Apple jelly 143 Aspic „ ----- 153 Calf s-foot jelly 144 Coffee cream ----- 146 Charlotte Eusse - - - - 146 Gelatine jelly 145 Ginger cream - - - - - 147 Ice pudding ----- 152 Italian cream ----- 148 Lemon-water ice - - - - 150 Neapolitan cream - 148 Orange jelly ----- 145 Pine-apple-water ice - - - - 151 Strawberry-cream ice - - - - 152xiv INDEX. PAGE Jellies, Creams, and Ices—cont. Strawberry cream - - - - 149 Vanilla „ - - - - 149 Velvet „ - - - - 150 Fancy Bread and Cakes : Arrowroot cake 155 Chocolate „ - - - - 158 Genoa „ 159 Galettes 160 German pound cake - - - - 158 Mocha cake and icing - - - 161 Orange „ „ - - 156 Plum „ - - - - - 162 Sultana 163 Savarin „----- 157 Vienna bread ----- 155 Walnut cake 156HIGH-CLASS COOXEEY. SOUP8. r. A stock. Ingredients, Four poTinds of Shin of Beef. One Carrot, One Turnip. One Onion. Half a head of Celery. One teaspoonful of Salt. Five pints of Water. Cut the meat from the shin into small pieces. Break the hones and remove the marrow. Put the meat, hones, and water into a stewpan. Put the stewpan on the fire and add the salt. Ke- rn ove the scum as it rises, and when the stock is well skimmed and hoiling, put in the vegetables all cleaned and cut into large pieces. Let the stock boil slowly for five hours. Then strain it through a hair-sieve into a hasin^ and let it get cold. White Stock is made in this way, only use all white meat, such as veal, poultry bones, etc.16 HEGH-OLASS COOKERY. Consomme a la Royale. Ingredients, Three pints of Stock. Half a pound of Lean Beef. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. Scrape or chop the heef very fine. Clean the vegetables and cut them up small. Carefully remove all the fat from the stock, and put it into a stewpan; add the scraped meat and the vege- tables. Stir altogether over the fire until nearly boiling. Then take out the spoon and let the soup boil up well. It should then be clear. Take a cloth and fix it on to a soup-stand, and then pour some boiling water through it to wash and warm it thoroughly. Pour the soup on to the cloth and let it run through twice. Warm up the soup, and it is ready to serve. Savoury Custard to serve in Soup. Ingredients, Three yolks of Eggs. Ona white of an Egg. One gill of Stock. Quarter of a saltspoonful of Salt. Beat up the eggs with the stock, and add the salt; strain the whole into a greased gallipot, andHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 17 steam the custard slowly for fifteen minutes. When the custard is set, take it out of the sauce- pan and let it get cold. Then turn it out, cut into small rounds or diamonds, and serve these in the clear soup. Put the stock on to boil. When boiling, shake in the tapioca and stir until cooked. Beat the yolks and cream together and strain into another basin. Add the soup, when it is just off boiling point, slowly to this basin. Then pour the soup back into the saucepan, place it on the fire, and stir carefully until the eggs are cooked. This soup requires care not to curdle the eggs. Potage a I'Americanne. To one quart clear consomme add, when boiling, two tablespoonfuls of prepared tapioca; let it boil ten minutes, then add half a pint of puree of tomato, a little salt, and a little sugar. This soup is better made with fresh tomatoes. Potage au Tapioca. Ingredients. One pint of White Stock. One ounce of crushed Tapioca. Two yolks of Eggs. ^yi4^ tffeftH J One gill of Cream or Milk, (salt.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 18 Tomato Puree. Ingredients, Three pints of Stock. Two ounces of lean Ham. One Onion. Little Celery. One Shalot. One ounce of Butter. One dozen ripe Tomatoes. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Salt, Pepper, and Nutmeg. Put all these ingredients, except the tomatoes and the stock, into a saute pan and saute them for five minutes, then add the tomatoes sliced; let them simmer, and when cooked pass through a fine sieve; add to the stock, and let it boil about five minutes. This soup can be made of tinned tomatoes. Consomme au Riz. Ingredients, Two quarts of White Stock. Four tablespoonfuls of ground Rice. Half a pint of boiling Cream. One teaspoonful of Sugar. Salt to taste. Put the stock, which must be white and freed from fat, in a stewpan ; when nearly boiling, stir in the ground rice, or better still, French flour of rice, which is smoother; stir well, and let it boil19 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. for ten minutes. Add the seasoning but not any pepper; then, when boiled sufficiently, add the cream, and strain before serving. Clear Mulligatawny. Ingredients, Three quarts of Second Stock. Four Onions. Six Apples. Two Shalots. One Leek. Six Cardamom Seeds. One tablespoonful of Mustard Seed. Three tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. Two tablespoonfuls of Curry Paste. One tablespoonful of Salt. Juice of one Lemon. Put all the ingredients in a stewpan, with the exception of the lemon juice; add the stock, and let it boil for two hours. When it is cold, add four whites of eggs, beaten up with a little cold water. Let the soup boil up again, and, when clarified, strain through a clean cloth; then add the lemon juice, and serve with some pieces of cooked chicken and well-boiled rice; the chicken served with the soup, the rice served separately.20 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Consomme a la Rachel. Ingredients. Clear Consomme, to which is added some very- small Quennelles made in teaspoons. One part coloured with Pounded Tarragon. „ „ Lobster Coral. „ „ Truffles pounded. This must be all mixed separately, poached separately, and kept in cold water until the soup is ready. Put them in the tureen, and add the boiling soup. Puree a la Princesse. Ingredients. One Chicken. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. A little Mace. Bay-leaf. Parsley stalks. Twelve White Peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of Veal or White Stock. Cut the fowl in pieces, well wash it, put it in a stewpan previously buttered, with the onion, mace, etc. Put the lid on, let it cook over the fire ten21 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. minutes, taking care that it does not brown; add the stock; simmer this gently one hour. Next put in a stewpan— Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour (Vienna). When well melted, strain the liquor from the chicken into it, and stir well; let it cook a few minutes; add the juice of half a lemon and half a pint of cream. Take the best pieces of chicken from the bones, pound in the mortar, add to the stock, and then strain through a tammy-cloth. This soup must not boil after the chicken and cream is added. Puree des Pois Verts. Ingredients, One quart of Peas. One pint of Pea-shells. One handful of Parsley. A small bunch of Mint. One quart of Stock. One gill of Cream. Salt and Pepper. Put the stock on to boil. When boiling add the salt, then the peas, the shells well washed, and other ingredients except the cream ; boil until the vegetables are tender, then pass them through a22 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. hair-sieve with the stock they were boiled in, and again pass through a tammy-cloth, if desired very smooth ; put all back into a clean stewpan to boil up, and just before serving add the cream and a teaspoonful of castor sugar. Puree de Pommes de Terre. Ingredients, One pound of Potatoes. One Onion. Two leaves of Celery. One ounce of Butter. One pint and a half of Stock. One gill of Cream. Salt. Fried Bread. Wash all the vegetables, and cut them into thin slices. Melt the butter in a stewpan; put in the sliced vegetables. Place the stewpan on the fire and let the vegetables cook for five minutes; then add the stock, and boil slowly until the vegetables are quite tender. Now rub the vegetables through a tammy-cloth or hair-sieve. Put the soup back in a saucepan, add the cream, and when hot it is ready to serve. Take two or three slices of stale bread; remove the crust, and cut the crumb into dice. Fry either in fat or butter, and serve with the soup.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 2S Potage a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients, Two small Lettuces. Two leaves of Sorrel. Four sprigs of Tarragon. Four sprigs of Chervil. Half a Cucumber. Half an ounce of Butter. One saltspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a saltspoonful of Salt. One pint and a half of White Stock. Yolks of three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. The crust of a French Roll. Wash the lettuces, sorrel, tarragon, and chervil, and shred them all finely. Peel the cucumber, cut it into thin slices and shred these also. Melt the butter in a stewpan, place in the shredded vegetables and herbs and sweat them for five minutes, but do not let them discolour. Sprinkle over the salt and castor, add the stock, and let the vegetables boil slowly until tender. Beat the eggs and cream together. Take the stewpan con- taining the soup off the fire and let it cool. Then strain in the liason of eggs and cream, place the stewpan on the fire, and stir until the eggs are cooked. Put the crust of the French roll in the oven to dry for a few minutes, then cut it into small pieces of any shape. Put these into the tureen and pour the hot soup over them.24 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Potage aux Abatis. Ingredients. Four sets of Duck Giblets. Half a head of Celery. One Carrot. One Turnip. Two Onions. One Bouquet of Garni. Two Cloves. Ten Peppercorns. Two quarts of Second Stock. Half a pint of Madeira. Thirty drops of Lemon Juice. A few grains of Cayenne Pepper. One ounce of Flour. One ounce and a half of Butter. Salt. Clean the giblets carefully and put them in a stewpan of boiling water to blanch for five minutes. Then put them into cold water, wash and scrape them, and then cut them into pieces about an inch and a half in length. Put the pieces of giblets, the stock, and the vegetables (all cleaned and cut up small) into a stewpan, add the bouquet, cloves, and peppercorns, and let the whole boil for two hours, skimming occasionally. Then take out the best pieces of giblets, trim them neatly, but let the stock and remainder of giblets boil half an hour longer. Now melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the flour, and fry for a few minutes; add the stock, and let the whole boil twenty minutes.25 HIGH-CLASS COOKEET. Skim well, and then put in the wine, lemon juice, cayenne, and salt. Strain the soup, add the trimmed pieces of giblets, and it is ready to serve. Potage aux Queues de Boeuf. Ingredients, One Ox-Tail. Four ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One Onion. Half a head of Celery. ' A Bouquet Garni. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. Two quarts of Water or Second Stock. Cut the ox-tail into joints and blanch them for five minutes. Take them out of the water and wipe them dry. Melt two ounces of the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of ox-tail, the vege- tables cleaned and cut small, the herbs and the spices. Fry all these together for ten minutes. Add the water, or stock, and the salt. Let this come to the boil, skim well, and then simmer two hours. Take another stewpan and melt two ounces of butter, put in the flour, fry it a little. Then pour in the stock (which must be strained and freed from26 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. fat), stir until boiling, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let it boil slowly for about fifteen minutes. Season to taste. Strain the soup into the tureen, serve in it the pieces of ox-tail and thin pieces of carrot and turnip, cut into rounds about the size of a shilling; these must be bailed tender before being put into the soup. Fausse Tortue. Ingredients. Half a Calf's Head. One Carrot. One Tnrnip. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. One Bouquet Garni. Twenty Peppercorns. Mace, Cloves, and Salt. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Flour. Two glasses of Sherrj^ Four quarts of Water. Juice of half a Lemon. Wash and bone the head. Tie the meat in a cloth and chop the bones. Put the meat, bones, and four quarts of cold water into a stewpan, place it on the fire, add some salt, let it boil up, and skim well. Let it boil about three hours. Strain the stock into a basin to get cold, then care- fully remove the fat. Now melt the butter in a stewpan; then put in the vegetables, cleaned and27 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. cut up small, the ham cut into dice, and the herbs and spices. Fry all these for ten minutes; add the flour, and stir well. Now add the stock, stir until boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it simmer ten minutes. Put in the sherry, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, and strain the soup into another stewpan. Cut some of the calf s head into small neat pieces, and serve it in the soup. Make some veal stuffing as fol- lows : Two ounces of beef suet, three ounces of bread crumbs, one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped thyme and marjoram^ half a teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a little nutmeg, one egg, pepper and salt; mix these all together, and roll into small balls. Poach these in salted water and then put them into the soup. Puree de Marrons. Ingredients. Twenty-five Large Chestnuts. Three ounces of Butter. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar One pint and a half of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Slit the chestnuts at both ends, put them into boiling water, and boil ten minutes. Then remove the husks. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in28 HIGH-CLASS OOOKEEY. the chestnuts and saute for a few minutes, but do not brown. Then add the stock and let the soup boil until the chestnuts are tender, when they must be rubbed through a hair-sieve. Warm up the soup, add the sugar, seasoning, and cream, and it is ready to serve. Puree a la Palestine. Ingredients, Two pounds of Jerusalem Artichokes, One small Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Juice of half a Lemon. One pint of White Stock. Half a pint of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Wash, peel^ and slice the vegetables. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables, squeeze over them the lemon juice, and cook care- fully for about five minutes, being careful the vegetables do not brown. Add the stock and boil until the artichokes are tender, then rub them through a hair-sieve. Keturn the soup to the saucepan, warm it up, add the cream, and it is ready to serve.29 HIGH-CLASS OOOKEEY. Potage a la Royale. Ingredients. Three pints of White Stock Two ounces of cooked Macaroni. Three yolks of Eggs. One ounce of grated Parmesan Cheese. One gill of Cream. Salt and Cayenne. Put the stock in a stewpan to boil; mix the eggs and cream together in a basin, pour them into the stock with a little salt, and stir till the eggs are cooked; then draw it ofif the fire and add the macaroni, cut up in pieces half an inch long, the grated cheese and a little cayenne. The soup must not boil after the cheese is in, or it will be spoilt. Potage aux Huitres. Ingredients, Three dozen Oysters. Two Whitings, or one Eel or two Flounders. Parsley Roots. One Carrot. One stick of Celery. A little Thyme. One blade of Mace. A few Peppercorns. Two Anchovies. Two ounces of Butter. T wo ounces of Flour. Two quarts of White Stock. One gill of Cream and two yolks of Eggs. Lemon Juice, Salt, and Cayenne. Take the eel (or whitings or flounders), cut them up into pieceS;, and put them in a stewpanHIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 30 with the stock, parsley, carrot, cleaned and cut up, celery, thyme, mace, peppercorns, anchovies, and salt; let it hoil up, skim it well, and let it cook for one hour, then strain it off. Put two ounces of hutter and two ounces of flour into a stewpan, mix them well together, and pour in the fish- stock ; stir it well, and hoil for ten minutes; then strain it through a tammy-sieve. Blanch and beard the oysters, strain them, and save the liquor. Put the fish stock on the fire and make it boil, then draw it off the fire; mix the cream and yolks of eggs together, a few drops of lemon juice, and a little cayenne ; pour this into the soup and stir it over the fire until the eggs are cooked, taking care it does not boil, or it will curdle. Just before serving, put in the oysters and the oyster liquor. Potage Dupoise, or Mussel Soup. Ingredients, Two pints of Fish Stock. Three pints of Mussels (prepared as for Dressed Mussels). Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. A few Parsley Stalks. Half a teaspoonful of Sugar. Cayenne, Salt, Migonnette Pepper. Lemon juice. Half a pint of Cream. Prepare the mussels as for dressed mussels. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, andHIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 31 mix them well. Pour the fish stock and the liquor from the mussels to the butter and flour; add the parsley stalks, &c. Let it boil, and skim well; then strain, and add the cream and the mussels. Ee-heat without boiling, and serve. Potage a la Julienne. Ingredients, One large Carrot. One small Turnip. Two Leeks. Half a head of Celery. One Onion. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. One teaspoonful of Sugar. One Cabbage Lettuce. A little Tarragon and Chervil. Shred the vegetables all of the same length and size. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and fry the vege- tables a light brown; add three pints of boiling consomme, the sugar and salt. Skim well until all grease is removed; then add lettuce, tarragon, and chervil, let it boil a few minutes, and serve. Ordinary clear consomme is required for this soup.32 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. Potage a la Puree Lievre. Ingredients. One Hare. Two ounces of Butter. Two Shalots. One Small Onion. Small bouquet of Garni. Blade of Mace. Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Half a pint of White Wine. Salt, Whole pepper,'Cayenne. Two pints Second Stock. Cut up the hare in joints after it has been skinned and paunched. Do not wash it. Cut the bacon up in small pieces and butter a sauce- pan with the butter. Put the bacon and the hare in the stewpan and fry a light brown; then add the onion, &c., also the wine; boil ten minutes, add the stock, and let this simmer gently for about one hour and a half; strain through a sieve, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound in a mortar; pass the meat through a fine hair-sieve, using the liquor by degrees to pass it through with. Make it hot in a stewpan, but do not let it boil. Add seasoning if required.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Potage a la Hollandaise. Ingredients, One quart of Veal or Chicken Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Four yolks of Eggs. Half a pint of Cream. One gill of Green Peas cooked. One gill of Carrots cooked. One gill of Cucumber cooked. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. One teaspoonful of Sugar. One teaspoonful of Salt. Trim the peas, carrots, and cucumber with a round cutter the size and shape of peas. Cook them in boiling water, being careful not to cook them too much. Put the stock on the fire to boil; when boiling, add the salt and sugar, and remove any scum. Break the yolks of eggs into a basin and add the cream (making a liason) ; add the stock to the butter and flour, and stir until it thickens ; then add the liason of eggs and cream; let it just come to a boil, being careful it does not curdle. Strain into a clean stewpan, and add the vegetables, which have been previously cooked, and the tarragon. 334 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. FISH. Boiled Cod and Oyster Sauce. Ingredients, One pound of Cod. One dozen Oysters. Half an ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Lemon-juice, Salt, and Cayenne. Put into the fish-kettle sufficient water to cover the fish. Add enough salt to make the water taste salt. When the water boils, put in the fish and let it cook slowly until it is done; it will take about fifteen minutes. For the sauce. Put the oysters into a stewpan with their liquor, and bring them to the boil. Strain the liquor into a basin. Eemove the beards and the hard parts of the oysters, and cut the soft parts into two pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, then the oyster liquor, and boil the sauce five minutes. Add the cream, salt, cayenne, lemon-juice, and pieces of oysters. Serve the fish on a napkin, and hand the sauce in a sauce-boat.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 35 Boiled Turbot and Lobster Sauce. Ingredients. One small Turbot. One Lobster. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Water. One tablespoonful of Cream. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Salt and Cayenne. Put sufficient water in the fish-kettle to cover the fish. Add as much salt as will make the water taste salt. When the water hoils, put in the turhot and let it hoil slowly for twenty or thirty minutes. Lobster sauce. Eemove the flesh from the tail and claws and cut it up into dice. Take the coral wash and dry it, pound it with one ounce of butter and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter and the flour. Mix these over the fire and add half a pint of water, stir well, and boil the sauce a few minutes. Then add the coral butter, the pieces of lobster, the seasoning, and the cream. Mix and warm tho- roughly^ and the sauce is ready. Dish the turbot on a hot dish, garnished with coral and slices of lemon, and hand the sauce in a sauce-boat. 3 *\ 36 HIGH-OLASS OOOKBRr. Horse-radish Sauce. Ingredients. Half a pint of Whipped Cream. Two ounces of grated Horse-radish. Salt, Pepper, Mixed Mustard. One tablespoonful of White Vinegar. Mix together and serve. Fillets of Sole a la Maltre d'Hotel. Ingredients, One Sole, filleted. One ounce of Butter. Three quarters of an ounce of Flour. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a gill of Cream. Put the bones and fins of the sole into a sauce- pan with half a pint of water and put it on to boil. Fold the fillets loosely, put them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and squeeze some lemon juice over them. Cover with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven for about six minutes. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and mix well. Pour in the fish-stock, made from the bones, and boil for five minutes. Then add salt, pepper, cream, lemon-juice, and the chopped parsley. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a dish, and pour the sauce over them.37 HIGH-CLASS COOKEHY, Sole au Gratin. Ingredients. One Sole. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Half a shalot. Four Mushrooms. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Two tablespoonfuls of Glaze. Half an ounce of Butter. Browned crumbs. Skin the sole, cut off the fins, and nick it with a knife on hoth sides. Dry it well; chop the parsley, shalot, and mushrooms, and mix them together. Butter a dish, sprinkle half the chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot on the dish. Lay the sole on this seasoning, and sprinkle the rest of the parsley, etc. over the fish. Squeeze over a little lemon-juice, season with salt and pepper, and then shake over some bread-crumbs previously browned in the oven. Lay the butter in little bits here and there on the fish. Put the sole in a moderate oven and bake it about ten minutes. Remove the fish on to a clean dish. Melt the glaze and pour it round as sauce.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 38 Filets de Soles a la Bohemienne. Ingredients, Two Soles, filleted. Two Truffles. Two Eggs (hard-boiled). One tablespoonful of chopped Parsley. One tablespoonful of Lobster Coral. Three quarters of an ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One gill of Fish Stock. . Half a gill of Cream. Cayenne, Salt. Lemon-juice. Fillet the soles, fold them over, put them on a buttered tin, cover them with a buttered paper to prevent them from burning, and cook in the oven* Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour and fish-stock ; when well cooked, add the cream^ salt, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Chop up the truffles, yolks of eggs, and parsley finely; pound the coral in the mortar, and pass through a hair-sieve. Next arrange the soles on a dish, pour the sauce over; ornament each fillet, thus: one with truffles, one with eggs, one with coral, another with parsley, so alternately.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 39 Sole a la Portugaise. Ingredients, One large Sole. One ounce of Butter. One Shalot. Half a teaspoonful of Parsley. Half a teaspoonful of Anchovy. Skin the sole, make an incision sufficiently large to admit of the stuffing; put the butter on a plate, add the shalot, parsley (chopped very fine), and anchovy sauce; put this stuffing in the sole, and put it on a buttered gratin dish. Then take— One ounce of Butter. Four Tomatoes. One Spanish Onion. Half an ounce of grated Parmesan and Bread-crumbs. Peel and slice them very fine, and lay over the sole alternately ; sprinkle over this some salt and pepper, about one ounce of butter, and a few brown bread-crumbs, in which has been mixed a little Parmesan. Pour round the sole three table- spoonfuls of tomato sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven about ten minutes.40 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. Sole a la Colbert. Ingredients. Two Soles. Six Anchovies pounded. One Clove Garlic. Skin and fillet the soles. Fold them, by placing each fillet round the left thumb and twisting the two ends tightly together. Put them on to a baking sheet, previously buttered. Sprinkle them with a little salt and lemon-juice, cover with buttered paper, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. When done, stuff them with Maitre d'Hotel butter, roll in brown bread-crumbs. Dish in a circle, and pour sauce round. Sauce. Bone and pound the anchovies. Add them, with the clove of garlic, to half a pint of good melted butter, made with one ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour, and half a pint of fish- stock made from the bones of the soles; boil for six minutes, and strain before serving. Fish sauce is always better if it is made from ♦ fish stock.41 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Sole a la Rouenaise. Ingredients. Two Soles Skin and fillet the soles ; lay on the half of each fillet the mixture as for Lobster Cutlets. Fold them in half and put them on a baking sheet previously buttered; squeeze a little lemon-juice on each fillet, cover with buttered paper, and bake for ten minutes. Serve with same sauce as for Fillets a la Bohemienne and garnish with chopped truffles. Sauce a la Cardinal (for Fillets of Sole or Whiting). Ingredients. Coral from a Lobster. One ounce of Butter One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Fish Stock (made from the bones of the Sole). Half a tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Half a gill of Cream. Cayenne and Salt. Pound the coral in a mortar with the hutter^ and pass through a hair-sieve ; put it into a stew- pan, and when melted add the flour and stock ; stir till it hoils and thickens; then add the lemon-42 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. juice, cream, cayenne, and salt to taste. Dish the fillets in a circle, and pour the sauce over and round. Lobster Cutlets. Ingredients, One Hen Lobster. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce of Flour. One tablespoonful of Cream. Salt and Cayenne. One gill of Water, One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Parsley. Remove all the flesh from the tail and claws of the lobster and cut it up into small pieces. Take the coral of the lobster, wash it, dry it, and then pound it in a mortar with one ounce of butter, and rub it through a hair-sieve. Put in a stewpan one ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, and mix these together over the fire ; then add the water and boil the mixture well. Put in the coral butter, the cream, and the seasoning. Mix well, add the lobster, and turn on a plate to cool. Make up into cutlets, egg and crumb each one carefully, and fry in a saucepan, with sufficient fat to cover them. Dish the cutlets on a napkin and orna- ment with fried parsley.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 43 Salmon and Tartare Sauce. Salmon should be put into boiling water with a good deal of salt in it. Tartare Sauce. Ingredients, Two yolks of Eggs. Salt and Pepper One gill of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of French Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. One teaspoonful of made Mustard. One tablespoonful of chopped Gherkins or Capers Put the yolks into a basin, add salt and pepper, and stir well with a wooden spoon. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring well all the time. Then put in the mustard, vinegar, gherkins, or capers, and the sauce is ready. Scallops of Turbot. Ingredients. Cold Turbot. Half a pint of White Sauce. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Cayenne and Salt. Browned Bread-crumbs. One ounce of Butter. Take some cold turbot, salmon, or any cold fish, break it into small pieces, put in a stewpan44 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. with a little salt and pepper, and the white sauce, to which may be added one tablespoonful of cream, also the anchovy sauce, cayenne. Butter some scallop shells, and sprinkle over them a few brown crumbs; fill in with the mixture; again sprinkle them with brown crumbs, and put them in the oven to get hot through. Serve on a napkin in the shells. Fillets of Mullet a ntalienne. Take your mullets and fillet them, making two fillets only of each mullet. Six mullets make a nice dish. Butter your dish, lay the fillets neatly on, sprinkle over a little salt, lemon-juice, and pepper. Cover them with a buttered paper, and place in a moderate oven till done. Drain any moisture from the dish, which put in the sauce. Sauce a l'Italienne. Ingredients, Three Shalots (chopped very fine). Si^ Mushrooms.45 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One tablespoonful of Parsley. Lemon-juice. Cayenne Pepper. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. A little Glaze from Fish. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. One glass of Sherry. Put the mushrooms and shalots in a stewpan, add the sherry, and reduce it; then add the brown sauce, anchovy sauce, lemon-juice, cayenne, liquor from the fish, and salt if necessary. Pour this over the mullet, and serve. Soles, whiting, &c., can be cooked in the same way. Lobster Soufflee. Ingredients. Three Whitings. One Hen Lobster. One gill of Cream. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Rice Flour. One gill of Fish Stock made from bones of the Whitings. Two Eggs and one Yolk. Take the meat of the whitings off the bones and the coral from the lobster, pound these two together in a mortar^ then pass through a wire sieve. Make a panada of one ounce of butter,HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 46 two ounces of flour, and the gill of fish-stock; this must be well cooked. Take the meat of the body of the lobster and pound in a mortar with the whiting and the panada, adding the eggs one at a time; when well pounded, pass all through a hair-sieve, add the cream (whipped), a little cayenne pepper, and juice of half a lemon. Take a plain soufflee mould and well batter it, put a layer of the above mixture in the bottom of the mould, and a few pieces of the meat from the lobster's claws; repeat this till the mould is full. The mould must be evenly filled. Cover with buttered paper, and steam very gently for half an hour. Serve very hot with white sauce, poured over the soufflee. Oyster Soufflee. Ingredients, Two Whitings. Twelve Oysters. Three Eggs. Two ounces of Flour. One gill of Oyster Liquor. One ounce of Butter. One gill of Cream. Take all the meat of the whitings and rub it through a wire sieve. Blanch and beard theHIGH-CLASS COOKEET. 47 oysters and cut each one in four pieces. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan and mix them well together over the fire, add the one gill of oyster liquor and stir till it thickens, and the flour is cooked. Now put this sauce and the meat of whitings into a mortar, and pound them well together, adding two yolks of eggs, one at a time, also a little salt, cayenne pepper, and the cream. When these are all thoroughly mixed, beat the three whites of egg to a stifi* froth and stir them into this mixture very lightly ; then put in the oysters. Now well butter your mould, pour in the mixture, cover it with buttered paper, and steam it gently for half an hour. To make this richer, you can use half a pint of whipped cream instead of the white sauce. Sauce for Oyster Soufflee. Ingredients. Bones of the Whitings. Beards of the Oysters. One ounce of Flour. One ounce of Butter. Half a gill of Cream. To make half a pint of stock, boil down the beards of the oysters and whitings^ bones in one pint of water. Melt the flour and butter together, stir in the half pint of stock, and let it boil sixHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 48 minutes; then add the cream, a few drops of lemon- juice, and a little cayenne. Pour this round the soufflee. Petite Soufflee d'Homard. Ingredients. One Hen Lobster. Three tablespoonfuls of good Mayonnaise Sauce. Half a pint of Aspic Jelly. Cut up the lobster into neat pieces, showing the red side as much as possible. Take some Kamekin cases and prepare as for a souflBee, with bands of writing-paper about three inches above the case. Arrange the best pieces of lobster on the sides of the cases and paper, the red side to the paper. Put the Mayonnaise sauce and Aspic jelly into a basin, and whisk till it begins to look white; add a little tarragon and chervil; then fill the Eamekin cases. When set, take ofi" the papers carefully. Garnish with coral sprinkled on the top, and serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Stewed Eels. Ingredients. One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Stock. One gill of Port Wine. One dessertspoonful of Mushroom Ketchup, One Onion. Sweet Herbs. One blade of Mace. Twelve whole Peppers. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Chop up the onion and fry it a nice brown, with the herbs and the flour, in the butter; then stir in the peppers, the mace, a pinch of salt, and the stock. Cut the eel up into pieces and add it; let it stew slowly till the fish is cooked,—about half an hour. Take out the fish with a slice ; put it on a hot dish in the oven while you finish the sauce. Add the ketchup and port wine to the sauce; let it boil up quickly, strain it over the eel, and serve. 4HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 50 Water Souchy. Ingredients. Fish, Perch, or Flounders. Fish Liquor. Four Parsley plants, roots and leaves. One teaspoonful of Horse-radish. One teaspoonful of Shalot Wine. One teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. One teaspoonful of Walnut Ketchup. Sippets of Toast. Stew the fish slowly, in just enough fish liquor to cover them, with the parsley, the horse- radish and above sauces. When the fish are done, lay them in a deep dish, with some sippets of toast and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley; strain the liquor in which the fish were cooked over them, and serve, adding a little more fish liquor to them if there is not enough left after the cooking to cover them. To Warm up Salmon. Ingredients. Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Liquor. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One dessertspoonful of Chili Vinegar. One dessertspoonful of Cucumber Vinegar. One teaspoonful of minced Capers. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce Bread-crumbs. Separate the salmon in flakes and lay them in a sauce made of all the ahove ingredients mixedHIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 51 together (except the crumbs), to soak for about two hours. Take them up separately and lay them in a scollop tin. Mix the sauce with enough bread-crumbs to give it consistency; cover the fish with it and make it hot in the oven. To Warm up Perch. Ingredients. Cold cooked Perch. Half a pint of Port Wine. One quart of Stock. One large Onion. Twelve whole Peppers. Twelve Allspice. One blade of Mace. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonfu' of Chili Vinegar. Mix all these ingredients together and mal^e them hot; put in the cold perch in flakes, and serve. Whitebait. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Lard. Whitebait. One large teacupful of Flour. Put the lard in a stewpan and let it get very hot. If you use a fryometer the heat of the fat 4 *HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 52 must not be less than 400 degrees. Wash and pick the whitebait carefully, and dry them very lightly. Put the flour into a sheet of kitchen paper. Toss the whitebait in the flour, move them about quickly, and finger them as little as possible. Then turn the fish into a frying- basket and sift all the loose flour back on to the paper. Plunge the fish into the fat, which must be as hot as possible not to burn, for one minute Drain the fish on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish. Athenian Eel and Sauce. Ingredients, Half a pint of good Stock. One tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup. One tablespoonful of Onion Vinegar. One mustardspoonful of Mustard. One dessertspoonful of Shalot Wine. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One dessertspoonful of Worcester Sauce. Marjoram and Parsley. Mix these all well together in a stewpan, and when hot stir in a dessertspoonful of chopped sweet marjoram and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Serve very hot in a sauce tureen ; the eels, cut in pieces, to be baked, each piece to be rolled in oiled paper.53 HTGH-OIjASS oookeey. Eel Pie. Ingredients, One pound of Eels. Half a pint of Meat Stock. Pepper and Salt. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. Cut up the eels into pieces between two and three inches long. Cut off the heads and tails and stew them in half a pint of meat stock. Strain out the heads and tails when they are thoroughly cooked^ and mix into the stock a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of lemon-juice, and two tablespoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Put the pieces of eel into a pie-dish, pour in this sauce, cover with a good crust, and bake. Supreme de Crabe aux Tomates. Take all the meat out of a crab, and to each pound add the following :— Four ounces of Stale Bread-crumbs. One gill of Tomato Sauce. The Juice of one Lemon. The Peel of a quarter of a Lemon. Five very thin slices of Lemon. Salt and Pepper to taste. One glass of Chablis, or more if the Crab is very dry. Simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, taking54 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. care that it does not burn. Before serving, bring it just to the boil; serve in the shell, and garnish with fried parsley. Fish Cakes. Ingredients, One pound of Cold Fish. Half a pint of thick Brown Sauce. One dessertspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. Six Gherkins. One Egg. Two ounces of Bread-crumbs. Make the brown sauce hot and stir into it the anchovy sauce and the gherkins, chopped finely. Take the stewpan off the fire, and add the fish in small flakes, removing all skin and bone. Turn this on to a plate, and when cold form into little cakes, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them; serve with fried parsley.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Stewed Trout. Ingredients. One Trout. Four Shalots. One pint of Fish Stock. One ounce of Butter. Two Cloves. One teaspoonful of Salt. Two saltspoonfuls of Cayenne. One Carrot. One Bay-leaf. One tablespoonful of Basil and Thyme mixed. A bunch of Parsley. Chop up the shalots and carrot, put them in a stewpan with the butter and parsley; let this get hot, add the stock, cloves, herbs and season- ing ; let all this simmer for one hour. Clean and wash the trout, tie round with broad tapes to prevent it breaking. Put the trout into a stewpan, strain the stock over it, add three glasses of port wine ; let it simmer gently till the fish is cooked ; it will take about half an hour. Take off the tapes carefully so as not to break the fish, reduce the stock it was cooked in, and pour over it. Hand lemon.66 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Casolettes de Saumon. Ingredients, Quarter of a pound of Pastry. Quarter of a pound of Kippered Salmon. Two tablespoonfuls of Chutney. French and Enghsh Mustard. Half a pint of Aspic Jelly. Eoll the paste thinly and line six oval tin dariole moulds. Fill these with raw rice, and bake. When done, remove the rice and let the pastry cases get cold. Cut the salmon into six thin slices. On each slice put a little chutney, some French and English mustard. Then roll up the slices of salmon, wrap each in greased paper, and bake about ten minutes. Ke- move the papers and let the fish get cold. Place a roll of salmon in each pastry case. Melt the aspic jelly, and pour sufficient over the fish to cover it. When set, it is ready to serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 57 A Slice of Salmon Baked. Ingredients, Two tablespoonfuls of Salad Oil. One teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. One Gherkin chopped fine. One Shalot chopped fine. One Anchovy chopped fine. Half a teaspoonful of Cayenne Sauce. Mix these altogether and rub over both sides of a slice of salmon. Wrap the salmon in buttered paper and bake about half an hour. Serve in the ipaper. Tartlettes a rindienne. Ingredients, Twelve large Oysters. One Shalot chopped fine. One Carrot (cooked). Half a gill of Cream. One teaspoonful of Curry-powder. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Half a teaspoonful of Flour. One ounce and a half of Butter. Cayenne Pepper. A little Salt. Line some small patty-pans with good paste, very thin, and fill them with rice, so that they58 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. may be kept hollow, and bake ten minutes; then take out the rice, blanch the oysters, and remove the beards only^ not the muscle part, and lay them in cold water to keep their colour. Melt the butter, fry the shalot, add the flour and curry- powder, the liquor from the oysters, cayenne, and lemon-juice ; when this is cooked over the fire, add the cream and the carrot, cut up in dice ; fill the cases with this mixture, and put on the top of each case one oyster. When finished, cover with a buttered paper, and make hot in the oven. Bream Pie. Ingredients. Two pounds of Bream. Four Eggs (hard-boiled). Two Shalots (chopped fine). Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Half a teaspoonful of Thyme and Marjoram. One teaspoonful of Chopped Parsley. One teaspoonful of Anchovy Sauce. One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. One gill of Stock. Cut the bream in slices. Mix the butter, bread- crumbs, shalot, and seasoning together, and makeHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 5^ into small balls. Cut the eggs in quarters. Lay the bream in a pie-dish, and then a layer of egg and seasoning, balls, &c., and, if liked, some pieces of lobster. Cover with a crust of rough puff-paste, and bake in a moderate oven one hour and a half. Mix the Worcester and anchovy sauce with the stock, and pour into the pie, after it is baked. A glass of sherry or Chablis may be added. Dressed Mussels. Ingredients. Two quarts of Mussels. One small Onion. Bay-leaf. A tablespoonful of Salt. First, well wash the mussels and lay them in water over night with a handful of salt; when they are quite clean, put them in a stewpan, with the onion and bay-leaf; sprinkle over them the salt, put on the lid, and stand them over the fire for a few minutes, when the shells will open ; take them out of the stewpan and carefully take them from the shells, removing with care a small piece of weed which lies in the centre of the mussel. Strain.60 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. the liquor which will be in the stewpan, and, if Jiked, can be made into a sauce with One ounce of Butter, Half an ounce of Flour, Cayenne Pepper, Lemon-juice, Half a gill of Cream, and poured over the mussels. Or just warmed in their own liquor, and served with brown bread and butter. Sole a I'Horly. Ingredients. One Sole. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One teaspoonful of Chili Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Chopped Parsley. Chopped Onion. Pepper and Salt. For THE Batter. Two yolks and one white of Egg. Two ounces of Flour. One tablespoonful of Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Milk or Cream. Salt. First make the batter, because it should stand before it is wanted. Mix the milk and flour smoothly together with a pinch of salt; add the two yolks of eggs and the oil—the white of egg whipped ; mix in very lightly. Stand this on one61 HiaH-CLASS COOKERY. side till you are ready to cook the fish. Mix the salad oil, tarragon and chili vinegar, with a little chopped parsley and onion ; add some pepper and salt. Fillet the sole, cut each fillet in half, and lay each piece to soak for ahout ten minutes in the oil and vinegars. Dip each piece in the batter^, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. ENTREES. Beef Olives. Ingredients. One pound and a half of Fillet of Beef or Rump Steak Three ounces of Bread-crumbs. Two ounces of Beef Suet. One teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Quarter of a teaspoonful of chopped Thyme and Marjoram. Nutmeg and Lemon-rind grated. One Egg. Salt and Pepper. One pint of Brown Sauce. Cut the fillet of beef into pieces of half an inch thick and four inches long, and beat them out with a wet cutlet-bat. Chop up the trimmings of the beef, the suet, parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and mix them in a basin with the bread-crumbs, the grated lemon-rind, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and the egg; stuff each piece of beef with this mixture, roll it up, and tie it round with a piece of string.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 62 Place these stuffed rolls of beef in a stewpan with one pint of brown sauce, and stew gently for three quarters of an hour. For serving, take off the string, and dish up with mashed potato or spinach^ with the sauce poured round. Bengal Curry. Ingredienis. Two pounds of Meat—Chicken, Veal, Beef, or Rabbit. Six Onions. One Clove Garlic. Two Cardamoms. One inch of Cinnamon. One tablespoonful of Curry-powder. One tablespoonful of Curry-paste. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Lemon-juice. Salt. Cut the meat in pieces; slice the onions and put them in a saucepan with the butter, carda- moms, garlic, and cinnamon; cook all this over the fire until the onions are quite tender, taking care that they do not brown; then stir in the powder, paste, meat, and salt. Put the lid on and let it simmer in the oven. If the meat used is chicken or rabbit, one hour will be sufficient; if beef or mutton, two hours will not be too long; add then the lemon-juice, and serve with well- boiled rice, separately.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 63 Bouchees a la Reine. Ingredients. Half a minced Chicken. Two ounces of minced Ham. Six minced Mushrooms. Three minced Truffles. Half a pint of White Sauce. One gill of Cream. Yolks of two Eggs. Cases made with puff paste, either baked like vol an vent cases, small, or line some little moulds, which should be filled with rice before baking, to prevent them from rising too much. Next put the sauce into a stewpan, with chicken, ham, etc.; when it is quite hot add the cream, and lastly stir in the yolks of eggs, which must be cooked but not curdled ; fill this into the patty cases, and iserve. Calfs Head, Sauce Piquante. Ingredients, Half a Calf's Head. One Carrot. One Onion. Two sticks of Celery. Two tablespoonfuls of Flour. One gill of Vinegar. One tablespoonful of Salt. Half a calf's head ; wash and clean well, remove the brains, put them in a stewpan, cover wuth cold64 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY, water, and add the carrot, onion, celery, flour, and one gill of vinegar (this is added to make the head keep white), and the salt. Skim well when boil- ing ; let it simmer two hours, when serve with the following sauce:— Ingredients. Two Shalots. ^ One Onion. One Carrot. Four Mushrooms. One teaspoonful of Parsley. These must all he chopped exceedingly fine, and put in a stewpan with one gill of vinegar; let this boil until quite reduced, or it will be too acid. Then add one pint of brown sauce, and lastly the parsley ; pour this over the head. A few slices of bacon rolled and served round is necessary, unless boiled ham or bacon is served with it. Chaudfroid of Chicken. Ingredients, One cold boiled Chicken. • Half a pint of Bechamel Sauce. One Beetroot. One Cucumber. One pint of Aspic Jelly. Mayonnaise Sauce. Cut the chicken into neat joints; remove the skin, and mash each piece carefully with theHIGH-CLASS OOOKEBY. 65 Eechamel sauce. Dish up on chopped aspic jelly; garnish with a little of the cucumber and beetroot; the remaining beet and cucumber cut into neat pieces, stir into the Mayonnaise, and serve in the centre. Croquettes or Rissoles of Chicken. Ingredients, Half a cold Chicken. Two ounces of Ham or Bacon. Six Mushrooms. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. / .y^"' <^ne gill of Stock. /, Op09v%l^^^ tablespoonfuls of Cream. Salt and Pepper. One Egg. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs. For Eissoles. Four ounces of Flour. Three ounces of Butter. Mix the flour and butter together in a stewpan ; add the stock, and stir until it boils and thickens; add the cream, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Mince the chicken, ham, and mushrooms to- gether, and stir into the sauce in the stewpan^ ^ 5 '66 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. tarn this all out on to a plate, cover it with buttered paper, and put it away to cool. For <5roquettes, shape this mixture in small quantities either into halls or rolls, egg and hread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat. For rissoles, make a paste of four ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, and a little cold water. Koll this out as thin as possible; shape the chicken mixture as above; cover it with the paste all over, egg and bread- -crumb, and fry. Serve croquettes and rissoles with fried parsley. Chicken Saute a la Marengo. Ingredients, One Chicken. One gill of Salad Oil. A few Truffles. Six Chives, cut small. Six Mushrooms. One gill of Tomato Sauce. One gill of Brown Sauce. Croutons of Puff Paste. Cut the chicken in six pieces ; put it in a stew- pan with the salad oil; let it brown, which will take about ten minutes, then pour away the oil; add the mushrooms, the tomato, and the brown sauce, also the chives and the truffles; it is Jbest to put the stewpan in the oven, with the lid67 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. on, and let simmer for about half an hour. This should he nicely arranged on a silver dish, and served with croutons of puff paste ; poached eggs may also be used as a garnish. Civet of Hare. Ingredients, One Hare. Half a pound of Bacon. Twenty-four Button Onions. Twelve Mushrooms. Bouquet Garni. Half a pint of Claret or Port Wine. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Cut the hare in neat pieces, wipe but not wash it; cut the bacon in strips, and fry in a saucepan; add the hare. Let it saute about ten minutes. Add the claret, bouquet of garni, and mushrooms; let this simmer gently one hour, then add the brown sauce and the onions, which should be previously blanched; let it simmer again for about half an hour, remove the bouquet of garni, and serve with fried croutons. One gill of Tomato Sauce, Half a gill of Glaze, One tablespoonful of Chutney, if added to this, makes a great improvement. 5 *HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 68 Compote of Pigeons- Ingredients. Three Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Bacon* One small Carrot. One small Turnip. Two sticks of Celery. One small Shalot.. Six Mushrooms. Bouquet Garni. One pint of Brown Stock* Seasoning. One tablespoonful of Flour, Cut the bacon into neat pieces and fry for five minutes. Out the pigeons in half, truss each half as neatly as possible, and then fry them a nice brown on both sides; add the vegetables and stock, and simmer gently for one hour. Mix in a basin a tablespoonful of flour, pepper, and salt^ and a gill of stock ; half an hour before serving add the flour, etc. to the pigeons, and stir till it boils up and thickens. When cooked, dish the pigeons in a circle on mashed potatoes; strain the gravy round and over them, and put some peas or spinach in the centre.69 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Cutlets a la Bretonne. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One gill of Bechamel Sauce. Half a pint of Haricot Beans, well cooked. Four Onions, well cooked. One ounce of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Trim the cutlets, bread-crumb and fry them. Put the haricots and onions, previously well boiled, in a stewpan with the butter ; season, and stir them over the fire. When they are hot, pass them through a tammy or hair-sieve, add the white «auce, dish the cutlets, and put the puree of beans and onions in the centre, pouring round a little thin brown sauce or half-glaze. Cutlets Chaudfroid a la Russe. Ingredients, Best end of a neck of Mutton. One pint of Aspic Jelly. Half a pint of good Glaze. Macedoine of Vegetables, consisting of Carrot, Potato, Cauliflower, Peas, Green Haricots, French Beans, Beetroot, Cucumber, all of which must be neatly- cut in equal sizes, and carefully boiled in separate water, washed in cold water after, " to preserve the colour." Half a pint of thick Mayonnaise Sauce. Pepper and Salt. The cutlets must first be cut, a bone to each cutlet, and not very much trimmed, then braizedHIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 70 for an hour (in the oven is best) till the meat is» quite tender; take them out and press them until cold, when each cutlet should he very neatly trimmed, and dipped in the glaze until they have a smooth, glace appearance. Next chop the aspic, cutting from it first a few croutons to arrange round the cutlets. Put the chopped aspic on the dish, arrange the cutlets, and fill in the centre with the macedoine, which should previously be well stirred into the Mayonnaise sauce, leaving the beetroot to add at the last, as it discolours the other vegetables. This entree can be varied or ornamented, according to taste, with cut cu- cumber, small frills, etc. Strips of Truffles. V- Equal quantities of eacb. One gill of White Sauce. Best end of a neck of Mutton. One gill of Brown Sauce. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets, egg and bread-crumb them,, and fry them in butter. Dish them on a border of mashed potatoes. Stir the tongue, truffles, and Cutlets a la Milanaise. Ingredients,HIGH-CLASS COOKBEY. 71 maccaroni into the white sauce, and serve in the centre of the cutlets; pour the brown sauce round, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Provencale. Ingredients. Three pounds of the best end of a neck of Mutton. Half a pint of White Soubise Sauce. Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). One Shalot „ One small Onion „ Half a Clove Garlic „ One tablespoonful of Parsley „ Yolks of four Eggs. Pepper and Salt, to taste. Brown Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan (grated). Trim your cutlets, fry them, and press them until cold; remove all outside pieces, so that each cutlet may be the same size and shape. Put the soubise sauce in a saute-pan: add the mushrooms, shalot, onion, garlic, pepper, and salt; when they have cooked ten minutes, stir in the yolks of egg, and cook well, also the parsley; this will now form a stiff paste, which must be put on the cutlet on one side only. Sprinkle over each cutlet a little browned bread-crumb, to which has been added the Parmesan cheese. Put them in the oven to get hot through, dish them up, and serve with brown sauce or demi-glaze.72 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. Cutlets a la Rachel. Ingredients, Six or seven Mutton Cutlets. One pound of Calf's Liver. Quarter of a pound of fat Bacon. A Pig's Caul. One small Carrot. One small Onion. Parsley, Bay-leaf, Thyme, all tied together. One Shalot. One Clove Garlic. Twelve Peppercorns. A small blade of Mace. Cut up the bacon and fry it for five minutes, having added the liver and other ingredients (except the cutlets and caul). When the liver is quite cooked, put all into a mortar and pound well; add seasoning to taste, and pass all through a wire-sieve; this makes foie gras. Trim the cutlets neatly; cook them, and press them between two dishes until cold. Mask them on one side with the foie gras; cover each one with a piece of caul; put in the oven to get hot; brush over with glaze. Dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour a little half-glaze round some macedoine in the centre, and serve.73 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Cutlets a la Reforme. Ingredients. Best end of a neck of Mutton. Two lean slices of Ham (chopped fine). One Carrot (cut in strips). Four Gherkins „ Four Mushrooms „ Four Truffles „ Whites of two Eggs „ (previously cooked). Sauce. One tablespoonful of Red-currant Jelly. One glass of Port Wine. Half a pint of Poivrade Sauce. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Cut the carrot into strips to cook. Cut the vegetables up neatly, put them in a stewpan, and keep them warm in a bain-marie. Cut the cutlets, trim, egg and bread-crumb them ; mix the ham with the bread-crumb, pepper and salt. Fry them a nice brown in about three ounces of butter; arrange them on a dish in a circle. Put the chips of vegetables in the centre of the cutlets. When the poivrade sauce is boiling, add the currant jelly, the wine, and a little cayenne pepper. Let it boil about ten minutes; strain before using, and pour round the cutlets.74 HIGH-CLASS COOKEKY. Escallopes de Poulet a la Financiere. Ingredients, The Legs of a Chicken. Half a pound of Veal. Quarter of a pound of fat Bacon. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Tongue. Truffles. Mushrooms. Two Eggs. Nutmeg. Cayenne and Salt. Two ounces of Butter. Three-quarters of a pint of Stock. Sauce for the Above. Ingredients, One gill of Sherry. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Chopped Truffles. Cockscombs. Tongue and Mushrooms. Bone the legs neatly ; scrape and pound the veal and bacon, and pass through a sieve; add to thi& the two tablespoonfuls of chopped tongue, truffles, and mushrooms, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg, salt, and cayenne; mix well together, and stuff the legs of the fowl with this, sewing them up neatly. Wrap them up in buttered paper, put them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter and some7& HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. vegetables, cut up; then add three-quartern of a pint of brown stock; put the stew-pan in the oven, baste well, and cook gently for one hour. When cooked, cut them in slices half an inch thick, and dish up on spinach. For the sauce: make the half pint of brown sauce, sherry,, cayenne, and chopped truffles boil up once, and pour round the chicken, putting cockscombs,, truffles, pieces of tongue, and mushrooms in the centre. Filets de Boeuf a la Bearnaise. Ingredients, Two pounds of Fillet of Beef, cut up into neat round fillets. Two ounces of Glaze. Two ounces of Butter. One chopped Mushroom. Three Tomatoes and Seasoning. Fry the fillets in the batter with the mushroom and seasoning. When cooked, brush each one^ over with a little glaze. Cut up the tomatoes into slices and dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato or spinach. Place a slice of tomato on each fillet, and put them in the oven to warm. Serve Bearnaise sauce in the centre, with some^ glaze poured round.HIGH-CLASS COOKEBY. 76 Filet de Boeuf a la Mirabeau. Ingredients. One pound of Fillet of Beef. Six Filleted Anchovies Eight or ten turned Olives. A few sprigs of Watercress, Maitre d'Hotel Butter Three ounces of Butter. Parsley. Lemon-juice. Salt and Pepper. Broil the fillet nicely, place a lump of Maitre d'Hotel butter on the top, and garnish round with the anchovies, olives, and watercress. For the Maitre d'Hotel butter, take Three ounces of Butter, One dessertspoonful of chopped Parsley- One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice, Pepper and Salt. Work all the ingredients into a pat, and set the ^mixture in a cool place until wanted.HIGH-CLASS COOKEBY. 77 Cutlets a la Venetlenne. Ingredients, Three pounds of the best end of Neck of Mutton. Six ounces of Quenelle Meat. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Tongue. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Three-quarters of a pint of good Brown Sauce. Strips of Tongue, Gherkin, and the White of Egg to garnish. Braize and press the mutton. When cold^ trim into cutlets. Cover one side of each cutlet with quenelle meat, and then dip in chopped tongue and truffles. Put the cutlets in a stew- pan, pour in the sauce, cover with a buttered paper, and cook slowly about fifteen minutes- Serve on a border of mashed potatoes, the sauce^ round, and the garnish in the centre. Filet de Boeuf a la Pompadour. Ingredients, Three pounds of Fillet of Beef. Three Tomatoes. One ounce of Glaze. Five ounces of Butter. Chopped Parsley. Lemon-juice. Macedoine. Trim oft' all the fat and skin, cut the fillet inta neat pieces about half an inch thick. Fry quicklyHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 78 in two ounces of butter. Skin the tomatoes and cut them into slices, put them on a baking sheet with some pieces of fat cut into rounds, and bake for three or four minutes. Dish the fillets in a circle on mashed potato, put a piece of fat and tomato on each fillet, also a small pat of Maitre d'Hotel butter, made of three ounces of butter, chopped parsley, and lemon-juice mixed; pour some half-glaze round, and put some macedoine in the vcentre of the fillets. Fricassee of Chicken. Ingredients. One Chicken. One Carrot. Half an Onion. One stick of Celery. Parsley. One Sprig of Thyme. One Bay-leaf. Two Cloves. Six Peppercorns. One blade of Mace. One pint and a half of Second White Stock. One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Twenty-four Button Mushrooms. Fried Bread. One gill of Cream. Cut up the chicken into joints and lay it in -cold water for ten minutes. Put the carrot, cut79 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. in slices, the onion, thyme, bay-leaf, celery, parsley, cloves, peppercorns, and mace into a stewpan, virith the stock and the pieces of chicken taken out of the water and wiped dry on a clean cloth; let these all boil gently for half an hour, then take •out the pieces of chicken, wash them in cold water, and dry them; strain the stock into a basin. Peel the mushrooms and cut off the stalks, and put them into a stewpan, with half an ounce of butter, the lemon-juice, and a tablespoonful of cold water; let this just boil up, and then turn them on to a plate. Put one ounce of butter and half an once of flour into a stewpan, and mix well together; add the stalks and trimmings of the mushrooms and the chicken stock, first taking off the grease thoroughly; stir till it boils, and let it boil gently for twenty minutes, with the lid half on ; then skim off the butter which has risen to the top, and let it reduce to one pint. Add the cream, put the mushrooms and the pieces of chicken into a stewpan, strain the sauce over them, and, when quite hot, serve with pieces of fried bread round.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 80 Filet de Veau a la Talleyrand. Ingredients, One pound Fillet of Veal. Four Mushrooms. Two Shalots. A tablespoonful of finely-chopped Parsley. One gill of White Sauce. Yolks of two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Lemon-juice. Cut and trim your cutlets neatly into round pieces : they should be all the same size; place them in a frying-pan with the ounce of butter and fry them, but do not let them brown ;, have ready chopped the mushroom and shalot. Add to the cutlets. When nearly done, add the white sauce, let them saute in it for three minutes. Add the yolks of egg, and, lastly, the finely- chopped parsley, and some lemon-juice, stirring well all the time, until the sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on mashed potato, and pour the sauce over and round.81 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. Ris de Veau a ritalienne. Ingredients. One heart Sweetbread. One Carrot. One Turnip. One Onion. One pint of Second Stock. Larding Bacon. Fried Block of Bread. Half a pint of Italian Sauce. Twelve small Quenelles. One gill of Mushrooms. Steep the sweetbread in water for an hour. Then blanch it and press it slightly between two dishes. When cold, cut away the sinewy fat and lard it. Place the sweetbread in a stewpan with the vegetables and stock, cover with buttered paper, and braize carefully for twenty or thirty minutes. Then take it out of the stewpan, place it on a baking sheet, baste it well with its own liquor, and put it in the oven to brown. Serve on the block of fried bread, sauce round, and gar- nished with the quenelles and mushrooms. 6HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 82 Gibollette de Lapin. Ingredients. One Rabbit. Two ounces of Butter. One Onion. Two Shalots. One Clove of Garlic. One pint Poivrade Sauce. Cut the rabbit in pieces; fry, or saute it in the butter; add the shalot, onion, and the brown «auce; put it in the oven for one hour, being care- ful it does not burn. Twelve small new potatoes, previously cooked^ may be added to this, or pieces of cauliflower or croutons of fried bread. Pigeons a la Duchesse. Ingredients. • Three Pigeons. Quarter of a pound of Quenelle meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Macedoine of Vegetables to garnish. Split the pigeons in halves, remove the breast- bone, and beat them flat. Saute them with two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt. Then press themHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 83 flat. When the pigeons are cold, spread the quenelle-meat over the cut side of the birds. Then egg, crumb, and fry in fat. Dish in a circle, brown sauce round, and macedoine in centre. Pigeons a la Financiere. Ingredients, Four Pigeons. One pint of good Stock. A block of Fried Bread. One ounce of Glaze. Half a pint of Financiere Sauce. Small Quenelles. Mushrooms. Truffles. Cockscombs. Truss and braize the pigeons in the stock. When done, glaze them. Dish them up against the block of fried bread. Pour the sauce round the entree, and place the garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, and cockscombs in the oentre.84 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Pigeons a la Ste. Menehould. Ingredients. Three Pigeons. Half a pound of Sausage-meat. One pint of Stock. One small Onion. One small Carrot. One Turnip. One Egg. Bread-crumbs. Half a pint of Tomato Sauce. Green Peas to garnish. Split the pigeons, take out the breast-hone, and braize them with the stock and vegetables for half an hour. Then press them flat. When the birds are cold, spread the sausage-meat over the cut side of each. Then egg and crumb and fry in fat. Dish in a circle. Tomato sauce round and peas in the centre.85 HIGH-CLASS COOKEBY. Quails a la Lucullees. Ingredients, Six or eight Quails, boned, which must be very carefully done. Twelve Livers from Game or Chicken. Three ounces of Bacon. One Shalot. — ■ Small Bouquet Garni. Twelve Peppercorns. Six Cloves. Pepper and Salt. Three Truffles. Cut up the bacon and put it in a saute-pan; let it cook for a few minutes, then add the livers, shalot, white peppers, cloves, and bouquet. liCt this all cook carefully; pound all in the mortar, pass through a hair-sieve, then add the chopped truffles. Stuff each quail into shape, butter some paper cases, called Quail cases/^ or oil them, put the quail into the case, a few drops of salad oil on each, when they should be put in the oven for about ten minutes. Sauce. Ingredients. One gill of Brown Sauce. One tablespoonful of Glaze. Two tablespoonfuls of chopped Truffles. Put the bones of the quails in a stewpan, add the glaze and brown sauce; let this boil to extract86 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. the flavour from the bones, strain, and add the truffles; put about one tablespoonful of this, sauce over each quail when they are taken from the oven, after very carefully draining off all grease from the quails. Serve them in the cases. Rissoles a la Victoria. Ingredients. One gill of Supreme Sauce. Half a Chicken, minced. Half a Sweetbread „ Six Truffles „ Six Mushrooms „ Three Eggs. Mix all this into the sauce ; stir in, when hot, the yolks of three eggs. Let this thicken, pour out on a dish, and when cold make up into ris- soles. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry them a nice brown in boiling lard or fat. These should be dished on a napkin^ served with parsley fried; or they can be made into cutlet shape, and served with brown sauce, and peas or macedoine in the ceutre.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 87 Rognons a rEpicurienne. Ingredients, Four Sheep's Kidneys. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pound of Quenelle-meat. One teaspoonful of chopped Onion. One teaspoonful of chopped Mushrooms. Salt and Pepper. Lemon-juice. Half a pint of Brown Italian Sauce. Small Quenelles or Mushrooms to garnish. Split the kidneys, remove the white skin, and saute them with the butter, onion, mushrooms, lemon-juice, and a little pepper and salt. Butter eight small oval moulds, and line them with the quenelle-meat. Place half a kidney in each, and steam slowly for twenty minutes. Turn out care- fully. Pour the Italian sauce over, and garnish with the quenelles or mushrooms. Soufflee of Partridge. Ingredients. Two Partridges. Two ounces of cooked Rice. One ounce of Butter. Seasoning. One gill and a half of Glaze. Yolks of four and whites of two Eggs. Cook the partridges, remove all the meat from the bones, and pound with the rice, butter, season-HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. ■88 ing, and glaze. Pass all through a hair-sieve; then add the yolks of egg, and lastly the two -whites whipped to a stiff froth. Put into a mould. Bake in a quick oven; serve with a good gravy round made from the game bones. Stewed Steak aux Huitres. Ingredients, One pound of Rump Steak. One Spanish Onion. Two pickled Walnuts. Two tablespoonfuls of Mushroom Ketchup. One dessertspoonful of Walnut Ketchup. One teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce. One dozen Oysters. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. Mix the butter and flour together in a stewpan; peel and chop up the onion^ cut up the walnuts, put them into the stewpan, also the ketchup and Worcester sauce. Lay the steak on these and let it stew for an hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes; it must not hoiL Five minutes before serving, put in the oysters, bearded, with their liquor strained through a fine strainer.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 89 Tartlettes of Chicken. Ingredients. Half a pound of Quenelle-meat. Six ounces of the breast of a cooked Chicken. Two ounces of lean cooked Ham. Six Mushrooms. One Truffle. One gill of White Sauce. Cut the chicken into very small pieces. Chop tip the mushrooms, trafEes, and ham, and stir into the white sauce. Butter well nine small moulds; line them neatly with the quenelle-meat, not leaving a particle uncoated; fill in with the minced chicken; coat them neatly over the top with the quenelle-meat. Steam them for twenty minutes; dish in a circle on spinach or mashed potatoes; pour good white sauce over and round, ■and serve peas or mixed vegetables in the centre. Veal Cutlets. Ingredients. One pound of Veal Outlets. Parsley and Thyme. Lemon-rind. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. One Egg. Pepper and Salt. Bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets into a round shape, and beat them to half an inch in thickness with a cutlet-90 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. bat; chop up the thyme (which, when chopped^ should fill a saltspoon), also the parsley. Melt the butter, add to it the chopped parsley, thyme, lemon-juice, and a little grated lemon- rind, one egg, pepper and salt to taste, and beat it all up together with a knife. Dip each cutlet into the plate and cover them all over with the mixture ; then cover them with bread-crumbs and press the crumbs firmly on with a palette-knife. Fry the cutlets for ten minutes; dish in a circle on mashed potatoes, and serve with rolls of bacons in the centre and brown sauce poured round. Vol au Vent a la Toulouse. Ingredients. Half a pound of Puff Paste, which must only have had six tarns, from which cut either small cases, or one ordinary-sized vol au vent case, and bake till a nice brown in an oven not too hot; when baked remove the centre. Put in a stewpan— Half a pint of Supreme Sauce. Half a cold Chicken, cut in neat pieces. Two ounces of Tongue „ Three Truffles, sliced. Six Mushrooms „ Four Cockscombs. A few Quenelles of Veal or Chicken. Stir this over the fire until hot, but not boiling;91 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. fill in your vol au vent, which should only be done on sending it to table, as it makes the paste damp, and does not appear so satisfactory when filled long before serving. SAUCES. Bearnaise Sauce. Ingredients, Four Shalots. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a gill of Vinegar. One gill of White Sauce. Yolks of three Eggs. Three ounces of Butter. Chop up the shalots and put them into a stew- pan with the vinegar, and boil till reduced to a tablespoonful; then add the white sauce, mixing it well; add one at a time the three yolks of egg, whisking each one well in before adding another, and on no account let it boil. When the eggs are in, remove the stewpan from the fire and whisk in the butter in small pieces, taking care that each piece is dissolved before adding the next, as, if the butter is added too quickly, the sauce will oiL Strain it, and it is ready for use.'92 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Bread Sauce. Ingredients. One gill of Bread-crumbs. One small Onion. Five Peppercorns. Half a pint of Milk. Salt. One tablespoonful of Cream. Put the milk into a stewpan with the crumbs, onion, and peppercorns, and let it stand by the iire for fifteen minutes to soak the bread; then stir it over the fire till it boils; add the cream, and stir till it boils again. Before serving take ^ut the onion and peppercorns. Brown Sauce. Ingredients. One pint of Brown Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Six Mushrooms. One Carrot. One small Onion. One Shalot. Salt and Pepper. Put the mushrooms washed and peeled, the carrot, shalot, and onion cut up, into a stewpan, and fry them in the butter a good brown; stir in the flour, and last of all the stock ; let it boil tenHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 93 minutes, and skim it; season with pepper and salt; strain it through a tammy-sieve, and it i» ready for use. Sauce Hollandaise. Ingredients, Half a pint of Melted Butter. Yolks of five Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Lemon-juice. Salt and Cayenne. Put the butter and yolks of eggs into a stewpan ; stand it in a saucepan of hot water, and whisk it well over the fire till it thickens; it must not boil, or it will curdle and be spoilt. Season to taste with salt and cayenne, and at the last stir in the lemon-juice. Mayonnaise Sauce. Ingredients, Two Eggs. Salt and Pepper. One teaspoonful of Vinegar. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One gill of Salad Oil. Put the yolks of egg into a basin, with a salt- spoonful of salt and half a saltspoonful of pepper;HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. use. break the yolks with a wooden spoon, and pour in, one drop at a time, the gill of oil, whisking it well the whole time. At the last, stir in the vinegar and the mustard. The sauce, when properly made, must be as smooth and as thick as double cream. Sauce Piquante. Ingredients, One Shalot. Half a Carrot. Three Mushrooms. One sprig of Thyme. One Bay-leaf. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. Half an ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Brown Stock. Two tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Clean and cut up the vegetables, and fry them brown in the butter in a stewpan; then stir in the flour and the stock, also the thyme, bay-leaf, and Harvey [ sauce, and let it simmer for twenty minutes; then add the salt, cayenne^ and vine- gar ; strain through a tammy, and it is ready forHIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. use. Poivrade Sauce. Ingredients. One head of Celery. Two Carrots. Two Onions. One Shalot. One Clove of Garlic. One Turnip. Two Leeks. Three Tomatoes. Twenty-four Whole Peppercorns. Six Cloves. A blade of Mace. Bouquet Garni (Thyme, Bay-leaf, Parsley, and Marjoram). Quarter of a pound of lean Ham. Three ounces of Flour. Three pints of Stock. Half a pint of Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. Shred and wash the vegetables clean ; put them in a stewpan with the ham and butter; fry them, but not very brown; add the vinegar, and let it boil till quite reduced; then stir in the flour, also add the stock. Stir well, and simmer gently one hour; pass through a tammy, and it is ready for96 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Financiere Sauce. Ingredients, Quarter of a pint of Sherry. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Glaze. One tablespoonful of chopped Mushrooms or Truffles. Half a pint of Brown Sauce. Put the sherry, butter, glaze, and chopped mushrooms or trufBes into a stewpan, and cook for five minutes. Then add the brown sauce;: boil till it coats the spoon. Strain, and it is ready to serve. Financiere Eagout. Sliced Truffles. Scallops of Foie Gras. Cocks- combs. Mushrooms, and Quenelles. Sauce Tomate. Ingredients, Six Tomatoes. Three Shalots. One Bay-leaf. A sprig of Thyme. Twelve Peppercorns. Salt. , One ounce of Butter. Two ounces of lean Ham. One tablespoonful of Vinegar. Put the butter, and the tomatoes cut in slices,, into a saute-pan. Peel and cut up the shalots-HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 97 and chop up the ham; add these, with the pepper- corns, vinegar, salt, thyme, and bay-leaf, to the tomatoes. Stir this over the fire for about fifteen minutes, till it is well reduced ; then rub it all through a hair-sieve; return it to the saute-pan to re-heat, and it is ready for use. Supreme Sauce. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Fresh Butter. Two ounces of Vienna Flour. One pint and a half of White Stock, made from Chickens. Half a pint of Cream. Twelve Peppercorns (white). A few Parsley-stalks. Juice of half a Lemon. Salt. Put the butter in a clean stewpan; when melted, add the peppercorns, parsley-stalks, then stir in the flour. Cook this over the fire, stirring all the time, for ten minutes, then add the stock ; stir again till it has well boiled ; add the lemon-juice and salt, and, if at hand, some trimmings of white mushrooms, previously well washed and all water removed; lastly, add the cream. Pass through a tammy-cloth, and it is ready for use. 7HIGH-CLASS COOKER!. 98 White Sauce. Ingredients, One pint of White Stock. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Six Mushrooms. Half a pint of Cream. The Juice of half a Lemon. Put the butter and flour into a stewpan ; when well mixed, add the stock, and stir till it boils; then add the mushrooms, washed and peeled; let the sauce boil up again, and simmer for twenty minutes with the lid half on, to throw up the butter, which skim off as it rises. Strain the sauce through a tammy cloth into another stew- pan ; now stir in the cream and lemon-juice, and let it boil well for three to five minutes. Pour it into a basin, and stir while it cools. It is now ready for use when required. White Sauce. (CHEAP RECIPE.) Ingredients, One pint of Milk. One small Carrot. One gill of Cream.HIGH-CFiASS COOKBBT. 99 One stick of Celery. One Bay-leaf. One Shalot. One clove of Garlic. Two ounces of Butter. One ounce and a half of Flour. Ten Peppercorns. Cut up the carrot, celery, shalot, and put them with the garlic, peppercorns, and bay-leaf into a stewpan to simmer for a few minutes, but not to brown; mix the butter and flour together, add to the vegetables, whisk in the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes. Then strain through a tammy- €loth, re-heat, and add the cream. Ris de Veau a la Supreme. Ingredients. Two heart Sweetbreads. Half a pint of button Mushrooms. One quart of Chicken or Veal Stock. Lemon-juice. Nutmeg. Seasoning. Half a pint of Cream. Vegetables. Well wash the sweetbreads and cover them with cold water, add one tablespoonful of salt, and put 7 *100 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. them on the fire to boil for ten minutes. Wash them again in cold water, and press them under a weight until cold; then take out the gristle, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with stock in which is a little vegetable, carrot, celery, onion, and small bouquet garni. Cover with a buttered paper and simmer gently about three-quarters of an hour; prepare the mushrooms, and with the trimmings of the mushrooms, the butter, flour, and stock, make a sauce, and let it well boil, then add the cream, lemon-juice, and seasoning. Strain the sauce and add mushrooms. Dish the sweetbreads on a croustade of fried bread, and cover with the sauce. An addition of green peas or haricots verts, is an improvement, and the sweetbreads may be first larded with bacon or truffles. Mauviettes en Caisse a la Lucullus. Ingredients, Larks, according to number wanted. Half a pound of Calf*s-liver. Quarter of a pound of Bacon. Two Shalots. One clove of Garlic. Twelve whole Peppers. Six Cloves.HIGH-CLASS OOOKBBT. 101 Two Bay-leaves. A little Parsley. Marjoram. Thyme. Salt. Six Truffles, chopped fine. Three hard-boiled Eggs (yolks). First bone the larks, being careful not to break them. Then cut the bacon into small pieces, put it in a saute-pan with the shalot, garlic, and flavour- ^ ing; let it fry until brown; add the liver cut in pieces, and cook over the fire until brown, but not too much cooked. Put the contents of the saute- pan into a mortar and pound it, then pass it through a wire sieve^ return again to the mortar and add the yolks of eggs. When well mixed, add the truffles, and stufi* each lark to resemble its natural shape. Oil some paper cases, and put each lark in a case. Brush over with salad oil and put in the oven until they are just cooked. Put the bones of the larks, half a pint of good stock, and one glass of Marsala, into a stewpan, and reduce it all to one gill. When the larks are cooked, put a spoonful of this sauce over each. Sauce Italienne. Ingredients. Two Shalots. Six Mushrooms. One ounce of Butter.102 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. A sprig of Thyme. Bay-leaf. One gill of Sherry. One ounce of Flour. Half a pint of Second Stock Chop the shalots and mushrooms and fry them in the butter with the flour, thyme, and bay-leaf, till a good brown; then add the sherry, let it boil till reduced to half the quantity. Add the stock, and boil for. ten minutes. Strain it, and it is ready for use. VEGETABLES, SALADS, &o. Cauliflower au Gratin« jf.n' Ingredients. One Cauliflower. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Half an ounce of Butter. One ounce of Flour. A gill of Cold Water. One tablespoonful of Cream. Cayenne Pepper. Salt. Take a moderate-sized cauliflower, close and white, cut stalk quite close, and cut away outer withered leaves. Put it head down into a large103 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. saucepan, with plenty of fast-boiling water, slightly salted, and let it boil until tender ; it will take from fifteen to twenty minutes. If it turns over in the water, as it is apt to do, it must be turned back again with a fork, for the flowers keep whiter well under the water. Care must be taken to remove any scum that rises. When the centre of the flower yields to pressure, it is done. Take it up carefully with a slice, and drain it over a sieve. \ But while it was boiling, the sauce should have been made. Two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, half an ounce of butter, one ounce of flour^ a gill of cold water, a tablespoonful of cream, and as much cayenne pepper as would cover the flat surface of a split pea. Put the butter and flour into a small stewpan, and mix them thoroughly, ofi* the fire^^ * with the back of a wooden spoon-add a gill of cold water, and stir the sauce over the fire till it is thick and quite smooth, then add the cream, frtiMt UnU 4 the cayenne, and a pinch of salt. When the cauliflower is done enough, take it up, place it on the dish in which it is to be served, and squeeze it gently together in a clean cloth, held with both hands. Stir half the cheese into the sauce, and then pour the sauce gently all over the flower; sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and brown it as maccaroni is browned. Serve it very hot.104 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Tomatoes farcie au Gratin. Ingredients, Six Tomatoes (all of one size). Six Mushrooms (chopped fine). Two Shalots „ One Onion „ Two ounces of lean Ham „ (cooked). One Teaspoonful of Parsley „ Two ounces of Butter A little Nutmeg. One tablespoonful of Brown Sauce. Browned Bread-crumbs. One teaspoonful of Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt. Cut the centre from the tomatoes, and, without breaking them, squeeze the juice or water out; season each one with a little pepper and salt. Put all the chopped ingredients into a saute-pan, and stir over the fire, with the butter, until they are cooked, but not burnt; then add the brown sauce, the nutmeg, and a little seasoning. Fill each tomato with the mixture, and sprinkle over each a little browned crumbs, in which has been mixed the Parmesan cheese. About ten minutes in a mode- rate oven will suflSce to cook them; they should be quite tender, but not broken.HIGH-CLASS GOOKEEY. 105 CEufs a TAurore. Ingredients. Five Eggs, hard-boiled. Half a pint of good White Sauce. Yolk of one Egg, raw. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Salt and Cayenne. Fried croutons of Bread. Cut the whites of the eggs into strips, and rub the yolks through a wire-sieve. Eeduce the vine- gar in a stewpan; add the sauce, then the raw yolk of egg, and cook. Season, add the shredded whites to the sauce, and warm them up. Turn out on to a dish ; sprinkle the yolk of egg on the top and garnish with the fried croutons. Scotch Eggs, a (rua^tu/'(/l ^ ' ^ Ingredients. Three Eggs, hard-boiled. Half a pound of Quenelle or Sausage-meat. Egg and Bread-crumbs. Tomato Sauce. Kemove the shells from the eggs and cover them thinly with the quenelle or sausage-meat. Then egg and crumb carefully, and fry in hot fat. Cut each egg carefully in half. Arrange the cut mde upwards on a dish^ and serve tomato sauce round.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 106 CEufs a la Bonne Femme. Ingredients. Four Eggs, hard-boiled. One ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of chopped Tarragon. Beetroot cut into fancy shapes. Small Salad. Cut the eggs in halves and remove the yolks ; pound these with the butter and tarragon. Fill the whites with the mixture ; garnish with the pieces of beetroot, and arrange on a dish with the small salad round. Sardines a la Piedmontaise. Fry some bread in boiling fat, and, having taken the scales off some sardines, making them hot in the oven, put them on the fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce, made with— Yolks of four Eggs, well whipped. Half an ounce of Butter. One teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar, One teaspoonful of Malt Vinegar. A little made Mustard. Salt. Stir these well together over the fire till the sauce thickens ; it must not boil.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 107 GEufs farcie a la Provencale. Ingredients. Four. Eggs, hard-boiled. Three Anchovies, boned. One teaspoonful of Essence of Anchovy. Watercress. Two ounces of Butter. Lettuce. Cayenne and Salt. Cut the eggs carefully in half, and remove the yolk without breaking the white. Pound the yolks of eggy the anchovies, watercress, butter, anchovy-essence, cayenne, and salt; when well pounded, rub through a hair-sieve. Fill in the white of egg cases neatly with this mixture^ putting small handles of parsley-stalks across the tops. Dish up on shredded lettuce, and the re- mainder of the mixture in the centre with a little Mayonnaise sauce. Russian Salad. Take equal quantities of carrots, turnips, French beans, cauliflower, green peas, and haricots ; cut them into fancy shapes, and boil them separately until tender, also beetroot. Set all these vege- tables in a border-mould with aspic jelly. When the border is turned out, fill in the centre with some of the same vegetables mixed with Mayon- naise sauce.108 HIGH-CLASS COOKBEY. Plain Salad. Ingredients, Lettuces, Watercress, Mustard and Cress, Endive, Cucumber, Celery, a little of each. Beetroot. One or two Spring Onions. Two tablespoonfuls of the best Salad Oil. One tablespoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. Pepper and Salt. Half a teaspoonful of made Mustard. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. (Cold boiled vegetables can be used as well, such as Potato, Carrot, Turnip, Cauliflower, etc.) Wash all the ingredients carefully to remove dirt and grit. Dry them well in a clean cloth; break up the leaves into small pieces and put them into the salad-bowl; do not use a knife to the green vegetables. Put the salt, sugar, and mustard into a tablespoon; fill it with tarragon vinegar, and stir to melt the salt and sugar and mix the mustard. Pour this over the salad, shake over some pepper, and add the oil last, mixing all well together. Kemember the old saying in making a salad, The vinegar should be measured out by a miser, the oil by a spend- thrift, and a maniac should mix it."109 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Cheese d'Artois- Ingredients, Yolks of two Eggs. White of one Egg. Two ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated. Salt and Pepper. Three ounces of Putf-paste. Beat the eggs in a basin for a few minutes ; melt the butter and stir it and the cheese to the eggs, and a little pepper and salt. Roll the paste out thinly, and cut it in half; spread the cheese mixture over one half of the paste and lay the other half over it. Cut this out in rounds with a cutter ; brush over with egg, and bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. .Cheese Aigrettes- J%u^niAy ^cufd Ar^' Ingredients. Half a pint of cold Water. One ounce of Butter. Three ounces of Vienna Flour, sifted. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two whole Eggs and one Yolk. Cayenne and Salt to taste. Put the water and butter on to boil; when boiling add the flour^^f*v^orously all the time on the fire until the panada leaves the sides of the pan quite clean. Remove from the fire, and when slightly cooled add the eggs, one by one,^theHIGH-OLASS COOKEEY. 110 seasoning, and lastly the cheese; put on a plate to cool. Take a small piece of the mixture in a teaspoon, drop it into hot but not quite boiling fat, and fry a nice brown. Serve on a napkin, with grated Parmesan sprinkled over them. Cheese Tartlets. Ingredients to make Fourteen, One gill of White Sauce. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Two Eggs. Cayenne and Salt. Put the yolks of the eggs, the grated cheese, cayenne, and salt into the white sauce, and mix all well together; whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in also very lightly. Line fourteen patty-pans with rough puff-pastry, fill in with the cheese mixture, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. Do not bang the oven- door. Potato Scallops. Ingredients, Two pounds of cold Potatoes. Half a pint of Milk. Three ounces of Butter. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese. Pepper and Salt. Mash the potatoes quite soft with the milk and the butter melted; add two ounces of cheese, pepper and salt to taste. Fill some patty-pansIll HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. with this mixture, and brown them in the oven. While hot, glaze each over with melted butter and the rest of the cheese; serve very hot in the patty-pans. CEufs farcie a la Russe. Ingredients. Six hard-boiled Eggs. Caviare. Tomatoes. Oil. Vinegar. Cut the eggs in half, and take out some of the yolk from the centre of each half; fill this space in with caviare, and cover over with the yolk rubbed through a sieve. Serve on slices of tomato, with a little salad oil, vinegar, and pepper and salt over them. CEufs a la Suisse. Ingredients. Two ounces of fresh Butter. Eight Eggs. Eight thin slices of Gruyere Cheese. Two ounces of grated Gruyere Cheese. Nutmeg. Mignonette Pepper. Salt. One gill of double Cream. A little chopped Parsley. Spread the butter on the bottom of a dish and lay the slices of cheese on it; break the eggs upon112 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. the cheese, being careful not to disturb the yolks. Sprinkle some grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt over them ; mix the chopped parsley and grated cheese together, and strew over them; bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Hand very thin dry toast with the eggs. Brussels Sprouts. Ingredients. Two pounds of Brussels Sprouts. Two ounces of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Quarter of a saltspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. Wash the sprouts well in salt and water, and trim them ; put them into a saucepanful of boiling water with some salt and the carbonate of soda. Let them boil fast with the lid off till quite tender —from ten to twenty minutes, according to age. When done, strain them off, dry them in a cloth, put them into a stewpan with the butter, pepper, and salt, toss them in this till thoroughly hot— they must not fry ; then serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Potato Croquettes. Ingredients. Two pounds of Potatoes. One ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Milk. Three Eggs, A teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Bread-crumbs. Pepper and Salt. Eub two pounds of cold potatoes, or potatoes cooked on purpose, through a sieve on to a plate; put the milk and butter into a stewpan, and when hot, stir in the sifted potatoes. Take the stew- pan oflp the fire and break the yolks of two eggs into the potatoes, stir in the chopped parsley^ pepper, and salt. When quite cold, shape this mixture into balls or croquettes, egg and bread- crumb and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. Young Carrots. Ingredients. One bunch of Spring Carrots. One ounce of Butter. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Half a Pint of Stock. A tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled Parsley. Wash and scrape the carrots, boil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes, put them into cold water, and dry them in a clothe 8HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 114 Now put them into a saucepan with the stock, butter, and sugar, and boil gently for half an hour ; then boil them fast till the stock is reduced to glaze, sprinkle in the chopped parsley, and serve, with the glaze on them. Asparagus. Pick off the loose leaves, scrape the stalks, and wash them in cold water ; cut all the stalks the same length, and tie them together in small bundles, the heads all the same way. Put the asparagus into hot water with a little salt, and boil gently for about twenty minutes till tender, taking care not to break the heads. Serve the asparagus on a slice of thick toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in. Hand melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Jerusalem Artichokes a Tltalienne. Ingredients. Two pounds of Artichokes. One gill of Consomme. Two omices of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Nutmeg. Lemon-juice. Italian Sauce (see Entrees). Wash and peel the artichokes, shaping them like small pears, of even sizes. Butter a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and arrange the arti-HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 115 ohokes in circles in it, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, nutmeg and lemon-juice; pour one gill of €onsomme to them, put the lid on, and simmer gently for half an hour, basting them occasionally ; they should colour a deep yellow. Just before serving, roll them in the consomme. Serve with Italian sauce round them. Seakale. Tie the seakale up in small bundles, put it into boiling water with some salt, and boil it for twenty minutes, till quite tender. Untie the bundles, dish it up on a slice of toast, and hand, separately, melted butter with a few drops of lemon-juice in it. Spinach. Ingredients. Two pounds of Spinach. Two ounces of Butter. Half a gill of Cream. Pepper and Salt. Pick all the stalk oif the spinach, wash it well in several waters, and put it into a stewpan with the drops of water that hang to the leaves; let it boil till thoroughly tender, then rub it through a wire sieve. Put it back in the stewpan with two ounces of butter, half a gill of cream, and a little pepper 8 *116 HIGH-OLASS COOKEET. and salt; mix well till it is thoroughly hot, then! serve with croutons round it. French Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel. Ingredients. Two pounds of French Beans. Two ounces of Butter. Pepper and Salt. Nutmeg. A tablespoonful of chopped Parsley parboiled. The juice of half a Lemon. Pick and string the beans, cutting each bean into three or four strips. Wash them well in cold water, drain them, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water, boil fast till tender. Put them into cold water for a few minutes, dry them in a clean cloth, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, parsley, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon- juice. When quite hot, serve them with croutons round. Saute Potatoes. Ingredients, Two pounds of New Potatoes. Two ounces of Butter. Salt. Wash the potatoes in cold water, scrape them and cut them into shapes like the quarters of an orange. Put them into a saucepan of cold water, and just let them boil up ; then strain them andHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 117 wipe them dry on a clean cloth. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and toss the potatoes in it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire ; they should brown on all sides alike. Strain oflP the butter, sprinkle some salt over the potatoes, and serve. Potato Chips. Wash and peel the potatoes, taking out the eyes and specks, peel them very thinly in ribbons, twist them into fancy shapes, put them into a frying- basket, and fry in boiling fat for about six minutes. You can cut the potatoes into thin slices about one-eighth of an inch in thickness if you prefer it. PUDDINGS AND SOUFFLEES. Raspberry Pudding. Ingredients. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Three Eggs. One-pound pot of Jam. HaK a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Sugar. Beat the butter and eggs separately, then mix, and add the sugar and jam. Butter a shape well,118 HIGH-CLASS COOKEET. and put a layer of crumbs and a layer of the mix- ture alternately, till the shape is full. Bake one* hour in a moderate oven. Pine-apple Soufflee. Ingredients, Three ounces of Pine Apple. Three ounces of Flour, sifted. Three ounces of Sugar. Two ounces of Butter. Half a pint of Milk. Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and add the flour and milk; cook well; add the sugar and the pine- apple, previously cut into dice; add the yolks one by one; whip the whites very stiff; stir in the mixture very lightly; pour into a prepared soufl&ee mould; steam one hour. Sauce. Keduce some of the syrup from the pine-apple^ add one ounce of loaf sugar, and one glass of sherry; colour with cochineal; pour round the pudding. Some small pieces of pine-apple may be added to the sauce.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 119 Semolina Soufflee. Ingredients, One pint of Milk. Two tablespoonfuls of Semolina. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. Rind of one Lemon. Put the milk on to boil; sprinkle in the semo- lina and sugar; add the peel of the lemon, cut very thin; stir till it thickens, then take out the lemon-peel. Let it cool a little^ and then stir in the yolks of three eggs and the whites of four eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Grease a soufflee mould, pour in the mixture^ and steam it for twenty minutes. West-Riding Pudding. Ingredients. Jam. Two Eggs. The weight of the Eggs in Butter, Sugar, and Flour. Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Rind of one Lemon, grated. Puff-paste. Beat the butter to a cream, and stir into it the flour, sugar, and the eggs beaten up; add the baking-powder and lemon-rind. Line a pie-dish with puff-paste, cover the bottom of the dish with jam, pour in the mixture, and bake for one hour and a quarter.120 HIGH-CLASS COOKKET. 0 Vennoise Pudding. Ingredients. Five ounces of crnmb of Bread. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Candied Peel. One ounce of Loaf Sugar. Three ounces of Sultana Raisins. Rind of one Lemon. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. One gill of Cream. One wineglassful of Sherry. Cut the bread into dice, shred the candied peel, grate the lemon-rind, and pick the sultanas. Put these all into a basin with the castor sugar. The loaf sugar is to be placed in a saucepan and put on the fire to burn a dark brown colour. Then add the milk, and let the burnt sugar dissolve in the milk. Pour this to the yolks, previously whisked^ and then strain over the bread and other dry ingredients in the basin; add the cream and sherry. Pour the pudding into a well-greased mould, and set it in a saucepan to steam for an hour and a half. Serve with wine sauce.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 121 Amber Pudding. Ingredients. Six large Apples. Three ounces of Moist Sugar. One Lemon. Two ounces of Butter. Three Eggs. Puff-paste. A few preserved Cherries. Peel, core, and slice the apples; place them in a stewpan with the butter, sugar, and lemon-rind, and let them stew slowly until tender. Then rub them through a hair-sieve. Line the edges of a pie-dish with puff-paste, and decorate it tastefully. Add the yolks of the eggs to the apple, and pour the mixture into the pie-dish. Place it in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Whip the whites very stiff; spread them over the apple ; dredge over a little castor sugar; garnish with the cherries. Then place the pudding in a cool oven to set the white of egg; it will take about ten minutes, and should get a light brown.122 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Baked Lemon Pudding. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Three Eggs. Two Lemons. One gill of Cream or Milk. Two ounces of Cake-crumbs. Puff-pastry. Grate the lemon-rinds and squeeze the juice; mix these with the castor sugar, yolks of eggs, cream, and cake-crumbs. Stir all well together in a basin; whip two whites stiff, and mix them lightly to the other ingredients. Line and deco- rate the edges of a pie-dish with puff-pastry; turn in the pudding, and bake for about twenty-five minutes in a moderate oven. Ingredients. Half a pound of Bread-crumbs Half a pound of Beef Suet. Half a pound of Sugar. Half a pound of Figs. Quarter of a pound of Sultanas Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Citron. Two ounces of Almonds Ingredients. Fig Pudding.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. One ounce of Bitter Almonds. One glass of Brandy. Rind of one Lemon, grated. Half a Nutmeg. Two ounces of Cherries. Two ounces of Angelica. One gill of Cream. Four Eggs. Chop the suet, figs, almonds, cherries, and angelica very fine; mix all well, and add the dry ingredients; mix again, and stir in the eggs, cream, and hrandy. Boil for four hours or steam for five. Spanish Soufflee. Ingredients. Six Sponge Cakes. Jam and Red Jelly, Maraschino or Sherry. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Whites of five Eggs. Vanilla Essence. Cut the sponge cakes into three pieces length- ways, putting jam hetween each layer; pile up on< a glass dish, and well soak them with either sherry or Maraschino. When soaked, heat up the whites of egg to a very stiff froth; add sugar and vanilla; mask the cakes entirely over with the egg, and put in a cool oven to dry; when dry^ garnish with red jelly.HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. 124 Princess Pudding or Cold Soufflee. Ingredients. One gill of Milk or Cream. Half an ounce of Gelatine. One gill of Apricot Puree, or One gill of Orange-juice. Yolks of three Eggs. Whites of four Eggs. Two ounces of Sugar. A little Lemon-juice. A few drops of Cochineal, Put the milk and gelatine into a stewpan, and stir over the fire until dissolved, care being taken that it does not boil, or it will curdle; beat the three yolks of egg well and add to the milk. When well mixed, put into a stewpan and stir till it thickens—it must not boil; add the sugar. Then pour out into a basin; add the apricot puree, lemon-juice, and cochineal. Beat the four whites of egg to a very stiff froth, and add them to the other ingredients, stirring lightly but thoroughly. Stir until nearly cold before putting it into a mould. The mould should be ornamented with bright pale jelly.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 125 Chocolate Tartlettes. Ingredients, Four Eggs. Half a cake of Chocolate. One tablespoonful of Corn-flour, dissolved in water. Three tablespoonfuls of Milk. Four tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Two teaspoonfuls of Yanilla. One saltspoonful of Salt. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Cinnamon. One teaspoonful of Melted Butter. Melt the chocolate in the milk, and when it boils, stir in the corn-flour, and stir well, until it thickens ; then set it to cool. Beat up four yolks and two whites of egg with the sugar, and stir them to the cold chocolate, with the vanilla, cin- namon, salt, and butter, till light. Bake in open shells of pastry. When done, cover them with some meringue made of two whites of egg, whipped to a stiff froth, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Eat when cold.126 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Cocoanut Pudding. Ingredients. Half a pound of grated Cocoanut. Two tablespoonfuls of Cake-crumbs. Two tablespoonfuls of Castor Sugar. Half a pint of Cream. Six Eggs. Two teaspoonfuls of Vanilla. Cook the cocoanut in the milk; cream the hutter and sugar together, beat up the yolks of egg, and add to the butter and sugar. When the milk is off the boil, stir the eggs, butter, and sugar, the cake-crumbs and vanilla, to it; also add three whites of eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Put this into a pie-dish, and bake for half an hour. Whip the other three whites of egg to a stiff froth with three tablespoonfuls of castor and a little vanilla. Just before the pudding is done, spread this meringue on the top of it, and brown it lightly in the oven. Cfe German Sauce. I y / Ingredients, Two Eggs. One wineglassful of Sherry. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Put the yolks of egg into a stewpan with the sherry and sugar. Whisk this over the fire until it comes to a thick froth, taking care that it does not curdle.127 HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY, Brandy Sauce. Ingredients, Three Eggs. One gill of Cream or Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Put the yolks of egg into a milk saucepan, add the cream, brandy, and sugar ; whisk all well to- gether for six or eight minutes. Be careful that it does not curdle. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Water. One tablespoonful of Jam. One wineglassful of Sherry. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the sugar and water into a stewpan and stir till the sugar is melted ; stir in the jam, and, when well mixed, stir in the wine and lemon-juice. Brown Bread Pudding. A stale Brown Loaf. One pound of Cherries. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Wine Sauce. Ingredients. Ingredients,128 HTGH-OLASS COOKERY. Four Eggs. One Lemon. One gill of Cream. One gill of Milk. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Two ounces of Loaf Sugar. A gill and a half of Water. Put five ounces of brown bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, and three-quarters of a pound of cherries, stoned, the vanilla, and grated lemon rind. Boil the milk and pour it over the crumbs and fruit. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and add it to the crumbs; add tbe four yolks of egg one at a time, and the whites of two eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a pint mould and pour in this mixture, cover it over with buttered paper, and steam or bake one hour and a quarter. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve with sauce made with two ounces of loaf sugar, a gill and a half of water, and a quarter of a pound of cherries. Alexandra Pudding. Ingredients. Ten Eggs. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One gill of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Put ten yolks of egg into a basin, add the sugar, milk, and cream. Whip five whites of egg slightly.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 129 add the vanilla and stir lightly to the yolks of egg. Take a pint-and-half plain mould, butter it inside, and cover the bottom with three rounds of buttered paper. Pour the mixture through a strainer into the mould, and tie a piece of stilF paper over the top. Steam the pudding gently for one hour and a quarter. When cooked, stand the mould in ice. For serving, turn it out care- fully, and ornament it with red currant jelly. Cold Cabinet Pudding. 1^ ^ M' Ingredients, Six Savoys. Two ounces of Ratifias. Half a pint of Milk. Half an ounce of French Gelatine. The yolks of four Eggs. Two ounces of dried Cherries. Half a gill of Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One teasp^onful of Essence of Vanilla. Ornament the bottom of a pint mould with the cherries and angelica. Split the savoys in half, and line the sides of the mould round with them very evenly, arranging them alternately back and front next the tin. Put in the ratifias. Put four yolks of egg into a basin, stir in the milk^ pour this mixture into a jug, stand it in boiling water, and stir until it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. Melt the gelatine in a little water, 9HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 130 and strain it into the custard. When it is cool, add the cream, vanilla, and sugar, mix well, and pour carefully into the mould to the cakes. Put the mould on ice or in a cool place to set. When «et, turn out and serve. Plum Pudding. Ingredients, Half a pound of Beef Suet. Half a pound of Raisins. Half a pound of currants. Half a pound of Sultanas. Quarter of a pound of Mixed Peel. Quarter of a pound of Bread-crumbs. Quarter of a pound of Flour. One Lemon. Half a pound of Moist Sugar. Four Eggs. One gill of Milk. One wineglassful of Brandy. Two ounces of Almonds. Half a Nutmeg. A little Salt. Chop up the suet, wash and dry the currants, stone the raisins, clean the sultanas, taking off the stalks, cut up the peel, hlanch and chop up the almonds. Put the flour into a basin and rub the suet into the flour with your hands, sprinkle in a little salt^ add the crumbs, currants, raisins, sul- tanas, sugar, and peel, and mix all well together. Orate in half a nutmeg, the rind of the lemon.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 131 ^nd add the almonds. Put the eggs into another basin, stir to them the milk and brandy, and mix them with the fruit, &c., taking care to mix all these ingredients very thoroughly together. Turn the pudding into a mould or floured pudding- cloth, put it into boiling water, and let it boil for £ve or six hours. Twelve Preserved Cherries. Three pieces of Angelica. Four Sponge Cakes. Six Ratifias. One pint of Milk. One ounce of Castor Sugar. Four Eggs. Fifteen drops of Essence of Yanilla. Butter a pint-and-half mould, ornament the bottom with the cherries and angelica^ break the sponge cakes and put into the mould, also the ratifias. Put four yolks .and two whites of egg into a basin with the sugar; whip them lightly together, stirring in the milk by degrees, and the vanilla; pour this mixture over the cakes in the mould. Cover the mould with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for about three quarters of an hour. Turn the pudding out carefully, and serve. Cabinet Pudding. ^ Ingredients. 9 *132 HIGH-CLASS COOKEKY. Ingredients. Custard Sauce. Ingredients. One Egg. One gill of Milk. One teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Eight drops of Essence of Vanilla. Break the egg into a milk saucepan, add the sugar, milk, and vanilla, and whisk it over the fire till it thickens, taking care that it does not curdle. Four EggSr One ounce and a half of Butter. One ounce of Flour. Salt. One gill of Milk. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Butter a pint-and-half soufflee-tin; tie a band of buttered paper round the tin, coming two inches above it. Melt an ounce of butter, add to it an ounce of flour, mix them well together, and add the castor sugar and milk; stir this over the fire till it thickens. Then take it off" the fire and add, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs, beating all well together. Put a pinch of salt to the four whites of egg, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir Vanilla Soufflee.Ingredients. 133 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Jightly to the mixture; add the vanilla essence, pour it all into the buttered tin, and steam from twenty to thirty minutes. Turn it out on to a hot dish, and pour some wine sauce or custard sauce round it. One ounce of Butter. Half an ounce of Flour. One teaspoonful of Mignonette Pepper. Salt, Pepper, and Cayenne. One gill of Milk. Three Eggs. Three ounces of Parmesan Cheese, grated. Fry the mignonette pepper in the butter for two or three minutes; then strain the butter into a stewpan; add the flour, a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little cayenne, also the milk, and stir over the fire till it thickens. When a little cool, add, one at a time, two yolks of egg j beat this all well together and add the cheese; whip the three whites of egg to a stiff froth, and stir in lightly to the cheese mixture. Pour into a pint soufflee-tin, previously buttered and lined outside with buttered paper coming two inches above the tin, and bake in a quick oven from twenty to thirty minutes. To serve, take off •the paper and fold a clean napkin round the tin ; heese Soufflee.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY^ 134 but send it to table as quickly as possible, as ih will fall as soon as it leaves the oven. Six Eggs. Half an ounce of Flour. Half an ounce of Butter. Three ounces of Castor Sugar. Fifteen drops of Essence of Vanilla. Put four yolks of egg into a basin, add the castor sugar, and beat with a wooden spoon for ten minutes ; then stir in the flour and vanilla; whisk the six whites of egg to a stiff froth, and mix lightly to the yolks of egg. Butter a half- pint soufflee-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes; send to tabl quickly. If jam is used, it must be put in the centre of the soufflee before it is baked. /Omelette Soufflee, Ingredients. Genoese Pastry. Ingredients. Seven Eggs. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. ^^^L^ ' / Six ounces of Butter. ^ vA jV t^f 4 Six ounces of Flour, sifted. UrC(l Ol< (tcit. /r C4V Put the eggs and sugar into a basin; stand the - ^f^J} basin over a stewpan of boiling water, and whip well for twenty minutes. ^ Take a cake-tin and ^^^'^ ^, line it with kitchen paper; naelt the butter, and ^^^^ grease both cake-tin and paper with some of it; y^^^^J^ when the eggs and sugar are sufficiently whipped, ' stir into them the flour and the remainder of the ^ w-. melted butter. Turn the mixture into the P>^^-'vf^y^^f pared tin, and bake in a moderate oven for about L ^L'f*^ thirty minutes. ^ ^Wf^ Cheese Pastry. Ingredients. Two ounces of Butter. Two ounces of Flour. Two ounces of Parmesan Cheese. One ounce of Cheddar Cheese. One Egg. Salt and Cayenne. Put the flour on a paste-board, sprinkle in a little salt and cayenne, and rub in the cheese, grated, and the butter; mix all these together with the yolk of an egg into a smooth stiff paste. Koll this out into a strip one eighth of an inch thick and five inches long; cut this into strips of equal sizes, also some rings. Grease a baking sheet, put the straws and rings on it, and bake in a hot oven ten minutes till they are a pale brown.136 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. For serving, stand the straws through the ringa like a bundle of sticks. L,,S*'Puif Paste. Ingredients. Half a pound of Flour. ( Half a pound of Fresh Butter. Salt. Lemon-juice. Take a clean cloth, and squeeze all the water out of the butter. Put the flour on a marble slab or a paste-board, in a heap ; make a well in the oentre, put in a pinch of salt, a^easpoonful of lemon-juice, and enough water to make a paste of the same consistency as the butter. KoU this paste out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Put the butter on half this paste^ fold the other half over it, cover it entirely, and press the edges together with your thumb. Let this stand in a cool place for a quarter of an hour, then roll it out and fold it over in three; turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it again, fold it in three, and put it aside for a quarter of an hour. Kepeat this until the paste has been rolled out seven times ; it is then ready for use, either for a vol au vent, or patties, or tartlets, or pie-crust.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 137 Rough Puff. „ in;' ftl^^^' Ingredients. Eight ounces of Flour. Six ounces of Butter. Salt. Half a teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. Put the butter and flour on a paste-board, chop up the butter in the flour, heap it all up on the board, make a well in the centre, put in the lemon- juice, and sprinkle the salt over. Take a full tablespoonful of cold water, and mix it slowly and lightly with your fingers into the flour and butter, adding more water if necessary until you get a stiff" paste. Koll this out, fold it over in half, turn it with the rough edges towards you, roll it and fold it again; repeat this twice more, so that it is rolled out and folded four times in all. It is now ready for use for a meat pie, apple tart, or tartlets. ^^^Short Crust. ' Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. C, ^jQuarter of a pound of Butter. / - Half a teaspoonful of Baking-powder. ^Put the flour into a basin and mix in the l}aking-powder; rub the butter into the flour with138 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. your hands; add enough cold water to make a stiff paste. Put the paste on a floured board and roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. It is now ready for use for tarts, turnovers, or baked dum- plings. Flaky Crust. Ingredients. Three-quarters of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Salt. Put the flour and a little salt into a basin an^ mix to a stiff" paste with about a gill of cold water. Put this on a paste-board and roll it out to a thin sheet. Divide the butter into three equal portions; take one portion and spreaJ it over the paste with a knife, sprinkle a little flour over it^ fold it in three, and roll it out; repeat this twice. When all the butter is rolled in, roll out the paste to the size required for a fruit tart or an open tart, and it is ready for use.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 139' OMELETS. Cheese Omelet. jfi > Ingredients. Three Eggs. Two ounces of grated Parmesan. Mignonette Pepper. Salt. One ounce of Butter. Break the eggs into a basin and whip them till well mixed; then add pepper, salt, and the cheese. Melt one ounce of butter in the omelet pan, and turn in the eggs; stir quickly to prevent the omelet from sticking. When just set, turn it quickly over towards the handle of the pan for a second, and then on to a hot dish. Kidney Omelet Ingredients. One Kidney. Parsley. Three Eggs. A piece of Shalot. One ounce and a half of Butter Salt and Pepper. Cut up the kidney into small pieces and saute it in a stewpan with a little pepper and salt, parsley, and the shalot chopped very fine. Take the eggs and beat the whites and yolks separately.HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 140 Mix the kidney and chopped shalot with the yolks of egg. Put the butter into the omelet-pan and make it quite hot. Then stir the whipped whites of egg lightly into the yolks, &c.; put the mix- ture into the omelet-pan for two or three minutes over the fire, stirring all the time. Oyster Omelet. Ingredients, Three Eggs. Six Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Blanch and heard the oysters and cut each into four. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the yolks a little, and add the oysters and pepper and salt. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir lightly to the yolks. Cook as for kidney omelet. Savoury Omelet. J(' Ingredients. Two Eggs. One ounce of Butter. Salt and Pepper. Parsley. Shalot. Break two eggs into a basin and whip them; kjkite^ k add pepper and salt to taste. Chop a teaspoonful ^/HuHIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 141 of parsley and a very small piece of shalot fine, and add that. Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet- or frying-pan. When the butter is quite hot, pour in the eggs ; stir quickly with a spoon, and shake the pan to prevent the omelet sticking. Turn it quickly towards the handle of the pan,, turn it over for a second, and then on to a hot plate. ^^Sweet Omelet. Ingredients, Two Eggs. Half an ounce of Butter. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Orange-Flower Water. Salt. Put the orange-flower water and the sugar into a stewpan, and stir over the fire ; let it boil quickly for three minutes; then put it into a basin to cool. When cool, add the yolks of egg and beat to a cream. Put a pinch of salt to the whites of egg, whip them to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly to the yolks of egg. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, and pour in the eggs; put this on the fire for two minutes, and then in the oven for three or four minutes. Have some jam, about a dessertspoonful, quite hot; take the omelet out of the oven and put it on a hot dish, spread the142 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. jam on the omelet lightly and quickly, fold it over like a sandwich, sprinkle a little castor sugar over it, and serve. Tomato Omelet. Ingredients, One Tomato. Three Eggs. A piece of Shalot. One ounce and a half of Butter. Skin the tomato, cut it up into small pieces, ^ith a piece of shalot cut fine. Take the eggs, heat the yolks and whites separately; mix the tomato, shalot, pepper, and salt with the yolks. Put the hutter into the omelet-pan and make it quite hot; then stir the whipped whites of egg lightly into the yolks, &c.; put the mixture into the omelet-pan and cook for two or three minutes, stirring all the time.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 143 JELLIES, CREAMS, AND ICES. Apple Jelly. Th^^ Ingredients. One pound of Apples. Half a pint of Cream. One Lemon. Three ounces of Lump Sugar. One ounce of Gelatine. Half a teaspoonful of Cochineal. Three gills of Cold Water. Peel, core, and cut up the apple into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with the sugar, half a pint of water, the juice and grated rind of the lemon ; when cooked to a pulp, rub through a hair-sieve, and stir in the gelatine melted in a gill of water. Colour part of the apple with the cochineal, and fill a border mould with alternate layers of the coloured'and plain apple. When cold, turn out, and serve with half a pint of whipped cream in the centre.144 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Calf's Foot Jelly. Ingredients, Two Calves' Feet. Two Lemons. Two Eggs. ■ Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Four Cloves. One inch of Cinnamon. One wineglassful of Sherry. ' Half a wineglassful of Brandy. Chop each foot into four pieces, wash them well in cold water, and blanch them; put the feet in a stewpan with five pints of cold water. Let this boil gently for five hours, skimming it care- fully ; then strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin to set. When this jelly stock is quite cold, dip a clean cloth into hot water and wipe every particle of grease off the stock. Squeeze the juice of the lemons through a strainer into a stewpan, add the lemon-peel, the whites of the eggs, slightly whipped, the egg-shells crushed, the sugar, cinnamon, and cloves. Whisk these altogether, add the jelly stock, and whisk well till it boils. As soon as it boils, put the lid on the stewpan and draw to the side of the fire for twenty minutes to form a crust. When the crust is formed, the jelly must be strained through a jelly-bag or clean cloth previously scalded. When strained, add the wine and brandy. Garnish a jelly-mould according to taste, pour in the jelly, and set.145 HIGH-CLASS OOOKBET. Jelly from Gelatine. Ingredients, Whites of two Eggs. Fifteen sheets of Gelatine. Four ounces of Loaf Sugar. One pint of Water. Half a pint of Sherry. Juice and rind of two Lemons. Put all these ingredients together into a stew- pan, and stir with a whisk until just boiling. Let it stand at the side of the fire for a few minutes, then strain it as usual; pour into a mould, and set. Orange Jelly. Ingredients, Half a pint of Orange-juice. Half a pint of Water. Juice of two Lemons. Rind of three Oranges. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Twelve sheets of French Gelatine. Put the water, sugar, orange-rind, and gelatine into a stewpan, and let them simmer for ten minutes; skim and strain. Add the orange and lemon juice, pour into a mould, and set. 10HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 146 Coffee Cream. Ingredients, Two Eggs. Twelve sheets of Gelatine. Three ounces of Loaf Sugar. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Cream. Half a gill of strong Coffee. Make half a pint of custard with the eggs and milk. Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the coffee; add the custard, and strain; whip the cream, and stir lightly into the custard when cool. Pour into the mould, and set. ^^^Charlotte Russe. j )4 ' ^ Ingredients, Twelve Sponge Finger-biscuits. Half an ounce of Gelatine One gill of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One dessertspoonful of Castor Sugar. Thirty drops of Essence of Vanilla. Take a pint soufflee-tin and line it carefully with the biscuits, fitting them close to each other;HIGH-CLASS OOOKEEY. 147 cut off the tops of the biscuits that stand above the tin. Put the gelatine and milk in a stewpan on the fire to melt. Whip the cream to a stiff froth; add the sugar and vanilla to it. Strain the melted gelatine into the cream, mix it well, and pour it carefully into the mould, not to dis- arrange the biscuits. When set, turn out and serve. Ginger Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of three Eggs. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One gill of Milk. Half a gill of Ginger Syrup. Half a pint of Cream. Two ounces of Ginger. Three quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Make a custard of the eggs, milk, and sugar; when cool, add to this the syrup of ginger, the ginger cut into small pieces, and the gelatine melted, last of all the cream whipped; mix all well together; pour into a mould to set. 10 *HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 148 ^ Italian Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Castor Sugar. One ounce of melted^Gelatine. One wineglassful of Cura9oa. (Or half a wineglassful of Brandy, and half a wineglassful of Sherry.) Make a custard with the eggs and milk; add the sugar, gelatine, and cura9oa. When cool, mix in the cream whipped; stir altogether, and mould. Neapolitan Cream. Ingredients. Yolks of four Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of melted Gelatine. Half a pint of Jelly. One ounce of dried Cherries. Three ounces of Preserved Ginger. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, and let it cool; cut up the ginger very small, cook it for ten minutes in one gill of syrup, and let it also cool. Decorate a mould all over with the jelly and dried cherries. Stir the melted gelatine, the ginger, and the cream, whipped, into the custard ; pour all into the decorated mould, and set.149 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Strawberry Cream. Ingredients, One pint of fresh Strawberries. Three oiinces of Castor Sugar. Three-quarters of an ounce of French Gelatine. Half a pint of Cream. The juice of one Lemon. Take all the stalks off the strawberries, put <them on a silk or hair sieve, sprinkle half an ounce of sugar over them, and pass them through the sieve. Put the gelatine into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of cold water, the rest of the sugar, and the juice of the lemon. When the gelatine is melted, strain it into the strawberries, add the cream well whipped, stir all lightly to- gether, pour into a pint mould, and set. Three Eggs. Half a pint of Milk. Half a pint of Double Cream. One ounce of Gelatine. One tablespoonful of Castor Sugar. Half a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. Make a custard of the milk, three yolks of egg and one white, melt the gelatine in two table- spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the custard, ilia Cream. Ingredients,150 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. mixing it well. Whip the cream to a stiff froth,, adding the sugar and vanilla. When the custard is sufficiently cool, stir the whipped cream lightly into it, and pour it into a mould to set. Velvet Cream. ~ Ingredients. Three quarters of an ounce of Gelatine. Two ounces of Castor Sugar. One glass of Sherry. The rind of one Lemon. Half a pint of Double Cream. One gill of Water. Melt the gelatine in one gill of water, then add the sugar^ sherry, grated rind of one lemon, and the cream whipped to a stiff froth; pour into a mould to set. Do not add the cream until the melted gelatine is cool. Lemon Water Ice. Ingredients. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. One pint of Water. Zest of two Lemons. Juice of four Lemons. Whites of two Eggs. Put the water and sugar in a stewpan on the fire to boil ten minutes, reserving about six lumps151 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. of sugar from the half pound, with which rub the zest from the two lemons. Strain the juice, which should meas ure one gill; sometimes it will take more than the quantity to make the measure. When the syrup is cold, add the lemon-juice, and freeze. When half frozen, add the whipped whites of two eggs. N.B.—In making ices, the quantities should always be measured. Thus, in water or cream ices, to one pint of syrup add one pint of juice or puree of fruit, with the exception of lemons. The fruit should never be added hot. The cream should never be added without being whipped. Pine-apple Water Ice. Ingredients, One small Pine-apple, tinned or fresh. One pint of Water, if tinned. One pint and a half of Water, if fresh fruit. Half a pound of Loaf Sugar. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Pound the pine-apple in a mortar, put it in a stewpan with the water and sugar; let this boil ten minutes, strain into a basin, add the lemon- juice, and when cold freeze.152 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Strawberry Cream Ice. Ingredients, One pound of Strawberries. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. One teaspoonful of Cochineal. One tablespoonful of Lemon-juice. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Kemove the stalks from strawberries, put them on a fine hair-sieve, rub them through with a wooden spoon, add the cochineal and lemon-juice. This should measure half a pint. Add to this the cream^ whipped, and freeze. When well frozen, pack tightly-into an ice mould, and return to the ice till required for table. Ice Pudding. higredients. One pint and a half of Milk. Yolks of four Eggs. One whole Egg. Quarter of a pound of Loaf Sugar. Quarter of a pound of Dried Fruits. One ounce of Pistachio Nuts. One ounce of Candied Citron, chopped fine. One glassful of Maraschino. Half a glassful of Brandy. Half a pint of whipped Cream. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, adding the sugar to the milk. Strain it, and when coldIngredients. HIGH-CLASS COOKEEY. 153 put it in the freezing pot; when half frozen, add the dried fruits cut in pieces, candied peel, pis- tachios, maraschino, &c., and lastly, the whipped cream. When well frozen, pack into your pudding- mould and freeze until wanted. ^ ' Thirty Peppercorns. Two Blades of Mace. One clove of Garlic. Two Shalots. One sprig of Thyme. One small bunch of Parsley. One Onion, stuck with four Gloves. One Leek. Half a head of Celery. Two Carrots. One Turnip. One sprig of Tarragon. One sprig of Chervil. Two Bay-leaves. The rind and juice of one Lemon. The whites of two Eggs. Half a gill of common Vinegar, f One tablespoonful of Chili Vinegar. Half a gill of Tarragon Vinegar. One gill of Sherry. Two quarts of Water. Take two calves^ feet and chop them into eight pieces. Wash them well in cold water, and put Two Calves' Feet. Aspic Jelly.154 HIGH-OLASS COOKERY. them in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover them. Let them boil to blanch them ; then pour the water off, and wash them again in cold water. Wash the stewpan and put the pieces of feet into it, with two quarts of-water, and just bring it to the boil; watch it and skim it occasionally. Add half a teaspoonful of salt and all the other ingredients, except the lemon, the eggs, and the vinegars. Let all boil gently for five hours* Strain it off through a hair-sieve into a basin, and let it stand until perfectly cold; take off the fat,, and wipe the top of the stock with a cloth dipped in hot water, to remove every particle oF grease. Put the stock into a clean stewpan, with the lemon- peel and juice ; also add the whipped whites of two eggs and the shells, the vinegars, and salt to taste. Whisk all on the fire until it boils; then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let it stand for half an hour to form a crust. Take a clean soup cloth, and fix it on the stand; pour the contents into the cloth, and let it all run through into a basin. Let it pass through a second time slowly. Scald a mould with boihng water, then rinse it in cold water; garnish the mould with fish or vege- tables, according to taste, pour in the jelly care- fully, and let it stand until cold, when turn out. and serve.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 155 FANCY BREAD AND CAKES. Arrowroot Cake. Ingredients. One pound of Butter. One pound of Arrowroot. One pound of Sugar. Eight Eggs. One Nutmeg. Rind of one Lemon. Beat the butter to a cream ; beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately a long time; add the sugar rubbed through a sieve. Beat all well together for one hour, and bake in a moderate oven. Vienna Bread. ^ ^ 7 Ingredients, One pound of Flour. Half an ounce of Yeast. Quarter of an ounce of Castor Sugar. Quarter of an ounce of Salt. ^* ^ ^ warm Milk. Mix the sugar and yeast together; add the milk^^*fl^e the flour, salt, and buttay in a basin. Pour the dissolved yeast to these, and beat all together. Let the dough rise about two hours; make the mixture into rolls; let them prove, and bake in a quick oven.156 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. Orange Cake. Ingredients, Six ounces of Vienna Flour. Five ounces of Castor Sugar. Rind of one Orange, grated. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Three Eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar together to a smooth <3ream; add the flour and baking-powder sifted, and the orange-rind. Mix all well together, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. When cold, ice it with French icing made of half a pound of icing-sugar worked well with the juice of the orange ; when well mixed, pour this all over the cake. Walnut Cake. Ingredients. One pound of Vienna Flour. Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Quarter of a pound of Butter. Eight Eggs. Six ounces of Walnuts or Almonds. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. One teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the flour, sifted, and mix well; add the walnuts orHIGH-OLASS OOOKERT. 157 almonds chopped, and lastly the whites only of the eight eggs, whipped to a stiff froth. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Savarin. Ingredients, One pound of Vienna Flour. Half an ounce of German Yeast. Quarter of a teaspoonful of Castor Sugar. Two gills of Milk. Five Eggs. Three quarters of a pound of Butter. Warm one gill of milk, mix the yeast and sugar together, and stir the warm milk to them. Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the middle, and pour in the milk with the yeast and sugar in it; just mix a little flour with it, and put it in a warm place to rise. When this sponge has risen to twice its original size, add the other gill of milk and two eggs; beat it well with the hand, adding by degrees the other three eggs and the butter beaten to a cream. Work all this well together, and put it into a mould to rise; when it has risen, bake it in a moderate oven for forty- five minutes. Turn it out, and when cold pour a good rum syrup over it.158 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 1 German Pound Cake. Ingredients, Ten ounces of Flour. Eight ounces of Fresh Butter. Eight ounces of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Peel. JJ>Jj£>\suC • One Lemon. , Quarter of a pound of Sultanas. Four Eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the flour, sifted by degrees, and the eggs, one at a time^, beating all well together with y^i^^SattS-. Now add the sultanas, the candied peel chopped up, and the grated rind of the lemon; mix all well together with a spoon. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom of the tin; pour in the cake, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When baked, turn it out on to a sieve to cool. Chocolate Cake. Half a pound of grated Chocolate. Quarter of a pound of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Two ounces of ground Rice. Six ounces of White Sugar. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four Eggs. Vanilla flavouring. Beat the butter and eggs well together, add the grated chocolate, previously dissolved in a table-169 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. spoonful of milk; add the yolks of egg one by one, mixing each carefully. Mix the flour, rice, and baking-powder together, sift them through a sieve to the yolks of egg. Beat the whites of egg to a very stiff froth and stir in lightly. Pour this mixture into a saute-pan, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Genoa Cake. Ingredients, Ten ounces of Flour. Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Sugar. Three ounces of Candied Peel. One ounce of Pistachio Kernels. Two ounces of Almonds. Six ounces of Sultanas. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Five Eggs. Grated rind of one Lemon. Cream the butter well. Add the sugar, and cream again. Add all the other ingredients except the almonds, pistachio nuts, eggs and baking- powder ; then add the eggs one at a time, beating each one well in. When all are well mixed in, add the almonds and pistachio kernels cut in strips,160 HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. and lastly the baking-powder. Bake in a shallow tin or saute-pan for one hour and a half in a mode- rate oven. Galettes. '^-^'''^ Ingredients. One pound of Vienna Flour. One pound of Households. Six ounces of Butter. One ounce of Yeast. Half a pint of Milk. One ounce and a half of Castor Sugar. Five Eggs. Dissolve the yeast and sugar, and add the warm milk; mix this to a dough with the households, and stand warm to rise. Add to the Vienna flour the butter and the eggs, and beat for ten minutes. Mix the two doughs together and heat for twenty minutes. Set this to rise from one and a half to two hours. Cut the dough into buns, knead it, put it on tins floured, and stand near the fire till the tops crack; then bake for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven. Brush with milk and sugar when half baked.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 161 11 Mocha Cake. Ingredients for the GaJce. Four Eggs. Quarter of a pound of Castor Sugar. Two ounces of Vienna Flour. Two ounces of Potato Flour. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Ingredients for the Icing, Half a pound of Fresh Butter. Quarter of a pound of Icing-Sugar. One tablespoonful of Essence of Coffee. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the castor tsugar, adding the flour and baking-powder gra- dually, beat till a smooth cream, then stir in lightly the four whites of egg whipped to a stiff froth; butter a plain mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out, and when quite cold, cover it wilfh the icing, and decorate to taste with the icing squeezed through the icing forcers. To make the icing, beat the butter and sugar together in a basin to a smooth cream, adding the coffee to it one drop at a time. When the cake is iced, stand it away on ice or in a cool place till required.162 HIGH-GLASS COOKERY. Rich Plum Cake. Ingredients, One pound of fresh Butter, One pound of Castor Sugar. One pound of Mixed Peel. One pound and a half of Flour. One pound of dried Cherries. One pound of Sultana Raisins. Eight ounces of Almonds. Half a pint of Brandy. Ten Eggs. One teaspoonful of Salt. One ounce of Allspice. Cream the butter and sugar well together, then sift in the flour and salt gradually, add the eggs one at a time, beating with your hand till all is well and smoothly mixed. Chop the cherries a little, chop the peel and the almonds, add these with the sultanas and the allspice, mix well together, and add last of all the brandy, a little at a time. Be sure that all is thoroughly mixed. Line a cake- tin with buttered paper, putting three rounds of buttered paper at the bottom, and bake for three hours in a moderate oven. The heat of the oven must not rise after the cake goes in.HIGH-CLASS COOKERY. 16S Sultana Cake. Ingredients, One pound of Flonr. Half a pound of Butter. Half a pound of Castor Sugar. Five Eggs. Half a pound of Sultanas. One gill of Milk. The rind of one Lemon. One teaspoonful of Baking-powder. Four ounces of Peel. Salt. Cream the butter and sugar well together, sift in the flour, the salt, and the baking-powder; add the eggs, one at a time, and the milk; beat all well to- gether with your hand; then stir in the sultanas, the peel chopped,, and the grated lemon-rind. Mix well. Line a cake-tin with buttered paper, two thicknesses at the bottom, and bake in a moderate oven for one hour and a half.h?e/^ lrh4 fvuu^. (2^(/ U- ^ ^OA^ct. U/h^ Py%cv^A </ LOUDOK : PBINTKI) BT W. H. ALIEN AHD CO., 13 WATERLOO PLACE. S.W. Jm/. l)cter>i ^CT JiU/^ (m^'\ht4i^9^'^,Myi^ l6. kUUi". -4-BRADFORD'S PATENT "VOWEL" WASHING, WRINGING, AND MANGLING MACHINES are everywhere known as the MOST USEFUL and DURABLE. Free Trial before Purchase, Free Delivery, and Special Discount for Cash. See Catalogue, with Illustrations of Seventy Machines, and Book of Testimony containing the opinions of some 500 Pur- chasers. Washingr Machines from ^2 15s. Mang^les from £2 5s. Indiarubber "Wring-ers from £\ 5s. LAUNDRY REaUISITES OF EVERY DESCRIPTION. Our Showrooms also contain a Large and Comprehensive Stock of Domestic Machinery and Horticultural Machinery. BLnife Cleaners, Mincers, Coffee, Wheat, & Spice Mills, Boot Cleaners, Cask Stands, Ice Safes, &c. THOMAS BRADFORDIcO, Garden Rollers, Lawn Mowers, Barrows, Engines, Floral Tools. Tents, Vases, Seats, Chairs, &c. 140^141, 142, & 143, Hiffh Kolborn, London \ and at Iiiverpool and London. RIPPINGILLE'S S OIL COOKING STOVES Will EoAST, Bake, Boil, Stew, Steam, Fry, Toast, &e. In the most Cleanly, Economical, • and Successful Manner. Odourless, Smokeless, Portable, Safe, and Cleanly. Always receive the Highest Awards. The Best Oil Stoves In the World, THEY SAVE KEEPING A FIRE IN HOT WEATHER, And are the most Perfect for Safety, Comfort, Efficiency, Utility, and Freedom from Smell and Dirt. SOLD BY ALL IRONMONGERS & LAMP DEALERS. Ask for Rippingrille's Patent Stoves, and see you g'et -j^hem. Full Illustrated Catalogue, and name of nearest Agent, together with a Complete GiriDE to Cookery, will be sent free to any address on application to the Sole Manufacturers, THE ALBION LAMP COMPANY, BIRMINGHAM.YEATMAN'S YEAST POWDER. YEATMAN'S EPICUREAN SAUCE. Delicious and Appetizing. For Meat, Game, Poultry, Fish, &c. YEATMAN'S INDIAN CURRY POWDER. YEATMAN'S CUSTARD POWDER. YEATMAM'S LIME JDICE CORDIAL. BUDLEIGH^SALTERTON. South Devon. THE "ROLLE ARMS" HOTEL FACING THE SEA. ; WITH CROQUET AND TENNIS LAWN. Five Miles from Exmouth. A Coach meets all the Trains. BuDLEiGH Saltekton is Celebrated for its mild yet bracing climate, pure air and water, excellent Fishing and Boating, and good Bathing. Delightful rambles in the Woods and Villages around. Two miles to Budleigh Church, where the head of Sir Walter Ealeigh is buried, and Hayes Farm, his birth-place. FOE TERMS APPLY TO Miss LAWRENCE, Proprietres s.London: W. H. ALLEN & CO., 18 Waterloo Place. Pall Mall. S.W. ^ ADAMS & SON, MANUFACTURING & FURNISHING IRONMONGERS, ELECTRO-PLATERS AND CUTLERS, By Appointment to K.M. the Queen & K.R.K. the Prince of WaIm, 57, HAYMARKET, S.W. Stockpot. Bainmarie. Stewpan. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KITCHEN EEaUISITES, MOULDS, and all the latest Parisian Novelties and Specialities for the Cuisine, Special attention being given to this Department. Depot for CAPT. WARREN'S PATENT COOKING POTS. 10 per Cent. Discount allowed for Cash. Illustrated Catalog'ue forwarded on Application. 67, HAYMARKET, S.W. Price One Shilling. THE NATIONAL TKAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, S.W. PLAIN COOKERY RECIPES, AS TAUGHT IN THE SCHOOL. PREPARED BY MES. CHARLES CLARKE, The Lady Superintendent.The National Condiment. CELEBRATED FOR ITS UNEOUALLED FLAVOR. SUPPLIED TO H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. ROBINSON'S PATENT G R0AT8. A Comfortable Night's Eest can be secured by a Supper of Milk Porridge made from ROBINSON'S PATENT GROATS, And a Nutritious Breakfast by using it instead of Scotch Oatmeal, which is less digestible. Sold in i-lb. Packets and 1-lb. Canisters by Grocers and Chemists.75 PER CENT. LESS FUEL BURNT. ANOTHEE GEEAT IMPEOVEMENT. A NEW INVENTION. COXSTANTINE'S Patent Self-Adjustable Fire-Grating, for reducing and enlarging the fire at will, can now be applied to the open fire PATENT " TREASURE" COOKING RANGE. PERFECTION AND ECONOMY IN COOKERY BY USING THE Patent" TREASURE" Cooking-Range. Unsurpassed for Durability, May be placed Anywhere, The First Prize was awarded to the Patentee, after nearly one thousand tests of a variety of Banges, by the Smoke Abatement Exhibition Ladies' Committee, South Kensington.—Vide Times, July 18 and 19,1882. Also the Grand Prize by the Exhibition—First Silver Medal. intbbnationaij health exhibition, 1884.—three prize medals awarded. Distinctive Merits :— Perfection in Cooking, Economy in Fuel, Abatement of Smoke. Illustrated Price Books Post Free. W. A. CONSTANTINE, 61, FLEET ST., E.G. ESTABLISHED A QUAKTEB OF A CENTURY. V.B.-THS CHEAPEST COAX. MOST SUXTABZ.E.PATENT POTATO STEAMER. Received Honourahle Mention at the National Health Society^s Exhibition^ June, 1883. BOIUNG- STEAMING., OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. " From experimeutb made it is found that all sorts of Potatoes can be cooked with certainty and satisfaction in this steamer."—The Ironmonger. " Experience has proved that this Steariier is admirable in operation, and there is no class of Potatoes which cannot be successfully cooked by its means."—The Merchant. " The apparatus before vis simply and easily takes the place of experience, and the Potato has not yet been grown that cannot be cooked to perfection in it by the humblest culinary assistant."— Sanitriry Record. " We have tried this simple and useful invention. . . , Potatoes cooked in this way are certainly more pleasant to the taste; and, what is vastly more important, they are more digestible than when simply boiled."—HeaW/i (Edited by Dr. Andrew Wilson). " ^All sorts and conditions' of Potatoes have been cooked in it with invariable satisfactory results." -'The Caterer. "An invention which most assuredly meets, and that perfectly, an universal and daily want."— Building World. "By this invention there is an absolute certainty of their being well and thoroughly cooked, and being dished up in a proper condition. I have tested the Steamer myself, and am quite satisfied with the result of its action on both New and Old Potatoes."—BazckTr, Exchange and Mart. *' These and other obstacles have been successfully overcome by the new Potato Steamer represented in our woodcut."—Ofxssejrs Family Magazine. " It certainly does its work admirably, and appears to supply a want long felt by cooks and house- keepers."—Editor, Lady's Pictorial. TESTIMONIALS. Messrs. Bertram & Roberts write— " Gentlemen,—Bower's Potato Steamer (20 lbs.) I had of you answers admirably, and I can strongly recommend it." " W. H. OLIVER, ' Chef.'" Tlie following' unsolicited Testimonial is from the Editor of one of the leading" Illustrated London Papers. " Gentlemen,—A few weeks ago you kindly sent me one of your patent Potato Steamers which I acknowledged before I had had time to test its merits; it really is invaluable. It has fallen to my lot to have all sorts and kinds of potatoes and divers cooks of late, but they simply cannot help cooking the potatoes properly. I have never had them served up so uniformly well in my life, and hope that in a short time no family or restaurant may be without your Steamers. " Believe me to be," &c. We are authorised by the NATIONAL SCHOOL OF COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, to state that Bower's Potato Steamer has been thorovighly tested with the result that it fully accomplishes what is claimed for it, viz.—That any sort of potato can be cooked to perfection in it by even an unqualified person." SIZES:— 3lbs. 5/-; 4lbs. 6/-; 6lb8. 7/6 ; lOlbs. 15/-; 15lbs. 18/6 ; 20lbs. 23/6. To be obtained of any Ironmonger in town or country at the aboTe-mentiOned prices, and wholesale of the sole Manufacturers, GROOM d CO., Liquorpond Street, London. E.C.The Wilson Cooking Ranges, In Sizes from 21 Inches to 30 Feet, AS USED AT HAX£I.I.'S HOTELS, LONDON & BRIGHTON, And all the Principal Hotels, Clubs, AND MANSIONS. GOLD MEDAL, CALCUTTA, FOR Domestic Ranges, From 35s. Awarded 13 Prize Medals. 75 % Fuel saved. To be seen in use at the Duval Kitchen (Spiers & Pond), Inventions Exhibition ; also Bertram & Roberts' Kitchens, Albert Palace^ Battersea Park. SHOW ROOM :-227, HIGH HOLBORN, W.G. PRIZE MEDAL, HEALTH EXHIBITION, 1884. tiidim: JOIST'S SEA SALT, FOR PRODUCING A SEA BATH IN YOUR OWN ROOM. The contents of a 7-lb. Box suffice for 22 gal- lons of water. All who desire health and strength should daily use this unrivalled invigorator. World-wide renown having induced many imi- tations, purchasers should see that every package bears the proprietor's Trade Mark. SOLB IN BAGS AND BOXES BY CHEMISTS AND DRUGGISTS.CROSSE & BLACKWELL'S MALT VINEGAR, PURE PICKLES, SAUCES, POTTED MEATS, AND FISH, PREPARED SOUPS, CALVES' FEET JELLY, JAMS, AND ORANGE MARMALADE, ALWAYS BEAR THEIR NAMES AND ADDRESS ON THE LABELS. And may be obtained of Grocers and Italian Warehousemen throughout the World. CROSSE AND BLACKWELL (PUBVEYOBS TO THE QUEEN), SOHO SQUARE, LONDON. LIDSTONE & CO., BUTGHEBS, EST. 1801. 206, SLOANE STREET, S.W. J. L. & Co., of Sloane Street, have supplied the National School of Cookery, for many years, with all Meat, Ox-Tongues, Calves'-Heads, &c., and will at all times be pleased to quote the very Lowest Prices by Contract, or otherwise supply Clubs, Schools, Hotels, or Private Families. The New Zealand Mutton is now being used very largely, and they supply that properly thawed ready for use at the Market Prices ; but having the pick of the largest consignors' stock, can always depend on the Best Quality that comes to this country.Loisdon: W. H. ALLEN & GO., 13 Waterloo Place. S.W. Crown 8vo. 3s, 6d. each Volume. EMINENT WOMEN SERIES. VOL UMES A LEE AT) Y 188 UED :— George Eliot. By Mathilde Blind. Emily Bronte. By A. Mary F. Robinson. George Sand. By Bertha Thomas. Mary Lamb. By Anne Gilchrist. Maria Edgeworth. By Helen Zimmern, Margaret Fuller. By Julia Ward Howe. Elizabeth Fry. By Mrs. E. R. Pitman. Countess of Albany. By Vernon Lee. Harriet Martineau. By Mrs- Fenwick Miller. Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin. By Elizabeth Robins Pennbll. VOLUME8 IN PREPARATION:— Susannah Wesley. By Mrs. E. Clarke. Madame Roland. By Mathilde Blind. Madame de Stael. By Bella Duffy. Mapgaret of Navarre. By Mary A. Eobinson. Vittoria Colonna. By Miss A. Kennard.timt §i ^ulm. ^^^^^ ^mIjb ^uk. E. K. WILSON, 13& 38, SUSSEX PLACE, Onslow Gardens, By Appointment to the National Training School for Cookery, MAKER OF EVEEY DESCEIPTION OF COOKING AND HEATING APPARATUS, Begs to call attention to the following Specialities: "THE KENSINGTON RANGE." This range has an open fire for roasting, a wrought-irou oven, with a flue cir- culating all round, making the oven of an equal heat in every part; the top of oven forms a hot plate, on which vessels can be kept stewing ; the same fire also heats two boilers, the one for supplying hot water in any part of the house, and the other for supplying hot water or steam in the kitchen. The patterns are so arranged that the proportions of oven or fire or boiler room can be varied to suit the requirements of the establishment. The Prices of these ranges are—3 ft. 6 in., £13 10s. ; 4 ft., £14 15s.; 4 ft. 6 in., £15 15s.; 5 ft., £16 10s. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast-iron Boiler, One Wrougbt-iron High-pressure Boiler, as described. E.K. WILSON'S "KENSINGTON KITCHENER." This close fire range is believed to be as perfect as can be produced, aud is the result of many years of experience and attention. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast Boiler and Covings, and Plate Rack. The Prices are as follows : 3 ft. 6 in., £10 18s. 6d.; 4 ft., £12 5s.; 4 ft. 6 in., £14 5s.; 5 ft., £15 12s. 6d. If fitted with Extra Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, £2 10s. extra. If fitted with Two Ovens, one for pastry and one for meat, and One Wrought- iron High-pressure Boiler, 4 ft., £18 10s.; 4 ft. 6 in., £20 18s. 6d.; 5 ft., £22 10s.; 5 ft. 6 in., £24 10s. E. K. Wilson has paid great attention to the making of Stoves for Cooking by Gas, since the introduction of the Bwnsen principle of diluting gas with air; the great cleanliness and economy secured by a properly balanced burner, made on this principle, renders gas a most valuable agent for many culinary purposes. THE STUDENT'S GAS STOVE Is made in several sizes, and is fitted with a Roaster, an Oven for Baking, and Ring Burners on the top for Stewing. The prices are as follows: No. 1, £2 8s.; No. 2, £3 10s; No. 3, £5 5s. GAS STEWING PLATES are a most valuable addition to any Kitchen, and are made in every variety of size, with Atmospheric Ring Burners, from 15s. upwards. NOTE,—E. K. WILSON waits upon intending Purchasers to advise as to the best kinds of COOKING APPARATUS for their purpose, free of charge in any part of London, orifvn the Country, at the cost of second-class railway fare. Faulty Hot Water Circulation rectified, and Ovens, Flues, &c. re-constructed on most Scientific Principles.CHARLES'S FISH, OYSTER, AND ICE AGENCY, 9, LOWEB GROSVENOR PUGE, LONDON, S.W. (NEAR BUCKINGHAM PALACE.) Ice Storehouses: 106, Cheyne Walk, and Milman Street^ €lie^«5ea, S.W.; also at Cliristiania, and Brobak, Monday. A Peice Ourkent (Nett) is published every morning. It represents a list of all Fiyhj &c., in good season, and the Prices are lower than at any other establishment or stores in London. Oastomers waited on daily for orders, and all g^oods delivered to asiy part of l^ondon without any ohargre for carriage or delivery. At a CoTirt of Assistants of the Fishmongers'Company, holden a+' Fishmongers' 0:_u.I, on Tlvarsday, the 8tli day of November, 1883, it was ordered: That the thanks of this Court be given to Mr. John S. Charles, a liveryman of this Company, for the satisfactory manner in which lie carried out his contract with them for the supply of Fish (75 Tons) for the Cheap Fish Dinners at the Great International Fisheries Exhibition, 1883, and that the same, together with a Silver Salver, be presented to Mr. Charles, in testimony of their appreciation thereof; and that a copy of this resolution foe Inscribed on the salver. W. B. TOWSE, Cl&n^. Aworde^l the DIPI.OMA OF HONOUK and the GOIsD MEDAL, at the Grecit International Fisheries Exhibition (Liondon, 1883), " In recognition of vahiable services rendeaed by you in connection with the Cheap Fish Dinners," o(:c., viz. for supplying the 75 Tons of Cheap Fish, used for the 209,673 Sixpenny Fish Dinners served there. Also awarded THEEE DIPLOMAS OF HONOUK, and the GOLD MEDAL, at the International Health Exhibition (London, 1884), for Cheap Fish, &c., &c. Ice supplied in any quantities* Wholesale and EetaiL FISH SUPPLIED BY CONTEAGT WHEEE THAT METHOD IS PEEFERRED, FainiUes^ Public Institutions^ Country Fishmongers^ Cluhs^ Hotels, Restaurantsi Asylums^ Hospitals^ Sfc, supplied with Fish in any f-'-nnt^'^' at the lowest possible prices. The Fish used at the National Traming SchooS for Cookei\y, South Kensington, is supplied by us.SANITARY "SEAMLESS STEEL" SAUCEPAHS, STEWPANS, SttUn'\SAUTE PAINTS, BAIN-MAEIE PANS, POTS, dc. do. Stewpan. if Salte or Omelet Pam, STRONG, DURABLE/ CLEANLY. PLANISHED AND BURNISHED. No Verdigris. No Enamel Arsenic. No Copper Contamination, No Braizing, COATED WITH PUEE REPINED TIN. Possessing all the Advantages^ but none of the Drawbacks, of Copper or Enamel, Same Thickness and Weight as the Ordinary Copper Pans, m USJL AT TKB SSTATIOITAL TBAIHIKTG SCKOOI. rOB GOOKBRT AlfB INVEWTIOITB SSXHIBXTIOW, AHD AT THE IkATE HIKAXiTH H-KMIBXTIOM. Tliese Utensils are thickly coated inside and out witb pure Tiu, They can easily be re-tinned, but the bodies, being bright ateel, are equally healthy, cleanly, and nninjtirious to food, thus rendering them far superior to copper. Their strength and thickness, and being Seamless Steel, make them practically in- destructible and not lia^^le to burn their contents. Their cost being considerably less than wroughfc-iro j, and about one-third the price of coi^per, they shouTf] bo used in every Household, Cooking School, Eestaiirant, Club» &c. Made ah;o to nest, for shipping, and with loose handles for camp use. Sole Manufacturers Patentees (Wholesale only). B. PERKINS & SON, CANNON ST. BUILDINGS, E.C., k BERMONOSEY ST,, S.E., x.o»rz>ox*ar. TO BE OBTAINED OF ALL IRONMONGERS, STORES, ^-e.Hinn &. Wilson Ltd