which do I now see reason to alter. “ To Mr. Carmichael % SYPHILIS. 467 to their treatment, the essential object of’ all classifica- tion, 1 would observe, that while I believe they will, one and all, recover without the use ot‘ mercury, yet I am persuaded, notwithstanding all that has been alleged to the contrary, that the cure will frequently be promoted by the moderate use of this mineral ; and that its good effects will be most conspicuous in the Hunterian chancre, and in the others in proportion, as they approach nearer in character to this. Thus, assuming Mr. Car- michael’s arrangement, I believe, that in cases of what he terms the true syphilitic ulcer, and in the first two of what he terms the pseudo syphilitic sores, recoveries will, for the most part, be promoted by the use of mercury, and what is of the utmost consequence, secondary symptoms will, in my opinion, be very frequently obviated. In the next two of Mr. Carmichael’s pseudo-syphilitic diseases, excoriations, and gonorrhoea, no one in this country at least, will, I believe, contend that mer- cury is useful, much less necessary. I say in this country, because Lagneu, a late French writer on this disease, incul- cates the identity of the gonorrhoeal and syphilitic poisons, and the necessity of mercury for the cure of both. In the two kinds of ulcers of the genitals last described by Mr. Carmichael, the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers, mercury is greatly injurious. Upon the general employment of mercury in the treatment of syphilis, it will be necessary to enlarge hereafter; in the mean time I may again remark, that 1 con- sider mercury useful in Mr. Carmichael’s true syphilitic ulcer, and in his pseudo-syphilitic ulcers of the first and second species; in excoriations and gonorrhoea certainly useless, often injurious; and in his phagedenic and sloughing ulcers posi- tively and uniformly hurtful. With reference to this point, I made the following obser- vations in a probationaiy essay on Syphilis, submitted to the Royal College of Surgeons here, in 1820, no one word of