MILITARY SURGERY. 324 tumour. It is desirable, however, in all cases where the pro- trusion is recent and the lung sound, to return the protruded part into the cavity of the thorax. When this has not been accomplished in the first instance, and when, in consequence of the neck of the tumour being strangulated in the wound, mortification has already taken place, there is no urgent ne- cessity for any operation ; the mortified part will in due time be thrown off. Most of the preceding observations have reference more particularly to incised or punctured wounds of the chest, and we have now to consider the consequences of gunshot wounds, and of foreign bodies lodging in the cavity' of the thorax. The irritation necessarily kept up by the lodgment of an ex- traneous body within this cavity', leads for the most part to purulent formations and hectic fever. But even after these have been far advanced, patients have been saved by extracting the foreign body. One of the most remarkable examples of this, is a case recorded by Baron Larrey, in which a soldier re- ceived a ball between the eighth and ninth ribs of the right side, and after lingering in several hospitals, for a period of four years, the ball, a Russian one, was with much diffi- culty extracted, after cutting away a great part of the rib next below the wound ; this rib was indeed so much weaken- ed as to be broken by an effort at stool, and the intercostal artery wounded, notwithstanding which this patient ultimately recovered. Another interesting example of the successful ex- traction of a foreign body, the blade of a file, which had be- come buried in the chest, is recorded by Dr. Mayer of Peters- burg, and to which I particularly refer, in consequence of its having given occasion to one of the best works we possess on wounds of the chest, a dissertation by this author, “ De mi- nt rilms pectoris penetratilibus.” In son c cases, balls have become imbedded in the substance of the lung, and enveloped in an adventitious cyst or capsule-,