INTRODUCTION. 15 The next writer of note upon military surgery is William Clowes, who appears to*have commenced the practice of his profession as a navy surgeon, as he mentions serving on board one of the Queen’s ships, called the Aid, in 1570. He afterwards settled in London, was appointed surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s and Christ’s Hospitals, and was subsequently sent for, by letters, from the Earl of Leicester, general of the English forces in the Low Countries, to come and take upon him the care of the wounded men ; and thither he went in 1586, by command of the queen, together with William Godorus, her serjeant-surgeon. His earliest publication, en- titled “ A Brief and Necessary Treatise touching the Cure of the Disease now called Lues Venerea,” was first printed in 1585 ; here he laments the great frequency of the disease, and in proof of this states, that in the course of five years he had cured about a thousand venereal patients in St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital. The next and most important work of Clowes, is “ A proved Practice for all young Chirurgeons, concerning burnings with gunpowder, and wounds made with gunshot, sword, halberd, pike, launce, or such other.” In the treatment of gunshot wounds he adopts what has some- times passed for a more recent improvement, the use of mild emollient dressings ; and in the relation of several dangerous and complicated cases of this sort, shows himself a skilful practitioner. For the suppression of haemorrhage after ampu- tation, he employed buttons of an absorbent and mildly as- tringent powder, applied to the vessels, and sustained by bolsters of lint and tow, with strong compression. This, he says, never failed him, and though he was acquainted with the method of drawing out and tying the arteries used by some French surgeons, he never practised it. He speaks everywhere with great respect of his cotemporaries of the pro- fession, both native and foreign, but is severe upon empirical pretenders, many of whom, he laments, were intrusted to