150 MILITARY SURGERY. carried, a case may be mentioned, the treatment of which devolved upon myself, more than twenty years ago, when quartered at Prince of Wales Island. A native horse-keeper, belonging to one of the field-officers of my regiment, had the whole of his back, from the nape of the neck down to the but- tocks, severely scalded, in consequence of having had a large pot of boiling water spilt about him, while he lay asleep on the ground. The agony which the poor man suffered appeared to be extreme, and as the readiest means of relief, I directed him to sit down in a stream of water w'hich run past the stable where the accident happened. This advice he and his family, who were present, did not seem to relish ; but the expe- riment was insisted on, and the patient’s expressions of agony were speedily turned into laughter at me and my prescription. He was kept sitting in the rivulet from mid-day until sunset, with his back up the stream ; and on coming out, there was little or no perceptible mark of the injury, and he immediately returned to his duty. This practice, instituted upon the spur of the moment, is not however applicable in all climates, nor is the application of cold generally thought eligible in cases of extensive burns ; in many such cases, the general collapse of the system, the oppressed breathing, and the shiverings posi- tively forbid it, and stimulating or unctuous applications are much more suitable. To the class of cold or refrigerant applications may be re- ferred the use of vinegar, which, either pure or diluted with water, or mixed up into a thin paste with clay, is a remedy which has been in use from very remote times. In the latter form, it is mentioned as a remedy for burns in the writings of Celsus ; and in recent times, it wras again brought to public notice by the late Mr. Cleghorn, an eminent brewer of this city, of whose practice a detailed account is given in the second volume of the Medical Facts and Observations. Where this application has been used cold,