INTRODUCTION. his day to have done honour to this department of practice, to whom 1 hold this school of medicine in general, and this chair in particular, to be deeply indebted, and who advocated the cause of military and naval surgery with an energy that can never be surpassed. The late Mr. John Bell, after having been educated in the dissecting room, and practised in a large civil hospital, after being fraught with every information which could grace a practitioner and a teacher, left this his native city, and repaired to the naval hospital at Yarmouth, to witness the treatment of the seamen wounded in the battle of Camperdown. Here we must suppose that he soon saw enough to convince him of the advantages likely to accrue from a course of instruction specially adapted to military and naval surgeons. In a memoir dated from Yarmouth in January ] 798, and addressed to Earl Spencer, then first Lord of the Admiralty, he dwells on the disadvantages under which the naval surgeons of that day la- boured, and urges upon the Government the formation of a national school of military and naval medicine. “ Ever,” says he, “ since I have been capable of thought, I have struggled for objects far beyond my reach to obtain. In this anxious moment, w-hen I have about me no selfish views, no mean nor worldly cravings, no desires which I should not be proud to avow, there dwells upon my mind this oppressive and prophetic feeling, that I am perhaps go- ing to suffer the sorest of all disappointments. I am upon the eve either of achieving by my zeal a great public good, or of preventing by an imprudent and too sudden movement, a new order of things in that department which needs most of all to be improved. “ But, my Lord, I have a claim upon your Lordship which you will not refuse. I have studied naval surgery with par- ticular care. I have bestowed upon it of money, of time, of labour, more than 1 am entitled to bestow. I have followed yom victorious fleet, and attended your prisoners and your