MILITARY SURGERY. 200 Chirurgie Militaire,” &c., on the following question :—“ Une partie vivante, ayant ete entierement separee du systeme ani- mal est elle susceptible de s’y reunir ?” The very frequent success which attends the endeavour to unite a part which retains only a slight connexion with the living system, has led to several recent and successful opera- tions for restoring deficiencies in the nose, the lips, the palate, and urethra ; and of this disposition of living cut surfaces to grow together, surgeons have naturally availed themselves in the treatment of wounds. It is wonderful with what celerity union by the first intention is sometimes accom- plished under favourable circumstances. The large wound made in the operation of amputation is not unfrequently heal- ed in the course of three days, excepting at those points where the ligatures are situated. When the two sides of a wound have been brought together before the oozing of blood has completely ceased, Mr. Hunter conceived that the blood itself became the first bond of union. All practical surgeons, however, now admit, that the presence of any considerable quantity of blood on the surface of a wound is more likely to prevent than to promote reunion,—a process which is accomplished by the effusion ofcoagulable lymph, and the subsequent restoration of a vascular and nervous intercourse between the opposite surfaces of the wound in a manner which we cannot very distinctly perceive. Whether this coagulating lymph issues from the half-closed mouths of the blood-vessels, or from the opened cells of the cellular membrane, Mr. Hun- ter found it difficult to determine ; and as this is a point which, if determined, could leaxhto no practical change in the treatment of wounds, it seems to me unnecessary to enlarge upon the subject. Many of the minute and successive steps of the process are imperceptible to our senses, and consequent- ly arc, in some degree, matter of conjecture. But, whatever shades of difference in opinion may exist amongst writers up-