444 MILITARY SURGERY. ally becoming shorter anil less severe as the disease becomes exhausted by its own violence. The rupture of the cornea has hitherto been described from the sensations of the patient alone, it being generally impossible, from the swelling of the external parts, to ascertain its occurrence in any other way. Amongst the variety of appearances, however, which the disease has presented to the accurate scrutiny of Dr. Vetch, he has had an opportunity of observing very minutely the changes occasioned by rupture of the cornea ; and I cannot convey a more perfect idea of the nature of this accident than by employing his own words. a A more accurate inspection has now taught me, that any visible alteration in the cornea is an event subsequent to its rupture. In the first case in which I traced the steps of that process, I examined the eye before the accession of the paroxysm which was terminated by the rupture of the right cornea, in which there was not at that time the least percep- tible alteration ; the patient did not see with his usual dis- tinctness, and the iris did not contract much by exposure to the light. I found the eye in the same state after the acces- sion of the pain, when the repetition of the examination, as is usual, had no effect in increasing it; it continued for about two hours, when he felt the cornea give way, and scalding water rushed over his cheek. On again examining the eye a short time after, from the natural appearance it seemed to possess, I was inclined to doubt the accuracy of the sensation, and to think that too much reliance had been hitherto placed on it. The patient now saw with more correctness than be- fore. My attention was at last attracted by a small line which extended across the lower segment of the cornea, and which remained without any alteration after the eye was washed with tepid water; but as any attempt to ascer- tain the nature of this line gave uneasiness, its examination was left till next day, when I found it more visible along its