INFLAMMATION. 137 i Of the local remedies applied directly to inflamed parts, Cold i is undoubtedly one of the most powerful, and, from the faci- lity of its adoption, it is peculiarly valuable to the military ' surgeon. In reducing the temperature, cold diminishes the i morbid sensibility and pain of inflamed parts, and restrains i the inordinate action of the vessels by which these parts are supplied with blood. A common method of employ- 1 mg cold is by applying to the inflamed part, cloths which have been dipped in cold water; and along with the cold water used for this purpose it is customary to blend remedies of an astringent and sedative nature. The use of the acetate of . lead in this way is a practice sanctioned by very extensive ex- perience. M. Goulard, an enthusiastic French writer in favour >.of lead, has represented it as almost equally applicable to all -stages of inflammation, to suppuration, and even to gangrene; ebut, although this writer’s zeal has evidently carried him too tfhr, experience and observation teach us, that while there is a chance of procuring resolution, no local applications to ? phlegmonous inflammation can be more proper than cold so- lutions containing the acetate of lead. Besides this salt, the ' sulphate of zinc, the muriate of ammonia, vinegar, and alco- ' h«l, are common additions to the cold water applied to in- flamed surfaces. All these, however, seem to possess less of a specific effect than the acetate of lead; and in using them instead of this last mentioned remedy, or in using one of them in pieference to another, we are more guided by circumstances than by any acknowledged superiority in the respective ! powers of these remedies. Solutions of the muriate and also of ’ the acetate of ammonia have been thought more particularly applicable to swellings cf a chronic or passive character ; and 'whl,e ln fhe earlier or more active stages of such swellings they aie applied cold, they become, in the progress of the af- fection, more beneficial by being used warm.