TROPICAL DVSBNTERY. 559 nieil with large discharges of flatus; while in passing they arc attended with a sense of scalding about the anus. The patient, after each evacuation, feels considerably relieved, and hopes to enjoy an interval of ease, but the recurrence of the griping, accompanied with a sensation of air passing through the bowels, and succeeded again by a call to stool, give him little respite. From the commencement of the attack, the patient complains of nausea, want of relish for his food, and preternatural thirst, attended often with a disagreeable taste in the mouth. The tongue is furred or loaded, and not un- frequently covered with a yellow bilious coat. The pulse is quickened and the skin parched. After these symptoms have existed for some days, the stools for the most part become and continue of a w hitish appearance, insomuch that the disease is often termed by the soldiers the white, in contradistinction to the bloody flux. The griping pains continue, and sometimes the patient feels a permanent degree of oppression, rarely amounting to pain, about the region of the epigastrium. The nausea and loathing of food increase, ac- companied with hiccup and bilious vomiting, the latter a symptom peculiarly troublesome, as it leads to the rejection of every thing offered in the shape of food or medicine. The thirst becomes more and more urgent; lassitude and debility increase, emaciation succeeds with rapid strides, the quick- ness of pulse continues, and the skin often communicates a peculiarly greasy sensation to the touch. Under these symp- toms, more or less aggravated, the patient continues to labour for weeks, and not unfrequently for months; so that this form of flux often does an irreparable injury to the constitu- tion, and reduces the patient to a state of emaciation and de- bility, in which his life is held by a very precarious tenure. It does not of itself, however, generally, or perhaps ever, prove fatal, but either terminates in recovery, or the patient is car- ried off by the occurrence of an abscess in the liver, or by the