ANEURISM. 265 coats is equal in extent to the base of the swelling which | ] projects from the side of the vessel in a semi-globular or semi- |< ovoid form ; in other cases, the blood insinuates itself between tthe external and internal coats of the artery, separating them from each other to a considerable extent, and leaving the com- lmunication with the canal of the artery small in proportion 11 to the exterior tumour projecting from it. This is what Mr. Guthrie has termed the dissecting aneurism, in which i the interior and middle coats may be looked upon as forming an incomplete partition, or septum, between the artery and the aneurism, nearly akin to that which is formed by the iris, between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. In some rare instances, two of which are described by Mr. She- 1 kleton of Dublin, it would appear that the blood, after having ' insinuated itself between the external and middle coats of the ■vessel, and separating them to a considerable extent, .had again found its way into the tube of the artery. But it seems . unnecessary for my purpose to enter farther into these varieties ; they are chiefly observed in aneurisms of the large arteries within the trunk of the body ; they cannot be known during life, and, consequently, can lead to no peculiar or efficacious practice. T he only remaining form of the three principal divisions of aneurisms which I have adopted, is that occasioned by an ex- ternal wound penetrating all the coats of an artery and giving vent to the blood. This is the only form of the disease fre- quent amongst soldiers or seamen ; it has been termed the spurious, false, or traumatic aneurism, and like the true aneu- rism, it is subdivided into circumscribed and diffused ; the for- mer implying a concentrated tumour encysted in condensed cel- lular membrane immediately contiguous to the wound ; the lat- ter a diffused swelling formed by extravasated blood escaping from the wound, and extending upwards and downwards along the course ol the limb. This tumour originates always from