MILITARY SURGERY. 498 it has proved altogether ineffectual. Indeed, my own expe- rience in the employment of the cube!) pepper induces me to look upon it as a remedy extremely uncertain in its operation, but in all cases perfectly safe. I consider it a waste of time to urge the continued use of this remedy beyond a week, or perhaps ten days at the utmost; for, if the discharge docs not greatly abate within this period, I consider it in vain to expect any impression to be made upon the disease by the pepper, or perhaps by any internal remedy. In a comparative trial of different modes of treatment in the cure of gonorrhoea, which was instituted in the 88th regiment, when quartered in the Castle here some years ago, the average number of days during which those treated with the cubeb pepper were con- fined was five and a quarter, a statement extremely favour- able to the use of this remedy. The number, however, was much too limited to entitle me to hold this up as a general average of the issue of cases so treated. When the acute inflammatory stage of Gonorrhoea has passed over, either by the lapse of time, or under the use ot antiphlogistic remedies, our chief dependence for the final suppression of the discharge must rest on the use of local ap- plications in the form of injection. I believe that where the disease has existed for some time, and where it is accompanied with no constitutional symptoms, it is impossible to make any impression upon it by remedies taken internally, and that in attempts to cure it in this wray the stomach is sometimes in- jured, without the urethral affection being benefited in any corresponding degree. In the use of astringent injections, the hands of practitioners were long paralyzed by absurd fears of driving the infection into the blood, as they termed it, and thus producing a confirmed pox. It would appear from a letter written in 1750 to the late Sir Caesar .Hawkins, by Charles Hales, Surgeon to the Savoy Hospital, that the use of astringent injections in gonorrhoea was at that time a prae-