MILITARY SURGERY. 27<> reuniting when divided by wounds; and even when a small portion of a nervous trunk is removed, its continuity may be restored, and its functions re-established. This is proved by the experiments of numerous authors, as well as by the frequent failure of tire operation for tic douloureux in the human subject, and of the operation termed' nerving in horses. The recent obser- vations of Haighton and Swan, of Larrey and Teidemann, embrace every thing that is valuable on this subject, and con- tain many minute and interesting details of the manner in which nerves are reunited or regenerated. But as these are processes entirely dependent upon the efforts of nature, and for the promotion of which no artificial means are adopted be- yond the general and accurate approximation of the lips of a wound, tire following remarks are confined to the consequences supervening upon injuries of the nerves, and not to any sur- gical expedient for restoring the continuity of a nervous trunk. The only case in which I have seen this attempted, was in a patient operated upon by Dr. Simson of this city. In this in- teresting case, the median nerve had been cut across by an ac- cidental wound above the wrist; the superior end of the divid- ed nerve was to be felt distinctly through the integuments im- mediately above the transverse cicatrix ; its extremity enlarged and bulbous, the motion of the correspondent thumb, fore, and middle fingers greatly impaired, and their sensation quite lost. Both extremities of the nerve were laid bare by a longitudinal incision; the knot or bulb, which exactly resembled that formed on the extremities of nerves after amputation, was , removed from tire upper end; the lower end was' disengaged from the cicatrix in which it was involved, and its extremity pared off. The two ends were then approximated as much as possible, but this was very imperfectly accomplished ; for on bending the wrist with this view, and throwing the muscles of the fore- arm into action, it was found that the superior portion of the nerve was drawn upwards along with them. The external