OPHTHALMIA. 431 The foregoing very interesting account appears to have at- tracted no general notice, and until the ophthalmia occurred in the second regiment of Argyleshirc Fencibles in the spring of 1802, and fell under the accurate observation of their surgeon, I)r. Edmonstone, we have but little account of the appearance of the disease, and no documents calculated to establish the opinion of its contagious nature. Dr. Edmonstone endeavours to explain the possibility of ophthalmia being propagated by some subtle effluvia, either from the system, or from the eye of the patient, but at the same time admits the very conta- gious nature of the purulent discharge from the conjunctiva, and to this source other writers about the same period attri- bute the rapid spread of this disease. We have already seen that Dr. Vetch is convinced of the contagious nature of the ophthalmia which occurred in the 52d regiment, and to his testimony is to be added that of Mr. Peach, the surgeon of the same battalion. Dr. Charles Forbes, formerly surgeon to the Royals, has also given his testimony to the same effect, in a paper contained in the third volume of the Edinburgh Medical Journal. The opinion, indeed, of its contagious na- ture, has been so generally prevalent amongst the medical officers of the British army, that it were endless to cite autho- rities on the subject; and so well convinced have the Medical Boards and the senior officers of the department been of the disease being chiefly propagated in this way, that wherever it has once made its appearance, the most vigorous measures of seclusion have been enforced. There are indeed very few of the British medical officers who affect to doubt it. The late Mr. Mackesey, however, of the 62d regiment, being doubtful of the contagious nature of ophthalmia, applied to his own eyes rags soaked in the discharge from the eyes of patients affected with the disease, and in this instance without any injurious effect. A particular account of this experiment will be found in the twelfth volume of the Edinburgh Medical