ANEURISM. 2G3 coat lias given way, anil when the contiguous parts become the boundaries of the swelling. It appears, that when the internal and middle coats are destroyed, the sac is in the first instance formed by an expansion of the external coat of an artery. As the distension advances, this coat gradually gives way; the sheath of the vessel then restrains the effu- sion ; and this yielding in its turn, the surrounding parts, whatever may be their texture, form the boundaries of the extravasation. The inflammation excited in the coats of an artery by the primary disease, and subsequently in the surrounding parts by their distension, produces amongst them an effusion of lymph which glues them together, and prevents the extensive effusion of blood into the cells of the adipose membrane. Thus is the sac formed, and the inflammation which exists within it produces an effusion of lymph with which its internal surface is lined. In the early stage of the disease, either the whole cylinder of the vessel, or only a part of its circumference may be dilated ; but this period is gene- rally of short duration, and at length, in consequence of increasing distension, some of the coats of the artery pos- sessing the least elasticity give way, and these are found to be the internal and middle coats, while the external one still makes resistance, and continues to be more dilated by the lateral impulse of the blood. In the advanced stages of external aneurisms, the skin be- comes extremely thin, and incorporated, as it were, with the aneurismal sac. The cavities of the cellular substance contigu- ous to the disease, are either filled with serum, or totally obli- terated by adhesion. The adjacent muscles, whether lying di- rectly over the aneurism or on its sides, become displaced, stretched, wasted, and confounded with the other parts. The nervous cords passing over the circumference of the tumour, are in the same way pushed out of their natural posit ion ; and are sometimes found adhering to the outside of the sac,