26 MILITARY SURGERY. wounded, as if I had been attached to Government by old ser- vices and high rewards. These, my Lord, are my privileges. I am now retiring from this busy scene, and all my claim to your Lordship’s notice is this desire to be useful. “ 1 am but ill prepared to speak upon the most interesting of all subjects; I am fearful of that enthusiasm which is so apt to mix. itself with thoughts such as I am now to lay before your Lordship. I am anxious above all how my advice may be received by those accustomed to judge of high matters; yet I feel myself entitled to propose the establishment of one great school of Military Surgery. It were almost, I think, an object of national gratitude ; surely it were an institution humane, charitable, useful above all others.” This spirited writer then goes on to deplore the very inadequate encourage- ment held out to the naval surgeons of that day, and the con- sequent difficulty of obtaining men of competent education for this branch of the public service. “ Perhaps,” says he, “ in a whole fleet there arc few surgeons’ mates, not one may be, who is able to perform the greater operations of surgery. It has happened- that, after the most earnest entreaties of the officers, of the surgeon, and of every one concerned, a ship of the line has gone into battle without one assistant on board; no, not one to screw a tourniquet, to tie an artery, to hold a shattered stump, to put a piece of lint on a bleeding wound !” It is well known that although there is yet much room for improvement in the situation of the navy surgeons, there no longer exist those defects either in their number or in their pro- fessional education which Mr. Bell so feelingly laments ; and amongst those who have contributed to these improvements, no one held a more distinguished place than the venerable author of the Medicina Nautiea, of whose death I have lately heard with regret. But Mr. Bell, to whose memoir I return, was not satisfied with pointing out the evil which existed; he entered into various details for its removal, and laid down a