502 MILITARY SURGERY. per injection ; but when the first two or three weeks are al- lowed to pass without any effectual treatment, the disease oc- casionally becomes protracted for months, and this under the most approved modes of practice ; our only chance of success is by frequent variations of the kind and strength of injections, as the one first employed soon loses all influence over the dis- charge. In this situation, patients in private life often run from one surgeon to another, who, happening to prescribe a different remedy from the one formerly in use, is occasionally successful in putting a stop to the discharge, and gets all the credit of the cure, which his predecessor might have retained by a very simple change in his prescription. In fine, I know nothing upon which we can speak with less certainty and pre- cision than on the cure of an old clap, and I am persuaded that I have lost many patients from having been candid enough to tell them so. A very common symptom in gonorrhoea, particularly when stimulant or irritating injections have been too early employed, is swelling of the testicle, very absurdly termed HerniaHumor- alis. This swelling may originate from any source of irritation in the course of the urethral canal, as well as from blows or other injuries on the testicle itself. When it occurs in go- norrhea, it seems to be entirely of a sympathetic nature, often appearing suddenly, and sometimes passing quickly from one testicle to the other. It is not unfrequently accompanied with a suppression of the gonorrhea, which is again renewed as the inflammation of the testicle abates. This has led some au- thors to advise the introduction of bougies into the urethra, with a view of renewing the discharge ; a practice however, of which, so far as I know, we have no sufficient experience to guide us in forming an opinion. But when a swelling of the testicle occurs while the patient is using injections for the cure of gonorrhoea, these are immediately to be laid aside, and the discharge permitted to take its course until the swelling of the testicle be removed. In the treatment of this inflammation,