170 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Some years subsequent to the publication of Dussassoy in 11788, we have an essay, “ Sur la Gangrene Humide des Hos- jpitaux,” by Mureau and Burdin, the latter a surgeon in the i French army. These gentlemen attribute this disease, like IDysentery, Hospital and Jail fever, to the action of putrid mi- aasmata with which the air is surcharged. They proceed to lay (down the treatment under two heads, the preventative and the ccurative; with a view to the first is recommended storax, the (acetous or citric acid, and caustic potass applied locally; along with emetics, bark, and wine. These internal remedies are also recommended to fulfil the second or curative indica- tion, together with the local use of powdered hark, which, say (they, fulfils a double indication, absorbing the moisture and ppus, and giving tone to the part. In an appendix to Hr. Rollo’s Treatise on Diabetes, published in 1797? the hospital gangrene is treated of as •<£ a sore acted upon by a new or overlooked species of mat- ter.” The sores which were thus acted upon under Dr. :Rollo’s observation, occurred in the artillery hospital at \Woolwich, and chiefly amongst the men of the horse brigade, ■many of whom had sores on their legs from the kicks of horses. “ Impressed strongly with the notion that a morbid poison was applied locally to the sore, which, like the venereal poison, had the power of assimilation, as also of being absorb- 'd, producing effects on the system, and a reaction on the sore,” Dr. Rollo determined to adopt a local means of treatment. £ The oxygenated muriatic acid, and the nitrates of silver and aiercury, were the local applications employed ; and latterly, ■he oxymuriatic gas.” rl he former were applied in the form of dilute solutions, by means of lint; and by a due perseverance m their use, the poison and ulcer were destroyed. After the iction has taken place, and before a general disposition is form- ed, it might be possible, Dr. Rollo thinks, to stop its progress by >Tery active topical applications. £C We would prefer,” says