MILITARY SURGERY. 314 batteries before Antwerp in February 1814. In this case the great pectoral muscle was completely separated from the ribs, the left clavicle, first rib, head of the humerus, and scapula shattered. C£ I removed,” says Sir Andrew Halliday, by whom the case is recorded in the eleventh volume of the Ed- inburgh Medical Journal, “ the broken fragments of the cla- vicle, the whole of the first rib, and the greater part of the head of the humerus. It was my intention to have cut down upon the bone, and to have removed the whole of the fractured part of the humerus, but as this seemed hopeless, and the pa- tient appeared sinking, I contented myself with removing the loose pieces of the scapula that were found in the wound ; and after removing the extravasated blood from the surface of the lungs and pericardium, the fleshy parts were brought together and kept in their position by means of stitches. The patient was carried from the operation-room to a low ward, where be- ing covered over with a blanket and a quantity of hay, he be- gan in a short time to revive considerably. When I visited the General Hospital at Williamstadt in the end of March, I found him in a forward state of convalescence. In August last, I saw this patient at Antwerp, perfectly recovered, and believe he has now {rone to England as an invalid.” Wounds which penetrate the thorax without more or less affecting the contained organs, are comparatively rare, for it is difficult to conceive the impulse of a wounding body, whether it be the edge of a sabre, the point of a lance, a mus- ket bullet, or a splinter of shell, so nicely regulated as to pass through the ribs or intercostal muscles, and not to wound the lungs within. It has indeed occasionally happened that ob- tuse bodies passing apparently through the chest, have, upon more accurate examination, been found not to have opened the sac of the pleura, but to have detached this membrane from the parietes. Of this a very interesting example occurred a few years ago in the neighbourhood of London, in which a