TROPICAL DYSENTERY. 5G1 the appearance of hardened lumps of feculent matter in the form of scybalas is, as formerly observed, exceedingly rare. While diseased appearances are thus so remarkable in the intestinal canal, and very often confined entirely to the parts situated below the valve of the colon, the liver is frequent- ly found free from even the most trifling appearance of dis- ease ; at other times it is simply and slightly altered in colour, without any change of structure. In old residents and hard drinkers it is not unfrequently enlarged and indurated. The coats of the gall-bladder are occasionally thickened ; and the bile itself in some degree inspissated. Many of the appear- ances just noticed, of which it is not easy to convey an idea by verbal description, are well represented in the splendid plates of Mr. Annesley’s work on the diseases of India and of warm climates. Before proceeding to offer any remarks on the treat- ment of dysentery, I think myself entitled to conclude, with Mr. Bampfield, that hepatic inflammation and dysentery are not so frequently co-existent in India as has been commonly stated and believed. Coupling the preceding detail of symp- toms with the appearances on dissection, the slight degree of constitutional derangement, with the violence of the topical affection, I have been led to consider the colonitis, or acute form of flux, as more of a local disease, and more subject to the influence of local remedies, than has generally been ima- gined, to look upon it as a disease almost exclusively con- fined to the large intestines ; an inflammation in short of this part of the canal, tending rapidly to mortification, and ha\ing in a great proportion of cases little or no connexion with disease of the liver. Even allowing, as Dr. Johnson seems to suppose, that a diseased action of the liver and a vitiated state of the biliary secretion always precede the attack of colonitis, and are in some measure the cause of the latter affection, still in the state in which wc often meet the disease, 2 o