128 MILITARY SUnGERY. nance pale and shrunk, and when I saw him about mid-day no pulse was perceptible in any part of his extremities. Sti- muli of every kind, both internal and external, failed to haVe any sensible effect, and he died in the evening. The case of a woman of the same regiment was, in some respects, still more remarkable. She began, while goin^ about her usual occupations in the barrack-room, to complain of some uneasiness in her thigh. Upon examination it was found swollen and livid, and in less than forty-eight hours she died, without, so far as I could learn, any trace of accident or pre- vious disease. On dissection of the male subject, the sterno- hyoidei muscles were found soft and discoloured, and a col- lection of purulent matter on the fore-part of the larynx. The affected thighs in both subjects were found to have a swollen and gorged appearance ; the cellular membrane loaded with bloody serum, in some parts broken down and gangrenous ; the muscles loose in texture, and easily lacerated. In both cases the arteries and veins of the affected limbs were minutely examined, but presented no morbid appearance, nor were any traces of recent disease found in the internal parts. For the particulars of these cases I am indebted to Dr. Robertson, the surgeon of the 90th, and I have been tempted to give this brief notice of them here because, after thirty years of professional study and experience, the circumstances which they presented were to me altogether new. Having offered these few remarks on the symptoms, causes, varieties, and terminations of inflammation, I now proceed to point out the means adapted to its cure, or, in other words, the means calculated to promote its termination in resolu- tion. This is strictly speaking the only way in which inflam- mation terminates; and as other opportunities will occur of pointing out the means calculated to promote adhesion, suppuration, Sec. I shall for the present confine myself to the detail of the most efficacious means of subduing inflam-