YELLOW FEVER. 545 bfain ami stomach are both equally affected, but in fatal cases it is from lesion of one or other of these organs that the patient is destroyed. Those who die early in the disease generally perish from an affection of the head, with moderate vomiting ; while those who have the stomach violently affected are usually found to have their mental faculties clear, though often weak- ened, and they seldom expire before the end of the fourth or beginning of the fifth day. Of the two symptoms which have been held more peculiarly to characterize this disease, the yel- lowness of the skin and the black vomit, the former begins in a few cases within the first forty-eight hours, sometimes on the third, and frequently not until the fourth or fifth day. It is first commonly perceptible about the angles of the nose and mouth, gradually extending down over the neck and trunk, so as in some instances to become universal. This yellowness of the skin is ascribed by Dr. Bancroft to the presence of bile in the circulation, occasioned by the compression of the liver in the severe and protracted efforts in vomiting; and although I have never myself seen this peculiar appearance of the skin until an advanced stage of the disease, it is necessary to state, that several authors, amongst whom are Drs. Dickson and M‘Arthur, have seen this symptom previous to the occurrence of vomiting ; and Mr. Dickinson asserts that vomiting does not always precede, nor does it always occur when the bilious suffusion takes place. The black vomit has been considered by some writers as bile altered in character, but it is now more generally and more justly considered as a bloody effusion from the internal surface of the stomach. Tor various arguments in support of this opinion I must refer to Dr. Bancroft’s work, and devote the remaining observations to a summary exposition of the appearances on dissection, and the means o* cure in yellow fever. 1 he dissections of patients who have died of this fever have discovered appearances corresponding to the affection of the 2 N