TETANUS. 283 of opinion, that the great sympathetic nerve is more immedi- ately the scat of the disease, those muscles being chiefly affected whose nerves communicate extensively with the sympathetic. Perhaps the opinion most generally entertained by modern pathologists refers this disease to an inflammatory affection of the spinal marrow, and in support of this opinion, Baron Lar- rey asserts, that in numerous dissections of soldiers, carried off by tetanus, particularly some of those who died from their wounds after the battle of Waterloo, he has constantly ob- served an inflammatory disposition of the spine. “ Nous ont constamment presente des traces bien evidentes d’inflamma- tion sur la moelle epiniere, avec epanchement plus ou moins sensible de serosite rougeatre dans le rachis.” Amongst the most strenuous supporters of the opinion that tetanus has its seat in the spinal marrow, is Dr. Robert Reid of Dublin, the author of an essay on tetanus and hydrophobia, whose views upon this subject have led him, and fortunately also led others, into a consideration of the comparative frequency of this disease amongst soldiers and amongst seamen. Dr. Reid first supposes, that tetanus is more incident and more fatal to soldiers than to sailors, and then adopts the following theory to account for this. “It is,” he observes, “ a remark- able circumstance that this dreadful malady is very seldom met with, even in its slightest stages, in the navy, while it is found generally fatal to military men ; and it may be useful to take notice of a circumstance which gives a predisposition in sol- diers to this disease, and to which sailors are not exposed. We observe that soldiers are unavoidably obliged to carry a certain portion of their luggage in their knapsacks on their backs and he adds, “ that circumstances analogous to this would seem to account for horses being more liable to this dis- ease than any other quadruped.” Upon this, the reviewers ironically remark, that some measures should be taken to un- load the spine and its vessels, by those official personages to