WOUNDS AND FBACTURES OK THE EXTREMITIES. 371 fracture after its adoption. I fear, however, he will have learn- ed by this time, as I have done, that no exclusive practice of this kind is uniformly applicable, and that it is not easy to discriminate a priori between those cases in which the above practice will be advantageous, and those in which it will prove not only injurious but absolutely insufferable. An account of Baron Larrcy’s treatment of fractures, “ par l’appareil ina- movible,” has lately been transmitted to me by M. Hippolyte Larrey, the son of my distinguished friend the Baron. His Thesis on this subject contains many interesting remarks on fractures generally, and much valuable information relative to his father’s plan of treatment. But while I am disposed to ■ question the propriety of an indiscriminate adherence to one mode of treatment, there are some points in the manage- ment of compound fractures on which my own observation has led me to form a very decided opinion. I have too fre- 1 quently seen a reluctance to use the saw in removing the pro- truding extremities of the bone, when these were either difficult i to reduce or of a sharp and spicular form ; and I have some- times seen the closure of the external wound attempted by i means too forcible and too long continued. In short, I think I have seen here, as well as in other cases, much mischief done by obstinately resisting the termination to which nature obviously points. Inflammation, swelling, tension, and spasms, are the well i known consequences which we have chiefly to guard against m the treatment of compound fractures in their earlier stages, and in proportion as we succeed in keeping these within pro- per bounds by blood-letting, abstemious diet, cold lotions, fo- mentations, &c., in the same proportion shall we succeed in ’ shortening the inflammatory stage, preventing or diminishing the subsequent suppuration, accelerating the process of reunion, lessening the time of our patient’s confinement, and thus sav- ing his constitution. It should be recollected, however, that