HOSPITALS. 93 .ubjecting himself to an hospital stoppage proportioned to the ate of his pay, and the extent of his accommodation, or of providing for the expenses of his own treatment in quarters, :t will not be difficult to decide which he ought to prefer on hhe score of economy; and there are few rational beings who would be disposed to prefer the gratification of false pride, and overstrained delicacy, to the restoration of health and the security of life. It would be a bad compliment to the good .sense of British officers to suppose that they would fastidious- ly reject a measure which has been advantageously adopted in the armies of our late rivals ; and we are indebted to Sir SA. Faulkner for obtaining an account of the accommodation provided for officers in the military hospitals of France. An- nexed to Sir Arthur’s pamphlet, is a letter from Boudriot, surgeon-major of the French army employed at Middleburg ■n 1809, in reply to one addressed to him requesting informa- tion on this subject. Boudriot’s letter is reprinted in the 6th /olume of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, and he following is a translation of the first three paragraphs, he rest of it being occupied by details into which it is at pre- sent unnecessary to enter. “ 1. There is in each garrisoned town in France, and in i place singled out as the most healthy, a building known by he name of Military Hospital, of a handsome and good con- struction, the wards of which are lofty, well white washed, and urnished with parallel windows, which arc easily opened and hut at the pleasure of the officers of health. “ 2. In the same hospital there are always one or two oavilions, destined exclusively to receive the officers of all ahks, although nevertheless they are at liberty to cause hemselves to be attended (treated) in the house which they nhabit, and always at their own expense. “ 3. The officers’ ward must be furnished with beds, con- structed in the most careful manner possible, and distant