MILITARY SURGERY. 448 the after-symptoms. Solutions of the nitrate of silver have long been in general use in cases of ophthalmia; and notwith- standing the objections lately offered to this practice by Dr. Jacob of Dublin, the general confidence of professional men in it has not been shaken ; it is particularly urged by some of those, whose experience has been acquired in the extensive field which the army has unfortunately presented of late years for the treatment of this disease, and amongst the most recent advocates of this practice, we find Mr. Melin and Dr. O’Halleran. Mr. Guthrie has long been in the habit of employing successfully, at the Westminster Eye Infirmary, an ointment of nitrate of silver, in the proportion of from two to ten grains, with fifteen drops of the liq. plumb, subaceta- tis to a drachm of wax ointment; and although this may be considered more peculiarly appropriate to the chronic fonn of the disease, yet it is often applied in all stages of ophthal- mia, with the view of u inducing an action greater, and of a different nature, to that already existing in the part.” The facility with which the strength of the caustic solution and ointment may be varied to suit particular cases, gives them a great advantage as general applications, and has led to a preference of these remedies over the Vinum Opii, and other articles, which were at one time very much employed. The sedative and astringent powers of tobacco infusion, both administered internally and applied locally to the eye, are recommended by Dr. Vetch, but of this I have no expe- rience. In the very early stage of the disease, and in the highly irritable state of the parts, there is no application from which better effects are experienced, then from fomentation, either with plain warm water, or with the common decoctions of chamomile and poppy. These are beneficial not only by soothing the irritable surface of the eye and eyelids, but by constantly removing from them the profuse and acrid dis-