196 MILITARY SURGERY. natecl superficial, muscular, and penetrating wounds, in pro- portion as they affect the integuments, the muscular parts, or penetrate the great cavities. From the nature of the offend- ing weapon, wounds are characterised as incised, punctured, la- - cerated, and contused; those more particularly incident to the soldier, are sabre, bayonet, and gunshot wounds; or, to adopt the language of William Clowes, “ woundes made with gun- shot, sworde, halberde, pike, launce, or such other.” Wounds arc again subdivided by systematic authors, according to their site, into wounds of the head, face, neck, thorax, abdomen, and extremities; and again, into those of the different organs contained in these cavities, which we shall hereafter have oc- casion to consider in detail, at least as they affect the princi- pal viscera. The phenomena usually presented by a recent wound, of any considerable extent, are haemorrhage, pain, and retrac- tion of the lips of the wound; the haemorrhage, proceeding g chiefly from the arterial vessels supplying the wounded part, v depends much, of course, upon the size and activity of these 1 vessels. It is worthy of remark, however, that in simple incised wounds, the haemorrhage is generally more profuse - than from lacerated or contused wounds of the same extent. The pain attendant upon wounds depends upon the na- tural sensibility of the part, and is the direct consequence of the injury done to its nerves. Thus, in wounds of the skin generally, and in some parts of it particularly, where the nerves are minutely subdivided, and exquisitely sensible, the pain is acute, although less so in simple incised, than in laegrated and contused wounds. The degree of retraction of the lips of a wound varies according to its situation and | extent. In wounds which merely penetrate the skin, or the skin and cellular membrane, the retraction is not in general very considerable. In muscular wounds, the extent of the retraction is also inconsiderable, if the wound follows the di-