274 MILITARY SURGERY. been done in the way of operation. All that is required is to support the swollen vein, as in other cases of varix, with a rol- ler or elastic bandage ; and in several instances, I have seen pa- tients going about for years, and sometimes following labori- ous employments, without even this precaution. We know from cases recorded by Scarpa, Hunter, Benjamin Bell, Pott, and Garncii, that cases of aneurismal varix have re- mained stationary for twenty or thirty years; while in others, cures have been obtained by judicious compression. It is, therefore, chiefly with a view to prevent any hasty or ill- judged operation of tying the artery, that I am induced to notice particularly this form of aneurism ; and to recommend a careful comparison of some cases of this kind treated success- fully by Baron Larrey without ligature, with one recorded by Dr. Hennen, in which, in an evil hour, a ligature was placed upon the common femoral artery in a case of aneuris- mal varix in the thigh, and speedily followed by the death of the patient. But while any precipitate or uncalled for operation is to be deprecated in this form of the disease, I would earnest- ly urge the early performance of the operation in the more usual species of aneurism. Nature has made provision for a circulation sufficient to support the life of the member, even where the main artery of a limb has been tied. And the fol- lowing arc the practical inferences deduced by Mr. Hodgson from a very full consideration of this subject:—“ 1st, That the circulation will be as effectually carried on in a healthy limb when the main artery is suddenly tied in consequence of a wound, as when an aneurism has existed for a considerable time. 2dly, That the practice of permitting an aneurism to increase, that the collateral branches may become enlarged, is not only unnecessary but injurious, inasmuch as the in- crease of the tumour must be attended with a destruction of the surrounding parts, which will render the cure of the dis-