202 MILITARY SURGERY. dious, and the army be deprived for a longer time of his services. Many of the Continental surgeons are of opinion, that this practice of attempting the cure of wounds by the first intention, so general amongst the English surgeons, is in many cases less advantageous than the mode of cure by gra- nulation and cicatrization, adopted by the French. But, even allowing that the doctrine of the French writers upon this subject were applicable, in its fullest extent, to the prac- tice of civil life, yet the considerations above stated—humani- ty to the wounded, and a due regard to the interests of the public service—would sometimes compel the military surgeon to act upon different views. To place the parts in a state the most favourable for imme- diate reunion, our attention is to be directed to the position of the wounded part, which should always be such as to enable us to keep the edges of the wound in contact with the least possible coercion. This, according to circumstances, may ei- ther be accomplished by the relaxation or extension of the muscles as the direction of the wound crosses or runs parallel to the muscular fibres. In wounds of the scalp we can effect little or nothing by any change of position in the head; but here, fortunately, in simple incised wounds, the parts, when once replaced, are not difficult to retain in their proper posi- tion. In transverse wounds of the neck, in wounds of the trunk of the body, and in transverse wounds of the extremi- ties, much may be effected by relaxing the muscles connected with the wound ; and our attention to the. position of the limb is more especially necessary in the treatment of transverse wounds, because we have not in them the same assistance from bandaging as we have in the treatment of wounds ex- tending longitudinally in the course of the limb. In study- ing the best position for a wounded limb, the general rule is, to place it in that situation in which it would be placed by the contraction of the wounded muscle. Thus it is obvious,