FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. possesses experience, and that peculiar tact which enables him not only to detect malingerers, but so to adapt the means to the end as to induce them to give in. Soldiers soon form an opi- nion of the ability of their medical attendant in this respect, and seldom attempt to deceive, unless they think their artifice will succeed. This tact does not depend upon severity; for the most efficient surgeon will often doubt without expressing his suspicions, and seem to be the dupe of a schemer, that he may become his master.” The medical officer intrusted with the examination of mili- tary men claiming leave of absence, exemption from duty, or pecuniary rewards for their sufferings, must be constantly on his guard against imposition, or the exaggeration of acciden- tal and trifling symptoms and appearances. He ought at the same time to be careful not to push his incredulity too far. Of this a melancholy instance, and by no means a singular one, is recorded by Dr. Johnson in the fourth vo- lume of the Medico-Chirurgical Review, in which a seaman who complained of disease of the shoulder-joint, was punish- ed for skulking, when it afterwards turned out that a deep- seated abscess had been forming, which ultimately terminated in anchylosis. It is in general hospitals, when soldiers are separated from the surgeons of their own corps, that impositions are most frequently attempted, and whenever the suspicions of a medi- cal man are excited, he should endeavour to conceal them. He should himself become a dissembler; for while the im- postor is persuaded that the medical attendant is his dupe, he will be less on his guard, and if judiciously questioned as to the circumstances, the origin, progress, duration, seat, and intensity of his malady, the effects of remedies, &c. he will seldom be able to tell a consistent tale, but will betray some incongruity in his statements which will enable us to elicit the truth. “ It is generally however good policy to afford a