14K MILITARY SURGERY. accident, and which endure sometimes for a period of forty- eight hours, are best obviated by the internal use of Opiates and Cordials. From the expiration of this period to the twelfth or fourteenth day, the febrile symptoms are, for the most part, acute, and the patient is best treated by a mild unirritating diet, by the exhibition of gentle laxatives, and by blood-letting. From the third to the sixth week, the febrile symptoms arc liable to become occasionally aggravated ; and are to be met according to their urgency, by the treatment just mentioned. Beyond that period the patient, if not decidedly convalescent, is liable to sink from exhaustion and hectic fever, which indi- cate the necessity of nutritious diet and wholesome air. In the local treatment of burns, two general and opposite plans seem, at all times, to have been pursued. One of them has for its object, to alleviate the symptoms of burns by the application of substances which produce a Cooling or refrige- rant effect; the other, to heal burns by Heating or stimulat- ing substances. Whether the one of these modes of treat- ment be in every instance preferable to the other, is a ques- tion upon which the profession is by no means agreed. From the sequel of the passage already quoted from Baron Larrey’s work, it appears, that this distinguished surgeon is decidedly opposed to the refrigerant applications in general use. He declares that he has been long struck with the bad effects of repellents, such as fresh water, with the muriate of ammonia, oxycratc, the vegeto-mineral water, and the solution of opium in ice-water, which are extolled in some modern books; and he expresses his belief that cases frequently prove fatal for want of more judicious treatment. He recommends that all deep burns should be dressed with fine old linen, spread with saffron ointment. The employment of this ointment, or of honey in- stead of it, is to he continued till suppuration takes place. When this is established, Larrey employs the ointment of tyrax, for the purpose of promoting a detachment of the