MILITARY SURGERY. 412 den and Alanson, devoted much attention. The Hap opera- tion, again, seems always to have been more particularly patronised by the Continental surgeons. It was first, I be- lieve, practised by M. Vermale, was subsequently recommend- ed by La Faye in the Memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery, and is well described by Le Dran. Although no one, I believe, has ventured to claim this operation as a mo- dern invention, yet I have frequently heard it spoken of as a novelty; and it has, in my opinion, been recommended too indiscriminately. I know of no comparative estimate of the results of am- putations performed by the circular incision and by the double flap, which will enable us to decide their respective merits by the test of experience; but in instituting any comparison between these operations, one of the first cir- cumstances which strikes a surgeon is the different extent of cut surface left by the one operation and by the other. It has long appeared to me that the difference in this respect is much greater than many surgeons arc aware of; and I have often remarked, that the extent of cut surface exposed by the double flap operation appeared to me nearly double that left by the circular incision. I was not, however, aware, until within these few days, that, in making this statement, I was so near the truth. Wishing to ascertain the relative pro- portions with precision, I submitted the matter to two scien- tific gentlemen, Mr. Robison, the secretary of the Royal So- ciety, and Mr. Russell, the lecturer on Natural Philosophy, each of whom came to the same conclusion. Supposing the limb cylindrical, and the amputation performed in the old way, by cutting at once down to the bone, and then dividing it by the saw, the cut surface exposed wrould be the least which it is possible to expose by any mode of operating. Suppos- ing, again, that the limb is amputated by the double flap ope- ration, and that the length of each flap is exactly equal to the