MILITARY SURGERY. 198 indications of cure less complicated. These indications re- solve themselves into three, the staying of the haemorrhage, the removal of foreign bodies, and the approximation of the edges of the wound. This last indication, applicable both to limited and extensive wounds, is followed with a view to promote the process of adhesion, or, what has been term- ed by surgeons, union by the first intention. This pro- cess has already been cursorily adverted to, under the term of adhesive inflammation. It was observed, that the know- ledge of adhesion, and of the means of promoting it, is the most essential step which has ever been made in the treat- ment of wounds; and it is not a little wonderful that the world should have required, as it were, to be cheated into this safe and easy method of cure. Such, however, is the fact; for the practice of adhesion was introduced into surgery in conjunc- tion with sympathetic powders, salves, and washes; in some instances, with loathsome and disgusting practices; and, in others, with charms and incantations, certainly the most harm- less of all its accompaniments, and the least likely to interfere with its salutary effects. In the splendid work of Mr. John Bell on the Principles of Surgery, we have a most interesting and humorous ac- count of the early practice of adhesion in the treatment of wounds ; and from him we learn, that it is little more than sixty years since surgeons began to entertain any settled or rational opinions on the subject of adhesion, or to see the extent to which it might be applied in the treatment of wounds. Previously to this period, they had no motive for sparing the integuments in operation ; nor did they know how advantageously these might be used in expediting the cure. If they extirpated a tumor, they cut away along with it all the surrounding skin. If they had occasion to trepan the skull, they uniformly preceded it by the savage operation of scalping. In performing their amputations, they cut by one