DIET, CLOTHINO, AND EXERCISE OK TROOPS. 47 species of service that might occur, so that nothing at any time happened with which they were unacquainted. Actual war was in reality a time of relaxation to the soldiers of this en- terprising people. The Romans were not only sensible of the advantages which those habits of exercise procured them in action, but had also the penetration to discover that they were eminently serviceable in the preservation of health. We learn from Vegetius that the Romans exercised their men daily in the Campus Martius when it was fair weather, and under cover when it rained or snowed, and this author adds a remark by no means flattering to the members of our profession, Rei militaris periti, plus quotidiana armorum exercitia ad sanita- tem militum putaverunt prodesse, quam medicos. While troops are conveyed in transports to foreign stations, the general orders direct that, when the weather will admit of it, they ahould be frequently drilled on deck in the open air, and that such amusements should be encouraged as are calcu- lated to keep them in exercise. It is of consequence also that troops coming to a climate different from their own should be somewhat habituated to it before they enter on the fatigues of service. New levies, or regiments having many recruits, should, if possible, be first sent on garrison duty. Recruits, by this means, attain the habits of soldiers, and are inured to the climate and peculiar service before they enter into all its fatigues. While stationed in such garrisons, they should be fully exercised as preparatory to the duties of the field ; and Sir James M‘Grigor gives two very striking illustrations of the advantages which seasoned men possess over recruits in going through the fatigues of a campaign. From the 19th of August 1811 to the 20th May 1812, the 7th regiment lost one hundred and sixty-nine recruits out of three hundred and fifty-three landed in the preceding June; while in the same period it lost only seventy-seven out of eleven hundred and forty-five old soldiers. The 40th regiment lost, during the