176 Military surgery. treatise upon the subject of an earlier (late than 1783, when an account of it was published in the posthumous works of Poutean; who, while a dresser in the Hotel Dieu at Lyons, was himself a sufferer from it. Although Poutean does not adopt the term hospital gangrene, he very distinctly ascribes the disease which he witnessed to the contaminated air of hospitals, “ au mauvais air qu’on respire dans les grands hospitaux.” And such was the opi- nion which this writer entertained of the destructive nature of the malady, that he seriously proposes the following ques- tion, “ Are hospitals then more pernicious than useful to hu- manity ?” The personal sufferings of Poutean may have pro- bably induced him to look upon this disease in the most un- favourable light; but, at the same time, we must allow, that to a person contemplating it as it has appeared in the large hospitals at Lyons and at Paris, and in the British military hos- pitals at Passages and Bilboa, such a question would not bean unnatural one. In the hospital at Lyons it is said to have car- ried off eleven-twelfths of all those patients who were attacked by it. And in 1814, in the Hotel Dieu at Paris, out of twenty- two amputations, not one escaped its malignant influence. M. Picard states, that in one of the wards of an hospital at Madrid, which contained a hundred and twenty-six wounded men, not less than fifty-four were seized with it at once. And at Tolosa, in Spain, it cut off a hundred men in two months, out of a hundred and thirty wounded. In a work upon gangrenous phagedena, published in 1318, by Mr. Blackadder, there are several notices relative to the disease from the older writers, including Celsus, Aetius, Paulus, Rolandus, Guido, and others. From the last-men- tioned author Mr. Blackadder gives several interesting ex- tracts, which may be looked on as conveying not only the views of Guido himself, but all that is deserving of notice up- on this subject in the works of his predecessors. Although no