MILITARY SURGERY. 270 stances have been noticed; but perhaps the most remarkable is one which occurred in the York Hospital, in the person of a soldier, and which is given in detail in Mr. Hodgson’s va- luable work. 2. By the progressive increase of the tumour, it comes in some degree to press upon and obstruct the portions of the ar- tery immediately contiguous to it, and has been supposed in this manner to prove its own cure. Of this I am not aware that there is any satisfactory example on record, but it does not seem impossible that some of the unexpected and unex- plained cures which have occasionally been observed, may have occurred in this manner. There are instances of the canal of an artery becoming obliterated in consequence of the pressure of a contiguous tumour, whether aneurismal or not, and there is a remarkable instance noticed by Mr. Liston, in which one aneurism proved in this way the cure of another. 3. The process however to which we are encouraged to look for the cure of aneurism, is by the deposition of coagulum within the sac, the extension of this into the contiguous portions of the artery, the consequent obstruction of its canal, and the pre- servation of the limb by the collateral circulation. In some rare cases of aneurism of the aorta, which have undergone a spontaneous cure, this has been effected by the deposition of a fibrous coagulum, occupying the whole cavity of the sac, but without extending itself into the canal of the artery. This coagulum has again been gradually absorbed, the sac contract- ed, and a cure accomplished, without any obstruction in the calibre of the vessel whence the aneurism originated ; but the more common manner in which aneurisms are spontaneously and often artificially cured is this, the cavity of the sac be- comes gradually filled with layers of coagulum, and the circu- lation through the artery is ultimately prevented by the ex- tension of this coagulum into the canal of the vessel. The blood being forced by this means into the collateral arteries,