MILITARY SURGERY. 430 this as a proof not of contagion, but of the powers of sympathy, a source of the disease which will not he considered very ex- tensive in its operation. In recent times, one of the first authors to notice the contagious nature of the disease was Dr. James Armstrong, who, in a thesis published here in 1789, “ De tuenda nau- tarum sanitate,” gives a history of a severe ophthalmia, which broke out in his majesty’s ship Albemarle, while cruis- ing on the coast of Hispaniola, in January 1782. Its origin was attributed to the impressment of three seamen labouring under the disease from on board a slave-ship ; “ each of these men,” says Dr. Armstrong, “ laboured under a slight inflam- mation of their eyes, and when questioned as to the cause of this affection, said, that they were then convalescent from a very severe disease, under which almost the whole of the men on board the slave-ship laboured, and from an attack of which none except the master of the vessel had escaped. On the fourth day after these men were brought on board the king’s ship, two .of the seamen originally belonging to her complained that they had been seized during the preceding night with severe headach, and were at the same time affected with a troublesome sensation in the eyes, as if dust had been sprinkled into them. On the following morning several others said that they had been seized with the same complaints dur- ing the previous night, and, on the morning of the seventh day from the appearance of the disease, two and twenty men were rendered unfit for duty by it. Some of them were confined to bed, and unable to raise their heads from the pil- low, and the inflammation increased so much that their eyes resembled raw flesh. The disease increasing so rapidly, it was judged necessary to prohibit all communication between the sound and infected ; which being done, the contagion affected no more than twenty-five, and in about five weeks from it' first appearance in the ship altogether disappeared.”