251 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. guished master, Dr. Barclay, has termed the ancono-carpal arch ; formed by the anastomoses of the extreme branches of the interosseal with the radial and ulnar arteries on the back part of the carpus. “ This case forces strongly upon our minds the singular revolution which has taken place in the opinions of surgeons relative to the ligature of arteries within the last sixty years. They were formerly afraid to tie any considerable artery, for fear of mortification of the limb ; we are now apprehensive that the ligature of a main trunk may prove insufficient to suppress a haemorrhage from one of its minor branches : ‘ When the brachial or femoral artery is wounded, though the patient should not perish by the haemorrhage, the limb must soon die for want of nourishment.’ This was the language of Gooch in 1767? ‘ When circumstances tending to prevent the esta- blishment of a collateral circulation do not exist, we need not apprehend the death of any part in consequence of a deficient supply of blood after the ligature of its main artery.’ This was the language of Hodgson in 1815 ; and if you look into the accurate and instructive work of this author, you will find a case in which the ligature of the brachial was found insuf- ficient to suppress a haemorrhage from this same unlucky radial artery ; the wounds of which, I may safely assert, have given more trouble to surgeons, and proved more disastrous to pa- tients, than those of any other artery of a corresponding mag- nitude in the system. Surgeons have sometimes been made to pay in purse as well as in person for the mismanagement of such cases. Of this I recollect a remarkable instance which occurred in a provincial town in England not many years ago, where a surgeon was prosecuted and cast in damages at the suit of a cooper, who had lost the use of his arm, and was dis- abled from following his trade in consequence of the tight bandaging employed to restrain a haemorrhage from the radial artery. This case is strongly impressed upon my recollec-