64 MILITARY SURGERY. “ we are to expect, for the first month at least, that the returns will be considerably higher than if the men had remained in quarters. The earliest encampment began on the 8th of April, and produced such a number of sick, that in a month’s time the returns amounted to a twenty-seventh part of the whole. In the year 1745, the campaign was opened on the 25th of April ; and in 17^7? on the 23d of the same month, both in the Low Countries, but in tlie year 1746, the troops encamped on the 23d of April in the north of Scotland, which, considering the latitude, may be reckoned tbe ear- liest campaign during the war. And from all these in- stances, there is reason to believe, that the first proportion mentioned will generally hold when the army takes the field in Flanders in the first or second week of April. At the end of the campaign in Germany, the number in the hospital were to the men in health as three to thirteen. In 1747, when the troops left the field, the sick made about one-fifth part of the whole number, but if we consider by itself the detachment sent that year into Zealand, this proportion was just inverted ; for the men in health were to the diseased only as one to four.” We learn also from the same authority, that of the troops sta- tioned, during 1747, in South Beveland and the Island of Walcheren, some of the corps were so sickly as not to have more than one hundred men fit for duty, which was less than the seventh part of a complete battalion ; “ the Royals, in particular, at the end of the campaign, had but four men that never had been ill.” The recent loss of nearly four thousand men on the island of Walcheren, is fresh in our memories, and gives this subject a painful interest to every British officer. It is obvious, how- ever, that only a very distant approach to accuracy can be ex- pected in our endeavours to estimate tbe loss likely to ensue on any given service, as this must ever be dependent on the climate, the state of the weather, the provisions and comforts