153 BURNS. i increased, the application of stimulants may be more calculat- i ed to increase the patient’s sufferings than to expedite his cure. Lunar caustic has been recently recommended as an ap- plication to burns, when there is extensive superficial le- sion with intense redness and pain, or vesication ; and in : such cases, it it said, that under its use all uneasiness quick- i Iy subsides, and in a day or two the only traces of injury : are the desquamation of the blackened cuticle. Other appli- • cations of an astringent character have been sometimes made i to burns, and of these ink is strongly recommended by Lom- ! bard, in his work on wounds from fire-arms ; and he refers to * Galen, Avicena, and Paulus of Egina, in support of this i remedy. Of its use I have no personal experience, nor have I thought it necessary to ascertain what was the com- position of the ink used by those ancient writers ; but from the astringent nature of the ink used in modem days, it would seem to be no irrational application to burnt surfaces, either immediately after the receipt of the injury, or at a sub- sequent period, when in the progress of the cure the granula- tions are apt to become luxuriant and unhealthy. Although it would be vain to attempt an enumeration of all the popular remedies for burns, it is highly desirable that the military surgeon should be acquainted with a number of them. And there are two practices which it becomes necessary to notice particularly, as they have of late been very greatly commended and very extensively employed in the treatment of burns,—the envelopment of the parts in cotton,—and the sprinkling or dredging of the burnt surface with flower. The use of the former we have borrowed from the Americans ; the rationale of its employment I am not very fully acquainted with, nor satisfied of its superior efficacy. The application of flour to burned surfaces is another practice which has been lately adopt- ed, but which does not appear to me to possess any very ob- vious advantage. It has often the effect of locking up the pu-