MILITARY SURGERY. 25H Of the different materials employed as ligatures for tying arteries, none seem to answer better than common, or den- tist’s silk, one or two threads of these being sufficient in ordi- nary circumstances for the largest vessels. With a view to the practice generally employed in this country, of laying together the lips of a recent wound, in expectation of their uniting by adhesive inflammation, it is of much importance to diminish as far as possible the quantity of extraneous matter left in the wound ; and hence the diminution in the size of ligatures ge- nerally ; the separation of the extremities of the ligature, and their disposal along the face of a wound or stump, so as not to impede the adhesive process ; and above all, the removal of one half of the ligature close to the knot, are steps which have been successively introduced into practice. The last, and by far the most important of these improvements, the re- moval of one half of the ligature, has been attributed to Mr. Vcitch, formerly of the Naval Hospital at Plymouth, whose own account of this improvement is contained in a paper in- serted in the second volume of the Edinburgh Medical Jour- nal, under the title of the Inquirer, a paper equally satisfactory and unassuming. Towards the close of the late war, the practice of cutting off both extremities of the ligature close to the knot, was adopted by some of the army surgeons, and was warmly es- poused by Dr. Hennen, who expresses himself strongly in fa- vour of it. This practice, the origin of which appears to lie due to Mr. Haire, a surgeon at Southminster in Essex, or rather to a friend of his who had served with him in Haslar Hospital, has also been employed by Mr. Lawrence of St. Bar- tholomew’s, who seems favourable to the practice. 1 had for several years been in the habit of representing Professor Del- pech of Montpelier as an advocate for this practice, but from a conversation with that gentleman last winter, I learned that he did not approve of the practice of cutting short the liga-