MILITARY SURGERY. 264 so altered as scarcely to be recognised. Finally, the carti- lages and the bones themselves become involved in the mis- chief which the aneurismal swelling produces ; they are gradu- ally destroyed, and at length no trace of their substance re- mains. It is worthy of remark, however, that the pressure of an aneurismal tumour more quickly produces an absorption of bone than of cartilage. Such is the usual progress of internal aneurisms, or of those originating in the limbs without any obvious injury. The internal and middle coats of an artery, may be destroyed by absorption, ulceration, or rupture ; but neither of these are, I believe, liable to occur in arteries whose coats have not undergone some previous morbid alteration. They frequently take place in arteries, the coats of which con- tain atheromatous or calcareous depositions. The internal coat first gives way, the destruction of the middle follows, and is accelerated by the infiltration of the blood amongst it fibres. The external coat becomes incapable of resisting the force of the circulation, and yields so as to form the sac of the aneurism. I may here mention a singular opinion of Baron Larrey, as to the cause of some aneurisms, which he distinctly ascribes to a syphilitic virus giving rise to ulceration of the internal coat of the artery; and he narrates some cases in which the exhibi- tion of mercury is said to have been followed by a diminution of the dilatation of the artery. Larrey’s observations coincide with those of Scarpa and Sabattier, as to the formation of the tumour, and his experience, I find, coincides with my own, as to the infrequency of aneurism, in what may be termed its spontaneous or idiopathic form amongst soldiers. Such is a general outline of the structure and progress of aneurismal tumours, formed by a breach of the interior coats of the artery ; but we find considerable variety in regard to the extent of the aperture in the coats, and the relation which it bears to the aneurism. In some instances, particularly of small aneurisms, the destruction of the internal and middle