277 WOUNDS OF THE NERVES. wound healed kindly, but the nerve did not re-unite, and a bulbous knot, similar to what existed before the operation, has again formed upon its upper extremity. Many anomalous and distressing symptoms arise from wounds involving the lesion of nerves. One of the most fre- quent results is the formidable disease named tetanus, an af- fection which consists in a more or less violent and extensive contraction of the muscles of voluntary motion, attended with tension and rigidity of the parts affected. When its effects are confined to the muscles of the jaw or throat, as is often the case, it is termed trismus or locked jaw ; when the whole body is affected and becomes rigid, but not bent or distorted, the case is more particularly denominated tetanus ; when the body is bent forwards, emprosthotonos, and when backwards opistho- Jonos. Other subdivisions marking the particular scat and extent of the disease have also been employed by authors ; but distinctions more to our present purpose are those into chronic and acute, and into idiopathic and traumatic tetanus. The idiopathic form of the disease is a very rare occurrence in temperate climates ; a warm and moist atmosphere are consi- dered as predisposing to it, and it arises more immediately from cold suddenly applied or long continued. Exposure to the night air during sleep, and sudden transitions from heat to cold, are occasionally found to produce it. In our West India settlements it is a common occurrence both in its idio- pathic and symptomatic forms ; but my own experience in the East Indies does not lead me to consider it so common an occurrence in that climate as some authors would induce us to believe. It appears however, that the frequency and severity of te- tanus, differs greatly even in similar latitudes and localities, horn circumstances not always easily explained. I have frequently had occasion to express my surprise and satisfac- tion at the results of the wounds received at the taking of