TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. 99 j< clod's opening before anil behind; the floor of the carriage I' was formed of a moveable frame, furnished with a hair-mattress hand pillow, covered with leather. This frame glided easily ji upon the two supports or cheeks of the body, by means of four ■ small castors, and it was provided with four iron handles, fas- ; tened into the wood. These handles were destined to receive t the belts of the soldiers, in order to carry the wounded upon t the frame as upon a barrow. The wounded could be dressed upon these frames, when the season did not permit them to he dressed upon the ground. The little vehicles were drawn by two horses, one of which carried the driver; internally they were 11 decimeters, 12 millimeters, (or 32 inches) wide. Two wounded could lie all their length in them easily ; bags were distributed in the inside of them to receive bottles or other ob- jects necessary for the sick. These carriages combined solidi- ty with lightness and elegance.” The larger one was eon- • structed upon the same principles, was calculated to convey four patients lying extended, and was drawn by four horses. The only conveyance hitherto in general use for the sick of the British army, are the common spring-waggons. They are supported on four wheels, and drawn by four horses ; calculat- ed to convey six or eight men with slight injuries, and to hold two lying extended horizontally. Their general outline bears considerable resemblance to the carriage just described from Larrey s work, hut they are much less commodiously fitted up in the interior. Some of them are floored with deals like a common cart, and others have a depression or well in the bot- tom, calculated to receive the mens’ feet, and to enable them to sit upright with more comfort. These vehicles are, how- ever, but indifferently calculated for the conveyance of the wounded ; and from the expense of their construction, and the establishment of men and horses necessary to render them efficient, prove a very cumbrous and unwieldy appendage to an army.