MILITARY SURGERY. 57« malingerer an opportunity of retreating, or to use the language of the military hospital, to let him down softly The persevering obstinacy of some impostors, and the ex- treme simplicity of others, are equally remarkable, and in some instances equally ludicrous. Of the first, a singular example, which I well recollect, was presented in a case mentioned by Mr. Marshall, that of Fitzgerald, a soldier of the Royals, who, in consequence of an alleged injury in his back, pretended to be unable to stand upright, and, in spite of much rough treat- ment, kept his body bent forward day and night for a period of eighteen months, so that when his arms were allowed to hang down, the fingers reached to within a few inches of the ground. His period of service being expired, and the prospect of a bounty of sixteen guineas held out to him, this individual recovered in two days ; but “ moral turpitude, not physical disability,” prevented his being re-admitted into the Royals. Of the extreme simplicity of another dissembler I recollect a ludicrous instance in the case of a man rather advanced in life, who had been enlisted at an out-station, had been regularly passed by an experienced surgeon, and duly attested ; but before joining the regiment, having begun to repent of his engagement, he stated to me that he was liable to rupture. Upon the most minute examination, I could find no trace of hernia, and gave my opinion accordingly. The recruit then very gravely told me that his rupture was of that peculiar kind that it always went up under fatigue, and that the exertion of marching up to the head-quarters of the regiment had made it disappear. I immediately told him that this was a very singular species of rupture, but of all kinds the most convenient for a soldier, that we could contrive to give him plenty of fatigue, and that, at all events, we should keep him until the rupture again made its appearance. The man went to his duty, and the rupture was never more heard of. The distinction between feigned and factitious diseases will