475 SYPHILIS. meat of this affection, when appearing in the pure unmixed form described by Mr. Hunter, the rapid and beneficial effects of mercury are perhaps more conspicuous than in most other cases ; but when accompanied, as it not unfrequently is, with a surrounding erysipelatous inflammation, mercury is highly calculated to aggravate this symptom, and to lead to extensive sloughing and destruction of parts. It must therefore be withheld until all inflammatory symptoms have subsided under the use of abstemious diet, purgatives, antimonials, warm bath, &c. “ In affections of the throat,” says Hr. Hennen, “ I would be more guarded than in any others in the employment of mercury, until all inflammatory disposition was removed ; after that I have seen them yield as if by magic, so soon as the local effects of the mercury on the parts within the mouth become obvious.” A recollection of these local effects of mercury on the salivary organs will readily explain the irreparable mischief sometimes occasioned by its exhibition in venereal sore throats, when, instead of their usual indolent features and slow progress, they are attended with erysipelatous inflammation, and a tendency to slough- ing. In treating of Venereal eruptions, Dr. Bateman observes, that they assume such a variety of forms that they bid defiance to any arrangement founded upon their external character, and, in fact, they possess no common or exclusive mark by which their nature and origin are indicated. There is perhaps no or- der of cutaneous appearances, and scarcely any genus or spe- cies of the chronic eruptions, which these secondary symptoms of syphilis do not occasionally resemble. These cutaneous eruptions, now so common as sequela: of syphilis, were, during the several years that I served as a regimental surgeon, so comparatively rare under the general use of mercury, that I do not pretend to be able, from my own observation, to point out by what marks of discrimination they arc to be distin-