171 ULCERS. sisting of equal parts of oil of turpentine and unguent: resi- nosum—diluted, and pure nitric acid—solutions of nitrate of silver—balsam of Peru—powdered bark—finely powdered rhubarb—solution of camphor in spirit of wine—powdered bark and nitre—and powdered nitre,—with common, ferment- ing, or charcoal poultices. Liquid applications were always preferred to unctuous ones, at least as long as the sloughs con- tinued. Previous to the application of any of the above, free and numerous incisions were made through the thick tenacious cream-coloured sordes, with a scalpel, until blood flowed. I am inclined to attach some importance to this practice. Little advantage is to be gained from acting on the slough it- self ; the surrounding and subjacent parts possessing life, are to be roused into activity ; the remedies must be applied to them ; and this, I think, is ensured in some measure, by the deep incisions above recommended, which afford free access of the stimulating applications to the sound parts. Hence the superiority of liquid to unctuous dressings. After the scarifi- cations the whole surface of the sore was covered with the se- lected dressings, either spread upon or dipt into lint, some- times copiously poured over it; and over all the poultice was applied, and kept on by a loose bandage. Each of the above enumerated external remedies was occasionally found highly beneficial ; but they required to be frequently changed, as no one seemed to retain its good effect more than five or six days. In the worst form of the disease, that with little pain, and thick cream-coloured or greenish sloughs, where there was evi- dent want of action, the greatest benefit was derived from the application of pure nitric acid, by means of a feather, after scarifications through the sloughs, followed by the use of the fermenting or charcoal poultice. Finely powdered nitre sprinkled over the sore, was frequently found efficacious in de- taching the foul and offensive sloughs. When these began to separate, and healing spots were visible, the balsam of Peru