YELLOW FEVER. 040 and where the physicians depended chiefly upon salivation, more than one-half died of all the patients who were admit- ted. Upon the use of mercury in tropical fever, the follow- ing are the observations suggested by my experience in India. “ In the common fevers of the Madras establishment, this is a remedy which, by a liberal use of the evacuations already recommended, may very generally be rendered unnecessary. Where, however, the patient has laboured under an indifferent state of health previous to the accession of urgent febrile symp- toms, and where the use of purgatives alone seem inadequate to the restoration of healthy secretions, and natural alvine eva- cuations, I have frequently had recourse to it with the very best effects; and in the more severe forms of fever prevalent in India, it is a remedy reckoned indispensable. While some difference of opinion exists regarding the mode of its opera- tion, there seems to be but one opinion generally prevalent re- garding its extensive utility. On this subject I speak with diffidence, but I am inclined to think, that a more free use of bleeding and purgatives would, in a great many cases, even of these severe fevers, supersede its necessity.” As auxiliary means in the treatment of yellow fever, many authors have concurred in the commendation of purgatives, the first objects being, as expressed by Dr. Chisholm, freely to evacuate the prunes, vies, and deplete the muscular system. In my opinion of the inutility and impropriety of emetics in this fever, I am happy to find myself supported by Dr. Ban- croft, who very justly condemns them, from the presence of gastric irritability, which, for the most part, proves one of the most vexatious and troublesome symptoms of the disease. I am also supported by the same authority in urging the utility of the cold effusion, of which I entertain a very high opinion. Upon the treatment of the fevers which have on recent oc- casions proved so destructive to the troops in Gibraltar and at Walcheren, I consider it unnecessary to enlarge, as they ap-