GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 223 lRymers Fcedera there is an order from King Henry V. to the clerk of the ordnance, and John Bonnet, a mason at Maidstone, to cut seven thousand stone-shot in the quarries ilthere ; and we frequently read of cannon or bombards carrying .stone balls from two hundred to five hundred pounds weight. Froissart describes a very extraordinary bombard made by the people of Ghent, under the direction of D’Arteville, and iiused at the seige of Oudenarde. “ Therefore,” says he, “ to [terrify the garrison, he caused to be made a marvellous great bombard, which was fifty feet long, and threw great heavy stones of a wonderful bigness. When this bombard was dis- charged, it might be heard five leagues by day, and ten at ■night.” Of this description of artillery, we have a good 'Specimen in the castle of Edinburgh, in the well-known gun . called Mons Meg, which is now to be seen on one of the batte- rries, with some stone-shot adapted to its calibre. When Mahomet II. besieged Constantinople, in the year 11453, he battered the walls with stone bullets, and his pieces were some of them of the calibre of 1200 pounds ; but then they could not be fired more than four times a-day. It '.would appear that the Turks still retain a partiality for these enormous pieces of artillery, two stone-shot of 160 [ pounds weight having been found on board the Genoa, after the late action at Navarino. Other shot are mentioned as of 800 pounds weight, and one gun, stationed at the entrance of the 'Dardanelles, is said to carry a shot of 1100 pounds weight, lit must be observed, however, that the injuries inflicted by such masses are more akin to the accidents occurring in civil ilife from the explosions in quarries or in blasting rocks, than to those from gunshot. The wounding missiles with the effects of which we are chief- ly conversant in modern times, are the common pistol, musket, and cannon balls; shells, grape and canister-shot. Of the musket balls now in use, those furnished to the English army