11 INTRODUCTION. ter, the Duke, judged him to be so desperately wounded, that he absolutely proposed (as they were to march by day-light) to dig a ditch for him, and throw him into it, saying, that it was as well that the peasants should finish him. But being moved with pity, I told him, says Pare, that the captain might yet be cured ; many gentlemen of the company joined with me in begging that he might be allowed to go along with the baggage, since I was willing to dress and cure him. This was, accordingly, granted ; I dressed him, put him into a small well-covered bed in a cart drawn by one horse. I was at once physician, surgeon, apothecary, and cook to him, and, thank God, I did cure him in the end to the admiration of all the troops ; and out of the first booty, the men at anns gave me a crown a-piece, and the archers half-a-crown each.” It was actions like this which brought Pare into so much re- pute amongst the French soldiery, that we find their princes and generals willingly took the field when they could prevail upon Pare to go out along with them ; and at the time when all the noblesse of the kingdom were shut up in Mentz, which was besieged by Charles V. in person, at the head of a hun- dred thousand men, they sent an embassy to the king their master, beseeching him to send Pare to them. An Italian captain, for a great reward, introduced him into the city ; they instantly sent at midnight, to awaken the prince who com- manded the garrison with the good news of his arrival. The governor begged of him that he would go next day and show himself on the breach. He was received by the soldiers with shouts of triumph. We shall not die even although wounded —Pare is amongst us ! Mentz was at this time the bulwark of France, and it has always been ascribed to the presence of this single man, that they kept the city till the gallant army which lay around it perished beneath its walls. But although I have been tempted to give this brief no- tice of one who may be in some measure termed the father