WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 357 in such cases. This docs not, however, diminish the risk attendant upon such wounds ; for even although the primary haemorrhage should not prove troublesome, and although the external wound should close, we may still have an aneurism formed from the puncture of an artery. Besides the for- midable consequences from wounds of the arteries, the more common effects of punctured wounds of the extremities, are those formerly noticed, inflammations of the fascia; leading to extensive and deep-seated collections of matter, or to the oc- currence of tetanic affections. Careful reflection, however, induces me to conclude, that the risk of tetanus from punc- tured wounds has been somewhat overrated, and in confirma- tion of this opinion, it has been stated to me by Mr. Mar- shall, that amongst the cases of arrow wounds, which fell un- der his notice in Ceylon, amounting to about one hundred, not a single instance of tetanus occurred. The bad consequences of punctured wounds were formerly attempted to be obviated by the scarification or dilatation of the wound at the first dressing. This practice is now, however, abandoned, at least by the English surgeons, and the dilatation of the wound is deferred until in the progress of the case it may become necessary, or some distinct ob- ject shall be attainable by it; and until we shall distinctly per- ceive in what direction it may be made with most advantage. In a punctured wound of any of the extremities, where no motive exists for its immediate enlargement, such as the se- curing of a bleeding artery, its orifice is to be lightly covered, and perhaps a compress laid along its course, secured by a roller very moderately tightened. In many instances, by this simple treatment, we shall have the satisfaction of finding the wound unite throughout its whole extent. When severe pain, swelling, and tension occur, these symptoms arc to be ob- viated by local blood-letting, fomentations, cataplasms, and perhaps dilatation of the wound.