ANEURISM. 267 • Of this variety, an interesting case of which is described and i figured by Dorsey, I have never myself met with any example, hut have seen numerous instances of what is the more common rresult of a wound transfixing a vein, and wounding the subja- ccent artery. In this case, the blood from the artery is forced vwith impetus into the vein ; the latter becomes distended and 'varicose ; a pulsatory motion is now communicated to it, and a sstridulous or ringing noise is to be heard on applying the ear or ^stethoscope to the site of the wound. This disease is most frequently caused by inexpert bleeding at the bend of the arm. 'It constitutes what, in my opinion, ought to be called aneu- rismal varix, in contradistinction to varicose aneurism. These : two terms have been in some measure promiscuously used by authors ; but nothing can, in my judgment, admit of a more .'natural or perfect distinction. The disease formerly mentioned, •should be termed aneurism, inasmuch as it is a swelling or 1 distension of the artery; the latter should be termed varix, M inasmuch as it is a swelling or distension of the vein. We are now, I think, prepared to understand what arc h usually considered as the diagnostics of aneurism. The occur- |> rence of a pulsating tumour near a large artery, is always a suf- i I ficient reason for suspecting the disease to be aneurism ; but J1 as other tumours or even abscesses in the vicinity of an import- ; ant artery sometimes have a throbbing motion communicated to them by the neighbouring vessel, no positive judgment should be formed until other circumstances of the case have been duly considered. An aneurism in an external situation, and com- mencing with a dilatation of all the coats of an artery, generally presents itself in the form of a small pulsating tumour, which subsides under pressure, and immediately reappears when the pressure is removed. It also subsides, or at least becomes more flaccid, when the portion of artery between it and the heart is compressed, hut immediately resumes its usual fulness when such compression is discontinued. This aneurism, in 3