INTRODUCTION. 17 guished military surgeon, and who, in that capacity, went over to France, in 1589, with the troops sent by queen Eli- zabeth to the assistance of Henry IV. under Lord Willough- by. On his return to England, after a lapse of several years spent in travelling on the continent, he settled in Lon- don ; became a member of the Surgeons Company about the year 1812; was elected Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hos- pital, and also surgeon-general to the East India Company. It is to be inferred from several circumstances, that he was employed some considerable time as surgeon to a ship, and in that capacity made one or more voyages to the East Indies. In 1626, when the naval forces of the kingdom were aug- mented, and warlike preparations were carried on with vi- gour, the charge of fitting out the chirurgical part of his ma- jesty’s service was committed to the Corporation of Sur- geons, and by them to Woodall. The king, Charles I., on this occasion augmented the pay of the Navy Surgeons, and granted a sum of money proportioned to the rates of the ships, towards furnishing the medicine chests. Among several other publications of Woodall, those more immediately connected with military and naval practice are his “ Surgeon’s Mate,” the earliest of his productions, which contains an enumeration of all the instruments, utensils, and medicines of a surgeon’s chest, with a brief description of their uses and qualities. His next wrork, entitled “ Viaticum, or Pathway to the Sur- geon’s Chest,” was written in 1626, and published two years after. It is written with the same general design of instruct- ing young practitioners, chiefly in reference to the treatment of gun-shot wounds, although under this head there is nothing materially different from what was given in his Surgeon’s Mate. The last of his works is a treatise on gangrene and sphacelus. Several useful remarks on amputation occur in this tract, and it seems to contain the first hint of amputat- ing as low as the ancle in diseases of the foot. For having £> c