MILITARY SURGERY. 230 ceed the diameter of the ball, but to admit with case the bar- rel of the pistol itself. Before proceeding to consider more minutely the appear- ances exhibited by a gunshot wound, I shall take the present opportunity of briefly adverting to those accidents suppos- ed to proceed from what has been termed the “ wind of a ball,” accidents which are yet perhaps but imperfectly explain- ed. One remarkable case of this kind fell within my own ob- servation, in which a gentleman’s knee-pan was dislocated, as he firmly believed, by the wind of a shot during an action on shipboard. Several accidents of this kind are noticed in Sir Gilbert Blane’s diseases of seamen ; and amongst others, those of two men who were killed in Lord Rodney’s action in the West Indies, by balls passing across the pit of the sto- mach. In the Edinburgh Medical Journal, for the years 1812—13, a series of papers on this subject are to be found, one by Mr. Forbes, a clergyman, who conceives that the sudden deaths, and other accidents attributed to the wind of a ball, are owing to the vacuum produced by the rapid motion of the ball through the air. “ When a ball,” says he, tc passes close to the stomach, there is, in the first place, a great addition to the pressure on that viscus from the condensation of the air: as soon as the ball has passed, this pressure, with a great part of that of the atmosphere, is taken off, the consequence of which is a sud- den expansion of all the fluids in the stomach and the blood in its vessels, and the consequent rupture of both.” Mr. Spence, a naval surgeon, attributes these accidents, particularly on shipboard, to the detachment of light substances from the rigging, such as pieces of canvass, rope-yarn, &c.; or part of the wadding, he conceives, may be carried along with the ball, and impinging against the body, produce similar effects. Mr. Ellis, in a third paper in the same journal, ascribes these injuries to electricity, generated by the passage of balls through the air. This hypothesis has attracted more attention than