40 G MILITARY SURGERY. poison, I have no doubt that it may be artificially imitated, particularly by the use of potass, and perhaps by the ap- plication of a variety of substances. In short, where these ulcers assume such a variety of appearances, instead of cavilling about what is, or what is not a chancre, a point upon which we can scarcely find two surgeons agree, I would be disposed cither to lay aside the use of this term altogether, or to employ it more as a generic than a specific term. In 1819, the late Mr. Evans, surgeon of the 57th regiment, published the first part of a w’ork on ulcerations of the geni- tals, which I regret has not been completed. In this work a classification was attempted upon a very extensive scale, em- bracing a division of these ulcers which has been too much over- looked :—into those from sexual intercourse, and those arising from other causes, to which, be it recollected, the penis is equally liable with other parts of the hotly. Of the former class, those following impure connexion, whether they be supposed to arise from one specific virus, or from a variety of poisons, they are found to be more modified in their appearances by the site and texture of the parts they occupy, than by the pe- culiar nature of the source from which they originate. Thus, ulcers on the external integuments have often round callous edges, level surfaces, and but little induration of base. Ulcers on the internal membrane of the prepuce are generally either superficial or elevated, their edges sometimes regularly defin- ed, sometimes spreading out like excoriations, but their bases in general little indurated. Ulcers immediately behind the corona glandis, are in general highly irritable, deep, scooped, indurated in their edges and base. Ulcers on the frsenum generally follow lacerations of that part, have bases consider- ably indurated, and are often slow in healing. Ulcers on the body of the glans are often excavated, but little indurated at the base. In attempting a classification of these ulcers, with a view