219 LACERATED AND CONTUSED WOUNDS. A wound is said to be Lacerated when the parts, instead of , (being divided by a sharp cutting instrument, are forcibly torn ; asunder, and the edges of the wound present a ragged, uneven ‘ appearance. When a wound is inflicted by a blunt obtuse , I body, which destroys, in some degree, the vitality and organi- ; zation of the contiguous textures, at the same time that it ] penetrates the skin, the wound is said to be Contused. The ' wounds of this class to which soldiers and seamen are more j peculiarly exposed, occur from the bursting of muskets, the u explosion of shells, the kicks of horses, the detachment of | s splinters from gun-carriages, and the fall of blocks, &c. from jt the rigging on shipboard. In many cases, injuries present at 11 the same time, both the phenomena of lacerated and contused wounds ; one of the most remarkable of which is the frequent !; absence of that haemorrhage, which, in simple incised wounds ! i of the same parts, often proves alarming to the byestanders, U embarrassing to the surgeon, and, not unfrcquently, fatal to 11 the patient. The swelling and ecchymosis which speedily take place in the lips of a lacerated or contused wound, are i i circumstances in which they differ from incised wounds ; and i i the destruction of the vitality of the surrounding parts leads to ; a difference in the manner in which lacerated and contused -wounds generally heal, and to the adoption of a mode of j i treatment in some measure different from that recommcnd- i ed in incised wounds. While we find the latter descrip- tion of wounds prone to reunite, and to require for this pur- pose nothing more than that their lips should be brought into contact, and retained in accurate apposition, contused and lacerated wounds seldom heal without suppuration, and often not without extensive sloughing, proportioned to the injury which the contiguous parts may have sustained. As the ex- tent, however, to which this sloughing, or destruction of the surrounding parts may proceed, is not to be exactly known a priori; and as we shall diminish the sufferings of the patient.