MILITARY SURGERY. 470 guishcd from eruptions arising without any suspicion of a syphilitic taint; and this is an acknowledgment in which I am fully borne out by Dr. Hennen and others who have had the best opportunities of attending to and studying the ap- pearances of those eruptions. The more determinate erup- tions are papular, pustular, scaly, or tubercular, besides which there often occurs a general, diffused, reddish, mottled efflo- rescence of the skin resembling the “ roseola annulata” of Willan, and which the soldiers themselves denominate “ trout back.” Mr. Carmichael, who has paid most parti- cular attention to this point, conceives that certain characters of the primary sore are always succeeded by certain determi- nate forms of eruption. Thus, he asserts that the eruption following the true syphilitic sore is always of a scaly character, while he avows that he has not, in any one instance, observed the eruption to be papular, pustular, or tubercular, where it arose from the true syphilitic primary ulcer, or to be scaly where it followed those ulcers which do not possess the characters of chancre, the indented edge and base. Mr. Carmichael has made some observations on the particular sites and appearances of this scaly eruption, which my own observations enable me to confirm, and which are deserving of attention. The scaly syphilitic eruption is almost in every instance to be found on the forehead, breast, back of the neck, on the groins, and ad- joining surface of the pubis. On the back of the neck and groins, those spots situated near the parts covered with hair, spread into each other so as to form extensive copper-coloured blotches. When the eruption affects a portion of skin opposed by another skin, as between the nates, or between the scrotum and thigh, or under the arms, or between the thighs, it is not scaly ; but the skin becomes elevated into a moist, soft, flat, or somewhat convex surface, which discharges a whitish matter. These arc the appearances which I believe authors have termed condylomata, fici, crista1, maricat1, &c. denomina-