181 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. in this instance, however, was not very considerable, for the Queen Charlotte had, previous to the appearance of this ulcer, been long in harbour, where the men were living on fresh beef every day, with abundance of vegetables. Dr. Trotter himself observes, with regard to this ulcer, that it has been observed to prevail more in ships in port than at sea, or very shortly after leaving the harbour. “It has never,” says he, “ assumed the complexion of a scorbutic ulcer which is distin- guished by the dark-coloured fungous mass lying over its surface, termed by the seamen bullock’s liver. This, on being removed, is quickly regenerated, and is commonly attended with symptoms of scurvy, such as soft swellings of the legs, spongy gums, and sallow looks. On the contrary, in this ul- cer, when the putrid parts separate, the surface is of a light florid colour. The scorbutic sore is seldom painful; our ul- cer is attended, at times, with exquisite torment.” My learned predecessor, Dr. Thomson, who has given an excellent summary of the reports of others upon this subject, along with some observations of his own, in his Lectures on Inflammation, again adverts to it in his Observations on the Military Hospitals in Belgium ; and remarks, that, in the cases in which he had seen this disease occur in Great Britain, it appeared to be of a contagious nature ; but he is doubtful whether it was ever communicated from one patient to another in Belgium ; and is rather inclined to believe that it was ende- mial, depending on the same causes as the fevers of the country. In a recent work on traumatic gangrene, by M. Ollivier of 1 aris, the author questions whether this disease has ever pre- vailed epidemically in consequence of a general atmospheric cause. But, in small crowded wards, the gangrene may, he thinks, be transmitted from one patient to another through a vitiated atmosphere. Numerous experiments and observations are noticed by Ollivier, as those of MM. Dupin, Richerand, Dupuytren, and Willaume, tending to establish its non-con-