381 WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. ball fired at a short distance strikes the humerus imme- diately below its head, and breaks it short off; and the pressure of the detached head of the bone, acting as a foreign body, causes irritation and inflammation of the joint. Ab- scesses, sinuses, and caries soon become evident, and there is no resource but in amputation. I have,” adds the Baron, “ had the good fortune, in ten cases, to prevent this unfortun- ate result, by extracting either the head of the humerus or its fragments without delayAfter a detail of his mode of per- forming the operation, by an incision through the deltoid muscle, parallel to its fibres, and along the course of the bone, he states the result of his cases as follows:—“ One died of fever, and two of scurvy, at Alexandria ; one of the plague after the return of the army from Syria, and the others were sent to France cured.” I have now seen this operation executed five times in consequence of a carious state of the joint; two of these patients have died, one of them from incurable inter- nal disease; the other three have obtained cures, and have retained a limb more or less useful. In short, the results have been such as to satisfy me perfectly of the applicability of this operation to military practice. In wounds of the elbow-joint, we have no experience in military practice of the excision of the articular extremities of the bones; but I have had an account of a case transmitted to me by Mr. M‘Intyre of Newcastle, where this operation was successfully executed. The case was one of severe com- pound fracture of the joint, and the patient recovered so far, “ as to manage a steam-engine, and to use his arm with con- siderable strength.” I have now had the good fortune to witness twenty cases in which the elbow-joint has been either wholly or partially excised for caries, being, I believe, all the cases which have been operated on in this city. In sixteen of these cases, the operation was performed by Mr. Syme, in two by Mr. Liston, in one by Dr. Simson, and in one case 1 per-