394 MILITARY SUROERY. —“ This is a case, I remarked to you, of which no one will readily estimate the difficulty who has not experienced it: but the numerous cases which I mentioned, where all attempts at reduction had failed in the hands of the most eminent sur- geons both in this country and in France, will, I am sure, incline you to look with an indulgent eye on every unsuc- cessful attempt which you may hereafter have occasion to wit- ness, and will stimulate you to avail yourselves of any oppor- tunity which may present itself of dissecting the joint in its dislocated state, and explaining the real cause of the difficulty in reducing this luxation. “I pointed your attention particularly to the remarks on this dislocation in the excellent practical work of the late Mr. Hey of Leeds. I noticed also the successful cases recorded by Mr. Shaw and by Mr. Charles Bell, and explained to you by a sketch from Mr. Bell’s Operative Surgery what he conceives to be the true position of the parts in this luxation, and what he considers to be the obstacles to its reduction. Of this troublesome accident I met with two instances about thirteen years ago, in the persons of two young soldiers, which you will find recorded in the 11th volume of the Edinburgh Me- dical and Surgical Journal. In one of these cases I failed, and in the other my efforts were successful. My failure occa- sional me more annoyance at the time than it will ever do again, now that I know how very far it is from being singu- lar ; and, as to my success, Gentlemen, I wish I could per- suade myself that it was any thing more than accidental. It is right, however, to observe, that in most, if not all of the cases where the reduction has been accomplished, it has been undertaken at an earlier period than in Murray’s case; and that this reduction has been effected rather by pushing than by pulling the bones into their natural situation.” In the paper above referred to I have attempted an expla- nation of the difficulty in reducing this luxation, founded