24-7 WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. This coagulum is distinct from the former, and 1 have called it the internal coagulum. In the mean time, the cut ex- tremity of the artery inflames, and the vasa vasorum pour out lymph, which is prevented from escaping by the external coagulum. This lymph fills up the extremity of the artery, is situated between the internal and external coagula of blood, is somewhat intermingled with them or adheres to them, and is firmly united all round to the internal coat of the artery. The permanent suppression of the haemorrhage i chiefly depends on this coagulum of lymph ; but while it is I forming within, the extremity of the artery is further secured by a gradual contraction which it undergoes, and by an effu- sion ol lymph between its tunics, and into the cellular mem- brane surrounding it, in consequence of which these parts become thickened, and so completely incorporated with each other, that it is impossible to distinguish one from the other. 1 hus, not only is the canal of the artery obliterated, but its textremity also is completely effaced, and blended with the sur- rounding parts.” Although Dr. Jones’ views regarding the suppression of hae- morrhage, were chiefly founded on experiments made on the in- ferior animals, they were received as satisfactory, and have very generally been adopted by the systematic writers on sur- >’gery. Mr. Guthrie, however, in his lectures on the diseases and injuries of arteries, delivered before the Royal College of ''Surgeons of London in 1829, has made some important ad- ditions to our knowledge of this subject; the more valuable for my present purpose, inasmuch as his conclusions are the re- sult of long continued and extensive experience on the ar- teries of the human body, opened or otherwise injured by 'wounds received in battle. Of the many interesting observa- tions which Mr. Guthrie has brought forward in his recent publication, the following appear to me particularly important, is bearing directly upon points of practice.