1G2 MILITARY SURGERY. “ The First or Acute variety commenced, if in a previously indolent ulcer, by a small circumscribed fiery spot; if on the sound skin however, by a minute, bright red irritable pimple, which on being scratched, was soon converted into an ulcer. The after course was in both cases the same. It extended rapidly with great pain and constitutional irritation, some- times reaching the size of a half crown piece in less than twelve hours. There was little discharge from it, and when any, it was of an ichorous and acrid nature. The edges were raised, ragged, often deeply indented, resembling the outline of a map, and of a purplish or red colour. In a few days it extended over a considerable portion of limb, involv- ing in destruction, muscle, tendon, and ligament, which were soon converted into a black or brownish slough. In this re- spect, it somewhat resembled those cases described by Mr. Leslie in his paper on the sloughing Ulcers of Prince of Wales Island, published in the third volume of the Calcutta Medical and Physical Society’s Transactions. The constitu- tional symptoms were considerable fever, white dry and load- ed tongue, great irritability, restlessness and almost total sleeplessness. It generally occurred about the ancles, or on the front of the tibia ; in only one instance in the upper ex- tremities, and that in an opened abscess. If the progress of the disease was not checked, the ulcerative process went on, the irritibility and fever increased, and the patient died ap- parently worn out. In most instances however, when proper treatment was adopted early, the pain lessened, the slough began to separate, the edges became more regular, the con- stitutional symptoms decreased in violence, pus was thrown out and granulations commenced. In some, it put on the second or chronic form about to be described, when the cure was exceedingly tedious. In others, relapses took place, even from the slightest irregularity in diet or regimen, occasionally