WOUNDS OF THE HEAD. 303 hitherto been clone to systematize this subject, that I consider the profession deeply indebted to Mr. Brodie for the interest- ing analysis which he has recently given of the cases of v wounded brain, and of musket balls lodged within the cra- nium. I regret, however, to think, that I cannot altogether concur in the conclusions which Mr. Brodie has drawn from t these cases in favour of non-interference. “ Ought we not,” he says, <c to regard it as the general rule, that the extraction iof a ball should not be attempted; an exception to the rule being made only in those cases in which, from its mere super- Ificial situation, and other circumstances, the extraction can be •easily accomplished without the employment of force, and ^without adding in any degree to the mischief already done.” 'Now, I see so many sources of danger, and so little chance of ^ultimate safety for a patient with a ball lodged in his brain, that nothing will ever induce me to leave it there, except the ^impossibility of finding it. I do not, of course, mean to ad- vocate a random search with the probe through an organ like the brain, in which, if it does not find an opening, it will readily make one. But whenever we have a distinct view of the course of a ball, and when its site can be ascertained with facility and precision, I am of opinion that it ought to be ex- tracted even at the risk of some additional injury ; in short, the prohibition of violence ought rather to apply to the search after balls, than to the operation of extracting them. We see many instances of soldiers and others who have heen wounded in the head, remaining ever afterwards liable, upon the least excitement, to dangerous inflammatory and maniacal attacks, particularly in those cases where portions of •hone are forced in upon the brain, or other mechanical injury done to it; and although it appears from Mr. Brodie’s state- ipent, that of ten cases of balls lodged in the brain, six re- covered without extraction, yet this, as lie justly observes, “.affords no information as to the actual rate of mortality in