348 MILITARY SURGERY. with a case of strangulated hernia, and the comparative fre- quency with which it has fallen under my own observation in civil and in military practice, offers a remarkable contrast. Indeed the whole history of my experience of strangulated hernia is singular, and not uninstructive. I had not been many hours an apprentice wrhen I had occasion to witness an operation for strangulated hernia ; and thus early impress- ed with the hazardous character of the disease, I embraced every opportunity of making myself acquainted with its nature. While assistant to the late Dr. Barclay,at a time when the pub- lications on hernia by my colleague Dr. Monro, by the late Mr. llcy of Leeds, and by Sir Astley Cooper, had rendered the subject one of extreme and universal interest to myself and to my fellow-students, I laboured hard to become ac- quainted with the numerous fasciae which have been described, with the anatomy of the ring, the course of the epigastric ar- tery, its relative situation to the spermatic chord and to the hernial sac in inguinal hernia ; the general distribution and anomalies also of the obturator artery, with its relations to Gimbernat’s ligament, and to the neck of the sac in crural hernia. With all this information I entered the army, and served for thirteen years without ever meeting with a case of strangulated hernia, save one, which was speedily reduced by bleeding and the warm bath. Circumstances were very much the reverse when I entered upon my duties as surgeon to the Royal Infirmary here. Before I was many months in office, a case of strangulated hernia presented itself, aggravated, as many such cases are, by protracted and unavailing efforts at reduction by the tax- is : I immediately proceeded to operate, with a strong con- viction of its necessity, but with very blunted recollections of the minute anatomy of the parts, and without ever having wit- nessed the operation on the living body, except in the case w hich occurred the first day of my apprenticeship. The re-