193 WOUNDS. (earliest times, adopted various classifications of wounds. An i anxiety to predict the ultimate issue of these injuries led to (one of the earliest, but, at the same time, one of the most i imperfect divisions of wounds,—into those which are mortal ;and those which are not. In the writings of Hippocrates we I find a methodical detail of such wounds as he considered 1 mortal; and he pronounces the inevitable fatality of all wounds iin the brain, the spinal marrow, the heart, the liver, the dia- ; phragm, and the bladder ; and from his opinion of the mor- t tality of wounds of the last mentioned viscus, he framed the c celebrated oath which was administered to his disciples against (cutting for the stone. Celsus has been somewhat more pre- cise in his enumeration of mortal -wounds, but, for the most jpart, he coincides with Hippocrates in his opinions upon this ‘subject. In more recent times, a detailed enumeration of 'wounds has been given, embracing the causes upon which their I fatality depends. Thus, mortal wounds have been divided into 1 “ those in which the nervous fluid is interrupted in its course to i the heart; wounds penetrating either the auricles or ventricles < of the heart ; wounds inflicted in parts where applications can- l not be made to restrain the bleeding, as deep wounds of the lungs, &c. ; wounds which interrupt respiration, as those of tthe larynx, the bronchiae, the diaphragm, and those pene- ttrating both cavities of the thorax ; and, lastly, such wounds as deprive the body of nutrition, by preventing the passage iof food into the stomach, the preparation of chyle, and the . conveyance of it into the blood.” While many of the general principles adopted in the fore- going classification are undeniable, the imperfection of its par- ticular details is a matter of every-day observation. There is • scarcely one of the specific wounds enumerated by the earlier 'writers as mortal, from which individuals have not occasion- ally recovered. In speaking of wounds of the head, we shall have occasion to notice cases in which the brain has, eithejr o