33 EXAMINATION OF RECRUITS. are subsequently to be employed, it is generally thought : that we can scarcely enlist men too young ; there is no- . thing, however, so mysterious in the duties of a soldier as to | prevent a man, possessed of the necessary physical powers, : from learning them at almost any period of life, while, on the other hand, by enlisting hoys, before their growth is com- pleted and their constitutions formed, it is quite impossible . to foresee whether they will ever attain those physical powers necessary to capacitate them for the duties of a soldier ; some of them will perhaps turn out better than we expect, but many of them will also, in all probability, turn out worse, and will ultimately prove a loss to the service, or what are termed in the army, “ the King’s hard bargains.” My sentiments upon this subject, as regards the selection of men for the Indian service, have long been before the pub- lic ; and they are strongly confirmed by what has subsequently been written by Dr. Whitelaw Ainslie, and by Mr. James Annesley of the Madras army, as well as by Mr. Marshall and Dr. Burke of the king’s service. Although my remarks upon the inefficiency of young recruits, in my essay on the “ Diseases of the European Troops in India,” refer chiefly to men employed upon that station, yet I believe they will ap- ply, more or less, to the service generally, in all parts of the world. The opinion of Sir James M‘Grigor upon this point may be gathered from the paper already quoted on the Health of the Peninsular Army, in which he observes, that “ lads, un- equal to the harassing duties of the service,” as well as men whose frames have been worn out by disease, ought uniformly to be rejected ; and Dr. Luscombe, in his work on the Health of Soldiers, is still more explicit upon this important subject. “ I must give it,” says he, “ as my opinion, formed on obser- vation and experience, that it is very prejudicial to the effi- ciency of an army to admit lads or very young men, for these D