5lt STRICTURES. tient, after some debauch or excess, is surprised by a com- plete retention. Frequent and unseasonable calls to make water, especially during the night; nocturnal emissions; and a gleety or puriform discharge from the urethra, occa- sionally suppressed, and liable to recur upon the slightest ex- cess or irregularity, are all frequent attendants upon stric- ture. We find patients complaining sometimes of strange and indescribable feelings about the genital organs, as of ani- mals creeping or fluttering in the urethra, with intolerable itching. And, in addition to these and various other symp- toms, referable to the seat ot the disease, strictures are often attended with derangement of the general health, and severe constitutional symptoms, of which one of the most common, particularly in warm climates, is a complete paroxysm of fe- ver, commencing with shivering, and succeeded by a regular hot and sweating stage. During the rigor, nausea and vomit- ing frequently occur ; and the patient, having repeated calls to make water, often finds it pass more easily during the pa- roxysm than at other times. But, whatever reason we may have, from the above-men- tioned symptoms, to suspect the existence of stricture, we arc only rendered certain of its presence by the introduction of a probe or bougie; and, while such an examination points out the site of the obstruction, it may be so conducted as to gain useful information as to its nature and extent. For this pur- pose, a species of probe, consisting of a small round ball of silver, attached to a flexible wire of the same metal, has been recommended by Sir C. Bell. A soft bougie, with a thick coating of plaster or wax, of such a size as to en- ter the stricture, and to receive an impression, by remaining some time in contact with it, is also occasionally employed for this purpose. By means of Sir C. Bell’s instrument, or even by the use of a common probe, when the stricture was so si- tuated as to be within its reach, I have occasionally been able