MILITARY SURGERY. 540 its appearance in this disease must be much rarer even than death, and this circumstance, joined to that of its not being peculiar to the fever in question, render it very unfit to be produced as a diagnostic thereof. ” The chief value of a diag- nostic is to enable us to ascertain, at an early period, the true nature of a disease, but this refers to its consequences only. Upon this point, Dr. Musgrave of Antigua remarks, “ had Drs. Pym or Gilpin, or any one holding their opinions, prac- tised in Antigua during the late epidemic, still prepossessed with the idea of black vomiting being distinctive of yellow fever, I venture to assert, without fear of contradiction, that he or they, spite of every preconceived notion, must in candour have admitted, that a disease at least answering in every re- spect the description given by themselves, could ostensibly be produced by miasmata alone.” This, according to Dr. Bancroft’s view of the matter, the application of miasmata to the human body in warm cli- mates, is the most frequent, or rather the only existing cause of yellow fever; that it is really a marsh remittent fever; and he endeavours to establish the identity, or near affinity and connexion of the yellow fever with fevers no- toriously and indisputably produced by marsh miasmata. The latter have certain peculiarities, which he compares with the phenomena of yellow fever, in order to show the identity of the two diseases. The peculiarities of marsh fever, all of which are observable in the progress of the yellow fever, are, according to Dr. Bancroft,—1. 1 hat of occurring in their simple and mild form of intermittents during the spring. 2. That of being exasperated, converted into remit- tent, and apparently into continued fevers by excessive summer heat, and this generally with a great increase of malignity. 3. That of being reconverted or brought back to their mild intermittent form at the commencement of winter, and after- wards extinguished or suspended in cold countries by a conti-