504 MILITARY SURGERY. more indefinite towards the glans. With regard to the struc- ture of this canal, much diversity of opinion has existed amongst the most experienced and dexterous anatomists. Mr. Hunter considered it to possess a muscular structure, and his brother-in-law, Sir Kverard Home, has strenuously sup- ported the same doctrine by numerous arguments and obser- vations. Although, says he, it may be difficult, and perhaps impossible, to prove this membrane to be muscular, either from its appearance, or from examination of its texture; yet other structures apparently membranous, and equally unlike the fasciculated fibrous texture commonly met with in muscles, are endowed with a power of contracting and relaxing in a much greater degree than is ever found to take place in the membrane of the urethra. Sir Kverard then instances the case of those membranous living sacs, termed hyda- tids, which, although not demonstrably muscular, when taken from their natural situation, and kept in tepid water, are ob- served to contract and relax to a very considerable extent. In addition to these, and other analogical arguments in fa- vour of the muscularity of the urethra, the abettors of this opinion adduce also certain practical observations in favour of their views, tending to show that muscular properties reside either in the membrane of the urethra itself, or in the sub- stance immediately surrounding it. The latter is indeed the opinion more recently adopted by Sir Kverard Home, w ho concludes, from Mr. Bauer’s microscopical observations, that the human urethra is made up of two parts, an internal membrane and an external muscular covering. The internal membrane is exceedingly thin, and no fibres are met with that can give it a power of contraction ; but it is stated that the muscular covering by which the membrane is sur- rounded or enclosed, is made up of fasciculi of very short fibres which appear to be interwoven together, to be connected by their origin and insertions w ith one another, and to have all “ a