LUXATIONS. 387 . certainty as to the nature of the accident may be obtained by < our being able to feel a vacuity in the region of the joint, while i the head of the bone may be felt prominent in a new posi- (tion. This is very often perceptible in luxations of the shoulder- joint, and affords one of the most perfect diagnostics. The i existence of a luxation being once ascertained, the obvious : and the only indications are to replace the bone as speedily as possible, and to restrain the motions of the joint until the i contiguous parts shall have recovered from the injury they have sustained. To effect the replacement of dislocated bones, various me- chanical contrivances have been employed, but with these, of which the pulley is the only one now in general use, the military surgeon can seldom expect to be furnished; and in recent luxa- tions, particularly of thesmaller joints,a sufficientextension may be made either by the hands of the surgeon, or by the use of lacs, towels, or sheets passed round the limb, and pulled by a sufficient number of assistants. In all cases great care should be taken to make the counter-extension, or, in other words, to fix the trunk or superior part of the limb in a way the most perfect and least injurious to the patient; and in luxation of the shoulder and hip-joints, the scapula and pelvis are' to be made as far as possible fixed points. With regard to the point at which the extending force should be applied, some difference of opinion prevails. The French surgeons, for the most part, apply it to the extreme part of the limb, leaving an intervening joint between the dislocated one and the point at which the extending force is applied. Thus in luxation of the shoulder they apply the lac or pulley to the wrist, and in luxations of the hip they apply it. above the ankle. In support of this practice they allege, that they act with more ad- vantage by a lengthened lever, and avoid compressing or excit- ing a spasmodic contraction of those long muscles which extend over the luxated joint to that situated next below. In reply