MILITARY SURGERY. 450 cases, remedies ought first to be applied to the ulcerated parts, calculated to lessen the morbid irritability, to change the ac- tion of the sore, and to stop the destructive process going on. To effect these objects, the practice usually employed is the application of the nitrate of silver to the surface of the ulcer, for which purpose a piece of this substance may be pointed like a pencil, and the sore gently touched with it. This re- moves the excessive irritability, and, for the most part, soon induces a new action in the part, and converts the process of ulceration into that of granulation and cicatrization. Besides ulceration, Opacities of the cornea of different den- sities, are very frequent consequences of ophthalmia ; and these have, according to their nature or site, been divided into dif- ferent varieties. When the opacity is confined to the con- junctival covering of the cornea, it is termed Nebula. When it arises from the deposition of lymph between the laminae of the cornea, it is called Albugo. And when from the cicatri- zation of an ulcer, Leucoma. In all these affections the ratio medendi is the same, viz. to excite an absorption of the sub- stance giving rise to the opacity. Nebula, or that opacity which is confined to the conjunctival covering of the cor- nea, occurs most frequently in patients affected with chronic inflammation ; and in this form of opacity, vessels are often seen extending towards the centre of the cornea in greater or less number, which assist in keeping up the nebulosity. These may be removed by cutting out a portion of the con- junctiva, including the enlarged vessels, and the opacity will thereby, for the most part, be speedily diminished. The local applications used with most success in this form of opacity, are, solutions of the nitrate of silver, varied in strength ac- cording to the effects produced, solutions of corrosive subli- mate in vinum opii, with the addition of muriatic acid, and a variety of stimulating ointments. Albugo is deeper seated and more dense than nebula, and consequently more difficult