217 TOISONED WOUNDS. • six cases of hydrophobia, each of them exhibiting a most (distressing combination of mental agony with bodily tor- . ment, and each of them pursuing an uncontrollable course to a fatal termination. The prominent symptom characterising t the disease,—the dread of water,—with spasms and convul- > sions, was present in all of them ; and the means of treatment (employed were opium, ardent spirits, copious bleeding, and ' warm bathing. Besides the six fatal cases referred to, I recol- ! lect three others; in one of which the occurrence of hydro- ] phobia was supposed to be prevented by producing suppura- t tion in the wound, and salivating the patient. In the other jl two cases, I am induced to believe that hydrophobia was obvi- ii ated by an early excision of the bitten part. While stationed at Hyderabad, in the year 1010, four soldiers were brought to me early one morning, all of whom had been bitten by the same dog, in the course of the preceding night; two of them in the early part of the night, and the others towards morning. The bitten parts were, in all of them, immediately excised, and the wounds dressed with stimulat- ing ointment, so as to induce suppuration. The result was very remarkable ; the two who had been bitten in the early part of the night died hydrophobic ; while the two others who had been bitten in the morning, and in whom the virus could not possibly have lodged more than an hour or two, never had any symptom of hydrophobia. Of the fatal effects of the bite of the Cobra de Capcllo, I have seen several instances in India. One I particularly re- collect, of a native girl who was bitten in camp, and who died in a quarter of an hour, notwithstanding the exhibition of large quantities of ammonia, and the excision of the bitten part. From the use of internal remedies in such cases, my hopes are by no means sanguine ; one of those most cele- brated in the East, is the Tanjore pill, the chief ingredients of which are arsenic and capsicum or Cayenne pepper. Of