MILITARY SURGERY. +7-± means uniformly, in the succession in which I have now enu- merated them. The peculiar character of Venereal ulcerations of the throat are as difficult perhaps to establish as those of the original primary ulcer; and we ought never to forget how liable the tonsils are to inflammation and ulceration in many individuals, from causes altogether independent of the absorption of the venereal virus. The high degree of inflammation, however, with which such ulcerations are preceded or accompanied, when they originate from cold, or other ordinary causes, consti- tutes an important feature in the diagnosis; for, while in such cases, the pain and general swelling of the fauces attract the patient’s early attention, he is at the same time harassed with inflammatory symptoms in the constitution more or less severe. In venereal affections of this part, on the contrary, the disease is attended with little constitutional excitement, little tume- faction, or difficulty of deglutition, and has for the most part ulcerated before it attracts the patient’s attention. This ulce- ration has been peculiarly characterised by Mr. Hunter, “ as a fair loss of substance, part being dug out as it were from the body of the tonsil; it has a determinate edge, and is com- monly very foul, having thick white matter like a slough ad- hering to it, and not admitting of being washed away.” This has generally been considered as a very correct description of the syphilitic sore throat; and as far as appearances alone can guide us, without adverting to the history of the case, may be safely trusted to. The period of occurrence of such ulcera- tions is extremely uncertain; in some instances they are said to have appeared within ten days from the date of the appear- ance of a primary sore ; and when they follow as a direct con- sequence of such sores, they appear more early than when buboes have intervened. In the latter case, weeks, nay, months sometimes elapse after the primary symptoms have disappeared before the throat becomes affected. In the treat-