409 AMPUTATION. general health at which such shattered limbs are preserved, we may judge from ail interesting case quoted by Mr. John Bell from a memoir by Cannae in the collection of the French academy. This patient was two years under the hands of his surgeons, and six years more wandering about from one watering-place to another, with open sores and exfoliating bones,—eight years in the flower of life was a dear purchase even for a perfect cure ! But in adverting to Bilguer's doctrines and his practice, I have deviated from the more practical and important question of primary and secon- dary amputation. The evidence in favour of the former has been at all times preponderant, and the question is now set at rest by the concurrent testimony of Baron Larrey, the most distinguished of the French surgeons during the wars of Napoleon, and by that of the British surgeons w ho served in the peninsular war. The results of the united experience of the English surgeons is detailed with precision in the excellent work of Mr. Guthrie on gunshot wounds of the extremities, where there are numerous passages affording the most unequivocal testimony in favour of performing the operation with “ as little delay as possible.” This is the practical maxim laid down by Dr. Hennen, and inculcated long ago by Le Dran, who says, “ Whenever there plainly is a necessity for losing a limb, the sooner it is done the better.” Besides these valuable and highly satisfactory sources of in- formation, 1 may refer to others bearing upon the same point which are mentioned in the recent work on operative surgery by \ elpeau. Here we have the results of primary and de- layed amputation, as exemplified in the comparative success ol the French and American surgeons in 1780, in the results of the amputations performed by Monsieur Del Signore after the battle of Navarino, and in the results of the amputations performed in the Parisian hospitals upon those wounded in the revolution of 1830. To these I may add one of the most