585 FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. simulated, and in its more chronic form it cannot exist long without wasting the limb and impairing the health. The im- postor who feigns this disease gives, for the most part, an exag- gerated picture of his sufferings, beyond what seems ever to be experienced in the genuine disease. He is also given to com- plain at all seasons, and acknowledges no benefit from any re- medial measures that may be adopcd, while in the real dis- ease relief is often experienced from the remedies usually em- ployed, or from a more genial season. As to treatment, it may be remarked, that the practice most beneficial in the real dis- ease, as repeated blistering and counter-irritants, become event- ually intolerable to the impostor, and that rheumatism is often benefited by exercise, and is not therefore always a cause of exemption from duty. No man ought to be discharged for alleged rheumatism until some organic change has taken place, and until he has undergone a series of local applications, cup- ping, leeches, blisters, and issues, which will indelibly mark him as an unfit person to be again taken into the service. Contractions of the joints are not unfrequently feigned, and often difficult to detect. If persevered in for a long time, they arc attended with wasting and .permanent lameness. The most obvious means of detecting an impostor are, to take him by surprise, engaging his attention by some conversation in which he is interested, and then suddenly moving his limb; to employ a tourniquet or tight bandage, so as to suspend the action of the muscles, and then trying to move the joint; or to suspend the muscular power by the operation of an emetic, or perhaps by intoxication. Ulcers are occasionally produced artificially, and more fre- quently aggravated by the application of various irritating substances, as quicklime, acids, various salts, copper coins, &c. In two cases furnished to me by Mr. Cockburn, the agent for sick and wounded seamen at this station, the impression of the naval button was to he seen upon the sores, the anchor