INFLAMMATION. 131 priety of its repetition ; and when taken in conjunction with other circumstances, the state of the pulse may encourage us to bolder perseverance, or lead to a useful degree of caution ; but in many internal inflammations where we judge of the seat, nature, and extent of the disease chiefly by the severity of the pam, I have no hesitation in saying, that the aggrava- tion or decrease of pain is a much less equivocal symptom than the state of the pulse. With reference to inflamma- tions of the abdominal viscera, it is now many years since I remarked, that in those inflammatory affections of the bowels so prevalent amongst the European soldiers in India, the state of the pulse is not a safe criterion either in forming a pro- gnosis or in regulating the treatment. I am further of opinion, and I may take this early opportunity of expressing it, that too much stress has been laid upon the state of the pulse in disease, and too much refinement has been introduced into medical writings upon this subject. When we see the pulses of different individuals so various in a state of health, how can we look for their being uniform in a state of disease ? “ It is not quickness of the pulse alone which indicates bleed- ing, for a quick pulse is often a proof of irritability, which bleeding will increase. The indication for general bleeding 1 is a hard pulse, when the action is strong, each pulsation feeling like the vibration of a wire.” But although the quick- ness of the pulse can be accurately measured, the other circum- stances connected with it are not always easily ascertained; “ The knowledge,” says Mr. Hunter “of the soft, the hard^ and the thrill, are such as can only be acquired with accuracy ! ky the habit of feeling pulses in these different states, and by i many is not to be attained. The late Dr. Hunter was a striking instance of this ; for though he was extremely ac- 1 curate in most things, he could never feel that nice distinc- tion in the pulse that many others did, and was ready to suspect more nicety of discrimination than can really be