34* MILITARY SURGERY. teen clays, and Dr. Thomson in his report on the state of the wounded alter the battle of Waterloo, mentions no less than fourteen cases of wounds of the bladder, some of them of a very complicated kind, which were in the progress of recovery. AY ounds of the bladder are for the most part readily develop- ed by the escape of urine from the wound, or by its infiltra- tion into the contiguous cellular membrane, to prevent which is a paramount object in the treatment; and with this view, the introduction and lodgment of a catheter in the bladder is always desirable. We proceed here as in other cases upon the principle of allowing the wounded viscus to remain as much as pos- sible at rest, to obviate the necessity of its alternate disten- sion and contraction, and to prevent the farther escape of urine into the surrounding parts. In addition to this, the usual antiphlogistic regimen, bleeding, warm bathing, gentle laxatives, and glysters, are often requisite. By such treatment, the inflammatory symptoms are kept under, the wounds be- come fistulous, and ultimately heal. In the event of musket balls, slugs, or fragments of bone, lodging in the bladder, they often become the nuclei of stones, and we are under the necessity of removing them by an operation. Of the satisfac- tory results of such an operation, we have now many instances; and one of the earliest of these cases, which occurred in the person of a soldier of the Irish Brigade, is remarkable as hav- ing been operated upon by the celebrated Frere Jacques at Versailles in 1G98. In this case a stone was extracted, the nucleus of which was a musket ball which had been lodged in the bladder five years. In a recent case of this kind, a staff- surgeon in the service underwent an operation for the removal of a ball from the bladder, which was successfully accomplished. In a still more recent case, an attempt to remove a musket ball from the bladder was rendered fruitless in consequence, as I have been informed, of the ball, which had entered from