PUNISHMENTS. 510 undue lenity, or, on the other, sanctioning an extent of pu- nishment which may permanently injure the individual, and thus prove a heavier infliction than the law contemplates. Upon such punishments as merely imply the degradation or disgrace of a soldier, it is not within my province to en- large, and the following observations must be confined to those in which his health is involved. Many modes of pu- nishment formerly in use in the British army are now happily abolished, and those still permitted are specifically described; so that there is little chance of those cruelties being revived which have sometimes been practised, even in recent times, by arbitrary and capricious individuals, when serving upon dis- tant foreign stations, removed from the surveillance of their superiors, or the salutary control of public opinion. Of the punishments formerly in use, one was riding the Wooden horse, which consisted in a rude piece of frame work somewhat in the shape of those used for supporting scaffolds, furnished with a rude imitation of a horse’s head and tail, and mounted upon wheels. Upon this the culprit was placed, and dragged round the garrison, his hands being tied behind his back and muskets hung to his legs. This mode of punishment has been long laid aside, “ having been found to injure the men materially, and sometimes to rupture them.” The last time I find any notice of the “ wooden horse ” hav- ing been used, is in Knox’s account of the American cam- paigns under General Wolfe and Lord Amherst, when it was inflicted on a grenadier accused of cowardice, and in that in- stance was combined with another punishment, that of “ tar- ring and feathering,” formerly inflicted for theft in the army. Picketing was a mode of punishment formerly much used in the cavalry, and which I have myself witnessed. It was inflicted by placing a culprit upright against a post in the stable, one foot resting upon a blunt round pointed peg . driven into the ground, and one arm secured by the wrist