MILITARY surgery. 492 I believe, the first who publicly defended this doctrine. While mercury was held to be an indispensable remedy in the treat- ment of venereal complaints, the question regarding the iden- tity of the two poisons possessed an importance, and was agi- tated with a keenness which are now greatly abated. Mr. Bell has well observed as an argument in favour of his views, that if a woman labouring under gonorrhoea was capable of communicating indiscriminately either chancre or gonorrhoea, the former ought to be by much the most frequent occurrence of the two, in so far as it is much more easy for the infectious matter to find access to the surface of the glans than to the interior of the urethra. On the contrary, Mr. Bell states, that according to his observation, the proportion of cases of gonorrhoea to those of chancre wrere as three to one, and Mr. Hunter admits that in his practice they occurred as four or five to one. My own observations do not enable me to speak with precision on this point, but it must be admitted, that while the surface of the glans and interior of the prepuce are directly exposed to the contact of gonorrhoeal matter from the vagina, it is not very easy to see how the infectious matter finds access to the interior of the urethra in any case. But, the infection having been received, the disease com- mences, for the most part, by a sense of itching or titillation at the orifice of the urethra ; the lips of which, upon inspection, are found more florid than usual, pouting, and somewhat swollen. The discharge is yet scarcely perceptible ; but on making water, a sense of heat and pricking is experienced to- wards the point of the penis, and this goes on, progressively increasing, until the pain in making water becomes exceed- ingly acute, while the calls at the same time become more frequent. The discharge characteristic of the disease now makes it appearance, at first extremely variable as to quantity and consistence, but ultimately assuming the appearance of pus. From the swelling affecting the lining membrane of . .V . .... .........