MILITARY SURGERY. 182 tagious nature ; others, as those of MM. Pointe, Danillo, Clerc, Vautier, and Delpech, leading to an opposite conclu- sion. Dissatisfied with these contradictory results, he deemed it necessary to establish its contagious nature by a direct inoculation, made with virus taken from its source, and insert- ed into an individual not exposed to the ordinary epidemic causes which prevail in hospitals; an individual in good health, and altogether independent of every cause which could in any other manner favour the production of the disease. To ascertain this disputed point, Ollivier determined on inoculat- ing himself, and matter for the purpose was obtained at Ecija. It was taken from a case of the very worst description, and was inserted near the humeral attachment of the deltoid muscle of the right arm, by M. Ganderax, in presence of all the sur- geons of the medical staff at Ecija. The author was then in his twenty-first year, of a very nervous constitution, but other- wise in pretty good health. The operation was performed on the 17th October 1810, at six in the morning. During the following day he was on the road from Ecija to Carmona, and felt no inconvenience. On the 19th a vesicle, with a red areola, made its appearance ; and by the 22d, the part had assumed all the appearance of the author’s second variety of hospital gangrene, when he was induced to interrupt its pro- gress by removing the sloughs, rubbing the surface with ni- trate of silver, covering it with the same substance in powder, and dressing it with charpie dipped in camphorated spirit of wine. On the 24th he was induced to take bark, apprehending a constitutional affection from a swelling of the axillary glands. The wound was dressed regularly in the manner before men- tioned, and was not cured until the twenty-eighth day. “ This experiment,” says Ollivier, “ undoubtedly seems to prove the contagious property of traumatic gangrene. The facts which oppose this conclusion most assuredly depend on some peculia- rity of constitution, or some favouring circumstances, which