OONOItRHffU. 497 to the stomach anti loathsome to the patient, before produc- ing much effect upon the complaint for which it was adminis- tered. The Cubebs is the fruit of a pepper vine, “ Piper Cubeba,” the produce of the island of Java, and is used by the Javanese in some diseases of children. From that island it is imported into Bengal, and there used in medicine as a stomachic and stimulant; but whether employed by the native practitioners as a remedy for gonorrhoea, I am unable to say. The his- tory of the introduction of this substance into European practice, as given by Dr. Crawford, the historian of the In- dian Archipelago, is as follows :—<{ An officer of the Indian army, sailing up the Ganges, contracted an inveterate gonor- rhoea, and had recourse to the usual remedies without effect. One of his servants proposed the cubeb, and it was used with success. This officer communicated the above fact to the surgeon of his regiment serving on Java, where the disease was at the time frequent, and the remedy abundant. Having been given in many instances with success, the practice was gradually disseminated over the island, and subsequently found its way into this country.1 The pepper, wrell pounded, is exhibited in a little water five or six times a day, in the quantity of a dessert-spoonful, or from two to three drachms, while abstinence from wine and all heating aliment is to be enjoined. Its sensible effects are generally mild ; it oc- casionally causes a slight purging; it imparts to the urine its own peculiar odour, and increases its quantity; now and then it occasions a flushing of the face, and a burn- ing heat in the palms of the hands and soles of the feet. When this medicine acts successfully, the ardor urinae ceases, the discharge grows ropy, commonly in forty-eight hours, and frequently in less; after which the discharge soon stops alto- gether. In many cases the cure is slower ; in a few instances it has been said to produce swelled testicle; and in other cases