WOUNDS OP THE ABDOMEN. 351 to treat in this house. Of seven patients upon whom I have now operated here, six have been saved, and this I attribute entirely to the early period at which the operation has been undertaken. I would have you to recollect the uncertainty of all other means of relief, and to bear in mind the very just observation of Janson, that ‘ we can never foretel what we are to find in a hernial tumour.’ ‘ Nous dirons a ce sujet, qu’on ne peut jamais preciser au juste ce qu’on rencontrcra dans une tumeur herniare.’ I would have you to believe that this is a disease in which many patients are lost from procrastination, but comparatively few from any untoward oc- currence in operating, and I would have you to look upon these as a class of cases in which error is at least as excusable as delay.” I have now operated in all, thirteen times for Strangulated hernia, without having once been able to re- cognise in practice the various fascia*, with which I was for- merly so familiar, and without having once seen, felt, or wounded, either the epigastric or obturator artery, which in my earlier days were looked upon as the great sources of dan- ger. f rom all this, I conclude that the occurrence of stran- gulated hernia in military practice is very rare, that the dan- gers of the operation have been overrated, and its difficulties in some measure misconceived. But to return to wounds of the belly; these, it may be observed, are complicated in proportion to the great variety ot organs which it contains, and dangerous in proportion to the importance of these organs in the animal economy; and while, upon general principles, we should be ready to pro- nounce all penetrating wounds of this cavity inevitably fatal, yet when when we descend to particular cases, we have such strange examples of unexpected cures, that we arc ready to believe that scarcely any wound is fatal. In the treatment of Tnany of these wounds, the surgeon’s duty is exceedingly simple. It must ever be recollected, that bleeding from the 8