LIVER DISEASE. 5GQ characterised as a dragging pain. By a manual examination of the side, we are sometimes materially assisted in ascertain- ing the existence of a liver affection, particularly in its ad- vanced stages, when emaciation has proceeded to a consider- able extent. And it is perhaps here worthy of remark, that I have met with some patients, who, although they could themselves press the side freely, yet shrunk from the hand of a stranger the moment it was applied, as if it occasioned them exquisite pain. In such cases we must not be deceived ; but, by pressing more firmly on the side, by trying whether the patient can bear the application of our hand to his opposite side, and by trying whether he can bear pressure with his own hand on the region of the liver, we are to satisfy ourselves whe- ther any unusual susceptibility, tenderness, or pain in that region actually exists. Such are the principal symptoms and feelings referable to the liver itself. The pulse, in cases of chronic hepatitis, does not afford any decisive criterion, until its increased quickness, accompanied with fits of rigor, alternating with sweatings, thirst, and restlessness, gives reason to apprehend the forma- tion of matter. Respiration is often impeded, and may, for the most part, particularly if accompanied with dry tickling cough, be considered as marking inflammation of the upper or convex surface of the liver. Irritability of the stomach has, on the other hand, been, I conceive very justly, held to denote the existence of inflammation on the lower or concave surface of the liver; and, indeed, in all severe affections of the latter organ, a peculiar irritability of the stomach exists, marked by nausea and frequent retching, an appetite frequently caprici- ous, but not always defective. The state of the alvine dis- charge is always particularly deserving our attention in cases of hepatitis. The disease generally commences, and often continues, with a constipated state of the bowels, the stools being both less frequent and more scanty than usual. The