434 MILITARY SURGERY. sand were under water. “ Notwithstanding this,” says he, “ I do not pretend to say that the dust from the soil of Egypt is not injurious to the eyes, but I think it alone is not suffi- cient to produce ophthalmia, and it seems to me more just to attribute this malady to suppressed perspiration, which often occurs in Egypt during the night, and throwing itself upon the part most weakened, affects sometimes the intestines, but oftener the eyes, fatigued by the too vivid light of the sun.” This, in the opinion of Assalini, is the true source of Egyp- tian ophthalmia, and in the section of Mr. Vetch’s practical treatise on Diseases of the Eye, published in 1820, which treats on catarrhal ophthalmia, arising from climate and at- mospheric changes, we find some interesting observations tending to show the extensive influence of heat and moisture as causes of ophthalmia. “ My own observation,” says he, “ agrees with the testimony of most writers, that, although a humid state of the atmosphere is that which proves most pro- ductive of ophthalmia, it is rather when combined with a cer- tain degree of heat than with the cold of winter.” Wherever we have heat and moisture operating generally as predisposing causes of disease, we have, for the most part, an excess of light affecting the eyes. In tropical climates the in- tensity of the light is at all times offensive to the eyes, while in more temperate climates the warmest days are also the long- est, so that during this season of the year, whether moist or not, the eye is longer exposed to the effect of a brilliant light, and what this wants in force is made up by its longer continuance. Egypt, as has been remarked by Mr. Edmonstone, may be considered as the very hot-bed of ophthalmia, and is perhaps, the part of the world, in which all the alleged causes of oph- thalmia arising from soil and climate exist in the greatest abundance and force. This circumstance may account for the prevalence of the disease in that country ; and that such a combination of causes may give rise to an ophthalmia, which