MILITARY SURGERY. 100 The inconveniencies of the spring-waggon have led to the suggestion of other descriptions of carriages intended to super- sede it in whole or in part. With this view, a regimental long car has been proposed by Dr. Millingen, of which a small figure is given in the frontispiece to his work. These cars are calculated to be drawn by two horses, and to move to the rear, with facility, ten or twelve men each, wounded in the head, face, upper extremities, and lower extremities, without fracture, together with their arms, packs, and accoutrements. “ The cars here proposed are similar in construction to those vehicles commonly called in Ireland jaunting cars; they should be mounted upon four wheels, narrow, and sufficiently long to accommodate six men on each side, seated back to back, their feet bearing upon a splash board, outside of the wheels, their packs, &c. placed in the centre of the car; these carriages might also he constructed of the length of the conti- nental long ammunition tumbrils, and with three or four horses could bear off 24 wounded at a time. “ The body of these cars would also carry each regiment’s field hospital bedding, consisting of 12 palliasse and bolster- cases, 24 pair of sheets, and only weighing 9G lb. The comfort and advantage arising from the possession of these stores, can- not be sufficiently appreciated. When troops are moving at a distance from the theatre of war, these cars might also carry 12 rugs, weighing about 88 lb. and upon a march would con- vey sickly men, and the packs of those who are unable to bear them with their companies. “ It is true that in the cars here proposed, the wounded are not under cover ; but long and personal experience has con- vinced me, that the coverings of our spring-waggons are more obnoxious than grateful, except in rainy weather; and the ra- pidity with which a great number of wounded may be borne to the rear will fully compensate for this inconvenience, should it ever be considered as such. These long cars have moreover