358 MILITARY SURGERY'. Those severe wounds of the extremities inflicted by shot and shells, ar^not only accompanied with injury to the muscles, the blood-vessels, and nerves, but it is by the ex- treme violence done to the bones that such wounds are more peculiarly distinguished. Very extensive breaches in the muscles of a limb from a gunshot wound are often speedily repaired under the most simple treatment; but when such a wound is complicated with injury of the principal blood-vessels and nerves, the case becomes peculiarly hazardous, even inde- pendently of the haemorrhage. Although this may be success- fully controlled in the first instance, yet we know from experi- ence, that musket wounds which injure the main artery of a limb, are very frequently followed by gangrene, probably, as suggested by Mr. Guthrie, from the neighbouring veins and nerve being involved in the injury ; and perhaps, also, from the swelling and tension consequent upon the wound impeding the circulation of the blood through the anastomosing vessels to the lower part of the limb, as explained by Mr. Turner in his valuable paper on obstructions of the arteries in the transactions of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh. The complete escape of an artery lying in the tract of a ball, has often surprised army surgeons, and where the elasticity of the artery enables it to recede, and to escape with a partial injury of its coat, it does not necessarily follow that sloughing and haemorrhage shall be the result. In such cases the coats of the artery sometimes inflame, and its canal is obliterated; in other cases there is reason to believe, that the vessel com- pletely recovers itself. Mr. Guthrie has a preparation where a ball passed between the femoral artery and vein without di- viding either. A large artery, particularly if partially divided by a ball, speedily pours out its contents to a fatal extent; and the numbers who die upon the field from the opening of large arteries far exceed those who survive that accident. Much of the bicoding in all cases depends upon a vessel being cut quite