MILITARY SURGERY. 520 to a hook in the post; the bare heel of the sufferer was made to rest on the stump, which though it did not break the skin put him to great torture; and the only means of mitiga- tion was by resting his weight on his wrist, the pain of which soon became intolerable. Soldiers were frequently sentenced to stand on the picket for a quarter of an hour or longer. This, like riding the wooden horse, has been for some time left off; it is stated to have lamed and ruptured many sol- diers ; and in our own day we have a remarkable case of luxa- tion of the shoulder-joint mentioned by Sir Astley Cooper, which was produced by the punishment of picketing inflicted by an arbitrary individual on board of an lndiaman. The Walking and the Stand-up drill are punishments here- tofore extensively used in the service ; the former consists in making a soldier, equipped in heavy marching order, move about for hours together upon the parade ; the latter consists in making him stand in an upright position for a length of time. These, when employed with due discretion, arc com- paratively but little calculated to injure the health of the soldier ; carried to excess, they are said to have laid the foundation of permanent derangements of the circulation, and of organic disease of the heart, as will appear from the follow- ing quotation from Mr. Marshall’s late work on the enlisting, discharging, and pensioning of soldiers. “ A temporary de- rangement of the functions of the heart and consequent pal- pitation, is not unfrequent among soldiers, more particularly young recruits, before they are dismissed from drill. For some time previously to a general inspection, the men are of- ten kept long under arms, and to this circumstance may sometimes be attributed slight derangement of the circulation, fainting of weakly individuals, &c. Standing under arms is, I believe, now altogether forbidden as a punishment, which is a wise and humane measure. Frequent tedious drills and inspections are supposed to be sometimes the forerunners or