MILITARY SURGERY. 43(1 ophthalmia arising in either of these ways ; yet, the fact that it occasionally does so, is put beyond doubt by the testimony of numerous writers. But the frequency of this mode of infection must be greatly lessened if Dr. Vetch’s opinion be correct. From some experiments and observations de- tailed in his work on the diseases of the eye, Dr. Vetch is led to infer, that matter taken from the urethra is not capable of infecting the eyes of the individual by whom such matter is secreted, though probably capable of doing so to the eyes of another person. This opinion may be supposed to gain confirmation from the rarity of the cases in which oph- thalmia has, even in appearance, had the most remote connex- ion either with the direct contact of gonorrhoeal matter, or with a suppression of the gonorrhoeal discharge. Dr. Farrcl, who had extensive opportunities of seeing this disease in Egypt and the Mediterranean, asserts, that a single case of this kind never presented itself to his observation, although from the habits and negligence of soldiers this might have been expected, and he says, “ I have repeatedly had patients under my care who laboured under both gonorrhoea and ophthalmia, without being able to trace any connexion between these com- plaints.'” I wish I could divest myself, as completely as Dr. Farrel seems to do, of all suspicion of another cause of ophthalmia ; I allude to the artificial excitement of this disease, by the in- troduction of various irritating substances into the eyes, of which some worthless soldiers have been guilty, with the in- tention of impairing their vision, so as to render them unfit for the service. Suspicions of the existence of such practices have not unfrequently been forced on the minds both of mili- tary and medical officers; and that these suspicions have not always been devoid of foundation, may be ascertained from va- rious statements in Mr. Marshall’s work on “ the feigned dis- abilities of soldiers,” and from the following narration of Dr-