96 MILITARY SURGERY. support them. Both these forms of bearers, however, being without traverses or stretchers, are founil exceedingly defec- tive ; the weight of a patient sinks down the yielding blanket or canvass so as nearly to reach the ground, while the poles are pressed in upon the haunches of the bearers, so as to ham- per them in their movements, and to render it impossible lor them to proceed either with ease or celerity. These objections are completely obviated by the ingenious contrivance recommended by Dr. Millengen, which is figured in the frontispiece of his work, and of which a model has been shewn in my class for several years past. It is quite akin to the bearer (branchard) described in the Dictionaire des Sciences Medicales, and consists of two parallel poles, separated by two traverses or stretchers, with short legs, and supporting a canvass bottom. The poles of these bearers, when not employ- ed for this purpose, and armed with pikeheads, form weapons of offence and defence to the men of the hospital corps when escorting wounded, or guarding hospital stores or provisions. Each individual of this corps should be armed with one of these pikes, furnished with one of the traverses strapped Upon his knapsack, and one of the canvass bottoms girt round his waist, or stuffed into the crown of his chaco; and any two of them meet- ing together, will be enabled, in a few minutes, to equip a light and efficient bearer, capable of carrying off a wounded man with all the comfort of which his situation admits; his pack being placed under his head as a pillow, and his firelock slung from the side of the bearer by means of loops attached to it for this purpose. Dr. Millengen also proposes, that each transporter should be furnished with sling-belts, such as are every day to be seen upon our chairmen in the streets, by which the bearer will be slung from the shoulders, and thus more easily carried. The more minute details of this equip- ment will be found in Dr. Millengen’s work ; and at present I shall only observe, that it appears to me one of the most