301 WOUND'S OF THE HEAD. Cold water was the principal application employed. The re- treat occupied sixteen days, in spite of which, and with no other treatment than that which has been described, every one of those who were wounded in the head recovered.11 It is here distinctly stated by Mr. Rose that a great propor- tion of his cases were, as generally happens in like circum- stances, cases of what may be termed compound fractures of the skull. The distinction and difference in point of danger between simple and compound fracture, which is so well understood in other parts of the system, is not less applicable to injuries of the head, and it is peculiarly important with reference to the prac- tice to be followed in cases where portions of the bone are de- pressed or driven in upon the brain. In such cases, when the fracture is simple, the general rule is not to perform an opera- tion for elevating the bone unless the presence of urgent symp- toms demands it. In cases of compound fracture, on the con- trary, with any considerable depression, it is advisable to ele- vate the bone immediately, as a likely means of relieving the brain, and obviating not only present evil, but future bad con- sequences. This is the rule which appears to me most con- sonant to the dictates of common sense, it is the practical rule inculcated by Sir Astley Cooper’s extended experience, and it is the conclusion come to by Mr. Brodie, contrary to his ori- ginal prepossessions, and after comparing deliberately a great number of cases bearing upon this point. We have now to advert to those cases where we find balls or other foreign bodies altogether within the skull, or lodged in its substance. In this last position, leaden balls have often been found flattened, or partially split, sometimes one portion of the same ball without and another within the skull, or a ball has been completely split, one portion flying off, and an- other lodging. When such objects are easily accessible, it is our obvious duty to remove them immediately, even on the field ; but whether in the event of balls lodged wholly within