424 MILITARY SURGERY. of recovery. The particular cases requiring this operation are specified in numerous works ; and I cannot help observing that some of these are cases in which the less formidable operation of excision of the head of the femur might perhaps be substi- tuted with advantage. This would seem to me to apply par- ticularly to cases of the following description, pointed out by my predecessor, Dr. Thomson, as cases for primary amputa- tion. “ The kind of wound for which immediate amputation at the hip-joint appears to me to be best adapted, is one in which it has not, so far as I know, been practised or recommended. I allude to that in which a musket-bullet or grape-shot, or a small portion of shell, has been observed to fracture the neck of the thigh-bone, or to fracture the head of that bone, and pass through or lodge in the hip-joint. The proportion of cures which has been obtained from amputation at the hip- joint is, I believe, much greater than of cures from gunshot fractures of the head or neck of the thigh-bone. Indeed, of recoveries from these injuries I know of none which have been recorded. Those, who for a time seem to do well, in the end sink under the hectic which supervenes. This has been the fate, I believe, of the two cases which I have mentioned in the account of injuries of the hip-joint as having put on a favour- able appearance. It seems therefore highly probable, that in the fractures by musket-bullets of the neck and head of the thigh-bone, the practice of amputation at the hip-joint will become the means of saving many lives; and we cannot but expect that the results from amputation in these cases will be found much more successful than in the.class of cases in which it has hitherto been employed, since the local and constitu- tional injuries at first occasioned by musket-bullets, are com- paratively small with those which occur in the more severe wounds produced by canon-shot.” In all the amputations of the inferior extremity which I have hitherto noticed, the main artery of the limb may, as in 7