415 AMPUTATION. of this operation was lately transmitted to me by a judicious practitioner, Dr. Davies, surgeon to the Honourable East In- dia Company’s Depot at Chatham. In this case, the cover- ing for the extremity of the radius was chiefly formed by a flap from the posterior surface of the carpus ; and Dr. Davies concludes his account of the case with the following remarks : “ The gentleman, who is an engineer officer in the East In- dia Company’s service, and a very clever youth, had so well educated his left hand, before he got the artificial hand made, that he could write and draw plans with it, as neat, probably neater, than he could with the right, before he lost it. He has, consequently, neglected the artificial hand, and has not made that use of it that I was desirous he should have done, and in which I am a little disappointed. But the full length of the right fore-arm enables him, without the artificial hand, to assist the left hand as effectually in the adjustment of his drawings and papers, that probably he will never make much use of it, except at table; and a knife or fork being easily fixed on, it will become serviceable in the management of his plate. Here is an advantage in the length of the lever that I did not anticipate. A short stump would have been of little service in the management of papers ; and as an artifi- cial hand cannot, by any ingenuity, be made serviceable with- out a stiff leather case, somewhat heavy, being fastened on the arm, the ability to dispense with this apparatus, especially in a warm climate, is in itself no small gain.” Amputation of the fore-arm is a case in which the double flap operation appears to me peculiarly applicable, and the following remarks were suggested by circumstances actually arising in practice.—“ I may here state an inconvenience which I once witnessed from the performance of the operation by the double circular incision in this part of the arm. In the case allud- ed to, where the arm was brawny, and the bellies of the muscles