MILITARY SUHGERY. 378 of the lower extremity ; while, on the contrary, if the injury is not very severe, we may frequently dispense with this oper- ation in the case of the upper extremity. It is impossible, from the very commencement, to distinguish the circumstances which absolutely demand amputation, and those which would prevent us from having recourse to it. We constantly see wounds at first apparently of a trifling nature, speedily present a most serious aspect, while, on the other hand, the most alarming injuries are sometimes followed by no untoward occurrence.” In former times the period required for the consolidation of different fractures was specified with great precision; from thirty to thirty-five days were allowed for the bones of the upper extremity, and from forty to fifty for those of the thigh and leg. We are now, however, too well acquainted with those circumstances which may either promote or retard this reunion, to affect much accuracy on this subject. A bone will, ceteris paribus, reunite sooner in proportion as it is young and vascular, and its reunion will be impeded by advanced life, an unsound constitution, or a want of perfect retention. Indeed, as I have formerly hinted, these circum- stances may altogether prevent its reuniting, and an artificial joint may be formed; although from Mr. Amesbury’s recent observations, there is reason to believe, that when the consti- tution is sound, this unfortunate occurrence may very gene- rally be obviated under the judicious employment of local pressure and rest, without any other expedient whatever. For the cure of false joints, the most simple and the most ancient expedient is that of rubbing the fractured portions of the bone against each other, with the view of exciting an in- flammatory action ; a practice distinctly recommended by Cel- sus. With the same view it has been recommended, in ununited fractures of the lower extemities, that the patient should be made to walk with his leg enclosed in a case formal of stiff