MILITARY SURGERY. 512 to obtain useful information ; but I must say, that, in my attempts to obtain a satisfactory impression of strictures by the soft bougie, I have frequently been disappointed. By either of these instruments, however, the site of the obstruc- tion may always be ascertained, and we are then in some mea- sure prepared to proceed to the treatment. For this purpose, bougies of various descriptions ; some of them calculated to act by conveying escharotics to the stric- ture ; some of them calculated to act either by medicinal sub- stances contained in their composition, Gr with which their surfaces are imbued; and others calculated to act simply by distending the stricture, and promoting its absoqition, have at various times been in use. The destruction of a stricture by escharotics was formerly accomplished by con- veying caustic to it through a canula, an operation pro- posed by Wiseman, who observes, that “ when the obstruc- tion is a caruncle, and you cannot pass it, you may well conclude it is callous; in which case you may pass a ca- nula into the urethra to that caruncle, and whilst you hold it there steady, you may convey a grain of caustic into the ca- nula, and press the caustic to it.” In this manner was the lunar caustic employed to a considerable extent by Mr. Hun- ter. The difficulties, however, of this practice, particularly in the treatment of strictures beyond the straight part of the urethra, induced Sir Evcrard Home to propose and to employ what is termed the armed bougie. This consists of a common plaster bougie with a small piece of lunar'caustic, the nitrate of silver fixed in its point. Of the efficacy and comparative advantages of this instrument, Sir Everard speaks with much enthusiasm ; and it is certainly well adapted to the treatment of the ring-like stricture described by Mr. Hunter, as if form- ed by a pack-thread tied round the urethra. It is also parti- cularly recommended for irritable strictures, the irritability of which is destroyed with the diseased part of the canal; but