560 Military surgery. accession of ulceration and mortification in the course of the colon. In patients dying of the acute or inflammatory form of flux, the following are the appearances which usually present them- selves. On laying open the abdomen, a quantity of serum, sometimes mixed with coagulable lymph, is found accumu- lated in this cavity. The omentum is generally shrunk, firmer than usual, and feels doughy, with slight adhesions to the covolutions of the bowels; at other times thin, per- fectly transparent, and destitute of fat; the latter appearance chiefly confined to those cases where the disease has been un- usually protracted, and complicated with a liver affection. The stomach is seldom altered in its appearance or structure. The small intestines are often perfectly sound; sometimes exhibiting slight inflammatory patches, to which patches the omentum is occasionally found adhering. The great intes- tines again, the principal seat of disease, show the strongest mark of inflammation in all its stages ; some portions ex- hibiting externally a slight inflammatory redness, while others are marked by the highest degree of lividity ; in some cases parts of the gut are found to have given way, so as to permit the escape of air and even of fa:ces into the cavity of the ab- domen. In these destructive effects of inflammatory action, the ccecum and sigmoid flexure of the colon are found more parti- cularly to participate. On slitting open the gut, a quantity of fetid air makes its escape, and the natural dimensions of the canal are in many parts found much lessened by the thickening of its coats. The villous coat is found in some instances simply abraded, in others ulcerated and besmeared with a bloody mucus, mixed with specks of purulent matter. In a few in- stances I have seen parts of this coat exhibit the pustular appearance, which has been compared by Sir George Baker and others to small-pox. Extravasated grumous blood, in considerable quantity, is sometimes found in the colon, but