MILITARY SURGERY. 136 commended by Sir Richard Dobson ; numerous short inci- sions through the inflamed skin are recommended by Mr. Copland Hutchison ; and longer incisions, to the extent of several inches, by Mr. Lawrence. The punctures are often advantageously employed in erysipelas of the face, and are calculated to relieve the over-distended vessels, and to obviate serous infiltration. The other two practices are beneficial, not only by the evacuation of blood and relief of tension in the first instance, but by facilitating the escape of pus and of sloughs from the cellular membrane, should these ultimately form. A considerable experience of all these three practices leads me to give the preference to the modi- fication recommended by Mr. Hutchison, from a persua- sion that we can by it most effectually accomplish all the objects above stated. The skin is seldom so equally and uni- formly tense over an inflamed limb as to enable us to relieve it so well by one long incision as by numerous short ones ju- diciously placed. And here I may remark, that while twenty years ago our practice in erysipelas was quite nugatory, inert, and futile, there seems now some risk of our running into the opposite extreme. One can scarcely conceive a whole limb so severely and uniformly affected, as to justify or to demand the practice noticed, I think, by Mr. Earle, in which the surgeon of a provincial infirmary made an incision from the trochanter major down to the malleolus externus. The impossibility of reconciling every useful practice with a preconceived theory, is in no instance more strikingly exemplified than in the local applications which are of ser- vice in inflammation. The proof of this is, that these ap- plications admit of one very broad division into cold and warm; and although a great proportion of cases receive most relief from the use of cold, sedative, astringent lotions, there arc constitutions and parts which derive most service from the local employment of warm emollient remedies.