MILITARY SURGERY. 58 each air-hole, or where an air-hole comes in the interval be- tween two beds, placing a slip of board or sheet iron before it, in such a manner as to force off a portion of the air laterally ; and the bedsteads should always be placed at a few inches distance from the walls, and never huddled together, or forced into corners and recesses as they often are. The white-washing of barracks and hospitals is a subject of considerable importance, and I have often seen occasion to re- gret the obstacles to its accomplishment; the delays and diffi- culties in getting the work commenced; the tedious and slovenly manner in which it has been proceeded in ; the in- sufficiency with which it has been performed; and the unne- cessary expense to the public with which it has been attended. In a much shorter period of time, and at an expense much below the usual estimates, barracks and barrack hospitals might be effectually white-washed by employing soldiers for this purpose, to whom the necessary materials should be fur- nished ; and in the case of hospitals, a charge for brushes, lime, Sec. might be allowed in the hospital accounts, thus en- abling the surgeon to have his hospital white-washed, without a moment’s delay, whenever it may become necessary. In proof of the superiority of barracks to every other accom- modation as connected with the health of troops, the following observations from Dr. Brocklesby’s “ Observations on Mili- tary Hospitals, and on the Diseases of Soldiers,” may be ad- duced. “ The general use of barracks,” says he, “ is a sub- ject of so great importance, that it cannot be sufficiently en- forced. How is it possible for the men of each company, scat- tered up and down the ale-houses of a great town, ever to be re- gularly messed together ? How is it possible without barracks to make a private soldier always wholesome and cleanly, far- ther than at a stated hour on the parade for momentary show ? The day of battle is once or twice in a long campaign, when men must be used as they arc wanted ; but an attention to the