548 MILITARY SURGERY. ployment of this evacuation in any disease, and are circum- stances in which I should find many ready to acquiesce in its utility; but it appears to me, that although patients of this description will undoubtedly bear bleeding to a much larger extent than men of an opposite description, yet this evacuation becomes no less necessary in older men, to obviate the tenden- cy of the disease to fix upon and impair the functions of the liver, from which an increase of years certainly affords them no exemption, and to which their residence in India, if of any duration, and the habits of the soldiery there, as certainly create a positive predisposition.” In a disease so intractable in its nature, so frequently fatal in its event, and so unmanageable by mild and ordinary me- thods, it is not surprising that recourse should have been hat to mercury, the effects of which upon the animal economy, whether good or bad, salutary or deleterious, are m general abundantly powerful. The most common operation of this metal, when exhibited internally, is either to produce copious evacuations by stool, or to excite salivation; and m either case, benefit is derived from its exhibition. Dr. Bancroft assures us, that after much research upon this point, he has not been able to discover that the salivators were more suc- cessful than others. Indeed, if it is to salivation alone that we are to trust, I apprehend our efforts must frequently fail, for in a very able paper in the thirteenth volume of the Edinburg Medical Journal, Mr. Sheppherd has adduced the authority of various modern practitioners to show the inutility of attempt- ing to affect the system with mercury during the 1“fla™“a- tofy and active stage of yellow fever. Although Dr. C is- holm warmly acknowledges his obligations to Dr Rush, and expresses his admiration and respect, for his fortitude in pursuing the mercurial mode of treatment; yet Dr. Rush himself has candidly stated, that in the City Hos- pital of Philadelphia,- where bleeding was sparingly used.