273 ANEURISM. the trunk of the artery may be tied above, the wound in it does nuot heal, and theaneurismal tumour frequently suppurates, ulcer- ates, or sloughs. Of this I have seen three remarkable instances, two of which occurred within a very recent period ; the ligature oof the artery in the region of the humerus failed in these twocases to cure the aneurism, and each of them was afterwards treated successfully by laying open the tumour, turning out its contents, and placing a ligature on the artery above and below the wound. 11 have therefore, latterly, upon all occasions, opposed Mr. 1 Hunter’s operation for this form of aneurism, and recommend- ed the old mode of operating. That variety of aneurism which occurs from an artery being wounded through a super- ncumbent vein, and where the tumour lies between the two, ;[ can only consider as a modification of the common false aneurism, and to be treated by tying the artery, and perhaps l:he vein also, above and below the tumour, as was done in i Dorsey’s case. In cases of aneurism situated so as to render it difficult or impossible to place a ligature on the artery between the aneur- ism and the heart, attempts were formerly made, and have re- cently been revived, to cure the aneurism by placing a liga- ure on the artery beyond the tumour. Of this practice I have 10 personal experience, nor do I place any confidence in it. The aneurismal varix, it will be recollected, is formed by he healing of the external wound in the skin, while the arterial Mood, in consequence of the proximity of the two vessels, in- stead of being effused into the cellular substance, passes di- ectly into the cavity of the vein, which becomes dilated in he form of a varix. This disease which was first accurately lescribed by Or. William Hunter, occurs not unfrequently rom bloodletting at the bend of the arm. It is a disease oc- casionally incident also to soldiers from punctured wounds, if which several remarkable instances are on record; and it las, I may say, been treated most successfully when least has T