513 STRICTURES. even Mr. Hunter himself, the great authority for this practice, seems to have been disposed to limit its utility to strictures which occupy a very small extent of the canal. “ I have seen,-” says he, “ one or two cases where the contraction was of some length and irregular, which would have puzzled me if I had attempted the cure with caustic, because I should have been apt to suspect that I was making a new passage, by my gain- ing ground, and yet not relieving the patient by the removal of the symptoms.'” That this practice is ill adapted to more extensive forms of stricture may be learned from a case de- tailed by Sir E. Home, in which the caustic was applied 48G times before a catheter could be passed into the bladder. As a practice better adapted to extensive strictures, when the lunar caustic has been found to act less successfully, the kali purum or potassa fusa has been urgently recom- mended by Mr. Whately, to whose treatise on Strictures of the Urethra I must refer for a particular account of his mode of using it, and content myself with observing, that the principle upon which he proceeds, is to carry down a small portion of this caustic on the point of a common bougie of such a size as to pass through the stricture, and having rested the bougie for a few moments at the entrance of the stricture, until the caustic may have time to liquify, he then carries it onward and passes it two or three times backwards and for- wards, through the contracted portion of the canal, so as to cover its whole surface with the liquid caustic. By this pro- cedure he asserts that the kali is equally diffused over every pait ol the strictured surface, and only ubrades the membrane of the stricture without producing a slough ; an explanation which is not very satisfactory. Of Medicated Bougies, containing various active ingredi- ents in their composition, the most celebrated were those of the brench surgeon Daran, the mode of manufacturing which was kept a profound secret ; but, as these have long been banished 2 i.