HOSPITAL GANGRENE. 183 i enable certain individuals to resist in general every kind of in- fection.” Several facts which have come to my own knowledge, tend to establish the occasional production of gangrenous ulcers by direct inoculation ; and of these, one of the most remarkable was recently stated to me by Deputy-Inspector Marshall. Ulcers of this description prevailed to a great degree in the hospital of a regiment stationed at Feversham, in 1806, inso- much that several men had each a limb amputated, and some j] punished men died. It was at last discovered that all the sores in the hospital were washed with one sponge. The sponge ’ was destroyed, and this mode of cleaning sores interdicted, : after which not a single case of the disease occurred. While the above observation, as well as others, goes to estab- lish the possibility of communicating this disease by inocula- i tion, it is not impossible, that in wards where hospital gan- ; grene prevails, a deterioration of the atmosphere may exist : sufficient to propagate the disease without immediate contact. Professor Brugmans of Leyden, has ascertained by an ana- lysis of the air in such wards, that it contains a peculiar ani- |! mal matter highly disposed to putrefaction, that the quantity jt of oxygen is diminished, and the quantity of azote and car- ' bonic acid proportionally increased, while the presence of sul- J] phuretted hydrogen is also to be detected. That partial de- 1 teriorations of the atmosphere take place, at different eleva- 1 tions, even in the same ward, may be inferred from a circum- stance noticed by Dr. Hennen, who remarks, that an improve- ment in the aspect of wounds and ulcers is often observed in military hospitals where means are found to elevate the bed- ding from the floors of the vrards, wrhere the most noxious part cof the air, from its comparative weight, accumulates. And this has also been noticed by Dr. Dickson as occurring in an hospital ship on the coast of Egypt, where a similar improve- ment was observed on elevating the patients from the deck.