539 YELLOW FEVER. ed to obviate an opinion of there being two varieties of yellow fever, one the common remittent fever of tropical climates, and the other a disease of a highly contagious and pestilential nature, said to have been imported into the West Indies by a slave-ship from the island of Bulam on the coast of Africa. This latter opinion of the importation of yellow fever was stre- nuously supported by Dr. Chisholm and Sir William Pym. The observations of the latter excited so much interest, that the Lords of the Privy Council were induced to apply to the College of Physicians for information on the principal points in dispute, “ the contagious nature of yellow fever,” and the peculiarity of its attacking “ the same person only once in the course of his life.” The College having, from want of personal experience, left these two points undetermined, application was made to the army and navy medical boards for a collec- tive view of the opinions of the medical officers of the respective services, whose experience enabled them to adduce facts and observations in support, or in refutation of these propositions. From the reports furnished by the naval service, of which alone Dr. Bancroft was permitted to make use, he has adduc- ed evidence, in my opinion, satis superque, to prove the futili- ty of the diagnostics upon which it has been attempted to esta- blish the existence of Bulam fever as a separate and highly contagious disease. Some of these diagnostics, the appearance of the eyes, the seat and nature of the headach, the pre- sence or absence of the remission, &c. are vague, accidental, or uncertain. With respect to one of the principal diagnostics of the Bulam or infectious fever, the “ black vomit,” and gangrenous state of the stomach, Dr. Bancroft has well ex- pressed the futility of all such criteria ; for “ the first, ” says he, “ is the almost unerring harbinger of death, and the other can only be known after its occurrence ; as black vomit- ing is a mortal symptom, never occurring, it may be said, in those who recover, and often wanting among those who die.