MILITARY SURGERY. HG In extensive burns even of a superficial kind, constitution- al symptoms of a very alarming nature follow the local in- jury. For several hours after the receipt of a severe burn, the leading symptoms indicate a general collapse of the powers of the system. Faintness, vomiting, chilliness and shivering, with a feeble, unequal, irregular, or intermitting pulse, and oppressed breathing are the most conspicuous symptoms, while in some cases convulsions occur; and if in this state the patient expires, lie sinks from causes which we cannot dis- tinctly explain. We can only refer his death to a general shock of the nervous system, which in many other kinds of injuries speedily overpowers the patient, and leaves no particular morbid appearance in the internal parts ; in such cases, perhaps, the most powerful remedies would not be of any avail, but in so far as we can expect them to be useful, Opiates and Cordials are obviously indicated. When a patient survives for four and twenty or eight and forty hours, reaction more or less vigorous commences, at- tended with a quick and for the most part small pulse, heat of skin, and urgent thirst; the shiverings still recurring at irregular intervals. In this state of symptomatic fever the patient may be carried off at any time previous to the tenth or twelfth day, and the phenomena observed on dissection will be those usually exhibited in other cases of fever, internal con- gestion, sometimes terminating in effusion in one or all of the great cavities. In such cases the head is sometimes the prin- cipal seat of congestion. Dr. Gulland of the navy mention- ed to me that, upon one occasion, he had the treatment of twenty-five men who were injured by the explosion of powder in a gun-boat, seven of whom died delirious, and all of them had effusion and plethora of the vessels of the brain. More frequently, however, the thorax is said to be the seat of the interior engorgement. Howr far this is countenanced by dissection, my ovrn observations do not enable me to state