FEIGNED AND FACTITIOUS DISEASES. 581 Ophthalmia. The artificial production of this disease has already been noticed, and of the extent to which this has upon some occasions been carried in the army an estimate may be formed from the following statement. “ In the year 1809, three hundred of the men of two regiments which were on duty at Chelmsford, became affected with ophthalmia. The healthy men of the corps were removed to another station, and the sick remained in hospital, but under mi- litary command. Information having reached their com- manding officer that one of the nurses of the hospital was in the habit of going to a druggist s shop for the purpose of purchasing medicines, suspicions were excited ; and in con- junction with the medical officer in charge of the hospital, lie made a successful attempt to discover whether the men had any drugs in their possession which might be employed to excite inflammation of the eyes. Accommodation having been provided for about twenty-four men, the number contained in one ward, at midnight the officer made his appearance in the hospital; the men were roused from their beds and forth- with marched in a state of nudity to the new ward. 1 he old ward was secured for the night; and next day when the beds were examined, a number of small parcels of corrosive subli- mate were found concealed. Means were taken to prevent a supply of this article, and in a very short time two hundred and fifty of the men had recovered, and w'ere then marched to their respective corps.” The substances used for producing artificial ophthalmia are, it is believed, very numerous. Amongst others to which the pa- tients have for the most part ready access are lime, snuff, the juice and ashes of tobacco, &c. Amongst the more prominent of the circumstances leading to a suspicion of the factitious nature of the disease is the suddenness of its invasion, and the rapidity of its progress ; its confinement almost exclusive- ly to the privates, or non-commissioned officers of a regiment,