MILITARY SURGERY. 58(i . and cable most distinctly marked. In cases where artificial interference was suspected with ulcerated legs, the practice of sealing or marking the bandage, so as to prevent its being un- done without detection, has long been in use; but this is not sufficient to prevent individuals from irritating their ulcers by blows on the part, or by means of pins thrust through the bandages. The more effectual plan therefore is, to enclose the leg, after being dressed, in a box or wooden boot, such as was used by Mr. Hutchison in the naval hospital at Deal, and a specimen of which he has been good enough to transmit to me for the purpose of being exhibited to the students of military surgery. Maiming or self-mulilation has been occasionally practised in all armies from very remote times; one form of it prac- tised amongst the Romans in the latter days of the em- pire, was the cutting off a thumb, and hence the derivation of our word poltroon, “ pollex truncatus.” Maiming is occa- sionally practised openly and avowedly, with the view of dis- abling the individual from the service ; and of the daring hardihood and desperation with which it is sometimes re- sorted to, I recollect a romarkable instance in the case of a soldier, who discharged the contents of his musket through his wrist, for the avowed purpose of obtaining his discharge and being sent home from a distant foreign station on which he was serving. I found it necessary to amputate this man’s hand, and was no sooner done, than he held out the other hand, saying, that if I would give him a glass of grog, I might take it off also. He was subsequently tried by a General court martial, and, instead of being sent home, was sentenced to corporal punishment, and afterwards to be degrad- ed and employed in sweeping the barracks. His object being thus frustrated, he went immediately and drowned himself. Mutilation has, however, been more frequently practised in a secret way, the object of the soldier being to get rid of