TROPICAL DYSENTERY. 555 is more extended in its site, and is frequently termed hepa- tic Jinx. These two species of the disease correspond near- ly with the acute and chronic dysentery of some other writers, particularly of Mr. Bampfield, the author of a valuable work on tropical dysentery. This author has indeed carried his subdivision still farther, and has enumerated three varieties of the former and five of the latter species. On this arrange- ment Dr. Johnson makes the following remark, in which I most heartily concur. “ This arrangement,” says he, « is cer- tainly logical and luminous, but I scarcely see any advantage in thus splitting down diseases into so many minute varieties. It was the celebrated Cullen who gave currency to this no- tion, swayed perhaps more by the example of preceding noso- logists than by his own excellent judgment. And, upon the whole, I greatly doubt whether such minuteness of diagnosis is often possible, or if it be, whether it is of any avail in ac- tual practice.” On the first arrival of European troops in India, it is an inflammatory affection of the large intestines, the dis- ease which lias been termed colonitis, that principally proves destructive to them. The manner in which a tropical cli- mate operates in giving origin to this inflammatory affection of the colon, did and still does appear to me involved in much obscurity ; for although the remote causes formerly assigned, heat, moisture, night-dews, abuse of fruits and intoxicating liquors, may be considered as powerful agents in the produc- tion of fluxes, it appears to me difficult to account for the very frequent occurrence of severe and extensive inflammation of the colon, on the first arrival of a European regiment in India, before many of those causes can possibly have taken effect, before the climate can well be supposed to have ex- erted its baneful effects on the constitution at large, or on the hepatic system in particular, and before the soldiers have be- come habituated to the abuse of the most pernicious descrip-