21 INTRODUCTION. in extracting from such multitudes of victims antidotes to the waste of human life ? The younger practitioner also who may enter the service of his country will inquire, where am I to collect the fruits of that experience with which so many cam- paigns have enriched my predecessors ? and how, if the op- portunities come within my reach, am I best to avail myself of them ? It is in some degree," says Dr. Hennen, “ to an- swer these interrogatories that I have ventured to make the following observations. In arranging them I have carefully availed myself of the written and oral remarks of the best ar- my surgeons, both domestic and foreign, to whose works and conversation I have had access, or who possessed more exper- ience than myself. I have studiously avoided controversial discussions, when they could lead to no practical result; and theory, unsupported by experience, I have altogether rejected.11 Dr. Thomson’s report of the state of the wounded in Bel- gium, after the battle of Waterloo, was published here in 1816; in this will be found much information highly inter- esting to the military surgeon, and his chapter on amputa- tion contains an admirable history of that operation. In the same year was published the first edition of a work en- titled “ Practical Observations on Surgery,” by Mr. C. Hut- chison, an experienced naval surgeon, who shortly after published some farther “ Observations on the proper period for amputating in Gun-shot Wounds.11 This contains a series of reports on the surgical cases after Lord Exmouth’s naval ac- tion at Algiers, and is enriched with many valuable observa- tions which entitle Mr. Hutchison to the same distinguished consideration in the naval branch of the service which Guthrie and Hennen hold in the military department. Within the last two years, we have also been favoured with another work from the naval department by Mr. Hammick, surgeon of the naval hospital at Plymouth, which contains many valuable observa- tions on amputations, fractures and strictures of the urethra,