MILITARY SURGERY. 27 2 ration formerly consisted in cutting open the tumour, clearing it of its contents, and tying the artery at each extremity of the sac. This method was first adopted by Severinus and Trullus, about the year 164>6, in a case of aneurism in the thigh ; and subsequently to them by many surgeons in France, Germany, and Italy. The first operation of the kind performed in this country, was by Mr. Burchall, at the Manchester Infirmary in 1757, an account of wdiich is to be found in the third volume of the Medical Observations and Inquiries. The frequent failure of this operation caused it to fall into disuse, and amputation of the limb was substituted, until John Hunter’s improvement superseded the necessity of so desperate an expedient. The modern operation for aneurism was first performed in 1705, upon a coachman, a patient in St. George’s Hospital, labour- ing under popliteal aneurism. The main trunk of the artery was tied in the thigh ; the points gained by which were, the obliteration of the calibre of the vessel communicating with the aneurismal sac, so as to cut off the supply of blood to the tumour ; and thereby to allow the diseased mass to be removed by absorption. After the main artery of a limb has been se- cured by ligatures, the blood finds its way to the parts be- low the obliterated point by means of the anastomoses or communications which exist between the final ramifications of arteries, and which, in all aneurisms of the extremities, have been proved to be sufficient to carry on the circulation. The most eligible points for tying the different arteries, and the mode of executing the operation, may be shown on the dead body, and are wTell explained in various systematic works on surgery. Mr. Hunter’s operation, which was nearly anticipated by /Etius, is now every day practised with success in the common form of aneurism from ulceration or rupture of the interior coats of an artery, but it is much less applicable to the false aneurism occasioned by a wound of the artery. Here, although