50 MILITARY SURGERY. curved. Many favourable spots for encampment are to be found on the banks of rivers, which perhaps, upon the whole, afford the most eligible sites. We must yet bear in mind, that when the banks of the river are low, or the country sub- ject to periodical rains, or sudden inundations from the melt- ing of snow on contiguous mountains, there may be a very se- rious danger from this cause. Against the danger of such a position we are cautioned in Mezerey’s “ Medicine d’Armee,” where he states a case in which the Austrian army lost 500 men and 200 horses, from a sudden inundation of this kind. When an encampment is inevitably situated in a low or unfavourable position, the kindling of large wooden fires in the windward parts of the camp is recommended by Mindere- rus in his “ Medicina Militaris,” as contributing to preserve the health of the troops; and with the same view discharges of artillery and bonfires in the streets have sometimes been adopted in sickly garrisons, for the purpose of purifying the atmosphere; but the heat which they occasion and the terror which they inspire, render their efficacy very questionable. Various modes of ventilating tents have been recommended, some of which are described in a little work entitled “ The Soldier’s Friend,” by Mr. Blair, formerly surgeon of the Lock Hospital in London; but as none of these plans have ever come into general use, nor indeed have been found requisite, it is unnecessary to enlarge upon them here. The most ob- vious and perfect wray of thoroughly airing the tents is by striking them occasionally, and exposing the straw, blankets, and soldiers’ clothing to the open air; the necessity of fre- quently changing the straw, and enforcing cleanliness in camp, in every possible way, arc circumstances too obvious to require any effort of reasoning to enforce. With this view, the slaugh- tering of cattle, and every thing likely to create noxious or putrid effluvia, ought to be conducted without the camp, and on the side of it opposite to that from which the wind generally blows.