ANEURISM. 269 rnever bursts by laceration; but the extreme distension causes [the integuments and investing parts to mortify ; and upon ithe separation of the slough, the blood in general issues (from the tumour. There are, however, cases in which, after tthe sloughing of the integuments, life has been for a time pre- served by the lamellated coagulum within the aneurismal sac cclosing the aperture, and preventing the escape of the blood ; i of this I saw a very remarkable case in Sir Patrick Dun’s hospital some years ago, the particulars of which were sub- sequently transmitted to me by Dr. Montgomery of Dublin. 'Some arteries are less liable to those diseases in their coats which predispose to the formation of aneurism than others. Hn the pulmonary artery this disease is extremely rare. The arteries of the arm are much less frequently diseased than [those of the trunk or lower extremities; and Mr. Hodgson i remarks, that he has never seen an aneurism which was not jproduced by accidental violence in any branch of the axillary artery. Aneurisms rarely arise from arteries of the fourth or- 1 der, as the radial, the ulnar, the tibials, the external carotid, :&c.,or from their ramifications, unless produced by accidental |' violence. Before proceeding to speak of the surgical treatment of aneurism, I may remark, that this formidable disease, in some rare cases, undergoes a spontaneous cure.; and this hap- pens in one of the following ways. 1. By sphacelation ; a sphacelation, however, which must not be confined to a portion of the sac, as in the above mentioned case; but a sphacelus wrhich, in consequence of a preceding attack of inflammation, embraces the whole sac and a portion of the surrounding parts. If the inflammation extends to a sufficient depth, a portion of the artery on either side of the aneurism becomes blocked up by the coagulating lymph, and thus the patient is saved from a fatal haemorrhage on the separation of the slough. Of this mode of cure, several in-