4*3 OPHTHALMIA. deepening as the disease advances.” This is a distinction which I have sometimes been able to observe in practice, but in gene- ral when inflammation of the sclerotic coat supervenes upon an attack of conjunctival inflammation, the swelling and ecchymo- sis already present effectually prevent any accurate observation of the state of the vessels which supply the sclerotic. The eye-balls are, by the swelling of the palpebre, often entirely concealed from our view, and in judging of the progress and severity of the affection, we can derive no aid from ocular observation. The symptoms which more peculiarly mark the accession of sclerotic inflammation, are the supervention of pyrexia, in acute cases and in irritable habits, often to a very con- siderable extent; quick pulse, restlessness, and inability to sleep, more peculiarly characterise the fever attendant up- on ocular inflammation, while heat, thirst, prostration of strength, and loss of appetite accompany it as in other cases. The pain attendant upon sclerotic inflammation is some- times of the most excruciating kind. Patients may be seen writhing under it, apparently suffering as acutely as they do from the most severe surgical operation. It is not un- frequently described as if numerous needles were thrust into the eyeball, and recurs at intervals, sometimes for days, sometimes for weeks, until a paroxysm terminates in rupture of the cornea and effusion of the aqueous humour. This latter event is often marked by the sudden cessation of pain, and the feeling of a gush of warm fluid from the eyeball. Indeed the sensation of bursting of the eye is sometimes so distinct that a patient has been observed fumbling amongst the bed-clothes seeking for something which he supposed had escaped from it. The relief afforded by this occurrence to the affected eye, is often followed by an aggravation of the symptoms in the other ; and the sensation of rupture may re- cur repeatedly for weeks or even months, the attacks gradu-