WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. leather or strong pasteboard, and this is a practice which I have resorted to with success in two such cases. Another plan of treatment calculated to excite a salutary action in the broken ends of the bone, is the passage of a seton through the fractured part of the limb. This was first employed by Dr. Physic of Philadelphia, and having succeeded in his hands in the case of a fractured humerus, it was shortly afterwards attempted by Mr. Wardrop of London, in the case of Captain Hay of the Astell, East Indiaman, in whom a fracture of the femur had remained ununited for a considerable period. In this case, however, after much perseverance on the part of the surgeon, and much suffering on the part of the patient, the bone remained ununited, and the operation has since been repeated by different surgeons, with various degrees of success. The expedient of cutting down upon the fractured extre- mities of a bone, and removing a portion of them with the saw when they have remained long ununited, was first resorted to by an excellent surgeon, the late Mr. White of Manchester, in a case of fractured humerus. The same operation was performed by Mr. Rowland of Chester, in the case of a frac- tured thigh-bone; but although he succeeded in his object, Mr. Rowland hesitates to recommend a repetition of the oper- ation. Upon the whole, the flattering hopes formed from the success of this operation at first, have been in a great measure blasted by its repeated failure ; and, indeed, unless the want of reunion is obviously the result of some maltreatment or sinis- ter accident in the first instance, which can be sufficiently guarded against on a second attempt, we have no great en- couragement to undertake it. Where non-union has, in the first instance, been the consequence of any constitutional defect, we have no good ground to expect success from any operation ; for it cannot be supposed that health, originally defective,-will be improved under the confinement and re-