SYPHILIS. 4G9 simple ablution, so as to keep the parts clean, and by cover- ing them with dry lint, or the most mild and unirritating dressings ; in other cases, astringents, stimulants, and escharo- tic applications become necessary. 01' these, one of the most generally useful is the black wash, the lotio hydrargyri sub- muriatis nigra of the pharmacopoeia chirurgica, made by agi- tating a quantity of calomel in lime-water. The ungt. oxyd. hydrag. rubri, and the ungt. subacetat. cupri are the most useful remedies of an unctuous character. But in the application of these and of all other stimulating remedies usu- ally applied by means of lint, it is necessary to caution pa- tients to confine them as much as possible to the surface of the sore. I have seen the healing of sores, particularly within the prepuce, greatly retarded by stuffing the parts with dossils of lint, stretching them out of their natural po- sition, and thus keeping up a continual irritation. In the ap- plication of caustic to primary venereal sores, my practice was long guided by the following statement of Mr. Benjamin Bell. “ Of forty-eight patients with chancres in an incipient state, and exactly as they occurred in practice, one half was treated in the manner that I have mentioned, by destroying the chancres with caustic immediately on my being desired to see them; while all the others were put under mercury for eight or ten days before caustic was used. In every other circumstance the method of treatment was the same. The difference, however, surprised me greatly. Of the twenty-four treated with the immediate application of caustic, twenty were seized with buboes, while only three buboes occurred in an equal number to whom mercury had been previously admi- nistered.” Of late years, however, 1 have been in the habit of at once destroying the surface of these sores by caustic, when of a limited extent, and this practice has for the most part been highly satis- factory, nor would 1 now be justified in saying that it has pro-