WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. S'J'J thigh-bones fractured died unless amputation had been practis- ed immediately. Out of eight cases treated by Mr. S. Cooper, after the battle of Oudenbosch, only one survived, and the limb in this instance was of very little use to the individual. Percy, Thomson, Larrey, Guthrie, and Hennen, have made similar observations ; and the events of July 1830 have also led most of the surgeons attached to the Parisian hospitals to adopt the same conclusions. One of the individuals, however, who was wounded in this manner, was treated with success by M. Lisfranc, at La Pitie, a second was saved by M. Dupuy- tren, and three other cures are mentioned by M. Arnal. I have not been so fortunate in my practice. Only one case was admitted into my wards; the fracture appeared to be very simple, and nevertheless, no treatment was of any avail, and death put an end to the patient’s sufferings on the thirty- eighth day. M. Somme cured two out of eight without am- putation, during the events at Antwerp in October 1830. M. Lassis and other practitioners, both at Paris and Brussels, have published also some successful cases. “ We must not however forget, that both in France and in Belgium, the wounded were placed in the best possible circumstances, and were treated in the same manner as the sick in civil practice, whilst in the army and in military hos- pitals, they must necessarily have been deprived of much of that care which is bestowed upon them in private life. Besides, success, even in the most favourable circumstances, is trifling, and the limb, when saved, is generally so deformed, that the loss of it must almost be looked upon as preferable. We must remark, moreover, that the fracture is so much the more dan- gerous, as it approaches the middle of the bone, either on account of the splinters which are liable to occur in that situ- ation, or on account of the number, disposition, and force of the muscles. To recapitulate what has been stated, amputation is most commonly indicated in cases of comminuted fracture