4 65 SYPHILIS. the glans, penis, and internal surface of the prepuce, attended with purulent discharge. 4. Gonorrhoea virulenta. 5. The phagedenic ulcer, which, as its name implies, has a corroding appearance, and neither exhibits granulations nor surround- ing induration ; it spreads sometimes with rapidity, causing the most extensive havoc in the course of a few days. G. The sloughing ulcer; which commences by a small black- spot resembling a grain of shot, both in colour and size, which may be recognised as a slough or mortification extend- ing to some depth below the surface. With reference to the above classification of Mr. Car- michael, I would observe, that while I have been able to recognise his different species of ulcer in practice, I have seen an infinite variety of each of these species; every one of them may be seen varying in degree. There are many ulcers which possess characters differing from all of them, and there are numerous ulcerations of the genitals which ex- hibit in different parts of their circumference the character of different ulcers,—one part of the base may be callous and indurated like the true syphilitic ulcer; another part of the same ulcer may have its edge elevated without induration; and in a third part, the edge may be neither callous, indurat- ed, nor elevated. Nay, I have seen one edge of a sore exca- vated, while another was putting forth protuberant granula- tions. I admit indeed, that these variations in different parts of the same ulcer, are only to be seen when that ulcer is of a larger size than the one generally described as a true chancre ; but when nosological definitions come to rest upon the greater or less extent of a sore, I am afraid that they cannot be very safely adhered to ; particularly if an adherence to such defini- tion is to imply a decided difference in the mode of treatment. With regard to Mr. Hunter’s definition, which has been so much dwelt upon, and which has been adopted by Mr. Car- michael as characterising the effects of the true syphiliti 2 H