MILITARY SURGERY. 308 vertebra?. It was unattended “ with any apparent mechanical injury to the spinal marrow, or its membranes, except wbat nose from pressure; the patient died about the fourth day from suffocation, produced by accumulation of mucus in the aerial passages, which he was unable to expectorate.” In the dorsal and lumbar regions of the spine, dislocations of the vertebra? without fracture are exceedingly rare, although not perhaps, as some have supposed, impossible occurrences. Indeed, we have a remarkable case noticed in Baron Larrey’s works, of a dislocation which occurred between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebra, in which the patient’s leg was at the same time fractured, but the paralysis was so complete that the fracture was not felt. The lodgment of foreign bodies in the spine, and fractures of the vertebra?, with permanent compression of the spinal marrow, have led to the operation of trepanning the spine, with a view to the relief of such cases ; a practice which has, on the one hand, been advocated by Sir Astley Cooper, and on the other, condemned by Sir Charles Bell in the most unqualified terms. It is quite possible to conceive a case of compound fracture, with depression of the posterior or dorsal arc of a vertebra, in which it would become the sur- geon’s duty to elevate the depressed bone, by the use of the trepan, or of one of Hey’s saws. And I am not prepared to say, that a case might not occur in a very thin or emaciated subject, in which, even although the fracture should be a simple one, the nature of the depression might be so obvious, as to justify the surgeon in cutting down upon it, and taking the necessary means for its elevation. Certain it is, however, that in the common run of practice, either in civil or in mili- tary life, very few cases occur in which the operation of trepan- ning the spine ought to be performed. Such accidents, if not speedily fatal, are for the most part so obscure from the thick- ness of the superincumbent parts, and the adventitious swell-