235 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Hating as it were from a centre outwards, instead of proceeding ns in the common contused wounds of civil life, from the sur- face towards the deep-seated parts. With reference to the oassage of a musket ball or small sized shot through any of hhe soft parts of the body, it may be remarked, that the tract ifjf the ball from its entrance to its exit gradually loses the Character of a contused, and takes on more of the character of i. lacerated wound. The injury done to the contiguous soft parts ..ias been well illustrated by Sir Charles Bell, by means of a series of concentric circles. The innermost of these circles may oe supposed to represent a portion of animal substance, foriYi- ng the parietes of the tubular wound, in which the vitality has jeen so completely destroyed as to induce sloughing. Between •his interior circle and the next, the injury to the soft ioarts may be such as to induce suppuration; between the second and third circles, again the injury may be such as 1,0 induce a slighter degree of inflammation to terminate ;n resolution, without either suppuration or sloughing ; and tt will be easily understood, that in the course of the wound ;hese concentric circles will gradually change their dimensions, or, in other words, will progressively shorten their respective diameters as the wound loses the characters of contusion, and takes on those of laceration or incision. This enables us to understand the usual process of healing in gunshot wounds by suppuration and sloughing, these, of course, more or less extensive according to the degree of con- tusion. It enables us also to understand an occurrence—cer- :ainly a very rare one—the healing or uniting of the whole :tract of a musket ball almost without a vestige of suppuration, or, to speak more technically, by the first intention. Of this !I once met with a remarkable instance in the case of a musket v shot passing through the region of the biceps, or upper part of the arm. The patient was a man of colour, a native of India, living on the most mild and unirritating food, and