MILITARY. SURGERY. 100 the details of“ a subject, the importance of“ which docs not ap- pear to me to have been hitherto duly appreciated. With regard to this particular topic, the transportation of sick and wounded, much remains to be pressed upon the attention of government, whenever a future occasion shall unfortunately occur. Were our means of conveyance more perfect, regi- ! ments would be less frequently compelled to leave their sick behind, and we should find that sick and wounded may be moved not only without inconvenience, but often with posi- ' tive advantage. Gestation has even been advocated as a re- medy in the treatment of fever by two experienced army sur- geons, my late friend Dr. Jackson, and Dr. Jones, formerly surgeon of the Greys ; and although my own experience docs . not enable me to speak to its effects in this particular instance, I have frequently had occasion to observe the improvement of cases in the course of a march. The formation of an hospital corps for the purpose of con- veying the wounded from the field of battle, and of subse- quently attending them in the hospitals, has often been sug- gested, and it is to be hoped may hereafter be carried into ef- fect, according to details given in the “ Army Medical Offi- cer’s Manual.” No other plan seems so well adapted to cf- ( feet the object in view, to afford prompt and efficient assist- ance to the wounded, and to preserve the integrity and effee- | tive force of regiments. ££ The feeling of humanity which prompts one soldier to give assistance to his comrade, or his officer, when wounded, has sometimes given a colourable pre- J text to another for turning his face from the enemy. One j firelock is withdrawn from the line by the wound of the sol- dier ; a second, by the impulse of humanity ; and a third, per- > haps, by the force of example.” From the foregoing observations it will be seen, that the * duties of an army surgeon are not solely those of a medical | man, and that many of the subjects of his attention are not ?