MILITARY SURGERY. 342 Amidst these conflicting opinions, it is consolatory to know how few cases occur in which sutures of any descrip- tion are required. I myself have seen but one case in which I deemed it necessary to follow the practice of Mr. Bell, in stitching the wounded gut to the edge of the wound in the parietes; and Dr. Hennen asserts, that in the course of his more extensive experience, only two cases have occurred in which he thought it necessary to follow a similar prac- tice. This is the mode of treatment which I have, until lately, been inclined to advocate as the step best calculated to save the life of a patient, although at the hazard of producing an artificial anus; but my attention has recently been turned to a mode of sewing up a wounded intestine, which obviates many of the objections to that operation. This new mode I have been in the practice of shewing for some years past to my class ; and am induced to notice it from a desire to ascertain its real value in practice. Of this operation, a detailed account is to be found in a paper by M. Lembert, in the second volume of the “Repertoire Generale D’’Anatomic, et de Clinique Chirurgieale,'” &c. It is difficult to make it fully intelligible, without the assistance of a plate, but it may be executed in the following manner, with a common sewing needle and silk thread. A small stitch, including only the peritoneal coat of the intestine, is to be taken up on one side of the wound, at the distance of a line or two from its edge; the needle is then carried across the wound, and a similar stitch taken up on the opposite side, at the same distance from its edge ; in this way a number of ligatures are introduced at the distance of a quarter or half an inch from each other, and when these come to be tied, the wound is completely closed, the serous surfaces of the peritoneal coat on cither side of the incision are brought into contact, and the lips of the wound arc left projecting into the intestinal tube. So far as we can judge of this mode of suture, from the experiments of Lembert,