MILITARY SURGERY. 514 from practice, I consider it unnecessary to enlarge on their nature or effects. A practice, however, somewhat analogous in its operation to these medicated bougies has lately been submitted to the profession by Mr. Bingham, who recommends the application of the unguentum hydrargygri fortius to the surface of the stricture, by introducing into it a bougie be- smeared with this ointment, which he conceives to act by stimulating the absorbents of the part; a well known effect of the ointment in other instances. Having no personal ex- perience of this practice, I am unable to say anything in its favour, but consider myself justified in noticing it by the general character of Mr. Bingham’s work, which contains a useful summary of all the common methods of treating stricture; and also by the character of another work of the same author, on diseases of the bladder, which obtained the Jacksonian prize awarded by the Royal College of Surgeons of London for the year 1821. The treatment of strictures with the common bougie, neither armed nor medicated, may be so conducted as to accomplish a cure by a slow dilatation of the contracted part, or by pro- moting absorption. With a view to this effect, a bougie such as the stricture will admit is to be introduced and retained for a short time, increasing its size very gradually, so as not to occasion any considerable pain to the patient; or the bougie may be increased more rapidly, and retained in the urethra as long as the patient’s feelings can tolerate it. The French practice in this case is to introduce a silver or elastic gum catheter through the stricture, and not to withdraw it for some days ; when a larger one is substi- tuted in its stead. By this means the cure of stricture is sometimes accomplished more speedily than by the occasional use of the bougie as generally employed in this country, but in proportion as a cure is effected more rapidly, so is it less permanent. The length of time during which patients arc