WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. 315 gig shaft entered the patient’s left side, traversed the posterior surface of the sternum, and passed out on the opposite side, detaching the pleura from the interior of the ribs, but without perforating this membrane or injuring the lung. To discover whether a wound of this kind had injured the lungs or not, was a point which, in former times, gave occa- sion for the exercise of much ingenuity, and led, as Dr. Hen- nen observes, to the “ waste of time and wax-tapers, in ascer- taining the exit of air through the passage.” But no prac- tical surgeon of the present day will, I presume, be disposed to trust to such a criterion, nor to spend much time in ascer- taining the existence of an occurrence which art can so little obviate. When air issues from a wound in expiration, there is ground for suspecting that the lungs are wounded. But this is not to be considered as an infallible proof of such an injury ; for when there is simply an opening in the chest, without any injury of the lungs whatever, the same symptom may occur, the air which is discharged through the wound during expiration may have previously entered through the same wound in inspiration. Symptoms less equivocal, are,—bloody expectoration,—severe, urgent, and increasing dyspnoea,—in- supportable anxiety and faintness, immediately succeeding the accident. These are the most prominent symptoms of a wounded lung, they are indicative of internal bleeding, which is the great primary danger in such cases. Considering the very vascular texture of the lungs, and the large quantity of blood passing through them, the pro- fuse internal hemorrhage, the extreme faintness and rapid sinking of the patient, are very readily explained. But there arc other circumstances connected with these wounds less easily understood, and there are perhaps few subjects in surgery on which more erroneous opinions have been en- tertained, and more false views promulgated, than on the subject of wounded lungs. Some writers would lead us to