MILITARY SURGEftY. 240 surgeons against wasting, in endeavours to satisfy an idle or unprofitable curiosity, that time which may, in these trying circumstances, be employed to so much better purpose. In wounds. of the limbs, attended with lacerated vessels and broken bones, it is our business to examine the state of the wound accurately, for the purpose of removing splinters; and the necessary use of the finger and of the probe for this pur- pose is never so well borne at any subsequent period. In wounds of the belly, or of the breast, when a ball has penetrated deeply into or passed through these cavities, it is our duty to rest satisfied without the knowledge of those circumstances, which, if ever so well known to us, could in no way alter our prac- tice. In the treatment of gun-shot wounds, a material improve- ment has of late been introduced by the substitution of cloths wrung out of cold water for the poultices almost uni- versally used in former times. The practice, previous to the peninsular war, was, in almost every case, to apply a poultice in order to hasten the separation of the slough, which was looked upon as an inevitable consequence of every gun-shot wound. Mr. Hunter’s writings tended much to inculcate this principle, and to confirm the practice growing out of it; but it was soon found to be absolutely impracticable on the large scale of warfare, and even if practicable, to be neither expedi- ent nor beneficial to the patient. The history of the appli- cation of cold water as a dressing to wounds is exceedingly interesting; it was, soon after the invention of gunpowder, employed by the Italians, who did not consider it to possess any virtue until it had undergone certain mysterious and magical ceremonies. Blondus published an essay on its effi- cacy at Venice in 1542, under the title, “ Dc Medicamcnto aqiuenuper invento, et dc partibus ictu sclopeti sectis.” Other writers followed on the same subject; but, notwithstanding this, the remedy continued long in the hands of quacks, and