MILITARY SURGERY. 470 duced buboes in anything like that proportion which Mr. Bell’s statements would lead us to expect. The various degrees of in- dolence or irritability with which primary venereal ulcerations are accompanied, will render the more or less stimulating of the foregoing applications preferable; and the same circum- stance will suggest the propriety of occasionally varying the proportions of their component parts. It will also he observed, in the treatment of these sores, that an application which, in the first instance, appears to he highly useful, soon loses its effect from the parts becoming habituated to the same stimu- lus : and whenever the healing process seems to he at a stand under one remedy, it is, in general, a sufficient ground for changing the application. In the phagedenic and sloughing ulcers of Mr. Carmichael, mercury, as already observed, is highly improper. These ulcers are generally attended with much constitutional excitement, frequently, in young soldiers, requiring in the early stages bleeding and the most decided antiphlogistic regimen. As local applications, anodyne fo- mentations and cataplasms, or stimulating lotions, are, ac- cording to circumstances, the most useful, and of the latter class, diluted nitric or muriatic acid, solutions of the oxymuriate of mercury, and of the chlorurets of lime and of soda, are the best. Venereal Buboes, the next symptom which demands our attention, although sometimes sufficiently perplexing in their treatment, do not afford the same endless variety in their ap- pearances which we meet with in chancres or primary syphi- litic ulcers. A venereal bubo has been defined to be “ a pain- ful swelling of a lymphatic gland produced by absorption of the venereal virus.” In most cases, the first indication of the formation of a bubo is a sense of weariness, stiffness, and pain in the groin, sometimes accompanied with numbness in the thigh of the affected side. Upon applying the fingers to the part, one of the inguinal glands is found to be somewhat swollen.