MILITARY SURGERY. 84 the bread, meat, and more bulky articles of provision for the sick are frequently supplied by the commissary, so far as his resources enable him ; and it is the especial duty of the sur- geon to see that these articles are of the best quality to be procured, or to make an immediate report to his command- ing-officer on the subject should he find them otherwise. With reference to this point the following sentiments’of Dr. Millen- gen, applicable to the inferior officers and servants employed in the purveying department of large general hospitals, are particularly deserving of attention : “ whenever,” says he, “ a medical officer suspects that irregularities exist, he should diligently and silently watch every motion until fully able to bring the offence to light, and the offender to punishment. Medical officers must recollect that their professional charac- ter is deeply involved in the prosperity or failure of their ef- forts, which will be rendered nugatory if the interests of the sick are allowed to be sacrificed by the peculation of their servants. Fraudulent conduct, on the part of the administra- tors of hospital economy, is not a case of ordinary delin- quency ; for any act which, directly or indirectly, tends to weaken or cripple our armies, constitutes a national crime; and it is to be regretted that our military code does not pro- vide for the exemplary punishment of such offences.” The impropriety of having the purveying department of hospitals in the hands of the medical superintendant was pointed out by Dr. Donald Monro in the strongest possible terms many years ago. His observations upon this subject have long been familiar to me, and are fully confirmed by my own experience in India, where, until a very recent pe- riod, the surgeons held a contract for victualling and clothing their sick. The evils arising from this combination of the purveyor and the surgeon were then daily before my eyes, and the following extracts arc from an unpublished memoir upon military hospitals, written twenty years ago.