TRANSPORTATION OF SICK AND WOUNDED. 101 ✓ the additional advantage of being narrow, and therefore less likely to block up roads, than waggons, wains, bullock-cars, ^&c. the usual heavy and cumbersome means of transporting ssick and wounded.” Such carriages as these would no doubt prove a most valu- able addition to the means of transport hitherto afforded to rregiments, but by far the most ingenious contrivance for the .’conveyance of sick and wounded which I have seen, is that of Mr. Cherry of Clapham, formerly a verterinary sur- _ geon in the army. This consists of a light single-horse cart, so constructed as to be readily adapted either to the convey- ance of wounded men, or to the carriage of stores and pro- visions ; for these two different purposes, a great part of the frame-work of the cart is moveable, and capable of being ad- justed to the object required ; but the most ingenious part of i the contrivance is that by which the ordinary springs of a i cart or other carriage may be protected from injury when car- rying heavy loads, while, at the same time, it admits of their free use when light loads are earned. This is effected by two moveable blocks sliding along the axletree; and which, by means of a lever connected with them, may either be moved outwards under the frame-work of the cart, so as to make its weight bear directly on the axle without injuring the springs; or, by turning the lever in an opposite direction, the blocks may be withdrawn from under the side-pieces of the cart in- to the hollow space formed by their thickness, and the springs thus again brought into action. Mr. Cherry’s contrivance is readily intelligible from the model with which he has been good enough to furnish me, and the part of it which I have just been describing is represented in a plate contained in the 38th volume of the “ Transactions of the Society for the En- couragement of Arts the silver medal of which society was awarded to Mr. Cherry for this part of his invention. This gentleman’s “ Observations on the Defective State of Army