MILITARY SUROERY. 3G who is not in every respect qualified for its duties, it must be equally his care to see that no man is discharged as an invalid, or placed upon the pension list, unless positive and permanent disqualifications exist. Here he must be constantly upon his guard, not only against imposition on thepart of the soldier, but he must be prepared to resist the importunities of a command- ing officer, an adjutant, or the captain of a troop or company, who are often disposed to load the surgeon with the responsibi- lity of discharging a man who, although possessed, of the ne- cessary physical powers, may be troublesome, worthless, or unseemly. Many of the disabilities already enumerated are liable to occur in the common routine of duty, others origi- nate from wounds, and from the vicissitudes of foreign service, to such an extent as to unfit men for the active duties of military life. These disabilities are more particularly speci- fied in the instructions furnished to medical officers, and it seems unnecessary to enter more minutely into the detail of duties ■which must be in a great measure executed according to the established regulations of the service. The instruc- tions which are from time to time issued to medical officers on the passing of recruits and invalids, in so far as they go, must form an implicit guide ; but there are still many points which no regulations nor standing orders in this country distinctly provide for. In the writings of Dr. Hennen, of Mr. C. Hutchison, of Dr. Cheyne, and, above all, of Deputy- Inspector Marshall, much interesting and authentic information is con- tained applicable to the examination of recruits for the British army, and to the fictitious diseases of soldiers and seamen. Mr. Marshall has made this subject almost exclusively his own; his “ Hints to Young Medical Officers of the Army on the Examination of Recruits, and respecting the feigned Disabilities of Soldiers,” and a more recent work on the enlist- ing, discharging, and pensioning of soldiers, contain a fund of