MILITARY SURGERY. 280 in two points these diseases, as they have fallen under my ob- servation. exhibit a considerable difference. While in cases of hydrophobia, the mind appears agitated and acutely sensible to every external impression, it is, in many cases of tetanus, perfectly tranquil, firm, and undisturbed, even until death. In most cases of hydrophobia, the pulse is quickened, and other febrile symptoms present; whereas, in many instances of tetanus, the pulse, unless previously raised by the injury whence the tetanus originates, deviates little or nothing from a natural standard. Dr. Parry, who has published some cases of tetanus and rabies contagiosa, is of opinion that we may estimate the dan- ger in proportion to the quickness of the pulse, and observes, that “ If in an adult the pulse by the fourth or fifth day does not reach a hundred beats in a minute, I believe the pa- tient almost always recovers; if, on the other hand, the pulse on the first day is one hundred and twenty or more in a min- ute, few instances, I apprehend, will be found in which he will not die.” This, however, is not consonant to the observa- tion of others. Thus, Dr. Morrison of Newry, who prac- tised several years in Demerara, and saw numerous instances of the disease in that colony, says, “ I recollect the pulse, in tl'.e absence of spasm, at ninety-eight in a boy who fell a vic- tim to the disease on the third day ; but I cannot say that I have ever remarked it higher than this, either in cases which terminated fatally or in those which recovered.” Dr. M‘Lagan, Physician to the Forces, in an excellent essay upon tetanus, remarks, “As far as I have been able to learn, either from my own experience or that of others, there is no disease in which the pulse can less safely be taken as a guide, as to its probable event; in many cases of tetanus, indeed, the pulse, except during the violence of the paroxysm, or towards the fatal termination of the disease, is little affected.” This is so perfectly coincident with my own experience.