HOSPITALS. 71 : tals, according to the meaning of the word at present, that i is, such as were destined for the sick alone, were not intro- duced before the eleventh century. It is recorded in the life i of St. Lanfranc, who was archbishop of Canterbury in the year 1070, that he caused an hospital to be built there, and fitted up so, that one part of it was appropriated for the reception of sick men, and the other of sick women. It is probable that this prelate formed the institution here mentioned after the model of those which he had previously seen in his own coun- try, Italy : and, after this period, similar establishments for the sick are mentioned in various other parts of the world. Of the internal economy of the oldest houses for the recep- tion of the sick, I believe that no accurate information is to be found ; it is not even known whether physicians and sur- geons were appointed to them, nor in what manner they were supplied with medicines. In the hospitals at Jerusalem, the knights and brothers attended the sick themselves, bound up their wounds, and acted as their physicians, in imitation of the Grecian heroes; and Mohsen remarks, that the well- known baume de commendeur is one of the oldest compositions belonging to the times of knighthood. Profound or extensive knowledge of medicine could not be expected amongst these warriors, even if we were ignorant of the account given of their skill by Guy de Chauliac, who wrote his book on the healing of wounds in the year 1363. This author mentions different medical sects, and amongst these names the German knights as the fourth sect, who, he says, cured wounds by exorcism, oil, wool, and cabbage leaves. The first regular establishment for the reception of invalid soldiers which occurs in history is that formed at Constanti- nople by the Emperor Alexius Comnenus, at the end of the eleventh century, a complete description of which may be found in the history of that prince, by his learned daughter Anna Comnena. The emperor caused a number of buildings