335 WOUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. phrotomy has been spoken of by some speculative writers, as a matter of course, yet every military surgeon knows the highly dangerous nature of wounds of the kidney, and is reluctantly compelled to place them amongst the list of those which, for the most part, prove fatal. The situation indeed of the organ renders it impossible for wounds to be inflicted on it, without at the same time injuring other parts of im- portance. In wounds reaching the kidney anteriorly, by pene- trating through the abdomen, we have lesions of the intestine almost inevitably superadded to the danger from hannorrhage, and extravasation of urine into the cavity of the abdomen. In wounds again penetrating the kidney laterally, or a poste- riori, if the patient escapes the first danger from hannorrhage, he has still to run the risk of extensive and deep suppurations, from the infiltration of urine into the lax cellular membrane surrounding the kidney. To this succeeds fistulous sinuses, for the most part accompanied with hectic, and generally termin- ating in death. Wounds of the kidney arc marked by great pain in the lumbar region, bloody urine, retraction of the testicle, nausea and vomiting. Their treatment consists in bleeding both general and topical, mild regimen, and gentle laxatives, warm bath, and fomentations. In considering wounds of the glandular or more fixed viscera contained in the abdominal cavity, I have endeavoured to point out the circumstances by which lesions of these different organs are characterised, the more immediate sources of danger in each, and the most approved means of obviating such danger. Our anatomical knowledge of the natural site and form of such fixed viscera, gives us im- portant advantages in detecting and treating their wounds ; and I have endeavoured, upon this and every former occasion, to discountenance idle and useless probings, calculated to lead to no practical advantage. I am well aware, however, that it is not easy for either patient or surgeon to divest himself of