YELLOW FEVER. 537 universal attention it has attracted amongst all classes of prac- titioners in the West Indies, one of the most important points in its history still remains a subject of dispute; I allude to its contagious or non-contagious nature. The only way perhaps of explaining this incongruity of opinion is, by admitting that the yellow fever, like some others, may become contagious under peculiar circumstances. Nu- merous facts seem to attest that the effluvia issuing from the bodies of a number of human beings confined too closely, whether in a state of health or disease, will occasionally pro- duce a contagion, which is capable not only of exciting fever among those so confined, but of propagating itself afterwards from those to others. Independently of numerous observations in the writings of Lind, of Pringle, and of others, which coun- tenance this opinion, a recent and very memorable instance of the apparent generation of such a contagion has been alluded to by Dr. Johnson, in his work on tropical climates. “ The transports which received and conveyed home the wretched remnant of Sir John Moore’s army after the battle of Corunna, afforded decisive and melancholy proofs that bodies of men confined close together between the decks of a ship in stormy weather, w ill soon become sickly, and that their disease may be communicated to nurses and others, after they are landed, washed, and placed in clean and airy hospitals. It is not probable that these men could have carried any infection on board, either in their persons or clothes, after a rapid retreat, during which almost every stitch of garment was washed from their backs by the incessant rains. A. dreadful and sanguin- ary battle at the water’s edge, gave them no time to contract infection, or even to clothe themselves at Corunna. They precipitated themselves tumultuously, naked, exhausted, and wounded, into the first vessels that came in their way, and were thus crowded, from choice or necessity, during a cold, wet, and tempestuous passage across the Bay of Biscay. They