462 MILITARY SURGERY. and if they be unmarried, they shall be first marked by the hangman, and thereafter by him scourged out of the camp.” To the institution of a prophylactic measure somewhat akin to this I was myself once witness while serving with the 2d battalion of the Royals in India. The regiment being over- run by venereal disease, and upwards of sixty men off duty from this cause, the commanding officer determined on adopt- ing the most summary means for its suppression. With this view, he, without any previous warning, sent a patrole round the barracks in the middle of the night, to take up every un- married woman who should be found there. These were all confined in the congee-house or black-hole until the follow- ing morning, when they were inspected by the native doctors attached to the regiment. Such of them as were found free from disease were furnished with written passports, giving them free access to the barracks at all times ; those who were found diseased were drummed out of the fort, after having their heads shaved and whitewashed, a mark of disgrace which was for a time indelible, and was a sufficient beacon to cause them to be shunned. These salutary but scmibarbarous proceedings are, however, little consistent with our modern notions of liberty and jus- tice ; and we must therefore, in general, rest satisfied to op- pose the disease by the most efficient practice, and to endea- vour to improve that practice by a careful study of its pheno- mena. These phenomena have long been divided into local and constitutional, or into primary and secondary symptoms. The first, comprising those ulcerations and glandular swellings ap- pearing upon or in the immediate neighbourhood of the genital organs, in the form of Chancre and Bubo. The second, including ulcerations of the throat, eruptions on the skin, and morbid affections of the bones, which are frequent sequela* of the former. The nature of the poison producing these various affections has been matter of anxious inquiry.