MILITARY SURGERY. 2U2 of the experience of that army, “ that if tetanus does not oc- cur for twenty-two days from the date of the wound, the pa- tient is safe.” Instances have however occurred of its super- vening at a later date, and even the complete closure of the wound has not always proved a complete safeguard. The occurrence of tetanus in wounds, and of every degree of nervous disorder, from the most trivial local twitches, up to spasms of a whole limh, and general convulsions, were in for- mer times attributed almost exclusively to the partial division of nerves. This doctrine, however, practitioners have been in some measure compelled to relinquish, from having had many opportunities of witnessing the partial lesion of nerves and tendons without any corresponding degree of subsultus tendi- num or tetanus ; and also from having repeatedly failed in re- lieving such symptoms when they did occur, by the complete division of the nerves partially injured ; a practice to which surgeons were naturally led by the foregoing hypothesis. It is certain also, that the partial lesion of nerves has in many instances given rise to affections of a chronic and anomalous kind altogether different from tetanus ; and of such singular and anomalous affections, numerous instances are recorded in the writings of Dr. Hennen, Mr. Guthrie, and other military surgeons. The researches of pathologists have unfortunately thrown but little light upon the nature of tetanus, and one of them has expressed his apprehensions, that “ the extension of our investigations will he the abridgment of our hopes of cure.” 01' the few successful cases on record, perhaps not one half have been treated on the principles deduced from any pre- conceived pathological views, the method of cure having been taken up, on the purely empirical ground of experience and imitation. Tetanus is by all authors, I believe, allowed to be principally an affection of the nervous system, and some recent authorities, particularly Mr. Carmichael of Dublin, seem to be 4