MILITARY SURGERY. 400 the military hospitals became a subject of raillery and re- proach amongst the vulgar; and we find Dionis labouring to remove from the mind even of the King, Louis XIV., the impression that the limbs of his soldiers were in as much dan- ger from the ardour of the young surgeons as from the fire of the enemy. The execution of this operation is a task to which every surgeon considers himself competent; and we are not now hampered in deciding upon the propriety of this step by those difficulties in its performance which fettered our predecessors. Although the removal of a limb must always appear to a patient and to the by-standers a very formidable undertaking, yet to a surgeon it is perhapsofall the capital operations the most easy of execution. It has been often observed, that the proposal of amputating a limb necessarily implies a confession of our in- ability to cure it; and in proportion as the art of surgery has been improved, so have those cases diminished in number where the amputation of the limb is considered indispensably necessary. Many cases, however, still remain, and it is probable that many will ever remain, “ where,” to use the words of Mr. Pott, “ the patient’s life is much more put to hazard in an attempt to save the limb, than by the operation in removing it;” when, in short, as it has been somewhat quaintly express- ed, “ it is better for a patient to live with three limbs than to die with four.” In civil life there are many intractable diseases, such as cancerous affections, malignant growths, white swellings, &c. which demand the removal of limbs ; and, in the practice of mi- litary surgery, the following are amongst the most common and most obvious cases which require amputation :—1. Cases where a limb is completely carried away, leaving a ragged stump, with laceration of the soft parts and projection of the bone. 2. Cases of lacerated wounds, with loss of substance, rupture of the blood-vessels and nerves, with extensive denudation of the bone.