491 GONORRIKEA. Hunter, Swediaur, and Adams, and one of the arguments much dwelt upon in support of their views, is the proba- bility of syphilis having been conveyed to the inhabitants fif Otaheite, by seamen who previously to their landing had been five months out of port, and who, consequently could not, it is presumed, have laboured all this time under primary ulce- rations, although they might have been subject to gonorrhoea. But if any argument is to he drawn from historical fact sre- lative to the point at issue, such facts appear to me to sup- port the opinion of a difference in the two poisons, for not only have we accounts of the existence of gonorrhoea prior to those of syphilis, as stated by Dr. Adams, but the ravages of the one disease have at different periods been described as totally independent of the other, and the whole history of the appearance of this disease amongst the natives of Otaheite is exceedingly doubtful, as appears from the testimony of Mr. Wilson, who visited this island in 1802 as surgeon of his Majesty’s ship Porpoise. Mr. Hunter, in support of his views, appeals to experi- ments, in which he says that venereal chancres were produced by inoculating with the matter of gonorrhoea ; but these expe- riments are, in my opinion, completely neutralised by those detailed by Mr. Benjamin Bell, some of which were witnessed by Dr. Duncan, the late venerable Professor of the Theory of Physic in this university. On experiments, however, on either side of the question, I am less disposed to rely than upon the prevalent ‘opinion of the profession in the present day, and upon a very extensive experience in this department of practice, during which no one case has occurred calcu- lated to impress me with a belief in the identity of the two poisons. The most important authorities in support of the identity of the two diseases have been already enumerated, and amongst those on the opposite side of the question is Dr. F. Balfour, who in a thesis published here in I7G7 was,