WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. 259 tures generally, but only adopted it on a particular oc- casion during the prevalence of hospital gangrene, when he | i considered it an object to heal all wounds, whether from opera- i tions or otherwise, as speedily as possible. Mr. Guthrie is • strongly opposed to the practice of cutting off both ends of the 1 ligature, and observes that he has in two or three instances seen i ill-looking abscesses formed by the small portion of ligature llelt in the wound, and apprehends that disagreeable conse- quences may occasionally ensue from this practice. When it two men of such consummate experience as Dr. Hennen and Mr. Guthrie are directly at issue, I do not consider myself entitled to speak wTith a tone of decision, particularly as my own experience of short cut ligatures has been mostly confined to cases in which an immediate cure by adhe- sion was either not attempted, or, owing to some untoward 'Occurrence, wras not obtained. Dut of the bad consequences jpointed at by Mr. Guthrie, I have lately seen a remarkable '"instance in the person of one of my professional brethren here, where the ends of the ligature employed to secure an artery which was accidentally wounded in the hand were cut off. and where the wound repeatedly festered, and did not ulti- mately heal until the ligature was discharged at the end of 'Several wreeks. Whatever may be the surgeon’s intention as to the disposal of the ends of the ligatures, it should be his study, n securing blood-vessels, to avoid including in the li- gature the nerves which accompany the arterial trunks; 'he fcying these is apt to occasion startings of the limb, or n irritable habits, even general convulsions. The secondary laaemorrhage, which occasionally occurs in gun-shot wounds of ■he extremities, we. shall have occasion to consider more parti- ularly hereafter ; in the mean time I may remark that its fre- piency has been much overrated, and I shall conclude these encral remarks on 1 Hemorrhage in the words of Mr. Samuel