449 OPHTHALMIA. charge. Hence their superiority to cataplasms, which fos- ter the suppurative process, confine the discharge, and thus prove highly conducive to the destructive effects of ocular inflammation. We must be careful not to mistake the temporary relief of the symptoms from any of these ap- plications, for a security of the organ. The disease must be carefully watched, and no external applications suffered to conceal the changes which may be going forward. Cold applications, solutions of the sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, wherever they are attended with relief, are much less injurious in their after consequences, and maybe much longer continued than either fomentations or poultices, without risk of producing an injurious relaxation of the vessels, and tedious convalescence. In concluding these remarks on the local applications most generally used in ophthalmia, it may be right to express my opinion on the common practice of using shades, and shutting up patients in dark or small-sized apartments. These are measures highly calculated to increase the irritability of the eye, to protract the cure, and to produce frequent relapse. A free exposure to the atmosphere is in general preferable to keeping the eye constantly or closely covered with any applica- tion whatever; and although the light should be so regulated as not to prove offensive to the eye, yet it may be remarked, that the cure of ophthalmia is most satisfactory and most perma- nent, when accomplished with the least deviation from those habits to which the patient must necessarily return. When Ulceration of the cornea occurs in cases of ophthal- mia, it is necessary to observe, that if the ulcer makes its ap- pearance in the height of the disease, it is the abatement of the inflammation, by the means already pointed out, which first demands our attention. In chronic cases, however, it has repeatedly been observed, that it is the ulcer which keeps up the ophthalmia, not the ophthalmia the ulcer ; and in such 2 o