MILITARY SURGERY. 478 by itself, in others attended with eruptions of different kinds. 4. That it appears that no peculiar secondary symptoms are seen to follow from peculiar primary sores” The investigations made in the military hospitals abun- dantly prove that all forms of eruptions, supposed to he vene- real, arc curable without mercury, but the beneficial effects of a moderate use of this mineral in the treatment, particularly of the scaly copper-coloured blotches, more especially considered as the genuine venereal eruption, is, I believe, admitted by all practical men. In the other forms of eruption, Mr. Car- michael’s practice, whatever may be thought of his theoretical views, is highly judicious. In the popular and pustular forms of eruption, accompanied as they often are with a considcra- able degree of fever and constitutional excitement, general blood-letting, purgatives, antimonials, warm bath, decoctions of sarsaparilla, and mild diluents are chiefly indicated ; and in their more advanced stages, or more chronic forms, altera- tive courses of mercury and antimony in the very convenient form of the plummer's pill, will be found greatly to expe- dite the cure. In an eruption of a tubercular character, some- times terminating in ulcers covered with thick crusts, which Mr. Carmichael considers as more commonly the sequela of his phagedenic ulcer, the same treatment is followed with success ; general bleeding, abstinence and diluents, if attend- ed with constitutional fever, and mercury in the more chronic stage. When these eruptive diseases are attended by a less urgent but more continued derangement of the general health, the tongue loaded and furred, and the appetite gone, Mr. Bacot of the Grenadier Guards, the author of some excellent observations on syphilis, has very properly advised us to withhold the regular employment of mercury until, by pro- per evacuations and attention to the general health, the pa- tient may have the benefit of a delay, which will sometimes supersede the necessity ot farther medical treatment; and he