sYrniLis. 463 but this inquiry has not enabled us to fix upon any thing very specific in its nature, and even the very first effects produc- ed by it are by no means uniform. The varying character of the primary sore, in different individuals, has occasioned end- less perplexity,—a perplexity which has not been removed, even by Mr. Carmichael's supposition of the existence of a variety of syphilitic or syphiloid poisons ; “ for,” as Dr. Hen- nen has well observed, “ soldiers are gregarious in their amours ; and we have frequently several men in the hospital at the same time, infected by the same woman, some of whom have had one kind of sore, some another, and some both.1' Neither arc these appearances satisfactorily solved by refer- ence to peculiarities of constitution, or to peculiar states of health, because no explanation on this principle would account for a man having, at the same time, upon the penis, two or three different kinds of ulcers, apparently arising from the same cause, an occurrence which my own experience does not permit me to doubt. And although I am disposed to believe, that difference of texture, perhaps more than any other cir- cumstance, modifies the appearance of those sores, yet even this will not afford a satisfactory explanation of their va- rieties. “ We have had,” says Dr. Hennen, e< frequent op- portunities of remarking two or more sores of different kinds existing at the same time—an irregularly shaped diffused sore, an elevated sore, covered with a light-coloured slough,—a groove or streak along the glans, as if made with a scraping instrument,—and the true and perfect chancre of Mr. Hun- ter, or the true syphilitic ulcer of Mr. Carmichael. This last has, in some cases, occupied the glans; in some the pre- puce ; while sores of another description have been on the same part close beside it.” As we must have frequent occasion, in the course of the following remarks, to refer to Mr. Hunter’s definition of chancre, I shall, before going further, give his own de- scription of it: After observing that the inflammation of