135 inflammation. disease which sometimes exist in the shape of extraneous bo- dies, such as splinters, &c. forcibly intruded into the different textures. This preliminary step is so congenial to the dic- tates of common sense, that the surgeon will frequently find it executed by the patient or the bystanders, when its removal does not imply the necessity of any particular art or dexterity for its accomplishment. Of all the Local Remedies for the treatment of inflammation, Topical blood-letting is perhaps one of the most generally ap- plicable, and, whenever properly applied, one of the most ef- fectual. In extensive phlegmonous inflammation, local blood- letting is hardly ever improper. Were I to specify particularly the cases in which it was more peculiarly appropriate, I should include most of those inflammations supervening upon exter- nal injury ; and to these I should add amongst the diseases more peculiarly incident to soldiers, ophthalmia, hernia hu- moralis, and glandular swellings in the groin or elsewhere. In inflammations of the joints, whether entirely attributable to mechanical injury, or complicated with a constitutional cause, local blood-letting is eminently serviceable. In cases of internal inflammation of the great cavities, unless where the pain is much circumscribed or confined to one spot, local bleeding is not to be trusted to. In erysipelatous inflamma- tions, or those seated in the cutaneous texture, the propriety of local bleeding by leeches or the scarificator has generally been looked upon as inadmissible, the punctures being ex- tremely liable to inflame and fester, sometimes even to morti- fy, and this more particularly in peculiar habits and in pecu- liar situations and seasons. In the treatment of Phlegmonoid erysipelas, practices cal- culated to withdraw blood from the affected part, and at the same time to relieve more or less the tension of the skin, have of late been introduced and strenuously advocated. Repeated punctures with a lancet over the erysipelatous surface are re-