ioa MILITARY SURGERY. geons had not amputated a single limb. Whether this ought to redound to their praise or their shame may be inferred from Bilguer's own shewing, by which it appears that one-half of those who had gunshot fractures of the extremi- ties died, and of the remainder, more than one-half were left in a state totally unlit for any kind of employment, civil or military. That out of GG18 patients, he should not have been able to adduce more and better instances of recovery than the few which he has related, must astonish every one who has seen even the hundredth part of this number of wounded soldiers. Out of three hundred cases of wounded limbs with fractured bones, he states eleven as instances of sur- prising cases. To these, however, so far as his account enables us to form an opinion, we are by no means disposed to attach the same importance as their author does. They are quite destitute, as Dr. Thomson obseives, of that accuracy and mi- nuteness of detail which can render them interesting or useful; and we do not, I think, pronounce too harsh a sentence on Bil- guer’s practice when we affirm, that by this general and indis- criminate condemnation of the operation of amputation, he must, of necessity, have sacrificed many lives, which, under a different mode of treatment, might have been preserved. But it can neither be necessary nor advantageous at this time of day to enter into a more detailed refutation of the opinions and practices of Bilguer, which has been so amply and successfully done by Martiniere and Mo- rand in France, Van Gescher in Holland, Mr. Pott in England, and in this very city by Mr. John Bell. That limbs have been saved, even when, as Bilguer expresses it, they have been so severely shattered as to hang dangling from the body, “ hue illuc labentes atque pendentes,” I will not go so far as to deny ; but when he asserts that he has always cured such cases, I must be excused for withholding my belief. Of the extent of suffering and the expense of