OPHTHALMIA. 4*53 into the details of operations in these outlines, I will merely observe, that the only operation which I have practised in this case is that of the late Mr. Gibson of Manchester, the steps of which are well detailed in various publications, and are best explained by the assistance of the numerous sketches which I possess of cases successfully operated on in the ophthalmic department of the General Hospital at Chatham, by Staff- Surgeons Murray, Uease, and Lindsay. Amongst the most troublesome sequels of ophthalmia are the projections of the cornea termed Staphyloma, and the va- rious affections of the eyelids, the Entropium and Ectropium, the necessary operations for which may be shewn on the dead body. But there is one peculiar affection of the eyelids to which, from its extensive prevalence, I conceive it my duty more particularly to advert. When the violence of the dis- ease has abated, and the tumefaction of the palpebrs so far subsided as to permit the eyelids to be everted, or when the disease itself has produced this eversion, by the extent and preponderance of the swelling of the conjunctiva beyond that of the external teguments, the protruded surface often pre- sents a granulated appearance. This affection of the pal- pebrae consists at first of a villous state of those membranous linings which, if not properly treated, gives birth to granula- tions becoming hard and warty ; and it has been distinctly proved, that so long as this remains, no patient is free from relapse, but is constantly liable, upon the slightest excitement, to a recurrence of the purulent secretion capable of extending the contagion, and to repeated accessions of sclerotic inflam- mation terminating in opacity of the cornea or in ulceration of its coats. The best explanation as well as the most eligible mode of treating this particular affection, is to be found in the writings of the army surgeons, and particularly of Dr. Vetch. It was, however, claimed by Sir W. Adams as a most import-