MILITARY SURGERY. 12 of military surgery, yet I do not propose to trace the lives of those numerous writers belonging to the same nation who have done honour to themselves and to this art. I must ra- ther confine myself to the history of Military Surgery in Eng- land, chiefly as portrayed in the lives of those distinguished individuals who, after spending a portion of their time in an irksome attendance upon the armies, have left in their writ- ings proofs of a professional enthusiasm, and a devotion to the service of their kings, princes, and generals, which carried them through inconceivable toils and privations, while they were rewarded only by a pittance which, in the present day, would be spurned at by tbe lowest menial. Of the amount of this pittance, it so happens, that a very minute and particular account has been preserved in Rymer’s Foedera, from which we learn that, when Henry the 5th of England carried on war with France in 1415, he took into his service Nicholas Colnet, as field-surgeon for a year. He was bound to carry with him three archers on horseback, and to accompany the king wherever he went. In return he was to receive yearly forty merks, to be paid at the rate of ten merks per quarter. He was allowed also twelve pennies per day as subsistence-money, and each of his archers had twenty merks a-year, and six pennies daily as subsistence. The chief army- surgeon Morstede wras engaged with fifteen men, three of whom were to be archers, and the remaining twelve, surgeons. Both Colnet and Morstede could receive prisoners and plun- der, but when the latter amounted to twenty pounds in value, a third part of it was to be given to the king. Those head men got each a quarter’s pay in advance; and that they might always have security for the next quarter, the king engaged to put into their hands, by way of pledges, as many jewels or other articles as might be equal to one quarter’s pay and sub- sistence. What was the nature, and what the extent of the profes-