ACCOMMODATION OP TROOPS. 59 well-being of the men, and the preservation of their health, i ought to be a constant serious business, and an unceasing care < of their officers, as well as of the doctor.” While he thus urges the establishment of barracks on the : most honest and humane of all principles,—“ the necessary ; care of men’s lives,” he deprecates the construction of some of the older barracks in this country, particularly those at Hilsea, near Portsmouth, “ built with salt water bricks, and fitted up with low ceilings, and without ventilation. Such bar- racks,” says he, “ are worse for the inhabitants than any to- lerably clean king’s ship riding at anchor in harbour or at Spithead.” These observations of Dr. Brocklesby will show what just opinions this distinguished physician entertained of what was most objectionable in the construction of barracks ; and how far they are calculated, when well constructed, to pro- mote the comfort, health, discipline, and efficiency of the troops. Of billets, the next means of accommodating the soldier, no- thing favourable can be said, in so far as the health of the troops is concerned. They remove the soldiers in a great measure from the wholesome surveillance of their officers ; they give them opportunities of indulging in dissipation, and throw them in the way of many temptations to which in a barrack they are not exposed ; they lead to relaxation in discipline highly prejudicial to the health of a soldier, and to neglects and oversights when sick, sometimes attended with the most fatal consequences. The distress to the individual, the disad- vantage to the surgeon, and the injury to the service which at- tends the billeting of soldiers, seems to have been severely felt, and are pathetically lamented by Dr. Hamilton in his work on the “ Duties and Qualifications of a Regimental Surgeon,” published in 1787- “ The billets in England, and, I may add, in Scotland, are always in public houses; and the land- lord never fails to look on the soldiery not only as a nuisance, but as a great drawback on the profits of his business. They