180 MILITARY SURGERY. lie, e< the most active mercurial preparations ; and if an actual caustic was to be employed, we should have recourse to the strong nitrous acid.” Dr. Rollo, it is to be observed, prac- tised amongst a class of men endowed by nature with good constitutions, selected, perhaps, with more care than the com- mon description of soldiers, and well calculated to resist the progress of such a disease. Accordingly we find that, partly owing to these circumstances, partly owing to the su- perior accommodation and comfort which the artillery hos- pital at Woolwich is calculated to afford, and greatly owing to the abilities and active exertions of the surgeon, this disease proved much less destructive amongst the men of the royal artillery than what it has generally done in other hospitals, or on board ships of war. In the Medicina Nautica, Dr. Trotter has given us some valuable observations on this disease, chiefly in the form of re- ports made to the author by various naval surgeons. From these it appears, in some instances, to have been connect- ed with a scorbutic diathesis ; but its ravages seem to have been most severe in circumstances where scurvy does not usually pre- vail ; and by far the greater number of the naval surgeons are disposed to trace the origin of this disease to some connexion with the shore. Thus, Mr. M‘Dowal remarks, “ we received on board a number of bad ulcers from Martinique Island ; and so alarming was its progress, that on our arrival in the Downs, fifty-six were on our list of ulcers.” Mr. Arthur of the Bel- leisle observes, that “ the marines and landsmen who were sent on board to complete her compliment, a considerable time after the ship’s arrival in England, were as susceptible of the same kind of sore as the oldest part of the ship’s company.” And we learn from Mr. Caird’s account of this ulcer, as it ap- peared in the Queen Charlotte, from which ship many were sent on shore to the hospital, that “ this change of situation did not seem to operate much in their favour.” The change