MILITARY SURGERY. 480 the scalpel, which perform such wonders in the hands of an expert oculist and dexterous lithotomist, can be used with equal safety and success by any clumsy or inexperienced person who may fancy himself equal to the task of using them ?” I have already had occasion to observe, that of the peculiar nature of the venereal virus we know almost nothing, and of the 7nodus operandi of mercury, very little more. Taken into the stomach in its metallic state, it has no action on the body except what arises from its weight or bulk ; but in its various states of combination, it produces sensible effects. It is a powerful and general stimulant, quickening the circula- tion, and increasing all the secretions and excretions, capable however of being made to operate more powerfully on one or other of these secretions, according to the preparations into which it enters, or the regimen with which it may be com- bined ; its most characteristic effect is the increased flow of saliva which it generally excites, if given in sufficient quantity. From the writings of Theodoric, it appears that mercury was employed in the practice of medicine and surgery as early as the 13th century, but its use in venereal cases was first men- tioned in a tract by Almenar, published in 1516. It is most probable, that the good effects which it produced in cutaneous diseases, first led to the employment of it in venereal cases, which being frequently attended with eruptions on the skin, ulcers, &e. seemed to present an analogy to the affections in which mercury had already been found successful. Subse- quent to this period, it has alternately been held up as the most certain of all specifics, and denounced as the most viru- lent of all poisons. Many revolutions have taken place in the use of mercury during the last three centuries, owing to the rashness of some and the timidity of others; and it is curious to observe how rival nations have alternately rejected and had recourse to mercury. When decried in Fngland, it has been extolled in France ; and when it lost its credit in France, it