4 28 MILITARY JSURGKRY. litia. 1 he regiment continued tolerably healthy, making al- lowance for the increased number of diseases from dissipation, always to be expected in a newly raised corps. Excepting a large proportion of venereal cases, no particular distemper prevailed, when the first case of ophthalmia made its appear- ance on the 14th of July, and about the middle of August five others suddenly appeared. These cases did not attract at- tention, as presenting any thing different from those arising from the usual exciting causes, except the little benefit which they derived from the common modes of treatment, and the length of time to which they were protracted. On the 30th of the same month, the first case in which the disease proved vio- lent was admitted, after which it spread rapidly, every day ad- ding fresh numbers to the list. “ An explanation of the causes of the disease was first sought for in the situation of the barracks at Hythe, on the most easterly point of the extensive marsh of Romney. The coast in the neighbourhood is covered for miles with a dry white shingle intermixed with finer particles of sand, in front of which the men were in general paraded. From the hot season of the year at which the disease made its appearance, from the exercise which the men daily under- went, exposed to the reflection of the sun’s rays from the shingle, and the great quantity of fine sand which a long prevalence of blowing weather carried from it, a ready expla- nation of the origin of the disease seemed to present itself. Had the affection proved general among the troops then sta- tioned under the same or nearly under the same circum- stances, those causes, which were at the time very generally complained of, would probably for a while have set aside all farther inquiry. This, however, was not the case, for the first battalion of the same regiment encamped at a little dis- tance, the 43d regiment, and the Lincolnshire militia, who were quartered in the same barracks with the second batta- lion of the 52d, remained free from any participation in the