MILITARY SURGERY. 55G tion of spirits, which subsequently renders their diseases fre- quent, obstinate, and incurable. Although I am not inclined to encourage the practice of pampering soldiers, but rather disposed to recommend that they should be habituated to bear the evils which they cannot shun, yet I am induced to notice the following pas- sage, recommending the confinement of soldiers newly arrived in India to their barracks during the heat of the day. It is from a communication to the Medical Board at Madras, by Mr. How- ard, a very experienced medical officer of the East India Com- pany’s army, and refers to a very fatal dysentery which pre- vailed in the 30th regiment at Wallajahbad in I8O7. “ The confinement of the men to their quarters was from the hour of eight A. m. till four o’clock r. m., and is still conti- nued. This was attended with such beneficial effects, that in about a fortnight after the admissions not only became fewer in number, but what was also observable, the disease, from being highly aggravated in its symptoms became gradually less so, and from that period took on daily more and more the cha- racter of common diarrhoea. Now as there was not during that time any change or alteration in the diet of the men, or deviation from the established discipline of the regiment, which appears to be guided by that rule best calculated to preserve health, I am disposed to attribute this mitigation in the symptoms of the disease to the confinement of the men to their barracks; and the regulation having been found of such benefit and importance to the soldier’s welfare in this instance, I trust it may at no time be overlooked on the landing ol a new regi- ment from Europe ; for I am persuaded, had the plan been adopted on the arrival of the 30th regiment at this station, much of that distress and suffering in the first place would have been avoided, and many subsequent deaths ultimately prevented.” In whatever way the acute inflammatory form of flux may