541 YELLOW FEVEH. nued frost. 4. That of most frequently and violently attack- ing strangers from colder climates, and more salubrious situa- tions. And 5, That of never being communicated from person to person by a contagious property. With so many proofs of identity in their cause, and of the nearest affinity in their symptoms, and reciprocal conversions into each other, as well as in their effects on the human body, and their changes by heat and cold, &c. it would be unseasonable not to consider them as mere varieties of the same disease. “ We might as well,” says Dr. Rush, “ distinguish the rain which falls in gentle showers in Great Britain, from that which is poured in torrents from the clouds in the West Indies by different names and qualities, as impose specific names and characters upon the different states of bilious or marsh fever.” In the attempt to establish another peculiarity of the Bulam or infectious fever, viz. the non-liability to a second attack, those writers who support this opinion do not appear to me to have been more successful than in their support of the for- mer position. As I cannot at present enter into the arguments in support of this immunity from a second attack, which is compared to the security conferred by an attack of small-pox, nor into the very satisfactory arguments by which Dr. Ban- croft has proved this exemption to be merely relative, and that even a repetition of attacks does not confer absolute immunity, I shall content myself with observing, that the evidence of nu- merous naval and military surgeons, upon which Dr. Bancroft overthrows this doctrine, is to me perfectly satisfactory ; and my opinion upon this point is not a little strengthened by the following remark of Dr. William Fergusson, than whom no one has had better opportunities of informing himself relative to the point at issue. Dr. Fergusson observes, “ Another piece of doctrine has been promulgated from the writings of the authors above alluded to, Sir William Pym and Sir James Fellowes, that the yellow fever cannot be received by