376 MILITARY SURGERY. and particularly of the femur, the question as to the position of the limb is, after all, one of secondary importance, for the following abstract of the opinions of the most experienced sur- geons, copied from Velpeau's recent and useful work on oper- ative surgery, will shew that there are very few cases of this kind in which an attempt to save the limb is either wise or warrantable. “ It is not in the neighbourhood of complicated articula- tions only that gunshot wounds, with fracture and lesion of the synovial cavities, are accompanied with danger. These wounds are not less formidable when they occur in the middle of the long bones, more especially those of the lower ex- tremity. Thus, when a ball produces a comminuted frac- ture both of the tibia and fibula, while at the same time the soft parte are bruised or violently contused, amputation is almost always the inevitable consequence. When this oper- ation is not performed, we find that for one recover)', there are at least ten deaths. In the case of the femur, the indication is still more explicit and distinct. Ravaton says that, if am- putation is not had recourse to, gunshot fracture of this bone is nearly in all cases attended with fatal results. Schmucker maintains, that only one in seven thus wounded is saved. Lombard expresses himself in a similar manner. M. Ribes, who has only seen one cure, gives the history of ten cases, where, notwithstanding the utmost care and attention, the patients sunk ; and he also mentions, that at the Hotel des Invalides, out of four thousand individuals who had suffered from wounds of this sort, he could only find one successful case. M. Yvan mentions two cases of cure effected in 1815, in which, however, the patients afterwards fell a sacrifice to fistulous sores consequent upon the fracture. M. Gaulthier dc Claubry, an old surgeon of the imperial guard, holds the same opinion on this point as M. Ribes, and informs us, that in the Spanish army almost all the soldiers who had their