WOUNDS OF THE ARTERIES. 253 of the Academy of Surgery were nominated by Martineau, 1 surgeon to the king of France, to examine into the merits U of Mons. Brossard’s proposal for the suppression of haemor- lrhage ; and after a formal report on the subject by these gen- Itlemen, dated at Paris, the 7th May 1751, a pension was :granted by the king to Brossard, although this remedy had been recommended by Felix Wurtzius 150 years before. The ■sponge was strongly recommended to the attention of the pro- t fession by the late Mr. White of the Manchester Infirmary, and is the medium of compression more generally employed by English surgeons. Into their respective merits I do not c consider it worth while to enter, and shall conclude by observ- ing, that the sponge, if properly applied, is capable of giving all the security which this mode of practice can give. The -sponge swells by the insinuation of the blood into its pores, ; and thereby exerts a gentle pressure in every direction ; while tthe peculiar texture of the sponge favours a coagulation of the 1 blood in the mouths of the vessels from which it flows. The sponge is not, however, to be trusted to when the orifice of the bleeding vessel can be distinctly seen, and may be in- ^ . J ^"5 1U‘V UC III- eluded in a ligature ; it is only applicable to those cases where an °osmg of blood takes place from many small vessels which ccannot be tied.. Some foreign surgeons are said to trust entire- ly to compression for restraining the haemorrhage from large vessels, even from the femoral artery, by placing the opposite ■ aps m contact after amputation of the thigh, and then ••securing them by a bandage. This is a practice, however, of which I have no personal experience ; nor do I know that it has been adopted by any British surgeon ; it seems a prac- tice to which there can be no occasion to resort, and in which there seems no great reason to confide. Of the Styptics used for the suppression of haemorrhage 'hose recommended in former times, were turpentine and