39 DIET, CLOTHING, AND EXERCISE OF TROOPS. necessarily starve for the two following, unless he has an opportunity of plundering, to which this very circumstance becomes an additional inducement. When salted provisions are issued, it becomes an object of considerable importance to have them properly prepared, by being steeped in water for some time previous to their being dressed. We find this practice enjoined by general orders in Knox’s American campaigns, and seamen are every day in the practice of towing their salted meat overboard for some time previous to its being cooked. Of the injurious consequences which sometimes occur from ignorance of the mode of cooking salted provisions, a remarkable example which occurred at Gibraltar is recorded by Dr. Andrew Marshall in a thesis De Tucnda Salute Militum, published here in 1732. Wherever circumstances will admit, great advantages are derived from an established system of cooking in small messes. We know from experience that soldiers almost uniformly pre- fer, when they have it in their power, to roast or fry their morsel of meat, and often devour it at a single meal. This is by no means making the most of it : if boiled with vegetables and salt, and made into a wholesome soup, this soup will suffice for a large portion of one meal, while a part of the meat may be reserved to be eaten cold on a future occasion. “ C'est la soupe qui fait le soldat.” Soup is always most advanta- geously prepared in messes ; the meat should be well boiled with a proportion of vegetables and salt, whenever they can be procured; and as to the selection of vegetables for this purpose it is not necessary to be over fastidious; besides the various kinds of cabbage, carrots, turnips, &c. the produce of the gar- den, there are various kinds of cresses, sorrel, and other vegeta- bles growing wild in the fields which make no unpleasant nor unwholesome additions to soup. The system of cookery is sim- ple and soon learned, in so for as respects the soldier. The fundamental rule consists in boiling slow and in roasting quick.