MILITARY SURGERY. <99 Mr. Samuel Cooper of London, and my late colleague, Mr. Allan of this city, although their observations have not been published in a separate form, but introduced into their syste- matic works on surgery, are also entitled to a distinguished place amongst those who have given to the profession the fruits of their personal experience in the treatment of wounds. At the head of a numerous list of writers, who, although not military surgeons themselves, have yet given us many import- ant observations on this branch of surgery, stands Mr. John Bell, whose discourses on wounds, published here in 1795, con- tain much ingenious doctrine, and many excellent practical pre- cepts. To his brother, Sir Charles Bell, we are indebted also for many interesting and valuable observations on wounds. Here I must not omit to mention the ingenious little work of Mr. Chevalier on Gun-shot Wounds, published in 1804, and which had been distinguished the preceding year by obtaining the Jacksonian prize awarded by the Royal College of Sur- geons of London. In the above list, I have confined myself almost exclu- sively to writers of the English school. To enter into any thing like a circumstantial account of the writings of foreign au- thors, would carry me far beyond the bounds necessarily assign- ed to this preliminary detail; of these I cannot undertake even a a bare enumeration, but I may observe that, in the list of French writers on military surgery, numerous beyond that of any other country, the names of Belloste, Le Bran, Faudaque, Ravaton, and Le Cat hold a conspicuous place, while the memoirs of the French Academy of Surgery teem with communications from various authors on subjects abundantly interesting to the military surgeon. At the commencement of the revolutionary war, Baron Percy published an excellent little work, under the title of Manuel de Chirurgien d’Armee; and towards the close of that war, Baron Larrey communicated to the world, in his “ Memoires de Chirurgie Militairc,” the results of his