MILITARY SURGERY. 98 Before describing the wheel-carriages used for the convey- ance of sick and wounded, I would solicit attention for a mo- ment to an intermediate description of carriage, neither borne by men nor drawn by horses ; I allude to the mode of convey- ance used in some cases by the French army in Egypt, upon the backs of camels. In the first volume of Baron Larrey's , Memoirs, there is a plate representing the necessary equip- ment for this mode of transport. It consists of two large boxes, or camel-trunks, fitted up as litters for the reception of the wounded, and slung, one on each side of the animal, over a pack-saddle. The camel is made to kneel, as in other cases, to receive his load, and thus the sick may easily be placed in such a conveyance. In a country where the camel is the only beast of burden, we may be again under the necessity of having recourse to this mode of carriage ; but from the pecu- liar gait of the camel, his pace is not well adapted to the comfort of a wounded man. In Larrey’s Memoirs there is a figure of what is termed the ambulance of Baron Percy. This is a four-wheeled carriage of a very simple construction. It consists chiefly of a sort of ridge-pole raised upon the frame-work of the carriage, and upon which the wounded are placed astride as if on horse- back, and here they sit protected by a sort of canopy. This can only accommodate men slightly wounded about the head, superior extremities, or upper part of the trunk, and is evi- dently unsuited to men who may have received severe wounds or fractures of the lower limbs. In the account of the Italian campaign, in the first volume of his Memoirs, Larrey describes two voitures or spring-car- riages of his own invention ; one with two and another with four wheels. The smaller one, of which I possess a model, is thus described by the Baron. “ The chest or body presented the shape of an elongated cube, arched on the top; it was pierced by two small windows in the sides, two folding-