52 MILITARY SURGERY. Dry, elevated situations, with an abundant supply of whole- some water, remote from the neighbourhood of swamps and of marshes, are the positions which a regard for the health of the troops would naturally induce us to select as the most eligible situations for the construction of forts and of barracks: and it so far fortunately happens that the erection of these build- ings on high or elevated situations may often be conducive to the defence of a country. From Dr. Price’s calculations, there is reason to believe, that, in hilly districts, half the numbers born live to the age ol forty-seven, and that one in twenty reaches so far as eighty years of age; while in marshy districts one only in fifty-two attains that period of life, and only one-half the numbers born survive to the age of twenty five. Nothing can more forcibly point out the advantages of elevated situations, and the fatal tendency of low ones, than the foregoing statement; and whenever a country is taken possession of by troops with a view to its permanent occupation, they cannot be too forcibly pressed on the attention of those in command. Previous to the erection of forts and barracks, or fixing the cantonment of troops, a professional survey should be made by a committee of military and medical officers, so that the advantages and disadvantages of the situation may be fairly and fully estimated, and stated to the commanding officer. From a survey of this nature it is scarcely possible but that such information will be obtained as may enable those intrust- ed with the direction of affairs to combine defence and conve- nience, with a due regard to the preservation of health. The plan of assembling a board of health on the arrival of troops in a new or unknown country, first recommended by Dr. Jackson, is very strenuously enjoined by Dr. Millingen in the “ Army Medical Officer’s Manual,” where he has insert- ed a very judicious list of queries for the investigation of such a board. These queries, although all highly important, are