236 MILITARY SURGERY. in every respect a favourable subject for such a cure. A case quite analogous to this, was furnished to me by Dr. M‘Whirter, the present president of our College of Physi- cians ; it was that of Colonel P n of the Bengal army, who was wounded by a musket shot, which entered the outside of the biceps muscle of his arm, and lodged in the opposite side of the arm, near the surface. He cut out the ball, and as Colonel P., although a stout plethoric man, was very abstemious in his diet at all times, it oc- curred to him that, by applying adhesive plaster to the ex- ternal wounds and keeping the tract of the internal wound to- gether by compresses, it might promote adhesion. This plan he pursued, and succeeded beyond his expectation ; the arm was sound in a fortnight without any suppuration. These cases, however, form the exception and not the rule. Although I have no means of knowing what was the ap- pearance of the ball in either of the above cases, yet such cures are, I think, most likely to happen when the wound is inflicted by a rifle shot, or by a ball which has been, by some accident, deprived of its naturally globular form, and perhaps acquired an angular or projecting edge, so as to pene- trate the integuments with less contusion. Although in the days of Celsus, gunpowder, and its irresisti- ble effects, were equally unknown, yet the peculiar nature of wounds occasioned by the forcible intrusion of leaden bullets into the living solid, did not escape the notice of this elegant writer, as we find from the following passage in his seventh book. When speaking of the extraction of foreign bodies from wounds, he observes, “ A third kind of weapon which re- quires sometimes to be pulled out, is a leaden bullet, or a stone, or some such thing, which having broke through the skin is entirely lodged within. In all these cases the wound must be enlarged, and what is within must be extracted by a forceps the way it entered.” Celsus then goes on to give par-