MILITARY SURGERY. 186 covers the whole surface of the wound ; the fetor becomes in- tolerable, and the pain quite insupportable. In the last stage there is in general an oozing of blood from the surface of the wound, and not unfrequently distinct haemorrhage from the corrosion or destruction of the larger blood-vessels. Sphace- lus takes place to a greater or less extent; the strength of the patient fails ; the pulse sinks; his countenance becomes alter- ed and collapsed ; the skin is bedewed with a clammy sweat; and a diarrhoea with hiccup coming on, the scene very soon terminates.” With a view to the treatment of hospital gangrene, a ques- tion of much practical importance falls now to be noticed re- garding the nature of this febrile affection which we have de- scribed. Is it always symptomatic of the local affection ? And is it to be cured by checking this malady ? Or is the local sore always deteriorated through the medium of the con- stitution ? These important questions have been duly weigh- ed by numerous experienced military and naval surgeons of the present day; and Dr. Boggie conceives that to decide them, we must look to the causes of the disease, which he enumerates as follows ;—particular states of the atmosphere ;— inattention to cleanliness;—acrid and irritating applications; —stimulating food;—intemperance;—motion or mechanical irritation,—and specific contagion. Upon each of these causes some interesting and valuable remarks are given; and he con- cludes by stating, that, in his opinion, either the constitutional or local symptoms may precede, according to the source from which the attack originates. In the treatment of the fever he depends chiefly upon bleeding and antiphlogistic remedies, which he had the merit of introducing into the hospitals at Bilboa after the battle of Vittoria. He gives three successive monthly returns shewing a progressive diminution of mortality amongst the wounded, in proportion as the practice of bleed- ing and the antiphlogistic treatment were more fully adopted.