tropical dysentery. 553 assailed our army in the Peninsula, I proceed to offer a few observations on this formidable disease as it assails the army in India. This limit in the application of my remarks I wish to be particularly noted, because, without pretending to say whether or not our European nosologists have rightly charac- terised the disease as it occurred to them, I must take the li- berty of observing, that in the definition of this disease given by Dr. Cullen, comprised in three lines, there are at least three circumstances not characteristic of Indian dysentery : 1. The existence of pyrexia, the distinctive character of the class in which Dr. Cullen has placed dysentery, does not al- ways usher in the disease as I have been accustomed to meet it; and I have known this disease to have very seriously, per- haps irreparably, injured the intestinal canal before any urgent symptoms of pyrexia become either distressing to the patient or conspicuous to his medical attendant. 2. T. he fever attend- ant upon dysentery is stated unequivocally by Dr. Cullen to be contagious. Now I speak I think within bounds when I say, that I have treated not less than two thousand cases of this disease, and have never once met with a circumstance tending to create a suspicion of contagion. 3. Dr. Cullen states the farcal matters to be mostly retained ; and in his description of the disease observes, that, when they do appear, it is in the form of small indurated masses, termed scybalai. The appear- ance of these indurated masses of faecal matter is, on the con- trary, an occurrence exceedingly rare in tropical dysentery. Although little disposed, in general, to occupy my time in critical disquisitions of this kind, I consider it my duty to ani- madvert on these points, my object being to apprize young men who may be destined to serve in our Indian possessions, how little the flux or dysentery existing amongst the troops there resembles the description given of it by some writers at home. A young man, prepossessed with the idea of pyrexia being an essential and primary constituent in every form of