MILITARY SURGERY. 238 A ball will sometimes, without penetrating through a limb, be retained simply by the cohesion arid elasticity of the common integuments, and is distinctly to be felt projecting on the op- posite side of the limb. In this case, our business is instantly to make an incision over the ball, and to remove it; thus ren- dering the wound similar to the one first described, and falling to be dressed precisely in the same way. The immediate re- moval also of every extraneous substance which may have been carried in with the ball, and still more of every detached and angular piece of bone, is an object of the greatest importance, provided it can be accomplished with facility and without loss of time. If the ball, in its passage, has wounded an im- portant arterial trunk, and if in consequence of this a ha’- morrhage occurs, it then becomes necessary to dilate the wound in the course of the injured artery, so as to secure it by ligatures both above and below the orifice; and to no measure short of this can we trust. The incisions necessary to attain this object must often be extensive ; but the purpose is so important, so absolutely essential to the patient’s safety, that no apology can be admitted for neglecting it. On this point, Mr. John Bell has expressed himself most distinctly, and here he has given an intelligible reason for dilating a gunshot wound, a practice, however, which the general tenor of his writings tends to inculcate on other occasions where it is not necessary. Where such a motive exists for the dila- tation of a wound, no surgeon will hesitate : but the indiscri- minate dilatation of all gunshot wounds, without a distinct and specific object in view, is now very justly abandoned, at least by the English surgeons. It seems, indeed, extremely ab- surd to have made the practice of dilatation so uniform, that « a man should of necessity be cut because he bad the mis- fortune to be shot.” These arc the chief points demanding our attention imme- diately on the infliction of a musket wound, and perhaps all