152 MILITARY SURGERY. strongly the use of alcohol, and gives the case of a young wo- man, and the cases of two artillerymen who were severely scorched with gunpowrder, and treated successfully by the use of compresses dipped in spirit of wine. Several of the ancient writers mention resins and turpentine amongst the remedies in common use for bums ; and Heister observes, “ that in the first species of burns, oil of turpentine has good effects, if you apply it in time, and repeat it fre- quently.’"1 It is, however, chiefly through the medium of two essays, published by the late Dr. Kentish of Newcastle-upon- Tyne, that the oil of turpentine has been recommended to the attention of the profession as a remedy for burns. The accidents of this kind which Dr. Kentish had occasion to treat, were those which occur from the explosion of hydrogen gas in coal mines, and which are, in many respects, akin to those arising from explosions of gunpowder. Although Dr. Kent- ish’s theoretical views are not very satisfactory, the practice which he recommended was at one time very generally adopt- ed ; and in extensive bums, with great collapse of the powers of life, I am inclined, from considerable experience, to consider it advantageous. In the advanced stages of sloughing burns, tur- pentine and resinous applications are perhaps the best we can employ to promote the detachment of the sloughs. Besides those remedies, which are unequivocally either of a refrigerant or of a stimulating character, there are numerous other applications, of an intermediate description, in daily use. One of the most common is the linimentum aq. calcis, or carron oil, a remedy of all others of which I have had the mostextensive personal experience. This is a remedy peculiarly useful in those numerous cases where, either from the seat or extent of the burn, the employment of cold applications may be questionable ; or where, on the other hand, from the active powers of the system remaining entire, and the sensa- tion of the affected parts not only unimpaired, but morbidly