MILITARY SURGERY. has somewhat a fungous appearance. 3. An excoriation of 4G4 the glans, which is productive of chancre, like most other inflammations which terminate in ulcer, begins first with an itching in the part, “ the itching,” says he, “ is gra- dually changed to pain ; the surface of the prepuce is in some cases excoriated, and afterwards ulcerates. In others, a small pimple or abcess appears, as in the glans, which forms an ulcer. A thickening of the part comes on, which at first, and while of the true venereal kind, is very circumscribed, not diffusing itself gradually and imperceptibly into the surround- ing parts, but terminating rather abruptly. Its base is hard, and the edges a little prominent.” This, which in the time of Mr. Hunter appears to have been the more common form of venereal ulceration, and which he states to have occurred to him, in proportion to the cases of gonorrhoea, as one to four or five, has now become comparatively rare; while, says Mr. Car- michael, who was one of the first and most zealous in his en- deavours to classify the different forms of ulcerations of the genitals, “ so common is the occurrence of those ulcers, which have not the characteristic marks of chancre, that if I were to estimate their relative frequency from my own experience, I would, at the lowest computation, infer, that we meet with five cases of those disorders for one of true syphilitic chancre ; and my opportunities have been such, as enabled me to ob- serve not merely the trivial, but those which would be esteem- ed the most malignant cases.” And upon a careful compari- son of an infinite variety of cases, he finds reason to conclude, that there are six species of primary pseudo-syphilitic disorders. 1. A superficial ulcer, with elevated edges, but without indur- ation, sometimes displaying a whitish and at others a reddish- brown surface, without any appearance of granulations. 2. An ulcer, which is destitute not only of induration, but of elevated edges. In general it is raised above the surrounding skin, and exhibits a smooth surface, but without granulations, and