13 INTRODUCTION. sional services rendered to the king by Colnet and Morstede, whose remuneration was thus minutely specified and care- fully secured, I am unable to say, neither of them having left any professional writings which have been transmitted to us. The next Military Surgeon of England whose services and whose writings entitle him to notice, is 1 homas Gale, who was born m 1507, and educated under Richard h erns, ser- geant-surgeon to Queen Elizabeth. Gale served in the army of King Henry VIII. at Montrieul, in 1544, afterwards in that of King Philip, at St. Quintin, in 1557, and finally settled in London, where he became eminent in the prac- tice of his profession. His works were published in 1563, and, amongst other surgical writings, contain a “ Treatise 011 Gunshot Wounds,” designed chiefly to confute the error of Jerome of Brunswick, John de Vigo, Alphonsus Ferrius, and others, in supposing these wounds to be of a venomous nature. He takes pains also to prove that a bullet does not acquire such a heat, in its motion, as to render its wound similar to a cautery, which was then the common opinion; thence he recom- mends a milder method of dressing these wounds, directing his endeavours to the procuring a laudable digestion, and in all respects considering them as common contusions. A subse- quent volume of this surgeon’s works is dated in 1566. The first two pieces it contains are “ A Brief Declaration of the Worthy Art of Medecine,” and “ the Office of a Chirurgeon.” The chief object of these tracts is to give a general history of the healing art, and to inculcate the necessity of a scientific method of study in attaining it. Numerous complaints of the intrusion of illiterate pretenders and empirics into the practice of medicine and surgery are interspersed through these pieces ; some of which are worth notice, as they contain curious information of the state of the profession at the time. Of the deplorable condition of military practice in his day we may judge from the following relation: “ I remember,” says he,