PUNISHMENTS. 521 causes of rupture, aneurism of the heart, varicose veins of the leg, &c. and perhaps not without foundation.” The minor punishments at present authorised in the British army con- sist chiefly of privations and forfeitures of different kinds, as of what is termed “ beer-money,” of the additional pay to which a soldier becomes entitled by length of service, and of the time to be reckoned in estimating his claim to a pension. General Courts-martial are also authorised to award imprisonment, solitary confinement, transportation, corporal punishment, and death. Solitary confinement is perhaps one of the most unexcep- tionable punishments in use in the army. It is one little calculated to affect the health of the soldier, and, at the same time, proves extremely irksome to him. I have heard an Irish soldier, when on trial before a court-martial, solicit the president as a favour to give him a hundred lashes and to save him from solitary confinement. The only circumstances likely to affect the health of prisoners in solitary confinement are the extreme cold of northern latitudes, and a damp or ill ventilated state of the cells, points which are for the most part duly adverted to in this country. It should always be borne in mind, that men who subject themselves to this and other species of punishment, are often dissipated charac- ters, liable to delirium tremens, or to a minor degree of this which the soldiers themselves call the horrors. With this disease I have occasionally known men seized when under solitary confinement, and as complaints of this kind should never be allowed to gain head without the surgeon’s atten- tion, the non commissioned officers, or others whose duty it may be to communicate with prisoners, should be enjoined to make early reports of any appearance of indisposition. Deli- rium tremens, on which we possess some valuable observations by two distinguished army physicians, Doctors Sutton and Blake, is generally treated successfully by the administration