WOUNDS. 199 -stroke down to the bone; and even after the flap operation vwas introduced, the flaps, instead ot being brought into con- ttact, were dressed as separate sores. Under such treatment, eexfoliation of the bone was a common, almost an invari- able occurrence; and much art was employed to promote it. 'Whenever a bone was laid bare, they believed that it must i of necessity exfoliate; and until this exfoliation took place, tthey would not permit the stump to heal. “ And so, says ’Mr. Bell, “ they made good their opinions by their practice.” The reported cures by adhesion within a few days, were at t first treated as fabulous. The celebrated Irish surgeon, (O’Halloran, who wrote in 1795, observes, that “ these tales of adhesion are told with more confidence than veracity. 1 Healing by inosculation, by the first intention, by immediate c coalescence, without suppuration, is merely chimerical, and op- posite to the rules of nature.” “ I would ask,” says he, “ the rniost ignorant tyro in our profession, whether he ever saw or heard even of a wound, though no more than one inch long, ;i united in so short a time.” And yet did this very surgeon ] live to see the doctrine of adhesion followed up in amputa- ’ I tions, by a practice calculated to promote it, and perfect ad- I hesions occasionally taking place in a few days time. By a moderate and rational application of this practice, • surgery has, within the last half century, reaped incalcu- 1 lable advantages, particularly in the treatment of wounds. The well known practice of transplanting teeth, the experi- ment of Mr. Hunter, in which he transferred the spur of a cock from its leg to its comb, and various other well authen- ticated cases, convince us of the occasional success of attempts to promote union, in circumstances the most extraordinary, and ought to render us less sceptical as to many stories upon record, from those of Talicotius and Garengeot, down to those of a more recent date ; of which several are detailed in an essay by Baron Percy, in the “ Journal de Medicine ct