499 GONORRHCEA. tice by no means generally prevalent. This gentleman, who is a strenuous advocate for injections, says, that he took the hint of using them thirty-five years before, from a Mr. Green, a surgeon in Leman Street, Goodman’s Fields, who was the only man that then used them, and whose practice raised much clamour, and many objections and prejudices against him. Since the above period, injections have been recommended by some practitioners, and reprobated by others in terms the most unmeasured. All unbiassed practitioners however will I think admit, that injections, by coming in contact with the seat of the disease, are more likely to act efficaciously upon it than any other form of remedy. If used of an irritating or astringent nature, in the early stage of the disease, where there is already much inflammation, great sensibility of the urethra, and ardor urinas, the symptoms will in all probability be aggravated ; but when the discharge com- mences, as it sometimes does, without any appearance of mor- bid sensibility and tenderness in the lining membrane of the urethra, or when such symptoms have subsided, the use of astringent injections is the only practice upon which any re- liance can be placed, or from which it appears to me rational to expect any benefit. Although injections have been divided by Mr. Hunter and others into different classes, as emollient, sedative, ir- ritating, and astringent, it is to the last only that my ob- servations apply ; for the emollient and sedative injections, applicable to an early stage of the disease, have never ap- peared to me to be attended with any beneficial effect, and in this state of the complaint, I think more benefit is to be expected from sedative and emollient applications externally to the penis, in the form of fomentations or cold lotions. In this way, decoctions of poppy, and solutions of the acetate of lead, may sometimes be used with good effect. Irritating in- jections act upon the principle of exciting a new action in the