7- MILITARY SURGERY. which stood around a church to be fitted up as an hospital, into which were received sick and indigent persons of both sexes and of all ages, and, as the female historian expressly states, soldiers dismissed from service were admitted into it, and provided with bed, board, and clothing. Of the hospitals for invalids at present in existence, the oldest and largest is that established at Paris. The kings of France enjoyed from the earliest times what was called droit d'oblat, which consisted in the power of sending to abbeys and monasteries, in order to be maintained, officers and soldiers unfit for further service, and particularly such as had been wounded. It may be readily conceived how unpleasant these guests must have been to the clergy, and how little the ideas, mode of living, and manners of these two classes, would ac- cord with each other. The complaints on this subject had become so great under Henry IV., that he, at length, re- solved to cause all invalids to be lodged and maintained to- gether in a palace, called la Maison Roy ale de la Charite Chretienne. But as the revenues destined for the support of this establishment were not sufficient, it was abolished under the same sovereign, and the invalids again distributed amongst the abbeys and convents. In the course of time these houses purchased exemption from this burden, by giving an annual pension to their guests, who soon spent their money, and then fell into a state of the most abject poverty. On this account Louis XIII. renewed the experiment of founding an hospital for invalids, which, for want of money, was never completed. At length Louis XIV., in the year 1G70, commenced the present magnificent Hotel des Invalides. In the year 1G82, Charles II. of England commenced the hospital for invalid soldiers at Chelsea ; and the larger and more magnificent hospital for seamen at Greenwich, first sug- gested by Mary the consort of King William, was begun in 1G95, and from time to time enlarged and ornamented.