MILITARY SURGERY. 132 found.” The huffy coat of the blood, when it exists in con- junction with other symptoms of inflammation, is an addi- tional evidence that disease is present; yet it may be remark- ed of this as of the pulse, that it is a symptom which ought not of itself entirely to regulate our practice ; while the pre- sence of a buffy coat on the surface of the blood may encour- age us to repeat venesection, its absence ought not be an abso- lute bar to a further extension of this practice. Purgatives form one of our most powerful constitutional re- medies in the treatment of inflammatory diseases, and are ap- plicable to almost every form of these affections, with the exception, perhaps, of enteritis or inflammation of the intes- tine itself, in which the employment of strong or repeated purgatives is at least questionable practice. By the increased discharges which they occasion from the secreting surface of the bowels, they produce an evacuation highly favourable to the cure of inflammation, or to its termination in resolution. A deficiency of secretion from the alimentary canal is the cause of a great number of the diseases to which we are liable, as may be learned from an attentive study of Dr. Hamilton’s work on purgatives, to which I have already had occasion to refer. The internal surface of the intestinal canal is a secret- ing as well as an absorbent surface ; and of the importance of keeping up the action of this surface, we may form some idea from the following estimate of its extent, which is given in Sir Astley Cooper’s Lectures :—“ The internal surface of the in- testines is lined by glands ; the tube itself is on an average twenty-seven feet in length, and three inches at least in cir- cumference ; so that there are here near one thousand inches of surface from which in health continual secretion proceeds. What then,” says Sir Astley, “ must be the result of allow- ing so extensive a secreting surface to remain inactive ? the production and continuance of constitutional irritation.” Pur- gatives, then, produce the most beneficial effects in inflanuna-