187 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. The deaths, a large proportion of which were from hospital | j gangrene, appear in the first table as 1 to 15 of the number treated, and in the last, as 1 to 131. The local treatment < consisted of sedative, escharotic, or stimulating applications, according to the appearance of the sore and the stage of its progress. Dr. Hennen, we find, depends almost solely for the removal i of this malady on an improved state of the atmosphere in hos- pitals where it prevails, or on the dispersion of the sick in | i quarters, or lodging them in tents. For checking the progress i of the accompanying fever in its earlier stages, besides the i common evacuations by emetics and purgatives, he concurs with Dr. Boggie in strenuously recommending venesection, I from which he observed the best effects. And in adverting to the local treatment he speaks favourably of fermenting cata- plasms, levigated charcoal, and other antiseptics. Mr. Blackadder, who saw much of this disease in the ge- neral hospital at Passages in Biscay, contends strenuously for the local character of the affection, and in accordance with this opinion, places his chief dependance on the use of i a local remedy,—the arsenical solution,—the method of ap- 1 ptyiHg which to the surface of the sore is minutely detailed i in his work. Mr. Copland Hutchison, in his Surgical Observations, ex- ] presses his opinion in favour of the precedence of the local affec- tion; and he has given a translation of the official report of MM. Portal and Deschamps, to the National Institute of France, on a Memoir on Hospital Gangrene by Delpech, the distinguished professor of surgery at Montpelier. Mr. Hutchison has given us also a most valuable series of reports by several Surgeons of the Royal navy, in reply to certain queries addressed to them by the Commissioners for sick and wounded seamen. Although many ol these reports are not confined to ulcers hearing the character ol hospital gangrene, yet we learn from them this im-