323 WOUNDS OF THE THORAX. )Ior promoting the closure of the breach in the lung. Of late, we have had several interesting examples of pneumo- thorax, arising from openings in the lung formed by ulcer- ation, and of the immediate relief given in such cases by making an opening in the pleura for the escape of the air. \A remarkable case which occurred in the military hospital at Chatham, in May 1823, is recorded by Dr. Davy, in the [Philosophical Transactions; and another which I accident- ally had an opportunity of witnessing, and which was operated on by Mr. Guthrie, will be found detailed in the London 'Medical Gazette, and in Johnson’s Medico-Chirurgical Re- view, for 1829. That case was peculiarly interesting, from ■its occurring in the person of a medical man, fully aware ox : the nature of his case, alive to its dangers, and urgently seek- ing relief from an operation. I have hitherto, in treating of this subject, considered it exclusively in reference to a perfectly sound state of the tho- racic viscera, where no adhesions have previously existed be- tween the pleura pulmonalis and pleura costalis; but it is well known that such adhesions are an every-day occurrence, and when a wound penetrates the thorax, over the site of an adhesion, the patient is fortunately exempted from the con- ' sequences of an accumulation of air within the sac of the pleura. The diffusion of air under the skin, in the form of emphysema is not in this case less likely to take place, but I have never considered the superficial swelling under the 1$ skin as a matter of very serious moment, anti its extension may generally be obviated by judicious punctures or incisions. In some instances, extensive incised wounds of the thorax, instead of being troublesome from the ingress and accumula- tion of air, have been attended with a herniary protrusion of the lung through the opening. Protrusions of this kind have in some instances been treated successfully by excision, a ligature having been previously placed round the base of the