MILITARY SUROERY. 284 whose province it peculiarly belongs to attend to those weighty concerns ; and they suggest the propriety of transferring the burdens to the bellies of the men and horses, which would di- minish the chances of tetanus, and obviate the calls to hun- ger, by pressure on the stomach, after the fashion of the In- dian warriors. Dr. Reid seems to have overlooked the fact, that military officers are not less liable to tetanus than their men, although they carry no loads upon their backs ; and he would have done well to have ascertained the truth of the supposed exemption of naval men from tetanus, before indulg- ing himself in such speculations. w e are informed by Sir Gilbert Blane, that the number of 'wounded in the action of April 1782, in the West Indies, was 810, of whom 20, or about 1 in 40 were attacked with tetanus, 17 of whom died. In the army in the Peninsula from December 1811 to June 1814, 20,886 wounded sol- diers were admitted into the regimental hospitals. Sir James M‘Grigor has not been able to state to us how many of them died of tetanus; but we find from his valuable paper to which I have so often had occasion to refer, that no more than 506 of these men died of their wounds. Now, if we suppose that every one of these individuals was carried off by tetanus, still it will not amount to the proportion ob- served in the navy, being little more than 1 in 41. Making every allowance for the West India climate on the one hand, and for the deaths which may have been unnoticed or unre- ported on the other, still we have no reason to suppose that soldiers are more peculiarly liable to the disease than sailors, or that it is slighter or less fatal in the one service than the other. Even admitting that the year 1782 was peculiarly productive of tetanus, and the years 1812-13-14 peculiarly the reverse, still we shall find that there are no grounds for Dr. Reid’s assertion, “ that tetanus is very seldom met with, even in its slightest stages, in the navy.” Although it appears