341 M OUNDS OF THE ABDOMEN. jcct. Those who have been so employed are well aware, that some of the accidents which the older surgeons expected to obviate by the employment of sutures, the falling in of the wounded intestine, and the effusion of its contents into the cavity of the abdomen, are occurrences extremely rare. The whole process of nature in repairing injuries of the intestinal tube, and the mode in which she disposes of the li- gatures employed in securing a wounded intestine, are fully ex- plained in Mr. Travers’s essay, from which it appears, that whether we employ the continued suture, as recommended by this author, or the interrupted, as recommended by others, the gut ulcerates at the points of the ligatures, the threads fall into its canal, and arc discharged by stool. In a large proportion of cases of wounded intestine, patients are little in- debted to the mechanical aids of surgery, as many instances are recorded, in which penetrating wounds of the abdomen, involving several plica; of the intestines, have been treated chiefly by abstinence and rest; and the fortunate termination of some of these cases shews us what wonderful exertions nature makes to relieve every injury inflicted on her, and how often these exertions arc successful, if not interrupted. The older surgeons were averse to leaving any thing to na- ture, although, as Dr. Hennen observes, their own practice of universally employing sutures should have taught them how much she could bear with impunity. Mr. John Bell has broadly asserted, that “ if there be a work of supererogation in surgery, it is the sewing up of a wounded intestine.” And he contents himself with recommending, that the edge of the wounded gut should be united by a single stitch to the edge of the wound in the parietes. Mr. Travers again asserts, that the union of a divided bowel requires the cut extremities to be kept in contact throughout their whole circumference, and for this purpose recommends a continued suture, with a small sewing needle and silk thread.