WOUNDS AND FRACTURES OF THE EXTREMITIES. 3*J5 able to have recourse to the measures we may think positively best, but must resort to those which under all the circumstances of the case, we can command most readily and use most effec- tually. This applies particularly to the case now under con- sideration, for although we may not always be able to command the finished apparatus of Desault, Boyer, or Hagedorn, we can seldom be at a loss for a long splint upon which to extend the fractured limb; and, even in defect of this we may be able to keep up a continued extension by fixing the patient’s trunk, and then applying a lac or the strap of a tourniquet, so as to draw down the fractured limb towards the bed-post, or to a fixed point in the floor, as recommended by my prede- cessor, Dr. Thomson. For the treatment of broken limbs in the bent position, all the common pieces of apparatus are modi- fications of the double inclined plane, and of these Mr. Earle’s, Mr. Amesbury’s, and Mr. M‘Intyre’s are the best with which I am acquainted ; the last I have nmv been in the habit of using for years with much satisfaction and success. The practice of swinging or suspending fractured limbs in a sort of cradle, is one which I am inclined to think might be ex- tended with advantage to many cases occurring in military life; but upon this point I speak with diffidence, as my expe- rience of it is very limited, having only seen it adopted in two cases. I am in possession of some very neat and ingenious pieces of apparatus for the suspension of fractured limbs, but it would be foreign to my present purpose to enter into any detailed description of them here ; and although in the habit of shewing them in the class, as well as every other apparatus which I can command, I do so rather for the purpose of pointing out the objects aimed at in their construction, and teaching my pupils to devise substitutes for them, than from any expectation that they can in general be furnished with an apparatus in any degree complicated. With reference to gunshot fractures of the lower extremity.