421) OPHTHALMIA. complaint. Upon inquiry it was discovered that many of the Irish recruits had volunteered into the 52d from regiments in which the disease had prevailed, and had themselves been af- fected with it, though in its milder form. The general testi- mony agrees, that those regiments received the ophthalmia from being garrisoned along with others who had suffered from it in Egypt and the Mediterranean. Upon particular inquiry I found, that the men in whom the disease first shewed itself in the 52d had formerly been afflicted with it in Ireland ; and we shall hereafter have occasion to observe, that one of the most unfortunate effects of the disease is the ten- dency which it leaves to a relapse on the application of any irri- tating cause, so that the origin of the complaint in this bat- talion receives the most satisfactory explanation from the combination of the above-mentioned circumstances. The present and every other instance of the occurrence of the dis- ease at a distance from the country in which it has taken its rise, affords undisputed proofs of its powers of self-propaga- tion.'1 Here Dr. Vetch broaches a question of the contagious na- ture of the disease, upon which it is necessary to make a few observations before proceeding to an account of its appear- ances and modes of treatment. This subject had previously been fully entered into by Dr. Edmonstone, in his treatise on ophthalmia, published here in 1806. He refers to Aris- totle and several other ancient writers, from whom passages have been selected tending to prove, that the disease has from very remote times been looked upon as contagious. Some of these passages, however, seem rather to prove too much, as for instance the following expression of Boerhaave, “ Si quis subito videat hominem cujus limbi palpebrarum sunt infiam- mati, coccinio colorc fulgentes, et oculi simul tales sunt, et la- chryma; iiule distillant, ejus oculi etiamiiule leedantur.” Here it is obvious that the author, writing Dc Sympal/tia, adduces