189 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. not feel myself entitled to speak with confidence as to their appearances or treatment. On some subsequent occasions, sores, bearing many of the characteristics of hospital gangrene, have fallen under my notice, particularly from punishments; and of these, one of the most remarkable was that of a soldier of the 3d battalion of the Royals, who was punished at Bexhill in 1807- He was one of seventeen punished men who lay in the same ward, in several of whom the sores had assumed a malignant appearance ; but in the individual above alluded to, the sloughing, although he had not received more than three hundred lashes, extended so far as to lay bare the spi- nous processes of the vertebrae, from his neck to his loins. The case was looked upon, by the surgeon of the regiment and myself, as so completely hopeless, that, anticipating the man’s death, and our own trial, we requested the Deputy-Inspector of the district to visit the patient, with a view to his giving evidence as to the correctness of our professional treatment. The propriety of that treatment subsequent events have made me very much disposed to question, inasmuch as it was every thing but antiphlogistic. Here, and in some other cases, the treatment was perhaps more adapted to the name than to the nature of the disease. The case, however, took a favourable turn, and the patient completely recovered. Of local remedies every form and variety have been used in this disease, from the actual cautery down to the application of dry lint. The cautery first employed by Dussassoy and Cartier, has been more recently recommended by Delpech, who states that, by this means, he treated successfully a hundred and fifty soldiers affected with hospital gangrene, after the siege of Pam- peluna. The efficacy of the lunar caustic is confidently spoken of by Ollivier. The undiluted nitric acid is recom- mended by Mr. Welbank, and is also favourably noticed in a manuscript report, which was furnished to me by Mr. Ste-