546 MILITARY SURGERY. part most violently attacked by the disease. When the symptoms of an affection of the head have been urgent, the. vessels within the cranium have been found turgid, and watery effusions, sometimes of a yellow colour, into all the cavities of the brain. The texture of the brain is sometimes in- creased in density, and on cutting into its substance the me- dullary part has immediately appeared thickly spotted with red points, owing to the effusion of blood from the divided vessels; while it has occasionally happened, that some of these vessels have been ruptured previously to the death of the patient, and blood has been found effused into the sub- stance of the brain. When the symptoms indicating a severe affection of the stomach have been predominant, traces of disorganization of this viscus have been discovered on dissec- tion ; the whole inner surface inflamed ; portions of the vil- lous coat abraded, and sometimes found floating among its contents, which consist for the most part of the same dark coffee-like fluid evacuated during life. In the less concentrated form of this fever which I have had frequent occasion to see in India, the liver and spleen have often been found increased in size and weight, and Dr. Chisholm considers the liver as the organ principally affected in this disease. In the treatment of Yellow Fever, two modes of practice have chiefly been pressed upon the attention of medical men ; the employment of blood-letting and the administration of mercury. Of the efficacy of the first, I consider myself en- titled in some measure to speak from personal experience, having witnessed its beneficial effects in those levers of the eastern hemisphere, which I consider in every respect ana- logous to this scourge of the west, and in conjunction with this experience, every circumstance attending the usual pro- gress of the disease seems to concur in pointing out blood- letting, in its earlier stages, as the most rational and eflectual means of relief. Its more violent attacks are chiefly confined