MILITARY SURGERY. 44 have had of under-waistcoats during the winter campaign in Great Britain should teach us to make the same provision for the whole army in any future war. . None of the foreign soldiers are without this necessary part of clothing ; and, in- deed, no man of the meanest condition abroad. Under-waist- coats would not only be useful in winter quarters, but greatly so on first taking the field, and towards the end of the cam- paign.” That the above sentiments are perfectly in unison with those of the present Director-General of the Medical Department, may be learned from the following paragraph of his paper on the health of the Peninsular army :—“ In what- ever climate or quarter of the world a regiment is stationed, the yearly supply of clothing for it should be sent out, so as to arrive in due time, and so that the soldier may put it on before the accession of the cold season ; that is, before winter sets in in Europe, and by the time the rains set in in tropi- cal countries. The waistcoat is an indispensable part of the clothing of a soldier, and ought never to be omitted. He should have linen trowsers to march in, when in a warm climate like that of the Peninsula, reserving the cloth panta- loons for the cold and rainy season. The best clothed were generally among the most healthy regiments.” Some objections have been offered to the general use of flannel shirts as part of a soldier’s dress, particularly the dif- ficulty of having the shirt so frequently washed and changed as it ought to be, without which it is, perhaps, worse than useless ; but in some given situations my- personal experience enables me to vouch for the utility of flannel. Of this we had a very striking proof in the second battalion of the Royals, while suffering from a most aggravated form of dysentery in India. General Conran, the late Lieutenant-Governor of Jama'ca, who at that time commanded the Royals, was so fully persuaded of the benefits likely to accrue from the gene- ral use of flannel, that he went down from Wallajahabbad,