INTBODUCTION. 9 d’Observations de Meilecine lies Hospitaux Militaires,” was published in 1766, and another in 1772- The many va- luable memoirs contained in these two volumes appear to have in some measure rivetteil the attention of the French government to this subject, and to have greatly contributed to the improvement of military medicine in France. The favourable impulse thus given led to the translation into French of the excellent work of our countryman, Dr. Donald Monro, and to the publication of the “ Code de Me- decine Militaire” in 177^, and of another treatise, “ d’Hy- gierne Militaire” in 177$? by Colomhier, one of their most distinguished physicians. Long accustomed to live with the soldier, acquainted with his habits, his tastes, his prejudices, his fatigues, and his dangers, he was well qualified to lay down rules for the preservation of his health, and, in 1778? Colomhier gave to the public a general and valuable treatise on the health of soldiers in seven volumes octavo. The publication of these various works, in which questions the most important to the service of the hospitals were discus- sed, created a considerable sensation amongst the ministers of Louis XVI., and led to various ordonnances, by which the publication of the correspondence of the army surgeons, which had fallen into disuse, was again decreed ; and schools of in- struction for those devoted to the public service were esta- blished at Lisle, at Metz, anil at Strasbourg. By a subsequent decree of the 1st of July 1778? the plan of committing the care of sick soldiers to their respective regimental surgeons, and the institution of regimental infirmaries, was established, against the remonstrances of many of the older surgeons. Indeed, it does not appear that this plan of conducting the treatment of the sick soldier, which is so well understood, and so highly appreciated in the British service, has ever acquired the same popularity and efficiency in France. The publica- tion, however, of the records of the military hospitals in that