LUXATIONS. 389 ncral use, aud are often attended with the happiest effects. In cases of compound luxation, when the bone is protruded through a wound, the injury is often so severe, and the subse- quent inflammation so great, as to have led some writers to recommend the immediate removal of the limb, a measure which is not, however, to be adopted as a general rule; nor do we admit generally the propriety of removing the protruded extremity ol a bone, for the purpose of facilitating reduction. I liis may in most cases be accomplished without it; and the reduction once effected, our object is to heal the external wound as speedily as possible. For this purpose, its edges arc to be brought into accurate apposition, and secured by Straps of adhesive plaster; or, what sometimes answers ex- ceedingly well, the wound may be bound up in a pledget of lint soaked in blood. In luxations, the circumstances are in a great measure the reverse ol those which occur in fractures. It is by a thorough knowledge of general principles that we must be prepared to vary our practice, so as to adapt it to the endless variety of fractures which we meet with. Luxations again take place for the most part in particular directions, so that the injury is of a more specific character, and every case becomes more an ob- i ject ol individual study and may be treated according to esta- blished rules. rI hese rules are so fully laid down in the com- mon systematic works upon surgery, that it would be quite superfluous to go over in succession the luxations of the seve- ral joints, particularly as they offer no such peculiarities in | military practice as to render them fit subjects of observation here ; and I shall therefore confine my remarks to a few cases, which, either from their obscure nature or serious consequences, become objects of particular interest. Llows in the face, particularly when the mouth is open, | frequently occasion luxations of the lower jaw, and this acci- dent has also been produced by the practice of gagging.