MILITARY SURGERY. 5G4 sentery of the inflammatory variety, when there is a fixed, constant, and acute pain of the abdomen, accompanied by fe- ver and constipation. It is employed with equal propriety and advantage when the rectum discovers the high state of inflam- mation formerly described.” I have already had occasion to notice the favourable opinion entertained by Sir James M‘Grigor and l)r. Somers of blood- letting in dysentery, and to the late Dr. White, who died in Egypt, from inoculating himself with the matter of a plague bubo, the profession is also much indebted for having shown the safety and utility of blood-letting in this disease. Dr. White, in a letter addressed to his late Royal Highness the Duke of York, published in the Medical and Physical Jour- nal, has recommended it to be pushed ad deliquium. The cir- cumstances, however, attending the death of this individual, from an ill judged experiment on himself, induced many to dis- countenance the practice which he recommended in dysentery, and to look upon it as the suggestion of a well meaning, but hot- headed medical enthusiast. But the practice of blood-letting in dysentery is sanctioned by much more ancient authority than this; for besides that of the distinguished military sur- geon, Leonardus Botallus, Trallian has recommended general bleeding in this disease to the extent of “ two heminas, ” or little less than twenty ounces. Prosper Alpinus also, in his work, De Medicina Egyptiorum, approves of venaesection, and contrasting the artificial abstraction of blood with the quantity which the patient must necessarily lose if the dis- ease is not subdued, has the following remarkable expression. “ Nos dicemus, si non mittatur sanguis, atque eo modo statim in principio divertatur fluxus ab intestinis, multo sane majorem sanguinis copiam per alvum, perseverante illo affcctu, emanaturum; qui longe plus quam arte facta vires resolvet; optimum itaque esse remedium dyscntericis, modicam sanguinis evacuationem existimo.