472 MILITARY SURGERY. to be distinguished from venereal buboes, by our knowledge that such ulcerations exist, by the total absence of other ve- nereal symptoms, and by observing that such tumours are frequently seated lower than venereal buboes, and more di- rectly on the fore part of the thigh. Whenever our assistance in the treatment of venereal bu- boes is required at a period sufficiently early to render their cure by resolution practicable, we are to attempt the discus- sion of every tumour of this kind. Although I am by no means prepared to assert that mercury is absolutely necessary for the cure of the present symptom, more than for that of chancre, and although I believe that it will in general have less influence upon the local affection in cases of bubo than of chan- cre ; yet looking upon bubo as one step farther toward a consti- tutional affection, and believing that a course of mercury may be instrumental in superseding this affection, I cannot but judge it eligible in the treatment of this, as well as in that of the former symptom, particularly when the bubo is of a chronic or indolent disposition. Combined with this, every part of the antiphlogistic regimen is to be employed, and every topical means used for the dispersion of the tumour. Of these the most efficacious are topical bleeding by leeches, warm fomen- tations, or sedative and astringent lotions. In some instances pressure by means of compress and bandage has been employed for the dispersion of venereal buboes, and I have in my posses- sion a report from Or. Mahony, surgeon of the Royal Fuzileers, in favour of this practice; but my own experience of this mode of treatment, is not sufficient to enable me to pronounce a posi- tive opinion on its value. When suppuration becomes inevita- ble, fomentations and cataplasms are the applications naturally resorted to, and when matter is once formed, the sooner an opening is made for its exit the better. If the suppuration has. advanced rapidly, and the integuments are not much altered, this is best done by the lancet; if, on the contrary, the sup-