INFLAMMATION. 139 i use of cold applications, which may be followed by a trans- 1 ference of the inflammation from the surface of the body to i the pleura or peritoneam. The earliest stage of acute oph- 1 thalmia, and hernia humoralis, have been specified as cases in which, generally speaking, warm applications are preferable to cold ones ; and in this sentiment my own experience in- i duces me, in a great degree, to coincide. Mr. James has pointed out the propriety of adverting to the cause, or, at i least, to the concomitant circumstances of the case, in decid- i ing upon the nature of the applications to be used. Thus, in mumps and rheumatism, the constitution is chiefly to be attended to, and cold applications are certainly improper. In inflammation of the testis, proceeding from a blow, after leeches have been freely employed, he considers warm fomen- tations most useful, but does not think this practice equally i effectual in many cases of hernia humoralis from gonorrhoea, in which he prefers the cold lotion. In swelled testicle I have long been accustomed to use the cold and warm ap- ; plications alternately, and when the disease did not appear to be yielding to the one, to have recourse to the other. In 1 carrying this plan into effect, peculiar idiosynicrases are oc- > casionally met with, as in the following case:—A young gen- tleman, whose testicle had been considerably swollen from go- norrhoea, had it reduced by leeches and fomentations to nearly its natural size, and was then induced, by my advice, to em- ploy a cold solution of the acetate of lead. This was, however, in the course of the ensuing night, followed by a return of the swelling, and a very severe attack of sciatica ; the swelling of • his testicle was again reduced by leeching and fomenting, and the sciatica disappeared. Being exceedingly impatient to get nd of his complaints, on purpose to get away to the country, he was, after a considerable lapse of time, induced to renew the astringent application, in hopes of expediting his cure,