31G MILITARY SURGERY. “ In the last fifteen years, Sir James informs me, that four cases only of calculus have occurred in the English army in Britain; and Mr. Crampton, the surgeon-general of Ireland, states, that one example of lithotomy only, in which the ope- ration was performed by himself, has occurred, within the same period, in the army in Ireland. I am, however, able to add to this, on the authority of Dr. Pitcairne of Cork, the case of an officer of the Scots Greys, whom I had occasion to visit at the barracks here, who was operated upon at Cork, by Dr. WoodrifFe, about two years since, in his way to join his regiment. Mr. Crampton likewise informed me, on the au- thority of Sir James Wylie, physician to the late and to the present Emperor of Russia, that calculous diseases are hardly known in the Russian army. “ The Baron Delessert of Paris, has done me the favour to procure from the Baron Larrey, and M. Gama, surgeons-in- chief to the great military hospitals of Gros Caillou, and Val de Grace, in the French metropolis, a report as to the preva- lence of calculous complaints among the French soldiery. The Baron Larrey states, that in the course of thirty years, only five operations of lithotomy have been performed at the Gros Caillou, (four of which wrere on soldiers, and one on a sol- dier’s child,) and one operation at the Val de Grace. M. Gama states, that during six years that he has been surgeon-in-chief of the military hospital of Val de Grace, and eight previously, that he exercised the same functions in the military hospital at Strasbourgh, he has not once had occasion to perform the operation of lithotomy. He mentions likewise, that the dis- ease is very rare in the army generally; and that no case of stone operation has occurred to him, during any part of his extensive military service.” Mr. Copland Hutchison has made a very minute and ex- tended research into the frequency of calculous complaints amongst sea-faring people, from which it appears, that amongst