MILITARY SURGERY. 250 Clinical lecture which I had occasion to deliver to the students of surgery in the Royal Infirmary here a few years ago; they refer to one of the cases in which the humeral artery was tied, after repeated failures to suppress a liaimorrhage from the ra- dial artery by other means. “ In speaking of this case I illustrated it by a reference to numerous others in the writings of Gooch, O’Halleran, White, Hodgson, Guthrie, and Turner. I observed that this case, however troublesome it had proved, was by no means singular, nor even very rare. I showed you, that in one case quoted by Gooch, a young man lost his life in consequence of a wound of this artery; and that in another case, related by O’Halleran, after repeated fmnorrhages for a month, the limb was amputated. I find also, that the frequency of secondary hemorrhage from this artery was a circumstance which did not elude the comprehensive grasp of John Hunter’s mighty mind. In a manuscript copy of notes from his lectures, in Dr. Knox’s possession, Mr. Hunter mentions the radial and ulnar arteries as those, of all others, most prone to secondary hemorrhage from ulceration of their coats ; and my colleague, Dr. Campbell, has called my attention to a peculiarity in the situation of these two arteries, which is well worth noticing in any attempt to account for this. You will recollect that these vessels run for a considerable space on the lower part of the fore-arm, covered only by the common integuments above, and supported beneath by parts almost purely tendinous ; the for- mer circumstance rendering them more liable to injury, and the latter perhaps leading to their more frequent ulceration, in consequence of a less intimate and vital connexion with the contiguous parts. But, to return to the fact, and to the par- ticulars of Sutherland’s case, you will recollect that I pointed out on one of Roscnmuller’s plates, the inosculations by which I conceived the repeated ha'morrhages in this instance to have been supplied, through the medium oi what my late distill-