124 MILITARY SURGERY. otherwise, has no communication with the external atmos- phere, by means of a wound in the superincumbent parts; or when the whole of the separated parts are divided by a wound penetrating from without inwards, or vice versa, and when, of course, a communication exists with the external at- mosphere. Of the minute and successive changes which take place in each of these circumstances, a minute and interesting account is given in the writings of Mr. Hunter, who, of all other writers, has been the most instrumental in elucidating ; the process of adhesion. By this process parts which have been separated by nature, by ; accident, or by design, are made to unite together, and to form a continuity of living solid. Every thing relating to the process ' of adhesion is an object of peculiar importance to the military surgeon. “ The universal doctrine and practice of procuring adhesion,'1 says Mr. John Bell, “ has done more for surgery in a few years, and most especially for the surgery of wounds, than any other general observation, not excepting even the greatest of all discoveries, the circulation of the blood.” As we shall have occasion to advert more particularly to the subject of ad- hesion when speaking of the reunion of wounds, I content my- self for the present wTith observing, that the steps of the adhesive process, in so far as they are readily conspicuous to our senses, consist, first, in the effusion and intermixture, from the op- posite edges of a wound, of what is termed eoagulable lymph; the subsequent penetration of this uniting medium by blood- vessels ; the complete establishment of a circulation through it, and the consequent reunion of the divided surfaces. For the completion of this process it seems only necessary that the con- stitution should be sound and vigorous, that the wound should be free from the presence of any extraneous matter, and that its opposite surfaces should be retained in close contact. We shall hereafter have occasion to enter into a detail of the artificial or auxiliary means by which the establishment