MILITARY SURGERY. 218 the employment of arsenic, a favourable report is given by Mr. Ireland, formerly surgeon of the 60th regiment, in the 2d volume of the Medieo-Chirurgical Transactions of London ; from which it appears, that he used it successfully, in large doses, in the cases of several soldiers bitten by the Coluber Carinatus in the island of St. Lucia. Besides arsenic, ammonia, opium, and brandy have been the remedies chiefly employed inter- nally, but certainly not with that success which wrould war- rant our placing much confidence in any of them. The practice of sucking the wound, or the immediate excision of the bitten part, seems to me more hopeful. With a view of suspending the absorption of poisonous matter from wounds, the employment of the cupping-glass has been recommended by Sir David Barry, in his experimental researches upon this subject, published some years ago. The observations contain- ed in his essay give great reason to expect benefit from this mode of treatment; and although its efficacy has been hitherto supported rather by theory and experiment than by practical success in treating the bites of rabid or venomous animals, yet it must be looked upon as a rational, scientific, and pro- mising practice. Next to excision, the early use of the actual cautery seems the most promising means of safety, and then the different species of potential cauteries. The Potassa was that preferred by Fontana. The Lunar caustic has been, perhaps, more generally used by British surgeons, and the Liquid Caustics, or concentrated mi- neral acids, by foreign practitioners. Bites and stings, parti- cularly those of scorpions, form a pretty extensive class of cases to be met with in Indian practice ; these are very painful, and sometimes alarming in their effects. The most popular remedies in India, and perhaps the most effectual, are suction, smearing the bitten part with oil, tying a ligature between it and the heart, and administering repeated doses of opium, ammonia, or brandy.