THE HEART AND ITS VESSELS. to the pulmonary valve, only its segments are stronger and thicker, and the sinuses of Valsalva at the root of the aorta are more strongly marked. The above details will be dry and meaningless unless they are looked at in connection with the action of the heart during life. The heart is one of those organs, the construction of which it is impossible to understand without at the same time studying its function. During life, the blood is driven through and from the heart by means of successive rhythmical contrac- tions and dilatations of its walls. But the entire heart does not act simultaneously. First, the auricles contract together, and this is succeeded by the contraction of the ventricles ; in other words, the auricular contractions correspond to the ventricular dilatations, and vice versa. But, again, there is a period immediately preceding the auricular contraction, during which the entire heart is at rest; and this is called the period of cardiac rest. These three conditions of the walls of the heart— \ iz. [a) the cardiac rest, {b) the auricular contraction, {c) the ven- tricular contraction—follow each other consecutively and without intermission, the one after the other; and they are collectively spoken of as " a cardiac revolution." Let us next study what is going on inside the heart during each of these three stages. During the period of cardiac 7'est the auricles are filling. Blood is flowing into the right auricle through the openings of the superior vena cava, inferior vena cava, and the coronary sinus ; and into the left auricle through the orifices of the four pulmonary veins. A portion of this blood trickles down through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the ventricles ; but the blood is passing into the auricles in greater quantity than it is trickling into the ventricles, and the result is, distension of the auricles. The second stage of the cardiac revolution now takes place—viz., the atiricttlar contractio7i. The auricles contract sharply and suddenl)^ and the blood is forced through the auriculo-ventricular orifices into the ventricles. But how is it that the blood, during this contraction, does not regurgitate into the veins, the mouths of which are devoid of valves.? For the simple reason that the contraction begins at the venous orifices, and travels towards the auriculo-ventricular openings; and partly also owing to the column of blood which is already contained N