ABDOMEN. 34 and the structures which it contains are enumerated at p. 26. (Fig. 5, P- 31O Surgical Anatomy of Perineum.—In the rectal triangle the fatty tissue which fills np the ischio-rectal fossa is very liable, under certain circumstances, to inflammation. When pus forms, a knowledge of the structures which compose the walls of the fossa will show why fistula in ajio so frequently results. The pus cannot pass upwards into the pelvis on account of the union of the visceral and parietal parts of the pelvic fascia; its passage outwards is resisted by the strong parietal layer of the pelvic fascia ; whilst inferiorly the dense integuments of the hip prevent it from pointing towards the surface. The inner wall of the space, however, offers a weak resistance. Here the gut is guarded, it is true, by the rectal layer of the pelvic fascfa, but in the lower part of the rectum this is very thin, and soon gives way before the continued pressure of the pus. The wall of the rectum then becomes thinned, and ultimately perforated, and the pus is voided through the anal orifice, giving rise to fistula The lesson to learn from this is, that in eveiy case of inflammation of the ischio-rectal fat an early incision should be made into the fossa so as to give free vent to the pus, and thus prevent its burrowing through the wall of the rectum. In the lateral operation of lithotomy an accurate knowledge of the anatomy of the perineum is absolutely indispensable to the surc^eon. He must know not only the structui-es which require to be divided, but also those which he must avoid, and how to avoid them. In the first incision, which begins at the middle line an inch and a-half in front of the anus, and extends back- wards and outwards into the left ischio-rectal fossa midway be- tween the anus and ischial tuberosity, the following parts are cut: _(i) skin and superficial fascia ; (2.) transversus permei muscle and the transverse perineal arteiy; (3-) the lower or posterior edge of the triangular ligament; (4) the inferior haemorrhoidal vessels The forefinger of the left hand is next introduced into the middle of the wound and pushed upwards behind the triangular ligament until the groove of the staff, as it lies in the membranous part of the urethra, is felt. The point of the knife is now placed in the -roove, and the blade lateralised. The knife is then carried steadily along the groove into the bladder. In this incision the