I06 ABDOMEN. In direct inguinal hernia \h& coverings of the protrusion differ according to the part of Hesselbach's triangle through which it projects. If the student examine the floor of this triangular area, he will observe that the conjoined tendon does not stretch over its entire extent; that, towards the outer part of the space, the transversalis fascia alone forms the floor. When a direct hernia leaves the abdomen from the middle inguinal pouch, it is through this outer part of Hesselbach's triangle that it pro- trudes, and, in this case, the coverings are almost identical with those of oblique hernia. (I.) Skin and super ficialfascia. (2.) Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. (3.) Cremasteric fascia (as a general rule). (4.) Transversalis fascia. (5.) Extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. (6.) Parietal peritoneum or sac. This form of direct hernia is comparatively rare. The more common form of direct hernia leaves the abdomen from the internal inguinal pouch, and pushes its way through the mner part of Hesselbach's triangle. It therefore acquires a covermg from the conjoined tendon. The following are its mvestments :— (I.) Skin and superficial fascia. (2.) Intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. (3.) Conjoined tendon. (4.) Transversalis fascia. ' (5.) Extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. (6.) Parietal peritoneum or hernial sac. When the conjoined tendon is feeble, or when a direct hernia takes place suddenly, the protrusion may burst through it, in which case it does not obtain a covering from this source. There are two special varieties of oblique inguinal hernia which it is necessary to mention—viz., congenital hernia and infantile hernia. ^ Congenital hernia occurs when the communication, existmg in the foetus, between the peritoneal cavity and the interior ot the tunica vaginalis, remains freely open. Fig. 16 gives a good idea of the state of the parts which allows such a hernia to take place whilst Fig. 17 shows the position of the protrusion after it has descended into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Infantile hernia occurs where the obliteration of the communi-