INGUINAL HERNIA. IO3 inguinal region. The external inguinal pouch is placed on the cuter side of the obliterated hypogastric artery, and the internal abdominal ring is situated in relation to its lower and inner part. The internal inguinal pouch, neither so deep nor so large as the outer fossa, lies between the ridges formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery and the urachus. It is important also to determine the relation which the obliterated hypogastric artery holds to the deep epigastric artery. Both ascend in the abdominal wall between the peritoneum and the fascia transversal!s, and sometimes they lie parallel and close to each other in the peritoneal fold, which separates the two inguinal pouches from each other. In the majority of cases, however, the obliterated vessel hes a short distance to the inner side of the deep epigastric artery, and, in this case, a third small fossa may be apparent between them. This pouch is called the middle inguinal pouch. The student has already seen in the dissection of the abdominal wall that the epigastric artery, together with Poupart's ligament and the outer border of the rectus, bound a triangular space termed Hesselbach's triangle. Recalling this fact, he will understand that when the obliterated hypogastric artery lies to the inner side of the deep epigastric, it must ascend in relation to the posterior aspect of the floor of the triangle and cut the space into two. Having determined these points, the dissector can proceed as follows :—Divide the lower part of the abdominal wall in a vertical direction along the linea alba, from the umbilicus to the pubes. Make this incision a little on one side of the urachus, and, on nearing the pubes, be careful not to injure the bladder, which may project upwards beyond it. On throwing the left flap downwards and outwards, it may be possible to detect the position of the internal abdominal ring from the fact that m some cases the peritoneum is slightly dimpled into it. 1 his dimple or depression is termed the digitalfossa. Now strip the peritoneum from the flap as far down as Poupart's ligament. 1 his can be easily done with the fingers, as its connection with the extra-pentoneal fatty tissue is very slight. Next separate the extra-pentoneal fatty tissue from the fascia transversalis with the handle of the knife, proceeding with great care as you ap- proach Poupart's ligament. The internal abdominal ring, or the mlet of the inguinal canal, is now seen from within. From