ABDOMEN. 104 this point of view the opening is more like a vertical slit in the fascia transversalis than a ring. Note the deep epigastric artery passing upwards and inwards close to its inner margin. Further, observe the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels entering it, the former hooking round the epigastric artery as it disappears into the canal. Introduce the tip of the little finger into the opening and push it gently downwards m the direction of the inguinal canal. On raising the flap of the abdo- minal wall and looking from the front, a very striking demon-, stration of the infundibuliform fascia can thus be obtained. There are two forms of Inguinal Hernia—vh., oblique and direct. Oblique ingtdnal hernia follows the course of the sper- matic cord. The protrusion traverses the entire length of the inguinal canal-, entering at the inlet or internal abdominal ring, and emerging (when the hernia is complete) at the outlet or external abdominal ring. Direct inguinal hernia only traverses the lower part of the inguinal canal. It pushes before it or bursts through that part of the posterior wall of the canaL which forms the floor of Hesselbach's triangle, and, havmg thus gained the interior of the canal by a short cut, it emerges like the oblique variety at the external abdominal ring. The deep epigastric artery bears a different relation to each of these forms of hernia. This vessel lies close to the inner mar- gin of the internal abdominal ring, and it forms the outer bound- ary of Hesselbach's triangle; consequently, in oblique mgumal hernia, the protrusion, as it enters the inguinal canal, hes exter- nal to the vessel, whilst, in direct inguinal hernia, it lies mternal to it So important are these relations, that the terms external and internal are frequently employed to denote the two forms of inguinal hernia instead of obliqtie and direct. It is also essential that the student should determine the rela- tion which these forms of hernia hold to the inguinal pouches of peritoneum. In oblique ingtdnal hernia the protrusion mvan- ablv leaves the abdominal cavity at the lower and inner part of the external ingtdnal pouch. It is here that the internal abdominal ring is situated. _ In the case of direct inguinal hernia the protrusion may leave the abdominal cavity either from the middle or from the internal inguinal pouch, both of which are in relation to the floor of Hesselbach's triangle.