102 ABDOMEN. reference to hernia. Begin by reflecting the aponeurosis of the external obhque. Make a vertical incision through it parallel to the outer border of the rectus, and carry it down- wards on the inner side of the internal pillar of the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis can thus be thrown downwards and outwards, and the external ring, at the same time, preserved. The internal oblique, cremaster, and conjoined tendon should now be cleaned, and their precise relations to the spermatic cord studied. Notice that the fleshy lower border of the internal oblique overlaps the upper part of the cord, whilst, towards the outlet of the inguinal canal, the conjoined tendon lies behind the cord. Next replace the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and, introducing the point of the fore-finger into the external abdominal ring, press directly backwards. Observe that it rests upon the conjoined tendon ; that, in fact, this tendon and the fascia transversalis alone intervene between the finger and the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue and the peritoneum. The lower part of the internal oblique muscle should now be separated from the transversalis by insinuating the handle of the knife between them When this is done, divide the internal oblique close to Poupart's ligament, and throw it forwards. At the same time, make a longitudinal incision through the cremaster muscle, and turn it aside from the surface of the cord. All further dissection must be efl-ected from the inside. Divide the abdominal wall horizontally from side to side at the level of the umbilicus. Raising the lower part of the abdominal wall and examining its posterior surface, the student will observe three peritoneal ridges or falciform folds radiating from the umbilicus as from a centre, and proceeding towards the pelvis. These are caused by the presence of three fibrous cords,—the remains of the urachus, and the two obliterated hypogastric arteries,—in the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. The tirachus occupies the middle line, and extends downwards to the apex of the bladder. The obliterated hypogastric artery proceeds downwards and outwards on each side so as to gain the side of the bladder. It lies to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring. By these ridges two foss^ are formed on each side of the middle line close to Poupart's ligament. They are termed the external and internal inguinal pouches, and are regarded as determining, to a certain extent, hernial protrusions in the i