^5 UPPER LIMB. the inner head of flexor brevis poUicis and the adductor poUicis. The arch is completed on the inner side by the profunda branch of the ulnar arteiy. Interosseous, recurrent, and perforating branches spring from it. Deep Branch of the Ulnar Nerve.—This is found running alongside of the arch and ending in the adduc- tor pollicis and the inner head of flexor brevis pollicis. Besides these muscles it supplies twigs to the three short muscles of the little finger, to all the interossei muscles, both dorsal and palmar, and to the two inner lumbrical muscles. These nerves are very minute, and great caution and patience must be exercised in following them to their destinations.* The Radialis Indicis Artery and the Princeps PoUicis Artery can now be exposed. They come * It will not be out of place to mention at this stage an exceedingly ingenious plan of teaching the nervous supply of the intrinsic muscles of .the hand devised by Dr. J. A. Russell, formerly senior demonstrator of .anatomy in this University. He points out that these muscles are naturally divided into two groups by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis—viz., (I.) The abductor, outer head of flexor and opponens pollicis lying to the radial side of the tendon ; and (2.) The three short muscles of little finger, the interossei, the palmaris brevis, the lumbricals, and the adductor and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis placed upon the ulnar side of the tendon. Now, all the muscles of x}a.& first group are supplied by the median nerve, and all the muscles of the second group, with two exceptions, are supplied by the ulnar nerve. These two excep- tions are the two outer lumbricals which are supplied by the median. But still further, Dr. Russell explains why the lumbricals are ■exceptional to the general rule. These muscles are associated with the flexor profundus digitorum, from the tendons of which they spring, and ■it will be remembered that the inner portion of this muscle is supplied by the ulnar ; so are the lumbricals in connection with it. Again, the -outer part of the flexor profundus is supplied by the median, and so are ithe lumbricals which arise from the two outer tendons.