96 LOWER LIMB. Now clean the rectus and expose its two heads of origin by dissecting deeply in the interval between the iliacus and the tensor fasciae femoris. Observe how completely the other three factors of the quadriceps muscle clothe the shaft of the femur on its inner, outer, and anterior aspects. The crureus and vastus internus are usually described as being inseparably united. This is a mistake. It is true that the an- terior fleshy margin of the vastus internus is commonly blended with the crureus in its upper two-thirds, but a separation can be readily effected. The muscle can then be thrown inwards. When this is done the en- tire inner surface of the shaft of the femur is left bare.* * In a recent article upon the Quadriceps Extensor Cruris Muscle, by W. Rogers Williams [Journ. Anal, and Phys., Vol. XIII.), the following directions are given for separating the vastus internus from the crureus :— " A line drawn from the tubercle at the middle of the spiral or inter- trochanteric line, inclining downwards and slightly outwards to the middle of the upper border of the patella, will define accurately the thick anterior border of the vastus internus. . . . To detach the muscle, we must first free the anterior edge. It is best to begin below, just above the patella, for here the tendinous under-surface of the vastus internus rests upon the aponeurosis of the crureus, and the two are readily separ- able. The fleshy part of this border is commonly blended with the crureus, and to free it muscular fibres must be cut through. But it often happens, even at this place, that the two muscles are simply con- tiguous without being fused ; in these cases a complete separation is easily effected without any division of fleshy fibres." The fleshy mass of the vastus internus may now with advantage be divided transversely about two or three inches above the patella. The muscle can then be thrown inwards and its origin studied. The internal surface of the femur is left bare. Mr. Williams gives an additional guide for separating the vastus internus from the crureus :—" Running along the edge of the crureus, for its lower three-fourths, behind the line of union of this muscle with the vastus internus ; is a long slender nerve, derived from the upper branch to the vastus internus; it is distributed to the stcbcrureus and to the tcpper pari of the synovial pouch of the knee-joint."