I 178 THORAX. within them, and which offers a barrier to the entrance of more. The ventricles are now full, and the third stage of the cardiac revolution takes place—viz., the ventnciilar contraction. The ventricles contract more slowly, and, as it were, more deliberatel)- than the auricles, and the blood is dischai'ged into the pulmonary artery and into the aorta. Regurgitation of blood through the auriculo-ventricular openings into the auricles is prevented by the tricuspid and bicuspid valves being thrown across these openings, and regurgitation from the arteries into the ventricles by the semilunar valves being thrown across the arterial orifices. Let us examine the mode of action of these valves. The auriculo-ventricular valves.—Ks the blood is forced from the auricle into the ventricle, it passes from a narrow channel mto a wider channel, and the result is that an eddy is produced m the ventricle, and the segments of the valve are floated up so as to close the orifice. In this position they are retamed, and prevented from being forced upwards into the auricle durmg the ventricular contraction by the musculi papillares and the chordce tendinea;. As the ventricular wall in its contraction, to a certain extent, advances towards the aunculo-ventncular opening, the musculi papillares, in their contraction, retreat from it and keep the tendinous cords tense-never allowmg them to slacken The semilunar valves.-^^\v^x^ the contraction of the ventricle ceases, and the vis a tergo is removed from the blood, the recoil of the expanded wall of the artery exerts a pressure upon the column of blood. Its backward flow is prevented by the filling of the pouches of the semilunar valve. The three stages of the cardiac revolution do not occupy equal periods of time. If we express the time taken for the complete revolution by the number 6, the period of cardiac rest would take three-sixths, the auricular contraction one-sixth, and the ventricular contraction two-sixths of the revolution. Arch of Aorta.—The arch of the aorta should next be, examined, and the various parts in relation to it dissected out. It takes origin from the base of the left ventricle opposite the sixth dorsal vertebra. From this point it proceeds upwards and to the right, at the same time advancing towards the sternum ; reachmg