q5 abdomen. abdomen. In some cases it may be traced as far as the testicle, but more commonly it only extends down the cord for a short distance ; indeed it is frequently absent.* The coverings of the spermatic cord should now be removed, and the parts which enter into its formation isolated from each other. The following are the structures which must be looked for :— * To obtain a proper conception of the nature of this fibrous cord it is necessary that we should trace the history of the testicle in the foetus. Up to a comparatively late period of intra-uterine life the testicle is situated within the abdominal cavity. It lies upon the psoas muscle immediately below the kidney, and is invested by peritoneum. Between the fifth and sixth months of foetal life the testicle begins to descend upon the posterior abdominal wall. It retains its peritoneal investment, and at the seventh month it has reached the internal abdominal ring. It now pushes its way through this aperture, pouchmg out and carrying before it the parietal peritoneum. During the eighth month it traverses the inguinal canal, and at the end of the ninth month it reaches the bottom of the scrotum. The testicle, therefore, in its descent has a double relation to the peritoneum—viz. : (l.) it carries with it its own proper investment ; (2.) it pushes down before it a portion of the parietal peritoneum, so as to form a diverticulum of the peritoneal sac within the scrotum. In quadrupeds this diverticulum always remains, and freely communi- cates with the abdominal cavity. In the human subject the lower part of the diverticulum, which holds the testicle, is alone retained; the upper part is obliterated, and no trace is left beyond the fibrous cord mentioned in the text. In this manner, then, the tunica vaginalis of the testicle is formed—its original peritoneal covering remaining as the visceral or testicular part, and the lower portion of the diverticulum derived from the parietal peritoneum being retained as parietal or scrotal part {vide description of tunica vaginalis, p. 98). The orifice by which the abdominal peritoneal cavity communicates with the scrotal peritoneal diverticulum is usually closed before birth, and the upper part of the diverticulum, from the internal abdominal ring to the upper end of the testicle, is generally obliterated in the first month of extra-uterine life. In a few cases, however, the obliteration is only partial, or indeed it may fail to take place at all, thus giving rise to a great liability to congenital hernia or congenital hydrocele.