MALE PERINEUM. 35 structures divided are—(i.) the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra ; (2.) the posterior layer of the triangular ligament; (3.) the compressor urethras muscle ; (4.) the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle and the left lateral lobe of the prostate. The dangers of this operation may be considered to be three in number—(I.) the artery of the bulb; (2.) the pudic artery; (3.) the rectum. Division of the artery to the bulb is an exceed- ingly awkward accident, and one which indeed might end fatally. The hemorrhage resulting is very profuse, and exceedingly difficult to check on account of the short course of the vessel, its depth, and also its close connection with the layers of the triangular liga- ment which prevent it from retracting freely when cut. When this artery is in its normal position—z>., a quarter of an inch above the base of the triangular ligament—there should be little difficulty in avoiding it. In the first part of the operation it is merely the lower or posterior edge of the triangular ligament which is cut. Again, when the finger is introduced, so as to feel the staff in the membranous part of the urethra, the artery should lie in front of and superficial to it. When the artery to the bulb arises further back, as it sometimes does, it will, in all probabi- lity, be cut in this operation; and there is no way 'of avoiding this, seeing that there are no means by which we can discover this abnormal origin beforehand. The pudic artery runs no danger until it has given off the artery to the bulb, and has left the shelter of the pubic arch to lie between the layers of the triangular ligament. The risk of wounding this vessel is very slight, and it could only occur in the careless withdrawal of the knife. The superficial perineal branch of the pudic is frequently cut in the early stages of the operation, but under ordinary circumstances there is little difficulty in securing it. It has been stated, however, that if it should happen to be divided close to its origin, it might retract within the sheath of the pudic vessels, and the accident be in every respect as dangerous an occurrence as a wound of the main vessel itself. Although the rectum lies in very close proximity to the mem- branous and prostatic parts of the urethra, it is very rarely injured. It is the invariable practice of the surgeon to empty the rectimi by an enema prior to the operation.