I08 ABDOMEN. remains very large, and extends upwards into the inguinal canal. The hernial protrusion in its descent lies behind it. Femoral Hernia—This consists in the protrusion of aviscus or part of a viscus from the abdominal cavity into the region of the thigh. In its descent it passes behind Poupart's ligament along the crural canal or innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. It is consequently mainly the duty of the student who is engaged in the dissection of the lower limb, and withm whose domain the femoral sheath lies, to . investigate the anatomical connections of this variety of hernia. Still it is very necessary that the dissector of the abdomen should examme, from its abdominal aspect, the crural ring or aperture of communication between the crural canal and the abdominal cavity, and give the dissector of the lower limb an opportunity of doing so likewise. . , o t The crural ring is placed immediately behind Poupart s hga- ment, in the interval between the external iliac vein and the base of Gimbernat's ligament. If the peritoneum is still in posi- tion at this point it may exhibit a slight digital depression as it passes over the ring. Strip the peritoneum from the greater part of the ihac fossa. The extra-peritoneal fatty tissue which stretches over the crural ring will be observed to be denser, stronger, and more fibrous than elsewhere. A special name is applied to this small portion of the extra-peritoneal fatty tissue. Seeing that it is applied to the ring in such a manner as to close the crural canal at its abdominal end, it is called the septwn crurale. The extra-peritoneal fatty tissue should now be dis- sected back with the handle of the knife, to the same extent as the peritoneum. The fascia iliaca clothing the iliacus and psoas muscles is thus exposed, and the dissector should note that the external iliac vessels lie upon and not behi^id this fascia. The student is now in a position to study the manner in which the crural ring is formed. Let him follow the fascia iliaca and the fascia transversalis towards Poupart's ligament. If the dis- section has been carefully performed, he will observe that to the outer side of the external iliac vessels these two fasciae become directly continuous with each other, and, further, that along the line of union they are both firmly attached to Poupart^ hgament It is evident, then, that no hernial protrusion could leave the