109 FEMORAL HERNIA. abdominal cavity behind Poupart's ligament and external to the ihac vessels. Opposite the iliac vessels the arrangement of the fascia will be found to be very different. Here the fascia iliaca is carried downwards behind the vessels, whilst the fascia transversalis is prolonged downwards in front of the vessels and behind Pou- part's ligament. In the region of the thigh they together consti- tute a funnel-shaped sheath for the femoral artery and vein, and for some lymphatics ascending to the abdomen. This sheath is divided into three compartments by two vertical partitions. The femoral artery occupies the outermost compartment, and the vein the middle compartment, whilst the innermost com- partment, called the crural canal, is occupied by the lymphatics, and sometimes by a small lymphatic gland. An essential difference between these compartments is this —that whilst the two outer are completely filled up by the artery and vein, the crural canal is much wider than is necessary for the passage of its contents. Gauge the width of the crural ring by introducing the point of the little finger. It is readily admitted within the opening. Here, then, is a source of weak- ness to the abdominal wall, and one which is greater in the female than in the male, seeing that the distance between the iliac and pubic spines is proportionally greater, and, in conse- quence, the crural ring wider. When the finger is within the ring, mark the structures which surround it—in front, Poupart's ligament, with the spermatic cord or round ligament of the uterus ; behind, the ramus of the pubis, giving origin to the pectineus muscle, which is covered by the pubic portion of the fascia lata ; internally, the sharp crescentic free border of Gimbemat's ligament; and externally, the external iliac vein. It is still more necessary to note the relations of the blood- vessels to the crural ring. The external iliac vein has been seen to he to Its outer side. The deep epigastric artery, as it ascends on the posterior aspect of the abdominal wall, is close to its upper and outer margin, and sends \ts pubic branch inwards in front of It. More important than any of these is the relation of the obturator artery, when it takes origin from the deep epigastric, i his anomalous vessel may adopt one of two courses-(i.) It may follow the course of the pubic artery, an enlarged form of