lOI INGUINAL HERNIA. to form a little cul-de-sac between the body of the epididymis and the testicle. This is called the digital fossa. Note particularly that it is along the posterior border of the testicle that the parietal part becomes continuous with the visceral part. Surgical Anatomy.—To the surgeon the anatomy of the abdominal wall is chiefly of interest from the bearing which it has upon Hernia or Rupture. Hernia abdomtms may be defined as being the protrusion of any viscus or portion of a viscus through the wall of the abdomen. There are three localities in which, from natural weakness of the panetes, this protrusion is specially liable to occur—(i.) through the external abdominal ring, which gives passage to the sper- matic cord m the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female; (2.) through the crural canal or innermost com- partment of the femoral sheath, within which certain lymphatic vessels ascend from the thigh into the abdominal cavity; (3) through the umbilicus or the foramen in the linea alba of the foetus, which transmits the constituents of the umbilical cord These different forms of hernia are distinguished by the terms— ingumal, femoral^ and umbilicaL There are other situations at which hernial protrusions occur but so rarely that it would be out of place to take notice of them here. Inguinal Hernia.-The inguinal canal is not so great a source of weakness to the abdominal wall as might, at first sight be expected, and this chiefly on account of its obliquity of W ""v. u °' ^^'"'^^^ abdominal ring is situated a long way (fully an inch and a-half) to the outer side of the outlet or external abdominal ring. The canal is therefore distinctly valvular; the greater the force with which the viscera are pressed tectly against the inguinal part of the abdominal panetes, the more firmly will the posterior wall of the canal be pressed agdnst the spermatic cord and the anterior wall hefr^a'h! ^t''^' P^^^^ ^^1^^^^ to inguinal herma have been retained in position. The student should, therefore, make a dissection of the inguinal region, with special