The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY I I Classmark: mm ([ vJOlA 0106 07 379THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW.‘ Unto the boundless ocean of thy beauty Runs this poor river, charged with streams of zeal, Returning thee the tribute of my duty, Which here my love, my suit, my plaints reveal. Here I unclasp the book of my charged soul. Where I have cast th’ accounts of all my care : Here have I summed my thoughts ; here I enrol How they were spent for thee : look what they are. Look on the dear expenses of thy youth. And see how just I reckon with mine eyes : Examine well thy bearings with my truth ; And mark thy cares ere greater sums arise. Read it, sweet girl, tho’ it be done but slightly ; Who can show all his love, doth love but lightly.’ —Earl of Surrey. ‘ Read, and fear not thine own understanding : this book will create a clear one in thee; and when thou dost consider thy purchase, thou wilt call .the price of it a charity to thyself.’—Shirley. 2Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21529978THINGS A LADY WOULD t.IKE TO KNOWr»( < l> ■4 « mTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW CONCERNING DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT AND EXPENDITURE ARRANGED FOR DAILY REFERENCE WITH ints regarbing ilje Iniellertnal as faell as tlje fljgsical J^ife HENRY S BY OUTHGA TE AOTHOR OF ‘many THOUGHTS OF MANY MINDS,’ ‘NOBLE THOUGHTS IN NOBLE LANGUAGE,’ ‘gone before,' ‘bridal bouquet,’ etc. etc. etc. SIXTH EDITION. rl, <^’’'Sent and religious is the very soul of a house: she gives orders for uie good things of this life, and for those too of eternity.’—Bishop Horne. ‘Housekeeping and husbandry, if it be good, hfust love one another, as cousins in blood ; The WIFE, too, must husband as well as the man. Or farewell thy husbandry, do what thou can.* XusssR. EDINBURGH: WILLIAM P. NIMMO & CO. i88i.MOBHISON and GIBB, EDINBUBGH, pbintebs to her majesty’s stationery office. S.I5I37.DEDICATED TO MY DAUGHTER J U Xk I ft. — 4" - In herself she dwelleth not, ALTHO’ no home were half so FAIR; No SIMPLEST DUTY IS FORGOT : Life hath no dim and lowly spot That doth not in her sunshine share 1 b6 Oh ! Thou whose merciful decree Hast knit our hearts in bonds of lovCj Our sure defence and safeguard be, Whate’er our wedded lot may prove. Without Thy blessing love is vain, The varied ills of life to bear; But when bestowed, few griefs remain Beyond affection’s healing care. Avert from us the spirit’s chill. Each wand’ring thought and fickle mood j Mould every feeling to Thy will, Incline our hearts to every good. Implanting deep that perfect trust. Of love’s rich soil the flower most dear ; Turn all our promised joys to dust. But leave that root unwithered here. Blend with our love that gentleness Which turns each angry word aside, Which stifles wrath with tenderness. And melts away the frost of pride.PREFACE. > ' Be on earth a poem of God's malting.’—Herbert. THE SPECTATOR, in one of those admirable papers which de- lighted a former generation, tells us that ‘ the utmost of a woman’s character is contained in domestic life, and that there she is the most blameable or praiseworthy.’ It is my design, in this Handbook of Domestic Management, to aid my Countrywomen, who aim to make an English home what it should be, in matters which are neither incon- siderable in themselves nor unimportant in their influence. Some of these will at once be accepted as worthy of consideration in the in- teresting affairs of home life; others may seem trivial to those who, from inexperience, scarcely know how trifles affect the general result, or how much the wise management of little things tells upon the comfort and happiness of a household. In these days of general progress we expect to find some degree of refinement, as well as of comfort, in the domestic arrangements of persons in the middle class of English society. A cultivated mind will by a touch add embellishment to common things, and surround them, without much more cost than that of a little thought and interest, with something of grace and beauty. If, therefore, in this work I may sometimes seem to treat of trivialities, I would apply to them the words of Monckton Milnes (Lord Houghton): • The world is wide, these things are small; They may be nothing, but they are all.' The object of this book is to make the management of domestic affairs easy and interesting. I have examined many treatises on the same subject. To the suggestions they have supplied I have added what occurs to me from my own experience and observation; and as the result, there will be found in the following pages much to promotePREFACE. 8 the pleasantness and completeness of things in any household, and in particular, in one of that large and important middle class, the comfort and well-being of which cannot be too earnestly desired. May I venture to suggest, especially to the young Mistress who has newly entered upon the responsibilities of that home-sphere in which woman’s mission is mainly to be found, and where it may be most gracefully fulfilled, that a wise economy and management of things will tend, with God’s blessing, to secure the permanent happiness of the little kingdom in which she reigns, and light up with the brightness of content and satisfaction the face she most loves to see. My wish is, that she should not feel those responsibilities so heavily as to oppress her with care; and with my manual as her daily companion, I am inclined to believe that she will feel her burden greatly lightened. I have striven not to overcrowd my pages, as that would bewilder rather than direct The Lady whom I am addressing is doubtless intellectual and accomplished; she will therefore understand that the mind requires a good substratum of physical nourishment, and will also be able to appreciate the apt and wise words of the lamented Rev. F. W. Robert- son, of Brighton : ‘ The glory of womanhood is no common glory; it is that of unsensualizing coarse and common things, the objects of mere sense, meat and drink and household cares,—elevating them by the spirit in which she ministers them into something transfigimed and sublime.’ HENRY SOUTHGATE. Woodbine, Sidmoutii Devon.V CONTENTS ' We content ourselves to present to thinking minds the original seeds from whence spring vast fields of new theories that ma> be further cultivated, beautified, and enlarged.’—The Chevalier Ramsay. Prelude of Mottoes expressive of what all Good Men think of Women ^Iarketing ....... General Remarks on Cookery .... Dinners arranged for Every Day in the Year, and Dessert FOR Every Month, with due Attention tc the Things in Season • • • , Party Dinners Breakfasts • • • • . Tea Suppers •••... Vegetables—a few Hints as to their Cooking, etc. Salads ..... Sauces Pickling . . . _ Summer Beverages, Liqueurs, etc. Confectionery, Cakes, and Preserves Household Recipes Hints on Travelling Dress, etc. .... Recipes for Accidents and Slight Physical Derangements The Garden and Gardening • • Hints for the Angels of our Household, chiefly as touching Deportment and Conduct in Life Prayer, etc. , Index PAGE II 17 18 27 375 425 427 429 436 439 443 454 457 460 473 477 480 458 496 508 52S 537s. • ^ • f *N - " 'N ‘ ■ u> / *■ ■'-* w" rtiVV f* If. i*' , V ■ '» f'Jf ='*=', ''"' ■» ' . ' ■ • V'' . I • 1 ■ V;- -j'-- « 1 Xi \ / t \PRELUDE OF MOTTOES EXPRESSIVE OF WHAT ALL GOOD MEN THINK OF WOMEN. In garnering together these few mottoes, expressive of what all true and good men think of the gentle sex, I have had no difficulty. The brave and generous spirits of all times have ever been ready to speak out of the simple abundance of their hearts; hence I have had rather to curtail riches of literature on this theme, than delve for it. And the motive I have for binding this bouquet together as a free-will offering to the maidens, the mothers, and the matrons of the world, is simply to let them know that loving specimens of each have ever existed, and will exist, to bless and humanize our rougher sex. A loving woman is an angel in the house, her presence and influence have ever been on the right side. From our earliest infancy woman moulds us, and the greatest men have ever willingly and cordially acknowledged a mother’s love and early training. How great, then, is your responsibility ! As you plant, so shall the harvest yield; as you bend, so shall the tree grow. Our future is undoubtedly in the hands of woman; and it coidd not be better hands. How truly Shakspeare thought, when he wrote of you as ‘ the books, the arts, the academies, that show, contain, and nourish all the world ’! Assuredly this is so, and with all my heart I endorse his most excellent judgment. I cannot do better than close these few proemial observations by quoting the inspired words of the wisest man who ever lived:— ' A virtuous woman ! her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. ‘She will do him good, and not evil, all the days of her life. •She seeketh wool and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands, ^ She IS hke the merchants’ ships ; she bringeth her food from afar. norfinn tn night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. vineyrrS ^ ‘he fruit of her hands she planteth a I She girde* her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She Perceiveth that her merchandise is good ; her candle goeth not out by night. ^ She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff. needy ‘he poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the with scarii."°‘ household : for aU her household are clothed ‘She maketh herself coverings of tapestry ; her clothing is silk and purple Her husband ,s known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdks unto the mer“PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. 12 ‘ Strength and honour are her clothing, and she shall rejoice kMness ‘ She openeth her mouth with wisdom ; and in her tongue is idleness, . She looketh «U to the of her household and ...e.h not bread • Her ehlldren arise «p, and call her blessed I her husband ^o. «d he prats ‘ Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excel es • , . Give her of the trait of her hands, and let her o«n work, "f' f V * She doeth little kindnesses, Which most leave undone or despise; For nought that sets one heart at ease, And giveth happiness or peace. Is low-esteemfed in her eyes.'—J. R. Lowell. * Let no man value at a little price A virtuous woman's counsel; her wing'd spirit Is feather'd oftentimes with heavenly words. And, like her beauty, ravishing and pure. —ChAPMA . •She Is making with her heavenly face Sweetness like sunlight, and the place Grows luminous.'—Robert Buchanan. ‘Oh woman 1 lovely woman! nature made thee To temper man; we had been brutes wthout you . Angels are painted fair to look like you ; There's in you all that we believe of heaven. Amazing brightness, purity, and tr^th. Eternal joy, and everlasting love. —Otwa . • Day unto day her dainty hands Make life's soil'd temples clean , ■ The socicy bt n wo»a. of ^«nc and pleasing than that received from ^ ^ certain floiving urbanity • Nothing lovelier can be found f kbf rvhilosoohical discipline, training persons to bon^ of° ‘ I know, dear heart 1 that in our lot Mav mingle tears and sorrow ; But love's rich rainbow's built from tears To-day with smiles to-morrow.^3 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. The sunshine from our sky may die. The greenness from life’s tree ; But ever, 'mid the warring storm, Thy nest shall shelter'd be.’—Geeai.d Massey. • She who does not make her family comfortable, will herself never be happy at home ; mid she who is not happy at home, will never be happy anywhere. —Addison. ' In words be thou A gentle flower grown musical.’—Derozier. ‘ How do the duties of a good wife, a good mother, and worthy matron, well per- formed, dignify a woman !'—Richardson. The scales of household polity are the scales of love; and she who holds them should be a sympathizing friend, ever ready to make allowance for failures, ingenious in contriving apologies, more lavish of counsels than rebukes, and less anxious to overwhelm a person with a sense of deficiency than to awaken in the bosom a consciousness of power to do better.’—T. S. Arthur. • The air of Paradise did fan the house. And angels officed all.'—Shakspeare. ‘ According to the experience I have learned, I require in married women the economi- cal virtue above all other virtues.'—Fuller. •Woman was created to refine the joys and soften the cares of humanity by the most agreeable participation.'—Addison. ' She twines and inweaves Heavenly roses with life’s earthly leaves,— Weaves for her favour'd ones love’s happy band ; Veiled in fair grace, and in modesty's tire. Watchful she feeds with perpetual fire High sensibilities, holy of hand.'—Schiller. ‘Woman should be acquainted that no beauty has charms like the inward one of the mind, and that a gracefulness of her manners is much more engaging than that of her person ; that meekness and modesty are the true and lasting ornaments: for she that has these is qualified, as she ought to be, for the management of a family, for the education of children, for an affection to her husband, and submitting to a prudent way of living. ’ Epictetus. • Can comeliness of form, or shape, or air. With comeliness of words or deeds compare ? No : those at first the unwary heart may gain ; But these, these only, can that heart retain.'—Gay. • 'Tis virtue that doth make them most admired ; ‘Tis modesty that makes them seem divine.'—Shakspeare. ‘Good without effort—great without a foe.’—Byron,PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. U ‘Women are never so amiable as when they are useful.'—Cobbett, ‘ The foundation of domestic happiness is faith in the virtue of woman.'—Landok. ‘ She hath a natural wise sincerity, A simple truthfulness ; and these have lent her A dignity as moveless as the centre.’—J. R. Lowell, ‘ A world of comfort Lies in that one word, wife.—After a bickering day. To come with jaded spirit home at night. And find the cheerful fire, the sweet repast. At which, in dress of happy cheeks and eyes. Love sits, and smiling, lightens all the board.’—KNOWLES. ‘ Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever; Do noble things, not dream them, all day long; And so make life, death, and that vast for ever, One grand, sweet song.’—Charles Kingsley, ‘ How much is it to be regretted that women should ever sit down contented to polish, v/hen they are able to reform,—to entertain, when they might instruct! '—Dr. Blair. ‘All her luxury was doing good.’—Garth, • A good wife is none of your dainty dames, who love to appear in a variety of smts every day new ; as if a good gown, like a stratagem in war, were to be used but once.’— Fuller. 'Her sway is held on earth. Enthroned by native worth.’—Thomas Woolner. ‘ I am prejudiced in favour of her who can ask with a loving confidence,^ yet tvithout rudeness ; she has faith in humanity, she has faith in herself. No one who is not accus- tomed to’give generously, can ask nobly and with all faith.’-Lavater. • It makes us proud when our love of a girl is returned ; it ought to make us prouder still when we can love her for herself alone, without the aid of any such selfish reflection. This is the religion of love.’—Hazlitt. ‘ It is in the heart that God has placed the genius of woman, because the works of their genius are all works of love. Lamartine. ‘ TeU me a thing she cannot dress— Soups, hashes, pickles, pudding, pies; Nought comes amiss—she is so wise.’—Lloyd. Give me next good, an imderstanding wife. By nature wise, not leamfed by much art. Some knowledge on her side, will all my life More scope of conversation impart: Besides, her inborne vertue fortifie. , . c t- They are most firmly good, that best know why. SiR T, OVEKBURY. • Sweet the music of the step That meets us at the door.’—J. R Drake.15 PRELUDE OF MOTTOES. * Silence and a chaste resen'e Is woman's genuine praise, and to remain Quiet within the house.'—Euripides, ' In person decent, and in dress. Her manners and her words express The purity of mind ; Good humour brightens up her face. Where passion never leaves a trace. Nor frows a look unkind ; No vexing sneer, no angry word. No scandal from her lips is heard. Where truth and sweetness blend. Submissive to her husband's will. Her study is to please him still. His fond and faithful friend. She watches his returning way. When from the troubles of the day He seeks an hour of bliss : She runs to meet him with a smile. And if no eye be near awhile. The smile is with a kiss.'—Anon. ‘Let no man value at a little price a virtuous woman's counsel.'—George Chap.man. The modest virgin, the prudent wife, or the careful matron, are much more serviceable in life than petticoated philosophers, blustering heroines, or virago queens.'— Goldsmith. ‘ Th affection warm, the temper mild. The sweetness that in sorrow smiled ; The cheek where beauty glowed. The heart where goodness overflowed.'—LoGAN. Oh, what makes woman lovely ? Virtue, faith. And gentleness in suffering ; an endurance Through scorn or trial: these call beauty forth. Give it the stamp celestial, and admit it To sisterhood with angels !'—Brent. ‘Gently entreating, and sweetly beguiling, Woman reigns while the graces around her are smiling. Calming down the fierce discord of hatred and pride.'—Schiller. ‘ Thy soft hand, amid the maze 01 ill, , Can rear one blissful bower of Eden’still.'—Beresford. Fair ladies I you drop manna in the way of starved people.'-Shakspearf. ' Well thou play'dst the housewife's part, And all thy threads with magic art Have wound themselves about this heart. My Mary 1'—Covvper.i6 prelude of mottoes. * Hers was a gracious and a gentle house, Rich in obliging nice observances, And famed ancestral hospitality. A cool repose lay grateful thro’ the place ; And pleasant duties (promptly, truly done. And every service moved by hidden springs Sped with intelligence) went smoothly round.'—Thomas Woolner. * Blessing she is : God made her so. And deeds of week-day holiness Fall from her, noiseless as the snow; Nor hath she ever chanced to know That aught were easier than to bless.’—J. R. Lowell. ‘ Her voice was sweet. And tuned to music, bearing with it a charm.’—Barry Cornwall. ‘ When she spoke. Such a becoming diffidence adorn’d The accents of her voice, as seem'd to say She fear’d her words might wound that modesty In whose defence her trembling tongue pronounced ’eui. In gentle, yet in most persuasive sort.’—Beller. ‘ A lively smile, that sent This silent speech in sunshine to his heart.’—Wiffen. • She will be herself in all changes of fortune; neither blown up by prosperity, nor broken with adversity. You will find in her an even, cheerful, good-humoured friend, and an agreeable companion for life. She wiU infuse knowledge into your children with their milk, and from their infancy train them up to wisdom. Whatever company you are engaged in, you will long to be at home ; and retire with delight from the society of men into the bosom of one who is so dear, so accomplished, and so amiable. If she touches her lute, or sings to it any of her own compositions, her voice will soothe you in your solitude, and sound more sweetly in your ear than that of the nightingale. You will spend with pleasure whole days and nights in her conversation, and be for ever finding out new beauties in her discourse. She wiU keep your mind in perpetual serenity, restrain its mirth from being dissolute, and prevent its melancholy from being painfuL’—Sir T. More. ' We do not call a woman’s perfection manliness. We do not think that woman will ever find her crown—though she may seek it—in quitting her privacy, and usurping the functions of statesmen, of orators, of professional workmen. We incline to think that, in grasping at power, she will lose influence ; and that, though the novelty may dazzle for a moment, in the end the performance will disappoint the promise.’—Rev. C. J. Vaughan, D.D. ' Come near me, wife ; I fare the better far. For the sweet food of thy divine advice; Let no man value at a little price A virtuous woman’s counsel. Her wing’d spirit Is feather’d oftentimes with heavenly words. And, like her beauty, ravishing and pure.’—Chapmai*.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. ‘ There is a ripe season for everything; and if you slip that, or anticipate it, you dim the grace of the matter, be it ever so good.’—Bishop Hackett. The first rule of marketing is to purchase from respectable trades- people, who have to support the character of their shops. The second rule is, not to purchase inferior articles under the idea of being econornical. A bargain is seldom a prize; and this is especially the case with regard to butchers’ meat. The best meat, and the prime parts, are unquestionably the cheapest in the end, although the first cost may be the greatest. In coarse and inferior joints there is always too great a proportion of gristle, bone, and hard meat, to render them truly economic. Good meat has the following characteristics :— 1. It is neither of a pale pink colour, nor of a deep purple tint. 2. It has a marked appearance, from the ramification of little veins of fat among the muscles. 3. It should be firm and elastic to the touch; bad meat bein<r wet, sodden, and flabby, with the fat looking like jelly or wet narcir- mpnt" MARKETING. GOOD MEAT. , IS uiscoveraoie wlien the meat opped up and drenched with warm water. 5- It should not shrink nor waste much in cooking.—LctJieby. not be ell, and meat is warm water. BTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. i8 GENERAL REMARKS ON THE ART OF COOKING. ‘ Pythree, read H thy right wits.'—Shakspeare. It is a true though trite remark, that ‘ God is the Giver and the devil s the Cook,’ in too many cases; and all for want of attendon to a few general laws, if I may so speak, that rule all good cooking. I have gathered together the following excellent remarks on the various modes of cookery from esteemed authorities, well worthy of study, and from their common sense most practicable. SOUP-MAKING. The chief art in making good soup lies in the judicious blending o the different flavours, so that nothing shall predominate. ^ The scum should be taken off before the soup boils, or it will not be clear. All the fat is to be taken off. . ,, , j Simmer very softly. If soup be suffered to boil quickly, the goodness of the meat can never be extracted. Put the meat into cold water; let it be long on the fire before it comes to a boil; allow about 2 table-spoonfuls of salt to a gaUon of soup, if it have many vegetables ; less, if the vegetables be few. From 4 pints to i quart of water to every pound of meat will make ®°if th^water waste, and more is to be added, use boiling water. Cold or lukewarm water will spoil the soup. Keep the saucepan in which your soup is boiling closely covered, 0 the strength will fly off with the steam. , j * ,.1 ~ Soup will be as good the second day as the first, if heated to the boiling point. It should never be left in the saucepan, but should be turned into a dish or shallow pan, and set aside to get cold. Never rover it up, as that will cause it to turn sour very quickly. Be^^ a second time, remove all the fat from the top. It this be melted in, the flavour of the soup will certainly be spoiled. Thicirened require nearly double the seasoning used for thin souDS or broth. . - , Brown soup is made chiefly of beef; white soup of veal. _ It should be observed, that split peas will not soften m salt hqu , *ere?orif you make yob soup of salt pork or salt beef liquor, it va be necessary to boil the peas by themselves m a small quantity of so t watefuntiUhey are melted l the vegetables meanume wiU be cookingTHE ART OF COOKING. 19 in the liquor, and the peas, when sufficiently done, must be added. Some persons lay the peas in soak over night, but it is not a good plan. Green peas make an excellent soup in summer. The peas are boiled to a pulp and then rubbed through a sieve, afterwards flavoured with pepper and salt, and, for those who like it, an onion, a carrot, and a spoonful or two of catsup may be added; but these things tend to destroy the flavour of the peas. Stock.—Put in 10 lbs. of fresh killed shin of beef, and i pint of water; let it stand by the fire for an hour, then add f lb. of lean ham, 3 carrots, 3 onions, i small head of celery, 4 cloves, 6 allspice, 10 peppercorns, i tea-spoonful salt, do. mustard, i table-spoonful brown sugar, I large black onion, and 6 quarts of water. Simmer for six hours, skimming frequently. Strain through a fine hair sieve that has been dipped in cold water, into an earthen (uncovered) pan, and when cold remove the fat. It makes about 4 quarts, and what remains each day may be boiled up. ROASTING. Time-Table for Roasting. Ten lbs. of beef will take from two hours to two hours and a half roasting, eighteen inches from a good fire. Six lbs., one hour and a quarter to an hour and a half, fourteen inches from the fire. Three ribs of beef, boned and rolled, well tied round with paper, will take two hours and a half, eighteen inches from the fire, and only baste once. If beef is very fat, it does not require basting; if very lean, tie it up in greasy paper, and baste well. Eight lbs. of veal will take from one hour and a half to two hours, eighteen inches from the fire \ if stuffed, at least two hours. Chump, or loin and kidneys, of 4 lbs., will take one hour and a quarter j baste well. Six lbs. of breast, one hour, twelve inches from the fire. Six lbs. of the shoulder and neck, the same. Calf's heart, well stuffed, and tied up in paper, three-quarters of an hour. ^ A leg mutton, of 8 lbs., will take one hour and a half, eighteen inches from the fire. Saddle, 10 lbs., one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half, eighteen inches, measuring from the flat surface Shoulder, one hour and a half; loin, one hour and a half; breast, three- quarters of an hour; neck, one hour. * Lamb, according to size, but in the same proportion less than mutton but ought always to be well done, and placed nearer the fire • if a -ood fire, about fifteen inches from it. ’ ^ Pork should be well done. A leg of 6 lbs., with skin over, two hours.20 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW eighteen inches from the fire. Loin of the same one hour. Neck he same weight, one hour and three-quarters. Pork rubbed w^h salt the ni-ht previous, and then scraped before roasting, improves the flavour. In resting of beef, mutton, lamb, pork, and poultry, place a drippmg- pan under the meat, with a little clean dripping or fat, which should be Lry hot when the meat is basted. A quarter of an hour add^ \ pint of water to the fat in the dripping-pan; dredge the meat with flour and salt. When the meat is dished up, pour the contents of with flour and salt ^ . 'reSi^ve all the fat, add a little colouring and salt to the gravy, and pour '' VraUnd half the quantity of water Put -to the strained, added to ^ pin. ^ toe. nrel.ed butter. with 2 tea-spoonfuls of any sauce for flavour.-d/. Soyer. boiling. Meat.sbou,dbeboned»av^^^^^^^ SO that It may have perfe ^ ^ p^^. will be hard and disco oure ^ t avoided; for, as the meat r:;dre"rve7ed;ith water full two inehes. the liquor rvill then be too weak to be of any semee . , ^^,,3 „psjde Before putting your joint into the pot, P" down, so that the ”2^hou^^ be put into eold soft Stick to the bottom. All km . water; and with fresh , boil too quickly, and The water should not be removed and for a few minutes just before it boils the scum s ^ render the ifterwards; for, if the scum be pot and set it meat black. When it is skimmed J,ever, that it aside, so that water iva^te in the boiling.it will be never ceases to do so. Should covered: in this case necessary to add more, so as in a cloth, it will be boiling water must be used. ^ quarter of whiter, but the liquor wi 1 be JP“f .He time the water an hour to every pound o ’ infallible rule, as some parts begins to boil i but this is by pie« of brisket of of meat require much more co g cooking than a piece of beef, for instance, „ould surely spoil the best end the round of the same w^g . y .,..,5 as the tat "xhetoT must L= her “own judgment, in some measure, onTHE ART OF COOKING. 21 these matters. When meat is perfectly fresh, it requires more time for cooking than when stale or long-killed. Good meat invariably swells in boiling. If corned meat be too salt, you may pour off the water after it has boiled a few minutes, and replace it with fresh. BROILING. For broiling, the fire should be brisk and perfectly clear: a good strong cinder fire is best. Set the gridiron over for a minute or two to get hot, then wipe it quite clean with a clean damp cloth—do not use paper; then rub a bit of hard dripping or suet over the bars, to pr,event the meat sticking to them. Put the lean of the meat on the back part of the girdiron, and the fat in the front; pepper your meat before you lay it on, but do not salt it, as that draws out the gravy. Turn the meat once or twice, but do not insert a fork for that purpose. Do not beat the meat before broiling; it will not make tough meat tender, and it expels the juices. Broiled meat should be cooked quickly, and served quite hot; on taking it off the girdiron, lay it on a hot dish, sprinkle it with salt, and lay a. good lump of butter over it. Some persons like ketchup or walnut-liquor with broiled meat; others like the dish rubbed with a shalot. Instead of buying our cutlets and chops ready for the girdiron or pan, we buy loins and necks of fat mutton, at least half of which are thrown to waste. The enormous weight of meat thus daily in our kitchens would be most acceptable to the poorer classes, and could be readily sold to them by the butcher; for the inferior parts of good meat are far more wholesome and nourishing than the best parts of inferior meat, such as the poorer classes chiefly eat. The second step, there- fore towards kitchen reform ought to be an arrangement with the butcher, that every joint sent in should be closely trimmed for the table e ore it leaves his shop; and that, if we want chops or cutlets, we should buy from him chops and cutlets, and not the entire joints from which they are cvX.—British Medical Journal. 1-KYliNG. f cooking, the most objectionable, from the foods bemg less digestible when thus prepared, as the fat employed undergoes chemical changes. Olive oil, in this respect, is preferable to lard or butter If the meat is very juicy, it will not fry welf becau e It becomes sodden before the water is evaporated; and it wiU fot b own, because the temperature is too low to scorch it. To fry fishTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 22 well, the fat should be boiling hot and the fish well dried in a c oth; otherwise, owing to the generation of steam, the temperature will fall so low, that it will be boiled in its own steam, and not be browned. Meat, or indeed any article, should be frequently turned and agitated during frying, to promote the evaporation of the watery particles To make fried things look well, they should be done over twice with egg and stale bread-crumbs. STEWS AND SALTED MEAT. Liebig observes, that stewing meat with vegetables is probably the most economical mode of cookery that has ever been '"ven^d, and many think it the most palatable. The meat should be cut into mode- rately smaU pieces, and put into the water when cold; and the whole should be very gradually heated till it nearly reaches the boihng point. The vegetables should be put in when the meat is about half toe and if a few onions are fried and added to the stew, they not o“y 4c“ ase the flavour, but give a rich brown colour. Setto sHouU ''Mterc'£ttbre‘'txperiments, Liebig found that the kind of salted mett whJiTs least injurious to the system is that which is cured with salt containing a considerable portion of of maenesium ; the external aspect of flesh salted in this manner Dein^ coverfd as if with a white froth, consisting chiefly of phosphate of lime eaten with caution by those who have weak stomachs. TO DRESS POULTRY. inches. A good-sized fowl will take th q of fourteen twenty minut^es ; hire'large, one hoir and a half; if very pounds, two hours and a half, hare.^ag^ tete them, but dredge all. rtar;S tobel “em^over wl butter, as for Small glm: should be placed nearer the fire.-ul/. 5 ) ■THE ART OF COOKING. 23 Time for Keeping Poultry and Game. Hare, Rabbit, Pheasant, . Young fat pullet. Partridge, . Turkey, duck, goose, Capon, Chickens, . Young pigeons. In Summer. 3 days. 2 » 4 » 4 » In Winter. 6 days. 4 >> JO „ 10 „ 6 to 8 „ 4 »' 4 » When the weather is moist or rainy, the articles must be kept, some- what less time. TO DRESS FISH. Fish must be put into cold or boiling water according to its firmness of flesh : for instance, turbot, salmon, mackerel, etc., should be put into cold water; while plaice, whitings, haddocks, and such soft-fleshed, as Avell as crimped fish, should be put into boiling water. The reason is obvious: by putting flaccid and watery fish into the water cold, it is rendered still more soft and watery; but the boiling water sets it, and renders it firmer. On the other hand, the cold water penetrates and softens the fish that is of a firmer texture, and makes it eat more tender and delicate. Keep the water skimmed while the fish is boiling. Fish is cooked enough when it leaves the bone easily. Be sure to wash and clean your fish well, never trusting to the fishmonger. In frying fish, having washed it, dry it thoroughly in a clean cloth; then flour it well, or whisk it over with egg, and dip it into bread-crumbs before frying it. Be sure your pan is very clean, and that your fat (of which there should be enough to cover the fish) boils before you put the fish in. Fry fish quickly, of a fine light brown. Some like fish fried m batter—as good a batter as any, is a little ale and flour beaten up just as you are ready for it; then dip the fish in before frying it. Put plenty of salt in the water in which you boil fish, and a stick of horse- radish, excepting mackerel, with which you boil salt, mint, parslev or fennel. FISH SEASONS. The cod-fish comes in September, and disappears in March.24 TfT/NGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Crimped Gloucester salmon is plentiful in June and part of July; but it may be procured almost all the year round. Common salmon, from March to July. Salmon peale, from June to July. Spey trout, from May to July. Sturgeon is very good in June. Turbot, soles, and brill are in season all the year round. John Dory’s depend entirely upon chance, but may be procured all the year round for the epicure. May excepted. The original season of Yarmouth mackerel is from the 12th of May till the end of July; now we have Christmas mackerel; then the West of England mackerel, which are good at the beginning of April. Haddock and whiting all the year round. Skate all the winter. Smelts from the Medway are the best, and are winter fish; the Yarmouth and Carlisle are good, but rather large; the Dutch are also very large, which often lose in the estimation of the epicure. Gurnards are spring fish. Fresh herrings, from November to January. River eels all the year round. Lobsters and prawns, spring, and part of summer. Crabs are best in May. Barrelled oysters, from the middle of September till the end of February. , ,, , , Sprats were formerly said to come in on Lord Mayor s day (Novem- ber o), but they are only good in frosty weather. Fish is readily known to be in perfection by the layer of curdy matter interposed within its flakes. It often happens, however, that those parts of fish—viz. the pulpy, gelatinous, or glutinous—which are con- sidered the most delicious, are the most indigestible. PIES AND PUDDINGS. In boiling puddings, see that the cloth is perfectly clean. Dip it m ho! wa°eVand dredge it well with flour. If a bread puddrng, t,e tt loose; if a batter pudding, tie it nearly close; apple and gooseberry pudding, etc., should be tied quite close. When you _ make a batter pudding first mix the flour well with milk, and stir in the other LrediLts by degrees; you will then have it smooth without lumps. Stfain the eggs when they are beaten up. Be sure the water boils when you put your pudding in, that it keeps boiling all the time, and is always LveLd with^ter; you should also move it about two or three timesTHE ART OF COOKING. 25 at first, or it may stick to the pot; dip the pudding into cold water immediately you take it out, to prevent it sticking. If you boil your pudding in a dish or basin, butter the inside before putting the pud- ding in; the same should be done to the dish lor a baked pudding or pie. The quality of pie-crust depends much on the baking. If the oven be too hot, the paste, besides being burned, will fall; if too slack, it will be soddened, and consequently heavy. Paste should be made on a cold, smooth substance, such as marble, with a light, cool hand. It should be made quickly; much handling makes it heavy. Great nicety is required in wetting the paste, too liftle moisture rendering it dry and crumbly, while too much makes it tough and heavy; and in either case, the paste cannot be easily worked. Practice alone can produce perfection in this art. Before commencing to make paste for pies or puddings, it is neces- sary to place near at hand everything likely to be wanted, to inspect all the utensils, to prepare all the ingredients, and though last, not least, to wash the hands and nails perfectly clean; for the hands are the best tools to make paste with. Always use good sweet butter, dripping, or lard for pie or pudding crust. Some persons entertain the mistaken notion that butter which cannot be eaten on bread will do very well for paste ; on the contrary, the baking or boiling of rancid fat increases the bad flavour. It is a good plan to wash the butter in clean spring water before using it. Make two or three holes with a fork in the cover of your pies, that the steam may escape. TO DRESS VEGETABLES. Be careful to pick and wash greens thoroughly; pick them close, for one old outside leaf will deteriorate a dishful; split the stems of cabbages across twice. They should be washed in a pan, as particles of sand or dust are very apt to hang round wooden vessels; do not pour or pump he water on them but plunge them in; it is a good plan to throw into the water a good handful of salt, as that will draw out worms or other insects, which you cannot see without pulling the vegetables to pieces. ^eens should be boiled by themselves, in plenty of water, with a good lump of salt; the water should boil when they are put in, and be twhtS; done, or they are unwhole;ome; a No dhections can be given as to the exact time that vegetables take oihng, as much depends on their size and age. To ascertain when26 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. they are done enough, pass a fork through the stem: if soft, they are done ; they begin to sink when nearly boiled enough. Greens should be perfectly strained, and that immediately they are done. DRIED HERBS, ETC., FOR WINTER USE. Cut the herbs on a dry day, just before they flower ; cut off the hard parts of the stems, and dry the tender tops and leaves in an oven (or hot closet or screen) between two dishes, as quickly as possible, pro- vided they are not burnt; pick off the leaves while Ijot. thern well in a mortar, and put them into bottles to be well stopped: they °''BtliHs^Vth^besTsto^^^ drying from the middle of August, and ^'"TnltlS^i^arjoram—from the beginning of July, and during the same. Savoury-the latter end of July, and throughout August Thyme, lemon thyme, orange thyme—during June and Ju y. Mint—latter end of June and during July. Sage—August and September. Tarragon—June, July, and August Chervil—May, June, and July. Burnet and basil—June, July, and August. Parsley—May, June, and July. Fennel—May, June, and July. Flder-flowers—May, June, and July, _ j Herb-mixture of equal proportions of knotted marjoram and winter with half the quantity of basil, thyme, and tarragon, dried, '.oTcwdetand 4. ia a Cose.y-coAed bcUle, will be eseta. lor force-meats and flavouring.27 DINNERS, ARRANGED FOR EVERY DAY IN THE YEAR; AND DESSERT FOR EVERY MONTH, WITH DUE ATTENTION TO THE PROVISIONS IN SEASON. '‘ There’s no want of meat, sir : Portly and curious viands are prepared, To please all kinds of appetites.’ —MASSINGESi. 23JANUARY 1. * Moderate your expenses now, at first. As you may keep the same proportion still. Nor stand so much on your gentility. ’—Ben Jonson. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Fish : Brill—Cod—Crab—Dace—Eels—Haddocks—Ling—Lobsters—Oysters— Pike—Prawns—Shrimps—Skate—Smelts—Sprats—Sturgeon—Tench—Turbot —Whitings. Meat : Beef—House-Lamb—Mutton—Pork—Veal and Venison. Poultry : Turkeys—Capons—Pullets—Tame Pigeons—Rabbits. Game : Grouse—Hares—Partridges—Pheasants—Snipes—Wild Fowl—Widgeon- Woodcocks. Vegetables : Brocoli—Brussels Sprouts—Cabbage—Carrots—Leeks — Celery Parsnips—Savoys—Spinach. FRUITS IN SEASON. Apples Grapes Medlars—Pears —Walnuts—Nuts—Oranges—Foreign preserved Fruits—Dried Fruits—Almonds and Raisins—French and Spanish Plums—Dates —Prunes—Figs. BILL OF 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 2. Cod’s Head and Shoulders ; BOILED Oyster Sauce. 3. Roast Sirloin of Beef and SCRAPED Horseradish. 4. Brussels Sprouts. FARE. 5. Mealy Potatoes. 6. Cabinet Pudding. 7. Lemon Tartlett. 8. Stilton Cheese, Celery, and PULLED Bread. I. Mock Turtle Parboil, in separate saucepans of a large size and well filled with water, half a calf’s head with the skin on, and half a pig’s head. Skim the water constantly in which the first is boilin^r. 1 ake both out, cut the meat off in oblong squares about an inch and°a quarter long, and slice the tongues; put the bones of both into the 2?rilINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3° liquor in which the calf’s head has been boiled, with a table-spoonful of sweet herbs in powder, the juice of two lemons, and the peel of one chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, a table-spoonful of mushroom powder, and a chalot chopped fine; let it all simmer slowly over the fire for a couple of hours. Make a couple of dozen savoury forcemeat balls, and boil a dozen eggs very hard. Pour the liquor through a sieve at the expiration of the two hours, and let it be quite cold before you remove the fat and scum j the liquor ought to be m a jelly, but not too stiff a one. Put this into a stewpan with the meat, the forcemeat balls, the yolks of the eggs, a spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne, with half a pint of sherry. Stew for an hour and a half, and it will be fit for table. 2. Cod's Head and Shoulders; boiled Oyster Satice.—Clean a cods head and shoulders in one piece, and lay it in salt all night. Before you dress it, bind it firmly together with tape. Put it into a fish-kettle with plenty of cold water, a handful of salt, and a stick of horseradish. Let it boil slowly for about three-quarters of an hour, then let thejmter drain from it across the top of the kettle. Place it on a hot dish back upwards, and draw away the tapes very carefully. Brush it over with beaten egg, and strew over it bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; then stick pieces of butter thickly over the top. Set it before the fire, whic should be clear and brisk, to brown. Make a rich oyster sauce with gravy well seasoned with cayenne pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour it into the dish, but not over the fish. Do not boil tht oysters. 2 Koast Sirloin of Beef arid scraped Horseradish.—'Sa\o\^x of beef win require as many quarters of an hour before the fire as it weighs pounds; it should be covered with clean white paper, well basted, and sent to table with newly-made mustard. _ ■. -r 4 Brussels .prouts should be put mto boding water in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved, men 5 minutes on the fire will be sufficient. Dram them well, and serve wit '°‘"'^fMf^y^Fotatoes.—?at the required number, well washed but nelu' into a saucepan, and cover them with water about an above f^oS It the top. Let them boil on a fire not too fierce, so that he those at tne top saucepan, and let it stand on the T"''f"iL"hcrtnra foric easily penetrates the vegetable; you may nff thfwatrand let the steam evaporate; when you now drain off the , ^ clean cloth over the perceive that the ^ comer till the potatoes r duue su.cient time for "T four sponge-cakes into small pieces, add31 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. three or four bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of candied citron, two ounces of ratafia cakes; beat up five eggs with two glasses of brown sherry, and one of brandy; add enough fine Lisbon sugar to sweeten it; boil a pint of milk with half a dozen cloves and a quarter of a stick of cinnamon; strain, and add the milk to the above. See that the mould be well buttered, and boil two hours. 7. Lemon Tartlett, Siilion Cheese, and Celery, with pulled Bread.— The juice of two lemons, and the peel grated; clean the grater with bread. Crumbs only sufficient to clean the grater from the peel. Beat all together with two eggs, half a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter; put in a light paste, and bake it. J ANU A R Y 2. ‘ True delicacy, that most beautiful heart-leaf of humanity, exhibits t significantly in little things. ’—Mary Howitt. 1. Roast Pheasant, Gravy, .and Bread Sauce. 2. Cold Sirloin of Beef and Horseradish. itself most 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Brocoli. 5- Sutherland Pudding. I. Roast Pheasant, Gravy, and Bread Sauee.—It should hang for some time, and not be plucked till in a good condition to be cooked Wipe the inside with a damp cloth after it is plucked and drawn, and ss It with the head brought round under the wing. Flour and baste well before a brisk fire; if a large bird, it will take about an hour Serve with bread sauce and plenty of brown gravy, pouring a little round the bird. For Bread Sauce, see the 3d oOanLy ® 3. Mashed Fotatoes.—When sufficiently boiled, drain them quite drv • beat them over the fire till free from lumps, and stir well in a or r tabTe’ spoonfuls of mrlk, a little salt, and butter. Allow about an omce of butter to each pound of mashed potatoes. 4- ^^4.—Pare off the side leaves and the outside of the stalk which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boilin^ throw m a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of on a f tender, the vegetables are done Serve on a slice of toast, with a boatful of melted butter. 5* StiihstiuHci Puddtti^,—To 2 cfftrs sdH r. r i a.°a“d”;sVb%" salt, and just before putting into the ‘bason’ /winrVi P'ocn otTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3 = JANUARY 3. ‘ Proportion and propriety are among the best secrets of domestic wisdom; and there is no surer test of integrity than a well-proportioned expenditure.'—More. 1. Gravy Soup. 2. Roast Fowls AND Mashed Pota- toes. 3. Gravy for Fowls. 4. Bread Sauce. 5. Tongue. 6. Apple Fritters. 1. Soup. Put the remaining meat and bones, with 2 lbs. of leg of beef, 2 onions, 2 turnips, i parsnip, 2 carrots, i head of celery, i small tea-cupful of rice, pepper and salt to the taste, and 4 quarts of water, in a stewpan. Simmer all gently for four hours, or till the goodness is drawn from the meat. Strain it, and let it stand till cold. When wanted for use, skim off the fat, and serve with toasted bread. . , 2. Roast Fowls.—or 4 slices of fat bacon, not too thick, may be attached by skewers to your fowl for roasting; it answers all the purpose of larding, and saves the time and trouble required for that operation. The frizzled bacon makes an appropriate garnish for the dish In drawing the fowl, be careful not to break the gall-bag. -> * Gravy for Boil the neck of the fowl, after having cut it small in half a pint of water, with a seasoning of spice and herbs; let it stew very softly for an hour and a half. When the bird is just ready for the table, take the gravy from the drippmg-pan and dram it off the fat; strain the liquor from the neck into it, mixing them smoothly; pass the gravy again through the strainer, heat it, add sea- soning if necessary, and send to table hot. ^ 4. Bread Sauce.—Boil a large onion, cut in four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it; in an hour, put it m a sauce- pan with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole up together, and serve. t. Tonnie.—Put the tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it, boil up slowly, and skim ; simmer very gently till done. A la^e tongue will require six hours, a small one from four to five. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root To keep it a good shape, it should be sewn with a broad strip of calico to a straight board about the length of the tongue. _ 6. Apple Fritters.—and core, without dividing the apples, slice33 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR Y. them in rounds the full size of the fruit; their flavour is much improved by soaking them for three or tour hours in a little wine mixed with lemon juice. For the batter, pour less than ^ pint of boiling water upon 2 oz. of good butter, cut into small pieces; when dissolved, add f pint of cold water, so that the whole shall not be quite milk-warm; mix it by degrees smoothly with 12 oz. of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt; stir into it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a solid froth (just before used). Previously to this, add a little water, should it appear too thick; heat some butter in a frying-pan, dip each slice separately in the batter, fry a pale brown, turning them if required; when done, lay them before the fire on a piece of blotting paper to absorb the greasy moisture; serve them upon a folded napkin, piling the fritters one above the other; sift pounded sugar over them, and nutmeg, if liked. JANUARY 4. ‘ Th’piire in heart are slow to credit calumnies.'—Jane Porter. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 3. Celery Sauce. 4. Spinach and Potatoes. 5. Victoria Pudding. 6. Sauce to Victoria Pudding. 1. Fried Scrape, but do not skin them; wash them and wipe them dry, and let them remain in the cloth till time to dress them; dredge the soles with a little flour; dip them into, or brush them over with, beaten^ egg, and cover them with bread-crumbs; fry them of a light brown in boiling lard or dripping, and turn them but once; take them out carefully, and lay them before the fire on a napkin, or on a reversed sieve, and soft paper to absorb the fat (Particular attention should be paid to that.) Dish them on a hot napkin, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon, and send to table with shrimp sauce or plain melted butter. Allow about ten minutes for large soles. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton.—it before a large brisk fire, quite near for a quarter of an hour; baste it well, withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast slowly, basting it constantly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it slightly with dried flour, and sprinkle over a salt- spoonful of salt, and continue to baste; have ready a very hot dish • pour off the dripping; add a tea-cupful of boiling water to the gravy dripped from the meat, and pour into the dish. Allow a quarter of an hour to the pound, but if frosty, add eighteen minutes to the time 3- Celery Wash and boil 4 heads of celery in salt and waterTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 34 till tender, and cut it in pieces two inches long; make ^ pint of melted butter with milk; put in the celery with i blade of pounded mace, white pepper and salt to the taste, and simmer for three or four minutes, till the sauce thickens. It may be made brown by flavouring with mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s sauce. 4. Sphiach.—It must be washed through several waters to cleanse it from all grit; the stalks carefully picked off, then placed with some salt in a large saucepan, and only water sufficient to keep it from burning. It will take about a quarter of an hour. When done, squeeze it in a colander, put it with some butter in a hot dish, garnished with sippets of toasted bread, and place on the spinach either poached or hard eggs cut in slices. Spinach shrinks considerably in boiling. 5. Victoria Pudding.—Mix ^ oz. of ratafias, 3 oz. of stale French roll in fine crumbs, 3 oz. loaf sugar, 2 oz. sweet almonds blanched and pounded, 2 oz. beef marrow, 1 oz. baked flour, ^ pint milk, 3 fresh eggs. Mix and beat them briskly for ten minutes, and let it stand in a cool place for an hour. Beat again for ten minutes; put it in a mould well rubbed with butter, tastefully stuck with dried cherries or stoned raisins ; tie a cloth over, put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for two and a half hours. 6. Sauce for Victoria Pudding. — Dissolve 3 oz. loaf sugar in a wine-glassful of water; boil till a syrup; then add, whisking rapidly, the yolks of 3 eggs beaten with a gill of cream and a wine-glassful of brandy. If properly made, it will look like rich smooth cream. -0— JANUARY a ‘ Covetousnessf hy a greediness oj getting more, deprives itself of the true end of getting; it loses the enjoyment of what it has got.'—SPRAT. 1. Turbot. 2. Lobster Sauce. 3. Fried Allerlee. 4. Roast Breast of Veal. 5. Mashed Potato. 6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding. 7. Sauce to Do. 1. Turbot.—The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely. Throw a glass of vinegar and a handful of salt into it, and let it gradually boil; being careful that no blacks fall on it, but preserve the beauty of the colour and skim it well. Serve it garnished with a com- plete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horseradish. 2. Lobster Sauce.—Take a fine hen lobster, when boiled, take out all the spawn, and bruise it in a mortar very fine, with a little butter;BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 35 take all the meat out of the tail and claws, cut it in small square pieces, and put it aside. Put into a saucepan a spoonful of anchovy- liquor, a spoonful of ketchup, a blade of mace, a bit of horseradish, a gill of gravy, a little butter rolled in flour, just enough to thicken it, and some butter nicely melted. Boil it gently for six or seven minutes; then take out the horseradish, mace, and lemon, squeezing the juice of the latter into the sauce; just simmer it up; then put in your lobster and spawn, and allow it to get hot through. 3. FriedAUerlee.—Chop the remains of the meat to the consistence of sausage-meat; flavour to the taste with dried savoury herbs rubbed fine, nutmeg, ground-pepper, and salt; mix well with the above ingredients the yolks of 2 eggs ; roll into balls and flatten, dip them in the whites of the eggs with bread-crumbs, and fry of a light brown. Serve hot Garnish the dish with parsley. 4. Roast Breast of Vzal and Bacon.—dredged with flour, put it at a little distance from a bright fire, basting it constantly. Pour some good melted butter over it when done, serve a piece of boiled bacon with it, and garnish with cut lemon. 6. Boiled Marmalade Pudding.—Pour some boiling milk over a break* fast-cupful of vermicelli, and let it remain covered for ten minutes ; then mix 1 lb. raisins stoned, 2 table-spoonfuls of marmalade, 3 eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Stir all well together, put all into a buttered mould, boil for one and a half hours, and serve 7. Custard Sauce for which put ^ pint milk in a clean saucepan, and let it boil. Beat 2 eggs, stir to them the milk and 3 oz. of pounded sugar, and put the mixture into a jug, which place in a sauce- pan of boiling water, stirring well till it thickens; but do not let it boil, or It will curdle. Serve in a tureen, stir in i table-spoonful of brandy! and grate a little nutmeg over the top. with JANUARY 6. Walk in felt shoes to do a good action.’ 1. Remains of Turbot. 2. Staffordshire Beefsteaks. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Stewed Apples. 5. Custard.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3^ ing Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste. Bake tor a quarter of an hour, keeping it well moistened with butter. Well drain the fish from the butter, have ready the remains of lobster sauce, adding a little grated nutmeg and lemon-juice, make it hot, and pour over the fish. The fish warmed thus in the remains of the sauce will be found much nicer than putting it again m water. 2. Staffordshire Beteaks.a table-spoonful of flour, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of ground pepper and allspice together. Mix well. Have 2 lbs. tender beefsteak; rub it in the flour seLonin^. Slice a large onion thin, take a little fat from the steak, and use it to°fry the onion a light brown; then lightly fry the steak. Cut into moderate-sized pieces, put the steak in a stewpan, with just enough water for sauce, and stew very gently for half an hour. Add a little ketchup, or sauce, and serve hot. 4 Stewed Aj>ples.—Seyen good-sized apples with the stalks on, the rind of half a kraon, quarter of a lb. of sugar, three-quarters of a_ pint of water • pare and take out the cores of the apples, without dividing them Bod the sugar and water for ten minutes, then put in the apples with the lemon-rinds, and simmer gently until they are ^en^r, tafa g care not to let them break ; dish them neatly on a ’ the syrup by boiling it quickly for a few minutes; let it cool a httle then pour i/over the apples. When they are quite cold, a few cloves, or almonds, blanched and stuck in the apples are pretty; they take from twenty to thirty minutes to stew. j- c. HaveVite ready Bright’s Vegetable Custard, use as directed the IS. box, and pour it round, not over the apples. JANUARY 7. * T/ie aids to noble life are all IMatthew Arnold. 1, Vegetable Soup. 2. Roast Hare and Sauce, and Red Currant Jelly. 3, Mashed Potatoes. 4. Lemon Dumplings and Sauce. rr . 1.1 Q PppI and cut into small pieces 2 or 3 large turnips I. VegaaHeSmp.-ViA z.^^^ ^ ^ large slice or 4 small, 2 ^ a muslirooms.it obtainable! i small °b’’''olrrofsalt i do. ground black pepper, 2 tea-spoontuls ot salt-spoontul ot salt, . Qo g SmllmSituU^Sied .0 a^ulp! then pass it through a sieve!37 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. warm it up when required; add more Harvey’s sauce and flavouring, if necessary, to the taste, as it should be a dark brown colour. A vegetable cutter should be had for chopping the vegetables for soups, etc. 2. Roast Hare and Sauce, or Red Currant Jelly.—A hare, after being properly stufied, is basted for the first seven minutes with strong salt and water; a fresh dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, in which about half a pound of butter has been dissolved. The animal is dredged with flour occasionally j when the eyes start from the sockets, the hare is fit to be sent to table. Stuffing Jor Hares. — Use the liver—see that it is quite fresh; an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. 4. Lemon Dtmplings and Sauce.—The juice of a lemon and half the rind, ^ lb. of bread grated, ^ lb. suet chopped very fine, lb. loaf sugar, and 2 eggs, mixed together, and made into balls, tied in cloths, and boiled halt an hour; served up with wine sauce. -0— JANUARY 8. ‘ The harvest and vintage come not every day, therefore be provident.' 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Shrimp Sauce. 3. Roast Beef-heart. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Plum-pudding. 1. Boiled Salmon.~Z\t2.xs it carefully; boil it gently, and take out of the water as soon as done; let the water be warm if the fish be split. 2. Shrimp Sauce.—Take ^ a pint of shrimps, pick and lay them aside; put the pickings into a little water, stew it a short time, then strain off the liquor, with which make your melted butter; put in your shrimps, add a spoonful of anchovy liquor and a little lemon-juice, and let It simmer all together for a few minutes. ^ 3. Roast BeeJ-heari.—The heart must be stuffed with the same mate- nals used for fillet of veal, well basted with fresh butter, and allowed ^enty-five minutes to the pound. Make some beef gravy to serve with It, and melt a pot of red currant jelly in a gill of port wine, to be sent quite hot to table. > ^ uc sent 5- Plumpudding.—The same proportions of flour and suet, and half milk ; boil as long as you can—the longer the better.38 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. JANUARY 9 ‘ Good silence is near holiness' 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Mutton Pie a la Perigord. 3. Potatoes and Brussels Sprouts. 4. Roast Cheese. I. Oxtail Sovp. — OM.\. up 2 fresh oxtails, separating them at the joints; wash, and put in a stewpan with i oz. of butter and 2 slices of ham 3 cut into slices 3 onions, i leek, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, i hea of celery, and add them, with 12 whole peppercorns, a bay-leat, i bunch of savoury herbs, and 4 cloves 3 put in ^ pint of water and stir it over a sharp fire till the juices are drawn. Fill up the stewpan wth 2 quarts and pints of water, and when boiling, add i table-spoonlul of salt. Skim well, and simmer till the tails are tender (about four hours). Take them out, skim and strain the soup, thicken with tlour, and flavour with port wine and ketchup. Put back the tails, simmer for five minutes, and serve. It the tails are not quite fresh, the soup 2 Pie h la Perigord.—the fat off half a dozen mutton chops, and season them with pepper and salt. Line the bottom ot a pie-dish with paste about the tenth of an inch thick 3 put 5 peeled truffles in the centre, and arrange the chops, with thin rashers of bacon between them, round the dish 3 2 oz. of butter cut into thin slices ^re pl^aced ^ the top, and i a tea-cupful of veal stock poured in. Cover vath paste, and bake for three hours in a slow oven 3 make a small on c“! and pour in a couple of glasses of brown sherry or M^e,ra The top of the pie can be rendered ornamental if desired, and glazed "‘s Bru^seh 5/««ft-Clean the sprouts from insects, wash thoroughly, and pick oft any dead or discoloured leaves 3 ^n in a saucepan of boiling water (to each ^ gallon of water 3. large tab e- spoonM ot salt and a/,«/a soda); keep the lid oil and bo.l qmcUy o « a brisk fire till tender, which will be about twelve minutes. Serve with melted butter quickly, as the vegetable soon cools. _ rLrr ci«.-Grate 3 os. of fat Chesh.re vnlki; of 2 eees 4 oz. of grated bread, and 3 oz. ot butter, beat t lole wellln with^ dessert-spoonful o. mustard, and a Imle salt and pepper. Toast some bread, ?“ered wL a little. Serve as hot as possible.39 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR Y. JANUARY lO. ‘ T1 choose time is to save time; and an unseasonable motion is but beating the air'—Bacon. 1. White Soup, 2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Broccoli. 5. Nesselrode Pudding. 1. White Soup.—Take i quart of veal broth, and flavour it with nutmeg, lemon-peel, bay-leaf, etc., to the taste preferred. Strain very carefully into a stewpan, and let it boil; then put in i oz. of sago, and boil gently for hventy minutes. Skim well. Take the yolks of 4 eggs; beat well; add to them a gill of cream or milk; take the stewpan off the fire; stir in the eggs and cream quickly, and serve. Note.—Q2xt must be taken not to allow the eggs to boil, or tlie soup will be curdled and spoilt, 2. Cor7ied Shoulder of Mutton.—A shoulder of mutton, not too fat, well powdered with salt for four days, boiled, and sent to table with plenty of onion sauce, is the thing. 5- Nesselrode Pudding.—Put a pint of new milk, i oz. best isinglass, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 5 oz, loaf sugar, into an enamelled saucepan, and boil gently for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of 6 fresh eggs into the milk while hot, but not boiling; stir over the fire till at boiling heat, then strain into a basin. Cut into ^ inch squares 4 oz. preserved pine- apple, I oz. of angelica, 2 oz. of candied apricots without stones, 2 oz of candied cherries, 2 oz. of orange peel, and i oz. of ginger; pour over the fruit a wine-glassful of either Cura9oa, brandy, or Maraschino, and let It stand half an hour. Beat a pint of double cream to froth, stir it into the custard when nearly cold, put in the fruit, and stir it rapidly for five minutes. Rinse a mould in cold water; put in the pudding, and place it m a pan on and surrounded by rough ice. Stir till it begins to set, to prevent the fruit sinking to the bottom. Let it remain till quite firm, turn it on a glass dish, and serve immediately. JANUARY 11, ‘ The wise andpnident conquer difficulties by daring to attempt Rowe, 1. Haunch of Mutton. 2. Stewed Celery. 3. Mashed Potatoes, 2. Haunch of Mutton.—Order a haunch of South Devon mutton that has been kep, some days, and le, the butcher trim i, for dressl^T; 'ub 4. Broccoli, 5. Marmalade Pudding.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 40 it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it with flourj tie it in large sheets of white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping. Have a good fire ; hang it 7iear for the first half hour, then at a distance; roast_ slowly till done j baste constantly; if liked well done, it will take eighteen minutes to the lb.; if not, from ten to fourteen minutes. Take oft the paper twenty minutes before serving ; dredge slightly with baked flour, and baste with 2 oz. of dissolved butter j pour off the dripping \ add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the dripped gravy, and pour it into a hot well-dish; put the haunch on, broad side uppei-most, and serve at onee. Have red currant jelly on a glass dish. 2. Stmed Celery is in season from October to April. To each i gallon of water put i large table-spoonful salt; thoroughly wash and trim 6 heads of celery, and boil them: if large heads, they take about twenty-five minutes; smaller ones, quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, to be tender. Put | pint of cream in a stewpan with a blade of pounded mace; shake it over the fire till the cream thickens; dish the celery, pour over the sauce, and serve. 5. Marmalade Pudding.—Mix ^ lb. suet, finely chopped, with do. bread-crumbs in a basin, ^ lb. marmalade, and do. sugar; stir well together; beat 4 eggs to a froth, and gradually mix well ^th the in^Tedients; put in a mould or buttered basin; tie down with floured cloth, and boil for two hours. When turned out, sUew fine sifted sugar over the top. This pudding will look very pretty if stoned raisms are tastefully arranged before the mixture is poured in. -0— JANUARY 12. • God causes the good tuoman's purpose to prosper.' 1. Baked Soles. 2. Scotch Brose. 3. Vegetables. 4. Crullars. I. Baked Soles.-<Z\^^r, the sole, and lay in a cloth f fryincr Take it from the cloth, and rub it over with softened but not iLd butter • then dip the fish in a beaten egg, and draw it through bmad-crumbs till well covered; let it remain a little while, then put on a few more crumbs; put a little butter in a flat dish or baking tin, and allow k t^m It; place the fish in it, and bake it in a moderate oven. I twni take abo^twenty minutes. I< not nicely the oven use a salamander, or if you have not one. make the k'‘*en sho^l red hot and carefully brown it. Send to table on a napkin, andBILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 41 garnish with sliced lemon and fried parsley. Anchovy sauce or plain butter can be served if approved, but the fish is excellent without either. 2. Scotch Broth.—Take a neck of mutton, with the fat raised from off the best end. Cut off the scrag end, and divide it into several pieces to make the broth. Let it boil gently a couple of hours, skimming well. Then add sliced carrots, onions, turnips, celery, a sprig of parsley, pepper and salt, a tea-spoonful of split peas, and six table- spoonfuls of pearl barley, both previously steeped in tepid water. 4. Cmllars.—Rub 6 oz. of butter with ground nutmeg to taste into J lb. of sifted sugar; beat 4 eggs, whites and yolks separately; add i-|- lbs. of flour, and make into a light paste; roll it into a sheet half an inch thick, cut it into long narrow strips, twist them into fanciful forms, and fry them of a light brown in lard. Care must be taken to put them into the lard when boiling, and a deep pan full of the fat be used, or the crullars will be greasy. ‘ The true philosopher's stone is to have means, and 7iot to spend mjudiciously.' JANUARY IS. 1. Mulligatawny Soup. 2. Boiled Turkey and Sausages. 3. Celery Sauce. 4. Plum-pudding. 5. Custards in Glasses (Bright’s Vegetable are the best). close to the body, leaving the skin42 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. long; then draw out the crop. Make a stuffing of suet, bread-crumbs, and parsley, chopped fine; add pepper, salt, lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg, and then mix with two eggs, well beaten, and sufficient milk (if required) to wet the whole. The stuffing is to be placed lightly in the breast, so as to leave room for swelling; and the skin is then drawn over it, and sewn neatly across the back. Place the liver in one wing, and the gizzard in the other; turn the wing on to the back, and fix them with a skewer. Have ready a deep kettle of boiling water; put in the bird, let the water boil two minutes, and then reduce the tem- perature. A turkey, according to its size and age, will take from an hour and a half to two hours and a half; but if very large and old, three hours. Be careful not to let it boil fast, and to keep the turkey covered by adding hot water from time to time. When done, place breast upwards, on a large hot dish, and pour a little sauce over it. , . n • 3. Celery Sauce—for boiled turkey. Wash and cut into small pieces 2 heads of fine white celery j put it into pints of new milk, and simmer (about an hour) till quite tender. _ Then rub it through a fine sieve, beat the yolks of 4 eggs with a gill of thick cream; mix all together, stir over a gentle fire for five or six minutes till the sauce thickens; put the fowl on a hot dish, pour ^ pint over the breast, and put the rest in a sauce tureen. _ 4. Plum-pudding. — A good plum-pudding without any eggs. M well together 6 oz. currants, do. raisins, \ lb. flour, i b. brown sug^, i lb. chopped suet. Have ready, of mashed carrot i lb., and mashed potatoes i lb.; stir them with the currants, etc.; then add i oz. cand e Son, k of candied lemon-peel, and r table-spoonful of treacle._ Do not put any liquid whatever in, or it will spoil it. If put m a ^asm, do not fill it, as it must have room to swell; if m a cloth, tie it oose y, boil it for four hours. It is better to mi.x this pudding the day before. Serve with brandy sauce. JANUARY 14. ‘ Her worth shines forth the brightest, who tit h^e Always confides: The abjea soul despairs. -Euripides. 1. COCK-A-LEEKIE. 2. Broccoli. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Regent’s Pudding and Sauce. .. 4 .0 6 ,bs. of good sbin bee^ell b.oben, loTbStog; i. b^ons, ba.r .be o.43 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. blanched leeks intended to be used, well cleaned, and put in inch lengths or longer. Skim this carefully. In a half hour add the remain- ing part of the leeks, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. The soup must be very thick of leeks, and the first part ot them must be boiled down into the soup till it becomes a pulp. Serve the capon in a tureen with the soup. 4. Regent's Pudding and Sauce.—Beat together for ten minutes 2 oz. raisins stoned, 2 oz. currants washed and dried, 2 oz. of flour, do. of bread-crumbs, do. sugar, do. grated cocoa-nut, 4 oz. suet chopped fine, 2 eggs, and f gill of milk. Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for three hours. Serve with a sauce made with a yolk of an I gill of cream, i oz. of sifted sugar, a table-spoonful of rum, and 10 drops of vanilla; beat all together till quite smooth, and pour over the pudding. JANUARY 15. ‘ To i/line own self be true; A nd it must foUoiv, as the night the day. Thou canst not then be false to any man.'—Shakspeare. 1. Rice Soup. 2. Boiled Round of Beef. • 3. Vegetables. 4. Boiled Batter and Sauce. 1. Rice Soup. To one quart of broth allow one ounce of rice. Let the broth boil, then thoroughly wash and pick the rice; put it into the boilingand let it simmer quietly for half an hour. Carolina rice IS the best for this purpose. 2. Boiled Round of Beef—it in a pan of cold water, cut out the bone, roll it round firmly and bind it fast with a broad tape; put it into the pot, and cover the lid close; keep it gently simmering, taking care to skim before it comes to a boil; allow a quarter of an hour to each pound of beef. 4. Boiled Batter and Sauce.—W\y. by degrees, that the batter may be smooth, a pmt of new milk with four table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and 3 eggs well beaten ; beat all together with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour; pour in the batter into a buttered basin; dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over the basin; plunge it into fast-boihng water; move it quickly up and down for a few minutes, then boil tor an hour and a quarter. Serve with sweet sauce. hnv ‘^""'■^•-Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of ked flour, and stir m ^ of a pmt of boiling milk ; add 2 table^spoonfuls moist sugar, and boil five minutes; flavoured with wine, if likedTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, three-quarte." 0. an hour. JANUARY 16. * Never anything can be amiss When simpleness and duty tender it. Shakspeare. 1. Pea Soup. 2. Roast Leg of Pork. 3. Apple Sauce. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Marrow Pudding. 1 Pea Sotip.—On^ quart of split peas, 2 lbs. of slim beef, trimmings of meat and poultry, a slice of bacon, 2 large carrots 2 turnips, 5 large onions, I head of celery, seasoning to taste, 2 quarts of soft water. Any bones left from roast meat, 2 quarts of common stock or liquor 1 which meat has been boiled; boil about four hours. , 2 Roast Leg of Pork.—the knuckle be stuffed with sage and onion minced fine, bread-crumbs, salt and pepper as before directed Score the crackling, and rub it over with some Florence od upon a brush; this will assist in giving it a deep brown , from rising in blisters. Serve with apple sauce, fresh mustard, and "^^f^mrroTpudding.—^^^^ eight ounces of sweet almonds, and beai them up in a mortar with a table-spoonful of rose-water six ounces of candied orange and citron; beat up the yolks ot , dozen eggs, and add a glass of sherry or Madeira to them ; tne I pound of beef marrow, free from tbe minute bones ; was^^^^^^^ nick /pound of currants ; grate up the crumbs of a French roll. these things done boil a quart of cream, and whilst it is quite ho^ s i ingredients, mixing all well together. the butter, put in the above materials, and bake for half an hour. serving, strew powdered sugar over the top. JANUARY 17. ' Lose no time: be always employed in something useful. Dr. Franklin. Keep out of all unnecessary 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Baked Rice Pudding. 1. Haddocks. 2. Saddle of Mutton. 3. Sweet Sauce (Melted Cur- rant Jelly). I .he hsh ca.^ully, Stuff it with veal stuffing, and sew p,BILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY, 45 Serve surrounded with any fish sauce that is preferred—not on a napkin. 2. Saddle of Mutton, Roasted.—If wanted to be underdone, will take seven minutes to each lb.; with the gravy in, ten minutes to the lb.; well done, quarter of an hour to the lb. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour extra to the joint. The saddle should be hung about ten days. The rump should be split and skewered back on each side; raise the skin and skewer it on again, but take it off a quarter of an hour before serving; dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping. Being broad, it requires a high and strong fire; hang it quite close for twenty minutes, then at a distance till done. A quarter of an hour before, take off the paper; put ^ salt-spoon of salt into a tea-cupful of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightly browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hot, and turn out a pot of red currant jelly on glass dish. 5. Baked Rice Pudding.—Put a quart of milk into a baking-dish; wash and pick i tea-cupful of rice, put it in the milk, and add 2 table- spoonfuls of white pounded sugar, half a tea-cupful of minced veal suet, a little nutmeg and salt. Bake for two hours in a slow ovei? JANUARY 18. ' If I am right. Thy grace impart, Still in the right to stay: If I am wrong, oh ! teach my heart To find that better way.'—Pope. 1. Calf’s-head Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Pigeon Pie. | Plum-pudding. 1. Calfs-head Soup,—Boil the head in just enough water to cover it; when tender, remove the bones, cut the meat in small pieces, and season with sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and salt. Put all back into the pot with the liquor, and thicken it with a little batter; stew gently for an hour; and just as you dish it up, add a glass or two of sherry wine, and the yolks of a few eggs boiled hard. ^ 2. Pigeon Pie. Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well flat- tened and cut to the size; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuffy dozen pigeons with bread-crumbs well mixed with sweet herbs and egg; rub the birds over with fresh butter, and place them on the meat, filling up the spaces with the yolks of eggs boiled hard; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you nearly reach the brim ; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow ovenTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 46 for an hour and a half. Before sending to table, make a small hole in the crust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot. It is usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in the centre of the top paste. 4. Ptum-pudding.—T\it Muscatel raisins are but a little dearer than the ordinary ones, if bought loose instead of in bunches. Take lbs. currants, wash and dry them—do not chop, but stone them; cut i^'lbs. of Muscatel raisins, and cut into thin slices 6 oz. mixed candied peel; i lb. of Sultana raisins, 2 lbs. bread-crumbs, 2 lbs. of finest moist sugar, 2 lbs. of finely-chopped suet, the rind of 2 lemons, i oz. of ground cinnamon, i oz. ground nutmeg, ^ oz. bitter almonds, pounded: mix all these well together. Take 16 eggs (break each separately, lest any should not be quite fresh); let them be well beaten and strained, and moisten the above ingredients with them by degrees, stirring meanwhile ; then add I pint brandy; well butter and flour a stout new pudding-cloth ; and when all is thoroughly mixed, put it in the cloth, tie it down very tightly and closely, boil from six to eight hours, and serve with brandy sauce. As this is rather a large pudding, it may be as well to divide it, and boil one in a buttered mould. If liked, ornament the pudding with some sweet almonds, blanched and cut in strips. -0— JANUARY 19, * T/la^ work which is begun well is half done. And without prayer no work is well begun.'—Lady Fanshawe. 1. Winter Soup. 2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and Caper Sauce. 3, Vegetables. 4. Boiled Batter Pudding. 1. Winter Soup.—Tlo quarts of water put 2 or 3 pennyworth of bones and 2 lbs. of beef cut in small pieces, | lb. rice, a few sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a large bunch of parsley. A little oatmeal or some potatoes are a great improvement, 6 onions, and 6 turnips. Boil gently for three hours. 2. Boiled Breast of Mutton and Caper Sauce.—off the superfluous fat bone the meat, sprinkle over a layer of bread-crumbs, minced herbs, and seasoning; roll and bind it up firmly; boil gently for two hours. Remove the tape, and serve with caper sauce, a little of which should be served over the meat; boil two hours. 4 Boiled Batter Puddmg.—^cKS. in a pint of milk sufficient lemon- peel to flavour it; strain, and mix with it 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, i of arrow-root, 2 oz. of butter, and sugar to taste; boil up for a few47 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR K minutes, stirring well. Add 5 well-beaten eggs, whites and yolks separately. JANUARY 2 0. * Zc>nf, grant me 07ie suit, which is this: Deity me all Suits which are bad for tne'—Fuller. 1. Semolina Soup. 2. Venison Pasty. 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Tartletts. 1. Setnolina Soup.—Into 2 pints of boiling broth shake rather less than 2 oz. of semolina, keeping the broth stirred during the process. Cover closely, and let it sunnier for half an hour. Semolina requires careful keeping. It is easily damaged by damp or dust. 2. Take off the skin, and cut the meat off the bones into pieces of about an inch and a half square; put these, with the bones and skin, into a stewpan; cover them with veal or mutton broth; add a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, \ dozen allspice, 4 chalots chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of salt, ^ of soluble cayenne, and a tumbler of port wine; stew over a slow fire until the meat is half done, then take it out and let the ^avy continue on the fire whilst the crust for the pastry is preparing; line a good large dish, arrange your meat in it, pour the gravy upon it through a sieve, adding the juice of a lemon; put on the top crust, and bake for a couple of hours in a slow oven. 4. Lemon Tartletts.—The Juice of 2 lemons and the peel grated • clean the grater with bread-crumbs only sufficient to clean the grater rom all the peel. Beat all together with 2 eggs, ^ lb. sugar, and i lb. of butter. Put it m a light paste, and bake it. JANUARY 2 1. Sum up at night what thou hast done by day, And in the morning what thou hast to do. ’—Geo. 1. JuLiEN Soup. 2. Shoulder of Mutton. 3* Sweet Sauce, made of Red Currant Jelly. Herbert. 4- Mashed Potatoes and Broc- coli. 5* Sutherland Pudding. r. Juhen Soup.—quantity makes about 2 quarts. Clean and cut into shreds, an inch long, 2 carrots, i turnip, L head celerv small endive, some spring onions, or the white part of a leek’^’ Put .hem mto a saucepan with a dessert-spoonful sugar, a tea-splfuf"fTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 48 salt, do. vinegar, and a quart of cold water; boil about twenty minutes, or till tender, and drain it. Boil 2 quarts and | pint of stock put in the vegetables, and boil moderately fast (uncovered) for half hour. Add i grain cayenne and 2 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and serve at once very hot. In the winter use leeks and celery, in summer spring onions and endive. A tea-cupful of green peas and do. of asparagus are a great ™l^°slouider of Mniion.—7a.rho[\ the shoulder, and then put it into a stewpan with a quart of good gravy and a little of the water in which it has Len boiled; add i lb. of rice, well washed, 2 table-spoonfuls of musLom ketchup, and let all stew gently together for one hour, or until the rice is tender. Take up the mutton out of the pan, and keep it warm before the fire; mix into the rice ^ pint of rich cream, and lump of butter rolled in flour. Boil it for a few minutes, stirring 1 con- tinually. Lay the mutton upon a warm dish, and arrange neatly t rice around it. Garnish with pickled walnuts. 5 Sta/ierland Fuddmg.-Bl^inch 6 bitter and 2 oz. sweet ataond^ boil them in f pint of new milk for twenty minutes, then pound them to a pasTe wL the milk is nearly cold, add | gill ^k cream, 4 els well beaten, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; rub 6 oz. of stale sDonee-cake to crumbs. Mix them all well, and beat for ten minutes , sUr in 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Butter a mould; stick it Vandykes with TrSt-boifinglater foi fire, and serve in a tureen or the dish. -0— JANUARY 2 2. . / * “r * f -Mil iU ■lr„,sa.' Assured that, through my Father Foster’s Cyclopaedia. 1, Hare Soup. 2, Boiled Fowls. 3, Oyster Sauce. Mashed Potatoes. Comarque’s Pudding. 3. ^ iHc chin of beef, and a hare well washed o> a roasted hare, rvith .he forcedBILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 49 meat and gravy), i gallon of cold v^ater; and when it boils and has been skimmed, add 2 oz. of salt, 3 onions, i large head of celery, and 3 carrots, oz. of black peppercorns, and a few cloves. Gently stew this for three or four hours, then take up the principal joints, cut the meat from them, mince and pound to a paste, with the crumb of 2 penny rolls that has been soaked in a little of the boiling soup, and then pressed dry in a cloth; strain, and mix smoothly with it the stock from the remainder of the hare. Strain the soup, season with cayenne, and serve it when at the point of boiling. 2. Boiled Fowl.—Having your fowl properly trussed, let it be well floured; rub the quarter of a nutmeg, grated, in a piece of butter the size of a walnut; put this, a pinch of powdered mace, and your fowl into a bladder, then pour in a dozen oysters with their liquor ; leave the body of the bladder loose, but tie the neck of it very tight, and you may then boil in a saucepan containing any other meat j about five-and- tvventy minutes is quite time enough j have a deep dish ready, and you will find sufficient and excellent sauce made to your hand when you take the fowl out of its case. 3. Oyster Sauce.—Unless the party is very large, never allow less than 6 oysters to each person. Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off; strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off; keep saucepan near the fire, but not on it: if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. 5. Comarquis Pudding.—Excellent. Five eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls flour, 2 do. powdered sugar, rind of i lemon, | pint of cream, different kinds of preserve. Mode : Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, and put them into different basins; stir the flour, sugar, and lemon- ,peel into the yolks; whip the cream very thick, and put it on a sieve to harden; then add it with the whites of the eggs to the other ingredients, and pour the mixture into little deep saucers just before putting into the oven. Bake about half an hour. When they are taken out, a very thin layer of different kinds of preserve should be put upon each, piled one above another. A little whipped cream placed here and there on the pudding as a garnish much improves the appearance of the dish. DTHINGS A LADY WOULD LAKE TO KNOW. 5° JANUARY 2 3. ' Would you both please and be insirucied too. Watch well the rage of shining to subdue.'—StiI-LINGFLEET. 1. Baked Cod’s Head. 2. Giblet Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Baroness Pudding. I. Baked Cod’s Head.—Butter your baking-dish, clean the head well, lav it in the dish; put in an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle of sweet herbs a small spoonful of black and white pepper, 3 or 4 blades of mace, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, and a small piece of horseradish. Rub the head with butter, and strew bread- crumbs over it, then send it to the oven. When done, take it out of the dish, and lay it carefully in the one in which you intend to serve Set the dish over boiling water, and cover it up to keep it hot; in the meantime, pour all the liquor out of the dish m which it was baked into a saucepan, set it on to boil three or four minutes, then strain it, and put to it a gill of red wine, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint of shrimp , Ld i pint of oysters or mussels, with the liquor. After strainmg it, add a spoonful of mushroom-pickle, ^ lb. of butter rolled in flour, and stir all together till it boils; pour this into the dish, and have ready toasted bread, cut in three-corner pieces and fried crisp, of wh ch stick pieces about the head and mouth, and lay the rest round t dish ^Garnish with lemon, scraped horseradish and parsley ensped before the fire. Lay i slice of lemon on the head, and serve p ^'°2 GHet Fie.—Ta-ke 2 sets of giblets nicely cleaned; put all but the’livers into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water, 20 corns of 'vhde toper 3 blades of mace, a large onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs covL cite and stew them till they are tender; then have a good crus ready cover the dish, lay a fine rumpsteak at the bottoni, seasone ready, eiblets with the livers, and strain the iilrTlcf * s“ :td f« i. wi.h pepper arrd saU. p^r i, too the pie; put on the top crust, and bake tt an hour and a p Miner Prenare # lb. of suet, by carefully freeing 4. JSarmess ~j ib. of raisins (weigh them It from skm, and c p both these ingre- after being stoned), . ^^Qigten the dients ■' "be „ii«ui well, and tie the pudding flomed d«h\vhich'has been previously wrung out in boihngBILL OF FARE FOR JANUARY. 51 •water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil without ceasing four hours and a half (never less time). Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding.—Mrs. JBeeion's Recipe. JANUARY 2 4. ‘ Dress and undress thy soul: mark the decay And growth of it.'—Geo. Herbert. 1. OxHEAD Soup. . 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Sweetbread Pik | 4. Hannah More’s Pudding. 1. OxJiead Soup.—Prepare the day before. Soak an ox-cheek in a pan of cold water for a couple of hours, after which cleanse it well in two or three more waters; when thoroughly clean, put it into a saucepan with 6 quarts of cold water and a good lump of salt, and let it boil very gently on a slow fire for two hours, skimming off the scum as it rises, just before it comes to a boil; then lay the head in a dish, pour the soup into a pan and set it by in a cold place till next day, when you will find a good cake of fat settled on the top: this you must remove and set by, as it will be very useful to use in place of butter or lard. Then take all the meat off the bones into a clean pot, and cut into it 2 large onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, a head of celery, a few allspice berries, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley; cover close, and let it stew gently till the carrots be soft, which will be in about an hour and a half; then put a lump of the fat which you took off the liquor into another saucepan, with a good spoonful or two of flour; shake and mix them well over the fire till well browned, then add a pint of your soup and let it boil up, when you may pour it into the rest, and add pepper and salt to your taste; let it simmer for half an hour, and serve it up. 2. Sweetbread Pie. Boil over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a neck of veal, and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in powder and soluble cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to about half a pint; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbreads stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their liquor, taking care that the fish and meat are properly distributed; then fill the dish with the gravy before made, as above; put on the top crust, and bake in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter.52 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4 Hannah More's Pudding.—oz. of apples chopped fine, 6 oz. of beef suet chopped fine, 6 oz. of bread grated, 6 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of raisins stoned and chopped, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten 3 oz. of candied peel chopped, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. These ingredients to be well mixed, and boiled in a well-buttered quar mould for three hours. This pudding should be mixed the day before it is cooked. JANUARY 2S. * Content is a vessel not built for display, Tho' she's ready and steady, come storm when it may.'—Charles Swain. 1. Stewed Oxtails. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 3. Beefsteak Pie. 4. Ipswich Pudding. I. Stewed Wash and divide 2 oxtails at the joints; put sufficient water to cover them, and set them on the fire ; ’‘emove e scum when the water boils; add an onion cut ^ ^ mace, \ tea-spoonful of allspice, 3 doves, \ tea-spoonful of whole black pepper i tea^spoonful of salt, a small bunch of savoury herbs, cover ffirstewpan closely, and let the tails simmer gently for two and a half hours, or till tender; take them out, and add to *' 8^^ of butter and flour, and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Strain throu a sle“ into a saucepan, put hack the tails, lemon-juice and i table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, let the just boil up, and garnish with sippets of Coasted brea 2 Beefsteak Pie.—Ysoxts 2 to 3 PO^nds of steak will make g C • Trim off Dart of the fat, should tliere be much of it If the family pie. Trim off part 01 ^ ^ beef should not appear veiy tender, it [. ^ j ij, cover, and lay some slight nd a half. You may rst with :"nion“ eTcS? Mushrooms improve all meat- pies r. ■ t1 rtintc of cream 3 oz. of fine white 4. of blanched almonds in a bread-crumbs; pound into i P small quantity of orange flour water , oe pbill of fare for januar y. 53 yolks of eight eggs, with \ lb. of lump sugar in powder. Mix these together with lb. of butter melted; stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick; place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. JANUARY 26. 'Almost any ornatnental talent is a good thing, when it is not the best thing a woman has.'—Hannah More. 1. Cowheel Soup. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 3. Potatoes. 4. Brussels Sprouts. 5. Suet Dumplings. I. Cowheel Soup.—Take 2 cowheels; split them; remove the oily fat and any little bits that are offensive; wash very clean, and set on to stew in 6 quarts of water, adding i Ib. of rice and 12 leeks ; flavour with thyme, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Let the whole stew gently for two hours (more will not hurt); skim it well A spoonful o vinegar (or better, a little lemon-juice) added when serving is a great improvement. ^ • f fat (which should be saved as suet for puddings) • flour, and a little pepper; rinse a thick iron saucepan with spring water aving _3 or 4 table-spoonfuls in it. If it can be done, Langl the cutlets in one flat layer, and place them over a very gentle fire -^whl they begin to stew, throw in a little salt, and simmer,f ithout ceasing softly as possible for nearly an hour and a half. They require dressing vTlids""^?t t^^der, nutritious, and invaluable for in- val ds. It must be gently stewed, or the meat will be unfit Tor table, and the gravy dried up. When half done, the cutlets must be turned; if there is not sufficient moisture, add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of cold servtng remaining fat before 5. SuefEumplings.-Vut a tea-spoonful of salt into 8 oz of fine flour and mix well with J dozen oz. of finely-chopped suet - beat im in a tea-cupful of milk, a couple of eggs, and stir these with' the othJ^J ^edients. This will make 8 small dumplings; they can be either separately m cloths covered with flour, or put in ‘naked ’ anH boiled for an hour with beef or mutton. ^54 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. JANUARY 27. * A/oi what tvs wis/tj hut whut W6 wdut. Oh lei Thy ^ace supply / The good unask'd, in mercy grant; The ill, though ask'd, deny.'—Merrick. 1. Hashed Hare and Red Currant Jelly. 2. Potatoes. 3. Broccoli. 4. Hasty Pudding. I Hashed Hare and Red Currant Jelly.—m a stewpan ha a pint of good beef gravy, of the thickness of cream, until it boils. Draw it from the fire, and put in the remains of the cold hare and stuffing Cover closely, and keep it to boiling point; on no boil, or it will be hard, etc. Make forcemeat (into balls) of 4 lb. suet chopped very fine, 2 oz. of ham or bacon shred (mince 1 tea spoonful of sweet herbs and i tea-spoonful of parsley, and rind o half a lemon; add salt, mace, and cayenne to together with the bread-crumbs before wetting; then beat and strain 2 eggs, and work them up with the other ingredients. When made into balls, fry in boiling lard of a nice brown, or put them on a tin and bake them for half an hour in a moderate oven. Some add the liver, boiled for five minutes and minced very small, but it must be very fresh Garnish the dish with the hot balls when the hare is thoroughly heated through; add a spoonful of some nice sauce to the gravy, an nnur over it. Serve with red currant jelly. 4 Hasty Pudding.-^Ux\ i quart of milk with 4 bay-leaves ; beat up die yolks of 2 eggs and a little salt; stir in the milk; then take ou the bay-leaves, and with a wooden spoon in one hand, with the othe sprinkL in flour, and keep stirring it till it is of a good thickness. _ Le^ it boil, and keep it stirring; then pour it into the dish, and stick piece. of butter here and there. JANUARY 2S. ' Make no expense, but to do good to others or yourself; that is, waste nothing.'—Dr. Franklin. 1. Mutton Soup. 2. Sweetbread. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Broccoli. 5. Apple Fritters. Mutton 5o»/.-Have two scrags of mutton ; joint off any congealed blood; then put them m a stewpan wit g55 BILL OB FARE FOR JANUARV. water, to which add 3 onions, 3 turnips, and i carrot cut in pieces. Ering it to the boil, then set it to simmer for three hours, keeping it well skimmed, and adding salt and pepper. Now cut up i small carrot, 2 turnips, i onion, with a little leek and celery, into small pieces, and put them with a wine-glassful of pearl barley into another stewpan. Remove every particle of fat from the broth, and pour it through a hair sieve on to the fresh vegetables, and let it boil gently till the barley is cooked, when it is ready to serve. Cut the meat into nicely sized pieces, and serve separately, covered with parsley or onion sauce. 2. Sweetbread. — Let the sweetbread be well secured with small twine, and roast it before a good bright fire, taking care that it be constantly basted with plenty of fresh butter, and that you allow it twenty-five minutes or half an hour. 5. ALp/e Fritters.—Feel and core 12 dumpling apples boiled quite soft; force the pulp through a sieve j add sugar to your taste. Thicken, moderately, i quart of new milk with fine flour; beat up 8 eggs with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, powdered mace, a tea- spoonful of salt, and a glass of brandy; mix well all together. Let the frjdng-pan be quite hot, and melt ^ lb. of butter in it; place the batter in the pan in separate quantities ot about two spoonfuls each; put a spoonful of apple pulp on every portion, and cover with two more spoonfuls of batter. Grate sugar over them, and serve with a fresh lemon. —0- JANUARY 29. ‘ The character of covetousness is generally acquired more through some mg-ardliness Jew pounds a year would ease that woman of the scandal of avarice. ’—Pope. X. German Pea Soup. 2. Mutton and Beef Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4- Scotch Kale. 5- Mince Pies. r. German Pea Prepare a thickening by gradually mixing in a stewpan 3 oz. of sifted flour with i quart of chicken broth In another stewpan boil up 2 quarts of chicken broth, into which stir the ickemng add a little salt and sugar, and i quart ot yellow peas • a hau rbutfeT' “ “““THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Mutton and Beef Fie.—UuQ a deep dish with good dripping crust. Beat the meat with your rolling-pin, then broil it in the lump for ten minutes; cut it in slices, and lay it in the dish with thin strips of salt pork alternately, season it with pepper and salt, and put in a lump of butter (about 2 oz.), some mushroom ketchup, and water thickened with flour, enough to nearly fill the dish; cover it with the upper crust, and bake for an hour and a quarter, or a little longer if the crust be thick. , r 4. c. Mince Ties.—Take equal weights of tender roast beef, suet, currants, raisins, and apples which have been previously pared and cored, with half their weight ot soft sugar, i oz. of powdered cinnamon, an equal quantity of candied orange and lemon peel and citron, a little salt and 12 bitter almonds blanched and grated. Chop the meat and the'suet separately; wash and pick the currants; stone the raisins, and chop them with the peel; and having minced all the ingredients very- fine, mix them together, adding a nutmeg grated and the juice of a lemon. A glass or two of wine or spirit greatly improves it. Line your dish or pattypans with puff paste ; fill with the mince ; cover, an pinch the edges together. Bake half an hour. Many persons make the mince without meat. JANUARY SO. 1. Sturgeon, Roast. 2. Do. Garnished, 3. Devonshire Squab Pie. 4. Vegetables. 5. Open Tarts. 6. Gravy.57 BILL OF FARE FOR JANUAR K Arrange these alternately, one green and one brown, on the napkin round the fish. 3. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cover the inside of your dish with a thin paste, and lay at the bottom mutton chops rolled in pepper and salt; then strew on a mixture of sliced onions and apples, then some more chops, alternately, till you have filled the dish; pour on some water, put on the cover, and let it bake for two hours. 5. Open Tarts.—Line your dishes with thin light paste, fill in with preserved fruits or jam, and lay strips of paste across in squares or diamonds. A short time will bake them. 6. Gravy.—Slice, flour, and fry a light brown, in 2 oz. of butter, I large carrot, 2 onions; then add 3 pints of boiling water, with a bunch of savoury herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and a wine-glassful of good beer. It is much improved with the addition of a little mushroom ketchup or other sauce. » JANUARY 31. 'Envy is blind, and has no other quality but that of detracting from virtue.’—LlW. 1. Plaice. 2. Boiled Pork. 3. Vegetables. 4. Hard Dumplings. 1. Plaice. Take veal or beef broth, and convert it into gravy by seasoning, thickening, and colouring; it should be rather thicker than you intend to serve. If veal stock is used, make it rather sharp with lemon, and use cayenne pepper, keeping the gravy white. If the stock is of beef, flavour with Worcestershire sauce, and make it of a rich brown with caramel. Put the gravy when made into a stewpan, and let it boil up. In the meanwhile, wash the plaice in salt and water, and boil it ti nearly done; then draw it up on the strainer, and cut it into con- venient pieces, letting it drain as much as possible; take out the roe bruise it and stir it into the gravy; then place the fish in, and let it simmer till perfectly cooked; dish with sippets of toasted bread. 2. Boiled Pork.—PoxY requires to be particularly well cooked, and should therefore be boiled on an average twenty minutes or more if the joint be very large. Place the joint in the boiler, with the skin side vipwards, and put a dish or plate at the bottom, to prevent it sticking lut it into cold water, if it be salted; but with fresh pork tollow the general directions for boiling. sak a little salt. Boil them with the pickled pork.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JANUARY. In the middle of the table, a stand containing vases of flowers, candelabra, or baskets of fresh fruits, tastefully arranged with foliage. If for a dessert d'tUte, groups of figures or other statuary may be introduced. 1. Madeira Cake. 2. Compote d’Oranges. 3. Compote de Poires. Two Baskets of Fresh Fruits. Apples, Oranges. 4. Biscuits d’Amandes. 5. Petits Souffles a lTtalienne. Nuts, Dates, French Prunes, Guava Jelly, Lumps of De- light, ETC. 6. Chestnuts. I. MADEIRA CAKE. Take 4 large or 6 small fresh eggs; beat them constantly for twenty minutes ; then, by degrees, add to them 6 oz. of fine loaf sugar pounded and sifted, 6 oz. of the best wheaten flour previously well dned, and put into a dredger, so as to dredge it in gently, 4 oz. of dissolved but cold fresh butter, and a little grated lemon-peel. When these ingredients are thoroughly mingled, briskly stir in a salt-spoonful of carbonate of soda; put the cake quickly into a mould, and bake it for a good hour in a moderately heated oven. 2. COMPOTE d’ORANGES. Take 4 or 5 sweet oranges, pull off every particle of peel and white pellicle; cut them into quarters, take out their pips, and throw the fruit into a strong syrup, prepared wBh ^ pint of water, 10 0^ 0 su-ar, a glass of cognac, and the strained juice of 2 oranges. After the fruit has come to a boil, retire the saucepan from the fire, lay the oranges in your dish, reduce the syrup by boiling it down and skimming it and whL cool enough pour it over the fruit, A large double handful of Tugar irsometimes put in the centre of the dish just • and some neat slips o. the outer rind of the oranges may be advan- tageously added to the syrup. 3. COMPOTE DE POIRES A LA CARDINALE. Throw your pears into cold water without paring them ; place them upon a vLy ge'ntle fire, and simmer them slowly for seven minutes.59 DESSERT FOR JANUARY. Take them up; peel, core, and cut them into halves or quarters as pre- ferred ; put them into a preserving-pan with their weight of fine loaf sugar, and a tea-cupful each of red wine and water. Do them very slowly over a slack fire, and when of a good colour place them in the compotier, skim the syrup, and pour it over them. Should the pears be very ripe, they may be peeled, cored, cut up, and at once done in the syrup. 4. BISCUITS D’aMANDES. Carefully blanch ^ lb. each of sweet and bitter almonds; pound them in a mortar until they form a smooth paste, but add the w'hites of 2 eggs to prevent the almonds from turning oily. Beat together the yolks of 8 eggs and i| lbs. of fine loaf sugar in powder. Well whisk the whites of the eggs; put them with the almonds; add the yolks, and gradually thicken it with 4 oz. of flour rubbed together with another pound of loaf sugar finely powdered and sifted. Lay the paste thus prepared in small paper cases, strew sugar over the tops, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, divest them of their cases. 5. PETITS SOUFFLES A l’iTALIENNE. Beat well together 12 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, the whites of 3 eggs, and the rasped rind of a sweet orange. When this is a smooth paste, lay portions of it, as thinly as you can, in rounds upon greased paper. Place some very fine slips of candied citron-peel in the middle of each, wet the edges, cover the souffle's with a similar shaped piece of the paste, press them together, put them into a slow oven, and when done, and suffered to grow cold, take them from the papers, glaze them with an icing, and place them in a warm spot to set. 6. CHESTNUTS. The most elegant method of serving chestnuts is to dress them as follows Let them be well roasted, and the husks taken off; dissolve i lb. of sugar m a wine-glassful of water, and the juice of a lemon • put this and the chestnuts into a saucepan over a slow fire for ten minutes; serve in a deep dish, and grate sugar over the top.FEBRUARY 1. ‘ Experience is by industry achiev'd, And perfected by the szueet course of time.'—ShakspeARE. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Beef—Mutton—Veal—House-Lamb—Pork—Venison—Brawn. Poultry : Turkeys—Capons—Pullets—Fowls—Tame Pigeons—Rabbits—Chickens —Ducklings. i. ^ v [These two last are now to be bought at high prices; but they are best when cheapest.] Game : Hares—Wild Fowl. , ,,^,-11 Fish : Barbel (the spawn of this fish is poisonous)—Brill—Carp—Cockle L-oa Dabbs—Dace—Eels — Flounders — Haddocks — Herrings — Ling-Lobsters— Mussels—Oysters—Perch—Pike—Plaice — Salmon—Shrimps—Skate - Smelts —Tench—Turbot. . Vegetables : Broccoli-Brussels Sprouts-Leeks-Parsley and (through the year) Parsnips. FRUITS IN SEASON. Nuts and Walnuts, and Foreign dried Fruits-Golden and Dutch Pippins—Pears-- Grapes—Medlars—Oranges—French and Spanish Plums—Prunes Figs Dates —Crystallized Preserves. 1. Turbot. 2. Rolled Ribs of Beef. 3. Fried Potatoes. 4. Plum-pudding. 5. Sauce to Do. I. Lay'it in plenty of salt and water for an hour. In the meantime, set on a fish-kettle with spring-water and salt, and a piece of horseradish. Lay the turbot on a fish-plate, with the belly upwards, mid put it in thJ kettle; let it be well boiled through, no over- done it will require from half an hour to three-quarters after t bods, according to the thickness. It should boil slowly. When it is done enough, take off the fish-kettle, set it before the fire. then careful^ up the fish-plate, and set it across^ the kettle to dram; duringBILL OF BABB FOB FEBBUABY. 6i melt a. good deal of fresh butter, and bruise in the spawn of one or two lobsters, and the meat cut small, with a spoonful of anchovy liquor; then give it a boil, and pour it into boats. Now lay the turbot in the dish, and garnish with scraped horseradish and lemon. 2. Boiled Bibs of Beef.—Bone and roll the meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and, if necessary, bind it round with a piece of tape. Spit the beef firmly, and place it near a nice clear fire; let it remain so till the outside of the meat is set, when draw it to a distance, and keep continually basting until the meat is done, which can be ascertained by the steam from it drawing towards the fire. As this joint is solid, rather more than a quarter of an hour to the lb. must be allowed. Send the joint to the table with gravy in the dish, and garnish with tufts of horseradish. 4. Plum-pudding.—Half lb. of flour, ^ lb. of grated bread, i lb. of currants well washed and dried, i lb. of raisins stoned and cut, the peel of a lemon finely chopped, oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, .and 3 wine-glasses of brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as necessary to make the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped mould for eight hours. 5. Sauce to Ditto.—The yolks of 3 eggs, 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar, I gill of milk, a very little grated lemon-rind, 2 small wine-glass- fuls of brandy. Mode : Separate the yolks from the whites of 3 eggs, and put the former into a stewpan; add the sugar, milk, and grated lemon-rind, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens, but do not allow It to boil. Put in the brandy; let the sauce stand by the side of the fire, to get quite hot; keep stirring it, and serve in a tureen separately, or pour it over the pudding. FEBRUARY 2. ‘ Be check'd for silence. But never tax'd for speech. Shakspeare. 1. Broiled Haddocks. 2. Haunch of Mutton and Cur- rant Jelly Sauce. 3. Brussels Sprouts. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Remains of Plum-pudding FRIED IN Slices. _ I. Broiled Haddocks.-Sc^le, gut, and wash them clean Do not np open the bellies, but take out the guts with the gills; diy them in aTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 62 clean cloth ; and if there be any roe or liver, take it out, wash and dry it, and put it in again; flour them well, and have a clear brisk fire. Clean your gridiron, and let it get hot; then lay on your fish; turn them two or three times at first, to keep them from sticking; then let one side be done enough, and turn it on the other. When done lay them in a dish, and serve them with plain melted butter or anchovy Haunch of Mutton and Currant Jelly Keep it as long as you can. When to be dressed, wash it well, put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in. Set it at a great distance from the fire - do not take off the paste tiU about half an hour before serving, and then baste it well. A gravy must be made of i lb. of o d inutton simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt. Brovvn it with a little burnt sugar. FEBRUARY 3. To he idle and unemployed, is a sign not only of a weak head, hut of a had heart.'- \Y. Dodd, LL.D. 4. Mashed Turnips. 5. Potatoes. 6. Lemon Dumplings, Sifted Sugar over them. 7. Brandy Sauce or Wine Do. 1. Fried Herrings. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Caper Sauce, or Pickled Nas- turtium Seeds, or Chopped Gherkins thrown into White Sauce. T Fried Herrings.—Gnt and wash them clean, and dry them m a cloth • fry them brown ; have ready some onions sliced thin ; f^*^ ofTlisht brown, with the herrings ; lay the herrings in a dish, and the oLois roLd, -ith butter and mustard in a cup. Dress them on a rer.';UX ct sS"’ scum as it arises, mrd aiiotv .t bread-crumbs m,x ■Z’. beef-suet, the grated rin _ . . ^ ig^^ions, well-floured cloths, and let them boil an hour.63 BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. FEBRUARY 4. * The tare taken to prment “ ennui” is but a ereditable plan for promoting self ignoranee.'—Hannah More. 1. Baked Haddocks. 3. Potatoes and Broccoli. 2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg 4. Maccaroni Pudding. OF Mutton hashed. 1. Baked LLaddocks.—Gut and clean your haddocks, and lay them all night in salt. Next day skin them carefully, and cut oft the heads, tails, and fins; stuff them with bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and onions, worked up with a bit of butter, pepper, and salt. Rub them over with butter; roll them in bread-crumbs, and bake them, or put them in a Dutch oven before the fire. 2. Remainder of Cold Boiled Leg of Mutton hashed.—Cut it in thin slices, fat and lean ; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 3 spoonfuls of water; add to it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish; a spoonful of currant jelly and half a glass of port wine will give an agreeable flavour. 4. Maccaroni Pudding.—Simmer i or 2 oz. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk and a bit of lemon and cinnamon till tender; put it into a dish with milk, 2 or 3 eggs, but only i white ; sugar, nutmeg, and a half glass of raisin wine, or table-spoonful of brandy. Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade or raspberry jam in this pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond water, or ratifia, which you would otherwise flavour it with. FEBRUARY B. ‘ Austerity drives the gentle spirit to artifiee, and the rugged to despair, and generates deceit and cunning:—Yim-SSKS. More. 1. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 2. Onion Sauce. 3. Haricot’s Beans. 4- Potatoes. 5. Custard Pudding. I. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—out the vein from the under part • hang before a good fire, and baste constantly; half an hour before serving, sprinkle with halt salt-spoonful of salt, dredge with a little flour, and baste again till done. Pour oft all the fat, add a tea-cunful of boiling water to the ‘dripped ’ gravy, pour it on the dish, and serve very hot. As a shoulder is generally liked well done, allow sixteen minutes to the lb. ’ sixteen64 things a lady would like to know. 2. Onwn Sauce.—Boi\ 4 onions in plenty of water for half an hour, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it; press out the water; chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add ^ oz. of butter; serve in a tureen. 5. Cusiara Fudding.—Boil pi^ts of new milk, and when quite hot thicken it by stirring in finely-sifted flour; these must be well mixed; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, I of a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5“ eggs well beat up. When all these materials have been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour’s baking m a moderately quick oven. FEBRUARY 6. ‘ Christianity does not so much pve us new aFections or faculties, as a new direction to those we already have.'—Hannah More. 3. Potatoes. 4. Snow Pancakes. 1. Pea Soup. 2. Remains of Cold Roast Shoulder of Mutton hashed. I Pea Soup —This soup should be made with liquor in which any kind of meat has been boiled, but the liquor of salt pork gives it a more savoury flavour. Wash i quart of peas perfectly clean, put them into a pot with the bones and 3 carrots sliced thin, and simmer gently foi about an hour; then add 4 onions cut in thin slices, a head of celery a few sweet herbs, and a few sprigs of parsley chopped very fine; and let the whole stew gently for three hours longer, taking care to stn it now and then, as the peas are apt to burn. Press the whole through a colander with a spoon, season it with pepper and salt to your palate, put it over the fire again to have it quite hot, and serve it up with some thin toasted bread, and some dried mint rubbed fine. 2 Remains of Cold Roast Shoulder of Mutton hashed.—Bm\. into a stewpan a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar, a large onion peeled and sliced and a table-spoonful of vinegar, and simmer till quite brown. Cut into neat slices about | lb. of cold roast mutton sprinkle over 2 dessert-spoonfuls of dried flour, a salt spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, i a grain of cayenne. Put it in the stewpan with the onions • pour over \ pint of either gravy or water, 2 table-spoonfuls of walnut ketchup ; shake the pan frequently, and simmer and serve very hot, garnished with three-cornered sippets of toasted bread, placed round the hash at equal distances. , , 4. imw A»^4to.-Beat up i lb. of flour m milk till you have a stiff batter; add a spoonful ot salt, a quarter of a nutmeg grated. DivideBILL OF BABB FOB FEBBO'ABY. 6S the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each portion add 3 table-spoonfuls of pure snow. .Fry in fresh butter. ^0— FEBRUARY 7. * It is a certain sign of aii ill heart to be inclmed to defamation.'—W. Dodd, LL.D. 1. Baked Cod. 2. Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef (save Liquor for Soup). 3. Carrots and Turnip. 4. Suet Dumplings boiled with THE Beef. 5. Orange Pudding. 1. Baked Stuff with a seasoning made of bread-crumbs, butter, salt, pepper, and (if agreeable) parsley and spices. Put the fish in a baking-dish, with a cupful of water and a lump of butter. Bake from three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 2. Boiled Aitch-bone of Beef {save Liquor for Wash the meat after it has been in salt for five or six days; if too salt, soak it for a few hours, changing the water once or twice. Put into a saucepan with water sufficient to cover, and when the water boils, plunge in the joint, and let it boil up quickly. Then put the pot to the side of the fire, and the water must only simmer gently for two and a half hours for a joint weighing 10 lbs. (or four hours for 20 lbs.). Carefully remove the scum from the surface of the water, especially for a few minutes after boiling Suet dumplings may be boiled with the beef. Garnish and serve with turnips, and carrots when in season. Save the liquor for soup S- ^«,.._Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs, grate the rinds of a couple of Seville oranges; add to these L of a lb. of finely-powdered sugar, the same weight of fresh butter, 3 spoonfuls of orange-flower water, 2 glasses of sherry, a couple of Naples biscuits, and a tea-cupful o cream; line the bottom, sides, and rim of a dish with puff paste pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. FEBRUARY 8. One self approving hour whole years outweighs. ’—Pope. X. Soup from Remains of Aitch- bone OF Beef, with Vege- TABLES. 2. Roast Beef Tongue. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Lemon Pudding. I. Soup from Remams of Aitch-bouc of Buf, with VcoetaHt! r„. : ■ pieces; put it into , quarts ot water; skim it; put b a t mace, some parsley, and a crust of bread; boiUn Toast bre H “ cut into dice. * ** bread, and £66 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Roast Beef Tongue.—Boil it a couple of hours, then peel ofif the skin, and lay thin strips of bacon ; roll it in a cheek of mutton fat, and roast it. When done, take ofif the roll of fat, and pour over it any brown sauce highly seasoned. 4. Lemon Pudding.—Mix together ^ lb. of butter and loaf sugar, and ^ pint of milk; put all together into a saucepan, and let it dissolve (but not allowed to boil); when nearly cool, add 3 eggs well beaten, the rind of a large lemon grated, and a little juice; line the dish with a thin paste, and bake it. I. Mock Turtle Soup.-^Ik.t a calfs head, the skin having been scalded and the hair scraped ofif clean; wash it thoroughly; take out the brains, and boil them separately till done enough. Put the head into a pot with more water than will cover it Skim it frequently till it boils, and let it boil for an hour, but very gently. Take it out, and, when cool, cut the meat into pieces of about an inch square. Scrape and cut the tongue in the same manner. Lay all these pieces aside, then put into the water in which the head was boiled about 3 or 4 lbs. ot leg of beef and a knuckle of veal—the meat cut small, and the bones broken. Add 4 or 5 onions, a carrot and turnip sliced, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and some whole black and Jamaica pepper. Boil all together slowly for four or five hours, then strain it and let it cool, then take ofif the fat. Now melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put to it 2 handfuls of flour, and let it brown^ stirring it all the time. Add a little ot the soup, a sprig or two of sweet basil, and a few sprigs of parsley. Boil thus for a quarter of an hour, strain it through a sieve, with the nieces of meat, into the soup, with the brains pounded. —0- FEBRUARY 9. ‘ Use no hurtful deceit; think innocently and justly ; and if you speak, speak accordingly.'—Dr. Franklin. 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 2. Bullock’s Heart. 3. Potatoes. 4. Brussels Sprouts. 5. Greengage Tart.67 BILL OF BARE FOR FEBRUARY. 5. Greengage Tart.—Select fruit not quite ripe, but perfectly sound ; fill a pie-dish with them; beat up ^ lb. of powdered sugar, in as much spring water as will dissolve it •, pour this over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over your crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. FEBRUARY 10. 'A desire of gam to support any idle expense, taints by degrees the purest minds; wealth is then the only object of desire, and poverty the only mark of disgrace. —Fenelon. r. Plaice. 2. The Remainder of the Bull’s Heart. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4- Currant and Apple Pudding. 1. Plaice.—\n dressing all sorts of flat fish, take great care, if you boil them, to have them done enough, but do not let them break. Put plenty of salt in the water, also horseradish; let the fish be well drained, and cut off the fins when cleaning them. When to be fried let them be well dried in a cloth; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry fliem of a light brown; use plenty of fat; and when done, drain the nsh on a clean coarse cloth. 2. The Remainder of the Bull's Heart.-^Xxzt it, and hash it up in its own gravy; add to it a dessert-spoonful of currant jelly, and mind you do not let it boil. Forcemeat-balls make an appropriate garnish. 4- Currant and Apple Pudding.—Oi each of the following materials take 6 oz. : grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet • to these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon and ctron peel mixed, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of teandy ’m for two hours in a well-buttered mould. ^ FEBRUARY 11. ‘ Live not above your condition, either from ostentation or to glory in your wealth from false shame or to conceal your poverty.' Fenelon. ’ 1. Shin of Beef Soup. 2. Stewed Oxcheek. 3- Potatoes. 4. Broccoli. 5. Bread and Butter Pudding. I. Shin of Beef Soup.—'Ydk.t a shin of beef ( It in several pieces, take the bone from the meat, tai 10 lbs.), break out the marrow.68 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lay it in the bottom of a clean saucepan, and put in the meat to b^o^vn; turn it about well, and take care that it does not burn. When brown all over, put in a pint of cold water and a lump of salt, shake it well up, and’let it boil for a quarter of an hour; then add 5 quarts of water, 2 ’or 3 onions, 2 turnips, 2 carrots, cut in dice, a head of celery and a few sweet herbs, a few allspice berries, and whole black pepper. Let it simmer slowly for five hours, then skim the fat from the top as closely as possible, after which take out a cupful of the soup; let it cool till you are able to mix up in it two table-spoonfuls of flour, and then add it gradually to the rest of the soup ; shake it all well together, and give it a boil up, when it will be ready for table. 2. Stewed Oxcheek.—T\v& fresher the better. Get your butcher to trim it nicely for you, taking out the eyes, etc. \ then boil in the soup- kettle three hours, trim off all the unsightly bits, and make it look like an oval lump of meat; then put it into a deep ste^vpan, cover it with its own liquor, and season to taste. In the course of an hour or so add 4 or 5 onions, and some celery and parsnips. Continue to stew till quite tender. When served up, put the vegetables round the dish, and the hot gravy poured over all. 5. Bread and Butter Budding.—Cut some thin slices of buttered French roll; have oz. currants well washed, picked, and dried, thickly strew currants over these; beat up the yolks of 3 and the whites of 2 eggs in rather more than half a pint of new milk, add 3 oz. of powdered sugar. Fill the bottom of the dish with a thin layer of currants, then put some of the bread and butter, then a layer of currants, and so on till your dish be filled; pour the milk and eg^ over the bread, grate enough nutmeg to cover the surface, and bake for forty minutes. FE B R U ARY 12. ‘ Inborn courage. The §en’rous child of Fortitude and Faith, Holds its firm empire in the constant jw/.’—Hannah Mors. 1. Soup made from the Remains OF THE OXCHEEK, WITH THE Addition of Vegetables. 2. Beefsteak Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. German Puddings. 2 Biefsleak Invert a cupful of highly seasoned liquor in the cenire of the dish. Cut the steak into pieces about the sire of an helping: flour, pepper, and salt each p.ece; place them neatly m the dish, tlih a few pieces of fat here and there -a or 3 hard-botled e^ cut in slices, are good; then pour over the whole some hquor, andBILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 69 cover with a good stout crust, and bake tlioroughly. The crust put on when the meat is warmed through, is best for the crust. 4. Genna7i Puddings.—Mix lb. of flour with lb. of butter, and the same weight of loaf sugar; beat up 4 eggs in half a pint of milk; stir all the materials well together, then divide into four parts; bake in tea-cups, and serve with sweet sauce or white wine. 1. Broiled Ilerrifigs.—Scale and gut them; cut off the heads j wash them clean, and dry them in a cloth ; flour and broil them; mash the heads; boil them in small beer or ale, with a little whole pepper and an onion. Let it boil for a quarter of an hour ; strain it; then thicken It with butter and flour, and a good deal of mustard. Lay the herrings on a dish, and pour the sauce into a boat. 2. Loin of MuUon.—Cut it when roast lengthways, as a saddle. 3. Omon Sauce.—Boil the onions until tender, changing the water occasionally to render them more mild. Strain, and mash the onions m a bowl, addmg butter and salt. Warm up again, and mix the whole thoroughly. 5* Fjuit Pie. Divide into two slices each as manv snnntrp-ratpo FEBRUARY 13. ‘ Be/I Luxury ! more perilous to yotiih Than storms or quicksands, poverty or chains.'—Hannah More. 1. Broiled Herrings. 2. Loin of Mutton. 3. Onion Sauce. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Fruit Pie. FEBRUARY 14. pieces. Then take the tail end, strip70 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. off the flesh, and beat it in a mortar; season with a little beaten mace, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, chopped parsley, thyme,_ lemon-peel !„d bread-crumbs; roll it in a piece of butter; then mK >t again wuh the yolk of an egg; roll it up, and fill the pieces ol belly now cut the skin of the eel, wrap it round the pieces, and ft™ “P. broil them well; have butter and an anchovy for sauce, with the juice Xump-sleak.—Tzks a layer of any vegetables, and place them in yourstewpan; then moisten with ^ them from catching; on these lay your steaks; keep the hd c o down and let them stew for several hours until quite tender, stirring occasionally. You may serve just as it comes from the stewpan. TGround Rice Pudding.-lr. a pint of new milk boil 3 oz. of ground net; with half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon chopped fine - keep it well stirred whilst boiling; set the saucepan on the hob, and then beat up 4 eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar; mix ftese wift the riceVII; butter a pie-dish, pour taking out the spice, and grate nutmeg over the top. Half an hou baking will be enough. FEBRUARY IB. ‘ Heaven deigns to suit our trials to our strength. —Hannah More. 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Light Pudding. Oxtail 5a»/.-Make a quantity of brown soup =hm ^ take 2 or 3 tails and cut them in pieces at the joints, put them int he soup aS stew them till tender, but not till the meat leaves the bones, Xdd a little ketchup, and serve it with the pieces ot tail "^Tl4sttak Pumn-S.. lbs. of s*eak, with 6 kidneys, a doren oysters, and 6 mushrooms. Cook for b„„er and loaf sugar; made just before it is 4 eggs lor fifteen minutes. This sfiouia required.71 BILL OF BARE FOR FEBRUARY. FEBRUARY 16. ‘ The glory of true womanhood consists in being HERSELF, not in striving to be some- thing else. Her glory lies in her sphere, and God has given her a sphere distinct. ’—Rev. F. W. Robertson. 1. Savoury Haddock. | 4. Broccoli. 2. Roast Sirloin of Beef. 1 5. Cabinet Pudding. 3. Potatoes. | 1. Savoury Haddock.—After cleaning the interior, dry it with a cloth, and stuff the fish with the same force-meat you would use for a fillet of veal, tie the tail to the mouth, and place the haddock in a deep pie- dish ; rub it over with flour, and half fill the dish with veal stock; then let it bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 2. Roast Sirloin of Beef.—Ytfm by hanging it at a distance from the fire, bringing it nearer by degrees, about a quarter of an hour to the pound. Baste continually, and dredge with flour. 5. Cabinet Pudding. Add ^ lb. of grated bread to the same quantity of cut and stoned raisins; boil a small quantity of lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and sugar in ^ pint of milk; strain it off, and add 4 eggs well beaten up; then pour in a glass of Madeira, and another of brandy. Butter a mould capable of holding i| pints; put in the ingredients ; place a piece of writing-paper at the bottom of the mould, and steam’ it for an hour. FEBRUARY 17. ‘ Wit so pointed, it ne'er lost its end. And so well-tempered, it ne'er lost Hannah More. 1. Mutton Broth. 2. Cold Sirloin of Beef. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Brussels Sprouts. 5. Pancakes. I. Mutton Broth.—YU best parts of mutton for making broth are of the loin, which should be put into a clean saucepan, with cold water in the proportion of a quart of water to every pound of meat. Throw in a little salt and skim It well as It comes to a boil; then set it aside, that it may simmer very gently; slice in i onion and 2 turnips; let it stew for two hours • and just before you take it up, chop up a few sprigs of parsley very fine’ and put into the broth, first taking out the mutton. Toast ^someTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 72 bread in thin slices, and cut it in small squares into a basin; pour the broth over it, and serve the meat in a dish; the turnips may be strained dry and served plain, or mashed up with a little butter, pepper, and salt. . , 5. Eancakes.—Beat 6 fres/t eggs extremely well, and mix, when strained, with i pint of cream, 4 oz. of pounded loaf sugar, half a nut- meg grated, a glass of sherry, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as the ordinary pancake batter, but not^ quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot; wipe it very clean; pour m the batter suffi- cient for thin pancake, and fry it for about five minutes. Pile the pancakes one above the other, with sifted sugar between each, an serve very hot, with cut lemon. -0— FEBRUARY 18. * The girl whom benevolence warms Is an angel who lives but to bless.' Bloomfield. Stewed Eels. Grilled Bones of Remains of Beef. 5. Turkish Pillaw, with Meat. 4. Potatoes. 5. Custard Pudding. I. Stewed Clean them thoroughly, cut them in pieces of about three inches in length; put them into a saucepan with barely sufficient water to cover them, a blade or two of mace, and a crust of bread, let them stew gently till the flesh will strip easily from the bone; then put in a lump of butter rolled in flour, some parsley chopped fine, and a little pepper and salt; let it_ boil up once or twice, and serve them hot in a tureen with toasted sippets. ^ ^ ■3 Turkish Pillaw, with Meat.—Wash a lb. of nee in tepi three pints 01 good broth, mutton or beef, men it begins to boi, put the least bit of saffron in a oup of the broth; ''J'”" Ur it in your stewpan, and let all boil, closely covered. Then spread 5he cooked rice on the dish. On this lay a ragout of any meat or foxsl or game you nray have. Cover over with plam boded nee, and pour over the whole a table-spoonful of fresh butter oiled. tarle is^ro'StaifTntturb'-ir^^ and serve with sweet sauce.BILL OF BABE FOB FEBBUABY. 73 FEBRUARY! 9. ‘ Whatever is engaging in manners should be the statural result of whatever is just in sentiment and correct in principle; softness should grow out of humility, and external delicacy spring from purity of heart'—HANNAH More. 1. Restorative Soup. 2. Chicken Curry. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Yeast Dumplings. 1. Bestorative Broth or Souf—Ont lb. neck of beef, i lb. neck of veal, I lb. neck of mutton, a small piece of melt, 3 pints of water, a bag of spice, long pepper and whole ditto, salt, a piece of lemon-peel, a stick of celery, 3 carrots, 3 onions, 3 small turnips. To be stirred gently six hours, then strained; to which add the meat of a calf’s foot, which has been boiled till quite tender in a saucepan by itself, in a pint of water. The jelly, when clear from fat, to be mixed whilst hot with the strained soup. If approved, a little sherry may be added. 2. Chicken Curry. — Divide the chicken into small joints, brown ihem in a frying-pan with sliced chalots and butter. Then let them half cook, after which put them in a stewpan. Cover them with stock, and let them simmer until tender. Rub fine a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and a tea-spoonful of flour, i oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream and add it to the stew. Arrange the chicken in the middle of your dish, and pour the gravy over it. Serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. 4. Yeast Dumplings.—^0 a dough of flour and water add a very moderate allowance of salt, and sufficient yeast to render the paste ngM ; as soon as this is well kneaded, set it before the fire in a deep dish, covered with a light cloth. In half an hour it will be sufficiently raised. ^ See that the water intended to be used is boiling; divide the dough mto small balls, flatten them on a trencher, put them into the water, which must be kept up to boiling heat, and five minutes will dumplings Serve with melted butter poured over theTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 74 FEBRUARY 2 0. * Sure as night follows day. Death treads in pleasure's footsteps round the world. When pleasure treads the paths which reason YoUNG, 1. Fried Cod’s Tail. 2. Roast Turkey and Bread Sauce. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Broccoli Sprouts. 5. Lemon Pudding. I. Fried Cods Tail.—Envelope in oiled paper, and put in the frying- pan wth a sufficient quantity of lard. The process of heating requires as much time as would be occupied in boiling. 2 Roast Turkey and Bread Sauce.—for about a fortnight,^ in its feathers, in an airy pantry; pluck, draw, and sinp with exceeding care ; wash, and then dry it thoroughly with clean cloths, and pour water plentifully through the inside. Fill the breast with sausage meat, highly seasoned with minced herbs, lemon-rind, mace, and cayenne. Truss the bird firmly, lay it to a clear sound fire, baste it constantly and bountifully with butter, and serve it, when done, with good brmvn gravy and well-made bread sauce. An entire chain of dehcately-fned "^'"s!^Zmi^?JSl-Nine eggs well beaten, f 1^ of ^ rind (grated) and juice of 3 large lemons, \ lb. of butter to be melte . E Jell together, put a puff paste at the bottom of the dtsh, and bake it. FEBRUARY 21. ‘ The kindest and the happiest pair Will find occasion to forbear ; And sofnething every day they live To pity, and perhaps forgive.'—Cowe^V.. 1. Soup. 2. Mole, made of the Remains of the Turkey. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Baked Apple Pudding. . Sout -To ensure a good tureen of this delicious soup, nvo hares z,^'p,Jvely required. With this proviso, .t can be Aus obmne . Chole the youngest and tenderest ot the nvo for *= bomlh, a ven mble tough old Jack makes a capital comomme Oelly-broth). Let the SjoL I properly paunohed, "£r„Emr d split in half. Put these into a saucepan three-fourths fullot uater, aoBILL OB BABB BOB BEBBUABY. 75 to the meat a Spanish onion chopped fine, a couple of anchovies, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of soluble cayenne. Set the saucepan on a slow fire, and let it simmer for at least four hours. Meantime roast the other hare in the usual manner, until it is about half done; then cut it into joints, and the meat of the thighs or haunches in large pieces ; put the head, spare bones, and stuffing of hare the second into the saucepan containing hare the first, and let all simmer for another hour you may then strain off the liquor. When the soup is required, put in the roast meat, with a tumbler of port wine, and warm it on a quick fire for about ten minutes. 2. Mole, made of Ihe Beinams of the Turkey.—Take what’s left of the turkey, and cut up in small pieces; put it in the stewpan with just enough broth to cover it, seasoning it. When tender, take it out and strain the gravy j then take some tomato sauce and a couple of capsicums and pound in a mortar. Put gravy, tomato, and capsicum with the turkey into the stewpan again, with a clove of garlic split in two, and let all simmer together. At serving, sprinkle over a few coriander seeds. 4. Baked Apple Budding.—Peel and slice half a dozen apples, scald them, and steam off the water; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon, and its peel grated; sweeten to your taste; when cold, add the whites of 3 eggs, and the yolks of 5; put a thin crust in the dish, and bake in a slow oven. FEBRUARY 22. ‘Against diseases here the strongestfence. Is the defensive virtue abstinence. Rd. Herrick. 1. Herrings. 2. Rabbit a la Jardiniere. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. College Pudding. 1. Herrmgs.~Yz.\i them as fresh as possible. With a sharp pen- knife make 3 or 4 incisions the fish on each side; cut an onion in thin slices; place both on the gridiron, and turn them occasionally till done. Have melted butter ready, in which 2 table-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup has been poured, and a little fresh mustard. 2. Babbit h la fardinilre.-TIh]oxrA your rabbit, and put it in your stewpan, with onions, celery, and potatoes. Fill up your stewpan lith both, and if you have any good beef or mutton gravy, add it to the Lnd = let all simmer together till the rabbit is ender. Fry some thin slices of bacon, and lay them round the dish.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 7C 4. CoUege Eudding.—BiQak 5 eggs into a basin, and whisk the yolks and whites well together; add, by degrees, 2 oz. of flour, 3 oz. pounded white sugar, as much powdered ginger as will coyer a shilling, an equal quantity of grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of cream or good milk. When you have mixed all these completely together, pu in 6 oz. of well-washed currants, 4 of finely-chopped suet, an oz. o candied orange-peel cut very fine, and a wine-glass of brandy. Fil as many pattypans as your mixture will allow, and bake for twenty minutes. FEBRUARY 23. ‘ Let pleasure he ever so innocent, the excess is always criminal.'—Done, LL.D. 1. Baked Cod’s Head. 2. Ribs of Beef, Boned and Rolled up. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Brussels Sprouts. 5. Yorkshire Pudding. I Baked Cod's Head.—To eat cod’s head in perfection, place it in an earthen shallow pan, and stick on, by means of small wooden skewers, ^ a lb. of fresh butter made into little pats. The time requi t looking will depend upon the site of the fish and a so if to the head there should be appended shoulders. All the muedagmous po tions of the skull are rendered more palatable by this metho dressing. Serve the fish upon a proper dish, and have melted butter or ovster sauce as an accompaniment. , • -i 2. Ribs of Beef boned and rolled «i).-Tied round with a string, and so roasted in a solid lump. cTnnnnfulc nf r; Yorkshire Puddiiig.-N\Ii^^ up 4 eggs, then add 3, spoonfuls of salt: mix gradually 8 table-spoonfuls of fine flour w.th a pmt and a htd of new mil; add the eggs, etc.; put a tin dish under JO” « become quite hot, and well covered with the fat of the me , wore dinner, pour the batter into the tin, turn the ^ ^f- hour so as to have both sides well browned; be careful to bru y immediately any coal or cinders that may fall out, or the appearanc the pudding will be destroyed.77 BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. FEBRUARY 2 4. * Cultivate modesty, meekness, prudence, piety with all its virtuous and charitable occupations, all beautiful an't useful accomplishmetits, suited to your rank and condition. These are the chief ornaments of your sex, and will render you truly lovely as women and as Christians.'—Vce.v. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Fish Stew. 2. Cold Rolled Beef, with Horseradish Sauce. 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4. Macaroni Cheese. r. Fish Slew.—Make a strong jelly broth of skate; tlien boil a pair of soles till nearly done, and cut olf the fillets ; put the bones and fins to the skate, add the juice of a lemon, a tea-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of mixed soluble cayenne and powdered mace : let all simmer for half an hour over a slow fire, then strain off the liquor through a fine sieve, and warm up the fillets in it. Serve with parsley and butter. 2. Horseradish Sauce—for cold meats, very cheap and relishing. Pour a quart of the best vinegar on 3 oz. of scraped horseradish, i oz. of minced eschalot, and i drachm of cayenne. Let it stand a week. Horseradish is in perfection about November and December. 4. Macaroni Cheese.—Six oz. of Cheshire or Pannesan cheese ^ lb. pipe macaroni, lb. butter, i pint of milk and 2 of water; bread- crumbs, pepper and salt to taste. Put the milk and water into a sauce- pan, with salt to flavour it; and when it boils quickly, drop in the macaroni. Keep the water boiling till it is quite tender; drain the macaroni, and put it in a deep dish. Have the grated cheese ready, sprinkle it amongst the macaroni and some of the butter cut into small pieces, reserving some cheese for the top layer (which cover with some very fine bread-crumbs). Season with a little pepper; warm, without oiling, the remainder of the butter, and pour it gently over the bread crumbs. Place the dish before a bright fire to brown the crumbs turn It once or twice that it may be equally coloured, and serve very hot The riband macaroni does not require boiling so long a time The top of the macaroni is browned quicker in a salamander than before the fire; but never put it in the oven, as the butter would oil The macaroni must be tender, but firm, no part beginning to melt. It mav be boiled in water, with a little salt instead of milk, but should then have a small piece of butter mixed witli itTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 78 FEBRUARY 25. ‘ Resolve to perform whatyoic ought; perform without fail what you resolve.' I Soup Lorraine.—up a lb. of blanched almonds in a mortar, with a small quantity of water ; add to this the yolks of 4 eggs boiled hard and the white meat of a cold roast fowl. Pound these ingredients well’together, seasoning with salt, mace, and nutmeg to your taste. Let the above be boiled over a slow fire in 3 quarts of strong veal broth, perfectly free from fat. This soup is fit for table when it has attained the thickness of cream. 2. Boiled Loin of Beef—Remove the fillet for next day, then stew with the bones left in it, with a variety of vegetables, and seasoned with whole cloves and peppercorns. 4. Oxford Dumplmgs.—Take 4 oz. of currants and shred suet, 2 oz. of grated bread, 2 large spoonfuls of flour, a great deal of grated lemon- peel a bit of sugar, and a little pimento in fine powder. Mix with 2 eggs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Serve with sweet sauce made with flour (but half the quantity) instead of bread. They are excellent. —Dr. Franklin. 1. Soup Lorraine. 2. Boiled Loin of Beef. 3. Potatoes. 4. Oxford Dumplings. —0- FEBRUARY 20. 1. Collared Eels. 2. Fillet of Beef. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Rice Dumplings.BILL OF FARE FOR FEBRUARY. 79 cut them into lengths of about three inches; place them close together, and tie them tightly up in a coarse open cloth, securing the top and bottom. "When the stew has been on long enough, take out the bones and put in the fish ; let them simmer in the liquor till perfectly tender ; then take them out, boil up the liquor again, strain it through a sieve, and pour it quite hot over the eels, placed in a deep dish and divested of the cloth. 2. Fillet of Beef roAko.?, a delicious steak, marinaded, and then either roasted or stewed. 4. Rice B>u?nf lings.—So^ the quantity of rice required in lukewarm water till it is quite white •, then parboil it, and drain off the water. Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the rice carefully placed round it; as soon as this is done, tie the cloth tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter or wine sauce. ‘ A woman should be veiy cautious of beginning those expenses which, if once begun, will continue; but may be more liberal on such occasions as are not likely to returnP Bacon. 3. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. 1. Cod.—To boil it well, have the water ready boiling, with i lb. of salt to every 6 quarts; put in your fish, draw your fish-kettle to the comer of the fire, where let it simmer slowly from twenty minutes to half an hour; when done, the bone in the centre will draw out easily; if boiled too much, it would eat tough and stringy. ^ 2. Oyster Sattce.—R\ih 2^ table-spoonfuls of flour into | lb. of butter : melt these gently in a stewpan, and add | pint of stock to thicken, with halt a spoonful of salt, the juice of half a lemon. The oysters should be bearded and stewed in their own liquor separately; when the sauce is as thick as melted butter, add the fish, and stir them together. 5. Bal/i Budding.—Fare and chop half a dozen apples; take 6 oz. of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of ■0— FEBRUARY 27. 1. Cod. 2. Oyster Sauce. 4. Broccoli and Potatoes. 5. Bath Pudding.8o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of brandy : mix all these well together; boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted butter over the pudding just before serving. —0— FEBRUARY 28. They who have the true taste of conversation, enjoy themselves in a communication of each other’s excellences, and not in a tHumph over their imperfections.'— 1. Slit Lobster. 2. Chops, with Cucumber Sauce. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Bread Pudding. I. Slit Lobster.—Procure the finest and freshest of lobsters possible 3 cut it in halves, detaching the head from the body; take out all the meat, and save the shells; cut the meat into slices ; then put a tea- spoonful of chopped shalots in a stewpan, with a piece of butter the size of 2 walnuts; pass them a few minutes over the fire; add a tea- spoonful of flour, well mixed with ^ pint of milk, and^ stir over the fire, boiling about five minutes ; then add the lobster, which season with a little cayenne, salt, chopped parsley, and essence of anchovies Set it again on the fire, stirring until boiling; then stir in the yolk of an egg, tie off the fire; fill the shells of the lobster: sprinkle bread-crumbs over it, with a little butter ; put in the oven twenty minutes, and serve. To give it a nice colour, use the salamander. 2 Chops with Cucumber Sauce.—Yox the cucumber sauce, cut up exactly as if for eating: put in a little butter at the bottom of the stewpan; when it is melted, stir in a little flour; then place your cucumber on it; add just enough^ broth to cover it, and boil till the slices are quite tender, without falling to pieces. , • , r -lu 4. Bread Pudding.—Yova oz. of bread, 2 oz. of suet, ^ pint of milk, 3 eggs well beaten, a little brandy, nutmeg, and sugar. FEBRUARY 29. ‘ When the mind loses its feeling for elegance, it grows corrupt in the crowd what ottght to be found at home. —Landor. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Roast Leg of Pork. 3. Apple Sauce. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Apple Dumplings. I Fried Solesoflf the upper and under skin, rub over mth .he w“S and lay on .he fish with a flat brush ; nex. shew .heSi DESSERT FOR FEBR UAR V. eggs previously beaten to a froth, then i lb. of loaf sugar powd-red soles with bread-crumbs, reduced to a very fine powder, and be sure that the lard in the pan is boiling before you put them in. Garnish with slices of lemon. 2. Roast Leg of Pork.—Scald it* first; the skin is then scored, not too deep ; protect it while roasting with oiled paper ; remove the joint towards the end of the cooking a little way from the fire, which will allow of the crackling to brown. 3. Apple Sauce.—Peel, quarter, and core your apples ; cut them into small pieces; put them into a stewpan, with a tumbler of cider; peel half a lemon, and put in 3 or 4 cloves; let boil till the apple is pulp ; take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of a lemon, mix up all thoroughly together. 5. Apple Dianplings.—Select the large russet-coat fruit; pare and cut them in halves; take out the cores, and fill the cavities with quince marmalade, and a couple of cloves to each. Surround the apples with paste equally distributed ; tie up in cloths ; boil for fifty minutes, or an hour, if your dumplings are large. Have melted butter and powdered sugar ready to serve with them. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY. For the middle of the table a basket apples, etc. 1. Almond Cake. 2. Confitures a la Valencienne. 3. Compote de Rhubarbe. 4. Compote de Marrons au Rhum. Pears: Grapes. S- Massepains a la Duchesse. 6. Biscuits de Savoie. 7. Massepains a la Francaise. 8. Biscuits aux Marrons. of mixed fruit; oranges, lemons, Two Assiettes Montees Garnies DE Bonbons. Walnuts, Filberts, Candied Fruits, Batons Sucres, Citron Chips, Figs and Almonds, Gaufres, Marma- lade, Fruit Jellies, Rata- fias. I. ALMOND CAKE. lake 10 oz. of sweet and i of bitter almonds; blanch them and ad ed a d" “ “ paste. Lina _ded a dessert-spoonful of syrup, lemon-juice, white of egg or swee^t i7euus° gradually add, firstTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 82 and sifted, and afterwards dredge in slowly ra os flour. When these ingredients a lb. of butter first beaten to a cream. P rind may be also added if approved of. Place the cake m g sized mould, and bake it for an hour and a half. 2. CONFITURES A LA VALENCIENNE. Tahe any hind of frrnt t,^ anTcing wiS S:Srri-nwith enough sifted, ‘’‘:,rh:itg'tet7Cr';t:;tring“*e pm^cess. Lay rruTa?X:faia^ ^ t"«rS :otTr;o^rred;it retouched with the ‘“rr'esh fruits may be treated in a similar manner, but of course they will not keep long. COMPOTE DE RHUBARBE. Take some very young rhubarb-stalkj ^ symp'in the pro- them into pieces of about 2 inches long. P^ 7 P portion of a tea-cupful of water and f your fruit, of rhubarb. Boil the syrup a Z TaL up the and do it very slowly for to a proper rhubarb, arrange it m your comp , Some thin slips of consistency, let it coo , and P-slit, are a great orange or lemon peel, alazed or enamelled saucepan tit m the iubarb will not be preserr.ed. COMPOTE DE MARRONS AU RHUM. Blanch and dry i of a hundred large them in a dessert-dish, sttew sending to table put a Add half a pint of rum, and immeQiaie y light to it, and serve it flaming. massepains a la duchesse. 1 rmi- them into a mortar with a spooX^rMm^slirrpounrthem to a paste, add them to a strongDESSERT FOR FEERUARY. syrup made with half a lb. of loaf sugar; place them by the side of a gentle fire, and stir them constantly until they will detach from the sides of the saucepan. Turn them upon a table thickly sprinkled with powdered sugar; work them well, and make them into small balls; flatten them until they are exceedingly thin, lay them upon a tin, and bake them for a short time in a moderate oven. Take 12 very fresh eggs, break them into separate basins, and beat them well. Add to the yolks 20 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, whisk the whites to a froth, put them with the yolks, add the rasped rind of a lemon, and sift in 12 oz. of flour first dried in a slow oven. Rub some fresh butter upon the insides of small round tins, half fill them with powdered sugar mixed with a very little flour, and bake them in a moderately heated oven until they are nicely hrnwn/an •' ' Take i Ib. of Jordan almonds, blanched, i Ih. nf 6. BISCUITS DE SAVOIE. browned. 7. MASSEPAINS A LA FRANCAISE. 8. BISCUITS AUX MARRONS. them in a very gentle oven.84 MARCH 1. ‘ To Imt is to be useful to yourself; to cause lave is to be useful to ^//^^^.’-Beranger. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat: Beef-Mutton-House-Lamb-Pork-Venison-Brawn-Veal (best from Tity^Capon,-P«ll..s-rowI.-T.™e —Ducklings. ftom M„ch to July, and cheapest about September, wheuflte FtsHTrdSar;°”£ic^^^^^ ^““j.Un"_LobL,a - Mus,els-Oys.e„- P»*-Pike - Pl.me-Pmt.us - Sab the year) Sea Kale—Spinach (Spring). FRUITS IN SEASON. SpanishPlums—Prunes—Figs—Dates. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Haunch of Venison and Mashed Potatoes. 3. Sauce. 4. Omelette Soufflee. Her • Ce,,/A -Rnil a lb of the best macaroni in a quart ot can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve ■ ^ j two liquors, a pint or so of cream, boiling hot The macaron tna tat mken out and i lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, make it hot bu.85 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. do not let it boil. Serve it vvith the crust of a French roll, cut into the size of a shilling. 2. Haunch of Venison and Mashed Potatoes.—After the haunch has been well rubbed till quite dry with a coarse cloth, envelope it com- pletely in buttered white paper; then lay a paste of flour and water, about half an inch in thickness, over the fat portion; secure this by other sheets of paper, and tie them on with flat narrow tape j put the haunch into a cradle spit, and be sure that the fire is strong and bright; begin to baste with clarified dripping immediately, or the paper will be destroyed. You may allow from ten to fifteen minutes to every lb., according to the size of the joint. Twenty minutes before it is com- pletely roasted, take off the papers and paste, and baste with fresh butter, using flour to froth it. It is usual to put a paper frill round the knuckle. Serve with gravy-sauce, quite plain, and dissolved currant jelly. 3. Sauce.—Take a sufficient quantity of the liquor in which the meat was boiled; put in, to your taste, currant jelly, wine, pepper, and salt; boil all up, and thicken with scorched flour mixed with a little water. 4. Omelette Soufflee.—Break up half a dozen eggs, separate tlie whites from the yolks; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon- peel and 4 of finely - powdered sugar; whisk up the whiles for ten minutes, add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. of butter in a pan, and put in the eggs; as soon as they are quite set, slant the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you mean to serve well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander. march 2. Sometimes speak to Cod, at other times hear Him speak to you. Let Him regulate your soul.’—St. Cyprian. * 1. Oyster Soup. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Hashed Venison and Currant 4. Hannah More’s Pudding Jelly. 1. Oyster Soup. Get 4 lbs. of skate, boil it down over a slow fire, with abundance of water, till you have the quantity you require to fill a tureen. When you have made this jelly-broth, add salt, spice, etc. to your taste, and twenty minutes before serving throw in 3 dozen oysters with their liquor strained through a fine sieve. ’ 2. Hashed Venison and Currant Jelly.—CooV in its own gravy, which first strain and heat, thickened with a little butter and flour; then put86 THINGS A LADY WOULD IHKE TO JiNOlV , • 1-hin slices and let them stew for about an hour, jl^tdo^noTallmv to boil; a very’ small quantity of port wine enriches Move's Puddin.-’S^■^ oz. of apples chopped fine, 6 oz. of beef-suet chopped fine, 6 oz. of bread grated, 6 oz. of cunrants, 6 oz. of raisins stoned^Ld chopped, 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten 3 oz. of candied peel chopped, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brand}. These inLdients to be well mixed, and boiled in ^ lould for three hours. This pudding should be mixed the day before it is cooked. march 3. . On, of,!,, « rul„ in ‘‘ ‘ ^ can reasonably wish we had rather left unsaid. —bw ift. 1. Cod Sounds. 2. Oyster Sauce. 3. Jugged Hare and Mashed Potatoes. 4. Rice Pudding. T Cod Sounds—2 cod-sounds be well soaked in salt and water, ''■? tL oysters in their own liquor till they them takm„ care yo . anchovy liquor, and a bit of horse- ° 1 it, raenllv then take out the horseradish, the mace, and considered a great delicacy. , . , n^-ash the 3./„^e,f Harcani onion,abunch hare; cut it into pieces, and p of sweet herbs, and a litt e wa . saucepan of that very little of the steam can e cape place^the 3 water not sufficiently high to boiling benveen /^Iid butter; season with pepper and salt, thicken the sauce with flour ana u and serve it all together in a hash-disffi87 BILL OF FARE FOR MARC IT. 4. Rice Pudding.—AVash a sufficient quantity of rice, j3ut a little water to it, and set it in the oven until the water is absorbed. Then put in a little milk, work it well with a spoon, set it in the oven again, and keep working it from time to time until it is sufficiently soft. A little cream worked in at the last is an improvement. Fill a tart-dish nearly full of fruit, sweeten it, and lay on the rice unevenly by spoonfuls. Bake it till the rice has a light-brown or fawn colour in the surface. ‘ / live for those who love me, For those who know me true; For the Heaven that smiles above me. And awaits my spirit too. For the cause that lacks assistance. For the wron^ that needs resistance. For the future in the distance. And the good that I can do.'—Bernard Barton. \. Scotch Broth.—Clean well, and chop in pieces a sheep’s head, and boil it with a small carrot and a crust of bread in a gallon of water, till half is boiled away; strain off the liquor, and put it back into a pot, with i lb. of barley, 2 heads of celery washed clean and chopped small, an onion, a few sweet herbs, a little chopped parsley, and a few marigolds. Boil the whole for an hour. Take out the onion and herbs before sending it to table. 2. Stewed Brisket of Beef—Tut the part with the hard fat into a stewpot, with a small quantity of water; let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, and a few peppercorns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones and remove all the fat from the soup. Serve that and the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone, and the meat in a dish garnished with some MARCH 4. 1. Scotch Broth. 2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. 3. Plum-pudding. 4. Almond Custard. vegetables. 3. Fium-fudding—Take ^ lb. of flour, i lb. of stale bread-crumbs lb. of . - 1U -r .... uiiius.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 88 7 eggs, strain them through a sieve, and add a little sweet milk if required; stir this well into the other ingredients; make it thick, but not too stiff. Just before you are going to boil it, stir into it a glass of mm or brandy; scald a cloth, flour it and lay it m a basin; pour in your pudding; then have ready another cloth, also scalded and floured, which lay over the top; tie it round tightly, and put it in boiling water, of which there should be abundance, as well as plenty of room; keep it boiling for six or seven hours. When it is done, take it out of the pot, let it stand a few minutes to cool, or dip it into cold water; then turn it out into a dish, and serve it with caudle sauce. A plain pudding may be made by using less fruit and spices. 4. Almond Custard.—Bea.t up in a mortar ^ lb. of sweet almonds, previously blanched ; when these are rendered very fine, stir m 2 tea- spoonfuls of rose-water, the yolks of 4 eggs well whisked, and a pint 0 cream; then sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste. Put this over a slow fire, and keep it constantly stirred till it has reached its proper thickness ; it will then be fit to be put into cups. —0— MARCH S. • She lives who lives to virtue ; girls who cast ^ Their ends for pleasure, do not live, but Herrick. . I. Lobster as an Entree. 2. Rolled Beef and Mashed Potatoes. 3. Currant Dumplings. I Lobster as an Entrk.-Ctso^ the meat of a good-sized lobster fine, and add to it half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, the same quantity of soluble cayenne, and a spoonful of salt; beat up 3 eps, ru ^ of butter into i oz. of bread-crumbs; mix all well together, and bo in a well-buttered mould for an hour. Sprinkle the pea over it, and the inside of a sirloin; on a hanging P ’ spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding quantity of vinegar a rich gravy in the dish, it improves the look and flavour. Serve witn a rin ^ j Currant jelly and melted ^utterjn ^ J- ^710n7pl2 before ihe fire. Chop a lb. o. sue. very small,89 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. and put into it 8 spoonfuls of flour, with 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt and 3 of ginger; now add the currants, and mix all well together; then beat 4 eggs with a pint of milk; add this by degrees to the other in- gredients, and make it into a light paste; roll it up into balls as large as a turkey’s egg, with a little flour \ flatten them a little, and put them into boiling water move them gently, that they may not stick together. Half an hour Avill boil them. 1. Bai ley Broth. Put \ lb. of Scotch barley, and 2 or 3 onions sliced, into 5 quarts of water; boil them gently for an hour, then pour it into a pan; now melt a lump of dripping in the saucepan, and stir into it i lb. of oatmeal, till you bring them into a paste; then add the barley broth a little at a time, stirring it well together till it boils. Season it with a tea-spoonful of pounded celery, the same quantity of ground black pepper, and salt to your palate ; let it simmer gently for a quarter of an hour after you have' added the seasoning, and it will be ready. 2. Bubble and Squeak.—Boil, chop, and fry with a little butter, pepper ^d salt, some cabbage, and lay it on slices of underdone beef, lightly MARCH 6. ‘ If winter comes, can spi-ing befar behind ? ’—Shelley. 1. Barley Broth. 2. Bubble and Squeak. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Yeast Dumplings. march 7. ‘ thoughts no tongue {evil ones), lor any unproportioned thought his aerj.Shakspeare. 1. Baked Cod’s Head. 2. PIarrico of Veal. 3. Potatoes. 4- Tapioca Pudding.90 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. of sweet herbs, a srrrall spoor^ful of black white pepper 3 or^ blades of mace, a nutmeg bruised, a quart of water a ^ e and a small piece of horseradish. Rub the head with butter, and strew ^ K r, rpr it • then send it to the oven. When done, take it ouTof“tr dish, and lay it carefully in the one in which you intend to serve id Set the dish over boiling water, and cover t. up to keep . hot In the meantime, pour all the liquor out of the dish m which \ hod into a saucepan, set it on to boil three or four minutes, then was baked ^ jp of red wine, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, a pint strain it, and put to ^a |11 of^red P^^ s®Wrg'’u, add 1 Spoonful of mushroom-pickle, i lb. of b“«« in flour and stir all together till it boils; pour this into the dish, and m nour, auu , j three-corner pieces and fried crisp, of ■'SlV;?ect ab^ Z W an7mou.h‘: and lay .he rest round which stick p horseradish, and parsley crisped “he r Lay oi; slik o/lemon on the head, and serve .. ^^2°Harrtco of Take the best end of a small neck ; cut the K ’ nnt hut leave it whole; put it into a stewpan ; just cover with brown gravy, and when Lttnres cut into quarters—all stewed beans, 6 “cumbers shced and^ r ru.r^r;’.hTvtris“in .he d'ish. pour .he sauce and -Take 6 table-spoonfuls of tapioca, and soak it on the fire, and, as soon . it does not burn r"o’r?;“a\Jn.a^^^ h CiledT yoTmu':. ’add anothei egg. and boU it for an hour and a half. march 8. . r»»r«r--‘"“"“■WOHUSOn 1. Pork Soup. 2. Veal and Ham Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Apple Dumplings. 5. Cream for Glasses. ^ 1- f f. ^ome A or half a dozen delicate pork chisf’M-.eAe oUvard skin from the fat, and put it with the91 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. bones and meat into a stewpan; add a little rice whole, a few sweet herbs, some pepper and salt; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. This prepara- tion should be, if properly made, perfectly transparent; and if intended for an invalid, its delicacy entirely depends on the attention paid to its skimming. 2. Veal and Ham Pie.—Cut 2 lbs. of veal cutlets into nice square' pieces, and put a layer of them at the bottom of your dish. Have ready minced 2 table-spoonfuls of savoury herbs, 2 blades of pounded mace, a strip of lemon-peel finely minced, tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices; sprinkle a portion of these over the veal, then put a layer of boiled ham, cut very thin. Proceed thus till the dish is full, always having the ham (about \ lb. in all) at the top. Lay a puff paste on the edge of the dish, and pour in about half a pint of water. Cover with crust, ornamented with leaves ; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake it from one hour to an hour and a half in a well-heated oven. Should the pie be very large, bake longer time. (This pie will be much improved and enriched by adding a few mushrooms, oysters, or sweet-' breads.) When the pie is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel nearly half a pint of strong gravy, which must be suffi- ciently good to cut in a firm jelly when cold. 4. Apple Du7/iplijigs.—M.skt a good paste; pare some large apples, cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and in place of them put in a clove and a piece of lemon-peel cut very thin; take a piece of crust enough for i apple, roll it round, put the quarters together, and roll the crust round it with a little flour in your hand. Have a pot of water boiling j take a clean cloth, dip it into the water, shake flour over it, and tie each dumpling by itself; put them in, and keep the water boiling all the time : if the apples be not large, half an hour will boil them. When they are done enough, take them up, lay them on a dish, throw fine sugar over them, and send them to table with fresh-melted butter in a boat, and fine-beaten sugar in a saucer. Some persons boil apple dumplings without tying them in a cloth, but they are apt to break and spoil. 5. Cream for -Dissolve ^ of an oz. of isinglass, melt in a wine-glassful of brandy about half a dozen lumps of loaf su-ar whin some cream well; add the above, and just before putting “into the glasses squeeze the juice of a lemon into your mixture.92 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. march 9. The greatest pleasure oj life is SiR W. Temple. 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Bceuf Royale. 3. Sea Kale and Potatoes. 4. Boiled Rice Pudding. 5. Creams. I Boiled Salmon.—C\em out and scale the fish, and rinse it in water Then put on a good roomy fish-kettle with plenty of water and Igood handful of salt; put in your fish, let it bo very it skimmed. The time it will take depends greatly on the thickness 0 the fish It is usual to reckon ten minutes to the pound. To ascertai Int be boilei enough, raise one end from the water; ^d if a kn. e pas “ririimtinrom"^^^ ready, fich Serve it on a dish with a fish-plate ; rSpkruntr Z hsh. calnish with green parsley and lobster or W^eyofc-Take the bones out of a brisket of beef, and scoop a very little mace and "f ^^0, and pour over it, quite rot:i%rorshe;:SwHch^h^ :• isri" S "ck your *0, put it into a cle^^ h'r trthrri“p:ffeld^ a buttered mould or basin to set; then turn it out, and ^ ^ p,. of loaf 5, 0«-Dissol« an “““ in London, ‘ Double') sugar in a pint of rich (or, as ^ ^ and the juice of a cream; mix all together, *row n a glass o > ^ lemon and a half; beat it up with a whisk, ana pu93 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. MARCH 10. ‘ Tai^ ca7-e to be an economist in prosperity ; there is no fear of your being one in adversity. ’—ZiMMERMANN. 1. ^YINTER Pea Soup. | 3. Potatoes. 2. Veal Pie. | 4. Custard Pudding. 1. Winter Pea Soup.—Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 2 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs; let it simmer slowly for three hours; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add spice to your taste before warming up for use. 2. Veal Pie.—Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice 2 sweet-breads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweet-breads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill the dish with water; cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top through a funnel a few spoonfuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, etc., if approved.' 4. Custard Puddiiig.—^t^t up 6 eggs, add a quart of new milk, a little lemon-peel shred fine, 5 or 6 bitter almonds blanched and grated or crushed, with sugar to your taste; mix all together, then have ready your dish covered with a good puff paste, into which pour the custard • grate over it half a nutmeg, and bake it, or put it into a basin without paste; tie a cloth over it, and boil it. If boiled, serve it with melted -0—• march 11. ‘ IVrong none by doing injuries, or omitting the benefits that are your duty.'- Dr. Franklin. 1. Stewed Cod. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4- Bread and Butter Pudding. 5. Arrowroot Blancmange. I. Stewed Cod.—ZMt it in slices an inch thick, lay them in a larc^e s vTefh^'"^'°“ salt, a bundle of eet herbs, an onion, -i a pint of wine, and ^ of a pint of water • cover close, and let it simmer softly for five or six minutes; then squeezeTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 94 in the juice of a lemon, put in a few oysters, and the liquor strained, with a blade or two of mace; cover it close, and let it stew softly shaking the pan often. When it is done enough, take out the sweet herbs and onion, and dish it up; pour the sauce over it, and garnish MuUon In winter, a small family may ensure a variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in ^ang the knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about | of an inch m thic - ness sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section in the meat. These slices are to be dressed in the pan : 2 tea-cupfuls of water, and i of Harvey’s, Reading, Lopresti’s, or any favourite sauce, with a small portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and 2 drops of garlic vinegar ^ TBrcadandBuLpuddiug.-C^^ some slices of thm bread and butter, and have ready some currants picked and , dish and lay slices of the bread and butter on the bottom of it, the some currants over them ; then W another row of^bmad »d butter then some more currants, until the dish be . 4 eggs add a pint of new milk, a little ground cinnamon, nutmeg, grated Rmon-peel, 4 or 5 bitter almonds blanched and crushed, and sugar to "r ^sfe, L a very little salt. Mix all these together, and pour them over the bread and butter. Bake it half an hour. a k 5. Arrowroot Blancmange.-Yzk^ a quart of sweet imlk put about 3 paL of it into a saucepan, sweeten it with white sugar, and set it on the Le Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot with the rest of the mi k, usin f Uttle at a time, so as to have it completely smooth and well mixed When the milk in the saucepan boils, m the arrowroo^ ^ quickly, to prevent it being lumpy ; it will thicken immediate y. Soil for two or three minutes. Wet a mould with cold milk and poi^^ in the arrowroot, after stirring in 2 or 3 drops of oil of lemons. Let stand till cold, then turn it out on a glass or china dislu -0— march 12. ■' FITZOSBORNE. 1. White Potato Sour. 2. Savoury Omelet. 3. Apple Fritters. 4. Amber Pudding. 5. VEGETABLES.95 BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. skim it carefully, and season the broth with salt and pepper to your taste; peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes and 3 turnips; slice up 4 onions, chop up 3 heads of celery, and throw these into the broth, with a liberal handful of sweet herbs. Let all stew for four hours and a half over a low fire; strain off the liquor, take out the mutton, and force as much of the vegetable as possible through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in pint of cream, stir all well together, and warm it up for sending to table. 2. Savoury Omelet.—Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best ingredients for this excellent dish; whichever you select must be chopped veiy fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham ; add i shalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites of eggs separately; see that the frying-pan be quite hot, and the lard boiling, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together; as soon as you begin to fry, add the whites, and mix them well with the other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient. Brown with a salamandei; before you send it to table. 3. Apple Fritters.—Make batter as above, only thicker; pare apples, cut them in quarters, and core them ; then take up a quarter of apple, with some batter, and fry them on both sides, in hot fat, the same as pancakes. 4. Amber Pudding.—(Make this when eggs are cheap.) Put i lb. of butter into a saucepan with lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of 15 eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add flavour and colour to It, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when well filled with the above, lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. march 13. ‘ To love for the pure sake of loving is almost the characteristic of an ancreV— Lamartine. X. Fried Haddocks. 3. Potatoes. 2. White Fricassee of Rabbits. 4. Herefordshire Pudding. I. Fried Haddocks. —good-sized haddocks; wash and clean h m well; le, them lie .11 nigh, in ealt. When you 'are going ,o dress em, wash and wipe them dry; cut off the head, tail, Ld fins; skin96 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. ihem carefully, so as not to tear the flesh, which is extremely tender; cut the flesh from the bone, and divide each side in two pieces; dredge them with flour, dip them in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lavd or dripping sufficient to cover them. Do not suffer the fat to scorch the fish. Brown both sides; and when done, place them for a few minutes on a drainer before the fire. Garnish with parsley. Send up oyster sauce, or plain melted butter, in a boat. _ 2. JV/iite Fricassee of Rabbits.—careful to take away all the interior of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut off the heads ; wash them repeatedly in cold water, till the flesh is perfectly white. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up again, take out the rabbits, and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint of milk with flour and butter; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, salt, and white pepper; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover carefully down, and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should be as thick as cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed. 4 Herefordshire Pudding. — Peel and core 3 or 4 good dressing apples; mince them fine; and to every i lb. of apple add the same quantity of bread-crumbs, and currants picked and 'y*ed, . Vr, and half a nutmeg grated. Beat up 4 eggs, and mix Ae whole toLther It may be either boiled in a buttered basin, or mould, or baSd b a dish'vith a paste round the rim. If boiled, it will take rather more than half an hour. Serve with sweet sauce. march 14. . /tor r»r4 mrli » d>,s .to hoi upon ..uom'.lor nost morning.'—IzAAK Walton. 1. Pea Soup. 2. Pigeon Pie and Mashed Potatoes. 3. Cabinet Pudding. T Pea Soup.—Liitr well washing i quart of split peas, soak them • o, ^ A iw '1 fVipm with a little carbonate of soda in ju_t for the night, and boil v tr. a mash. Then put them to sufficient water to allow them o rea ^ whole 3 or 4 quarts of beef broth, -f One r fsmrhir o^“\er=^^ “BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. 97 them with pepper and salt, and put a good piece of fresh butter with pepper and salt in their bellies; lay them in the dish; the necks, gizzards, livers, pinions, and hearts place between, with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg and a beafsteak in the middle; put in as much water as will almost fill the dish; lay on the top crust, and bake it well. It is a great im- provement to stuff the pigeons with forcemeat, very highly seasoned, and to lay forcemeat-balls round inside the dish. 3. Cabinet Pudding.—Over 6 spongecakes pour sufficient sherry to soak them thoroughly; meanwhile beat up 6 new-laid eggs with a quart of new milk, sweetening with pounded loaf sugar. Put your cakes into the custard without beating them together, and turn the whole into a mould or basin, previously well buttered; tie a paper over the top, and steam the pudding for an hour. For sauce, beat up the yolks of eggs and sherry; heat them over the fire, not allowing them to boil, but keep whisking them all the time. Pour this over the pudding. march is. ‘ A harder lesson to learne continence In joyous pleasure than in grievous /azw.’—SPENSEE. T. Irish Pike. 2. Rabbit Pie, 3. Potatoes. 4. Norfolk Dumplings. 1. Irish Pike.—Mt^x the pike has been carefully cleaned, fill the belly with the same kind of stuffing you would prepare for roast veal, and this by two or three stitches may be prevented from falling out. If you attempt to roast it, the weight of the body is apt to separate it from the head, by which it is hung; to prevent this, bake. 2. Rabbit Pie—and cut into joints a couple of rabbits, pop up the livers very fine, and add to them \ lb. of fat bacon boiled, enough soluble cayenne and powdered mace to cover a shilling a spoonful of salt, ffie leaves of \ dozen sprigs of parsley, and a shalS finely chopped; mix these well together, and lay them at the bottom of the dish; place the joints over the forcemeat, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of ham extract, and fill up with veal stock; cover with puff paste and bake for an hour and a half. This pie should be eaten hot 4. Norfolk Dumplings.-Hjk^ \ pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little salt- make it into a batter with flour. Have ready a clean saucepan of boiling water, into which drop the batter. Let the water boil fast and two or three ininutes will boil them enough; then throw them into a pve to dram the water from them, turn them into a dish, and stir a lump of butter among them. Eat them hot “ GTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 98 march 16. ‘ If Misfortune comes, she brings along The bravest virtues.'—Thomson. 1. Vermicei.li Soup. 2. Leg of Mutton and Currant Jelly Sauce. 3. Potatoes and Broccoli. 4. Bakewell Pudding. I Vermicelli Soup.-Yxt^^ up the quantity of vermicelli required- iL oz or 2 oz. will be found quite enough for a large tureen soak iAn boiling water till perfectly white and free from dust. A qj^.^^er of h^brfore dishing up your tat course add the v=™celh .0 he soup. Rich beef.gravy, in which vegetables have been stewed, and the iff naste • cover the bottom with jam or marmalade, or, i es h^tay: ^h cuiants nicely picked and washed. Pout the mtxture over, and bake it in a slow oven. march 17. ■ n. ,pct tfs..pr«n, not deprive of all Virtue.— 1. Broiled Salmon. 2. Hashed Mutton. 3. Potatoes. 4. Rich Baked Apple Puddings. .,.07 the nuantitv required from the fish in slices I. . ,vipe them perfectly dry with a cloth, and of an inch and a nan , i slices; rub clean writing sprinkle a very small quanti y o salmon separately ; paper overwith Florence o.l and bars some sis Le"that your fire be ckan the and twenty will inches from the fire, _ Take off the paper envelopes before L;rgt\r fs^rs siu^^P o' onch^ov^ sauce. Indian soy, =«oes,fat and lean . fiour them;BILL OB BABE BOB MABCIJ. 09 have ready a little onion boiled in 2 or 3 spoonfuls^of water; add to it some gravy, and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. 4. Bich Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare 12 large apples; take out the cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water; boil them till they are soft and thick ; beat them well, and stir in i lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of 8 eggs beaten up; mix all together, put it in a puff paste to bake it: when it is nearly done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. t •—0— MARCH 18. ‘ Where there is much light, the shade is deepest.'—Goethe. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Wild Fowl. 3. Sea Kale. 4. Lemon Pudding. 1. Macat oni Soup. Into a pan of fast-boiling water throw 4 oz. of macaroni, add i oz. of butter, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. AVhen the macaroni has swelled to its full size and become tender, drain it, and put it into 2 quarts of clear gravy-soup; let it simmer for seven or eight minutes, and it will be ready for the table. Serve ^Tated Parmesan cheese with it. ^ 2. Wila The flavour is best preserved without stuffing; put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish; a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improve- ment to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which some wild fowl ave, baste m the first instance with hot water, with an onion and salt for about ten minutes ; then take it away, and finish with butter bastinu ^ Lemon Pudding.-H^V^ the yolks of 6 eggs well beaten, with 4 lb. of sugar; take \ lb. of butter melted in as little water as possible be careful not to oil it; keep stirring it till cold; then mix all together ivith the juice of 2 lemons, and the peel grated in. Cover you? dish with a thin puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it for half an hour.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lOO MARCH 19 ‘ Be wisely worldly, but 7iot worldly w/«.’—Quarles. j. Flounders. 2. Savoury Lamb and Veal Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Millet Pudding. 1 Flounders.—Y&t the fish be carefully cleaned, the fins cut off; then washed, and well dried in a cloth: put a handful of salt mlo the water in which they are boiled; the time they take must be regulated by their size and thickness. Serve them with parsley and butter. _ 2 Savoury Lamb and Veal Make a good puff paste crust, with whidr cover the sides of the dish. Cut the meat in pieces; season it with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg finely beaten ; lay it in the crust with a few sweetbreads and lambstones seasoned as the meat is • also ovsters and forcemeat-balls, hard yolks of eggs, and tops of asparagus boiled green, and cut two inches in length ; put butter over all the pie ; put on the cover, and bake it for an hour and a half in a Quick oven Have gravy ready, made thus : Take a pint of gravy, the rt Cor, a gffl ofTed »ine, aad a little grated nutmeg; mot a toother, with the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs, and keep stirring ^ w^y the'time. When it boils, pour it into your pie and put on the lid again. and wash clean i lb. of millet seed ; put to it 1 lb. of sugar, a whole nutmeg grated, and 3 cpiarts of milk AMie you have mixed all well together, break ^ lb. of butter into the dis , pour in the pudding, and bake it. —0- M ARC H 20. . Fr„.all,y may 1. uym,d dau,U«- ofyrud.me, ,h. suler a/Umfraac, ^ parentof liberty.'— 1. Lobster Soup. 2. Breast of Mutton. 3. Potatoes. 4. Snowballs. LdUUr y u" me“a^ e'dCs InVC"ITmail bits Tbou. the sire of dice t strain the liquor, put m “e Crand serve quite hot. Two lobsters are necessary for an °lTC;u/X™;,.-Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast the meat with stewed cucumbers.BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. loi 4. Snowballs.—Swell rice in milk; strain it and lay it round some apples, previously pared and cored; put a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and a clove in each; then tie them in a cloth, and boil them well: they are eaten with melted butter and sugar. _ I. Ed Four eels, of \ lb. weight each, are enough for a good- sized pie. Let diese be skinned and the fins cut away, and then washed in fair water; divide the fish into lengths of about 2 inches 'j rub these over with equal parts of soluble cayenne pepper and salt. When you have placed the eels in a pie-dish, pour in as much veal stock as will fill it to the brim. Cover with a light paste, and bake for an hour. Before sending it to table, make a small aperture in the top crust and pour m a tea-cupful of veal stock, in which a glass of sherry and the juice of a lemon have been mixed. 2. Remains of Bnast of Mutton.—<Sxx\\ it before the fire: cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce. —0 MARCH 21, ‘ Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame.'—Pope. 1. Eel Pie. 2. Remains of Breast of Mutton. 3. Spinach. 4. Batter Pudding. march 22. harinless, agreeable, or useful. ’ ; 1. Scotch Barley Broth. 2. Beef a la Modk 3. Small Salad. 4- Apple Pie.102 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. cover them with cold water; as soon as the water boils take away the scum, and then add a couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 onions, all chopped up. You may now season the liquor with salt to your taste. Let it stew over a slow fire for three hours; take out the meat, place it on a dish, and then pour the broth into an earthen vessel, where it should remain all night, to enable you to take away the fat Next day, warm up the meat and soup, and serve it to table, either with or without the bouilli and vegetables, as your fancy dictates 2. Beef cL la Mode.—Procure about 10 lbs. of buttock of beef, and cut it into bits of about I lb. each. Chop a couple of large onions very fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with ^ lb. of fresh butter, or fresh and well-clarified beef-dripping: whilst this is warming, cover the pieces of beef with flour ; put them into the pan, and stir them for ten minutes, adding a little more flour by slow degrees, and taking great care the meat does not burn. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of boiling water; then add a couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of black pepper, and a couple of bay leaves. Let all this stew on a slow fire, and very gently, for three hours and a quarter; ascertain with a fork if the meat be tender: if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep dish. A well-dressed salad is the proper accompaniment of Boeuf d la Mode. 4. Apple Pie.—Make a puff paste crust; lay som.e round the sides of the dish ; pare and quarter the apples, and take out the cores; lay a row of apples thick at the bottom of the dish, with half the sugar you intend for the pie, a little minced lemon-peel, a little of the juice, and 2 or 3 cloves or a little cinnamon; then the rest of the apples and sugar; squeeze in a little more lemon-juice, and have ready the peels and cores of the apples boiled with some sugar in very little water, and strained; pour the liquor into the pie, and put on the upper crust. It should be baked very pale. Put no cup in the dish when you make apple pie. The flavour of a quince will greatly improve it. MARCH 23. ‘ Let all your things have their places ; let each fart ofyour business have its time.'—DK. Franklin. 1. Roast Lobster. I 3- Broccoli. 2. House Lamb Steaks. | 4- Batter Pudding. 1. Roast Lobster.—BoW your lobster until half done; take it out of the water, and as soon as it has drained, and the shell is dry, rub it allBILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. over with sweet fresh butter. Set it in an American oven before the fire, and continue basting with butter until enough. For sauce, take the butter left in the pan, and mix with it a little mustard and vinegar. 2. House Lamb Steaks.—Season them with salt and pepper, nutmeg grated, lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; dip them first into whipped eggs, fry them quickly. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter; add to it a spoonful of port wine and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. 4. Batter Pudding.—Use a quart of milk; mix 6 spoonfuls of flour with a little of the milk first; add the rest by degrees, with a tea-spoon- ful of salt, 2 of beaten ginger, and 2 of the tincture of saffron; mix all together quite smooth, and boil it for an hour either in a buttered cloth or basin. MARCH 24. * Be not content to captivate only, vuhen you may bring into action poiuers of‘which the effects may be com/nensicrate with eter7tity.’—Hannah More. 1. Potato Soup. I 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Neck of Lamb. I 4. Bread Pudding. I. Potato Soup.—Take a few uncooked bones, or bones of cold meat, or, if you have none of these, a piece of dripping, and put it into a pot of cold water, according to the quantity you wish to make; after boiling a short time, peel a quantity of potatoes, and put them in with 2 or 3 onions cut in thin slices; add pepper and salt, and let it boil for half an hour. 2 Neck of Lamb.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. 4- Bread Pudding.—Crumble down stale bread in a dish; boil suffi- cient milk, which pour on to the bread. Cover it up for a quarter of an hour, that the bread may swell; then beat it up to a fine pulp, stirrine in a lump of butter. Now beat up 3 or 4 eggs, ground cinnamon ginger grated lemon-peel, and sugar to taste; ^ lb. of raisins stoned and chopped; i lb. of currants picked and washed, with a little salt Mix this among the bread ; make it of the consistence of thick batter’ iiutter the dish, pour it m, and bake it for half an hour.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. J04 MARCH 2S. ‘ That which is to he laved long is to be loved with reason rather than with passion.'— Dr. Johnson. 1. Boiled Herrings. 1 3- Mashed Potatoes. 2. Broiled Fowls. 1 4* Sponge Pudding. 1. Boiled Herrings.—Yl&rxmgs that have been well powdered with salt for three days, and then plain boiled, will be found extremely delicate, served with parsley and butter. , . 2. Broiled Foivls.—Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil \ serve with mushroom sauce. • , • n A. sponge Budding.—Besit up 2 eggs with their weight m flour, m good tresh butter and in pounded sugar; add 2 drops of essence 0 lemon : when well mixed, pour it into 4 tea-cups, previously well buttered, and bake in a moderately quick oven. To be served with wine sauce in a boat, not poured over the puddings. march 26. ‘ Jt is the prerogative ministry and glory of womanhood to consecrate the meanest things by a which is not for self:F. W. Robertson. 1. Beef Soup. 2. Giblet Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Boiled Apple Dumplings. I. Beef Soup.-Cei0^p up \ lb. of gravy beef quite free from fa^ a put it into pints of water, cold; let it simmer over a slow fire for half In hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your taste, put in 4 cloves, and keep it over the fire for another half-hour; stram through muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. ^ _ 2 Gidlei Bie.-Tvto sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderate y- sized pie; let these be properly cleaned and half stewed; cut the liver into tLe pieces, the gizzard into tour, and divide the J separate the feet from the legs ; strain off the liquor, and put bo* t and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate “ pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same steak the size of the bottom of your pie dish; arrange the gizza , n over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupful of veal stock, paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half The liquor Lm the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the105 BILL OF FARE FOR MAR OIL fat; thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and add the juice of a lemon; boil this up, and, when the pie is sufficiently baked, strain it through a fine sieve, make a hole in the crust, pour in the liquor, replace the paste you have removed, smear the top with the yolk of an egg, and set the pie before the fire for a few minutes. 4. Boiled Apple Make a good paste, roll it out half an inch thick, but quite thin round the edge; pare and core apples suffi- cient to fill the crust; close it up, tie it up tight in a cloth, and boil it from two to three hours according to the size. When it is done, turn it into a dish, cut a piece of crust out of the top, put in a good lump of butter, and as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste, a little grated lemon-peel, and i drop of oil of cinnamon ; stir it well in the pudding, lay on the crust, and send it to table hot. ‘ The maxim, “ Reverence thyself," seems to me peculiarly proper for a woman..'—• Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. I. Neck of Mutton Soup.—Put a cupful of pearl barley into a pot with 3 quarts of cold water, and let it boil; then put in 2 lbs. of neck of mutton; boil it gently for an hour, taking care to skim it occasionally, and watch n to prevent it boiling over. Then put in i grated carrot, and 2 turnips cut in small squares; an onion or two, sliced thin, or a leek, and 2 or 3 pieces of carrot and turnip, uncut. Boil the whole for an hour longer after the vegetables are put in, adding, if required, a little hot water to make up for loss in boiling. Season with salt only, and serve the broth in a tureen or deep dish. The meat is served in a separate dish, garnished with the uncut turnip and carrot. Thus the broth, meat, and vegetables, being all used, food for a large number is produced at a very small expense. —0- MARCH 27. 1. Neck of Mutton Soup. 2. Boiled Leg of Pork. 3. Parsnips. 4. Currant Pudding.'THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. io6 roll the pudding in it; after which tie the cloth tightly at each end, put it into boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half or two hours^ Jelly, jam, or mincemeat is very good, spread over the paste, instead ol currants. march 2a ‘ She of dress, ofpaint, and place. Aims but to be a goddess in the face. Sinks as her beauty fades and passion cools, Su scorn of coJmbs, and the jest of fools 1. Whiting. 2. Fricandeau of Beef. 3. Spinach. 4. Quaker Pudding. , them down from head to tail, inb them inside and out well with flour, and fry them in a pan full to.'mg lard. 2 Frimndeau of .Srr/.-Take a piece of lean beef, lard it with bacon seasonTwith pepper, salt, and cloves. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, aVass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, nenoerand salt men the meat is become tender, ooyer it dos S the sauce well, and strain it Set it on the fire, and let it boil nil "ced torglaae. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the “t X «.-Mia with a pint of cream « water boils when you put it in. march 29. ‘ Eccentricity in women is totally out of nor even honesty, can make tip for tt; so depend upon her power of pleasing, and so Ward. character. pemliarly exclusively Neither genius, wit, generosity, does the real power of a woman does that depend upon softness.'— 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Rolled Beef. 3. Broccoli. 4. Suet Pudding. ,. VesMe 5uw/.-Talte the liquor in wdiich any boiled; cut into it 2 onions, 2 turnips, a larg t. meat has been head of celery,BILL OF FARE FOR MARCH. S07 and a little parsley; add also a bunch of sweet herbs; boil all together for a couple of hours; then take out the sweet herbs, and rub the vege- tables through a sieve; have ready some chopped parsley, and boil all up again. Season with pepper and salt. 2. Rolled Beef.—Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Done with spices, and baked, is excellent. 4. Suet Pudding.—Chop lb. of suet very fine, and mix it with ^ lb. of flour, a few bread-crumbs, and a little salt; when well mixed together, make it into a paste with a little water, not too stiff; dip your cloth into hot water, flour it, and tie up the pudding tight; put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half. This is made richer by adding a couple of eggs, and using milk instead of water. MARCH SO. otinng makes a •W07nan more esteeined by the opposite sex than chastity.'—Addison. 1. Fried Eels. Cut in small pieces, and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. 2. A French Pie.—Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, with force- meat-balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and a few truffles. 4. Baked Rice Pudding.—Boil ^ lb. of rice in a quart of new milk and stir it that it may not bum; when it begins to thicken take it off’ et It stand till cool, then stir in a lump of butter, sugar to your palate’ and some grated nutmeg; butter the dish, pour it in, and bake it. Kaisins, currants, or sliced apples may be stirred in if liked. —0- 1. Fried Eels. 2. A French Pie. 3. Potatoes. 4. Baked Rice Pudding. march 31. 'Rivalship in show is the ruling passion of the times; and haw much ii by dissipation r—R^v. James Fordyce, D.D. is it nowished 1. Beef Soup. 2. Sirloin of Beff and 3- Mashed Potatoes. 4- Yorkshire Pudding. Horseradish.to8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. allspice. Put it on a slow fire, and skim it carefully as it coines to a boil. Let it simmer gently for an hour, then strain it through a hair S16VG. 2 Sir/oin of Beef and Horseradish.—the joint with a clean cloth : place the screen before the fire half an hour before putting down the beef; hang the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour, near; baste, then withdraw to a distance, and let it roast slowly done, baste frequently, and dredge with baked flour; add a tea-cup water and half a tea-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the beef, pouring the dripping off first; it takes about a quarter of an hour to the lb. When the Yorkshire pudding is had the same day, put it under the beef while roasting for the last half-hour. 4. Yorkshire Puddmg.—MAy. up a quart of milk, 4 eggs, and a little salt, into a thick batter with flour, as for pancakes. Have a good piece of meat roasting at the fire; put a lump of dripping into a stei^an and set it on the fire; when the fat boils, pour in the pudding, bake till nearly done, then take away the dripping-pan, and set t e stewpan under the meat, that the gravy and dripping ° pudding, and the heat of the fire may reach it and make it broiTO. When the meat is done, drain the fat from the pudding, slide it as dry as possible into a dish, and serve it up with the meat DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF MARCH. stand of flowers or other embellishments. Centre of the table—a 1. Imperial Rice Cake. A Whipped Cream. 2. Compote de Pommes a la Nor- MANDE. 3. Pears; Apples. 4. Queen Cakes. 5. Macarons aux Fleurs d’Oranger. 6. Amandes Pralinees.' 7. Gaufres, Brazil and B.arce- lona Nuts, Marrons Glaces, Dried Fruits, Moulded Ices, Dragees, Preserved Prunello, Fruit Jellies, Pastilles, Raisins, Burnt Almonds, Fromage Glace, Petits Baisers, Batons Sucres, Con- fitures A LA VALENCIENNE. I. IMPERIAL RICE CAKE. Put a or. of.ivhole rice >o -U " «te nidi a pint Tii:«m it in.o a d^h, and stir it occasionally109 DESSERT FOR MARCH. until it is cold. Beat to a paste ^ lb. of blanched sweet almonds mixed with a spoonful of laurel water. Whisk the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, add to them 2 oz. of butter worked to a cream, the rasped rind of a lemon, and 8 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Put in the almond paste, and then the rice, being careful that it is nicely granulated. Mix all well together, put it quickly into a hoop or mould, buttered and dusted with sugar; bake it for three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. 2. COMPOTE DE POMMES A LA NORMANDE. Take 7 small-sized Normandy pippins, and set them to simmer in half water and half white wine, with a small pinch of saffron. When they are becoming transparent, put enough sugar to sweeten them, allow them to boil five minutes, then take them up, arrange them in a com- potier. Simmer the syrup until it becomes a clear jelly, being par- ticular to skim it, and then strain it over your fruit. Cider may be used instead of wine and water, and a few cloves are sometimes added. 3. FRENCH MARMALADE OF ORANGE OR LEMON. Take the entire rinds of 12 oranges or lemons, put it into plenty of tresh water, and boil it gently until it is quite tender; then take it up and throw it into a pan of cold water; let it remain for eight or ten hours. Drain it, mash it smoothly, pass it through a sieve, weigh it, and to each pound of pulp allow a pound of highly-refined loaf sugar. Put it into a preserving-pan, and stir it well over a very moderate fire until it is a tolerably thick paste. Put it away in small pots for use. The juice and pulp are not used. 4. QUEEN CAKES. Work a pound of butter to a cream, put to it a lb. of beaten and sifted sugar, add the whites of 8 eggs whisked for twenty minutes; beat the yolks for nearly an hour. Mix all thoroughly together, add a lb. of dried flour, i lb. of well-washed currants, and sufficient nutmeg and cinnamon. Put portions of this mixture into heart-shaped tins sift sugar over them, and bake in a moderate oven. ’ 5. MACARONS AUX FLEURS d’oRANGER. Take 2 oz. of candied orange blossoms, mix them with a lb. and a half 01 powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and the beaten whites of 8 eggs ; whiskTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 1 lO It until it is very firm, put small portions of it upon »afer papers, and bake it for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. In the proper season fresh flowers can be employed, but these would require the addition of half a lb. more sugar. 6. CONFITURE DE CITRONS OR ORANGES. rnt out a piece from the stalk end of your fruit, and with a salt-spoon scoop out the pulp. Throw the rinds into cold water, and let them remain for two days. Then tie each in a piece of muslin and boil them slowly in plenty of water until they are quite soft. Boil down double the Liginal weight of the fruit in loaf sugar with some water and the juice of the fruit strained from the pulp. Dram the rin s, an pu 1 ^ • tr, svruD • boil gently for half an hour. Should they not be S boil them^again the next day, and repeat the boiling if you fin^d it tce^sarv T^l the syrup over them to keep. Quarters of these rinds miy be served in a dish of fruit jelly, or arranged with alternate slices of [elly in a glass compotier. Devices may be carved upon the inds betoe boiling them, or they may be fashioned to represent small baskets; and when they are preserved, may be filled with some of then own syrup, or with a fruit jelly or ice of any kind. 7. AMANDES PRALINEES. to the colour y y P encrusted with sugar. Pour h^utTp^f et'and separate those almonds that adhere togefte? Filberts or pistachio nuts are treated in a similar way.m APRIL 1. * Our life is short; but to extend that span To vast eternity, is virtue's work.'—Shakspeare. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Beef—Mutton—Veal. Grass-Lamb is best from April to June. Poultry : Pullets—Fowls—Chickens—Ducklings—Pigeons—Rabbits. Fish : Brill—Carp—Cockles—Cod—Conger-Eels—Crabs—Dabbs—Dory Eels Flounders—Ling—Lobsters—Mackerel—Mullet—Mussels—Oysters Perch Pike—Plaice—Prawns—Salmon—Shrimps—Skate—Smelts—Tench Turbot Whitings. Vegetables : Asparagus—Chervil—Cucumbers—Lettuce—Parsnips—Radishes Rhubarb—Sea Kale—Spinach (Spring). FRUIT IN SEASON. Dried Fruits and Crystallized Preserves—Apples—Nuts—Pears—Rhubarb—Forced Cherries, etc., for Tarts. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 2. Ribs of Beef. 3. Sea Kale. Serve on Toast WITH Melted Butter. 4. Rhubarb Pie. I. Vermicelli Soup. Soak a couple of oz. in boiling water, till free from dust and perfectly white; then put into rich beef gravy, in which vegetables have been Stewed, and the liquor well strained. 2 Ribs of Beef—Cut away the bones; cover the meat with an eacr well beaten up, and then sprinkle a few bread-crumbs and chopnS sweet herbs; roll the meat up as round as possible, securing it with a piece of string tightly tied round; twenty minutes to each lb. must bp given by this mode. 4- Rhubarb Pie.—Let a table-spoonful of lime-juice or a lemon be put over before the crust is on. a squeeze of7'inNGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. IT2 APRIL 2. ‘ No action will be considered as blameless unless the will was so; for by the will the act was dictated.'—Seneca. 1. Fish Pie. 2. Hashed Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Eve’s Pudding. T Fish Remove all the bone from the fish, and cover the bottom of your pie-dish with it; then put in' the seasoning, then a layer of rters in the proportion of x. oysters to x lb. of fish; cover these with^another layer of fish, and pour over the whole a gravy of white stock • add a little cayenne, cover with a very light puff paste, and bake S a; hour. Just bdore serving, pour in a tea-cupful of warm cream Put a slice of butter into a thick saucepan, and L ' K tic throw in a dessert-spoonful of minced herbs, and an onion tTs^ oTor l sSs. sUe over the hre til. they are ^ browned t then sth in ^ relrSoSerponOn rather more than J of a pint (according to your Quantity of meat). Boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, then strain ad/ about e — teat^L^;"^ “frinThut'do not let it ’boil. Garnish tvidr toasted or fried IS ISp a few apples, tahe 6 os. of hnely grated bread-crumbs the crystallized sugar, a ht e Jut fine, and a :.s: - e... — butter over the pudding just before serving. APRIL S. * Love's night is Shakspeake. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Minced Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Rice Dumplings. 2. iVilNCEU V ■D -1 o 1R nf the best macaroni in a quart of A- i:h: out half, and put it into anotherBILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. stewpot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve; then add together the two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and lb, of grated Parmesan cheese. Make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shillincr. O 2. Minced Veal.—To have this a white dish, let the cold veal be cut into slices, pare off the brown edges and tat, and then chop the meat into square pieces ; flour these well, and put them into a saucepan, with a tea-cupful of cream, the juice of a lemon, a little of the peel chopped very fine, a very small quantity ot salt, mace, and white pepper; keep shaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil for more than a minute or you will render the meat hard. ’ 4. Rice Dumplings. Soak the rice well, then strain off the water ■ then spread the rice out upon a cloth about an inch thick, and place an apple dumpling in the centre ; peel and core the fruit, and place in the centre a couple of cloves and some brown sugar. Place in a cloth tie tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with wine sauce. ■0— APRIL 4. ‘ Call her wise whose aciions, words, and steps, are all a clear because, to a clear why.'- T A Tr A 'T't-' -rw Lavater. 1. Soup a la Sap. 2. Haunch of Mutton and 3. Vegetables. 4. Boiled Batter and Orange Jelly. Marmalade.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KDOW. 114 may be put as a garnish, in small quantities, round the dish. Tins pudding must be sent very quickly to table. Some orange marmalade may be made warm and put over the top of the pudding. APRIL B. ‘ When the devil finds the door shut, he retires I 1. Fried Eels. 2. Fowl served with Rice. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Shelford Pudding. I Fried Eels.—\i small, should be curled round; if large, cut into pieces about two inches long, dipped into egg and crumbs of bread, and Fowl servedwith Rice.-T\it fowl being prepared as usual boiling take the liver and gizzard, and put them with a small piece of fresh Ser rolled In pepper and salt inside the bird Put r. .nto a „ and well cover it with cold water; set it to boil, and keep it care y shtanred; as soon as it bods, set it f 7^1 17Z. br stefpTd in fit tXeXL, drain it, and put it nf sttwpan with the fowl, adding 3 finely-minced sha ots, ^d a Me pepf r andsA taste; stir frequently, and keep bo.lmg slowly for twenty minutes; meanwhi^^e boll a tanch S'f&hrs* *e"paikey into the rice, and pour it over. Garnish your or raisins, r lb. of suet. r lb. c/aLr, 6 eggs,\ little good milk, some lemon-peel, a bide sa t Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. APRIL 6. 1. Spitchcock Eels. 2. Fricassee of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Rice Hedgehog. r- • 7 7 r /r Take 2 or T large eels, leave the skin on, cut them I. " open them on the belly side, and clean into pieces of three inches long, openBILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 4. Custard Pudding. ”5 them well \ wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper and salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. 2. Fricassee of Beef.—Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred parsley very fine, cut an onion in quarters, put all together into a stewpan with sufficient broth, season with salt and pepper; stew for an hour, mix into it the beaten yolks of two eggs, stir it quickly, rub a hot dish with shalot, and serve in it. Just before serving, put in a table-spoonful of vinegar. 4. Rice Hedgehog.—S,o\\ i pint of rice in ^ pint of milk, till thoroughl}) done; then sweeten and flavour to taste with lemon or ratafia; beat 2 eggs well and add to the rice, which put in an oval mould to grow cold. Blanch ^ lb. of sweet almonds and cut them in slips, and make a boiled custard of 2 eggs, and rather less than ^ pint ol milk. When all is cold, turn the rice out, and stick in the almonds all over; then pour tire custard over, and serve. ‘ men thy hand hath done a good act, ash thy heart whether it was well done. APRIL 7. F UI.LER. 1. Plaice. 2. Liver and Bacon. 3. Vegetables.ii6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. in rings, or Uvo common ones, which boil in plenty of water, lake up the potatoes when done, peel and mash; stram the water from the onions, and add to them half a pint of milk; boil up and put them to the potatoes ; beat all well together, and flavour with pepper and salt This is an excellent way of preparing potatoes to be eaten with fried rashers of bacon or with liver and bacon. . , , n -.t, o 4. Custard Pudding.—a dessert-spoonful of flour with a little cold milk, and pour on it 4 pints of boiling milk. Sweeten and flavour to your taste; beat 3 eggs, yolks and whites separately, and Lat them into the thickened milk as soon as it is cool._ Half an hour in a good oven will cook it. Eaten cold with fruit tart, it is very nice. APRIL 8. ‘ It is astonishing how littU one feels poverty when one /^^«.’-BulWER Lytton. 1. Stewed Lobster. 2. Olla Podrida. 3. Vegetables. 4, Ground Rice Pudding. stewed Loheter.-Y\A the lobster; put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter a spoontu s o anv sort ofVavy, r of Soy or walnut ketchup, a litt e sa t and cayenne, and a spoonW port; stew the lobster, cut into bits with the gravy as "Toa Podrida.-C\to, up like sausage meat any cold remains of aesh or ash, allowing for every lb. of meat a IK of " these in cold water, and wring them dry m a cloth Put into a stewpa 'separ*ely! pour’ out on a dish till cold; divide it into and shaped pieces flattened slightly, and fry, or mute m lard, fat, a cream, and mix ‘ ™ j ^ Beat all for twenty minutes; lemon, and 3 os. of “ , quantity in each, and bake butter 6 cups or small hot directly wiUi loal them eighteen minutes m a quicBILL OL BARE FOR ABRIL. IT7 sugar sifted over them, and the following sauce; dish flavoured with essence of lemon instead of sweet almonds. Almond Sauce.—Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water; boil 3 do. of sugar in a gill of water for ten minutes, mix it with the arrowroot, and stir it over the fire for two minutes ; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and essence of sweet almonds 20 drops. Serve in the dish, not over the pudding. -0— APRIL 9. •/would not rob your sex of a single advantage you possess from nature, providence, or legitimate custom, /would not divest you of the smallest ornament that judgment hus^et on, that prudence allows, or that decency warrants.'—Rev. James Fordyce, 1. Mulligatawny Soup. i 3. Vegetables. 2. Leg of Veal Boiled. | 4. Ratafia Pudding and Sauce. I. Mulligatawny Soup. — ^Xxc^ and peel 12 good-sized onions; fry them in butter, with a full table-spoonful of curry-powder. Put them into a stewpan with 2 quarts of good veal stock and a small quantity of mace, thickening with flour. Stew for an hour, and strain it. If not thick enough, add a little more flour and butter. Cut up a cold chicken into small pieces, and put it into the soup with a tea-cupful of cream Live a final boil, and serve. Take out the bone, and fill the space with a stuffing made of bread-crumbs, minced salt pork, suet chopped fine parsley, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; sew up the opening, or Lw the flap over It, and skewer it down. Put it into a long pot, and cover it with cold water mth a table-spoonful of salt; skim it well, and let it ITk'into r i done enough which maybe ascertained bypassing a fork m o it Serve with parsley and butter, or oyster sauce. The liquor will make excellent soup or broth with the addition of vegetables and Sauce.—^olk in half a pint of boiling milk 4 gill of Lallf'half 4 fresh eggs well beaten, half a g U of cream, half a wine-glassful of ratafia, and 2 oz. of blanched sweet witlf. except the almonds, and beat for ten minutes with a wooden spoon; butter a basin, and stick it in lines widi the atTtlVrinVJ^ butter out clrefullv ^ \ f over fast-boiling water. Turn carefully, and have ready to pour in the dish the following sauce!ii8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOW. A dessert-spoonful of arrowroot moistened with a wine-glassful of cold water j add a gill of boiling water, stirring in a table-spoonful of ratafia, and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of loaf sugar. APRIL lO. ‘ She is well fed whom God loves* j. Spring Soup. 3- Bread and Ginger Pudding, 2. Chowder. and Sauce. 1. Spring Soup.—One quart of green peas ; take a good quantity of lettuce, parsley, spinach, and spring onions, if liked. Put them in a close-covered stewpan, with a lump of fresh butter, pepper and salt, and a little water. Squeeze them through a cullender. Throw in some rice that has been previously boiled, season to taste, and let it simmer another quarter of an hour. Thicken with a little flour and ketchup. 2. Chowder.—Frizzle pork and onions till quite brown 3 put a layer at bottom of saucepan—a saucerful 3 on that a layer of mashed potatoes, a soup-plateful 3 on that, raw sea bass (turbot or plaice is a good sub- stitute for sea bass) cut in lumps—four pounds 3 on that, pork and onions as before 3 add half a nutmeg, a spoonful of mace, a spoonful of cloves, and double that quantity of thyme and summer savory, another layer of mashed potatoes, 3 or 4 crackers 3 half a bottle of ketchup, half a bottle of claret, a large pinch of black and a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Just cover this with boiling water, and put it on the fire till the fish is cooked. 3. Bread and Ginger Pudding., and Sauce.—Cut 4 oz. of preserved ginger , into quarter-inch pieces 3 soak 4 oz. of crumb of French roll in half a pint of milk for two hours 3 beat 4 eggs, and mix all together 3 add 2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger syrup, and 4 oz. of loaf sugar in powder 3 beat the mixture for twenty minutes 3 pour it into a buttered mould 3 tie buttered writing paper over, and steam for an hour and a half over fast- boiling water. Turn out with care, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put an inch of bruised ginger and 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with half a gill of water, and boil till well flavoured 3 then add a table-spoonful of ginger syrup, the strained juice of a lemon, and a wine-glassful of rum or brandy. Strain the whole of the sauce.BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 119 APRIL 11. ‘ Money is a good servant, but a dangerous master.'—Bonhours. r. Cod Pie. 2. OXHEART. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 4. Cumberland Pudding. 1. Cod Pie.—Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night; next day wash it, season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg mixed; place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any sort into the dish; cover it with a crust; and when done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, ^ pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil; oysters may be added. 2. Oxheart. This joint is as good baked as roasted. It is not an aristocratic joint; but if well prepared and served, it is a very cheap and savoury dish. Soak the heart for an hour in hot water, having removed the lobes; then wipe it very dry. Make a forcemeat as for veal, or onions, with a few bread-crumbs added. Fill the heart with the stuffing, and sew it up. Cover with larded paper, and roast or bake for two hours, keeping it well basted. .ServpTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. 170 APRIL 12. * All true love is grounded on esteem.'—Duke of Buckingham. 1. White Soup. 2. Hashed Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Oxford Dumplings. I. White Soup.—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting up as much meat as will make collops; 2 or 3 shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and ^ lb. of fine undressed lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, 3 blades of mace, a dessert-spoonful of white pepper, and 2 or 3 onions; boil all in 3 quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it m a very nice tin saucepan. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get quite tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as followsBlanch ^ . of sweet almonds, beaten to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour after- wards. , . 1-1 • 2. Hashed Mutton.—Oxt up the meat to be hashed into small pieces, not too thick, and lay them aside; break up the bones, and set them to stew in rather more water than is wanted for gravy; if liked, ^ onion, or only salt and pepper; let it stew an hour; take off all the fat, and strain the gravy clear; mix sufficient flour to thicken, with any sauce you may prefer; thicken and season to taste; ffinecessa^, colour it—the colour should be a delicate brown; bring it to boil, then put in the meat, and place it where it will only get thoroughly heated through. Serve with thin toasted sippets m a very hot dish, with curran grated bread, a or.; currants and shred suet, 4 or. each; a large spoonfuls of flour; a great deal of Srated lemon-peel; a bit of sugar, and a little pimento m P°' • with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellmy bro^vn. Made with flour instead of bread, but with halt the quantit), they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce.T2T BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. APRIL 13. ‘ The wedding should last through wedded life.' 1. Roast Ducklings and Apple Sauce. 3. Vegetables. 4. Potato Dumplings. 2. Boiled Brisket of Beef. 1. Roast Ducklings and Apple Sauce.—Stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt; and for the gravy, mix equal parts of onion, parsley, and mushrooms chopped fine; boil them in butter, add ^ pint of brown sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar; season with salt. Pour round—not over—the ducks. 2. Boiled Brisket of Beef—A piece of brisket or thin flank of beef, weighing 8 lbs., will take four hours’ boiling. To know if it be boiled s enough, you may insert a fork through the meat a little way; and 'if it feel soft, then it is done. Pease-pudding is good with boiled beef. Brisket of beef, if to be eaten cold, should be laid on a board ^ and a heavy weight should be set on it, to press out all the loose fat: it then cuts smooth and solid. 4. Potato Dunipluigs. Having peeled the potatoes you require, grate them into water, and leave the pulp there for two hours; drain off the water, and mix with the potato half its weight in flour. Season to taste, with pepper, salt, chopped onion, and sweet herbs. Roll into dump- lings size of large apples, toss into a pan of boiling water, and boil till they rise to the top, when they will be sufficiently done. APRIL 14. Fordyce, D.D. a regard for "whatsoever thijigs are fu7-e, decortem spontaneously, and flow with tni attire and demeanour.'—Rev. James 1. Pease Soup. 2. Calf’s Head Boned. 3. Vegetables. 4- Macaroni Pudding.122 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. heads of celery, with a little of the green leaf remaining. When the flesh of the feet will come away from the bones, take them out, and cut them into small pieces, to add to the soup just before serving. When the hocks are well done, they can be taken out, and either have their meat applied to the same purpose, if liked, or be set aside to be eaten cold at breakfast or lunch. When the vegetables are quite tender, take them out, chop them fine, and return them to the soup, or squeeze them into it, through a cullender, into the shape of a purSe. Add the puree of pease to thicken the soup to the consistency liked, throw in the meat of the feet and what you like of the hock; season with cayenne and pepper to taste ; add salt, if needed ; and serve hot. 2. Ca/fs Head Boned.—half a calf’s head, with the skin on, take out the bones, egg the inside well, put in the tongue, and sew the top and bottom together. Put this into a stewpan, with the bones, a pound of gra^7■-beef cut into bits, a bunch of parsley, a handful of sweet herbs, a couple of onions chopped fine, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and half that quantity of soluble cayenne. Fill the stewpan three parts with water, and stew the contents for three hours. When required for table, take out the head, glaze it with egg, and pour a little of the liquor through a sieve into the dish. 4. Macaroni Budding.—Boil 2 oz. in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard dish, and pour a custard over them hot, but serve cold. APRIL IS. * Jf thou wouldst know sin's strength., thy lusts hoiu hard to tame, Ao-amst them take up arms, and earnest war proclaim.' * Archbishop Trench. 1. POTAGE A LA JARDINIERE. 2. Aitch Bone of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Potage iJ la Jardiniire.—Td^<t potatoes, turnips, carrots, and celery, and leeks in sufficient quantity; cut them m pieces; put them in a steivpan on a gentle fire, and scald them a few minutes in boiling w^en Complete their cooking with broth or soup. When nearly done throw in some green peas, asparagus tops, or other tender vegeubles. as time and place allow. _ r ond 2. Audi Boat oj Beefjoint requires abundance of water, and to be boiled very slowly, allowing an hour for every 5 lbs., or, m short, twelve minutes for each pound. The meat can only be rendered123 BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. tender by the water boiling very gently. It is an admirable dish either hot or cold; and at this season of the year may with advantage be dressed over night, and served next day with a salad or pickles. 4. Ground Rice Pudding.—Boil a cupful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and 2 eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the disln —0— APRIL 16. ‘ 0 grant me, Heaven, a middle state. Neither too humble nor too great; More than enough for natiire's ends. With something left to treat my friends.'—Mallet. 1. POTAGE A LA ReINE. 2. Curried Fowl. 3. Vegetables. 4. Spanish Fritters. I. Potage d, la Reine.—Boil a couple of young fowls, with a bunch of parsley, in enough water. When done, take them out, skin them, and cut ofiF all the flesh. Return the skin, the bones, and sinews to the broth, and let all boil together till well reduced. Then strain off; chop up the flesh of the fowls as fine as you can, and then pound it in a mortar with half a dozen blanched almonds, a couple of hard egg- yolks, and some cruinb of bread soaked in the broth. While pounding, gradually moisten with broth, and work till all is smooth enough to press through a strainer. Add this fntrie to the chicken broth, stirring in at the same time a pint or more of cream, and seasoning lightly with pepper and salt. Before pouring the soup into the tureen, toasted or fried bread-dice may be laid at the bottom; but the soup is kept whiter by only adding rice or vermicelli, ready cooked, in the broth. 2 Curned Fowl.~Cui the fowl or rabbit into small pieces; melt i- lb. fresh butter in a stewpan, and, when dissolved, put in the meat, and a Spanish onion cut into thin slices. When the meat becomes bro^vn, pour in about half a pint of veal stock, and stew over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour. Mix a table-spoonful of flour with a spoonful of salt m water then add 3 tea-spoonfuls of curry powder and the juice of a lemon to the meat; stir all well together, and give it twenty minutes’ more stewing. Serve with boiled rice. of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in which shape you will soak in some cream nut- meg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce ' ^THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 124 APRIL 17. JVM chastely, and love dearly'—SilAKSPEARE, 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Calf’s Head. 3. Boiled Pork. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Plum-pudding. 1. Oxtail Soup.—One large or two small tails will make soup for half a dozen people. If not quite fresh, the soup will be milky, and perhaps unsavoury. Cut them into joints, and stew them slowly for three or four hours, until the meat comes easily from the bones, with a sufficiency of water, carrots, onions, pepper, and salt, taking care not to let the peculiar flavour of the oxtail be overpowered by any other. When done, take out the pieces of tail whole, and set them aside. Thicken the stew with flour and fried onion, diluting it afterwards with good cotisotnmL Strain, add the oxtail, boil up, and serve. 2. Calfs IIead.—W3.s\\ and cleanse the head thoroughly; take out the brains and soak them in cold water, and pick them quite clean. Boil the head slowly for an hour and a half; then put the brains into a small saucepan, and boil them in half a pint of the liquor for half an hour. Then take up the head in a dish, mash the brains, and season them with pepper and salt; turn them back into the little saucepan, add a few bread-crumbs, a lump of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of wine; shake all well together, just give it a boil, and serve it for sauce, either poured over the head or separately in a boat. The liquor will make excellent soup the next day. Some cooks bone the head previous to boiling. 1 • f 5. Plum-pudding.—Flour and suet, ^ lb. of each, 4 eggs, pint 01 new milk, with a little mace and nutmeg, i lb. of raisins, do. of currante. Mix well, and boil three-quarters of an hour, with the cover of the pot on. APRIL 18. ‘ IFealth is to be used only as the instrtment of action, not as the representative of civU honours and moral excellence.' Miss Porter. T, T- Caper Sauce. 1. Roast Fowls. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 4- 1 urnips. I. Roast Fowls.—TA and draw them ; be careful not to break the gall-bag in drawing, at, if the gall be spilled, it will render any partBILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 1 = 5 which it touches bitter; a fowl should be so cleanly drawn as to require no washing, but merely to be wiped out with a clean dry cloth. Singe them; then press down the breast-bone. Break the legs by the middle of the first joint, draw out the sinews, and cut off the parts at the break. Put the gizzard in one pinion and the liver in the other, and turn the points on the back; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, and bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body, and the same on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg and the sidesman, and another through the other side. Cut the head off close to the body, leaving sufficient skin to tie on the back Suspend it neck down- wards. Baste with butter for some time after putting to the fire. They will require from half an hour to an hour, according to the size. When fowls are large, they are very good stuffed like turkey. Serve roast fowls with melted butter or gi'avy sauce. Before you send them to table, remove all skewers and strings which may have been used in trussing. Fowls and all other feathered animals are served with the breast upwards. 2. Boiled Leg of Mullon.—If your pot be not long enough to let the leg lie straight, you may cut the tendon at the joint and bend round the shank. Do not put in too much water, as the liquor will make good broth. Throw a little salt into the water when you put in the mutton, as that will make the scum rise, which must be taken off clean. Let it boil slowly and equally; a good-sized leg of mutton, say of 8 lbs., will be done sufficiently in two hours. Do not boil turnips or any other vegetable with the meat, as they will flavour it, and prevent its keeping so well when cold. Dish it with a very little of the liquor, as, if the meat be good, and not too much boiled, it will yield sufficient gravy when cut. Mashed turnips form the appropriate vegetable to this dish with caper sauce. ’ APRIL 19. ‘ Sorrows rememhered sweeten present joy. ’ PoLLOK. 1. Pease Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fricandeau OF Veal. 4. Rice Flummery. I. Pease Soup.—'S^odk. the peas all night in soft water; put them on with the water cold, and without salt. When quite tender and fallino- to pieces, squeeze them with the back of a wooden spoon through a large-holed cullender into a bowl; the skins and hard bits will remahi in the cullender.126 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Iricandtmi of Veal—Let the veal be well larded, and place it in the stewpan with the larded side uppermost j then add 2 large tumblers of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a half. Brown the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed mushrooms. 4. Rice Flummery.—Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon. Mix with a little cold milk as much rice flour as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, but do not let it bum. Pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When cold, turn it out, and serve with custard. APRIL 20. ‘ In all the sciences, in every valuable profession, in the common intercourse of life, tn dress, etc., and, let me add, even in the sublimest subjects, ''simplicity ” is that which, above everything else, touches and delights.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. I Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce 3. Vegetables. and Gravy. 4- Baked Apple Pudding. 2. Boiled Fresh Pork. 1. Roast Fowls and Bread Sauce and Gravy.—StuflF with sausage meat, and let the liver be roasted inside; and while the fowl is being carved, crush the liver with a very small fork, and put it^ in a small saucepan with the juice of a lemon, half a glass of red wine, pepper, and salt; give it a shake or two over the fire, and pour it hot over the cut-up fowl. 2. Boiled Fresh Fork.—Ts-ke a fat blade-bone of country pork, com- monly called the oyster; take out the bone, and put veal stuffing in its place; wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt; let it boil slowly for about an hour and a half, or an hour and three-quarters, according to the size: it should, however, be well done. Serve it up with parsley, and butter poured over it ^ Baked Apple Pudding.—and quarter 4 large apples ; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water that, when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar; add the crumb of a small roll, 4 oz. of batter melted, the yolks of S and whites of 3 eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. Beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out127 BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. APRIL 21. ‘ Heaven's harmony is universal love.'—CowPER. 1. White Soup. 3. Caper Sauce. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 4. New College Pudding. 1. White Sotip.—Beat ^ lb. of sweet almonds to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water. Pound together ^ lb. of cold veal or poultry, a thick slice of stale bread, and add to the almonds; beat all together, adding i blade of mace pounded, and a piece of nice lemon- peel chopped very fine. Pour the boiling stock on the whole, and simmer for an hour. Rub the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs in | pint of cream, put in the soup, bring it to a boil, and serve directly. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—This should be boiled in a deep fish-kettle with a strainer at the bottom to take it up by, as a fork should never be stuck in the meat. Weigh the mutton, place it in scalding wdXox enough to just cover it; after it bubbles, allow a quarter of an hour to every lb. it weighs, and eight minutes to any ^ lb. Never allow it to boil, but just to bubble: if it boils, the meat will be hard; if it does not bubble, the meat will eat raw. 3. Caper Sauce.—BoW the capers, and then put them into the butter whole. 4. New College Pudding.—Grate the crumb of a twopenny loaf, shred suet 8 oz., and mix with 8 oz. of currants, i oz. of citron mixed fine, i oz. of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, 3 eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix and make into the size and sliape of a goose egg. Put i lb. of butter into a frying-pan, and when melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the butter : serve with sauce. APRIL 22. * Love has no thought of self t Love sacrifices all things To bless the thing it loves. ’—Lord Lytton. 1. Hock of Soup. i 3, Vegetables. 2. Fillet of Veal. | 4. Cheesecakes. 1. Hock of Soup^^lmxatx a hock of beef gently for six hours in a gallon of water-be careful to skim it thoroughly. Put in 2 onions,THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 128 cut fine, and tie in a bunch some sweet marjory, thyme, and celery. Skim off all fat, and season with pepper, salt, and a little ketchup. 2. Ei/ki oj Veal.—Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting, and twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed. Before cooking, let the flap be stuffed with a forcemeat, composed of 2 oz. of finely- powdered bread-crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace in powder, and soluble cayenne pepper, the leaves of half a dozen stalks of parsley, and a tea- spoonful of dried sweet herbs; break up an egg, and mix these in- gredients well together. Baste your joint with fresh butter, and send it to table well browned. A nice bit of streaky bacon, or gammon, should invariably be served with fillet of veal, unless ham be provided. 4. Cheesecakes.—^6\\ a quart of milk, pour it quite hot into a basin, and mix well with it a table-spoonful of runnet. In about an hour, break up the curd, drain off the whey, and spread the curd on the back of a sieve till it is quite free from liquid. Dissolve a couple of ounces of powdered sugar in an ounce and a half of butter, then add the yolks of a couple of eggs, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated; have an ounce of currants well washed and picked ; let all these be now mixed with the curd. Line your pattypans with hg t paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven for twenty- five minutes. , Rnu-h.—Break the bones, and wash the cheek thoroughly. APRIL 23. ‘ Be ihou familiar, hut by no means Shakspeare. 1. OxcHEEK Soup. 2. Boiled Fowls. 3. Vegetables. 4. Marmalade Pudding.BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. 129 foiloiving manner:—Cut off the neck, leaving skin enough to skewer back. Cut off the feet to the first joint, tuck the stumps into slits made on each side of the belly, twist the wings over the back of the fowl, fasten the tips of the wings to the tops of the legs by passing a skewer through them and the body. Make a slit in the apron to admit the rump, and tie a string round it and the ends of the legs to keep them in place. When firmly trussed, put them in hot water or veal stock sufficient to well cover them, bring them to the boil quickly, then set aside and sim- mer very gently. The slower fowls are boiled, the whiter and plumper they 7tnll he. A pair of large fowls will take one hour, smaller ones three- quarters, chickens from twenty to thirty minutes. They should be dished covered in white sauce, the skewers being removed, and mush- room sauce served in a tureen. The accompaniments should be either boiled ham, tongue, bacon, bath chaps, or pickled pork. 4. Marmalade Pudding.—a plain pudding mould or basin, and cut thin slices of bread free from crust; line the basin with the bread, and cover that with orange or other marmalade, then bread, and fill up alternately. Make a raw custard of i pint of milk and 4 eggs APRIL 24. ‘ When 'dje are alone, zve have our thoughts to watch ; in thefamil in company, our tongues.'—More.” in the family, our tempers; and 1. Salt Fish. 2. Fore-quarter Lamb and 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Pudding. Currant Jelly. sauce is served separately.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 130 4. Lemo}i Pudding.—i lb. of bread finely, and add to the crumbs 4 oz. flour, 6 oz. finely-chopped suet, i lb. moist supr (white colour), die Bounded peel and juice of i large lemon ; mix with as much milk as is necessary to form a light dough or thick batter; boil from three to four hours in a mould. When dished, it should be covered with sifted sugar, and served with wine sauce. APRIL 2S. • 4s love -without esteem is capricious and volatile, esteem without love is languid and cold.'—Vre.. Johnson. I, Bouillon. 2. Vegetables. 3. Leicester Pudding. I Bouillon.-Hdk^ 6 lbs. of beef. The part to be chosen is either rump, mouse, buttock, or leg of mutton piece. Bind it with tape into a niL shape, and put it in the digester with 6 quarts of water Let t heat very slo-wly. Skim very carefully until it boils, and for about ha L hour while ft is boiling, not forgetting to throw m a e cold water now and then, to cause the scum to rise. Then add salt (say m -h proportion of 2 oz. to the gallon), which will send up all the remaining scum which collect and remove. Now put in the vegetables (carrots tumins celery onions—one stuck with cloves), and leek if approved, a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet ^^Lerihe the vegetables, so that no special flavour shall P>^^d°minate. vegftSlis grouped tr^thTlp' served without gravy m a dish with the vegeta removing any fat, c“ made, it will be dice or fingers. , r 1 ik nf Beef suet, and mix it 3, fd?xhb of sltd rli’sin. a table- thoroughly with i lb. of flo , d a little nutmeg, spoonful of sugar, the pee ^ completely; and halt a tea-spoonful of salt m^^d y^ ^ S! bof ilTSf tor two hours and a half, and serve with sweet sauce.BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. »3i APRIL 26. ‘ If young ladies would use their accoinplishments, their talents, and dress, not for display, but as a means of usefulness, their brothers would be more disposed to stay at home, and much innocent a?nusement would take the place of idle dissipation.' Rev. Robert Anderson. r. Salmon. 2. Sauce to ditto. Roast Leg of Mutton. O' 4. Spinach. 5. Mashed Potatoes. 6. Baked Batter Pudding. I. Salmon, like cod-fish, is better boiled in pieces than whole. A head and shoulders, weighing 6 lbs., will take half an hour; a whole fish of 10 lbs. weight, one hour. Put the fish into boilin<r water, to which some salt and a little vinegar has been added ; then boil slowly. _ The fish eats much firmer and better thus dressed than when set on in cold or lukewarm water. Serve with lobster, anchovy or shrimp sauce, and cucumber salad. Plain butter should also be served as well as some of the liquor in which the fish has been boiled. ’ 2. Sauce to above —Yyxl into a nice tin saucepan a pint of port wine a ^11 of mountain, ^ pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies and the iquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, 4 or 5 shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 oz. scrlped horseradish, 3 blades of mace, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of made mustard • forVsl CorkV‘“ P" “ bottles’ tor use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. Z. Roast Legy Mutton.—if possible, four-years’-old meat froi ''' ^ defended f ^ hour per pound and s y bnsk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use'with roast mutton is made by putting two glasses of pon wine one of Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar, into a small sauce pan and pouring the contents over the joint just before serving • this as It mixes with the gravy of the meat—for mutton should never be over-roasted—will tempt the weakest appetite. ^ 4- Sf>tnac/i —Tick and wash the spinach carefully; have a large tin hTsTnal n“ of boiling water and a’li.,le sal *« „ ble M■' u™’ ““ ■' *<= boil as quickly as pos- sible._ Boil It thoroughly, strain and press it very dry, chop it fine • th! r^Ttoti:: a shape, fnd se“e P""'- P'“s it into 6. Ba/teti Batter Pudding.—-To three heaned tnhu . r , a snrau salfspoonfu. of salq add^g’X.ryt^n'^dTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 132 whisked to a light froth. Beat up the batter well, and stir into it, by de-rees a pint 5 new milk. If the milk is not very good, add the yolk o InoLr egg, pour it into a buttered dish, and bake it three-quarters o an hour !n a rather brisk oven. Send preserved or stewed frmt o table with it. This batter may be baked in bnttemd cups, from twenty to thirty minutes 3 turned out, with sifted sugar thickly over them. APRIL 2 7. ‘ That hope only is rational of which we are sensible that it cannot deceive us.' —Dr. Johnson. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Shoulder of Lamb. 3. Vegetables. 4. Rhubarb Pudding. I Vegetalle Soup.-Z^t up a middling-sized carrot min small dice and peel eighteen button onions 3 throw all into cold V, ’a Hrnin • when dry put them into a two-quart stewqian water, wash, of powdered sugar; set X* OT°er°T brisk fire for ten minutes, and toss occasionally until the "les are covemd with a thin slim, glare. Take great ^re ftey become brown, or the flavour of the soup will be spoiled. It is roast It a brov seasoning with drippmg-pan, and m e J^^^room ketchup, the grated nnd and pepper and salt, torna juice of a lemon, thickened with a little nour. hot dish, P°'"^ suet crust (or good dripping one), 4. K/ntbarl> N Wash^and wipe (and, if old, string it) 4 or 5 and line a butteied basin. lenerths put in I lb. moist sugar, sticks of fine rhubarb 3 cut it into ^ ^ , A,^,ed cloth, cover with crust, pinch the f^^^^rou 3. Turn it out, and put it in boiling water, and boil it from 2 to 2^ serve with sifted sugar and cream.^33 BILL OF FARE FOR APRIL. APRIL 2 3. ‘ I hate to see a thing done hy halves ; if it be right, do it boldly ; if it be wrong, leave it tindone.'—Gilpin. 1. Chicken Broth.—Cut up a lean fowl into joints. An old one makes better broth than a young one, but it takes a longer time to stew. Put it in a well-closed saucepan, with a beef or veal bone, onions, caiTOt, a sprig of parsley, a pinch of salt, and plenty of water. Skim as soon as it boils up, and simmer gently afterwards. 2. Bmif d. la Flammanade.—Select a rib of beef of sufficient thick- ness to weigh at least 8 lbs. Let the meat be well larded, and braized over a slow fire; then add a pottle of fresh mushrooms (forced at this season), 2 lbs. of ruffles, two dozen forcemeat-balls made with plenty of eggs, and half a pint of Madeira. 4. Amber Puddmg.—Put a lb. of butter into a saucepan with | lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered. Melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of 12 eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out, and when well filled with the above, lay a crust over as you would a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. 'Sobriety is a sort of spiritual vesture entirely void of show, substantial, home-sptin, and hardy—itot unfit for any place where a reasonable being ought to appear.' Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Cai7ot and Onion Soup.—Cut up a lb. of lean beef into small pieces. Put it into a stewpan with chopped onions and carrots, a few thin slices of bacon, and half a tumbler of water. Let them simmer and stew for a quarter of an hour, till they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, then add a quart of boiling water. With a pinch of salt boil three-quarters of an hour. Strain and serve. 2. Pig's Head Roasted.—Divide the head of a young porker in half, take out the brains, and cleanse the interior thoroughly. Put stuffing of bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, and lemon-peel, into the space once occupied by the brains ; tie the head together carefully; a stitch or two r. Chicken Broth. 2. Bceuf a la Flammanade. 3. Vegetables. 4. Amber Pudding. APRIL 2 9. 1. Carrot and Onion Soup. 2. Pig’s Head Roasted. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread and Butter Pudding.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 134 is advisable to render all secure; let it roast according to its size, and serve with brain and currant sauce. 4. Bread and Btitier Pudding.—bread with butter, and lay it m a dish with currants between each layer, and sliced citron, orange, or lemon If to be very nice, pour over an unboiled custard of inilk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very little ratafia two hours at least before it is to be baked; and lade it over to soak the bread. APRIL 30. ‘ She that has light within hey own clear breast. May sit 1 the centre and enjoy bright day.'—Mll.TO'S. 1. Mackerel. 2. Sauce. 3. Roast Rabbit. 4. Vegetables. 5. Delicate Suet Pudding. 1 Mackerel.—Cle3.n the fish, and boil slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour in salt and water. Serve on a napkin, 8™=“ parsley or fennel, and serve in fennel or parsley sauce. When the eyes surt and the tail splits, the fish is done; it is better to watch for this than to trust to time in the cooking. _ 2 Sauce—Sance (a sharp) for mackerel. Put in a saucepan, and mix over the fire, a tea-spoonful of made mustard and table-spoonfiil of vinegar, with a sauce-tureenful of good melted butter 2 Poasi Pam.—Clear out the interior, and fill it with the same stuffing used for hare ; baste it with abundance of fresh butter, and use flour occasionally : thirty minutes’ roasting will be sufficient for a sma Ibbit five or ten more if larger. Boil the liver with a dozen sprigs of oarslev • when quite tender, chop both up fine, and add them to melted Ltter^i a sauce; but be sure to have another boat with plain gravy Serve very hot with white pudding sauce.DESSERT FOR APRII. ^35 DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF APRIL. In the middle of the table a stand containing vases of flowers, baskets of fruit, candelabra, etc. 1. Spongecake. 2. Pate la PIollandaise. 3. Compote de Goings (Confits). 4. Confiture de Fleurs d’Oranger. 5. Pate d’Amandes Croquante. 6. Macarons Souffles. 7. Gaufres. 8. Noix CONFITES AU SUCRE. 9. Pate de Verjus. lo. Damson Cheese. Citron Chips, Dragees, Ices, Marons, Pralines, Nuts of dif- ferent KINDS, Gaufres, etc. I. SPONGECAKE. Take i Ib. each of eggs, flour, and powdered loaf sugar; separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, beat the former for a quarter of an hour, and add by degrees a little rasped lemon-rind and the powdered sugar. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a high froth, join them with the j^olks, and gradually dredge in the flour. Put it into a cake-mould, and bake it for rather more than an hour in a moderate oven. 2. PATE A LA HOLLANDAISE. Beat together a wine-glassful of rum, | lb. of lump sugar beaten and sifted, a tea-spoonful of carraways, and the whites of 6 eggs whisked to a snow; place it in a saucepan over the fire, stir it until it is pretty stiff. Turn it out, make it into balls the size of a large hazel-nut, put them on greased paper, and do them in a slow oven. 3. COMPOTE DE COINGS. Peel and core your quinces, halve them if small, or if large quarter them, and put them into a stewpan with a little water and their weight of sugar. Place them over a slow fire, and when they begin to simmer withdraw them a little, and let them do very gently for two hours. Take them up, place them in your dish, reduce the syrup to a jelly strain it, and pour it upon the fruit. ’ 4. CONFITURE DE FLEURS D’ORANGER, Take some orange-blossoms and pick off the petals, throw them into cold water to freshen them. Prepare a strong syrup with the weight oft3G things a lady would like to know. flowers in fine loaf sugar and a little water. Drain your petals, and throw them into the syrup ; let them simmer slowly for ten minutes, then put them away in pots, with the syrup in which they were done. For candying them, you must stir them over a slow fire until the sugar of the syrup again becomes a powder. Dry them for use. 5. PATE d’aMANDES CROQUANTE. Blanch a lb. of Jordan almonds, and place them in a very slack oven to dry Then moisten them with the white of an egg, and reduce them to a paste in a mortar. Put the paste into a saucepan, stir it over the fire until it becomes rather stiff; add gradually i-^ lbs. of powdered loaf sugar. Mix it well until the sugar is thoroughly dissolved; turn it out upon a slab or table, let it grow cool enough to handle, and make U into small biscuits. Stick some slips of blanched almonds upon the tops, and bake them slowly upon paper or tins. 6. MACARONS SOUFFLES. Take ^ lb of blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio nuts, cut them into very thin slips, rub them first in the white of an egg, and afterwards in 3 oz. of pounded and sifted loaf sugar. Spread thein upon a board, and put them into a dry place until the next day Then bLt the whites of 3 eggs until they are a firm froth ; mix *e^ lb of powdered loaf sugar, add your almonds, mingle well tOoethe , make up the paste quickly into small balls, put them upon paper, place them in a slow oven, and bake until they are of a nice colour. 7. GAUFRES. Gaufres are so essential to the dessert, that it is well worth our while tn urocure the apparatus necessary for making them. leat 4 eL, add i lb. of powdered sugar, i lb. of dried flour, i oz of orange flowers candied and beaten to a paste, and ^ mill in equal quantities, to make the mixture mto a thin batter. Heat your gaufre iroL, rub them over with a little butter, put in . tea-spoon- fuls o{ the paste, press the irons together, and place them in a pre ) ho oven for a mLte or two ; when one gaufre is done, do another rtil all the batter is employed. The flavour of the g^^es may b varied by substituting spices, almonds, eau-de-vie, or arasc in the candied orange flowers. 8. NOIX CONFIXES AU SUCRE. Take your young green walnuts when they are tender enough to prick with a pupate Aetn, and put them into salt and water. PrepareDESSERT FOR AFRIZ.. 137 some sugar by boiling it until it blows. Drain the nuts, throw them into the boiling syrup; retire them from the fire, put them into a pan, and let them remain till next day. Boil up the syrup again, pour it over the nuts, and let them stay as before. Repeat this again, and then place them in pots, or dry and glaze them to serve as a candy. 9. PATE DE VERJUS. Take some quite ripe grapes, pick them from their stalks, and place them in a stewpan over the fire with half their weight of chopped apples. Stir them about until they are soft, then press all through a sieve. Put it into a preserving-pan, reduce it, and add the same weight of sugar highly refined. Stir it over the fire until it is thick; lay it in shallow moulds. Place it in a slack oven, and when dry dust sugar over it. TO. DAMSON CHEESE. Stone your fruit, blanch the kernels, and put them and the damsons into a baking-jar; bake it in a moderate oven until it is considerably reduced, then put it into a preserving-pan over the fire, and keep stirring until it is well thickened; add a lb. of loaf sugar to each quart of pulp, boil it to a candy, then turn it into shallow moulds, and dry gradually. This will keep well Black currants done in the same way are excellent.138 MAY 1. t ‘ Feeling hearts—touch them but lightly—pour A thousand melodies unheard before.'—Rogers. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Beef—Mutton—^Veal—Grass Lamb. Poultry : Pullets—Fowls—Chickens—Ducklings Pigeons Rabbits. Fish : Brill—Carp—Cod—Conger Eels—Crabs—Dabbs—Dace—Dory—Eels — Flounders—Gurnets—Ling —Lobsters — Mackerel — Mullet— Perch—Pike — Plaice—Prawns— Salmon— Shrimps—Skate—Smelts—Tench—Trout—Turbot —Whitings. i j Vegetables : Asparagus—Cabbage—Carrots—Cauliflowers Chervil—Com Sa a —Cucumbers—Lettuce—Peas—Potatoes (and through the year)—Radishes —Rhubarb—Sea Kale—Spinach (Spring)—Turnips. FRUITS IN SEASON. Pears—Apples-Rhubarb—Currants for Tarts—Green Apricots—Cherries-Goose- berries—Strawberries—Melons. 1. Mackerel au Gratin. 2. Bceuf Royale. 3. Vegetables. 4. Batter Pudding. I Mackerel au Rub your fish well with salt on both sides, and' hang it up in a current of cold dry air for tiventy-four hours or longer. Take a shallow dish, grease the bottom well with butter or the°fat of any gravy you may have, and place a few small lumps 01 here and there, sufficient to keep the fish from sticking. Strew over ffie bottom a thin layer of bread-crumbs and chopped parsley. Lay your fish in, and cover it slightly with bread-crumbs maed with sweet herbs-the parsley predominating. Over this put a few lu js of butter, or of beef or veal fat. They cook better and more equally, singly, but you may cook several by laying them one above the other with a layer of bread-crumbs, etc., between each. Plaice are good cooked this way, omitting the fennel.BILL OF FARE FOR MA V. 139 2. B(£uf Royale.—lake the bones out of a brisket of beef, and scoop holes in the meat about an inch asunder; fill one with small rolls of fat bacon, a second with chopped parsley and sweet herbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and the third with oysters cut small and powdered with a very little mace and nutmeg. When all the apertures are stuffed, tie up the meat in a roll, put it into a baking-pan, and pour over it, quite hot, a pint of sherry, in which half a dozen cloves have been boiled; flour the meat well, and set it in a slow oven for three hours. Pour off the gravy and set it by to cool, that you may skim away the fat; if it is not already in a jelly, which it should be, add enough glaze to make it so. Serve the beef cold, and the jelly round it. This is a very savoury dish, and well adapted for warm weather, not being liable to taint. 4. Batter Pudding.—Beat up, with a whisk, 4 new-laid eggs; when the yolks and whites are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of finely- sifted flour, in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has been mixed) pour upon the flour and egg half a pint of cream or new milk, and add a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg to cover a sixpence. See that the mould be well buttered; pour in the batter, cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all with a proper cloth. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wine sauce over it before sending to table. MAY 2. ‘ A willing heart adds feather to the heel. And makes the clown a wingld Mercury.'—Joanna Baillie. 1. Soup. 2. Capon with Rice. 3. Vegetables. 4. Cabinet Pudding. 1. ^ Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and slice 3 tarnip chop up 3 heads of celery and the hearts of 2 lettuces, slice a Spanish onion thin. Put these, with i lb. of butter, two table-spoonfuls ot salt and one of black pepper, into a stewpan; set it on a slow fire, stir well to prevent burning; and when the vegetables are nearly warmed through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is filled. Let all boil slowly for three hours and a half, then rub it through a hair sieve It properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a rich yellow colour. 2. Capon with Truss a fine capon for braizing, and cleanse he inside well from blood; put a few slices of lemon on the breast and cover with slices of fat bacon; work together a little butter, pepper’ and lemon-]uice, and put inside the fowl. At the bottom of an ovalTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 140 stewpan put a few slices of bacon ; on. this place the fowl, and add an onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves, a sliced carrot, a bay leaf, and a few ]ieppercorns, with as much water or fresh broth as will nearly cover the bird j boil and scum it, then add about ^ lb. of butter, and when the fowl'is about half done, ^ lb. of picked and washed rice; let it cook very gently. When done, dish the capon with the rice round, and pour some bichaincl or sauce supvcine over the capon. 4. Cabinet Pudding.—4 spongecakes into small pieces ; add 3 or 4 bunches of raisins cut and stoned, a table-spoonful of candied citron, 2 oz. of ratafia cakes; beat up 5 eggs with 2 glasses of brown sherry and i of brandy; add enough fine Lisbon sugar to sweeten it. Boil a pint of milk, with half a dozen cloves and a quarter of a stick of cinnamon; strain, and add the milk to the above. See that the mould be well buttered, and boil for the same time. -0— MAY 8. ‘ Love has its instinct. It knows how to find its way to the heart, as the feeblest insect moves to its flower, with an irresistible will, which nothing daunts:—Qklzkc. 1. Collared Mackerel. 2. Calf’s Head Hashed. 3. Vegetables—Broccoli Sprouts. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. I Collared Mackerel.—Bone a large mackerel, but do not skin it; mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; bind it tight with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till done; then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or m slices. Chopped sage, a little fennel and thyme, knotted marjoram and savoury mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. 2. Calf’s Head Hashed.—Cn\. the meat into slices, and put the bones and trimmings into a stewpan, with a quart of liquor m which the head was boiled yesterday; add a bunch of savoury herbs, an onion, a carrot, and a strip of lemon-peel, some mace, salt, and white pepper to taste, with a very little cayenne, a glass of sherry, a table-spoonful °f lemon- juice, and a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Garnish the dish with forcemeat-balls and toasted rolls of bacon, placed alternately. It takes about an hour and a half. , , 3. Broccoli sprouts.—!\A and wash them well, and boil them m plenty of water, with salt in it; when they are tender, strain and let Aem cool; when cold, to heat them again dredge them ttnA flour, and fry them in butter of a light brown, sprinkle them with a little salt, an serve them up.BILL OF FARE FOR MA V. 4. Vermicelli Pudding. MAY 4. Aci upon your impulses, but pray that you may be directed by Goa. -~ Emerson Tennent. 1. Stewed Sturgeon. 2. Roast Ducks. 3. Vegetables. 4. College Pudding. Steiued Sturgeon.—A good-sized slice of sturgeon, stewed for an hour over a slow fire, in a rich and well-seasoned beef gravy, is an excellent dish. 2. Roast Ducks.—See that the birds be properly picked, and after drawing let the interior be carefully cleaned with a soft towel. Boil a couple or onions in two waters, and then chop them up very small—half a tea-cupful will be sufficient; mix the onion with about one-half the quantity of fresh sage leaves, 2 oz. of finely-powdered bread-crumbs, a spoonful of salt, and the third of a spoonful of soluble cayenne j beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing materials well together in it. With a brisk fire, five and thirty minutes’ roasting will be sufficient. Serve with gravy sauce. 4. College Pudding.—Break 5 eggs into a basin, and whisk the yolks and whites well together; add, by degrees, 2 oz. of flour, 3 of pounded white sugar, as much powdered ginger as will cover a shilling, an equal quantity of grated nutmeg, and a table-spoonful of cream or good milk. When you have mixed all these completely together, put in 6 oz. of well-washed currants, 4 of finely-chopped suet, an oz. of candied orange- peel cut very fine, and a wine-glass of brandy. Fill as many pattypans as your mixture will allow, and bake for twenty minutes. ‘ How calmly may we commit ourselves to the hands of Him who bears up the world!'— Jean Paul Richter. 1. Fried Soles.—for frying, should be divested of both the upper and under skin, rubbed over with the white of egg well beaten up, and laid on the fish with a flat brush j next strew the soles with bread-crumbs, reduced to a very fine powder, and be sure that the lard m the pan is boiling before you put them im By paying proper atten- MAY 0. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Irish Stew. 3. Vegetables.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 142 tion to these simple directions, the fish will be served to table of a beautiful auburn tint. Garnish with slices of lemon, 2. Iris/i Stew.—Cut the fat off half a dozen mutton chops, peel and divide into quarters 2 lbs. of potatoes, peel and cut into thin slices 3 good-sized onions; mix two-thirds of a tea-spoonful of salt with one- third of soluble cayenne; rub the chops over with this on both sides. Place part of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the chops on the vegetables, covering with the remainder. Pour in water till both are covered; you may use veal stock or mutton broth, if you have it made, instead of water. Set your stewpan on a slow fire for two hours, now and then lifting the cover and pouring off the water attached to it. 4. Vermicelli Pudding.—Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break a stick of cinnamon into bits; boil these in a pint of milk, then sweeten with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve; put ^ lb. of vermi- celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten minutes ; beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an hour. —0— MAY 6. ‘ Live well; and then, how soon soier thou die. Thou art of age to claim eternity d—Randolph. I. Scottish Hotch-potch. 2. Mashed Potatoes. 3. Ipswich Puddixo. I. Scottish Hotch-potch. — Make the stock of sweet fresh lamb or mutton; grate the outer rind of 2 or 3 young carrots, slice down as many more. Slice down also several young turnips, young onions, lettuce, and parsley. Have a full quart of these things when finally shred, another of green peas and sprigs of cauliflower; put in the vegetables, withholding half the peas till near the end of the process. Cut down 2 or 3 lbs. of ribs of lamb into small steaks, trimming off superfluous fat, and put them to the stock. Boil well and skim carefully, add the remaining peas, white pepper, and salt j and when thick enough, ser\e the cutlets in the tureen with the hotch-potch. 3. Ipswich Pudding.—Ydk.es some bread-crumbs, steep in a pint of Bright’s vegetable custard; pound into a paste ^ pint of blanched almonds, and flavour with vanilla. Beat up the yolks of 4 or 5 eggs with ^ lb. of white sugar pounded sinall. Mix these together with ^ lb. of butter melted ; stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick, place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour.BILL OB BABE BOB MAY. 143 MAY 7. * Live thy better, let thy worst thoughts die,'—SiR Walter Raleigh. 1. Green Pea Soup. 4. Blanc Mange and Raspberry 2. Lobster a la mode Francaise. Tarts. 3. Vegetables. r. Green Pea Soup.—A good-sized tureen of soup cannot be made with less than a peck of peas. Half fill a large saucepan with water; as soon as it boils put in 3 table-spoonfuls of salt, skim the scum off, and then put in the peas j let them boil for five-and-twenty minutes, drain off the water. Put 3 quarts of broth, made from mutton or veal, but without herbs or spices, into a stewpan; add the peas to this with a dozen leaves of mint, cover down tightly, and let all stew for an hour and a quarter; season to your taste with pepper and salt, rub it through a coarse sieve with a wooden spoon, and serve it quite hot with toasted bread cut into dice. 2. Lobster d, la mode Bratifatse.—Pick the meat from the shell, and cut it up into small square pieces. Put the stock, cream, and seasoning into a ste\vpan, add the lobster, and let it simmer gently for six minutes. Serve it in the shell, and have a border of puff paste. Cover it with bread-crumbs, place small pieces of butter over, and brown before the fire. 4. Blanc Mange and Baspberry Tarts.—Boil i oz. of pickled isinglass, till it is quite dissolved, in pints of milk; add the peel of half a lemon cut fine, half a stick of cinnamon broken up, a blade of mace, oz. of finely powdered white sugar; blanch and pound in a mortar 10 bitter and ^ oz. of sweet almonds, beat together in a spoonful of rose- water; mix all these with the milk whilst quite hot, and let it simmer very gently for five minutes. Strain through a fine sieve, let it stand for half an hour, and then pour it into a mould. MAY 8. * So live, that when the sun Of your existence smks in night. Memorials sweet of mercies done May shrineyotir name in memory's light; And the blest seeds you scattered, bloom A hundredfold m days to come. ’—Bowring. 1. Green Pease Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Chump of Veal. 4. Fondue. 1. Green Pease Soup.—Tut i lb. of butter at the bottom of a large stewpan. When hot, throw into it three pints of young green peas, twoTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 144 cabbage-lettuces shred fine, two cucumbers peeled and sliced, and two large onions sliced with their green. When nearly fried enough, stir in smoothly a dessert-spoonful of flour. Pour in gradually three quarts .of good veal broth. If you have a ham-bone, put it in; if not, two or three slices of lean ham, also three or four mealy potatoes mashed. Let all simmer a couple of hours, skimming off any fat which may rise, and taking care the vegetables do not stick to the bottom. Before serving, remove the ham-bone, and throw in a cupful of boiled green peas, with the liquor they were cooked in. You may also add either fried or toasted bread, cut in small squares. 2. Chump of Wrap the joint in a cloth in order to have_ it white and delicate ; put it into a pot with a little salt, and cover it with water ; let it simmer gently for about an hour and a half after it comes to a boil. When done, fry some thin rashers of ham or bacon, lay them round it on the dish, and serve it up with oyster sauce. 4. Fondue.—Take the same number of eggs as there are guests ; w'eigh the 'eg<^s in the shell, allow a third of their weight in Geny'ere cheese (o-ood Cheshire has been tried, and found to answer very well), and a niece of butter one-sixth of the weight of the cheese. Break the eggs into a basin, beat them well; add the cheese, which should be gratea, and the butter, which should be broken into small pieces. _ Stir these inaredients together with a wooden spoon, put the mixture into a lined saScepan, place it over the fire, and stir until the substance is thick and soft Put in a little salt, according to the age of the cheese, and a good sprinkling of pepper, and serve the fondue on ^ ^ metal plate. Do not allow it to remain on the fire after it is set, for it boils it will be entirely spoiled. Brillat Savarin recommends that some good Burgundy should be handed round with this dish. MAY 9. ‘ Each one in her own house, and God in them all. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 3. Brussels Sprouts. 4. Cheesecakes and Blanc Mange. , Afacaroni 5oKA-Break the macaroni into moderate-sized piecM, or ;fte“ toied. cut into lengths of about 4 mches _ Pu m.o a kucepan about three “ tuTZ'Tioz.. wlmle the anrpnt in 1 lb of nracaroni. when it .sBILL OF FARE FOR MAY. US half or three parts done, drain off the water, take out the onion and spice, cut it in pieces, and put it into two quarts of boiling misommL Season with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Let the macaroni be well done, but not enough to burst, or the soup will be spoiled. Serve it with some grated Parmesan cheese on a separate dish. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb.—Take care to immerse the joint in cold water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of spinach dressed as above. 3. Brussels Sprouts.—They should be put into boiling water, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been dissolved; twenty minutes on the fire will be sufficient. Drain them well, and serve with melted butter. 4. Cheesecakes and Blanc Mange.—Boil a quart of milk, pour it quite hot into a basin, and mix well with it a table-spoonful of runnet. In about an hour break up the curd, drain off the whey, and spread the curd on the back of a sieve till it is quite free from liquid. Dissolve 2 oz. of powdered sugar in i|- oz. of butter, then add the yolks of a couple of eggs, a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated; have an ounce of currants well washed and picked; let all these be now mixed with the curd. Line your pattypans with light paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven for twenty- five minutes. MAY 10. The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried. Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel; But do not dull thy palm with entertainment Of eaeh new-hatchld, unfledgldcomrade.'—Shakspeare. 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Lobster Sauce. 3. Beef Kidneys. 4. Vegetables. 5. Ground Rice Pudding. I. Boiled Salmon.—Put the salmon in cold water with salt; put 6 oz. salt to each gallon of water; bring it quickly to a boil, take off all the scum, and simmer gently till done, which will be when the meat sepa- rates easily from the bone. If done before wanted, keep it warm with hot cloths laid over it, but do not let it remain in the fish-kettle. Serve on a hot napkin, the dish garnished with cut lemon and parsley, with obster or shrimp sauce and plain melted butter.,46 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW , Lohler Sauce made in perfection with three parte cream to one of hnuer, with cayenne, " (L totXInost cookery books), it is scarcely a sauce, for the result " cfd-Stkin and remove the fat from the u f dice t ritirer thin; season it with pepper, grated nutmeg, and kidney, slice it ratiie , minced parsley and eschalots salt; only. Fry the choppe ^ nicely browned on both sides stir in slices over a busk fi > “ / ^„f g,avy and a glass th"ald a mble-spoonful of lemon-juice; garnish your dish - p“ »f ““' “ “ ^ d^rice half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of halt a lemon s sr ;rs,T“:: ss- s» over the top. Bake for half an hour. -0— MAY 11. . n„ an uean alone iHa. an acunntanlaiP. Smsar. ‘ ^ ..T TM r.PF.AM. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 2. Roast Beef Heart. 3. New Potatoes in Cre.\m. 4. Sweet Omelet. 'Z, XN.Urt.Oi VerniicclU S»/-Use four J^m soup. rather small; throw it in hot, and, as it boils, bre . ^her • keep it stirred occasionally gradually, that it may Ji, salt and a very little from the bottom, and w > vermicelli soup, and brown cayenne. Use white consomme for white veri consomme for brown soup. stuffed with the same e. React &e/«i<rri.-Tl e materials used for aiet of vea^^ serv-e Sfi^dSTp:-? relcurrant jelly in a gill of per. wine, .0 be sent quite hot to table. _j^^Yhcn potatoes first make their appear- an?;,S ^"tl^X of'T larg^e marble, a very dainty dtsh canBILL OF FARE FOR MAY. ^A1 be sent to table by having a dozen or so of the young esculents fried in cream until they are of a deep auburn colour. 4. Sweet Omelet.—In half a pint of new milk mix well a table-spoon- ful of fine flour, then whisk together the yolks and whites of four eggs ; add these to the thickened milk. Over a clear fire see that the frying- pan be quite hot, and put into it as much fresh butter as will serve for frying the omelet; about I lb. will be enough. Pour into the boiling butter half the milk and eggs, and, when these are a little set, put four table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly in the centre of the batter; cover the jelly with the remainder; and as soon as the upper portion is fixed, you should send the dish to table. A very few minutes are required for this acceptable and elegant preparation. may 12. Human life is a constant want, and ought to be a constant prayer I S. Osgood. 1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce. 2. Stewed Breast of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Gougere au Fromage. I. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce.—Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vineo-ar Boil up, and serve. ^ J- Stewed Breast of Veal.-Fnt the joint into a stewpan two-thirds filled with water, next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon thyme, and an equal quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea- spoonful of powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a table-spoonful of mushroom catchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt • let It stew very gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat' run the gravy through a sieve; and if it is not as thick as you desire’ you may add butter and flour till you have made it of the proper con- sistency ; pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest Dy, as a good foundation for any made dish of white meat A. Gougere au Fromage.-Fnt into a stewpan three-quarters of a umbler of water, with 3 oz. of fresh butter and a little salt. When the well cooked. Then take the stewpan off the fire, and add to the 3 'Tof Ga ^ thL "■ell148 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY 13. To matters of conscience," first thoughts are best; in matters of''prudence," last thoughts are best'—Rev. Robert Hall. 1. Soup A LA Cleremont. 2. Hashed Heart. 3. Spring Cabbages. 4. Cranberry Tart and Cream. I. Soup ct la Cleremont.—from 12 to 18 small onions, cut off the stalk ends, cut the onions in slices, and separate each slice into rings; fry them in butter, with a tea-spoonful of sugar. When of a nice browi put them on the back of a sieve to drain and become dry. Put them into 2 quarts of veal consomme to boil gently for half an hour, carefully skimming off the grease. Cut the crumb of a rasped French roll into dice, or else into rings, with small cutters, to make them similar to the onions; put the bits of bread into the tureen, pour the soup on them, and serve. ^ 2 Hashed Heart.—Oo-t the meat into slices, not too thick. Put what remains of the stuffing, jelly, etc., into sufficient beef ^avy to cover the meat 3 warm this up quickly, and when it is quite hot put the slices 3 but if you suffer the sauce to boil, you will render the meat too hard for mastication. 3 spring Cahhages.—These should be carefully looked over to remove worm or grub, and washed very clean. Have plenty ready in which a table-spoonful of salt has been mixed; boil for twenty rSinutes ;Ind if due care be taken, the vegetables will return their proper Want 0-»w.-Wash a quart of hemes m several watrs dry them on a coarse doth, and pick them carefully. Mix them Tn abilwith a quarter of a pound of finely-powdered white sugar, and squeeze “hr^tice of half a lemon over the fruit. Put all into a pie-dish, Sve a light paste ready for the top, and bake for forty minutes. —0- MAY 14. * If you tell your troubles to ag(xiii when you God, you put them into the grave ; they will never have commuted them to 7A/«.’-Spurgeon. rise 1. Pickled Salmon. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Pudding. r. to exctade‘'’the*at. ‘'put soiu< rfSe"u was boiled in with an equal quantity of vinegar; half a.149 BILL OF FARE FOR MA K oz. of whole allspice; half an oz. whole pepper; 2 bay-leaves, and i tea-spoonful of salt: boil all together for ten minutes, and then stand to get cold; pour it over the salmon, and it will be ready to send to the table in twelve hours, 2. Boiled Leg of La7nb.—A leg of lamb is a delicate dish when nicely boiled. If whiteness is desirable, wrap it in a clean cloth; only the liquor will then be spoiled for broth. Boil one of 5 lbs. gently for about an hour and a half. When you dish it, cut the loin into chops, fry them and lay round it. Sauce : plain melted butter, or parsley and butter. 4. Lemon Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs; add 4 oz. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the flavour; then put and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. ~o— MAY IS. Sohyiety is the move inw(i7‘d habit [so to speali) which must suppovt cud give value to the whole; or, to drop the metaphor, that eternal and prevailing character, by which every part of a womans dress and demeanour must be ever regulated,'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Edinburgh Barley Broth, 3. Vegetables. 2. Green Goose. 4. Ipswich Pudding. 1. Edinburgh Barley Broth.—Procure a shin of beef of about 8 lbs. weight, and have it divided into 4 pieces; take half a lb. of Scotch barley, and wash it free from husk or dust in lukewarm water; select a large saucepan, put in your beef and barley, and cover them with cold water; as soon as the water boils take away the scum, and then add a couple of heads of celery, 2 small turnips, and 2 onions, all chopped up; you may now season the liquor with salt to your taste; let it stew over a slow fire for three hours; take out the meat, place it on a dish, and then pour the broth into an earthen vessel, where it should remain all night, to enable you to take away the fat. Next day warm up the meat and soup, and serve it to table, either with or without the bouilli and vegetables, as your fancy dictates. 2. Green Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are used. Three-quarters of an hour’s roasting will be sufficient. Send it made ^iard^ 4. Ipwich Pudding.—in a pint and a half of cream 3 oz. of7'HINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. 1^0 fine white bread-crumbs. Pound into a paste half a pint of blanched almonds in a small quantity of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of 4 and the yolks of 8 eggs, with i lb. of lump sugar in powder Mix these together with i lb. of butter melted. Stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick. Place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of your dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. ^ MAY 16. ‘ Wisdom is oft times nearer when we stoop than when we Wordsworth. 1. Chantilly Soup. 2. Stewed Kidneys. 3. Vegetables. 4. SousTER OR Dutch Pudding. 1 Chantilly Soup.—^o^ a quart of young green peas till quite tende , with 2 young onions and a small bunch of parsley. Rub them through a sieve, and pour 2 quarts of medium stock to them. Do not let it boi after the peas are added. Serve very hot. 2 Stewed ICidneys.--C2xUxX\y remove the skin and vessels from t kidneys, and cut the meat into small portions; put it mto a stewpan with Jbunch of mixed sweet herbs, and an onion tied up in a mus bag As soon as the meat is well browned, cover it with boilmg water Ld let it simmer for three hours. Just before servmg, take away the bag, and sprinkle a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, m powder, ov or Dutch Pudims.-yiAi . lb- of butter in ^If a pint of milk Mix it into 2 lbs. of flour, 8 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of yeast, add lb. of currants, and i lb. of sugar beaten and sifted. —0- MAY 17. . Vm.gh up ha, P trip,, the, caa. ,a fa wto ,ho' >acraa,h upaa ia wiportant concerns. —Mackenzie. 1. Stewed Oxtails. 2. Roast Pullet. 3. Potatoes. 4. Frangipane. I Stewed Oxtails.—these into joints and parboil them; pu of toast, Ind seL with a fresh lemon and Reading sauce.BILL OF FARE FOR MA Y. 151 2. Roast Pullet—a stuffing with the liver of the fowl or chicken, bruised fine, a little scraped bacon, parsley, and onion chopped fine, and a little panade; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and bind it with the yolk of an egg. Cover the breast with barbs of bacon, or wrap the fowl in buttered paper; roast it, and when done, brush it over with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little clarified butter; sprinkle it with bread-crumbs so as to form a crust all over it. Brown well, and serve with a sharp sauce. 3. Potatoes.—Select the potatoes of one size, and scrape them quite free from skin; remove all specks, and throw them into cold water; clean them thoroughly, put them into an iron saucepan with a small quantity of water, and sprinkle them slightly with salt Let them boil up quickly, then set them aside to simmer gently. Twenty to thirty minutes will cook them. Try them with a skewer, and when soft through, drain off whatever water may be left. Take away the sauce- pan lid, and substitute a thickly-folded, delicately-clean cloth. In five minutes serve them wrapped in a damask napkin. 4. Praugipane.—Beat up 6 eggs, and add 2 spoonfuls of flour, a spoonful of grated lemon-peel, another of powdered sugar, a table- spoonful of orange-flower water, and half a dozen macaroons, broken up. Put these and a pint of milk into a stewpan over a slow fire; stir it well for twenty minutes; have ready some pattypans lined with puff paste; pour in the ingredients, and bake for twenty minutes. MAY 18. There is a sweet and holy blindness in Christian love, even as there is a blindness of life, yea, and of genius too, in the mome7it of productive energy.'—SiR Thomas Browne. 1. Excellent Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Meat and Potato Pie. 4. Sago Pudding. 1. Excellent Soup.—Take a scrag of knuckle of veal, slices of un- dressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with good beef broth, made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add a little cream and vermicelli, and gently simmer. 2. Meat and Potato Pie. Mash some potatoes with pepper and salt and milk, and line a baking-dish with the same ; lay on slices of cold meat of any kind, with salt, pepper, butter, and ketchup; lay on more potatoes, then more meat, then another layer of potatoes on the ton. Jjake It till it is quite hot through, 4. Sago Pudding.—Bq\\ a pint and a half of new milk with 4 spoon-152 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KA'OW fuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, nutmeg, and cinna- mon. Sweeten to taste j then mix 4 eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. MAY 19. ‘ W/io love too much, hate in the same extreme'—Pope. 1. Lobster. 3- Boiled Cucumber. 2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton. 4. Custard Pudding. 1. Lobster.—the meat of a good-sized lobster fine, and add to it half a salt-spoonful of powdered mace, the same quantity of soluble cayenne, and a spoonful of salt; beat up 3 eggs, rub 2 oz. of butter into an ounce of bread-crumbs; mix all well together, and boil in a well-buttered mould for an hour. Sprinkle the pea over it, and garnish with the small claws. 2. Corned Shoulder of Mutton.—A shoulder of mutton, not too fat, well powdered with salt for four days, boiled and sent to table with plenty of onion sauce. 3. Boiled Cucumher.—Ytt\ and cut the cucumber m quarters, and take out the seed; boil like asparagus, and serve on toast with melted butter. . V -1 • ^ 4. Custard Pudding.—\i you cannot easily procure cream, boil a pmt and a half of new milk, and when quite hot thicken it by stirring in finely-sifted flour. These must be well mixed; then add 2 table- spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5 eggs well beaten up. When all these matenals have been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour s baking a moderately quick oven. -0— MAY 20. * The smallest hair throws its shadow.' Goethe. 1. Soup a l’Aurore. 2. Boiled Fowls. 3. Sauce to ditto. 4. Gooseberry Tart and Custards. I. favourite Parisian soup can only be made when carrots are young. They must be scraped, cut into thin shces.153 BILL OF FARE FOR MA K and stewed in beef or veal gravy; then forced through a sieve, seasoned with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 3. Sauce to Boiled Fowls.—Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them in melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. 4. Gooseberry Tart and Custards.—Remove the tops and tails, and pile the fruit in a pie-dish; line the edge with crust; put on the cover, and ornament the edges of the tart. Bake for about three-quarters of an hour; and when done, dust some white sugar over it, and serve with custard (Bright’s Vegetable is the best). MAY 21. * Lffve doth ever shed Rich healing where it nestles—spread O'er desert pillows some g}-een palm.'—Gerald Massey. 1. I.OBSTER Soup. 2. Beef a la Mode. 3. Vegetables. 4. Gooseberry Fool. 1. Lobster Soup.—Make a jelly-broth ; add to this the interior, coral, and pea of the lobster; cut the meat of the claws and tail into small bits about the size of dice; strain the liquor, put in the meat, and serve quite hot. Two lobsters are necessary for an ordinary-sized tiureen. 2. ^ Beef a la Mode.—'^xocnxQ about ten pounds’ weight of buttock, and cut it into bits of about a quarter of a pound each. Chop a couple of large onions very fine, and put them into a large stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, or fresh and well-clarified beef dripping. Wliilst this is warming, cover the pieces of beef with flour; put them into the pan, and stir them for ten minutes, adding a little more flour by slow degrees, and taking great care the meat does not burn. Pour in, a little at a time, a gallon of boiling water, then add a couple of drachms of ground allspice, one of black pepper, and a couple of bay leaves. Let all this stew, on a low fire and very gently, for three hours and a quarter; ascertain with a fork if the meat be tender: if so, you may serve it in a tureen or deep dish. A well-dressed salad IS the proper accompaniment of Boeuf d, la Mode. _ 4. Gooseberry Top and tail some green gooseberries; to each pint of the pulp use i pint cream and \ pint milk, or a pint of milk, ter the berries are top and tailed, put them in a jar with some 01st sugar and 2 table-spoonfuls of water; set in a saucepan of boilin^ ater, letting it boil till the fruit is soft enough to mash ; then beat to a154 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pulp through a cullender, and stir to every pint the equal proportions of milk and cream. Add plenty of sugar, very gradually, to the goose- berries and milk. MAY 22. ‘ Our acts our angels are, or good or ill. Our fatal shadows that walk by us still. -John Fletcher. 1. Hot Lobster, 2. Roast Leg of Lamb and Mint Sauce. 3. Spinach, etc. 4. Gooseberry Pudding AND Cream. I. Hot Separate the tail of the fish from the body, tear away the shell to which the lower claws are attached, abstract t e interior, taking great care not to disturb the stomach, politely denomi- nated ‘the lady;’ split the tail in half, and remove the intestinal canal a dark purple cord-like object, found in the centre of the flesh; shred up the meat of the tail and claws ; mix all well together, squeeze the iuice of two lemons over it, half a tea-spoonful of soluble cayenne, a tea-spoonful of salt, and three ounces of fresh butter. Put these mto a saucepan; let it be well stirred for a quarter of an hour, and serve it m ^ Leg of Lamh and Mint Baste well during cooking, and do not place too close to the fire at the first; brown it y it nearer the fire. When it is done, sprinkle a little fine salt over 11 meat, then empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a boiling water, and strain this over the meat. Serve with mint sauce. 4. Gooseberry Pudding and Cream.-Tfkt a pudding basin and line it with suet crust, about half an inch in thickness. Take a knife and cut round; then top and bottom the goosebernes, fill the fruit, put in some sugar, and cover over with crust; boil for about three hours. Serve with some cream. MAY 23. ‘ Make three guineas do the work ’-Robert Burns. 1. Gravy Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. '3. Asparagus. 4. Macaroni, T Gram Smt —Chop up half a pound of gravy beef quite free from fat'and pu^ it int a pin, and a half of water. coU; let it simmer over a155 BILL OF FARE FOR MAY. slow fire for half an hour, skim it constantly, season it with salt to your taste, put in four cloves, and keep it over the fire for another half hour j strain through a muslin sieve, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Veal Cutlets.—Care should be taken that the meat be cut at least half an inch thick, and well flattened with the rolling-pin; smear them over with egg, and then cover them with finely powdered bread-cmmbs. Fry them in fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both sides are well browned. Send them to table with a fresh lemon and some mushroom ketchup. 4. Macaroni.—Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the liquid; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, put it before the fire whilst you rub fresh butter over the top, and then cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an inch thick; put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes before sending to table. Some epicures have macaroni plain boiled, and instead of cheese use a good rich brown gravy. MAY 24. ‘ Rage is essentially vulgar, and never vulgarer than when it proceeds frosn mortified pride, disappointed ambition, or thwarted wilfulness. ’—Hartley Coleridge. 1. Broiled Mackerel. 3. Vegetables. 2. Haricot Mutton. 4. Macaroni. 1. Broiled Mackerel.—K good-sized fish, with a hard roe, split, broiled, rubbed over with fresh butter, and eaten with Reading sauce, soluble cayenne, and salt, will be found by no means unsavoury. 2. Haricot Mutton.—Cut up the remains of a cold leg of mutton, and take off the fat; slice onions, and fry them with a little butter with the mutton till they are of a brown colour; add the gravy; stir in some flour, and let it stew gently nearly an hour. In the meanwhile boil some carrots, turnips, and a head of celery, until nearly tender; slice them, and add them to the mutton a quarter of an hour before servin'^ Season with pepper and salt, add the ketchup, give one boil, and serve. 4. Macaroni. 2 pints of milk, 3 oz. of macaroni, some lemon-peel 3 eggs, sweetened to taste; add some grated nutmeg and 2 tabled spoonfuls of brandy.156 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY 25. ‘ Our content is our best having.'—ShakspeARE. 1. Cod Sounds a la Tripe. 2. Brisket of Beef. 3. Spring Cabbages. 4. Raspberry Tourte. 1. Cod Sounds d la Tripe.—Soak the sounds in lukewarm water till they are perfectly clean and white, then boil them in milk and water until quite tender. Have ready a small Spanish onion that has been boiled in two waters, cut the onion into half a dozen parts, then warm it up with the sounds in cream, seasoned with three-fourths of a spoonfol of salt, a fourth of pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Serve with fresh mustard and a lemon. 2. DrisM of Beef.—K brisket of beef of eight pounds will require somewhat more than half a pound of salt well rubbed in to corn it The sooner it is salted after killing the better; it should be turned and rubbed well with the salt for a week. Boil gently for three hours, and remove the scum as it rises. This is an excellent breakfast relish cold. 3. Sprittg Cabbages.—should be carefully looked ■ over _ to remove worm or grub, and washed very clean. Have plenty of foiling water ready, in which a table-spoonful of salt has been mixed ; boil for twenty minutes; and if due care be taken, the vegetables will retain their proper tint of green. , ., . 4. Raspberry Tourte.—paste having been laid m a proper tin, pour in enough jam to fill the dish, place strings of paste across, let it bake for half an hour, but never serve it hot. MAY 26. ‘ The game of life Looks cheerfid ■when one carries in one s heart The tmalienable treasure.'—Coleridge. 1. Soles with Cream. 2. Lamb Cutlets and 3. Mashed Potatoes or Cucumbers. Asparagus. 4. Currant Dumplings.BILL OF FARE FOR MA K 157 for ten minutes, and put in the juice of half a lemon just before serving. 2. Lam3 Cutlets and Cucumbers—YL-wt ready a bright fire, lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil some eight or ten minutes; season with pepper and salt; garnish with crisp parsley. 4. Currant Dumplings.—i lb. of flour j chop 6 oz. of suet finely cut, mix it with flour, and add the currants after washing them; then divide into several dumplings, and drop into boiling water. Serve with a cut lemon, cold butter, and crystallized sugar j boil for about three-quarters of an hour. MAY 2 7. ‘ Lave sought is good, but given tmsougkt is better.'—ShakspeARE. 1. Asparagus Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Lamb Pie. I 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Asparagus Soup.—To any good and well-seasoned jelly broth add asparagus tops boiled separately, and put into the tureen when served. 2. Latnb Fie.—Cut the meat off in slices from a loin of lamb. Put the bones into a saucepan with a spoonful of salt, half that quantity of pepper, and a pinch or two of dried sweet herbs; cover these with cold water. An hour and a half will be sufficient to draw a well-seasoned gravy; strain this through a sieve. Brown the meat by frying it lightly in fresh butter; line a pie-dish with light paste, place the lamb in the dish, then fill it with the gravy from the bones; squeeze half a lemon over it, put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour. 3. Vegetables.—Oxt off the stalk, and strip off the outer leaves, quarter, and wash them in plenty of water, and leave them to soak, top downwards, with a little salt in the water, for an hour or two. Put them into plenty of boiling water, with a good handful of salt and a bit of soda, and boil them till the stalk feels tender. Cabbages require boiling from twenty to forty minutes, according to their age and size. Drain them through a cullender. Greens may be pressed between two plates. ^ 4. Ground Rice Pudding.—\n a pint of new milk boil 3 oz. of ground rice, with half a stick of cinnamon, and the peel of half a lemon chopped fine; keep it well stirred whilst boiling, set the saucepan on the hob, and then beat up 4 eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar; mix these with the rice milk; butter a pie-dish, pour the ingredients in\o it, taking out the spice, and grate nutmeg over the top. Half an hour's baking will be enough.iS8 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY 2 8. ‘ If life he heavy on your hands. Are there no beggars at your gate. Nor any poor about your lands f Oh, teach the orphan boy to read. Or teach the orphan girl to sew ; Fray Heavett for a human heart. And let your selfish sorrow go.'—Tennyson. 1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce. 3. Spinach and Potatoes. 2, Roast Loin of Veal and Boiled 4* Cabinet Pudding. Bacon. 1. Broiled Shad and Caper Sauce.—disembowel, and wash carefully, cut across the back twice or thrice, season it with pepper and salt, and let it remain in oil for half an hour. Broil it on both sides over a clear fire, and serve with caper sauce. 2. Roast Loin of Veal and Boiled Bacon.—the kidney fat, dredge it well with flour, and put down to a bright fire. Be^ careful that it does not burn; have ready some melted butter, pour it into the dripping-pan after it is emptied, and then put over the veal, and serve. Garnish with slices of lemon. 4. Cabinet Pudding.—TskQ the pudding basin, and after buttenng it all round, lay some raisins that have been previously stoned, then nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and butter, the crust cut off, and in another basin beat up the eggs, and add milk, sugar, and ^ated nutmeg. Mix all well together, and pour the whole on the bread and butter; then tie a floured cloth over it, and let it boil for one hour. Serve with sweet sauce. MAY 2 9. ‘ Love is the virtue of woman.'—Madame Dudevant. 1. Oxtail Soup. 2. Capon a la Duchesse. 3. Vegetables. 4. Carrot Pudding. I Oxtail Soup.—Yox a moderate-sized tureen a couple of tails will suffice jitie.. and soaU in lukewarm water of Spanish onions; put these in a stewpan, haU J drachm soluble cayenne astheTater toils; when the scum has ceased to rise cover tire ateup^ dose' Ind simmer’for two hours. Strain the hquor through a Steve, add159 BILL OF FARE FOR MA V. 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a couple of glasses of sherry, season with salt to your taste, return the meat to the soup, warm up all together, and serve with toasted bread. 2. Capon a la Duchesse.—TxM%% the capon for boiling, and blanch it; put it into a stewpan with parsley, green onions, and mushrooms chopped fine; cover the breast with slices of bacon, moisten with fresh stock, add a little butter, pepper, and salt; simmer gently on one corner of the stove, and when done, strain some of the liquor, thicken it with yolk of egg and cream beat up ; add a little lemon juice to make it a little sharp, and mask the fowl, or serve with Dutch sauce. 4. Carrot Pudding.—Scrape raw carrots very fine, till you have a lb. weight of them, grate white bread fine till you have an equal quantity; in half a pint of cream beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs; melt f lb. of fresh butter in a pint of sherry and a couple of spoonfuls of orange-flower water; add half a grated nutmeg, and sweeten to your taste. Mix all the ingredients well together, and pour them into a dish previously lined with a light paste. It will require one hour’s baking in a moderately-heated oven. MAY SO. ‘ Thy life is no idle dream, but a solemn reality. It is thy own ; it is all thou hast to front eternity with.'—Carlyle. X. Spring Soup. 2. Calf’s Head, Tongue, and Brains. 3. Cauliflower. 4. Gooseberry Tart and Custard. 1. Spring Soup.—Put in a clean stewpan some parsley, onions, chervil lettuces, and butter, to i pint of water, and let them simmer till tender. Season with salt and pepper; when done, strain off the vegetables, and put two-thirds of the liquor they were boiled in to the stock; beat up the yolks of 3 eggs with the other third, give it a toss over the fire, put it all together, and add to the soup. It takes about three-quarters of an hour to cook. ' 2. Calf's Head, Tongue, and Brains {save the liquor in which it is boiled). Thoroughly clean the head and remove the brains; then soak in warm water, and the brains as well, for about an hour. Put the head into a stewpan with cold water enough to cover; when it boils, add a little salt. Carefully skim as it boils until perfectly tender. Boil the brains chop them, and mix them with melted butter, minced parsley, pepper and salt to taste. Skin the tongue, and put it in a small dish with the brains round it. 3. Caulifloiuer.—YL^y'mg picked them into small pieces, which isi6o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. absolutely necessary in order to remove the slugs with which this vege- table abounds, wash it thoroughly in several waters, and let it soak for full an hour before you dress it. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water, with a lump of salt, and when tender it will be done; let it drain in a cullender, and serve it up with melted butter. Some persons may prefer to see them brought to table whole, but they must then take the chance of being helped, along with the cauliflower, to some unsightly insect, which would be sufficient to disgust the least delicate stomach, besides, if properly boiled, and laid carefully in the dish, the pretty appearance of the vegetable is by no means destroyed by its having been MAY 31. Consult duty, not events.'—Hannah More. 1. Soup a l’Aurore. 2. Breast of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Omelette Souffles. 1. Soup a rAttrore.—This favourite Parisian soup can only be inade when carrots are young. They must be scraped, cut into thin slices, and stewed in beef or veal gravy, then forced through a sieve, seasoned with salt and pepper to the taste, and warmed again for use. 2. Ereasi of Vea/.—Tut the joint into a stewpan two-thirds fiUedwith water next half a handful of dried marjoram and lemon-thyme, and an equal’ quantity of fresh parsley, 4 small onions, a tea-spoonful of powdered mace, 4 cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a tab e- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let it stew very gently for an hour and three-quarters ; take out the meat, run the eravy through a sieve, and, if it is not as thick as you desire, you may Idd butter and flour till you have made it of the proper consistency, pour as much as necessary over the joint, and keep the rest by, as a good foundation for any made dish of white meat. 4 Omelette Soufflee.-^rt^h up half a dozen eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of ^^^^d lemon- peel and 4 of finely powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten minutes add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. 0 wte n a pan, and put in the eggs; as soon as they are qmta set, S the frying-pan and turn them over. Have the dish on which you rler to sLv! well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander.i6i DESSERT FOR MAY. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF MAY. Centre-piece, a corbeille of fresh flowers. 1. Cream Cake. 2. Nesselrode Cream. 3. Compote de Raisin (Confix). 4. Compote de Peches (Confixes). 5. Biscuit Souffles. 6. Pate Croquante a l’Italienne. 7. Bitter Almond Macaroons. 8. Biscuits a la Canelle. 9- 10. Gelee de Bar. Marmelade de Poires. Dried Fruits, Nuts of Diffe< RENT KINDS, FrUIT, ChEESE, Fresh Fruits if obtainable, Plaisir, Olives, Iced Water, ETC. I. CREAM CAKE. Take the grated rind of a large lemon or sweet orange, put with it 12 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a table-spoonful of cognac, the yolks of 8 eggs well beaten, and 4 oz. of very dry flour. Stir the whole together for a quarter of an hour, then add the whisked whites of 10 eggs, and a pint and a half of thick cream beaten to a snow. Put it into a cake- mould, and bake for an hour and a half. 2. Resselrode cream. Take a quart of sweet cream, the yolks of 6 eggs, 8 oz. of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and a glass of Maraschino. Place this over the fire in a saucepan and thicken it, then let it grow cold; put it into your ice-pot, and freeze. ^ Add 6 oz. of dried cherries, citron-chips, or candied orange flowers; mix well together, and pour it gently into a mould thickly lined with sweetmeats or dried fruits. Ice this, remove it from the mould, and serve it upon a dish surrounded with a whipped cream. 3. compote de raisin. Take a pound of grapes, white or black; with a sharp knife open them at the side, and take out the pips. Place the grapes in an earthenware stewpan, with enough water to cover them. Put a few vine leaves on ^ i then take them up add half a pound of loaf sugar to the liquor, boil it down to a syrup’ Shim It, replace the grapes, add a glass of eau-de-vie. Let it come to a hoil, take out the grapes, and put them and the syrup into a glass LTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. j 62 4, COMPOTE DE PECHES. If you have not enough peaches to make a handsome dish of whole fruit you may cut them in half and stone them, using the blanched ker- nels’as an addition. Should you, however, be provided with an ample number, they are better dressed whole, extracting the stone or not at discretion. . ,, Scald the peaches for a few minutes, and then plunge them into cold water; remove the skins, and lay the fruit in a preserving-pan with a breakfast-cupful of water, a little currant or other juice to add colouring, and 12 oz. of refined white sugar. Do them very slowly, and when tender, put them into your dish. Boil down the syrup, let it cool, and pour it upon the fruit. C. BISCUIT SOUFFLES, Take the whites of 10 eggs, beat them to a snow, and add to them T2 oz. of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and 3 oz, of candied citron chips beaten to a paste in a mortar, and moistened with white of egg; or in place of the citron, use an equal quantity of candied orange flowers reduced to a paste. Make up your biscuits in paper cases, glaze the tops with sifted loaf sugar, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. 6. PATE CROQUANTE A l’iTALIENNE. Beat in a mortar i lb. of blanched sweet almonds, i oz. of bitter almonds, the grated rind of a fresh lemon, a tea-spoonful of powdered clramon, and the white of an egg; make this into a paste. Boil down a pound and a half of loaf sugar with half a pint of water; withdraw 1 iwm the fire ; add your almonds, etc.; replace it on tlie fire, and con- tinue stirring until the paste adheres together and detaches itself from the sides of the saucepan. Be very careful that it does not burn Tmn it out into a dish, and when cooled enough, make it into small cakes, and bake gently. 7. BITTER ALMOND MACAROONS. Beat !n a mortar half a pound of bitter almonds and the whites of s ems ■ add a pound and a half of sifted loaf sugar, and, if required ■ IMe’more white of egg, to render it of the requisite moistness. Mai !.tto v“ry"mall bafs,’arrange them on paper, and place them mi gentle oven. When they are well set, glaze them, and return the oven to finish baking.DESSERT FOR MA V. 1^3 8. BISCUITS A LA CANELLE, Beat the whites and yolks of 12 eggs until they form a sblid froth; add a tea-cupful of orange-flower, rose, or laurel water, half an ounce of very finely-beaten cinnamon, a pound and a half of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and sufficient potato-flour to make it into a paste. Roll it out rather thin; stamp it into biscuits of a fanciful form ; put them upon greased paper; place them in a moderate oven, and, when done and become cold, glaze them highly, and return them to the mouth of the oven for a short time to set. 9. GELEE DE BAR. Take 2 quarts of fine ripe currants, red or white; cut them gently from their stalks with a pair of scissors, and carefully extract the pips with a quill. Have ready a pound and a half of loaf sugar boiled with water to a strong syrup; throw in your fruit, skim well, and boil for ten minutes. 10. MARMELADE DE POIRES. Put some dressing pears into spring water, and simmer them slowly until they are tender; take them up, peel them, and scrape all the pulp away from the cores. To each pound of pulp put 12 oz. of loaf sugar ; place It m a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it well until it is quite stiff, then put it into pots or moulds. The pears may be slowly baked instead of being boiled, if more convenient.JUNE 1. •Cumv.1, cfycr »W, «,Uplm^r.-^r^und, «te’- Whately. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Beef—Mutton—Veal—Grass-Lamb—VemsoiE -R-uRttc Poultry : Fowls—Chickens--Duck mg— Fxsh: Carp-Cod-Congr —Gurnets- Haddocks ^ | ^^gj^^i^_Xrout-Turbot-Wbiting. Plaice—Prawns Salmon Kidnevl Beans (Windsor)—Cab- VeGETABLES_: Salad-Cucumbers-Endive (and n" S^Letmces-Peas-Radishes-Rhubarb-Spinach (Spring) Drying, Orange Thyme - Mint - Tarragon - Burnet Pickling, Garlic. fruits in season. Cherries — Currants — Gooseberries - tarines—Apricots—Pine Apples- - Raspberries — Strawberries—Peaches —Kcc- -Pears—Melon—Rhubarb. 1. Fish Soup. 2. Fowls a la Perigord. 3. Minced Veal. 4. White Sauce. 5. Peas. , Fish Sout, -Boil 4 lbs. of skate in 4 quarts of water tiU reduced to a with 6 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a " ‘““J to 2, wuu . Codlings, whitings, eels, roach, dace and a small head y ^ns flounders, “ *u F“es <>f y J „ well cleansed, of “y if eodlings 0 :htnrar?-i, sonte of the flesh should be reserved to make son. forcemeat-balls “ P" “ off; cut the flesh of the fish smal Wlien sufSetently .f^’of by pounding it, which pt tnfo tbS tvith season with salt and pepper, and serv.BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 2. Soast Lamt.—L^mh requires to be well roasted, as, if not snfli- 2. Fowls d, la Perigord.—Y\W them with veal, force or sausage meat, with some sliced truffles added to it. Three or four days will be long enough for the fowls to hang in moderate weather. 3. Mmced Veal.—Cui a few slices of the cold veal (roast), very fine indeed, sufficient to make i lb., or rather more, weighed after being minced. Make a pint of bkhamel (white) sauce, and put in the veal, witli half a tea-spoonful of minced lemon-peel, and warm all gradually through. Dish it at the point of simmering, and garnish the dish with fried sippets of bread and forcemeat-balls. 4. White Sauce.—It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled veal, fowls, or rabbit, or broth that may be in the house, or raw or dressed veal, or the feet and necks of chicken, will suffice. Strew with a little milk and water any of these, with some sliced onion, a piece of lemon-peel, some white peppercorns, a little pounded nut- meg or mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till the flavour be good; then add a little good cream, a little flour, a piece of butter, and salt to the taste. Add a squeeze of lemon when taken off the fire, stir- ring it well. Yolk of egg is often used instead of cream, but it is apt to curdle. 5. Peas.—The time they will take depends on their age; in general, about twenty minutes is enough. When done, strain them through a sieve, and pour them into a vegetable-dish over a good lump of butter. A few sprigs of green mint should be boiled and served up with the peas. —0- JUNE 2. The more ue limit and concentrate happiness, the more certain we are 0/ securing itl—Deverant. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Roast Lamb. 3. Mint Sauce. 4. French Beans. 5- Italian Cream and Tartlets. 1. Macaroni Prepare the macaroni without breaking or cutting It; let It boil in the broth until it bursts, when it can be easily pulped • tnen rub it through a sieve or tammy into a clean stewpan, add 3 or 4 Pannesan cheese; stir until it boils and is well mixed, adding about a quart more consommi, or sufficient to make it of the >vraE Sam. ^ ““dTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. i6G dently done, it will fail to acquire that delicate taste so peculiar to it It is commonly dressed in quarters. Lamb should be well Jo^d or chopped by the butcher, as it is such a delicate sort of meat, that i becomes altogether disfigured if the carver is compelled to hack and null it in nieces. In roasting, baste with its own dripping; and after pouring off all the fat. serve it up in a hot dish with the gravy that remains after the fat is poured off. In serving up a fore-quarter, the cook should divide the shoulder neatly from the ribs, and after squeezing the iuiee of half a lemon on the ribs, cover the shoulder closely over attain. It is usual to send up with lamb, mint sauce in a tureen. _ Mint Sauce.-m^ 3 heaped table-spoonfuls oifinely chopped rain with 2 of pounded sifted sugar, and 6 of the best vinegar; stir it ti the sugar is dissolved. • <- i 4 %ench Prepare the beans as usual, by cutting finely ; boi them green and tender, and drain them thoroughly. For a large dnh nut into a stewpan or saucepan 2 oz. of fresh butter, stir smoothly mto ft a small dessert-spoonful of flour; keep these well =“en. and stmm^^^ gently till lightly browned; put in pepper and salt, and AcnJidd ^ea cupM of veal stock by degrees, or the same quantity bef er; put the beans in, and toss them till they are as hot as have the^ yolks of a fresh eggs well beaten; and as the beans ate be „ ?rfen up, quickly stir them in; dish as rapidly as possible; sqneesea lemon over them, and serve. hoilinf Saiff 4°antinre beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, and thicken ^ riittle fine flour; add this to the milk by degrees, stirring weU all the frd"fn at^bato^^^^^^ tb ffl^hTcrea^is reb'cmte attle futLg over the top, and brown the surface with a salamander. JUNE 3. . trevirfr .V rigMy W.'-Rev. W. B. MaCKCNtls. 1. Celery Soup. 2. Boiled Fowls. 3. Sauce to ditto. 4. Vegetables. 5. Ice Creams and Gooseberrv Pie. ^ V O at „ nr c heads of fine white celery in small stnps, wash to cleat drain dry, and boil in a quarts of when167 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. done, season with salt and a pinch of sugar. Put a few pieces of bread cut in dice into the tureen, and serve. 3. Sauce to ditto.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme and 10 white peppercorns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with lb. of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together. Add salt to your taste. 5. Ice Creams and Gooseberry Pie.—UzkQ 2 quarts of fresh milk. Scald the^ milk, stirring in 3 table-spoonfuls of corn starch or arrow- root to give it body. These may be omitted if not at hand. Stir well to keep from burning. Beat up 4 to 8 eggs, according to con- venience or as a rich dish is wanted, and pour the scalding milk on the eggs, stirring well. When cold, add sugar and essence of lemon, or extract of vanilla, to suit the taste. A very little salt also improves it. Pour the cold contents into a deep tin pail or can holding about 3 quarts; put on the cover, and set in an ordinary wooden water pail. Pound up ice to the size of hen’s eggs and less— some of course will be quite fine; pack it round the tin can, mixing in about one pint of either medium or fine salt. Pack this till it reaches nearly to the top of the can containing the mixture to be frozen, but be careful none enters it. Now move the tin can or pail around by means of Its bail, lifting the cover occasionally to scrape off the frozen cream on the inside, so that other portions may come in contact with the freezing surface. From fifteen to twenty minutes will be sufficient, and the dish may be served up at once or set away, without removing from t e wooden pail, in a cool place for several hours, covering with a flannel JUNE 4. ‘ Why ts it so difficult to love wisely, so easy to love too ■well?'—m%% Braddon. 1. Salmon Collared. 2. Boiled Leg of Mutton. 3- Caper Sauce. 4- Summer Pudding, and Sauce TO DITTO. s. Mashed Turnips. to C’^^W.-Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficien whi^ ^ handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed sail it veryS'^rub k P'PP"’'’ ^^a^tity to seaso! ry hi^h, rub It well inside and out. Then roll it tight and bandag168 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel or anchovy sauce. 4. Summer Pudding.—Moisten 5 table-spoonfuls of dry flour with a gill of new milk ; kir till quite smooth, then add | pint of boiling milk and 5 oz. of sugar; boil five minutes; beat 3 fresh eggs, and add to the batter while warm, but not boiling; beat for ten minutes; stir in | pint of any kind of summer fruit. Butter a basin, put in the pudding, dredge a cloth with flour, tie over securely, plunge the basin into boiling water, and boil fast for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve immediately, with sweet sauce poured over, in which add a little wine or brandy. Sauce io Quarter lb. pounded sugar, do. of butter, and a wme> glassful of brandy or rum. Beat the butter to a cream, till no lumps remain; add the sugar and spirits, stir till the whole is thoroughly mixed ; and serve in a tureen, or pour round the pudding. 5. Mashed Turnips.—flavour of this justly favourite dish may be very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed from lie water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the turnips should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table, by means of a small bit of butter or half a tea-cupful of cream. JUNE 8. The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved, loved for ourselves— say rather, loved in spite of ourselves.'—Victor Hugo. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Mackerel. 3. Hashed Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 1. Vegetable Scrape and cut into thin slices 4 carrots, peel and slice 3 turnips, chop up 3 heads of celery, and the hearts of 2 lettuces; slice a Spanish onion thin. Put these, with ^ lb. of butter, 2 tab e- spoonfuls of salt, and i of black pepper, into a stewpan, set it on a slow fire, stir well to prevent burning; and when the veget^ables are ne^ly warmed through, pour boiling water over them till the pan is fi e . Let all boil slowly for 3 hours and a half, then rub it through a - sieve ; if properly cooked, it should be the thickness of cream, and of a rich yellow colour. . 1 2. V«fW-Cut off the heads, but do not np them open; gut and169 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. wash them clean, and dry them; pull out the roe at the neck-end; boil it, then bruise it with a spoon; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little nutmeg, a little chopped lemon-peel, a little thyme, some boiled parsley chopped fine, a little pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs : mix these together with the mashed roe, and fill the mackerel; flour it, and broil it nicely. Send it up with a little ketchup or walnut-pickle, in plain melted butter. Mackerel, if boiled, should be put into cold water with plenty of salt. When cold, they are nice soused in vinegar. 3. Hashed Mutton.—Cut the least done parts of the cold mutton into small slices, carefully taking off the brown outside ; dust with flour ; fry a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in your stewpan, with a little stock; put a table-spoonful of currant jelly, with a dessert-spoonful of Harve)'’s sauce and a half glass of red wine; stew these together till the onions are reduced to a pulp ; then withdraw the stewpan from the fire, put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer gently for half an hour. ‘ The heart ought to give charity when the hand cannot.'—Pasquier Quesnel. _ I. Soup et Bouilli.—TakQ about ai lbs. of brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with 2 lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water; let it boil slowly, skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, two carrots, two turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slowly or seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite clear from the meat Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and cayenne, remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate JUNE 6. 1. Soup et Bouilli. 2. Lobster Salad. 3. Baked Chicken Pudding. 4. Carrot Pudding. 5. Gooseberry Cream. 6. Vegetables.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 170 fine, and rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterwards the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad nicely on a glass dish, and garnish with a few crayfish if handy. 3. Baked Chicken Pudding.—Ox\. up two young chickens, and season with pepper and salt, and a little mace and nutmeg. Put into a sauce- pan with two large spoonfuls of butter, and water enough to cover them. Stew gently j and, when about half cooked, take out and set them away to cool. Pour off the gravy, and reserve it to be served up separately. In the meantime make a batter, as if for a pudding, of i lb. of flour, stirred gradually into i quart of milk, 6 eggs well beaten, and added by degrees to the mixture, and a very little salt. Put a layer of chicken in the bottom of the pie-dish, and pour over it some of the batter; then another layer of chicken, and then some more batter, and so on, haying a cover of batter on the top. Bake till it is brown. Break an egg into the gravy which you have set away, give it a boil, and send it to table in a sauce-tureen to eat with the pudding. 4. Carrot Pudding.—To | lb. of carrot, when boiled and pulped through a sieve, mix i lb. Savoy biscuit, 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs well beaten, 6 oz. of butter beaten to cream, a little nutmeg, and 2 oz. of sugar, the rind of a lemon boiled till tender and pounded, and the juice of two ; bake in puff paste. 5 Goosekerry Cream.—Boil gooseberries in milk till they are quite soft beat them up in a bowl, and force the pulp through a coarse sieve. Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste, then mix it with the pulp ; when quite cold, place it in glasses for use. JUNE 7. Good counsels observed are chains to grace.' Fuller. 1. Plain Soup. 2. Veal stewed with Peas, etc. ■?. Vegetables. 4. Castle Pudding. 5. Currant Paste. 6. Vegetables. I Pluin Put 2 lbs. of bones into a stewpan with i lb. ol calfs liver, and a small piece of ham or mutton. Add a little pepper and salt, two turnips, two caiTots, a burnt onion, the bay ku«s, thyme cloves, and rice; pour in a quart of water, and let it simmer tor half ^au hour - then add six pints of hot water, or the liquor m which mutton ha, been boiled, and let it stew gently for eight hours. Skim it treque^ and when done, strain it through a sieve, and serve, ^f a he^ celery cut into pieces and boiled with it improves the broth, and a few slips may be served with it.BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. *71 2. Veal stewed with Peas, etc.—3 or 4 lbs. of loin or neck of veal, 15 young carrots, a few green onions, a pint of green peas, 12 new potatoes, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, i table-spoonful of lemon-juice, 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Mode : Dredge the meat with flour, and roast or bake it for three-quarters of an hour; it should acquire a nice brown colour. Put the meat into a stewpan, with the carrots, onions, potatoes, herbs, pepper, salt; pour over it sufficient boiling water to cover it, and stew gently for two hours. Take out the meat and herbs, put it in a deep dish, skim off all the fat from the gravy, and flavour it with lemon- juice, tomato sauce, and mushroom ketchup in the above proportion. Have ready a pint of green peas boiled separately ; put these with the meat, pour over it the gravy, and serve. The dish may be garnished with a few forcemeat-balls. The meat, when preferred, may be cut into chops, and floured and fried instead of being roasted, and any part of veal dressed in this way will be found extremely savoury and 4. Castle Pudding.—Take the weight of two eggs (in the shell) in butter, the same of powdered sugar and flour; about half melt the butter in a basin before the fire, beat the eggs very well, mix the butter and sugar together, then the eggs and a little grated lemon-peel, then add the flour; butter some cups like coffee-cups with flat bottoms, fill them a little more than half-full, and bake them about half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve with raspberry vinegar sauce. 5. Currant Paste.—your fruit from the stalks, and place it over the fire for a quarter of an hour in a stewnan. Pass? it- i-hrnnah good. JUNE 8. Etnployment is Natures physician.' Galen.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 172 days they will be fit to eat. Skin and rub them with egg,, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg sauce. This will prove excellent in the country especially, where there is no regular supply of fish. A haddock ot 2 or 3 lbs. weight, done the above way, is very good. 2. Mution Cutlets i la Italienne.—Cut out a cutlet between each bone. Rub a saucepan over with butter, lay them in, and about a quarter of an hour before dishing the dinner fry them a light brown, and pour an Italian sauce in the centre. French beans, peas, stewed lettuce, spinach, or mashed turnips may be placed in the centre, when in season. 3. Spinach.—Few vegetables require more care in their preparation for table than spinach. It should be quite fresh, in the first place, and taken leaf by leaf from the stalks ; by this means a peculiar vegetable fibre, resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, mil be avoided. Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain through a cullender, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a good-sized saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water; as soon as it boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, which, being light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced into the water with a large fork or spoon. Ten mmutes’ boiling is enough. Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden trenchers, and squeeze out as much water as possible; then chop it quite fine, after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As it is essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stew-pan with the juice of a lemon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. 4. Brighton Budding.—Take 3 eggs, i lb. of sugar, I lb. of flour, ^ lb. of butter, and the peel of a lemon finely minced. Beat the sugar and ecrgs for twenty minutes. Oil the butter, and mix it and the flour m at the last. Steam the pudding for one hour. Serve without sauce, only with preserve. JUNE 9. m are amused through the intellect, but it is the heart that saves us from eunuil—Madame Switchine. Bread and Butter Pudding. Vegetables. 1. Pot au Feu. 2. Lamb Chops and Asparagus. 3- 4- I. Bot au Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water, set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking off the scum that w U rise to the top. Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scumBILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 173 rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in tour pieces. Put them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve the soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot very closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little ; it facilitates the operation. 2. Lamb Chops and Asparagus.—Lamb chops carefully fried in egg and bread-crumbs, and sent to table with asparagus, will be found a very palatable dish. 3. Bread a7id Butter Pudding.—Boil gently for five or ten minutes a pint of good milk, with the peel of half a lemon, a little cinnamon, and a spoonful of almond or orange-flower water, then sweeten with good sugar; break the yolks of five eggs and the whites of three into a basin ; beat them well, and add the milk j beat all well together, and strain through a hair-sieve; have some bread and butter cut very thin, put a layer of it in a pie-dish, and then a layer of currants, and so on till the dish is nearly full; then pour the custard over it, and bake it half an hour. JUNE 10. ‘ The surest way not to fail is to determine to Sheridan. 1. Dried Salmon, 2. Hotch-potch. 3. Vegetables. 4. Eve’s Pudding. I. Dried Satmon.—Full some into flakes ; have ready boiled hard and chopped large; put both into J pint of thin174 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Eve's Pudding.—Pare and chop half a dozen apples, take 6 oz. of finely-grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, half a dozen eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of brandy. Mix all these well together. Boil in a cloth for six hours, and pour melted butter over the pudding just before serving. JUNE 11. ‘ IVe are all a kind of chameleons, taking the hue of our moral character from those ■who are about usd—LoCKE. 1. Filleted Soles. 4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding. 2. Boiled Leg of Lamb. 5- Canary Pudding. 3. Vegetables. 1. Filleted Soles.—YiWtX. 2 or 3 soles, stew the heads and bones in about \ pint of water j put the fillets in a flat pan in about a wine-glass of this water, simmer for two minutes and a half each side. Make a sauce with 2 oz. butter, the remainder of the water, a little cayenne and salt, and chopped parsley, thickened with arrowroot j add the juice of half a lemon, or a tea-spoonful of esclialot vinegar, and pour over the fish. 2. Boiled Leg of Latnb.—Tzkt care to immerse the joint in cold water, and let it boil very slowly. A leg of 6 lbs. will require two hours and twenty minutes before it is properly done. Cauliflower or broccoli are both applicable vegetables; but you cannot do better than send this tender and delicious meat to table reposing on a verdant bed of spinach. 4. Buttermilk Curd Pudding.—Ymsi 3 quarts of new milk, warm from the cow (or made lukewarm), with a quart of buttermilk ; drain off the whey through a sieve, and when the curd is dry pound it m a marble mortar, with ^ lb. of fine sugar, i oz. of sweet and 2 or 3 bitter almonds, and a lemon boiled tender. When these are well beaten and mixed together, add 2 oz. of grated bread, ^ lb. of butter melted, the juice of a lemon, a little salt, a tea-cupful of thick cream, 5 eggs with but half the whites, well beaten, and a glass of rose-water ; stir well, and bake in a dish or cups well buttered; turn out carefully, and sift sugar over it c Canary Puddmg.—YfkQ the weight of 3 eggs m sugar and butter, the weight of 2 eggs in flour, the rind of i small lemon, 3 eggs Melt the butter to a liquid state, but do not allow it to oil'; stir to this ti sugar and finely-minced lemon-peel, and gradually dredge ^ the flour keeping the mixture well stirred ; whisk the eggs, and add them 0175 BTLL OF FARE FOR JUNE. pudding; beat all together till thoroughly blended, then put into a buttered mould or basin, and boil for two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. —0— JUNE 12. ‘ Beware of entrance into quarrel.'—Shakspeare. r. Fish Salad. I 3. Bread Hasty Pudding. 2. Sweetbreads with Peas. 4. Vegetables. ' » 1. Fish Salad may be made with the remains of turbot. Cut the fish into very thin slices; have also 2 young cos lettuces, which separate into leaves and cut lengthwise; add a few leaves of tarragon, a little chervil; season with a little pepper and salt, 6 or 8 spoonfuls of salad oil, and 2 of vinegar, or according to taste; mix well together, turn into a salad bowl, and serve. The above salads are excellent for dinner upon a hot summer's day. 2. Sweetbreads with Peas. — Put 3 heart sweetbreads into warm water, to disgorge the blood, and make them as white as possible; blanch them firm, and braize them. When done, take them up and mask them with some good white bechamel. Cut some French beans, boiled nice and green, into leaves and stalks; make a border round each sweetbread with them, and a neat sprig in the middle; put them into a stewpan, as they are done, to keep hot; when wanted, cover the bottom of the dish with young peas or asparagus, and the sweetbreads on diem. Garnish with sippets of fried bread. 3. Bread Hasty Piiddmg.—^t\. a quart of new milk on the fire, and when scalding hot put in grated bread, till it is about the thickness of common hasty pudding. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs with a little salt; take out a few spoonfuls of the milk before you put in the bread, to mix with them; then put it to the bread and stir it over the fire two or three minutes. It must not be suffered to boil. Eat with sugar and cold butter. It is very good without the eggs. JUNE 13. ‘ All love is sweet, given or returned.'—Shelley. I- Turbot. 2. Pigeons. 3- Loin of Mutton en Fricandeau, 4. Baked Batter Pudding WITH Fruit. 5. Vegetables. • hours before you intend to cook it, let it be put in 0 fresh spring water; and just as you are about to put it into the176 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. kettle, make a couple of incisions half-way down to the bone, upon the back of the fish. This will prevent the cracking of the skin, as the fish swells in hot water. Fill your kettle three parts with cold water, and then throw in a liberal handful of salt; place the turbot upon a tin or earthenware strainer, and put it into the water; as it begins to boil take off the scum, and then set your kettle by the side of the fire, so that the water boils very slowly for twenty minutes or a quarter of an hour, according to the size of your fish. A turbot of 9 lbs. will require at least twenty minutes, and so in proportion. Take it out of the water very carefully, and place it on a coarse cloth ; then cover the dish you mean to send to table with a napkin, place the turbot upon it, strew whole capers over it, and serve with lobster sauce and slices of lemon. You may, if you prefer it, strew the fish with the pea of lobster forced through a sieve. 2. Pigeons.—^These birds cannot be dressed too fresh; let them be stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs, roast for five- and-twenty minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 3. Loin of Miction en Fricandeaii.—Trim and lard a loin of mutton and braize it, or put the trimmings of the mutton into a stewpan that will hold the loin, with some beef and veal; on this place the loin, also a few carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover with broth, and stew gently until done 3 drain, and glaze the loin well. 4. Baked Batter Pudding with irz/zV.—This pudding is very good baked with fresh fruits, adding 4 spoonfuls of cream and a tea-spoonlul of powdered ginger. JUNE 14. ‘ The consiitution of the female mind shows that loving obedience is her prescribed course. Her happiness is never to be found in assuming the reins, or striving to com- mand.'—W. B. Mackenzie. 1. Grey Mullet. 4- Batter Pudding with Eggs. 2. Brown Minced Veal. 5- Vegetables. 3. Pigeon Pie. I. Grey Mullet.—?vX this fish into cold water and bring gradually to a boil, if very large j if the fish is small, put it in boiling water. In either case, to each gallon of water put ^ lb. of salt Serve with plain melted butter and anchovy sauce. 2 Brown Minced Veal.—Cut the meat off the bones, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; stew till you have about ^ pint of liquor left. Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat and lean, small; season with pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and177 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. a little peel; add a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, warm it up in the same manner as the white mince, and garnish with sippets. 3. Pigeon Pie.—Place at the bottom of a dish a rump-steak well flattened and cut to the size; sprinkle a salt-spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne over the steak. Stuff half a dozen pigeons with bread- crumbs well mixed with sweet herbs and egg; rub the birds over with fresh butter, and place them on the meat, filling up the spaces with the yolks of eggs boiled hard; when this is done, pour in veal stock till you nearly reach tlie brim; put on the top crust, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half. Before sending to table, make a small hole in the crust, and pour in some richly-seasoned gravy, boiling hot. It is usual to distinguish a pigeon pie by placing a pair of claws in the centre of the top paste. 4. Batter Pudding with Eggs.—Mix i lb. of flour with a pint of milk ; beat it till quite smooth; add a little salt and some powdered ginger. Boil it in a cloth one hour and a quarter. If prepared ginger be used, not quite a tea-spoonful; if the common powdered ginger, double the quantity. ‘ Every wife should knew the exact state of her husband's finances, understand his plans, and aid him, if possible, with her counsels.'—PROFESSOR WILSON. 1. Broiled Salmon.—Oil the fish in slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt. Lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, hvist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy sauce. 2. Pork Kahob.—'&t\tz\. 4 pork chops, not too fat; peel 2 dumpling apples, and cut 2 slices from the centre of each, avoiding the core; cu° a Spanish onion into slices, select 4 of the largest; attach with small skewers to each chop a slice of apple and a slice of onion; fasten them together with twine, and roast before a bright fire for half an hour basting well. Serve them quite hot, with some fresh mustard, soluble cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 4- Bakewell Pudding—Coyer a dish with thin puff paste, and lay on It any kind of jam an inch thick; then beat up the yolks of 8 eggs and he whites of 2, with ^ lb. of sugar, ^ lb. of butter, and almond flavour 0 taste; pour this mixture on the jam, and bake it in a moderate —0— JUNE 15. 1. Broiled Salmon. 2. PorkKabob. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bakewell Pudding. M17S THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. fill of white peppercorns, m 4 q^’arts JUNE 16. • Alas I haw seldom it is that the so^d is so still that it can hear when God speaks to UI' —Fenelon. 1, Red ^Iuleex* 2. Lamb Pie. 3. Vegetables. 4. Aunt Amelia’s Pudding. 1 Red Mullet.—fish should never be plain boiled; it can be had at any time, but in summer is more plentiful. Clean it, but leave the inside, take out the gills, put the fish m oiled paper, and bakejhem gently about twenty minutes. When done, take the liquor Lme^from the fish, add a thickening of butter kneaded with flower, i glass of sherry, half a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce,_ cayenne and salt to the taste, and let it boil two minutes, then serve m a tureen. T fish may be served either with or without the paper cases. 2 Lamb Pie.—0,^x1 the meat off in slices ftom a loin of lamb. _ Put the bones into a saucepan with a spoonful of salt, half that ° pepper and a pinch or two of dried sweet herbs ; cover thes^Mth co ’ An hour and a half will be sufficient to draw a well-seasoned gravy ■ strain this through a sieve. Brown the meat by frying ^ j Z frLh butter; line a pie-dish with light paste, place the lamb m the dis^then M it with the gravy from the bones; squeeze hah a lemon over it put on the top crust, and bake m a slow oven for an hour. 4. Amelia's FuMng.-Thrte * Sd spinfuls of sifted sugar, | lb. of butter. Bod nadk “ thicken with flour to the consistency of ordinary starch. yo of the eggs wed, whip white » a l7,he’milk **'n'°boiling ' Mix the whole together into a smooth batter, flavour it Pla.es haed with rich paste. Bake slowly. —0— JUNE 17. wl blars «. ajf.rd, u tee a .rteijraPr. -RUCKEXT. Soup a la Reine. Stewed Rump of Beef a la Daube. Sauce to ditto. 4. Boiled Arrowroot Pudding. 5. Vegetables. 6. Strawberry Cream and Tart- lets. SAUl-Ji XV.. r. Soup d la lre"rta“a a thick slice or nvo of lean h ' J ““ half a tea-spoon carrot, the same of „ater, until reduced to about ■BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. in the iX^t i - 1/9 pints. Then strain the liquor, and set it by until the fat can be taken entirely from it. Skin and wash thoroughly a couple of fowls, or 3 young pullets, and take away the dark spongy substance which adheres to the insides; pour the veal broth to them, and boil them gently from three-quarters of an hour to an hour; then lift them out, take off all the white flesh, mince it small, pound it to the finest paste, and cover it with a basin until wanted for use. In the meantime, let the bodies of the fowls be put again into the stock, and stew gently for an hour and a half; add as much salt and cayenne as will season the soup properly, strain it off when sufficiently boiled, and let it cool; skim off every particle of fat; steep, in a small portion of it which should be boiling, 4 oz. of the crumb of light stale bread, sliced thin; and when it has simmered a few minutes, drain or wring the moisture from it in a clean cloth ; add it to the flesh of the chickens, and pound them together until they are perfectly blended; then pour the stock to them, in very small quantities at first, and mix them smoothly with it; pass the whole through a sieve or tammy, heat it in a clean stewpan, stir to it from i to 12 pmts of boiling cream, and add, should it not be sufficiently thick I2 oz. of arrowroot, quite free from lumps, and moistened with a few spoonfuls of cold milk or stock. 2. Stewed Rump of Beef d la Daube.—Takt out the bone from a rump of beef, and trim it neatly; cut some fat bacon into pieces about a quarter of an inch square, and tivo or three inches long; chop fine a handful of washed and picked parsley and some sweet herbs, such as basil, marjoram, thyme, savoury, with some burnet and tarragon if pungency of the several sorts used; season them with pepper salt a ttle ground allspice, and pounded mace. Make some holS III over the surface of the beef with a sharp-pointed knife, about as d efas the bacon IS long; dip the pieces of bacon into an egg beaten up then roll beeZh i«ofhe hSs, X Sp he the beef in the stock-pot to serve round The sauceTorb?'rr/XrI So THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Boiled Arrowroot Pudding.—"Siti a pint of milk on the fire; mix 2 oz. of arrowroot with a little cold milk quite smooth, like starch; when the milk is near boiling, pour it upon the arrowroot, sttrtmg all the time; return it into the pan, and set it on the fire a few minutes to thicken stirring it briskly, but do not let it boil; when cold add 3 eggs well n„ien and a little salt; boil it an hour in a buttered basin. Serve with melted butter and currant jelly. 6. Strawberry Cream and Tartlets.—K quart of cream will be required for two pottles of strawberries; the small pines should be selected, as possessing most flavour. Carefully pick away the leaves and stalks and mash up the fruit in a basin; boil the cream, and add the fruit whilst i remains hot; sweeten with powdered sugar to your taste; let it become quite cold before you put it into glasses. JUNE 18. * One's thoughts are heard in heaven.'— 4. Vegetables. 5. Arrowroot Pudding. 1. Flounders. 2. Parsley and Butter. 3. Green Goose. I. Floimders.—Lei the fish be carefully cleaned, the fins cut off, then washed, and well dried in a cloth; put a handful of salt “to the water in which they are boiled; the time they take must be regulated by their size and thickness; serve them with parsley and butter. ^ _ 3 Green Instead of the stuffing of sage and onions given to the more mature bird, bread-crumbs mixed with pepper and salt are used. Three-quarters of an hour’s roasting will be sufficient. Send it to table with a boat of gravy, another of apple sauce, and some ne^% }- "^^flTZtot Pudding.-To a pint of boiling milk add 2 oz. rooi, previously mixed smooth with a little cold milk; set it on the fire to boil, constantly stirring it; when cool, add 3 almonds blanched and beaten, lemon-peel, and sugar; bake in a mo .. rate oven. -0— JUNE 19. ‘ One always has time enough, if one will apply it Goethe. -D 1 4. Blanc Mange. I. Scotch Barley Broth. i ^ 2. Leg of Mutton Farced. 3. Bakewell Pudding. 5. Vegetables. SM £roi;,.-nroy, the ^ when thoroughly cleansed, place it with a knuckle of veal m a steupaniSi BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. mostly m silver, so that it may be served in the dish in which it is {over it with water; let it boil very slowly ; add the onions, and simmer it slowly for two hours, skimming it well; then add the celery and the turnips cut in slices, or any shape you please; add as much salt as required, and let it simmer for an hour and a half, skimming it con- stantly ; then serve. If it is intended to serve the veal with it, take 2 pints of the broth; put it in a stewpan over a clear fire; add 2 spoon- fuls of flour, stirring the broth as you shake it in until it boils; then add a little pepper and cayenne, and a glass of port wine. Boil for ten minutes, and strain it over the veal in a hot dish. 2. Leg of Mutton Farced.—Raise the skin all round the leg; take out the lean part and chop it small, with an anchovy boned ; add a few sweet herbs, such as chopped parsley, marjoram, thyme, and a little onion, the rind of a lemon grated, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a few bread-crumbs; make these into a forcemeat, with 3 eggs, and a large glass of port wine; fill up the skin with the forcemeat, leaving the bone and shank in its place, when it will appear like a whole leg. Lay it in a baking-pan or dish, with a pint of red wine under, and bake it in a moderate oven for two hours, basting it occasionally with the wine. When done, dish the leg, skim the fat from the gravy in the dish, add some brown sauce to it, mix, and mask the leg with it. 3. Bakewell Pudding.—The yolks of 3 eggs and the white of i to be well beaten with ^ lb. of butter, sugar to taste, and the almond flavour also to taste; these are to be mixed the night before the pudding is required. Any sort of jam or marmalade will do to lay over the puff paste, and the pudding is to be baked in a moderately-heated oven for about an hour. 4. Blanc Mange.—Boil 2 oz. of isinglass in pints of water half an hour; strain it to pints of cream; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, vanilla, or a few bitter almonds; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to 'be very stiff, put a little less isinglass. Observe to let the blanc mange settle before you turn it into the moulds, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blanc mange when turned out. Brandy may be added if liked. The moulds should be in cold water two hours before use. —0— JUNE 20. 'Give your tongue more holiday than your hands or eyes.'—Rabbi Ben 1. Sole au Gratin. 2. Loin of Mutton. 3- Asparagus Pudding. 4. Almond Pudding. 5. Vegetables. mostlffn ""“i The French have an oblong dish for the purpose,THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 1S2 cooked. Grease the bottom of the dish with butter to prevent its sticking; chop some shalot and parsley; spread lightly; add salt and pepper, a little wine or brandy. Lay the sole upon it, and spread the same things over the top of the sole, and some lumps of butter, with some button mushrooms or a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a little gravy that you may have by you. Rasp over some bread- crumbs, and cook gently in the oven for about half an hour; it will take longer if a thick fish. Only one sole can be cooked at a time. ^ Asparagus Pudding.—ZvX up, about the size of peas, the green tender parts of asparagus, \ pint; put them into a basin with 4 eggs well beaten, i table-spoonful of ham minced very finely, 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour, pepper and salt to taste, and i oz. of butter. Mix well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter. Put it into a pint buttered mould tie it down with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour melted butter round, but not over the pudding. Green peas substituted for asparagus, may be made in exactly t e same manner. , 4 Almond Pudding.-Ni^r,c\s 6 oz. of sweet almonds and 12 bitter ones; beat them in a marble mortar with orange-flower water, add the juice and rind of i lemon grated, I lb. of butter melted, yo s e£2S and 4 whites, a pint of cream, with sugar to the tasta Bake hllf an hotr in puff paste, or butter some cups and fill them half full, and bake. JUNE 21. ‘ She neglects her heart who studies her glass.'— I. Mutton Soup. 3, Stone Cream and Tartlets. 2. Breast of Mutton Grilled. I Mutton Soup.—?v.t 7 lbs. of neck of mutton into a stewpan with 7 • of water a large bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, 3 turnips, 3 “iM^P^per and salt, Le. . done, take out the meat, which a hair- garnished with carrots and turnip . J ^ P sieve, and when cold take o > _ cnmoth and stirred gta- and 3 dessert-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed smooth, and stirred , dually in to thicken it.BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 183 2. Breast of Mutton Grilled.—trim a fine well-kept breast of mutton, joint it underneath, and put it into the stock-pot to boil until half or three parts done, or braize it, then take it out. Score the top all over in diamonds; brush it over with an egg beaten up, and cover it with bread-crumbs seasoned with fine herbs, pepper, and salt. Broil it over a clear fire, or bake it in an oven. Serve it with piquant, Italian, tomato, onion, or caper sauce. 3. Sto7ie Cream and Tartlets.—Soak ^ oz. of isinglass in a little warm water; a pint of cream (or half cream and half milk); sweeten to your taste. Add the isinglass, and boil two minutes, stirring it the whole time. Put it in a jug to cool; have ready a glass dish mth preserves ; when nearly cold, pour the mixture on it. Be sure to stir it the whole time in the jug till it jellies. JUNE 22. * A wife has a thousand opportunities of removing prepossessions, of fixing impressions, ofetigaging attentions, of insinuating goodness.’—Dr. Burns. 1. Mulligatawny Soup. 2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb A LA St. Menhould. 3. Vegetables. 4. Strawberry Blanc Mange AND Tartlets. 1. Mulligatawny Soup.—Cut up a rabbit or fowl into small pieces, and brown them in a frying-pan. Then put them into a stewpan with the onions fried, a slice of garlic, and 3 pints of stock, into which you have previously mixed the curry powder; let all simmer gently for two hours; then add the almonds pounded, the lemon or mango juice, with a lump of butter and salt to taste. Serve very hot, and send up a large dish of boiled rice with it; or the rice may be put into the soup if preferred. 2. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb d la St. Menhould.—Cut off the red bone at the edge of the breast of lamb from the tendons; blanch and braize the breast until it is so tender that the rib-bones may be easily pulled out. It may then be prepared whole as a breast of mutton. For cutlets, place it between two dishes that it may remain flat, and to cool; then divide it into cutlets, with two or three bones to each. Pare off Ae skin and trim them neatly, leaving the bones protruding about an inch; next egg-and-breast-crumb them for frying. If for broiling, dip them in clarified butter, and cover them with bread-crumbs again! They may be done in either of those ways. Serve them with plain gravy, Italian or piquant sauce, or with any of the sauces for mutton cutlets.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 1S4 4. Strawberry Blanc Mange and Tartlets.—a quart (without their stalks) of fresh and richly-flavoured strawberries ^ crush them lightly with a wooden or silver spoon \ strew over them 8 oz, of pounded sugar, and let them stand for three or four hours j then turn them on to a fine hair-sieve reversed, and rub them through it. Melt over a gentle fire 2 oz. of the best isinglass in a pint of new milk, and sweeten it with 4 oz. of sugar; strain it through a muslin, and mix it with i;^ pints of thick cream. Keep these stirred till nearly or quite cold, then pour them gradually to the strawberries, whisking them briskly together; and, last of all, throw in by small portions the strained juice of a fine sound lemon. Put in a mould,, in a very cool place, for 12 hours or more, before it is served. JUNE 23, ‘ Be not disturbed about trifles, or at accidents common or unavoidable:— Dr. Franklin. 1. Wrexham Soup. 2. Breast of Lamb with Peas. 3. Cherry Pudding, etc. 1. Wrexhajn Soup.—OeX a lb. of gravy beef into very small pieces; put them into a half-gallon jar ; fill it up with every description of vege- tables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least six hours. This generally makes sufficient soup for four persons. A little pepper and salt must be added. 2. Breast of Lamb with Feas.—H^Y^ out the bones and cut it into moderate-size pieces; warm them in a braize, dram, ^d glaze them; serve them with stewed peas poured over, prepared thus :-Put some fresh-shelled young peas into a stewpan, with a slice of ham, a piece 0 butter, a bunch of parsley, and green onions; stew them gently over a slow fire until tender ; then add 2 or 3 spoonfuls of brown sauce, salt pepper, and a little sugar. If it is preferred white, use bechamel or '''^I'^kerry Pudding, etc.-^^^^ a good baL previously buttered, with it; pick your fruit and fill the basin, p" Ta very^ittl^ water and some sugar, wet the edge of h paste all round, then cover the top with a edges together; tie a cloth tightly over and boil the an^hour and a half, or two hours, according to its size. \ y185 BILL OF FAFF FOR JUNE. take it out of the pot, dip the basin into cold water, then turn the pudding out on to a dish. JUNE 24. * Piety is the true charm of home ; a holy home is the only really haffy one'— Rev. J. B. Osden. 1. Stewed Eels. 3. Vegetables. 2. Breast of Lamb rolled with 4. Amber Pudding. A Ragout. 1. Stewed Eels.—Skin and cut the fish into lengths of about two inches; fill a frpng-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it over a slow fire; extract as much of the oily fat from the fish as possible, keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent their touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to drain for a couple of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 table- spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, 2 glasses of sherry, a third of soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, and a dozen small silver onions; let the fish stew in these ingredients over a slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve; should it require thickening, add a little flour, beat up with the yolk of an egg; lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce, quite hot, over the fish. Garnish with slices of lemon. 2. Breast of Latnb rolled with a Ragoht.—Have a breast of lamb cut lather broad, bone it, and season it well with pepper and salt. Spread it over, with veal forcemeat, roll it up, and bind it tight with tape. Stew it gently in a braize until tender; take it up, and put it into a moderate oven; glaze it two or three times before serving, and serve it with a ragoht of any sort of vegetables round. 4. Amber Pudding.—Wnt a pudding-dish with good puff paste, ^ lb. of fresh butter, | lb. loaf sugar, and 8 eggs. Mix the yolks of the eggs \vith the sugar and butter on the fire till it becomes thick, but not boil- ing ; whip the whites of the eggs to a froth, and mix with the other when cold. ^ Put any jam on the bottom of the dish, according to taste ; pour the mixture of eggs, etc. over, and bake half an hour.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW, i??r) JUNE 23. ‘ ’ Tis never woman's part Out of her fond misgivings to perfilex The fortunes of the man to whom she cleaves : ’ Tis hers to weave all that she has of fair And bright in the dark meshes of their web Inseparate from their windings.'—Talfourd. 1. Oxtail SOUP. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Vegetable Stew. 1 4- Alderman s Pudding. I Oxtail Soup.—Cut 3 or 4 oxtails into pieces (all but the tips) bv dividing them at the joints, and cut the largest pieces again into two or if very large, into three or four pieces; put these into a stewpan,and co’ver them with water. Let them come slowly to the boil, take off all the scum carefully, and boil gently by the side of the stove, adding a few black peppercorns, allspice, and 2 or 3 cloves ; keep the pan close covered. When the meat is tender, take out the pieces of tail, put them into a clean pan, and strain the liquor to them, which put aside. The roots should be prepared as below. When a basin or two of soup is required, it is only necessary to take some of each and put m o a stewpan with sufficient water to reduce it; then boil, scum, and season with salt and pepper, and serve. Thus, with a ^ ment, this, as well as several other soups, may be kept on hand witho Z danger of their being soon spoiled, and served at five mmutes’notice Pare off the rind of 5 or 6 turnips, scrape 3 or 4 carrots, and peel 2 or 3 dozen of button onions; cut the carrots and turnips into pieces about an inch long and half an inch square, and tnm each m the form 0 crescl !et the carrots be done first, and put them into a ste.^an with sufficient water to boil the whole of the vegetables, let t ese ten ^ or a quarter of an hour, then add the turn.ps, w.th the peeled button onions; boil until tender, then dram the water from Ihertd put them to the tails previously prepared, brown veal cmsommi to make 3 or 4 quarts of soup, e "" rntly in this until well done, season with pepper and salt, and serte. Ihtle omon, t .et.uce,and a cucumber sliced into a quantity of butter, pepper, and sal quantity of boiled L vegetables have been stewed ““ meat peas and some meat into ‘''= P ’ y jish round the meat. is ready to serve in this manner; and it is Mutton, lamb, and veal are excellent a very good way of using up cold meat.187 BILL OL FARE FOR JUNE. 4, Aldermaiis Pudding.—Boil a pint of cream with a bit of lemon- peel and some fine sugar; pour it hot over ^ lb. of new Savoy biscuits, cover the bowl with a plate till the cream is soaked up ; then add 3 oz, of sweet almonds pounded or chopped fine, 8 eggs, the yolks and whites separately beaten; bake it in puff paste, with a thin layer of orange or apricot marmalade in the middle. JUNE 2 6. ' Sweet is the smile of hovte;.the mutual look Whe7t hearts are of each other sure ; Sweet all the joys that crcrwd the household nook, The hatint of all affectiosts pure.'—Keble. 1. Clear Pea Soup. 2. Lamb. 3. Asparagus. 4. Melted Butter for DiTTa 5. Gooseberry Pudding. 6. Vegetables. 1. Clear Pea Soup.—Shell about pints of nice young peas, blanch them in salt and water, strain and put them into 2 quarts of boiling co7iso77ime, with a sprig of mint; a lettuce may also be cut small and added, if preferred; boil till the peas are tender, take out the mint, season with salt and a little sugar. Cut the crust of a French roll in small dice, and put into the tureen. 2. La77ib.—Parboil a neck or breast of house-lamb; have ready bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; beat these up with as many eggs, both white and yolk, as will make the mixture sufficiently thick to adhere to the meat. Score the joint all over deeply, and rub the seasoning well into the scores; place it on a dish in a Dutch oven, before a good bright fire, turning it frequently for above half an hour— the time will depend on the size of your joint. 3. Asparagus.—Cut the heads about four or five inches long; scrape them and throw them into cold water; tie them in bundles ; put them into boiling water with plenty of salt in it; let them come quickly to a boil—they will take from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes. When tender, take them up with a slice ; drain them well; remove the string, and lay the asparagus in a dish, heads inwards, on slices of toast previously dipped in the liquor. Serve with melted butter. Sea kale is dressed in the same manner. 4. Melted Butter for ditto.—For melted butter, mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to 4 oz. of good butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water; boil quickly a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water looks whiter, and requires rather less butter.iS3 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 5. Gooseberry Pudding.—Make a good suet crust (of veal, or beef- kidney suet), 8 oz. suet pounded with 2 of butter, and worked with the fingers into a lb. of flour. A richer crust will take 16 oz. suet, flour li lbs butter 4 oz., and a small tea-spoonful of salt. Line the basin with it about half an inch thick. Top and tail the gooseberries (green about li pints to a quart of them), and put in the basin with ^ lb. of moist sugar; cover with crust, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over; put it into boiling water, and boil from two hours and a half to three hours. Turn it out, and serve with a jug of good cream. JUNE 27. ‘ A masculine ■woman must be naturally an unamiable creature. Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Breast of Mutton a la St. Menhould. 3. Batter Pudding. 4. Sauce to ditto. 5. Vegetables. 1. Vegetable Soup.—For a tureen of soup, take about 2 quarts of veal consomme quite free from fat; make it boiling hot; add the vegetables to it about a quarter of an hour before serving, so that the green vegetables may retain their colour, and the whole become perfectly hot; season with salt and a pinch of sugar, and serve. 2. Breast of Mutton d la St. Menhould.—a breast of mutton and braize it. When done, take it up with a slice, and pull out the bones; season it with pepper and salt; dip it in melted butter; cover it well with bread-crumbs; boil it over a gentle fire, and serve it vi clcEr ffr3.vy. . 3. Batter Pudding.—up, with a whisk, 4 newdaid eggs ; when the yolks and whites are well mixed, gently crumble in 4 oz. of fine >- sifted flour in which half a tea-spoonful of salt has ^een nnxed; pour upon *e flour and egg half a pint of cream or new m.lk, “d add a table-spoonful of powdered white sugar, and enough grated nutmeg to cfver Sixpence" See that the mould be well buttered t pour m the batter cover the bottom with buttered paper, and secure all xiith a Xei c"th. Boil for an hour and a quarter. Pour wme sauce over it before sending to table. . 4. &»ce/u,f/«e.-Thiclten half a pmt of “f cording to the directions for custards on the packets. Beat the yolk Z Z very well, and stir it into the custard when that ts at bo, mg pointfbut do not boil it; then put in a piece ol fresh butter, not larger1S9 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. than a filbert, beat the sauce well up, add a heaped tea-spoonful of sifted white sugar, which beat in also. A few drops of essence of almonds give an agreeable flavour for rice, light suet pudding, or batter pudding. If the sauce is for currant, mince, or Christmas pudding, a glass of sherry or brandy should be put at the bottom of the sauce tureen, and the sauce poured on, beaten all the time of pouring. JUNE 28. *// M the beautifid necessity of our nature to love something.'—Douglas Jerrold. 1. White Soup. 4. French Beans. 2. -Roast Veal. S- Rhubarb Pie. 3. Boiled Ham. 1. White Soup.—Take the flesh from the legs and breast of a boiled fowl, lb. of veal cutlet, the crumb of two penny French rolls soaked in chicken broth, ^ oz. of rice boiled, and i oz. of blanched sweet almonds. Clear the veal and fowl from skin, fat, and sinews, and pound the whole well in a mortar, using a little veal consonim'e to moisten it in the pounding. When well pounded, add some more veal consottime, using about 2 quarts, and rub the whole through a tammy into a pot that is perfectly clean; let it boil for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, keeping it well stirred; then add a glass of sherry and a quarter of a pint of good cream, but do not let it boil after this, or it will curdle; season with salt, cayenne, a little mace, and nutmeg. Keep it hot for serving in the bain marie (a vessel containing boiling water). Some pieces of bread fried of a light gold colour may be cut into dice, and served with the soup in the tureen. 2. Roast Veal.—Roast veal is much improved by a stuffing com- posed of chopped suet and parsley, lemon-peel, a little thyme, savoury, marjoram, a little grated nutmeg and bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, all mixed together with an egg. The bones should be carefully taken out, and the stuffing put in their place ; then cover your veal with buttered paper to prevent it burning, and set it down before a strong, clear fire, not too close at first, as it requires more dressing than beef or mutton, it being extremely unwholesome it underdone. When nearly enough roasted, take off the paper and let it bro^vn ; sprinkle it with salt, and baste it well either with its own dripping, or, if there be not enough, with lamb dripping or butter. Garnish with lemon cut in quarters or sliced. ' 4. French Beans.—Cut off the two ends and string them, then split and cut them in two, throw them into a pan of clean water, and putTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 190 tlicm into plenty of boiling W3.ter with some sa.lt a.nd a. little bit ot soda. When they are soft, which will be in about a (quarter of an hour or ' twenty minutes, strain them through a sieve, and serve them with melted butter. . 5. Rhubarb Pie.—As a vast improvement to its flavour, let a table- spoonful of green lime juice be poured over the stalks before the crust is put on. In default of this, squeeze the juice of a lemon, and that of a Seville orange. JUNE 29. * Put this restriction on your pleasures: Be cautious that they injure no being which has life.'—Zimmermann. 1. Vegetable Soup. 2. Mutton Cutlets Grilled. 3. Roast Pigeons. Asparagus Omelet. Vegetables. I. Vegetable Soup.—i:\iQ vegetables should be nicely prepared for these soups. Cut carrots in thin rounds, with the edges notched; grated, they give an amber colour to soup. Wash parsley carefully, and cut it small. Cut turnips into thin slices, and then divide the round in four ; cut leeks in slices; cut celery in half-inch lengths—-the delicate green leaves impart a fine flavour to the soup. Take the skins from tomatoes, and squeeze out some of the seeds. Add a lump of sugar to soups of vegetables or roots, to soften them and improve the flavour. 2 Mutton Cutlets Grilled.—Tskt a well-kept neck of mutton ; cut it into cutlets, with a bone to each; trim them neatly, cutting off the chine bone and nearly the whole of the fat; make them of a good shape, ^d scrape the ends of the bones bare about an inch. Wash, pick, and chop some parsley fine with a little thyme; add these to some bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt; brush them over with egg, and cover them with the Lasoned crumbs; they may be dipped in clanfied butter, and again covered with the crumbs. Broil them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, dish them en miroton (in a circle, the half of one overlapping t e other), and serve them with plain gravy in a boat; or fill the centre \vith India pickle, and pour sauce round. ..i, • u ^ , Roast Pigeons—"Chat good flavour depends much on their bein, cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much wasUng When wiped dry, each bird should be stuffed wi h parsley, either fut or whole, pepper and salt, and J oz. b-«er .0 keep ttou moist. Baste them well the whole time at a brisk fire, they will take from twenty to thirty minutes to roast. Serve with parsley and butter, or with breld-sauce and gravy, or egg sauce. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them.191 BILL OF FARE FOR JUNE. 5. Asparagus Omelet.—Boil 12 of the largest and finest asparagus; cut off the green portion, and chop it in thin slices; season with a spoonful of salt and about a fourth of that quantity of soluble cayenne ; beat up 6 eggs in cream; melt in the frying-pan ^ lb. of butter; pour half the batter into the centre of the pan as soon as the butter is quite hot, then place the asparagus tops upon the eggs, and cover the vege- table over with the remainder. Let this omelet be sent to table on a round of buttered toast. JUNE SO. ‘ We ought to take the titmostpains in every unde7-taking to make a good begitinmg. ’—PoLYBlUS. 1. Asparagus Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes. 4. Cabinet Pudding. 1. Asparagus Soup.—To any good and well-seasoned consomme (jelly broth) you may add asparagus tops, boiled separately, and put into the tureen when you pour in the soup for serving. 2. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes.—Cut the cutlets rather thin from the best end of the neck or leg of veal, and put them into a souse for a couple of hours made with parsley, green onions, a few shalots, and mushrooms chopped fine ; also add 2 or 3 bay leaves and spices, a little oil and lemon-juice. Take out the cutlets and bay leaves, trim them neatly, and put some of the souse on each side, over which place a thin slice of ham and udder. Wrap the whole in oiled or buttered writing paper, letting the end of the bone of the cutlet remain uncovered. Broil them over a moderate fire. When done, serve them in the papers with some white Italian sauce, in a boat, for which any remaining por- tion of the herbs from the souse may be used. 4. Cabinet Pudding.—Add ^ lb. of grated bread to the same quantity of cut and stoned raisins. Boil a small quantity of lemon-peel, cinna- mon, and sugar in half a pint of milk, strain it off^ and add 4 eggs well beaten up; then pour in a glass of Madeira and another of brandy. Butter a mould capable of holding a pint and three-quarters, put in the ingredients, place a piece of writing paper at the bottom of the mould, and steam it for an hour.192 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JUNE. The table decorated with a handsome basket of fresh flowers placed upon a plateau in the centre. 1. Tourons de differentes Cou- LEURS. 2. Confiture de Tiges d’Angel- IQUE. 3. Ratafias. 4. Compote de Groseilles a Ma- QUERAUD. 5. Cherries and Green Almonds Mixed. 6. Guirlandes Printanieres. 7. Savoy Cake. 8. Marmelade d’Abricots. 9. Marmelade de Pommes. 10. Portuguese Macaroons. 11. Glaces de Cafe a la Creme. Confiture of Green Codlins, Dried Fruit, Fruit Jellies, Candied Citron Chips, etc. I. TOURONS DE DIFFERENTES COULEURS. Break 2 eggs into a basin; take away the yolks and whisk Ae whites to a snow; gradually sift in powdered loaf sugar until a stiff paste is formed. Colour and perfume this with what extracts or conserves you prefer; roll it into balls of about the size of a pigeon’s egg; put them upon paper, and let them set very slowly by placing them inside a coo oven. 2. CONFITURE DE TIGES d’ANGELIQUE. Choose some young stalks of angelica ; cut them into short len ths and throw them into cold water, and then into boiling water, w th a little salt Let them remain in this for an hour. Prepare a thick su'L syrup; when it boils put in the angelica, and retire it from he fire The^next day boil up the syrup by itself, and agam put in t f'gelica Repeat Ais twice, letting it remain at night in the cold Zp, and draining it each time. When quite tender, Paoh it m Xsses • reduce the syrup until it is very strong, and pour it upon the Sea When you intend to candy it, you have only to take out thf stalks, and dip them once or twice in a caramel of sugar. 3. RATAFIAS. 9. PTch of sweet and bitter almonds, Blanch and beat to a p • oiling, using a little orange-flower ww.ervre“g“ wr^hisked, mIx lightly together, aod put it into193 DESSERT FOR JUNE. a preserving pan, and stir it over the fire until it is pretty hot. Then form it into small rolls, which are to be cut into slices ; dust your hands with a little flour, and lay the cakes upon wafer or sugar papers ; slightly press them, sift powdered sugar upon them, and put them into a slow oven to harden, 4. CONFITURE DE GROSEILLES A MAQUERAUD. Take some large green gooseberries, cut them at the stalk end in 4 quarters ; take out the pips, and string 5 or 6 gooseberries one upon another, fastening them together with thread, so as to resemble hops. Put them into a saucepan between layers of vine leaves, with enough water to cover them. Scald them, let them grow cold; scald them again, and if of a good green colour, drain them, and put them into a strong sugar syrup to steep until the following day. Give them a boil up for three days successively. Take them out of the syrup; reduce and skim it thoroughly, adding a little finely-shred lemon-peel and ginger. Put your gooseberries into jars, and pour the syrup over them. The gooseberries may be afterwards candied, if required. 6. GUIRLANDES PRINTANIERES. Beat the whites of 3 eggs until they are a snow; add to them a tea- spoonful of eau-defleurs d'Granger and ^ lb. of loaf sugar powdered and sifted; you may likewise add a tea-spoonful of any flavouring essence you fancy. Put some of this mixture into a tun-dish, and let it drop upon paper slightly greased; let it fall in circles similar to wreaths in shape. Stick upon them halved almonds or pistachio nuts, to resemble leaves; among these attach a few coloured comfits to represent flower- buds. Place your garlands in an oven just warm enough to fix them. When cold, remove them carefully from the paper. y. SAVUY CAKE. Crush & pound of very white loaf sugar; put it into a saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of rose-water. Beat separately the yolks of 12 and the whites of 4 eggs ; mix them together; add to them a wine-glassful of eau-de-vie.^ Pour in the sugar that you have just melted over the fire • ^^eat it continually until almost cold; then stir in 12 oz. of dried flour.^ ut It into a buttered tin into which you have strewn a little powdered sugar, and bake it for a good hour.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 194 8. MARMELADE D’ABRTCOTS. Stone and cut up your apricots; blanch the kernels, and put them with your fruit. To each pound of apricots add 12 oz. of fine loaf sugar; put all together in a preserving-pan ; stir it well over ^ firf- Lid when it begins to detach itself, pour it into small pots or glasses, and cover it with brandied paper and skin. 9. MARMELADE DE POMMES. Peel core and cut up your apples ; put them into a jar; place them i/a aa/bake tlaem until they are soft Mash them smooth; add to them half their weight of loaf sugar and some lemon- rind very finely shred. Stir it in a preserving-pan over a clear fire until they are pretty stiff. 10. PORTUGUESE MACAROONS. Beat to a snow the whites of 12 eggs. Pound to a smooth paste i 1b of blanched sweet almonds; put them together; add 6 oz. of dry nouLtur and 5 os. of sifted loaf sugar. Mia well, and place por- Sn of pastetovery small pattypans ; glare the tops w.th powdered sugar and bake until they are of a fine clear cinnamon colour. II. GLACES DE CAFE A LA CREME. 91iVhtlv bruise i lb. of freshly-roasted Mocha coffee; put it into a in ef whhX yolks of 8 new-laid eggs, and ro or. of lord sugar ;^::SreTrd sifU tt ^ a - — raC^Si^^/rSwirSme. Strain it through a sieve t let it orrow cold, and ice it.105 JULY 1. TTier^s nothing bright above, below, From flowers that bloom to stars that glow. But in its light my soul shall see Some features of the Deity ! ‘ Ther^s nothing dark below, above. But in its gloom I trace Thy love, A ttd meekly wait the moment when Thy touch shall turn all bright again /’—MoORE. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Beef—Mutton—Veal—Grass-Lamb—Venison. Poultry : Pullets—Fowls—Chickens—Rabbits—Pigeons-Green Geese—Leverets —Turkey Poults. Game : Plovers—Wheat Ears. Fish : Barbel-Carp-Conger Eels-Crabs —Dabbs —Dace-Dory—Eels-Floun- ders-Gurnets-IIerrings-Hadclocks-Ling-Lobsters - Mackerel— Mullet— Perch-Pike--Plaice-Prawns - Salmon-Skate - Tench-Thomback-Trout —Turbot—Whitings. Vege^bi ES • Artichokes-Asparagus-Beans (French, Kidney, and Scarlet)-Beans ( mdsor)-Carrots — Cauliflowers — Cucumbers — Lettuce — Peas — Salsafy— _fA"ac Pying) Turnips. Tor Drying, Knotted Marjoram—Winter Salsafy Summer Savoury. For Pickling, Beans (French)-Cabbage (Red)-Cauli- owers—Cucumbers—Gherkins—Nasturtiums—Onions—Radish-pods. FRUITS IN SEASON. ^r^f^ ~ Raspberries —Strawberries—Apricots — Cherries—Cur- oose ernes Plums—Melons—Walnuts in season for Pickling, I- Boiled Salmon. 2. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. 3. Haricot Beans. 4. Green Apricot Pudding. Clean it carefully, being particular not to let any cover ; boil it gently in water (with some salt) sufficient to a large thick fish will require about eight minutes to each lbTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. io6 If underdone, it is unwholesome. Take it out of Ae water as soon as done Let the water be warm if the fish be split. Have a dish of t^ed clmbers sent to table with it. Serve with ° - sauce, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Some think it a great imorovernent to squeeze a little lemon-juice over the fish. 2 Shewed Knuckle of Veal.—Into a stewpan, capable of holding a couple of quarts of water besides the joint, put the meat, having two or three inci^ns made in it, with half a table-spoonful of salt, a blade of mace and a salt-spoonful of soluble cayenne pepper, ahead of celery chopped up, a small bunch of parsley, a few leaves of dried thyme, a cSe of endives well washed and picked, and a table-spoonful of dried mariiold Laves. Clear away the scum as it rises, let it stew for three hours take out the meat, run the liquor through a sieve, pour it over the SXMd serve with fresh parsley and butter, and sonre boded gannnon they are the dried seeds of *= thev reauire soaking for several hours before they are fit to cook. Put them into cold water with salt in it, and let them simmer for three or tahrs. As soon as they begin to craclt, poor off the water and Snd Im on the hob to dry. They are -te" the gravy of the meat like potatoes, unless preferred with melted butter. F« a dianve. hey may be put into a little broth or gravy, and se ov!r“he fire, tlrickened with a lump of butter rolled m flour, some pepper ''"7 peculiarly fine^ tops^t Tu“g?o?sle'’d b“st! fi'ltoTupti* wtee sugm^ powdered, and wSr; add the usual top crust, and boil the ordinary time. -0— JULY 2. very sprit of true womanliness. —T. S. ARTH . I. 2. Salmon Pudding. Roast Tongue. 3. Lentils. 4. Macaroni. n rr Tnkp a slice of salmon of the weight yoi I. Salmon Pudding.-Yn\o n require, pound it well m a a^ainL« e^ual welglii of butter. Mi up into a ball. ^ “,eiit it from breaking; season wit rrind itlto a pudding-mould, and steam it for aBILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 197 hour. Make a good bechamel sauce, add a little essence of anchovies, and serve round it 2. Roast Tongue.—A fresh ox tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant variety to the routine of ordinary dishes. 3. Lentils.—Dress them according to the mode prescribed for haricots, in gravy or good broth instead of water, and season with pepper, salt, and vinegar. The gravy served with them should be thickened. Lentils are largely used on the Continent for thickening soups. Two varieties are imported into England, of which the large brown French is the best. As a food for healthy persons, lentils are very valuable, being more nutritious and more readily softened than peas. 4. Macaroni.—Boil in milk, and when quite tender drain off the liquid; place the macaroni upon the dish you intend to send to table, put it before the fire whilst you rub fresh butter over the top, and then cover the surface with grated Parmesan cheese, about a quarter of an inch thick j put it into a Dutch oven, and let it remain for ten minutes before sent to table. JULY 3. ‘ Innocence in ■women wants not the aid of ostentation^—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Vermicelli Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Beef Olives. I 4. Victoria Pudding. 1. Vermicelli Soup.—Cut about 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal, lbs. of the scrag of mutton, and a few slices of ham, into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with one onion stuck with cloves, and four ounces of butter; then add the carrots, mace, bunch of sweet herbs, one anchovy, and the celery. Mix all together, cover it close, and set it over the fire till all the gravy has been extracted from the meat; pour the liquor into a basin, let the meat brown in the pan, and add to it four quarts of water; boil it slowly till it is reduced to three pints, strain it, and stir in the gravy drawn from the meat. Set it over the fire, add the vermicelli, one head of celery cut small, a little cayenne, and salt; boil it up for ten minutes. Lay the roll in the tureen, pour the soup over it, and strew some vermicelli on the top. Vermicelli can also be made by boiling i quart of clear stock, adding 2 oz. of vermicelli to it while boiling, first cutting the vermicelli into short lengths, and boiling it again for ten minutes. 2. Bee/ Olives.—Cut some steaks from a rump of beef about ten or hvelve inches long, four wide, and nearly half an inch thick; trim themiqS TIin\GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. to make them square, and flatten them; spread each over with some forcemeat, or take the trimmings of the beef, with an equal quantity of beef suet and fat bacon, some parsley, green onions, or two shalots, mushrooms and basil; chop the whole very fine, and make them into a forcemeat with a little crumb of bread soaked in milk, and the yolks of eggs. Spread this over, roll them up tight, and bind them with pack- thread. Stew them in some second stock, with an onion stuck with three or four cloves, some sliced carrot and turnip, taking care the sauce is not too highly flavoured with the vegetables ; a glass of wine may also be added. When done, take them up, strain the liquor, skim off the fat, season \vith pepper and salt, reduce it a little, and pour over them on the dish; or the liquor may be thickened with a little brown rotix before it is poured over. 4. Victoria Pudding.—Slice some apples as for fritters; butter a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll, cut very thin and dipped in clarified (melted) butter; then a layer of apples, with sugar and lemon-peel grated \ fill the mould in this way \ if the apples require- it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose; last of all, before you put it in the oven, cover the mould with slices of roll dipped in melted butter. ^0— JULY 4. ‘ Turn to the virtues! Formed to connect, to blend, to associate, and to co-operate; bearmg the same course, with kind7-ed energies and harmonious sympathy, e^h perfect in its ow)t lovely sphere, each moving in its wider or more contracted orbit, with^ different but concentrmg powers, guided by the same influence of reason, and endeavouring at the same blessed end—the happiness of the individual, the harmony of tiu species, and the glory of the Creator,^—Sheridan. 1. Brown Bread Soup. | 3- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Brisket of Beef. | 4- Orange Soufflee. 1. Brown Bread Soup.—ChoTp your meat very fine, and put a lb. of it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Dredge over it an even table-spoonful of flour; then add a quart or more of boiling water, cover it close, and set it over a moderate foe for half an hour. Strain it through a loose cloth; toast some thin slices of bread delicately brown, cut them in small squares or diamonds, put them into a tureen, and pour the soup over them. Macaroni or yemi- celli boiled tender may be put to the soup ten or tivelve minutes before scrvin®*. 2. Slewed Briskel of Beef—Vizs^ a nice square piece of brisket; joint it well in the bone, and across where the gristle runs, to make it199 DILL OF FARE FOR JULY. lie flat on the dish; tie it up with string, and put it into the stock-pot to stew gently, until the bones can be pulled out easily. Take it up, drain and serve with sauce poured over, to which may be added a few button onions, and a couple of gherkins cut small. 4. Orange Soufflee.—Put lb. of butter into a stewpan, and mix in | lb. of fine flour, without melting the butter. Have ready a quart of milk, lukewarm, and well mixed with the orange flavouring, or bitter orange- peel ; pour it upon the flour; stir over a sharp fire, and boil for five minutes. To this add quickly the beaten yolks of 10 eggs, with lb. of sifted sugar, and let it cool. One hour and a half before it is to be served, whip up the whites of the eggs until very firm; stir them into the mixture, and pour into the soufflde pan. This should be made of tin, and a band of buttered paper, four inches broad, should be tied round the top. When the mixture is poured into this case, it must be baked in a moderate oven for nearly an hour. The paper should then be removed, and the soufflde served immediately. JULY S. The way in which things are done often materially lessens or increases their value.'— Rev. Robert Anderson. 1. Fresh Fish Soup. 2. Cold Brisket of Beef. 3. Dressed Salad. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Queen Anne’s Pudding. I. Fresh Fish Soup.—Take a lb. (each) of all the fish you have caught in your day s fishing, such as carp, dace, roach, perch, pike, and tench; wash them in salt and water; then put them in a stewpan with a tomato, 2 caiTots, I leek, 2 fried onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put as much water to them as will cover them, and let them stew till the whole is reduced to a pulp, which will be in about three-quarters of an hour. Strain off the liquor, and let it boil for another hour. Have ready 2 turnips and a head of celery, cut into small pieces and previously boiled; add them to the fish soup, with the Chili vinegar and soy, pepper and salt to taste. 3. Dressed Sa/ad.—Take small salad, lettuce, endive, celery, radishes and young onions; pick and wash them quite clean, cut them up in small pieces, put, them into a salad-bowl or deep dish, and pour over them the following dressing; Bruise the yolk of a cold hard-boiled ee<r hu f ^ ^ ^bout a tea-spoom of cold water and the same measure of salt; rub all together till it comes smooth like a thick paste, add a tea-spoonful of made mustard •200 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. and when this is well mixed also, add and mix a table-spoonful of salad- oil or cold melted butter : after this, add and mix 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Ornament the top of the salad with small bits of the white of the egg and pickled beetroot alternately. j c Quern Anne's Pudding.-m-^ m equal proportions grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, cleaned currants, and butter, mth 6 well- beaten eggs, adding salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and 2 oz. of candied citron, lemon, and orange ; mix the ingredients thoroughly; and when the mixture has stood an hour, put it in a buttered mould, tie a floured cloth over it in several folds, and boil two and a half hours. —0- JU LY 6. ‘ Get up, and sec The dew-bespangled herb and tree ; Each flower has wept and bowed towards the east Above an hour since ; yet thou art not dresi. Nay, not so much as out of bed. When all the birds have matins said. And smtg their thankful hymns. His sin. Nay, profanation, to keep Herrick. 1. Salmon Cutlets. 2. Roast Wild Duck. 3. Peas. 4. Vermicelli Pudding. c. Salmon Cutlets.—the slice one inch thick, and season tliem with salt and pepper; butter a sheet of white paper, lay each slice on a r llte bTt w”Lir ends twisted, broil gently over a clear lire, and X with anchovy or caper sauce. When higher seasoning is requned, S a few chopped herbs and a little spice. Time, five to ten minutes 2 Roast Wild Duck.—Tat wild duck requires no stuffing. Him„ it down to a good brisk fire, and roast for about half an hour, keeping it well basted; finish by lightly «f LeSfverwSc^placeapiece of fiesh butter to -It owm ^ Cm lemon in half; on one piece sprinkle a little sa t, cayenne; put the two * Tcro::! Me and butter; pour over a glass of warm port wmc 'T S-¥^rhalf1 ““spoonful of subcarbon of soda, and throw it into the water a minute before you put the 78®““ pan. This will assuredly preserve the colour of peas and French beans,riLL OF FARE FOR JULY. 201 and may be used with good effect on cauliflower and broccoli, obtaining thereby a fine contrast in colour between the vegetable and its stalk. 4. Vermicelli Pudding.—Chop up the rind of half a lemon, and break a stick of cinnamon into bits; boil these in a pint of milk, then sweeten with sugar to your taste, and strain through a sieve ; put ^ lb. of vermi- celli into the milk, and let it boil for ten m.inutes; beat up the yolks of 6 eggs, add half the whites, pour all into a dish, and bake for half an hour. JULY 7. * Give every man thine ear, but fev) thy voice Take each mads censure, but resetve thy judgment.'—ShAKSPEARE. 1. Red Mullet. 3. Cauliflower. 2. Stewed Lamb. 4. Gooseberry Fool. 1. Red Mullet.—They should be enveloped in oiled paper, and put into boiling lard in the frying-pan, and turned occasionally for a quarter of an hour; before serving take off the paper, and garnish the dish with slices of lemon. 2. Stewed Latnb.—Cut up into small pieces 2 lbs. of cold roast or boiled lamb, put it into a convenient-sized stewpan, with 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour, I of chopped onions, i of salt, quarter of pepper and pint of water, and a bay leaf j bring to the boil, add a pint of boiled green peas, simmer for twenty minutes, and serve. The white of dressed cauliflower can be used, or small mushrooms. 3. Caulijlower.—After trimming the outside leaves, and cutting off the stalk, put them in a panful of salt and water for an hour before cooking. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of salt into the water in the saucepan, let it boil, and skim it most carefully; put in your vegetables, and allow from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to the size. Remember that those of moderate growth, neither too large nor too small, are always the best. 4. Gooseberry Fool.—Y\.ok a quart of full-grown unripe gooseberries, and put them into a saucepan with a little water. Cover them up, and let them simmer very softly. When they are tender, but not so much done as to burst, take them off, strain the water from them, and turn them into a dish. Now bruise them to a fine pulp, and sweeten them with sugar to your taste. Let them stand till cool, and then add new milk or cream.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIIvE TO LCNOW. 202 JULY 8. ‘ If we would make Imte our household god, we had best secure him a comfortable roof.' —Sheridan, 1. Trimming Soup. 2. Stewed Rump-steaks. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread Pudding. 1. Trimming Soup.—Cut the beef or mutton and the vegetables m pieces ; season them with a little pepper and salt, and put them into a jar with a pint of peas and the Patna rice. Pour in 4 quarts of water ; cover the jar very closely, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, strain it through a sieve, and serve it up very hot. 2. Stewed Rump-steaks.—CvX some steaks from a well-kept rump of beef. Put them into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and an onion cut small. Fry the steaks quickly of a nice brown, and take them up; thicken the butter with some flour, and stir it well over the fire to make a brown roux, which moisten with beef gravy or good consomme; add a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade or two of mace, 3 or 4 cloves, and about a dozen whole allspice. Put in the steaks, and let the whole stew gently until they are very tender ; then skim off the fat; stram Ae sauce, and season it with pepper and salt. Add a glass of port wane and a little mushroom or walnut ketchup ; lay the steaks in the middle of the dish, pour the sauce over quite hot, and serve. 4. Bread Pudding.—a pint of milk with ^ of butter and a little mace ; pour it on 2 tea-cakes or a French roll. When cold, bea it up well with 3 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of sugar, \ lb. f ^ of Lf a lemon grated, and a little salt. Bake or boil iL If baked. turn it out of the dish it is baked in. JULY 9. • / lad aatl,ar a tlaa,a„d a yaang lad, aajr, tg pi,a,l.r„lfan Hufmdamaf har man,«r,.'-^^,. FOEDVCE. D.D. 1. Eel Soup. 2, Roast Pigeons. 3. Boiled Bacon and Beans. 4. Fruit Pie. I Eel Soup-TzY^ 3 lbs. of eels; cut them into slices, and stew them ta Sminutes over a slow fire in 3 ca of butter; then pou over them a quarts of water, put in a crust of bread an omon cutjm slices, 3 blades of mace, 30 whole peppers, r cano, herbs and a little salt; cover the stewpar. closely, and ‘ ™ eels are tender, but not broken. Mia 3 dessert-spoonfuls ol flour with203 BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. ^ pint- of cream rubbed smooth; add to it the soup, which must be ureviously strained, and the slices of eel taken carefully out. Boil it up, 3nd pour it over the sliced eels in your tureen. Toast a slice of bread, cut it into dice, and place it at the bottom of the tureen. 2. Roast Figeons.—These birds cannot be dressed too fresh. Let them be stuffed with chopped parsley and seasoned bread-crumbs; roast for five-and-t^venty-minutes, and serve with gravy sauce. 3. Boiled Bacon and Beans.—These must be boiled separately, other- wise the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Soak the bacon for an hour or two in cold water \ trim and scrape it as clean as possible, and put it into enough cold water to cover it; set it over a slow fire, so that it will be half an hour before it comes to a boil; then skim it, and let it boil gently till done. Two or 3 pounds will require an hour and a half after it boils; the hock or gammon, being thick, will require more time. When done enough, strip off the rind ; and your beans in the meantime having been boiled and strained, put them into a deep dish, lay the bacon upon them, and send them to table, with parsley and butter in a boat. 4. Fruit Pie.—Make a good crust; lay a little round the sides of the dish; throw some sugar on the bottom, and put in a little cup to suck in the juice; lay in the fruit, and put some more sugar at top; then put in a very little water ■, wet the top of the crust that goes round inside the dish ; put on the cover, and pinch the edges together. Cut the rhubarb into lengths of two inches, but do not skin it; only trim it at top and bottom, —0— JULY 10. ‘ Heaven's never deaf but when your heart is dumb.'—Quarles. 1. Haddock Soup. 2. Vegetables. 2. Sweetbreads A LA Dauphine. 4. Greengage Tart. 1. Haddock Separate all the meat from the bones of a fine fresh haddock, and pound it in a mortar with a pint of picked shrimps; chop a little bunch of parsley very fine, and add it to the fish, with the crumb^ of a French roll steeped in i pint of cream. Beat i egg well, and mix it with the above ingredients, which must then be put into 2 quarts of good warm broth, and seasoned with the pepper, salt, cayenne, and mace. Let it boil, closely covered, for half an hour, and then pu p It through a sieve. Thicken the soup with a little piece of butter rolled in flour; warm it up, and serve. 2. Sweetbreads d la Dauj>hi?ie.—?dset the fat and sinews from 3 or 4THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 204 heart sweetbreads, and put them into warm water to disgorge; blanch them to make them firm, and lard them on the top. Prepare a stew- pan as for a fricandeau, and braize them. When done, drain them dry and glaze them well. Serve aptivcc of sorrel or endive under them. Gvc6tipct^6 ^h/*A^“Select fruit not cj^uite ripe, but perfectly sound , fill a pie-dish with them ; beat up lb. of powdered sugar in as much spring water as will dissolve it; pour this over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over your crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes, and sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. —0— JULY 11. ‘ So be ours the faith that saveth, Hope that every trial braveth, Love that to the end endureth. And, through Christ, the crcnun secureth'—DoANE. 1. Grey Mullet. 2. Sweetbread Pie. 3. Vegetables. 4. Regent Pudding. I. Grey Mullet.—TUv;, is a fish of a peculiar flavour and character. It may be boiled, broiled, roasted, or baked. When small, it may be cooked in the usual fashion of dressing such fish as whitmgs, etc. 1 large, it may be cooked as cod or salmon. 2 Stueetbread Fie.—'BoW over a slow fire, in 4 quarts of water, half a neck of veal and 2 lbs. of gravy beef, with half a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg, equal quantities of mace in powder and soluble cayenne, and a tea-spoonful of salt; let this simmer till the liquor is reduced to abou half a pint; strain this off. Have a good puff paste ready placed round the dish you intend to use, and put therein half a dozen sweetbread stuffed with green truffles, a dozen of oysters with their carfthaTthefoh and meat are properly distributed; then fill the d.h with the gravy before made as above. Put on the top crust, an in a quick oven for an hour and a quarter. Recrent Puddim.—Five eggs well beaten, and i pmt o . ed ™£5^^ turn it into a deep dish with like threads, i lb. ol U, ana pour it round the pudding, no. over it, as it would discolour and might break iLBILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 205 JULY 12. ‘ The retiring graces have been always the most attractive.'— Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. John Dory. 2. Pigeons Broiled. 4. Asparagus. 5. Mark Lane Pudding. 3. Fillet of Veal. 1. John Dory.—Prepare the fish as you do a turbot. Put it into a fish-kettle with sufficient water to cover it, with the salt in proportion to the quantity of water; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer gradually for about three-quarters of an hour—more or less, according to the size of your fish. Serve it in a neatly-folded napkin, and garnish with curled parsley and slices of lemon alternately. Lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter, can be sent to table in a tureen. 2. Pigeons Broiled.—After cleaning them thoroughly, split the backs ; pepper and salt them, and rub them over with a little butter, broil them very nicely for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes with a moderate fire, and pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve very hot; or parsley and butter. They should be stuffed like boiled fowls. 3. Fillet of Veal.—Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting, and twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed. Before cooking, let the flap be stuffed with a forcemeat, composed of 2 oz. of finely powdered bread-crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, a salt-spoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace in powder, and soluble cayenne pepper, the leaves of 6 stalks of parsley, and a tea-spoonful of dried sweet herbs; break up an egg, and mix these ingredients well together. Baste your joint with Iresh butter, and send it to table well browned. A nice bit of streaky bacon, or gammon, should invariably be served with fillet of veal, unless ham be provided. 4. Aspara^ts.—Cut the asparagus so that only the eatable part has to be dressed; set on water, and slightly salt it when it boils; put in the vegetables, which will take at least half an hour to cook; try it before you dish it. Have ready some toasted bread, and enough melted butter ffir the quantity of asparagus you have dressed; dip the toast quickly into the asparagus water, cut it into pieces of a convenient size for serving, place it on a dish, and cover with melted butter; then drain the asparagus, arrange it nicely on the toast, and cover with the rest of the melted butter. Serve hot. This is a much better mode of serving ffian the old way; it does not need tongs, an article not always found in small households. 5. Mark Lane Pudding.—Cut fine, stale bread in thin slices, boil i2o6 27IIjVGS a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pint of milk and put to it, let it stand till cold, sweeten it with white sugar, and add 2 spoonfuls of rose-water mixed with 4 eggs well beaten ; beat all together till it is a fine batter ; butter a wooden dish and put in the batter, dredge a little flour on the top, tie a cloth over, and boil an hour. JULY IS. There is small chance of truth at the goal, where there is not a childlike humility at the Coleridge. 1. Celery Soup. 2. Minced Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. SouFFLEE Pudding. 1. Celery Soiip.—h-i\.tr cutting your celery into pieces of about an inch long, put it into a stewpan of boiling water, seasoned with a little salt and°sugar 3 put it over a clear fire, and when very tender take out the celery and pulp it through a sieve; add it to the stock, and let it stew slowly for nearly three-quarters of an hour; 4hen stir in a pint of nice firesh cream, make it very hot, but do not let it boil, and serve it in 3, tlirG0Il» 2. Minced Veal.—To have this a white dish, let the cold veal be cut into slices, pare off the brown edges and fat, and then chop the meat into square pieces; flour these well, and put them into a saucepan, with a tea-cupful of cream, the juice of a lemon, a little of die peel chopped very fine a very small quantity of salt, mace, and white pepper \ keep shaking it over the fire, but do not let it boil for more dian a minute, or you will render the meat hard. • x. c 4 Soiifflee Pudding.—NoxY with your hands i lb. of butter with 6 oz. of flour • have i pint of milk boiled, flavour with lemon-peel, and add the milk to the butter and flour ; when this boils, add 6 yolks of eggs, sweeten with pounded loaf sugar; put this by till cold ; then whip up 4 whites of eggs to a strong froth, add to the former mixture; have a Dlain mould papered and ornamented with dried cherries, citron, etc., Ind boil or steam two hours. This pudding will rise 4 times its original height so that great care should be taken to have the mould or stewpan lar|e enough. \et it stand ten minutes before turning it out Ser^-e with brandy sauce.BILL OF FARE FOR JUL V. 2C^ JULY 14, ‘ Many a wife who is plunging her husband deeper and deeper into debt from ignore cnce, would, if she knew his embarrassmmts, be the first to retrench, the first to save, and with true womanly sympathy and generosity, help him to reinstate his falling for- tunes'—Professor Wilson. 1. Stewed Red Mullet. 3. Vegetables. 2. Casserole of Beef. 4. Strawberry Soufflee. 1. Stewed Red Mtdlet—Stew 2 or 3 mullets for about twenty or thirty minutes over a moderate fire, with 2 glassfuls of hock, i of sherry, a carrot and a turnip cut into slices, half a blade of mace, i large bay leaf, a bunch of thyme and parsley, and half a lemon sliced, with pepper and salt to your taste. When done, lay them in a hot dish, strain the sauce, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, pour it over the fish. Serve them up very hot 2. Casserole of Beef.—Make a brown sauce as for stewed steaks, cut some thin slices off the underdone part of a piece of roast beef, and put into the sauce to warm through, taking particular care that the sauce does not boil after the beef is added. Prepare some mashed potatoes ; make a rim with them round the inside of a dish, and put them into the oven to brown; when done, pour the beef and sauce into the centre, and serve with some pickles in a glass. 4. Strawberry Soufflee.—Stew the strawberries with a little lemon-peel, sweeten, then lay them pretty high round the inside of a dish. Make a custard of the yolks of 2 eggs, a little cinnamon, sugar, and milk ; let it thicken over a slow fire, but not boil; when ready, pour it in the inside of the strawberries beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and cover the whole ; throw over it a good deal of pounded sugar, and brown of a fine bro^vn. Any fruit made of a proper consistence does for the v.-alls. JULY 16. ‘ Of all qualities, good temper is the one that wears and works the best in married life. Conjoined with self-control, it gives patience,—the patience to bear and forbear, to listen Without retort, to refrain until the angry flash has Smiles. 1. Toasted Mackerel. 3. Victoria Pudding. 2. Duck Stewed with Green 4. Vegetables. Peas. I. Toasted Mackerel.—To toast mackerel, they must be wrapped in fennel, and put upon the gridiron at a charcoal fire, turning them often.2o3 things a lady would luce to icnow. When roasted, they must be opened, and a good sauce made under them with butter, parsley, and gooseberries; the whole very well seasoned. It may be done over a clear cinder fire. 2. Duck Stewed with GTeen Peas,—Prepare a duck as for roasting, but do not stuff it. Put a small piece of butter in a stewpan, and nicely brown the duck, take it out, and brown a table-spoonful of flour in the remaining butter, and add to it half a pint of beef stock; let it boil, return the duck, put in also i quart of peas, with a bunch of sweet herbs, including a little mint and sage, cover close, and stew till done; remove the herbs, dish the duck, cover, and surround with the peas.^ 3. Victoria Pudding.—Make a custard with 4 eggs, i pint of milk, and f oz. of isinglass, flavouring it with vanilla and brandy; the vanilla should be cut into small pieces, tied up in a muslin bag, and boiled in the milk; the brandy should be added when cold—a very small quantity of the latter is sufficient Let the custard get quite cold, when it will become thick and lumpy. Dip a jelly mould into cold water, and with a spoon arrange the custard in the design at the bottom of the mould, carefully filling all the holes. Slice some penny spongecakes in halves dip them in sherry or Marsala, and place them in layers in the centre of the mould, with preserves (either strawberry or raspberrj') between each layer, filling up the space between the cake and the mould with custard, so that when turned out the custard appears as a crust around it. It should remain in the mould for at^ least twelve hours to stiffen. Turn out on a dish, and garnish with fruit jelly. * All essential transgressions of order, how successfid soever they may ouhuardl^ appear, shall certainly be punished by inward disquietude and homefelt nuanness. JULY 16. Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Jardiniere Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. 3. Vegetables. 4. Windsor Pudding. fardinihe Soup.—C\xt the vegetables in the French vegetable ^ t 1 4-1,thf^ nrninarv veefe-209 BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. butter; then put the cutlets in, and fry them a nice brown on both sides. Add two slices of lean bacon, a bunch of green onions, 10 or 12 young carrots, a pint of green peas, a few new potatoes, 2 blades of pounded mace, a bunch of savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste. Pour in a pint of boiling water, and stew gently over a slow fire for about two hours. Skim off the fat when done, take out the herbs, and flavour the gravy with ketchup or tomato sauce. Boil the peas and potatoes separately, put them to the veal, and serve. 4. Windsor Fuddijig.—Melt ^ lb. of butter; add to it ^ lb. of the crumb of French roll or light tea-cake, the grated rind of a lemon, ^ lb. of chopped apples, ^ lb. of currants, lb. of jar raisins stoned and chopped, 5 eggs well beaten, and a little salt; mix well together, and boil in a basin or mould 3 hours. Education is not that which smothers a woman with accomplishments, hut that which tends to consolidate a firm and regular system of character—that which tends to form a friend, a companion, and a wife.'—Hannah More. 1. Holy Land Soup.—Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes, three turnips, one onion, and a head of celery; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them through a sieve; if the puree be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk; boil all together again; season it with a spoonful of sugar, pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot, with some fried bread served separately, cut into very small dice. 2. Roasted Fillet of Veal.—QvX out the bone and truss the fillet for roasting; stuff it with veal stuffing under the udder fat; spit, paper, and roast It. When done, cut a round piece out of the middle. Keep the fillet hot, and mince what was taken out, with the addition of a couple of yolks of eggs and a little finely-chopped lemon-peel; pour It mto the hole where it was cut out; sprinkle bread-crumbs over • job™ salamander, and seive with bechamel under the 4- Queens Pudding.—Take 4- lb. of fresh butter, bent it to o — JULY 17. 1. Holy Land Soup. 2. Roasted Fillet of Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4. Queen’s Pudding.210 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. fine, well-sifted flour, and, above that, i lb, of stoned raisins. Boil 3 hours in a buttered mould or pudding-cloth, and serve with wine or punch sauce. J U LY 18. ‘ The affections of a husband are never to be regained by reproaches or sullen Maz/war.’—Maintenon. 1. Vegetable Mulligatawny, 2. Stewed Knuckle of Veal. 3. Green Peas. 4. West Riding Pudding. I. Vegetable Mulligatawny.the butter into a frying-pan, slightly brown it; add the marrows cut up and freed from seeds, two large onions, three or four apples peeled and cored, the tomatoes if in se^on, and the cucumber cut up, taking care not to put any of ' Stew these gently until tender, then add the curry powder ; salt to taste Let this simmer a quarter of an hour longer, adding sufficient good stock J; cover Tern. Reduce it all to a pulp, and press it through a sieve ; put the liquid into a fresh stewpan; take as much stock as will make it the requhed thickness. Add a squeezed lemon if baked, and serve the 'T Veal-Yet the saucepan be perfectly clean; wash the knuckle well; place four wooden skewers at the bottom of the pot to prevent the meat burning; lay in your veal with two or three blades mace an onion, a little whole pepper, a sprig of thyme, and some sa , r^iwo quarts of water; cover it close, and let it simmer gently for Iwo iours; when done enough, lay it in a dish, and strain the broth "^Green Peas.-YBYt young green peas shell and into a stewpan enough butter to keep them from burning, but no Mater, season wX little pepper and salt; stir them well about every now and then to see they do not burn ; if too dry, put m a little more butte , vpr close and let them simmer till slightly broken; take them up keep hot while draining. Serve them very t'S&^deaned currants, i nutmeg grated. Beat ^"ttered mould or basin, or baked in “ s^in -ad !f t=iumhs.BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. 2II JULY 19. ‘ Yotir judgment will be seen in joining frugality and simplicity together; in being nruer fond of finery ; in carefully distinguishing between what is glaring and what is genteel; in preseiving elegance with the plainest habit; in wearing costly array but seldom, and ahvays with ease,—a point that may be attained by her who has learnt not to think more highly of herself for the richest raiment she can put on. ’—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets. 3. Stewed Cucumber. 2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon 4. Curate Pudding. Pie. 1. Grilled Salmon Cutlets.—Cut two or three slices of salmon about an inch thick; rub a little oil or butter over them, and a dust of pepper and salt. Put them on a gridiron over a very clear fire; turn them occasionally until done, rubbing a little butter over them each time they are turned. When quite dressed, place them on a hot dish, and pour over them caper, tomato, or brown butter sauce. 2. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon Pie.—Line the bottom of a pie-dish with lbs. of rump-steak cut into pieces about 3 inches square, sea- soning it well with pepper and salt. Clean the pigeons, rubbing them with salt and pepper inside and out, putting rather more than ^ oz. of butter into the body of each bird j lay them on the steak, and put a slice of ham on each. Add the yolks of 4 eggs, and half fill the dish with stock. Put puff paste round the edge of the dish j put on the cover j and put three of the feet, cleaned, in a hole at top of the crust. Brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and bake in about li hours in a well-heated oven. Pounded mace may be added to the seasoning, if liked, and each pigeon covered with a piece of fat bacon to keep them moist. 3. Stewed Cucumber. Select straightly-grown cucumbers for this purpose; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters long-ways; take away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain; when perfectly dry, cover them with flour j melt ^ lb. of fresh butter in the rying-pan; when it boils, put in the vegetables, and fry them till they are of a light brown; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set fliem on a sloping slab to drain off the fat. Have ready some rich beef gravy, in which onions have been used; put the cucumbers into a stewpan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, season it to your taste with salt and pepper, boil it, and pour it quite hot over the slices. ^«^^«.§.-Take two eggs in their shells, their weight in gar, flour, and butter; pound and sift the sugar, beat the butter to aTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 212 cream, then beat in the sugar, next the eggs one by one, then add the flour ; beat all together ten minutes. Butter four earthenware tea-cups, and divide the batter equally into them ; bake half an hour, turn them out, and serve with wine sauce over them. JULY 2 0. ‘ True dignity abides with her alone Who, in the silent hour of hiward thought. Can still respect and still revere herself. In lowliness of heart.'—Wordsworth. 1. Broiled Mackerel. 2. Sirloin of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4- 5- Yorkshire Pudding. Currant Fritters. I Broiled Mackerel.-Ov^n the fish quite flat at the belly, but do not take out the backbone. Do not wash, but mpe them dry, inside and out Dust the inside with a little pepper and salt, and a few smal pieces of butter. Broil (or fry) them first on the skinny then on the fleshy side. Serve hot in a tureen the sauce made as follows : Put a Llblerful of water, a spoonful of flour, chopped parsley, a lump of buTter andl or chives, the juice of a lemon, a few peppercorns, ara’littk salt. Bring it gradually up to the boiling pomt, stunng con- be covered rvith clean paper, well basted and sent to table with newly-made mustard soluble •'orseradi* soTe mLly potatoes, and now and then, by way of vartety, a weU-made Whisk up 4 eggs, then add 3 spoonfuls of .sit’ mix gradually 8 table-spoonfuls of fine flour with pints of new add *e eggs etc. 1 put a tin dish under your joint; let it become ?L“dL"l that may k out, or the appearance 0. the pudding will be destroyed. ^ ^ scalding fresh butter; place them, according to 7“cy' mefd^e's er,rgar Jver them.and serve quite hot Quince o“pple maLa^^^^^ may be used instead of currants, if preferred.si-3 BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. JULY 2 1. * Love is an image of God, the living esseftce of the divine nature which beams full of all goodness.'—Martin Luther, 1. Lobster Stewed. I 3. Vegetables, 2. Veal Cutlets a la Maintenon. | 4. Fruit Fritters, 1. Lobster Stetved.—Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, 2 spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, i of soy, or walnut ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port Stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. 2. Veal Cutlets h la Mamtenon.—Chop some parsley, mushrooms, and a little shalot, and put into a stewpan with fat bacon cut into dice, and a little butter; pass these over the fire for a few minutes, and put in the cutlets (which should be cut rather thicker than for the last) to stew a short time with the herbs without being allowed to be quite done, and let them cool. Spread over each cutlet, with the herbs and bacon they were done in, seasoned with pepper and salt, to which may be added a few bread-crumbs j fold each up in buttered paper, and broil them over a slow fire. Serve them with m\x^\)xoom, piquant, or Italian sauce in a boat. 4. Fruit Fritters. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, of whatever richness you desire; stir into it either raspberries, currants, or any other firuit. Fry in hot lard the same as pancakes. —0—• JULY 2 2. ‘ Duties are ours ; events are God’s.'—Cecil. 1. Red Mullets. 2. Roast Goose. 3. Vegetables. 4. Fritters of Pine Apple. 1. Red Mullets. Take 3 red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven, with 4 spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, a little pepper, and salt. Put into a deep sautd-pan a table-spoonful of chopped shalot, the same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, 4 table-spoonfuls of claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. When the fish is baked, pour this sauce over them. ^ 2. Roast Goose.~Uavmg paid due attention to the cleaning, picking and singeing of the bird, let the following stuffing be prepared Two oz. of undressed onions, and i of sage leaves, must be first chopped small; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper us be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the wholeTHINGS A LADY WOULD T^IKE TO KNOW. 2 14 n.oistened with the yolk and white of an egg well whM In putting the stuffing into the bird, give it space wherein to swell, under the action of the fire; when you have put the from fdlffig the neck and pope’s nose with twine, to prevent the stuffing from falling ont and to keep the bird steady. A large goose will require somewha more tLn an hour and a half’s roasting; be sure it be well basted, and Tnt to t^ of a rich brown hue, with a boatful of gravy sauce, another of apple sauce, and some newly-made mustard. ^ A Friiters of Pine Apple.—Yo a large table-spoonful of flour, sUr , oz of butter inelted to a cream; add \ salt-spoonful of salt, and moisten with sufficient warm cream to make it a proper consistency Stir it Tell rbing down any lumps ; add the yolks and then the whites of 2 rS iSave been well whisked; beat up the batter again ;ust before using Pare a pine apple with as little waste as possible, and cut it into rather thin slices, soaking them for four hours m a snia^ ; S "Xsifted Vr strewed over .he™, ar.d se„e very hot When pine apples are plentiful, this is an inexpensive dish. JULY 2S. ‘ ’ Th hope, and joy, and memory, give A home in which the heart can /iw.’—CoNDER. 1. Salmon. 2. Calf’s Heart. 3. Vegetables. 4. Currant Fritters. purchasmg middle part m . , . , ^ g„od handful of salt, and water to cover the fish; ^ i„ *e fish, properly as the scum rises s im eently in the proportion of a secured with twine or tape, and boil gently ml P p ranotd S; fh^tr^nir -d . greater per- fection. r ,ic„ol method of stuffing and a. Catfs cut open and broiled like a beefsteak, roasting, the heart should P ^ pour mto When thoroughly done, rub a bit ot2IS BILL OF FARE FOR JUL Y. the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketchup, with some soluble cayenne. 4. Currant Fritters.—Put 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs to i pint of milk, mix with it ^ pint of bread-crumbs grated fine, a little nutmeg, 6 oz. of currants, \ lb. of butter melted, a little salt, and flour sufficient to make it of a moderate thickness ; fry the size of fritters. —0— JULY 2 4. * Do what thou dost as if the earth svere heaven. And that thy last day were the judgment-day.'—Canon Kingsley, 1. Stewed Plaice. 3. Jerusalem Artichokes. 2. Boiled Chicken Pudding. 4. Paste Fritters. 1. Stewed Plaice.—Cut 4 or 5 plaice into pieces about two inches wide, salt them, and let them remain fifteen minutes. Slice and fry a light brown 2 onions, and put in the stewpan; put the fish on the top of them (without washing), and add ^ pint of water, ^ oz. ground ginger, and I pint of lemon-juice. Do not let the fish boil, or it will break, but cook slowly for half an hour. Take it out, add 6 eggs well beaten to the liquor when cool, then simmer till it thickens, and pour it over the fish. 2. Boiled Chicken Pudding.—Let the chickens be fasted and killed. At the end of twenty-four hours cut them up. Cut off the wings at the first joint from the body. Begin at the end of the breast-bone, bring it down in one clean cut to the wing-joint on each side; this gives two wings. Take off the merrythought, remove the legs and divide them, giving the thigh and the drumstick. Let the carcase lie sideways on the table, and divide it from end to end, separating the back from the breast; cut the back in half, crossways, and flatten the two pieces; serve the breast the same. Season according to taste. Take some mild bacon, and cut very thin slices. Make a suet crust, put it in a basin, place your joints of chicken and a few slices of bacon in the basin, tie it up in a cloth, and boil slowly for a long time. Turn it out when done. Chickens that are too small to roast or boil are very nice eaten in this way. The addition of a couple of kidneys is an improve- ment 3. Jerusaletn Artichokes.—These are usually plain-boiled, cut, and peeled, and served with parsley and butter; but a great improvement in their flavour will be obtained by baking them in their coats for about twenty mmutes, then peeling and cutting them into slices of about two- tenths of an inch, and warming them up in a rich brown sauce well seasoned. • ’2i6 THINGS A LADy WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4 Paste Fritters.—^oW some puff paste very thin, put into it mar- malade or any other sweetmeat, roll up in what form you please and in different shapes, fry in butter, and sift a little powdered sugar over. JULY 28. ' Consider everlasting consequences; contemplate approaching judgment. Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Salmon. 2. Roast Pigeons. 3. Vegetables. 4. Tapioca Pudding. 1 Salmon.—2 slices of salmon, and lay them m a baltmg-dish; put some pieces of butter over them; add salt, pepper, and grated nut- Lg, half a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, i shalot, rubbmg a little o it into the fish. Baste frequently. Take out when done (in about three-quarters of an hour); drain it; lay it on a hot dish, and pour over it either tomato or caper sauce. _ 2 Roast Pick, draw, and truss them, keeping on the feet. Chop the liver with some parsley; add «umbs of bread, pepper sa and a little butter; put this stuffing inside. Slit one of the legs mid slip the other through it; skewer and roast them for half an hou , baL them well with butter. Serve with brown gravy m a boat, and PMing.-yioA and pick i lb. of tapioca je-T clea^^ it in a smicepan on the fire with cold water; when it has boiled or three minutes, strain it; then return it into the pan, with i milk Boil gently till the milk is nearly soaked up, then pour ou "od and stifoz. of butter; add sugar and nutmeg to taste; the vofc rf 5 and whites of 2 eggs well beaten, and a ‘^ble-spo»nfu of Lse of oUe-flower water; butter a dish, and put puff paste round the edge, and bake. It is very good boiled. JULY 26. 1. Boiled Mackerel 2. Pickled Pork Stew. Seive all, and love but one.’- I 3' -Balzac. Vegetables. Omelette Souffles.217 BILL OL .FARE FOR JUL K on a bed of green fennel leaves, with either gooseberry, fennel, anchovy, or shrimp sauce. 2. R/^r^/eL Fork Siew.—'^vX 2 lbs. of streaky bacon or pickled pork into a saucepan with i gallon of water, and cut up 2 lbs. of thoroughly- washed white cabbage, from which the stalks have been removed; cut up 2 large onions, a carrot, a turnip, a head of celery, and a quart of green peas, and let the whole boil for three or four hours, removing the scum. Skim off all the fat, and season with a little pepper and brown sugar; salt is seldom necessary. Cut i lb. of bread in slices, and lay it in the tureen; pour over the soup, and close the vessel for ten minutes ; then serve. 4. Omelette Soiifflee.—Break up 6 eggs; separate the whites from the yolks; into the latter mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated lemon-peel, and 4 ot finely-powdered sugar; whisk up the whites for ten minutes; add the froth to the yolks just before frying. Melt ^ lb. of butter in a pan, and put in the eggs. As soon as they are quite set, slant the frying- pan and turn them over. Serve on a dish well buttered, strew powdered sugar over the omelet, and brown the top with a salamander. JULY 27. ‘ Paradise is always where love dwells.'—Richter 1. Fricasseed Soles. 3. Green Peas. 2. Roast Ducks, 4. Lemon Dumplings. 1. Fricasseed Soles.—Buy 3 soles (2 good-sized and i small); fry the large pair of a nice brown, and drain them well from fat. Chop quite fine all the meat from the small sole, i tea-spoonful of (chopped) parsley, half a tea-spoonful of chopped lemon, a little grated bread, and seasoning. Work all together with the yolk of i egg and 2 oz. of butter make into small balls, and fry them. Thicken ^ pint of good gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour; add some cayenne, lemon-juice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of port wine. Lay in the soles and balls j simmer gently for five minutes; garnish with cut lemon, and serve hot. 2. Roast Ducks.—See that the birds be properly picked, and after drawing let the interior be carefully cleaned with a soft towel. Boil a couple of onions in two waters, and then chop them up very small; half a tea-cupful will be suflRcient. Mix the onion with about one-half the quantity of fresh sage leaves, 2 oz. of finely-powdered bread-ciTimbs, a spoonful of salt, and the third of a spoonful of soluble cayenne; beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing materials well together in it With a brisk fire, five-and-thirty minutes’ roasting will be sufficient. Serve with gravy sauce.2tS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4 Lemon Dumplings.—oz. of beef suet, lo oz. of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of sugar, 4 eggs, the rind of a large lemon grated off, and the iuice of half a one. Make into 6 dumplings. They are best put into cups or basins. Boil three-quarters of an hour, and serve with brandy sauce. JULY 28. ‘ EveryIhmg mei-done is liaUe to suspicion.'. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Fillets of Salmon. 2. Rump of Beef Braized. 3. Vegetables. 4. Oxford Dumplings. I. Fillets of Salmon.—about or 2 lbs. of salmon into small fillets, removing them from the bone with a sharp knife. Careful y take away all the skin ; dip each fillet into a well-beaten egg, then into bread-crumbs, and fry them a light colour in some boiling drippmg or lard. Dish them up, and pour over them some Indian sauce. 2 Kutnp of Beef Braized.—a rump of beef as for the last and stew it tender in a braize, with fire under and over. Dram it when done; glaze the top, and put it inside the oven or before the fire to dry; take it out, glaze it again twice, and serve with vegetables prepared^as for bouilli beef boiled in consomm'e, and put round wth a few heads of nice greens. j , 4. Oxford Dumflings.-Yzkt 2 oz. of grated bread, 4 4 oz. of currants, 2 large spoonfuls of flour, a dessert-spoonful of ^ed lemon-peel, and a little pimento or ginger m fine powder. Mix uit 2 eggs^and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry thern injDUtter on a slow fire of a fine yellow brown. When made with double t e quan- t of flour instea/of bread, they are very good. They may also be mide of eggs with biscuits, leaving out the whites, and made up into St al?Se siae of an egg, rubbed over with the yolks, and Irted a light brown. JULY 29. ‘ On God’s eternal dial God's eternal sunbeams shine. Believe in God.'—Thomas Cooper. 1. Red Mullet Baked. 2. White Fricassee of Rabbit. 3. Vegetables. 4. Sweet Omelet. paper; tie the ends, pass me suuij,BILL OF FARE FOR JULY. 219 dish in a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish with a piece of butter, a little flour, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies, a glass of port or sheiTy, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and the fish in their paper cases. 2. White Fricassee of Rabbit.—Be careful to take away all the interior of the rabbits usually left after casing, and cut off the heads; wash them repeatedly in cold water till the flesh is perfectly white. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and, as soon as it boils up again, take out the rabbits and cut them into joints. Thicken a pint of milk mth flour and butter; add a little mace, nutmeg, lemon-juice, salt, and white pepper; put this into a stewpan with the flesh, cover carefully down, and let it simmer for half an hour. The sauce should be as thick as cream, and as white as snow, if properly dressed. 4. Sweet 07?ielet.—To i gill of cream or good milk put 4 well-beaten eggs, sugar, nutmeg, or cinnamon, and a small pinch of salt; fry a nice light brown on a slow fire; sift fine sugar over. JULY SO. 'If the world be in the middle of the heart, it will be often shaken, for all there is con- tinual motion and change; but God in it keeps it stable.'—Archbishop Leighton. 1. Pea Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Pork Kabob. 4. Shropshire Dumplings. 1. Pea Soup.—0\sQ pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 large onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few bones or tiny pieces of bacon j flavour it nicely ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender; strain them through a hair-sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it! Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery and a tea-spoonful of pepper; add a little dried mint and fried bread, with a little spinach. ’ 2. Pork Kabob.—four pork chops, not too fat; peel a couple of dumpling apples, and cut a couple of slices from the centre of each, avoiding the core; cut a Spanish onion into slices, select four of tlie largest; attach with small skewers to each chop a slice of apple and a slice of onion; fasten them together with twine, and roast before a bright fire for half an hour, basting well. Serve them quite hot, with some fresh mustard, soluble cayenne, salt, and mashed potatoes. 4- Shropshire Dimplings.—YM\i about 3 oz. of butter into 2 lbs. of our; add a little salt and a few currants ; mix them up in rather a stiffTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 220 paste with water that has had a little yeast stirred in it. ^ Cover it, and let it stand an hour or two; then make up the dumplings about the usual size of yeast dumplings, and boil them about twenty minutes. Serve with melted butter and sugar. JULY 31. * Sure He that made us with such large discourse. Looking before and after, gave us not That capability and God-like reason To rust in us unused.'—Shakspeare. 1. Salmon Pudding. 2. Haricot of Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Souffle Pudding. 1. Salmon Pudding.—\ lb. of cold boiled salmon ; put it into a mortar; pound it fine, with 4 oz. of crumb of bread soaked in milk and squeezed dry, or 3 oz. of flour may be used instead; add the yolks of 5 eggs, i oz. of butter, a little essence of anchovy, and about half a pint of milk, or part milk and cream, and mix the whole well. Season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; put it into a well-buttered mould; steam or boil one hour. Serve with white sauce in which a little essence of anchovy has been mixed, or, instead 0 anchovy, add some chopped capers and a little vinegar, or mth cucum- ber sauce. Any fish pudding may be made in the same manner; or, 1 made into a firm paste, it may then be formed into cutlets, egged bread-crumbed, and fried, and served as a side dish with either of th above-named sauces, or with sliced cucumbers. ^ 2. Haricot of Mutton.—and cut into thin slices 2 good-si carrots; put these into a saucepan containing 2 quarts ot boiling water; let it simmer over a slow fire for twenty pare and cut into squares, the size of dice, 2 turnips; add a head of Llery cut small, and a little pepper and salt. _ Whilst the ^ege a are stewing, put half a dozen mutton chops, with their fat cut off and well Ittenid, into the frying-pan, with sufficient butter to fry them a light brown, without risk of burning. When this is ““““f ’ put the meit with the vegetables, and let all stew together for half three-quarters of a pint of new milk into a stewpan, and when it boils ^^^“ThertS'ffilVote ot’Teggfwell tl7;1ir *em in, and the whites whipped to a very stiff fr®. When all are thoroughly well muted together, butter baking-dish, put it in, and bake it in a quick oven.DESSERT FOR JULY. 22t DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF JULY. Vases of flowers and baskets of fresh fruits of the season in the middle of the table. 1. Glaces'aux Abricots. 2. Compote de Prunes. 3. Compote de Melon. 4. Currant Cakes, Clear. 5. Compote de Framboises. 6. Cerises Groseillees. 7. Compote of Greengages. 8. Black, Red, or White Currant Jelly. 9. Massepains aux Fruits. 10. Glaces de Creme au The. 11. Pistachio Cream. 12. Pain de Prusse. Glaces a la Creme Blanche, Bonbons, Dried Fruits, Pe- tits Baisers, etc. 1. GLACES AUX ABRICOTS. Stone your apricots; pulp them through a sieve; put to them an equal weight of clarified sugar; and to each pound of this composition add half a dozen blanched apricot kernels infused for two hours in the juice of a lemon and a little water. Work well together, put it into the ice-pot, and freeze it gradually. 2. COMPOTE DE PRUNES. Take of any kind of ripe plums sufficient to make a good-sized dish. If you purpose to have them stoned, remove the stone as carefully as you can from the stem end of the fruit. Should the plums be of a large kind, they should be first scalded, and afterwards immersed in cold water. Small fruit may at once be placed in an earthen pipkin, with a syrup made with their weight of loaf sugar, a wine-glassful of white brandy, and enough water to float them in. Do them as slowly as possible, and as soon as they are tender place them in your com- pote dish, and pour over them the syrup when cooled. 3. COMPOTE DE MELON. Cut a good sized melon into rather thick slices; take away the rind and the seeds; divide each slice into square pieces, then round them so as to resemble large apricots. Prepare a strong syrup of sugar and water; throw m your melon ; withdraw it from the fire; cover it down close, and let it remain some time to infuse; then let it come quicklyTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 222 to a boil, take it up, arrange it in your glass dessert-dish; skim and reduce the syrup, and when a little cooled pour it over the fruit. 4. CURRANT CAKES, CLEAR. Strain some fresh currant-juice through a gauze sieve; put 18 oz. of the finest loaf sugar in powder to every pint of juice. Put it into a preserving-pan over the fire, and stir it until it nearly boils; skim it carefully ; withdraw it from the fire, and put it into small shallow trays, which should be first rubbed over with greased muslin. Keep them in a dry warm place till they will turn out of the moulds, then place them in a very slack oven to harden. Put them between paper to pack them for use. 5. COMPOTE DE FRAMBOISES. Take a quart of either red or white raspberries ; carefully stem them without bruising the fruit; place them in a stewpan, and pour upon them a boiling syrup, made with a pound of loaf sugar and half a pint of water; put them over the fire, and let them just come to a boil, withdraw them, and when cool enough, put them into your compotier, and pour the syrup over them. 6. CERISES GROSEILLEES. Take a pint of ripe cherries; cut off the stems to within an inch of the fruit; prick them with a needle, and sift over them hal a poun of powdered sugar. Let them stand a night. Dissolve a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of currant juice; when it boils, put m the cherries, and simmer them gently for a few minutes ; take them out vnth a skimmer boil down the syrup until it is very thick, pour it over them, and ser as required. 7. COMPOTE OF GREENGAGES. Boil in a pint of water a little grape juice or vinegar ; tabe your greengages and prick them with a coarse needle ; throw them_ into the water fet them boil up; then take them out, and throw them into cold water.’ Make a strong syrup; when it boils, them for about five minutes, arrange them in a dessert-dish, reduce U syrup, let it cool, and pour it over the fruiL 8. BLACK, RED, OR WHITE CURRANT JELLY. Slightly bruise your fruit, and put it in a jar; place this in a coolDESSERT FOR JUL K 223 oven, and pour off the juice as it collects ; strain it through fine muslin, and put weight for weight of fruit and sugar; boil and skim it until it is of the proper thickness. Put it into glasses or moulds as preferred. Take equal quantities of blanched almonds and powdered loaf sugar; reduce the former to a paste; add to it the sugar; place it in a pre- serving-pan, and make it a thin syrup with some strained juice of either fresh raspberries, cherries, strawberries, or currants. Stir it over the fire until it is a stiff paste; pour it upon a board, roll it tolerably thin, form it into biscuits; place them upon a tin, and bake them for ten minutes in a slow oven. Glaze the tops before they are cold. Take 2 oz. of the best green tea; mix with it the yolks of 8 fresh eggs and | lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered ; put these ingredients into a saucepan; stir them over the fire, and pour in by degrees a quart of rich cream. When it is upon the boil, withdraw it from the fire; stir it for some minutes longer; strain it through a fine sieve, and, when cold, ice it Put into a mortar a pound of blanched pistachio nuts, and a wine- glassful of brandy. Beat to a smooth paste. Add to it a quart of thick cream, and the beaten and strained yolks of 4 eggs. Place it upon a slow fire, and stir it until it is sufficiently thick. Pile it high in a glass dessert-dish, or put it into small glasses. When cold, decorate it with neatly-cut pieces of pistachio nuts ; or you may put it into your ice-pot and freeze it if preferred. Beat 2 eggs; add to them a pinch of salt and half a tea-spoonful of powdered caraways. Gradually dredge in 6 oz. of flour and 3 of powdered loaf sugar. Mix thoroughly together; roll out the paste- form It into thm^ slabs similar to gingerbread in shape; glaze the top' and mark them into narrow divisions with the back of a knife. ’ 9. MASSEPAINS AUX FRUITS. 10. GLACES DE CREME AU THE. II. PISTACHIO CREAM. 12. PAIN DE PRUSSE.224 AUG U ST 1. ‘ Prudence protects and guides us, wit betrays; A splendid source of ill, a thousand ways ; A certain snare of misery immense ; A gay prerogative from common sense; Unless strong judgment the wild thing can iafne, And break to paths of virtue and YoUNG. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat - Buck Venison—Mutton—Beef—Veal—Lamb. ?^ULTRY: Fowls-Ducklings-Green Geese-Chickens-Pullets-Pigeons-Plovers —Wild Ducks—Turkey Poults—Wheatears. r-AME- Grouse—Blackcock—Rabbits—Leverets. Jfsr-CraJSLcarp-Eels-Brill-Dory-Grigs-Chub-Herrings-^ -Icrabs-Lobstem-Prawns-Shrimps-Soles-Mullet-Pike-Salmon-Skate Trout Sturgeon—Thomback—Turbot. Vegetables: Cabbages-Carrots-Beans-Artkhokes-Cauliflowers- —Endive—Celery—Lettuces—Cresses—Mushrooms—Onions—Sea Kale—Pota toes-Peas-Turnips-Small Salading-Sprouts-Vegetable Marrows-Various Kitchen Herbs—Radishes. 9 FRUITS IN SEASON. Gooseberries-Figs-Currants-Plums-Filberts-Melons-Grapes-Mulberries- Peaches—Nectarines—Pine Apples—Pears—Raspberries. 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Stewed Oxtails. 3. Roast Rabbit. 4. French Beans. 5. Baroness Pudding. I. Boiled .S«W.-This fisla should be firm and thick, ^ well cooked; for, if underdressed, it is but never When done, it must be drained, covered over with colourless. allowed to remain in the fish-kettle, or it wi 1 be -tery Before putting it in the saucepan with ../r/ water and salt On *e pr^ portion of 3 oz. of salt to each half gallon of Ling particular that no blood is left inside. " wn takeLff all scum, simmer gently till done, which will be when you can225 BILL OF BABB FOB AUGUST. easily separate the fish from the bone. This will allow for a /arge, thick fish about eight minutes to the lb., six minutes for a thin fish. The fish should be served on a hot napkin, with a garnish of cut lemon and parsley, and lobster or shrimp sauce. 2. Staved Oxtails.—Cut these into joints and parboil them ; put them into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover them; add a spoonful of salt, a spoonful of mixed, powdered allspice, powdered mace, and soluble cayenne pepper, 4 cloves, and an onion chopped fine. Stew gently for an hour and three-quarters ; strain off the liquor, boil it up, and pour it, quite hot, over the meat Garnish with sippets of toast, and serve with a fresh lemon and Reading sauce. 3. Boast Babbit.—OviQ. large rabbit, pepper, salt, nutmeg, i lb. of butter, 4 dessert-spoonfuls of milk, i table-spooriful of flour, yolks of 2 eggs, brown gravy, the peel of half a lemon grated. 4. French Beans.—Having boiled beans as usual, warm them up again in parsley and butter. 5. Barotiess Pudding.—Three-quarter lb. suet, | lb. raisins, weighed after being stoned, f lb. flour, 1 pint milk, ^ salt-spoonful salt Mode: Prepare the suet by carefully freeing it from skin, and chop it finely; stone the raisins, and cut them in halves, and mix both these ingredients with the salt and flour; moisten the whole with the above proportion of milk, stir the mixture well, and tie the pudding in a floured cloth which has been previously wrung out in boiling water. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil without ceasing four and a half hours. Serve with plain sifted sugar only, a little of which may be sprinkled over the pudding. Great attention must be paid to the time of boiling, which should never be less than that mentioned. AUGUST 2. * Pleasures are like poppies spread. You seize the flower, its bloom, is shed; Or like the snowfall in the river, niofnent white—then melts for ever ; Or like the borealis race. That flit ere you can point their place ; Or like the rainbow's Icmely form Evanishing amid the Burns. 1. Garden Soup. 2. Roast Wild Ducks. 3- Neck OF Veal. 4. Alexandra Pudding. 5. Vegetables. ed to taste, 4 onions, a head p2 26 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. of celery, 8 lettuce leaves, a little tarragon and chervil, x lump of '""cut the vegetables in the French vegetable-cutter of any pattern you please or shape them with the ordinary vegetable scoop as you like best in the form of peas, olives, etc.; add the leaves and onions put them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with 2 quarts (or more as required) of clear stock, let it boil gently till the vegetables are done, add a lump of sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and serve this soup very hot. 2 Roast Wild Ducks.—the ducks are trussed, spit them, and put'them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit m rapid motion Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them light^ with flour and send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good ^avy in the dish. Before carving it, the breast should have a few incisions made across it with a knife, and a piece of fresh butter put on it; then cut a lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the other a very small quantity of cayenne pepper; put the lemon together ^nd squeeze the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and vmir ducks will be re3-dy to Ccirve. i • 11 , tJeck of rra/.—Trim a neck of veal, and lard the fleshy part thic • y. Put'it into a souse for three or four hours, made with chopped parsley, 2 or a shalots thyme, sweet basil, mushrooms, bay leaves, 2 or 3 ^f oil. and aiitfle vinegar. Arrange it in an oval brazing-pan ita.h the souse and as much broth as will cover the larding t when done, dram dry, glaze it lightly, and serve it with white Italian sauce, or any puru 0 dish over the jam, and bake it. —0- AU GU ST 3. . Pn,d,ooe i, tU virtu, by M -as to, '1Y"" various circumstances of time and place. —MiltOzN. 1 Cabbage. 2, L‘:rRi'.s ^rpoau. 1 iNzHBaPunniao. Macaroni Scuf.-ttal into a stewpan "f macaroni, i oz. of butter, “ jt'^ery dry, and pour on it 2 macaroni has become quite ^ rinutes taking care fefdyt s”'t Sd be sent to table with grated Parmesan chees.BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 227 2. Roast Ribs of Fork,—Score the skin, put the joint down to a bright fire to roast, rub a little flour over it. If the rind is kept on, roast it without a buttered paper over it; but if the skin and fat are removed, cover it with a buttered paper. Keep it frequently basted. About ten minutes before taking it up, strew over it some powdered sage; froth it with a little butter, and serve with gravy strained over it, and apple sauce in a tureen. 3. Cabbage.—Have 2 large saucepans, each half filled with water, allowing to each half-gallon of water a tea-spoonful of salt and a very small piece of soda. Let the water boil fast. Cut and clean the cabbage, removing the stalk. Put it into one of the saucepans, and let it boil for eight minutes. Pass it through a cullender, and put it in the other saucepan of fresh boiling water; let it boil there for ten or twelve minutes. Pass again through a cullender, and let it boil for the third time in fresh boiling water, which has been supplied from the boiler into the first saucepan, for ten or fifteen minutes, according to size. Toast a large slice of bread without crust, dip it in melted butter prepared with milk, and put it on a hot dish. Drain the cabbage through a cullender, carefully pressing out every drop of water. Lay the cabbage nicely on the toast, and cover it with melted butter. Serve it very hot. Cabbage dressed in this way is a great delicacy. 4. Napier Pudding.—Take any quantity of cup-cakes which are made with a spongecake mixture, and baked in buttered tea-cups, with a few cumants strewed over the butter. These, when previously prepared, are to be warmed in an oven, and when quite hot placed on the dish they are to be served on, covered with hot melted butter, a little lemon- juice, white wine, and sugar. » —0— august 4. yfzVj/;w« noise, seeks retreat, and delights to DYCEfai^"” ^ veneration.'-^^^. James For- 1. Tapioca Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. 3. Roast Leveret, 4. Vegetables. 5. North Country Pudding. 6. Buttered Apples. I quait of stock; when it is at boiling-point add the tapioca; boil twenty minutes, and it is done. You can use sago and semolina in the same manner. ha\f Care should be taken that the meat be cut at least over witrif ltd lh‘‘ ^“'“”S-Pin; smear them FV theL Sell bltH T''" ‘’"'‘W'^dered bread-crumbs. •y n fresh butter for a quarter of an hour, turning them till both228 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sides are well browned. Send them to table with a fresh lemon and some mushroom ketchup. _ ct. Roast Leveret.—and truss a leveret in the same manner as a hare but roast it plain without any stuffing. Place it before a clea^ bright fire for about three-quarters of an hour, and baste it often with butter. About ten minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. Serve with gravy poured round it, and red currant ielly with it. ,i • «. r / North Country Pudding.—Viskt a hasty pudding with i pint of milk sweetened, a little salt, and flour to make it of a proper thickness; when boiled enough pour into a basin, cover with a plate, and let stand till the next day; then mash well with a spoon, and add \ lb. of clan- fied butter, i lb. of currants, and 2 oz. of candied lemon cut in thm slices. Bake in tea-cups buttered, turn out on a dish, and serve with raspberry vinegar sauce. j v -i 6. Buttered Allies.—Vsive 6 or 8 fine apples of a ffirm but g°od boil- in'^ kind, and core, without piercing through or dividing them; fill _ e cavities with fresh butter; put i lb. more, cut small, into a ^tewpan just large enough to contain the apples in a single layer; place them close y together on it, and stew them as softly as losstUe, turning t em occasion ally until they are almost sufficiently tender to serve; then strew upon thJm as much sifted sugar as will sweeten the dish highly, and a te spoonful of pounded cinnamon; shake these well in and ’ and stew it for a few minutes longer. Lift it out, arrange it m a ho dish, put into each apple as much apricot jam as it wiU contain, and ay a smaU quantity on the top; pour the syrup from the pan round, but no on the frffit, and serve it immediately. Particular care must taken to • keep the apples entire: they should rather steam in a gentle heat than boil If tL stewpan were placed in a very slow oven, the more regular heat would perhaps be better in its effect than the stewing. august S. ‘ Oh sisters ! let us leave the shame and sin Of talking vainly, in a plaintive mood. The holy name of grief I—holy herein, ^ That by the grief of one came all Mrs. 11.. UARKtl 1. Julienne Soup. 2. Roast Loin of Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 5. Hasty Pudding. Grouse. . , r 7- —Three-Quarters of a lb. of carrots, turnips, celey . large cabbage-lettuce; a little sorrel and chervrl229 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 2 oz. of butter j 2 lumps of sugar ; 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock. Weigh f Ib. of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips of about an inch and a half long, taking care they are all the same size; wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry; then put them into a stewpan with the butter, and the sugar pounded. Set it over a quick fire for a few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are covered with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to burn ; then add 5 pints of clear soup, or medium stock ; cut the lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into pieces, and put them into the soup, and let it all stew gently for an hour or more. 2. Roast Loi7i of Mzdton.—Roast it at a bright fire, and baste carefully about every quarter of an hour. Brown and froth. 3. Grouse.—WAX require at least fifteen minutes’ roasting before & bright fire , these birds, if in good condition, do not require any addition to their own exquisite flavour, except a little gravy and a squeeze of lemon. 5. Hasty Puddmg.—^t\. some milk on the fire, and when it boils put in a little salt, and stir in by degrees as much flour as will make it of a proper thickness \ let it boil quickly a few minutes, beating it constantly while on the fire; pour it into a.dish, and eat it with cold butter and sugar, or treacle. Eggs may be used with it if preferred. —0— AUGUST 6. ‘ Love is Slick an affection, as cannot so properly be said to be in the soul as the soul to be in I'/iaZ.’—Bishop South. 1. Stewed Conger. | 3. Vegetables. 2. Rolled Loin of Mutton. | 4. Norwich Pudding. 1. Stewed Conger.—K conger eel, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, pepper, salt, and mace, water or broth, a little flour. Cut the conger into pieces as for frying, dry and flour the pieces, and brmvH them in a frying-pan. Put them into a stewpan with a bunch of veet herbs, an onion cut in quarters, seasoning of pepper and salt, and Of spice, if It be liked, and enough water or broth nearly to c'over the VIA fiour, just enough to take off the richness that may have risen to ne top, and serve the conger with the gravy round it. saur. be flavoured with tomatoes, chutney, or any other .a. r* Vhe stewed conger is nice with oysters; open them and save as nilessarv'let' ^t li't T “ “ ^ravi, as much them ““"Si’THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 230 2. Rolled Loin of Mvtton.—'E.ax\g a loin of mutton till tender, take out the bone, and lay over the meat a stuffing made as for veal; roll it up tightly, fasten it with small skewers to keep it in shape, and tie it round with a string. Roast it before a brisk fire, allowing a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Make a gravy of the bones, adding to it a table-spoonful of ketchup and a little salt. When the meat is done, pour the gravy made from the bones, mixed with the gravy from the meat, over it, and serve with currant jelly. pints of cream 3 oz. of fine white separately. 4. Norwich Pudding.—Steep in ^ „ bread-crumbs. Pound into a paste ^ pint of blanched almonds m a small quantity of orange-flower water. Beat up the whites of 4 and the volks of 8 eggs with i lb. of lump-sugar in powder. Mix these together with i lb. of butter melted. Stir well over a slow fire till the mixture is tolerably thick. Place puff paste at the bottom and round the sides of the dish, pour in the ingredients, and bake for half an hour. -0— august 7. ‘ Send thy good before thee, The whilst thou may to Heaven; For better is one alms before. Than bin after Old Rhyme. 1. Boiled Salmon. 2. Leg of Mutton Roasted. Vegetables. Boiled Lemon Pudding. I Boiled Salmon.—On^ salmon, 4 oz. of salt to i gallon of water Salmon is put into warm water instead of cold, in order to preserve 1 Salmo p thoroughly well dressed to be dressed cucumber with sa^on_ 2. Lego/ Mutton ‘ ^dinarv time. A leg of muttor a quarter of an hour or longer than for boiling, but i intended for roasting can P th« sU„. a.d .rl.« off .he piece of flanh. Pa..BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. r little salt and water into tire dripping-pan, and baste the joint for a short time with it, then use the gravy from the meat itself, basting it every ten minutes. Serve it with gravy poured round it, and currant jelly, separately. The wether leg of mutton is the best for roasting. A leg of mutton, if too large, can be divided, and the knuckle boiled; or, by placing a paste of flour and water over the part cut to keep in the gravy, it cm be roasted, by which means two roast dinners can be had from the one joint. 4. Boiled Lemon Pudding.—Four oz. of suet finely chopped, \ lb. of bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, the juice of a lemon strained, with the yellow rind chopped very fine or grated off, sugar to taste. Boil one hour in a well-buttered mould, and serve with sweet sauce, to which add a little lemon juice and wine. AUGUST 8. ‘ Don't tell me of to-morrow. There is much to do to-day That can 7tever be accomplish'd If we throw the hours away ! Every moment has its duty. Who the ftihire can foretell? Then why defer to-morrcrw What to-day can do as well?'—Eliot. 1. Pea Soup. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. I 4. Surrey Pudding. 1. Pea Soup. One pint of split peas, 3 quarts of spring water, 6 large onions, outside sticks of 2 heads of celery, i bunch of sweet herbs, 2 carrots, a little dried mint, a handful of spinach, a few bones or tiny pieces of bacon ; pepper and salt to your taste. Boil all these vegetables together till they are quite soft and tender; strain them through a hair sieve, pressing the carrot pulp through it. Then boil the soup well for an hour with the best part of the celery and a tea-spoonful of pepper, add a little dried mint and fried bread, with a little spinach. A few roast-beef bones or a slice of bacon will be an improvement. 2. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—Time, a quarter of an hour to each lb A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but simply rubbed with a little butter. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It should be well hung, and served with onion sauce. 4- Stirrey Pudding.—On& quart of milk, 6 oz. of ground rice, 3 e<^gs currants, sugar, and spice to taste. The milk and rice should be botled overnight, and the other ingredients mixed in the next morninm Stir the mixture well before putting it into the oven.232 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. AUGUST 9. * Let not soft shimler close my eyes. Ere I have recollected thrice The train of actions through the day. Where have my feet mark'd out their way.'—PYTHAGORAS. r. Villa Soup. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Fowls. 1 4. Semolina Pudding. 1. Villa Soup.—A pound of meat, 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 oz. of rice, a pint of whole peas, pepper and salt, a gallon of water. Cut the meat into slices; put one or two at the bottom of an earthen jar or pan 3 lay on it the onions sliced 3 then put meat again, then the carrots sliced. Soak the pint of peas all the previous night 3 put ttem in with I gallon of water. Tie the jar down, and put it in a hot oven for three or four hours. 2. Stewed Fowls.—A fowl, about a quart of mutton broth, pepper, salt, mace, a large cupful of rice. Truss the fowl for boiling, and stew it in about a quart of mutton broth, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace, for an hour and a half, skimming it often. About half an hour before the fowl is ready to serve, add a large cupful of rice 3 and when tender, strain the broth from it, and place the rice on a sieve to dry and swell before the fire, keeping the fowl hot 3 then place it in the centre of a hot dish, with the rice arranged in rather a high border round it Serve parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. 4. Setnolina Pudding.—A pint and a half of new milk, half a tea-cup- ful of semolina, orange marmalade. Put a pint and a half of milk over the fire, and when boiling stir in half a cupful of semolina, and continue to stir it over the fire lor ten minutes 3 then put it into a mould to cool 3 turn it out, and serve with jam or marmalade round it. It is delicious iced. —0— AUGUST 10. ‘ We need not bid, for cloistered cell. Our neighbotir and our work farewell: The trivial round, the common task, May furnish all we ought to ask— Room to deny ourselves, a road To bring us, daily, nearer God.'—Anon. 1, Cock-a-Leekie. 3- Vegetables. 2 Stewed Neck of Mutton. 4- German Pudding. I. Cock-a-Leekie.—X\m&, three or four hours. One fowl, 3 bunches of winter leeks, pepper and salt, and 5 quarts of medium stock.233 BILL OF FARE FOR AVGUST. Well wash the leeks, take off part of the heads and the roots, scald them in boiling water for five or six minutes, and then cut them into small pieces. Put a fowl, trussed as for boiling, into a stewpan with the pieces of leek, a little pepper and salt, and nearly 5 quarts of stock. Let the whole simmer very slowly at the corner of the fire for three or four hours, keeping it well skimmed. When ready to serve, take out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, place them in a tureen, and pour the leeks and the broth over them (the leeks being made into a pur'ee), as the soup should be very thick of leeks. This soup is greatly improved by warming it up a second time. 2. Stewed Neck of Mutton.—Time, two and a half to three hours. Four or 5 lbs. of neck of mutton, rather more than a pint of water, a little cayenne pepper and salt, two sprigs of parsley. 4. German Puddmg.—Mix lb. of flour with \ lb. of butter, and the same weight of loaf sugar; beat up 4 eggs in ^ pint of milk; stir all the materials well together, then divide into 4 parts. Bake in tea-cups, and serve with sweet sauce or white wine. —0- AUGUST 11. * Shun delays, they breed remorse; Take thy time while time is lent thee: Creeping snails have weakish force— Fly their fault, lest thou repent thee: Good is best when sootier wrought. Lingering labours come to nought.'—SoUTHWELL, 1595. T. Roast Pigeons. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fillet of Mutton. 4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding. 1. Roast Pigeons.—T\rs\^, twenty minutes to half an hour. Some pigeons, ^ lb. of butter, pepper and salt. Welt vfa.sh and thoroughly clean the pigeons ; wipe them diy; season Aem inside with pepper and salt, and put a good-sized piece of butter into the body of each bird. Roast them before a clear, bright fire, basting them well the whole of the time. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. 2. Fillet of Mutton.—Time, two hours. Take off the chump end of a loin of mutton, and cover it with 2 sheets of buttered paper as for venison; roast it for two hours, but do not allow it to become the least brown. Have ready some French beans, boiled tender, and well drained from the water on a sieve. While the mutton is being glazed, warm them in the gravy, put them on a dish, and serve the meat on them. 4. Ginger Soufflee Pudding.—M.e\t 2 oz. of Iresh butter in a clean234 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. saucepan; when melted, stir in with a spoon sufficient flour to make a stiff paste; then add, by degrees, 4 eggs well beaten, and form ffie whole into a smooth batter; gradually add i pint ot milk m which 6 oz. of loaf sugar has been dissolved, with i oz. of grated Jamaica ginger, and 2 oz. of preserved ginger cut into small dice. Well butter a mould or basin, and decorate it to fancy with dried chemes or stoned raisins, and citron-peel cut thin, and in various shapes. Fill the mould or basin with the preparation, covered with buttered paper, and steam one hour, or boil it for about the same length of time in a saucepan with water about half the height of the mould or basin. When done, turn it out, and serve with sweet sauce. AUGUST 12. • Hoist up sail while gale doth last. Tide and wind stay no man's pleasure ! Seek not time, when time is past. Sober speed is wisdotn's leisure. Aftei’-wits are dearly bought. Let thy fore-wit guide thy thoughts'—SOUTHWELL, i59S- 1. Autumnal Broth. 2. Grilled Fowl. 2. Vegetables. 4. Napoleon’s Pudding. I. Autumnal Snth.^Tme, three hours, Nme or ten pints o water, i lb. ot bailey, a quarter of a peck of green peas, i smal turnip, 2 carrots, a little parsley, i onion, 4 lbs. of mutton i of sfll r of pepper. Cut into small pieces the ®n,p ca„oh onion (after well washing them), and put the rnea m firsL Stam te pot till no more scum rises, then add the vegetables. Any one vegetables may be omitted except the green peas. a G'SrJc2»/.-Cutthe remains of cold fowl f “7“ them with pepper and salt; squeeze over them the jm ^ lemon and let them stand for three-quarters of an hour, tj dryrir*em into clarified butter, and then into brea^mb. iw h a liie lemon-peel grated. Put tliem on a ^ b a clear fire. When fried instead of broiled, use the yolk ot e^^ beaten instead of the clarified butter. _ rice to fill the 4. Napalm's Pudding.—P^ ^ .j j f, „;i|; dish to be used (i lb. w.ll fd a quart toh • Bod ^^ry ^ or milk and water, over a gentle fire, tak „ prevent this, it should be stirred occas'ona y. Two^oa ol^butmr be added to the rice while boding, or before beaten When done, place it aside to cool, stirrmg m 2 or 3 eggs wellBILL OF FA BE FOB AUGUST. just before using, as follows:—Line a flat dish with puff paste, and over the bottom put a layer of rice, on this a thin layer of raspberry or other preserve, continuing in this way until the dish is full. Bake it in a moderate oven from a half to three-quarters of an hour. It may be eaten hot or cold, and much improved if a rich custard be poured over the top. AUGUST 13. * Time wears all his locks before. Take thou hold upon his forehead: When he flees he turns no more. And behind his scalp is naked. Works adjourned have many stays, Lo7ig demurs breed new delays.'—SOUTHWELL, 1595, 1. Fried Soles. 4. Plum-pudding, 2. Saddle of Mutton. 5. Blancmange. 3. Vegetables. 1. Fried Soles.—Time, eight minutes. Two soles, i egg, a few bread-crumbs. Remove the skin from the dark side of the soles; clean them, and wipe them dry, and dredge a little flour over them; brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg; dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them of a light brown, in sufficient boiling fat for them to swim in. When done, lay them on a cloth to absorb the grease; dish them on a napkin neatly folded, and garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted butter or shrimp sauce may be sent to table with them. 2. Saddle of Mutton.—Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. Take off the skin; cover the ^ fat with a sheet of well-greased paper, and roast it. Just before it is finished cooking, remove the paper, sprinkle the joint with salt, dredge it well over with flour, and drop warmed butter over it.^ Serve it with good gravy, or empty the contents of the dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat; add a little warm water, and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. 4, Flum-fttdding. To lbs. of flour take 5 eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make it a stiff batter; add salt, Jamaica pepper or nutmeg, and sugar to taste; i lb. of raisins, and ^ lb. of currants Boil four hours. S Blancmange.—Time, fifteen minutes. One oz. of isinglass or gelatine, 2 oz. of blanched and pounded almonds, i oz. of bitter ones • 12 pints of milk, I pint of cream, i lemon, a spoonful of rose-water, and 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass or gelatine, the236 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, the new milk and cream, the lemon-juice and the peel grated, with loaf sugar to taste. Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it till the isinglass is dissolved j then take it off, and continue stirring it till nearly cold before putting it into the mould. This quantity will fill a quart mould; but if you wish to make it in a smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Colour the top ornament with cochineal, and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. AUGUST14. . ‘ You have lived if you have loved.'—Alfred de Musset. 1. Boiled Soles. 3- Vegetables. 2. Hashed Beef. 4- Lemon Rice Pudding. 1. Boiled Soles.—soles, a large handful of salt in one gallon of water. Well wash and clean the soles, cut off the fins, and put them into a fish-kettle with salt and water. Let them boil slowly, and then simmer until done, which must be according to the weight of the fish, a large one requiring about ten minutes, a medium size eight. When done, serve them on a napkin, with the white side uppermost. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Anchovy or shrimp sauce is usually sent to table with boiled soles, but may be varied at pleasure. 2. Hashed Beef.—T\mt, twenty-five minutes. Some slices of cold roast beef, 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- chup, and the gravy from the meat or from the bones boiled down; pepper and salt. _ -c ee. Put the gravy saved from the meat (with a little water if not^ sum- cient), or the bones of the cold joint boiled down to a gravy, into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Worcester sauce, i of mushroom ket- chup, some pepper, salt, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it; let it simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour; take it from the fire, and when cold remove the fat. Cut the meat into slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the stewpan with the gravy; let it simmer slowly for ten minutes until hot, taking care it does not boil, or the meat will be hard. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. 4. Lemon Rice Pudding.—Owt quarter lb. of ground rice boiled in i pint of new milk; when nearly cold, add the rind of 2 lemons, cut very small, with 4 eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste; then bake in an oven.BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 237 AUGUST 15. ‘ Is it for thee the lark ascends and sings ? foy tunes his voice, joy elevates his wings. Is it for thee the linnet pours his throat, Loves of his own, and rapture swells the note ? Know, Nature's children all divide her care: The fur that warnis a monarch, war?ned a bear. While man exclaims, “ See, all things for my use," “ See man for mine I ” replies a pamper'd goose. Andjust as short of reason he must fall. Who thinks all made for one, not one for all. ’—PoPE. 1. Pot-au-Feu. 3. Mashed Potatoes. 2. Stewed Steak, 4. Marmalade Pudding. 1, Pot-au-Feu.—Time, three hours. Three quarts of water, 4 lbs. of meat, 2 tea-spoontuls of salt, 3 small carrots, 3 middling-sized onions (one being stuck with 2 cloves), a head of celery, a bunch of thyme, a bay leaf and a little parsley tied together, 2 turnips, a burnt onion, or a little browning. Put the meat into a stock-pot full of water; set it over a slow fire, and let it gently boil, carefully taking off the scum that will rise to the top. Pour in a tea-cupful of cold water to help the scum to rise. When no more scum rises, it is time to put in the vegetables, which you should have ready washed and prepared. Cut the carrots in slices, stick the onions with cloves, cut the turnips each in 4 pieces. Put them into the pot, and let them boil gently for two hours. If the water boils away too much, add a little hot water in addition. A few bones improve the soup very much. It is not necessary to keep the pot very closely covered. It is better to raise the lid a little, it facilitates the operation. 2. Stewed^ Steak.—T\mt, forty minutes altogether. Half a pint of water, i onion, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some pepper and salt. ^ Fry the steaks in butter a good brown j then put in a stewpan half a pint of water, i onion sliced, a table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, a little caper liquor, pepper and salt Cover the pan close, and let them stew slowly. Thicken the gravy with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve them on a hot dish. 4. Marmalade Pudding.—Tdke 3 oz. of fresh butter, clarify it, mix it with 3 oz. of pounded sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of orange marmalade, 4 eggs, I table-spoonful of flour. Beat the mixture all together for ten minutes with a wooden spoon. Line a mould with sweet tart paste • pour the ingredients into the mould. Bake it in a moderate oven for238 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW. august 10. ‘ “ W/iat a pleasure it is to pay one's debts!" I remember hearing Sir Thomas Lyttleton make this observation. It seems to flow froin a combination of circumstances, each of which is prodtictive of pleasure. In the first place, it removes that uneasiness which a true spirit feels from dependence and obligation. It affords pleasure to the creditor, and therefore gratifies our social affection. It promotes that future confidence which is so very interestmg to an honest mind; it opens a prospect of being readily sup- plied with what we want on fiUure occasions; it leaves a consciousness of our cnun virtue; and it is a measure we know to be right, both in point of justice and of sound economy. Finally, it is a main support of simple reputation.'—Shenstone. 1. Scotch Broth. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Rump-steak. 4- Plain Boiled Custard. 1. Scotch Broth.—Time, two hours. Six lbs. of flank of beef, 6 quarts of water, ^ lb. of barley, 3 heads of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, and a little chopped parsley. Take 6 lbs. of the thick flank of beef, and cover it with 6 quarts of water, and ^ lb. of barley; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it frequently. Then add 3 heads of celery, 2 carrote, 2 turnips cut into pieces, I onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley; boil all together till you find the broth very good. Season it with salt. Then take out the beef, the onion, and sweet herbs ; pour the broth into the lureen, and put the beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips. 2. Btmp-steak.—Time, twenty minutes. Broiling is the best mode of cooking steaks and chops ; if, however, you prefer a steak fried, do not cut it quite as thick as for broiling, and leave a little fat on it. Put some clarified dripping in the pan and let it boil; then lay the steak in the boiling fat and fry it, moving the pan about to prevent it from burning. When one side is well done, turn it on the other with your meat tongs; if you do not possess a pair, turn it with a fork, but take care not to stick the fork into the juicy part of the steak; put it in the fat or in the edge of the meat. When the steak is done, lay it on a hot dish, with a little made gravy, or a lump of butter and a table- spoonful of ketchup. Season with pepper and salt. Tomato sauce is sometimes eaten with beefsteak. 4. Plain Boiled Custard.—Time, about twenty minutes to infuse the peel; ten or fifteen minutes to stir the custard. One quart of milk, 10. eggs,' peel of one lemon, 3 laurel leaves, ^ lb. of sugar. Pour a quart of milk into a delicately-clean saucepan, with 3 laurel leaves and the peel of a lemon ; set it by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it to cool. Then stir in i lb. of loaf sugar, and the 10 eggs well beaten ; again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep saucepan of boiling water.239 BILL OF BABE FOB AUGUST. and stir it one way until it thickens; then pour it into a glass dish, or into custard cups. You may put a knob of coloured jelly on the top of each custard cup if you please. AUGUST 17. ‘ Oh, what a world of beauty A loving heari mi^ht plan. If we but did our duty. And helped our brother man ! Then angel quests would brighten The threshold with their wings. And love divine enlighten The oldforgotten things'—SwAlN. 1. Filleted Soles. 3. Vegetables. 2. Mince of Mutton. 4. Rice Pudding. t. Filleted Soles.—Time, ten minutes. Two soles, i egg, and bread- crumbs. Take 2 soles, divide them from the backbone, and remove the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt; roll them up from the tail ends upwards, and fasten them with very small skewers. If small or middling-sized soles, put half a fish in each roll. Dip them into the yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then into bread-crumbs; then into the egg a second time, and again sprinkle them with crumbs j fry them in hot lard, or in clarified butter. Instead of rolling the fish they may be cut into pieces, and arranged in the form of a pyramid in the centre of a dish, and garnished with parsley and slices of lemon, 2. Mince of Mutton.—QvX off 2 lbs. from a leg of mutton, and chop it up finely, freeing it first from fat, but adding a slice or two of bacon likewise minced; season it well with pepper and salt, and put it into a saucepan, with a tea-cupful of gravy and 6 oz. of butter. Cut up very small 3 young lettuces; add a quart of young peas, an onion chopped small. Stir all these ingredients over a gentle fire until quite hot, then place the saucepan, closely covered, at the side of the fire, and let it stew gently for at least three hours. Arrange it neatly in the centre of a hot dish, and place round it a wall of well-cooked rice. 4. Bice Budding.—Fut a small tea-cupful of rice in a saucepan of boiling water j let it boil for ten minutes, then pour the water off, and let the saucepan stand by the fire, uncovered, for a little time. Put a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in the rice, stirring with a fork Ull thoroughly mixed ; then add a breakfast-cupful of new milk, and let It simmer at the fire for half an hour, till the rice is soft and swelled. Beat 4 eggs, yolks and whites, with 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; pour the2 40 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. water, 3 onions, 6 turnips, thyme, parsley, pepper and sa t, ^ rice into a basin, and grate half a nutmeg over it. Mix well before putting in the eggs. Have your pudding-dish well buttered , and, after the rice and eggs are beaten up, pour in, and bake in a q^uick oven. AUGUST18. ‘ Woe unto those that countenance a sin, Siding with vice that it may credit win ; By their unhollowed vote, that do benight The truth for error, putting dark for light, A nd light for dark ; that call an evil good. And wotild by vice have virtue understood I'—Bishop King. 1. Kidney Soup. I 3- Elizabeth Fry Pudding. 2. Neck of Venison. 1 4- Vegetables. 1. Kidney Soup.—One bullock’s kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. ■ Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock s kidney ; put it over the fire, and when half done take out the kidney and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as aU soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 2. Neck of Venison.—Time, a quarter of an hour for a lb. Cover it with paste and paper as for the haunch ; fix it on a spit, and roast. 3. Elizabeth Fry Pudding.—Tz}/.e i quart of milk, from this reserve enough to wet four heaped table-spoons of flour; mix the flour vety smoothly with this milk, boil the remainder of the milk, and add 4 wel - beaten eggs, a little salt, and the flour. Boil a few minutes, stirring with energy. Wet your pudding-dish, and put the pudding inj sift over it half a cup of white sugar. Put half a cup of wine and half a cup of sugar together, and pour over the pudding before serving. AUGUST 19. «Quench, oh quench not that flame of lave! it is the breath of your ’-Longfellow. I, Mixed Soup. 2. Neck of Veal Braized. 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Custard. 1. Mixed Soup.—One pound and a half of lean beef, 6 ^241 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. of rice, k lb. of potatoes, i handful of oatmeal. Cut the beef into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with the water, onions, and the turnips; add a bunch of thyme and parsley, a seasoning ot pepper and salt, lb. of Patna rice, a lb. of potatoes peeled and cut in quarters, and a handful of oatmeal. Let all stew for four hours, ^nd serve. 2. Neck of Veal Braized.—Trim the best end of a neck of veal by cutting off the chine bone and the rib bones short; set it on the fire in cold water to blanch; when it boils, take it off and put it into cold water for a few minutes while preparing a braizing-pan, thus : Lay the bottom over with sheets of bacon ; put the veal in, and cover that also with bacon; put in a few onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and a carrot sliced. Braize it about two hours in a light braize; when done, take it up, drain it dry, and pour sauce d la Reine over. It may be glazed with light glaze instead; and serve with any ptiree of vegetables under, as tomatoes, lentils, etc., or with stewed peas, sorrel, or endive. 4. Lemon Custard.—Take lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, the peel of i pared very thin, boiled tender, and rubbed through a sieve, and a pint of white wine. Let all boil for a quarter of an hour; then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, and set them to cool. Pour the rest into the dish you intend for it. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the whites, and mix them with the cool liquor. Strain them into your dish, stir them well up together, and set them on a slow fire in boiling- water. When done, grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown ic over with a salamander. This custard may be eaten hot or cold. AUGUST 2 0. * If solid happiness we prize, Within ottr breast this jewel lies ; And they are fools who roam. The world has nothing to bestow : From our own selves our joys must flew. And that dear cot—our home.'—Cotton. 1. Soup ET Bouilu. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fillet OF Veal Daubed. 4. Rice Flummery. 1. Soup et Bouilli.—'TskQ about 2^ lbs. brisket of beef, roll it up tight, and fasten it with a piece of tape. Put it into a stewpan with - lbs. of the leg of mutton, piece of beef, and a gallon of water; let it boil slowly; skim it well, and put in an onion stuck with cloves, 2 carrots 2 turnips, a leek, a head of celery cut into slices, with some whole pepper. Cover the stewpan close, and stew the whole very slowly forTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 242 seven hours. About an hour before it is served, strain the soup quite clear from the meat. Have ready a few boiled carrots cut into wheels, some turnips cut into balls, the endive, and a little celery cut into pieces. Put these into a tureen with a roll, dried after removing the crumb. Pour the soup over these boiling hot, add a little salt and cayenne : remove the tape from the beef, and serve it on a separate dis . 2 Fillet of Veal Daubed.—Daub a fillet of veal with bacon rolled m nne herbs and spices. Tie it in a good form, cover it with bacon and either roast or braize (it eats best roasted). If roasted, cover it well with buttered paper; it will take two hours and a half either to roast or braize. If braized, put a pint of sherry in the braize. Serve with Italian or mushroom sauce. 4. Rice Flummery.—4^ oz. of ground nee m_6 table-spoonfuls of milk, stirring it all the time. When tolerably thick, add 3 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and 12 drops of almond flavounng. into an oiled mould, set it in a cold place, and the next day turn out, and serve with baked pears round it, or with cream and preserve. august 21. •Sweet is the smile of home, the mutual look, When hearts are of each other sure: Sweet all the joys that crowd the household nook. The haunt of all affections pure. Yet in the world even these abide, and we Above the world our calling boast. Once gain the mountain-top, and thou art free. Till then, who rest, presume; who turn to look are lost - JvEBLE. 4. Arkowroot, Blancmange, (AND Tartlets. 1. Macaroni Soup. 2. Veal Cutlets. 3. Vegetables. I. Macaroni Soup.-Y^,t into a .^^ewpan of boiling macaroni, . oz. of butter, and an onion ^ ® ,,, „„ it macaroni has become quite tabing Treti; S”:: sK: “be L. to tab. ^ ^-=;ourb:^n: LstCp^r-S - twen.^iinu.es in water. . ,. «■ .up lec; flat them well, and 2. VeaJ Guilds.—Cut some thin with^egg, and cover them trim them of a good shape; brus^ with bread-crumbs; butter a frying-pBILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 243 thin slices of ham neatly trimmed. Fry the cutlets a nice brown; dish them en 7niroion (in a circle, the half of one overlapping the other), alternately a slice of ham and a cutlet; or, instead of the ham, small pieces of bacon may be fried and put round. Serve them with mush- room sauce in the middle. 4. Arrowroot, Blancmange, and Tartlets.—Mix the 2 oz. of arrowroot with a large cupful of the milk into a smooth thick batter; boil the remainder of the milk with three laurel leaves until sufficiently flavoured ; flien strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it constantly • add sugar to taste, and stir it over a clear fire until very thick j add a table-spoonful of brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an oiled mould. Set it in a cold place, or in ice if you have it. When firm, turn it carefully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. AUGUST 2 2. ‘ One’s own home is the best home, tho' never so ’—Bishop Percy. 4. Cauliflower. 5- Lemon Pudding. 1. Salmon Sauce. 2. Roast Rabbit. 3. Sauce. I. Scilmon Sauce.—Sit^v very gently 2 or 3 slices of salmon (laid in a small kettle with a strainer) in a quart of veal gravy and a gill of Harveys sauce for twenty minutes; or lift out the strainer with the fish, pour off the gravy into a stewpan, return the strainer with the fish to keep warm; thicken the gravy with arrowroot, season with pepper and salt; add a gill of capers, \ pint of sherry, and 12 pickled gherkins cut m slices; and pour the whole back again over the salmon. Simmer five minutes, and serve immediately, very hot skin roasting should be trussed like hare; then leJ. fill line the inside of the rabbit with them fill up the vacuum with veal stuffing, to which the rabbit’s liver has been added ; sew the stuffing in, smear the rabbit over with butter of ^ "^^dy three-quarters b ownT' ^ dredge with flour, froth up, and serve with Wn gravy and red currant jelly. small rabbit will only take half an hour. Slices of fat bacon tied over can be used insteL of ^^""san removed in time to froth the rabbit, sle^ cnt l proportion of par- ^iuL^ait,244 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. CauUflower.—VixQ’iS the cauliflower in the usual way, only boiling it in equal parts of milk and water, to which a little butter should be added • when the flower is done, break it into sprigs. For one cauli- flower,’prepare 3 or. of rich, mild cheese by grating finely ; put half of it with a i lb. of fresh butter, and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, a little salt and cayenne, into a stewpan and shake it over the fire till it comes to a boil then add the cauliflower; let the whole stew together for five minutes ; put it in a pie-dish ; strew over the top the remainder of the grated cheese, and brown it with a salamander or red-hot shovel held over the top. i. t, 1.4. Lemon Pudding.—^ lb. of loaf sugar and 6 oz. of fresh butter into a saucepan; set it over a slow fire till both are melted, stirrmg it well as it is liable to burn, but do not let it boil; pour into a basin and grate the rind of a lemon, and leave it to cool; have ready 2 sponge biscuits soaked in | of a pint of cream, bruise them fine and stir them into the sugar and butter; beat the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs with a little salt; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and mix it well m, ay a puff paste in a dish, strew it with pieces of candied lemon-peel, put in the pudding, and bake three-quarters of an hour m a moderate oven. Sift fine sugar over. -0— august 2 3. : Our coiwersation should rather be laid out on things than persons.'-Q^. WAXrs. 1. Hotch-potch. 2. Wild Ducks. 3. Vegetables. 4. Brunswick Pudding. a pint of peas into a stewpan water, and boil them until they will pulp through a sieve. Then tale The lean end of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, put ,t mto a steivpan with a gallon of water, the carrots and turnips cut into small pieces, an rseaLning of pepper and salt. Boil it until all the vegetables are qu,U tender ; put i/t" pulped peas, and a head of celery, and an onion sliced • let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. , . , j 2 Wild Ducks.-N\x^^ the ducks are trussed, spit them, and pu fi * rlnwn to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit m rapid motioi. sTsTe them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, an tts it with a unite, d v't;" smlS lemon across, on one ha p together and squeeze the Set'.S”ridd a glass of warmed port wine, and you, ducks will be ready to caive.BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 245 4. Brunswick Budding.—Cover a dish with puff paste ; spread it witli marmalade or raspberry jam the third of an inch thick; put 8 yolks and 4 whites of eggs in a pan with a ^ lb. of butter, and 6 oz. of lump sugar bruised; stir the whole on a slow fire ten minutes; when cold, put it in the dish, and bake. A custard poured over the fruit and baked makes an excellent pudding. AUGUST 24. ‘ The two powers which constitute a wise zvoman, are those of bearing and forbearing! —Epictetus. 1. Julienne Soup. 3. Vegetables, French Beans. 2. Haunch of Venison. 4. Winkin de Wordes Pudding. I. Julienne Soup.—Put 2 oz. butter into a saucepan; when it begins to melt, add an onion chopped very fine, and a spoonful of flour; stir together till it is quite red; then put in parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, onions, lettuce, bruised peas and haricots, sorrel, chervil, turnips chopped up together. Place the saucepan on the stove, and simmer for an hour, stirring often to prevent burning; and when of a light brown, put in 3 quarts of veal broth ; let it boil and skim; afterwards add some thyme, bay leaves, garlic, and parsley tied up together, and let them remain. An hour before serving, add peas reduced to a pulp, a pinch of pepper, a little salt, and half a spoonful of brown sugar. Use plenty of leeks, but only the white part, and do not put in the stalks of the carrots. 2. Haunch of Venison.—This joint is trimmed by cutting off part of the knuckle and sawing ofif the chine bone ; then the flap is folded over; and It is covered with a paste made of flour and water. This paste should be about an inch thick. Tie it up in strong and very thick paper, and place it in a cradle spit very close to the fire till the paste is well hardened or crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot dripping over it occasionally to prevent the paper from catching fire. Then move it farther from the fire ; take care that your fire is a very good one, clear and strong. When the venison has roasted for about four hours, take it up, remove the paper and paste, and run a thin skewer in to see if it is done enough. If the skewer goes in easily, it is dressed; if not, put it down again, as it depends greatly on the strength of the fire for so large a joint. When it is dressed, glaze the top and salamander it. Put a n round the knuckle, and serve very hot with strong gravy. Red currant jelly in a glass dish or a tureen. 4. de Wordes Budding.—One lb. of marrow, 1 lb. of sugar i lb. of bread-crumbs, 4_lemons, and 8 eggs. ^ ’ fix the marrow with the sugar, bread-crumbs, peel of the lemons246 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. grated, and the juice strained. Beat the yolks and the whites of the e-gs separately, and add them to the other ingredients, and boil it m a°basin or mould for eight hours. A small one can be made witli a quarter of the quantity, and boiled for two hours. AUGUST 2B. ‘ Neither a borrower nor a lender be ; For loan oft loseth both itself and friend. And borrowing dulls the edge Shakspeare. 1. Gravy Soup. 2. Hash Venison. 3. Vegetables. 4. Matrimonial Pudding. I. Gravy W.—Put the gravy beef, lbs., and the veal,_22 lbs., into a well-tinned copper stock-pot, with 2 oz._ of butter; set it ov^r a hotplate, and cover it tightly over to keep in the steam nroperlv drawn down. You will know when it is sufficiently dra^^ by ?he^sme^ll, which resembles a delicately-roasted joint, the butter frying Ihe meat’; then add the water made very hot, the carr^s cut smffil. die onions turnips, celery, bunch of thyme and pars ey, Zee the salt, and lumps of sugar. Half cover the stock-pot wi h the lid but by no means cover it wholly, as all the steam must be aWd to ’evaporate, or the stock will imbibe a coarse flavour and become thick; let it simmer gently for seven hours, “ f through a sieve into a pan, and heat it when required for use, addm„ some cold roast venison mto nice the stewpan to the side of the when thoroughly serve it up, widi red cjr-ntjeUy g Garnish with forcemeat-balls about the size of a marffi^^^^ ^ 4. Mairitnonial Fudding.—yii^ 6 J ’ g^gg^ce of almonds spongecakes, 4 pints of ^ '"'it^^^to be baked for half an hou t-rs hi™: wLSanI finTp-nded or ground, may be substitute for the essence of almonds, if preferred.BILL OF BABE FOB AUGUST. 247 AUGUST 2 6, Life's choicest blessings centre all in koine.'—COWPER. 1. Salmon (middle piece). 2. Haricot of Mutton, 3. Vegetables. 4. Lemon Pudding. 1. Salmon {middle piece).—Boil slowly in salt and water. Salmon should be put into warm water, which makes it eat firmer. Boil gently. Serve on a napkin. Sauce: lobster, shrimp, or plain melted butter, and parsley. 2. Haricot of Mutton.—Make a good gravy by boiling the rough bits and trimmings, seasoning it with pepper and salt and a little ketchup. Strain, and add carrots, parsnips, onions, and celery, previously boiled tender slice them in; then pepper and salt your mutton, broil it brown, put it into the gravy along with the vegetables, and stew all together for about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Garnish with small pickles. 4. Lemon Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs j add 4 oz. of white sugar, rubbing some of the lumps on the rind of a lemon to take out the essence; boil the rind till it is soft, changing the water to free it from bitterness; then beat it in a mortar with the juice of a lemon 3 mix all with 4 or 5 oz. of butter melted. Put a paste into a shallow dish, mark the edges, put the mixture into it, and bake it. Slide it carefully out of the dish upon another, before sending it to table. * Dost thee love me ? Keep me then still worthy to be loved. ’—SiR Philip Sydney. 1. Boiled Brill.—Clean the fish, cut off the fins, and rub over with a little lemon-juice to preserve its whiteness. Put it in water (cold) suffi- cient to cover it (having ^ lb. of salt and a little vinegar to each gallon of water), and bring it gradually to boil. Simmer very gently till done, which will be in about ten minutes; if a small fish, from the time the water begins to simmer—if the brill is thick, it will take longer; but the cook must remember that all fish must be thoroughly dressed. Place a hot napkin on the dish, and garnish with cut lemon, parsley, horseradish; and, when there is lobster sauce, a little of the coral sprinkled over the fish. 2. Boast Foivl—When the fowls are trussed for roasting, singe them carefully and wipe them clean; put a piece of buttered paper over the AUGUST 2 7. 1. Boiled Brill. 2. Roast Fowl. 3. Vegetables. 4. Patty-pan Puddings.248 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. breasts, and roast them at a clear fire, keeping them frequently basted. Just before they are done remove the paper, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter warmed in the basting-ladle until they are nicely browned and have a frothy appearance. Then place them on a hot dish, pour a little brown gravy over them, and serve the remainder in a tureen with another of bread sauce. 4. Patty-pan Puddings.—Slice \ lb. of white bread ; put in a howl with 6 oz. of butter; pour i pint of boiling milk upon it, and let it stand uncovered; when cool, work well with a spoon, then add 6 oz. of sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, a little mace or nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, a little salt, and lb. of currants well cleaned and dried. Bake in cups or patty-pans, well buttered, in a quick oven; then turn them out on a dish, and serve them up with melted butter or sweet sauce. AUGUST 2 8. * Since trifles make the sum of human things, And half our misery from those trifles springs. Oh ! let the ungentle spirit learn from thence, A small unkindness is a great ofl'ence ; To give rich gifts, perhaps, vje -wish hi vain. But all may shun the guilt of giving pain.’—ll. More. 1. Boiled Eels. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. Onion Sauce. Carrots. I Boiled Eels.—T\i& small eels are the best. Do them m sufficient water to cover them; add a bunch of parsley; when tender, they are done. Serve them up in a shallow tureen, with parsley and buttered sauce poured over them. . ,, 3 Lion Sauce.-Choose Spanish onions for sauce when obtainable^ Skin 4 large common or 2 Spanish onions ; cut them in quarters, an Lw\hei into cold water; drain and set them on the fire m cod water When they boil, draw them on one side to steii till tender, drain'through a colander, and, when pressed d^. the colander and return to the saucepan; dredge a 1 ri h ot hand, keeping the onion well stirred with the other to prevent lumps forming ; stir in a piece of butter the this is well incorporated, pour in a tea-spoonful sauce well. Add a little salt. The sauce should be of the consisten ct^rLxake 6 or 8 large carrots; clean, scrape, and cut them in rout slices. Put a os. of butter in a stewpan, with a table-spoon u of r^inced parsley, the same of onion, a little salt and nutmeg; add the249 BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. carrots; shake them well over the fire, and when they have absorbed the butter, pour in half a pint of weak broth, and simmer till tender. Brown a table-spoonful of flour, and add to it the carrots; fry bread, cut in dice. Dish the vegetable, and put the fried bread amongst it. Roast pork or sausages fried is the favourite meat to be eaten with this dish of carrots. •—0— AUGUST 2 9. * It is the sole prerogative of Heaven Not to be tainted with the smallest error ; But that immunity was never given iTo earth. Wise Solomon, be thou the mirror , Where all may see their frailties, e'en with terror t Thou, moving m perfection's highest, sphere. Fellfrom thy orb ! Who hath not cause forfear ?'—Francis Hubert. 1. Abbotsford Soup. I 3. Cauliflowers. 2. Roast Loin of Pork. ‘ 4. Orange Pudding. 1. Abbotsford Soup.—Cut a pound of gravy beef into very small pieces; put them into a half-gallon jar; fill it up with every description of vegetables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least six hours. 2. Roast Lorn of Pork.—Take a loin of pork of about 5 lbs., and score it with a very sharp knife at equal distances; place it at a good distance from the fire to prevent the skin from becoming hard, and baste it very frequently all the time. When done, make a little gravy in the dripping-pan, pour it round the meat, and serve with apple sauce in a tureen. A loin of pork may be stuffed with sage and onion, or the stuffing baked and served separately. 3. ^ Cauliflowers. Cut up L of ham or lean bacon, i onion, i turnip, and a little celery; put them in a stewpan with 4 oz. of butter; stir over a sharp fire for twenty minutes until a whitish glaze is formed; have 4 middling-sized cauliflowers thoroughly boiled and finely chopped, and add them to the contents of the stewpan, with a pint of water; stew till all is quite tender, then mix smoothly 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in a little water, and stir in. Put 2 quarts of white stock and i pint of milk, and keep it stirring until it boils. Season with salt and sugarrub the whole through a fine hair sieve, and boil up again for five minutes, and serve with fried bread. 4. Orange Budding.—Makt a light paste, and roll out to the extent, you require. Take the oranges, slice them with the rinds on, removing- carefully the pips or seeds from the pulp. Place a layer of fruit, wellTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 250 sugared, within one side of the paste, and turn it over the fruit, and repeat the same course until the whole of the slices are disposed of. Fold the paste up at each end, so as to secure the syrup. Boil it in a pudding-cloth. AUGUST SO. Daughter, the happiness of life depends On our discretion, and a prudent choice : Look unto those they call unfortunate, Atid, closer viewed, you'll find they were unwise. Some flaw in their own conduct lies beneath ; And 'tis the trick of fools, to save their credit. Which brought another language into Young. 1. Fried Eels. 2. Hashed Heart. 3. Vegetables. 4, Salford Plum-pudding. I. Fried Eels.—Prepare and wash the eels, wipe them thoroughly dry, and dredge over them a very little flour. If large, cut them mto pieces of about four inches long 3 brush them over with egg; dip them into bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot fat. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped mto egg and bread-crumbs. Serve them up garnished with fried parsley. ^ • i -d . 2 Hashed Heart.—QvX the meat into slices, not too thick. Put what remains of the stuffing, jelly, etc., into sufficient beef-gravy to cover the meat 3 warm this up quickly, and when it is quite hot, put in the slices 3 but, if you suffer the sauce to boil, you will render the mea too hard for mastication. _ r a . 4. Salford Flum-fiudding.—'R.db \ lb. of butter into i lb. of flour, add I lb. of currants, i lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of raisins stoned an cut a little, the grated rind of a lemon, 6 well-beaten eggs, a little mace or nutmeg, 8 oz. of sugar, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon sliced, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it up quite stiff 3 boff m a floured cloth five hours. Serve with sweet sauce. _ This pudding wuU keej several months if boiled six hours, tied up in a- folded in a sheet of cap paper to keep out the dust a ter 1 is - When to be used, put it into a clean cloth, and boi a half.BILL OF FARE FOR AUGUST. 2S» AUGUST 31. ' Lo, the lilies of the field, Horw their leaves instruction yield I Hark to Nature's lesson given By the blessed birds of Heaven ! Every bush and tufted tree Warbles sweet philosophy. Mortal, flee from doubt and sorrow, Godprovideth for the morrow.'—Heber. 1. Carp, 2. Hashed Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Sterry Pudding. 1. Carp.—Clean and dry the fish, flour them well, put them in the pan, and fry them of a light brown j lay them on a cloth to drain, and fry some three-cornered pieces of bread and the roes. Serve the caq) with the roes on each side of the dish; garnish it with the fried bread and lemon in slices, and make anchovy sauce, with the juice of a lemon added, to eat with it. 2. Hashed Beef.—Put the gravy of the meat into a stewpan, with a pint of water, a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, half an onion chopped very fine, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne; boil for about ten minutes; dip out a cupful of the liquid, and rub a table-spoonful of flour in it; then stir it well into the stewpan, and let all boil for ten minutes. Pass it through a sieve, return it to the pan, put in the slices of beef, and, just before taking up, throw in half a wine-glass of Tarragon vinegar. 4. Sterry Pudding.—To i lb. of bread-crumbs pour i pint of boiling milk ; cover with a plate for an hour, then stir in 4 oz. of butter, 6 eggs well beaten, i lb. of raisins stoned, i lb. of currants, lemon-peel, mace or nutmeg, and sugar to taste ; boil it three hours. If you wish to add a little flour, boil an hour longer. A large spoonful of potato flour is a great improvement.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 252 DESSERT FOR TFIE MONTH OF AUGUST. Baskets of fresh fruits or flowers tastefully arranged to decorate the middle of the table. 1. Stone Fruits a l’Espagnole, 2. Greengage Marmalade. 3. Compote d’Oranges A l’Itali- ENNE. 4. Royal Rice Cake. 5. Macarons de Hollande. 6. Compote de Pruneaux. 7. Compote de Citrons. 8. Saffron Cake. 9. Biscuits a la Creme. 10. Glaces de Creme aux Amandes. I. STONE FRUITS A l’eSPAGNOLE. Take either plums, apricots, small peaches or damsons ; prick them very well with a needle, and completely cover them with, the best brandy. Let them steep in this for ten days, then drain them, and pour upon them refined sugar boiled to almost a candy height, and tie it well down. 2. greengage marmalade. Put your stoned fruit into a jar, and bake it until it will pulp easily. Pass it through a sieve, and to every pint of pulp add 12 oz. of fine loaf sugar; boil it down until it is of the required thickness. Put it into small pots to keep. 2 COMPOTE d’ORANGES A l’iTALIENNE. o* Carefully take away the rind and white skin from three good-sized sweet oranges, then divide them by pulling them asunder so as to leave them in their natural segments; remove the pips, lay the fruit in a glass dish, and pour over them the juice of three similar oranges, or an equivalent of white wine boiled with I lb. of loai sugar, and straine together for twenty minutes ; put it into small moulds or paper cases, glaze the tops, and bake for a quarter ot an hour. 4. ROYAL RICE CAKE. misk the yolks of 15 eggs for half an hour then heat in 10 os. of loaf sugar finely powdered and sifted; add a table-spoonful of brand, the grated rind of a lemons, and i lb. of nee flour. Mtx th«e thing well together, and stir in the whites of ; eggs that have been beaten for253 DESSERT FOR A UGUST an hour. Put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for rather more than an hour in a tolerably quick oven, 5. MACARONS DE HOLLANDE. Blanch and beat to a paste a pound of Jordan almonds, mixing with them the white of an egg and a wine-glassful of the best Hollands; add I lb. of loaf sugar powdered and sifted, and the whisked whites of 4 eggs. Stir all well together; make the paste into balls as large as a walnut, place them on wafer paper, and bake for ten minutes. 6. COMPOTE DE PRUNEAUX. Take sufficient dried French prunes for the purpose, put them into an earthen pipkin, with enough cold water to cover them; set them, over a moderate fire, and let them do slowly until they feel soft to the touch j then add the same weight of loaf sugar as you had of fruit, a glass of port wine, and a little cinnamon. Simmer this slowly for some time longer; strain the prunes from the syrup, reduce the latter, being very particular to skim it thoroughly. When cool enough, pour it over your fruit, which should be arranged in a compotier, or deep glass dish. It is almost needless to observe that compotes are only served cold. 7. COMPOTE DE CITRONS. Perfectly remove the rind and pellicle from 2 or 3 fresh lemons, cut them into rather thin slices and take out the pips. Put the fruit into a strong syrup made with 12 oz. of loaf sugar, a tea-cupful of water, and a tea-cupful of either white currant or apple jelly. Simmer it gently for some minutes; take up the lemon, arrange it in a dessert-dish, and, when sufficiently cooled, pour over it the syrup. 8. SAFFRON CAKE. Make a strong infusion of saffron in i pint of new milk, which is done by placing the saffron and milk in a cool oven for some time. Strain it, and with one-half put a tea-cupful of yeast, in the other half melt 6 oz. of fresh butter; mix the latter with 2 lbs. of dried flour, add the yeast, 4 eggs well beaten, 4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar, 4 oz. of candied orange-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of powdered ginger. Let It stand for a little while to rise; work it well together, put it into a buttered hoop, and bake it for not quite an hour. When done andTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 254 become cold, it may be thickly iced. In many parts of England this is called an Easter cake, from being eaten at that period. 9. BISCUITS A LA CREME. Take the whites of 8 eggs; beat them to a snow; mix with them 10 oz. of powdered and sifted loat sugar, a spoonful of orange-flower water, and a quart of very thick cream whipped as thick as possible. Stir this gently with one hand, and with the other dredge in 6 oz. of dried flour. Either bake it as small biscuits or in the form of a cake. In the latter case, first thickly butter your mould, and then sift sugar into it; shake out the loose sugar, put in the cake, glaze the top, and bake for an hour and a half. 10. GRACES DE CREME AUX AMANDES. Blanch and beat to a paste ^ lb. of sweet almonds, and 2 lbs. of bitter almonds; add a little orange-flower water, otherwise they may turn oily. Put them into a skillet with 5 oz. of powdered loaf sugar and the yolks of 8 large eggs ; mix well together, and, by degrees, pour in a quart of thick cream. Stir it gently over a slow fire until it is almost ready to boil, then strain it; let it grow cold, and ice itSEPTEMBER 1. ‘ I live for those who love 7ne,— Whose hearts are kind and true ; For the Heaven that stniles above tne, And awaits my spirit too ; For all human ties that bind me ; For the task by God assigned me ; For the bright hopes left behind me, Atid the good that I can do.'—Bernard Barton, PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Pork—Lamb—Beef—Veal—Mutton, Poultry : Chickens—Geese—Fowls—Larks—Ducks—Pullets—Turkeys —Teal Pigeons. Game : Grouse—Blackcock—Partridges-Buck Venison—Hares—Rabbits—Phea- sants. Fish: Cod—Bloaters—Carp—Eels—Brill—Flounders—Mullet—Lobsters—Herrings —Prawns—Oysters—Skate —Plaice — S oles —Turbot —Whitebait — Whitine— Salmon. Vegetables : Asparagus—Beans—Carrots—Cabbage Sprouts—Artichokes—Celery —Omons—Lettuces — Mushrooms — Peas —Sea Kale — Potatoes—Sprouts— Salading—Vegetable Marrows—Turnips—Tomatoes—Various Herbs. FRUITS IN SEASON. Filberts—Damsons—Bullaces —Figs — Morello Cherries — Grapes — Mulberries — Melons Pears—W alnuts—Plums—N ectarines—Peaches—Quinces. 1. Fried Salmon. 2. Vegetables. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak. 4. Lemon Cheesecakes. 1. Fried Salmon.—Cut slices of salmon, sprinkle them with salt, and let them lie for a quarter of an hour; flour them, brush them over with yolk of egg well beaten up, and fry them in boiling salad oil. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak.—(Zo\^ roast veal, divested of the outside skin, cut into bits about an inch long, with the white parts only o cauliflowers, previously dressed, and also cut up small; these warmed up in a frying-pan, in ^ pint of cream, and seasoned with a sliHit 265256 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, will be found a very delight- ful dish. 4. Lemon Cheesecakes.—To ^ lb. of butter put a lb. of loaf sugar broken into small pieces, 6 eggs, leaving out 2 whites, the rind of 3 lemons and the juice; put them all into a pan, and let them simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken like honey. ^Vhen cold, put it into sweetmeat pots for use; cover with brandy-paper. When made into cheesecakes, add grated sweet biscuits. SEPTEMBER 2. ‘ Seven hours to work, to soothing slumber seven, Tm to the world, and all to Heaven.'—Sir W. Jones. 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 2. Brown Minced Veal. 3. Vegetables. 4; Carrot Pudding. I. Mock Turtle Soup.—Have a calf’s head with the skin on; let it be nicely cleansed from hair. Saw the head in two, take out the brains, chop off the nostril-bones, and put the head into a, pan of lukewarm water with a little salt to draw out the blood; let it soak for an hour or two, then pour off the water, fill up with fresh, and wash it clean. Put it into a pot that will hold it conveniently; cover it well with clean water, and set it on to boil; take off all the scum carefully, and boil gently until tender; but it must not be too much done, as it has to be Liled again in the soup. Take all the meat from the bones, and cut it into pieces three-quarters of an inch square ; peel and trim the tongue, and cut it into pieces the same size. Place the whole on a dish, and put it in the larder until wanted. r , e -c If the head is large, take 2 knuckles of veal and a leg of beef; it small, or only half a head is required, a knuckle of veal and a shin o beef will be enough, and a knuckle or two of ham. Rub the bottom o a large stewpan or a stock-pot well over with butter. Cut the ham into thin slices and place it in the stewpan; on this put the veal, and the the beef cut small, with the trimmings of the head and an proceed as for brown consommk, using the liquor in which t e was boiled to moisten it with; let the meat be well ^ water if there is not sufficient broth for this purpose. Wh^ f ^ scummed, add a bunch of turtle herbs, viz. :-marjoram and b^sil (these must predominate), a little thyme -d 'vm“ ^BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 257 cut into dice, 5 or 6 onions cut small, and a bunch of turtle herbs for the stock, and some mushroom trimmings. Let the whole sweat over a slow fire, stirring it occasionally, to prevent burning, until the onions are done; then stir in sufficient flour to make a nice roux, and moisten it gradually with the stock, that the sauce may be smooth; add sufficient to make the sauce rather thinner than melted butter; let it simmer by the side of the stove to throw up the grease, which skim off carefully. Pass the sauce through a tammy into a clean soup-pot; add the head, with some blanched forcemeat and egg-balls; simmer gently until the meat is well done; season it with salt and a little cayenne pepper; add the juice of 2 lemons. Add a pint of warmed Madeira or sherry wine when served. Note.—The flavour of the herbs will be best obtained by putting them into a separate stewpan, with a portion of the stock, to digest at the corner of the stove, instead of putting them in with the butter. 2. Brown Minced Veal.—Cut the meat off the bones, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; stew till you have about ^ pint of liquor left. Whilst the gravy is drawing, chop the meat, both fat and lean, small; season \vith pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a little peel as before directed; add a tea-spoonful of mushroom ketchup; warm it up in the same manner as the white mince, and garnish with sippets. 4. Caj'rot Pudding.—Stone J lb. of raisins, and mix them with the same quantity of dried currants and chopped suet. Scrape 4 oz. of carrot and the same of potato, and mix with a dessert-spoonful of sugar, a little salt and nutmeg; boil in a basin four hours. Dish and serve hot, with brandy sauce. I. Chicken Gravy Soup.—While your chickens are roasting, baste them thoroughly. When ready to dish up, take out the chickens from_ the pan in which they have been cooking; pour into the pan pints of boiling hot water, and stir well all the drippings with the water ; set it on the stove or range ; make a little flour thickening and pour It into the gravy; boil it up once. Have ready the giblets and iver, which you must have previously cooked tender in water and SEPTEMBER 3. ‘ Let constant vigilance thy footsteps guide. And -wary circumspection guard thy side. Then shalt thou walk unharmed.'—Gav. 1. Chicken Gravy Soup. 2. Roast Fowls. 3. Vegetables. 4. Victoria Pudding.258 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. chopped fine. Strain the gravy, and then put in the chopped giblets; serve hot, and you will find it very nice. 4, Victoria Pudding.-lNx\%& in a pint of new milk \ lb. of vanilla, cut into short lengths and bruised; or, if any other flavour be pre- ferred use bitter almonds, lemon, noyeau, etc. Simmer them gently tocrether for twenty minutes, and strain the milk through muslin to i pint of cream; put these again on the fire m a clean saucepan, with •’ oz. of fine sugar, and pour them, when they boil, to the beaten yolks of 8 very fresh eggs. Stir the mixture often until it is nearly or quite cold and boil it as gently as possible for an hour in a well-buttered mould or basin that will just hold it. Let it stand five minutes before it is turned out; dish it carefully; strew and garnish thickly with branches of preserved barberries, or serve with a rich syrup of fresh fruit, or with clear fruit jelly melted. —0— SEPTEMBER 4. ‘ Ev'n in the happiest choice, when fav'ring Heaven Has equal love and easy fortune given. Think not the husband gained, that all is done. The prize of happiness must still be won: ^ And oft the 'careless find it to their cost. The lover in the husband may be lost; The graces might alone his heart allure They and the virtues meeting, must secure.’—Lo-Ry) Lyttleto. I. Mulligatawny. Salmi of Wild Duck. j. Irish Stew. 4. Pain de Pomme. I. Mul/igatawny.—CleRn and cut up a fowl or rabbit into joints as for curry. ' Put them into a stewpan with J lb. of butter and 2 onions cut in thin slices ; fry of a light brown over a brisk fire ; add a tarile-spoon- ful of curry powder, the same of flour, or, if the soup is required thick a Ihtle more, and stir the whole together; pour in gradually from 3 pints to 2 quarts of veal consomme, and let the whole simmer y S^of the stove until the fowl or rabbit is done. Skim off the grease, take out the members and trim them neatly; pass the sauce throug a ste o taLy; return the best pieces to it; season wi* a little salt anTn^il hot for serving. A dish of boiled rice should be alwajs P*".he will duch. pur on .he cover, nrahe259 BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. thoroughly hot, and send it to table in the dish. If you have not a chafing-dish, stew it in a stewpan, and serve it on a hot dish, and pour over it a sauce made thus : One glass of port wine or claret, sauce i la Riisse I table-spoonful, i of ketchup, i of lemon-juice, i slice of lemon- peel, I large slice of shalot, 4 grains of cayenne pepper. Scald, strain, and add the above to the gravy which comes from the bird in roasting. The bird should be cut up in the silver dish which has a lamp under it, while the sauce is simmered with it 3. Irish Stew.—Cut the fat off half a dozen mutton-chops; peel and divide into quarters 2 lbs. of potatoes \ peel and cut into slices 2 good- sized onions; mix two-thirds of a tea-spoonful of salt with one-third of soluble cayenne, rub the chops over with this on both sides. Place part of the potatoes at the bottom of a stewpan, and lay the chops on the vegetables, covering with the remainder; pour in water till both are covered. You may use veal stock or mutton broth, if you have it made, instead of water. Set your stewpan on a slow fire for two hours, now and then lifting the cover and pouring off the water attached 4. Pain de Pomme.—'S,6\\ a dozen dumpling apples till they are soft, peel and core them, break them up, and force the pulp through a coarse sieve; mix this with twice its weight of dough; make the whole into small loaves, and bake in a slow oven. to it. —0— S E PTEM BE R 3. Costly thy habit as thy purse cau huy^ But not expressed infancy : rich, not gaudy.'~S,\\K&%YE.kVi^ 1. Cabbage Soup. 2. Beef Bouilli. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bakewell Pudding. 1. Cabbage Soup.—T\iei night before you intend making your cut a white or savoy cabbage (the latter preferable) into four quarterz6o THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. tureen, with sippets of French roll (the French mode), or with toasted bread as in other soups. , r r i, t, <• tj tntr. 2 Beef Bouil/L—Tak^ 6 or 8 lbs. of round of fresh beef. Put it into a soup pot with the remains of cold roast beef, bones and all, to enrich the Javy : season with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient water to cover well; boil slowly, and skim well. When the scum ceases to nse, have ready half a dozen large carrots ; cut them in pieces, and pu them in first, afterwards 6 turnips quartered, a head of celery cu^mal, dozen parsnips cut in pieces, and 6 whole onions. Let it boil tiU the puff paste, raspbeny or any other pre^ serve, yolks and whites of 8 eggs warmed ; sweeten it to your ta^e, and beat ah well together. Lay a puff paste round a dish, pour in the m ture, and bake it a light brown. SEPTEMBER 6. ‘ TAe heart of a young woman in l<rve is a golden sanctuary which often enshrines an / 7 ,-^,;^/,/«y.>_PAULINLlMAYRAC. 1. Oyster Omelet. 2. Stewed Brisket of Beef, 3. Vegetable Marrow. 4. Baked Arrowroot Pudding. I. Oyster Omelet—the liquor from 25 large oysters or 40 small ones ; chop shallow pan, 6, 7, or » eggs, accuiuuia j chopped out half the whites. Having beaten the eggs well, mix in the oUoppe out halt toyvnu „ “ ^e pepper and nutmeg, if you like that Put , cz of t best butter tato a frying-pan, let it cotne to a IXpour in fte cn.elet mixture, stir it till U be£ns m harden 1 fty u a - i( .sr be .ougb; “ve 1—This quantity trill ntalte one large, or ttvo smaller omelets. the part with the hard fat into a stew- 2. Sfewel Brisket of B /. thoroughly potwitha small quantity of water peppercorns. Stev Then add carrots, celery, aTd remove all the fa' till very tender, then take out t e a ^yj-een or the soup alone from the soup. Serve that and the ^eat followinj and the meat on a dish garnished ^ i pint of th( ;::Ta7a-"inT^^^ r7t’71nTourit round .ho meat Chop capers, walnutBILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 2C1 pickled cucumber, red cabbage, and chives or parsley, small, and put in separate heaps over it. 3. Vegetable Marrow.—Choose a fine marrow, and boil it in salt and water from twenty to thirty minutes, according to size. The best pot to boil it in is a mackerel-kettle, because it can be lifted out on the strainer easily. Take up the marrow when cooked, keep it on the strainer over the hot water, and scrape off all the skin very carefully. Cut the marrow in half lengthwise, and then across; remove all the seeds, and let it drain, keeping it hot during the process. Have a large slice of toasted bread buttered and cut into four pieces; place on each a part of the marrow, and smother with white sauce. It forms a delicate and nice supper dish by itself. If preferred, thin toasted sippets may take the place of the buttered toast. 4. Babel Arrowroot Pudding.—Mix into a rather thick smooth batter 3 spoonfuls of arrowroot with a little cold milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a clean saucepan with the peel of half a lemon, and sugar to taste. When it boils, strain it gradually into the batter, stirring it all the time, adding a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When nearly cold, stir in 3 well-beaten eggs, and pour the whole into a pie-dish, round which has been placed a border of puff paste. Grate a little nut- meg over the top, and bake it in a moderate oven. If boiled, it will take the same time, about one hour. —0— SEPTEMBER 7. ' Husband and-wife should no more struggle to get the last word, than they would struggle for the possession of a lighted bomb-shell. Married people should study each others weak points, as skaters look after the weak parts of the ice, in order to keep off them. By attention to this apparently small matter, the course of wedded life will run more smoothly, and thus ensure happiness.'—Dr. Parr. 1. Cray-Fish Soup. 2. Roast Partridges. 3. Calf’s Liver a la Mode. 4. Vegetables. 5. Wafer Pancakes. I. Cray-fish Soup. Wash 50 or 60 river cray-fish; put them into a stewpan with some beef or fish stock, not enough to cover them; stir them over a brisk fire, without ceasing, for about a quarter of an hoJr, or until they are of a fine red, and take them out. Let them cool: pick the meat from the shells and the gut from the belly, that runs to the end ot the tail, which throw away; reserve the flesh from the tails and pound the rest with the shells and the crumb of a French roll, or a slice o oread fried quite brown and crisp, in a mortar, to a fine paste, using the broth (being first strained) in which they were boiled to moisten itTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 262 with. Rub all through a tammy, using between 2 and 3 quarts of broth to moisten the pulp. Let it boil about a quarter of an hour; add the tails cut in two ; colour the soup with some pounded lobster spawn as for sauce, or with a little red beetroot-juice. This is made by rasping or pounding the root, and squeezing the juice through a cloth. Season with salt and a little cayenne, and serve with fried bread cut m dice. Noie.—Y.\i& soup must not boil after the spawn is added. 2. Roast Partridges.—Pick, draw, singe, and clean them the same as fowls Make a slit in the neck and draw out the craw; twist the neck round the wing, and bring the head round to the side of the breast The legs and wings are trussed the same as fowls, only the feet are left on and crossed over one another. Put them down to a clear fire, and baste well with butter. When about half done, dust a little flour over them; let them be nicely browned. They will require to roast from twenty minutes to half an hour each. Serve on toasted bread dipped in the gravy, with gravy and bread sauce. TCalf's Liver i llMode.-K calfs liver, 7 or. of bacoo 4 or. of buter, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions, 6 cloves, i clove of 8“''0. a ca"oi 2 turnips, r wine-glass of brandy, . of wme, . table-spoonful of ^ After well'washing the calfs liver, soak it for a short time in cold water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon in the interior part of the liver; put it into a stewpan “ 2 of butter a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of Ice and a small onion stuck with 6 cloves, and fry it a nice brown; then'add 3 carrots. 2 turnips, an onion cut into wheels class of brMdy, with sufficient water to just cover the whole; baste glass 01 uicuiu^, clTTimer slowly for two hours, frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer siow y _ When done take out the liver and put it on a dish garnis ^ veaetabies, strain and skim the gravy, add the sauce and glass 0 wine, boil it to the quantity required, pour it over the liver, an serve with 2 large spoonfuls of tar cnLofcream t o of p^eredta^ on a dish with grated sugar between each pancake, sugar and a lemon.263 BTLL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. SEPTEMBER 8. "‘Now," is the constant syllable ticking from the clock of time. “Now," is the waichivord of the wise ; “ now," is on the banner of the prudent. Let us keep this little word always in our mind, and whenever anything presents itself in the shape of work, whether mental or physical, we should do it with all our might, remembering that “ now " is the only time for us.’—Dr. Parr. 1. Mulligatawny. 3. Vegetables. 2. Boiled Duck. 4. Rice and Apples. 1. Mulligatawny.—Prepare 2 fowls or rabbits. Use only the prime parts for the soup, cut into moderate-sized pieces. On particular occasions the flesh should be taken from the bones before it is served in the soup. Take 6 or 8 middling-sized onions, peel and chop them rather small; put them into a mortar, with lb. of butter, half a blade of ginger grated, half a nutmeg, and a small tea-cupful of India pickle. Pound the whole well, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of good curry powder and lb. of flour. The addition of a cocoa-nut grated or cut small and pounded with it will much improve the flavour. When reduced to a perfectly smooth paste, take it out into a clean stewpan, place it over the fire, and add gradually 2 quarts of good stock; mix well, and let it be perfectly smooth. Place it on the comer of the stove, to boil gently and throw up the grease; skim well, and add 2 quarts of veal or fowl consomme; pass the sauce through a tammy, or sieve, into a clean stew- pan ; add the prepared members of fowl or rabbit, and let the whole simmer gently for about half an hour. Season with a little salt, and serve with rice. 2. Boiled Duck.—A duck boiled, and smothered in onions, is a delicacy fit for the table of an empress. Twenty minutes is quite sufficient time, and be sure that the onions have been twice boiled before you make them into sauce. 4. Rice and Apples.—Boil the rind of a quarter of a lemon in a quart of milk for a few minutes; take out the peel \ boil 6 oz. of rice (sweetened to taste) till quite soft, then let it cool. Peel, quarter, and core 8 apples in ^ lb. of sugar and \ pint of water, and, when soft, put on a sieve to drain. Then in the centre of your dish put a middling-sized gallipot; lay the rice all round to the top of the gallipot, smoothing it with a spoon, then stick your apples in rows, one row sloping to the right, the other to the left. Put it in the oven to colour the apples; remove the gallipot, garnish the rice with preserved fruits, and in the middle pour boiled custard till level with the top of the rice Serve quite hot Lemon rind flavours custards deliciously, or a few drops of vanilla, Bet a pmt of milk, about 3 oz. of lump sugar, and 3 laurel leaves,?64 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. or rind of half a lemon, steep by the fire till well flavoured in an enamelled saucepan. Let it come to boiling point, and strain it Well whisk 5 eggs (if duck eggs, use 4), and when the milk is a little cooled, stir them in, and strain all into a jug., which place on a sauce- pan on the fire, and keep stirring one way until it thickens. It must not boil, or it will curdle and be full of lumps. Take it off the fire, and add I table-spoonful of brandy, mixing it well with the custard. —0— SEPTEMBER 9. * Religion ! providence t our after state ! Here is firm footing, here is solid rock , This can support us, all is sea besides. Sinks under us, bestows, and then devours. His hand the good man fastens on the skies. And bids earth roll, nor feels her idle whirl.'—Young, 1. Stewed Sturgeon. 3. Peas Pudding. 2. Boiled Leg of Pork. 4- Apple Pie. I. Stewed Sturgeon.—A good-sizfed slice of sturgeon, stewed for an hour over a slow fire, in a rich and well-seasoned beef gra\y, is an excellent dish. 3. Peas Pudding.—Pick and well wash the best split peas; tie them loosely in a cloth, and let them boil for two or three hours ; untie the cloth, and mash the peas with a wooden spoon till quite smooth ; put in a good lump of butter, and pepper and salt; tie up the pudding again, and boil it for another half-hour. 4. Afifile Pie.—YsiXQ, core, and cut into quarters 9 or 10 pippins or russet-coats ; pack them closely in a proper dish; add the peel of half a lemon chopped fine, half a dozen cloves, 2 table-spoonfuls of quince marmalade, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and enough rose-water to moisten the whole; put on a top crust of puff paste, and give it an hour and a quarter’s baking. This pie is best warm, but by no means to be despised when cold. —0— SEPTEMBER lO. ‘ Nature is frugal, and her wants are few ; Those few wants answered, brings sincere delights, But fools create themselves new appetites .'—^oxr&G. 1. Pork Broth. 4- Vegetables. 2. Boiled Fowl. S- Apple Pancakes. 3. Boiled Pork. I. Pork Broth.—Cut the fat off some 4 or half a dozen delicate pork chops, then separate the outward skin from the fat, and put it with t eBILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 265 bones and meat into a stewpan ; add a little rice whole, a few sweet herbs, some pepper and salt; let it simmer over a slow fire for an hour, skimming every ten minutes. Strain it before serving. 2. Boiled Fowl.—Beard and wash some oysters in their own liquor; stuff a young fowl, trussed for boiling, with them; sew securely the ends of the fowl, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar into a saucepan of boil- ing water. Let it boil for nearly one hour and three-quarters. Take the gravy that has flowed from it, add to it some oysters scalded in their own liquor, the yolks of 2 eggs and ^ pint of cream, and a blade of powdered mace. Stir this sauce all together till quite hot, but do not let it boil; put part in a sauce tureen, and part pour over the fowl. 5. Apple Pancakes.—Pare and cut some apples in thick slices, fry them in butter a light brown, keep them as whole as possible; when tender, take them out, melt some butter in the pan, and put in some batter as for a pancake, then put in a layer of apples, then a little more batter; fry a nice brown, and strew sugar on each pancake. SEPTEMBER 11, ‘ She who holds fast the golden mean. And lives contentedly between The little and the great. Feels not the wants that pinch the poor, Nor plagues that haunt the rich man's door, Embittering all his state.'—COWPER. 1. Baked Conger. 4. Vegetables. 2. Boiled Ducks. 5. Eve’s Pudding. 3. Onion Sauce. I. Baked Conger. Take such a piece of fine conger as would be chosen for boiling; make a stuffing, and stuff it as mentioned for boiled conger. Put it into a pie-dish or a baking-dish, with a pint of water; lay pieces of butter over the fish, flour it well, and put it into a moderate oven. Baste it often with the liquor while it is cooking, and when it is almost done, thicken the liquor with flour, just enough to correct any little richness that may float on the top of it, not more. Baked conger may be varied in many ways. It is very nice with potatoes baked under It 3 but as there must be liquor in the dish with which to baste the fish, to prevent the skin getting dry and hard, they will not brown on the outside. The gravy may be thickened with tomatoes, or with tomato sauce, and this is particularly nice. It may be taken from tlie liquor and eaten with dressed cucumber and early potatoes. It may be flavoured with, or eaten with, any sauce that is nice, and it will be excel-2 66 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. lent any way. A good flavouring, for a change, is a table-spoonful of' lemon-pickle, the same of walnut ketchup, and a dessert-spoonful of soy. 2. Ducks.—Choose a fine fat duck, salt it for two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth ; serve it with onion sauce, using milk instead of water in its preparation. 3. Onion Sauce.—The proportions for making this soup are as fol- lows : To a quart of beef gravy add i large onion, that has been previously boiled in three waters, and then finely chopped ; season with soluble cayenne and salt; put in the vegetables; let all simmer for an hour \ strain before serving. 5. Eve's Pudding.—?axo and chop 6 apples; take 6 oz. of finely- grated bread-crumbs, the same weight of picked and washed currants, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and quarter of a nutmeg finely powdered, 6 eggs beat up, a table-spoonful of lemon-peel cut very fine, and a tumbler of white wine. Mix well together; boil six hours. —0- SEPTEMBER 12. ‘ The tallest pine feels most the power Of wintry blasts : tlu loftiest tower Comes heaviest to the ground. The bolts that spare the mountain's side Bis cloud-clapt eminence divide,. And spread the ruin round.'—CoWPER. 1. Carrot Soup. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Curried Chicken. 1 4- Alice Pudding. 1. Carrot Soup.—liquor in which you have boiled mutton or veal, or a gravy drawn from beef bones, will make sufficient foundation for this excellent soup. Put a couple of quarts of either of these into a stewpan, then scrape 6 large carrots, and cut off the red portion; put that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, into the stewpan, cover down close, and set it near the fire, or on a very slow one, for two hours and a half; if you do not find the carrots quite soft by this tune, give them another half-hour’s simmering ; force the vegetables tlirough a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find that the pu p mixed with the liquor is too thick for soup, add more broth; season with salt and pepper to your taste. It must be warmed up again before sending to table. Serve with toasted bread. ^ .1 2. Curried Chicken.-'S^^ct a chicken and cut it up, dividing the legs and wings into small joints. Mix with \ oz of curry PO'^der i tab^ spoonful of flour, and roll the chicken m it Slice 2 onions, and r>BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 2C7 m the pan. ^ lightly in butter; add the chicken, and lightly brown that. Put it all together into a stewpan, with sufficient water to just cover it. Simmer very gently for one hour. If made of dressed fowl, use gravy instead of water; but the curry made of a raw fowl is much richer. Serve with boiled rice prepared in the Indian way, 4. Alice Pudding.—Pour i pint of boiling milk upon 3 oz. of grated bread, ^ lb. of butter, and 4 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; add the rind of a large lemon, and sugar to thste. Place any sort of preserve at the bottom of a tart-dish; pour the above over, and bake. ■—0- SEPTEMBER 13. ‘ Divine authority within your breast Brings every thought, word, action to the test; Warjis you or prompts, approves you w* resBains, As Reason or as Passion takes the reins. Heaven fro7>i above, a)id Cottsciencefrom within, Ci'ies hi his startled ear, “ Abstain from sin." '—COWPER. 1. Cod. 3. Vegetables. 2. Fricandeau OF Veal. 4. Custard Pudding. 1. Cod.—The cod being thoroughly cleansed, a little salt should be mbbed over the thick part and inside of the fish, about an hour or two before dressing. Put sufficient water into the fish-kettle just to cover the fish; add a little salt, the proportion being 5 oz. of salt to every gallon of water; bring the water gradually to the boil, then skim care- fully, and let the fish simmer till done; take it out, drain it, serve on a hot napkin garnished with horseradish and sliced lemon. The sauce should be oyster sauce and plain butter. 2. Fricatideau of Veal.—Let the veal be well larded, and place it in the stewpan with the larded side uppermost; then add 2 large tumblers of water, 2 carrots in slices, 2 onions also sliced, a bunch of parsley, and a couple of cloves. Boil slowly for three hours and a half. Brown the veal with a red-hot salamander before serving, and add some stewed mushrooms. 4. Custard Pudding.—Two large spoonfuls of fine rice flour, a little salt, 6 eggs well beaten, some cinnamon, sugar to taste, and a pint of cream or new milk; stir it well, put in a cloth well floured, and boil tnree quarters of an hour; move it about some minutes after it is put268 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Custard Pudding. 2. Partridges. •SEPTEMBER 14. ‘ Speak not but what might benefit yourself or others; avoid trifling conversation'— Dr. Franklin. 1. Koasl Boned Leg of Mutton.—Procure a nice small leg of mutton, and remove the bone carefully; make a good veal forcemeat (to which about 3 oz. of ham or bacon must be added), and fill up the hole from whence the bone has been taken with it; cover the skin over, and sew it neatly up to secure the forcemeat Tie it round, and roast it for about three hours before a bright, clear fire. When it is done, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, and place round it some good brown gravy. 2. Partridges.—They will be all the. better for having been drawn as soon after they have come to hand as possible. Abstain from the common custom of sticking one leg through the other, as it renders the carving difficult. A good rich gravy sauce is essential with partridge, which, with all its flavour, is a very dry-meated bird. 3. Vegetables.—Take a bunch of turnips; pare, and, by the aid of a vegetable-cutter, form them into fanciful shapes. Boil till tender in weak broth, strain as dry as possible, and cover with white sauce, pu^ ting toasted sippets round the dish, unless served w'ith meat, then omit the sippets. jSfote.—Turnips eat best mashed. The best mode to dry them is to squeeze them in a delicately clean cloth, and to add to the butter used a little cream and flour; if stirred over the fire after this admixture, they can be served in perfection, namely, white and dry. 4. Custard Pudding.—\i you cannot procure cream, boil pints of new milk, and when quite hot, thicken by stirring in finely-sifted flour; these must be well mixed, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel chopped very small, a gill of Cognac brandy or Madeira, and 5 eggs well beaten up. When all these have been properly stirred together, place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and give it half an hour’s baking in a moderately quick oven. 1. Roast Boned Leg of Mutton. 3. Vegetables.BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 26q SEPTEMBER IS. ‘ TTie pleasure which affects the human mind with the most lively and transporting touches, is the sense that %oe act m the eye of infinite wisdom, power, attd goodness that will crown our virtuous endeavours here with happiness hereafter ; large as our desires, and lasting as our immortal souls.'—Tillotson. 3. Yorkshire Pudding. I. Spitchcock Eds.—Take i or 2 large ones, leave the skin on, cut them in pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely. Wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, a very little sago, pepper, salt, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the sea- soning. Rub the gridiron with a piece of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. For sauce, serve with anchovy and butter. 3. Yorkshire Pudding.—Mix 5 spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk and 3 eggs well beaten. Butter the pan, which should be a square one. When browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes. Cut into square pieces to come to table. 5. Canton Pudding.—Mix well together the following ingredients :— ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, i lb. of beef suet minced fine, and ^ lb. of apples which have been pared, cored, and chopped small, 6 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, the juice and grated peel of i lemon, i pinch of salt; after well mixing, put it into a mould and boil four hours. SEPTEMBER 16. ‘ The soul reposing on assured relief. Feels herself happy amidst all her grief; Forgets her labour as she toils along. Weeps tears of joy, and bursts into a song.'—COWPER, I. Beef Soup. Take lbs. from a shin, or any other part of gravy beef, and make cuts in it with a knife so that the gravy may be ex- tracted easily; then put it into the stewpan with about 3 quarts of water. Chop ij lbs. of potatoes up fine, and add them with the green peas and the rice to the liquor. Let it all simmer for two hours and a half; then take out the meat, strain off the liquor, and rub the peas potatoes, and rice through a sieve. Cut 2 heads of celeiy into thin 1. Spitchcock Eels. 2. Roast Sirloin of Beef. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Canton Pudding. 1. Beef Soup. 2. Croquets of Beef. 3. Vegetables. 4. Welsh Pudding.270 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pieces about an inch and a half long, and put them into the soup ; add the pulped vegetables; pepper and salt to your taste, and stew it for another half hour, or until the celery is quite tender. When done, serve it with toasted bread cut into small pieces, and put into the tureen. 2. Croqtids of Beef.—Force and braize them, or take any which may be left from dinner; cut them in half or in slices; dip them in batter, and fry them, a nice brown in hot lard; dish them en miroton (in a circle, the half of one overlapping the other), and serve them with fried parsley in the centre, or with peas, French beans, or asparagus peas. 4. Welsh Pudding.—^ lb. of butter gently; beat with it the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs, 6 oz. of loaf sugar, and the peel of a grated lemon. Put a puff paste into a dish for turning out, pour in the above, and nicely bake it. SEPTEMBER 17. ‘ Some men would like a sprightly companion in marriage, but none a dissipated one; and all of them, to a man, dread a woman of expense.’—James Fok- DYCE, D.D. 1. Baked Haddock. 1 3- Vegetables. 2. Roast Goose. 1 4- Apple Charlotte. 1. Baked Haddock.—Ont haddock, some veal stuffing, bread-crumbs, and I egg. 2. Roast Goose.—picked, drawn, and singed the goose, cut off the head and neck, leaving sufficient skin to tie over the neck- bone. Take off the legs and wings at the first joint Stuff Avith chopped sage and onion, and a few bread-crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt Cut off the end of the vent, and make a slit sufficiently large to admit the rump through, in order to keep the stuffing in. Tie the skin of ffie neck securely to prevent the gravy from running out, and tie a string round the goose over the wings, and another over the legs. Paper the breast for a short time. Rub a few pieces of butter in the shoulders and back, to baste with; but, as it is naturally greasy, it will soon yield sufficient fat for that purpose. It will require full two hours roastmg. It should be well done. Serve it with plenty of gravy and apple sauce. 4 Apple Charlotte.—and cut up 18 good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sug^, _the fourth part of a nutmeg, 2 doves, the rind grated and strained juice of 2 lemons, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil and stir till in a malade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of .8 Savoy biscuits, butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in271 BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while hot, press it well in, cover with a dish, and let it remain in a cool place (or on ice) till firmly set. Turn out carefully; cover the top with Devonshire cream, or the juice of 2 lemons strained into ^ pint of thick cream, whipped with a whisk to a creamy froth, and serve at once. SEPTEMBER 18. ‘ Tivo gardeners, who were neighbours, had their crops of early peas killed by the frost. One of them came to condole with the other. Ah,” cried he, " how unfortunate! Do you know, neighbour, that I have done nothing but fret ever since ? But, bless me, yon seem to have a fine crop coming up ! what are these ?” “ Why, these are what I sowed immediately after my loss.” “ What! cosning up already ?” said the fretter. “ Fes,” replied the other ; “ while you were FRETTING, I was WORKING. ” ’ 1. Palestine Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Hare. 4. Spongecake Pudding. 1. Palesfme Soup.—Pare and cut into pieces 6 lbs. of Jerusalem artichokes, 3 turnips, i onion, and a head of celery; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender; then rub them through a sieve. If the puree be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk : boil all together again; add \ pint of good cream, or milk, and season it with a spoonful of sugar; pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot, with some fried bread separately, cut into very small dice. 2. Roast Hare.—After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean cloth, fill the belly with well-seasoned veal stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoulders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, and baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter. Just before it is done, dredge over it a little flour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. When done, take it up on a hot dish, remove the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. 4- Spongecake Pudding.—'SiO^k. some cakes in a little milk, and mix them with the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, a piece of butter, a very little loaf sugar, and i egg. Beat all together, and bake it in a quick ovem4. Marrow Pudding. 2 72 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOJV SEPTEMBER 19. ‘ Gol has made sunny spots in the heart; why should we exclude the light from them ? ’ —Haliburton. 1. Piirte of Game Pick all the flesh from the bones, put it into a mortar with a small bit of butter, pound it, and add a little crumb of bread soaked in consopijne. The bones should be put into some good ■ consomme to boil, with some spice, vegetables, and herbs, as the last; some of this broth should be used in the pounding. When sufficiently pounded, rub the whole through a sieve or tammy into a clean pot. Moisten with the broth in which the bones are boiled, using sufficient to make it about the consistence of hare soup. Place it on the comer of the stove, to get thoroughly hot without boiling. Season with cayenne and salt, and serve with fried bread cut in dice in the tureen. 2. Stewed Beefsteak.—Peel and chop 2 Spanish onions, cut into small parts 4 pickled walnuts, and put them at the bottom of a ste^vpan; add a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of walnut ditto, i of shalot, and i of Chile vinegar. See that the rump-steak be cut of a proper thickness, about three-quarters of an inch, and beat it flat with a rolling-pin; place the meat on the top of the onions, etc.; let it stew for one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes before serving up, throw in a dozen oysters, with their liquor strained through a fine sieve. 4. Marrow Pudding.—Blanch 8 oz. of sweet almonds, and beat them up in a mortar with a table-spoonful of rose-water; chop up 6 oz. of candied orange and citron; beat up the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and add a glass of sherry or Madeira to them ; shred very fine a lb. of beef marrow free from the minute bones, wash and pick lb. of currants, grate up the crumb of a French roll; these things done, boil a quart of cream, and whilst it is quite hot stir in the ingredients, mixing all well together. Rub the sides of a pie-dish with butter, put in the above materials, and bake for half an hour. Before serving, strew powdered sugar over the top. 1. Puree of Game Soup. 2. Stewed Beefsteak. 3. Vegetables.273 BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. SEPTEMBER 2 0. ‘ A noble heart, like the sun, throweth its greatest countenance in its lowest estate. ’— Sir P. Sidney. 1. Fried Conger. 4. Strawberry and Crumb 2. Hashed Beef. Pudding. 3. Vegetables. 1. Fried Conger.—Cut the conger into slices an inch and a half or two inches thick, or a little thicker, according to the size of the fish. This is the best way to cut conger for frying, and most other purposes for which it may require similar subdivision \ because by it the solid back of the fish and the richer under part go together, which they do not when collops are cut longitudinally. Cover the fish with egg and bread-crumbs, and fry it in plenty of fat, made to boil before the fish is putm. Take care that the frying-pan is perfectly clean, and that the fish is fried to a bright colour. Serve it with lemon to squeeze over it, plain melted butter, oyster sauce, shrimp sauce, or any sauce preferred.” 2. Hashed Beef.—Vnt the gravy of the meat into a stewpan, with a pint of water, a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup, half an onion chopped very fine, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and a third of soluble cayenne; boil for about ten minutes, dip out a cupful of the liquid, and rub a table-spoonful of flour in it, then stir it well into the stewpan, and let all boil for ten minutes; pass it through a sieve, return it to the pan, put in the slices of beef, and just before taking up throw in half a wine-glass of Tarragon vinegar. 4. Strawberry and Crumb Pudding.—h. quart of new milk, 4 eggs, a httle nutmeg, 2 oz. of sugar, i small pot of strawberry jam, i lb. of bread- crumbs. Butter a pie-dish, and put a small pot of strawberiy jam at the bottom, then a good layer of bread-crumbs. Well beat 4 eggs • stir into them 2 oz. of powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg; add a quart of new milk, and stir it over the fire until it fs sufficiently thick; pour It over the preserve very gradually, and bake the pudding in a veiy moderate oven. ° ^ SEPTEMBER 21. hearts are united to each other, matrimony has no 1. Herrings. 2. Rabbit Pie. 3. Vegetables. 4- Apple Dumplings. ^ penknife make three or four incision- e fish on each side; cut an onion in thin slices; place both orTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 274 the gridiron, and turn them occasionally till done. Have melted butter ready, in which 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup have been poured, and a little fresh mustard. 2. Rabbit Pie.—Parboil and cut into joints a couple of rabbits. Chop up the livers very fine, and add to them lb. of fat bacon boiled, enough soluble cayenne and powdered mace to cover a shilling, a spoonful of salt, the leaves of half a dozen sprigs of parsley, and a shalot finely chopped; mix these well together, and lay them at the bottom of the dish j place the joints over the forcemeat, pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of ham extract, and fill up with veal stock 3 cover with puff pastes and bake for an hour and a half. 4. Apple Dumplings.—M.akQ a good paste ; pare some large apples, cut them in quarters, take out the cores, and in place of them put in a clove and a piece of lemon-peel cut very thin; take a piece of crust enough for one apple, roll it round, put the quarters together, and roll the crust round it with a little flour in your hand. Have a pot of water boiling; take a clean cloth, dip it into the water, shake flour over it, and tie each dumpling by itself; put them in, and keep the water boiling all the time; if the apples be not large, half an hour will boil them. When they are done enough, take them up, lay them on a dish, throw fine sugar over them, and send them to table with fresh melted butter in a boat, and finely-beaten sugar in a saucer. T Skin a large hare, saving the blood when you empty SEPTEMBER 2 2. ‘ True love, like the eye, can bear no flaw.'—Lavater. 1. Hare Soup. 2. Hotch-potch of Mutton. 3. Vegetables. 4. Plain Tapioca Pudding. balls.BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 273 2. Hotch-potch of Mutton.—Cut some carrots and turnips into corks; blanch and put them into some- clear brown stock, with some button- onions and celery cut in strips, and boil tender. In the meantime cut and trim neatly a few mutton chops; stew them separately in some broth until tender; put them into the stewpan with the roots a few minutes before serving, and season it with salt and pepper. Toast some thin slices of bread and put in the bottom of the tureen; pour on a little broth to soak the bread. Put the chops on the bread without breaking it, and pour in the soup and vegetables on the top. 4. Plain Tapioca Pudding.—One oz. and a half of tapioca, a pint of milk, 3 eggs, sugar to taste, grated lemon-peel. SEPTEMBER 2 3. * My way must be straight on. True zuith the tongue. False with the heart, I may not, cannot be.'—Coleridge. 1. Conger Eel Soup. 4. Vegetables. 2. Marinade of Beef Palates. 5. Plain Swiss Pudding. 3. Tripe Roasted. I. Conger Ed Soup.—Head and tail of a large conger eel, 3 quarts of water, i lb. of butter, i leek, the blossoms of 4 or 5 marigolds, and a few leaves, ^ pint of green peas, or the white heart of a cabbage, half a tea-cup of parsley, a bunch of thyme, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, a pint of milk, and a little salt. ^ 2. Marmade of Beef Palates.—the palates; cut them in pieces about the size of the finger, and steep them for three or four hours in a souse made with sufficient vinegar to cover them; pepper, salt, a few blades of mace, cloves, 2 or 3 bay leaves, parsley, thyme, onions and carrots sliced; warm them in this, and set them aside to cool. Drain, flour, egg, and bread-crumb them; fry a nice brown; dish and garnish with fried parsley. 3. Tripe Roasted.—CvA. the tripe into good-sized pieces, and spread some forcemeat over them; roll them up securely, and tie them upon a small spit, or roas| them in a cradle spit; flour and baste them with butter, and serve them up garnished with lemon in slices, and melted butter. 5. Plain Swiss Pudding.—Chop very fine 6 oz. of beef suet, and mix it well with 8 oz. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of apples, pared, cored, and minced fine; add 8 oz. of powdered white sugar, the juice of i lemon, and the peel grated, with a pinch of salt. Well mix all the above ingredients, and put it into a buttered mould; boil it, and when done, turn it out and serve.2 76 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. SEPTEMBER 2 4. ‘ Lave is an old story, yet remains ever new'—Heinrich Heine. 1. Roast Leg of Mutton. I 3. Vegetables. 2. Grouse Pie. 1 4- Dutch Pudding. 1. Roast Leg of Mutton.—Allow a quarter of an hour per lb., and roast by a brisk fire. One of the most savoury sauces you can use with roast mutton is made by putting 2 glasses of port wine, one of Reading sauce, and a tea-spoonful of garlic vinegar into a small saucepan, and pouring the contents over the joint just before serving. 2. Grouse Pie.—Line a pie-dish with the steak cut into small pieces. If the grouse be small, lay them in whole ; if large, cut them' into joints. Season highly with salt, cayenne and black pepper; pour in the broth, and cover with a puff paste; brush the crust over with the yolk of an egg, and bake from three-quarters to one hour. If the grouse are large, the backbones and trimmings will make the gravy, by steAving them with an onion, a blade of mace, and a little sherry. This should be poured in after the pie is baked. 4. Dutch Pudding.—Melt i lb. of butter in l pint of milk ; mix 2 lbs. of flour, 8 eggs well beaten, and 4 spoonfuls of yeast; set it before the fire to rise for an hour; add i lb. of currants and ^ lb. of sugar. -0— SEPTEMBER 2S. ‘ Discharge aright The simple dues with which each day is rife.'—Schiller. 1. Stewed Eels. 2. Cold Roast Mutton. 3. Beetroot Salad. 4. Mashed Potatoes. 5. Ground Rice. I. Stewed Eels.—’Stsva. and cut the fish into lengths of about two inches; fill a frying-pan with fresh parsley, and place the eels upon it over a slow fire. Extract as much of the oily fat from the fish as pos- sible, keeping them turned, and having sufficient parsley to prevent their touching the pan. Place them on a slanting board, to dram for a couple of hours. Have ready some rich beef gravy, into which put 2 table-spoonfuls of mixed sweet herbs in powder, 2 glasses of sherr}', a third of soluble cayenne pepper to three-fourths of a spoonful of salt, and a dozen small silver onions ; let the fish stew in these ingredients over a slow fire for an hour. Strain the gravy through a sieve; shouldBILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 277 it require thickening, add a little flour, beat up with the yolk of an egg, lay the onions on the dish, and pour the sauce quite hot over the dish. Garnish with slices of lemon. 2. Cold Roast Mutton.—It can be either eaten with a salad, with piquant sauce, but used cold ; or with pickles, walnuts, red cabbage, or mixed West India, according to the taste of the diner. 3. Beetroot Salad.—Boil a fine head of beetroot till tender. When cold, a few minutes before wanted, cut it in slices, and pour over the following sauce :—Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard with 2 table- spoonfuls of salad oil \ when well mixed, add a table-spoonful of French vinegar, a little salt to taste; and last, mix with it 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. 5. Ground Rice.—Set ^ lb. of ground rice in i pint of milk on the fire till it thickens, but not till it boils, stirring constantly; put it in a basin with ^ lb. of fresh butter, stirring till the butter is melted; throw a thin cloth over, and let it stand till the next day; then add 3 eggs well beaten, with a little salt, cinnamon, and sugar to taste; add a spoonful of rose-water, and ^ lb. of currants, well cleaned and dried. Bake either in puff paste or without. SEPTEMBER 2 6. ‘ My (nun ! my own ! oh, breathes there one To whom that simple word's not dear ? Beats there a heart so drear and lone That holds not some loved object nearCharles Swain. 1. Mackerel. 2. Roast Tongue. 3. Vegetables. 4 Spongecake Pudding. 1. Mackerel. Cut the fish open sufficiently to empty the inside; remove the roes, and thoroughly wash them and the mackerel. Put the fish into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large table-spoonful of salt • bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer‘for about twenty minutes if the fish IS large; if small, fifteen minutes will be sufficient, or even less time ; but they must be taken carefully out when the eyes are starting Remove the scum as it rises; and when done, serve them on a napkin’ and send fennel sauce, plain melted butter, or gooseberry sauce to table With them. 2 Roast Tongtte.-K fresh ox-tongue, stuck with cloves, roasted, and sent to table with port wine sauce and currant jelly, is a pleasant varietv to the routine of ordinary dishes. 4. spongecake Pudding.-Butt^x a mould thickly, stick it all over with ried cherries, almonds, or raisins. Fill the mould three parts with2 73 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. small spongecakes soaked in wine, and fill up the mould with a rich custard. Then butter a piece of paper, put it on the mould, tie it securely over, and boil it. —0- SEPTEMBER 27. ‘ In council, 'tis good to see dangers; and in execution, not to see them unless they art very great.'—Bacon. Savoury Haddock. Roast Goose. Sea Kale. Damson Batter Pudding. 1. Savoury Haddock.—Miex cleaning the interior, dry it with a cloth, and stuff the fish with the same forcemeat you would use for a fillet of veal; tie the tail to the mouth, and place the haddock in a deep pie- dish ; rub it over with flour, and half fill the dish with veal stock; then let it bake in a slow oven for forty minutes. 2. Roast Goose.—Having paid due attention to the cleaning, picking, and singeing of the bird, let the follomng stuffing be prepared Two oz of undressed onion and i of sage leaves must be first chopped small; a salt-spoonful of salt, and a third of that quantity of pepper, must be mixed with 4 oz. of finely-grated crumbs of bread, the whole moistened with the yolk and white of an egg well whisked. In puttmg the stuffing into the bird, give it space wherein to swell, under the action of the fire; when you have put the goose upon the spit, secure the neck and pope’s nose with bvine, to prevent the s^ffing from falling out, and to keep the bird steady. A large goose will require somewhat more than an hour and a halPs roasting. Be sure it be well basted, and sent to table of a rich brown hue, with a boatful of gravy sauce, another of apple sauce, and some newly made mustard. , v 2 Sea Kale.—ThQ roots having been pared, the kale should be washed, tied in a bundle, and put into boiling water into which a couple of table-spoonfuls of salt have been thrown. Ten boiling will be found sufficient. Serve on a toast, and have a boatfu melted butter ready to send to table with it. 4. Datnson Batter Pudding.-'l2c\^ about i or 4 pints of npe daLons, or other plums ; take out the stones and rub them through a sieve ; stir this with the batter, adding about 6 oz. of sugar, pour into a well-buttered basin or mould, tie a floured cloth over, and boil one hour. When done, turn it out of the basin, and' serve with sweet sauca A mature of apple with damson destroys the latter fruit. An excellent tart may be made with Morelia cherne and apples.BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 279 SEPTEMBER 2 8. 'Entertain a just esteem for yourselves. J would, on the one hand, guard you against everything degrading; and, on the other, awaken your ambition to act up to the best standard of your sex,—to aspire at every amiable, every noble quality that is proportioned to your state, or that can ensure the affection and preserve the impoi'tance to which you were bom.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Soles Filleted and Stewed. 3. Vegetables. 2. Veal Rissoles. 4. Ground Rice Pudding. 1. Soles Filleted and Stewed.—Soles should be large for filleting. Have 3 soles filleted, and cut into 12 pieces; chop 2 shalots and 3 sprigs of parsley very fine, spread them over the bottom of a shallow copper cotelette-pan, double each fillet of sole, and lay the pointed ends in the centre of the pan, and it will form something like a star. Throw over a glass of sherry, and stew on your gas stove or hot plate for two and a half minutes ; turn the 12 pieces, and have the following mixture ready to pour in the centre of the pan :—Three tea-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonful of sugar, I tea-spoonful of lemon juice, and \ tea-spoonful of cayenne. When the fish comes to boil, they are done, which will be about two and a half minutes. This dish is best served smoking in the pan as cooked. When the soles are filleted, have the heads and bones sent home; put them in pint water, and stew with some parsley; pepper and salt. This will make a thick jelly, which, added to any other broth, will be nice for the following day. 2. Veal Rissoles.—Mince very finely some slices of cold roast veal with a few slices of ham or bacon; add i table-spoonful of savoury herbs, i table-spoonful of parsley, both minced, i blade of pounded mace; put pepper and salt to taste, and grate a very little nutmeg. Mix into a paste with an egg in the shape of cones or balls. Brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and fry a rich brown. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve with brown gravy. 4. Ground Rice Ptidding.—Set ij pints of new milk on the fire; mix 6 oz. of ground rice quite smooth with ^ pint of cold milk; add this to the other milk when nearly boiling, and stir over the fire till pretty thick, then pour into a basin, leaving uncovered till nearly cold ; sweeten to taste, add a little salt, and 6 eggs well beaten. Boil hours in a ba.sin well buttered.2Ro things a lady would like to know. SEPTEMBER 29. ‘ Prejudice may be considered as a continual false medium of viewing things; foi prejudiced persons not only never speak, but never think well of those whom they dislike. —Butler. 1. Pepperpot. I 3. Vegetables. 2. lioT Pot. 1 4. Venetian Fritters. 1. Pepperpot.—Put 4 lbs. of gravy beef into 6 quarts of water, with the bouquet of savoury herbs; let it simmer well till all the goodness is extracted, skimming it well. Let it stand till cold, that all the fat may be taken off it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it When hot add the flesh of 2 middling-sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up; spinach well boiled and chopped fine; ^ a pound of cold bacon or pickled pork, dressed previously and cut into small pieces; a few small dumplings, made very light with flour, beef-suet, yolk of egg, and a little water. Add i pound of asparagus tops; season to your taste with cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a lemon; stew for about half an hour, stirring it constantly. 2. Hot Pot.—Cut 3 lbs. of rump-steak into square pieces; cut 8 01 10 potatoes in quarters, some whole small onions (and mushrooms if in season), with 6 kidneys; well season with cayenne, black pepper, and salt. Place all in layers, one on the other; pour over them 3 or 4 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and put 6 or 7 dozen oysters at the top; cover with a crust, and bake for two hours. A few larks or snipes are considered a great addition. This dish must be made in a fire- proof-pan, in shape like a cheese-pan or turtle-mug. 4. Venetian Fritters.—Pick, wash, and drain 3 oz. of whole rice; put it into a full pint of cold milk, and bring it very slowly to boil; stir often, and let it simmer gently until quite thick and dry. When about three parts done, add 2 oz. of pounded sugar, and i of fresh butter, a grain of salt, and the grated rind of a small lemon. Let it cool in the saucepan, and when only just warm mix with it thoroughly 3 oz. of currants, 4 apples chopped fine, a tea-spoonful of flour, and 3 well- beaten eggs. Drop the mixture in small fritters; fry them in butter from 5 to 7 minutes, and let them become quite firm on one side before they are turned; do this with a slice. Drain them as they are taken up, and sift white sugar over when dished.BILL OF FARE FOR SEPTEMBER. 2S1 SEPTEMBER 3 0. ‘ The calm of truth-tried love.'—CowPER. 1. Boiled Soles. 3. Vegetables. 2. Jugged Hare AND Currant 4. Grateful Pudding. Jelly. 1, Boiled Soles.—To 2 middling-sized soles, take i pint of milk, i pint of water, i oz. butter, i oz. salt, and a little lemon-juice. Wash, but do not skin the soles; lay them in a fish-kettle with the above ingredients; bring them gradually to a boil, and simmer very gently till done, which will be in about seven minutes. Take them up, drain them well on a cloth, put on a hot dish, and pour over them a good mushroom sauce. 2. Jugged Hare and Currant Jelly.—Divide an undressed hare into joints; let them be larded with bacon. Mix well, upon the dish on which you have made the dissection, a spoonful of salt, and half a one of soluble cayenne and pounded mace, a few leaves of mixed sweet herbs; add to these four silver onions, half a dozen cloves, a gill of port wine, half a pint of spring water, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. Put all into a jug with a close-fitting top, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Lay the meat on a dish before the fire, strain the liquor, boil it up, and pour it over the hare just before send- ing it to table. 4. Grateful Pudding.—One lb. of flour, i lb. of white bread grated, and 6 eggs; beat the eggs up, and mix with them a pint of new milk ; then stir in the bread and flour, and i lb. of raisins stoned, i lb. of currants, ^ lb. of sugar, and a little ginger; mix all well together, put into a dish, and bake.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2S2 DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER. Centre-piece, a basket of fresh flowers. 1. Compote d’epine-vinette. 2. Compote de pommes a l’espag- NOLE. 3. Citron Macaroons. 4. Gelee d’epine-vinette. Filberts, Apples, Figs, Grapes. I. COMPOTE d’epine-vinette. Take a lb. of ripe barberries ; do not stem them, but let them remain in bunches; boil them slowly in a strong syrup of sugar and water for seven minutes, strain them from the syrup, arrange them in a glass dessert-dish, and before pouring the syrup over them, add to them a small glass of eau-de-vie. This compote is greatly improved by the addition of a little jelly, or fresh fruit juice, to give colour to the syrup. 2. COMPOTE DE POMMES A l’eSPAGNOLE. Peel 9 or 10 small pippins, core them carefully so as not to de- stroy the appearance of the fruit; as you do them, throw them into a stewpan in which you have a quart of water, the juice of two lemons, and a lb. of loaf sugar ; add two chopped dressing apples ; place it over the fire and simmer it slowly. When the pippins are tender, take them up and arrange them in your dish. Reduce the S3uup until it gives away from the sides of the saucepan; pour it into as many small cups as you have pippins. When it is cold and firm, turn one over each of the pippins, and serve. 3. CITRON MACAROONS. Take the rasped rind of two lemons, and a lb. and 12 oz. each of blanched sweet almonds and fine dry sifted loaf sugar. Pound the almonds, citron rind, and the whites of four eggs in^ a mortar; add your sugar; beat all well together, and form the paste into small balls ; lay them upon paper, glaze them, and bake them for fifteen or hventy minutes. 4. GELEE d’epine-vinette. Choose some fine ripe barberries, stem them, and to each lb. of fruit put 12 oz. of loaf sugar and half a pint of water; put them into a jar or saucepan, and dress them until they are soft, then press them throug i a gauze sieve ; take the juice that is obtained, and simmer it down until it is thick enough.‘ 283 OCTOBER 1. ‘ Affliciiom clarify the soul.'—Quarles. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Venison—Pork—Beef—Veal—Mutton. Poultry ; Larks—Fowls—Chickens—Teal—Geese—Pigeons—Pullets—Wild Duck —Widgeons—Turkeys. Game : Partridges—Doe Venison—Grouse—Blackcock—Hares—Pheasants—Wood- cocks—Rabbits—Snipe. FISH : Herrings—Gudgeons—Crabs—Barbel—Cod—Brill—Eels—Lobsters—Turbot —Prawns—Flounders—Plaice—Mullet—Skate—Oysters— Soles—Fladdock— Whiting—Turbot—Tench. Vegetables : Cabbages — Celery — Beets— Cauliflowers — Carrots—Artichokes— Lettuces — Tomatoes — Mushrooms — Potatoes—Onions—Sprouts—Vegetable Marrows—Turnips—Various Herbs. FRUITS IN SEASON. Walnuts—Grapes—Figs—Damsons—Black and White Bullaces—Filberts—Apples — Quinces—Pears. 1. Oyster Fritters. | 3. Polka Pudding. 2. Roast Goose. 1 4. Vegetables. I. Oyster Fritters.—Open a quart of oysters, strain the liquor into a basin, and add to it a pint of milk and 2 well-beaten eggs; stir in by degrees flour enough to make a smooth but rather thin batter; when perfectly free from lumps, put the oysters into it. Have some beef dripping or butter made hot in a very clean frying-pan, and season with a htde salt; and when it is boiling, drop in the batter with a large spoon, putting one or more oysters in each spoonful. Hold the pan over a gentle fire until one side of the batter is a delicate brown; turn each fritter separately, and when both sides are done, place them on a hot dish, and serve. _ 2. Roast Goose.—When the goose has been picked and singed, put into the body 2 boiled onions chopped finely, and mixed with a little sage, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a little black pepper; to these put a284 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. small piece of butter. Truss your goose, and roast it at a brisk fire. Serve it with made gravy and apple sauce. When the taste is in favour of a milder seasoning, mix a handful of fine bread-crumbs with the other stuffing. Some fill their goose with potatoes boiled very dry, mashed and well mixed with butter, some salt and cayenne pepper: sage and onions are also added to this. A very good naixture can be made in the following manner:—A tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt and cayenne, mixed smoothly, with a glass of wine poured into the goose before it is served. 3. Eo//ea Pudding.—Four table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, i quart of new milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. of butter or 3 large spoonfuls of rich cream, 3 oz. of bitter almonds, 2 table-spoonfuls of orange or rose water. OCTOBER 2. ‘ The eternal stars shine out, as soon as it is dark enough.'—Carlyle. 1. Fried Oysters. 3- Romford Pudding. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak. 4. Vegetables. 1. Fried Oysters.—Boil one minute 3 dozen oysters in their own liquor, and drain them; fry them with 2 oz. butter, ^ tea-spoonfiil of chopped parsley, i table-spoonful of ketchup, and a little chopped lemon-peel. Garnish the dish with toasted sippets, fried potatoes, and parsley fried. 2. Patrician Bubble and Squeak.—roast veal, divested of the outside skin, cut into bits about an inch long, with the white parts only of cauliflowers, previously dressed, and also cut up small] these wanned up in a frying-pan, in ^ a pint of cream, and seasoned with a slight sprinkling of salt and soluble cayenne, wiU be found a very delightful dish. 3. Romford Pudding.—the apples, and take out all the core ; fill them up with sugar, and place them in a pie-dish. Cover them with a light batter, and bake. —0— OCTOBER 3. ‘ With the wind of tribulation, God separates, in tiu floor of the soul, the chaff from the corn.'—Molinos. 1. Smelts. 2. Calf’s I-Ieart. 3. Stewed Rabbit. 4. Norfolk Dumplings. 5. Vegetables. I. W*.-To a dozen smelts have about J lb. butter, a blades of pounded mace, salt and cayenne to taste. Wash and well dry the fish285 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. in a cloth, and arrange them nicely in a flat baking-dish. Cover them with fine bread-crumbs, with little pieces of butter all over them. Season, and bake for a quarter of an hour. Just before serving add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and garnish with cut lemon and fried parsley. 2. Calf’s Heart.—Put the heart to disgorge in lukewarm water for an hour nearly; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly seasoned veal stuffing or forcemeat. Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any sharp sauce. Send it up as hot as possible to table. 3. Stewed Rabbit.—Clean the rabbits thoroughly, cut them up, and scald them for a short time; put some sliced onions and a bit of dripping into your pot, and fry the rabbits with them till slightly browned; dredge in a little flour, then add hot water sufficient to make gravy; pepper and salt and a little ketchup. Stew them very gently for an hour. 4. Norfolk Dumplings.—Take about a lb. of dough from a baking of light bread, and divide it into small pieces, mould them into dumplings, drop them into a saucepan of fast boiling water, and boil them quickly. Send them to table the instant they are dished up, with wine sauce, or melted butter sweetened. OCTOBER 4. ‘ The very afflictions of our earthly pilg)-image are presages of our future glory, as shadows indicate the sun.’—Richter. 1. Soup Lobster. 4. Orange Pudding. 2. Beefsteaks. 5. Vegetables. 3. Sauce for ditto. r. Soup Lobster.—Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of 6 small lobsters; take away the brown fur and the bag in the head; beat the fins, chine, and small claws in a mortar. Boil it very gently in 2 quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, 2 anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a ^ of a nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. 2. Beefsteaks.—A fine, tender rump-steak, if properly dressed, is a dish worthy of an Englishman. A bright, clear fire is essential Let the gridiron be carefully cleaned, rub the bars with suet, and put it over286 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the fire until quite hot; the steak should be more than ^ an inch thick; whilst dressing, turn it backwards and forwards till done; rub it over with butter, and pour over it, quite hot, two tea-spoonfuls of shalot vinegar, in which some soluble horseradish has been dissolved. In the season it may also be served with oyster sauce. 3. Sat/ce for ditto.—Set 2 oz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when browning, throw in 3 onions cut into small slices; fry brown, but do not burn them; put i tea-spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give the whole another fry. Put in salt and pepper to taste, with 4 table-spoonfuls of gravy or stock, and boil it gently ten minutes. Skim off the fat; add vinegar and made mustard, i tea-spoonful of each, and the juice of half a lemon give it one boil, and pour round the dish. 4. Orange Pudding.—Put a siuall piece of butter into a stewpan; break into it the yolks of 5 eggs, then grate the rind of the 2 oranges into it, and squeeze the juice in through a sieve to catch the seed sand pulp. Add as much lump sugar as will make it pleasant, the quantity depending on the acidity of the oranges, and stir it over the fire till it becomes as thick as custard. Line a tart-dish with puff paste, put in the orange custard, and bake it. OCTOBER 5. * The end of all is an action, not a thought, though it were of the noblest.'— Thomas Carlyle. 1. Fried Whiting. 3. Fried Parsnips. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 4. Plum Pudding. 1. Fried Whiting.—Clean the whitings, take oflf the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth; dry them in flour. Brush them over with an egg well beaten, roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them in hot lard; and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. 2. Mutton Cutlets.—Trim the fat entirely from some cutlets taken from the loin ; dredge them carefully and moderately with pepper, and plenti- fully on both sides with flour; rinse a thick iron saucepan with water, and leave a couple of table-spoonfuls in it; arrange the cutlets in one flat layer, if it can be done conveniently, and place them over a gentle fire ; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and let them simmer as softly as possible, but without ceasing, from an hour and a quarter to an hour and a half. If dressed with great care, which they require, they will be equally tender, easy of digestion, and nutritious; and being at the same time free from everything which can disagree with the most delicate stomach, the receipt will be found a valuable one for invalids.BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 287 The mutton should be of good quality, but the excellence of the dish mainly depends on its being most gently stewed; for if allowed to boil quickly, all the gravy will be dried up, and the meat will be unfit for the table. The cutlets must be turned when they are half done; a couple of spoonfuls of hot water or gravy can be added to them if they do not yield sufficient gravy. 3. Fried Pars7iips.—Parsnips parboiled whole, then cut into pieces and fried in butter, are much more delicious, and easier of digestion, than when sent to table plain boiled. 4. Plu7)i Puddmg.—One pound of raisins, ^ a pound of suet, i pound of flour, 4 oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, i pint of milk, nutmeg, and grated ginger. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the flour. Add the bread-crumbs, ginger, and nutmeg, and the raisins stoned, and mix it all well together with the milk and treacle. Put it into a basin, or floured cloth, and boil it. •—0— OCTOBER 6. ‘No decking sets forth a7tything so much as affectio7t.'—SiR P. SIDNEY. 1. Boiled Whiting. 3. Baked Codling Pudding. 2. Roast Widgeon. 4. Vegetables. 1. Boiled Whitmg.—Thoroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the fish-ketde, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches of double parsley. Serve with anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter. 2. Roast IVidgeoti.—Two birds are sufficient for a dish. Pluck and draw them carefully; cut off the heads close to the necks, leaving suffi- cient skin to turn over; do not cut off the feet; twist each leg at the knuckle, and rest the claws on each side of the breast. Roast them before a quick fire, but do not baste them for the first five minutes after they are put down; afterwards baste them plentifully with butter; a few minutes before serving dredge them lightly with flour. If liked well done, they will take about twenty minutes, but they should not be over- done. When browned and nicely frothed, send very hot and quickly to table, with a cut lemon, and the following orange gravy, made as follows: —Cut a small onion into slices, put it in a stewpan with a pint of white stock, 3 or 4 strips of orange or lemon peel, and a few leaves of basil, if at hand; simmer very gently for about fifteen minutes, or till the gravy IS nicely flavoured with the peel. Strain it off, and add the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, i glass of port wine, salt and pepper to taste;288 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. let the whole heat through; when at the point of boiling, serve very hot in a covered tureen. 3. Baked Codling Pudding.—Roast half a dozen large codling apples, and take out the pulp. Beat up the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 eggs; add a pound of powdered white sugar, the same weight ot clarified butter, the juice of a lemon, its rind cut very small, an ounce of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small portions, a wine glass of brandy, and the crumb of a French roll finely grated. Mix up these ingredients well together. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the materials, and send to the oven. Before serving, cover the top wnth powdered sugar, and garnish the sides with candied fruit —0— OCTOBER 7. 'Immoderate ossura7ice is perfect licentiousness.'—Shenstone. 1. Red Mullet. 3. Cranberry Tart. 2. Stewed Fowls. 4. Vegetables. 1. Red Mullet.—Place the mullets in a sautd-pan with the butter, sauce, and wine. Bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take the fish out of the pan; strain off their liquor •, add to it the truffles, mushrooms, parsley, shalot, nutmeg, lemon-juice, and flour; stir all together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison of 3 . well-beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. Take 2 sheets of letter paper, oil them well, lay the mullets on them, and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow fire, sufficiently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, but be careful not to burn the paper. When done, serve them on a napkin. 2. Stetved Fowls.—Order a pair of fowls to be sent without being trussed, and let the heads and necks be sent with them. Take one of the fowls, cut the leg and thigh into 2 pieces, each wing into 2 pieces, the back into 3 pieces, and the breast into 2 pieces. These, wfith the merry-thought, making 14 pieces. Cut a Spanish or other onion up small; put it into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, and a little salt and cayenne; stew it about an hour, till it is a complete pulp. Half an hour before you want it, put in the 14 pieces of chicken ; let them stew half an hour, and when done, put into your silver dish a tea-spoonful of French or Spanish garlic vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon. Mind it requires no water; the fowl will be done in its own gravy. Cut the other fowl the same way, into 14 pieces. Let the heads and289 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. necks be picked and scalded, stew them in ^ pint of water; and when all the goodness is extracted, strain oif the liquor, put it in a stewpan with a pint of button mushrooms, a little pepper and salt, and put in the 14 pieces of fowl. Stew them till done, which will be in about half an hour, and thicken with a little arrowroot; before serving, put into your silver dish a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. The 2 fowls will be enough for 8 or 10 persons. Grouse and partridges are nicer this way than roasted; also a young turkey poult, and pigeons also when in season. 3. Cranberry Tart.—Wash a quart of berries in several waters, dry on a coarse cloth, and pick carefully. Mix in a basin with ^ lb. of finely-powdered white sugar, and squeeze the juice of 1 a lemon over the fruit. Put all into a pie-dish, with a light paste for the top, and bake for forty minutes. OCTOBER 8. ‘Stiffpeople lose some of their awkwardness under high ceilings.'—Emerson, 1. Roast Sirloin or Ribs 3. Vegetable Marrow. OF Beef. 4. Fritters. 2. Yorkshire Pudding. 2. Yorkshire Pudding.—Take an equal number of eggs and of heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, with a tea-spoonful of salt to six of these. Whisk the eggs well; strain and mix them gradually with the flour; then pour in nearly i pint of milk, or as‘ much as will make the batter the con- sistence of rather thin cream. The tin for the pudding should be placed for some time previously under the joint that is roasting (beef is best). Beat the batter lightly and briskly the instant before it is poured in the pan ; watch that it does not bum, and let the eggs have an equal share of the fire. Turn it, to brown the under side, when it is firm in every part, and well-coloured on the surface; this is best accomplished by first dividing it into quarters. 3- Vegetable Marrow.—boiling, never pierce the vegetable with a fork, or you render it watery directly: you may judge when it is suffi- aently dressed by the ease with which you can rub off the outside skin The best mode of cooking it is to stew it in a good, rich sauce ; it is also very palatable cut into quarters, when half grown, and fried either in batter or butter. vot f the crumb of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmee ugar, an egg, and pounded cinnamon. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter and sweet wine sauce. TTHINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. 300 OCTOBER 9. The highest art is arllessness'—F. A. Durivage. I. Partridge Soup. 3. Boiled Apple Dumpling. z. Cold Roast Beef Broiled. I 4- Vegetables. 1. Partridge Soup.—Skin 2 old partridges; cut them into pieces, with - or 4 slices of ham, 3 large onions cut in slices, and a stick of celery. Fry them all in butter till brown, but be careful not to burn them. Then put them into a stewpan, with 5 pints of boiling water, a few pepper-corns, a little salt, and a shank or two of mutton. ^ Stew it gently two hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again in a stewpan with some fried bread and stewed celery. When near boiling, skim it, pour into a tureen, and serve it up hot. 2. Cold Roast Beef Broiled.—YPic&j season and broil a few slices of cold roast beef; pare 4 or 5 potatoes as you would peel an apple ; fty the parings in a thin batter, seasoned with salt, pepper, and a little ketchup, till of a light brown; then pour them over the slices of beef, and serve very hot. 3. Boiled Apple Dumpling.—a good paste; roll it out f an inch thick, but quite thin round the edge; pare and core apples suffi- cient to fill the crust; close it up, tie it up tight in a cloth, and boil it from two to three hours according to the size. When it is done, turn it into a dish, cut a piece of crust out of the top, put m a good lump of butter and as much sugar as will sweeten it to your taste, a little ^^^ed lemon-peel, and one drop of oil of cinnamon; stir it well in the puddmg, lay on the crust, and send it to table hot. ■0— 1. Stewed Partridge. 2. Beef Olives. OCTOBER 10. ‘ It is worse to apprehend than to suffer.'—Bruyere. ED Partridge. I 3- Currant and Apple Dumplings. 4. Vegetables. simmer very genriy uu uunc, gravy, adding sherry; dish with the gravy over,BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 2QI 2. Beef Olives,—A pound and a half of rump-steak, 3 yolks of eggs, a little beaten mace, pepper and salt, a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of marrow or suet, a sprig of parsley, the rind of ^ a lemon, i pint of brown gravy, a table-spoonful of ketchup, r of browning, a tea-spoonful of lemon vinegar, a piece of butter rolled in flour, 8 forcemeat-balls. Cut the steak into slices of about ^ an inch thick and 6 or 7 inches long; rub them over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and strew thickly over them some bread-crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then the parsley minced, the grated rind of a large lemon, a little beaten mace, and some pepper and salt, all mixed well together. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small skewer, and brown them lightly before the fire in a Dutch oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, ketchup, browning, and lemon vinegar; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve the olives in the gravy. Garnish with force- meat-balls. 3. Ciirra7it and Apple Dumplings.—Of each of the following materials take 6 oz.; grated bread, chopped apples, loaf sugar, currants, suet; to these add 6 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel mixed, \ a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Boil for two hours in a well-buttered mould. OCTOBER 11. Moral beauty is the basis of all true beauty.'—Victor Cousin. 1. Goose. 2. Mutton Cutlets. 3. Baked Apple Dumpling. 4. Vegetables. i. Goose.—TYiQ goose being plucked, drawn, singed, and trussed, » ould be stuffed as follows:—Cut up 4 onions in slices and put them m boiling water with 24 sage leaves; let them boil till the onions are done; strain and chop finely; return them to the stewpan or saucepan; add I oz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste, and 2 table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs; let the whole simmer for a few minutes, and the stuffin'- IS prepared. Fill the body of the goose, and tie it closely at both ends to keep the stuffing in ; hang it down to a brisk fire, and keep it well basted. Serve with apple sauce. Note —Goose may be filled with mashed potatoes, flavoured with age and onions or not, according to taste. The stuffing can, if pre- erred, be rendered stronger by using raw onions, or milder by usinu chopping up an apple with them. Roasted chestnuts P ed and broken, can also be used for goose stuffing. Tomato sauce can be substituted for apple. tomato sauceTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2Q2 2. Mutton Cutlets.—Cut about a pound and a half of the neck or loin of mutton into delicate cutlets, and chop each bone short, trim them neatly, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a little thyme and parsley chopped fine; season with pepper and salt; fry them lightly, and then take them out to cool, after which take some fresh chopped parsley and some bread-crumbs, spread them evenly over the cutlets with a knife, wrap them in buttered papers, and broil them over a clear fire. Serve them up in the papers, with gravy in a tureen. 3. Baked Apple Dumpling.—Peel and slice I a dozen apples; scald them, and steam off the water; beat them up with 2 oz. of butter, the juice of a lemon and its peel grated; sweeten to your taste : wheii cold, add the whites of 3 eggs and the yolks of 5; put a thin crust in the dish, and bake in a slow oven. OCTOBER 12. ‘ Thou tremhlest before anticipated ills, and still bemoanest what thou never losest. Goethe. 1. Giblet Soup. 2. Boiled Pork. 3. Peas-Pudding 4. Apple and Custard Pancake. I Giblet Soup.—?>c2\6. and clean 3 or 4 sets of duck or goose giblets; set them to stew with 2 lbs. of leg of beef, the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, a scrag of mutton, or 2 or 3 shanks, with 3 onions, i tea-spoonful of white pepper, i large spoonful of salt, 2 carrots, a large bunch of sweet herbs. Put 5 pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must be each in 4 pieces) are quite tender; skim thoroughly. When tender, take them out, put them in a hot tureen; quickly strain the soup through a sieve; mix an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of flour 2 tea-spoonfuls of mushroom powder, and ^ pint of cream. Boil it up for a few minutes, and then pour it over the giblets. Instead of cream it may be flavoured with 2 glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some cayenne. When m the tureen, add s t 2 Boiled Having washed and scraped it, put it into boiling, water with the skin side uppermost. If it be thin, a ^ pounds will be done in less than an hour; a leg of 8 pounds im hours Pork should be done enough; but if boiled too fast or too lon^, it w ; becLe jelly. Keep the pot well skimmed, and send it to table greens. Some persons like carrots, parsnips, up loosely in a cloth a quart of split pe« ; put them in a saucepan otM tvater, and let them boil for two hours^93 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. and a quarter; rub them through a coarse sieve into a dish; stir in an oz. of butter, a spoonful of salt, and a few drops of soluble cayenne; beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs, and mix these well with the peas, etc. Tie up the pudding in a well-floured cloth as tightly as you can, and give it another hour’s boiling. 4. Apple and Ctistard Pajicake.—Pare and slice some apples thin; fry them in good butter; beat 4 eggs with 6 spoonfuls of cream, some rose- water, sugar, and nutmeg; stir them together, and pour over the apples ; fry a nice brown, then turn it carefully. Serve with fine sugar sifted over. OCTOBER 13. *Natu7-e is mighty. Art is mighty. Artifice is weak.'—AUGUSTUS Hare. 1. Soup. 3. Vegetables. 2. Roast Sucking Pig. 4. Soufflee Pudding. 1. Soup.—Pour 2 quarts of medium or common stock over the bones and remains of any cold game (as pheasants, partridges, etc.), and sliced vegetables, 2 small onions, 2 carrots, i turnip, r head of celery. Simmer all for two hours. Skim off all fat, and strain it. Have ready washed | lb. of pearl barley, which has been previously boiled in 2 or 3 waters, put it in the soup, and finish simmering in it; and when the barley is done, take out half, and pound the other half with the yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs. Rub it through a clean tammy when pounded ; add I pint of cream, salt if required; put in the barley that was taken out first, boil up once, and serve very hot. 2. Roast Sucking Fig.—An oz. and a half of onion finely chopped, 2 oz. of sage leaves cut small, must be mixed in 5 oz. of finely powdered bread-crumbs, the yolk of egg, and a spoonful of salt, and a third of one of soluble cayenne pepper; fill the belly with the stuffing, and sew it up. As the extremities will require more fire than the middle, hang a flat- iron in the centre of your grate, and be sure to have a fine brisk fire for roasting: an hour and a half will be time sufficient. Baste with fresh butter, or best Florence oil. The most rigid attention must be paid to the pig whilst roasting; if left for a second, it may be blistered or burnt, and very soon spoiled for the table. About ten minutes before the time allowed for cooking has elapsed, cut off the head, the body still remain- ing before the fire. Split the skull in half, take out the brains, and beat them up finely with a dozen sap leaves, previously boiled and chopped small; this can be moistened into sauce with the juices that followed me cutting off of the head, if the cook has been prudent enough to place a basin under the neck. Split the body down the back; lay the sides204 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. flat upon a dish, with half the head at the top and the other half at the bottom. Serve with currant sauce, and a sauce-boatful of good gravy. 4. Soiifflee Pudding.—\ lb. of sifted loaf sugar, | lb. of flour, ^ lb. of fresh butter, the yolks of 6 eggs, and i table-spoonful of orange-juice; beat ingredients well together until very smooth, then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them to the rest. Pour into a dish— take care not to fill it—and bake in a moderate oven. —0— OCTOBER 14. * Too low they build who build beneath the stars'—Young. 1. Stewed Pheasant. 3* Northumberland Pudding. 2. Roast Loin of Veal. 4- Vegetables. I. Stewed Pheasant.—Cut up a pheasant into 14 pieces, i.e. each wing into 2 pieces, the back into 3 pieces, the leg and thigh into 2 pieces, the breast into 2 pieces, and the merry-thought. Stew them in 2 oz. butter, some cayenne and salt, the oyster liquor of 2 dozen oysters thickened with a spoonful of arrowroot. Just before serving, throw in the oysters merely to plump them. ■ 2. Roast Loin of Veal.—Ydkt about 7 lbs. of the kidney end of a loin of veal, fasten the flap over the kidney with a small skewer, run the spit through the thick end lengthways, cover the veal with buttered paper, and place it before a good fire to roast. Just before serving, remove the paper, and froth it up by dredging it with a little flour, and basting it with butter. Pour melted butter over it when placed on the dish, and serve. The kidney and fat may be sent to table separately on a toast if preferred, but it is not very usual to do so. 3. Northumberland Pudding.—Boil i pint of milk, then stir in it a little salt, and as much flour gradually stirred in as will make it like hasty pudding; boil three minutes, and pour into a basin; when cool, add 4 well-beaten eggs ; mix and boil in a clean cloth an hour. Serve with melted butter and currant jelly. OCTOBER IS. ‘ We learn to treasure what is above this earth: we longfor revelation ! —GoETilE. 1. Hashed Wild Duck. 3- Raisin Pudding. 2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal. 4- Vegetables. I. Hashed Wild Duck.—i:\so glasses of port wine, i table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, i of Harvey sauce, a little flour, pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste, a little weak stock, or water.2';5 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. Divide the wild duck into pieces, and dredge them well with flour; put them into a stewpan with a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and the same of Harvey sauce; add 2 glasses of port wine, and a very little water or weak stock. Season to your taste with pepper, salt, and cayenne; and let it simmer for about an hour, taking care it does not boil. Arrange the pieces of duck on toast; boil and skim the sauce, and when as thick as cream, pour it over the whole, and serve very hot. 2. Stewed Sirloin of Veal.—Take part of a loin of veal—the chump end will do; put into a large, thick, well-tinned iron saucepan, or into a stewpan, about a couple of oz. of butter, and shake it over a moderate fire until it begins to brown; flour the veal well all over, lay it into the saucepan, and when it is of a fine, equal, light brown, pour gradually in veal broth, gravy, or boiling water to nearly half its depth; add a little salt, I or 2 sliced carrots, a small onion or more; when the flavour is much liked, add a bunch of parsley. Stew the veal very softly for an hour, or rather more, then turn it, and let it stew for nearly or quite another hour, or longer, should it not appear perfectly done. Dish the joint; skim all the fat from the gravy, and strain it over the meat, or keep the joint hot while it is rapidly reduced to a richer consistency. This is merely a plain family stew. 3. Raisin Pudding.—One lb. of raisins, i lb. of currants, a. ^ of a. lb. of sultanas, i lb. of suet, f of a lb. of bread-crumbs, i pint of milk, 10 eggs, f of a lb. of citron and orange peel mixed, i small nutmeg, i glass of brandy. Stone the raisins and divide them; wash and dry the currants and sultanas, and cut the peel into slices. Mix all these with the bread- emmbs, flour, and suet chopped very fine; add the grated nutmeg, and then stir in the eggs well beaten, the brandy, and the milk. When the ingredients are well blended, put the pudding into a mould, tie a floured doth over it, and boil it. When done, turn it out, and serve it with burning brandy over it, or arrowroot sauce. OCTOBER 10. Aswtion, unsupported by fact, is nugatory. Surmise and general abuse, in h.ouKuer elegant language, 07tght not to pass for proofs.'—Jvmvs. 1. Soles Fricasseed. 3. Greengage Fritters. 2. Boiled Turkey. 4. Vegetables. 1. Soles Fricasseed.—Fry 3 soles of a nice brown, and drain them well 10m fat. Take all the meat from the smallest fish; chop it fine, and2 95 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. mix with it lemon-peel, parsley, bread, and seasoning. Work together with the yolk of an egg and the butter. Make this into small balls, and fry them. Thicken the gravy with a dessert-spoonful of flour; add the port wine, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Lay in the 2 soles and balls; let them simmer gently five minutes. Serve hot, and garnish with cut lemon, 2. Boiled Turkey.—Cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the bird. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a pack-thread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Let it simmer very gently for an hour and a half, or for a longer time if of a large size. When done, serve it on a hot dish with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quantity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. 3. Greengage Fritters.—Two pints of new milk, 10 oz. of arrowroot, a little vanilla, yolks of 8 eggs, sugar to taste, bread-crumbs, greengage or apricot jam. Put the milk in a good-sized stewpan over the fire until it boils; have the arrowroot ready mixed, and stir it into the milk as quickly as possible; add the vanilla and yolks of eggs, the sugar last Stir it for about twenty minutes over a quick fire ; then put it into a deep cutlet-pan, and bake it about ten minutes in a quick oven. When it is quite cold cut out the fritters with a round cutter, and egg and bread-crumb them; glaze and send them up quite hot, with greengage or apricot sauce in the dish. —0— OCTOBER 17. 'Associate with men of good judgment.'—Fuller. T. Oyster Patties. | 3- Apple Fritters. 2. Jugged Hare. I 4- Vegetables. 1. Oyster Patties.—Light puff paste, 2 dozen^ large oysters, i oz. of butter rolled in flour, ^ a gill of good cream, a little grated lemon-peel, a little cayenne pepper, salt, i tea-spoonful of lemon-juice. 2. Jugged Hare.—Y)'vA^^ an undressed hare into joints; let them be larded with bacon. Mix well, upon the dish on which you have madeBILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 297 tlie dissection, a spoonful of salt and \ a one of soluble cayenne and pounded mace, a few leaves of mixed sweet herbs j add to these 4 silver onions, a dozen cloves, a gill of port wine, a pint of spring water, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. Put all into a jug with a close- fitting top, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water for three hours. Lay the meat on a dish before the fire, strain the liquor, boil it up, and pour it over the hare just before sending it to table. 3. Apple Fritters.—Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour tb make a thick batter. Pare and core 6 large apples, cut them in slices about a | of an inch thick, fry them in the batter till nicely brown, then strew some white sugar over them, and serve them hot. OCTOBER 18. Anxiety is the poison of human life. It is the parent of many sins, and of more miseries.'—Blair. 1. Fried Soles. 3. Veal and Ham Pie. 2. Roast Hare. 4. Vegetables. 1. Fried Soles.—Scrape, but do not skin them; wash them and wipe them dry; dip them in beaten egg, and then strew them over with bread-crumbs. Have a pan of fat, and be sure it boils before you put in the soles. Fry them of a light brown, and turn them but once. Lay them on a napkin for the fat to drain off, and serve them on a fish-plate, with plain melted butter in a boat. 2. Roast Hare.—A hare may be rendered much easier to carve, and far more plump in appearance, by taking out the bones of the back and thighs, or of the former only. In removing this, a very sharp knife should be used, and much care will be required to avoid cutting through the skin just over the spine, as it adheres closely to the bone. Nearly double the usual quantity of forcemeat must be prepared; with this restore the legs to their original shape, and fill the body, which should be previously lined with delicate slices of the nicest bacon, of which the rind and edges have been trimmed away. Sew up the hare; truss it as usual; lard it or not, as is most convenient; keep it well basted with butter while roasting (it takes from one hour and a quarter to one and three-quarters), and serve with the ordinary sauce. When the taste is in favour of a sweet sauce, melt 2 table-spoonfuls of fine red currant jelly in i a pint of rich brown gravy. To remove the backbone, clear from it first the flesh in the inside • lay this back to the right and left, from the centre of the bones to the298 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. tips; then work the knife on the upper side quite to the spine, and when all but the skin which adheres to this is detached, separate the bone at the first joint from the neckbone or ribs, and pass the knife with caution under the skin down the middle of the back. 3. Veal and Ham Pie.—^Take the meat off an undressed breast ol veal, by cutting it in pieces about an inch and a half long and an inch broad. Put the bones into a saucepan, with plenty of water, and a bundle of sweet herbs; extract about half a pint of strong gravy; strain this through a sieve. Line a pie-dish with thin paste; envelope every piece of veal in a thin slice of dressed ham, not too fat; have ready half a dozen hard boiled eggs, distributing the yolks of these amongst your meat Season the gravy extracted from the bones with pepper and salt, and pour it over the meat till the dish be completely filled, then cover with top crust. This pie will require more time in baking than those of beefsteak, mutton, or fruit -0— OCTOBER 19. * / know that we often tremble at an empty terror: yet the false fancy brings a real misery. ’—Schiller. 1. Pheasant. I 3. Mashed Turnips. 2. Boiled Neck of Mutton. I 4. Nelson Pudding. I. Pheasant.—Let the bird be carefully picked and drawn; after hanging some tivo or three days, take out the craw by cutting a slit in the back of the neck; leave the head on, and truss as you would a fowl for roasting, with this difference, that you do not cut off the feet, but merely divest them of the claws. From half an hour to three-quarters’ roasting will be sufficient, the time depending upon the size. Baste ivith fresh butter; send it to table properly browned, with some rich gravy sauce, in which, a tea-spoonful of ham extract has been mixed. 3. Mashed Turnips.—The flavour of this justly favourite dish may be very much improved by having a table-spoonful of finely-powdered loaf sugar beat up with the vegetable, after it has been well pressed from the water. As the process of mashing occupies some time, the turnips should be warmed up a few minutes before being sent to table; add a small bit of butter, or half a tea-cupful of cream. 4. Nelson Pudding.—Butter a pudding dish, then cut some slices of thin bread and butter; line the dish with them, keeping the buttered side next it; strew a layer of shred suet, mixed wdth a little flour, over the bread at the bottom of the dish; over that, a layer of captain’s biscuits pounded, then a layer of sliced apples; strew over the apples a little mixed spice and sugar. Continue to put a layer of suet, biscuit, andBILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 299 apples alternately, until the dish is full. Beat up 4 eggs; 2 of the whites may be left out. Pour to the eggs, stirring the while, i quart of boiling milk. Pour this over the pudding, reserving a little, into which dip a sufficient number of slices of bread and butter to cover the top, keeping the buttered side up. OCTOBER 2 0. ^ Anger manages everything badly.'—Stadius. 1. Carrot Soup. 3. Celts Pudding. 2. PIashed Mutton. 4. Vegetables. 1. Cairot Soup.—Make this soup the day before it is to be used. Put some beef-bones, with 4 quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, with 2 large onions, i turnip, into a sauce- pan to simmer or stew for three hours; pepper and salt to taste. Scrape 6 large carrots, cut them thin, strain the soup on them, and stew till they will pulp through a coarse cloth or hair sieve; then boil the pulp with the soup till of the consistency of good cream. Do not pulp the yellow, but only the red part of the carrot; add cayenne. Use 2 wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. 2. Hashed Mutton.—Put a wine-glassful of vinegar into a stewpan, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, and a bay leaf; reduce to half, take out the spice and bay leaf; add ^ a pint of water or broth; cut the mutton to be hashed in thin, small slices, and season well with pepper and salt; shake a good spoonful of flour over, mix all together and put into the stewpan; let simmer gently ten minutes. Serve with slices of gherkin as garnish, adding a little mustard to the gravy, or, what is better, some piccalilly. 3. Ce/ts Pudding.—Melt a lb. of butter in a basin set in a pan of hot water; mix with it gradually the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs well beaten; add fine sugar, grated lemon-peel, and mace to taste; bake in a shallow dish. OCTOBER 21. ‘ The guardian angel of life sometimes flies so high that we cannot see it; but he is always looking down upon us, and will soon hover nearer to us.'—Richter. 1. Plaice. 4. Anna’s Pudding. 2. A LA MODE Beef. 5. Vegetables. 3. Roast Larks. 1. Plaice.—Yox a large—especially if there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; then wash and wipe it dry; wet over with egg, and cover over with bread-crumbs; make some lard or fine300 THINGS A LADY WOULD LNKE TO KNOW. dripping, and 2 large spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot. Lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce. You may dip the fish in the vinegar, and not put it in the pan. 2. A Id mode Beef.—Take apiece of clod or sticking of beef and cut it in small pieces; then put a lump of dripping into your pot, with a good-sized onion cut thin; when quite hot, roll the pieces of beef in flour and lay them in, stirring it well about; when nicely browned all over, add boiling water, in the proportion of a quart to every lb. of meat; this must be added by degrees, and the whole kept stirring well together all the time; then put in a few allspice, 2 bay leaves, some black pepper, and a little salt; cover it up close, and set it by the side of the fire, so that it may stew very gently till the meat becomes quite tender, which it will in about three hours, when it will be ready to serve up. 3. Roast Larks.—Two dozen larks, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a sprig of parsley, egg, bread-crumbs, and melted butter. Pick and clean 2 dozen birds, and cut off the heads and legs; pick out the gizzards, and put a seasoning inside them of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little chopped parsley; brush them over with the yolks of some well-beaten eggs, dip them into bread-crumbs, covering them very thickly; run a small bird-spit through them, and fasten it on a larger one, and put them to roast before a bright fire, basting them con- stantly with butter, or they will burn. When done, arrange them in a circle round a dish, and fill the centre with a pile of crumbs of bread, fried crisp and brown in a little butter. Serve them with melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it 4. An7id!s Pudding.—R ^ lb. of suet, ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, i table- spoonful of ground rice, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs, peel of a lemon. Chop the suet very fine, and add to it the stale bread-crumbs, the ground rice, and the peel of the lemon grated. Mix it well together with the yolks of 2 eggs well beaten. Butter a basin, and place the ingredients in it; steam it. When served, pour over it a little melted butter and sugar, with half a glass of white wine, or serve the sauce in a tureen. OCTOBER 22. * We arenrjer like angels till our passion a'Afj.’—THOMAS Decker. 1. Roast Goose. I 3- Vegetables. 2. Oxtails Stewed. I 4- Apple Charlotte. I. Roast Goose.—Prepare a goose as for roasting; pour over it a quart of boiling milk, and let it lie all night in it. Take it out andBILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 301 dry it well; boil the liver, chop and mix it with the stuffing, which make of sage and onion and a few bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Sew the goose up close, and hang it up for a day; after which, boil slowly for an hour in a closely-covered pot, and serve smothered in onion sauce. It is an excellent dish, and prepared with much less cost than roasting. 2. Oxtails Stewed.—Three tails, half a tea-spoonful of pepper, a little cayenne, 8 or 10 cloves, 2 small onions, 2 large carrots, a large bunch of parsley, a little butter and flour; salt to taste. 4. Apple Charlotte.—Peel, core, and cut up 12 good apples; put in a stewpan, with two-thirds their weight of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of i lemon, and sixth part of a nutmeg grated; boil and stir till in a marmalade, then add 2 oz. of fresh butter; cut 4 slices of bread the sixth of an inch thick; cut them into two-inch squares, and then across into triangles; put them on a dish, and pour over 4 oz. of dissolved fresh butter. When well saturated and cold, butter a plain mould, stick in the bread so that the points meet in the centre, fit one piece in the other round the sides, press in the apple, cover with a dish, and bake in a quick oven for about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. ‘ The mind ought sometimes to be amused, that it may better return to thought and to itself.'—Phaedrus. I. Gajne Soup.—Cut a knuckle of ham into thin slices, and put over the bottom of a stewpan; on this put a knuckle of veal cut small, or an old rabbit, and 2 or 3 lbs. of shin of beef, with any remnants of game or poultry which may be left. On the top place 3 or 4 partridges whole; moisten with a little water, or the liquor in which a joint has been boiled; sweat this over a slow fire until reduced to a glaze, then fill up with more liquor, and skim carefully. Add 3 or 4 leeks, a carrot, 2 or 3 turnips, a head of celery, and 2 or 3 onions, with a bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, marjoram, basil and parsley, and spice, and boil till the game is tender. Take off the fillets, and put them into a clean stewpan; strain the broth, and put with them. The carrot, leeks, and celery may be cut into dice and added to the rest; let it boil by the side of the stove, and skim off all the grease. Season with cayenne OCTOBER 23. 1. Game Soup. 2. Roast Partridges. 3. Stewed Sweetbreads. 4. Egg Fritters. 5. Vegetables.302 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. and salt Put the fillets into a tureen, pour the broth over, and add some slices of fried bread cut in dice. 2. Roast Partridges.—The partridge, being prepared for roasting, should have a piece of butter rolled in salt and pepper put in its inside. Roast before a brisk fire for about half an hour, and keep well basted with butter; froth up just before serving, and dish with a little gravy over; send up bread sauce and gravy in tureens. Note.—Partridges can be stuffed with mushrooms; thus cooked, they are very delicious eating. Sufficient for a brace is thus prepared : Half or three-quarters of a pint of buttons or mushroom flaps; dissolve i'^ oz. of butter over a slow fire ; put in the mushrooms, slightly sprinkled with salt and cayenne. Stew for a quarter of an hour, turn them out to cool; when quite cold, use them as stuffing for the birds, which sew up securely to keep the filling in. Roast and serve as usual. 3. Stewed Sweetbreads.—One or 2 sweetbreads, i pint of veal broth, some marjoram, mace, pepper, salt, flour, yolks of 2 eggs. Soak the sweetbreads in warm water, and then put them into a stew- pan with the veal broth, pepper, salt, and mace, with a little marjoram, and let them stew for rather more than half an horn:. When done, place them on a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with a little flour and the beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. 4. Egg Fritters.—Take some well-drained poached eggs, brush them over with well-beaten yolk of egg ; strew over some good cheese grated, then bread-crumbs; fry a moment in very hot clarified butter. Serve with fried or crisped parsley. OCTOBER 24. ‘ Act well at the moment, and you have performed a good action to all eternity.' —Lavater. 1. Boiled Eels. 3. Vegetables. 2. Meat and Potato Pudding. 4. College Puddings. 1. Boiled Eels.—Boiled eels are done in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. The small ones are best for boiling. Serve witli chopped parsley and butter. 2. Meat and Potato Pudding.—Boil 4 lbs. of potatoes, and dry them well over the fire; beat and roll them fine. When cold, beat them up with 2 eggs and a quart of milk into a smooth batter; now lay some steaks, seasoned with pepper and salt, in a deep dish, and pour on about half the batter; then some more steaks, then the rest of the batter. Bake it gradually, and of a fine brown.BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 3C3 4. College Puddings.—h. ^ lb. of bread-crumbs, ^ lb. of Naples bis- cuits, ^ lb. of beef suet, 2 oz. of candied orange or lemon peel, ^ lb. of currants, 2 oz. of loaf sugar, yolks of 4 eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs, Naples biscuits pounded, beef suet chopped very fine, the candied orange-peel cut into shreds, the sugar pounded, and the currants washed and dried. Mix the above with the yolks of 4 beaten eggs till all becomes a paste; then cut them in pieces of a flat shape j fry them in lard over a gentle fire till brown, and put them on a napkin. Sauce in a tureen. —0— OCTOBER 2 5. ‘ The company in which you will improve most will be least expensive to you.’— General Washington. 1. Scalloped Oysters. 4. Vegetables. 2. Pie of Larks. 5. Cintra Fritters. 3. Stewed Steak. 1. Scalloped Oysters.—The true method of making this savoury winter dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- powdered crumbs of white bread \ on this place as many bearded oysters as the shape will hold; over these strew a little salt and soluble cayenne, and 2 or 3 morsels of butter; then make a second layer of crumbs, and proceed as before directed till the shape be filled, then pour the liquor of the oysters over; put them into the oven for half an hour, and just before serving to table brown the top with a hot salamander. 2. Pie of Larks.—A dozen small birds, a rump-steak, a small bunch of savoury herbs, the peel of ^ a lemon, a slice of stale bread, i a cupful of milk, 6 eggs, pepper and salt, 2 oz. of butter, puff paste. Make a forcemeat with the slice of bread soaked in milk, and beaten up, a small bunch of savoury herbs chopped fine, and the peel of i a lemon minced, a seasoning of pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and the yolks of 6 eggs ; mix all together; put it into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes until it becomes very stiff, then fill the inside of each bird. Line a pie-dish with the rump-steak, seasoned with pepper and salt and fried lightly; place the birds on it, cover them with the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and pour in a sufficient quantity of gravy. Put a paste round the edge of the dish, and cover it over with the same; glaze it with the yolk of an egg brushed over it, make a hole in the top, and bake it. 3. Stewed Steak.—Take some slices of beef, pepper and salt them well, slice up a couple of onions thin, and lay a piece or two of the fat of the steak at the bottom of a clean saucepan, then some of the onion, and on that some more steak, and so on alternately till you have put all304 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. in; shake and turn it about frequently to keep it from burning, it will presently be nice and brown; let it stew in its own gravy till the meat becomes tender, then take off all the fat from the top, mix some flour in two table-spoonfuls of water, with a little ketchup or pickled walnut liquor, and pour it gradually into the stew; stir it about well, and just give it a boil up ; serve it quite hot. 5. Cintra Fritters.—Cut up some spongecake, or any other kind of cake, into slices ^ of an inch thick, stamp them into round or oblong shapes, soak them for a few minutes in a mixture of wine and cream sweetened and flavoured with a few drops of ratafia, dredge them vsuth flour on both sides, and fry them in lard, of a light brown colour. Pour some melted raspberry jelly round them, and serve very hot. OCTOBER 2 6. ‘ Costly company are not to be liked; lest, whilst you make your hair longer, you make your wings shorter. ’—Lord Bacon. 1. Venison Pasty. 3. Vegetables. 2. Partridge Pie. 4. Queen Mab’s Pudding. 1. Venison Pasty.—Take either of the above parts of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan with 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add a ^ of a pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth or stock to cover it; put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew till three-parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a cold place, with a little of the gra\y poured over them. Pour the remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc., and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust, ornament the top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, have ready the gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it clean, add a glass of port wine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. For the gravy.—A glass of port wine, juice of a small lemon, a piece of butter and flour, some stock from the stewed venison. 2. Partridge Pie.—Prepare 4 partridges for dressing; do not truss them, but remove the heads and necks, as well as the legs from the knee-joints. Put in a pie-dish i lb. of veal cutlet and a rasher of un- dressed ham, or some very nice bacon; then place the partridges’ breasts to the centre in form, and prepare the following seasoning thus;—Take of chopped thyme and parsley mixed i tea-spoonful, and of chopped mushrooms i dessert-spoonful j mix and season with salt, pepper, and cayenne; scatter this between the birds, and fill up the dish with strong305 'BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. veal broth, allowing room for cooking; edge the dish with puff paste, and cover with the same; bake for one hour; when nearly done, take it from the oven, wash over lightly with egg, and return to finish. Serve hot, with gravy in tureen. 4. Qticm Mab's Pudding.—Blanch and bruise about 6 bitter almonds, cut the peel of a lemon very thin, and put both into a clean stewpan with a pint of milk; stir it at the side of the fire until it is at the point of boiling, and the flavour of the lemon and almonds is well drawn out. Then add an oz. of isinglass, and a very little salt. When the isinglass is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin into another stewpan, and add the sugar broken and the cream j just allow it to boil, then stir quickly in the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and stir it constantly and carefully, to prevent its curdling, until it becomes of the thickness of a good custard; then pour it out, and again stir it until nearly cold; then mix with it the dried cherries, and the citron cut into shreds. Rub a drop of oil over a mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cold place, or on ice, for some time before it is turned out. ‘ What need to forestall the date of grief a/id run to meet what we would most avoid ?' I. Savoury Omelet.—Cold fowl, veal, or veal kidney, are the best ingredients for this excellent dish. Whichever you select must be chopped very fine, with an equal quantity of the lean of ham; add i shalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Mix the yolks of 3 eggs and 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour in a tea-cupful of milk. Beat up the whites of egg separately; see that the frying-pan be quite hot, and the lard boihng, before you put in the meat and yolks, well mixed together : as soon as you begin to fry, add the whites, and mix them well with the other ingredients. Ten minutes over a slow fire will be sufficient. Brown with a salamander before you send it to table. _ 2. Bubble and Squeak.—CvX cold boiled beef in slices about J of an inch thick. Fry them till heated through, and of a light brown; keep them hot before the fire. Have ready chopped some cold boiled cabbage; fry this in the pan, stirring it well about, and season it with pepper and a very little salt. Put the cabbage into a dish, and lav the meat around it. ^ 4. Bread and Butter Pudding.—V\x\. into a deep dish that will’hold a quart very thin slices of bread and butter, only half filling it. Stir into OCTOBER 2 7. —Milton. 1. Savoury Omelet. 2. Bubble and Squeak. 3. Vegetables. 4. Bread and Butter Pudding. u3o6 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. pints of cold milk 8 tea-spoonfuls of white pounded sugar, a laurel leaf, and 3 eggs well beaten. When all are well mixed, pour it into the dish over the bread and butter, and bake it in a quick oven. OCTOBER 28. ' Oft expectation fails, and most oft there where most it promises.'—ShakspeAEE. 1. Roast Guinea Fowl. 3. Vegetabues. 2. Boiled Knuckle of Veal. 4- Carrot Pudding. 1. Roast Guinea When the guinea fowl is properly prepared, lard the breast with shreds of bacon, and truss it the same as a pheasant Put it down to a clear, brisk fire to roast, keeping it well basted, and about ten minutes before it is done dredge it with flour to make it froth nicely. Serve it with a little gravy poured round it; send up some also in a tureen, and the same of bread sauce. If the guinea fowl is not larded, but plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. A guinea fowl may be roasted plain, as a pheasant. It will then take one hour to roast at a good fire. Baste it well with butter. 2. Boiled Kmickle of Fm/.—Break, or rather saw, the knuckle into pieces; wash, and put it into plenty of water, with a little saltlet it boil gently for two or three hours, according to the size; it requires to be well boiled, in order to soften the sinews, which, when sufficiently done, are most delicious; you must keep it well skimmed, as the liquor is excellent for broth or soup. It is eaten with boiled ham, bacon, or pickled pork. When dished, pour over it some good parsley and Carrot Budding.—Boil some carrots till they will pulp through a sieve • take I lb. of the pulp, ^ lb. of potato boiled and mashed very fine, with k little salt, i lb. of flour, i lb. of moist sugar, I lb. of butter melted 2 oz. of candied orange, and f lb. of currants; mix all well together overnight, and boil it full four hours. When the pudding is taLn out of the pan, let it remain in the cloth about three minutes before serving.BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. 307 OCTO B E R 29. ‘ Beware, so long asyott live, of judging men by their ottiward appearance,'— La Fontaine. I Soup a la Cantatrice. 2. Brown Fricassee of Rabbits. 3. Vegetables. 4. Amber Pudding. I. Soup d, la Cantatrice.—Excellent soup for the voice. 3 oz. of sago, half a pint of cream, the yolks of 3 eggs,^jc lump of sugar, and seasoning to taste, i bay leaf (if liked), 2 quarts of medium stock. Cut up into pieces about three inches square 4 lbs. of shin of beef, or 4 lbs. knuckle of veal, or 2 lbs. of each, and ^ lb. of lean bacon or ham. Rub 2 oz. butter on the bottom of the stewpan, put in half a pint of water, the meat, etc., and any bones, trimmings of poultry, or fresh meat, 2 large onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, 3 carrots, I head of celery, 3 lumps of sugar, 2 oz. salt, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, i large blade of mace, i bunch of savoury herbs. Cover the stewpan and place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents. When the bottom of the pan becomes covered with a pale jelly-like substance, add four quarts of cold water, and simmer very gently for five hours : do not let it boil quickly; remove every particle of scum whilst it is doing, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of most soups, and will be found strong enough for ordmaiy purposes. (Average cost, pd. per quart.) Mofe.—Uavmg washed the sago in boiling water, let it be gradually added in the nearly boiling stock; simmer for half an hour, when it should be well dis- solved ; beat up the yolks of the eggs, add to them the boiling cream, s ir them quickly in the soup, and serve immediately. Do not let the soup boil, or the eggs will curdle. Time, about forty minutes. Ihis is a soup, the principal ingredients of which (sago and escrs) have always been deemed very beneficial to the chest and throat, and 01 great advantage to the voice in singing. -Brown Fricassee o/Radhits.-Cnt a. couple of rabbits into joints ry ese in a little fresh butter till they become a light brown colour' SDoontl^'f 1 ^ ^ '"^ter, two table- coul f ? mushroom ketchup, and Reading sauce, a onions, a little soluble cayenne and salt. Stew over a Inlth'-'k strain the gravy pot U '“*■ “'i floui-iufcT 'Phree eggs; their weight in sugar, butter, and with Vour hanHiriir Gutter your hand till like cream; then add the flour, sugar, and beaten3oS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. eggs by degrees; then the juice of one or two lemons, with the peel grated. Butter a mould thickly, and when the ingredients are well mixed pour it in, taking care that the mould is quite full. Butter a piece of white paper, cover it over the top, tie it well over with a cloth, and put it into a saucepan of fast boiling water. OCTOBER SO. ‘ Moderate your anger, govern well your household affairs, and write your letters without useless repetitions.'—Ferdinand, King of Spain. 1. Oyster Soup. 3. Pigeon Pie. 2. A Neck of Mutton. 4. Turnips, etc. 1. Oyster Soup,—Take a sufficient quantity of oysters, according to their size; about a dozen fine natives is sufficient for a pint of soup. Open the oysters, save all the liquor which comes from them, and strain it. Beard the oysters, put the beards and a little consomme together into a small saucepan over the fire, to boil for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. In the meantime pound the oysters to a pulp with a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread, and two or three yolks of eggs boiled hard, to three dozen natives, more or less according to the quantity. Strain the liquor from the beards into a stewpan; add the rest of the stock, the liquor of the oysters free from sediment, and the pulp of the oysters; stew all together very gently for half an hour, and rub through a tammy. Keep it hot, without allowing it to boil. Season it with cayenne or white pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and also salt, if required ; some cream may also be added. Serve with fried bread cut in dice in the tureen. 2. A Neck of Mutton may be served with various ragouts of vegetables, such as spinach, sorrel, endive, cucumbers, cauliflowers, green or white haricot beans, potatoes, or mashed turnips. 3. Pigeon Pie.—Two or three pigeons, a rump-steak, pepper and salt, a little gravy, two ounces of butter, puff paste. Lay a rim of paste round the sides and edge of a pie-dish, sprinkle a little pepper and salt over the bottom, and put in a thin beefsteak; pick and draw the pigeons, wash them clean, cut off the feet, and press the legs into the sides • put a bit of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt in the inside of each, and lay them in the dish with their breasts upwards, and the necks and gizzards between them; sprinkle some pepper and salt over them, and put in a wine-glass of water; lay a thin sheet of paste over the top, and with a brush wet it all over; then put a puff paste half an inch thick over that, cut it close to the dish, brush it over with egg, ornament the top, and stick four of the feet out of it, and bake it309 BILL OF FARE FOR OCTOBER. When done, pour in a little good gravy. You may put in the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, or leave out the beefsteak if you think proper. 4. Turnips, etc.—Pare and wash the turnips, boil them well in plenty of water, then wring them very dry in a delicately clean cloth; beat them up with pepper, salt, and butter to taste ; add a little milk to give whiteness, and serve very hot. A little sugar, if the turnips are old, is an improvement. ^ ‘ Might I give counsel to any young friend, I wottld say unto her: “ Try to fi-equent the company of your betters ; learn to admire rightly. The great pleasure of life is in that, narrow spirits admire basely and worship meanly; broad spirits worship the right. ” ’—Thackeray. 2. Roast Pork.—Pork should at all times be perfectly well done, and therefore requires a longer time to roast than any other meat. Pork is much more savoury when stuffed with chopped sage, and onions, and bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. The outer rind should be neatly scored to enable the carver to cut slices more easily. Before setting it down to roast, mb the skin with salad oil to prevent its blistering, and baste it frequently. Serve it with apple sauce in a tureen or boat. The onions should be boiled a little before being chopped for the stuffing. 3. Vegetables.—Let them remain for a full hour before dressing in cold water; be sure to dress them in a capacious saucepan full of boiling water, into which three table-spoonfuls of salt has been thrown; give them twenty minutes on the fire; drain off the water through a colander; put the vegetables on a sieve, bottom upwards, and gently press therh Avith a hot plate. 4. Apple Dumplings.—the large msset-coat fmit, pare and cut them in halves, take out the cores, and fill the cavities with quince marmalade and a couple of cloves to each. Surround the apples with paste equally distributed; tie up in cloths; boil for fifty minutes or an hour, if your dumplings are large. Have melted butter and powdered sugar ready to serve with them. ■0— OCTOBER 31. 1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. 2. Roast Pork. V ihLriit 1 AloLiiLb* 4. Apple Dumplings. Vegetables.THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO LCNOW. 310 DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF OCTOBER. Flowers in the centre. 1. Preserved Golden Pippins. 2. Compote of Siberian Crabs. 3. Meringues Ordinaires. 4. Quince Paste. 5. Biscuits aux Avellines. 6. POMMES A L’ALLEMANDE. Walnuts, Grapes, Filberts, Apples, PeapvS. I. PRESERVED GOLDEN PIPPINS. Pare, core, quarter, and boil to a pulp with water a quart of golden pippins; pass them through a jelly bag. Boil the rind of a Seville orange in plenty of water until it is quite soft, slice it, and add it to your apple pulp. Peel and core 12 choice pippins. Boil down 2 lbs. of loaf sugar with a little water, skim it, and put in your pippins; boil pretty fast until the sugar is almost a candy, then add the jelly and orange-peel; squeeze in the juice of a lemon. Simmer all till the syrup looks clear, and put it into a mould or into pots to keep. 2. COMPOTE OF SIBERIAN CRABS. Strip your fruit from the stalks, weigh it, and for i lb. of crabs boil together a tea-cupful each of juice of a lemon, and bake them until they form a pulp; add to them their weight of loaf sugar, place them in a preserving-pan, and do them over a clear fire until they are ex- ceedingly thick. Make them into lozenges, or dry them slowly in small moulds. Sift sugar over them to keep. 3. MERINGUES ORDINAIRES. Beat the whites of 8 eggs until they are a very stifi' froth, then mix with them 8 oz. of pounded and sifted white sugar. When quite a smooth paste, place spoonfuls of it upon sheets of paper rubbed t\-ith a little oil or butter; put them quickly into the oven; and directly they are sufficiently set, retire them and press the back of a spoon upon the under side of each, so as to make them hollow in the middle ; replace them in the oven, and when they are perfectly firm take them out Let them grow cold, and fill them with marmalade fruit jelly or whipped cream ; fasten two together by moistening the edges with white of egg ; rub the outsides also with the egg, roll them in gifted loaf sugar, and let them dry in an airy place.DESSEJiT F02^ OCTOBER. 4. QUINCE PASTE. Put your quinces whole into water, and simmer them slowly until they are tender; pare, core, mash, and pass them through a sieve. Place the pulp in a preserving-pan over the fire, and add to it an equal weight of fine loaf sugar; boil it until it is thickened, and spread it upon sugared plates or papers. Dry it slowly in a slack oven, and keep for use between paper. 5. BISCUITS AUX AVELLINES. Blanch half a pound of filberts and i oz. of bitter almonds; pound them in a mortar, using a little white of egg with them to prevent them from oiling. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and the rasped rind of half a lemon. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs to a snow, add to them the yolks, etc., and very gradually sift in i oz. of dried flour. Put the mixture into paper cases, and bake until they are of a nice colour. The slower the oven is, the lighter and better these will be. 6. POMMES A L’ALLEMANDE. Pare and core i lb. of pippins ; put with them 6 oz. of powdered sugar, a good glass of Rhine wine (white), and the strained juice of two good sweet oranges. Simmer this by the side of the fire until it is pretty thick, then mix it with 4 oz. of apricot or pine-apple jam, and 4 oz. of blanched sweet almonds, cut in half or pounded to a paste, as preferred. Give it a boil up, put it into a greased mould, and when quite set turn it into a dessert-dish, and garnish it with candied orange chips.312 NOVEMBER 1. ‘ The more you de7iy yoicrself, the jnore you shall obtain from Horace^ PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Doe Venison—Mutton—Veal—Beef. Poultry : Fowls—Pullets—Larks—Geese—Chickens—Pigeons—Teal—Turkey- Wild Duck—Widgeons. Game : Woodcocks—Hares—Pheasants—Snipes—Partridges—Rabbits. Fish : Brill — Gudgeons— Oysters—Whitings—Carp—Crab—Cod—Eels—Pike- Turbot —T ench— Sol es—H addock. Vegetables : Carrots—Beetroot—Onions—late Cucumbers—Cabbages—Celery— Lettuces—Sprouts—Potatoes—Spinach—Salading—Herbs. FRUITS IN SEASON. Pears Chestnuts—Filberts—Grapes— Bullaces—Walnuts—Apples. 1. Tongue Soup. 3. Vermicelli Pudding, 2. Pork Cutlets Broiled. 4. Vegetables. 1. Tongue Soup.—Remains of a cold tongue, 2 lbs. of shin of beef, some beef bones, and any cold pieces of meat, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, i parsnip, i head of celery, ^ tea-cupful of rice, salt and pepper to taste, 4 quarts of water. Simmer all gently about four hours, or till the gravy is drawn from the meat. Strain off the soup, and let it stand till cold. When the soup is wanted for use, skim otf all the fat, put in the kernels and soft parts of the tongue, slice in a small quantity of fresh carrot, turnip, and onion; stew till the vegetables are tender, and serve with toasted bread. 2, Pork Cutlets Broiled.—Take some cutlets from a loin of pork, trim them neatly, and cut off nearly all the fat. Season them with pepper, and place them on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. Broil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, as pork requires to be very' well done. Turn them as often as necessar)>^ while over the fire. When they are done, put them on a hot dish, and serve them with sauce piquante, or plain brown gravy.313 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 3. Vermicelli Budding.—Wash 3 oz. of vermicelli and put it into a saucepan with 3 cupfuls of milk; boil it for a quarter of an hour, then add 2 oz. of butter. Well beat 3 eggs with 3 spoonfuls of powdered sugar, and when the vermicelli is quite cold stir in the eggs and sugar. Bake it one hour, and serve with brandy sauce. —0— NOVEMBER 2. ‘ Endeavottr to have as little to do 'with thy affection and passions as thou canst, ana labour to thy power to make thy body eonUnt to go of thy soul's errattds.'—^Jeremy Tavlor. 1. Baked Haddocks. 3. Aldershot Pudding. 2. Veal Olives. 4. Vegetables. 2. Veal Olives.—Some slices of veal, a slice or two of fat bacon, some forcemeat, a shalot, cayenne pepper, egg, some brown gravy. Cut some thin slices of veal rather wide, but'not more than 3 or 4 inches long; lay a very thin slice of fat bacon on each, then a layer of force- meat, a little shalot sliced as thin and fine as possible, with pepper, salt, and cayenne •, roll them round, and fasten each securely with a small skewer; brush them over with egg, and fry them a nice brown. Boil a few mushrooms, pickled or fresh, with half a pint, or as much as your olives will require, of brown gravy, pour it round them, and garnish with egg-balls. 3. Aldershot Fuddmg.—Three-quarters of a lb. of bread-crumbs, 10 oz. of suet, I lb. of fine moist sugar, 2 lemons, 2 oz. of candied orange- peel. Mix the bread-crumbs with the suet chopped as fine as you can, the grated lemon-peel, the candied orange or lemon cut very small; add the sugar and juice of the lemons, grate in a little nutmeg, and bake them in small buttered moulds for about three-quarters of an hour. When done, turn them out on a dish, and pour some lemon, or any sweet sauce you may prefer, over them. NOVEMBER 3. ‘ Ah, how mueJi suffering might be spared sometimes by a single abstinence, by a sinole No, aiiswered tn a fie}'ce tone, to the voice of seduction !’ Lavater. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Haricot of Veal. 3. Apple Fritters. 4. Vegetables. 2. Ilaricot of Veal.—Cut off the bones from the best end of a neck veal quite short, but leave the neck whole; nut all into a stewpan.314 THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO LCNOW. and cover it with some good gravy. Just before serving, add a pint of green peas, then cucumbers cut into slices, the carrots and turnips cut into wheels, and the lettuces into 4 pieces, previously stewed in a little broth, and let them simmer with the veal for ten or twelve minutes. Dish up the meat, pour the vegetables and sauce over it, and garnish with the quarters of lettuce and forcemeat-balls. 3. Apple Fritters.—Beat and strain the yolks of 7 eggs and the whites of 3 ; mix into them a pint of new milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, and a glass of brandy. Well beat the mixture, and then add gradually sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Pare and core 6 large apples, cut them in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, sprinkle pounded sugar over them, and set them by for an hour or more; dip each piece of apple in the batter, and fry them in hot lard about six minutes ; the lard should not be made too hot at first, but must become hotter as they are frying. Serve on a napkin, with sifted sugar over them. NOVEMBER 4. ‘ Moderation is the silken string running through the pearl chain of all virtties.'— Fuller. 1. Whitings. 3- Alice Fudding. 2. Stewed Pigeons. 4- Vegetables. 2. Stewed Pigeons.—and wash 6 pigeons, put them into a stew- pan with a pint of good gravy, an onion cut small, the shalots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a pint of mushrooms cut into small pieces, and a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace. Let the whole stew gently until tender, and add the wine just before you take the stewpan from the fire. Put the pigeons on a dish, brown the sauce, and pour it with the mushrooms over the pigeons. Stew over the whole some grated bread, and brown it with a salamander. 3. Alice Pudding. — Make a good custard with five well-beaten eggs, half a pint of cream, and the same quantity of milk, or milk alone; add I of an oz. of isinglass, and flavour it with a small piece of shred vanilla tied in muslin. When cold, stir in 2 dessert-spoonfuls of brandy. Have ready any ornamental mould, dip it in water, and fill the pattern at the bottom with custard; then place in slices of spongecake in layers with raspberry jam between each, and fill up the mould with the re- mainder of the custard; put it in a cold place until the next da), or ice it. Turri it out, and ornament it with crystallized fruit or jelly.BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 315 NOVEMBER S. ‘ Thai ^ood sense which nature affords us, is preferable to most of the knowledge that we can acquire.'—COMINES. r. SOUFFLEE OF ClIICKEN. 3- LEMON DUjrPLINGS. 2. Cheshire Pork Pie. 4. Vegetables. 1. Soiifflie of Chicken.—Chicken legs, etc., f of a pint of white sauce, pepper and salt, i dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley and sweet herbs, 3 eggs, a few bread-crumbs. Take the meat from the legs of chicken, pheasant, or rabbit; take out the sinews; mince the meat very small by putting it through the mincing machine twice; boil it in a stewpan with white sauce, pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, or any other sweet herb; stir it on the fire till it boils; put into it the yolks of 3 eggs, whipped to a firm froth that will bear an egg; stir them lightly into the mixture. Bake it in a plain mould, with paper round the top to allow it to rise j bake it in a very quick oven. Serve white sauce or gravy round it. Butter the mould, and shake bread-crumbs into it previous to putting the mixture into it. 2. Cheshire Pork Pie.—Divide a loin of pork into chops, and cut away the skin and the greatest part of the fat; season the meat with salt, soluble cayenne, and a little nutmeg. Peel and core a dozen pippins, filling up the centres with fine Lisbon sugar. Line your dish with a good crust paste, then put in a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, and so on till you have filled your dish; pour in a pint of sherry, and cover down with paste for top crust. Two hours’ baking will not be too much to ensure the meat being perfectly done. 3. Lemon Phtmflings.—Rdli a lb, of grated bread, ^ lb. of suet, i lemon, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs. Chop the suet very fine, and mix it with the grated bread, the sugar pounded, and the peel of the lemon grated; mix these all well to-' gether with 2 well-beaten eggs; make it into small balls, or boil it in a basin. NOVEMBER 6. 'Pleasure and actioit make the hours seem short.'—Shakspeare. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 3. Maud Pudding. 2. Veal Cutlets. 4. Spinach. I. Vermicelli Soup.—Vermicelli must not be kept too long in the house, or it will be unfit for table. If of very fine quality, it usually requires less boiling. Drop very lightly, and by degrees, 6 oz. of ver-3i6 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. micelH, broken rather small, of boiling bouillon or clear gravy soup; let it simmer for half an hour over a gentle fire, and stir it often. 2. Vea/ Cutlets.—Take about 2 lbs. from the best end of a neck of veal, and divide it into cutlets all of the same size—that of a crown-piece, and rather more than a quarter of an inch thick. Dip them into the yolks of some beaten*eggs, and then cover them with bread-crumbs mixed with a little cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, a table-spoonful of minced herbs, and the peel of half a lemon chopped as fine as possible. Fry them a nice brown in butter. Toast an equal number of very thin slices of bacon, or ham, as near the size of the cutlets as you can, and roll them round. Arrange the cutlets in a pile in the dish; surround tliem with the rolls of bacon. Pour a little good gravy into the centre, and serve with mushroom sauce or without. 3. Maud Pudding.—EezX the butter to a cream, then add gradually the sugar pounded, and the grated lemon-peel; stir in the eggs well beaten, and then the flour dried before the fire. Beat all well together j half fill some cups or moulds, well-buttered, with the mixture, and put them into the oven the moment the flour is added. Bake them in a quick oven for half an hour, or longer should it be a slow one. Serve them quickly, with wine sauce poured over them. 4. Spinach.—Pick and wash the spinach carefully, then put it in an inner saucepan, without any water, and cover closely. Keep the outer saucepan nearly filled with water, which keep boiling. ^^Tlen the spinach is done, put it to drain where it will keep hot, but do not press it. Chop it small; add hard-boiled eggs chopped in, any quantity you desire; flavour it with a dash of nutmeg and some pepper; add a piece of fresh butter: beat the whole up with a fork, and return it to the inner kettle to stew for twenty minutes. Serve on buttered toast, and, if liked, add curled rashers of bacon, or chopped ham. Spinach juice for colouring is obtained by pounding raw leaves ; the juice must then be strained and boiled up. NOVEMBER 7. ‘ There is no action in this lije which is not the beginning of so long a chain of con-^ sequences, as that no human providence is high enough to give us a prospect to the end. —Thomas of Malmesbury. 1. Curried Cod. 3- Leche Crema. 2. Venison Pasty. 4- Vegetables. I. Curried Cod.—Take a piece of cod, pull it into large flakes, and fry it till brown ; put this into a stewpan, with half a fried onion. Pour over it sufficient good stock to cover it; add a tea-spoonful of curryBILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. 317 powder, and 2 oz. of butter, with salt to taste, also the juice of half a lemon. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, or until the fish is cooked; thicken the gravy, and serve. 2. Venison Take a neck or shoulder of venison, remove the bones and skin, and cut it into small square pieces. Put them into a stewpan, Avith 3 shalots, pepper, salt, mace, and allspice. Add ^ pint of port wine, and sufficient veal broth, or stock, to cover it put it on a gentle fire, and let it stew until three parts done. Then take out the neatest pieces of venison for the pasty, and put them into a deep dish, in a cold place, with a little of the gravy poured over them. Pour the remainder of the gravy over the bones, etc., and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Cover the pasty with some raised pie crust; ornament the top in any way you please, and bake it in a slow oven. When done, have ready the gravy left from the bones, strain and skim it clean ; add a glass of port Avine, the juice of a small lemon, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Pour it into the pasty, and serve. For the gravy.—A glass of port Avine, juice of a small lemon, a piece of butter and flour, some stock from the stewed venison. 3. Leche Crema.—Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and add to them gradually pints of milk; then mix carefully 4 table- spoonfuls of fine wheat flour and 2 oz. of finely-powdered loaf sugar, Avith grated lemon-peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire, stirring constantly to prevent their burning, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with lb. of ratafia cakes at the bottom, and when the crema is sufficiently boiled, pour it through a sieve upon the cakes. This delicious dish is ahvays served cold ; but just before sending it up, some finely-poAvdered cinnamon should be dusted thickly over it. NOVEMBER 8. * It behoves the high, for their own sake, to do things ■worthily.'—Ben Jonson. 1. Cod Sounds a la Tripe. 3. Worcester Pudding. 2. Hare Pie. 4. Vegetables. I. Cod Sounds d la Tripe.—Soak the sounds in lukewarm Avater till they are perfectly clean and white, then boil them in milk and water until quite tender. Have ready a small Spanish onion that has been boiled in tAvo waters, cut the onion into half a dozen parts, then Avarm it up with the sounds in cream, seasoned Avith three-fourths of a spoon- ful of salt, a fourth of pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Serve Avith fresh mustard and a lemon.3i8 Tlf/A’GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Hare Pie.—Cut the hare into small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; put it into a jar, cover it close, and set it over the fire in a deep stewpan of boiling water, and let it stew until half done. Make a forcemeat with ^ lb. of scraped bacon i onion minced fine, the crumb of a French roll grated, the liver chopped fine, a little winter savoury, grated nutmeg, and a glass of port wine. Season it with pepper and salt, and mix it well together with the yolks of 3 well-beaten eggs. • Line the side and edge of a dish with puff paste; put the forcemeat at the bottom, and then the pieces of hare, with the gravy that ran from it in the jar; cover it over with a pufif paste; make a hole in the top, egg it over, and bake. 3. Worcester Pudding.—One tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 tea-cupfuls of flour, lb. of suet, ^ lb. of stoned raisins, i table- spoonful of sugar, i pint of milk, peel of half a lemon, and some nutmeg. Mix the carbonate of soda with the flour, the suet chopped very fine, the raisins stoned, the sugar, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg; mix all together with a pint of milk : put it into a basin or mould; boil it two hours and a half, and serve it with sweet sauce. NOVEMBER 9. ‘ Rememher that in all miseries lamenting becomes fools, and action wisefolk.' Sir. P. Sidney. 1. Chicken Soup. 3. Lemon Turnovers. 2. Devonshire Squab Cake. 4. Vegetables. 1. Chicken Soup.—Put 2 quarts of white stock, lb. of bacon stuck with cloves, ^ oz. of butter worked up in flour, i small fowl trussed for boiling, into a stewpan, and stew for three-quarters of an hour. Take 2 oz. of vermicelli, add to it a little of the stock, and set it on the fire till quite tender. When the soup is ready, take out the fowl and bacon, and put the bacon on a dish. Skim the soup as clean as possible; pour it, with the vermicelli, over the fowl. Cut some bread thin, put in the soup, and serve. 2. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cover a pie-dish with a good pie-crust, and put at the bottom of it a layer of pippins pared, cored, and cut into slices, then a layer of mutton steaks, cut from the loin, and well seasoned with pepper and salt; then put another layer of pippins, and 2 onions sliced thin (but previously boiled in two waters, to extract the strong flavour), and put over the pippins; then again with mutton, pippins, and onions until the dish is full; pour in a pint of water; put a coverBILL OF BABE FOE NOVEMBER. 319 over the pie with a hole in the top, glaze and ornament it, and bake. 3. Lemo7i Turnovers.—Three dessert-spoonfuls of flour, i of powdered sugar, rind of i lemon, 2 oz. of butter, 2 eggs, and a little milk. NOVEMBER lO. 'Be not too tame neither, but let your 07un discretio7i be your tutor. Suit the action to the word, the word to the action ; with this special observance, that you derstep not the modesty op stature.'—Shakspeare. 1. Oyster Patties. 3. Adelind Pudding. 2. Veal and PIam Pie. 4. Vegetables. 1. Oyster Patties.—Should a dish of these savoury little pies be desired, either for lunch, supper, or to make out the bill of fare for your dinner, procure from a pastry-cook as many empty puff patties as re- quired. Beard and cut the oysters into four; stew them for a few minutes in their own liquor, mixed with cream, season’ed with a very small quantity of soluble cayenne, salt, powdered mace, and lemon- juice. When the fish is ready, remove with a spoon the top of the patty; fill with your stew, then rub the edges of the divided paste with white of egg; put on the tops, and place the patties on a slow oven for ten minutes before they are required. 2. Veal and Ham Pie.—Cut about 2 lbs. of veal and a lb. of ham or bacon into rather small cutlets; fry 3 or 4 minced mushrooms and a sprig of parsley in a small piece of butter seasoned with pepper and salt; then pour in a table-spoonful of ketchup, about -g- a pint of water (or gravy if you have it), dredge in some flour, and stir it all over the fire until it boils. Place the veal and ham alternately in a pie-dish lined with puff paste, pour in the gravy, add 5 or 6 hard-boiled eggs cut across, and cover the pie with puff paste; make a hole at the top, orna- ment it with paste in any forms you please, and bake it. Pour in a little more gravy, when done, through the hole at the top. 3. Adelind Puddhig.—Put the juice and the grated peel of the lemon into a stewpan, with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten, and stir the whole over the fire until nearly boiling. Have ready the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth, and stir them into the yolks, adding breakfast-cup of wine. Put the sponge biscuits into a dish, pour over them the remainder of the wine, and when soaked, lay over them some preserve, and pour the custard made from the lemon and the yolks of the eggs over them, then pile some whipped cream on the top and ornament it with harlequin comfits. ’320 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER 11. ‘ Aciion is no less necessary than thought to the instinctive tendencies of the human ' frame.’—Hazlitt. 1. Beefsteak Pudding. 3. Orange Tartlet. 2. Ragout of Rabiut. 4. Vegetables. 1. Beefsteak Pudding.—Put a pound, or a little more, of flour in a basin, and mix it thoroughly with some very finely chopped suet; put in a good heaped salt-spoonful of salt. Mix it to a paste with water; flour the pasteboard, the roller, and your hands. Take out the lump of paste, and roll it out about ^ an inch thick. Butter a round-bottomed pudding basin, line it with paste, turning a little over the edge. Cut up the steak into small pieces, with a little fat; flour them slightly; season highly with pepper and salt, then lay them in the basin; pour over them a gill of water. Roll out the rest of the paste, cover it over the top of the basin, pressing it down with the thumb. Tie the basin in a floured pudding cloth, and put it into a saucepan in a gallon of boiling water; keep it continually boiling for nearly two hours, occasionally adding a little more water. Take it up, untie the cloth, turn the pudding over on the dish, and take the basin carefully from it. Serve. 2. Ragout of Rabbit.—Wash and clean a good Ostend rabbit; boil the liver and heart, which chop fine and mix with some good veal stuff- ing ; fill the rabbit, and sew it up. Put 2 lbs. of fat beef and the same weight of pickled pork into a saucepan with a quart of water and a good- sized onion sliced. Let them simmer slowly for an hour, then put in your rabbit, and boil all together for another hour. Skim off all the fat about ten minutes before serving, and thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Season with pepper and salt, and add a bunch of parsley boiled soft and green, and finely chopped. Lay the rabbit and the meat in a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. 3. Orange Tartlet.—Take out the pulp from 2 Seville oranges, boil the peels until quite tender, and then beat them to a paste with Bvice their weight in pounded loaf sugar, then add the pulp and the juice of the oranges with a piece of butter the size of a walnut; beat all these ingredients together, line some patty-pans with rich puff paste, lay the oran2;e mixture in them, and bake them. O32T BILL OF BABE FOB NOVEMBEB. NOVEMBER 12. * Our actions are our (non: their consequetices belong to heaven'—P. Francis. 1. Vermicelli Soup. 4. Frank Sewell Tartlets. 2. Jugged Hare. S* Vegetables. 3. Eel Pie. 1. Vermicelli Soup.—Soak for half an hour a lb. of vermicelli (broken into inch lengths) in cold water, then drain it. Put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan or Stilton, a tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a salt- spoonful of loaf sugar, a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer gently for good three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of stock, and a wine-glassful of Marsala or of sherry. Boil slowly about eight minutes longer, and serve with a separate dish of Parmesan oi Stilton cheese. 2. Jugged Hare.—Skin the hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it; dredge it with flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, seasoning it with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne. Make about a pint and a half of gravy from the beef. Put the pieces of hare into a jar; add the onion stuck with 4 or 5 cloves, the lemon peeled and cut, and pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam; put it into a deep stewpan of cold water, and let it boil four hours ; but if a young hare, three hours will be sufficient. When done, take it out of the jar and shake it over the fire for a few minutes, adding a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, 2 glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, with some fried forcemeat-balls. Serve with red currant jelly. 3. Eel Pie.-M.2kQ a good crust; clean, gut, and wash the eels well; cut them in pieces as for stewing; season them with pepper and salt and a little beaten mace, according to your taste. Line the .sides of your dish with crust, fill in the eels, and put as much water as the dish will hold, with a table-spoonful of ketchup; put on the cover, and bake it well. 4. Frank Sewell Whites of 3 eggs, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, some apricot jam or orange marmalade, puff paste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a froth, then stir in the loaf sugar pounded fine, and whisk it well to a very stiff froth; have ready some patty-pans‘lined ivith puff paste; put a spoonful of apricot jam or orange marmalade at the bottom of each, and bake them; and when taken from the oven, pile the froth on each. XTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 322 NOVEMBER 13. ‘ Our acts make or mar us ; we are the children oj our own deeds'—Victor Huca I. Sucking Pig. | 2. Wyvern Puddings. 3. Vegetables. 1. Sucking Piq.—It should not be much more than three weeks old, and is much better if you can get it when just killed. Let it be scalded (which is usually done by the dealers); then put about 15 sage leaves minced, pepper and salt to taste, and about 6 oz. of bread well mixed, and put into the body and send it up neatly. Then skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk clear fire (not too near) till thoroughly dry; have ready some butter tied up in a thin dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over it as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to ser\'e. Then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; take out the brains and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig (many send it to table whole, the head only being cut off to garnish). Then take it up, and without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly; lay it into a hot dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flavour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back and garnished with the ears and the two jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout. 2. W^yvern Puddings.—Three-quarters of a pint of milk, 3 enough flour to make a thick batter, raspberry jam. Make a nice batter of the milk, flour, and eggs. Butter some patty-pans. Pour the batter into them till they are three-parts full; bake them. When done, place them on a folded napkin, and put jam on the top of them. —0- NOVEMBER 14. ‘ Ijyou wish to appear agreeable in society, you must consent to be taught many things which you know already.'—Lavater. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Venison. 3. Sauce to ditto. 4. Bath Pudding. 5. Vegetables. 2. Vension.-YLz.vt the haunch properly trimmed by removing the chine and knuckle bones, which stew to make the gravy. Cover the haunch either with a lamb’s caul, or two or three folds of paper to pro- tect the fat from burning. Roast before a slow fire, basting for someBILL OF FARE FOR NOVEAIBER. 323 time with salt and water, to prevent the paper burning. A weight of 12 lbs. will take three hours. When nearly done, remove the paper, dredge with flour, and baste with butter until every part is nicely browned and frothed. Serve very hot, with a paper frill round the knuckle, and the gravy made from the trimmings, flavoured only with salt. Send red currant jelly to table with it. Note.—Venison should hang three or four weeks before dressing; in this case it is best to remove the outer skin before the joint is cooked. 3. Sauce to do.—Put a small jar of red currant jelly and i glass of port wine in a stewpan over the fire, and when melted, not boiled, pour in a tureen, and serve. 4. Bath Pudding.—Mix the milk and flour into a smooth hasty pudding. Pour it into a basin on the butter, and stir it till the butter is melted. When cold, add the eggs well beaten, sugar, nutmeg and the rind of a lemon, the juice of half a lemon, and a little ratafia or brandy. Bake it in a dish with a puflf paste on the edge. Put it in a brisk oven. Serve with wine sauce. NOVEMBER 15. ‘ You have greatly ventured; but all must do so, who would greatly win.'—Byron. 1. Turbot. 3. Orange Fritters. 2. Hashed Venison. 4. Vegetables. 2. Hashed Venison.—Parboil a small onion and stick it with cloves ; well wash and chop small an anchovy; put these in a stewpan with half a pint of port wine, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, another of Lopresti’s ‘Duke of Gloster’s Sauce,’ and two table-spoonfuls of currant jelly; as soon as these boil, take out the onion and put in the slices of venison, which should be cut moderately thin; five minutes will be quite time enough to warm the meat 3. Orange Fritters.—UskQ a light batter with Y 15, of flour, 2 eggs, i oz.^ of butter, l a salt-spoonful of salt, mixed with milk till of a proper- consistency. Peel the oranges, and as much of the white skin as you divide each into 8 pieces, take out the pips, being careful not to break the thin skin; then dip each piece in the batter; drop in the oranges into a pan of boiling lard or clarified dripping, and fry them for eight or ten minutes; when fried a delicate brown, lay them before the fire on blotting paper to drain away the grease ; serve very quickly (on a white d’oyley), with plenty of pounded sugar sprinkled over324 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER 16, ‘ Toil, feel, think, hope. We are sure to dream enough before we die, without making arrangements for the purpose.'—STIRLING. 1. Macaroni Soup. 3. Pain a la Duchess^ 2. Breslau of Beef. 4. Vegetables. 1. Macaroni Soup.—Break up a lb. of Naples macaroni into inch lengths, and soak it in cold water for half an hour; drain. Put it into a stewpan with 3 pints of boiling hot stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese (or Stilton), a tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, a spoonful of loaf sugar, and simmer gently for an hour, stirring frequently. Add another quart of stock, and a wine-glassful of Marsala. Boil slowly ten minutes longer, and serve, with a separate dish of grated Parmesan or Stilton. 2. Breslau of Beef.—Trim the brown edges from the beef, shred it very small, and mix it with fine bread-crumbs, minced parsley and thyme, the grated lemon-peel, and butter broken into very small pieces ; pour on the mince a cupful of gravy (or, if you have it, a cupful of cream); add the 3 eggs thoroughly beaten. Season it well with pepper, cayenne, salt, and nutmeg, if to your taste. Butter some coffee-cups or the tin cups sold for poaching eggs in, put the Breslau into them, bake it for half an hour, and serve. Garnish with egg-balls, sauce Espagnole, or good gravy. 3. Pain a la Duchesse.—Boil in a quarter of a pint of milk half the rind of a lemon, a small stick of cinnamon, and a bit of butter the size of a nut. Strain it, and set on the fire in a stewpan. When it boils stir in 2 spoonfuls of flour and half a glass of brandy. Take it off and rub it well together. When quite cold, add 4 eggs, one at a time, rubbing well all the while. Divide the mixture into tea-spoonfuls on a plate, let it stand to grow firm, then fry in plenty of boiling lard. NOVEMBER 17. ‘ To cultivate sympathy, you tnust be among living creatures, and thinking about them.'—Ruskin. 1. Guinea Fowl. 3- Charles Douglas Pudding. 2. Round of Boiled Beef. 4. Vegetables. I. Guinea Slices of fat ham should be skewered over this bird whilst roasting, and it should also be plentifully basted, the meat being peculiarly dry. A guinea fowl and pheasant are advantageously dressed together when the latter is in full season.325 BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 2. Round of Boiled Beef.—Select a fine rib of beef, from 9 to 10 lbs.; have the bone removed,—it will make a gravy for anything you may require; rub a little salt over the inside of the rib, roll it like a fillet of veal, and bind it round with a tape or a few wooden skewers; place it in sufficient pickle to cover it, and let it remain in it five or six days, turning it every morning. When it is required, place it in a stewpan of very hot water (to prevent the gravy from being drawn out), and let it only simmer, not boil, according to the size of the joint, allowing the full time for each pound of meat. When done, remove the skewers, and replace them with a silver or plated one. 3. Charles Douglas Pudding.—Half a lb. of bread-crumbs, 6 oz. of beef suet, 6 oz. of stoned raisins, 2 table-spoonfuls of the best moist sugar, two table-spoonfuls of flour, half a tea-spoonful of mixed spice, a little salt, 4 drops of essence of almonds, i egg, a glass of sherry, nearly half a pint of milk. Mix the above quantities well and gradually together, and when thoroughly beaten up, put the pudding into a well- buttered mould, and boil it Serve with brandy or wine sauce. NOVEMBER 18. ‘ Hal/ the ills ivc hoard within our hearts are ills because we hoard them. ’ Barry Cornwall. r. Roast Fowl. 3. Agnes Pudding. 2. Irish Stew. 4, Vegetables. I. Roast^ Fowl.—’Flu, the breast of the fowl with a nice veal stuffing, and truss it for roasting ; put it down to a clear fire, and dredge over it a little flour. If a large fowl, it will require about an hour to roast, but less time if of a medium size. When done, remove the skewers, and serve it with brown gravy and bread sauce. 2. Irish Stew. Put 2 lbs. of breast of mutton in a pot, with i-|- pints of water and a pinch of salt. Let it stew gently for an hour, then take off all the fat. Take out the meat and cut it into small pieces ; have ready 4 lbs. of potatoes pared and cut in halves, 3 or 4 good-sized onions peeled and sliced, and pepper and salt mixed in a cup. When you have taken the fat off the broth as closely as possible, put in a layer of potatoes; then sprinkle 2 or 3 pieces of meat with the pepper and salt, and lay them on the potatoes; then a layer of the sliced onions, then another layer of potatoes, i of mutton, then i of onions, and so on till the whole is in. Cover close, and let it stew very gently for another hour, shaking it frequently, that it may not bum. 3. Agnes Pudding.—FwVLtx a pudding-mould thickly; sprinkle brown326 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. sugar over the butter, and then line the mould with slices of bread thickly buttered. Cut some good baking apples into slices; place them in the mould in layers, with grated lemon-peel, candied citron, and orange-peel, and a little sugar between each layer of apples. When the mould is full, cover the top with a slice of bread, previously soaked in a little warm water. Bake it in a moderately-heated oven; turn it out of the mould, and serve it NOVEMBER 19. 'Adversity is the only balance to ivei^h Plutarch. 1. Boiled Beef. 2. Hashed Hare. 3. Brandy Pudding. 4. Carrots. 1. Boiled Beef.—Miex the beef has been in the pickle for about nine or ten days, take it out and wash it in water; skewer it up in a round form, and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stew- pan of water, and when it boils, remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink, and spoil the appearance of the meat. Then draw the sauce- pan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly until done. When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and replace them ivith a silver one. Pour over it a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, and garnish with boiled carrots and parsnips. When taken firom the water, trim off any soiled part from the beef before sendmg it to table. 2. Hashed Hare.—Into a pint of beef gravy put a couple of silver onions and 3 or 4 cloves, with a small quantity of soluble cayenne and salt; let this boil slowly till you have extracted the flavour of the spice a^id vegetables; take them out, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of red cur- rant jelly, and a good-sized wine-glass of port. When all is quite ot, put in the hare, previously cut in small pieces; and, should any of the stuffing be left, crumble it into the saucepan. Do not suffer the meat to remain long in the sauce. Serve it hot, with sippets and currant Brandy Budding.—Vmt a pudding-mould with jar raisins or dned cherries, then with slices of French roll; next to which put rata as or macaroons, then the fruit, roll, and cakes in succession until the mo^d be full; sprinkle in at times 2 glasses of brandy; beat 4 whole egj, add to them a pint of milk or cream, the peel of half a lemon fi y grated, and half a grated nutmeg. Let the liquid sink part; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over the mould, and boil it, ke p g it the right side up. Serve it out of the mould, and with sweet sauce.3 = 7 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. NOVEMBER 20. ' LiR is a short day ; but it is a working day. Activity may lead to evil, but inactivity ca7inot be led to good.’—H. More. 1. Prince Arthur’s Soup. 3. Beetroot and Onion. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 4. Baked Codling Pudding. I. Prince Arthur's Soup.—Twelve turnips, i lump of sugar, 2 spoon- fuls of strong veal stock, salt and white pepper to taste, 2 quarts of very- bright stock. Peel the turnips, and with a cutter cut them in balls as round as possible, but very small; put them in the stock, which must be very bright, and simmer till tender. Add the veal stock and seasoning. Have little pieces of bread cut round, about the size of a shilling; moisten them with stock; put them in a tureen, and pour the soup over without shaking, for fear of crumbling the bread, which would spoil the appearance of the soup, and make it look thick. To clarify Stock.—The whites of 2 eggs, pint of water, 2 quarts of stock. Supposing that by some accident the soup is not quite clear, and that its quantity is 2 quarts, take the whites of 2 eggs carefully separated from their yolks, whisk them well together with the water, and add gradually the 2 quarts of boiling stock, still whisking. Place the soup on the fire, and when boiling and well-skimmed, whisk the eggs with it till nearly boiling again ; then draw it from the fire and let it settle till the whites of the eggs become separated. Pass through a fine cloth, and the soup should be clear. Note. The rule is, that all clear soups should be of a light straw colour. 3- Beetroot and Onion.—A root of beet well boiled, and its outside coat taken off, served to table with a Spanish onion boiled, are admir- able accompaniments to either beef or mutton roasted. If cream can be readily procured, stew the onion in it; the beetroot requires only plain boiling. These vegetables should be eaten with a little salt and soluble cayenne, with the gravy of the joint poured over them. In dressing them, you can judge by the outside skin of the beetroot being easily detached, and from the softness the onion attains either in water or cream. 4. Baked Codling Puddmg.—^oz.'iX 6 large codling apples, take out the pulp; beat up yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs; add ^ lb. of pow- ered white sugar, the same weight of clarified butter, the juice of a lemon, its rind cut very small, i oz. of candied orange and lemon peel cut into small portions, a wine-glass of brandy, and the crumb of a i^rench roll finely grated. Mix up these ingredients well together.328 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. Line a pie-dish with paste, put in the materials, and bake. Before serving, cover top with powdered sugar, garnish sides with candied fruit. NOVEMBER 21. ‘Adversity is the first path to truth.'—Lord Byron. 1. Cod and Oyster Sauce. 3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding. 2. Hashed Widgeon. 4. Vegetables. 2. Hashed Widgeon.—Cut the birds into joints; mix the juice of 2 Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfuls of Reading or home-made sauce, a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke bottoms broken into bits. See that you have enough to cover the flesh, ac^ding a little more of each liquid if necessary. Make it boil, and ten minutes before the hash is required put in the meat, and let it simmer gently for that time. 3. Rich Baked Apple Pudding.—Pare 12 large apples; take out the cores, and put them into a saucepan with 4 or 5 spoonfuls of water; boil them till they are soft and thick; beat them well, and stir in a lb. of loaf sugar, the juice of 3 lemons, the peel of 2 lemons cut thin and beat fine in a mortar, 2 drops of oil of cinnamon, and the yolks of 8 eggs beaten up; mix all together, put it in a puflf paste to bake iL When it is nearly done, throw over it a little grated loaf sugar. NOVEMBER 2 2. ‘Affectation is a greater enemy to the face than the small-pox.'—St. Evremond, 1. Roast Pheasant. 3. Baked Apple and Almond 2. Veal Curry. Pudding. 4. Vegetables. I. Roast Pheasant.—These birds should not be cooked till there is a slight change in the colour of the breast, and care should be taken not to pluck it till in a good condition to be cooked. It should be stuffed as follows :—Take 2 snipes, draw them, and put the bodies on one plate, and the livers, etc. on another. Take off the flesh, mince it finely with a little beef, lard, pepper and salt, and a few truffles, and stuff the bird carefully. Cut a slice of bread much larger than the bird, and cover it with the liver, etc., and a few truffles; an anchovy and a little fresh butter added will much improve it. Put the bread, etc. into329 BILL OB BABjE BOR IVOVEMBEIC. the dripping pan, and when the bird is roasted, place it on the prepara- tion, and surround it Avith Florida oranges. 2. Vea/ Curry.—Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, into very small pieces, and a large sour apple into thin slices; put them into a steAvpan Avith the butter, and stir it about until lightly browned. Then mix in the curry poAvder, the flour, and a pint of water j add the veal cut into very small square pieces, seasoned Avith salt, and stir it round several times, that it may be well covered with the curry mixture. Put it over the fire to steAv sloAvly for an hour and a half, or until the veal is tender. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon strained, stir it round, and serve with rice in a separate dish. 3. Baked Apple and Almond Pudding.—Quarter of a lb. of SAveet almonds and lb. of loaf sugar; pound all well together, then add the well- beaten yolks of 6 eggs. Grate the peel of i lemon, add the juice of it and I table-spoonful of flour. Mix Avell all together ; whip the whites of the 6 eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them with the other ingredients before baking. Pour the whole upon a thick layer of stewed apples already prepared in a baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven until brown. ‘Avoid all affectation and singularity. What is accordin" to nature is best, and •what is contrary to it is always distasteful. Nothing is graceful that is not our own.'— Jeremy Collier. 1. Quails.—Take a steAvpan and put into it 2 oz. of fresh butter; prepare spring onions, say a dozen, as for salad, and fry them, dusting in a little flour in the steAvpan, till they are nicely browned, then add a Avine-glassful of stock or water, and the same quantity of Avhite wine; let it come to the boil, then put in 4 quails, adding a little chopped parsley, a bay leaf, 3 cloves, and 6 more onions; stew till the birds are sufficiently done. Dish the quails, strain the gravy and pour over; garnish with toasted sippets. 2. Beefsteak Budding.—One lb. of flour, 6 oz. of finely-chopped beef suet, I a tea-spoonful of salt, and ^ a pint of cold Avater. Mix tlie whole into a smooth, firm paste. Take | of this paste, mould it into a ball, and then Avith a rolling-pin roll it out sufficiently large to line pint basin, previously Avell greased or buttered. Next, season about i-i- lb. of tender steak, free from bone, with ^ oz. of salt, and nearly oz^. of black pepper. Lay the steak in the basin in neat pieces, Avith a table-spoonful of walnut or mushroom ketchup, and a | of a pint of 0— NOVEMBER 23 1. Quails. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. 3. Rice Dumplings. 4. Vegetables.33° things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. water. Moisten the paste round the edge; roll out the remainder of the paste for a cover; close carefully round the edge; tie it in a cloth, and boil well for two or two and a half hours. When done untie the cloth, and turn it out into a deep dish; cut a small hole in the bottom, and pour in a little boiling water or good gravy, and serve. 3. Kice Dumplings.—Soak the quantity of rice required in lukewarm water till it is quite white; then parboil it, and drain off the water. Spread the rice upon a cloth, about an inch thick, and in a circle large enough to envelope a dumpling apple. The fruit must be peeled, cored, and filled with Lisbon sugar and a couple of cloves, and the rice carefully placed round it. As soon as this is done tie the cloth tightly at the top, boil for half an hour, and serve with melted butter or wine sauce. This is a very delicate dish, and well adapted for an invalid. —o~ NOVEMBER 2 4. 'Advice is seldom welcome; those who need it most like it least.'—Dr. Johnson. 1. Woodcock. 3. Apple Charlotte. 2. Veal Cutlets. 4. Vegetables. 1. Woodcock.—These birds must not be drawn. Truss the head under the wing, and the legs straight; hang them to the fire, legs down- ward ; baste with butter, and dredge the birds lightly with flour; have ready for each bird a slice of toasted bread without crust, and buttered on both sides, to place beneath the roast to catch the trail, this being regarded as superior to the birds themselves. Keep them basted con- stantly till done, which will be in from twenty to twenty-five minutes; put the toast on a very hot dish, having spread the trail evenly; lay the birds on the toast, and pour around them a little gravy. Send gravy also in a tureen. 2. Veal Cutlets.—Let the cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the size and shape of a crown-piece. Chop the herbs very fine; mix them well with the bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets over with yolk of egg, then cover them with the bread-crumbs and chopped herbs; fry them lightly in butter, turning them when required. Take them out when done. Mix about an oz. of fresh butter with the grated peel of half a lemon, a little nutmeg, and flour; pour a little water into the frying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated lemon- peel into it; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat Serve them piled in the centre of the dish with thin rolls of bacon as a garnish.BTLL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. 331 3. Apple Charlotte.—Any number of rennet apples you desire to use; peel, cut into quarters, take out the cores. Cut the quarters into slices ; let them cook over a brisk fire, with butter, sugar, and powdered cinna- mon, until they are tender; add boiling cream or milk to some white bread-crumbs; when cold, use the yolks of 4 eggs, and sugar to taste ; bake it half an hour in puff paste. NOVEMBER 2S. * Admonish your fiiends privately, but praise them openly.'—PuBLiUS Syrus. 1. Smelts. I 3. Plum-Pudding. 2. Boiled Rabbits. I 4, Vegetables. 1. Smelts.—They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them, and must be very fresh. Dry them in a cloth, lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- crumbs grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make a bright yellow brown. Put them in a drainer before the fire; but take care not to ‘ake off the light roughness of the crumbs, or the beauty of the fish will be spoiled. They are often used for garnishing. Serve with melted butter. 2. Boiled Rabbits.—Wash them well in warm water; they may be stuffed or not, according to taste. When stuffing is required, make it of crumbs of bread, suet, parsley, and onions, well chopped, and pepper and salt; moisten with milk and egg. Put this into the belly and sew it up neatly. Truss in the same manner as roast hare ; put into boiling water for two minutes, reduce as before directed, and boil slowly for an hour. The sauce to be made of boiled onions, milk, melted butter, and flour, with pepper and salt, which pour over the rabbit when dished. This is called rabbit smothered in onions. When two rabbits are dished together, always lay the head of one in a contrary direction to that of the other. 3. Plum-Pudding.—oz. of raisins, 6 oz. of currants, 6 oz. of bread- crumbs, 6 oz. of suet, half a nutmeg, a little lemon-peel, 5 eggs, half a wine-glass of brandy. Mix these ingredients together, and put the pudding into a mould, and boil it.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 332 NOVEMBER 2 6. ‘ Mishaps are mastered by advice discreet. And counsel mitigates the greatest smart.'—Spenser. r. Pike. 1 3- Baked Apple Pudding. 2.. Chicken Pie. 1 4. Vegetables. 1. Pike.—Prepare a dressing with bread-crumbs, boiled eggs chopped fine, pepper, salt, and butter. Fill the body of the fish, and bind it firmly with slips of cloth. Boil gently until thoroughly cooked. Remove it to the platter, and set it in the oven a few minutes to dr)^ Boil eggs hard, slice and lay them round the dish, and just before serving pour over the fish a little drawn butter. Prepare a sauce in this mannerBoil 6 eggs one hour, work the yolks, until they become a paste, with a wooden spoon. Take a tea-cup nearly full of sweet butter; mix with it a good table-spoonful of flour, work in the yolks of the eggs, and then stir gently, little by little, ^ a pint of boiling water. Add a little salt, if needed, and pepper; but if the butter is salt, no salt will be required. 2. Chicken Pie.—Zovtx the bottom of a pie-dish with a puflf paste; upon that, round the side, lay a thin layer of forcemeat; cut 2 small chickens into pieces, season them highly with pepper and salt; put some of the pieces into the dish, then some sweet-bread cut into pieces and well seasoned, a few fresh mushrooms, and the yolks of 4 or 5 hard- boiled eggs cut into 4 pieces, and strewed over the tops. Put in a little water, and cover the pie with a piece of puff paste; glaze it, ornament the edge, and bake it. When done, pour in through the hole in the top a cupful of good gravy, thickened with a little flour and butter. 3. Baked Apple Prepare some apples as for sauce; stew them to a pulp in water just enough to keep them from burning, and to each ^ lb. of pulp (when weighed) put ^ lb. of loaf sugar, grate i lemon, beat up well 6 eggs. Beat together all the ingredients, then stu in 6 oz. of butter melted; put a border of puff paste round the dish, and bake it from half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. -0— NOVEMBER 2 7. ‘ The truest end of life is to know the life that nez>er ends.' William Penn. 1. Roast Woodcocks. 2. Beefsteak and Kidney Puddings. Stewed Cucumbers. 4. Raspberry Puff. 5. Vegetables. I. Roast Woodcocks.~?lv.z\ off the feathers gently, or tlie skin of the birds will break, but handle them as lightly and as little as possible.000 'j n BILL OF FARE FOR NOVEMBER. Do not draw them ; but after wiping them with dean soft doths, truss them with the head under the wing, and the bill laid dose along the breast; skin the head and neck ; let the feet press against the thighs ; pass a slight skewer through the thighs, catch the ends with twine, and tie it across to keep the legs straight. Dissolve some butter in a pan or ladle, and baste the birds with it; they should be well floured and suspended with the feet downwards to a bird-spit. Lay in the pan a thick round of bread freed from crust, butter it on both sides (after having toasted it a light brown), the trail to drop on; continue basting, and be particular that it drips on the toast or toasts, as a piece should be served with each woodcock, the trail being spread equally over the buttered toast. Let there be a brisk clear fire; if liked well done, they will take about twenty to twenty-five minutes (snipes, five minutes less). Lay the birds upon the toast, in a very hot dish; pour some gravy round the bread, with the remainder in a tureen. 2. Beefsteak and Kidney Puddhigs.—Take a lb. of nice tender beef, or rump-steak and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a ^ of an inch thick, season them well with pepper and salt, and dredge a little flour over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding-basin; roll out the paste to about ^ an inch in thickness, and line the basin; then put in the beef and kidney, pour in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of water, cover a piece of paste over the top, press it firmly together with your thumb; then tie the pudding-basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan with about 4 quarts of water; keep it constantly boiling, adding more boiling water if required. 3. Stewed Cucumbers.—Select straightly grown cucumbers for this purpose; cut off the peel, and divide them into quarters longways; take away the seeds, and place the quarters on a sieve to drain; when per- fectly dry, cover them with flour. Melt \ a pound of fresh butter in the frying-pan; when it boils put in the vegetables, and fry them till they are of a light brown; lift the slices carefully with a tin slice, and set them on a sloping slab to drain off the fat. Have ready some rich beef gravy, in which onions have been used; put the cucumbers into a stew- pan covered with gravy, and let them simmer slowly till quite tender. Before serving, take out the cucumbers again, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, season it to your taste with salt and pepper, boil it, and pour it quite hot over the slices. 4. Raspberry Fuff.—Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste. Put a layer of raspberry or strawberry preserve at the bottom, then a layer of the finger spongecakes, then a layer of the following mixture :—Take a gill of milk, I oz. of butter, a spoonful of flour, and the peel of a lemon grated, and boil it until it thickens. When cold, add the yolk of a beaten egg, a little nutmeg, and sugar to your taste. Cover the edge of334 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the paste to prevent its burning, and bake it in a moderate oven. Whisk the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, lay it on the pudding when baked, and put it again into the oven for a few minutes before serving. —— NOVEMBER 2 8. * A deity believed, is joy begun ; A deity adored, is joy advanced; A deity beloved, is joy natural.'—Young. 1. Pike. 3. Citkon Pudding. 2. Pheasant. 4. Vegetables. X. Pike.—Prepare, stuff, and tie in a circle. Put it in a baking-dish with a little flour and water at the bottom, and lay lumps of butter along its back. Set it in the oven, and when the butter is melted, baste the fish with its own gravy from time to time. When nearly done, add to the gravy a dessert-spoonful of capers and their vinegar, and a few olives. When quite done, dish the fish, put the gravy into a saucepan, and finish it off by adding stock if necessary, thickening and smoothing it with a sprinkle of flour, and seasoning with salt and pepper. Pour hot over the dish, and serve. Pike may also be thus baked at full length if preferred. 2. Pheasant.—A pheasant requires to be well hung before dressing, or it will be dry and tasteless. It is best hung in its feathers until it is fit for dressing. Do not wash pheasants before dressing; wipe them inside with a clean damp cloth; roll a small piece of butter in pepper and salt, and put it inside the bird. Hang it down to a quick, brisk fire. It will take from three-quarters of an hour to one hour to cook. Baste it well with butter, and bring it to table nicely frothed, and with a little good beef gravy in the dish. Send a tureen of bread sauce and a tureen of gravy to table with the bird. Hen pheasants are the most delicate. They should be hung till blood drops from the bill—a sign that the pheasant is ready for dressing. Sometimes a few of the finest tail feathers are stuck in the dressed bird as an ornament, but it has rather a savage appearance. 3. Citron Piiddmg.—Grate sufficient stale bread to fill a pint basin; pour over it a pint of boiling milk, or cream. When cold, slice into it a lb. of beef marrow very thin; add 4 well-beaten eggs, sugar and nutmeg to taste, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Mix all well together, and boil it in a buttered mould two hours. Cut the citron into very thin shreds, and when the pudding is served, stick the citron over it335 BILL OF FARE FOR NO VEMBER. NOVEMBER 2 9. ‘ Ktuno how sublime a thing it is to suffer and be strong.'—Longfellow. 1. Flemish Soup. | 3. Scalloped Oysters. 2. Boiled Turkey, j 4. Vegetables. 1. Flemish Soup.—Simmer in ^ pint of water for an hour, 10 moderate- sized potatoes, 4 onions, 5 heads of celery, 3 oz. of butter. Then fill up the stewpan with about 2 quarts of stock (this soup can be made with water instead), and boil gently about an hour more when the potatoes are done. Rub all through a tammy, and add ^ pint of cream (which has been previously boiled). Do not let it boil after the cream is put in. 2. Boiled Turkey.—Prefer a hen turkey for boiling, as they are the most delicate. It should also be of a moderate size, which will take an hour and a half to dress. Hang the bird for four days at least, and having plucked, drawn, and singed it, cut off the head and neck, and draw out the sinews of the thighs; cut off the legs at the first joint, and draw them inside the body; break the breast-bone, and skewer the ends of the pinions down to the tops of the legs, passing the skewer right through the bird; stuff the breast with forcemeat, sew up the opening, and set on to boil in hot water, skimming carefully until brought to the boil, then cover close to simmer slowly till done. Dish, and pour over the bird a little parsley sauce, serving more in a sauce tureen. The Forcemeat.—Of ham or lean bacon mince 2 oz. very fine; of parsley and sweet herbs, each i tea-spoonful; a. I of a. pound of veal suet, 6 oz. of bread-crumbs, the grated rind of | a lemon, with pounded mace, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste. Bind with 2 eggs. Note.—Boiled turkey may be served with parsley, white celery, mushroom, or oyster sauce. The stuffing should be in harmony with the sauce; thus, if mushroom or oyster sauce is used, a few minced should be in the stuffing. Ham, tongue, salt pork, or bath chaps boiled should be served with turkey. 3. Scalloped Oysters.—The true method of making this savoury winter dish is to have the scallop well buttered, then a thin coat of finely- powdered crumbs of white bread, on this place as many bearded oysters as the shape will hold; over these strew a little salt and soluble cayenne, and 2 or 3 morsels of butter; then make a second layer of crumbs, and proceed as before directed till the shape be filled; then pour the liquor of the oysters over, put them into the oven for half an hour and just before serving to table, brown the top with a hot salamander. ’336 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. NOVEMBER SO. ‘ Clouds are the veil behind which the face of day coquettishly hides itself to enhattcc its beauty.'—Richter. 1. Hessian Soup. I 3- Boiled Rabbits. 2. Mutton Pie. I 4. Baked Apple Pudding. I. Hessian Soup.—Rub half an ox’s head with salt and water after cleaning it, and soak it for five hours in 5 quarts of warm water. Let it simmer till tender, then put it into a pan to cool, and skim off all the fat; take out the head ; let a pint of split peas be previously soaked, and cut up small 6 potatoes, 6 onions, 6 turnips, 8 carrots, i head of celery. Simmer them (without the meat) till they will pulp through a sieve. Cut up the pieces of meat, put in the crumb of a French roll, and a seasoning of i bunch of savoury herbs, a little allspice, pepper and salt, 2 blades of mace, 4 cloves. Boil up once, and serve. A good ragout or hash can be made of the above by cutting up the nicest parts of the head, thickening and seasoning a little of the soup more highly, and adding 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup and a glass of port wine. 2. Mutton Pie.—Strip off the meat from the bones of a loin of mutton without dividing it, and cut it into nice thin slices, and season them with pepper and salt j put a pie-crust round the edge of a pie-dish; place in it a layer of mutton, then one of forcemeat, and again the slices of mutton, with 3 or 4 halves of kidneys at equal distances j then pour in a gravy made from the bones, seasoned, and well cleared from fat. Moisten the edge with water; cover with a paste half an inch thick, press it round with your thumbs, make a hole in the centre, and cut the edges close to the dish; ornament the top and border according to your taste, and bake it. 3. Boiled Rabbits.—Y01 boiling, take out the liver and dress it separately ; and to ensure the desirable whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits soak for ten minutes in lukewarm water. Half an hour’s boiling will be sufficient tor those of moderate size, more if they are l^ger. Smother with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it m a sauce-boat If you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dislike tlie flavour from partaking of the dish. 4 Baked Apple Puddmg.—?tet and core 10 large apples; boil as for sauce; stir in j lb. of butter till cold; beat 5 eggs; put in the nnd of a lemon grated, and juice; sweeten, and bake in puff paste.337 DESSERT FOJi NOVEMBER. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF NOVEMBER. Centre of the table, an assiette mont^e gamie de bonbons, etc. 1. Marmalade d’Ananas. 2. Lemon Cake. 3. Compote de Grenades. 4. Naples Biscuits. 5- Amandes, etc., a laRoyale. 6. Confitures a l’Eau-de-Vie. 7. Pears, etc. Chestnuts, Filberts, Grapes, Walnuts, Apples. I. MARMALADE d’aNANAS. Take the flesh of a good-sized pine apple, cut it up small, and put with it an equal weight of powdered loaf sugar. Let it infuse until the following day, then put it in a preserving-pan, and stir it over a clear fire until it is sufficiently thickened. Put it into a mould to keep. 2. LEMON CAKE. Take the whites of 10 eggs; add to them half a wine-glass of orange- flower water j beat them to a high froth, then by degrees put in a lb. of powdered and sifted loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a fresh lemon. When mixed smooth, add the yolks of the 10 eggs beaten to a high froth. Just before putting it in the oven, stir in 12 oz. of dry flour; butter a mould, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour. An orange cake is made by substituting orange for the lemon. 3. COMPOTE DE GRENADES. Carefully open 3 very ripe pomegranates of a good size; take out the grains of the fruit and throw them into a boiling syrup of su<^ar boiled with sufficient water until it is well thickened. Let it just come to a boil, and then retire it from the fire. As soon as it is cool enouuh pour fruit and syrup into a glass dessert-dish, and serve when quite 4. NAPLES BISCUITS. .iff J f fiM'y-powdered and sifted loaf sugar, i lb. of dried flour, and a wine-glassful of laurel orange- flower or rose water. Mix well together, and do them in long.shaped hTgeXoten!" V338 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. V I 5. AMANDES, ETC., A LA ROYALE. Take - lb. of either blanched sweet almonds, filberts, or pistachio nuts; place them in a slack oven or before the fire to dry; then mix together 6 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a little spinach juice, and the white of an egg. Put in your almonds, work them well in the mixture, and arrange them in the form of shamrocks or stars on buttered paper. Dry them in a cool oven. 6. CONFITURES A l’eAU-DE-VIE. Any fruit that has been properly preserved in sugar may be drained from the syrup, and placed in wide-mouthed bottles, adding to each lb- of fruit 6 oz. of powdered lump sugar or sugar-candy, and a good half pint of the best French pale brandy. i 7. PEARS A l’aLLEMANDE. j Peel and cut 7 or 8 pears into any shape that may be prefeired, j keeping them in cold water to prevent them turning black; then put them in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover them, with 2 oz. of butter • sugar to the taste, and boil them till tender; then brush the pears over with the yolk of an egg, sprinkle them with sifted sugar, and arrange them nicely on a dish. Add i an oz. of gelatine to the syrup, boil it up quickly for about five minutes, strain it over them and let them remain . until set. The appearance of this dish is much improved if the syrup is coloured with a little prepared cochineal.DECEMBER 1, ‘ 1 would exhort Christian women always to dress with decency and moderation ; nner to go beyond their circumstances, nor aspire above their station, so as to preclude or hinder works of mercy; nor vahu thetiuelves on their dress, or despise others more meanly habited; in short, never to spend too much time or thought on the embellish- ment of the body.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. PROVISIONS IN SEASON. Meat : Pork—Beef—Mutton—Venison—House Lamb. Poultry : Pigeons—Chickens—Fowls—Teal —Capons —Geese —Pullets—Wild Ducks—W idgeon—T urkey s. Game . Pheasants Woodcock—Hares—Snipe—Partridges—Rabbits. FiSH.-Dace—Carp-Barbel—Brm—Gudgeon—Cod—Eels—Crabs—Herrings—Lob- sters—Haddock—Shrimps—Oysters—Whiting—Perch—Sprats—Skate—Thom- back—Soles—Turbot—Pike—Tench. Vegetables : Carrots-Potatoes-Broccoli-Cabbages-Celery-Onions-Leeks- Winter Spinach—Parsnips—Turnips—Scotch Kale. FRUITS IN SEASON. Grapes - Oranges—Apples—Pears — Chestnuts- Walnuts—Filberts-Medlars — Crystallized Preserves-Dried Fruits : Almonds and Raisins—Dates—Figs, etc. 1. Cod’s Head AND Shoulders. 3. Potato Fritters. 2. Fried Calf’s Liver and Bacon. 4. Vegetables. I. Cofs Head and Shoulders.—Crimped cod may be jjut on with the Water hot; it is safer to put on an entire, unslashed, large piece of cod with the water cold or tepid, unless it has become very firm indeed by several days’ saltmg and drying. The thickness of the fish must regu- ate the time of boiling, but about half an hour will suffice. Serve on a ^pkin; garnish with scraped horseradish or parsley, or both ; surround th slices of fried roe and pieces either of its own or of skate’s liver per sauce, anchovy sauce, or shrimp sauce, ^ 330340 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Fried Calfs Liver and Bacon.—your liver thin, your bacon the same. Fry your bacon first, enough, but not dried up or burnt; set it in a hot dish on your hot iron plate, to keep it from cooling. Then fry your slices of liver. When done, lay on a hot dish a slice of bacon and a slice of liver, lapping one over the other alternately, till the dish is full. To the gravy in your frying-pan put a few slices of lemon-peel; dredge in a little flour; moisten with a table-spoonful or so of good hot stock, and half a glass of white wine, if liked; season with pepper, salt, and lemon-juice; keep stirring with a fork till all is brown and smooth ; remove the lemon-peel, and then pour hot over your liver and bacon. A few forcemeat-balls may be laid round this dish. 3. Potato Fritters.—potatoes very thin; dip them m a fine batter, and fry them ; add lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water to the batter. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. DECEMBER 2. ‘ Avoid extremes ; forbear resenting injuries.'—T)r. FrANKLIN. 1. Cod-Fish Hash. 1 3- Potato Fritters. 2. Broiled Veal Cutlets. 1 4- Vegetables. I. Cod-Fish Put in soak over-night a tea-cup of cod-fish picked up fine. In the morning boil some potatoes nicely, mash and work them until very light. Put the fish in the choppmg-bowl and chop it fine, after which, before taking it from the bowl, mash and work it until as fine as possible. Work the potato in little by little; work it with the potato pounder until five parts of potato are thoroughly in- corporated with the fish. This should be so perfectly done that the fish can neither be seen nor felt in the mouth separate firom the potato. Season the hash a little richer than for mashed potatoes; put it in the potato-kettle and heat it, constantly stirring. Have butter heated in the spider, press the hash into it firmly, and cook it gently.^ Whei brown, turn it out without breaking, and set it in the oven ; it is bette , however, to leave it in the spider, if not scorching, until it is served. Always buy white cod-fish. ^ ^ r 2 Broiied Veal Cutlets.—'?xocnxe a few nice cutlets from the b end of the neck of veal. Mix well together pepper and salt, mixed spices, biscuit raspings, and well-chopped thyme, ^ Roll your cutlets in this mixture one by one, pressing them ^ both sides, so as to make as much of it as possible stick to them, wrap them, first in very thin slices of bacon, and afterwards m oiled orBILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 341 buttered paper. Secure the paper with string, and broil the cutlets so enveloped on a gridiron over a fire that is not too fierce. Make in a saucepan, with butter, vinegar, and the remainder of your mixed dressing, a sauce, to be kept hot till wanted. When the cutlets are thoroughly broiled, take off the paper, arrange them on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over them. 3. Fotato Fritters.—Boil and scrape fine 2 large potatoes; beat 4 yolks and 3 whites of eggs, and add to the above i large spoonful of cream, i large spoonful of sweet wine, a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon. It will be extremely light, but must be beat half an hour at least. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stewpan, and drop a spoonful at a time of the batter into it. Fry them a light brown and serve hot. Put the following sauce in a tureen :—A glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, a dessert-spoonful of peach leaf, or almond water, or vanilla, and white pounded sugar warmed together. 1. Fried Soles, after thorough drying by pressing between the folds of a napkin, may be either rubbed in flour, or egged and bread-crumbed, or dipped in batter. Let the fat in which they are fried be hot and deep. It is absurd, because a sole is thin, to attempt to fry it in scarcely enough fat to keep it from sticking to the pan. Fry crisp to a nice light brown; serve on a napkin. Well-fried soles hardly require any sauce; nevertheless, you may send up with them a little anchovy or shrimp sauce. 2. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc.—Steep a couple of sweetbreads all night in cold water; peel off all their thin outside skin, and set them on the fire in a stewpan of cold water. When they are on the point of boiling, take them out and blanch them in two cold waters, and then return them to the stewpan in the water in which they were previously scalded. Add to this a couple of hearts of fine celery, a large onion, butter, salt, white pepper, and grated nutmeg. After boiling for half an hour, take them out and lay them on a dish on which you have put a large bit of butter and a couple of raw egg yolks. Now mix in a cup a spoonful of flour with half a pint of milk; stir this into the sweetbread boilings to make the sauce; add to it the juice of lemon, and pass it through a strainer over your sweetbreads. 'DECEMBER S. ‘ Whatever purifies, fortifies also the heartl—Blair. 1. Fried Soles. 2. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc. 3. American Pancakes. 4. Vegetables.342 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 3. American Pancakes.—Mix i pint of cream, 5 spoonfuls of fine flour, 5 eggs, and a very little salt. Fry the pancakes very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Serve six or seven at once. DECEMBER 4. ‘ Talents are admirable when not made to stand proxy for virtues.'—Hannah More. 1. Mock Turtle Soup. 3. Orange Pudding. 2. Calf’s Heart, Roasted. 4. Vegetables. 1. Mock Turtle Soup.—Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on ; cut it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take off all the meat in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some beef and veal broth to add to the richness. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour sufficient to thicken the gravy; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils j skim it carefully, and then put in the head \ add half a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before serving, put in some tarragon, chives, basil, parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper to taste, one spoonful of say, and two spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it Forcemeat-balls and small eggs. More or less ivine may be put, according to the taste. 2. Calfs Heart, Roasted. —well; stuff with veal stuffing. While roasting, if you have no cold roast veal or beef gravy, baste well with butter. When done, with the gravy left in the latch-pan make a brown sauce. 3. Orange Pudding.—Take half a pound of melted butter, half a pound of sugar, and the yolks of 8 eggs; mix all well together with 2 oz. of candied orange ; put puff paste all over the dish, and bake half an hour : 2 oz. of biscuits may be added. DECEMBER 5. * There is no better method of moderating suspicions than to provide against them as if they were true; yet bridle them as if they were false. -Bacon. 1. Eel a l’Italienne. 3- Batter Pancakes. 2. Haricoed Mutton. 4- Vegetables. I. Eel d, ritalwifie.—Tdke a large eel, skinned; cut it into pieces three inches long; boil them in white wine and water. Put into a343 BTLL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER, saucepan a good lump of butter, with shalots and mushrooms minced very fine, and seasoned with salt and peppercorns. When it begins to heat, add two spoonfuls of good stock or gravy, and the liquor in which the eel was boiled. When this sauce is sufficiently reduced, arrange the pieces of eel on a dish, and pour it over them boiling hot. The flesh of eels being oily and viscous, they should be thorouglily cooked and rather highly seasoned (in whatever way they are dressed), to prevent their causing indigestion. 2. Haricoed Mutton.—Cut up a breast or a neck of mutton into pieces; brown them with butter in a stewpan over a brisk tire; when nicely gilt, take them out and drain. Peel and slice some turnips, and fry them also to a light brown on both sides; put them into your harico; moisten with broth, adding pepper, salt, parsley, onions, cloves, and bay leaf. Stew for half an hour, and take off the fat. If the sauce is too thin, reduce it by boiling. Pile your harico in the middle of the dish, and lay the turnips round it. The turnips in the harico may be replaced by salsify, potatoes, or carrots. Mutton is converted into Mock Venison by marinading with wine, vinegar, spice, and aromatic herbs. 3. Batter Fa?icakes.—Beat up 3 eggs with 4 large table-spoonfuls of flour; add half a pint of milk, or as much as will make the batter the consistency of cream, and a little salt; fry in lard or butter; grate sugar over the top of each, and serve directly with a lemon. DECEMBER 6. ‘ T call education, not that which is made up of shreds and patches of useless arts, but that which inculcates principles, polishes taste, regulates temper, cultivates reason, sub- dues the passions, directs the feelings, habituates to reflection, trains to self-denial; and more especially that which refers all actions, feelings, sentiments, tastes, and passions to the love and fear of God.'—Hannah More. 1. Kidney Soup. 4. Plum-Pudding. 2. Roast Snipes. Vegetables. 3. Beefsteak Pudding. I. Kidney Soup.—One bullock’s kidney, 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, 3 or 4 carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt, a spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock’s kidney; put It oyer the fire, and when half done, take out the kidney and cut It into pieces the size of dice. Add 3 sticks of celery, 3 or 4 turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied344 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done, take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) made the day before it is wanted. 2. Roast Snipes.—Pluck and wipe them very clean outside; truss them, with the legs close to the body, the feet pressing upon the thighs; skin the head and neck, and bring the beak round under the mng. They must be trussed without being drawn. Tie a thin layer of bacon over them; put 3 or 4 of them, skewered, on to a spit or jack, and roast before a clear fire for about a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes; baste continually with butter, with some bread toasted and buttered, placed underneath for the trail to drop on. When the birds are nicely floured and frothed, cut the toast in quarters; put the birds on it, with the bills outwards. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour some good brown gravy round the dish. Be particular in basting that the butter should drip on to the toast and trail, as it is considered a deli- cacy. A piece of toast, with the trail equally spread on it, should be placed under each bird, and served with it to each person. 3. Beefsteak Pudding.—Rub ^ lb. of dripping, or lard, or suet into lbs. of flour, with a pinch of salt, and make it into a stiff paste wth as little water as possible; then, having greased the inside of your basin, lay a thin crust over the same, except just the bottom, as it will else absorb all the gravy; now have ready some pieces of steak or beef- skirt, well seasoned with pepper and salt; put a piece of fat at the bottom, then lay in all your meat; after which, pour in about a tea- cupful of broth or water, then moisten the edges of the crust round the basin, and lay on a cover of the remainder of the paste, pinching the two edges together; dip your cloth in hot water, flour it well, and tie it tightly over the pudding. Put it into a saucepan of boiling water; make it boil up quickly, and keep it boiling from three to four hours. 4. Plum-Pudding.—An excellent pudding can be made from the following ingredients :—Half a lb. of flour, | lb. of grated bread, a lb. of currants well washed and dried, a lb. of raisins well stoned and cut, tlie peel of a lemon finely chopped, oz. of mixed spice, i oz. of butter, 2 oz. of sweet almonds cut small, 6 oz. of candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, 4 eggs, a tea-spoonful of salt, 2 of sugar, and 3 wine-glasses of brandy. Mix all these together well, adding as much milk as neces- sary to make the mixture a proper consistency. Boil in a melon-shaped mould for eight hours. Sauce for Plum-Pudding.—Into i pint of thick melted butter put a table-spoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea- spoonful of lemon-syrup, 2 glasses of Madeira and one of CuraQoa; stir all well together, and pour it quite hot over the pudding.345 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. DECEMBER 7. ‘ In such a world so thorny, and where none Finds happiness unblighted; or, if found, I Vithout some thistly sorrow at its side. It seems the part of wisdom, and no sin ylgainst the laws of love, to measure lots With less distinguished than ourselves, that thus We may with patience bear our mod rate ills. And sympathize with others suffering more.'—COWPER. 1. Perch. 3. Hasty Fritters. 2. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardi- 4. Vegetables. NIERE. 1. Perch.—Scale (which is a troublesome operation with perch, ren- dering the fishmonger’s assistance acceptable) and empty them. Mari- nade them several hours in a mixture of olive oil, parsley, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs minced very fine. When wanted, smear them with egg, and sprinkle them well with a mixture of grated crumb of stale bread and fine-minced sweet herbs. Broil them over a gentle fire until thoroughly done and nicely yellow-browned on both sides. If any sauce is served with them it should be of the simplest, as a little lemon-juice, or oiled butter with a dash of vinegar. 2. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—Boil in stock or good mutton broth some fresh haricots, green peas, sprigs of cauliflower, all sorts of roots cut into short lengths or punched into shapes, with a few mush- rooms. When cooked, throw them into a stewpan in which you have made a roux, and let them simmer. Meanwhile, fry your cutlets in butter; arrange them on a hot dish, and pour over them your ragout of vegetables. Of course, you can only employ such vegetables as take the same time to cook; any others must be cooked apart, as also should potatoes, if used. 3. Hasty Fritters.—Take pint of ginger beer, and stir into it by degrees as much flour as will make it a stiff batter; put in a few currants or chopped apples; beat up quickly, and fry in butter j drop a large spoonful for each into the pan, taking care that they do not stick together; turn them, and when of a fine brown, lay on a dish, and strew sugar over.346 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIRE TO KNOW. DECEMBER 8. ‘ To preserve sobrietywiU reqttire the unreniitted exercise of prudence, vigilance, and severe circumspection.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D. D. ’ 1. Eels a la Tartars. I j. Snow Pancakes. 2. Hashed Mutton. | 4. Vegetables. 1. Eds d la Tartars.—Take a couple of middle-sized eels; skin and clean them; cut off the heads and the thinnest'part of the tail-ends; score or crimp the fish at equal distances along their length, as if you were going to joint an oxtail. Powder the slashes in the eels with parsley and chives minced very fine. Tie the eels together in such a way that between them they shall form a ring or circle. Put a lump of butter into a stewpan, with carrots and onions sliced, parsley, and bay leaf. After they have had a turn or two in the heated butter, add salt and peppercorns, and dilute with white wine and water. When this liquor is cooked enough, strain it, and then put youT circle of eel to boil in it. When half done, take it out and let it cook When cold, wet it with your sauce, and dust it with bread-crumbs. Smear it again with beat-up egg seasoned with pepper and salt, and sprinkle more bread-crumbs over it; then broil it on a gridiron over a gentle fire. When done, put it on a hot dish, and pour tartar sauce into the middle of the circle. 2. Hashed Mutton.—Cut the least done parts of cold roast mutton into small neat slices, trimming off any skin or brown outside, especially if the latter is burnt in the least. Dust these slices on each side with flour, pepper, and salt. Fry a few sliced onions; when brown, put them in your stewpan with a little broih. Crush in a tea-cup half a pickled walnut with a dessert-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce and half a glass of red wine; stew these together till the onions are reduced quite to a pulp, then withdraw the stewpan from the fire, put in the sliced mutton, and let it simmer very getitly for half an hour. If it boil up, the mutton will be hard. By omitting the pickled walnut, putting in a table-spoonful of currant jelly instead, and adding a bouquet of thyme, basil, and marjoram, and seasoning a little more highly with spice and wine, you will have very good Mock Hashed Venison. 3. Snow Pancakes.—Beat up lb. of flour in milk till you have a stiff batter; add a spoonful of salt, quarter of a nutmeg grated. Divide the batter into as many pancakes as you require, and to each portion add 3 table-spoonfuls of pure snow. Fry in fresh butter, when they will be found as light as though eggs had been used.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 347 DECEMBER 9. ‘ Love one another, pray oft together, and see You never both together angry be: If one speak fire, t'other with water come: Is one provoked? be t'other soft and dtimb.'—PHILIP Henry. 1. Tench. 2. Roast Leg of Mutton. 4- Boiled Orange Pudding. 5. Vegetables. 3. Woodcocks and Snipes. I. Tench.—Prepare and pickle the fish. Set it on the fire, in a mixture, just enough to cover it, of half good veal broth and half red wine, cold, with a few peppercorns, the rind of half a lemon, and a sprig of parsley and sweet marjoram. When the boiling point is* reached let it simmer slowly, taking care the fish do not break. When done, transfer it to an oval dish; garnish it round with alternate bits of toasted bread and slices of lemon. Remove the bouquet and lemon- peel from the gravy. Thicken it with a bit of butter worked in flour; season to taste with salt, or with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil up, and pour over the fish. 3. Woodcocks and Snipes.—These birds should be roasted by the aid of a jack or bird-spit, the thighs closely secured to the body by an iron skewer. Let them be well basted, and have a bright fire; place toast under them to receive the trails. Twenty minutes’ roasting is sufficient for woodcocks, a quarter of an hour for snipes. Serve with lemon-juice and soluble cayenne. 4. Boiled Orange Puddmg.—'Bta.t the grated rind of 2 Seville oranges in a mortar to paste; put ^ lb. of Naples biscuits into i pint of cream; mix this with the orange paste; add sugar to taste, and 5 well-beaten eggs; mix all together with a pinch of salt; tie in a floured pudding- cloth, and put in a pan of boiling water : an hour will boil it Serve with sweet sauce.348 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DECEMBER lO. * JVe overstate the ills of life, and take Imagination, given us to bring down The choirs of shining angels, overshone By God’s clear glory,—down our earth, to rake The dismal snows instead: flake followingflake. To cover all the corn. We walk upon The shadows of hills, across a level thrown. And pant like climbers. Near the alder brake We sigh so loud, the nightingale within Refuses to sing loud, as else she would.' —Mrs. E. Barrett BROWNiKa 1. Broiled Carp. 4. Apple Soufflee. 2. Roast Turkey. 5. Vegetables. 3. Tongue. 1. Broiled Carp.—When your fish is scaled, emptied, and wiped thoroughly dry, smear it with a little oil, and lay it on the gridiron. When done, you may serve it either on a bed of sorrel, or -with caper sauce, or with a maitre-d’hotel sauce, or simply with oil and vinegar. Either way, it is light and digestible. 2. Roast Turkey.—If the weather be very cold, a turkey will hang for a week, and will prove to be all the better, however young it may be; but take great care not to let it be the least thing gone. Pluck, draw, and singe it with care; wash and wipe the outside well, and pom- water through the inside. Fill the breast with sausage meat, seasoned with minced herbs, lemon-peel, mace, and cayenne. Truss the bird, roast it at a clear fire, baste constantly with butter, and serve it when done with brown gravy and bread sauce. A chain of fried sausages is often placed round a turkey. 3. Tongue.—Soak it all night before using, and be careful to wash out the salt which is put into various crevices to preserve it Boil it in plenty of water from two hours and a half to three hours. Remove the skin before sending it to table, and garnish with parsley. 4. Apple Soufflee.—Ten or 12 large apples, peel of half a lemon, whites of 4 eggs, 3 oz. of loaf sugar, half a pound of puff paste. Well-butter the outside of a tin or pie-dish, cover it with good puff paste, and bake it a nice light colour. When done, take out the dish carefull)^, and fill the inside of the paste with 10 or 12 large apples, 3 oz. of pounded sugar, and the peel of half a lemon stewed until perfectly soft Whisk the whites of 4 eggs very stiff, pile it on the apples, strew sifted sugar over it, and brown it lightly in a gentle oven. Serve hot, wth a napkin round itBILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 349 DECEMBER 11. ‘ In the home of the good the angel of hope is 7iever absent.'—Bentley. 1. Soup a la Cantatrice. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets. 3. Swiss Apple Pudding. 4. Vegetables. 1. Sotip d la Catitatrice.—Having washed 3 oz. of sago in boiling water, add it gradually with a large lump of sugar (i bay leaf, if liked) to 2 quarts of nearly boiling medium stock seasoned to the taste. Simmer till well dissolved, which will be in about half an hour. To half a pint of boiling cream add the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten; stir it quickly in the soup, but do not let the soup boil (or the eggs will curdle), and serve at once. Medium Stock for the above.—Buy 4 lbs. of the knuckle of veal, or 4 lbs. of the shin of beef (or, if preferred, 2 lbs. of each), and a ^ lb. of lean bacon or ham, and 3 lbs. of bones. Cut the meat and ham into pieces about three inches square; rub 2 oz. of butter on the bottom of the stewpan; put in half a pint of water, the meat and bones, with any trimmings of fresh meat or poultry that may be in the house, half a tea-spoonful of whole pepper, 2 oz. of salt, i large blade of mace, 3 lumps of sugar, i bunch of savoury herbs, i head of celery, 2 large onions (each stuck with 3 cloves), i turnip, and 3 carrots. Cover the stewpan, place it on a sharp fire, occasionally stirring its contents; add 4 quarts of cold water when the bottom of the pan is covered with a jelly-like pale substance: do not let it boil at all, but let it very gently simmer for five hours, removing all scum while it is doing, and strain when done through a fine hair sieve. This stock is the basis of almost all soups, the vegetables or flavouring being varied as required. 2. Leg of Mutton Cutlets.—In winter a small family may ensure a variety of fare by having a leg of mutton divided in half; hang the knuckle, and cut the thick end into slices of about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, sawing the bone in the centre, but leaving the section in the meat. These slices are to be dressed in the pan; two tea- cupfuls of water, and one of Harvey’s, Reading, Lopresti’s, or any favourite sauce, with a small portion of soluble cayenne and salt, and two drops of garlic vinegar. 3. Swiss Apple Budding.—A\tema.te layers of sliced apples and sugar, with a thin layer of rusk, pounded and soaked in milk; finish with powdered rusks; pour melted butter over; grate sugar over before serving.4. Vegetables. 350 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Roast Sucking Pig. DECEMBER 12. ‘ Works of ingenuity and elegance are particularly becoming, and the study of them ought to enter into female education as much as possible.'—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. 1. Stuffed Carp.—Chop fine some button mushrooms, together with parsley, chives, and a couple of small onions; toss them in a saucepan over a brisk fire with a little butter. If the carp has any roe, it should be mixed up with the above. Take it off the fire, and mix therewith minced hard egg yolks, chopped anchovy, pepper, and salt Scale and empty your carp, and split it open along the belly ; put your stuffing in, and sew it up again. Oil a sheet of paper, wrap your carp in it, and lay it on the gridiron over a moderate fire. When thoroughly done, remove the paper and serve the carp on a hot oval dish, with a good lump of butter well worked up with minced parsley, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. 2. Roast Sucking Pig.—When the pig is properly prepared and cleaned by the butcher, cut off the feet and make a stuffing of chopped sage, crumbs of bread, butter, pepper, and salt, according to your taste and judgment, but let the bread be the principal ingredient; fill the inside of the pig with the stuffing, and sew up the slit. Baste with butter j it will require from two to three hours’ roasting, according to the size. The skin should be nicely browned and crisp. Before sending it to table, split it down the back from head to tail, and lay it with the skin side uppermost flat in the dish. The head is cut off, and a half laid at each end. Take out the brains, and having previously boiled the liver, chop it up with the brains and mix them together with veal or beef gravy in a small tureen. Apple sauce as for pork. 3. Apple and Bread Pudding.—Pare and cut apples as for a pie, put a little sugar to them, cover and set them in a moderate oven till they begin to soften; then take them out, and when nearly cold cover well with bread that has been soaked in warm milk, or set the bread and milk (covered with a plate) in a moderate oven till the bread has absorbed the milk. An egg or two may be added to the milk, but it is very wholesome and good without eggs. Any kind of fresh fruit may be used in the same way. 1. Stuffed Carp. 3. Apple and Bread Pudding.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 351 DECEMBER 13. ‘ You have received from t!u Almighty your bodies and your souls unslaincd by dishonour; you 'will be soon required to restore them immaculate.''—Rev. James Fordyce, D.D. I. Pike a la Genevaise. 3. Christmas Pudding. 2 Roast Beef. 4. Vegetables. 1. Pike d. la Genevaise.—Boil the fish in a court bouillon made with all sorts of aromatic herbs, and serve with sauce prepared as follows : Make a roux witli butter and flour; moisten with the court bouillon, with chopped mushrooms, parsley leaves, and green onions; strain after stewing well, mix with it essence of anchovy and lemon-juice, and pour hot over the fish. 2. Roast Beef.—Begin by hanging it at a distance from the fire, bringing it nearer when about half or three parts done. For the time of roasting, the general and approximate rule is a quarter of an hour for each pound of meat; but much will depend on the brightness and also the mass of the fire, the weather, and other circumstances. Continual basting must be observed from the beginning to the end of the opera- tion ; dredging with flour is a matter of choice. 3. Christmas Pudding.—Take 10 crackers, break them up into a quart of milk, leaving them over-night, and the next morning rub them through the colander. Beat up 8 eggs, i lb. sugar, i cup of molasses, I cup of brandy, i lb. suet, i table-spoonful of salt, i nutmeg, i spoon- ful of cloves, half a spoonful of mace, the rind of one lemon and juice, ^ lb. of citron cut thin, i lb. currants, and lb. raisins stoned. Boil five hours, and serve with brandy or rich wine sauce. DECEMBER 14. 'Home is 'where the heart can bloom.'—Charles Swain. 1. Salmon Steaks. 2. Stewed Giblets. 3. Ribs of Beef. 4. Apple Pudding with Cream. 5. Vegetables. I. Salmon Steaks.—Cut the fish completely across, in slices about an inch thick. Dry them well between the folds of a napkin. If for frying, they may be dusted with flour, which can be spread evenly over their surface with a feather; if for grilling, they can be seasoned with the slightest sprinkling of pepper and salt In the latter case, the turning must be adroitly performed with steak-tongs. Either anchovy or caper sauce goes well with salmon steaks.352 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. Stewed Giblets.—Having scalded and picked them, cut them in pieces, wash them clean, and put them into a saucepan with a piece of scrag of veal j cover them with water, and let them boil up; then take off the scum quite clean, and add 3 onions, 2 turnips, i carrot, and a little thyme and parsley; stew them till they are tender, and strain them through a sieve; wash the giblets clean from the herbs, etc. Now take a piece of butter the size of a walnut, put it into a saucepan with a large spoonful of flour, and stir it about till it is well mixed and smooth; then put in the broth and giblets, stew them for a quarter of an hour, season with salt and a little pepper, and just before you serve them up chop a handful of green parsley, and put it in. Give it a boil up, and serve them in a tureen. 3. Ribs of Beef.—Ribs of beef maybe boned (the butcher will mostly save the cook this trouble), rolled, tied round with a string, and so roasted in a solid lump, which is convenient for carving, and also more presentable cold; but it is questionable whether boned joints of meat are quite so juicy and succulent as those in which the bones are allowed to remain. In the former case, however, the bones render service by helping to make stock broth. 4. Apple Pudding with Cream.—Grate 4 large apples; add ^ lb. of Naples biscuits grated, a little powdered cinnamon, ^ a pint of cream, sugar to taste, a little salt, and 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out half the whites. Bake with a crust round edge of dish; when done, sift powdered sugar over. DECEMBER IS. ‘ Woman's right and proper influence, her legitimate and best power, is that of kind- ness, gentleness, devoted affection. It is like that of the great sun in the heavens, or of the earth on which we live—the influence of attraction ; and this, well andpersevertngly employed, may prove almost, if not altogether, irresistible.'—Charles Cook. 1. Giblet Soup. 3* Ground Rice Cream. 2. Stewed Brisket OF Beef. 4- Vegetables. I. Giblet Soup.—Swan giblets are the best, then goose, turkey, then ducic and fowl. For water birds, the pinion should be chopped in two across, the feet scalded, removing the outer skin and claws. For all, cut the neck into short pieces; split the head, removing the eyes and beak • divide the livers into two, and gizzards, well cleaned and peeled of the hLd, white skin, into 4 pieces. Stew these tender, and then pro- ceed exactly as oxtail. If you make your stock of the bones or remains of poultry, all the better. You may season rather highly with herbs and spice, as there is no fear of overpowering the giblet flavour.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 353 2. Sieived Brisket of Beef.—Put a piece of brisket of beef, say of 4 lbs. weight, into a saucepan with a good lump of dripping or butter; brown it well all over, then pour in as much water as will nearly cover the meat, and, closing the lid tight, stew it gently for three hours, taking care that the meat does not burn to the pot, which may be pre- vented by putting a small plate beneath it. Boil a carrot, 2 turnips, and a few very small onions in another saucepan, just before you intend to serve up the dinner; take a cupful of the liquor and mix in it 2 good table-spoonfuls of flour, some pepper and salt, and a little ketchup; turn this, with the onions and the carrot, and the turnips cut in small squares, into the pot with the meat, and shaking it well up, boil all together for a few minutes, when it will be ready. Should the beef be fat, the gravy will require skimming, which must be done before you add the thickening. 3. Ground Rice Cream.—Four table-spoonfuls of ground rice, yolks of 4 eggs, whites of 2, i pint of new milk, 2 oz. of loaf sugar. Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of ground rice very smooth with a spoonful or two of milk, add the yolks of 4 well-beaten eggs, and the whites of 2 ; sweeten it to taste, or add about 2 oz. of pounded sugar; boil a pint of milk, pour it over the rice and eggs, boil it three minutes, and put it into a mould. When turned out, serve it with either custard, preserves, or whipped cream over it. DECEMBER 16. ‘ Our firesides must be our sanchiaries, our refuses from misfortune, our choice retreat from all the world.’—Goldsmith. 1. Collared Eel. I 3. Apple Snow. 2. Boiled Beef. | 4, Vegetables. 1. ^ Collared Bone a large eel, but do not skin it; mix mace, allspice, pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind it with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. Eels, if small, should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and bread-crumbs. 2. Boiled Beef—For private families, beef will be quite enough salted in from four days to a week. First rub it with pounded salt- petre, to give the scarlet tinge to the inside. Too much must not be used, for fear of turning the meat hard; half an oz. will do for a joint of from 7 to 8 lbs. Then lay the beef in your salting-pan, and cover it 2354 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. 2. Hashed Widgeon. 5. Vegetables. completely with common salt well heaped over it. Turn the meat every day, and ladle it with the brine which forms in the dish. Beef so salted is more delicate than when plunged into a ready-made brine; which, however, has its advantages when several pieces are salted at once, as well as in hot weather, when flies are troublesome. The addition of sugar for salting beef is a matter of taste ; it is usually re- served for meat intended to be dried, hung, or smoked. Miss Acton very correctly observes: ‘Saltpetre hardens and renders the meat indigestible; sugar, on the contrary, mellows and improves it much.’ The one flatters the eye, the other suits the stomach. 3. Apple Snow.—Half a pound of the pulp of baked apples, ^ lb. pounded loaf sugar, a pinch of pounded alum, the whites of 3 egp, and the juice of half a lemon, beat with a wire whisk until quite white and stiff. May be used for garnishing custards or trifles, or makes a pretty dish itself. T. Tike, Plain Boiled.—If served whole, after scaling and emptying the belly, stuff it with veal stuffing, and sew the belly up again. Tie the head and tail together by means of string passed through the eye-holes, so as to bend the fish into the form of a circle. If there be any milt or roe, it may either be boiled plain and served in the centre of the circular fish, or mixed up with the stuffing. Pike is a fish which requires thorough boiling, especially when stuffed. A 5 or 6 lbs. fish will take about half an hour’s boiling. Serve on a napkin; garnish with parsley, and send up with anchovy sauce. _ . . . 2. Hashed Widgeon.—CvLt the birds into joints; mix the juice of 2 Seville oranges with 2 table-spoonfuls of Reading or home-made sauce, a gill of port wine, a tea-spoonful of mushroom powder, and 4 artichoke bottoms broken into bits; see that you have enough to cover the flesh, adding a little more of each liquid if necessary; make it boil, and, ten minutes before the hash is required, put in the meat, and let it simmer gently for that time. .. 1 3. SleTved Punp-slcah.—At the bottom of a stewpan DECEMBER 17. ‘ In her husband's sickness she feds more grief than she shows. ’-—Fuller. 1. Pike, Plain Boiled. 3. Stewed Rump-steak. 4. Iced Chocolate Cream.355 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. them stew very slowly for several hours, until quite tender; stirring occasionally, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. You may serve the gravy with it, either just as it comes from the stewpan, or you may treat it as directed for stewing the loin. 4. Iced Chocolate Cream.—Half a pint of strong-made chocolate, i pint of milk, yolks of 8 eggs, a pint of thick cream, ^ a lb. of loaf sugar. Make a pint of milk very hot, sweetened with ^ a lb. of loaf sugar; then stir carefully into it the yolks of 8 well-beaten eggs and ^ a pint of strong-made chocolate. Put it into a jug, stand it in boiling water over a clear fire, and stir it one way until the eggs are set in the milk, but do not let it boil; then strain it through a fine silk or hair sieve, and stir into it about ^ a pint of thick cream. Freeze and mould it as other iced creams. —0— DECEMBER 18. ‘ Rot many lives, but only one, have we: How sacred should that one life ever be I Day after day filled up with blessed toil. Hour after hoitr still bringing in new spoil.'—Dr. H. Bon’AR. 1. Hare Soup. 4. Chocolate Cream. 2. Woodcocks and Snipes. 5. Vegetables. 3. Beefsteak Pie. 1. Bare Soufi.—One hare, li lbs. of gravy beef, i lb. of bones, a slice of lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, i onion, a spoonful of soy, a little cayenne, salt, and 2 quarts of water. Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it into a large jar with i-l lbs. of gravy beef, i lb. of bones well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon, i onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it 2 quarts of water, and cover the jar well over with bladder and paper; set it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it simmer till the hare is stewed to rags. Strain off the gravy, add an anchovy cut into small pieces, a spoonful of soy, with a little cayenne and salt. Serve a few forcemeat-balls in the tureen! 2. ^ Woodcocks and Snipes.—'I'ne'&e birds should be roasted by the aid of a jack, or bird-spit, the thighs closely secured to the body by an iron skewer; let them be well basted, and have a bright fire; place toast under them to receive the trails. Twenty minutes’ roasting is sufficient for woodcocks, a quarter of an hour for snipes. Serve with lemon- juice and soluble cayenne. 3- Beefsteak Pte.—lnvexl a cupful of highly-seasoned stock in the middle of your pie-dish. Cut the steaks into pieces of convenient size for serving to each person, or less than that rather than larger. Dust them on each side with flour, pepper, and salt. Arrange them in the356 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. dish, intermingling with them a small proportion of fat. A few pieces of veal, with 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs in quarters, make an agreeable variety in the contents of the pie. Pour over these a little well-seasoned stock 5 cover with a good stout crust, and bake thoroughly. 4. Chocolate Cream.—One bar of chocolate, pints of cream, yolks of 5 eggs, I table-spoonful and a half of good moist sugar. Break a bar of chocolate into small pieces, and pour over them a pint and a half of cream; let it remain until it is dissolved, and then boil it slowly for ten minutes. Well-beat the yolks of 5 eggs with a spoonful and a half of good moist sugar, mix it with the cream, and pour it into cups. Stand them in a stewpan of boiling water, which must only cover half way to the edge of the cup, and let them remain simmering twenty minutes with the cover of the stewpan kept on. When done, place them in a very cold place. Milk may be used instead of cream if a less expensive cream is required. DECEMBER 19. *yudge before friendship i then confide till death.'—YoUNG. 1. Fish Stf.w. 3. Ratafia Cream. 2. Giblet Pie. 4- Vegetables. T, Fish Slew.—Take cod, mullet, whiting, turbot, or any other fish you like ; cut them cross-ways, in pieces from 2 oz. to a of a lb. each. Slice 2 good-sized onions, and place them in a stewpan large enough to contain all the fish at the bottom; a shallow pan is best. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of olive oil; fry the onions a light brown; put in the fish with as much warm water as will cover them well, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, ^ a bay leaf, the flesh of a peeled lemon cut in dice, 2 tomatoes cut in slices and their seeds removed (when no ripe tomatoes are to be had, bottled tomato sauce will do), 2 small glasses of sherry or other white wine, a few peppercorns, and J a clove of garlic. Set on a fierce fire, and boil very fast for twelve minutes, or till the liquor is reduced to one-third. Then add a table-spoonful of chopped parsley; let it boil one minute longer, and pour it into a dish over slices of bread. 2. GiUel Tie.—After very nicely cleaning duck or goose giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks at bottom. Strain the liquor off the stew and bake with the above; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well.357 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 3. Ratafia Cream.—Six bay leaves, i quart of new milk, a little essence of ratafia, yolks of 4 eggs, 4 spoonfuls of cream, sugar to taste. Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with 6 bay leaves and a little ratafia. When it has boiled up, take out the leaves, beat up the yolks of 4 eggs with 4 spoonfuls of cream, and add sugar to your taste. Stir it into the ratafia cream to thicken it, and set it over the fire to get hot, without allowing it to boil. Keep stirring it all the time one way, or it may curdle, and then pour it into a glass dish to serve when cold. —0- DECEMBER 2 0. * What if the head, the eye, or ear reputed , I To serve, mere engines to the ruliitg mind} Just as absurd for any part to claim To be another in the generalframe; fust as absurd to mourn the task or pains The great directing Mind of all ordains.''—Pope. 1. Winter Pea Soup. 3. Coffee Cream. 2. Wild Ducks. 4. Vegetables. T. Winter Pea Soup.—Into 3 quarts of the liquor in which you have boiled pork, beef, or mutton, put a quart of split peas, 2 heads of celery, 2 onions in slices, and a table-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs; let it simmer slowly for three hours; skim it, force it through a sieve, and add spice to your taste before warming up for use. 2. Wild Ducks.—A brisk fire is necessary for roasting these birds; baste and dredge them well; allow twenty minutes for cooking, if you desire to have them full of gravy. Serve witli gravy sauce, to which a chopped shalot and the juice of a Seville orange have been added. 3. Coffee Cream.—One large cupful of made coffee, 4 oz. of sugar, | of a pint of milk, yolks of 8 eggs, 2 oz. of gelatine. DECEMBER 21. * PTappy the girl who sees a God employed In all the good and ill that chequers life.'—CowPER. 1. Julienne Soup. 4. Omelet Soufflee. 2. Gigot au Jus. 5. Vegetables. 3. Giblet Pie. t. Julienne Soup.—C.M.t into very fine, narrow strips, carrots, turnips, parsnips, cabbage, celery, leeks, potatoes, onions, each in equal quantity. Chop some lettuce, chervil, and sorrel. You may add (chopped small,3SS THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. or in long narrow strips) the green tops of asparagus, green kidney beans, green peas (whole); in short, whatever vegetables are in season. Mix these, and put them all together in a stewpan with a good lump of butter and a little sugar and salt. Cover them close, and let them stew a few minutes ; then add your broth, and boil till all the vegetables are thoroughly done. It is not usual to put bread, either in crusts or toasted dice, into julienne soup. Machines or choppers are sold for cutting the vegetables for this wholesome dish; they can also be pur- chased preserved dry. NiE.—When a soup, of whatever kind, strikes you as particularly agreeable to the palate, it is often owing to the unsuspected presence of a very slight dust of sugar. 2. Gigoi au Jus.—Put a nice leg of mutton into your stewpan, with 8 large carrots cut in slices, 12 onions, a calf’s foot, or a lb. of knuckle of veal, and a little salt. Cover all with water, and let it simmer over a gentle fire. When the mutton begins to shrink from the bone, and is about half done, take it out of the stewpan. Let the rest boil, until it is reduced to about 3 pints; then strain it through a napkin or a sieve, pressing the vegetables and veal a little hard. Let it cool to a jelly, and take off the fat. It is better to prepare the dish thus far the day before it is wanted. Replace the leg of mutton in the stewpan with the gravy jelly. Let it boil, close covered, not too fast, a couple of hours, taking care to prevent its burning or sticking to the bottom of the pan. Serve in a deep dish with the gravy, which will be concen- trated and highly flavoured, garnishing the edge with slices of lemon. In the north of England, hot mutton (roast especially) is often accompanied by cold ham; and the association is far from disagreeable. 3. Giblet Pie.—Two sets of giblets are requisite to make a moderately- sized pie. Let these be properly cleaned and half stewed. Cut the liver into 3 pieces, the gizzard into 4, and divide the neck into joints; separate the feet from the legs; strain off the liquor, and put both that and the meat by till perfectly cold; strew a moderate allowance of pepper and salt over the giblets, and do the same by a piece of rump- steak the size of the bottom of your pie-dish ; arrange the gizzards, etc., etc. over the steak, pour in about a tea-cupful of veal stock, cover with puff paste, and bake in a slow oven for an hour and a half. The liquor from the stew will by this time be quite cool enough to skim away the fat; thicken it with a tea-spoonful of flour, a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and add the juice of a lemon; boil this up, and when the pie is sufficiently baked, strain it through a fine sieve; make a hole in the crust, pour in the liquor, replace the paste you have removed, smear the top with the yolk of an egg, and set the pie before the fire for a few minutes. This is an admirable dish hot or cold.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 4. 'Vegetables. 2. Roast Hare. 359 4. Omelet Soitfflee.—Break 6 fresh eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, add to the latter 3 spoonfuls of powdered sugar, a spoonful of rice flour, and a little orange flower water; stir these well together. AVhip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them to the yolks. Pour the mixture into a buttered mould, rather more than half full; bake it in a moderate oven for half an hour. When done, turn it on a dish, and serve quickly. This omelet must be clear, and shake like a jelly. DECEMBER 22. ‘ Where is to-morrow ? in another world. For numbers this is certain: the rrjerse Is sure to none. And yet on this perhapsR This “ peradventure," infamous for lies. As on a rock of adamant we build Our mountain hopes; spin out eternal schemes. As we the fatal sisters could out spin. And, big with lije'sfuturities, expire.'—YoUNG. 1. White Potato Soup.—Cut a moderately-sized breast of mutton into small pieces, and put them into 3 quarts of water; make it boil; skim it carefully, and season the broth with salt and pepper to your taste: peel and cut into quarters half a dozen large and sound potatoes and 3 turnips; slice up 4 onions; chop up three heads of celery, and throw these into the broth, with a liberal handful of sweet herbs. Some cooks will add three leeks; but, with onions already in use, these Cambrian insignia are unnecessary. Let all stew for four hours and a half over a low fire; strain off the liquor; take out the mutton, and force as much of the vegetable as possible through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Beat up the yolks of a couple of eggs in j; pint of cream; stir all well together, and warm it up for sending to table. 2. Roast Hare.—In the west of England—and in no part of the world is good living better understood—a hare, after being properly stuffed, is basted for the first seven minutes with strong salt and water ; a fresh dripping-pan is then put under it, and milk is used, in which about ^ lb. of butter has been dissolved. The animal is dredged with flour occa- sionally ; and it is calculated by cooks who pursue this plan, that, when the eyes start from the sockets, the hare is fit to be sent to table. 3. Omelette Soufflee. Yolks of 7 eggs, whites of 8, ^ lb. of sugar, 2 dessert-spoonfuls of flour, a flavouring of vanilla. Beat the yolks of 7 eggs with 2 spoonfuls of flour, rubbed smooth in —0 X. White Potato Soup. 3. Omelette Soufflee,36o things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. a spoonful of milk; add ^ lb. of powdered sugar and a flavouring of vanilla. Well-beat all these together, and stir lightly in the whites of 8 eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Put the soitffl'ee in the centre of a dish, and bake it in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour. When done, sift sugar over it, and serve as quickly as possible. — DECEMBER 23. ‘ Too much sensibility creates unhappiness ; too much insensibility creates crime. ’— Talleyrand. 1. Hare Soup. 3. Omelet Glace. 2. Mutton Steaks. 4. Vegetables. 1. Hare Soup.—Skin and cleanse a hare; cut it into joints, and put into a stewpan with a knuckle of ham at the bottom, cut in slices; two onions cut in slices, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, 7 or 8 cloves, and 2 or 3 blades of mace, and a few whole allspice ; cover with some good beef gravy; take off the scum when it comes to the boil; stew gently until tender, and strain off the broth. Cut the meat from the bones of the back and legs, which cut into small pieces and put aside. Put the rest into the stewpan again; cover with some boiling beef stock, and stew gently until the meat can be easily separated from the bones. Strain oft' the broth, pick out the bones, and pound the meat in a mortar; rub it through a tammy into a clean pot, using the broth to moisten it with whilst rubbing it through. Put into a stewpan about lb. of sweet butter and 2 moderate-sized onions sliced. Sweat the whole over a slow fire until the onions are done; then make a nice brown roux and moisten it with the first stock; let it simmer gently to throw up the grease; skim and strain : mix the whole together; boil and season with salt and cayenne pepper; add f pint of port wine, and a table-spoonful of currant jelly. A few pieces of fried bread cut in dice may be put into the tureen when served. This should produce 4 quarts of soup. The remains of a roast hare may be made into soup in the same manner. The crumb of 2 penny French rolls soaked in broth and rubbed through the tammy with the hare, may be used for thickening instead of brown roux. 2. Mutton Steaks.—Just brown your steaks on each side in the fry'- ing-pan, or in the large shallow stewpan in which they are to be finished off. Then cover the steaks with a variety of any good v'egetables that are in season: green peas, young carrots, small turnips sliced, celery cut into small pieces, a few leaves of sorrel and parsley, haricots, etc.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 361 Moisten with a tea-cupful of mutton broth and half a glass of wine (white or red). Let the cover of the stewpan fit down as close as possible. Simmer very gently over a slow fire, giving a shake from time to time, to make sure that nothing sticks to the bottom. It takes a considerable time to do thoroughly, but has the advantage of being able to be kept hot, and always remaining in readiness. 3. Omelet Glace.—Six eggs, a little salt, 5 or 6 macaroons, the peel of half a lemon. Break and separate the yolks from the whites of 6 fresh eggs; add a pinch of salt, the peel of half a lemon minced fine, and 5 or 6 pounded macaroons; mix all well together. Then whip the whites to a stiff froth ; beat them well into the yolks, and then pour the mixture into a pan of hot butter; stir them round, and raise the edges to separate it from the pan; turn them over, and then turn the omelet on a dish; sprinkle sugar over it, and lightly brown with a salamander. Serve quickly. —0— DECEMBER 24. ‘ The best sort of revenge is not to be like him who did the injury.'—ANTONINUS. 1. Tapioca Soup. 3. Cream Omelet. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. 4. Vegetables. 1. Tapioca Soup.—Put as much ready-boiled tapioca into your stock as will bring it to the consistency of good pease soup. There ought never to be a mere sediment of tapioca at the bottom of your tureen, covered and drowned by an ocean of broth. The tapioca should per- vade the soup. Flavour with whatever you like. The ordinary vege- tables are most commonly employed. 2. Beefsteak Pudding. Line a basin with a well-made light paste, not too thick ; put in half the quantity of beef required, each piece having been seasoned with a little salt and soluble cayenne pepper; then put in 12 oysters with their liquor, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, 2 tea-spoonfuls of shalot vinegar, and the rest of the meat. Let your top crust be well secured to the basin, the whole carefully tied up. Boil according to the size of your pudding. 3. Cream Omelet.—Ten eggs, 3 table-spoonfuls of rice flour, a piece of butter the size of an egg, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, peel of half a lemon, i pint of cream, i oz. of bitter and sweet almonds mixed. _ Boil a pint of cream with 3 large spoonfuls of rice flour mixed smooth m a little of the cream, 4 oz. of powdered sugar, and a piece of butter the size of an egg. When thick, set it to cool, and then stir in the yolks of 6 eggs, the grated lemon peel, and the almonds blanched and pounded in362 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. a mortar. Stir all well together, and lightly add the whites of the 6 eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Line a mould with buttered paper on both sides, pour in the mixture, and bake it in a‘moderate oven. When done, let it settle for a minute; turn it very carefully out, and strew sugar over the top. DECEMBER 25. * Must love be ever treated with profaneness as a mtre illusion ? or with coarseness as a mere impulse ? or with fear as a ma-e disease ? or with shame as a mere weakness ? or with levity aj a mere accident ? Whereas it is a great mysteiy and a great necessity, lying at the foundation of human existence, morality, and happiness—mysterious, uni- vei-sal, inevitable as death.'—Harriet Martineau. r. Soup. 2. Turbot. 3. Boiled Turkey and Sauce. 4. Ham. 5. Sirloin of Beef. 6. Sauce to Sirloin of Beef. 7. Christmas Pudding. 8. Sauce to ditto. 9. Syllabubs. 10. Vegetables. 1. Sotip.—One lb. of gravy beef, i pint of water, i carrot, i turnip, 1 onion, i clove. 2. Turbot.—It is a question of taste whether to cook it immediately it comes out of the water, or to keep it a couple of days, salting it at least one night. Most people prefer it in the latter condition; the flesh is firmer, and it has acquired more flavour. On the other hand, the sooner it is cooked after taking leave of the sea, the lighter and more digestible it is. Put your turbot in a fish-kettle three-quarters full of cold water, into which you have thrown a handful of salt. While boiling up, remove the scum as fast as it rises. As soon as it really boils, draw the kettle partially off the fire, allowing it only to simmer gently. The size of the fish must regulate the time it should remain in the water after boiling. A moderate-sized turbot will be done in from thirty to forty minutes; a small one in twenty; while it must be a very lar^e turbot indeed which takes a whole hour to cook. Give a final careful skimming before lifting the fish on its strainer out of the water. Let it drain a few minutes over the kettle ; have ready the dish with a napkm on it, and adroitly let the fish slide on to its snowy bed. Of course, the fish will have been laid on the strainer with the side uppermost which is wished to be so when served. 3. Boiled Turkey and Sauce.—Chop i| oz. of suet very fine (if butter is used instead, cut it in small pieces), with i pint of finely-grated bread- crumbs ; chop very small a faggot of savoury herbs, a salt-spoonful 0 grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to the taste; mix all thoroughly to*36,-? BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. gether. Open 18 oysters, beard and chop them (not too small), and add them to the ingredients. Beat up 2 eggs, and work and mix smoothly all together with the hand. Do not stufif the turkey too full, but make the remaining forcemeat rolled into balls; fry them, and garnish with them. A boiled turkey is a most delicate and excellent dish, and requires to be dressed with extreme care. Clean the turkey from feathers and stumps, and singe off the hairs, taking care not to blacken the skin. Draw and wipe it inside with a clean dry cloth; cut off the legs at the first joint; draw out the sinews \ then pull down the skin, and push the legs inside; cut the head off close to the body, leaving the skin long, and draw out the craw. Make a good veal stuffing and put it into the breast, leaving sufficient room for the stuffing to swell; then draw the skin of the breast over the opening and sew it neatly across the back, so that when the turkey is brought to table no sewing will appear. Place the gizzard in one wing and the liver in the other; turn the wings on the back, and fix them to the sides with a skewer; wrap it in a cloth dredged with flour, and put it into a pot of warm water, in sufficient quantity to keep the turkey always covered. Skim it while boiling. A small young turkey will not take more than an hour and a half to boil it; a large one about two hours and a half. When done, place it in a hot dish, and pour a little sauce over the breast. Send up oyster sauce, or parsley and butter, in a tureen. Some cooks make the stuffing of chopped bread and butter, oysters, cream, and the yolks of eggs. Celery, stock-broth, sugar, bechamel, cream. Take the white of heads of celery; blanch, drain, and throw them in cold water; let them cool, and drain dry. Stew them with a little broth and sugar until all the moisture is absorbed ; then mix with 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel, strain through a tammy, and put in a water bath. Just before serving, add a little cream. 4. Ham. If the ham has been long cured, soak it in cold water for from twelve to twenty hours. Scrape it and put it into a large vessel to boil with plenty of cold water, and let it simmer gently from three to four or five hours, according to the size. A ham of 20 lbs will require four hours and a half. Skim the pot frequently to remove the grease as it rises. When done, strip off the rind, and strew bread-raspings over the top side; then set it before the fire, or in the oven, to dry and brown. Some persons prefer to bake a ham; it is then necessary, after soaking and scraping, to enclose it in a paste of flour and water before sending it to the oven. 6. Sauce to Sirloin o/Bee/.—Gra.te or scrape very fine i table-spoon- ful of horseradish, and thoroughly mix with it i tea-spoonful of made364 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. mustard, 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and i tea-spoonful of pounded sugar. 7. Christinas Pudding.—i lb. of suet, i lb. of bread, i lb. of currants, i lb. of raisins stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon shred as fine as possible, ^ lb. of sugar, 6 Jamaica peppers in fine powder, 8 eggs, take out 4 whites, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence. Boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. This pudding will keep, after it has been boiled, six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap paper to pre- serve it from dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil a full hour. 8. Sauce to ditto.—lx\\.o ^ pint of thick melted butter put a table- spoonful of powdered sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoon- ful of lemon syrup, 2 glasses of Madeira, and i of Cura5oa; stir all well together, and pour it quite hot over the pudding. 9. Syllabubs.—7 oz. of fine sugar, and rasp on it the rinds of two fresh, large, sound lemons; then pound or roll it to powder and put it into a bowl with the strained juice of the lemons, 2 large glasses of sherry, and 2 of brandy; when the sugar is dissolved, add a pint of fresh cream, and whisk or mill the mixture well; take off the froth as it rises and put it into glasses. These syllabubs should always be made twenty-four hours before they are wanted, and will remain good for days. The full flavour of the lemon-rind is obtained with less trouble than in rasping, by paring it very thin indeed, and infusing it for some hours in the juice of the fruit. These proportions are sufficient for 2 dozen or more of syllabubs. DECEMBER 2 0. ‘ Virtue is hold, and goodness never fearfid.'—Shakspeare. 1. Gravy Soup. 2. Roast Leg of Pork. 3. Snow Pancakes. 4. Vegetables. well into your stock, strain, boil up, and ser/e,365 BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 2. Roast Leg of Pork, like boiled, must have been scalded. The skin is then scored (without cutting into the fat beneath it) to form the ‘ crackle.’ In roasting, this requires to be protected by oiled paper; if the fire is very fierce, to be removed towards the end of the process, in order that the crackle may be crisp and nicely browned. It therefore requires considerable attention all the while it is roasting. Roast leg of pork is best accompanied by mashed potatoes and apple sauce \ for which latter, peel, quarter, and core your apples, cut them into small pieces, put them into a stewpan with a tumbler of cider or (if you have none) water, the peel of half a lemon, and 3 or 4 cloves. Let boil till the apple is reduced quite to a pulp. Take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of a lemon, mix and mash all thoroughly together, and serve very hot in a small vegetable dish or sauce tureen. Roast leg of pork may be stuffed with sage and onions in the same way as with parsley. Chop the onions and sage leaves finely together; season with salt, pepper, and allspice, and ram them into the hole made in the pork to receive them. 3. Snow Pancakes.—Four oz. of flour, a ^ of a pint of milk, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of salt, sufficient flour to make a thick batter, and 3 large spoonfuls of snow to each pancake. Make a stiff batter with 4 oz. of flour, a of a pint of milk, or more if required, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Divide the batter into any number of pancakes, and add 3 large spoonfuls of s7iow to each. Fry them lightly in very good butter, and serve quickly. I. Mock Turtle.—Take half a calf’s head, properly scalded and pre- pared, with the skin on. Take out the brains, and boil them separately in salt and water. Take out the bones of the nose, and wash the head in cold spring water. Put it on the fire in a large boiler or soup-kettle, in which it can be well covered with cold water; throw in a handful of salt; skim until it boils, and there remains no more scum to remove. Let it boil galloping a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; then take it out; throw away this first water, and put the head on the fire again in fresh hot water, in which it may boil until enough but not too much done. Any impurities which can reasonably excite dislike will have been removed by the first water and its scum. DECEMBER 27. ‘ Nothing earthly gives or can destroy . The souls calm sunshine and the luartfelt joy. ’—PoPE. r. Mock Turtle. 2. Snipe Pudding. 3. Omelet with Sweetmeats. 4 Vegetables.365 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2. SniJ>e Pudding.—Allow a snipe for each person at table, and one or two more over and above that number. When plucked and singed, merely remove the eyes ; they must be left whole, without emptying, as for roasting. Take first-rate rump-steak (in quantity which you will easily calculate from the size of your pudding), with the small propor- tion of fat belonging to it; cut it into shapely pieces, an inch and a half or two inches square; dust them well on each side with ground white pepper, salt, and flour. Line the inside of a large pudding-dish or basin with pie-crust rolled thin; dust this with a little flour. In the pudding-basin so lined, pack your snipe and your steak, placing them at equal distances throughout the mass, seasoning rather highly with pepper and salt, and sprinkling amongst them (if not disapproved) as much cayenne pepper as will lie on the point of your penknife. If you have one or two brown or black-gilled mushrooms, clean and free from maggots, add them, after removing the stalks and peeling off the upper skin. If not, replace them with one or two dessert-spoonfuls of mush- room ketchup ; with this sauce, however, you had better be sparing, as it is apt to be very salt. Cover your pudding with thick crust; tie the cloth (dusted with flour) closely over it; set it on the fire to cook in a large boiler or copper of boiling water, and let it boil galloping for three or four hours, or even longer. The truth is, that you c.an hardly cook it too much in any reasonable time. Let it boil away, therefore, until the guests are seated at table waiting for it. As soon as it is fished out of the boiler, and set upright on a plate, take off the cloth instantly. Transfer the pudding to the dish (standing) on which it is to be sent to table, and serve it in the basin in which it was boiled. 3. Omelet with Sweetmeats.—Nine eggs, 5 table-spoonfuls of white sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon extract or peach water, a tea-cup of butter, and preserved apricot, strawberry, or any other jam. DECEMBER 2 8. ‘ ’ Tis virtue makes the bliss where'er we dwell. Coi.LlNS. 1. Chestnut Soup. 1 3- Stone Cream. 2. Roast Rabbits. 1 4- Vegetables. I. Chestnut Have ready some good broth or consomme; that of game or fowl is best. •.•11 Peel the brown skin from a quantity of raw chestnuts; boil them a minute or two in water, to make the under skin come away easily. Pound them in a mortar; boil them in water till tender enough to crushBILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 367 them through a cullender with a spoon; throw them into the broth; boil up again, and pour into a tureen with a few crusts or dice of toasted bread, and a slight sprinkling of sugar at the bottom. 2. Roast Rabbits.—Make a forcemeat of bread-crumbs, minced beef suet, lemon-peel, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and a little lemon thyme, if sweet herbs are approved. Beat up 2 eggs, and mix the whole into ,a paste. Put this forcemeat inside the rabbit, sew it up, and skewer it into the proper form. Rub the outside of the rabbit over with butter; flour it a little; and stick on very thin slices of bacon by means of small skewers of iron wire, A French cook would lard the back of the rabbit with a larding needle. These slices of bacon will roast up, till they are become quite crisp and dry. The fat which oozes from them will keep the rabbit moist and juicy; still, it ought to be well basted while roasting. Make a gravy with a small piece of beef (or the livers of the rabbits, if they are not roasted inside), a whole onion, some whole peppercorns, a blade of mace, a clove or two, and a small crust of bread toasted very dry and brown, but not burnt. When the gravy is boiled enough, strain it, and then add a little ketchup and flour well braided together. Make the gravy just boil up (for a minute or two) before serving with the roast rabbit in a separate tureen by itself. Some add a glass of port wine to the gravy. 3. Stone Cream.—One pot of preserved apricots or plums, ^ an oz. of isinglass, i pint of cream, i lemon, 2 tea-spoonfuls of crushed white sugar (more or less, to taste). Take a glass dish and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with preserved apricots or plums; dissolve half an oz. of isinglass in a little water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the lemon grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste. Let it boil one minute, then put it into a jug that has a spout. When it is nearly cold, but not quite set, squeeze into it the juice of the lemon (or rather, squeeze the lemon in a cup and add to it the cream, lest a pip should fall into the jug). Pour it into the dish (from a jug with a spout) over the sweetmeat, and let it stand all night. Place on the top a few ratafias. Any very nice jam may be substituted for the apricot, but the latter b best of all.368 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DECEMBER 29. ‘ Say what is prayer, when it is prayer indeed ? The mighty utterance of a mighty need.'—Archbishop Trench. 1. Flemish Soup. 1 3- Omelet Soufflee. 2. Broiled Fowl. | 4- Vegetables. 1. Flemish Soup.—Put 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with a suffi- ciency of stock or good broth that has been well skimmed. Into this slice 6 onions and 3 heads of celery cut into small pieces. Set it over a slow fire to boil gently for one hour. At the same time peel and quarter a dozen middle-sized potatoes, and put them on in a separate saucepan to boil. This is done because potatoes ought not to be cooked in any soup, hash, or made dish of which they are to form part, as the water that comes from them contains a principle that disagrees with many stomachs. When the quartered potatoes are done enough, drain them a minute or two, and add them to the sliced onions and celery. Season with a little pepper and salt. When the potatoes are quite dissolved, rub the whole through an iron-wire sieve; add a pint of cream, and give it a boil. A little macaroni broken into short lengths, boiled tender in milk, and thrown into the soup just before going to table, is a great improvement. 2. Broiled Fowl—hX a quiet repast you may be content with broiled fowl; on a state occasion you must have spread eagle, and Uuo of them, if only to display the double head and neck. For the former, you may cut off the neck an inch above its junction with the body, and remove the shanks entirely; for the latter, you must retain head, neck, and all, and leave the legs pheasant-length. Singe your fowl, empty it, decapitate the head and neck, amputate the shanks. Split it open down the back, from the insertion of the neck to the rump. Lay it open, press it flat, and keep it flat with the aid of skewers and string. When nicely arranged, put it into a stewpan with just enough water to cover it, and a tea-spoonful of salt. Put in also the head and neck cut into 3 or 4 pieces, the gizzard, heart, liver, and the two white kidneys, if any. Let these boil gently until the fowl is cooked, but slightly underAont. Take it out and set it aside to cool: it may be kept in that state till next day, or whenever wanted. Take out also the liver and kidneys, cut off the wattles and comb, and take the brains from the head; put them aside. Let the rest continue to boil, to make The heart and gizzard quite tender, and extract all the goodness from the head and neck. For the Sauce to Broiled Fowl,—Fry sliced onions, in a stewqian, in butter ; add a little flour; moisten with the boilings of the fowl, stirring to keep all smooth; remove the onions j season with pepper, salt, andBILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. 369 grated nutmeg. When that is done, and you have obtained a creamy, thick, brown sauce, throw into it the fowl’s comb and wattles, the kidneys, the liver cut in two, the gizzard cut into four, the brains, 2 table-spoonfuls of pickled mushrooms, and i dessert-spoonful of the vinegar from them; the mushrooms are indispensable. Keep your sauce hot in a bain-marie till wanted. Smear the upper surface of your opened and cold boiled fowl with oiled butter; broil it, presenting the under side first to the fire. When thoroughly hot through, turn it on the gri ’iron to brown the upper surface. When nicely done, lay it on your dish, remove the skewers, and pour over it the hot sauce with all its contents. 3. Omelet Soufflee.—S,\x eggs, 4 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar, peel of i large lemon, A lb. of fresh butter. Beat 6 eggs, the whites and yolks separately; put to the yolks 4 dessert-spoonfuls of white sugar powdered, and the peel of a large lemon chopped very fine j mix them thoroughly. Whisk the whites to a high froth, and add them to the yolks. Put lb. of butter into a pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as it is completely melted, pour in the mixture ; stir it that the butter may be well in- corporated with the eggs. When it is so, put it in a buttered dish, and set it oyer hot embers or ashes j strew powdered sugar over the top, and colour it with a salamander. This may be done in the oven. Serve quickly, or the omelet will fall and its appearance be spoiled. DECEMBER SO. ‘ The true way of softening one's troubles is to solace those of others. ’ Madame de Maintenon. 1. Shin of Beef Soup. 2. Roast Pigeons. 3. House-lamb Steaks. 4. Batter for Fritters. 5. Vegetables. I. Shin of Beef Soiif.—Into a large boiler of cold water put 8 or 9 lbs. of the hind legs of beef, cut into convenient-sized pieces, 6 large carrots, 10 onions, and 3 heads ot celery, all sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 whole anchovies, a little bit of ham, quite lean, from the bone (a small portion of ham-bone which is tolerably close cut will answer exceedingly well), and some pounded cloves and whole pepper All these are to simmer gently over a slow fire for at least twenty-four hours (six-and-thirty is better), and are then to be strained into a pan and left to cool till the next morning, when the fat may be cleared off. A few small carrots and button onions should be boiled separately in a por- ion of this liquor, and added with it when the soup is served When the beef IS about enough and not too much done, the nicest pieces of gnsde and tender meat should be picked out, cut into dice, and added to the soup before serving it. 2 A370 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 2 Roast Pigeons.—birds should be killed by having their necks broken, and should not be bled. When they are plucked, drawn, singed and trussed, cover them with 3 or 4 thin slices of bacon, and as many vine leaves tied around them with a coarse thread. Roast them on a spit, and baste them with good veal broth and a slice of butter. It they are young and tender, half an hour is long enough to cook them. If they are to be eaten hot, dish them up as they are, simply taking off the thread which confines the vine.leaves and the bacon, and serve them with a sauce piquante, made by mixing a little mustard, salt, tarragon, vinegar, and pepper with the gravy which comes from them. If the gravy is poor or short in quantity, add a little very Florence oil. . , u 3 House-lamb Steaks.—Some steaks from a loin of lamb, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, peel of half a lemon, a sprig of parsley, i egg, a large cup- fal of rich gravy, 3 oz. of butter, i tea-spoonful of flour, 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of port wine, 12 oysters. , , j- Cut some nice steaks from a loin of house-lamb ; dip them into the yolk of a well-beaten egg, and then season them with a sprig of parsley chopped very fine, the peel of half a lemon grated, and a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Fry the steaks a nice light brown in some butter then thicken a large cupful of rich gravy with about an oz. of butter rolled in flour; add 2 dessert-spoonfuls of port wine, and a dozen oysters bearded and washed clean ; let the gravy boil, and then put in the steaks. When they are thoroughly hot, serve them with forcemeat-balls or plain 4. Batter for Fritters.—YKfcA oz. of flour, i pint of water, 2 oz. 0 ^""mTx loTof fine flS'r with about i pint ofwater into a smooth batter; dissolve the butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees mto the flour. Then add the whites of 2 eggs whisked to a stift froth, and them lightly in. DECEMBER SI. ‘ Firtue alone can ^ive true joy; The sweets of virtue never cloy: To take delight in doing good, 2n justice, truth, and gratitude. In aiding those whom cares oppress, Administering comfort to Dewart, 1. GibletSoup. 2. Pork Cutlets. 3. Tomato Sauce. 4. Vegetables. ... , T Ablet Soup-YL^-v^ a set of goose giblets nicely cleaned an ^ "•. . „ Inches long. Put them mto a stewpan with 1^ cut into pieces two incnes loug. 5. Swiss Pudding. 6. Cocoa-nut Sauce. 7. Cheese.BILL OF FARE FOR DECEMBER. .171 pints of cold water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, half a grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf and a laurel leal. Boil up slowly; skim, then simmer for one hour. Take out the gib- lets, strain the liquor, and skim off every particle of fat. Add the liquor and the giblets to 2 quarts of stock; simmer gently for about an hour and a half. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour with half a gill of cold stock, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup. Stir this into the soup, and boil for twelve minutes; add a small wine-glassful of Marsala or sherry, and serve at once. 2. Pork Cutlets.—Cut 6 or 7 cutlets from the fore-loins of small pork, each the width of the bone; trim off all the fat, and bare the end of the bone about an inch. Season 3 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a tea- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and the sixth part of a nutmeg grated. Beat a fresh egg on a plate for five minutes ; dip each cutlet into the egg and then into the crumbs; let them stand ten minutes. Cut the fat into small pieces; put it into a frying-pan, and, when sufficiently dissolved, fry the cutlets in it to a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes) over a moderate fire; drain on a sieve before the fire for two minutes. 3. Tomato Sauce. Put a gill (or more) of tomato sauce into a sauce- pan , knead a tea-spoonful of baked flour with ^ oz. of butter, and stir in. Place the cutlets neatly round a hot dish; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. 5. Swiss Pudding.—Four oz. of bread-crumbs dried and pounded to a fine powder, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut, 6 oz. of any kind of preserved fruit, 6 oz. of beef-marrow or suet, the milk of the cocoa-nut, or ^ a gill of new milk, and 3 beaten eggs ; beat well and let it stand an hour. Butter a basin ; beat the mixture again for ten minutes; put it into the basin; tie a cloth over, plunge it into fast- boiling water, and boil rapidly for three hours and a half. Turn out carefully and serve, with the following sauce poured over : 6. Cocoa-nut Sauce.—Boil 2 oz. of grated cocoa-nut and 2 oz. of loaf sugar in a gill of water for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a fine sieve; add the beaten yolk of an egg, and i a gill of thick cream. 7. Ckeese.—Cut f lb. of cheese into thin slices (without rind); season with 2 tea-spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, spread over in layers and a salt-spoonful of black pepper. Put the cheese into a small tin toiter- pour over the top an oz. of dissolved butter; place it before a bright fire for about eighteen minutes. Serve very hot, and with a rack of tresh-made toast also quite not.372 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. DESSERT FOR THE MONTH OF DECEMBER. 1. Scotch Seed Cake. 2. Bordeaux Cake. 3. Cocoa-nut Cake. 4. Pine Apple. 5. Grapes in Brandy. 6. Graces a l’Ananas. 7. Orange Biscuits. 8. Medlar Jelly. 9. Portugal Cake. 10. Cocoa-nut Macaroons. 11. Cup Cakes. Grapes, Chestnuts, Dates, Oranges, Filberts, Figs, Apples, Medlars and Dried Fruits, Pears, Almonds, and Raisins. I. SCOTCH SEED CAKE. Beat to a high froth the yolks of 6 and the whites of 4 eggs; add loaf sugar in powder 4 oz., and butter worked to a cream 4 oz., a tea-spoon- ful of mixed spice, and another of caraway seeds ; 4 oz. of sweet almonds beaten to a paste, with the addition of a little laurel water to prevent them turning oily; \ a lb. of candied oranp peel, not cut too_ small; 20 oz. of flour, and enough brandy to make it of the proper consistency. Mix well, and bake for one hour in rather a brisk oven. 2. BORDEAUX CAKE. Beat separately the yolks and whites of 12 eggs; mix them together; add to them a lb. of loaf sugar in powder, a lb. of butter worked to a froth and i a lb. each of dried wheaten flour and potato facule. Bake for an hour in a circular tin. The next day, cut it into slices horizontally, and spread each slice with apricot and pine apple marmalade alternatel) , lay the slices upon each other; arrange some dried fruits upon the last slice, sift sugar over it, and place it in an oven for ten minutes. When cold, serve. 3. COCOA-NUT CAKE. Blanch and grale J a Ib. of fresh cocoa-nut and put it ‘y* a oint of new milk until the latter is reduced one half. Put a lb. o Lrinto a pan; make a pit in the middle of it; add to it a httle salt, a lb. of butter beaten up, la eggs lightly whisked, the cocoa-nut, a good dessert-spoonful of ginger, and a tea-cupfu mild yeast. Mix it well together, and let h remain six a warm place to rise. Before making it up, add 12 oz. of rou^';'X ^rrshed loarsugar. Form it into a cake, and bake ,t in a rather brisk oven for an hour and a half.373 DESSERT FOR DECEMBER. 4. PINE APPLE. Peel a very ripe pine apple, cut it into thin slices, lay them to soak in a thick sugar syrup first boiled and allowed to grow cold; cover them closely down, and when they have infused some hours, arrange them in your compotier, and pour the syrup round them. 5. GRAPES IN BRANDY. Put some small bunches of very sound grapes into a wide-mouthed bottle; add to them half their weight of fine loaf sugar in powder, and fill them up with the best white brandy. 6. GLACES A l’aNANAS. Reduce a good-sized pine apple to a pulp; add to it a lb. of clarified sugar, and let it stand some time to infuse; add the juice of 2 or 3 lemons; strain it through a sieve; mix with it ^ a tea-cupful of water; stir all well together, and ice it 7. ORANGE BISCUITS. Rasp the rind of a good-sized Seville orange; add to it 6 eggs very highly beaten, 12 oz. of powdered sugar, 4 oz. of flour, and a very little strained orange juice. Mix all thoroughly until it forms a smooth paste; lay it upon paper, or in small moulds; glaze and bake them as other biscuits. 8. MEDLAR JELLY. Pick over your medlars; choose those that are ripe, but perfectly sound; halve them, and put them into a saucepan with the juice of a lemon and enough water to float them. Boil them until the water is reduced to a third of its original quantity. Mash the fruit in the liquor put It in a very fine sieve, and let the juice run through without using pressure. Take weight for weight of the latter and highly refined loaf sugar, boil and skim it carefully, and when thick enough place it in your glass mould. This jelly should be beautifully clear when well made 9. PORTUGAL CAK E. almonds; add 2 tea-spoonfuls of orange flower «ter, and beat ,hem a paste. Take a lb. of loaf sugar powdered374 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. and sifted, work into it a lb. of very fresh butter; add the almonds, a glass of brandy, and lo eggs. Whip all well together, and when^ quite smooth put in 8 oz. of washed and dried currants. Pour it into a mould, and bake it for an hour in a gentle oven. lO. COCOA-NUT MACAROONS. Take a medium-sized cocoa-nut; rasp it on a grater, and then slightly parch it in a slack oven for half an hour. To each pound of nut add the beaten whites of 8 eggs and 2 lbs. of finely powdered loaf sugar. Form this mixture into small balls, lay them upon wafer paper or a buttered tin, and bake for twenty minutes or longer, according to the heat of the oven. 11. CUP CAKES. Take 4 well-beaten eggs, mix with them 4 oz. of powdered loai sugar and 4 oz. of fine dry flour. Rub the insides of 10 or 12 small cups with butter, sift sugar into them, strew in a lew currants well cleaned and dried, and half fill the cups with the cake mixture. Bake until they are well browned, and when cold turn them into a dish.‘PARTY’ DINNERS 375 ARRANGED FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR, DULY CONSULTING THE PROVISIONS WPIEN IN THEIR PRIME. My lord, •willyou walk? dinner ts ready.'—Shakspeare. To p7 eserve htmselj in due vigour, man requires not only solid nutriment, but to obtain complete vigour he must choose that species of food most agreeable to his constitution, and must partake of a variety of meats to prevent the disgust arising from a uniformity <?/—BUFFON*‘PARTY’ DINNERS ARRANGED FOR EVERY MONTH IN THE YEAR, DULY CONSULTING THE PROVISIONS WHEN IN THEIR PRIME. ^ SUGGESTIONS TO THOSE WHO GIVp DINNER PARTIES. ‘ Sh-, you are very welcome to our house ; It must appear in other ways than words. Therefore I scant this breathing courtesy.'—.Shakspeare. WITH respect to setting out a dinner-table, everything should be brilliantly clean, and nothing should be placed upon it except what is wanted \ and everything wanted, which can conveniently be upon the table, should be there, so as to dispense as much as possible with attendance, and thereby avoid the trouble of asking for things. I think it desirable not to have lights upon it, nor, indeed, anything which can interrupt the freest communication among the guests. The art of throwing the most agreeable light upon a table is well worth cultivating. Instead of inconvenient and useless centre-pieces, I would have a basket of beautiful bread, white and brown, in the middle of the table, with a silver fork on each side, so that the guests could help themselves, which would be perfectly easy with a party not exceeding eight, which limit I understand in all I say. I would have the wine placed upon the table in such a manner as to be as much as possible within the reach of each person; and I hold stands for decanters to be impediments, and coolers also, except, perhaps, in very hot weather. If the wine is served at a proper temperature, it will m general remain so, as long as ought to be necessary; ^ but it is often set upon the table before it is wanted, for show. Instead of the supernumeranes we now ' For cooling wine, fold a wet cloth entirely round the decanter, and place it in a current of air. Be particular that it is tjuite covered. 376-SUGGESTIONS FOR DINNER PARTIES. 3:7 see, I would have one or more sets of cruets upon the table, according to the size of the party, and containing those things which are con- tinually wanted, and which it is desirable to have at hand. Whatever dish is placed upon the table, it ought to be preceded by all its minor adjuncts, and accompanied by the proper vegetables, quite hot, so that it may be enjoyed entirely and at once. I am an advocate for dumb waiters; and the smaller the party is, the more they are de- sirable, because attendants are a restraint upon conversation, and upon one’s ease in general. With respect to the dinner itself, there are two kinds of dinners; one simple, consisting of a few dishes ; the other, embracing a variety. Both kinds are good in their way, and both deserving attention; but for constancy I greatly prefer the simple style. In the first place, it is necessary not to be afraid of not having enough, and so to go into the other extreme, and have a great deal too much, as is almost invariably the practice. It is also necessary not to be afraid of the table looking bare, and so to crowd it with dishes not wanted, or before they are wanted, whereby they become cold and sodden. ‘ Enough is as good as a feast,’ is a sound maxim, as well in providing as in eating. The advantages of having only enough are these :—It saves expense, trouble, and attendance; it removes temptation, and induces contentment; and it affords the best chance of having a well-dressed dinner, by concen- trating the attention of the cook. The having too much, and setting dishes on the table merely for appearance, are practices arising out of prejudices, which, if once broken through, would be looked upon, and deservedly, as the height of vulgarity. In proportion to the smallness of dinner ought to be its excellence, both as to the quality of the materials and the cooking. When the materials and the cooking are of the best, and the dinner is served according to the most approved rules of comfort, the plainest, cheapest food has attractions, which is seldom to be found in the most laboured attempts. In general, there is far too little attention paid to varying the mode of dining according to the temperature of the seasons. Summer din- ners are, for the most part, as heavy and as hot as those in winter, and the consequence is they are frequently very oppressive. In hot weather they ought to be of a light, cooling nature, and accompanied with beverages well iced, rather than witli pure wine, especially of the stronger kinds. I cannot think there is any danger from such diet to those who use it moderately. The danger, I apprehend, lies in excess, from the pleasure felt in allaying thirst and heat The season in which Nature produces fruits and vegetables in the greatest abundance, is surely that in which they ought to be most used. In hot weather, the3?S TrllNGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO LCNOW. chief thing to be aimed at is to produce a light and cool feeling, both by the management of the room and the nature ot the repast. In winter, warmth and substantial diet afford the most satisfaction. In damp weather, when the digestion is the weakest, the diet ought to be moderate, but warm and stimulating; and in bracing weather, I think plain and substantial food the most appropriate. By studying to suit the repast to the temperature, the greatest satisfaction may be given at the cheapest rate. One of the greatest luxuries, to my mind, in dining, is to be able to command plenty of good vegetables, well served up; but this is a luxury vainly hoped for at set parties. Everybody of genuine taste is delighted with a display of vegetables of superior order j and if great attention was bestowed upon that part of dinners, instead of upon the many other dishes, dinners would be at once more wholesome and more satisfactory to the palate, and often less expensive. AVith respect to variety of vegetables, I think the same rule applies as to other dishes. In French cookery, vegetables meet with attention much more propor- tionate to their importance than in ours, and appropriateness in serving them is much more studied. In conformity with my dislike to show or display in anything con nected with dinners, I prefer a service of plain white ware to plate or ornamented china. There is a simplicity in white ware, and an appear- ance of cleanliness and purity, indicative of a proper feeling, and a due attention in the right direction. As to desserts, I am no great friend to them : I enjoy fruit much more at any other time of the day. At any rate, I would have them in great moderation, and confined to a few kinds of ripe fruit Preserved fruits are, in my opinion, cloying after dinner. Common soup made at home, fish of little cost, any joint, the cheapest vegetables, some happy and inexpensive introduction, like the crab, and a pudding, with sherry and port, provided everything is good in quality and the dishes are well dressed, and served hot and in succession with their adjuncts, will ensure a quantity of enjoyment which no one need be afraid to offer; and so it will be with any combination in the same style. But then it is absolutely necessary not to overdo the thing on the one hand, and on the other to direct the attention entirely in the right course; to think nothing of display or fashion, but only of realities, and to dispose everything for comfort and ease.Soups. I. TURTLE. Fish. JANUARY. 8. MARENGO OF FOWL. 9. HAUNCH OF MUTTON. 10. MASHED POTATOES. 2. TURBOT, WITH (3)LOBSTER SAUCE. 4. FILLETS OF SOLE. Entrees. 5. stewed pigeons, (s) oysters VOL-AU-VENT. 6. SWEETBREADS, WITH MUSHROOMS. 7. BOILED FOWLS AND WHITE SAUCE. Pastry, etc. 11. MADEIRA pudding. 12. PINE-APPLE CREAM. 13. PUNCH JELLY. 14. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. 15. ITALIAN CREAM. 16. SAVOURY MACARONI. 1. Turtle Soup.—Tie down the jar in which the turtle is sent, and place it in a pan of hot water; let it boil slowly till the soup is quite hot; put a glass of old Madeira into the tureen, pour in the turtle, and serve immediately, with cut lemons on a plate. Have Justerini and Brooks’ punch (2 Colonnade, Pall Mall) on the table. 2. Turbot.—the fish; rub it over with lemon-juice and a table- spoonful of salt, and let it remain an hour. Put it into plenty of cold water, with a table-spoonful of salt and a wine-glassful of white vinegar. Place the kettle over a brisk fire,, and when on the point of boiling, draw It aside ; skim, and simmer gently till done. A large turbot will require about three-quarters of an hour; one of 8 lbs. half an hour, and a smaller one twenty minutes. Seiye on a fine napkin, neatly rolled round the edges, and with lobster sauce in a tureen. 3. Lobster Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine fresh-boiled hen lobster; cut it into pieces the third of an inch square. Break up the head and shell; bruise a salt-spoonful of live spawn; put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and a blade of mace,' and boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve; put the liquor into a saucepan. Knead 6 oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried Hour, and stir in. Boil a quarter of an hour; add the pieces of lobster38o things a lady WOULD LIKE TO ENOW and a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. Stir in a wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. Note.—The quantity given is sufficient to serve for lo or 12 persons, with a turbot weighing 8 or 9 lbs. 4. Fillets of Sole.—Saturate them for half an hour in lemon-juice ; dry, and dip each fillet into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs of bread. Fry in plenty of boiling lard or olive oil till of a yellow-brown colour. Drain, and serve upon neatly-folded white paper, placing ihe fillets in a circle, one resting on the other. Note.—Ten minutes will fry fillets unless very thick. 5. Stewed Pigeons.—Stuff the pigeons, and roast them for ten minutes. Peel 12 button onions, and fry them till slightly browned in an oz. ol butter; dredge in a table-spoonful of baked flour ; stir till well mixed ; then add ^ pint of any good stock, a table-spoonful of mushroom ket- chup, a tea-spoonful of soy, a tea-spoonful of vinegar, a salt-spoonful 01 good anchovy sauce, and two table-spoonfuls of port wine ; put in the pigeons, and simmer gently for half an hour. Serve very hot. 5. Oyster Vol-aii-vent.—Make a puff paste with f lb. of dry sifted flour, f lb. of fresh butter, the yolk of an egg, the strained juice of a lemon ; beat the egg first alone, then with a gill of cold water; add the lemon-juice. Put the flour into a bowl, stir in the liquid, and make it into a soft paste, touching it as little as possible. Squeeze the butter in a cloth; slightly sprinkle the paste slab with flour; lay on the paste, make a hole in the centre, put in the butter; turn over the edges, and roll out 4 times. Let the paste stand in a cold place for an hour; roll out 2 or 3 times; then roll it the last time an inch and a quarter thick. Press a tin vol-au-vent cutter quickly down, so as to take off the rough edges, and cut it the size and shape required. Make a circular incision with a penknife a quarter of an inch deep and half an inch from the edge; place it on a baking-tin, and bake in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour. With a penknife take out the centre carefully, remove the soft paste, and fill the vacancy with oysters prepared as followsBeard 3 doz. oysters; put the liquor into a saucepan with the beards, a sm^ piece of mace, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the thin rind of half a lemon, and the strained juice ; boil up. Knead 3 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil till it is reduced to a quarter of a pint; strain : add the oysters; simmer six minutes; stir in a gill of very tliick fresh cream. Serve the vol-au-vent on a neatly-folded napkin. 6. Sweetb7-eads, with Mtishrooms.—Blanch and trim the sweetbre.ids, lard them thickly with good fat bacon; cut up half a carrot, half a turnip, half a head of celery, a small onion. Rub a stewpan four times across the bottom with garlic ; put in the vegetables, with \ lb. of butter,^PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUARY. 381 and fry them brown; lay in the sweetbreads, and add the third of a pint of stock, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar and white pepper, a small blade of mace, 2 cloves, 3 allspice, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, and a table-spoonful of brandy. Boil up quickly; skim, then simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Put the sweetbreads in a moderate oven (with ^ oz. of butter on each) for ten minutes j skim and strain the gravy. Skin and clean 12 button mushrooms; put them into the gravy with a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar; knead an oz. of fresh butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in ; boil up ; put in the sweetbreads, and con- tinue to simmer for a quarter of an hour. Serve the sweetbreads in the centre, and the sauce round. 7. Boiled Fowls and White Sauce.—Let the fowls be neatly trussed for boiling; place them in a stewpan, and cover them with new milk ; boil up quickly, then simmer as gently as possible till done. Spring chickens will require sixteen minutes; fine fowls, twenty-five minutes; capons, from forty to fifty minutes. In each case the time to be reckoned from the boiling up. Make a sauce as follows:—Knead 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baked flour with 3 oz. of butter, and stir into it the third of a pint of the milk the fowls are boiling in; boil ten minutes ; add a gill of thick cream ; place the fowls on a hot dish, draw out the skewers. Pour half of the sauce over the breasts, and serve the rest in a tureen. Note. About 3 quarts of milk will be required for 2 good-sized fowls. If reserved in an earthen pan, it will make excellent soup, by adding onions, garlic, celery, carrots, salt, pepper, a bay leaf, the bone’s of the fowl, and a thick slice of crumb of bread. Boil for two hours, then rub through a sieve. ’ 8. Marengo of Fowl.—Cxxt a fine young fowl into joints; divide the legs from the thighs, and the pinions from the wings ; cut the breast off the bone in 4 neat slices. Put the prime pieces into a basin of cold water with a tea-spoonful of salt, half a clove of garlic, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; let them remain for three hours. Put the remainder of tire fowl in a saucepan, with a small carrot and an onion sliced, i lb. of gravy beef, i lb. of lean veal, 2 oz. of ham, i clove a small blade of mace, and i oz. of butter; let it stand by the fire to brorvn the meat; add a quart of water, boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for tlrree hours. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of flour ; stir it into the gravy, and boil fast till it is reduced to | a pint then strain. Add 12 button mushrooms, nicely cleaned, and a wine- glassful of Madeira or Marsala. Wipe the fowl dry, dredge it with baked flour, and fry it in butter (6 oz.) till of a deep yellow colour (about half an hour). Boil 6 gocd-sized potatoes; mash them with a382 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. wooden spoon; add a salt-spoonful of salt, 2 oz. of butter, and 4 table- spoonfuls of good cream j beat till quite light and smooth. Lay the potatoes in the centre of a hot dish in the form of a cone; place the fowl neatly round, resting on the potatoes; pour over the sauce, and serve immediately. 9. Haunch of Mutton.—Rub it well with a coarse cloth, and dredge it over with dry flour; tie it in large sheets of white paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, for the first half hour near, then draw it to a distance, and roast slowly till done ; baste constantly. Twenty minutes before serving take off the paper, dredge the mutton slightly with baked flour, and baste it with 2 oz. of dissolved butter. Pour off the dripping; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the meat; pour it into a hot well-dish; place the haunch on the dish, the broad side uppermost,and serve at once, with red currant jelly turned out on a glass dish or a plate. Note.—^Time for roasting: underdone, ten minutes to the lb.; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes ; well done, eighteen minutes. In frosty weather, two minutes to the lb. must be added in each case. 11. Madeira Pudding.—Beat 5 oz. of fresh butter to cream; add to it lb. of dry sifted flour, ^ lb. of loaf sugar in powder, 4 beaten eggs, and ^ lb. of citron cut into half-inch pieces; beat for ten minutes. When the ingredients are well mixed, butter a mould, stick the top with thin slices of citron (2 oz.) ; put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil in plenty of water, as fast as possible, for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully and serve, with sifted sugar over the top. 12. Pine-Apple Cream.—Pare off the rough outside of a small ripe pine-apple, then peel it sufficiently thick to take ofif all the eyes; put the peel into a saucepan with ^ pint of water, and boil till the flavour is extracted ; then strain, and let the liquor get cold. Cut the pine into half-inch square pieces, and strew over it 9 oz. of loaf sugar in powder, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; let it saturate for bvo hours. Put the pine, sugar, etc., into the liquor, and boil fast for ten minutes, skimming constantly; add f oz. of isinglass; boil ten minutes more; pour it into a basin, and stir into it (with a whisk) a pint and a gill ot rich cream. Stir briskly till the mixture begins to thicken, then pour it into a mould, and place it on ice till firmly set. Stir for ten minutes after placing it on the ice, to prevent the fruit sinking. 13. Pu7tch Jelly.—Ten oz. of loaf sugar, 5 lemons, i Seville and 3 sweet oranges, a slice of pine apple, a wine-glassful of Madeira (or rich brown sherry), 3 wine-glassfuls of rum, half a wine-glassful of brand}, a table-spoonful of noyeau, if oz. of isinglass, a tea-spoonful of fine green tea, and a pint of water. Pour the water, boiling, over the tea, and let it infuse for twenty minutes, then strain through muslin ; rub the sugar3S3 'PARTY' DINNER FOR JANUARY. on the rinds of the Seville orange and the lemons to extract the essence ; bruise the pine-apple and press out the juice; express and strain the juice of all the oranges and lemons ; put the sugar and the juice into the tea; boil up; skim carefully; add the isinglass, and stir rabidly till it is quite dissolved, then drain through a jelly-bag. Add the spirits and wine; pour the mixture from one basin to another rapidly, to soften the flavour; put it into a quart mould, and let it remain in a cool place till set, or an hour on ice will improve it. Note.—Calf-foot stock may be used. In this case, | oz. of isinglass will be sufficient. 14. Charlotte Russe.—Beat the yolks of 5 fresh eggs, and strain them into ^ a pint of good cream; put this into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a slow fire till it begins to thicken, but not to boil. Turn it into a basin to get quite cold. Dissolve 5 oz. of loaf sugar and | oz. of the best isinglass in | of a pint of new milk ; add 2 oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded to paste, two inches of vanilla, and boil slowly for twelve minutes; then rub through a sieve, and stir it into the eggs while warm; whip | of a pint of cream, and add to the rest; stir till it begins to thicken. Trim off the ends of 18 or 20 new Savoy biscuits ;,rub a plain quart mould with fresh butter; stick the biscuits round in an upright position, close to each other, so as to form a wall (the flat side inwards); place the mould in a pan of ice, pour in the cream, cover over, and let it remain till quite firmly set When about to serve, dip the mould in hot water, wipe off the droppings, and turn out carefully. 15. Italian Cream.—Dissolve | oz. of the best isinglass a;nd 5 oz. of loaf sugar in ^ of a pint of new milk by boiling it slowly for ten minutes; strain it into a basin, and add a pint of rich cream and 35 drops of the essence of vanilla; turn it rapidly with a whisk till it begins to thicken. Dip a mould in cold water, put in the cream, and place it on ice till firmly set Turn out carefully, and serve immediately. 16. Savoury Macaroni.—Blanch 6 oz. of Naples macaroni in 2 quarts of boiling water with a table-spoonful of salt in it; let it remain till cold, then drain on a sieve. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with 2 oz. of butter, and stir over the fire till the butter is absorbed; then add a quart of new milk and simmer very gently till quite tender (about an hour and a half); add a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a grain of cayenne, 3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 2 fresh eggs beaten with a gill of thick cream. Place it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese diickly over (3 oz.); on that lay an oz. of butter in small pieces; bake m a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hotslice I onion, i carrot, i a turnip, \ a head of celery, and fry them to a FEBRUARY. Soup. 1. MULLIGATAWNEY SOUP. 2. CLEAR GRAVY SOUP. Fish. 3. STEWED EELS. 4. FRIED SOLES. Entrees. 5. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL WITH SPINACH. 6. CROQUETS OF FOWL WITH PIQUANT SAUCE. 7. CURRIED LOBSTER WITH RICE. 8. ROAST CAPON. 9. SADDLE OF MUTTON, SEA KALE, ETC. Pastry, etc. 10. CONSERVATIVE PUDDING. 11. RASPBERRY CREAM FOR DITTO. 12. BLANCMANGE. 13. CHEESECAKES. 14. STILTON CHEESE, CELERY,. PULLED BREAD. 1. Mulligatawmy Soup.—i^'i^o quarts.)—Roast a fine young fowl before a quick fire for half an hour, and baste it ■with 6 oz. of good butter; put it aside till cold. Peel and slice i large apple, 3 large onions, a ^ of a clove of garlic, and the heart of i lettuce; fry them till tender, but very slightly coloured, in the butter the fowl was basted with. Cut the white meat off the fowl into neat pieces an inch square; break the bones, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, the vegetables, 2 oz. of cocoa-nut, a dessert-spoonful of tamarinds, 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, 4 leaves of mint, a tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, and a quart of water. Boil for an hour and a half, then strain through a fine sieve. Add to this a quart and. i a pint of stock, the pieces of fowl, and simmer very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Stir in the strained juice of a krge lemon and a gill of fresh cream, and serve immediately, with a dish of plain boiled rice and cut lemons on a plate. Wash f of a lb. of the best nee put it into 3 pints of cold water, with a salt-spoonful of salt, and boil slowly, stirring frequently, for twenty-five minutes. Dram on a sieve in the oven, and stir with a wooden fork to divide the grams. 2. Clear Gravy Soup.—{Tsvo quarts.)—Peel, scrape, wash, dram, and'PARTY' DINNER FOR FEBRUARY. 2 13 ’ 3S5 pale brown colour in 2 oz. of butter. Boil 5 pints of stock, put in the vegetables, and a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of loaf sugar, a grain of cayenne, and a grain of saffron. Boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, skimming frequently. Strain; put the soup into a clean stewpan, and boil fast (uncovered) for ten or fifteen minutes. Then set it aside to settle. Put a small wine-glassful of Madeira or Marsala into the tureen; pour in the soup, and serve. 3* Stewed Eels.—Skin and cut off the fins of an eel weighing 2 lbs. j put it on a gridiron over a bright, quick fire for six minutes to draw out the fat; well scrape it, and cut it into pieces 3 inches long j put it into a pie-dish with the strained juice of 2 lemons, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the ^ part of a nutmeg grated, a moderate- sized onion chopped fine, a ^ of a clove of garlic chopped, and a tea- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; well rub the eel with this seasoning, and let it remain for an hour. Dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip each piece of eel in, and dredge it with baked flour. Fry to a nice brown colour over a quick fire (in 2 oz. of butter) for ten minutes. Put f of a pint of stock into a stewpan, with a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a dessert- spoonful of soy, a grain of cayenne, and a table-spoonful of baked flour ; stir till it boils. Put in the eel, boil up quickly, skim carefully, then simmer gently for twenty five-minutes. Add ^ a gill of port wine, and serve. Note.—Button onions, button mushrooms, or fried sippets may be added. ^ 4. Fried Soles. Fold the soles in a clean cloth to dry them; brush them over with beaten egg, and dredge them with dried crumbs of bread • do this twice; then fry in boiling fat (sufficient to entirely cover them) fill of a pale brown colour. Put the frying-pan at a distance from the fire, so that the fat boils slowly; the colour will then be a guide as to the fish being done. From twelve to twenty minutes, according to the size of the soles, will be sufficient. Drain on paper before the fire • then serve on neatly folded foolscap paper, with the following melted butter in a tureen :— Butter for Knead 3 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and sfir into \ a pint of boiling water; boil ten minutes. Add the strained juice of ^ a lemon and a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Serve at once. 5. Fricandeau of Veal with Spinach.—either the middle of the loin or the best end of a neck of veal, about 3 lbs.; cut the meat off he bones in one compact piece; trim off the skin and fat, and lard it thickly with fat bacon; rub the bottom of a stewpan 3 times across th a fresh piece of cut garlic; place in the veal, with the bones and trimmings round it; add a sliced onion, a sliced small carrot aSSG THINGS A LADY V/OULD LIKE TO KNOIV. of a lb. of veal suet, scrape an oz. of lean ham, boil 3 fresh eggs twelve mushroom chopped, ^ a lettuce, 2 cloves, a small blade of mace, 4 allspice, a salt-spoonful of salt, | a salt-spoonful of pepper, a tea- spoonful of moist sugar, and f of a pint of water; cover the larding with writing paper, thickly spread with butter; simmer as gently as possible lor three hours ; take off the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer halt an hour longer. Take out the veal; skim off all the fat; and rub the gravy and vegetables through a hair sieve; add a table- spoonful of French brandy, or a wine-glassful of sherry, and serve the gravy over the veal. 6. Croquets of Fowl with Piquant Sauce.—Rub 2 oz. of fresh butter into 6 oz. of dried flour; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with 4 table- spoonfuls of cold water, and stir into the flour till in a stiff paste ; knead till quite smooth, roll it out twice, then let it stand in a cool place for five or six hours. Cut up about ^ a lb. of cold fowl (roast or boiled) free from skin ; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, and ^ a pint of water, and stew for gravy; pound the fowl to paste; add 2 oz. of either ham, hung beef, or tongue, pounded; season with the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the grated rind of a ^ of a lemon, ^ a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a J of a salt-spoonful of salt; add sufficient gravy to moisten. Continue to pound till all the ingredients are well mixed, roll out the paste the eighth of an inch thick ; divide it into eight equal- sized pieces, about three inches square ; brush over the surface with cold water; put an eighth part of the pounded meat into each piece, in the form of a sausage; fold the paste over; press the edges to make them adhere; then fry in plenty of boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) till of a yellow-brown colour (about ten minutes); drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve on a neatly-folded napkin, with or without fried parsley in the centre. 7. Curried Lobster with /?/<:<?.—Take the meat from the shell of 2 mode- rate-sized fresh hen lobsters; cut it into half-inch square pieces; chop quite small a good-sized onion ; knead 2 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 3 oz. of fresh butter. Fry the onion and butter together till nicely browned; stir in a gill of cocoa- nut milk, or thin cream ; put in the lobster, and stir for eight minutes, add a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon. Serve on a bed of rice. Well wash and boil \ a lb. of the best rice in a quart of water for twenty minutes; drain on a sieve, and separate each grain with a wooden fork; place the rice on the dish in the form of a we , put the lobster in the centre, and serve with mixed pickles or chutney Ca/>on.—ScTape i a lb. of lean veal from the fillet, chop a3S7 'PARTY' DINNER FOR EE PR DARK minutes; pound the whole (except the whites of the eggs) till in a paste ; season with ^ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of salt, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the grated rind of ^ a lemon, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley; add 2 well-beaten eggs; clean and slice 3 truffles, mix them with the stuffing. Raise the skin from the upper part of the breast, lay in as much forcemeat as it will contain to look well, put the remainder into the body, cover the capon with paper spread with butter (3 oz.), and roast before a good fire for an hour and a half, basting frequently. Serve with gravy made as directed in the preceding receipt. 9. Saddle of Mutton, Sea Kale, etc.—The saddle should be hung for ten days. Dredge it with dry flour; put it into a sheet of paper, thickly spread with sweet dripping; hang it before a good fire, quite close, for twenty minutes, then at a distance, till done. A quarter of an hour before serving, take off the paper; put ^ a salt-spoon of salt into a tea- cupful of boiling water, pour it over the mutton, then baste till slightl)) browned. Pour off the fat, and serve the dripped gravy in the dish. Send to table very hot, and with a pot of red currant jelly turned out on a plate. Note.—A saddle, to be underdone, will require only seven minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, ten minutes ; and well done, a quarter of an hour. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour for the joint (in each case) extra. 10. Conservative Pudding.—Four oz. of sponge cake, an oz. of ratafias, oz. of macaroons. Put them into a basin, and pour over i a gill of rum and a gill of good cream; add 6 well-beaten eggs; beat for ten minutes. Butter a pint mould, stick it tastefully with preserved cherries; put*in the pudding, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and a half. Turn out carefully, and serve with clarified sugar (flavoured with almond) in the dish, not poured over the pudding. Three oz. of loaf sugar, a laurel leaf, and \ a gill of water, boiled ten minutes, will make the sauce. 11. Raspberry Cream for ditto.—a gill and a half of good cream with a small pot of raspberry jam; strain through a sieve to take out the pips; whip again. 12. Blancmange.—Have ready the following ingredients One oz. of the best isinglass, 5 oz. of loaf sugar, 2 inches of stick vanilla, 2 inches of cinnamon, a pint of new milk, a gill of rich cream, 10 bitter and 2 oz of sweet almonds; blanch the almonds and pound them to paste • add by degrees, while pounding, the third of a pint of cold water • let it stand for two hours, then strain off the liquid. Put the milk,'su"^ar388 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. cinnamon, and vanilla into an enamelled saucepan, and boil slowly till the sugar is dissolved, then stir in the isinglass. When that is dissolved, strain into a basin; stir in the milk of almonds and the cream : when cool, pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour. 12. Chcesecdkes.—Line small tartlet tins with paste; fill the centre with lemon cheesecake; smooth over with a knife, and bake in a moderately-heated oven for eighteen minutes. Serve hot or cold. Currants may be added to the lemon or almond, and candied orange- peel to the orange, when preferred.MARCH. 4. LOBSTER PATTIES. 5. STUFFED LOIN OF MUTTON. 6. NEW POTATOES AND (7) SPINACH. 8. TEAL AND SEA KALE. 9. VENETIAN CREAM. 10. AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. 11. JUNIOR UNITED PUDDING. NEUFCHATEL AND OTHER CHEESE. I. Mock Ttirtle Soup.—(Three quarts.)—Have ready half of a S7nall calf’s head with the skin on, 2 lbs. of lean veal, 2 lbs. of very fresh lean beef, ^ a lb. of mild lean ham, 3 onions, a head of celery, 2 large carrots, i turnip, a small bunch of mixed sweet herbs, a bunch of fresh '■ parsley, 3 sage leaves, garlic, spice, sugar, anchovy sauce, soy, butter, baked flour, a gill of Marsala, 2 wine-glassfuls of Madeira or rich brown sherry, lemons, etc. Peel, scrape, wash, slice, and fry the vegetables to a pale brown colour in a ^ of a lb. of butter. Put the veal and the beef into an iron pot with a pint of cold water, and let it stand by the side of the fire for an hour, to draw out the gravy; then put in the vegetables, the herbs, ham, 6 peppercorns, 4 cloves, a blade of mace, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, a tea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of loaf sugar, the head, skin uppermost, and 4 quarts of cold water. Boil up quickly; skim. Put in the Marsala, and simmer gently for two hours, skimming frequently. Take out the head, pull out the bones, and trim off all rough pieces; put the meat between two dishes, with a heavy weight on the upper one, and let it get cold. Put the bones and trimmings back into the pot, and simmer for four hours, skimming constantly. Knead a ^ of a lb. of fresh butter with 5 table-spoonfuls of flour, baked till slightly browned, 2 grains of cayenne, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, and a salt-spoonful of salt. Stir this into the soup ; add a dessert-spoonful of soy and a tea- spoonful of anchovy sauce. Boil for a quarter of an hour, then strain 389 Soup. 1. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Fish. 2. BAKED COD WITH SUPREME SAUCE. Entrees. 3. BRISKET OF BEEF STEWED WITH PICKLES.390 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. through a fine sieve. Cut the meat off the head into inch square pieces ; put it into the soup, add the strained juice of a lemon; simmer for twenty minutes. Put in the Madeira or sherry, and serve immediately. Cut lemons and cayenne should be handed. 2. Baked Cod with Supreme Sauce.—Have a piece out of the middle of a fine cod weighing about 4 lbs.; wash it in salt and water; rub it over with a wine-glassful of vinegar, and let it stand an hour; roll it in a cloth to dry. Mix together 2 oz. of fine crumbs of bread, a tea- spoonful of mixed herbs in fine powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, the peel of half a lemon grated, half a grain of cayenne. Beat i fresh egg, brush the fish over with the egg, and dredge it with the crumbs. Slice an onion and a carrot, and put them into a tin dish with a small cupful of water and a wine-glassful of vinegar. Put the fish on a drainer and place it over the vegetables, but neither the water nor the vegetables must touch the fish. Put it into a moderately-heated oven, and bake about an hour, basting it frequently with dissolved butter. When half done turn the fish, then strew over some more crumbs, and baste with the butter. 3. Brisket of Beef Stewed with Pickles.—Have a nicely cut piece of brisket, about 6 lbs. ; hang it before a good fire to roast for one hour; dredge it lightly with flour, and baste well. Chop one onion, cut into half inch squares, i carrot, i turnip, and a small head of celery; put them into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, and fry till brown; lay in the beef, with a pint and a half of stock or water; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer very gently for two hours. Mix together a table-spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a tea-spoonful of sugar, a tea-spoon- ful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of pepper, a dessert-spoonful of soy, a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of the vinegar of mixed pickles; stir these into the gravy, and continue the simmering two hours longer, skimming frequently; add a break- fast-cupful of mixed pickles, cut into inch lengths; simmer another hour, then serve very hot. , • o 4. Lobster Patties.—yi'Y&s: a paste, and proceed as directed in the foregoing receipt, using lobster instead of oysters. Take the meat out of a good-sized hen lobster, and chop it small; put the shells into half a pint of milk, with half an inch of mace, the thin rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, half a gram of cayenne, a gram of white pepper, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of salt, and simmer for ten minutes, then strain. Put the lobster into the milk, and simmer for five minutes. Stir a dessert-spoonful of Oswego flour into ^ a gill of thick cream, and add to the re.st; stir till it thickens, then fill the patties as directed.^PARTY' DINNER FOR MARCH. 39^ 5. Stuffed Lorn of Mutton.—Qone a fine loin of mutton, trim off some of the fat, and beat the mutton with a rolling-pin to flatten it and to make it tender. Make a stuffing with a lb. of mutton suet chopped fine, h an oz. of sweet almonds boiled ten minutes and pounded to paste, an oz. of crumbs of bread, a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, -i a salt-spoonful of pepper and the same of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, a grate or two of lemon-peel, and 2 eggs, leaving out one white ; mix these well together, and spread the stuffing equally over the inner side of the mutton; roll it neatly lengthways, skewer it up, and roast before a fire, at a distance, for an hour and a half, basting continually. Put the bones into a saucepan, with a black onion, i shalot, a piece of garlic the size of a pea, half a carrot, half a head of celery, and a pint of water; stew three hours. Strain, and add a table-spoonful of baked flour, a dessert- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of soy, half a salt- spoonful of salt; boil up for ten minutes ; add a wine-glassful of port wine. Pour the gravy over the mutton, and serve very hot. 6. New Potatoes a?td (7) Spinach.—Rub off the skin with a rough cloth; let them stand half an hour in cold water; put them into boiling water with a salt-spoonful of salt, and boil about ten minutes. Drain quite dry, and serve with an oz. of fresh butter in the centre of the potatoes, or on a hot napkin, neatly folded. Pick off the stem of each leaf, and avoid using any that are old or discoloured; wash the spinach in several waters, and put it into a quart of boiling water, with a dessert-spoonful of salt; press it down, and let it boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten or twelve minutes; drain it through a sieve, and press out all the water; mince quite fine, and put it into a stewpan, with 2 oz. of butter, a salt-spoonful of salt, hah the quantity of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar; stir for six or eight minutes. Place the spinach on a vegetable-dish, smooth it over with a knife, and cut it into triangles ; garnish with fried sippets. Cut a slice of bread into small three-cornered pieces, and fry to a pale brown colour in plenty of butter or oil. 8. Teal and Sea Kale.—Rub the liver over the breast till red; roast before a very brisk fire, basting frequently with butter (3 oz.) till done, from sixteen to twenty-five minutes. Dissolve an oz. 01 fresh butter; add to it 3 grains of cayenne and the strained juice oi 2 lemons (for 2 birds). Score the breast down to the bone at quarter-inch distances; pour the sauce over, and serve at once. 9. Venetia7i Cream.—Make a cream as directed in the foregoing receipt, but instead of flavouring add 8 oz. of apricot jam, or any kind of preserved or candied fruit cut into small pieces. Stir till the cream begins to set, that the fruit may not sink to the bottom.THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 392 10. American Blancmaiige.—Peel and pound to a soft paste 8 or lo Brazil nuts; add a gill of water jvhile pounding; let this stand for two hours to extract the flavour. Beat 4 fresh eggs and mix them into 5 table-spoonfuls of Oswego flour; dissolve 4 oz. of loaf sugar in a pint of new milk; add the nuts; simmer for five minutes : let it stand off the fire for five minutes, then strain it into the eggs, stirring them quickly as the milk is added; stir over a slow fire till it thickens. Pour the mixture into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till finnly set. Turn out carefully, and garnish with jjreserved mango, guava jelly, or preserved ginger. 11. Jimior United Pudding.—Cut into slices, a of an inch thick, a lb. of sponge-cake two days old; spread one side with fresh butter (3 oz. for the whole) and the other with marmalade a lb. for the pudding). Boil 2 oz. of loaf sugar in half a pint of new milk, beat 4 fresh eggs ; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not boiling. Butter a plain tin pint and a half mould, lay in the cake (buttered side next the tin) and custard alternately to full. Let it stand half an hour to soak; then bake in a well-heated oven for an hour and ten minutes. Turn out carefully, and serve with or without sauce in the dish.APRIL. Sours. 1. OXTAIL sour. Fish. 2. RED MULLET. 3. SAUCE FOR DITTO. Entrees. 4. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL. 5. PORK CUTLETS VITH SPANISH SAUCE. 6. BOILED FOWL WITH PARSLEY SAUCE. 7. TONGUE. 8. LOIN OF MUTTON ROASTED. 9. NEW POTATOES. 19. SPINACH. Pastry, etc. 11. LEMON PUDDING. 12. APPLE CHARLOTTE. 13. BOILED BATTER PUDDING. 14. APPLE CREAM FOR DITTO. 15. OMELET, WITH PRESERVE. STILTON CHEESE, ETC. 1. Oxtml Sotip.—(Two quarts.)—Have a fine oxtail cut into pieces about an inch long, and the thick part again cut into four. Dredge it veil with flour, and iry it in a ^ of a lb. of good butter till of a nice brown colour. Slice and fry in the same butter 2 carrots, i turnip, 2 onions, ^ a head of celery, 2 mushrooms, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea. When brown, put the whole into a stewpan with a quart of water, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, a salt-spoonful of mustard, a salt-spoonful of black pepper, and 6 peppercorns. Boil up quickly; skim, then simmer very gently for two hours. Skim off every particle of fat j take out the tail, strain the soup; add to it 3 pints of stock, put in the tail; stir in a table-spoonful of soy and a grain of cayenne. Simmer three-quarters of an hour longer. Add a large wine- glassful of port wine, and serve immediately. 2. Red Mu/let.—wash the mullet; rub each one with a tea- spoonful of salad oil, a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice, a \ of a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, the twelfth part of a nutmeg grated ; put them into a dish, and strew over them a table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 2 shalots finely chopped, and let them saturate for three hours bpread a sheet of foolscap paper (for each mullet) with an oz. of butter •394 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. put in the mullet, and roll the edges neatly and closely, to prevent the butter escaping, and broil over a gentle fire, or fry in plenty of boiling lard, for twenty or twenty-five minutes (according to size). Serve in the paper. 3. Sauce for ditto.—Pound the 3^olks of 3 hard-boiled eggs with a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, ^ salt-spoonful of salt, \ a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a table-spoonful of baked flour, a dessert-spoonful of French vinegar, and 3 oz. of dissolved butter; add ^ a pint of cold water. Rub a saucepan three times across the bottom with fresh-cut garlic; put in the sauce, and stir over a brisk fire till it boils; add a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Boil up, and serve at once. 4. Fricandeau of Veal.—Order the butcher to cut a piece of veal from the prime part of the fillet, six inches long and four broad; trim off the skin and corners, and make it a compact, neat piece ; lard it deeply with good fat bacon all over the top and sides; rub a stewpan six times across with fresh-cut garlic; put in 2 slices of fat bacon, place the veal (larding uppermost) on it; spread a ^ of a lb. of good butter on half a sheet of foolscap paper, and place over the veal; peel and slice a large onion, a small carrot, ^ a head of celery, 2 large mushrooms, i large truffle, and of a small turnip; put these, with the veal trimmings, round the veal; add three-quarters of a pint of stock or water, a tea- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, a bay leaf, a laurel leaf, 2 cloves, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, a tea-spoonful of sifted sugar; boil up quicklj^, skim, then simmer very gently for three hours. Remove the paper, baste the veal, and continue to simmer half an hour longer. Take out the veal, skim off all the fat, rub the gravy through a fine sieve; add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve with the gravy in the dish, or with either spinach, sorrel, or young green peas, and mixed with a tea-cupful of the grav.y. ^ 5. Pork Cutlets with Spanish Sauce.—AA2.V& 6 chops off the fore loin cut the third of an inch thick; trim off all the fat Season 3 oz. of fine bread-crumbs with ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, and a salt-spoonful of mixed herbs; dip the cutlets into beaten egg, and then into the crumbs; let them stand in an airy place for a quarter of an hour; dip them again into the egg and crumbs; place them on a tin dish, with 3 oz. of butter, and bake in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve with the following sauce: Peel and cut up i large Spanish onion, a small clove of garlic, 4 acid apples; put them into a saucepan, with the strained juice of 2 lemons, a grain of cayenne, 2 grains of powdered ginger, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and stew for an hour, stirring frequently; add a wine- glassful of Madeira or sherry, and serve—the cutlets round the dish, and the sauce in the centre.^PARTY' DINNER FOR APRIL. 395 6. Boiled Fowl with Parsley Sauce.—\y\^ the fowl in hot \yater for one minute, and rub it well over with a cut lemon. This process will make it white. Cover the breast with a thin slice of fat bacon ; tie the fowl in a clean white cloth; put it into a saucepan (breast uppermost) with just sufficient cold water to cover it; boil up quickly, then simmer gently till done. Wash a good bunch of parsley in salted water; dip it twice into boiling water; chop the leaves quite fine; knead a ^ of a lb. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of the water the fowl is boiled in; simmer five minutes: stir in a dessert-spoonful of the chopped.parsley; place the fowl in a hot dish (without the bacon), draw out the skewers, pour half of the sauce over the breast, and serve the remainder in a tureen, and send to table at once. 7. Tongue.—If a dried tongue, soak it for twelve hours; put the tongue into cold water, enough to well cover it; boil up slowly and skim; simmer very gently till done. A large tongue, to be well do7ie, will require six hours from the time of putting it on, and a small one, from four to five hours. Take off the skin, trim the fat, and cut off the rough part of the root. Have a nicely cut frill of foolscap paper, put it round the root, fasten it with two small silver skewers, and serve. 8. Loin of Mutton Roasted.—Place it before a quick bright fire, quite close, for ten minutes; draw it back, and roast slowly at a distance for one hour. A few minutes before serving, dredge it with baked flour and ^ a salt-spoonful of salt; baste it well from the beginning. Pour off the dripping, and serve its own gravy, with a little boiling water added to it in the dish. 11. Le/non Pudding.—Half a lb. of fresh butter beaten to cream, ^ a lb. of sifted loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, 4 table-spoonfuls of Oswego, and 6 fresh eggs; beat the whole together for twenty minutes. Make a paste as follows Six oz. of sifted flour, 6 oz. of butter, a tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, the yolk of an egg beaten with a wine-glassful of cold water. Rub the butter into flour till quite mixed, add the liquid, and knead to a paste; roll it out the sixth of an inch thick. Line a pie-dish, ornament the edge to taste, put in the pudding, and bake in a quick oven for thirty-five or forty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 12. Apple Charlotte.—Vare and cutup 18 good cooking apples; put them into a skillet, with two-thirds their weight of loaf sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of 2 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, 2 cloves, and a wine-glassful of Marsala; boil, and stir till in a rich marmalade, then rub through a fine sieve. Cut off the ends of 18 Savoy biscuits; butter a plain mould, and stick the biscuits closely round it in an upright position, the flat side inwards. Pour in the marmalade while39& rriINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW hot; press it well in; cover with a dish, and let it remain in a cool place (or put it on ice) till firmly set. Turn out carefully; cover the top with Devonshire cream, or the following whip, and send to table at once:—Strain the juice of 2 lemons into ^ a pint of thick cream, and whip with a whisk to a creamy froth. 13. Boiled Batter Pudding.—Beat 3 fresh eggs; mix with them 4 table-spoonfuls of dried flour and a pint of new milk by degrees, that the batter may be smooth ; beat with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Butter a basin ; pour in the batter; dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over the basin; plunge it into fast- boiling water; move it quickly up and down for a few minutes, then boil fast for an hour and a quarter. Serve with sweet sauce. 14. Apple Cream for ditto.—Dissolve 2 table-spoonfuls of apple jelly in 2 table-spoonfuls of rum, and beat it into ^ a gill of cream till smooth. Serve over the pudding. 15. Omelet, with Presa've.—Beat the yolks of 7 and the whites of 4 new-laid eggs; add 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream; dissolve an oz. of fresh butter in a small omelet-pan over a very slow fire; pour in the eggs, and stir quickly till they begin to set; let them continue over a very slow heat for three minutes; spread the upper side with any kind of jam or marmalade; fold it over in three; dredge it with finely- powdered loaf sugar. Pass a red hot salamander or fire shovel over the sugar, and send to table immediately.397 ^ MAY. Soup. 1. OX-CHEEK SOUP (A LA MODE}. Fish. 2. BOILED SALMON. 3. SHRIMP SAUCE. 4. CUCUMBER. Entrees. 5. VEAL OLIVES. 6. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF, WITH FRENCH BEANS. 7. FOWL, FRICASSEED IN OIL. 8. BOILED LEG OF LAMB. 9. CAPER SAUCE. 10. MASHED TURNIPS. 11. CAULIFLOWER. 12. NEW POTATOES. 13. BRAISED DUCK, WITH YOUNG PEAS. 14. ASPARAGUS PUDDING. 16. GOOSEBERRY CHARLOTTE. 17. LEMON CREAM. BEDFORD CHEESE, SALAD, ETC. T. Ox-cheek Soup {a la Mode).—Well wash an ox-cheek; put it into an iron pot with 3 onions, 2 carrots, i head of celery, i turnip, i small bunch of sweet herbs, 6 sprigs of parsley, i black onion, 3 cloves, 10 peppercorns, i table-spoonful of moist sugar, i tea-spoonful of mustard, i tea-spoonful of curry powder, i salt-spoonful of black pepper, ^ oi a. clove of garlic, 4 tea-spoonfuls of salt, | lb. of mild lean bacon, and 3 quarts of water. Boil up quickly, skim, then simmer for three hours. Take out the cheek and cut off six slices of meat, half an inch thick. Put the cheek again into the pot. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of flour with i dessert-spoonful of soy, i table-spoonful of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; stir this into the soup, and continue to simmer for two hours. Cut the slices of meat into inch squares; cut into small balls i large carrot and I turnip; peel 12 button onions; fry the pieces of meat and these vegetables in ^ lb. of good butter, till nicely browned and tender. Skim off all the fat; strain the soup through a sieve. Add the pieces of meat and small vegetables ; simmer half an hour, then serve. 2. .Boz'led Sal/uou.—Wash the salmon and put it into plenty of water that is nearly boiling, with a table-spoonful of salt; boil up quickly; skim, then simmer gently till done. A slice weighing i lb. will require a quarter of an hour; 2 lbs., twenty-three minutes; 5 lbs. from a verv393 TIIIiYGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOIV. large thick fish, thirty minutes; the same weight from a small fish, twenty-five minutes; 4 lbs. of a split fish, twenty minutes; a whole fish weighing 7 or 8 lbs., thirty minutes. Serve the salmon on a fine napkin, neatly rolled round the edges, and with shrimp sauce, unless any other be preferred; the quantity, according to the number of persons; three-quarters of a pint is sufficient for five or six. Note i.—Skimming may seem unnecessary; but if neglected, the scum adheres to the fish and destroys the good appearance. If time be of consequence, it will be well to boil the fish in a cloth as follows: —Place the fish upon the drainer, throw a large clean cloth over the handles, and pin it underneath the plate so as not to touch the fish, but to completely cover it. This renders skimming unnecessary. Note 2. The liver and roe of salmon are not sent to table. 3. Shrimp Sauce.—(Three-quarters of a pint.)—Have the third of a pint of nicely picked fresh-boiled shrimps; put half of them into a mortar, and pound to a smooth paste; add 3 table-spoonfuls of thick fresh cream. Knead 3 oz. of fresh butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into half a pint of boiling water. Boil eight minutes; put in the whole shrimps; simmer three minutes, then stir in the shrimp cream. Serve immediately. 5. Veal Olives.—Scrape ^ a lb. of uncooked veal and i oz. of lean ham; clean and pound i anchovy; mix well together, and season with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a grain of cayenne, I salt-spoonful of pepper (white), i salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, I tea-spoonful of chopped parsley, i dessert-spoonful of Oswego flour, I oz. of veal suet finely chopped, and i well-beaten egg. Cut some slices of veal off the fillet, as Ihiu as possible, and trim them into pieces four inches and a half long and three wide (six will be required); roll these flat with the rolling-pin; have the same number of pieces of fat bacon, cut so thin that they are almost transparent; divide the force- meat into six parts, roll one part in each piece of veal, and over that the bacon ; bind them round with tape. Put the six olives into a small stewpan with a tea-cupful of good gravy, and simmer for two hours; baste the olives constantly with the gravy; take them out, remove the tape carefully; put them neatly on a dish ; skim, and strain the gravy, add half a wine-glass of Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; pour it over, and serve. 6. Stewed Brisket of Beef rvith French Bea71s.-Tl3.ve a neatly cut square piece of brisket of beef, about 7 lbs.; hang it befoie a quick fire for half an hour to brown ; baste it well; put it into a stewpan with 3 chopped onions fried brown, and sufficient water to reach the top, but not quite cover it; boil up and skim; then add i tea-spoonful of pepper, i tea-spoonful of fresh-made mustard, i dessert-spoonful of soy,399 ‘PARTY' DINNER FOR MAY. 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, i tea-spoonful of moist sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and i dessert-spoonful of vinegar; simmer gently for four hours and a half, skimming frequently; add i lb. of French beans, strung and washed in salt and water, but not cut, a wine-glassful of vinegar mixed with a table-spoonful of baked flour; continue to simmer another hour, and serve—the beef in the centre, and the beans round the dish. 7. Foil'I, fricasseed in Oil.—Cut up a young fowl into joints, and put it into cold water for two hours ; wipe it quite dry. Put i pint of the best salad oil into a bright stewpan, and when warm put in the fowl, with I tea-spoonful of salt, 2 moderate-sized mushrooms and 3 truffles (cleaned and cut up), i shalot, i sprig of thyme, 4 sprigs of parsley, and I bay leaf. Boil up quickly, then simmer till the fowl is a pale yellow colour (about three-quarters of an hour). Make the following sauce:—Clean 12 button mushrooms, chop 2 shalots and i truffle; put them into a saucepan with sufficient of the oil the fowl is cooked in to well moisten them; stir over a quick fire for ten minutes. Add i salt-spoonful of salt, i salt-spoonful of sifted sugar, the juice of i lemon (strained), and a gill of Marsala. Drain the fowl on a cloth, place it neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and send to table immediately. 8. Boiled Leg of Lamb.—Put the lamb into sufficient cold water just to cover it; boil up quickly; skim ; then simmer as gently as possible till done, allowing nineteen minutes to the pound, after it boils. When it has simmered three-quarters of an hour, add i dessert-spoonful of salt Serve with caper sauce made as follows:—Take ^ pint of the liquor the lamb is boiled in ; stir into it 3 oz. of butter, kneaded with i table-spoonful of baked flour; boil ten minutes; chop i table-spoonful of capers; add these; then stir in i table-spoonful of thick cream. Place the lamb on a hot dish, the skin downwards; pour over half of the sauce, and the remainder serve in a tureen; garnish with young carrots and mashed or whole young turnips. 9. Caper Sauce.- Knead i oz. of butter with i table-spoonful of dried flour, and stir into 5 pint of the liquor the mutton is boiled in; add i table-spoonful of capers, i tea-spoonful of vinegar; boil ten minutes, and pour over the mutton. Carrots and turnips may be boiled with the mutton ; the carrots require two hours, the turnips one. 10. Mashed Turnips.—Prepare and boil 6 turnips; press out all the water, and rub the turnips through a wire sieve; put them into a stewpan with i gill of thick cream and i salt-spoonful of salt; stir till boiling hot, then serve. Smooth over the top with a knife,'and cut into triangles. Note.—A tea-spoonful of sifted sugar is an improvement if not objected to.400 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. II. Catilijlozvcr.—Trim and wash the cauliflower; divide it into branches, and leave it in cold water for two hours. Place the flower upon a drainer; put it into boiling water, with a table-spoonful of salt, and boil (uncovered) for a quarter of an hour. Drain and serve, with the following sauce poured over:—Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with ^ a gill of thick cream, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling milk for three minutes. 13. Braised Duck, with young Peas.—Chop quite small 4 spring onions, 2 sage leaves, and 4 sprigs of parsley; season with half a salt- spoonful of salt, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of pepper, and the tenth part of a nutmeg grated. Knead these with i oz. of butter, and put it into the body of the duck; spread 3 oz. of butter over the breast; lay on the bottom of the stewpan 4 large leaves of fresh-cut lettuce; place the duck upon them, cover closely, and let it bruise or simmer till of a pale brown colour (about half an hour); then add three-quarters of a pint of stock or plain veal gravy. Continue to simmer for twenty minutes ; then take out the duck, and put it in a quick oven for ten minutes; skim the gravy, and rub it through a fine sieve; put it back into the stewpan, with rather more than i pint of fresh-shelled young peas, I tea-spoonful of loaf sugar, and i. salt-spoonful of salt; boil rapidly (uncovered) for ten minutes; put in the duck, and simmer gently for twenty-five minutes more. Place the duck on a hot dish; pull out the skewers; pour the peas and gravy into the dish, and serve at once. 14. Asparagus Pudding.—Cut up the nice green tender parts of asparagus about the size of peas; put them into a basin with the eggs, which should be well beaten, and the flour, ham, butter, pepper, and salt. Mix all these ingredients well together, and moisten with sufficient milk to make the pudding of the consistency of thick batter; put it into a pint buttered mould, tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, place it in boiling water, and let it boil for two hours ; turn it out of the mould on to a hot dish, and pour plain melted butter roufid, but not over, the pudding. 16. Gooseberry Charlotte.—Equal weight of gooseberries and loaf sugar; boil and stir till in a soft rich pulp, then rub through a fine sieve. Stone the plums, blanch the kernels, put them with the fruit and two-thirds of the weight of loaf sugar, and boil till in a rich jam (whether greengages or apricots), and put in a mould till cold. 17. Lemon Cream.—Dissolve a lb. of loaf sugar and three-quarters of an ounce of isinglass in i gill of water; add the thin rind and strained juice of 2 lemons; boil and skim till it becomes a bright rich syrup, then strain, and whisk it into i pint and i gill of thick, sweet cream till it begins to thicken; pour it into a mould, and place it on ice till firmly set.JUNE. Soups. 1. PRAWN SOUP. 2. TAPIOCA SOUP. Fish. 3. FRIED SALMON, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. 4. STEWED WHITING. Entrees. 5. SWEETBREAD, WITH TRUFFLES. 6. LAMB CUTLETS, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 7. ROAST PIGEONS. 8. FORE-QUARTER OF LAMB. 9. MINT SAUCE. 10. PEAS, SPINACH, POTATOES. 11. BRAISED DUCK, WITH TURNIPS. 12. PRINCE Albert’s pudding. 13. RASPBERRY JELLY. 14. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. 15. AMERICAN BLANCMANGE. CHEESE, SALAD, ETC. X. Prawn Soup.—i;Y\yrtt quarts.)—Have a fine hen lobster and 50 prawns quite fresh boiled ; cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and put it with the shells into a stewpan, with an onion sliced, 2 oz. of butter, and a quart of water. Boil for one hour, then add 2 quarts of stock. ^ Mix 4 table-spoonfuls of dry flour with i a pint of cold stock, and stir into the soup till it thickens; then boil half an hour longer' and strain through a sieve. Take ofiF the shells carefully, and put the prawns into the soup; boil up for six minutes. Add | of a pint of sweet, thick cream, and serve immediately. 2. Tapioca Soup. (Two quarts.)—Well wash 3 oz. of tapioca; rub a stewpan across the bottom three times with garlic; put in the tapioca, with 5 pints of stock, and boil for two hours, stirring frequently. Add a Avine-glassful of Marsala, and serve at once. 3. Fried Salmon, with Tartar Sauce.—Two slices of salmon three- quarters of an inch thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fish will be sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Wash the salmon in water with a handful of salt in it, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Season 1 oz. o fine crumbs of bread with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a quarter of a spoonful of white pepper, and a tea-spoonful of finely- c opped parsley. Dissolve 2 oz. of butter; dip in the fish, and strew over with crumbs. Fry in 1 a lb. of boiling butter or lard over a gentle 2 c402 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ICNOW. fire for eighteen or twenty minutes. Drain, and serve on a cold dish, with the following sauce in the centre:—Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, and, when quite cold, pound the yolks to powder. Mix in a salt-spoon- ful of salt, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a quarter of a grain of cayenne ; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in (always turning the same way) till quite smooth; then add, drop by drop, seven table- spoonfuls of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, 3 tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar. Set the mortar in a cold place, or on ice for an hour; then stir in a tea-spooijful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, and serve as directed. Note.—The sauce should be made half an hour before the fish is commenced. It should be perfectly smooth, and of the consistency of very thick cream, which entirely depends on the care in making. 4. Stewed Whiting.—Take off the skin and the heads and tails; lay the fish in a stewpan, and season each one with a quarter of a salt-spoon- ful of salt, I grain of white pepper, a quarter of a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, and for the whole (4 or 6) the grated rind of half a lemon. Pour in a lb. of dissolved butter; simmer for ten minutes; add a large wine-glassful of Marsala, and the strained juice of a lemon. Simmer five minutes more; place the fish neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Send to table immediately. 5. Sweetbread, with Truffles.—Blanch the sweetbreads in boiling water five minutes, and in cold for one hour; remove the fat, skin, and pith ; dry them, and dredge them lightly with baked flour; place them on a tin dish, baste well with dissolved butter (a lb.), and bake till nicely browned, about half an hour. Peel and slice 6 fresh truffles; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Marsala, a salt-spoonful of salt, a salt- spoonful of white pepper, the strained juice of a large lemon. Simmer ten minutes ; add a gill of stock. Knead a dessert-spoonful of baked flour with 2 oz. of butter, and stir in for five minutes. Put in the sweet- breads, and continue to simmer half an hour longer, then serve. 6. Lamb Cutlets, with White Sauce.—Q.\xt up any joint of cold roast lamb into slices the third of an inch thick; trim them into neatly- formed' cutlets; season 4 oz. of fine crumbs of bread with a salt- apoonful of white pepper, 2 salt-spoonfuls of salt, a tea-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs (in fine powder), a table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and the sixth part of a nutmeg grated; beat i egg, dissolve i oz. of butter. Dip the cutlets into the butter, then into the crumbs; let them stand in a cool place for ten minutes, then dip them into the egg, and again into the crumbs, and fry in 2 oz. of dissolved butter for ten minutes. Place the cutlets round the dish, and serve, with tie sauce made as 'follows :-Put the bones of the lamb into a saucepan with a pint of cold water, a small onion, 2 cloves, a bay leaf, 4 spngs* PARTY' DINNER FOR JUNE. 403 of parsley, and boil till reduced to the third of a pint; knead x oz. ol butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir in; boil five minutes, then strain. Put the sauce again into the saucepan; add the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs; simmer for two minutes, and serve in the centre of the cutlets. 7. Roast Pigeons.—Knead together 2 oz. of butter, 2 dessert-spoon- fuls of dried fine crumbs of bread, a grain of cayenne, a. ^ of a. salt-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and i small shalot finely chopped. Have 2 young pigeons, and put half of the stuffing into each; roast before a very quick fire for fifteen or eighteen minutes, basting constantly with butter. Serve with or without gravy. 8. Fore-quarter of Lamb.—This joint should weigh about 9 lbs. Cover it with white paper, spread thickly with sweet dripping (or butter), hang it before a large fire, and roast for two hours and a quarter, constantly basting. Three-quarters of an hour before serving, take off the paper; dredge the lamb slightly with baked flour; con- tinue to baste till of a delicate brown colour in every part; just before taking it up, baste with i oz. of dissolved butter. Place the joint on a hot dish, and, with a sharp knife, divide the shoulder from the ribs • rub the ribs over wth a thin slice of fresh butter (about i oz.), and drop equally over the strained juice of a small lemon, then replace the shoulder. Pour olf the fat; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the lamb; pour the gravy into the dish (not over the meat), and send to table immediately with mint sauce in a tureen, and a separate hot dish to receive the shoulder. 9. Mint Sauce. Chop the leaves of fresh, well-washed mint quite fine; mix equal quantities of mint, moist sugar, and good vinegar, about 2 table-spoonfuls of each. ’ • Praised Duck, with Turnips.—Peel 8 or 10 small turnips; sift a dessert-spoonful of loaf sugar over them; dissolve 6 oz. of butter, and fry the turnips to a pale brown colour (in a stewpan); add 2 oz. more butter, and an onion chopped; put in, breast downwards, a fine duck, and let it remain to brown for twenty minutes. Take out the duck' stir into the butter 2 dessert-spoonfuls of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of soy, a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of pepper, and three- quarters of a pint of any good stock. Boil fast, and skim off all the fat; then add a wine-glassful of Marsala and the strained juice of a lemon; put in the duck, breast uppermost, and simmer gently for twenty minutes; add the turnips, and continue to simmer twenty mmutes more. Pfece the duck on a hot dish, the turnip round it and the gravy poured over. Serve at once. ’THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 404 12. Prince Albert's a lb. of butter beaten to cream, i a lb. of dried flour, of a lb. of sifted loaf sugar, ^ a lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, a ^ of a lb. of mixed candied peel chopped, half a wine-glassful ol brandy, the grated rind of half a lemon, a gill of new milk, and 4 beaten eggs; mix these ingredients, and beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould, put in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for two hours. Serve with clarified sugar, flavoured with brandy. Boil 3 oz. of sugar in a wine-glassful of water for ten minutes; add a wine-glassful of brandy. Pour the sauce over the pudding. ^ 13. Raspberry Jelly.—Pick and wash in cold water ^ a pint of npe red currants and pints of ripe raspberries; squeeze out the juice without bruising the seeds (as that would make the juice bitter); stram through muslin. Dissolve 9 oz. of loaf sugar and oz. of isinglass in I of a pint of water ; add this to the juice while hot, but not boilmg , add, when nearly cold, a small wine-glassful of any kind of spirit; strain through a jelly-bag till quite bright. Ornament the top of the mou with fine raspberries, pour in the jelly, and let it remam m a cool place, or on ice, till firmly set. . . 14. Gooseberry Trifle.—Cnt up 6 oz. of sponge-cake into sb^es ha an inch thick; lay it on the bottom of a glass dish that mil ho 3 pints. Mix together a wine-glassful and a half of brandy, half a wme- glassful of whisky, half a wine-glassful of gin, and ^ lifted loaf sugar; pour this equally over the cake, and h the following preparations are made -.—Pick, wash, and p dry ^uart of fineVeea gooseberries; put them into a brass ^ w.* } Of a lb. of loaf sugar, and simmer over a very slow quite tender, but not broken; turn them into a basin to get cold. _ Bo a i of a lb. of loaf sugar and the thin peel of half a lemon in a pm new milk; moisten 2 table-spoonfuls of Oswego flour with ^ a gill 0 cold milk: add 4 well-beaten fresh eggs; beat for 5 minutes, then st in the milk while hot, but not boiling ; pour the mixture mto the skiUe , and stir over a very slow fire till it begins to thicken, then pour it a basin. Take out the peel; stir frequently, and when 20 drops of the essence of vanilla; lay the gooseberries on .the c^e Looth the surface, and pour over the cream; let it stand m ^^^S^:S^issolve y o. . ~ ^ ^ " isinglass in a pint of water ; add the grated rind of half a Seville or^g and I lemon, with the strained juice of both, and t e j for ten minutes, then strain into a basinj beat the yolks^o^^^^^^^^^^ add these, and stir over the fire till at boiling he . into a mould, and let it remain in a cool place till it is firmly setJULY. Soup. 1. CRECY SOUP. Fish. 2. SALMON CUTLETS, WITH SAUCE. 3. WHITEBAIT. Entrees. 4. VEAL AND HAM CUTLETS, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. 5. BROILED sheep’s KIDNEYS. 1. Crecy Soup.—Scrape, peel, and wash 9 carrots, 2 onions, and ^ a head of celery ; put them into a saucepan with a quart and half a pint of cold water, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a tea-spoonful of salt, a dessert- spoonful of sugar, and a grain of cayenne. Boil for two hours and a quarter; break up the vegetables in the water, and, when they are quite in a pulp, rub the whole through a fine hair sieve; stir into the vege- tables 2 oz. of good butter. Add a quart and half a pint of stock. Put the whole into a stewpan, and stir over a brisk fire for twenty minutes; then serve. 2. Salmon Cutlets, tvith Sauce.—Have 4 slices, the third of an inch thick, out of the middle of a moderate-sized fish, strip off the skin, take out the bone, and cut each slice into two. Wash and well dry each piece. Mix a table-spoonful of baked flour with a salt-spoonful of salt and a tea-spoonful of curry powder, and put it into a dredger. Dissolve 2 oz. of butter in a soup plate, rubbed three times across with garlic. Dip in the cutlets, dredge them with the seasoned flour, and fry in boiling butter (| of a lb.) for twelve minutes. Serve with the sauce in the dish. 3- Whitebait.—April to August.)—This fish should be put into iced water as soon as bought, if not cooked at once. Dram them 405 6. RISSOLES OF FOWL. 7. ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON. SALAD, FRENCH BEANS, POTATOES. 8. LEVERET. 9. PUDDING FOR A PRINCE. 10. FRUIT TRANSPARENCY. 11. SPONGE-CAKES, WITH APPLE SNOW. 12. CHEESE FONDU. NEUFCHATEL CHEESE, SALAD, ETC.4o6 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. from the water in a colander, and have ready a nice clean dry cloth, over which put 2 good handfuls of flour. Toss in the whitebait, shake them lightly in the cloth, and put them in a wicker sieve to take away the superfluous flour. Throw them into a pan of boiling lard, very few at a time, and let them fry till of a whitey-brown colour (about three minutes). Directly they are done they must be taken out and laid before the fire for a minute or two on a sieve reversed, covered with blotting-paper to absorb the fat. Dish them on a hot napkin ; arrange the fish very high in the centre, and sprinkle a little salt over the whole. 4. Vea/ and Ham Cutlets, with Tartar Sauce.—Pound | of a lb. of cold roast veal and a lb. of lean ham or tongue; season with a salt-spoonful of pepper, a. ^ of a. grain of cayenne, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a mustard-spoonful of made mustard, a salt-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the juice ; add a table-spoonful of veal gravy, 2 oz. of dissolved butter; mix well, and form the paste into neat cutlets; dip each into dissolved butter, and dredge them with dried flour; then dip them into beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs; do this twice or thrice. Place them on a tin dish, with a piece of butter the size of a nut on each, and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. Beat the hard yolks of 3 eggs to a powder, with ^ a salt- spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of pepper, and a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard; beat the yolk of an egg, and stir it into the rest; add, drop by drop, 3 table-spoonfuls of salad oil, then a salt-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and 2 dessert-spoonfuls of white vinegar; beat it till in a thick cream; add a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives, or shalot and gherkin if chives are not to be had. Place the cutlets round the dish, and the cold sauce in the centre. Note.—The sauce should be made two hours before serving, and put in a cool place. Cream may be used instead of oil, if preferred. 5. Broiled Sheep's Kidneys.—Take off the skin and cut the kidneys in half; put them on an iron skewer; dip them into oiled butter; sprinkle them slightly with pepper and salt; put them on a gridiron, over a bright fire, and broil for eight or ten minutes; withdraw the skewer, and serve on a very hot dish. 6. Rissoles of Fowl.—Cut up about ^ lb. of cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with a piece of garlic the size of a pea, an inch of thin lemon peel, an inch of laurel leaf, and a pint of stock or water; boil fast till reduced to a gill of strong gravy, then strain. Chop the fowl and 2 oz. of ham or tongue till quite fine; season with a salt-spoonful of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of chopped parsley, a salt-spoonful of salt, the eighth part of a nutmeg grated, and a dessert- spoonful of baked flour; stir in sufficient gravy to moisten the meat; put it into a basin, and let it stand three hours to become firm. Make^PARTY' DINNER FOR JULY. 407 the meat up into 6 equal-sized balls; dredge them lightly with dry flour j dip them into beaten egg, then into dried crumbs; do this a second time, then fry in boiling lard or clarified dripping (i lb.) till of a pale yellow-brown colour (about eight minutes). Serve with a bunch of fried parsley in the centre. Lay the parsley in salt and water for an hour or more; drain, then dip it twice into the boiling fat after the rissoles are done j put it before tlie fire on a sieve for two minutes. Note.—A stewpan is better than a frying-pan for all things requiring to be boiled in fat, and where a proper pan is not possessed. 7. Roast Shoulder of Mutton.—Cut out the vein from the under part; allow sixteen minutes to the lb., as a shoulder is generally liked well done; hang it betore a good fire, and baste constantly. Half an hour before serving, dredge it with a little dried flour, sprinkle over ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and continue to baste; pour off all the fat; add a tea-cupful of boiling water to the gravy that has dripped from the mutton; pour it on the dish, and serve very hot. Sauce: — Boil 4 onions in plenty of water, with a tea-spoonful of salt in it, for half an hour : press out the water, chop the onions quite fine, boil them small; add J an oz. of butter. Serve in a tureen. 8. Lenjeret.—Leverets may be stuffed or not, either is equally correct If stuffed, prepare the following :—Chop 2 oz. of veal suet and enough parsley to fill a tea-spoon; mix it with an oz. of fine crumbs of bread, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, a salt-spoonful of salt, a ^ of a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the peel of a of a lemon grated, a dessert-spoonful of rum, and i firesh egg; beat well, and put it into the body of the leveret; sew it up. Spread a sheet of paper thickly with butter (a lb.), secure it round the leveret, and roast before a very brisk fire for three-quarters of an hour; baste frequently with fresh lard (a ^ lb.); ten minutes before serving, remove,the paper, dredge lightly with baked flour, and baste with fresh butter. Serve very hot, with the following gravy:—Boil | of a pint of stock for ten minutes; stir in an oz. of butter, kneaded with a table-spoonful of baked flour; boil fast ten minutes more; add a wine-glassful of port wine; serve a little in the dish and the rest in a tureen; send currant jelly to table also. 9. Pudding for a Prince.—Blanch 6 bitter and 2 oz. of sweet almonds; boil them twenty minutes in the third of a pint of new milk, then pound them to a paste; when the milk is nearly cold, add 4 well- beaten fresh eggs, ^ a gill of thick cream, and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy; rub 6 oz. of stale sponge-cake to crumbs. Mix these ingre- dients well, and beat for ten minutes ; stir in 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar. Batter a mould; stick it round in Vandykes with dried cherries ; pour in the mixture, tie it over with writing paper spread with butter, and steam over fast-boiling water for an hour and three-quarters. Turn out4o« THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. carefully, and serve immediately, with the sauce in the dish or in a tureen. 10. Fruit Transparmcy.—Press out the juice of a quart of red or white currants; strain it through a fine sieve into a brass skillet; add f lb. of loaf sugar and ^ oz. of isinglass; boil and skim till it is per- fectly bright and rather thick, about twenty minutes; pour it into a pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit; put it in a cool place, or on ice, till quite firm. Turn out carefully, and serve, with or without Devonshire or other cream round as a garnish. Note.—If red currant juice be used, then let the whole fruit be either red currants, raspberries, or red cherries; if white currant, either straw- berries or white currants. 11. St>onge-cakes, with Apple Snow.—Put 6 sponge-cakes into a glass dish, and pour over them f of a pint of good cream, or Bright’s vegetable custard. Let them soak for two or three hours. Roast 8 large apples till quite soft; take away the skin and core, and add to a lb. of apple pulp, lb. of finely-pounded loaf sugar, the strained juice of a lemon, and the whites of 2 eggs; beat with a whisk till in a snow- like froth. Place it on the cakes, and serve at once. 12. Cheese Fondu.—Grate 6 oz. of rich cheese (Parmesan is the best); put it into an enamelled saucepan, with a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a salt-spoonful ot white pepper, a grain of cayenne, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 2 oz. of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, and a gill of new milk; stir it over a slow fire till it becomes like smooth thick cream (but it must not boil); add the well-beaten yolks of 6 eggs; beat for ten minutes, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth; pour the mixture into a tin, or a cardboard mould, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Serve immediately.409 AUGUST. Soup. l. MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Fish. 2. FILLETS OF SOLES, WITH WHITE SAUCE. 3. EELS, WITH TARTAR SAUCE. Entrees. 4. SWEETBREADS, MUSHROOMS, AND POTATO-BALLS. 5. SIRLOIN OF BEEF. FRENCH BEANS AND POTATOES. 6. ZANDRINA PUDDING. 7. RICE FRITTERS. 8. SAVOURY MACARONI. CHEESE, SALAD, ETC. 1. Mock T%irtle Soup.—Clean and split a fine ox-foot; put it into an iron pot with sixpennyworth of fresh beef bones, a lb. of gammon of bacon, 3 onions, 2 carrots, i turnip, i head of celery, a small bunch of sweet herbs, 4 sprigs of parsley, 2 sage leaves, i bay leaf, i laurel leaf, 3 cloves, 4 allspice, i blade of mace, 6 peppercorns, a grain of cayenne, a table-spoonful of brown sugar, and 4 quarts of cold water. Simmer gently and skim frequently for six hours. Take out the foot; cut off the meat, in pieces an inch square; dredge them with highly-baked flour. Put back the bones and rough pieces, and boil another hour. Rub the bottom of a frying-pan four times across with fresh-cut garlic; dissolve 6 oz. of butter, and fry the pieces of foot to a nice brown colour. Stir into the butter 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, a dessert- spoonful of curry powder, a tea-spoonful of soy, a tea-spoonful ot anchovy sauce, and a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard ; add half a pint of the soup, and when nicely browned stir it into the whole. Boil fast for a quarter of an hour, then strain through a fine sieve. Put in the meat, and simmer for half an hour; add the strained juice of a large lemon and a wine-glassful'of Marsala : serve immediately. 2. Fillets of Soles, with White Sauce.—Cut 2 soles into 8 fillets ; place them in a stewpan rubbed 6 times across the bottom with garlic; pour over a ^ of a lb. of dissolved butter; add a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, the4TO THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. grated rind of half a lemon, and i shalot chopped as fine as possible, simmer ten minutes. Add a wine-glassful of white wine and the strained juice of a lemon ; simmer five minutes more, then ser^e with the following sauce poured over :—Beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs with a gill of good cream; strain the sauce in which the fish was stewed, skim off the butter, mix the sauce with the cream, and stir it over the fire till it thickens. 3. EAs, with Tartar Sauce.—Have an eel weighing a pound and a half; skin it, and cut off the fins ; put it into boiling water, with a table-spoonfiil of vinegar and a tea-spoonful of salt, and let it remain five minutes; cut it into three-inch lengths, and roll it in a clean cloth to dry. Make a batter as follows :—Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and mix with 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour; add an oz. of dissolved butter and the third of a pint of tepid water; beat quickly for ten minutes; let it stand in a cool place for two or three hours. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add to the batter; continue to beat for ten minutes. Dip the eel into the batter, then fry it in boiling lard (enough to cover it) till of a pale brown colour (about twenty minutes): drain on a cloth before the fire. Place the eel in a circular form on a cold dish, and serve with the following sauce in the centre :—Rub the hard- boiled yolks of 3 eggs to a powder; add a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, and the beaten yolk of I egg; stir in, drop by drop, 4 table-spoonfuls of Lucca oil, 2 tea-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, and i table-spoonful of French vinegar; continue to stir till the sauce becomes a thick cream; chop quite fine i shalot, a piece of garlic as big as a pea, and i small gherkin; stir these into the sauce, and serve (cold). 4. Sweetbreads, Mushrooms, and Potato-Balls.—Order a 2 lb. loaf to be baked in an oval cake-tin; let it be one day old. Cut off the top above the tin; scoop out the crumb, leaving three-quarters of an inch all round and at the bottom; be very careful not to make a hole anywhere. Now pare off the crust, and dip the case into oiled butter (-^ a lb.), and put it into the oven for twenty minutes; re-dip it in the butter, and let it remain in the oven till of a pale, bright, brown colour. Cut off the pith and skin of 2 sweetbreads, and blanch them in boiling water for five minutes; cut each into equal-sized pieces, and throw them into cold water for an hour; take them out, wipe them dry, and dredge over a dessert-spoonful of baked flour. Rub a bright stewpan with garlic (four times across the bottom); put in 2 oz. of butter, the sweetbreads, a tea-spoonful of salt, a salt-spoonful of white pepper, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, the thin rind of half a lemon, 4 sprigs of parsley, a laurel leaf,-a bay leaf, a blade of mace, 2 cloves, the strained juice of a lemon, 2 table-* PARTY' DINNER FOR AUGUST. 411 spoonfuls of white wine, and a tea-cupful of veal stock; boil up quickly; skim; then simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take out the sweetbreads; skim and strain the sauce; add the yolks of 2 eggs beaten with a gill of thick cream; boil two minutes. Take off the skin of 20 button mushrooms; throw them into a pint of boiling water, with a salt-spoonful of salt and the strained juice of a lemon ; boil fast for twelve minutes, and drain on a sieve. Boil 4 potatoes ; add half a salt-spoonful of salt, an oz. of fresh butter, a ^ of a gill of cream, and i well-beaten egg; beat with a wooden spoon till light; make up the potatoes into balls the size of a marble ; dip each into beaten egg, and put them into fast-boiling milk for two minutes, then drain on a sieve. Put the sweetbreads, mushrooms, and potato-balls in alternate layers into the bread case, and pour the sauce over; serve quite hot, with a neatly-rolled napkin on the dish. Note.—Make a paste; roll it out the last time an inch and a quarter thick; cut it with a vol-au-vent cutter six inches in diameter. Make an incision a quarter of an inch deep with a cutter an inch smaller; bake about three-quarters of an hour. Take out the centre. 5. Sirloin of Beef.—Beef should be kept a week or ten days when the weather will permit. Wipe the joint with a clean cloth; envelope it in thin paper, thickly spread with sweet beef-dripping; place the screen before the fire half an hour before putting down the beef; hang the joint before the fire for the first quarter of an hour near; baste; then withdraw it to a distance, and let it roast slowly till done; baste frequently from the commencement. Half an hour before serving take off the paper, dredge the beef slightly with baked flour, and baste it with 2 oz. of dissolved butter; place the beef on a hot dish; pour the dripping off; add a tea-cupful of boiling water and half a salt-spoonful of salt to the gravy dripped from the beef; pour it into the dish; garnish with horseradish, and serve at once. The time as follows ;— To be underdone, eleven minutes to the pound; with the gravy in, fourteen minutes; to be well done through, seventeen minutes; in frosty weather, two minutes to the pound must be added in each case. Note.—Horseradish, scraped or grated, should always be served with roast beef. 6. Zandrina Pudding.—Beat 6 oz. of butter to cream; stir into it, by degrees, 6 oz. ol dried flour, 6 oz. of sifted sugar, and the beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs; when well mixed, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth and a wine-glassful of raspberry syrup; beat for ten minutes. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a cloth over, and boil fast for an hour and a half, or bake in a moderate oven a quarter of an hour less. Serve, with raspberry cream poured over the pudding.412 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 7. Kice Fritters.—Wash and drain dry 3 oz. of the best rice j put it into a saucepan with 3 oz. of sugar, the thin rind of ^ a lemon, an inch of cinnamon, and nearly a pint of milk; boil (stirring frequently) for three-quarters of an hour, then rub through a fine wire sieve. Beat 3 fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately; add the yolks; beat for ten minutes, then add the whites; beat five minutes more, then fry in butter (in a small omelet-pan) till of a golden colour on both sides. Drain before the fire; sift fine loaf sugar over, and serve on a neatly- folded napkin. Note.—The quantity given will make five fritters; f of an oz. of butter will be required for each. 8. Savoury Macaroni.—Put into an enamelled saucepan 8 oz. of Genoa macaroni, 3 pints of cold water, and a dessert-spoonful of salt; place it over a gentle fire, and simmer for twenty minutes, then drain on a sieve. Put the macaroni again into the saucepan with a quart of stock, and simmer till it is quite tender (about an hour and three- quarters) ; stir in an oz. of butter, 3 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, 2 tea-spoonfuls of flour of mustard, 2 grains of cayenne, and a salt- spoonful of white pepper; lay it on a dish, and sift grated Parmesan cheese thickly over (3 oz.); on that lay an oz. of butter in small pieces ; bake in a quick oven, or before the fire, till of a pale brown colour (from twelve to fifteen minutes). Serve very hot.413 SEPTEMBER. Soup. 1. WHITE SOUP. Fish. 2. FRIED COD AND OYSTERS. 3. MAYONNAISE OF LOBSTER. Entrees. 4. VEAL cutlets IN PAPER. 5. FOWL, WITH SAVOURY MACARONI. 6. LEG OF PORK, WITH ITALIAN SAUCE. CAULIFLOWERS, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, POTATOES. 7. ROAST PARTRIDGES. 8. DIPLOMATIC PUDDING. 9. HASTY PUFFS. 10. MARASCHINO SYRUP. 11, DEVILLED BISCUITS, GRATED. CHEESE, SALAD, PULLED BREAD, ETC. 1. IV/liie Soup.—Boil a knuckle of veal in water, with seasoning, reducing it to 3 or 4 pints. For thickening, stir over the fire a little ground rice into a pint of milk, to which add a little salt and two table- spoonfuls of good cream. Boil' up all together before serving, stirring carefully. 2. Fried Cod and Oysters.—Cut the cod into slices three-quarters of an inch thick ; rub each slice with a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a salt- spoonflil of salt, and let it remain for two hours. Wipe it dry; dredge it over with baked flour, and fry in butter, over a slow fire, eighteen or twenty minutes. Make a batter with ^ a pint of milk, 3 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, and i egg. Beat it well; wipe the oysters (3 dozen); put them into the batter. When the cod is done, fry the oysters for five minutes in butter ; lay them round the cod ; pour the butter over, and serve at once. Fried slices- of cod may also be served with 2 shalots finely chopped, and the strained juice of a lemon poured over. Three slices of cod and 3 dozen of oysters will require a ^ lb. of butter. Enough to serve six or eight persons. 3. Mayonnaise of Lobster.—Take out the meat of two moderate- sized fresh-boiled hen lobsters, and cut it into inch squares. Orna- ment the top with crawfish, and cucumber sliced.414 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 4. Vea/ Cutlets in Paper.—An oz. of bread-crumbs, 2 oz. of fat bacon, a small shalot, a good sprig of parsley, a large mushroom (or a truffle), all very finely chopped; add the grated rind of half a lemon, the tenth part of a nutmeg, a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, half a salt- spoonful of salt, and half a salt-spoonful of pepper. Cut 3 chops off the best end of the neck of veal, just as thick as the bone; take off the skin and the chine part of the bone; butter 3 sheets of small foolscap paper with 3 oz. of butter; dissolve 2 oz. of butter, dip the cutlets into it, and then into the seasoned crumbs; lay each on a sheet of paper, and boil slowly in plenty of lard for an hour. Drain on a sieve before the fire, and serve in the paper. 5. Fowl, with Savoury Macaroni.—Put 6 oz. of the best Genoa maca- roni into 3 pints of cold water, and let it remain two hours. Cut up a cold fowl; put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan, with an onion sliced, half a carrot, 3 sprigs of parsley, i clove, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a dessert-spoonful of grated cheese, a grain of cayenne, and a piece of garlic as big as a pea; pour in a quart of cold water or any light stock; boil for two hours, then strain; lay the macaroni carefully into a stewpan, with 3 oz. of butter; pour over the gravy, and simmer till tender (about an hour and a half). Season the fowl (I of a lb.) with a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, and the eighth part of a nutmeg grated; dredge it lightly with baked flour, and fry to a nice yellow colour (ten minutes) in olive oil (a gill), or dissolved butter ( a ^ of a lb.). Lay the macaroni round the dish in the form of a wall; add half a wine-glassful of Marsala to the gravy; place the fowl in the centre; pour over the gravy, and send to table at once. 6. Leg of Pork, with Italian Sauce.—Have a leg of very small pork; roast it before a good fire, at a distance, for two hours, and serve with the sauce, made as follows, poured over:—Wash, scrape, and remove the bone of i anchovy; peel 2 shalots and a piece of garlic the size of a pea; wash 3 sprigs of parsley; chop these as fine as possible, and put them into a saucepan with an oz. of butter; stir over the fire till the shalot is tender; add a tea-spoonful of baked flour, a table-spoonful of vinegar, a gill of strong stock, a tea-spoonful of capers chopped, half a salt- spoonful of pepper, half a salt-spoonful of mustard; boil ten minutes; strain; put the sauce again into the saucepan; boil it up; add a table- spoonful of white wine, and serve immediately. 7. Roast Partridges.—Hang the birds before a brisk fire ; baste con- stantly with butter. Serve garnished with fried crumbs, and with gravy and bread sauce in tureens. Put 3 oz. of crumbs of bread into a small frying-pan or stewpan, with oz. of butter, and fry over a gentle fire (stirring all the time) till of a pale yellow brown colour; drain on a41s ^PARTY' DINNER FOR SEPTEMBER. sieve before the fire. Put a ^ of a lb. of crumbs of bread into a stew- pan, with I clove, 2 allspice, 3 shalots, and three-quarters of a pint of milk; boil, and stir for a quarter of an hour, then rub through a sieve. Put the sauce again into the saucepan ; add either 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream or i oz. of fresh butter \ boil two minutes, then serve. Put a pint of stock into a saucepan with a tea-spoonful of soy, a table- spoonful of Harvey sauce, a table-spoonful of flour, half a salt-spoonful of salt, half a salt-spoonful of flour of mustard, and a grain of cayenne. Boil quickly (uncovered) till reduced one-third (about twenty minutes); add a table-spoonful of port wine; strain, and serve. 8. Diplomatic Pudding.—Put a ^ pint of cream, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon into an enamelled saucepan, and place it over a gentle fire; when nearly boiling, stir in 6 oz. of crumbs of bread, 1 oz. of flour, 3 oz. of beef suet, and i oz. of beef-marrow chopped; stir over the fire for ten minutes, then turn it into a basin to get cold. Stone and mince 2 oz. of Muscatel raisins; chop 2 oz. of candied orange-peel; wash and rub dry 2 oz. of currants and i oz. of sultana raisins; beat 4 fresh eggs. Mix these ingredients together; add the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, a wine-glassful of rum, and a wine-glassful of orange wine; beat the mixture for a quarter of an hour, or longer. Butter a mould; stick it fancifully with Muscatel raisins; put in the pudding ; tie it closely over, and boil rapidly for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven for two hours. Sauce:—Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 2 sweet oranges ; boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then add 3 table-spoonfuls of rum. 9. Nasty Puffs.—Put | of a pint of new milk into a saucepan, with the thin rind of half a lemon and an inch of cinnamon, and boil up; then stir in quickly 3 oz. of flour; when well mixed, add 3 oz. of butter and 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar; when nearly cold, add 3 well-beaten eggs. Take out the peel and cinnamon; beat for five minutes. Butter 6 small cups ; put a sixth part of the mixture into each, and bake in a quick oven for ten or twelve minutes. Turn out and serve, with any kind of preserve placed round the dish. 10. Maraschino Syrup. —Put 3 oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 4 bitter almonds blanched and chopped, the thin rind of a quarter of a lemon, the strained juice of a sweet orange, and a wine-glassful of water; boil and skim till quite bright and thick, then strain; add a wine-glassful of Maraschino, and serve. 11. Devilled Biscuits, Grated.—Cheese biscuits are the best for devilling. Dip them twice into warm water, then dredge them with cayenne (for 6 biscuits use a salt-spoonful), and bake till quite crisp in a slow oven. Serve hot, either in a rack or piled on a napkin.416 OCTOBER. Soup. 1. SCOTCH BROTH. Fish. 2. RED MULLET, BAKED. 3. FRIED OR SPITCH-COCKED EELS. Entrees. 4. MUTTON CUTLETS, WITH INDIAN SAUCE. S- BROILED PIGEONS. 6. ROAST SHOULDER OF VEAL. CAULIFLOWER, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, POTATOES. 7. PIGEON PIE. 8. ALMOND AND BREAD PUDDING. 9. DO. SAUCE. 10. BLANCMANGE. CHEESE, SALAD, PULLED BREAD, ETC. 1. Scotch Broth.—Take a neck of mutton with the fat raised from off the best end. Cut off the scrag end, and divide it into several pieces to make the broth. Let it boil gently a couple of hours, skimming well. Then add sliced carrots, onions, turnips, celery, a sprig of parsley, pepper and salt, a tea-cupful of split peas, and 6 table-spoonfuls of pearl-barley, both previously steeped in tepid water. Cut the best end off the neck into mutton-chops, exactly as if for frying; put them in soon after the vegetables, and let the whole simmer together until all is tender. A second skimming will be required after the addition of the fresh meat and vegetables. In serving, there should be a mutton-chop for each person’s plate, to be accompanied by the vegetables, barley, and brose. 2. Red Mullet, Baked.—the mullet, and rub it well with lemon- juice; put it into a tin dish with a large mushroom finely chopped, 3 thin slices of carrot, and 4 sprigs of parsley chopped, a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of white pepper, a ^ of a pint of Marsala; bake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes or three-quarters of an houit Baste constantly with dissolved butter (6 oz. for 3 fish); serve with the sauce poured over the mullet. Note.—This receipt is written for a large mullet. 3. Fried or Spitch-cocked Eels.—Choose eels weighing 2 lbs. eachj’PARTY' DINNER FOR OCTOBER. 7. Pigeon Pie.—young pigeons, cut in quarters; i lb, of rump- 4T7 skin them, and place them either in a Dutch oven before a quick fire or on a gridiron, for eight minutes, to draw out the fat; split them down the thin part, take out the backbone, cut off the fins, scrape the outside, and cut them into pieces 3 inches long. Have 3 oz. of dried crumbs of bread and 2 well-beaten eggs; dip each piece of eel into the egg, then into the crumbs, and fry in boiling lard (sufficient to thoroughly cover them) over a gentle fire (about twenty-five minutes) till of a pqle yellow colour. Serve, placed in a circular form, on neatly-folded foolscap paper, with melted butter. 4. Mutton Cutlets., with Indian Sauce.—Have 6 or 8 cutlets off the best end of the neck, the third of an inch thick; trim off all the fat and gristle, leaving only the round piece of lean beat them with a chopper ; brush them over with beaten egg, and strew them with fine crumbs of bread, seasoned with the tenth part of a nutmeg grated, and ^ a salt- spoonful of salt; put them into a tin dish, with a small piece of butter (a I of an oz. to each) under and on each, and bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour: they must be a light-brown colour. Chop fine a tea-cupful of Indian pickle; add it to a table-spoonful of chutney, 2 table-spoonfuls of stock or gravy; simmer ten minutes, and serve with the cutlets; place the cutlets in a circle, and the sauce in the centre. 5. Broiled Pigeons.—pigeons must be trussed flat. Knead rather more than an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of chopped chives, | a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley^ a of a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper ; stir over the fire for five minutes; dip the pigeons (two) in while warm, but not hot, and con- tinue to do so till the mixture all adheres to them. Let them stand for an hour, then broil over a bright fire for eighteen or twenty minutes Serve with the following sauce in the dish Rub the bottom of a small saucepan twice across with garlic; put in an oz. of butter, a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, a of a salt-spoonful of pepper; stir till well mixed; then add a gill of either stock or water, a table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a table-spoonful of Marsala, the strained juice of a lemon, and 2 pickled gherkins finely chopped; boil fast for eight minutes, then serve. ° 6. Roast Shoulder of Km/.—Shoulder of veal should be stuffed Pass your knife between the blade-bone and the meat on its upper surface. You thus easily make a sort of pocket, into which pocket push your veal-stuffing. By making the opening as narrow as may be, there will be no need to sew it up or close it with string. On the contrary, a little delicately browned stuffing, protruding, will help to garnish the joint, and will show the carver where to find the forcemeat.413 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. steak, -I an inch thick, cut into 6 pieces; 4 fresh eggs, boiled ten minutes: season the whole with 2 salt-spoonfuls and a half of salt and 2 salt-spoonfuls of pepper. Lay the steak at the bottom of a ten-inch pie-dish, the pigeons upon it, the yolks of the eggs at equal distances; add about a gill of gravy or water. Rub the edge of the dish with lard or butter; line it with strips of paste the sixth of an inch thick; moisten it with cold water; cover it with paste; press round to make it adhere; trim with a sharp knife; notch at inch dis- tances ; make a hole in the centre; ornament to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours and a quarter. Make the paste as follows; —Moisten 9 oz. of flour with ^ a gill of cold water and the juice of ^ a lemon; knead flat; put in the centre ^ a lb. of good butter; fold over; roll out 4 times ; dredge flour over each time. Let it stand in a cool place two or three hours. 8. Almond and Bread Pudding.—Blanch 3 oz. of sweet and 4 bitter almonds, and boil them ten minutes in ^ a pint of milk, then pound them to a paste. Chop 4 oz. of beef-marrow, beat 2 eggs, and add to the milk the almonds were boiled in; rub 3 oz. of bread a day old to crumbs; mix these ingredients together; add ^ a lb. of moist sugar, the strained juice and grated rind of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour. Let it stand, to soak the bread, for half an hour, then beat with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it closely over, and boil fast for three hours. Serve, either with sugar sifted over it, or with the following sauce. 9. Ditto Sauce.—Moisten a dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with a little cold water; boil 3 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar in a gill of water for ten minutes; mix it with the arrowroot; stir it over the fire for two minutes; add 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy and 20 drops of the essence of sweet almonds. Serve in the dish, not poured over the pudding. 10. Blancmange.—Take ^ a lb. of sweet almonds and 10 bitter almonds; blanch them, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. Melt a lb. of sugar in 4 tumblers of milk, and in it boil the pounded almonds, flavouring with vanilla. Strain the whole through a^ piece of coarse muslin; and, while the ingredients are still hot, stir into them ^ an oz. of isinglass, previously dissolved in boiling water and then strained. Then put the whole into a mould, which must remain twenty-four hours in a cold cellar, or six hours on ice, before turning the blancmange out of the mould.419 NOVEMBER, Soup, 1. HARE SOUP, Fish, 2. BOILED SKATE, 3. WHITE SAUCE TO DITTO, 4. LOBSTER SALAD, Entrees, 5. BRAISED MUTTON CUTLETS, 6, KIDNEY END OF LOIN OF VEAL, 7, HAM. SCARLET BEANS, POTATOES, ETC. 8. GOLDEN PLOVER. 9. CUMBERLAND PUDDING. 10. CHARLOTTE PUDDING. 11. MILANESE CREAM. CHEESE, PULLED BREAD, ETC. 1. Hare Soup.—Skin a large hare, saving the blood when you empty it. Wipe it well, but do not wash it. Cut it up into joints, and put them with the blood into an earthen vessel that will hold 6 or 7 pints. Add 2 lbs. of lean beef cut in pieces, 2 large onions quartered, a bunch of sweet herbs, whole pepper, mace, and a few cloves. Nearly fill the vessel with boiling water, tie its top down close with a bladder, and set it to cook in a boiler of water for three or four hours. Pour off the soup, thicken it with a little flour and butter, stirring in at the same time a table-spoonful of any or several of the following sauces, viz.:—Essence of anchovy, soy, Worcestershire, Reading, or Harvey’s sauce, mush- room or walnut ketchup, or other approved zest. Make quite hot, and send to table with forcemeat-balls and the best parts of the meat of the hare thrown into it. 2. Boiled Skate.—Put the fish into plenty of cold water with a table- spoonful of salt and a table-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up quickly, skim, and simmer for five minutes. Serve immediately, on a neatly-folded napkin. 3. White Sauce to ditto.—Knead 3 oz. of butter with a dessert- spoonful of baked flour, and stir into a gill of boiling water; boil five minutes. Add the strained juice of a lemon. 5. Braised Mutton Cutlets.—Qwt 5 or 6 cutlets, the width of theTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 420 bone, ofif a neck of mutton; trim off all the fat, and bare the bone an inch at the end; season with a tea-spoonful of salt and a salt-spoonful of pepper, and dredge each cutlet with dried flour. Make a bright stewpan hot, and rub it 4 times across with garlic; put in 2 oz. of butter to dissolve; then put in the cutlets, and brown both sides slowly; add a tea-cupful of any good gravy, and simmer as gently as possible for halt an hour. Well wash 5 or 6 handfuls of spinach ; put it into a saucepan, with a pint of boiling water, a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of sugar, and boil till done (about eighteen minutes); drain off the water, rub the spinach through a fine wire sieve, and put it into a saucepan ; add a dessert-spoonful of sifted sugar and a quarter of a gill of thick cream j stir over the fire for five minutes. Place the spinach round the dish, and the cutlets in the centre, the ends of the bones raised in the middle of the dish. Note.—Sorrel is dressed exactly as spinach, omitting the sugar. Some persons object to sugar with spinach, which should be ascertained before using it. 6. Kidney end of Loin of Veal—Place a piece of buttered paper over the lean side, hang it close to a good fire for twenty minutes, then at a distance ; baste constantly till done, allowing twenty-eight minutes to the lb.; half an hour before serving, remove the paper, dredge over a little baked flour, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and the strained juice of a lemon; continue to baste. Knead 2 oz. of butter with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into the third of a pint of boiling water; simmer ten minutes. Cut a round of bread, the third of an inch thick, off a 2 lb. loaf j take off the crust and outside ; toast to a pale brown colour 5 place the veal upon the toast; pour off the dripping ; add the gravy to the melted butter, and pour it over the veal. Serve, with cut lemon on a plate. 7. Ha7n.—Put the ham into an iron pot, the skin uppermost, and more than cover it with cold water ; boil up quickly, skim, then simmer till done, allowing twenty-five minutes to the lb.; take it up by the knuckle, to avoid putting a fork into the thick part, and thus letting out the juice; pull off the skin; trim off any rough brown pieces, and powder the ham over with brown baked crumbs. Cut a neat frill of white paper 3 inches deep; roll it round the knuckle, and send tire ham to table on a dry, warm dish. _ ., • r 8. Golden Plover.—Place the birds before a brisk fire, with a piece of crumb of bread, the third of an inch thick, under them. Baste with fresh butter till done (about sixteen or eighteen minutes). _ Serve on the bread, which should be nicely browned, and saturated with the butter and the trail. Serve, with rich, thin sauce. 9. Cumberland Fuddwg.—¥ovs oz. of apples finely chopped, 3 oz.421 * PARTY' DINNER FOR NOVEMBER. of fine crumbs of bread, 4 oz. of moist sugar, 4 oz. of well-washed cur- rants, 4 oz. of beef marrow or suet finely chopped, the grated rind and strained juice of a lemon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 3 well- beaten eggs, a table-spoonful of dried flour, and half a gill of milk ; mix these ingredients well together; beat for ten minutes ; butter a basin ; put in the mixture ; tie a cloth over ; put it into plenty of boiling water, and boil fast for three hours, or bake in a moderate oven an hour and a half. Serve, with sifted sugar over. 10. Charlotte Pudding.—Butter a large basin ; strew it thickly with moist sugar; cut some thin slices of bread and butter without crust; peel and slice very thin 3 or 4 apples; have a pot of marmalade ; put a layer of bread into the basin, butter downwards, then marmalade, then apples 3 continue to do this till the basin is quite full; press it well do^vn ; put a plate over, with a weight upon it, and bake in a quick oven for three-quarters of an hour for a pint and a half basin, and an hour for a quart. Turn out carefully, and serve hot. 11. Milanese Crearn.—A pint of new milk and 5 oz. of loaf sugar boiled, I of an oz. of isinglass dissolved in a gill of water, the yolks of 8 fresh eggs, well beaten; add the milk to the eggs while hot, but not boiling ; stir over a gentle fire till at boiling heat; strain into a basin ; stir in the isinglass and a gill of thick cream ; flavour with 25 drops of any kind of essence, or with 3 table-spoonfuls of Maraschino, Curagoa, or rum. Pour the mixture into a mould slightly rubbed with oil of sweet almonds,' and let it stand in a cool place till firmly set.422 DECEMBER. Soup. 1. PEA SOUP. Fish. 2. JOHN DORY, WITH CAPER SAUCE. 3. BUTTERED SOLES. Entrees. 4. AITCH-BONE OF BEEF, BOILED. 5. GRAVY CURRY. 6. PHEASANT, WITH TRUFFLES. 7. WHITE PUDDING. 8. STEWED APPLES. STILTON CHEESE, CELERY, ETC. 1. Pea Soup.—'&02k. a pint of split peas for two hours; wash them, and take out all that are black; put them into a saucepan -ivith a quart of water, and let them simmer by the side of the fire till quite soft. Boil sixpennyworth of fresh beef bones in 2 quarts of water, with 3 onions, 2 carrots, a head of celery, i turnip, 8 peppercorns, a salt- spoonful of dried mint, a table-spoonful of moist sugar, and a salt- spoonful of salt. When the bones are bare, strain the liquor and put in the peas. Boil and skim till the peas are quite mixed wth the soup. Stir in 3 oz. of butter kneaded with 2 table-spoonfuls of baked flour, a tea-spoonful of salt, a grain of cayenne, a grain of white pepper, a salt- spoonful of flour of mustard. Boil twenty minutes ; then rub the soup through a tammy sieve, and serve very hot. Cut 3 slices of bread into half-inch pieces, and fry to a pale brown colour in 2 oz. of good butter. Rub some dry mint to powder, and sift it on to a plate. Serve these with the soup. 2. John Dory, with Caper Sauce.—Rub the fish with a spoonful of vinegar; put it into cold water, with a table-spoonful of salt; boil up quickly; skim, and then simmer for twenty or twenty-five minutes. Great care is required in boiling this fish, that the skin may not break. Serve on a napkin, neatly rolled round the edges. Note.—The receipt is written for a fish weighing 5 or 6 lbs. 3. Buttered Rub a tin dish 4 times across the bottom with fresh-cut garlic : wipe the soles dry, and dredge them with baked flour.* PARTY' DINNER FOR DECEMBER. 423 Lay them in the dish, with 6 oz. of butter (for 2 soles), and bake in a moderately-heated oven for half an hour, or forty minutes if the soles be very thick. Serve on a very hot dish, with the butter poured over, and a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or parsley sprinkled over the soles. 4. Aitch-toneofBeef, boiled.—Put the joint into an iron pot, and cover it with cold water j boil up slowly, skim, then simmer as gently as possible till done. To be slightly underdone, allow eleven minutes to the lb.; just done, twelve minutes; and well done, thirteen minutes, after at boiling heat. In frosty weather, add a quarter of an hour to the whole time. If carrots be boiled with the beef, they will require an hour and three-quarters or two hours, according to size. Place the beef on a hot dish, the broad side downwards ; pour over it | of a pint of the liquor; garnish with carrots, and serve. Note.—Reserve the liquor in an earthen pan for soup. 5. Gravy Curry.—About a lb. and a half of veal cutlets, in pieces a of an inch thick and 2 inches square. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of biscuit-powder with a salt-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder, the same of pepper and salt. Dissolve a ^ lb. of butter; dip each piece of veal into the butter, then into the powder, and fry in the remainder of the butter till slightly browned on both sides. Slice 2 onions and a of a clove of garlic; knead 3 oz. of butter with 2 dessert-spoonfuls of curry-powder and i leaf of mint chopped fine; fry the onions in the butter till tender; then put in the veal and f of a pint of stock or gravy; simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Add the strained juice of a lemon, and serve, with or without rice. 6. Pheasant, with Truffles.—Wash, peel, and slice 6 large truffles ; put the truffles into the body of a young pheasant, nicely trussed ; pound the peel with ^ a clove of garlic, and knead it with i lb. of fresh lard. Put the pheasant into an oval deep dish or pan, cover it with the lard; add 3 sprigs of parsley, i sprig of thyme, a bay leaf, a salt- spoonful of salt, 4 peppercorns, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, i clove, 3 slices of carrot, and a wine-glassful of rum; cover it closely, and put it into a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour; then let it remain for two or three days to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. ■\\fflen required, take it out of the fat, envelope it in paper, spread thickly with butter, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Strain the gravy; add a tea-cupful of any stock, with a dessert-spoonful of baked flour, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, the same of loaf sugar ; boil ten minutes ; take the paper off the pheasant; add the dnpped gravy and the butter to the rest. Place the pheasant on a hot dish, remove the skewers, pour over the gravy, and serve at once. 7. White Pudding.—lb. of fresh (pork) kidney fat, chopped, ^ a42 4 things a lady would like to know. lb. of flour, a ^ of a lb. of ground rice, ^ a lb. of loaf sugar, i a lb. of currants well washed, 2 oz. of sweet and 8 bitter almonds, blanched and chopped, 2 oz. of orange and 2 oz. of lemon-peel (candied), chopped, the I part of a nutmeg grated, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, 2 eggs, and a gill of new milk. Beat these ingredients well together for twenty minutes; put the mixture into pig skins that have been well cleansed, leaving room for the pudding to swell; tie both ends, put them into boiling water, and boil slowly for two hours and a half. Serve hot or cold ; in either case, remove the skin. When made for keeping, hang them up separately; and when required, put them into hot water and boil up slowly for ten minutes. 8. Stewed Apples.—apples should be used. Pare them neatly whh a sharp knife, and scoop out the core; put them into a skillet, with hall their weight of loaf sugar, i clove, an inch of cinnamon, the thin rind ofa lemon, and the strained juice, and 3 table-spoonfuls of cold water to every lb. of apples; simmer very slowly, and skim fre- quently, till they are tender (about an hour and a quarter). Take them out carefully; place them neatly on a glass dish ; boil the syrup quickly for ten minutes, and when nearly cold, strain it over the apples. To be served cold at dessert. A pint of whipped cream or Devonshire cream poured over the apples, makes it a pretty dish for dinner or supper.BREAKFASTS. ‘ Then to breakfast with what appetite you have.'—Shakspeare, ♦ The less luxurious your breakfast table is, the better, always provided you are careful to have the four essentials,—good tea, good coffee or cocoa, good bread, and sweet butter, together with a fitting supply of milk and cream. I would therefore recommend a few savoury things suitable to the several months of the year, harmless, nutritive, and easily digested. Never forget to have a fair damask cloth upon your table j nothing shows off so sweetly the morning repast with its bright silver, its cheerful china, and the merry, hissing urn. When the months have flowers, by all means have the epergne well filled; for, as the poet beautifully says, ‘They are the smiles of God.’ JANUARY. Broiled Haddock—Broiled Rasher of Bacon and Eggs—Sausages on Toast Cold Fowl and Tongue — Broiled Kidneys — Kippered Salmon—Hung Beef—Cold Pigeon Pie—Broiled Legs of Fowl Broiled Legs of Turkey—Broiled Whitings. FEBRUARY. Broiled Soles—Pigeon Pie—Rabbit Pie—Fried Eggs and Bacon- Rolled Tongue—Broiled Bacon—Dried Salmon—Dried Haddock Spiced Beef Cold Soles (fried)—Broiled Ham and Eggs. march. (cold) —Cold Fried Sausages — Cold Ham —Broiled \ luting—Brawn—Pigeon Pie—German Sausage—Cold Roast Capon 1 ongue—Broiled Haddock—Broiled Kidneys. APRIL. Sheep’s Tongues—Plam—Toasted Bacon and Fried Eggs—Cold426 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Pork Sausages — Pigeon Pie — Savoury Omelet — Prawns—German Sausage — Reindeer’s Tongue — Bath Chop — Cold Fillet of Beef (stuffed). MAY. Cold Leveret Pie —Broiled Ham and Eggs — Prawns — Savoury Omelet—Cold Ham—Cold Roast Fowl—Broiled Kidneys Rolled Tongue—Corned Beef—Sardines—Cold Fried Soles. JUNE. Spiced Beef—Broiled Wliiting—Cold Boiled Bacon—Broiled Kidneys Ham Omelet Potted Ham—Anchovies—Boiled Cold Tongue Prawns—Broiled Mackerel—Scalloped Skate; and any fruits that may be ripe. JULY. Spiced Beef—Potted Ham—Pigeon Pie—Prawns—Poached Eggs and Bacon—Toasted Bacon and Eggs—Broiled Ham—Cold Fowl- Cold Plaice—Dried Salmon—Broiled Mackerel j and any fruits that may be ripe. august; Ham and Broiled Mushrooms — Anchovies — Broiled Whiting — Rabbit Pie—Fried Soles (cold)—Fricandeau of Eggs—Mayonnaise of Prawns—Roast Pigeons—Broiled Ham and Fried Eggs—Spiced Beef —Savoury Omelets. SEPTEMBER. Broiled Haddock—Potted Ham—Sheep’s Tongues—Pig’s Cheek— Cold Roast Fowl — Ham — Cold Grouse — Rolled Tongue — Cold Partridges—Scalloped Cod—Kippered Salmon. OCTOBER. Giblet Pie—Cold Soles—Hot Sausages and Toast—Pigeon Pie— Bloaters and Boiled Eggs—Savoury Omelet—Potted Shrimps—Fried Whitings—Partridge Pie—Pheasant Pie—Kippered Salmon. N O VE M B E R. Broiled Soles—Broiled Ham and Eggs—Dried Haddock—Pork Sausages and Toast—Savoury Omelet—Roast Fowl (cold)—Ham— Lobster Cutlets (hot)—Grouse (cold)—Mock Brawn—Partridge (cold). DECEMBER. Dried Sprats—Rump-steak Pie—Potted Shrimps—Cold Fried Soles —Bloaters and Boiled Eggs—German Sausages—Broiled Haddock— Partridges — Broiled Ham and Eggs — Cold Fowl — Ham—Rolled Tongue.427 TEA. ‘ Nffw stir the fire, and close the shutters fast, Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round; And while the bubbling and loud-hissing urn Throws tip a steamy column, and the cups That cheer, but not inebriate, wait on each. So let us welcome peaceful evening in.'—CowPER. However careful some servants may be to procure the best water, almost every kind of water in use, except rain-water, will speedily cover the inside of the kettle with an unpleasant crust. This may be easily guarded against by placing a clean oyster-shell in the kettle, which will always keep it in good order, by attracting the particles of earth, or of stone, or of such peculiar salts as the water may be impregnated with. As a test in general to distinguish genuine tea from the sloe leaf, let it be infused, and some of the largest leaves spread out to dry; when the real tea leaf will be found narrow in proportion to its length, and deeply notched at the edges with a sharp point; whilst the sloe leaf is notched very slightly, is darker in colour, rounder at the point, and of a coarser texture. In preparing the tea, a good economist will be careful to have the best water; that is, the softest and freest from foreign mixture. If tea be infused in hard and in soft water, the latter will always yield the greatest quantity of the tanning matter, and will strike the deepest black with the sulphate of iron in solution; consequently, according to the technical term, it will always be found ‘ to draw best.’ In the management of the tea-urn it may be observed, that a polished urn may be kept boiling with a much smaller quantity of spirits of wine than when a varnished or bronzed urn is used, so that a silver uni is absolutely an object of economy. In order to make a good cup of tea, M. Soyer recommends that before pouring in any water, the teapot, with the tea in it, shall be placed in the oven till hot, or heated by means of a spirit-lamp, or in front of the fire (not too close, of course), and the pot then filled428 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW with boiling water. The result, he says, will be in about a minute a delicious cup of tea, much superior to that drawn in the ordinary way. Tastes differ regarding the flavour of teas. A good mixture, in point of flavour, we know to be two-fifths black, two-fifths green, and one- fifth gunpowder; all being, of course, of superior quality. Presuming all ladies to be intimately acquainted with the mode of making tea, yet to some a few hints may be serviceable:— First, never make tea in any other than a highly-polished teapot; for it is a chemical fact, that metal retains the heat longer than earthen- ware ; and the better it is polished, the more completely will the liquid be kept hot, and the essence of the tea be extracted. Secondly, see that the water be really boiling. Tea retains its fine flavour better if kept in little tin canisters instead of a caddy. To impart a fine flavour to ordinary tea, add i drop of the otto of roses on a piece of soft paper to every lb. of tea, and keep the canister closely covered. With regard to coffee, the best kind is always the cheapest Bum it at home in small quantities, taking care in using a close roaster, never to fill it more than half. Turn the roaster slowly at first, more rapidly as the process advances, and keep up a lively fire. Burn it until of a light chestnut colour. Keep it in close canisters or bottles. Grind it as wanted. Boil it in a vessel only half full, to prevent boiling over, in the proportion of oz. to a pint of water. Put in a few hartshorn shavings, or isinglass, if you will; but if the coffee is taken oflf the fire whilst boiling, and set on again alternately, until nothing remains on the top but a clear bubble, and then some poured out to clear the pipe, and poured back again, it will be as fine as if cleared artificially. Long boiling does not make coffee stronger, but destroys its colour and renders it turbid. In making coffee, the broader the bottom and the smaller the top of the vessel, the better it will prove. Various methods have been tried of preparing this Arabian beverage, but it will be found, after all, that there is no surer way of having coffee clear and strong, than pursuing the plan here given :— Beat up an egg—two for a large pot—and mix it well with the coffee till you have formed it into a ball; fill the pot wth cold water, allowing room enough to put in the ingredients; let it simmer very gently for an hour, but do not think of stirring it on any account. Just before it is required, put the pot on the fire and warm it well; but, as you value the true aroma, take care that it does not boil. Pour it off gently, and you will have as pure and as strong an extract of the Indian berry as you can desire. Use white sugar candy, in powder, in preference to sugar; cream, if attainable; if not, boiled milk.SUPPERS. 429 ’ ‘ To know the palates And several tastes of the time.’—Ben Jonson. Hot suppers are not healthy, but occasionally such things are taken, and without evil consequences ; but, as a rule, I should recommend light suppers, and have therefore given some dishes, with an eye to what has been left at dinner, with a few additions. In fact, the lighter the diet, the better they appear; and glass and silver inter- mixed have the happiest effect. The remains of jellies and different coloured blancmanges, and especially the chaste decoration of flowers, add much to the effective beauty of the table. An elegant supper may be served at a small expense, by those who know how to make trifles that are left from former meals form the chiefest part of the refresh- ment. Jioast Larks.—These should be enveloped in thin slices of ham or bacon, and well basted; fifteen minutes’ roasting will be sufficient. Before serving, take off the bacon, and strew bread-crumbs over the birds; brown them with a salamander, and send them to table with melted butter and a fresh lemon. Frangipane.—Beat up 6 eggs, and add 2 spoonfuls of flour, a spoonful of grated lemon-peel, another of powdered sugar, a • table-spoonful of orange-flour water, and half a dozen macaroons broken up; put these and a pint of milk into a stewpan over a slow fire, stir it well for twenty minutes; have ready some pattypans lined with puff paste; pour in the ingredients, and bake for twenty minutes. To Boil Tripe.—Wash it clean, and put it on to boil in plenty of water, with 4 or 6 moderately-sized onions. When the onions are quite soft, the tripe will be boiled enough. Serve it with the onions in a hash-dish, with a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled430 THINGS A LADY WOULD LlIiE TO KNOW. and plain melted butter in a cup. It will be greatly improved thus: —About ten minutes before it is done, strain off all the liquor, and replace it with a cupful of milk ; roll a lump of butter in some flour ; add a little chopped lemon-peel, pepper, and salt; mix all well together, and let it boil gently for about ten minutes. This way of dressing tripe is both cheap and delicious. To fry Bacon and Eggs,—Cut the bacon in thin rashers, and fry it as before directed; when done, lay it in a hot dish before the fire. Break the eggs in separate cups, and place them gently in the pan; keep them in a round, flat shape. When the white is set, take them out of the pan with a slice, and place an egg on each rasher. The pretty appearance of the dish is spoiled if the eggs be broken, for which reason great care must be used in taking them out of the pan. Rabbit to taste like Hare, with Red Currant Jelly.—Choose one young, but full grown; hang it in the skin three or four days; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and all- spice in very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and a glass of vinegar. Baste it occasionally, then stuff' and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor it was soaked in. Devils.—The gizzard of a turkey scored and rubbed with fresh butter and soluble cayenne, is esteemed an admirable zest The backbone of mackerel similarly treated makes the best devil. Fondu.—Four eggs, the weight of 2 in Parmesan or good Cheshire cheese, the weight of 2 in butter, pepper and salt to taste. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs; beat the yolks in a basin, and grate the cheese, or cut into very thm flakes. Parmesan or Cheshire cheese may be used, whichever is the most convenient, although the former is considered more suitable for this dish; or an equal quantity of each may be used. Break the butter into small pieces; add the other ingredients, and season with pepper and salt, and well-beat the mixture. Stir lightly in the whites of 4 eggs well whisked. Fill the dish only half full, as the fondu should rise a good deal. Bake in a small round tin, or in a so2cfflee-6.i%\i, about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. If not served very hot, and eaten directly, the beauty and lightness will be destroyed. Ham Omelet.—Ingredients : 6 eggs, 4 oz. of butter, half a salt-spoon- ful of pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced ham. Mode.—Mince the fiam very finely without any fat, and fry it for two minutes in a little butter; then make the batter for the omelet; stir in the ham, and proceed as in the case of a plain omelet. Do not add any salt to the batter, as the ham is usually sufficiently salt to impart a flavour. Good lean bacon or tongue answers equally well for this dish, but they must also be slightly cooked previously to mixing them with the431 light dishes for supper. batter. Serve very hot, and quickly, without gravy. Sufficient for 4 persons. Sausage Rolls.—Takt equal portions of cold roast veal and ham, or cold fowl and tongue ; chop these together very small, and season with a tea-spoonful of powdered sweet herbs, and a spoonful of mixed salt and soluble cayenne pepper; mix well together; put 3 table-spoonfuls of the chopped and seasoned meat well rolled together into enough light puff-paste to cover it. When you have used up the whole of your material, bake for half an hour in a good brisk oven. Broiled Partridge.—(September i to February 7.)—Pluck, draw, and cut three partridges in half, and thoroughly wipe the inside with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and cayenne; broil them over a very clear fire ; put them on a hot dish; rub a little butter over each half, and have brown gra\y or mushroom sauce with them. Baked Sprats and Herrings.—Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, a few whole cloves, and salt; lay them in a pan with a few bay leaves, an onion, and plenty of black pepper; add equal quantity of vinegar and small beer to cover ^&ra. Put paper over the pan, and bake them in a slow oven (gut, but do not open them). If liked to look red, throw saltpetre over them the night before. Poached Eggs.—To prevent the unsightly admixture of the yolk with the white, so often observed in poached eggs, observe the following simple method :—Use a large saucepan, nearly filled with boiling water; pour a couple of table-spoonfuls of hot water into a saucer; break the egg carefully into the centre of the saucer, then gently lift it and place it on the surface of the water in the saucepan; the instant you perceive the yolk set, take out the saucer, and remove the egg with a slice to the dish required. Dress the number you wish for separately; as the time occupied is so short, there is little risk of the spinach, bacon, or what- ever else you are about to use, becoming cold. Oyster Sausages.—Beard, rinse well in their strained liquor, and mince, but not finely, 3^ dozen of plump native oysters, and mix them with 10 oz. of fine bread-crumbs, and 10 oz. of beef suet chopped extremely small; add a salt-spoonful of salt, and i salt-spoonful of pepper, or less than half of cayenne, twice as much pounded mace, and the third of a small nutmeg grated. Moisten the whole with 2 unbeaten eggs, or with the yolks only of 3, and a dessert-spoonful of the whites. When these ingredients are well worked together, and perfectly blended, set the mixture in a cool place for two or three hours before it is used ; make it into the form of small sausages or sausage cakes ; flour and fry them in butter of a fine light brown, or throw them into boiling water (or three minutes; drain and let them become cold ; dip them into egg432 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. and bread-crumbs, and broil them gently until they are lightly coloured. The sausages thus made are extremely good; the fingers should be well floured in making them up. A small piece should be cooked and tasted before the whole is put aside, that the seasoning may be heightened if required. Broiled Bones.—If you desire a relish, and have in your larder either roast beef or mutton bones not too closely carved, score the meat, rub it over with walnut ketchup, and sprinkle it with soluble cayenne’and salt. Set them in a bonnet before the fire; when they begin to smoke rub a little fresh butter over them, let them be turned now and then, but take care they are not burnt. Beef cinders and broiled bones are very distinct affairs. Although originally dressed upon the gridiron, the above method will be found the most satisfactory. Sprats.—Sprats, when cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot. Cold Meat Puffs.—Cut the meat into small thin pieces, and season them with pepper and salt; mash very fine r^ lb. of cold boiled potatoes, and mix them up with a table-spoonful or two of flour and i egg; roll this out into a proper thickness for puffs, and make them up, putting into each puff about 2 oz. of the meat; fry them slowly, in a clean pan, on both sides, of a fine light brown. Stewed Mushrooms.—Take away the skin and stalks; strew a little pepper and salt over the mushrooms, then put them into a ste^vpan with \ a pint of cream. Keep stirring constantly, but with a gentle hand, not to break them ; when nearly done, add a little butter rolled in flour, to thicken the sauce. Stewed Cheese.— Good double Gloucester, whilst new, is the best cheese for stewing. Chop the quantity required into small portions, and put them in a basin, covering them with strong ale. Set the basin on the hob, or into the oven of a kitchen range, for three-quarters of an hour, stirring now and then. Toast some slices of bread, and make some fresh mustard, then pour the stew over the toast upon a hot plate. A little soluble cayenne pepper is an excellent addition to this supper dish. Anchovy Toast.—Make as many slices of toast as required; let these be fried in fresh butter, and whilst quite hot spread the fish upon them. Before making your toast, wash 2 anchovies for each slice, bone them, and force the meat through a coarse sieve. Mushroom au Beurre.—Cut the stems from some fine meadow mush- room buttons, and clean them with a bit of new flannel and some fine salt, then either wipe them dry with a soft cloth or rinse them in fresh water; drain them quickly; spread them in a clean cloth, fold it over them, and leave them for ten minutes or more to dry. For every pint of433 LIGHT DISHES FOR SUFFER. them thus prepared, put i|- oz. of fresh butter into a thick iron saucepan ; shake it over the fire until it Just begins to brown; throw in the mush- rooms; continue to shake the saucepan over a clear fire that they may not stick to it nor burn; and when they have simmered three or four minutes, strew them over with a little salt, some cayenne, and pounded mace; stew them until they are perfectly tender. Heap them in a dish and serve them, in their own sauce only, for breakfast, supper, or luncheon: nothing can be finer than the mushrooms thus prepared, and the addi- tion of any liquid is far from an improvement to it. They are very good when drained from the butter and served cold, and in a cool larder may be kept for several days. The butter in which they are stewed is admirable for flavouring gravies, sauces, or potted meats. Small flaps, freed from the fur and skin, may be stewed in the same way; and either these or the buttons served under roast poultry or partridges, will give a dish of very superior relish. Meadow mushrooms, 3 pints; fresh butter, 4^ oz.; three to five minutes; salt, I teaspoonful. Mace, half as much; cayenne, third of a salt-spoonful; ten to fifteen minutes. More spices to be added if required, much depending on their quality, but they should not overpower the flavour of the mushrooms. Oranges—a pretty Supper dish—November to May.—Ingredients: Six large oranges, i lb. loaf sugar, pint of water, i pint of cream, 2 table-spoonfuls of any kind of liquor, sugar to taste. Mode.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them until the sugar becomes brittle, which may be ascertained by taking up a small quantity in a spoon, and dipping it in cold water; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will easily snap. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and divide them into nice-sized slices without breaking the thin, white skin which surrounds the juicy pulp. Place the pieces of orange on small skewers, dip them into the hot sugar, and arrange them in layers round a plain mould, which should be well oiled with the purest salad oil. The slides of the mould only should be lined with the oranges, and the centre left open for the cream. Let the sugar become firm by cooling; turn the oranges carefully out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream, flavoured with any kind of liquor, and sweetened with pounded sugar. Bread and Butter and Anchovy.—The following, if nicely and fanci- fully moulded, makes a pretty breakfast or supper dish Wash, bone, and pound some anchovies well in a mortar; scald and chop some parsley, and rub it through a sieve; mix and pound all the ingredients well together, and make the butter into pats immediately. To each pound of butter, allow one small bunch of parsley and six anchovies.434 A FEW HINTS AS TO THE COOKING, Etc. OF VEGETABLES. \ ‘ Here is but little, and that light Quarles. Every housekeeper who possesses a patch of ground should have a few herbs mostly in use for cookery and garnish. By this means they will always be fresh, and the expense, after the first purchase of the seeds or roots, is very trifling. Let the housekeeper look over her greengrocer’s bills, and she will be surprised at the aggregate charge for herbs, and such small gear as horseradish, fennel, etc., in a month or year. A very few square yards of ground mW suffice to cultivate as many herbs as are wanted by any family. To Dress Potatoes.—In general, it will be found best to pare them before boiling; they should also be as nearly of a size as possible, or the small ones will break before the large ones are done; they should be put into cold water scarcely enough to cover them, with a goo lump of salt; they should boil slowly, and when they begin to crack the water should be poured off; then set the saucepan over the fire with the lid off, till they are quite dry and mealy. On serving, c them with a clean napkin. _ Cold potatoes maybe cooked up again m j ^ ^ a be mashed with a little milk, butter, pepper, and salt, and heated slcepan then turned out and set before the fire to brown ; or another435 THE COOKING OF VEGETABLES. till brown all alike; drain them on a sieve, and sprinkle a little fine salt over them. How to choose Potatoes, and keep them from being wasted.—Observe, as a general rule, that the smaller the eye the better the potato, as when they are too full in the eye, they are either of an inferior quality or are running to seed. To ascertain if they are sound, nip a piece from the thickest end with your finger-nail; if good, the inside will either be of a white, yellow, or reddish hue, according to the sort and quality; if, on the contrary, they are spotted, they are bad, or getting so; but though this part may be slightly touched, by cutting a little off the outside they may prove fit for boiling, though they ought to be bought when in this state at a cheap rate. Potatoes always get bad in the spring of the year, as then the old ones are going out, and the new ones for some time continue to possess but little flavour, and are watery when boiled. The old ones ought to be peeled, and steamed, and mashed, or baked in an oven under a joint, or fried in fat; for when done whole in their skins at this time of the year, the slightest spot spoils their flavour. The new ones are tasteless and watery, and are much better cooked when put in very hot water (but not boiling) than when put in cold. There are few articles in families more subject to waste, both in paring, boiling, and being actually thrown away, than potatoes; and there are few cooks but what boil twice as many potatoes every day as are wanted, and fewer still that do not throw the residue away as totally unfit in any shape for the next day’s meal; yet, if they would take the trouble to heat up the despised cold potatoes with an equal quantity of flour, they would find them produce a much lighter dumpling or pudding than they can make with flour alone, and by the aid of a few spoonfuls of good gravy they would produce an agreeable dish for the dinner table. To Boil Scrape and wash them, then split them in two (if very large, into four), and cut them across; they require long boiling to make them soft. Parsnips are dressed in the same manner. When cold, they are very nice cut in slices and fried. Cucumber.—who are at all afraid of eating cucumber may venture without danger, if, to the dressing of salt, soluble cayenne, oil, and vinegar, a table-spoonful of strong mustard be added. _ Jerusale7n Artichokes.—Scrape and wash them clean, and put them into boiling water with salt in it; large ones will require boiling for two hours. When done, take them up and butter them. Broccoli to Boil.—Pare off the side leaves and the outside of the stalk which must be cut close to the bottom. See that the water is boilimr' throw m a table-spoonful of salt, and let the heads boil for a quarter of an hour. When the stalks are tender, the vegetables are done, and436 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. they should be served without delay on a slice of toast, with a boatful of melted butter. Stewed Winter Spinach.—Boil and squeeze the vegetable; mix 3 oz. ot butter with a spoonful of salt and as much flour as it will hold; put this and the spinach into a stewpan, and stir it well for a quarter of an hour. Before serving, add a tea-cupful of cream, or of ved or beef gravy. This dish is applicable to any joint of roast meat. TO PRESERVE SOME VEGETABLES TO EAT IN WINTER. Store Onions keep best hung up in a dry, cold room. Carrots, etc.—Carrots, parsnips, and beetroots should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter use, and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. Potatoes should be carefully kept from frost. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks and dried in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven; it preserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. French Beans.—Pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them three inches deep, and sprinkle with salt and a layer of beans alternately, as high as you think proper. Do not put too much salt, or they will not be pleasant to the taste; lay over them a plate or cover of wood that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. When they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresh. Artichoke Bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags; and truffles, morels, lemon-peel, etc., in a dry place, ticketed. il/i'w/.—When mint is green and plentiful, cut it up fine and put it into empty pickle bottles; fill the bottles with vinegar, and cork closely; add the sugar when required for use. No one can tell it from that newly gathered. Spinach.—It should be quite fresh in the first place, and taken leaf by leaf from the stalks; by this means a peculiar vegetable fibre resembling hair, and constantly found on spinach beds, will be avoided. Wash the leaves in two or three large panfuls of water, drain through a colander, and then dry them well in a coarse cloth. Select a good-sized saucepan, put three table-spoonfuls of salt into the water; as soon as it boils clear away the scum, and then throw in the spinach, which, being light, will float on the surface, and will require to be forced into the water with a large fork or spoon. Ten minutes’ boiling is enough. Drain off the water, place the spinach between two wooden trenchers, and squeeze out as much water as possible; then chop it quite fine, after which give it another pressure with the trenchers. As it is essential to serve it to table quite hot, put it into a stewpan with tlieTHE PRESER VING OF VEGETABLES. 437 juice of a lemon squeezed over it, and half a tea-spoonful of salt. Let it be spread equally on a dish for serving, and divided into portions. Soluble Horseradish.—a stick of horseradish, and boil it in vinegar; when the liquor is strongly flavoured with the piquancy of the root, pour it upon salt. Many persons have been obliged to leave the table from the unpleasant fact of a long string of horseradish having become entangled in their teeth, and descending with the mouthful into the throat, but not going farther, and thus causing a sensation of suffocation. Such a trial of temper will be avoided by using the above preparation. To preserve Artichokes.—Having cut the tips of the leaves, boil the artichokes for five minutes, then set them bottom upwards; let them drain all night, put them in paper bags, and keep them in a dry place. Cabbages.—Small close cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine after many weeks’ keeping. Green Peas.—Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms only, and pour them into a colander. When the water drains off, turn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly; then put them in wide-mouthed bottles, leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick; and for the cork, rosin it down and keep it in the cellar, or dig a trench in a part of the garden less used, sufficiently deep for the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over to cover them a foot and a half. If a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from hardening so that they cannot be dug up. When wanted for use, boil them till tender with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way—^practised in the Russian Emperor’s kitchen :—Shell, scald, and dry them as above; put them on tins or earthen dishes (in a cool oven) once or twice to harden; keep them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. ^ Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Artichokes. Boil them till tender, let them drain, and serve them with melted butter. They must be well washed and soaked before cooking. Preserving Peas Green for Winter Carefully shell the peas, then put them in the canisters, not too large ones; put in a small piece of alum, about the size of a horse-bean, to a pint ot peas. When the camster is full of peas, fill up the interstices with water, and solder on the hd perfectly air-tight, and boil the canisters for about twenty minutes; then remove them to a cool place, and they will be found in^38 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. January but little inferior to fresh, newly-gathered peas. Potting is not so good; at least, we have found it so. The air gets in, the liquid turns sour, and the peas acquire a bad taste. Onions.—Select the white kind, pebl them, and put them into boiling milk with a little salt, and let them boil from half an hour to three- quarters. Drain them through a colander, and serve them with melted butter. French Beans for Winter use.—Throw them into boiling water for one minute, then into cold; drain them immediately,' and dry them separately and thoroughly in cloths. Put a layer of salt, about half an inch thick, in the bottom of a large earthen pan, then a layer of beans of about two inches thick, then salt as before, and bean, till the pan is filled, taking care to have the upper layer of salt. The pan should be covered down with a large slate, and kept in a dry place. When you require a dish, take out the quantity and fill the gap up with salt. Soak the beans all night and morning previous to dressing, and add a little sub-carbon of soda. Herbs for Winter use.—At this season you can procure the following herbs:—Knotted marjoram, winter savoury, summer savoury, thyme, lemon and orange thyme, chevril, and bumet. Let these be well dried, take the leaves from the stalks, and press them closely together; then wrap them in stout paper, having the name of each written on the outside. Herbs preserved in a compact form will retain their flavour for two or three years; but if merely kept in loose bundles, as is the usual method, they soon lose their fragrance. Orange and elder flowers may be preserved in the same manner, though it is best to distil them whilst quite fresh. Basil is not in a state for drying till tire latter er.d of Augustr SALADS. * IViU please you taste of what is here.'—ShakspeARE. Where salads are much in request, it is a good plan to bottle off sufficient ‘ dressing ’ for a few days’ consumption ; but the salad should not be made long before it is wanted for table. The dressing will re- main good for four or five days if kept in a cool place. Beetroot as a Wmter Salad.—It is extremely good, boiled and sliced with a small quantity of onion, or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follows ; Boil the beet tender with the skin on ; slice it into a stewpan with a little broth and a spoonful of vinegar. Simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour, then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender; take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or roast 3 large onions, and peel off the outer skin till they look clear, and serve the beetroot strewed round them. If beetroot is in the least broken before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Chicken Salad.—Neatly trim the remains of a cold roast or boiled fowl or chicken; wash dry, and slice the lettuces, and place them in the middle of the dish, with a little endive. Put the pieces of chicken at top, and pour salad dressing over them. Garnish the edge of the salad with hard-boiled eggs cut in rings, sliced cucumber, and boiled beetroot cut in slices; or, if arranged nicely, the yolks of the eggs (instead of cutting them in rings) may be rubbed through a hair sieve, and the whites chopped very finely, placing the yellow and white alter- nately m small bunches on the salad. To be made just before wanted for table. Co^s/ifs and Creatn Salad.—Yia\m\ a small bowl with the petals only (removed from the calyx) of fresh-blown and fresh-gathered cow- slips; cover them with thick cream, well flavoured with sugar and440 miNGS A LADY WOULD LILCE TO ENOW. orange-flower water, and you will have a delicious accompaniment to eat with a crust of bread or common cake. An Excellent Herring Salad {Swedish Recipe).—Soak, skin, split, and bone a large Norway herring; lay the two sides along a dish, and slice them slopingly (or substitute for this one or two fine Dutch herrings). Arrange in symmetrical order over the fish slices of cooked beetroot, cold boiled potatoes, and pickled gherkins; then add i or 2 sharp apples chopped small, and the yolks and whites, separately minced, of some hard-boiled eggs, with anything else which may be at hand, and may serve to vary tastefully the decoration of the dish. Place these ingredients in small heaps of well-contrasting colours on the surface of the salad, and lay a border of curled celery leaves or parsley round the bowl. For sauce, rub the yolk of one hard-boiled egg quite smooth with some salt; to this add oil and vinegar as for an ordinary salad, and dilute the whole with some thick, sour cream. About \ lb. of cold beef cut into small thin shavings or collops is often added to a herring salad abroad : it may be either of simply roasted or boiled, or of salted and smoked meat. Lettuce and Cream Salad.—Season the lettuce with vinegar, salt, pepper, and pounded sugar, all in sparing quantity. Then pour over it the thickest cream you can get, and mix it well in the bowl. This salad should be eaten directly it is dressed. The gos-lettuces are the best for it. Lobster Salad, and Dressing for ditto.—Best from April to October. —For the salad, i hen lobster, endive, lettuces, whatever small salad is in season, a few slices of cucumber, a little chopped beetroot, and 2 hard-boiled eggs. Wash the salad, and shake it in a cloth till thoroughly dry; break up the lettuces and endive ; pour the dressing on them, and lightly throw in the small salad. Mix all well together with the pickings from the body of the lobster; pick the meat from the shell; cut it up into nice square pieces; put half in the salad, and reserve half for garnishing. Separate the yolks from the whites of the 2 eggs; chop the whites very fine ; rub the yolks through a sieve, and afterw^ds the coral from the inside. Arrange the salad lightly on a glass dish, and garnish, first with a row of sliced cucumber, then with the pieces of lobster, the yolks and whites of the eggs, coral, and beetroot placed alternately, and arranged in small separate bunches, so that the colours contrast nicely. A tew crayfish make' a pretty garnishing to lobster salad. For dressing, to form a creamy-looking sauce, use 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, 4 table-spoonfuls of oil, i tea-spoonful of made mustard, a quarter of a tea-spoonful of anchovy sauce, the yolks of 2 eggs, cayenne, and salt to taste ; to be mixed together till perfectly smooth.441 RECEIPTS FOR SALADS. Pod's Receipt for Salad.— ‘ Two large potatoes, passed through kitchen sieve, Unwonted softness to the salad give ; Of mordent mustard, add a single spoon. Distrust the condiment that bites too soon ; But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault. To add a double quantity of salt; Three times the spoon with oil of Lucca crown, And once with vinegar, procured from town; True flavour needs it, and your poet begs The pounded yellow of two well-boiled eggs ; Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole; And, lastly, in the flavoured compound toss A magic tea-spoon of anchovy sauce; Then, though green turtle fail, tho’ venison’s tough, And ham and turkey are not boiled enough. Serenely full, the epicure may say : Fate cannot harm me—I have dined to-day.’ —Rev. Sydney Smith. An Excellent Salad of Young Vegetables.—Pare off the coarse fibrous parts from 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms, boiled quite tender, well drained, and freed carefully from the insides; cut them into quarters, and lay them in the salad-bowl; arrange over them some cold new potatoes and young carrots sliced moderately thin; strew minced tarragon, chervil, or any other herbs which may be better liked, thickly over the surface, and sauce the salad with an English or French dressing just before it is sent to table. Very young French beans, cut into short lozenge-shaped lengths, or asparagus points, can be added to this dish at pleasure; or small tufts of cauliflower placed round it. When these are put, the herbs may be omitted. A little of the liquor of pickled Indian mangoes is an improvement; or, in lieu of it, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne pepper. Walnut Salad.—This is a common summer salad in France, where the growth of walnuts is generally abundant, but is not much served in England, though the sweet flavour of the just-formed nut is very agree- able. Take the walnuts when a pin will pierce them easily; pare Siem down to the kernels, and toss them gently, just before they are served, m a French or English salad dressing (the former would generally be preferred, we think), and turn them into the salad-bowl tor table. Water-cress Salad.—These are best before the frosts have touched them. It IS not usual to mix anything else witli them hut only to have449 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. a dressing of plenty of oil, little vinegar, salt to taste, no mustard or pepper. This salad is nice garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters, picked shrimps or prawns, anchovy fillets in oil cut into strips, and capers or gherkins cut into slices. Whiter Salad.—Nearly fill the salad-bowl with rounds of beetroot, slices of celery, rampion roots with their plume of blanched leaves, and boiled potatoes. Place a dish on the salad-bowl; turn the la tter topsy-turvy, and put into it a hard yolk of egg for every two persons; crush them in oil till they form a paste. To this paste add chervil, crushed tunny (which may be bought preserved in bottles), pounded anchovies, some of Maille’s mustard, a large spoonful of soy, gherkins cut in slices, and the whites of the hard eggs chopped in pieces, and moisten the whole with some of the very best vinegar. Then re >tore the salad to the bowl, stirring it thoroughly. When well stirred, let fall on it a pinch of powdered Hungarian capsicum, or the smallest quantity of cayenne. Winter Salad.—From the end of September to March.—En iive, boiled beetroot, mustard and cress, celery, and 3 or 4 hard-boiled eggs form the chief ingredients of a winter salad; and if the colours are nicely contrasted, and it is tastefully garnished, it may be converted into a very pretty dish. The celery must be most carefully washed, anc all worm-eaten pieces cut away, and shred into thin pieces; the mus tard and cress and endive well cleansed and placed high in the centre of the dish or salad-bowl, garnished with the eggs and beetroot, each cut in slices; then pour some salad-dressing into the dish, but not over the salad. The sauce may be prepared beforehand, but the salad losec its freshness and pretty appearance if made long before it is wanted.443 SAUCES. ‘Sweet were the sauce would please each kind of taste.'—SiR Walter Raleirh. American Sauce.—Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in a gill of brandy; beat 3 oz. of fresh butter to cream ; mix them together, and beat till smooth. Attchovy Sauce.—This quantity is sufficient for 2 soles, a brill, and small turbot, etc.:—Bone 4 anchovies, and pound them in a mortar to a paste with i oz. of butter. Make ^ pint of melted butter hot; stir the pounded anchovies, adding cayenne to the taste; simmer three or four minutes, and, if liked, add a squeeze of lemon-juice. Another and a quicker way of making this sauce, is to stir in table-spoonfuls of anchovy essence to -g a pint of melted butter, and to add seasoning to taste j then boil the whole one minute, and serve hot. Apple Sauce for Goose and Roast Pork.—Pare, core, and slice some apples, and throw them into cold water to preserve their whiteness ; take them out, and put them into a saucepan with only water sufficient to hinder them from burning, and to moisten them. When soft enough to pulp, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, and brown sugar to the taste. Serve in a sauce tureen. Artichoke or Turnip Sauce for Boiled Meat (excellent).—Ingredients : Pared artichokes or turnips, i lb.; fresh butter, oz.; flour, i large tea-spoonful (twice as much if all milk be used) ; salt, i a tea-spoonful or more; cream, or cream and milk mixed, from | to i pint. Pare, slice, and boil quite tender some finely-grained mild turnips • press the water from them thoroughly, and pass them through a sieve.' Dissolve a slice of butter in a clean saucepan, and stir to it a large tea- spoonful of flour, or mix them smoothly together before they are put in, and shake the saucepan round until they boil. Pour to them very gradually nearly a pint of thin cream (or of good milk mixed with a portion of cream); add the turnips, with a half tea-spoonful or more of444 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. salt, and when the whole is well mixed and very hot, pour it over boiled mutton, veal, lamb, or poultry. Sufficient sauce should be made for some to be served very hot in a tureen, and the remainder poured over the meat, so as to cover it entirely; and when properly made, it greatly improves the appearance of a joint A little cayenne, tied in a muslin, may be boiled in the milk before it is mixed with the vegetables. Jerusalem artichokes make a more delicate sauce than turnips. The weight of both vegetables must be taken after they are pared. Asparagus Sauce.—Cut the green tender points of some young aspa- ragus into half-inch lengths, or into the size of peas only; wash them well, then drain, and throw them into plenty of boiling salt and water. When they are quite tender, which may be in from ten to fifteen minutes, turn them into a hot strainer and drain the water thoroughly from them ; put them at the instant of serving into ^ a pint of thickened veal gravy, mixed with the yolks of 2 eggs, and well-seasoned with salt and cayenne or white pepper, or into ^ a pint of good melted butter ; add to this last a squeeze of lemon-juice. The asparagus will become yellow if reboiled, or if left long in the sauce before served. Bechamel or White Sauce.—^Take an equal quantity (say a pint of each) of good cream and of strong pale veal gravy, and, by rapid boiling over a clear fire, reduce to nearly half; mix a table-spoonful of fine dry flour, to pour to the remainder when it nearly bods. If it boils, it will curdle, or burn, and must be done over a slow fire. Then add the gravy; stir and mix the sauce perfectly, and simmer for a few minutes longer. French cooks boil a few green onions, some branches of parsley, and a handful of mushrooms in the gravy before it is reduced, as all the flavour should be in the gravy. Benton Sauce (for hot or cold roast beef).—Grate or scrape some horseradish very fine; add a little made mustard, some white sugar pounded, and 4 large spoonfuls of vinegar. Bread Sauce.—Put into a bright saucepan 3 oz. of stale crumbs of bread, 2 cloves, 2 allspice, a ^ of an inch of mace, 3 peppercorns, an onion, ^ a salt-spoonful of salt, and f of a pint of new milk ; boil gently, and stir constantly for twenty minutes, then rub through a fine sieve; put it back into the saucepan, and stir in either 2 table-spoonfuls of thick cream or an oz. of fresh butter. Serve in a tureen. Melted Butter.—Mix, in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to 4 oz. of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water; boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Caper Sauce for Fish.—To 6 spoonfuls of strong veal gravy or jelly, add ^ a pint of rich melted butter, a table-spoonful of essence of445 RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. anchovies, some Chili vinegar, or cayenne, and from 2 to 3 table- spoonfuls of capers. When there is no gravy at hand, substitute a wine-glassful of mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s sauce, though these deepen the colour rather too much. To keep capers, add fresh vinegar that has been scalded and become cold, and tie them close to keep out the air, which makes them soft. Caper Sauce for Boiled Mutton.—3 or 4 good dessert-spoonfuls of capers into the third of a pint of good melted butter made very smoothly with milk; add about a table-spoonful of their liquor, or a little Chili vinegar; keep stirring it constantly; let the sauce just simmer. Some chop the capers once or twice. For a large joint, in- crease the quantity of butter to a pint. Pickled nasturtium pods are fine-flavoured, and by many are preferred to the capers. Cherry Sauce (delicious for boiled batter, or other sweet puddings). From June to August.—Stone i lb. of cherries, and pound the kernels to a smooth paste in a mortar; put i oz. of butter and a table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan. Stir them over the fire till of a pale brown, then add ^ pint of water, i wine-glassful of port wine to the cherries and pounded kernels. Simmer these gently till the cherries are quite cooked (this will be in about a quarter of an hour); rub the whole through a hair sieve ; then add 2 table-spoonfuls of lemon-juice, a little grated lemon-rind, 4 pounded cloves, and sugar to taste; boil the sauce for another five minutes, and pour over the pudding. Chestnut Sauce for Turkey or Fowls.—Peel off the outside skin of ■§• a lb. of chestnuts; put them for a few minutes into boiling water; take off the thin inside peel, and put them into a saucepan with 2 strips of lemon-peel and | pint of stock; simmer them about an hour and a half, till the chestnuts are quite tender. With a wooden spoon rub the whole through a hair sieve; add \ pint of cream or milk, with cayenne to taste. Then (do not boil) just let it simmer, stirring all the time ; serve very hot and quickly. A smaller quantity of thickening may be required, if milk is used instead of cream, according to the taste. Egg Sauce (very good for salt fish).—Boil 4 fresh eggs for quite fifteen minutes, then lay them into plenty of fresh water, and let them remain till they are perfectly cold. Break the shells by rolling them on a table, take them off, separate the whites from the yolks, and divide all of the latter into I inch dice; mince 2 of the whites tolerably small, mix them lightly, and stir them into the third of a pint of rich melted butter, or of white sauce. Salt as required; serve the whole as hot as possible. Add a little lemon-juice, if liked. Fennel Sauce for boiled Mackerel.—Dip a bunch of fennel into boilin«» salt and water, and boil for two minutes, squeeze out the water, and446 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. chop the fennel quite fine (leaving out the stalks); knead 3 oz. of butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into ^ a pint of boiling water. Boil ten minutes; stir in a table-spoonful of the chopped fennel, and serve at once. EisA Sauce for Fried Salmon.—Boil 5 eggs for twelve minutes, and when cold, pound the yolks to powder; mix in a tea-spoonful of flour of mustard, a ^ of a grain of cayenne, and a salt-spoonful of salt; beat the yolks of 2 fresh eggs, and stir in till quite smooth (always turning the same way); then add 7 table-spoonfuls, drop by drop, of the finest salad (Lucca) oil, 3 table-spoonfuls of French vinegar, and 3 tea-spoon- fuls of tarragon vinegar; set the mortar in a cold place, or on ice, for an hour ; then stir in a tea-spoonful of finely-chopped chives or shalot, and pour in the centre of the dish. This sauce requires care, and should be made half an hour before the fish is commenced; it must be of the consistency of very thick cream and perfectly smooth. Fish Sauce.—A gill of India soy, a wine-glassful of shalot vinegar, \ a pint of mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup in equal proportions, the juice of a lemon, and its peel chopped very fine, a couple of anchovies boned, 2 tea-spoonfuls of soluble cayenne pepper, a table-spoonful of horseradish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. Let all these be put into a bottle and corked down close; place it where it will be con- stantly seen, and whenever opportunity arises, give the bottle a good hearty shaking, but do not think of using the contents till they have been at least a month mixing; you may then fill small sauce bottles with the mixture, strained. If fowls are of a bad colour, make a sauce as follows :—Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley, and hard eggs; add salt, and mix them with butter j boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do also for roast rabbits. Sauce for Wild Fowl.—Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, pepper, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a bit of mace for ten minutes; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. Fruit Sauce for Puddings.—Half a pint of any kind of summer fruit, a ^ lb. of loaf sugar, and a wine-glassful of water; boil and skim till the juice is a rich syrup, then strain it over the pudding; jam or jelly may be dissolved and strained when fresh fruit is not to be had. Christopher North's Sauce for Game or Meat (excellent). — !Mix thoroughly together 2 table-spoonfuls of Harvey’s sauce, i glass of port wine, I dessert-spoonful of pounded white sugar, i dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, i table-spoonful of lemon-juice, half a tea-spoonful of salt, half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Place the vessel in which it is made in a saucepan of boiling water, and heat the sauce447 RECEIPTS TOR SAUCES. gradually. Do not let it boil, and serve directly it is ready; or if bottled immediately, it will keep good for a fortnight. German Pudding Sauce (a delicious).—Dissolve from 3 to 4 oz. of fine sugar in half a pint of Madeira or sherry, but do not let the wine boil \ stir it hot to the well-beaten yolks of 6 fresh eggs, and mill or whisk the sauce over a gentle fire until it is well-thickened and highly frothed. Pour it over a plum, or any kind of s (veet boiled pudding, of which it much improves the appearance. Half the quantity is sufficient for one of moderate size. The addition of a dessert-spoonful of strained lemon-juice to the wine is a great improvement. Note.—The Germans use a small mill—like a chocolate mill—to froth their sauces. It may be had at a very trifling cost; or, on an emergency, 2 silver forks fastened together at the handles may be used instead. Care must be taken that these sauces do not curdle. It is safer to put any preparations of this kind into a white jar, placed over the fire in a pan of boiling water, and to stir {one way) or mill it till sufficiently thickened. The jar should not be half filled, and be large enough to allow the sauce to be worked easily. The water should not reach to within two or three inches of the brim. A German Sauce.—This is a general favourite for made dishes. Put ^ pint of sauce tournee into a stewpan, heat it, and stir to it the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, which have been' previously strained. Let it just simmer, but not boil, or the eggs will curdle; and after they are added to the sauce, stir one way without ceasing. This sauce is used for many made dishes. Gooseberry Sauce for a large Dish of Boiled Mackerel.—May to July.— Boil till tender a pint of green gooseberries in water, then strain and rub them through a sieve (they should boil from twenty minutes to half an hour); put 3 table-spoonfuls of Bechamel (or good veal gravy) and 2 oz. of fresh butter into a saucepan, with pepper, grated nutmeg, and salt to taste; mix all these well together with the pulp of the goose- berries, and heat gradually through. It is considered an improvement to add a little pounded sugar to this sauce. Green Sauce for Ducklings or Green Geese.—From June to August.— Boil half a pint of green gooseberries in water until quite tender; mash and press them through a sieve; put the pulp into a saucepan with i tea-spoonful of pounded sugar, pint of sorrel juice, i oz. of fresh butter, I glass of sherry. Simmer for three or four minutes, and serve very hot. Horseradish Grate very small a stick of young horseradish; then, with a couple of table-spoonfuls of it, mix a small tea-spoonful of salt^ and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream ; stir it briskly, and add by degrees a wine-glassful of vinegar. Excellent to serve with cold roast beef.448 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Lemo7t Sauce for Puddings.—Rub the rind of 2 lemons with 3 oz. of loaf sugar to imbibe the essence. Put the sugar into a saucepan with a wine-glassful of gin, a wine-glassful of water, and the juice of the lemons, and boil till in a syrup. Then serve quite hot Lobster Sauce for Sahnon, Turbot, Brill, etc.—Pick the meat from the shells of a hen lobster, and cut it into small square pieces; put the spawn (which will be found under the tail of the fish) into a mortar with ^ oz. of butter, and pound it quite smooth; rub it through a hair sieve, and cover up till wanted. Put | of a pint of melted butter; put in all the ingredients except the lobster meat, and well-mix the sauce before the lobster is added to it, as it should retain its square form, and not come to table shredded and ragged. Put in the meat to get thoroughly hot, but not to boil, as the colour would be spoiled, and this sauce should always have a bright red appearance. If it is intended to be served with turbot or brill, a little of the spawn (dried and rubbed through a sieve without butter) should be saved to garnish with; very little must be used, as the flavour and goodness of this sauce much depends on having a proper quantity of spawn. The melted butter should be seasoned with salt and cayenne to taste, a little pounded mace (if hked), a table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream: the latter may be omitted if economy is desired, and the remains of a lobster may be used with care. Melted butter made with milk answers very well, and makes the sauce a nice white colour. Lobster Sauce for Boiled Turbot, etc.—It is almost indispensable that you procure a hen lobster in order to make this sauce as good as it should be. Take the meat out of the tail and claws of a fine fresh-boiled hen lobster; cut it into pieces the third of an inch square. Break up the head and shell, bruise a salt-spoonful of live spawn, put them into a saucepan with a pint of water and a blade of mace, and boil for twenty minutes. Strain through a fine sieve; put the liquor into a saucepaa Knead 6 oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour, and stir in. Boil a quarter of an hour; add the pieces of lobster and a dessert- spoonful of strained lemon-juice. Boil five minutes more. Stir in a wine-glassful of thick cream, and serve. This is sufficient for a turbot weighing 8 or 9 lbs. Maitre d' Hotel {Hot) Sauce, for Calf's Head, boiled Eels, and different Pish.—Ingredients : One slice of minced ham, a few poultry trimmings, I clove of garlic, i bay leaf, 2 shalots, f of a pint of water, 2 oz. of butter, I dessert-spoonful of flour, i heaped table-spoonful of chopped parslej, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste, the juice of a large lemon, ^ tea- spoonful of pounded sugar. Put the minced ham at the bottom of the stewpan, and over it the poultry trimmings or veal (if they are not at hand), with the garlic, shalots, and bay leaf. Pour in the water, and let449 RECEIPTS FOR SA UCES. the whole simmer gently for one hour, or till the liquor is reduced to a full ^ pint. Then stir the gravy; put it in another saucepan; make a thickening of butter and flour, and stir it to the gravy over a nice clear fire until rather thick, but perfectly smooth, care being taken that the butter does not float on the surface. Skim well; add the other ingredients; then do not boil, but gradually heat the sauce. If this sauce is intended for an efiires, it must be of sufficient thickness to adhere to what it is meant to cover. Maih-e THotel, French. — Make a thickening with a small table- spoonful of flour and 2 oz. of butter. Keep these stirred constantly for nearly fifteen minutes; then add -i a pint of pale, rich veal gravy to them boiling, in small portions, mixing up well as it is added, and letting it boil up between each; if this is not done, the butter will be likely to float upon the surface. Simmer the sauce for a few minutes. Skim it well; then add pepper, 2 or 3 tea-spoonfuls of minced parsley, the strained juice of i lemon, salt it required. For some dishes this sauce is thickened with about 4 yolks of eggs to the pint. The French generally work a small bit of butter into their sauce before taking from the fire, to give them mellowness. Mint Sauce.—Pick and wash fresh leaves of mint, and chop them finely. To every table-spoonful of chopped mint allow a tea-spoonful of fine raw sugar; mix the mint and the sugar very thoroughly, and then just moisten with vinegar, and let it stand for about an hour. Just before sending to table add as much vinegar as will make the sauce of an agreeable consistence. Note.—Loaf sugar is used, but good raw answers quite as well, and to many tastes is preferable. Mushroom Ketchup.—Carefully examine the lot of mushrooms, and remove any that are unsoimd or have the worm; pluck out the stalks, and place the mushrooms selected for use in a deep dish, with their tops downwards; strew a liberal handful of salt over them. In two hours you will perceive a quantity of dark-coloured liquid at the bottom of the dish, and the brown interior of the fungus undergoing a rapid dissolu- tion; with a silver dessert spoon remove the interior from its leathern top, throwing away the latter. As soon as you have completed this, add a tea-spoonful of soluble cayenne, half a dozen allspice, and boil the liquor till you have thoroughly dissolved all the mushrooms. Strain and bottle for use. Nonpareil Sauce.—Vnt i pint of tomato juice into a stewpan; have ready three large apples and 4 large onions baked; break them up, and add them to the liquor, with 4 pint of walnut vinegar, | of mushroom ketchup, 4 pmt onion vinegar, and pint of plain vinegar. Grate 2 nutmegs; mix with J tea-spoonful cayenne, 2 tea-spoonfuls of salt • of 2 F ^450 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW ground mustard and curry powder, each 2 table-spoonfuls, the same of anchovy sauce, 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar, and i green capsicum finely chopped. Mix all these well, and add to the contents of the stewpan. Boil slowly, keeping it stirred for half an hour; mash through a hair sieve, and when cold, bottle for use. If well made and closely corked, this sauce will keep for an indefinite time, and be found a capital relish for cold meat, as well as an excellent flavouring for gravies. Onion Sauce.—Peel, and cut in four, 6 good-sized onions, and boil them till tender with i turnip. Strain and chop the onions (the turnip is only used to make the onions milder). Press them through a sieve, and boil up in a pint of melted butter, made with milk instead of water. Orange Sauce for Diplomatic Pudding.—Dissolve 3 oz. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 2 oranges; boil till it becomes a thick syrup, then add 2 table-spoonfuls of rum. Serve in the dish. Oyster Sauce.—Beard the oysters, and stew them in their own liquor, with enough mace to cover the point of a knife. Beat up the yolk of an egg in melted butter, and then add the oysters and liquor. White Oyster Sauce.—Rub 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a piece of butter the size of an egg; melt these gently in a stewpan, and add | of a pint of stock to thicken, with \ a spoonful of salt, the juice of ^ a lemon, and a gill of cream. The oysters should be bearded and stewed in their own liquor separately; when the sauce is as thick as melted butter, add the fish, and stir them together. This is applicable for boiled turkey, fowl, or cod-fish. Parisian Sauce for Parisian Pudding.—Beat the yolks of 3 fresh eggs; add 2 oz. of sifted loaf sugar and ^ a pint of Marsala; stir over a slow fire till it thickens; add | gill of cream stirred in by degrees. Serve directly. Parsley, a good substitute for Caper Sauce.—Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad colour; cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and serve in a tureen. Piquante Sauce.—Tut 2 oz. of butter into a stewpan, with 6 shalots and I small carrot, both cut into small slices. Add to it, minced rather finely, 2 slices of lean ham, i small bunch of savour}' herbs and parsley, ^ a bay leaf, 2 cloves, i blade mace, 3 whole allspice, 6 pepper-corns, and let them simmer over a slow fire till the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brown glaze. Keep stirring with a wooden spoon, and add ^ a pint of stock, 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, some salt, ^ salt-spoonful of cayenne, i small lump of sugar. Simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour; skim off all fat; strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve very hot.RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. 451 Tlie quantity of vinegar (whether less or more) must be decided by the taste, as the sauce, though it should be sharp, must not be too acid. Plum Pudding Sauce.—Two oz. very good butter, i wine-glassful of brandy, i of Madeira, and pounded sugar to taste. Put in a basin the pounded sugar with part of the brandy and the butter; let it stand till dissolved, then add the rest of the brandy and the Madeira. Serve in a tureen, or pour it over the pudding. Rimolade.—Chop very fine a shalot and 4 or 5 sprigs of parsley. Beat up, quickly, the yolks of a couple of eggs, and on them pour Florence oil till the mixture be as thick as new butter. Add a tea-spoonful of French vinegar, a salt-spoonful of salt, another of soluble cayenne, and then stir in the shalot and parsley. You will find your trouble well rewarded. Sago Sauce, delicious for various Puddings, as Bread, Raisins, Rice, —Ingredients : One table-spoonful of sago, 1 pint of water, ^ pint of port or sherry, the rind and juice of i small lemon, sugar to taste, a little pounded cinnamon, when the flavour is liked. Mode.—Wash the sago in 2 or 3 waters, then put it into a saucepan with the water and lemon-peel; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire for ten minutes, then take out the lemon peel, add the remaining ingredients, give one boil, and serve. Be particular to strain the lemon- juice before adding it to the sauce. Shrimp Sauce.—The flavour of this is much improved by boiling the shells and pea, after the fish have been picked, straining the water off, and using it with an equal proportion of milk, to warm up the butter and flour. The shrimps will require only two minutes on the fire. Spice Mixture, delicious for Steaks, Chops, or Gravies.—Pound the following ingredients, mix them and blend thoroughly together Three drachms of black pepper, 3 drachms of ginger, 3 drachms of cinnamon, ^ oz. of cayenne, ^ oz. of mace, 7 cloves, i oz. of grated nutmeg, i-^ oz. of white pepper. The quantity of cayenne may be increased according to the taste. Put all into a very dry bottle for use. The Indian receipt for Curry Powder.—One oz. of coriander seed, i oz. of poppy seed, i oz. of turmeric, | oz. of ginger, \ a drachm’of cinnamon, 8 grains of mustard seed, | oz. of red chillies. Pound all the above ingredients to a fine powder j put them into a bottle corked closely down. Pa,rsley Fried for gamishing.-^nsh, pick, and dry some youna parsley thoroughly m a cloth, and if you have not a ‘ wire basket ’ for i? throw It into a frying-pan with boiling lard or clarified dripping, and when crisp, take it out with a slice; dry it before the fire : it will be ready for use when thoroughly crisp. ^ eood).-WelI-p„u„d and mix the following ingredients together, and place in the sun, or before the452 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. fire, stirring it frequently:—Four oz. of cumming seed, 4 oz. of Jamaica ginger, 4 oz. of black pepper, 1 lb. of pale turmeric seed, 8 oz. of coriander seed, 10 oz. of carraway seed, ^ oz. of cardamoms, 2 oz. of cayenne pepper. A Store Sauce.—Pound some green walnuts in a mortar, squeeze out the juice through a strainer, and let it stand to settle. Pour off the clear juice, and to every pint of it add i lb. of anchovies, i drachm of cloves, I drachm of Jamaica ginger bruised, i drachm of mace. Boil all these till the anchovies are dissolved, then strain the juice again; put in 8 shalots to every pint, and boil again. To every pint of the boiled liquor add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, a pint of vinegar, and ^ a pint of port wine, and bottle for use. Cork tightly, and seal the corks. Store Sauce.—Boil the following ingredients gently for about half an hour:—One pint of vinegar, i table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, 2 table-spoonfuls of soy, ^ an oz. of cayenne pepper, 5 cloves of garlic. Strain and bottle. Superlative Mixture for Stews, etc., and Gravies.—Mix the following ingredients well together, then bottle and cork it closely ; keep it in a warm closet for three weeks before using. The longer it is kept the better shake the bottle before using. Ingredients :—One quart of mush- room ketchup, I pint of port wine, 6 pickled walnuts, a table-spoonful of horseradish finely grated, a table-spoonful of curry powder, a salt- spoonful of celery seed pounded, a salt-spoonful of cayenne, i oz. of garlic, I oz. of anchovies pounded, | a pint of soy, the grated rind of i and the strained juice of 3 lemons, the fourth part of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of yellow mustard-seed, a tea-spoonful of ground ginger. Sweet Sauce, for Puddmgs, Bread, Rice, or Batter, Make | a pint of melted butter with milk (omit the salt in the butter); stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of pounded sugar; add nutmeg, powdered cinnamon, or lemon rind grated. Previous to making the melted butter, about 12 bitter almonds may be infused into the milk for half an hour, tlien strained, and added to the other ingredients. Sweet Sauce, for Venison.—Y\s\. into a stewpan i glass of port wine, and red currant jelly (a small pot of); set them over the fire to melt, but not boil; pour in a tureen, and then serve. Tomato Sauce, for keeping.—To 12 tomatoes allow 2 tea-spoonfuls of the best powdered ginger, i dessert-spoonful of salt, i head of garlic chopped fine, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, i dessert-spoonful of Chili vinegar. Choose ripe tomatoes; put them into a stone jar, and stand them in a cool oven till quite tender. When cold, take the skins and stalks from them; mix the pulp with the liquor which is m the jar, but do not strain it; add all the other ingredients ; mix well together, and put it into well-sealed bottles. It will be kept good for years if stored453 RECEIPTS FOR SAUCES. away in a cool, dry place. It is ready for use when made, but is of a better flavour after a week or two. For immediate use, the skins should be put into a wide-mouthed bottle, with a little of the different ingredients, and will be nice for stews or hashes. Should it not appear to keep, turn it out, and boil it up with a little additional cayenne and ginger. Sauce Tournie.—Ingredients : One pint of white stock, thickening of flour and butter, a faggot of savoury herbs, including parsley, 6 chopped mushrooms, 6 green onions. Put the stock into a stewpan, with the herbs, onions, and mushrooms, and let it simmer very gently for about half an hour; stir in sufficient thickening to make it of a proper con- sistency ; let it boil for a few minutes; skim off all the fat; strain and serve. A little cream is considered by some to be an agreeable addition. Vanilla Sauce, for Puddings.—Stir well together 2 eggs well beaten in ^ a pint of milk and 2 oz. of sugar, and flavour with 10 drops of vanilla, or according to the size of the eggs or the strength of the essence. Then put all into a small jug placed in a saucepan of boiling water, and stir the sauce till it thickens, about eight to ten minutes; it will curdle if allowed to boil, and must be stirred one way. This sauce is nice for plum, bread, or any dry pudding, and is served separately in a tureen. The flavouring for this sauce may be varied, according to the ingredients in the pudding with which it is served. Walnut Ketchup (very fine).—Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in 2 lbs. of anchovies, bones and liquor, 2 lbs. of shalots, i oz. of cloves, i oz. of mace, 1 oz. of pepper, and i clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink, then put the liquor into a pan till cold; bottle, and share the spice with each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep tvyenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home ; the bought is rarely unadulterated. (Some make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe, about September ; but neither the flavour nor colour is then so fine.) Procure the walnuts at the time when you can run a pin through them; this is about the beginning to the middle of July. White Sauce. Boil ^ a pint of new milk with half an inch of mace and two inches of thin peel of a lemon. Beat the yolks of 2 fresh ego-s with a gill of good cream. Strain the milk, and beat it by degrees into the eggs; then put the sauce into an enamelled saucepan, and stir over a gentle heat till it thickens. Serve immediately. Or, knead 3 oz. 01 fresh butter with a table-spoonful of baked flour, and stir into \ a pint of boiling milk. Boil ten minutes; add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and454 PICKLING. ‘ Here you have that which in itself is good, made better by storing of it.'—Fuller. Always use stone jars, as vinegar and salt will penetrate through earthenware. Use the best vinegar. Never put in the hand to take pickles out of the jar, but use a wooden spoon with little holes bored through it. If you take out more pickle than you require to use, do not put what is left back into the jar, and be careful to keep grease from your pickles. Keep the jar securely covered. The glazing on earthen jars is made from lead or arsenic, from which vinegar draws forth poison. Keep pickles in a dry place. To pickle Red Cabbage.—(July and August; best when the frost has touched the leaves.)—Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days; then put it into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beetroot. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar \ the propor- tion to each quart of vinegar will be i oz. of whole black pepper, -i oz. of ginger well bruised, and, if liked, a little cayenne. A little bruised cochineal boiled with the vinegar adds to the appearance; or cauli- flower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage, seasonable in July and August; but the pickle will be more crisp if the frost has touched the leaves. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place. To Pickle Young Cucumbers.—Choose young gherkins; spread them on dishes ; salt them, and let them lie a week ; drain them, and, putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine leaves. If they do not become a tc.erable good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and, when it boils, pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves ; and thus do till they are as good a colour as you wish. Seasonable from June to August.455 THE ART OF PICKLING. Indian Pickle.—Lay a lb. of white ginger in water one night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a lb. of garlic three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus:—Quarter small white cabbages ; salt three days, squeeze, and set them in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in the branches ; cut off the green from radishes ; cut celery in three- inch lengths; cut young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter, over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be used. Put the spice, garlic, of a lb. of mustard-seed, and as much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large stone jar, and i oz. of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables should be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions :—Put some of them into a 2-quart stone jar, and pour over them i quart of boiling vinegar. Next day, take out those vegetables, and, when drained, put them into a large stock-jar, and, boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vegetables; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed, till each set is cleansed from the dust which has fallen on them by being so long doing; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should be scalded, but set to be cool before put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the preparative’vinegar; then pour the vinegar that has the spice and garlic boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. Mixed Fickle.—{Tht pickle-liquor to be made in May or June.)— Have a large jar (with a tightly-fitting lid), in which put as much vinegar as required, reserving a little to mix the various powders to a smooth paste. Put into a basin the mustard, turmeric, pepper, and cayenne j mix them with vinegar, and stir well till no lumps remain j add all the ingredients to the vinegar, and mix well. Keep this liquor in a warm place, and thoroughly stir every morning for a month with a wooden spoon, when it will be ready for the different vegetables to be added to it. As these come into season, have them gathered on a dry day and put into the pickle, after wiping them with a dry cloth to free them from moisture. The cauliflowers must be divided into small456 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. bunches. Put all these into the pickle raw, and at the end of the season, when as many vegetables have been added as could be pro- cured, store it away in jars, and tie over with bladder. As none of the ingredients are boiled, this pickle will not be fit to eat for twelve months. Keep a wooden spoon tied to the jar, and stir its contents every morning while the pickle is being made. The proportions used to each gallon of vinegar are a ^ of a lb. of mustard, a of a lb. of bruised ginger, a i of a lb. of salt, 2 oz. of mustard-seed, oz. of turmeric, i oz. of ground black pepper, ^ of an oz. of cayenne; cauli- flowers, onions, celery, sliced cucumbers, gherkins, French beans, nastur- tiums, capsicums. Pickled Onions.—(Middle of July to end of August.)—In the month of September choose the small, white, round onions; take off the brown, skin; have a very nice tin stewpan of boiling water ready; throw in as many onions as will cover the top. As soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as quick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth; cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, or wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot, but not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off". They must look quite clear. The Reading onion is the best kind. Spanish Onions to Pickle.—(September to February.)—Put a layer of onions cut in thin slices in the bottom of a jar, then sprinkle with salt and cayenne; continue this till the jar is full, then pour in vinegar sufficient to cover the whole. In a month the pickle will be fit for use. Tie it tight down with a leather or bladder. A Pickle that can be used the same day it is made.—(August and Sep- tember.)—Slice sufficient onions of a medium size; sauce apples and cucumbers, an equal quantity of each, sufficient to fill a pint stone jar. Be particular to cut them in v-ery thin slices, then put them in alternate layers, with 3 tea-spoonfuls of cayenne and tea-spoonfuls of salt. Pour in soy and sherry, i wine-glassfal of each, and fill up with vinegar.457 SUMMER BEVERAGES, LIQUEURS, Etc. ‘ If thou wilt observe The rule ^NOT TOO much, by temperance taught In what thou eat'st and drink’st, seeking from them Due nourishment, not gluUonotis delight. Till many years over thy head return : So mayst thou live, till like ripe fruit thou drop Into thy mothers lap ; or be with ease Gather'd, not harshly pluck'd, in death mature.'—Milton'. Punch h la Ford.—To make punch on a large scale, select 3 dozen of lemons, the coats of which are smooth, and whose rinds are not too thin. These should be peeled with a sharp knife into a large earthen vessel, taking care that none of the rind be detached but that portion in which the cells are placed containing the essential oil. When the first part of the process is completed, add 2 lbs. of lump sugar, and stir the peel and sugar together with an oar-shaped piece of wood for nearly half an hour; by this means a greater quantity of the essential oil will be extracted. Boiling water may be next poured into the vessel, and the whole well stirred until the sugar is completely dissolved. The lemons should then be cut and squeezed, the juice strained from the kernels, and these be next placed in a separate jug, and boiling water poured upon them, for the pips will be found to be enveloped in a thick mucilage, full of flavour; half the lemon-juice must now be thrown in, and as soon as the kernels are free from their transparent coating, their liquor should be strained and added. The sherbet may now be tasted; more acid or sugar applied as required, and care taken not to render the lemonade too watery. The sherbet is now fit for measurement, and to every 3 quarts a pint of cognac brandy and a pint of old Jamaica rum should be allotted, the spirit being well stirred as poured in ; bottling immediately to follow, and, when completed, the brewage to be kept in a cool cellar, or tank, till required. Punch thus made is much improved by time and a cool atmosphere.45S THINGS A LADY WOULD LLKE TO KNOW. Soda Negus.—A most refreshing and elegant beverage, particularly for those who do not take punch or grog, is thus made :—Put a pint of port wine, with 4 lumps of sugar, 3 cloves, and enough grated nut- meg to cover a shilling, into a saucepan; warm it well, but do not suffer it to boil; pour it into a bowl or jug, and upon the warm wine decant a bottle of soda water. You will have an effervescing and deli- cious negus by this means. Cherry Brandy.—Put into a wide-necked bottle as many Morelia cherries as it will hold; add a few peach or nectarine kernels, or bitter almonds; fill the bottle with the best French brandy, and cork do\vn. In a month after, add a ^ of a lb. of loaf sugar to every pint of brandy. Elder Wine.—In 2 gallons of water boil i gallon of elder berries for one hour, or until the berries sink. For every gallon of liquor provide 3-|- lbs. of sugar; strain the liquor over the sugar; when nearly cold, add a little yeast. The next day put it into a cask, and let it work till it has ceased to make any hissing noise. Boil 2 or 3 cloves of ginger, a few cloves, and some allspice for a short time ; then put them in a small muslin bag, adding a pebble, that the spice may sink to the bottom of the cask. Bung down close. If you make 9 gallons of wine, you will require about 4^ oz. of the above spice for that quantity. The addition of a few sloes or damsons will be found a great improve- ment. Raspberry, Strawbei'ry, Ctirrant or Orange E^ervescing Draughts.— Take i quart of the juice of either of the above fruits; filter it, and boil it into a syrup with i lb. of powdered loaf sugar. To this add li oz. of tartaric acid. When cold, put it into a bottle, and keep it well corked. When required for use, fill a half-pint tumbler three parts full of water, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup. Then stir in briskly a small tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a very delicious drink will be formed. The colour may be improved by adding a very small portion of cochineal to the syrup at the time of boiling. Ginger Beer.—Pour 4 quarts of boiling water upon i lb. of loaf sugar, I oz. of powdered ginger, and the rind of a lemon chopped fine ; cover it over, and let it stand for six hours; then add i oz. of cream of tartar, the juice of a lemon, and a table-spoonful of yeast; three hours after, you can begin to bottle, tying the corks well down. If kept in a warm place it will be fit for use in twenty-four hours. Champagne d la Minute.—If you are about to drink sharp cider, put half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda, and a dessert-spoonful of finely- powdered sugar at the bottom of your glass; have the cider poured on this, and you will allow that it is a very pleasant, though humble, imi- tation of champagne. Drink for the Dog Days.—A bottle of soda water poured into a largeRECEIPTS FOR SUMMER BEVERAGES, ETC. 459 goblet in whicli a lemon ice has been placed, forms a deliciously cool and refreshing draught; but should be taken with some care, and posi- tively avoided whilst you are very hot. Milk Ptinch.—This seductive and nectareous drink can be made by the direction herewith given :—To a couple of quarts of spring water add I quart of genuine milk. Mix i quart of old Jamaica rum with 2 of French brandy, and put the spirit to the milk, stirring it for a short time; let it stand for an hour. Filter through blotting-paper into bottles ; and, should you find that the liquid is cloudy, which it should not be, you may clarify by adding a small portion of isinglass to each bottle. This receipt will furnish half a dozen punch. To Ripen Bottled Porter or Ale.—May, being a good season for bottling malt liquor for autumn or winter drinking, a couple of raisins or half a dozen grains of rice should be put into each bottle, which will mainly assist in generating the required effervescence. Gin Punch.—Following the plan already given for making Punch a la Ford, add good gin, or Hollands if you can procure it, in the proper proportion before prescribed ; this, bottled and kept in a cool cellar or cistern, will be found an economical and excellent summer drink. West India experience.—To a tumbler filled with two-thirds of lemonade, add a wine-glass of brandy, and fill to the brim with green lime shmb. A Hint from Barhadoes.—To render a glass of punch more than usually acceptable, add a table-spoonful of Guava jelly to it. Whisky Cordial.—(Make this in July.)—Put into a large jug a lb. of ripe white currants stripped from their stalks; add a A of an oz. of grated ginger, the rind of 2 lemons, and a quart of whisky. Let it remain for twenty-four hours closely covered in the jug j strain through a hair sieve add i lb. of lump sugar, and let it stand twelve hours longer; then bottle, and well cork it. Leinon Syrup.—Boil 2 lbs. of loaf sugar in i lb. of water. When the syrup is clarified, add an equal quantity of fresh lemon-juice j mix both together, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Raspberry Vinegar.—Vick 2 quarts of raspberries, and pour over them a quart of vinegar; let them steep twenty-four hours, then strain through a sieve, but do not press the fruit. Have 2 more quarts of fresh fruit, and pour this liquor over them, leaving them to steep tor twenty-four hours; strain again, and to every pint of juice allow i-i- lbs. of loaf-sugar. Pour all into a deep jar, which set in hot water until the sugar is entirely dissolved. Take off the scum, and bottle for use.CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES, VERY kind of preserve should be made in a copper or brass preserving-pan (uncovered); it must be scrupulously clean and bright inside. The pots or bottles must be sound, and perfectly clean and dry. Pots should be filled within a quarter of an inch of the top, and bottles just above the shoulder. The following day they must be closely covered with strong cap paper (thin whitey brown), which must be made to adhere round the edge, and then brushed over with the white of an egg, so as to exclude the air. Each pot should be written upon, to show its contents and date of making. Fruit for jellies and jams must be quite ripe and fresh, and gathered in dry weather; in such case the preserves cannot fail to be good, and the cost is something less than half that paid for those ready bought. It may be well to know that the weight is reduced about one-third in making, and also that lb. pots only hold 13 oz., and ^ lb. pots 7 oz. Gather the fruit when it is dry. Do not boil the fruit too long, as that hardens it; pour boiling water over the sieves used. Let the pots and jars containing fresh-made s\teets remain uncovered for t^\'o days, then soak a split bladder and tie it tightly over the top; in drjnng, it will shrink to the net, and render the latter perfectly air-tight. Keep preserves in a dry, but not in a warm place. Be sure to use sufficient sugar; this, with keeping them air-tight, is the only way to avoid the risk of their spoiling. To clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats.—For each lb. of sugar allow ^ a pint of water, and for every 3 lbs., allow the white of an egg. ^ Mix when cold, boil a few minutes, and skim it; let it stand ten minutes, then skim it again, and strain it * As when sojne skilful cook, to please each guest. Would in one mixture comprehend a feast. With diceprroportion, andjudicious care.’—Pope. 4G0CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND FRESERVES. 461 7o clarify Isinglass.—Dissolve an oz. of isinglass in a cupful of boiling water; skim it, and drain it through a coarse cloth. Jellies, candies, and blancmange should be made in a clean copper pot, or a bell-metal pre- serving-pan, and stirred with a silver or wooden spoon. Candied ivT/zVj-.—Preserve the fruit, then dip it in sugar boiled to candy thickness, afterwards dry it. Grapes may be thus dipped un- cooked, and then dried. Or fruit may be taken from the syrup when preserved, rolled in powdered sugar, and afterwards set on a sieve to dry. Bottled Fruit.—Currants, gooseberries, greengages, and other fruits, may be preserved by putting them, after being carefully picked, into open-mouthed glass bottles, shaking them so as to have each bottle well filled, and then placing the bottles, slightly corked, into an oven, nearly cold, for five hours; when you observe the fruit get into wrinkles, you may take out the bottles, cork well down, and cover with leather and wax. Be sure to keep the bottles in a dry place. Short Crustfor sweet Pastry.—Crumble very lightly I- lb. butter into a lb. of flour, breaking it quite small. Well mix with them 2 oz. of sifted sugar, a little salt, with enough milk to make a smooth and rather firm paste. Bake it slowly, and keep it pale ; it will rise in the oven, and be very light. It must be well made, and very lightly handled. Apple felly.—Fill a stewpan with apples, simply cut in half and quartered, then put enough cold water to cover them, and stew gently by a clear fire till the apples are quite of a pulp. When done, put all into a jelly (flannel) bag to strain over a basin all night. Then add to each pint of juice ^ a lb. of sifted sugar, and the juice and rind of i or 2 lemons (according to taste), and stew and stir gently by a clear fire till it thickens. Put in pots, and cover with brandy papers. Apricot Preserve.—When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the meantime, break the stones and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preserving pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear, then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy paper. CAKES, ETC. In making cakes, it is indispensably necessary that all the ingredients should be heated before they are mixed: for this purpose every-462 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. thing should be prepared an hour before it is wanted, and placed near the fire or upon a stove; the flour thoroughly dried and warmed; the cun-ants, sugar, carraway seeds, and anything else required, treated in the same way. Butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into kettles, or pans of warm water, which will give them the requisite degree of temperature. Without these precautions, cakes will be heavy, and the best materials, with the greatest pains, will fail to produce the desired results. The following directions should also be strictly attended to :— Currants should be nicely washed, dried in a cloth, and then set before a fire. Before they are used, a dust of fine flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them, which causes the cakes to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be pounded in a mortar, or rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or la™ sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar, beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. The pans should be of earthenware; nor should eggs, or butter, and sugar be beaten in tins, as the coldness of the metal will prevent them from becoming light. Use no flour but the best superfine; for if the flour be of inferior quality, the cakes will be heavy, ill-coloured, and unfit to eat; but if a little potato flour be added, it will improve their lightness. Cakes are frequently rendered hard, heavy, and uneatable by misplaced economy in eggs and butter, or for want of a due seasoning in spices and sugar. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Unless you are provided -ivith proper utensils as well as materials, the difficulty of making cakes will be so great as in most instances to be a failure. Accuracy in proportioning the ingredients is almost indispensable; and therefore scales, weights, and measures, down to the smallest quantity, are of the utmost import- ance. When yeast is used, a cake should stand for some time to rise before it is put into .the oven. All stiff cakes should be beaten with the hand ; but pound and similar cakes should be beaten with a whisk or spoon. • Madeira Cake.—Whisk 4 fresh eggs until they are as light as possible; then, continuing still to whisk them, throw in, by slow degrees, the following ingredients in the order in which they are ™tten :—Six oz. of dry, pounded, and sifted sugar \ 6 oz. of flour, also dry and sifted; 4 oz. of butter just dissolved, but not heated ; the rind of a fresh lemon ; and the instant before the cake is moulded, beat well in the third of a tea- spoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake it an hour in a moderate oven.CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, AND PRESERVES. 463 In this, as in all compositions of the same nature, observe particularly that each portion of butter must be beaten into the mixture until no appearance of it remains before the next is added; and if this be done, and the preparation be kept light by constant and light whisking, the cake will be as good, if not better, than if the butter were creamed. Candied citron can be added if liked. Piu7n Cake, Rich, with Almond Paste, and Iced.—Put the following ingredients into a pan (or large basin) in the order given, then proceed as directed:—Three-quarters of a lb. of good butter beaten to cream, ^ a lb. of richest moist sugar, f of a lb. of currants well washed and dried, I of a lb. of raisins carefully stoned, 6 oz. of mixed candied peel finely chopped, 6 bitter and i oz. of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, the grated rind of a lemon and the strained juice, a grain of powdered cloves, 2 grains of powdered cinnamon, the sixth part of a nutmeg grated, 14 oz. of sifted flour, i a gill of new milk, the yolks of 6 eggs beaten with a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat the whole together till Avell mixed, then add the whites of the eggs beaten to froth; continue to beat rapidly for twenty minutes. Turn the mixture into a large cake-tin lined with buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven about two and a half hours. Turn the cake out carefully, and, when cold, ice it as follows:—Blanch ahd pound to a fine paste 12 bitter and 7 oz. of sweet almonds; add 10 oz. of sifted loaf sugar, a table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and the whites of 8 eggs beaten to a froth; stir the mixture till it becomes a soft, smooth paste, then spread it over the cake about the sixth of an inch thick; let it stand in an airy place to dry while the icing is being prepared. Pound to the finest possible powder I lb. of loaf sugar; add the whites of five fresh eggs and the strained juice of half a lemon; stir till it becomes a thick, moist substance. When the almond paste is dry, spread the icing over it about a quarter of an inch thick, and let the cake remain until it is quite set. The cake can be used without the paste and icing if preferred. Plain and very Crisp Biscuits.—a lb. of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. Rusks.—7 eggs well, and mix with ^ a pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 oz. of butter; add to it a of a pint of yeast and 3 oz. of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour to make it a little stiffer, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a^little.464 Tm^GS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. These cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea, or with carraways, to eat cold. Dice Cake.—Half a lb. of ground rice, of a lb. of butter, ^ of a lb. of white sugar, 3 eggs, rind and juice of half a lemon, or some drops of essence of lemon. Beat all well together, and bake in a moderate oven. Rich Cakes.—Mix together i lb. of flour, ^ a lb. of loaf sugar, and ^ a lb. of melted butter; add a of a lb. of currants and a glass of brandy or raisin wine. Roll out the paste; cut the cakes with a small round tin, and bake upon a floured tin. Rich Fruit Cake.—Two lbs. of raisins stoned, 2 lbs. of currants, i lb. of citron cut in small pieces, of a lb. of almonds, i lb. of flour, 10 eggs, I lb. of brown sugar, f of a lb. of butter, i cup of treacle, i oz. of nut- megs, I wine-glass of wine, i wine-glass of brandy. Mode.—Mix the butter (to a cream) and sugar together; then beat the eggs and stir them in; add part of the flour, then the treacle. Mix the fruit with some of the flour, and add half the fruit with the wine, brandy, and nutmeg; then the rest of the flour and fruit. Stir well together, and bake for three hours in a slow oven. Mag's Gold Cake (good).—Yolks of 8 eggs, i cup of butter, 2 cups of sugar, 4 cups of flour, i cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea- spoonfuls of cream of tartar. Flavour with lemon and vanilla, Mag's Silver Cake (good).—Two cups of sugar, i cup of butter, 4 cups of flour, I cup of milk, scant tea-spoonful of soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar, whites of 8 eggs. Flavour with almond or peach. Mag's Soda Cakes (nice).—Two eggs, two cupfuls of flour, i cupful of sugar, ^ a cupful of butter, ^ a tea-spoonful of soda, i tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, i a cupful of milk. Flavour with vanilla or peach. Hard Molasses Gingerbread.—Melt i cupful of butter in 2 of molasses (treacle); pour it hot on i quart of flour. Dissolve r tea-spoonful of soda in a little hot water, and add it with 2 tea-spoonfuls of ginger; put in flour to roll. Roll it thin, and bake it quick (cut in rounds). These cakes are very crisp. Gingerbread.—Mix with 2 lbs. of flour ^ a lb. of treacle, | of an oz. of carraways, i oz. of ginger finely sifted, and 8 oz. of butter. Roll the paste into what form you please; bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied. It may be added in small bits. Shortbread.—Take i lb. of flour, a lb. of butter, and 4 oz. of powdered loaf sugar; mix well together without any water; knead it well with your hand ; roll it out thin, and stick pieces of candied peel cut thin over the top; cut it any shape you please, and bake it in a slow oven.CONFECTIONERY, CAKES, ANE> PRESERVES. 465 Lcmofi Sponge.—One oz. of isinglass in a pint of boiling water; when dissolved, strain it; add the juice of 2 or 3 lemons, ^ a lb. of fine silted sugar. Whisk forty minutes, and put in a shape. Savoy Biscuits.—Beat up a dozen eggs; add f of a lb. of finely- powdered white sugar, and the same weight of sifted flour; mix these well together. Lay thin paper upon iron plates, and place the batter, with a tea-spoon, about four inches long and one broad, keeping each separate ; just before putting them into the oven strew powdered sugar over them. The paper, which will adhere to the backs of the biscuits, is easily removed with cold water and a soft brush. Rice Cake.—Beat up 9 eggs, then mix 6 oz. of ground rice, 6 oz. of flour, I of a lb. of white sugar in powder, and ^ an oz. of carraway seed. These ingredients may be veiy well mixed, then placed in a tin, and baked in a quick oven. Sa//y Lunn Cake.—Put a pint of boiling milk into a pan, and when it has become lukewarm, pour half a tumblerful of yeast upon it; stir well, and add as much flour as will form a good stiff batter; cover the pan with a cloth, and place it before the fire for two hours. Beat up 4 eggs with 2 oz. of powdered sugar. After allowing the time specified, mix a of a lb. of butter, the eggs and sugar, with the dough ; let all remain in the pan for half an hour. Divide into cakes; put them on tins, and bake it in a well-heated oven. Cake.—0x1^ lb. of dough, ^ lb. of butter, i lb. of currants, i lb. of loaf sugar, 2 oz. of almonds, 3 oz. of raisins, a A of a nutmeg, allspice and a few cloves, the peel of ^ a lemon, i a glass of wine, ^ a glass of brandy, 6 eggs—beat the yolks and whites separately, \ of an oz. of candied orange and lemon peel. Beat well, and bake in a tin. Pound Cake. Beat a lb. of butter to a cream, and mix with it the Avhites and yolks of 8 eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a lb. of flour, a lb. of sifted sugar; mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg, and cinnamon in fine powder together; then by degrees work up all the dry ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some carraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out 4 oz. of the butter and the same of sugar, make a less luscious, and, to some tastes, a more pleasant one. Sponge Take 4 eggs and put them in the scales; put the same weight of loaf sugar in the other; then take 2 eggs, and have their weight in flour; mix well, and put in tins, covered, if possible and bake in a quick oven. You must beat the whites to a very stiff frotl-L ^466 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. PRESERVES, JELLIES, AND CREAMS. Calfs Fed Jelly.—Boil 2 feet in 2 quarts and a pint of water, till the feet are broken and the water half wasted; strain it. When cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; then put it into a saucepan with sugar, sherry wine, and brandy (raisin wine, if preferred), lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon-peel. (The lemon-juice should be carefully strained before added to the other ingredients, or it is liable to make the jelly muddy.) When the flavour is rich, put it to the whites of 5 eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag into hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Fasten the bag on to a stand, or back of a chair, place it near the fire with a basin underneath it, and run the jelly through and through till clear; then put it into glasses or moulds. (The moulds should be first soaked in water and drained for half a second.) Put it in a cool place to set In summer, it is necessary to put the mould in ice; then when wanted for table, dip them in hot water for a minute, wipe the outside; lay the dish on the top of the mould and turn it quickly over, and the jelly should slip out easily. The follovving mode will facilitate the clearing of jelly. ^^Tlen the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the saucepan oS the fire, covered close, and keep it half an hour ; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and save much waste. The feet need only be scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; and, of course, allow more water; but the jelly will be more nutritious. Cow heels are equally good, and more economical than calves’ feet. Cherry Jelly.—July or August—Dissolve oz. of isinglass in a ^ of a pint of water, to another of a pint add as much powdered loaf sugar as will make a good thick syrup ; squeeze the juice out of a bottleful of Morelia cherries; add to it a glass of brandy, a glass of noyeau, and the juice of a lemon and a half; mix all together; strain through a muslin sieve, and pour into a shape, which should be kept in a very cold place till the jelly is required. An excellent Whip up | of a pint of very nch cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze o le juice, \ a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but no too sweet; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made m tin shapesCONFECTIONERY, CARES, ANN PRESERVES. 467 the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons to line the edge of the dish. Brandy Cream.—Boil 2 dozen of (blanched) almonds and pounded bitter almonds in a little milk. When cold, add to it the yolks of 5 eggs beaten well in a little cream; sweeten, and put to it 2 glasses of the best brandy; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups,, or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia drop may be put in each if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Coffee Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cupful of very strong coffee. (Observe that your coffee be fresh.) Clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Currant Jam, Black, Red, or White.—In July.—Let the fruit be very ripe; pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every lb. put | of a lb. of loaf sugar; stir it well, and boil three-quarters of an hour. Gather the fruit on a dry day. Cover with brandy papers. Currant Jelly, Black or Red.—In July.—Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar strew them in a saucepan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a lb. of loaf sugar; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or china vessel till nearly dissolved ; then put it in a preserving-pan; simmer and skim as neces- sary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses, and cover with brandy papers. Boil a quarter of an hour. Rich Custards.—Y>o\\ a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon • mix a pint of cream, and the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer'till of a proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way Flavour with brandy. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. Damson September or October.—Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every 2 lbs. of fruit weigh J a lb. of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan ; let it boil quickly until it begins to look dry • take out the stones and add the sugar; stir it well in, and simmer two' hours slowly; then boil it quickly i an hour, till the sides of the pan candy; pour the jam then into potting pans or dishes, about an inch tlnck, so that It may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is468 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. not to be taken out; but after the first process the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in and boiled to evaporate, but do not add the sugar until it has done so. The above looks well in shapes. Fruit Traiisparency.—Made in June, July, or August.—Press out the juice of a quart of red or white currants ; strain it through a fine sieve into a brass skillet; add ^ an oz. of isinglass, and | lb. of loaf sugar; boil and skim, about twenty minutes, till it is perfectly bright and rather thick; pour it into a pretty mould, and stir in a pint of fine fresh fruit; if white currant juice, either strawberries or white currants; if red currant juice be used, then let the whole fruit be either red currants, red cherries, or raspberries. Put it in a cool place, or on ice, till quite finn. Turn out carefully, and garnish the dish with Devonshire cream, or strain the juice of 2 lemons into | a pint of thick cream, and whip with a whisk to a creamy froth, and serve it round the dish. Preserved Gherkins.—July to end of August.—See that the gherkins intended for use be sound and free from external blemish; soak them m salt and water for two days, then scald them in fresh water, and let them remain in it till the next day. Drain them well, and let them boil for three minutes in a thin syrup; put them into a glazed vessel, and on the foUowing day boil them for five minutes in a strong syrup. For the three following days, drain off the syrup, make it boil, and pour it over the gherkins. Place brandied paper over the pots in which you have put your preserve. N.B. French beans can be treated in the same manner as above. To Preserve Gooseberries.—]yxa.Q or July.—Take fuU-grown gooseberries before they are ripe; pick them, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles; cork them gently with new soft corks, and put them m an oven from which the bread has been drawn ; let them stand till they have shrunk nearly a quarter, then take them out and beat the corks in tight; cut them off level with the bottle, and rosin them down close. Keep them in a dry place. ^ GrapeAugust to March.—Dissolve ^ a lb. of loaf sugar and ij oz. of isinglass in a pint of water; add to this f of a pmt o t e strained juice of ripe grapes, a few drops of and a ^ glassful of brandy. Ornament the top of a mould with fine grapes , strain the jelly till bright; pour it into the mould, and let it remam m a cold place till firmly set, or put it on ice for an hour. _ Lemon Creams.—2 dozen sweet almonds (in boihn^ Mater) chop them, and put them into a jug with i pint of cream; ^1 jug put in the rind and the strained juice of 2 lemons, 3 sher^, and pounded sugar to sweeten to the taste. Pour rapidly fromCONFECTIONERY, CARES, AND PRESERVES. 469 one jug to the other, till the mixture is well frothed; take out the lemon-rind, and pour it into jelly glasses. If wanted less rich, put v'range or raisins rinsed instead of the sherry, and omit the almonds. Lemon Mixture for Cheesecakes or Tarts.—Dissolve i lb. of loaf sugar in the strained juice of 3 lemons and 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy; stir in ^ a lb. of fresh butter till dissolved, but not oiled; then add the grated rind of the lemons, the yolks of 8 and the whites of 4 fresh eggs well beaten; stir rapidly over a gentle fire till of the consistency of honey. Put into a jar when cold; tie it over with thick writing paper, and keep it in a cool place. Lemon Mixture for Cheesecakes or Tablets.—To a. ^ of a. lb. of fresh butter put a lb. of loaf sugar, 6 eggs well beaten, leaving out 2 whites, the grated rind and juice of 3 lemons; put all into a nice saucepan, and simmer till the sugar dissolves, and it begins to thicken like good honey; put in gallipots. When cold, tie down with brandy papers. Medlar Jelly.—?\x\. the medlars (which must be quite ripe) into a pre- serving-pan with sufficient water to cover them, and simmer till in a pulp; then strain through a jelly bag. To every pint of liquor add I lb. of loaf sugar; boil fast, skimming frequently, for an hour. Pour the jelly into ornamental earthen moulds or glasses, and the next day tie them down. This jelly is served at dessert. Mincemeat. Mincemeat is much improved by being well mixed foi some days before use. Peel, core, and chop fine i lb. of sound apples ; wash and pick ii lbs. of currants; stone \ a lb. of raisins, and let both these be chopped small. Take away the skin and gristle from i lb. of cold roast beef, and carefully pick i lb. of beef suet; chop these well together. Cut into small bits f of a lb. of mixed candied orange, citron, and lemon peel; let all these be well stirred up in a large pan. Grind into powder a nutmeg, \ an oz. of ginger, and a of an oz. of cloves, the same quantity of allspice and coriander seeds; add ^ an oz of salt, and put these into the pan, mixing thoroughly. Grate the rinds of 3 lemons, and squeeze the juice over 1 a lb. of fine Lisbon sugar mixed with the lemon peel pour over this 2 gills of brandy and ^ a pint of sherry. Let these ingredients be stirred for twenty minutes • cover the pan with a slate; and, when about to use the mincemeat' take It from the bottom of the pan. ’ Normandy Pippins Stewed.—\ a lb. of Normandy pippins into a Stefan and the peel of half a lemon cut thin ; dissolve a i of a lb of loaf supr in a pint of spring water; pour this over the fruit; cover doip the pan close, and set it on a slow fire for two hours and a half. transparent Orange Marmalade.—March or April—Cut the Seville oranges into quarters ; take the pulp out and put it in a basin ; pick out the seeds and skins; let the outside soak in water, with a little Lit,47° THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. all night; then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till quite tender ■, pare and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulps (but before you put the rind to the pulp after you have sliced them, beat them in a mortar). To every lb. of fruit, lbs. of loaf sugar beaten fine; boil them together twenty minutes. If not quite clear, simmer it five dr six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. N.B.—To 30 oranges put the juice of 3 lemons when boiling the marmalade. Preserved Oranges.—February or March.—Peel 12 oranges, and take off as much of the white as possible. Make a syrup of lbs. of loaf sugar with a pint of water. Take the peel, with the white off, and boil it in water till tender; then boil it in the syrup. Cut it in slices first. Paste for Cheesecakes, Tarts, and Tartlets.—Rub a ^ of a lb. of fresh butter and a tea-spoonful of sifted loaf sugar into ^ a lb. of well-dried flour; moisten, with the yolk of an egg beaten, with a tea-cupful of cold water. Knead to a firm paste; roll out a quarter of an inch thick twice, and each time spread over 2 oz. of fresh butter; fold over, and let it stand two hours in a cool place. Roll out twice again, and each time dredge over a little dry flour; rub the tins slightly with butter, and line them with the paste the sixth of an inch thick. Trim round the edge; fill the centre with jam, or the lemon, etc., mixture; smooth it over with a knife; ornament with leaves tastefully arranged, or narrow strips of paste laid on in cross bars, and bake in a moderate oven from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Tarts, about half an hour. (This quan- tity will make 2 tarts or 12 tartlets.) Tartlets may be ornamented with a small crescent of paste in the centre. Stewed Pears.—September to January.—Take large winter pears ; halve or quarter them (according to the size), leaving the stem in, and to about 50 pears put nearly i quart of water, the juice and thin peel of 4 lemons. To every lb. of pears add f of a lb. of loaf sugar, a small tea-cupful of cloves tied in a muslin bag, with third of cochineal. Stew gently over a fire until you can easily pass a straw through them; then put a little brandy. Boil up once, and put in jars covered with brandy- papers. They will keep two or three years. Preserved Pine-Apple.—Cut oft the rind, and divide the pine into tolerably thick slices ; boil the rind in a pint of water, with a lb. of loaf sugar in powder, and the juice of a lemon, for twenty minutes. Strain this liquor, and boil the slices in it for a quarter of an hour. Next day, pour oft the syrup; boil it, taking care to remove the scum as it rises, and pour the liquor quite hot over the fruit. Tie down the jar with bladder, having brandied paper over the preserve.CONFECTIONERY, CARES, AND PRESERVES. 471 Plums, Preserved and Dry.—The Magnum Bonum Plum is the best fot this preserve. In season from August to October.—Have large ripe plums; prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, and simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, made in the proportion of a of a lb. of sugar to each pint of water. Put them in a china bowl, and, when cold, pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of 3 lbs. of sugar to 5 lbs. of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly and instantly brought out Boil the plums in this fresh syrup after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them; put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one w'arm more; drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment if not boiled in two syrups; the former will sweeten pies, but will have too much acid to keep. Yoii may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Raspberry Jam.—July and August.—Weigh a lb. of fruit to f of a lb. of sugar. Put the former into a preserving-pan; boil and break it; stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way, the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in at first. Raspberry Vin^ar.—July or August.—To 6 lbs. of fresh fruit, care- fully picked, add 4 pints of the best French vinegar; macerate for four days in a glazed earthen pan, stirring frequently, but taking care not to crush the seeds. Filter the vinegar from the fruit, and to each pint of juice add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Place it in a glazed pan, in a hot water bath, and let the juice boil until it is as thick as syrup; it is then fit for bottling when cool. Rhubarb Jam.—February to May.—To each lbs. of rhubarb put I lb. of loaf sugar, i oz. of bitter almonds, and about half the juice, and the peel of a lemon chopped very fine. Boil it altogether half an hour, after it comes to boiling very gently, and keep stirring all the time. Cover with brandy-papers. Siawberries, Preserved Whole.—June and July.—Choose strawberries of a fine large sort, and of a good colour, but not too ripe. To every lb. of fruit allow lbs. of good loaf sugar, and i pint of red currant juice. Pick off the stalks; lay the strawberries in a dish, and sprinkle over them half the quantity of sugar, which must be finely pounded;472 things A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. shake the dish gently, that the sugar may be equally distributed, and touch the under side of the fruit, and let it^remain for one day. Then have ready the currant juice, drawn as for red currant jelly; boil it with the remainder of the sugar till it forms a thin syrup, and in this simmer the strawberries and sugar until the whole is sufficiently jellied. Great care must be taken not to stir the fruit roughly, as it should be preserved as whole as possible. Strawberries preserved in this manner are very good served in glasses and mixed with thin cream. _ Tri/le, or Swiss Cream (very good).—Flavour pleasantly with lemon- rind and cinnamon a pint of rich cream, after having taken from it as much as will mix smoothly to a thin batter, 4 tea-spoonfuls of the finest flour; sweeten it with 6 oz. of well-refined sugar in lumps; place it over a clear fire in a delicately-clean saucepan, and when it boils stir in the flour and simmer it for four or five minutes, stirring it gently without ceasing. Then pour it out, and, when it is quite cold, mix wth it, by degrees, the strained juice of two moderate-sized and very fresh lemons. Take a J lb. of macaroons; cover the bottom of a glass dish with a portion of them ; pour in a part of the cream; lay the remainder of the macaroons upon it \ add the rest of the cream, and ornament it with candied citron sliced thin. The requisite flavour should be given to this dish by infusing in the cream the very thin rind of a lemon, and part of a stick of cinnamon slightly bruised, and then straining it before the flour is added; or, these and the sugar may be boiled together, with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of water, to a strongly-flavoured syrup, which, after having been passed through a muslin strainer, may be stirred into the cream. It is very delicious, flavoured with vanilla instead of lemon and maraschino.473 HOUSEHOLD RECIPES FOR VARIOUS MATTERS OF FURNITURE, GLASS, PLATE, ETC. ‘ Let thy mind's szveetness have its operation Upon thy body, clothes, and habitation. ’—Herbert. LL new crockery to be used for cooking purposes, should first be well greased inside, and then placed in the oven, which effectually removes all poisonous taints. Cement for Broken China, Glass, etc.—Dissolve an oz. of gum acacia in a wine-glassful of boiling water; add plaster of Paris sulficienl to form a thick paste, and apply it with a brush to the broken parts Being nearly colourless, it is better than liquid glue, or other cements. To clean Brasses belonging to Mahogany furniture.—Use scraped rotten-stone, or powdered whiting mixed with sweet oil, and rubbed on with a buckskin. Clean Brasses, Britannia Metal, Ti?is, Coppers, etc., with a mixture of rotten-stone, soft soap, and oil of turpentine mixed to the consistency of stiff putty. The rotten-stone should be powdered very fine, and sifted, and a quantity made to last for a time. The articles should first be washed with hot water to remove grease; then rub the metal with the mixture, mixed with a little water; then rub off briskly with a dry clean rag or leather, and a beautiful polish will be obtained. ^ Iron Stains may be removed from marble by wetting the spots with oil of vitriol, or oxalic acid diluted in spirit of wine, or with lemon-juice, and after a quarter of an hour, rubbing them dry with a soft linen cloth! Medicine Stains may be removed from silver spoons by rubbing them with a rag dipped in sulphuric acid, and washing it off with soap-suds. Bor cleaning Coppers, Tins, etc.—Plalf a lb. of soft soap and a packet474 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO KNOW. of rotten-stone mixed together; put it in the oven till in a liquid state \ then stir in a large wine-glassful of gin; keep it in a covered pot for use. When used, moisten it with cold water, rub it on with a piece of flannel till the tarnish disappears, wipe it off, and polish with a leather dipped in rotten-stone or fine whiting. Fur Cleaning MarMe.—Three oz. of pearl-ash, a cake of whiting, and 3 pints of water well mixed together, and boiled for lo minutes. Rub it well over the marble, and let it remain for twenty-four hours, then rub it off. To give a gloss to fine Oak Wainscot.—If greasy, it must be washed Avith warm beer; then boil 2 quarts of strong beer, a bit of bee’s-wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar; wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry, rub it till bright. To take Ink out of Mahogany.—Dilute a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather; w'atch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quickly, and repeat if not quite removed. To take Iron Stains out of Marble.—An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon-juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. Cleaning Woodwork.—Where painted wainscot or other woodwork requires cleansing, fuller’s earth will be found cheap and useful; and, on wood not painted, it forms an excellent substitute for soap. Where extreme nicety is required, use a mixture of i lb. of soft soap, 2 oz. of pearl-ash, i pint of sand, and i pint of table beer; simmer these sub- stances in a pipkin over a slow fire, and let them be well mixed. The mode of application is to put a small quantity in flannel, rubbed on the wainscot, wash it off with warm water, and dry thoroughly with a linen cloth. Treatment of Oil-doth.—O'Ci-OoCsx ought never to be wetted, if it can be possibly avoided, but merely to be rubbed with a flannel, and polished with a brush of moderate hardness, exactly like a mahogany table; and by this simple means the fading of the colours and the rotting of the canvas, which are inevitably attendant upon the oil-cloth being kept in a state of moisture or dampness, are entirely avoided. Papering of Damp Walls.—The following observations, in House- hold Words, on this subject are useful. The omnipresent gutta-percha is among the paper-hangings already, and presents itself in the form of a consolation to the owners of houses which are cursed w ith a wall or comer. As for a generally damp house, one has only to quit it, if one has ever been foolish enough to go into it But there are many excellent houses with some faulty bit—some corner or projection— which got wet in building, and never could be got dry; and here coniesHOUSEHOLD RECIPES. 475 in the gutta-percha paper most consolingly. It confines the damp within the wall at least, and compels it to evaporate externally, if at all; —it thoroughly intercepts, if it cannot cure, a great evil, and will no doubt be in extensive use, till all men are too sensible to have a damp corner in a house. To cement Broken China.—Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin; then tie some into a thin muslin j put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the su7ne, and unite them exactly. Polishing Paste for Tins, etc.—2d. of hartshorn, 2d. oil of thyme, 2d. rotten-stone, 2d. soft soap. Pour a pint of boiling water over the soft soap and rotten-stone; and when cold, add the hartshorn and oil of thyme. To clean the back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the fro7its of Cast- Iron Stoves.—Boil about a ^ of a lb. of the best black lead, with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush, and rub it till of a beautiful briskness. Or, To clean Cast-Iron, to Black Hearths.—Mix black lead and whites of eggs well-beaten together; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over, then rub it bright with a hard brush. To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. To take the Black off the bright Bars of Polished Stoves.—Rub them well with some of the following mixture on a piece of broad cloth; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, 7iot sand- paper. The mixture:—Boil slowly i lb. of soft soap in 2 quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take 3 or 4 spoonfuls, and mix to a con- sistence with emery, No. 3. To re77iove Fruit or Vinegar Stams from K7iives.—'K\Ri the blades before cleaning with raw potato. Washmg, its labour dimmished greatly (invaluable).—Pour upon ^ a lb. of soda 2 quarts of water in an earthenware pan; take ^ a Ib.^ of soap, shred fine; put it into a saucepan with 2 quarts of cold water • stand It on a fire till it boils; and when perfectly dissolved and boilino-" add to it the former. Mix it well, and let it stand till cold, when it 1ms the appearance of a strong jelly. Let the linen be soaked in water the seams and any other dirty part rubbed in the usual way, and remain till the following morning. Get your copper ready, and add to the water about a pint basin full of the above preparation; when lukewarm put in476 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ICNOW. your linen, and allow it to boil twenty minutes. Rinse it in the usual way. This will be all that is necessary to get it clean, and keep it a good colour. To kill Cockroaches or Black Beetles—X tea-cupful of well-bruised plaster of Paris, mixed with double the quantity of oatmeal, to which add a little sugar (this latter is not essential); then strew it on the floor or in the chinks where they frequent. Paint.—To get rid of the smell of oil paint, plunge a handful of hay into a pail full of water, and let it stand in the room newly painted. To clean Gilt Frames.—When the gilt frames of pictures or looking- glasses, or the gilt mouldings of rooms, have got specks of dirt upon them, from flies or other causes, they can be cleaned with the white of egg gently rubbed on with a camel’s hair pencil. To purify Water.—It is not generally known that pounded alum possesses the property of purifying water. A table-spoonful of pulverized alum sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water to be stirred at the time) will, after the lapse of a few hours, by precipitating to the bottom the impure particles, so purify it that it will be found to possess nearly the freshness and clearness of the finest spring water. A pailful con- taining 4 gallons may be purified by a single tea-spoonful. To remove Fly Spots.—Dip a camel’s hair brush into spirits of mne, and apply it to remove fly spots. Mode of arranging Grate and lighting Fire to save 75 per cent, in the Consumption of Coal.—Let a blacksmith come and measure accurately the bottom of your grate, and make an iron plate exactly the size, and place over the bars at bottom, so as effectually to stop the current of air through the grate, which carries away half the heat up the chimney. Then care- fully lay the fire in the ordinary way, well filling the grate. Light; and it will last nearly the whole day without poking, and give afar better heat. A small quantity of coal will be wanted about the middle of the day.477 } I HINTS ON TRAVELLING. —♦— ‘ Peregrinations charm our senses with such unspeakable and sweet variety, that some count him unhappy who never travelled—a kind of prisoner; and pity his case that from his cradle to his old age, he beholds the same still, still—still the same, the same.'— Burton. TEAVELLING may be said to be a state of great pleasure, mixed with great annoyance \ but by management the former may be much increased, and the latter proportionally diminished. In whatever way you travel, I particularly recommend you to guard against the cravings of hunger, both for your health’s sake, and in order the better to preserve placidity of temper, which, with every precaution, is exposed to frequent disturbance. When your mind is ruffled, you can neither see with pleasure nor profit, and the natives are pretty sure to revenge themselves for your ill-humour by imposing upon you. On setting out on the last long journey I made, which was in a private carriage with one companion, I bought a small basket, and caused it to be filled with cold provisions, bread, and fruit, and I kept it constantly replenished during ten months, whenever we were upon the road, to which circum- stance I mainly attribute the fact that we never had the shadow of a disagreement or an uncomfort. There is nothing like a basket of this sort for diminishing the dreadful tediousness of uncertain distances at the end of a long day, and it is a great consolation in case of accidental stoppages. In aid of it, I purchased two clasp-knives, and forks at- tached, a couple of tumblers, and a snuff-box, with an almanac on the lid, by way of salt-cellar. A quarto French dictionary served for a table, and so equipped we almost defied fortune. At the inns where we slept, I always made special mention of the basket over-night, and the consequence was it was frequently specially filled, particularly with excellent game, which, with bread and grapes, or figs, we found ex- tremely palatable and wholesome. Where the wine was good, we generally carried off a bottle or two; but wine, and indeed any liouid478 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. ought to be sparingly used on such occasions, and an hour or two after eating: otherwise the motion of the carriage prevents digestion, and induces feverishness. The fruit, taken by way of vegetables, supplies in a great measure the place of liquids. The proper and most agree- able mode of refreshing is in small quantities, and frequently; and the only thing to be guarded against is, to leave sufficient appetite for the meals you intend to take where you stop, and this sometimes requires a little judgment and resolution. Some people have a habit, and rather make a boast of it, of travelling long distances without taking anything; but I strongly recommend the basket system, having tried both plans. In public conveyances, I think a sandwich-box might be convenient. One of the greatest annoyances in travelling is continual exposure to imposition; but this may, by good management, be frequently avoided, either altogether or in part, as by bad management it may be greatly increased. There are four kinds of imposers. The first are downright rogues, who make a point of taking the advantage whenever they have the power; but even they have degrees of extortion according to the behaviour of their victims. The second are a sort of good-tempered, easy imposers, who impose as a matter of course, but whom a little good management almost immediately turns from their purpose. They are willing to impose upon you if you are willing to be imposed upon, but otherwise not. On remonstrance, they will pretend they have made a mistake, or that if you are not satisfied, they do not wish to have any dispute. The third will not attempt any imposition unless they are encouraged to it by some foolish display or swagger; nor the fourth, until they are provoked by unreasonableness or discourtesy. My obser- vation tells me there is no preventive against these different kinds of im- position so sure as a certain quiet, composed bearing, indicative at once of self-respect and of consideration for others. I have made many ex- periments in the matter under various circumstances, both in this country and abroad, and the result seems to me to be, that by such behaviour you ensure greater attention at a lower cost than by any other course; and, having adopted such a course, I think that on the Continent you may still be exposed, when actually travelling, to imposition to the extent of about ten per cent, upon your expenditure, to which, for comfort’s sake, and to avoid the chance of being wrong, which frequently happens in small matters, it is wise to submit, without keeping yourself in a constant fever and state of distraction from the objects only worthy of attention. I am speaking now of those who have no, or but little experience; others will be able to protect them- selves to a greater extent. One of the most desirable qualities in travelling, is punctuality or readiness. Without it there is but small satisfaction, either to yourself479 HINTS ON TRA VEILING. or those with you. In all my journeys I was always ready in time, but often with a good deal of bustling and hurry, till one morning in Swit- zerland I looked out of my window as I was dressing, and saw a gentle- man, who had just joined the party, pacing backwards and forwards before the inn with a degree of composure which made me determine to imitate what he told me was his constant rule, to be ready at least a quarter of an hour before the time. I adopted the practice thencefor- ward, and found the greatest advantage from it. One of the benefits of habitual punctuality is the confidence it inspires. The uncertainty of unpunctuality is a continual drawback to enjoyment; it hangs over one like a cloud. The quickest mode of acquiring a good idea of any place is to take the earliest opportunity of ascending some tower or eminence, from which there is a commanding view, with some person who can point out the most remarkable objects. If this is followed up by wandering about without a guide, and trusting solely to your own observation, you will be as well acquainted with the localities in a few hours as the generality ot travellers would be in a week, or perhaps better, because your im- pressions would be stronger. I do not mean by this to supersede the employment of guides in sightseeing, for they are very useful in saving time. The first day I arrived at Rome I met a classical friend who had been there some time, and who had made himself completely master of the place. He took me to the top of the tower in the Capitol, and pointed out everything remarkable, so that from the very beginning I acquired a sort of familiar acquaintance with the city and its environs, and was never at a loss afterwards. As soon as you have seen all you wish to see in any place, and do not mean to make it a residence, it is advisable without delay to proceed on your journey. Many people lose a great deal of time in loitering, and to no purpose whatever, because it is iihpossible under such circumstances to settle to anything. Wherever you are, it is good to fall into the customs and habits of the place; for though sometimes they may be a little inconvenient, it is generally much more so to run counter to them. Those who will have their own way, never succeed but at a much greater cost than success is worth.480 DRESS, AND VARIOUS OTHER HINTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. —♦— ■ ‘ Know, she that in her dress reveals A fine and modest taste, displays More loveliness than she conceals. ’—Patmore, Dress indicates mind; and a favourable or unfavourable impres- sion is made according to the appearance presented by every lady. Rightly considered, it is a study, and well worthy of being so, if not carried to excess. Women by nature are beautiful and graceful; and there is no reason why they should disfigure themselves by extremes in any mode that may prevail; and yet there is every good reason why a lady should be up in all that pertains to the toilet, and not to be behind in that peculiar finish and tone so characteristic of the refined woman. To this end her dress must be easy; there must be no restraint. Anything that constrains and hinders the intensely natural gracefulness of woman is in bad taste. This is as true in regard to the clothing of the body as it is to the education of the mind. Life, health, reason, and convenience ought to be the first consideration. Graceful- ness cannot exist without ease ; delicacy is not debility; and a sound taste in dress is the fair and beautiful right of woman. Chapped Hands.—Mix z. \ ol a. lb, of unsalted hog’s lard which has been washed in common, and then rose water, with the yolks of 2 new- laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal or almond paste as will work into a paste. Chapped Lips.—Put a ^ of an oz. of borax, benjamin, and sperma- ceti, 2d. worth of alkanet root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a ^ of a lb. of unsalted butter, and 2 oz. of bee’s •HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 481 wax, into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, etc., are dissolved, and then strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes; or if to make cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. All Flasmds should be soaked before they are made up, first in cold, then in hot water, in order to shrink them. Washing.—Flannel should always be washed with white soap, and in warm, but not boiling water. Patent Leather Boots require to be wiped with a wet sponge, and afterwards with a soft diy cloth, and occasionally with a soft cloth and sweet oil, blacking and polishing the edge of the soles in the usual way, but so as not to cover the patent polish with blacking. A little milk may also be used with very good effect for patent leather boots. Pinching Shoes and Boots do much mischief. That they produce toimenting and crippling corns, all know. But this is not all, nor even the worst. They check the circulation of the pedal blood, make the feet cold, and sometimes aid in chilblaining them; diminish the size of the muscles of the part, and take from their strength and impede their action by compressing them. Cramping and torturing the feet by pressure produces, sympathetically, dyspepsia and headache, and some- times troublesome affections of the lungs. Haemorrhage from the nostrils and lungs, and even apoplexy and pulmonary consumption are occasionally excited by it. To Polish Boots., Slippers, etc., of E7iantelled Leather.—Make lukewarm, and then well mix together the following ingredients :—One quart of the best cream and i pint of linseed oil; cle’an the shoe, etc., free from dirt, and rub it over with a sponge dipped in the mixture; then rub it with a soft dry cloth till a brilliant polish is produced. Corsets arid Stays.—Of all wicked fashions, that of wearing tight corsets is the most wicked. They not only interfere with the free motions of the muscles, but they entirely alter the shape of the body as it is designed by nature; squeeze the important organs contained in that part, so as to impede their healthy action ; and entail misery and disease upon the unfortunate victim of fashion. Did it end here, the punishment would be given to the party committing the wrong; but it it is a well-known fact that the offspring suffers, and it has been remarked that they are as feeble in mind as they are in body. Great men are not the offspring of tight-laced mothers. Even beauty of countenance is impaired, and in time destroyed, by tight corsets. Those instruments of mischief wither in the complexion the freshness of health, and substitute for it the sallowness of disease • on the spot where the rose and the ruby had shed their lustre they pour bile and sprinkle ashes. They do still more; they dapple the 2 u4S2 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. cheek with unsightly blotches, convert its fine cuticle into a motley scurf, blear the eyes, discolour the teeth and destroy them by caries, and tip the nose with cranberry red. That effects of this descrip- tion often result from gastric and hepatic derangement, every practi- tioner of medicine knows, and it is a well-ascertained fact that such derangement is produced by corsets. But tight stays make still more fatal havoc of female beauty, by imprinting on the countenance marks of the decay of mental beauty—I mean deep and indelible lines ot peevishness, fretfulness, and ill-temper, the bitter result of impaired health. Woman bears fevers, consumption, fractures, wounds, and other forms ot injury, with a patience and mildness which, if they do not improve her personal beauty, increase her loveliness, and add tenfold to the sympathy and sorrow felt for her suffering; but dyspeptic affec- tions, when brought on by wearing corsets, are submitted to in a very different spirit, and no complaints pour into the temper such acerbity and bitterness as those of the digestive organs. I should rejoice indeed if what I have here said may have the effect of destroying the abomi- nable practice which destroys health, peace, and loveliness. Eurs, Feathers, a?id WooEens not in constant use should be wrapped up in linen washed in lye. From May to September they are subject to being made the depository of the moth-eggs. They should be looked too, and shaken and beaten, from time to time, in case some of the eggs should have been lodged in them, in spite of every precaution; laying them up again, or rather folding them up as before, wrapping them in brown paper, which is itself a preservative. Furs preserved from Moths.—Place pieces of camphor, cedar-wood, Russia leather, tobacco-leaves, bog-myrtle, or anything else strongly aromatic, in the drawers or boxes where furs or other things to be pre- served from moths are kept, sewn up in linen bags. To clean Kid Gloves.—To clean kid gloves, have ready a little new milk in one saucer and a piece of brown soap in another, and a clean cloth or towel, folded three or four times. On the cloth spread out the glove smooth and neat. Take a piece of flannel, dip it in the milk, then rub off a good quantity of soap to the wetted flannel, and commence to rub the glove towards the fingers, holding it firmly with the left hand. Continue this process until the glove, if white, looks of a dingy yellow, though clean; if coloured, till it looks dark and spoiled. Lay it to dry, and the operator will soon be gratified to see the old glove looks nearly new. It will be soft, glossy, smooth, and elastic. To clean White Ostrich Feathers.—Four oz. of white soap, cut small, dissolved in 2 quarts of water, rather hot, in a large basin; make the solution into a lather, by beating it with birch rods or wires. Introduce the feathers, and mb well with the hands for five or six minutes. AfterI/INTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 483 this soaping, wash in clean water, as hot as the hand can bear. Shake until dry. Grease-spots from cotton or woollen materials of fast colours. Absorbent pastes, purified bullock’s-blood, and even common soap, are used, applied to the spot when dry. When the colours are not fast, use fuller's earth or pulverized potter’s clay, laid in a layer over the spot, and press it with a very hot iron. Grease from silks, moires, and plain or brocaded satins. Begin by pouring over the spot two drops of rectified spirits of wine; cover it over with a linen cloth, and press it with a hot iron, changing the linen instantly. The spot will look tarnished, for a portion of the grease still remains; this will be removed entirely by a little sulphuric ether dropped on the spot, and a very little rubbing. If neatly done, no perceptible mark or circle will remain; nor will the lustre of the richest silk be changed, the union of the two liquids operating with no injurious effects from rubbing. ■—0— HAIR, ETC. 'Soft hail-, on which light d^-ops a diadem.'—Massey. Bandoline, for beautifying the Hair.—Soak starch, or Irish moss (whichever you please), in rose-water until dissolved and smooth. If you wish it to be pink, colour it with a little pounded cochineal. To clean Hair Brushes and Combs.—Dissolve a piece of soda in some hot water, allowing a piece the size of a walnut to a quart of water. Put the water into a basin, and, after combing out the hair from the brushes, dip them, bristles downwards, into the water and out again, keeping the backs and handles as free from the water as possible. Repeat this until the bristles look clean; then rinse the brushes in a little cold water 3 shake them well, and wipe the handles and backs with a towel, but not the bristles, and set the brushes to dry in the sun, or near the fire; but take care not to put them too close to it. Wipino- the bristles of a brush makes them soft, as does also the use of soap. Combs.—If it can be avoided, never wash combs, as the water often makes the teeth split, and the tortoiseshell or horn of which they are made, rough. Small brushes, manufactured purposely for cleaning combs, may be purchased at a trifling cost: with this the comb should be well brushed, and afterwards wiped with a cloth or towel. Hair Lotion, to prevent the Hair frotn falling Eau-de-Coloone, 2 oz.; tincture of cantharides, 2 drachms; oil of lavender, or rosemary,’of either, 10 drops. This application must be used once or twice a day484 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. for some time; but if the scalp becomes sore, use it less frequently, 01 discontinue it for a time. An excelletit Water to prevent Hair from falling off, and to thicken it.— Put 4 lbs. of unadulterated honey into a still, with 12 handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. To prevent the Hair from falling off, sponge the head lightly every day with cold tea. For the Growth of Hair.—Simmer 4d. of rosemary till of a dark green colour; then to each quart of the liquid add ^ a pint of rum. If the hair is inclined to dryness, mix castor oil with the rum before putting it with the rosemary. Bottle it ready for use. Some add a little of the oil of cantharides. Oil of Roses for the Hair.—Otto of roses, i drachm; oil of rosemary, I drachm; olive oil, i quart, mixed together. It may be coloured red by steeping a little alkanet root in the oil (with heat) before scenting it Castor Oil Pomade for the Hair.—Pour a quart of boiling water over 1 a lb. of fresh lard; stir it that it may be well melted. WTien cold, take it off the water, squeeze it dry, and beat it to a soft cream with a wooden fork; then add by degrees oz. of fresh castor oil and 25 drops of essential oil of bergamot, or any other perfume; beat it till it is like a thick cream. Put it into covered toilet jars. Marrow Pomade for the Hair.—One quarter of a lb. of marrow, 4 oz. of lard, 6 oz. of castor oil, 6 oz. of salad oil, id. of palm oil. Scent the whole with essential oil of bergamot, or almonds, etc. Melt the lard and palm oil together, then strain it, and strain the marrow. Mix all well together until nearly cold, and put in pots. A good Wash for cleaning and promoting the Growth oj Hair.—Take of distilled vinegar, 2 oz.; salt of tartar, 2 drachms; sphit of lavender, \ an oz.; spirit of rosemary, i oz.; spirit of nutmegs, ^ an oz.; essence of essential oil of almonds, i drachm; essence of violets, i drachm; pure spring water, 20 oz. Mix and bottle for use. This is not only the best wash for cleaning, strengthening, and promoting tire growth of the hair, but is a cool and refreshing perfume. For Whitening the Hands.—a wine-glassful of eau-de-Cobgne, and another of lemon-juice; then scrape 2 cakes of brown "Windsor soap to a powder, and mix well in a mould. When hard, it will be an excellent soap for whitening the hands. .... Ironmould in linen or calico may be removed by dipping it inmcdi- ately in cold water. ..... To 7vhiten Lace.—Lace may be restored to the original whiteness by first ironing it slightly, and then folding it and sewing it into a cleanHINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 485 linen bag, which is placed for 24 hours in pure olive oil. Afterwards the bag is boiled in a solution of soap and water for fifteen minutes, then well rinsed in lukewarm water, and finally dipped in water containing a slight proportion of starch. The lace is then taken from the bag, and stretched on pins to dry. Mildew hi Linen.—Rub the linen well with soap; then scrape some fine chalk, and rub it well on the linen. Lay it on the grass. As it dries, wet it a little; the mildew will generally disappear with a second application. To revive old Crape, (mourning).—Place a little water in a tea-kettle, and let it boil till there is plenty of ,steam from the spout; then, hold- ing the crape in both hands, pass it to and fro several times through the steam. Stains are removed from mourning dresses, such as bombazines, cloth, crape, etc., by rubbing them with a sponge dipped in a mixture com- posed of a handful ot fig-leaves, boiled in 2 quarts of water till reduced to a pint. To remove Paint jrom Silk Cloth.—If the fabric will bear it, sharp rubbing will frequently entirely discharge a newly-made paint-stain ; but, if this is not successful, apply spirit of turpentine with a quill till the stains disappear. PE RFUME S. ‘ Perfumed as if Arabian imids scattered their spices loosely on the face of some rich earth fruitful with aromatics.'—Nodes. Eau-de-Cologne.—Half a pint of spirits of wine, 15 drops of the oil of orange flowers, and a few drops of the essence of lavender and bergamot. ^ A French Perfume.—’Msx. together the fresh petals of roses, jessamine pinks, or clove-carnation, and violets. Take an upright glass jar, such as is used by confectioners to display sweets in their windows ; at the bottom of the jar put a layer of mixed petals, then a thin layer of pounded lump sugar, then another layer of petals, and so on till the jar is full, pressing all down tight. Cover the jar close, and set in the sun for a week. Then empty its contents into a woollen cloth, squeeze out the liquid by means of a press, and bottle it in phials for use, corking them tightly. ’ Lavender Water (good).—Oil of lavender, i an oz.; essence of musk, i an oz. ; ambergris, ^ an oz.; essence of bergamot, 40 drops; recti- fied spirits of wine, ^ a pint. Note.—Quarter of an oz. is just 2 drachms and 25 drops.486 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. Perfume for the Drawers and Linen.—Half a lb. of lavender flowers, free from stalk; dried thyme and mint, of each an oz,; ground cloves and carraways, of each a ^ of an oz.; common salt dried, i oz. To be well mixed together and put into cambric or silk bags. A Perfume, also a Preventive against Moths.—Let the following ingre- dients be ground together to powder and put in bags among your clothes : i oz. of tonquin beans ; i oz. of carraway seeds; i oz. of cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon; and add as much Florentine orris root as will equal the other ingredients put together. Perfume of Roses.—Take the petals of the common rose {centifolice) ■, place them, without pressing them, in a bottle ; pour some good spirits of wine upon them; close the bottle, and let it stand until it is required for use. This will keep for years, and yield a perfume little inferior to otto of roses; a few drops will suffice to impregnate the atmosphere of a room with a delicious odour. Common vinegar is greatly improved by a very small quantity being added to it. To Ret7iove Freckles.—Dissolve i oz. of Venice soap in an oz. of lemon-juice, and add z.\ of an oz. each of oil of bitter almonds and deliquated oil ot tartar. Place this mixture in the sun till it is of the consistency of ointment; then add 3 drops of the oil of rhodium, and keep it for use. Apply it to the hands and face in the following manner :—^Wash the parts at night with elder-flower water, or Rowland’s kalydor, then anoint with the ointment. In the morning, cleanse the skin from its oily adhesion by washing it copiously in rose-water. For Cleaning Silks.—Four oz. of honey ; 6 oz. of soft soap; i pint of whisky or gin. To be well mixed together, and rubbed on the silk with a soft brush on both sides; afterwards to be rinsed through a tub of soft water, and then through hard water. Dry it on a horse, and iron it with a tolerably hot iron. To Cleafi Flowered Silks and White Satin.—Mix sifted stale bread- crumbs with powder blue, and rub it thoroughly all over the article; then shake it well, and dust it with clean soft cloths. Afterwards, where there are any gold or silver flowers, take a piece of crimson in- grain velvet, rub the flowers with it, which will restore them to their original lustre. When the colour has been taken from silk by acids, it may be re- stored by applying a little hartshorn, or sal-volatile, to the spot. It may be dropped upon any garment without doing harm. Powder for the Skin.—One oz. of pounded camphor, and i a lb. of the best starch finely pounded. While pounding, add 2 drachms of spirit of wine, 2 drachms of oxide of zinc, and 8 drops of otto of roses. Mix all well together. Another Preparation.—Mix some flower of sulphur in a little milk,HINTS FOR DRESSING AND THE TOILET. 487 let it stand an hour or two; then rub the milk (without disturbing the sulphur) into the skin. It will keep it soft, and make the complexion clear. A wine-glassful at a time is sufficient. It should be prepared over-night, and never used if the milk has become sour. A very good Honey Soap for the Skin.—Cut 2 lbs. of yellow soap very thin; put it into a double saucepan, stirring it occasionally till it is melted, which will be in a few minutes if the water is kept boiling around it; then add a lb. of honey, ^ lb. of palm oil, and 3d. of real oil of cinnamon; boil all together for six or eight minutes, then pour out and let it stand till the next day, when it will be fit for use. For Preserving and Beautifying the Teetji.—Dissolve 2 oz. of borax in three pints of water; before quite cold, i table-spoonful of spirits of camphor, and i tea-spoonful of tincture of myrrh, and put it into bottles ready for use. One wine-glassful ot this preparation added to ^ a pint of tepid water is sufficient for each application. Camphor Tooth Powder.—Prepared chalk, i lb.; camphor, i or 2 drachms. The camphor must be finely powdered by moistening it with a little spirit of wine, and then mixing it thoroughly with the chalk. Quinine Tooth Powder.—Sulphate of quinine, 6 grains; precipitated chalk, 12 drachms; rose pink, 2 drachms; carbonate of magnesia, i drachm. Mix all well together. Hair Wash.—For cleansing and promoting the growth of the hair. Oil of sweet almonds, i oz.; otto of roses, 2 drops ; carbonate of ammonia, 20 grains ; rosemary water, | pint; tincture of cantharides, 2 drachms; spirit of red lavender, 10 drops. Mix as follows:—Drop the otto of roses into the oil of sweet almonds ; dissolve the carbonate of ammonia in the rosemary water ; add to it the first named articles ; shake well the bottle ; and lastly put in the tincture of cantharides and red lavender. A little of the above should be well rubbed into the roots of the hair every morning. To fasten the Teeth.—Put powdered alum (the quantity of a nutmeg) in a quart of spring water for twenty-four hours; then strain the water, and gargle with it. To clean the Teeth.—Rub your brush on the soap you use, and lather your teeth welLRECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, OR SLIGHT PHYSICAL DERANGEMENTS. ‘ Good housewife provides ere a sickness do come, Of stmdry good ikings in her house to have some. ’—Thos. TusSER. ‘ yi small disease which is ynougk durable. At the beginning for lacke of medecine. At longe continuaunce beco7nmeth incurable. Thepaynefull pacient bringing unto mine : Therefor who will to his own health encline. And soone be healed of ill zuithout all tary. To thephysitian ought not to be contrary.'—BARCLAY, 1570. EGARDING the ‘ills that life is heir to,’ we must submit -with as good humour as may be; good temper is of itself a medicine I but still I hold the doctrine of alleviation and cure to be very good. I have therefore selected, with some valuable assistance, a few simple remedies for use when required, and should advise that the ingredients and other matters hereinafter mentioned be kept in the store-room, and a small chest for the drugs, tinctures, etc. I do not, however, advocate being your own doctor. Your common sense will tell you when he: is required, and then by all means have him, and let him be one well accredited, and possessed of a lady’s hand, an eagle’s eye, and a lion’s heart, if possible ; and if he be a God-fearing man, so much the better, for every man who is guided by a loving submission to the known laws of God, is a superior creature, and the true man to enter your house, and to minister to your complaints. Medicine Chest.—Every house should contain suitable medicines to administer in cases of sudden illness, accidents, colds, or slight ail- ments. To those who have not a medicine chest, the following list4^9 RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. may be useful. They should be kept in a cupboard or box, easy of access:— Prepared chalk. Oil of peppermint. Laudanum. Opiate and aromatic confections. Tincture of rhubarb. Dr. Collis Brown’s chlorodyne. Dr. Gregory’s powder. Turkish rhubarb. Calcined magnesia. Epsom salts—Senna. Flour of sulphur. Cream of tartar. Cold-drawn castor oil. Antibilious pills. Seidlitz powders. Carbonate of soda. Carbonate of potass. Sal-volatile. Camphor julep. Sweet spirit ot nitre. Essence of ginger. Bitters. Dr. Davis’ Calorific and shield. Friar’s balsam. Opium plaster. Eye lotion {see receipt). Camomile flowers. Liquid blisters, and a camel’s-hair brush. Spermaceti ointment. Cold cream. Glycerine and rose-water. Adhesive plaster. Court plaster. Caustic—Iodine. Compound camphor liniment. Olive oil. Tincture of Arnica, tincture of Cal- endula. Condy’s Toilet and Disinfecting Fluids—Directions for use on the bottles. Bandages, lint, linen rag, medicated cotton, oil silk, spongio piline, scissors, ivory knife, syringes, etc. Healih.—A morning bath and daily exercise are proved to be pro- moters of health. When a bath cannot be obtained, a good substitute is to rub the body with wet towels, and then with dry coarse ones, till the skin glows. A glass of cold water drunk immediately after the bath will be found beneficial. Bathing.—or cold baths should not be taken till three hours, or longer, after a meal. Mustard Plaster. Mix the mustard with cold water, and knead it to the consistency ot putty. Spread it, the eighth of an inch thick, upon brown paper; warm it before the fire, and apply to the part affected. This plaster will be found more effectual than when made with hot water. ^ If the skin is very sensitive, brush the surface of the plaster over slightly with salad oil. Camphor Julep. Put an oz. of camphor into a quart bottle fill it with cold boiled water, cork it closely, and let it remain twenty-four hours ; then strain, and keep it for use. A wine-glassful is a dose. Fainting. If fainting be caused by an over-heated room or excite- ment, administer quickly a wine-glassful of camphor julep with a tea- spoonful of sal-volatile in it, and let the patient recline on the back If from debility, a large glass of sherry, and a reclining position. If from \490 2TIINGS A LADY WOULD LIIvE TO lOVOW. disease of the heart, half a tumbler of rather strong brandy and water cold, and an upright sitting position. For Spots, Phnples, etc. on the Face (INVALUABLE).—One oz. of aquafortis, i oz. quicksilver; put these into aii earthe7i vessel; i oz. hard soap to mix readily, i oz. prepared chalk, i lb. lard, i tabu-spoonful of spirit of turpentine; aquafortis, quicksilver, and hard soap dissolve together; prepared chalk mixed with lard (mco7porated). The above, by putting the aquafortis and quicksilver into an earthen vessel, and when done efervescing, mix with the other ingredients, putting the chalk in last, afid spirit of turpeiitine tinted with camnine. Cure for Neuralgia.—Five grains of citrate ot quinine and iron, dissolved in a small wine-glass of water for a dose; to be repeated three times a day during the attacks. Lotion for Chilblains (not broken).—Take a tea-spoonful of common alum and the same quantity ot purified white copperas, dissolve them in half a pint of white wine vinegar, and add a wine-glass of gin. Apply the lotion with a camel’s hair brush or feather, and allow to dry without wiping. Gout.—Take of acetic extract of colchicum, i grain; compound powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains; compound colocynth pill, 4 grains. Make two pills—to be taken at bed-time. Send six. Take of compound tincture of senna and peppermint water, of each oz.; mix and make a mixture. Take a third part early in the morning after the pills. Ringwor7n.—Ointment of nitrate of mercury, i part; clarified hog’s lard, 3 parts: to be mixed thoroughly, and applied in small quantity night and morning. The above ointment, more or less diluted with clarified hog’s lard, is an excellent application for the cure of many skin affections. Toothache.—One drop of pure liquid carbolic acid upon a phlet of cotton wool, placed carefully in the caries of the teeth, will be found of great value both in allaying pain and arresting decay. When free from pain and sensitiveness, the tooth may be stopped either by a dentist, or, if the caries be too large, a temporary stopping of gutta-percha. The last-named may be found highly useful, and can be readily applied by one’s own self as follows :—Take a piece of either white or brown gutta-percha of the required size ; immerse it in warm water, and when quite plastic, fill the tooth, and trim off before the filling hardens. The gutta-percha indicated may be obtained at any chemist’s. Car77iinative Mixture for Infants.—Turkey rhubarb, 8 grains ; mag- nesia, 16 grains; laudanum, 2 drops; syrup, a table-spoonful; dill water, three table-spoonfuls. The above ingredients to be put into a bottle, and shaken before use. Dose: a tea-spoonful once, twice, or thrice daily, or during the night;491 RECIFES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. two tea-spoonfuls when restless or flatulent. I can most confidmtly cotmnend the above to mothers for infatits up to a year old. Any chemist can prepare it in a few minutes. Diarrhoea Mixture.—Diluted nitric acid, 5 drops ; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops; laudanum, 5 drops ; chloric ether, 10 drops; tincture of gum catechu, 20 drops; peppermint or cinnamon water, a small wine-glassful. To be taken at one dose for an adult, and repeated every two or three hours if required. Children 10 to 12 years of age, half the above dose; and younger, less in proportion to age. A speedy Remedy for Recent Colds.—Ten drops of spirit of sal-volatile, chloric ether, and red lavender, taken in a wine-glassful of camphor julep, and repeated at intervals of a few hours. Lotion for Sprains.—Sal ammoniac, ^ an oz.; rose-water, ^ a pint ; eau-de-Cologne, a table-spoonful. Rags wet with the lotion should be laid on the injured part, and changed when they get dry. The above lotion will be found very useful and refreshing if applied as a wash for the face, neck, arms, etc., during warm summer weather, allaying much the inconveniences of profuse perspiration. A Good Pick-7ne-up.—Dissolve as much bicarbonate of potash as will cover a threepenny-piece and a small lump of white sugar in a wine- glassful of cold water; then add a tea-spoonful each of tincture of gentian and tincture of cardamoms, and half that quantity of sal-volatile. Stir, and drink all. Palpitation of the Heart.a pint of cold water. Marseilles Vinegar, a Preventive to Ijtfection.—lnk\s& rue, sage, mint, rosemary, wormwood, of each a handful, in 2 quarts of the sharpest vinegar, over warm embers for eight days; then strain it through a flannel, and add g- an oz. of camphor dissolved in 2 oz. of rectified spirits of wine. With this wash the face and mouth, and snufif a little up the nose when you pay your visit. Smell to a sponge dipped therein when you approach infected places. Sore Throat. Take a pint of cold water when in bed, or eat as many apples as you can, and drink apple water. An Inflamed Sore Throat. Lay nitre and loaf sugar, mixed, on the tongue. For Pad Digestion.~Qx\xs\ the juice of half a large lemon immedi- ately after dinner every day. Flatulence.—five or seven corns of white pepper for six or seven mornings. A Prick or Cut that Festers.—Apply turpentine with a small bnish. The Qutnsey. Swallow, slowly, white rose-water mixed with syrun of mulberries. ^ Rheumatism.—the cold bath frequently, with rubbing and sweat-49= TIIIA'GS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ENOW. mg; or mix flower of brimstone with honey in equal quantities. Take 3 tea-spoonfuls at night, 2 in the morning, and i afterwards morning and evening till cured. In their seasons, eat as much asparagus as you can, and also strawberries. Sciatica.—Boil nettles till soft; foment with the liquor; then apply the herb as a poultice. Scorhitic Gums.—Wash them daily with a decoction of the Peruvian bark, adding a little tincture of roses, with a solution of myrrh. A brokc7i Shin.—Put on a bit of white paper moistened with spittle; it will stay on till the place is well. Bloodshot Eye.—Apply linen rags dipt in cold water frequently. A bndse in the Eye.—Apply, as a plaster, conserve of roses. An excellent Eye-Water.—Boil very lightly i spoonful of white copperas and 3 spoonfuls of white salt in 3 pints of spring water. When cold, bottle it in large phials without straining. Take up the phial softly, and put a drop or two in the eye night and morning. Weak Eyes.—Wash the head daily with cold water. Dysejitery.—Feed on rice-milk, and sit a quarter of an hour in a shallow tub, having in it warm water three inches deep. Gout.—Steadily use the elixir of vitriol in proper doses. Gravel.—Eat largely of spinach when in season. Headache.—Get some one to rub your head for a quarter of an hour, or be electrified. ' Headache from Heat.—Apply to the forehead cloths dipt in cold water for an hour. Hea^'tburn.—Drink a pint of cold water. To cure Hicaip.—Three drops of oil of cinnamon on a lump of sugar. Hoarseness.—A tea-spoonful of conserve of roses every night. Lethargy.—Take a pint of decoction of water cresses morning and evening. The Measles.—Immediately consult a physician. In the interim, drink water gruel, or milk and water, or toast and water,—the more the better,—and keep out of all draughts. A Whitlow.—A poultice of chewed bread. Burns.—Lime water beaten up with sweet oil is an excellent oint- ment for burns; and medicated cotton laid over the burnt parts is admirable for its cooling properties. Cramp.—Cramp may be kept at a distance by tilting the bed, so that the feet and legs should be in a slightly depending position. The idea is the keeping more blood in the legs. Warts.—There is a very useful property belonging to the Ra7iunailus arveus, or common crow-foot, which I do not think is generally known.493 RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. On breaking the stalk of the growing plant in two, a drop of milky juice will be observed to hang on the upper part of the stem; if this is allowed to drop on the wart, so that it be well saturated with the juice, in about three or four dressings the warts will die, and may be picked off with the fingers. Cold Cream for Chapped Hands.—Take 2 oz. of oil of almonds, i oz. of spermaceti, and a piece of white wax as big as a hazel-nut, and melt them together at the bottom of a basin. When these are melted and well mixed, pour over them a pint of cold spring water, and let them stand for 24 hours. Then pour away all the water, and pound the mixed residue in a mortar. Scent with a drop or two of essence of bergamot, or a little lavender. Receipt for Boils, Carbuncles, etc.—Two oz. of soft soap, an oz. of bee’s- wax, a large tea-spoonful of flour, a ^ of a tea-cupful of beer, a of an oz. of the best sweet oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle. These ingredients to be simmered for a quarter of an hour in an earthen pipkin. Apply thinly spread on a piece of linen. Change it twice a day, and sponge the parts with warm water. Lip Salve.—Alkanet root, i drachm; oil of almonds, i oz.; sperma- ceti cerate, 2 oz. Add a few drops of any scent that you like, while warm. Take care to let the alkanet root be put in a jar with the oil, and placed on the hob or in an oven till it is a beautiful red; then take it out and place it again on the hob with the cerate. To preojent Chilblains.&2X flannel socks, or socks of chamois leather, when you go to bed. To cure Chilblains.—Wash them with tincture of myrrh in a little water. For Cold.—Drink a pint of cold water when in bed. Windy Cholic.—Drink a pint of camomile tea, or parched peas eaten freely. Bilious Cholic.—Drink warm lemonade. Costiveness.—early, or take daily (two hours before dinner) a small tea-cupful of stewed prunes. Dry Immediately after your cough, chew a piece of Peruvian bark, about the size of a peppercorn. Swallow your spittle as long as it is bitter, and then spit out the wood. Do this every time you cough ; it is invaluable. Asthma.—Cut an ounce of stick liquorice into slices. Steep this in a quart of water four and twenty hours, and use it as a common drink, and eat as much toasted bacon with the dripping as you can. Bleeding of the Nose.—Ytz.%\i the temples, nose, and neck with ^•inegar. Bleeding of a Wound.—Take ripe puff-balls, break them warily, and save the powder; strew this on the wound, and bind it on.T///NGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCJVOW. Spitting Blood.—^Three tea-spoonfuls of sage juice in a little honey. A Brtiise.—Apply a plaster of chopped parsley mixed with butter. To prevent Swelling from a Bruise.—Immediately apply a cloth five or six times doubled, dipt in cold water, and re-dipt when it grows warm. To cure a Swelling from a Bruise.—Foment it half an hour (morning and evening) with cloths dipt in water as hot as you can bear, or a bruised onion. For a Cough.—Drink a pint of cold water when you get into bed. The Cramp.—Be electrified through the part which uses to be affected, or hold a roll of brimstone in your hand. A Cut.—Bind on toasted cheese. Deafness.—Be electrified through the ear, and use the cold bath. An intermitting Fever.—Drink warm lemonade in the beginning of every fit. To draw out Thorns, Splinters, etc.—Turpentine spread on wash leather. When you can't Sleep (Vigilia).—Take a grain or two of camphor before getting into bed. Ulcer.—Foment morning and evening with a decoction of walnut leaves, and bind the leaves on. Inflamed Uvula.—Touch it frequently with a brush steeped in camphorated spirits of wine. Relaxed Uvula.—Bruise the veins of a cabbage leaf, and lay it hot on the crown of the head; repeat, it needed, in two hours. Warts.—Rub them daily with a radish when in season, or with the juice of marigold flowers. Weak Ankles.—Hold them in cold water a quarter of an hour, morning and evening. To cure Night Perspirations.—Drink a gill of warm milk at bed-time in bed. To prevent the Toothache.—Rinse your mouth well in cold water every morning, and rinse well after every meal when practicable. All rough and cutting powders destroy the teeth, so do all conwion tinctures. Sweetmeats are apt to hurt the teeth, if the mouth be not rinsed after- wards. Cracking nuts and biting off thread often cracks and chips the enamel. Constant use of toothpick is bad. Whe7i m Extreme Thirst.—Drink spring water, in which a little sal prunella is dissolved. RULES FOR A SICK ROOM. I. A sick room should be kept very sweet and airy. If the weather is warm enough, let the door or window be open; if cold, let there be a small fire. The chimney should never be stopped up.495 RECIPES FOR ACCIDENTS, ETC. 2. It should be made rather dark, by a blind over the window; but bed-curtains should not be drawn close. 3. It should be very clean. The floor should be wiped over with a damp cloth every day. 4. As soon as medicine comes, read the labels and directions care- fully. The medicines should be kept in one particular place, and all bottles, cups, etc. that are done with should be taken away at once. 5. The room should be kept very quiet. There should be no talking nor gossiping j one or two people at the most, besides the invalid, are quite enough to be there at a time. 6. The sick person’s face, and hands, and feet should be often washed with warm water and soap, and the mouth be rinsed with vinegar and water; the hair should be cut rather short, and be combed every day. 7. Never give gin, rum, or other spirits, unless ordered by the medical attendant. Sick people always feel weak, but such things given at a wrong time would only make them weaker. 8. When a person lies long in bed, take great care that the back and hips are kept clean and dry. If any place looks red or tender, dab it twice a day with some spirit, and arrange thin pillows so as to take the weight off the tender parts. If the skin comes off, apply yellow basilicon ointment496 THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. WHAT a wondrous thing is vegetation! Take a trowel full of earth, and' look attentively at it. There does not seem any- thing creative or sustaining about the black mass ; yet put the bulb of a lily into this bit of earth, and see what it shall develope with the aid of the sun, the shower, and the atmosphere,—a thing so beautiful, that Solomon in all his glory was not clothed like one of these. And so we cannot wonder at a garden being a spot of earth made peculiar ground; for it is full of sweet wonders, and of the smiles of God’s good- ness, which flowers are so truly said to resemble. And again, it soothes the mind with a balm fresh from Eden, and renovates the soul and glad- dens the eye. I do not think I ever knew any one who rejoiced in a garden who was a sour-complexioned soul. God Almighty placed man in a garden in the first blessed state of his being, and walked therein with him; and it can be so again, though not continuously as then; but we can still snatch a few hours of calm enjoyment from the turmoil of life, and delve amidst the beauties of flower-life,—^working thus far in har- mony with Him who hath clothed the hills with verdure, and strewed about our pathway the blooming reminiscences of the better land. The following instructions are culled from the excellent little manual of Mr. Carter, of the well-known firm of Messrs. James Carter, Dunnett, and Beale, of 237 and 238 High Holborn, W.C., to whom I can con- fidently recommend my readers for all matters appertaining to garden culture, the purchase of seeds, etc.:— JANUARY. Where there is the convenience of a vinery at work, commence about the last week in the month to pot off" from the store pots the plants intended for bedding out, beginning with scarlet geraniums and other free-rooting varieties, leaving verbenas and other more tender bedders497 THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. until next month. Plants reserved in the autumn for the purpose of fur- nishing spring cuttings, such as Heliotropes, Fuchsias, Lantanas, Cupheas, Verbenas, and Lobelias, should also be brought into heat to start; see also that a sufficient quantity of fresh dung and leaves are getting ready for a bed for striking these cuttings. Have some composts under cover ready for the earliest sowing of annuals next month : in the out-door department attend to neatness in the grass and the borders along the principal walks; trench up all vacant beds, adding some nice decayed leaf mould where necessary; thin out shrubberies, and, weather per- mitting, commence digging the same, keeping in mind, however, that established shrubberies will be best undug, and, if weeds appear, well hoed. If the hyacinths in beds are pushing through, it is a good plan to cover the beds with dry rotten leaves, or a mixture of dry earth, ashes, and a little lime, as the leaves, though well rotten, will present a rough surface in which slugs will hide during the day, and come out to forage at night. Bear in mind, that after this month every week will bring an increase of necessary operations; it is well, therefore, to be in advance. FEBRUARY. Preparations for summer display must have constant attention. Sow some of the most showy hardy annuals in pots, and place them in a frame on gentle bottom heat; these will flower very early. A- few may also be sown on a warm border, to transplant into the flower borders when they are dug up next month; dress the beds or patches of annuals which have been standing through the winter with soot and ashes to keep away snail; make up a good dung-bed early in the month, and commence striking the cuttings of bedding plants as soon as they are ready. When the first-potted bedding plants are well rooted, remove them to a cooler temperature, and supply their places with freshly-potted ones from the stores; bring forward the dry roots of choice Dahlias into heat, to furnish cuttings. The tall varieties ot Lobelias should be put into heat, and when started into growth, part and pot them singly into four-inch pots, and harden off when well rooted; shift Carnations and Picotees into their blooming pots at the end of the month ; protect choice Tulips and Hyacinths; fumif^ate Auriculas and top-dress them ; let them have plenty of air and projec- tion from frost and damp; commence the pnining of hardy Roses, also of climbing Roses on walls and trellises; where crowded, remove ex- hausted wood, and lay in young stuff. Dress over Scillas and choice Crocus with soot and ashes; also lay traps for mice, which are very destructive to crocus roots. Sow some pots or pans of German ten- week Stocks for early flowering, also a pan of Delphinum Chinense and498 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW Formosum to flower late in the autumn. Commence digging up the borders in the rougher parts of the mixed flower garden; and where the background is formed of shrubs, let them be thinned out, re- arranged, and blanks filled up as may be found necessary; some nice rotten leaf mould pricked in amongst the choicer sorts of shrubs will be very beneficial, MARCH. All the autumn stores of bedding plants must now be potted off with- out delay,, and the stock continually increased by spring-struck cuttings. Have some turf-pits in readiness for pricking out, at three inches apart, all the spring-struck Verbenas. These pits must have a moveable water- proof covering; glass is best, but wooden shutters will do. Nothing is better than calico strained tight, but in very frosty nights some more covering of litter or branches will be necessary. See that hardy annuals sown in pots last month are getting hardened off for planting out. Sow Sweet Peas in pots in a gentle heat, to be hardened off quickly and planted out for early flowering; sow the same in the open border for succession; also sow some hardy annuals in the open ground, and protect the ten derest by placing a pot over them, which should be lifted on one side, or taken off on fine days. This is a good plan when a fine regular bed is wanted, or to form patches at regular distances. Prick out German ten-week Stocks, and sow more seed. A general sowing of hardy annuals may be made at the end of the month if the borders are ready. Sow also /awn grasses in showery weather. Plant out seeding Pansies; top-dress Pinks and Carnations; stir the soil amongst Tulip, Hyacinth, and Ranunculus beds, and protect them from snails. When digging the borders of herbaceous plants, reduce the size of all overgrown specimens, and fill up vacancies from the reserve garden. Finish pruning all Roses, manure them well, and replace rotten stakes. Keep grass and gravel well swept and rolled. Plant out bulbs of the beautiful varieties of Gladiolus. Throw up a dung bed the last week, for tender annuals early next month. APRIL. Let the principal sowing of hardy annuals be made immediately, if it were not done last month. The manure bed recommended last month will now be ready, and may at once be filled with pots or pans sown with tender annuals,—such as French and African Marigolds, Spanish and Indian Pinks, German and French Asters, Zinnias, Nolana’s, Tropoeola, Maurandyas, Lychospermums, and many others which will be found enumerated in catalogues, most of which will be required to be40Q THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. pricked out into nursery beds, to be finally transplanted into the borders towards the end of next month. Plant out beds of German Stocks from the early sowings; keep them shaded until rooted; sow more seed for succession, and also of intermediate stock for autumn blooming. The value of bulbous plants for spring display will now be fully apparent; for with Hyacinths, Jonquils, Narcissus, Scillas, Van Thol and other early tulips, and Turban Ranunculus, an amount of beauty may be realized which those who have not tried cannot conceive. Plant out immediately the beds of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchiflora. Sow Holly- hocks and other perennial herbaceous plants, also biennials for next year’s blooming. Let bedding plants in their various stages have due attention ; any which are pot-bound may, towards the end of the month, be turned out under a temporary framework into light soil, and kept covered at night: attend particularly to keeping down insects—it very often constitutes the difference between success and failure. Plants pot-bound, standing with pots exposed to the sun, parching dryness of the roots at one time and a drenching at another, with the cold attend- ing a rapid evaporation of moisture, are fruitful causes of weakness and hosts of insects. All such plants that make fibrous roots are better planted out in a bed, with the necessary protection given to them; hence Calceolarias, etc. do better when they never see artificial heat, and never know what it is to be cramped, heated, and cooled in pots. Even plants in pots would be less liable to such extremes, and require less labour in looking after them, when plunged in some open material. As a general rule, plants struck in autumn in a cool temperature do best, though there are often exceptions, as Verbenas struck in heat in the spring, and well hardened off afterwards. Calceolarias struck in spring come in well for edgings, and perhaps bloom more freely in autumn. The difference in time is also of importance to the beginner who likes to see the results of his handiwork. For instance. Calceo- laria cuttings inserted in a cold pit in the end of October may take two months before they emit a single root; a similar cutting will be rooted in as many days in a hot-bed m March and April. To ensure quick rooting, the cutting should be growing, be slipped off close to the older stem, dressed there, and the foliage thinned to lessen the perspirin<T surface; be inserted in sandy soil in a well-drained pot; the pot be plunged in a sweet hot-bed, be watered, a little air let in at ni<^ht to prevent vapours accumulating, the sashes shut during the day and a little shading given onJy v^hen the cutting will not stand sunlight without flagging. Look well to the watering of newly-planted trees, shrubs roses, and herbaceous plants, if the weather is at all dry and parching ’500 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. MAY. Early in this month commence planting the rooted runners of Nea- politan, Russian, and Tree Violets, in beds previously prepared by the addition of fresh compost, at from seven to nine inches apart, and take care during the season to give them abundance of water. Propagate also spring-flowering plants, such as Alyssum, Iberis, Arabis, Wall- flowers, and Arenarias, to be planted in the reserve garden when rooted. Sow a bed of German Asters and some hardy annuals in pots plunged in a shady place, for the purpose of filling up vacancies later m the season. The last week in the month will be the proper time to com- mence planting out the bedding-plants. Begin with the hardiest and well-hardened plants, particularly Verbenas and Calceolarias, leaving the tender sorts, such as Heliotropes, Petunias, Salvias, and others likely to suffer even from a slight frost, until early next month. Towards the end of the month, when the plants are large enough, com- mence planting in the mixed borders the tender annuals mentioned last month j choose dull days for the operation, and water through a fine rose to settle the earth about the roots. In all such watering, and especially in the case of bedding plants at all tender, it is well to water at the roots before all the earth is replaced, so as to have the surface loose and as dry as possible. For similar reasons, preventing loss of heat by evaporation, etc., it is advisable not to plant such things on a wet day or when the ground is wet, as then it takes great trouble to get the trampled ground sweet and friable. Roses should now have plenty of liquid manure and frequent syringings overhead. JUNE. As the season is now arrived in which it becomes an absolute neces- sity to get out the whole of the stock of bedding plants, such things as Turban Ranunculus, Hyacinths, and other bulbs which have been occupying the beds, must be taken up at any sacrifice ; they must there- fore be very carefully lifted without injuring the foliage, and plunged in sand for a time before being exposed to dry for storing; the next thing is to give the beds a little fresh compost, and proceed with the plantinp When all the bedding-out is done, let the surface of the beds be neatly levelled, and such as require it have the plants _ pegged doivm; it is of importance not to do this too soon, as a cold night that wfll not injure a plant growing upright will blacken and destroy a shoot of such plains placed in a horizontal position. Great economy will be gained by iuranging plants according to height, and so as to require no pegging.THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. t;ot Continue the planting out of tender annuals; these are very useful in the mixed borders to supply the vacancies which are always occurring through the plants going out of bloom ; take care that there is a reserve bed of those things to supply future vacancies of the kind. Patches of annuals sown last month must be well thinned out, and more may be sown for later blooming. Plant in the mixed borders a good number of Cuphea Platycentra and Strigulosa; they come in so cheerful-looking late in the autumn; and more especially if there are bees within travel- ling distance, they will be sure to find them out. The propagation of spring-flowering herbaceous plants must be finished off immediately. Pinks also, and Pansies, must now be propagated, the first especially, for forcing. For out-door work, the cuttings may be slipped off in the beginning of next month ; they will do best in sandy soil, under a hand- light. About the middle ot the month sow Brompton, Queen, and Emperor Stocks, to stand through the winter. Finish off the planting of Dahlias, and keep them well watered ; continue to give Roses thorough syringings, unless just when they are in full bloom, and also repeated doses of liquid manure. JULY. Bedded-out plants will now be started off into full growth, and will require to be trained out and nicely pegged down as they advance. The borders in the mixed flower garden will require to be kept up to the extreme of neatness, by staking and tying the plants as they require it, hoeing and raking the borders at short intervals, particularly after heavy rains, and clearing away all old flower stems and decaying leaves. A little dexterity in using the hoe will leave a regular surface without the use of the rake—it is one of those tools we dread to see in a nice bed or border^ many plants that are ruined by ‘ Mr. Nobody'may easily trace their destruction to a whip from the rake : for all such pur- poses we would keep that tool under lock and key. As Roses will now be objects of great attraction, they must have corresponding attention paid to them: nothing tends more to prolong the summer bloom than a constant supply of water and liquid manure \ dead flowers and insects must be constantly removed by handpicking; and when the bloom is over, use the syringe thoroughly. Lose no time in getting a good stock of Cloves, Picotees, and Carnations layered. If taken at the beginning of the month, much time will be saved by taking off cuttings, inserting them in sandy soil in pots, and placing in a sweet hot-bed, or inserting in soil over such a hot-bed at once. This may easily be done withou't disfiguring the old plants, not by cutting off the slips, but by catching each firmly above the second joint with the right hand, holding the shoot below with the left, then give a brisk pull, and the cutting will502 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. come out clean at the joint, and be ready at once for dibbing in. In some cases there may be a little film adhering, which must be removed with a sharp knife. Prick out Brompton and Queen Stocks into nursery beds; see that beds of Violets do not want for water. Towards the end of the month put in a few handlights of choice Verbena cuttings on a south border, which will make fine plants to pot in September, and supply any number of cuttings in the spring. Cuttings inserted in this ‘ and the next month will have little chance to be troubled with mildew or thrip, which is almost sure to attack these plants late in autumn. The propagation of any choice kinds of bedding plants when the stock is short may be commenced at once, and followed up as fast as cuttings can be procured. Stake Hollyhocks and Dahlias in time, also Salvias, Phloxes, Asters, and other autumnal-blooming plants. Pick off the seed vessels from Rhododendrons and Azaleas ; and if the weather is dry, let them have copious supplies of water, and mulch when procurable, with rotten dung in which leaves form a principal part. Clip box edgings, also yew, thorn, and laurel hedges; but for yews and laurel, and especially the latter, it is preferable to use the knife, and so as to hide the cuts; it is always disagreeable to see laurel leaves chopped and cut in the middle. Go over the shrubberies and reduce any over- luxuriant growth, and remove the remains of early flowers. AUGUST. Operations in this department for this month are principally routinal, such as watering, staking, tying, and, in fact, all the operations which have a thorough neatness in view. Bedding plants of all sorts should now be in very great beauty, and it is the proper time to determine on any different arrangement of colour which may be thought desirable for another season. The tall varieties of Lobelias will be very much benefited by frequent and copious applications of liquid manure, so also will the beds of Cannas. Give plants of Pampas Grass frequent doses of liquid manure and water alternately, if the weather is dry. Propagation for the wants of another season must now be commenced, particularly of such sorts as do not ropt freely; for unless they get pretty well rooted before winter, they art often difficult to preserve. All kinds of juicy Scarlet Pelargoniums will root well in the open air; the shrivelling of their leaves is of no consequence. Attend strictly to the routine of mowing, sweeping, and rolling, and to keeping the edges of all well defined; indeed, perfect order and a finished appearance are quite as essential to the enjoyment of a garden as beautiful flowers and superior cultivation.THE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. 503 SEPTEMBER. Towards the end of this month or the beginning of next, sow hardy annuals to stand through the winter. The following may be safely re- commended :—Nemophila Discoidalis, Insignis, and Maculata; Gilia Achillmfolia and Tricolour; Clarkia Pulchella and Alba; Platystemon Californicus; Erysimum Perowskianum; Godetia Tenella, Lindleyana, and Rubicunda; Collinsia Verna, Bicolour, Multicolour, and Bartsiasfolia; Limnanthes Douglas!; Bartonia Aurea; Callichroa Platyglossa; Silene Compacta, Pendula, Shaft!, etc.; Virginian Stock; Lupinus Nanus; Cyanus; Eucharidium Grandiflorum; Sanvitalia Procumbens; Esch- scholtzia Crocea and Californica; Leptosiphon Androsaceus ; Calliopsis of the Tinctoria Varieties; Sweet Alyssum; all the annual Candytufts, and Catchfly, etc. With the above a great display may be made in the spring. Autumn-flowering Roses must be supplied with liquid manure. Commence the planting of Narcissus, Crocus, Anemones, and Aconites as soon as the places are vacant. Stake and fasten securely Salvias, Dahlias, Asters, and other autumn-flowering plants. Get in a good stock of cuttings of free-rooting bedding plants in store pots to stand through the winter. Shallow boxes, five inches deep, from two to two and a half feet long, and nine to twelve inches wide, are so far better than pots, that the quantities of cuttings are easier moved from place to place; and provided they are roughly made,—the sides not too perfect a join to the bottom, no drainage will be necessary except a little rough soil or compost over the bottom. Let us recommend, either for pots or boxes, the avoidance of half-rotten tree leaves at the bottom of either such pots or boxes, as they are apt to give no end of crops of fungi. Prepre beds for Pansies. Plant out Pinks; pot off rooted layers of Picotee and Carnation, and plant the rest in nursery beds. Pick off dead seed vessels from Scarlet Geraniums and Verbenas; and indeed, try and make the most of all the late bloom by the constant removal of unsightly refuse, and attention to neatness. OCTOBER. As the season of beauty will soon be over for most of the bedding plants towards the middle and tlie end of the month, begin to take up Scarlet Geraniums, and such like plants, which are required for storing Take up as many as there can possibly be found room for, as old plants will always be found to flower earlier and more abundantly than young cutting plants, providing you can command room to give them suitable treatment; but, m a majority of cases, this does not obtain, and young504 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. struck plants will beat the old plants now flourishing in the beds. One thing is essential to success, and that is, that the plants should have previously been little injured by frost. Those things that spread their roots far, as Heliotropes, are better secured in the shape of young plants. Scarlet Geraniums do well in many ways ; for instance, if you want a few tall ones for the centre of beds, raise and pot the plants, in the smallest pots in which the roots will go; remove most of the leaves, and, after watering, place them anywhere where they will be free trom frost and damp; if they had a little bottom heat, they would break away in no time. Another plan is useful for those who cannot keep young plants: take up the Geraniums (at least, as soon as the top leaves are touched with frost); cut the plants down to five to six inches in height, which will remove all the soft stems, and leave each head, like so many stag horns; then thin off all the roots to three or four inches in length, cut the tops close to a joint, and dip all these cut parts in a pot of lime, to dry up the wounds, after removing every leaf; then take these skeleton Geraniums and pack the roots as closely as possible in largish pots or shallow wooden boxes, every pot or box looking like a little faggot. A good-sized bed may thus be squeezed into a 12-inch poL Water, and when fairly drained and settled, cover the surface over with dry soil; and in any dry airy place, from whence frost is excluded, and even where there is little or no light, these plants will keep alive, and scarcely show any movement of growth until the month of March, when they must have light; and as the leaves get the size of a shilling, they must be turned out, and be potted or planted separately. Under such treatment, if after the pruning they were potted separately, or packed together, and placed in heat, they would soon begin to grow; but then they must have care all the winter. The rougher process minimizes care, position, etc. The variegated kinds do rather best when potted separately, and after more slight pruning and removing the large leaves, it is best to place them in pots just large enough to hold the roots, and in light soil, rather sandy than otherwise, and put them into a pit near the glass, and give them for a short time a gentle heat to start them afresh, and then gradually expose them to harden, when they may be placed on shelves and other vacant places in the greenhouse. When such treatment cannot be given the old plants, it would be wisest to let them alone, and secure nice young plants, by inserting cuttings in the end of July and the beginning of August. No cuttings of bedding plants will do much good now, unless they have the advantages of bottom heat and dry heat when necessary; and this involves much more labour and attention than if the plants were, like Geraniums, struck in the open air in August, or like Verbenas and Heliotropes in a cold frame or pit, at the same time where they could be shaded when necessaryTHE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. CO: We know of hardly one exception as to the time of striking, unless that of the shrubby bedding Calceolarias—they always, with us, do best when stubby side cuttings are taken off, and inserted in fresh sandy loam, under a cold frame or pit, in the end of October or the beginning of November; we prefer the last, if we could make sure of frost keeping away. They will take a couple of months or more to make roots, but then scarcely one in a thousand will fail to do so; among them there is one exception—the Amplexicaulis—which will not bear so much cold and damp as the others. In the case of other bedding plants that have been inserted as cuttings some time ago, and have not rooted suffi- ciently, a little bottom heat, with light and air above, will be of im- portance for getting them all right before the short days come on us. When all the principal beds are cleared, let them be immediately pre- pared for the reception of bulbous plants, such as Narcissus, Hyacinths, Turban Ranunculus, and Tulips, and let the whole of them be edged with Crocus of various colours; some may also be filled with spring-flowering herbaceous plants, such as Viola Arborea, Primroses, Polyanthus, Alys- sum, Iberis, Aubrietia, and Arabis, all of which will help to keep up a gay appearance in early spring, and will mostly be over before the beds will be again required for bedding plants. Some of the larger beds may be filled with nice dwarf plants of the hardier evergreens; common Rhododendrons, which may be moved any day in the year, are very suitable for the purpose—in fact, all evergreens, when they come to be moved every year, get quite used to, and seem to look for the operation • for such purposes a reserve garden should be kept. Many kinds of herbaceous plants may now be taken up, divided, and replanted; it is far better than doing it in the spring. Amongst them do not forget ‘^o^ble Rockets, both purple and white; they should be hfted annually about the first week in the month, divided into pieces, and replanted in fresh situations. Alterations which involve planting trees and shrubs should be set about vigorously; every tree and shmb planted this month will stand in a far better position as to Its well-doing than those planted during any other month of the year ^ ^ planting fruit es will here apply. Attention, as in spring, to watering, etc. will be reduced to a minimum. < The bulbs of Tigridia Pavonia and Conchiflora may now be lifted and er eing dried, stored away in sand secure from mice. Frequently trl ^ should be lifted a d packed closely under glass, and the roots kept moistish until the leaves5o6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. decay; m dry soils we have known them stand for years, with a ridae ot dry ashes placed over the rows; it is a long time before a conical row of such dry ashes gets wet through. Let the stems be cut off from the beds or patches of Japan Lilies, and then cover them with about four inches of decayed leaves: a similar covering should be put over die beds of Alstroemerias. Dahlia roots will now be matured, and may be carefully lifted, taking care to secure the labels to the roots with wire; lay them out to dry previous to storing them away tor the winter and if a sharp frost comes before they can be lifted, place a little earth round the stem, that the buds at the top of the bulb may not be injured. Plant Tulips, and finish off the planting of Turban Ranunculus, Hyacinths, Narcissus, Crocus, Jonquil, and Scilla; choose the warmest and most sheltered situations for the Hyacinths, and they will well repay any extra care. Put a little heap of finely-sifted coal-ashes over plants of doubtful hardiness, such as Salvia Patens, Tagetes Lucida, and Fuchsias : if neatness and efficacy are to be combined, nothing answers better than a thin layer of green moss; it requires a sharp continued frost to get through it. Bedding plants in store pots will require constant attention paid to the removal of decayed foliage, and a free circulation of air; a shelf near the glass in a heated pit or greenhouse is about the best place for them, but the difficulty is to get such a position for the myriads now required. Great care must be exercised in watering, as they must neither be allowed to get dry, nor yet be saturated; when water is necessary, if the drainage is good, give them enough to wet the soil, and then wait till they require it again; never water at this season unless absolutely necessary, or unless early in the forenoon, and let it always be a few degrees warmer than the temperature of the house. When such plants are kept in cold frames and pits, it is well to take out a pot when dry, water, and allow it to drain before replacing it; damp in such cases is as injurious as cold. In watering all houses, let as little be spilled as possible, as, unless where a high temperature is kept, and the air, as in severe frost, is exceedingly dry, we must neutralize the in general too great dampness of the atmosphere in places where little or no artificial heat is given. Continue to plant Roses of all the hardy sorts, and let them be well mulched with rotten manure after planting. Alterations in pleasure-grounds must be vigorously followed up in favourable weather. DECEMBER. Beds of Roses, both standards and dwarfs, should be well dressed with good decomposed stable manure. Tenderer varieties in open beds, particularly tea-scented, may with great advantage be carefully liftedTHE GARDEN, AND GARDENING. and planted very thickly in trenches in a sheltered place, where they can be well protected in hard weather; or if dwarfs, dry litter or fern may be fastened round or packed among the plants; and it standards, fern may be tied about their heads. When taken up as above stated, and planted in April in fresh friable soil, they generally bloom splendidly. See that beds of Ixias, Gladioli, and Lilia are well protected by a cover- ing of half-decayed leaves. Dust over the beds and patches of hardy annuals with quick-lime, soot, and wood-ashes in a dry state; slugs are apt to be very destructive to them in mild weather, and in severe weather some evergreen twigs stuck among them will greatly help them. Most of the deciduous trees will now have shed their leaves, and there- fore the whole of the lawns should be thoroughly swept, the borders well raked over, and the grass and gravel kept constantly well rolled. In most gardens the leaves obtained from these sweepings are most invaluable, first for hot beds, and then as part of compost; and, as a general rule, the driest soil and the driest air are ever the warmest, although we never forget the seeming exceptions, that the air is some- times so dry in a severe frost as to be as destructive, when at once admitted among tender plants, as the heated fire from a furnace. Trench up all vacant beds, and leave them rough, to become well frosted; choice and tender herbaceous plants should also be protected from severe frost by a mulching of half-decayed leaves. Now is a good time to see if the drainage of the garden is perfect; if not, let it be seen to at once, for the frost will always have more effect upon plants where the drainage is imperfect. Do not neglect former directions with regard to the store pots of bedding plants—the next six weeks is a critical time for them; after that time, potting off will again commence, and it is amazing how fast they will grow when more heat and a little room can be given them. Many with limited space keep the whole of their flower-garden stock in store pots until March, when they can make more room, and then, when pretty well established, they are turned out of doors with a slight protection. The half of the general directions to pol off Scarlet Geraniums, Verbenas, etc. etc., in autumn, are just so many tantalizing doses to the bulk of practitioners, who, if they did so, would never find room in winter for a tithe of the stuff they want* though they may manage by having fine lots ot store pots, with 20 or •^o plants in a pot instead of one.HINTS FOR THE ANGELS OF OUR HOUSEHOLD, CHIEFLY AS TOUCHING DEPORTMENT AND CONDITION IN LIFE. ‘ Learn to be wise and practise how to thrive: That I woidd have thee do ; and not to spend Your coin on every bauble that you fancy. Or every foolish brain that humours you ; I would not have you to invade each place. Nor thrust yourself on all societies. Till men's affections, or your own desert. Should worthily invite you to your rank. Nor would I you should melt away yourself In flashing bravery, lest while you affect To make a blaze of gentry to the world, A Utile puff of scorn extinguish it. And you be left with an unsavoury snuff. Whose property is only to offend. Moderate your expenses now at first, As you may keep the same proportion still j Nor stand so much on your gentility. Which is an airy and mere borrowed thing. From dead men's dust and bones, and none of yours. Except you make of hold it.'—Ben Jonson. HAVE AN OBJECT IN LIFE. Some high or humble enterprise of good Contemplate, till it shall possess thy mind, Become thy study, pastime, rest, and food. And kindle in thy heart a flame refined. Pray heaven for firmness, thy whole soul to bind To this thy purpose,—to begin, pursue, With thoughts all fixed, and feelings purely kind j Strength to complete, and with delight review, And grace to give the praise where all is ever due. 608509 HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. ‘ Beware lest thou from sloth, that would appear But lowliness of mind, with joy proclaim Thy want of work,—a charge thou couldst not hear From other lips without a blush of shame. Or pride indignant: then be thine to blame, And make thyself of worth ; and thus enlist The smiles of all the good, the dear to fame : 'Tis infamy to die and not be miss’d, And let all soon forget that thou didst e’er exist: ‘ Rise to some work of high and holy love. And thou an angel’s happiness shalt know; Shalt bless the earth, while in the world above, The good begun by thee shall onward flow In many a branching stream, and wider grow: The seed, that in these few and fleeting hours Thy hands unsparing and unwearied sow. Shall deck thy grave with amaranthine flowers. And yield the fruit divine in heaven’s immortal bowers.’ —Carlos Wilcox. EXAMPLE TO OUR SERVANTS. Example, is of the greatest importance to our servants, particularly those who are young, whose habits are frequently formed by the first service they enter. With the mild and good, they become softened and improved j but with the dissipated and violent, are too often disorderly and vicious. It is therefore not among the least of the duties incum- bent on the heads of families, to place in their view such examples as are worthy their imitation. But these examples, otherwise praiseworthy, should neither be rendered disagreeable, nor have their force diminished by any accompaniment of ill-humour. Rather, by the happiness and comfort resulting from our conduct towards our domestics, should they be made sensible of the beauty of virtue and piety. What we admire we often strive to imitate; and thus they might be led on to imbibe good principles, and to form regular and virtuous habits.—Mrs. Parkes. fenelon’s advice to housekeepers. Women run a risk in being extreme in eveiything; it is good to accustom them from their very childhood to have something under their government and management,—to keep accounts, to see the man-510 TITINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO LCNOW. ner of the market as to everything that is bought, and to understand how everything belonging to a family should be made fit for use. But you must also have a care that housekeeping in them turn not to avarice : show them particularly all the absurdities of this passion. Say to them, ‘ Take heed; avarice gains but a little, and dishonours a great deal j a reasonable person ought not to seek anything in a frugal and laborious life, but only to avoid the scandal and the injustice which attend a prodigal and a ruinous one.’ Tell them, moreover, it is often great gain to know how to lose when it is fit; and that it is good order, and not sordid sparing, which brings in the great profits. Fail not to represent the great mistakes of such women who are intent upon saving an inch oi candle while they suffer themselves to be cheated in a steward of the main part of their estate. Do for neatness as you do for housekeeping; suffer nothing nasty or displaced in your house; remember that nothing contributes more to comfort than to keep con- stantly everything in its place. This rule appears nothing, yet goes very far, if exactly kept. If you need anything, not a moment is lost in finding it; there is no trouble, or dispute, or confusion. Good order is certainly one of the greatest parts of neatness. Nothing is more pleasing to the eye than to see this exact disposition of things. To these advantages add that of taking away, by this habit, from servants, those of idleness or confusion. And it is more than a little thing to render their service quick and easy, and to take from ourselves the impatience we feel when anything cannot be found. Mothers should instruct their children, however young, in household matters. The disinterested affection of mothers often leads them to dispense with all assistance from their daughters in their domestic affairs, so long as they are in daily attendance at school, or, as the common phrase is, whilst they are ‘getting their education.’ Where the school-hours are diligently employed, and the tasks laborious, and much time is required to prepare lessons at home, that it is particularly important that all the leisure a girl has should be wisely disposed of in healthful exercise ; but far better would it be for her health that some of her time should be given to the stirring occupations of the household, than that she should be sitting over a frame of wcftsted or lacework, hurting her eyes, and wasting her time in making bead-bags, or some ornamental articles of dress, not worth a tithe of the pains bestowed upon them. THE FIRST YEAR OF MARRIED LIFE. The first year of a woman’s married life is not always most free from vexations and troubles. She carries into one family the prejudices and the habits of another, which sometimes prove so difterent, as to cause theHINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5” task of assimilating herself, in her new character, to those with whom she is henceforth to dwell, to be both painful and difficult. If she be solicitous to promote unanimity between her new connections and her- self, she will perhaps examine how far she can yield to their preju- dices, and in what degree she ought to maintain her own. By yielding a little, she makes, at least, her road smoother, if she do not thereby lay the foundation of esteem and affection, not to be shaken for the future by any trifling cause. As the happiness of the husband is liable to interruption, and his temper to be tried, by the petty umbrages and irritations between his wife and his relations, it is her duty, and assuredly the best mode of securing her own happiness, to endeavour to please them, so as to engage their affections if possible. A deter- mination to be pleased herself is half-way towards pleasing them ; and this may be shown by her willingness to discover their agreeable traits of character, rather than, with the critical penetration of ill-humour, to mark their weaknesses and errors. By pleasing manners at first, she may secure herself a favourable reception into her husband’s family; and in time, when she has proved her worth, her footing amongst them will be on a surer foundation. Many and various are the means to promote happiness in married life. A cheerful manner, a kind word, a readiness to oblige, can always diffuse a pleasing influence around’ ‘I noticed,’ observes Dr. Franklin in his Life, ‘a mechanic among a number of others, at work in a house, erecting but a little way from my office, who always appeared to be in a merry humour,—who had a kind word and a cheerful smile for every one he met. Let the day be ever so cold, gloomy, or sunless, a happy smile danced like a sunbeam on his cheerful countenance. Meeting him one morning, I asked him to secret of his constant happy flow of spirits. “No secret. Doctor, he replied; “ I have got one of the best of wives, and when I go to work she always has a kind word of encouragement for me • and when Ip horne she meets me with a smile and a kiss, and then ’tea is sure to be ready; and she has done so many little things during the day to a^nybodyT’ A wife at the outset of her career should make it her determination every possible way, to gam the sympathies of her husband, and she nl rarely fail when she applies herself cheerfully to the task.— AVOID UNPUNCTUAL PEOPLE. If you desire to enjoy life, avoid unpunctual people Thev i bus.ne.3 and poison pleasure. Make it your o™ not oLlT k' punctual, but a httle beforehand. Such a habit secures a composure512 THINGS A LADY WOULD LLLCE TO LCNOW. which is essential to happiness. For want of it, many people live in a constant fever, and put all about them into a fever too.—Thos. Walker-^ M.A. UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE. Mr. Hazlitt has said somewhere, of the portrait of a beautiful female with a noble countenance, that it seems as if an unhandsome action would be impossible in its presence. Most men of any refinement of soul, must have felt the truth and force of this sentiment We have often thought that the picture of a beloved mother or devoted wife, hung up in the room where we spend our leisure hours, must certainly excite a mighty influence over the feelings and thoughts. Cowper’s picture of his mother was a living presence, whose speaking counte- nance and beaming eye appealed, as no living mortal could, to his inmost soul, and stirred to its profoundest depths. But what is it that gives this power to the inanimate resemblance of departed ones? Their virtues, their moral graces and excellences, as remembered by the affectionate survivor. It may seem an odd thought, but we cannot help suggesting it to every female reader,—to every sister, wife, and mother,—that it is a worthy ambition for each of them to labour to be, both now and when dead, that picture in the house, before which vice shall stand abashed, confounded, and in whose presence every virtuous and manly heart shall glow with every honourable and lofty sentiment, and be irresistibly urged to the love of goodness and truth.— W. Jones, E.S.A. WHEN YOU ARE IN LOW SPIRITS. Take an ounce of the seeds of resolution, mixed well with the oil of good conscience; infuse into it a large spoonful of the salts of patience; distil very carefully a composing plant called ‘ other’s woes,’ which you will find in every part of the garden of life, growing under the broad leaves of disguise; add a small quantity, and it will greatly assist the salts of patience in their operation; gather a handful of the blossom of hope, then sweeten them properly with the balm of prudence ; and if you can get any of the seeds of true friendship, you will then have the most valuable medicine that can be administered. But you must be careful to get some of the seeds of true friendship, as there is a seed very much like it called ‘ self-interest,’ which will spoil the whole com- position. Make the ingredients into pills, take one night and morning, and the cure will be effected.HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5^3 PROCRASTINATION AND EXTRAVAGANCE. Micawher. My advice is, Never to do to-morrow what you can do to-day. ‘Procrastination is the thief of time.’ My other piece of advice is: Annual income of ;^2o, annual expenditure ;^i9, 19^. 6d.; lesult, happiness. Annual income ;^2o, annual expenditure £,20, os. 6d.; result, misery. The blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered, tlie god of day goes down upon the dreary scene, and, in short, you are or ever floored, as I am now.—Charles Dicketis. WORTH REMEMBERING. To pray to God continually; To leame to know Him rightfully : To honour God in Trinitie, The Trinity in Unitie; The Father in His majestie. The Son in His humanitie, The Holy Ghost’s benignitie. Three persons one in Deitie ; To serve Him always holily; 1 o aske Him all things needfully; To prayse Him alway worthely ; To love Him alway stedfastly; j. o dread Him alway fearefully ; To aske Him mercy hartely ; To trust Him alway faithfully; To obey Him alway willingly ■ To abide Him alway patiently ; To thank Him alway thankfully ; To live here alway vertuously; To use thy neighbour honestly; To looke for death still joresently; To helpe the poore in misery; To hope for heaven’s felicity; To have faith, hope, and charity; 1 o count this life but vanitie— Pee points of Christianitie.—Tusser. govern your TEMPER. First study to acquire a composure of mind and hnd,, a a6..at.o„ Of one o. fUe o.„er, es.La,., befo,: a„?tf.r.LH514 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. whilst the process of digestion is going on. To this end, govern your temper,—endeavour to look at the bright side of things,—keep down as much as possible the unruly passions, discard envy, hatred, and malice, and lay your head upon your pillow in charity with all man- kind. Let not your wants outrun your means. Whatever difficulties you have to encounter, be not perplexed, but only think what is right to do in the sight of Him who seeth all things, and bear without pining the results. When your meals are solitary, let your thoughts be cheer- ful ; when they are social, which is better, avoid disputes, or serious arguments, or unpleasant topics. ‘Unquiet meals,’ says Shakspeare, ‘ make ill digestions; ’ and the contrary is produced by easy conver- sation, a pleasant project, welcome news, or a lively companion. I advise wives not to entertain their husbands with domestic grievances about children or servants, nor to ask for money, nor propound un- reasonable or provoking questions; and advise husbands to keep the cares and vexations of the world to themselves, but to be com- municative of whatever is comfortable, cheerful, and amusing. Self- government is the best step to health and happiness. Walker. In reflections on the absent, go no further than you would go if they were present. ‘ I resolve never to speak of a man’s virtues before his face, nor of his faults behind his back.’ A golden rule, the observation of which would, at one stroke, banish from the earth flattery and defamation.—Bishop Beveridge. Trust in God; distrust thyself; act with propriety; pray with sincerity; use small things, and shun the gxeat; hear much, say little ; be silent as to things hidden; learn to spare an inferior, to yield to a superior, and to bear an equal.—Bishop Beveridge. CIRCUMSPECTION. GOLD DUST. DUTY. you the mistress of a family? Fulfil the charge for which you •VI Ait froiicfpr vniir nroner occupation to a venience, If they be already negligent or dishonest, your remissness 3 their faults, while it continues your own loss and i^con- If their integrity be unsullied, they are ignorant of theHINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 515 principles by which your expenses ought to be regulated; and will act for you on other principles, which, if you were apprised of them you ought to disapprove. They know not the amount of your husband’s income, nor of his debts, nor of his other incumbrances; nor if they knew all these things, could they judge what part of his revenue may reasonably be expended in the departments with which they are concerned. They will not reflect that small degrees of waste and extravapnce, when it would be easy to guard against them, are criminal; nor will they suspect the magnitude of the sum to which small degrees of waste and extrayagance, frequently repeatedr ^ll accumulate in the course of the year. They will consiLr the credit of you^r character as entrusted to them, and will conceive that they uphold « by profus,o„. The ,a,^er your family is, .he greater wiU be .he annual portion of your expenditure, which by these means will be thrown away. And if your ample fortune incline you to regaTd the sum as scarcely worth the little trouble which would have been required to prevent the loss, consider the extent of good which it mieht ha- tl'TaSd B^ie^ l"'"^ clothing wppli ^ ^ requiring, and punctual in examining your weekly accounts. Be frugal without parsimony; save that von distribute. Study the comfort of all under your roof even of the umblest inhabitant of the kitchen. Pinch not the inferior part of the family to provide against the cost of a day of splendour ^ reflection, idleness is a never-failing sourerof folly and of no. .0 mdulge them, at lit seasons, with visits to LTr frfo„T'' , one tyrannize over another Tn hen,.- friends. Let not inquiring into faults be candid • in ““pletnts, be patient; in rulfled. Tet notyoVkindness to toeT°r?- leave your house; but reward good conduct°inL'm™"d*' ''''™ r ^errb\“~iJr°'T“ “ -s:: .he characters of servants who har’qdtoTd “cm faS scientiously towards all the parlies intoested L =a.r.;r: r ,r^"=5r6 THINGS A LADY WOULD LUCE TO ICNOW. simple affair, there are not many people who can do it well. Some women do either too much or too little ; and husbands generally dislike the worry of over-management almost as much as neglect. The great art is to hit the happy medium quietly. It is a great point, also, to live always in the same manner as regards style, and to have the cbth laid as carefully when alone as when there is company. When this is the case, no wife feels afraid of her husband bringing in an unexpected guest j and it is gratifying to a husband to find a friend of this kind received quietly, whereas nothing can be more disagreeable to a husband than to see his home thrown into confusion, his wife cross, and his servants scrambling to change the things laid on the table, and, in short, everything going wrong, simply because he has asked a friend to dine without giving a day or two’s notice of his intention to do so. By judicious management, a wife can always contrive to have everything ready at the proper time and place. Mrs. Pat ket. Carry religion into common life, and your life will be rendered useful as well as noble. There are many women who listen incredulously to the high-toned exhortations of the pulpit; the religious life there depicted is much too seraphic, they think, for this plain and prosaic world o ours. Show these women that the picture is not a fancy one; inake it a reality. Bring religion down from the clouds ] apply it to the mfallible test of experiment, and, by suffusing your daily actions with holy principles, prove that love to God, superiority to worldly pleasures, spirituality, holiness, heavenly-mindedness, are something more than the stock ideas of sermons.— Caird. EDUCATIONAL PRINCIPLES. MORAL COURAGE. ‘ piece of music,’ if such be your taste. Have t old garments till you can pay for new ones, prefer propriety to fashion—one is but tlie W. JonesF.S.A.HINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. sn ADVICE TO A YOUNG WIFE. Among the minor virtues which tend to cement the bond of conjugal affection, the Christian female must not overlook that of personal neat- ness and self-respect, ‘ Rely not,’ says Mr. Jay, ‘ too much on the rights of relationship, however intimate the connection may be, and however endearing it ought to be. In preserving and keeping alive attachment, you must not absolutely depend upon the impressions that awakened it. A woman is not to presume on the certainty of homage, regardless of an attention to her manners. She is not, as soon as she has stepped over the threshold of marriage, to drop the delicacy, the decencies, the engaging appearance, by which she has attracted her lover. What attraction can there be in negligence, disorder, slattern- liness? A disregard of propriety, and especially neatness of apparel, is, in a female, a fault that nothing can expiate. Even religion will not excuse it. There is a greater connection between mental and outward purity than some are aware of. A female may be always judged of by her dress. The founders of Methodism were accustomed to say that cleanliness was next to godliness. I have known a few exceptions to this in men—I never knew one in a woman.' Perhaps the idea has already been implied, in the remarks on the preference that a wife should entertain for the society of her husband j but it had better -be repeated than omitted, or not clearly expressed,' that it is her duty to render herself conversable. When a man comes home, wearied with the labours and harassments of the day, he ought to find at home a comfortable fireside, and an intelligent and cheerful companion ready to receive and entertain him. That you may be well qualified to discharge this pleasing part of conjugal duty, it will be your wisdom to keep your attention alive through the day. Endeavour to inform your mind on subjects in which you know your husband takes an interest. In the course of your reading, mark a passage that you think will please him, or one that is not perfectly intelligible to yourself at first view, but on which you think he can give you information. Shun the real indolence and affected humility of saying, ^ Ah! it is all above my understanding. My husband is so learned, it is of no use for me to pretend to converse with him.’ The same exercise of atten- tion, recollection, and energy, which enables a woman to run down that incessant string of tattle and nonsense, which is justly the abhor rence of a sensible man, well directed, would abundantly qualify her to ]oin him m rational and improving conversation, at least as a humble learner; and m that capacity she would neither be contemptible nor disgusting, nor uninteresting in the eyes of a man of sense’ and5i8 things a lady WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. benevolence. Most men of that character would esteem it an agree- able recreation from severer pursuits, playfully to impart the rudiments of knowledge to a docile pupil in the person of an admired and beloved wife. Another duty which a married woman owes to her husband is love to home, and such exertions as are likely to render home attractive to him likewise. Men, in general, are occupied from home in the pursuits of business, or, at least, they are so engaged through the day in the office, the shop, or the counting-house, that they see but little of the wife and children. It is unspeakably important that a man of business should be inclined to spend his hours of leisure in the bosom of his family. Hence the duty of the wife to render home, by the winning charms of her behaviour, attractive and delightful to her husband, derives additional force. Let her consider the numberless temptations to vice, to profusion, to idle amusement, with which he is encompassed. Let her remember with what various characters the business of his station renders him familiar; of whom some, perhaps, openly deride the principles of religion ; others sap them by insidious machinations ; others extenuate, by their wit and talents, the offensiveness of guilt; others add to the seducing example of gay wickedness, the fascinations of rank and popularity. Is she desirous of his society? would she confirm him in domestic habits ? would she fortify him against being allured into the haunts of luxury, riot, and profaneness ? Let her con- duct show that home is dear to herself in his absence, still dearer when he is present. Let her unaffected mildness, her ingenuous tenderness, display before his mind a forcible contrast to the violence, the artifice, the unfeeling selfishness which he witnesses in his commerce with the world. Let the cheerful tranquillity of domestic pleasures stand for- ward, to supply the place of trifling and turbulent festivity abroad. Let his house, so far as her endeavours can be effectual, be the abode of happiness, and he will surely have little temptation to bewilder himself in seeking for happiness under another roof. The regulation of her personal expenses, on a scale conformable to her husband’s income, is the indispensable duty of a married woman. By this it is by no means meant to imply that it is incumbent on her to spend to the full extent which the resources of the family might warrant, but that she should scrupulously adhere to the rule of keeping within these limits. Where persons have a stated and certain income, their scale of expenditure is more easily arranged; but how- ever liberal that income may be, it is the part of wisdom, and the only security against straits, to allot and apportion it with judicious care to the various branches of expenditure; and even of a stated income arising from permanent sources, to reserve some portion for unforeseenHINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5^9 contingencies. But where the suiaport of the family depends on the uncertain results of trade, or on the precarious tenure of a quarterly salary, liable to be interrupted or cut off by the illness or death of the employed; or by changes in the circumstances, projects, or even caprices of the employers,—it is the height of folly not to have a settled scale of expenditure, or to suffer the outlay in any one department to exceed its appointed limits, which ought in prudence to be considerably within the actual capabilities of a single year. In the arrangement of, and adherence to, this prudent scale for the distribution of property, a man will be greatly dependent on the discretion and good principles of his wife. I would impress on the young married female the duty of scrupulously and cheerfully conforming her personal expenses to her husband’s resources. ‘ Whose adorning,’ said the apostle to the Chris- tian wives, ‘ let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel,’ i Pet. iii. 3. ‘Not,’ said another, ‘with broidered hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array,’ I Tim. ii. 9. Thus combining a caution against spending too much time or too much money on dress and ornaments, and recommending the unexpensive and incomparably more tasteful as well as excellent adornments of meekness, modesty, and good works. It is evident from the contrast implied, that finery and profusion in personal attire are at variance with all these. Surely no well-principled young woman could bear the idea of her husband suffering anything like embarrassment, or even being straitened m purposes of benevolence, by her expensive tastes and habits ! It may be, that in the house of her father she has been liberally supplied j per- haps a considerable sum placed at her own disposal, for dress and pocket-money; perhaps allowed to purchase what she pleased at her father s expense j and it may not have occurred to her that her hus- band’s resources are more circumscribed and uncertain than those of her father. But a hint to the wise is sufficient, and a moment’s con- sideration will convince her that it would be a most preposterous thing for one half of her husband’s income to be spent on decking out her person ; or in case of the distressing contingency of his being involved m difficulty, for half the difficulties to be traced to her lavish personal expenditure. ‘Oh, no!’ she will exclaim; ‘one half! no - far be it from me to consume a tenth. I ought to have learned frugality and moderation before I was married ; but better late than never. I will immediately begin to economize in my personal expenses.’ Do you my young friend, adopt and adhere to the wise resolution. Accustom yourself, this first year, to economize in a manner to which you have yourself into a habit of seeing fine things without desinng to possess them; of seeing other people in a newer5^0 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. mode or gayer dress than yourself, without wishing to imitate them. Be content with such things as you have j and be more than ever solicitous for the embellishments of the mind and the graces of the heart. Occupy your time and thoughts in the faithful discharge of your new duties, and in improving your qualifications for that purpose. Carry on this plan steadily for the first year, and it may fairly be predicted that before its close you will have become very indifferent to finery, and not likely in future to outstep the bounds of prudence in expense either of time or money bestowed upon it. I believe that a thorough love and conscientious adherence to duty, and a prevailing love for fine and costly dress, cannot co-exist, especially in a married woman.—Tlu Yoimg Wife. CHOOSE WISELY. Benevolence and prudence may make marriage happy; but what can be expected but disappointment and repentance from a choice made in the immaturity of youth, in the ardour of desire, without judgment, without foresight, without inquiry into conformity of opinions, similarity of manners, rectitude of judgment, or purity of sentiment! Such is the common process of marriage. A youth and maiden meeting by chance, or brought together by artifice, exchange glances, reciprocate civilities, go home and dream of one another; and having but little to divert attention or diversify thought, they find themselves uneasy when they are apart, and therefore conclude they shall be happy together. They marry, and discover what nothing but voluntary blindness before had concealed. They wear out life with altercations, and charge nature with cruelty. ‘ Deceive not thyself,’observes Fuller, ‘by over-expecting happiness in the marriage estate. Look not therein for contentment greater than God will give, or creature in this world can receive, namely, to be free from all inconveniences. Marriage is not, like the hill of Olympus, ivholly clear, without clouds; yea, expect both winds and storms sometimes, which, when blown away, the air is the clearer and the wholesomer for it Make account of certain cares and troubles which will attend thee. Remember the nightingales, which sing only some months in the spring, but commonly are silent when they have hatched their eggs, as if their mirth were turned into care for their young ones. Yet all the molestations of marriage are abundantly recompensed with other comforts which God bestoweth on them who make a wise choice of a wife.’—Dr. Johnson.HINTS FOR DEFORTMENT, ETC. 521 EMOTIONS OF ATTRACTION AND REPULSION, Most young women of resjiectable parentage and education believe that they love virtue and hate vice. But have they clearly ascertained what virtue and vice are? Have they examined the meaning of these two important words by the light of the world, or by the light of divine truth ? Have they listened to the plausible reasoning of what is called society; where things are often spoken of by false names, and where vulgar vice is distinguished from that which is sanctioned by good breeding ? Or have they gone directly to the eternal and immutable prin- ciples of good and evil, as explained in the Bible, which they profess to believe ? have they by this test tried all their favourite habits, their sweet weaknesses, their darling idols ? and have they been willing to abide the result of this test; to love whatever approaches that standard of moral excellence, and to renounce whatever is offensive to the pure eye of Omniscience ? Now, when we reflect that all this must be done before we can safely give ourselves.up either to love or hate, we shall probably cease to think that our great duty is so easily performed. There is, perhaps, no subject on which young women are apt to make so many and such fatal mistakes as in the regulation of their emotions of aUraction and repulsion; and chiefly for this reason because there is a popular notion prevailing amongst them, that it is exceedingly becoming to act from the impulse of the moment; to be vvhat they caU ‘the creatures of feelingor, in other words, to exclude the high attribute of reason from those very emotions which are given them, especially to serve the most exalted purposes. ‘ It is a cold philosophy, they say, ‘to calculate before you feel,’ and thus they clioose to act from impulse rather than from principle. In order to make the best use of time, we must lay out beforehand he exact amount proporhoned to every occupation in which we expect o engage. Casualties will perpetually occur demanding an additional allowance, and something must consequently be given up m exchange ; but still our calculations may generally be made with a degree of certainty which leaves no excuse for our being habitually at a loss what o do. Accustom yourself every morning to say what you are intending to do ; and every night, with equal faithfulness, to say what you have actually done during the day. If you find any material difference between what you have intended and what you have achieved, try to proportion them better, and the next day, either lay out for yourself or what IS far better, endeavour to accomplish more. ’ ’ You should always be able to say what you are doing, and not merely what you are going to do. ‘ I am going to be so busy-I am going to get to my work-I am going to prepare for my journey-I amTHINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 522 going to learn Italian—I am going to visit a poor neighbour.’ These, and ten thousand other ‘goings’ with the addition of the word ‘just’ before them, are words which form a network of delusions by which hundreds of well-intentioned young persons are completely entangled. ‘ I am just going to do this or that good work,’ sounds so much like ‘ I am really doing it,’ that the conscience is satisfied for the moment; yet how vast is the difference between these two expressions when habit has fixed them upon the character! To the same class of persons who habitually say, ‘ I am going,’ rather than ‘ I am doing,’ belong those who seldom know what they really are about; who, coming into a room for a particular purpose, and finding a book there by chance, open it, and sit down to read for half an hour or an hour, believing all the while that they are going to do the thing they first intended ; or who, setting out to walk for the benefit of their health, drop in upon a pleasant acquaintance by the way, still thinking they are going to walk, until the time for doing so has expired, when they return home, with cold feet and aching heads, half fancying that they have really walked, and disappointed that exercise has produced no better effect. Young persons are often beguiled into the dangerous habit of being a little too late, by the apparent unimportance of each particular trans- gression of the kind during the season of youth. If, for instance, they are a little too late for breakfast, the matron of the family commences operations without them, and they can easily gain time upon some of the senior members. At the dinner-hour it is the same. They have only to calculate upon a few impatient words and a few angry looks ; and it is not the least unfavourable feature of their case, that to such looks and words they become so accustomed as scarcely to heed them, nor is it often that they bring any more serious consequences upon themselves by their delay, because the young are generally so kindly assisted and cared for by their friends, that by a long, and patient, and often-repeated process of helping, urging, and entreating, they are, for the most part, got ready for every important occasion, or, in other words, are seldom left behind. The cleverness of the hand, though almost entirely neglected in modern education, except as relates to practice on the keys of the piano, is a qualification which, while it takes nothing away from the charm of feminine delicacy, imparts the additional charm of perpetual cheerfulness, added to a capability of general usefulness, and a con- sequent readiness for action whenever occasion may require our services. If I were asked which of the three qualities—cleverness, learning, or knowledge—was most valuable in a woman, and supposing all to have an equal accompaniment of good sense, good feeling, and good principle, I believe I should answer in favour of the first, provided the523 B7NTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. situation of the woman was in the middle rank of life, and she could not enjoy more than one of these valuable recommendations. In order to convey a more correct idea of my meaning when I speak of clever- ness, I will simply add, that a woman possessed of this qualification is seldom at a loss what to do; seldom gives wrong orders; seldom mis- takes the right means of producing the end she desires; seldom spoils, or wastes, or mismanages the works she undertakes ; never hurries to and fro in a state of confusion, not knowing what is best to be done first; and never yields to her own feelings, so as to incapacitate her from the service of others, at any critical moment when her assistance may be most needed. Nor are her recommendations only of a negative kind. Her habitual self-possession is a positive good; her coolness, her promptitude, her power to adapt herself to circumstances, all give worth and dignity to her character in the estimation of others, while they afford peace and satisfaction to her own mind.—Mrs. Ellis. ECONOMIZE YOUR TIME. Jeremy Bentham was a great economist of time. He knew the value of minutes. The disposal of his hours, both of labour and of repose, was a matter of systematic arrangement; and the arrangement was deter- mined on the principle that it is a calamity to lose the smallest portion of time. He did not deem it sufficient to provide against the loss of a day or an hour ; he took effectual means to prevent the occurrence of any such calamity to him: but he did more, he was careful to provide against the loss even of a single minute ; and there is not on record any example of a human being who lived more habitually under the practical conscmusness that his days are numbered, and that ‘ the night cometh in which no man can work.’ Go thou and do likewise Mo^cs OAra«^._Moderation in eating and drinking; short hours of labour and study—z.^. do not overwork; regularity in exercise recreation, and rest; cleanliness, by constanl usfof the are temperature, as much as possible ? '^hich surpasses all wealth—health ot be on your guard against your hoT of voumS '""ir V everywhere to the last hour of your life If you listen to it, it will frustrate all your designs It will make you lose the most important opportunities, and will inspire you with the inclinations and aversions of a child, to the prejudice of bvThf ^^“ses the greatest affairs to be decided y most paltry reasons; it obscures every talent, paralyses everv -Sr insupportable.^524 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOPF. EARLY INFLUENCE. At his first aptness the maternal love Those rudiments of wisdom did improve; The tender age was pliant to command ; Like wax it yielded to the forming hand ; True to the artificer, the laboured mind, With ease, was pious, generous, just, and kind : Soft for impression from the first prepared, Till virtue, with long exercise, grew hard ; With every act confirmed, and made at last So durable as not to be effaced. It turned to habit: and from vices free, Goodness resolved into necessity. ■—Drydcn. CORPORAL PUNISHMENT. Corporal punishment might soon be suppressed, did parents make it their constant care to render it unnecessary. Begin with your child in the cradle, and govern him by gentle methods. Do not accustom him to be shaken or slapped every hour of the day. You can so train him that violence will never be necessary. It is possible to guide with a look, reward with a smile, and punish with a froivn. Forbear threatening. It is probably even worse for a child’s moral nature to be accustomed to constant threats of the rod, than to be occasionally punished with it. You are to excite a fear of doing wong, not a fear of punishment. The former motive strengthens good principles; the latter, in its excess, always debilitates the character. Great harm is often done by punishing a child in presence of others. If whipping must be done, let it take place with the utmost privacy. This principle should be carried out in all methods of correction. Be sure a child understands your command before you rebuke him for disobedience. Cobhett. HUMAN LIFE. Pliny has compared a river to human life. I have never read the passage in his works, but I have been a hundred times struck with the analogy, particularly amidst mountain scenery. The river, small and clear in its origin, gushes forth from rocks, falls into deep glens, and wantons and meanders through a wild and picturesque country, nourish- ing only the uncultivated tree or flower by its dew or spray. In this, its state of infancy and youth, it may be compaied to the human mind.in NTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5 = 5 in which fancy and strength of imagination are predominant—it is more beautiful than useful. When the different rills or torrents join, and descend into the plain, it becomes slow and stately in its movements ; it is applied to move machinery, to irrigate meadows, and to bear upon its bosom the stately barge; in this mature state, it is deep, strong, and useful. As it flows on towards the sea, it loses its force and its motion, and at last, as it were, becomes lost and mingled with the mighty abyss of waters. One might pursue the metaphor still further and say, that in its origin, its thundering and foam, when it carries down clay from the bank and becomes impure, it resembles the youthful mind affected by dangerous passions. And the influence of a lake in calming and clear- ing the turbid water may be compared to the effect of reason in more mature life, when the tranquil, deep, cool, and unimpassioned mind is freed from its fever, its troubles, bubbles, noise, and foam. And, above all, the sources of a river, which may be considered as belonging to the atmosphere, and its termination in the ocean, may be regarded as imaging the divine origin of the human mind, and its being ultimately returned to, and lost in, the Infinite and Eternal Intelligence from which it originally sprung.—Sir Htimphry Davy. LOVE ! Love, shall I read thy dream ? oh ! is it not All of some sheltering wood-embosomed spot— A bower for thee and thine ? Yes ! lone and lowly is that home, yet there Something of heaven in the transparent air Makes every flower divine*! Something that mellows and that glorifies. Breathes o’er it ever from the tender skies, As o’er some blessed isle. E’en like the soft and spiritual glow Kindling rich woods, whereon the ethereal bow Sleeps lovingly awhile. Then by the hearth shall many a glorious page, From mind to mind the immortal heritage. For thee its treasures pour ; O’er music’s voice at vesper hours be heard. Or dearer interchange of playful word. Affection’s household love.520 TRINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. And the rich unison of mingled prayer, The melody of hearts in heavenly air, Thence duly should arise; Lifting th’ eternal hope, the adoring breath Of spirits not to be disjoin’d by death. Up to the starry skies ! —Llanam. PETTY EVILS. Remember that life is not entirely made up of great evils, or heavy trials, but that the perpetual recurrence of petty evils and small trials is the ordinary and appointed exercise of Christian graces. To bear with the feelings of those about us, with their infirmities, their bad judg- ments, their ill-breeding, their perverse tempers; to endure neglect where we feel we have deserved attention, and ingratitude where we expected thanks; to bear with the company of disagreeable people, whom Providence has placed in our way, and whom He has, perhaps, provided on purpose for the trial of our virtue,—these are the best exercise, and the better because not chosen by ourselves. To bear with vexations in business, with disappointments in our expectations, with interruptions in our retirement, with folly, intrusion, disturbance ; in short, with whatever opposes our will and contradicts our humour,— this habitual acquiescence appears to be the very essence of self-denial. These constant, inevitable, but inferior evils, properly improved, furnish a good moral discipline, and might well, in the days of ignorance, have superseded pilgrimage and penance.—Hannah More. SWEET MANNERS. There are a thousand engaging ways, which every person may put on without running the risk of being deemed either affected or foppish. The sweet smile, the quiet cordial bow, the earnest movement in addressing a friend, or more especially a stranger who may be recom- mended to us, the graceful attention which is so captivating when united with self-possession,—these will ensure us the good regards of all. There is a certain softness of manner which should be cultivated, and which, in either man or woman, adds a charm that is even more irresistible than beauty.—W. Jones, F.S.A. AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION. I never lose any time. I do not think that lost which is spent in amusement or recreation, some time every day; but always be in the}TINTS FOR DEPORTMENT, ETC. 5-7 habit of being employed. Never err the least in truth. Never say an ill thing of a person when thou canst say a good thing of her; not only speak charitably, but feel so. Never be irritable or unkind to anybody. Never indulge thyself in luxuries that are not necessaries. Do all things with consideration; and when thy path to act right is most difficult, feel confident in that power alone which is able to assist thee, and exert thy own powers as far as they go.—Mrs. Elizabeth Fry. VISITING. If we engage into a large acquaintance and various familiarities, we set open our gates to the invaders of most of our time; we expose our life to a quotidian ague of frigid impertinences, which would make a wise woman tremble to think of.—Cowley. IMPORTANT. When your child is sent to school, be careful to stipulate that a chair be provided for it to sit upon, instead of that instrument of torture, a form. More young girls suffer from weakness in their backs from this cause than any other; and from the neglect of a little cafe in early life being bestowed on this subject, they are frequently made miserable for the remainder of their days. If all mothers insist upon this, forms will be abolished, and the next generation will bless you.PRAYER. \ The following extracts, being a few quotations from the works of good men, are here noted down as a guide to prayer. Without it we are nothing, with it we are mighty. It is a glorious state to be in harmony with God; and by prayer, we assuredly learn His will, and act according to His teaching:— When is the time for prayer?— With the first beams that light the morning sky, Ere for the toils of day thou dost prepare. Lift up thy thoughts on high : Commend thy loved ones to His watchful care :— Morn is the time for prayer ! And in the noontide hour. If worn by toil, or by sad cares opprest, Then unto God thy spirit’s sorrow pour. And He will give you rest Thy voice shall reach Him through the fields of air: • Noon is the time for prayer! When the bright sun hath set— Whilst yet eve’s glowing colours deck the skies,— When with the loved, at home, again thou’st met, Then let thy praise arise For those who in thy joys and sorrows share ; Eve is the time for prayer! And when the stars come forth— ■Wlien to the trusting heart sweet hopes are given, And the deep stillness of the hour gives birth To pure bright dreams of heaven,— Kneel to thy God—ask strength, life’s ills to bear Night is the time for prayer!GUWE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 529 When is the time for prayer ? In every hour, while life is spared to thee— In crowds or solitudes, in joy or care— Thy thoughts should heavenward flee. At home at morn and eve—with loved ones there, Bend thou the knee of prayer!—Btirfiet. A"* ■t'ted prayer is answered prayer. Pra>c. answered when it is accepted, though there be no other effect of It visible. Prayer is not in vain, if the person be accepted, and the service approved. Is it nothing to be admitted to such sweet .ntimate communion with God in such a familiar way; to speak to Him as a man to his friend, as a child to his father? Suppose you should reap no other benefit from prayer, is not here as much as will amount o an answer? If you will not measure the return of your prayers by lower infenor advantages, those are the most blessed returns. It should be more desirable in your account to please Him, than to be happy yourselves. His glory should be more valuable than your salvation, o^ all the means that tend to it. And such society with Him should be esteemed the first-fruits of heaven. Yet these are the privileges of every accepted prayer,_ and therefore, if it be accepted, though it obtain nothing more, it is abundantly answered.—Clarksojt. ‘always to pray, and not to faint.’—(Luke xYiii. !•) Prayer may be unintermitted, and yet be faint This may flow from several causes: from physical depression, from mental distraction from inability or indifference. One prevalent cause is a doubt o^cZ produced by a delay in answering. Christ teaches a persevering urgency by the parable of the unjust judge, who was stirred to aid thf cause simply by her ‘continual coming.’ For if such an one can be moved by importunateness, much more that God of grace, who ready to give thm we to ask, and never can fail His chosen! O merciful Lord Christ, who art the just judge of the earth helo me to maintain towards Thee that imnnrhinof., ^ r ^ Thou Thyself commandest; and cause Te so of prayer, which that in me Thou findest faith when Thou comest^o tlm taiTe of h'’ sustaining grace.’-Z^>r^ Kinloch. ' ^THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. 53° EXALTED PASSION OF PRAYER. The prayer of the truly Christian man is generally offered cp with the tenderest and most exalted passion; and a holy pleasure mingles itself in every part of his office j his petitions and praises, his confessions, deprecations, and confidences, are all of them expressions of warm and delightful passions. And how can we well conceive it otherwise? Must not those praises and magnificats be full of joy and transport, which flow from a full assurance of the divine favour, from a long ex- perience of His love, and from the glorious prospect of a blessed eternity? Can those deprecations and confidences want a heavenly calm and tranquillity of spirit, which rest upon the mediation of Jesus, the promises of an immutable God, and the pledge of His Spirit? Can those confessions want contrition, that have all the tenderness that holy zeal and the humblest reflections can inspire them^ with? which are poured forth by a soul enlightened, purified, strong in the faith, rooted and grounded in love; by a soul consequently that has the liveliest sense of the deformity and danger of sin, of the beauty and pleasure of holiness, of the infinite goodness of God, and of that love of Christ that passeth knowledge ? Can those petitions want desire and flame, which are offered up by a soul that hungers and thirsts after righteousness, that counts all things but dung and dross in comparison of Jesus, that pants after God, that longs to be dissolved and to be with Christ? ’Tis true, weight and dignity of matter, gravity and significancy of expression, are the character most conspicuous in public offices, in the best and most ancient prayers, and particularly in the Lord s prayer. We find in them few or no figures of speech, no vehemence of expres- sion. But it is true too, that the devotion of a soul disengaged, as it were from the body, retired from the world, collected within itself, raised by daily contemplation and accustomed'to converse with Heaven, flows naturally and easily. Those great ideas, which such ^ Prajer as that of our Lord’s composure present to the mind, inflame the desire, awaken all the passions of the holy man, without any labour of imagina- tion or artifice of words.—Dr. Richard Lucas. FAITH. Faith in God and His doings is true nobility. ’Tis a great and difficult lesson, doubtless, to see God in all things; we have a simple trust in Him, He never forgets us. And althoughGUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 53f times our way may be dark and drear, rest assured it’s only the shadow which, passing away, will reveal in more intense splendour the glory of His love.^ The few following and brief extracts will serve to build up the chief joy of our pilgrimage, which is peace in believing; FAITH AND HEAVEN. Marvel notfor we know of heaven But by the/aRA we realize on earth. —T. F Triebner. faith in CHRIST. Whate’er I may have been, or am, resteth between Heaven and myself. I shall not choose a mortal To be my mediator. _ TASTELESS FAITH. Tasteless faith Dishonours where it worships, Heaven disdains Obedience from the blind. Hill. THE STAFF OF FAITH. anlffifwoT.rm^GCuplS’ttg'^ support on the staff of faith, you will wik without daneer The sometimes dark: but snhmlf- “^.nger. Ihewayis ■My Lord and my God lar»l'Vh“^ f'”’ pray: Luther says, ‘Faith is courage in the 17 ’ good that God does.’ If thf vT f r ^ everything to be rough and stony, faith finds a way through ^ wilderness, faith is the rod of UoL by which hJ the hard rock. If vnn nr** tv • V ^ ch he brought water from magic rod of faith will divideTe wfvLTha^th trouble, the pass through unhurt.’—Anid^ maten you, and you will faith and humility. When thou canst not bring thy love to God accompanied with532 things a lady would like to know. many and great offerings, bring to Him what thou hast and mayest, with such good will, and holy desires and wishes, that He may cheer- fully accept thy godly service.—Johan7i Arndt. FAITH, ITS POWER. St. John spoke of faith as the instrument of the conquest over the world—as the spring which sets in motion our efforts to be virtuous, which quickens their vigour and directs their aim. In this position, the apostle has not done what his interpreters are prone to do j he has neither perplexed what is distinct, nor united what is irrelative. Faith, exercised on the evidence and laws of religion, sets before you the beauty of holiness, the deformity of sin, the chorus of God’s mercy, and the terrors of His wrath. It lays open to us the excellence of heavenly joys, which we ought to pursue; the hollowness of earthly gratifications, which we ought to abandon; the severity of hell-torments, which we ought to shun. It represents to you the various offices of Christ, and the relation severally resulting from them. If He be our teacher, we should be careful to follow His instructions. If He be our redeemer, we should be anxious not to forfeit our portion in the blessings of re- demption. If He be our judge, we should be indefatigable to secure His approbation.—i?r. Sa^nuel Parr. HOPE. Hope is one of the angels of our life, and a most blessed one too. Hope has golden wings, and always bears us to a more congenial clime. It smooths the rugged parts of our pilgrimage, and fills us with a joy that few things else could do. It adapts itself to all circumstances, and so gives courage to dare and to do, shedding a radiance over all our attempts, and thus lighting up our struggles, our misfortunes, our very being. The few extracts that follow on this subject, I trust may be useful, and develope in the mind a hope that cannot be deceived: HOPE, THE FORETASTE OF GOOD THINGS TO COME. Our actual enjoyments are so few and transient, that we should be very miserable beings were we not endowed with this passion, which gives us a taste of those good things that may possibly come mto our possession. Hope quickens all the still parts of life, and keeps t e mind awake in her most remiss and indolent hours. It gives habitualGUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 533 serenity and good humour. It is a kind of vital heat in the soul, that cheers and gladdens. It makes pain easy and labour pleasant.—Addison. THE HAPPIEST LIFE IS FULL OF HOPE. No kind of life is so happy as that which is so full of hope, especially when the hope is well-founded, and when the object of it is of an exalted kind, and in its nature proper to make the person happy who enjoys it. This proposition must be very evident to those who con- sider how few are the present enjoyments of the most happy, and how insufficient to give entire satisfaction and acquiescence.— HOPE, ITS EFFICACY. Beside the several advantages which arise from hope, there is one w 1C IS none of the least, and that is, its great efficacy in preserving us from setting too high a value on present enjoyments. The saying of Cassar IS very well known. When he had given away all his estate in fatuities amongst his friends, one of them asked what he had left for himself; to which that great man replied, ‘Hope.’ His natural magnanimity hindered him from prizing what he was certainly possessed o , and turned all his thoughts upon something more valuable that he had in view.—Addison. HOPE SWEETENS LIFE. I have set the Lord always before me. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoiceth; my flesh also shall rest in hope : for Thou wik not leave my soul m hell; neither wilt Thou suflFer Thine Holy One to see corruptmn. Thou wilt show me the path of life : in Thy presence 'A eveLre. A HOPE LIFTS UP THE HEAD. Hope lifts up the head, and looks up to the redemption and salva- H H ° perfection Hope doth three things : it assures good things to come; it disposes us for them; it waits for them unto the end.—Edward Polhill. HOPE—RELIGIOUS. ‘It is good that a man should both hope, and quietly wait for the salvanon of the Lord' (Laor. iii.). Hope is a beaudful Aaeor llL534 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. the rainbow, it is not only lovely, because of its seven rich and radiant stripes, it is the memorial of a covenant between man and his Maker, telling us we were born for immortality, destined, unless we sepulchre our greatness, to the highest honour and noblest happiness. Hope proves man deathless it is the struggle of the soul breaking loose from what is perishable, and attesting her eternity; and when the eye of the mind is turned upon Christ, delivered for our offences and raised again for our justification, the unsubstantial and deceitful cha- racter is taken away from hope. Hope is one of the prime pieces of that armour of proof in which the believer is arrayed; for Paul tells us to take for an helmet the hope of salvation. It is not good that a man hope for wealth, since ‘ riches profit not in the day of wrath and it is not good that we hope for human honours, since the mean and the mighty go down to thf* same burial. But it is good that he hope for salvation. The meteor then gathers like a golden halo round his head; and as he presses forward in the battle-time, no weapon of the evil one can pierce through that helmet. It is good, then, that he hope; it is good, also, that he quietly wait. There is much promised in the Scrip- ture to the waiting upon God. Men wish an immediate answer to prayer, and think themselves forgotten unless the reply be instantaneous. It is a great mistake. The delay is often part, and a great part, of the answer. It exercises faith, and hope, and patience; and what better thing can be done for us than strengthening those ^aces, to whose growth shall be proportioned the splendours of immortality? It is good, then, that ye wait. ‘ They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles ; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.’ Rev. Henry Melville. COMFORT IN HOPE. Nothing can compensate for the loss of hope, it entirely changes the character. ‘ How can I work ? how can I be happy,’ said a great but miserable thinker, ‘when I have lost all hope ?’ Hope is like th^e sun, which, as we journey towards it, casts the shadow of our burden behin us.—Samuel Smiles. CHARITY. Pure in her aim, and in her temper mild. Her wisdom seems the weakness of a child ; She makes excuses where she might condemn , Reviled by those that hate her, prays for them.GUIDE FOR PRAYER, ETC. 535 Suspicion lurks not in her artless breast; The worse suggested, she believes the best; Not soon provok’d, however stung and teas’d; And if perhaps made angry, soon appeas’d : She rather waves than will dispute her right. And injured, makes forgiveness her delight—Cowper. Oh ! teach us, yet unspoil’d by wealth, That secret race, between the extremes to move. Of mad good-nature, and of mean self-love.—Pope. Soft-ey’d pity and forgiveness bland. And melting charity with open hand; And mercy stretching out ere want can speak. To wipe the tear which stains affliction’s cheek. —Hannah More. Her hand, the agent of her heart—Shakspeare. * Earth has nothing more tender than a woman’s heart, when it is the abode of piety.’—Luther. Oh, Charity ! our helpless nature’s pride, ihou friend to him who knows no friend beside. Is there in morning’s breath, or the sweet gale That steals o’er the tired pilgrim of the vale. Cheering with fragrance fresh his wearied frame, Aught like the influence of thy holy frame ? Is aught in all the beauties that adorn The azure heaven, or purple lights of morn— Is aught so fair in evening’s lingering gleam, As from thine eye the meek but pensive beam. That falls like saddest moonlight on the hill And distant woods, when the wide world is still ? Thine are the ample views that, unconfined. Stretch to the utmost walks of human kind; Thine is the spirit, that, with widest plan. Brother to brother binds, and man to man. — William Lisle Bowles. The greatest object in the universe is a Christian struggling with ad- versity; yet there is still a greater—the one who comes to relieve it O. Goldsmith.536 THINGS A LADY WOULD LIKE TO KNOW. L’E N VO I. Take up thy burden, ever fonvard pressing, Fight thy way onward, fearless day by day; The steady heart, the untir’d hand possessing;— The stars of faith and hope to light the way. Let not the lonely soul, still earthward given. Sigh o’er its broken reeds, its gods laid low; Better kneel down and pray, till breath from heaven Shall waft its fragrance o’er the poor sad brow. Take up thy burden I Cease from repining if the winter hours Are soon dispelled by sunbeams of the spring;— If chilling gales give place to summer flowers, And glad birds mount to heaven on joyous wing; Why should thy head hang down, and heart be weary ? The heart that smiles on them, to thee shall come; What though the wayside of the world be dreary. If safe at last it brings thee to thy home. Cease from repining. Ever in heaven ! when this life is closing; The world gone by—the strife and struggle o’er— Pleasures and pains alike forgot, reposing. Nothing to ruffle or to trouble more. When guardian angels, upon noiseless pinions. Thy spirit wait to bear o’er life’s dark sea. To the far radiance of the soul’s dominions,— Nothing to stand between thy God and thee ! Ever in heaven 1INDEX. Abbotsford Soup, 249. Accidents, Recipes for, 488, Adelind Pudding, 319. Advice to a Young Wife, 517. Agnes Pudding, 325. Aitch Bone of Beef, 122, 423 ; Soup, 65. Alderman's Pudding, 187. Aldershot Pudding, 313. Alexandra Pudding, 226. Alice Pudding, 267, 314. Allerlee, Fried, 35. Almond and Bread Pudding, 418. Almond Cake, 81. Pudding, 182. .Sauce, 117. Amandes, k la Royale, 338. Pralinees, no. Amber Pudding, 95, 185, 133, 3°7: American Blancmange, 392, 404. Pancakes, 342. Sauce, 443. Amusement and Recreation, 526. Anchovy Toast, 432. Sauce, 443. Anna’s Pudding, 300. Apple and Almond Pudding, Baked, 329. and Bread Pudding, 350. Charlotte, 270, 301, 331, 395- Cream, 396. and Currant Pudding, 67. and Custard Pancake, 293- Dumplings, 81, 91, 105, 274, 290, 291, 292, 309. Fritters, 32, 55, 95, 297, 314- Jelly, 461. Pancakes, 265. Pie, 102, 264. Pudding, 75, 328, 332, 336, 352. 99, I! Apple Sauce, 81, 443. Snow, 354. Soufflee, 348. Apples, Buttered, 228. and Rice, 263. Stewed, 36, 424. Apricot Preserve, 461. Arrowroot Blancmange, 94, 243- Pudding, Boiled, 180,261. Artichoke Bottom, 436. Sauce, 443. Artichokes, To preserve, 437. Asparagus, 187, 205. Omelet, 191. Pudding, 182, 400. Sauce, 444. ^ Soup, 157, 191. Asthma, 493. Aunt Amelia's Pudding, 178. Autumnal Broth, 234. Bacon and Beans, Boiled, 203. and Eggs, Fried, 430. Baked Batter Pudding, with Fruit, 176. Bakewell Pudding, 98, 177, 181, 260. Bandoline for the Hair, 483. Barley Broth, 89. Baroness Pudding, 225. Bath Pudding, 79. Bathing, 489. Batter and Orange Marma- lade, 113. for Fritters, 370. Pancakes, 343. Pudding, 43, 46, loi, 103, 132, 139, 177, 188, 396. Bechamel Sauce, 444 Beef, Boiled, 326, 353. Boiled Round of, 43. Boiled Aitch Bone of, 65. Bouilli, 260. Breslau of, 324. Brisket of, 121, 198, 156, 390. Fillet of, 79. Fricandeau of, 106. 537 Beef, Fricasee of, 115. Hashed, 236, 251, 273.' Heart, Roast, 37, 146. Kidneys, 146. Loin of. Boiled, 78. k la Mode, 102, 153, 300, and Mutton Pie, 56. Olives, 197, 291. Ribs, Boned and Rolled. 61, 76. Roast Sirloin of, 30, 71, 108, 212, 411. Rolled, 88. Soup, 104, 107, 269. Tongue, Roast, 66. Beefsteak, 285. and Kidney Pudding, 333. Pie, 52, 68, 355. Pudding, 320, 329, 344, 361. Staffordshire, 36. Beetroot and Onion, 327. Salad, 276, 439. Benton Sauce, 444. Biscuits aux Avellines, 311. h la Canelle, 163. a la Creme, 254. D'Amandes, 59. aux Marrons, 83.' Plain, Crisp, 464. de Savoie, 83. Soufflds, 162. Bitter Almond Macaroons, 162. Black Currant Jelly, 222. Blancmange, 143, 181, 235, 387. 418. Bleeding, to Stop, 494 Boeuf 4 la Flammanade, 133. Royale, 92, 139. Boiling, Hints on, 20. Boils, 493. Boots and Slippers, 481. Bordeaux Cake, 372. Bottled Fruit, 461. Bouillon, 130. Brandy Pudding, 326. Brasses, How to clean, 473.INDEX. 53S Bread and Butter Pudding, 68, 8o. 94. 134. 173. 305. Pudding, 103, 202. and Butter and Anchovy, 433- and Ginger Pudding, 118. Hasty Pudding, 17 ?. Sauce, 32, 444 Breakfasts, January to De- cember, 425, 426. Breast of Lamb, Grilled, 183. with Peas, 184. Rolled with a Ragofit, Breast of Mutton, 100. Remains of, loi. k la St. Menhould, 18S. Breast of Veal, 160. Brighton Pudding, 173. Brill, Boiled, 247. Broccoli, 31, 140. How to boil, 435, Broiled Bones, 432. Broiling, 21. Brose, Scotch, 41. Broth, Restorative, 73. Brown Bread Soup, 198. Brown Minced Veal, 176, 257. Bruises, 494. Brunswick Pudding, 245. Brussels Sprouts, 30, 38, 145. Bubble and Squeak, 89, 305. Bullock’s Heart, 66. Remainder of, 67. Bums, 492. Buttered Soles, 422. Butter for do., 383. Buttermilk Curd Pudding, 174. Cabbage, 148, 156, 227. Red, How to Pickle, 454. Soup, 259. Cabinet Pudding, 30, 71, 97, 140, 158, 191. Cake, 465. Cakes, The Making of, 461-2. Calf's Foot Jelly, 466. Calf s Head, Boned, 122, 124. Hashed, 140. Heart, 214, 285. Liver, Fried, and Bacon, 340- Liver, k la Mode, 262. Head Soup, 45. Tongue and Brains, 159. Camphor Julep, 489. Canary Pudding, 174. Candied Fmits, 461. Canton Pudding, 269. Caper Sauce, 127, 399, 444-45. Capon, k la Duchesse, 159. Roast, 386. with Rice, 139. Carminative Mixture, 490. arp, 251 ; Broiled, 348 ; Stuffed, 350. Carrot and Onion Soup, 133. Carrot Pudding, 159, 170, 257, 306. Soup, 266, 299. Carrots, 248, 436. How to Boil, 435, Casserole of Beef, 207. Cast-iron, How to Clean, 475. Castle Pudding, 171. Castor Oil Pomade, 484. Cauliflower, 159, 201, 244, 249, 400. Celery Sauce, 34, 42. Soup, 166, 206. Stewed, 40. Celts Pudding, 299. Cement for Broken China, 473, 475- Cerises Groselllees, 222. Champagne, k la Minute, 458. Chantilly Soup, 150. Chapped Hands, 480. Lips, 480. Charity, 534. Charles Douglas Pudding, 325. Charlotte Russe, 383. Pudding, 421. Cheese, 371. Damson, 467. Fondu, 408. Roast, 3k Stewed, 432. Cheesecakes, 128, 145, 3S3. Cheshire Pork Pie, 315. Cherry Brandy, 458. Jelly, 466. Pudding, 184. Sauce, 445. Chestnut Sauce, 445, Soup, 366. Chestnuts, 59. Chicken Broth, 133, Curry, 73. Curried, 266. Gravy Soup, 257. Pie, 332. Pudding, 170, 215. Salad, 439. Soufilee, 315. Soup, 318. Chilblains, 490, 493. Chocolate Cream, Iced, 355, 356. Choose Wisely, 520. Chops, with Cucumber Sauce, 80. Chowder, 118. Christmas Pudding, 351, 364. Chump of Veal, 144. Cintra Fritters, 304. Circumspection, 514. Citron Macaroons, 28X Pudding, 334. Cock-a-leekie, 42, 232. Cockroaches, How to Kill, 476. Cocoa-nut Cake, 372. Macaroons, 374. Sauce, 371. Cod, 65, 79, 267, 316, 390. Cod, Fried, and Oysters, 413, Head and Shoulders, 30, 339- Baked, 50, 76, 89, Pie, 119. Sounds, 86, 156, 317. Stewed, 93. Cod's Tail Fried, 74, Codfish Hash, 340. Codling Pudding, 288, 327. Coffee Cream, 357. Cold Cream, 493. Cold Meat Puffs, 43a. Colic, Windy, 493. Bilious, 493. College Pudding, 76, 141, 303. Comarque's Pudding, 49. Combs, 483. Compote de Citrons, 253. de Epine Vinette, 282. de Framboises, 222. of Greengages, 222. de Grenades, 337. de Marrons au Rhum, 82. I de Melon, 221. d'Oranges, 58. d'Oranges a I’ltalienne, 252. de Peches, 162. de Poires a la Cardinale, 58. de Pommesil'Espagnole, 282. de Pommes k la Nor- mande, 109. de Pruneaux, 253. de Pmnes, 221. de Raisin, 161. de Rhubarbe, 82. of Siberian Crabs, 310. Confectionery, 460. Confitures de Citrons, no. i I'Eau-de-Vie, 338. de Groseilles a Maque- raud, 193. de Tiges d’ Angelique, 192. i la Valencienne, 82. Conger, 229, 265, 273. Conservative Pudding, 387. Cooking, General remarks on, 18. Coppers and Tins, How to Clean, 473. Corned Shoulder of Mutton, 152- Corporal Punishment, 524, Corsets and Stays, 4S1. Costiveness, 493. Cough, 494. Cow Heel Soup, 53. Cowslips and Cream Salad, 439- Cramp, 492, 494. Cranberry Tart, 289. and Cream, 148. Crayfish Soup, 261. Cream Cake, 161.539 INDEX. Cream Omelet, 361. Creams, 92. Cream, An excellent, 466. Brandy, 467. Coffee, 467. for Glasses, 91. Crecy Soup, 405.' Croquets of Beef, 270. of Fowl, with Piquant Sauce, 386. Crullars, 41. Cucumbers, 435. Boiled, 152. Stewed, 333. Young, To pickle, 454. Cumberland Pudding, 119, 420. Cup Cakes, 374. Currant Cakes, 222. Dumplings, 88, 157. Fritters, 212, 215. Jam, Black, Red, or White, 467. Jelly, Black and Red, 467. Paste, 171. Pudding, 67, 105. Curate Pudding, 211. Cun-ied Fowl, 123. Lobster, 386. Curry Powder, 451. Custard Pudding, 64, 72, 93, 116, 152, 267, 268. Sauce, 35, 238. Custards, 467. Cut, A, 494. Cutlets of Breast of Lamb k la St. Menhould, 183. Damson Batter Pudding, 278. Cheese, 137, 467. Deafness, 494. Devilled Biscuits, 415. Devils, 430. Devonshire Squab Pie, 57, 318. Diarrhoea, 49r. Digestion, Bad, 491. Diplomatic Pudding, 415. Dress, and hints connected with the Toilet, 480. Dressed Salad, 199. Drink for the Dog Days, 458. Duck, 208, 400, 403. Ducks, Roast, 141, 200, 217 ; Wild, 226, 244, 357; Boiled, 263, 266. Dumplings, Suet, 53 ; Hard, 57 : Lemon, 62 ; Yeast, 73 ; Oxford, 78 ; Rice, 79 ; Nor- folk, 97, Dutch Puddin?, ico, 276. Duty, On, 514! Dysentery, 492. Early Influence, 524. Eau-de-Cologne, 485. Economize your Time, 523 Edinburgh Barley Broth, 149. Educational Principles, 516. Eel Pie, loi, 321. Eels h ritalienne, 342. Boiled, 248, 302. Broiled, 69. Collared, 78, 353. Fried, 107, 114, 250, 416. Spitchcock, 269. Stewed, 72, 185, 276, 385. k la Tartare, 346. with Tartar Sauce, 410. Effervescing Draughts—Cur- rant, 458; Orange, 458 ; Strawberry, 458. Egg Fritters, 302. Sauce, 445. Elder Wine, 458. Elizabeth Fry Pudding, 240. Emotions of Attraction and Repulsion, 521. Epsom Grand Stand Pigeon Pie, 211. Eve's Pudding, 112, 174, 266. Example to Servants, 509. Eye, Bloodshot, 492. Bruised, 492. Inflamed, 492. Water, 492. Weak, 492. Fainting, 489. Faith, 530. Fenelon's advice to House- keepers, 509. Fennel Sauce, 445. Fever, 494. Fillet of Veal, 128, 205, 242. Fish, Garnish for a large, 56. How to Dress, 23. Pie, 112. Salad, 175. Sauce, 446, Seasons, 23, 24. Soup, 164, 199. -— Stew, 77, 356. Flatulence, 491. Flemish Soup, 335, 368. Flounders, 100, 180. Fly Spots, To remove, 476. Fondu, 144, 430. Fowls, Boiled, 49, 114, 128, 265; and Sauce, 381, 395. Broiled, 104. Fricassed in Oil, 399. with Savoury Macaroni, 414- 4 la Perigord, 165. Roast, 32, 247. Sauce for, 446. Stewed, 232, 288. Frames. Gilt, to clean, 476. Frank Sewell Tartlets, 321. Freckles. How to Remove, 486. Frangipane, 151, 429. French Beans, 166, i8g, 224. 436, 438. French Marmalade, lou French Pie, 107. Fricandeau of Veal, 126, 385, 394- Fried Haddock, 95. Fritters, 289. Fruit Fritters, 213. Pie, 69, 203. Sauce, 446. Stains, How to Remove, 475- Transparency, 408, 468. Frying, 21. Furs preserved from Moths, 482. Game Sauce, 446. Soup, 301. Garden Soup, 225. Garden, The, and Gardening, 496-507. Gaufres, 136. Gelee de Bar, 163. Gelee d'Epine Vinette, 282. German Pea Soup, 55. Puddings, 69, 233. Sauce, 447. Sauce for made dishes, 447- Gherkins, Preserved, and French Beans, 468. Giblet Pie, 50, 104, 356, 358. Soup, 292, 352, 370. Gigot au Jus, 358. Ginger Beer, 458. Gingerbread, 464. Ginger Soufflee Pudding, 233. Gin Punch, 459. Glace de Crfime aux Amande, 254. Glaces k I’Ananas, 373. aux Abricots, 221. de Cafe k la Crfime, 194. de au The, 223. Gold Dust, 514. Golden Pippins, Preserved, 310. Golden Plover, 420. Good Meat, Test of, 17. Goose, 213, 270, 278, 283, 291, 300. Gooseberry Charlotte, 400. Cream, 170. Fool, 153, 201. Pie and Ice Cream, 167. Pudding and Cream, 170. Sauce, 447. Tart and Custards, 153. Trifle, 404. Gooseberries Preserved, 468. Gougere au Fromage, 147. Gout, 490, 492. Govern your Temper, 513. Grape Jelly, 468. Grapes in Brandy, 373. Grate, How to Clean the, 475, Grateful Pudding, 281. Gravel, 492. Gravy Curry, 423. for Roast Fowls, 3a.540 INDEX. Gravy Soup. 154, 246, 364. Grease Spots removed, 483. Green Apricot Pudding, 196. Goose, 149, 180. Pea Soup, 143. Peas, 210. Sauce, 447. Greengage Fritters, 296. Marmalade, 252. Tart, 67, 204. Grey Mullet, 176, 204. Grilled Fowl, 234. Salmon Cutlets, 211. Ground Rice, 277. Cream, 353. Pudding, 123, 146, 157. 279. Grouse, 229. Pie, 276. Guinea Fowl, Roast, 306, 324. Guirlandes Printanieres, 193. Haddocks, 44. Baked, 63, 270. Broiled, 61. Savoury, 71, 278. Soup, 203. Hair Brushes, How to Clean, 483- Lotion, 483. Wash, 484. Ham, 363, 420. Omelet, 430. and Veal Pie, 91. Hands, The, to Whiten, 484. Hannah More's Pudding, 52, 86, Hard Dumplings, 57. Molasses Gingerbread, 464- Hare, Hashed, 54, 326. jugged, 86, 281, 296. Pie, 318. Roast, 37, 271, 297, 321, 359- Soup, 48, 74, 274, 3SS, 360, 419. Stuffing, 37. Haricot Beans, 196. Mutton, 155, 220, 247, 343- Harrico of Veal, 90, 313. Hashed Heart, 148, 250. Mutton, 98, 112,120,169, 299, 346. Venison, 81;, 246, 323. Wild Duck, 294. Hasty Pudding, 54, 229. Puffs, 415. Haunch of Venison and Sauce, 85. 245- of Mutton, 382. Have an object in Life, 508. Headache, 492. Health, 489. Heart, Palpitation of, 491. Heartburn, 492. Heiefordshire Pudding, 96. Herrings, 75, 104, 273. Broiled, 69. Fried, 62, Salad, 440. Hessian Soup, 336. Hiccup, 492. Hints touching Deportment and Condition in Life, 508. Hoarseness, 492. Hock of Soup, 127. Holy Land Soup, 209. Hope, 532. Horseradish Sauce, 77, 447. Hotch-potch, 173, 244. Hot Pot, 280. House Lamb Steaks, 103, 370. Household Recipes, 473. Human Life, 524, Ice Creams and Gooseberry Pie, 167. Imperial Rice Cake, 108. Important, 527. Indian Curry Powder, 451. Pickle, 455. Ipswich Pudding, 52, 142, 149. Irish Pike, 97. Stew, 142, 259, 325. Iron Stains, How to Remove, 473- Isinglass, To Clarify, 461. Italian Cream, 166, 383. Iardiniire Soup, 208. erusalem Artichokes, 435, ohn Dory, 205, 422. ulien Soup, 47, 228, 245, 357. junior United Pudding, 392. Kid Gloves, To Clean, 482. Kidney-end Loin of Veal, 420. Puddings and Beefsteak, 333- Soup, 240, 343. Kidneys, Stewed, 150. Knuckle of Veal, Stewed, 196, 210. Lamb, 165, 187. Chops and Asparagus, 173- Cutlets, 157, 402. Fore-quarters of, 403. Pie, 157, 178. Shoulder of, 132. Stewed, 201. and Veal Pie, 100. Lark Pie, 303. Lavender Water, 485. Leche CrSma, 317. Leg of Lamb, Boiled, 145, 149, 174, 399. of Mutton Cutlets, 94, 349- Farced 181. Roast, 154. of Veal, Boiled, 117. Leicester Pudding, 13a Lemon Cake, 337. Cheesecakes, 256. Cream, 400, 468. Dumpling,37,62,218,315. Mixture for Tartlets, 469, Pudding, 66, 74, 99, 130, 149, 231, 244, 247. 395. and Rice Pudding, 236. Sauce, 448. Sponge, 465. Syrup. 459. ■: Tartlet, 31, 49. Turnovers, 319. Lentils, 197. L’Envoi, 536. Lethargy, 492. Lettuce and Cream Salad, 440- Leveret, Roast, 228, 407. Light Pudding, 70. Lip Salve, 493. Liver and Bacon, 115. Lobster, 152 ; Hot, 154 ; Stewed, 213. as an Entrde, 88. i la mode Fran9ais, 143. Patties, 390. Salad, 169; and Dressing, 440. Sauce, 34, 146, 379, 448. Soup, 100, 153, 285. Stewed, 213. Loin of Mutton en Fricandeau, 176. Roasted, 395. Love, 525. Low Spirits, Recipe for, 512. Macaroni, 155, 197. Cheese, 77. Pudding, 63. 122. Soup, 84, 99, 112, 144, 165, 226, 242, 324. Macarons aux Fleurs d'Oran- ger, 109. d'Hollande, 253. Mackerel, 134, 155, 169, 2:2, 216. Collared, 140. au Gratin, 138. Madeira Cake, 58, 462. Pudding, 382. Mahogany, To take Ink out of, 474. Maitre d'Hotel and Maigre Sauce, 448, 449. Maraschino Syrup, 415. Marble, How to Clean, 474. Marinade of Beef Palates, 275. Mark Lane Pudding, 205. Marmalade de Abricots, 194. d'Ananas, 337. de Poires, 163. de Pommes, 194. Pudding, 35, 40, 129, 237. Marrow Pomade for Hair, 4S4. Pudding, 44, 272. Married Life, First'Vearof.sioINDEX. 541 Marseilles Vinegar, 491. Massepains k la Duchesse, 82. a la Franfaise, 83. • au Fruit, 223. Matrimonial Pudding, 246. Maud Pudding, 316. Mayonnaise of Lobster, 413. Measles, The, 492. Meat and Potato Pie, 151. Pudding, 302. Medicine Chest, The, 488. Stains, To Remove, 473. Medlar Jelly, 373, 469. Meg's Gold Cake, 464, Silver Cake, 464. Soda Cake, 464. Meringues Ordinaires, 310. Milanese Cream, 421. Mildew in Linen, To Remove, 47S- Miik Punch, 459. Millet Pudding, 100. Mince Meat, 469. Pies, 56. Minced Veal, 113, 165, 206. Mint, 436. Sauce, 166, 403, 449. Mixed Piclde, 455. Soup, 240. Mock Turtle Soup, 29, 66, 256, 342, 365. 409. Mole of Turkey, 75. Moral Courage, 316. Mulligatawny Soup, 41, 117, 183, 258, 263, 416. Mushrooms, 410, 432. Ketchup, 449. Mustard Plaster, 489. Mutton and Beef Pie, 56. Breast of, 46, 100. Broth, 71, Cutlets, 53, 94, 286, 292, 417. 419- Grilled, 190. k la Italienne, 172. Jardiniere, 345. Haunch of, 39, 62. Hotch-potch, 275. Leg of. Roast, 33, 268, 276. Boiled, 62, 125, 127, 145- Cold, 63, 277. Mince of, 239. Pie, 336. Roast Loin of, 69, 229. Saddle of, 45, 235, 387. Shoulder of, Corned, 39, 48. Roast, 63, 407. Remains of, Cold, 64. Soup, 54, 182. Steaks, 360. Stuffed Loin of, 391. Napier Pudding, 227. Naples Biscuits, 337. Napoleon's Pudding, 234. Neck of Lamb, 103. of Mutton Soup, 103. Stewed, 233, 308. of Veal, 241. of Venison, 240. Nelson Pudding, 298. Nesselrode Cream, 161. Pudding, 39. Neuralgia, 490. New College Pudding, 127. Noix Confites au Sucre, 137. Nonpareil Sauce, 449. Norfolk Dumplings, 97, 283. Normandy Pippins, Stewed, 470- North Country Pudding, 228. N orthumberland Pudding, 294. Norwich Pudding, 230. Oak Wainscot, To give a gloss to, 474. Oilcloth, 474. Oil of Roses for the Hair, 484. 011a Podrida, 116. Omelet Glace, 361. with Preserves, 396. Soufflde, 83, 160, 217, 359. 36°. 369- with Sweetmeats, 366. Onions, 438. and Beetroot, 327. Pickled, 436. Spanish, How to Pickle, 456. Sauce, 64, 69, 248, 266, 450- Orange Biscuits, 373. Fritters, 323. Marmalade, 469. Pudding, 286, 342, 347. Sauce, 430. Tartlet, 320. Oranges, 433. Preserved, 470. Ostrich Feathers, To Clean. 482. Oxcheek, Stewed, 68, 128, 397. Oxford Dumplings, 78, 120, 218. Oxhead Soup, 31. Oxheart, 119. Oxtail Soup, 38, 70, 124,138, 186, 393. Oxtails, Stewed, 32, 150, 223, 301. Oyster Fritters, 283. Omelet, 260. Patties, 296, 319. Sauce, 49, 79, 86, 450. Sausages, 431. Soup, 83, 308. Vol-au-Vent, 480. White, 430. Oysters, Fried, 284. Scalloped, 303. Pain k la Duchesse, 324. Pain de Pomme, 239. de Prusse, 223. Paint, To get rid of Smell of, 476. Palestine Soup, 271. Pancaltes, 72. Papering of Damp Walls, 474- Parisian Sauce, 430. Parsley, 436. Sauce, 430. Parsnips, Fried, 287. Partridge, 262, 268, 290, 302, 414, 431. Pie, 304. Soup, 290. Paste Fritters, 216. for Cheesecakes, 470. Pate d'Amandes Croquante, 136. Croquante k I'ltalienne, 162. de Verjus, 137. Patrician Bubble and Squeak, 255. 284. Patty-pan Pudding, 248. Pea Soup, 44, 74, 96, 121, 123, 187, 219, 231, 422. German, 33. Pears k I’Allemande, 338. Stewed, 470. Peas, 163, 200. To Preserve, 437. Peas Pudding, 264, 292. Pepperpot, 280. Perfumes, 483. French, 483. for Drawers and Linen, 486. of Roses, 486. Perch, 343. Perspiration, Night, 494. Petits SoufSees k I’ltalienne, 59- Pheasant, 31, 294, 298, 328, 334. 423- Pick-me-up, 491. Pickle, which can be used di- rectly, 436. Pickling, 434. Pies and Puddings, 24. Pigeons, 176, 190, 203, 203, 216, 233, 314, 370, 380, 403. ~ u ■ IS. 96, 177. 308, 417. Pig s Head, Roasted, 134, Pike, 332, 334, 354- — a la Genevaise, 351. Pimples and Spots on the Face, How to Remove, 490. Pine Apple, 373, 382. Fritters, 214. —;— Preserved, 471. Piquante Sauce, 430. Pistachio Cream, 223. Plaice, 37, 67, 113, 215, 299. Plum Cake, 463. Porridge, 50.INDEX. 542 Plum Pudding, 37, 42, 46, 61, 87, 124, 23s, 250, 287, 331, 344- Sauce, 61, 451. Plums, Preserved, 471. Poached Eggs, 431. Poet's Receipt for Salad, 441. Polished Stoves, 475. Polishing Paste for Tins, 475. Pork, Boiled, 57, 126, 292. Boiled Leg of, 105, 414. Broth, 264, 309. Cutlets, 394, 371. Kabob, 177, 219. Pickled and Stewed, 217. Roast Leg of, 44, 81, 365. Loin of, 249. Ribs of, 227. Soup, 90. Porter, Bottled, 459. Portugal Cake, 373. Portuguese Macaroons, 194. Potage k la Jardiniere, 122. e la Reine, 123. Pot au Feu, 172, 237. Potato Soup, 103. Dumplings, 121. Fritters, 340, 341. Potatoes, 38, 151. How to Choose, 435. How to Dress, 434. Mashed, 31, 391. Mealy, 30. and Meat Pie, 151. New, in Cream, 146. Poultry, How to Dress, 23. Prawn Soup, 401. Prayer, 528. Prelude of Mottoes, 11. Preventitive against Moths, 486. Prince Arthur’s Soup, 327. Pudding, 404. Procrastination and Extrava- gance, 513. Pudding for a Prince, 407. Pullet Roast, 151. Punch k la Ford, 457. Punch Jelly, 382. Purde of Game Soup, 272. Quails, 329. Quaker Pudding, 106. Queen Cakes, 109. Anne's Pudding, 200. Mab’s Pudding, 305. Queen's Pudding, 209. Quince Paste, 311. Quinsey, 491. Rabbit, Boiled, 331, 336. Brown, Fricasee of, 307. i la Jardiniere, 75. Pie, 97, 274. Ragdut, 320. Roast, 134, 225, 243, 285, 367- To taste like Hare, 430. Raisin Pudding, 295. Raspberry Cream, 387. Jam, 471. Jelly, 404. Puff, 333. Tourte, 156. Vinegar, 459, 471. Ratafia Cream, 357. Pudding and Sauce, 117. Ratafias, 192. Red Mullet, 178, 201, 207, 213, 218, 288, 393, 416. Regent's Pudding and Sauce, 43, 204. Restorative Broth, 73. Rheumatism, 492. Rhubarb Tam, 472. Pie, 190. Pudding, 132. Ribs of Beef, in, 352. Rice Cakes, 464, 465. Rice Dumpling, 79, 113, 330. Flummery, 126, 242. Fritters, 412. Hedgehog, 115. Pudding, 45, 87, 92, 107, 239- Soup, 43. Rich Cakes, 464. Fruit Cakes, 464. Rimolade Sauce, 451. Ringworm, 490. Rissoles of Fowl, 406. Roast Beef, 351. Boiled, 290. Roasting, 19. Roast Dumplings, 121. Fowls, 124, 126, 325. Larks, 300, 429. Leg of Mutton, 131, 230. Lobster, 102. Rolled Beef, 88, 107. Loin of Mutton, 230. Ribs of Beef, 61. Romford Pudding, 284. Round of Boiled Beef, 325. Royal Rice Cake, 252. Rump of Beef Braized, 218. Steak, 238. Stewed, 70, 202, 354- Rusks, 463. Saffron Cake, 253. Sago Pudding, 151. Sauce, 451, Sally Lunn Cake, 465. Salmi of Wild Ducks, 258. Salmon, 131, 214, 216, 247. Boiled, 37, 92, 98, 145, 19s, 224, 236, 397. Broiled, 177, 230. Collared, 167. Cutlets, 200, 405. Dried, 173. Fillet of, 218. Fried, 255, 401. Pickled, 148. Salmon Pudding, 196, 220. Steaks, 351. Salt Fish, 129. Sauce to Boiled Fowls, 153. A Simple Sweet, 43. to Sirloin of Beef, 363. Sausage Rolls, 431. Savoy Biscuits, 465. Cake, 193. Savoury Omelet, 95, 305. Macaroni, 383, 412. Scalloped Oysters, 335. Sciatica, 492. Scorbutic Gums, 492. Scotch Barley Broth, loi, 180, 238. Scotch Broth, 41, 416. Broth, 87. Seed Cake, 372. Scottish Hotch-potch, 142, Sea-Kale, 34, 278, 419. Semolina Pudding, 232. Soup, 47. Shad, Boiled, 147, 158. Sheep's Kidneys, 406. Shelford Pudding, 114. Shin of Beef Soup, 67, 369. A Broken, 492. Shortbread, 464. Short-Crust Pastry, 461. Shrimp Sauce, 37, 398, 431. Shropshire Dumpling, 219. Sickroom, Rules for a, 495. Silks, To Clean, 486. Flowered and Satin, 486. Skin Powder, 486. Slit Lobster, 80. Smelts, 284, 331. Snipe Pudding, 366. Roast, 344. Snowballs, loi. Snow Pancakes, 64, 346, 365. Soap, good, for the Skin, 487. Soda Negus, 458. Soles, Baked, 40. Boiled, 281. with Cream, 156. Filleted, 239, 279, 380, 409. Fned, 33, 80, 141, 235, 297. 341. 385- au Gratin, i8r. Soluble Horseradish, 437. Sore Throat, 491. Soufflde Pudding, 206, 220, 294- Soup, 32, 39, 139, 151, 29j, 362. i I'Aurore, 152, 160. a Boulli, 169, 241. A la Clermont, 148. k la Cantatrice, 307, 340 Lorraine, 78. Making of, 18. Medium Stock, 349. Mulligatawny, 41. Plain, 170.INDEX. 543 Soup 6. la Reine, 178. 4 la Sap, 113. Spring, 118, 159. Vegetable, 36. Winter, 46. Souster or Dutch Pudding, Spanish Fritters, 123. Spice Mixture, 451. Spinach, 131, 172, 316, 436. Spitch-cock Eels, 114. Spitting Blood, 494. Sponge Cake, 135, 408. Pudding, 271, 277. Pudding, 104. Spots and Pimples on the Face, To Remove, 490. Sprains, 491. Sprats, Baked, 431. Stewed Rump of Beef a la Daube, 179. Stewed Ste^, 237, 303. Beefsteak, 272. Stews and Salted Meat, as. Sauce, 179. Stews, Sauce for, 452. Stock, To clarify, 327. Stone Cream and Tartlets, 183, 367- Fruits a I'Espagnole, 252. Store Onions, 436. A, Sauce, 452. Strawberry Blancmange, 184. and Crumb Pudding, 273. Cream, 180. Soufflee, 207. Strawberries, Preserved whole, 471- Staffordshire Beefsteaks, 36. Sterry Pudding, 251. Stewed Brisket of Beef, 87, ^ =60, 353, 398. Stewed Cod, 93. Cucumber, 21 r. Stewed Giblets, 352. Lobster, n6. Omelet, 292. Sturgeon, Roast, 56. Stewed, 141, 264. Sucking Pig, Roast, 293, 322, 3S°- Suet Dumplings, 53. Pudding, 107, 134. Sugar, How to Clarify, 460. Suggestions to those who give Dinner Parties, 376. Summer Beverages, 437. Pudding, 168. Sauce, 168. Supper, 429. Surrey Pudding, 231. Sutherland Pudding, 31, 48. Sweetbreads, 410. i la Dauphine, 203. with Mushrooms, 38a with Peas, 175. SL SS. 204. “— Stewed, 302. Sweetbread, \vith Truffles, 402. Sweet Manners, 526. Omelet, 147. Sauce for Puddings, 452. for Venison, 452. Swiss Pudding, Plain, 275, 349- Syllabubs, 364. Tapioca Pudding, 90, 216, 275- Soup, 227, 361, 401. Tarts, 57. Tea, 427, 428. Teal and Sea-Kale, 391. Teeth, The, 487, 494, Powder, 487. Tench, 347. Toasted Mackerel, 207. Tomato Sauce, 371, 452. Tongue, 32, 197, 277, 348, 395- Soup, 312. Toothache, 489, 494. Tourade Sauce, 453. Tourons de diffdrentes Couleurs, 192. Trpelling, Hints on, 477. Trifle, or Swiss Cream, 472. Trimming Soup, 202. Tripe, Boiled, 429. ; Roasted, 275. Turbot, 34, 60, 175, 362, 379. Remains of, 35. Turkey, Boiled, 4r, 296, 335, 362. Roast, 74, 348, Turkish PiUaw with Meat, 72. Turnips, 168, 298, 309, 399. Turtle Soup, 379. Ulcers, 494. Unconscious Influence, 512. Unpunctual People to be avoided, 511. Uvula, Inflamed, 494. Relaxed, 494. Vanilla Sauce, 453. Veal Cutlets, 155, 208, 227, 242 316, 330, 340, 414. Curry, 329, Fricandeau, 267. and Ham Cutlets, 406. and Ham Pie, 9T, 29S, 319- k la Maintenon, 2r3< Neck of, 226. Olives, 313, 398. en Papillottes, rgr. Pie, 93. Rissoles, 279. Roast, 189. Loin of, 294. Fillet of, 209. Veal Sweetbread au Blanc, 341- Vegetables, 157, 268, 309. How to Dress, 25, 434. Vegetable Marrow, 26r, 289. Mulligatawney, 210. Salad, 441. Soup, 36, 106, 132, 166. 188, 190. Stew, 186. Venetian Cream, 391. Fritters, 280. Venison Pasty, 47, 304, 317. and Sauce, 322. Vermicelli Soup, 98, in, 146, 197. 315. 321- —;— Pudding, 142, 201, 313. Victoria Pudding, 34, 198, 208, 258. Sauce, 34. ■ Shoulder of, 417. - Sirloin of, 295. ■ Stewed, 147, 171. Villa Soup, 232, Visiting, 527. Wafer Pancakes, 262. Walnut Ketchup, 453. Salad, 441. Warts, 493, 494, Washing, The Labour of. Diminished, 475. Water, To Purify, 476. Watercress Salad, 441. Weak Ankles, 494. Welsh Pudding, 270. West India Experience, 459. West Riding Pudding, 210. Whisky Cordial, 459. Whitebait, 405. White Fricassee of Rabbits, 96, 219. Potato Soup, 94 Pudding, 424 Sauce, 165, 453. Soup, 39, 120, 127, 189, 413- Whiting, 106, 171, 286, 287, 402.. Whitlow, 492. Widgeon, 287, 328, 354. Wjld Fowl, 99. Windsor Pudding, 209. Winkin de Wordes Pudding, , 245. Winter Salad, 442. Soup, 46. Woodcocks, 330, 332. and Snipes, 347, 353. Woodwork, How to Clean, , 474- Worcester Pudding, 318. Worth Remembering, 513. Wrexham Soup, 184. Wyvern Pudding, 322. Yeast Dumplings^ 73, 89. Yorkshire Pudding, 76, 108, 212, 269, 289. Zandrina Pudding, 411.MORRISON AND GIBB, EDINBURGH, PRINTERS TO HER MAJESTY’S STATIONERY Ul'KICS.'1RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, eic. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification p 1 CM 1 1 Lamination I Solvents 1 Leather Treatment 1 Adhesives 1 Remarks 1