EXAMINATION OF NASAL CAVITIES 225 and a palate retractor should be in readiness. Good illumination is important, and may be obtained from an electric light, or from a Wels- bach or Argand burner. The light should be placed close to, and on a level with the patient’s left ear. Both the anterior and posterior nares should be examined. Anterior Rhinoscopy.—Before the introduction of the speculum the tip of the nose should be tilted up and the interior of the vestibule and the anterior part of the septum examined. In this way the existence of eczema or small furuncules, the presence of dilated or bleeding vessels upon, or a perforation of, the anterior part of the septum may be noted, and the general appearances observed. After inserting the speculum into the vestibule and dilating it, the following parts should be sought for and examined :—Close to the floor, and^attached to the outer wall of Sphenoidal sinus. Opening of sphe- noidal sinus. Sphenoidal sinus. Superior meatus. Infundibulum. Ethmoidal cells. Uncinate process. Accessory maxil- lary opening. turbinal. Inferior meatus. Opening of posterior eth- moidal cells. Spheno-etlimoidal recess. Superior turbinal. Fig. 68.—The outer wall of left nasal chamber, after removal of the middle turbinated body. (After Logan Turner.) the nasal cavity, is the anterior end of the inferior turbinated body (Fig. 68). This structure overhangs the inferior meatus. It presents a pink appearance, and its size varies in different persons. At a higher level and on a posterior plane is the anterior end of the middle turbin- ated body, which is of a paler colour than the inferior, and is only visible when the head is tilted backwards. Between it and the inferior turbinated body is the middle meatus, with which communicate the openings of the antrum of Highmore, the frontal sinus, and the anterior ethmoidal cells. A considerable area of the anterior part of the nasal septum is also visible by anterior rhinoscopy, and between it and the middle turbinal is a narrow chink—the olfactory sulcus. Posterior Rhinoscopy. — Examination of the posterior nares and naso- pharynx is frequently attended with difficulty. The patient is directed to breathe through the nose, the tongue is depressed with a spatula, and a small-sized laryngeal mirror, comfortably warmed and with its reflecting surface turned upwards, is carefully introduced behind the VOL. II—15