UMBILICAL HERNIA. 425 impulse on coughing is very decided. Over the convexity of the tumour the coverings of the sac are usually very thin, and the skin may become the seat of eczema or of ulceration. Umbilical hernige, when they have attained any considerable size, are nearly always irreducible because of adhesions between the sac and its contents, and also because of the mere bulk of the protrusion and the accumulation of fat in the herniated omentum. The patient complains of a sense of heaviness and dragging in the swelling, and there may be pain and tenderness as a result of local peritonitis. Obstruction to the passage of fgeces through the prolapsed loop of bowel (incarceration) is more often met with than in any other form of hernia; it is characterised by attacks of flatulence, vomiting and constipation, and may insidi- ously merge into a condition of strangulation. As these attacks are erroneously regarded by the patient as “ bilious attacks,” and as having nothing to do with the hernia, she may not seek medical advice regarding them. Treatment of Umbilical Hernia in the Admit.—As in other hernias, the choice lies between the use of a support which will control the umbilical opening, and an operation the object of which is to close the opening by sutures. The best support is obtained from an abdominal belt pro- vided with a large, round, flattened vulcanite shield, which will overlap the hernial opening to a considerable extent. In addition, careful attention is paid to the diet and to the bowels, with a view to avoiding constipation, and reducing the amount of adipose tissue; any cause of increased intra-abdominal pressure should also be got rid of. If the hernia becomes obstructed and there is sickness and vomiting, with constipation, the patient should be confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated, and the bowels should be thoroughly emptied by enemata. In the irreducible variety, the hernia may be supported by means of an abdominal belt, but in the majority of instances it is better to have recourse to the radical operation. It must be pointed out in this connection, however’, that patients suffering from irreducible umbilical hernia are not as a rule favourable subjects for operation ; their corpulence and excessive weight are a source of difficulty both in the operation and in the after- treatment, and in the case of very large hern he it may be difficult to find room within the abdomen for the protruded viscera. Radical Operation.—The swelling is outlined by two hori- zontal semilunar incisions, and these ai'e gradually deepened through the abdominal fat until the aponeurosis is exposed