579 ABSCESSES. of an abscess in other parts of the body ; in some cases, however, it is acute and attended with marked constitutional disturbance. In the majority of cases the suppurative process is circum- scribed and a localised abscess forms, but in others the pus is diffused throughout the cellular tissue, and burrows all round the rectum, and even into the pelvis. The pus, wherever it is formed, tends to spread along the lines of least resistance, and usually finds its way towards the nearest cutaneous or mucous surface, producing irregular and tortuous sinuses and iistulse. The organisms most frequently present in these abscesses are the colon bacillus, the streptococcus, and the staphylococcus aureus; the colon bacillus is usually associated with the ordinary pyogenic cocci. The tubercle bacillus is frequently found alone or in combination with pyogenic organisms. The determining cause of the abscess may be an injury of the rectum, for example, by a foreign body, such as a fish-bone impacted in the mucous membrane, a blow or kick over the perineum, or the pressure of an ill-fitting bicycle saddle. In other cases suppura- tion follows an attack of proctitis, an ulcer of the rectum, or is associated with polypus, piles, or stricture. Exposure to cold or wet, by lowering the vitality of the tissues, probably pre- disposes to suppuration. In the majority of cases, however, it is impossible to attribute the formation of the abscess to any one of these causes. Abscesses may occur in the vicinity of the rectum at any age, but are most common above the age of thirty. Males suffer much more frequently than females. Varieties.—The subcutaneous or perianal abscess may origi- nate either in a sebaceous follicle, or in relation to a thrombosed external pile or a fissure. It is situated in the subcutaneous tissue close to the anal margin. The follicular abscess—which is practically a boil—may be single or multiple, and it is not uncommon for several to form one after another, and for these to coalesce and lead to considerable burrowing under the skin. The burrowing usually takes place in a direction away from the bowel, so that a fistula seldom forms. When associated with a fissure or pile the abscess (marginal abscess) is usually single, and tends to burrow towards the mucous membrane, forming a short, superficial fistula (Fig. 158a). These abscesses give rise to itching around the anus and constant throbbing pain, which is aggravated by sitting or walking, and during defecation. Locally there is a small, red, fluctuating swelling, surrounded by an area of induration and oedema. The parts are tender to touch and on rectal examination.