519 HEPATIC ABSCESS. opened, but on the third or fourth day the amoeba coli or pyogenic organisms may be found. Apart from the tropical variety, abscess of the liver may follow upon suppuration in the biliary passages, or upon any suppurative lesion in the territory of the portal vein, such as appendicitis or typhoid fever. The clinical features are sometimes remarkably latent. The prominent symptoms are pain, fever, and enlargement of the liver. The pain, which affects the right side and radiates to the shoulder, is chiefly due to perihepatitis, and is most marked when the abscess is near the surface of the organ. The fever is remittent, is attended with rigors and sweating, and may simulate that of malaria or of tuberculosis. The enlargement may affect the whole of the liver, or only a portion of it. If the abscess is near the peritoneal surface, there may be distinct friction accompanying the respiratory movements. A large abscess in the right lobe may bulge the thoracic parietes and displace the diaphragm upwards, and there may be a serous or purulent effusion into the right pleural cavity. There is pro- gressive emaciation, but jaundice is exceptional. In children the bulging is more marked because the wall of the thorax is more yielding. The abscess may rupture externally or into one of the adjacent organs ; if into the stomach, the pus is vomited ; if into the colon, it appears in the stools; if into a bronchus, it is expectorated. The risk of exploratory puncture as an aid to diagnosis may have been exaggerated, but as a rule it should only be employed when everything is ready for operation. Hepatic abscess is to be diagnosed from a hydatid cyst, empyema of the pleura or the gall-bladder, a cyst of the pancreas, a sub-phrenic abscess, and a pyo-nephrosis. Treatment.—Those who have most experience of tropical abscess condemn operation by incision when the abscess is deeply seated, and recommend the method introduced by Manson, which consists in tapping the abscess with a large trocar and cannnla, introducing through the cannula the end of a long rubber tube stretched upon a metal rod, and connecting the tube with a suction apparatus (p. 656). If this is impracticable or the symptoms are not relieved, the abscess must be incised. If the abscess projects below the costal margin, it should be opened by the abdominal route; and if the liver is not adherent to the abdominal wall, the peritoneal cavity must be shut off by means of sutures or gauze-packing before the abscess is incised. An abscess which projects towards the upper and back part of