435 SURGICAL ANATOMY. reach down as low as the pubes or the floor of the left iliac fossa. In conditions of moderate distension, the transverse colon lies below and parallel with the greater curvature, and when the organ is empty and contracted, the colon may pass upwards and come to lie in front of it. The lesser curvature is attached to the liver by the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum, between the layers of which run the coronary vessels. The great curvature gives attachment to the gastro-colic portion of the great omentum, which contains the right and left gastro-epiploic vessels. A small peritoneal fold—the gastro-phrenic ligament—runs from the stomach up to the diaphragm along the left side of the oesophagus. The cardiac orifice is deeply placed, being about four inches from the surface behind the sternal end of the seventh left costal cartilage. The pylorus lies much nearer the surface; and when the stomach is empty, is found in the middle line or slightly to the left of it, about two and three-quarter inches above the umbilicus ; when the stomach is dis- tended, it passes to the right of the middle line and may descend in level an inch or more. Under normal conditions the axis of the pylorus and of the first part of the duodenum is directly backwards ; when the stomach is distended it may incline to the left as well as backwards. The pyloric sphincter occupies the coronal plane ; the gastric orifice has a stellate lumen and looks forwards ; the duodenal orifice in its contracted state resembles the os uteri and looks directly backwards (D. J. Cunningham). The patency of the pylorus may be judged by invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach with the finger ; if, after overcoming the tonic contraction of the sphincter, the orifice does not admit the tip of the index finger into the duodenum, it is to be re- garded as stenosed. Above, the fundus is in contact with the cupola of the diaphragm ; behind and to the left, with the gastric surface of the spleen. The body is in contact posteriorly with the left supra-renal capsule, the left kidney, and the pancreas, and is partly separated from these organs by the peritoneum forming the lesser sac. Above and in front, it is in contact with the left and quadrate lobes of the liver, and, when the organ is empty, it is almost completely covered by these parts. When the stomach is distended, a triangular area of the body and of the pyloric portion lies directly against the anterior abdominal wall in the epigastric region, projecting from beneath the anterior margin of the left lobe of the liver. In the female, as a result of tight-lacing, the stomach may be dis- placed and distorted so that it lies nearly vertically along the left side of the vertebral column, and the pyloric portion bends suddenly upwards and to the right, with a well-marked furrow or constriction between the body and the pyloric portion, simulating an hour-glass constriction. The duodenum is the first portion of the small intestine, and is firmly attached to the posterior abdominal wall. It forms a spiral, horse-shoe curve, open to the left and above, in the concavity of which the head of the pancreas lies. It is divided into three portions : the first or horizontal portion is the shortest, and runs directly backwards, behind and below the quadrate lobe of the liver to the right and in front of the portal vein, hepatic artery, and common bile-duct. It bends round beneath the caudate process of the liver into the second or descending portion, which runs downwards in front of the inner margin of the right kidney and behind the gall-bladder and transverse colon. The third or ascending portion passes to the left in front of the body of the third or fourth