120 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. medullary. When only one lateral half of the cord is pressed upon, the motor paralysis is on the same side as the tumour, and the loss of sensation on the opposite side. Retention of urine accompanies the onset of paralysis, and later gives place to incontinence. The rectum becomes paralysed, and cystitis and pressure sores develop. Many of these nervous symptoms are due to superadded myelitis. Antisyphilitic treatment should be employed in the first instance to exclude the possibility of the lesion being of the nature of a gumma. Operative treatment is contra-indicated in intra-medullary and in metastatic growths. In meningeal and extra-dural tumours, however, in view of the hopeless prognosis if the condition is allowed to take its course, an attempt may be made to remove the tumour by operation. It is to be borne in mind that the lesion is always two or three segments higher than the pain would appear to indicate; the spine, therefore, should be opened about four inches above the level of the anaesthesia. When the tumour is not removable the patient’s suffering may sometimes be alleviated by dividing the posterior roots of the nerves emerging in the vicinity of the lesion. Spinal Meningitis.—The spinal membranes may become mplicated by direct spread in cases of acute general lepto- meningitis of the brain ; or they may be infected from without, for example, in gunshot injuries or in cases of spina bifida. When the infection spreads from the cranial cavity the cerebral symptoms dominate the clinical picture, but evidence of involvement of the membranes of the cord may be present in the form of rigidity of the cervical muscles with retraction of the neck; deep-seated pain in the back, shooting round the body (girdle-pain) and down the limbs; painful cramp-like spasms in the muscles of the back and limbs, with increased reflex excit- ability, sometimes so marked as to simulate the spasms of te tanus. When the theca of the cord is directly infected the spinal symptoms predominate at first, but as the condition progresses, it involves the cerebral membranes, and symptoms of acute general lepto-meningitis ensue. Once the condition has started little can be done to arrest its progress, and it usually proves fatal. Spinal Myelitis.—The term myelitis is applied to certain changes which occur in the spinal cord as a result, for example, of haemorrhage into its substance (hcemorrhagic myelitis); or of pressure exerted on it by fragments of bone, blood-clot, tuberculous material, or new growths (compression myelitis).