THE INTESTINES. 498 Clinical Features.—It is a remarkable fact that a malignant stricture of the colon, in which the lumen of the bowel is reduced to the size of a crow-quill, or even smaller, is often attended with so few symptoms that the condition may remain un- suspected until the onset of acute obstruction. During the latent period the patient may complain of flatulent distension, of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move, and of paroxysmal pains in the abdomen, loin, and back. Constipation is the commonest complaint, and the lower the seat of the tumour in the colon the more pronounced is it, because of the greater solidity of the intestinal contents. There may be attacks of diarrhoea alternating with constipation, and even slight threatenings of obstruction, with considerable periods of comfort between the attacks. Loss of flesh and of strength may be altogether absent and is rarely sufficiently marked to afford grounds for suspecting malignant disease. If the abdominal walls are thick or loaded with fat, or if there is some general distension of the bowels, external examination usually yields no information. Under favourable conditions, however, it may be possible to recognise a tumour; the tumour that is felt on examination, however, may not be the strictured segment of bowel, but a mass of omentum or another coil of bowel which is adherent to it, or a faecal accumulation above the stricture. It is possible to venture an opinion as to the site of the stricture from a consideration of the position of the palpable swelling, its degree of mobility, its behaviour when the colon is filled from the rectum, and from other clinical features. The recognition of large masses which indent beneath the fingers— inspissated faeces—may occasionally help to identify the loaded bowel above the stricture. Tumours in the caecum and ascending colon can often be palpated, and they are frequently attended with distension and exaggerated peristalsis in the lower coils of the ileum. Growths at the splenic or hepatic flexures, so long as they are under cover of the ribs, cannot be detected by palpation, but may be felt if they are displaced down- wards ; they may be attended with distension in the right flank. Peristaltic movements of the large bowel are usually too feeble to be visible through the parietes, so that the outline of the distended colon is rarely to be made out, but it is often possible to satisfy oneself that the distension is most marked, and, if the bowel is loaded with faeces, that there is dulness on. pei’cussion, in those parts of the abdomen that are normally occupied by the large intestine. A growth in the transverse colon is usually centrally placed and may be palpable and made