387 TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. vaginal examination does not always clear up the difficulty, because there may be swelling and tenderness in both affections. In inflammatory affections of the uterine adnexa the most tender external point is just above the middle line of Poupart’s ligament. (3) In ruptured tubal pregnancy there is usually a history of partial or total cessation of the menstrual flow for one, two, or more periods, generally accompanied by other symptoms of pregnancy, with the sudden onset of abdominal pain followed by collapse; an irregular, bloody vaginal discharge is present, and the patient becomes blanched and manifests other signs of loss of blood. Treatment.—One of the greatest practical difficulties with regard to the treatment of acute appendicitis is to recognise the cases that require operation and those that do not. It is only by a careful consideration of all the circumstances in each indi- vidual case that the question can be decided, and all we can do here is to indicate the general rules by which we are guided. If within twenty-four hours of the onset there is a decided improvement in all the symptoms, that is to say, that no one symptom persists—be it pain, vomiting, increased frequency of the pulse, or fever—operation may be deferred, but the patient must be kept under continuous observation. He should lie absolutely quiet, with the knees flexed over a pillow ; and warm antiseptic fomentations or cold water tubes or an ice-bag may be applied over the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. He is allowed nothing by the mouth except sips of hot saline solution. The bowels must not be disturbed either by medicine or enemata, and palpation of the abdomen must be restricted to a minimum. If thirst is a prominent symptom, it may be relieved by the introduction of saline solution into the rectum. At this stage opiates should be withheld ; if colicky pain is a prominent symptom, it may be relieved by the administration of yl^th grain of atropin hypodermically. The patient is confined to bed until all the symptoms have disappeared. We would advise operation in all cases seen within twenty- four hours of the onset, in which from the first the symptoms have been pronounced, and the temperature is rising, the pulse becoming more rapid, or the pain persisting or increasing in severity; and particularly if at the same time the abdomen is ceasing to move with respiration and is becoming more tender. Even if it is admitted that a considerable proportion of such cases may recover, the fact remains that a certain number will pass beyond the stage at which it is possible to save them by surgical means. Early operation is more urgently called for in