325 MAMMARY ABSCESS. fissure of the nipple, and the organisms are derived either from the surrounding skin or from the mouth of the suckling, and gain access to the breast tissue by way of the lymphatics or along the milk ducts. The staphylococcus aureus is the organism most frequently present. The abscess may form under the areola—pre-mammary abscess, or in the substance of the breast — intra-mammary abscess. Clinical Features.—A pre-mammary abscess may begin as a superficial cellulitis, or as a suppurative inflammation of a sebaceous gland or mammary lobule under the areola. Pus forms rapidly, often with comparatively little pain or constitu- tional disturbance, and the abscess soon bursts through the skin. The intra-mammary abscess is the form most frequently met with. For one or two days the patient complains that a par- ticular part of the breast feels hot, tense, and tender, and that when the child is at the breast she has severe lancinating pain in it. Eventually the pain becomes constant, and assumes a throbbing character. The temperature may rise to 102° or 103“ F., and there is usually a feeling of chilliness or even a rigor. At first there is a diffuse redness over the breast, and a deep- seated swelling, which is uniformly firm and tense, may be recognised. With the onset of suppuration the redness becomes more dusky, and over the seat of the abscess the swelling becomes soft and more prominent, until at last fluctuation can be detected. In the deeper parts of the breast the pus may burrow in various directions and form a multiloculated abscess cavity. Finally the pus finds its way to the surface, usually in the region of the areola, where the skin becomes thin and glazed and ultimately gives way. Occasionally both breasts are affected, either simultaneously or more frequently one after the other. Treatment.—In the early stages the condition may be treated by warm antiseptic fomentations, or by Bier’s congestion method by means of a suction bell. When pus has formed incision is called for. A pre-mammary abscess should be opened by a small incision radiating from the nipple, and drained by means of a few strands of iodoform worsted. As soon as an intra-mammary abscess can be diagnosed with certainty, it also should be incised. As the communication between the deeper part of the abscess and the part which points on the surface is often a long narrow channel, the whole abscess has roughly the shape of a collar-stud. It is not suffi- cient, therefore, merely to open the superficial part of the