245 CUT-THROAT. bleeding is always serious, as the superior thyroid arteries are usually damaged. If the common carotid and the internal jugular vein are also wounded, the haemorrhage usually proves fatal. The fatal issue may be contributed to by blood entering the air-passages and causing asphyxia, or by air being sucked into the open veins and causing air embolism. The laryngeal branches of the vagus may be divided and paralysis of the larynx ensue. In all cases there is more or less dyspnoea and persistent coughing. The voice is husky, and the patient can only express himself in a hoarse whisper. There is difficulty in swallowing, and the food may enter the trachea. When the external wound is small, there may be a considerable degree of emphysema of the cellular tissue. The prognosis depends very largely on the general condition of the patient. The majority of those who attempt to take their own lives are in a low state of health from alcoholic excess, mental worry, privation or other causes, and many succumb even when the wound in the neck is comparatively slight. Shock, loss of blood, asphyxia from blood entering the air-passages, and oedema of the glottis are the most frequent causes of death soon after the injury. Septic cellulitis, septic pneumonia and delirium tremens are later complications that may prove fatal. Treatment. — The first indication is to arrest haemorrhage, and this may be done by applying digital compression over the bleeding points. The bleeding vessels are then sought for and ligatured, the wound being enlarged if necessary. If the food and air passages are intact, any muscles that have been divided should be sutured and the wound closed. When the epiglottis is cut across in wounds opening into the pharynx it should be united with fine silk sutures. The wall of the pharynx and the muscles should then be sutured layer by layer and the skin wound closed. When the air-passage is opened, it is usually advisable to perform tracheotomy, and pack round the tube with sponge or gauze to avoid the risk of oedema of the glottis and to prevent blood entering the lungs. The wound in the larynx or trachea may then be closed with fine stitches and the soft tissues brought together layer by layer. In all cases the wound should be drained. During the after-treatment the head should be flexed on the chest to take all tension off the stitches, and care must be taken that the patient does not interfere with the dressings. He must be kept under constant supervision lest he make a further