260 THE THYROID GLAND. tissue being replaced by a quantity of clear or yellowish fluid, sometimes mixed with blood. The cysts thus formed may be unilocular or multilocular, and intra-cystic papillary vegetations frequently grow from their walls. The walls of the cysts may be thin, soft and flaccid, or thick and firm, or they may even be calcified. The thyroid is enlarged, and in its substance one or more firm, nodular tumours may be felt. When deeply placed they may not be palpable, yet they may give rise to serious symptoms by pressing on the air-passages, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, or the oesophagus. In a cystic adenoma fluctuation may be detected. Treatment.—As this variety is not amenable to medicinal measures, the only treatment is to enucleate the adenomatous nodules from the gland. The thyroid is exposed by a transverse curved incision, the tissue covering the nodule is incised, and the adenoma shelled out from its capsule. Malignant Goitre.—Carcinoma and Sarcoma are met with in the thyroid. The malignant disease usually develops in a gland that has been the seat of goitre for several years, although it may begin in a previously healthy gland. It is seldom possible to distinguish clinically between carcinoma and sarcoma. Clinical Features.—The tumour in the neck, if primarily malignant, is of recent development; if it is due to malignant disease engrafted on a pre-existing goitre there is a history of recent rapid increase in size. It is fixed and matted to its surroundings, and exhibits comparatively little movement on swallowing. It usually extends across the middle line from the lobe in which it originated, displacing the trachea and fre- quently overlapping it, so as to bury the air-passage completely. If the tumour tissue has actually penetrated into the trachea the expectoration is usually tinged with blood. Dysphagia is rarely a prominent symptom. If the recurrent laryngeal nerves are involved speech may be interfered with. The lymphatic glands are involved ; and metastases to the lungs and bones, particularly the skull and inferior maxilla, are common. When the goitre extends behind the sternum there is great respiratory embarrass- ment, the trachea is displaced to one side, and the veins of the neck and arm may be engorged. The patient is unable to lie down or to sleep ; there are violent paroxysms of coughing, and severe lancinating pains in the swelling. Death may take place suddenly from asphyxia, from heart failure, or from displace- ment of a thrombus from one of the veins in the neck. Treatment.—As it is only in the earliest stages that a malignant goitre can be successfully removed, operation should