78 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Suppurative disease of the middle ear is a much more common cause of facial paralysis. The nerve, as it traverses the aque- ductus Fallopii, may be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions or granulations, or it may be destroyed by the suppurative process, particularly in young children, as in them the osseous wall of the aqueduct is very thin. It may also be involved in tuberculous and in malignant disease of the middle ear. The nerve is liable to be injured also in the course of opera- tions on the mastoid and middle ear. In complete unilateral facial 'paralysis (Bell’s para- lysis) the affected side of the face is expressionless and “mask-like.” The cheek is flat- tened and smooth, all its folds and wrinkles being obliter- ated. When the patient speaks or smiles, the face is drawn to the sound side (Fig. 21). The eye on the affected side cannot be closed, and on making the at- tempt the eyeball rolls upwards and outwards. The patient cannot wink, and the conjunc- tiva therefore becomes dry, and is irritated by exposure to cold and dust. The tears run over the cheek. From paralysis of the buccinator muscle, there is inability to whistle or to puff out the cheeks, and food collects between the cheek and the gums. The orbicularis oris being also paralysed, the patient is unable to show his upper teeth, and the labial consonants are pronounced indistinctly. The sense of taste is often impaired from involvement of the chorda tympani branch. Sometimes the paralysis is bilateral and, owing to the symmetrical appearance of the face, the condition is liable to be overlooked. In its course outside th.e skull, the facial nerve may be injured in operations on the parotid gland, in resection of the lower jaw, or, the infra-maxillary. branches, in the removal of cervical Fig. 21.—Patient suffering from left facial Para- lysis. Note smoothness of left side of face, imperfect closure of left eye, and deviation of face to right side. (From a photograph lent byllr. Edwin Bramwell.)