414 HERNIA. joined tendon, and emerging at the external abdominal ring. The hernia therefore passes directly through the abdominal wall, and there is consequently no obliquity of the neck. The sper- matic cord usually lies at the outer side of the sac. It is met with chiefly in adult males between the ages of forty and fifty. The hernia is slightly more common on the right than on the left side; it may be bilateral. It is usually small, forming a bubonocele, and rarely reaches the scrotum. When the hernia is being reduced it appears to pass directly backwards, and relatively to the protrusion the abdominal opening is large, and appears as a simple gap in the belly-wall. It is less liable to strangulation than the oblique hernia, and when strangulated the bowel is less frequently seriously damaged. Treatment of Inguinal Hernia in the Adult.—Pallia- tive treatment consists in the wearing of a mechanical appli- ance known as a truss. A truss is a belt containing a stout spring which encircles the body, and is fitted with a pad, by means of which'.the force of the spring is applied over the open- ing through which the hernia leaves the abdominal cavity. The pad is made of cork covered with chamois leather or other soft material. In measuring for a truss the tape crosses the base of the sacrum, comes forwards between the iliac crest and the upper border of the great trochanter, and reaches the middle line just above the symphysis pubis. The number of inches recorded will express the size of the truss. A truss should fulfil two essential conditions — it should retain the hernia completely under all circumstances, and it should be perfectly comfortable. A good truss should be light and yet strong, should fit the body accurately, and the pad should maintain its position in all movements of the wearer. If the spring presses too lightly, the truss fails to retain the hernia; if, on the other hand, it presses too heavily, it causes discomfort, and tends to bring about atrophy of the abdominal wall, and even to enlarge the existing opening. In every case the truss should be applied and tested by the surgeon. It is put on Fig. 106.—Double Spiral Truss for Inguinal Hernia.