TUMOURS. 597 assuming the characters of a carcinoma. It forms a red, lobulated growth, about the size of a crown piece, on the surface of the mucous membrane, covered with long, club-shaped villous processes. It is usually sessile, but the mucous membrane at its base may become loose and lax and form a pedicle. This form of tumour occurs in adults, and gives rise to marked tenesmus and a profuse discharge of pale, sticky mucus and blood. There is not much pain, but the patient becomes weak and anaemic. The absence of fixation and induration at the base helps to distinguish the growth from carcinoma. The treatment consists in excising the tumour, along with the mucous membrane around its base. If recurrence takes place, recourse must be had to excision of the rectum. Malignant Tumours—Carcinoma.—All forms of carcinoma are met with in the rectum, but the colunmar-celled variety is by far the most common. In patients below the age of forty the colloid form is frequently met with. The tumour originates in the epithelium of the glands of the mucosa, and on microscopic section exhibits appearances that have led to the name “ malignant adenoma ” being applied to it. The growth may extend in the form of a fiat plaque between the mucous membrane and the muscular coat of the rectum, until it sur- rounds the bowel and gives rise to a form of annular stricture. Less frequently it grows uniformly in all directions, projecting on the one hand towards the lumen of the bowel, and on the other towards the pelvic cavity where it presses upon and infiltrates adjacent structures. In a majority of cases the growth involves, either primarily or by extension, the part of the bowel above the reflection of the peritoneum—a point of importance in prognosis and treatment. The mucous membrane may remain intact, until the growth has spread to a considerable extent both in the wall of the bowel and towards its lumen, but eventually it is destroyed, and the raw surface of the cancer is exposed, forming an irregularly circular crater-like ulcer, with raised and indurated edges. The formation of the ulcer is associated with an abundant discharge of mucus, mixed with a variable quantity of blood. As the tumour increases in size it forms adhesions to surrounding viscera—notably the bladder, prostate, and vagina—and to the pelvic walls, and in this way the rectum becomes fixed to its surroundings. In the early stages the fixation of the rectum is due to contraction of newly-formed fibrous tissue, but later the malignant disease itself invades the surrounding parts, and incorporates them. Sometimes suppuration occurs in the adjacent connective tissue,