THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 150 THE LIPS. Painful cracks and fissures are frequently met with in the middle line of the lip and at the angle of the mouth in young subjects. They usually develop during frosty weather, and as they are constantly being torn open by the movements of the mouth, they are difficult to heal. The application of glycerine or lanoline may be employed. In many cases it is necessary to cocainise the fissure and scrape it with a sharp spoon. Chronic Induration of the Lips (Strumous Lip).—A chronic oedematous infiltration, probably of the nature of a lymphangitis, sometimes affects the sub-mucous tissue of the lips of delicate children. It is most common on the upper lip, and may be associated with a fissure or with chronic coryza. The lip is everted, and its mucous membrane unduly prominent. The cervical glands are frequently enlarged. The treatment consists in removing the cause and in im- proving the generalVondition of the patient. In cases of long standing it may be necessary to remove from the inner aspect of the lip a horizontal strip of tissue having the shape of a segment of an orange. The term “ double lip ” is applied to a condition occasionally met with in young men, in which there is an hypertrophy of the labial glands in the mucous membrane of the upper lip. It is of slow growth, and forms an elongated swelling on each side of the frenum, covering the teeth, and projecting the lip. It is shotty to the feel, and the only complaint is of disfigurement. The treatment consists in excising the redundant fold of mucous membrane, including the enlarged mucous glands. Tuberculous disease may occur in the form of ulcers or of lupus. The ulcers usually occur in patients suffering from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis. They are usually superficial, may be single or multiple, and are exceedingly painful. Dusting with orthoform powder is useful in relieving the pain. They may be treated by scraping with a sharp spoon, and sub- sequent painting with pure carbolic acid or 20 per cent, solution of lactic acid. Syphilitic Lesions.—The upper lip is the most frequent seat of extra-genital chancre. The chancre of the lip begins on the mucous surface as a small crack or blister, which gradually increases till it forms a rounded, indurated swelling, about a quarter of an inch in diameter. The surface is smooth, of a greyish colour, and exudes a small quantity of sero-purulent