INJURIES. 571 ensue if the stools become semi-solid. When the rectum opens into the bladder, the faeces mix with the urine and escape during micturition ; when it opens into the urethra, faeces and gas escape by the meatus independently of micturition. Treatment.—The line of treatment to be adopted, and the time at which it is to be undertaken, vary according to the nature of the deformity, to whether or not there is complete occlusion of the canal, and to the general condition of the patient. When the bowel is completely occluded, relief must be given as soon as the condition is recognised. If the anal orifice is occluded by a fibrous membrane stretched across it, all that is necessary is to cut this and snip it away with scissors. The finger or a bougie should frequently be passed into the canal to prevent subsequent cicatricial contraction. When a thin septum exists at the junction of the anal canal and rectum, a crucial incision must be made in it to allow the meconium to escape, and graduated bougies should be passed to prevent stenosis. When the anal canal and rectum are undeveloped, or are separated from one another by a considerable thickness of fibrous tissue, and in cases where the rectum opens into the bladder and urethra, it is necessary to establish an exit for the meconium either by exposing the end of the alimentary canal by dissection through the perineum, or by performing inguinal colotomy. The infant is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision made in the middle line of the perineum with its centre in the normal position of the anus, in order to conserve such sphincteric fibres as may be present. The dissection is carried down, keeping close to the hollow of the sacrum, until the lower end of the gut is exposed; the latter may be made more evident by pressing down from above. In weakly patients colotomy should be performed, and if the patient survives, an attempt may be made later to expose the rectum from the perineum. When the rectum opens into the vagina there is seldom any urgency in operating, as the intestinal contents escape freely. When the child is old enough to stand the operation, the fistulous opening should be closed by dissecting down between the vagina and the rectum, separating them from one another, and closing the opening in each after the method employed in other fistulse. Injuries.—The most common cause of injury of the rectum is the patient falling on a pointed, projecting object, such as a spike or broom-stick, or a fragment of broken glass or china. The impinging object usually pierces the integument of the perineum, lacerates the perirectal tissues, and wounds the rectum