AFFECTIONS OF THE NIPPLE AND AREOLA. 323 Syphilitic affections of the nipple are comparatively rare. A primary chancre is occasionally met with on the nipple or areola of a healthy woman who has acted as wet-nurse to a syphilitic infant. One or both nipples may be affected, and it is not un- common for the sores to be multiple. The chancre is seldom typical, and varies from a shallow fissure to a large indurated and ulcerated surface. The axillary glands are enlarged and hard, and other evidence of syphilitic infection is soon manifest. Paget’s Disease of the Nipple and Areola.—In 1871, Paget described a peculiar inflammatory affection of the skin of the nipple and areola, which, in the great majority of cases, is followed by the development of cancer in the breast, the tumour being of the ordinary scirrhous variety. The disease is now known to be a superficial carcinoma of the skin. In the majority of cases it begins around the orifices of the milk ducts as a bright red excoriation, which gradually spreads over the areola and on to the skin of the breast, till it forms a florid patch which, in Paget’s words, has an appearance “like that of an acute balanitis.” The epidermis covering this patch desquamates, the skin becoming red and thin, and discharging a yellow, viscid fluid, which dries on the surface and forms scabs and crusts, particularly towards the edges of the patch. The affected area is slightly raised and indurated, and its sinuous margin is sharply defined. When picked up between the fingers and thumb it has a peculiar parchment-like feeling. The nipple also is indurated, and may be retracted or even destroyed by ulceration. In some cases the condition is due to a tumour in the substance of the breast, spreading along the ducts and invading the skin. The disease is usually met with in women between forty and sixty. It runs a slow course, there is no vesication or itching as in ordinary eczema, but the condition is attended with tingling or burning pain. The treatment is the same as for cancer of the breast. Other tumours of the nipple, such as papillomata, angiomata, epitheliomata, and sarcomata have been observed, but they are rare. Infi.ammatory Affections of the Breast. Physiological Engorgement.—At birth the gland is com- posed entirely of a series of radiating ducts with club-shaped extremities, but with no well-developed acini, and the epi- thelium of these ducts sometimes undergoes an active proliferation during early infancy—so-called mastitis neonatorum. The gland