THE CHEST. 296 respiration after time has been allowed for any rent in the pleura to heal, the fracture may be exposed by incision, the displacement reduced, and the fragments wired in position. Union in the deformed position, however, is not as a rule attended with any inconvenience. The ensiform cartilage may be separated from the body of the sternum and driven inwards, causing pain, shortness of breath, and sometimes vomiting. It may be necessary to cut down and remove it. Injuries of the Thoracic Viscera.—Lesions of the pleura, the lungs, the heart, or the diaphragm, may complicate any of the injuries of the chest wall above described ; or they may occur independently of any gross lesion of the parietes. These internal complications may be associated with the escape into the pleural cavity of blood—hcemothorax, or of air—pneumo- thorax ; with spitting of blood—haemoptysis, or with the escape of air into the subcutaneous cellular tissue—surgical emphysema. Hcemothorax may be due to the rupture of an intercostal or internal mammary artery, to laceration of the pleura, lung, or diaphragm, or to a wound of the heart or great blood-vessels. The clinical features are those of internal haemorrhage, with evidence of fluid in the pleural cavity—in the form of dulness, loss of the breath sounds and of vocal fremitus—and of pressure on the lung. The patient becomes extremely restless, constantly changing his position; the breathing is rapid and laboured, and the pulse small, quick, and irregular. The effused blood does not coagulate, and in many cases is rapidly reabsorbed. If there is a penetrating wound, blood may escape each time the patient coughs or moves in bed. From faintness or shock at the time of the accident, the blood may not be poured out into the pleural cavity until reaction comes on some hours later, and the sudden onset of symptoms may prove a source of difficulty in diagnosis, suggesting perforation of an abdominal viscus. It sometimes happens that several days after an injury a considerable quantity of serous fluid is poured out into the pleural cavity, and gives rise to symptoms similar to those of lisemothorax. The use of an exploring needle, however, serves to distinguish between these conditions. Pneumothorax, or the escape of air into the pleural cavity, may be a l’esult of laceration of the lung by a fragment of a broken rib, or by a foreign body, such as a knife-blade or a bullet. It has also resulted from puncture of the lung by an exploring needle. There is at first severe pain in the chest, and the patient