466 THE INTESTINES. it is now called, the pelvic colon—has a well-developed mesentery, and forms a large S- or omega-shaped coil which usually lies in the cavity of the pelvis. It may, however, be found in the abdomen proper, and sometimes even on the right side, in the neighbourhood of the caecum, or at a higher level, in the vicinity of the liver. The sigmoid colon serves as a receptacle in which the solid feces accumulate ; the rectum is normally empty except just before the act of defecation. The ileo- caacal valve dams back the contents of the ileum until the digestion and absorption which should take place in the ileum are completed ; it then relaxes and allows the contents to pass into the caecum. Fluids introduced into the rectum may traverse the whole length of the colon and pass through the valve into the ileum—an observation we have frequentlj’ made in cases of fistula in the small intestine. The separate bands of longitudinal muscular fibres and the appendices epiploic* constitute a certain means of distinguishing the large from the small intestine. Bacteriology.—Under normal conditions the number of bacteria in the upper portion of the intestine is comparatively small, but towards the lower end of the ileum the number is greatly increased, and below the ileo-caecal valve organisms are found in great number and variety. In the stomach the growth of bacteria is inhibited by the presence of free hydrochloric acid. In the small intestine the bile and other secretions appear to play an important part in preventing the development of bacteria. This regulation of bacterial growth is liable to be disturbed, especially in diseases which originate in the intestine, and the dis- turbance first shows its effects in the neighbourhood of the ileo-e*cal junction, for example, by the occurrence of inflammatory affections, such as appendicitis. The lower ileum is most liable to specific infections, such as those of tuberculosis and typhoid. While in a state of health the wall of the intestine possesses a considerable capacity of resisting the action of organisms ; when damaged, either directly by trauma, or in- directly through interference with its innervation or blood-supply, the organisms are able to invade and pass through the walls, setting up disease of the bowel itself, or of the peritoneum, the cellular tissue or the blood-vessels. The methods of examination in surgical affections of the intestines include inspection, palpation, and percussion of the abdomen, and digital examination of the rectum and vagina. Distension of the large bowel with air by means of a ball syringe and a rubber tube introduced into the rectum, or the introduction of fluid by means of a soft tube con- nected with a funnel, may be useful for diagnostic purposes, as for example in the differentiation of a tumour of the bowel from a tumour of an adjacent organ such as the kidney or stomach. The entire large intes- tine will hold on an average about three quarts of fluid. The position and form of the colon may also be demonstrated by injecting into the rectum an emulsion of two ounces of bismuth and eight ounces of mucilage, and observing the shadow with the X-rays. The patient should remain in the recumbent position for at least half an hour before the exposure is made, and after the examination the colon should be washed out. Operations on the Intestine. Enterotomy consists in making a temporary opening in the bowel to remove from the lumen some obstructing agent,