CYSTITIS. 667 mentation, and if at the same time there is some hindrance to the outflow, there is great risk of the infection ascending to the kidneys, causing pyelo-nephritis or pyonephrosis, these being the commonest causes of death in cases of chronic septic cystitis. The presence of fever, a tendency to shivering or to actual rigors, should always raise the suspicion that the infection is no longer confined to the bladder. Diagnosis.—It must be borne in mind that the cardinal symptoms of cystitis—pyuria, frequent and painful micturition —may also result from lesions of the kidney, especially tubercu- losis. When the pus is derived from the bladder, it appears at the end of micturition, and tends to sink to the bottom of the vessel. When derived from the kidney, the urine is more uni- formly turbid, and remains so after standing; the quantity of pus is scarcely influenced by washing out the bladder, there is more albumin than is accounted for by the pus, and the micro- scope often shows tube casts. Except in acute cystitis, the source of the pus should be determined by cystoscopic ex- amination, and the cause of the cystitis can usually at the same time be cleared up. The prognosis depends chiefly upon whether or not the pre- disposing cause can be got rid of; if so, then in the majority of cases the infection readily yields to treatment. Treatment.—In acute cystitis the patient is confined to bed with the lower limbs and pelvis raised, and hot fomentations are applied to the hypogastrium. Spasm is relieved by sitz baths, as hot as can be borne, by dram doses of hyoscyamus, or by sup- positories of belladonna and morphin (of each a quarter of a grain), or injecting into the rectum through a catheter thirty drops of laudanum in two ounces of warm water. An examina- tion of the urine should be made, as it may afford useful indications for treatment. If the urine is concentrated, it should be rendered bland by abundant diluent drinks, such as milk and hot water, or barley water, and by mineral waters such as those of Wildungen or Contrexeville. If it is highly acid and tends to deposit uric acid, the bicarbonates and citrates of soda and potash may be given. The bowels are freely opened, preferably by saline purgatives. When the acute symptoms have subsided, solid food may be allowed in the form of fish, milk-puddings, white meat, and fresh fruit, but the amount of fluids taken must not be diminished. Urotropin (ten grains thrice daily), lielmitol (fifteen grains thrice daily), salol (five grains every four hours), or oil of sandalwood (fifteen drops in capsules three times a day), should be given,