THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 568 speculum, carrying an electric lamp—the sigmoidoscope—is employed when it is necessary to inspect the pelvic colon. Congenital Malformations.—Development.—The rectum and anal canal are developed independently of one another. The rectum is developed from the posterior part of the hind gut, partly from the hypoblast, and partly from the mesoblast. In the early embryo the hind gut is represented by a cul-de-sac, named the cloaca, into which open the genito-urinary ducts. During the second month of intra-uterine life the cloaca becomes divided into two compartments by the growth of a longitudinal septum. In relation to the anterior of these compartments the genito- urinary organs are de- veloped, while the posterior compartment becomes the rectum. Abnormal com- munications between the rectum and the genito- urinary passage are due to imperfect development of the longitudinal septum. Coincidently with the formation of the rectum, the anal canal undergoes development by the forma- tion in the epiblast of a depression, named the proc- todeum, which lies in line with the rectum, but is separated from it by a strand of epiblast known as the cloacal membrane. About the third month this membrane disappears, and the continuity of the rectum and anal canal is thereby established. Malformations.—These vary according to the period at which the development is arrested, and according to the layers of the blastoderm involved. Interference with the evolution of the hypoblastic and mesoblastic layers leads to malformations of the rectum proper, while errors in the development of the epiblast cause deformities of the anal canal. In certain varieties the escape of meconium and fseces is completely obstructed, in others the obstruction is only partial, and in some the outlet of the alimentary canal, although patent, is abnormally placed. The most common deformity of the anus is its occlusion by a 1 Diseases of the Anus, Rectum, and Pelvic Colon, by Jas. P. Tuttle, 1903. Fia. 151.—Complete absence of the Anus. (After Tuttle.) 1