193 CANCER. widely excised, but all the lymphatic connections must also be removed whether the glands are palpably enlarged or not. Some surgeons advocate the performance of a preliminary laryngotomy, on the ground that it facilitates the administration of the anaesthetic, and enables the back of the mouth to be packed so as to diminish the risk of blood passing into the air-passages, but in our opinion this is only necessary when the disease is extensive and involves the door of the mouth, the tonsil, or the jaw. Preliminary ligation of the lingual artery or temporary occlusion of the external carotid is also recom- mended by some. The routine practice of removing the whole of the cervical fascia together with the contents of the anterior triangle of the neck, either at the same time as the tongue is excised, or preferably about ten days later, as advocated by Butlin, has much to recommend it. This is done by carrying an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from the mastoid process to the sterno-elavicular joint, and another at right angles to this, from the upper border of the thyi-oid cartilage to the symphysis menti. The two skin flaps thus delimited are reflected, exposing the cervical fascia, which, together with the cervical, submaxillary, and submental lymphatic glands, and the submaxillary salivary gland, is carefully removed by dissection. The operation for removal of the tongue varies with the site and extent of the growth. In cases of cancer limited to one side of the anterior portion of the tongue, Whitehead’s method is suitable, but it may be employed even when the whole tongue is implicated. The mouth is opened widely with a gag, and each half of the tongue is transfixed with a loop of silk-worm gut passed through its substance, to enable it to be pulled well out of the mouth. The tongue is then split along the middle line to well be- yond the level of the growth. The mucous membrane along the line of its reflection on to the alveolar process is next divided with scissors, and the anterior pillar of the fauces cut through. Next the muscles between the tongue and the floor of the mouth are snipped through with the scissors, the vessels being caught with forceps as they are divided. Finally the tongue is cut across well behind the tumour. The lingual vessels can usually be seized with forceps before being cut. If necessary the other, half of the tongue is then removed in the same way. Syme’s operation is suitable to cases in which the whole tongue has to be removed along with the structures in the floor VOL. II—13