444 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. but the tendency is for a process of erosion to progress through the other coats until the peritoneum is reached, and this in its turn may be perforated—perforating ulcer. If adhesions have taken place with an adjacent organ, such as the pancreas or liver, or with the anterior abdominal wall, the erosion is con- tinued into the substance of the organ, constituting what is known as a penetrating ulcer. In the process of erosion vessels may be opened into and haemorrhage take place; blood may be vomited pure, or so altered as to have the appearance of coffee grounds ; it appears also as a tarry material in the motions. An abundant production of fibrous tissue in relation to an ulcer of long standing may result in the formation of a tumour- like swelling, which is rarely palpable through the abdominal wall unless adherent to the parietal peritoneum, but is readily recognised when the stomach is exposed after opening the abdomen. It may be difficult to distinguish such a tumour from a cancer of the stomach or from an ulcer that is under- going cancerous transformation, and it is highly probable that those suspected malignant tumours that have disappeared after the performance of gastro-enterostomy have been of this nature. The healing of a gastric ulcer is frequently accompanied by marked cicatricial contraction, which may lead to puckering of the stomach wall; if situated near the pylorus, this may cause stenosis of the opening; in the body of the stomach, it may lead to an hour-glass constriction. There is increasing evidence to show that an ulcer of long standing may become the starting- point of cancer. The acute ulcer, which tends to bleed or to perforate at an early stage, is met with chiefly in young, anaemic women; the chronic indurated ulcer is about equally common in men and women up to the age of forty or forty-five. The pain, which is usually a prominent feature, varies a good deal with the site of the ulcer. When an ulcer is close to the cardiac orifice, it causes pain immediately after the taking of food, and it sometimes gives rise to symptoms which resemble those due to stricture of the lower end of the gullet. When the ulcer is situated in the pyloric portion, the onset of pain is delayed, and as a result of reflex contraction of the muscular coat and of the sphincter of the pylorus, there are often super- added the symptoms of pyloric obstruction, dilatation of the stomach, and stasis of its contents. When the ulcer is situated on the posterior wall it is sometimes observed that relief from pain is obtained when the patient lies on his face. Tenderness in the epigastrium and rigidity of the abdominal muscles are