612 THE KIDNEY AND URETER In the case of women there is little pain or difficulty. In the male, the beak should enter the membraneous urethra before the handle is depressed, and care must be taken that the instrument is completely within the bladder. If there is difficulty, it is useful to place a finger in the rectum or vagina. As a rule the instrument glides easily enough into the bladder, and the contained fluid escapes by the catheters. The patient is then raised into a sitting posture on the edge of the table, with the thighs separated and the feet and back supported. The diaphragm is now raised by rotating the screw to its full extent ; the central partition thus produced accurately divides the bladder in the mesial plane, and the secretion from each ureter flows into its separate half of the bladder and escapes by its respective catheter into receptacles provided for it. The patient should drink freely of water before and during the examination so as to increase the urinary secretion. "When the amount of urine necessary for examination has been obtained, the diaphragm is lowered by reversing the screw, and the instrument is withdrawn. The Use of Colouring Matters as an Aid to the Investigation of the Functional Conditions of the Kidney.—That most generally employed is a 4 per cent, solution of indigo carmine, of which 4 c.c. are injected deeply into the buttock. If the kidneys are healthy, the colour appears in the urine in about ten minutes, attains its maximum in thirty minutes, and gradually disappears in two or three hours. If one kidney is diseased, the urine on that side is either not coloured at all or only very faintly. This test, combined with the use of the cystoscope or the separator, is of great service in estimating the functional activity of the two kidneys. With the cystoscope, the ureteral openings are more easily identified by the jet of coloured urine escaping from each, and differences in the mode in which the ureter contracts and in the jet of urine may be observed. Catheterisation of the ureters requires more skill and practice on the part of the observer than the preceding methods of examination. The ureteral catheters, which are made of silk, are sterilised by boiling in a saturated solution of ammonium sulphate, and are preserved dry in sterilised glass cylinders. Before use they are dipped in sterile glycerine. A pre-