THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 734 so rare in the scrotum that they need only be mentioned. Sebaceous cysts are frequently met with; they are usually near the raphe, are multiple, and tend to undergo calcification. Dermoid cysts have also been met with in the raphe. Epithelioma is induced by the prolonged irritation of such substances as coal-tar, paraffin, or soot. At one time the disease was comparatively common among chimney sweepers in England, and was known as “chimney-sweep’s cancer,” but improved methods of cleaning chimneys and greater attention to personal cleanliness have ren- dered it comparatively rare. In the paraffin shale districts of Scot- land the condition is frequently met with as a sequel to paraffin eczema, and is known as “paraffin cancer” (Fig. 194). It may begin as a scaly patch, a wart, or a horny excrescence on the skin; less fre- quently as a cauliflower-like papil- loma. The disease progresses slow- ly, and may last for several years before ulceration takes place. In course of time it gradually assumes the characters of an ordinary epi- thelioma. The inguinal glands are not implicated till late in the disease. The treatment consists in excising the growth together with a considerable area of the scrotum beyond it, as well as the glands in the groin. Fig. 194. — Paraffin Cancer of Scrotum in a shale-worker, ait. 60. The Testis and Epididymis. Surgical Anatomy.—The secretory portion of the testis (Fig. 195) con- sists of a mass of convoluted seminiferous tubules held together by a quantity of loose connective tissue. The whole gland is enclosed in a firm, fibrous capsule—the tunica albuginea—which is specially thick and strong at the posterior part, forming there the body of Highmore, from which numerous septa radiate to divide the gland into a series of compartments. The spermatozoa, which are formed from the epithelium lining the seminiferous tubules, leave the testis by the vasa efferentia and enter the epididymis. This structure is composed of a highly convoluted tube the coils of which are bound together by dense connective tissue. It lies on the posterior aspect of the body of the testis, and is divisible into three portions : an upper broad, rounded portion—the globus major or head ; a narrower, intermediate portion—the body ; and a lower, pointed portion—the globus minor or tail. The vas deferens or excretory duct of the testis passes from the globus minor along the back of the testis and to the inner side of the ejhdidymis. It joins the other elements of the spermatic cord at the upper end of the