PERFORATION OF GASTRIC ULCER. 449 140—and feeble ; the features are drawn, the expression anxious. The abdomen becomes distended and tympanitic. There is great variation in the time of onset, rapidity of progress, and extent of spread of the peritonitis, but if untreated, death usually occurs in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, although life has sometimes been prolonged for a week or more. The diagnosis is usually easy, and with an accurate history and careful examination, it should be possible to exclude such conditions as biliary colic, acute appendicitis, and the rupture of an extra-uterine pregnancy or a pyosalpinx. Young women who have suffered from the symptoms of gastric ulcer are sometimes seized with intense abdominal pain and collapse, so closely simulating those of perforation that it is almost impossible to make a diagnosis. In such cases, however, it may be observed that the improvement which follows the initial attack of pain continues and the rigidity of the abdominal muscles disappears. When any reasonable doubt exists, an exploratory operation should be performed. Prognosis.—When the perforation occurs into the general peritoneal cavity, the only hope of saving the patient’s life lies in operation, and this is seldom successful unless performed within twelve hours. Operation.—The abdomen is opened by a free incision above the umbilicus, to one or other side of the middle line, according to the seat of maximum pain and tenderness. When the per- foration has taken place into the general peritoneal cavity, gas and yellow, turbid fluid escape as soon as the peritoneum is divided. It is unusual to be able to recognise portions of undigested food ; as a matter of fact, the large amount of fluid found in the peritoneal cavity has not escaped from the stomach, but is an exudate from the peritoneum. The site of the per- foration may be indicated by gas and fluid gushing from it with the respiratory movements, or by the greater amount of lymph on the peritoneal surfaces in its vicinity. When not immediately evident, it must be systematically sought for, and if no perforation is found on the anterior surface, the posterior wall should be explored through an opening in the lesser sac made by tearing a hole in the gastro-colic omentum, close to the greater curvature. The affected portion of stomach should, if possible, be drawn well up into the wound, and pads of gauze inserted round about to prevent further infection. The opening in the ulcer is at once closed by a single stitch, which passes through all the coats of the stomach on either side of the perforation. It is then VOL. II—29