721 PROSTATECTOMY. diseased prostate is indicated. In cases in which the health is undermined by a combination of septic and urinary poisoning, and the condition of the heart, vessels, or lungs precludes a major operation, all that can be done is to palliate the symptoms. This may be effected by such measures as the cauterisation of the prostate by Bottini’s method, the regular use of a catheter, washing out the bladder, or draining it either through a retained catheter or by cystotomy. Between the extremes illustrated by these groups of cases there are others in which the general condition being still fairly good, the local septic and other complications must be improved or got rid of so as to permit, at a later period, of performing a radical operation under more favourable conditions. The Radical Operation : Prostatectomy.—This may be carried out by the supra-pubic or by the perineal route. It is as yet impossible to lay down definite rules for guidance as to which of these routes should be selected. Theoretically it might be urged that when there is a considerable intra-vesical projection of the organ the high route should be selected, and when it bulges downwards and backwards towards the perineum and rectum, the perineal route is to be preferred. The intra- vesical enlargement can be recognised by examining the bladder with the cystoscope. The supra-pubic route should be preferred when there is something else to be done within the bladder than the removal of the prostate, for example, the extraction of a stone. Before either operation is undertaken, the patient must be got into the best possible condition; the urine should be made as aseptic as possible by the administration of the usual drugs, and, if there is cystitis, the bladder should be irrigated and drained. In the supra-pubic operation, which has been especially advocated by P. J. Freyer, the bladder is opened above the pubes, and the forefinger is introduced to explore the floor of the bladder and to find out the real state of affairs ; if the radical operation is to be proceeded with, the mucous membrane over that portion of the organ which projects into the bladder is cut, or torn'through with the finger-nail. In the common form of enlargement the organ is easily enucleated from its bed, the procedure being facilitated if two fingers of the other hand are inserted into the rectum so as to project its anterior wall and control the movements of the finger engaged in the enucleation. Finally, one or more tumour-like masses are displaced into the bladder, from which they are removed with the fingers or forceps. If the entire organ is enucleated, the prostatic urethra VOL. II—46