234 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. and hooks, the other without, a Hartmann’s lateral ring knife, and one pair of adenoid forceps—Kuhn’s or Loewenberg’s—a tongue depressor, a gag, and one or two small throat sponges on holders. The patient having been anaesthetised, his head should be drawn over the end of the table, which is placed close to the window. An assistant standing on the left side inserts the gag and maintains it in position. The operator, being on the patient’s right, depresses the tongue and insinuates the curette provided with the hooks behind the soft palate, carrying it to the roof of the naso-pharynx between the growth and the posterior free edge of the nasal septum. Firm pressure is then made against the vault of the naso-pharynx, and the curette is carried backwards and downwards in the mesial plane, and withdrawn with the main mass of the adenoids caught in the hooks. The unguarded curette is then introduced and several strokes are made with it, the instrument being carried on either side of the mesial plane. With Hartmann’s lateral ring knife the posterior naso-pharyngeal wall and fossae of Rosenmuller are curetted. The curette should not be used on the lateral pharyngeal wall in case the Eustachian orifices and cushions be damaged. Bleeding soon ceases when the head is again elevated, and the patient should be at once laid well over upon his side so that the blood may escape from the mouth. No local after-treatment is required, and spraying or syringing may prove harmful. The patient should remain in the house for five or six days. If nasal obstruction has been the out- standing symptom, respiratory exercises through the nose should be carried out for some considerable time; on the other hand, if Eustachian obstruction and deafness have been the main features of the case, a course of Politzer inflation should be con- ducted after the wound has healed. Tumours of the Naso-pharynx.—Tumours are occasionally met with growing from the muco-periosteum of the basi-sphenoid and basi-occipital, and projecting from the vault of the naso- pharynx— naso-pharyngeal polypus. They may originally be fibromata, but they tend to assume the characters of fibro-sarco- mata and exhibit malignant tendencies. They usually occur between the ages of fifteen and twenty. At first the tumour is firm, rounded, and of slow growth, but later it becomes softer, more vascular, and grows more rapidly, spreading forwards towards the nasal cavity and downwards towards the pharynx. Clinical Features.—In its growth the tumour blocks the nostrils, and so interferes with nasal respiration and causes the patient to snore loudly, especially during sleep. It may also