750 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. closely matted to the back of the testis that it cannot be recognised by palpation. The vas deferens, the seminal vesicles, and the prostate are not implicated. In the early stages of the disease there is an effusion into the tunica vaginalis, but as the swelling of the testis increases the fluid usually disappears. The integument of the scrotum may be stretched and thinned, and in the later stages a breaking down gumma may infiltrate the skin, which finally ulcerates, giving exit to a quantity of yellowish fluid, and exposing the surface of the testis covered by a greyish-yellow slough, aptly compared in appearance to a piece of wash-leather. Treatment.—As a rule the condition rapidly yields to anti- syphilitic drugs, and the inunction of oleate of mercury ointment is often beneficial. When ulceration has occurred mercurial lotions and dressings should be used. When a large surface of the scrotum is destroyed by ulceration, and fungus testis has occurred, the testis should be removed. In the infantile form of syphilitic testis the sclerotic element predominates. The condition is usually met with in children from two to six months old, and as a rule both testes are involved. The glands are about the size of a pigeon’s egg, densely hard and painless. The presence of other signs of inherited syphilis aids in the diagnosis, and the treatment is carried out on the usual lines. In secondary syphilis the epididymis may be affected by inflammatory changes—syphilitic epididymitis — which rapidly disappear under the influence of mercury. Tumours of the Testis. Tumours of the testis are exceedingly difficult to classify either on a pathological or on a clinical basis. This arises from the fact that some varieties are composed of several different histo- logical elements, no one of which predominates sufficiently to characterise the growth, and that other varieties show a marked tendency to undergo cystic and other forms of degeneration, and so to lose their original characters. Another peculiarity of testicular tumours is that they are specially prone to malignant transformation, so that a tumour which is originally innocent may eventually infect adjacent glands and become disseminated in distant parts of the body. Some of the varieties met with are so rare that it is not necessary to do more than name them here, for example, fibroma, myxoma, myoma, osteoma, and teratoma. Others, such as