179 FRACTURES OF THE .TAWS. ments are retained in position by the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. Fracture of the coronoid process is extremely rare. The condyles are frequently fractured just below the insertion of the external pterygoid muscles (Fig. 60) by a fall on the chin or by a severe blow on the side of the face. When the fracture is unilateral, the broken condyle is tilted inwards and forwards by the external pterygoid, and can be palpated from the mouth, while the rest of the jaw is displaced to- ivards the affected side, and not away from it, as happens in unilateral dislocation. When the fracture is bilateral the lower jaw falls backwards, so that the lower teeth lie behind those of the upper jaw. In a few cases the condyle has been driven through the glenoid cavity, causing fracture of the base of the skull. Complications.—As the majority of fractures of the jaw are compound, suppura- tion is comparatively common during the process of repair, but if antiseptic precau- tions are taken, it can usually be kept in check, and seldom leads to necrosis. The teeth adjacent to the fracture are liable to be loosened or displaced. If merely loosened they should be left in place, as they usually become firmly fixed in the course of a few days. Care must be taken that a displaced tooth does not pass between the fragments, as this has been the cause of difficulty in reducing a fracture and of its failure to unite. Irregular union, by destroying the alignment of the teeth, leads to interference with mastication. The bone usually unites in from four to six weeks. Want of union is a rare event. Treatment.—In the majority of cases, after the fracture has been reduced, the fragments can be kept in apposition by closing the mouth and keeping the lower jaw fixed against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage (Fig. 61). Care must be taken that the posterior tails of the bandage do not pull the lower jaw backward. Additional security may be given by a light poro- plastic or gutta-percha splint fitted to the chin, the vertical portion passing well up the ramus of the jaw. The apparatus is worn for four or five weeks, during which time the patient is fed on fluid or semi-fluid food. The mouth must be regularly Fig. 61.—Four - tailed Bandage applied for Fracture of Lower Jaw.