20 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. an excess of albumin. Organisms also are present, such as the diplococcus intracellularis, in acute cerebro-spinal meningitis; staphylococci, streptococci, and pneumococci, particularly in the intra-cranial complications of middle ear disease. In all cases of acute microbic infection, and especially in the suppurative forms, polynuclear leucocytes are found in the fluid ; while in chronic affections, such as tubercle and syphilis, there is an excess of lymphocytes (Purves Stewart). The detection of the tubercle bacillus is confirmatory of a diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis, but, as it is often very difficult to obtain, its absence does not negative this diagnosis. In a few cases of malignant neoplasm of the spinal cord and its membranes, characteristic cells have been found in the fluid after centrifuging. Therapeutic Puncture.—In certain cases of cerebral tumour, and of tuberculous meningitis associated with an increased quantity of fluid in the arachno-pial space, marked temporary relief of such symptoms of increased intra-cranial tension as headache, vertigo, blindness, or coma has followed the with- drawal of from 30 to 40 c.c. of the fluid. Terrier and others have found this measure useful in relieving pain in the head, delirium, and even coma, in cases of basal fracture. The quantity withdrawn must not exceed 40 c.c., lest the ventricles be emptied and pressure . be exerted directly on the basal ganglia (Tuffier). This route is sometimes selected for the injection of antitoxin in cases of tetanus ; and for the induction of spinal anmsthesia by Bier’s method. HEAD INJURIES. The comparative immunity of the brain from injury by external violence applied to the skull, and by jolting and shaking, depends upon various physical and architectural arrange- ments which tend to absorb vibrations and to disperse the forces so that they do not reach the brain. Among these may be mentioned the density and mobility of the scalp, the dome-like shape of the skull, and the elasticity of its outer table. The numerous bones of which the skull is composed, and the buffer-like sutural membrane which unites them, the over- lapping of certain of these bones, and the internal ribs and