478 THE INTESTINES. by congestion of the mucous membrane of the stenosed portion occluding the lumen, or by the use of purgative medicines. In not a few instances attention is first called to a malignant stricture of the intestine by the onset of acute obstruction, the patient having previously complained only of vague colicky pains and constipation. Diagnosis of the Site of Obstruction.—There are no distinc- tions between obstruction situated in the small and in the large intestine that may be considered as absolute and invariable, because the clinical features depend more upon the nature of the occlusion than upon its situation (Treves). In obstruction of the small intestine vomiting appears earlier, is more persistent and distressing, and the vomited matter is more copious and sooner becomes stercoraceous. In the large intestine, on the other hand, vomiting is often late in appearing, is intermittent and scanty, and may even be absent. Shock is most marked in acute obstruction of the small intestine. Meteorism, as expressed by general distension of the abdomen, is as a rule more pronounced the lower in the intestine the obstruction is situated. Although it is by no means so easy to identify visibly dilated coils of intestine as might be supposed, it is sometimes possible from their situation and outline to draw a reliable inference • the transverse colon and sigmoid flexure may, for example, be recognised by their position, the small intestine by the ladder pattern of the abdomen. It is not safe to infer from the presence of visible moving coils of small intestine that the obstruction is situated in the small gut; we have observed such peristalsis in cases of malignant stricture beyond the trans- verse colon. Information obtained by estimating the amount of fluid that can be introduced by the rectum may prove misleading. Causes of Intestinal Obstruction. Strangulated hernia is the commonest cause of acute intestinal obstruction, and in all cases presenting the symptoms above described a systematic examination of the hernial openings accessible to the fingers should be made. It is not uncommon for a patient to be ignorant of the existence of a hernia, especially when of small size and situated in the femoral or in the obturator region. Cases are occasionally met with in which a hernia is present, and yet there is some doubt as to whether or not it is the cause of obstruction; in such cases it is usually advisable to explore the hernia by operation before proceeding to open the abdomen.