URINARY BLADDER. 664 which is free from pus. The condition may last for an indefinite period, and may eventually terminate in cystitis. The exhibition of urinary antiseptics, notably urotropin or sandalwood oil, gets rid of the condition very quickly. When the colon bacillus is present the bowels should receive special attention. Bacterial Infection of the Bladder—Cystitis.—While organisms readily gain access to the bladder, they rarely succeed in producing changes in its wall unless there is also present some factor which favours their lodgment. Such factors are to be regarded as 'predisposing causes of cystitis. Complete evacuation of the bladder at each act of micturition is the greatest safeguard against infection, while retention of urine from any cause is an important factor in the production of cystitis. The stagnant urine constitutes a favourable medium for the growth of organisms, and ample opportunity is afforded for the toxins to act upon the mucous membrane. Paralysis of the bladder from injury or disease of the nerves or nerve centres is frequently followed by cystitis, because the organ is not completely evacuated and the nutrition of its tissues is impaired. Congestion of the mucous membrane—such as may result from exposure to cold, sexual excess, active diuretics, cantharides, alcohol, the mechanical irritation of urinary salts, foreign bodies, calculus or tumour—is one of the commonest predisposing causes of cystitis, especially when it is combined with incomplete emptying of the bladder. The determining cause of cystitis is bacterial infection. The organisms concerned are the diplococcus and the urobacillus liquefaciens, both of which decompose urea, and the various pyogenic bacteria, such as colon bacilli, staphylococci, strepto- cocci, pneumococci, gonococci, and probably a great many others which have not been identified. The colon bacillus is found in nearly one-half of the total cases observed. There is rarely only one species of organism present; those most frequently associ- ated are the colon bacillus, the urobacillus, and the staphylococcus. The urobacillus and the yellow staphylococcus are probably the most potent in causing cystitis, because they split up urea and bring about ammoniacal decomposition of the urine, which thereby becomes an irritating fluid and damages the mucous membrane with which it is in contact. The urethra is by far the most important route of infection. While the urethra, when normal, is sterile except in the immediate vicinity of the meatus, when diseased it is very liable to harbour organisms, and these may ascend to the bladder, or be carried thither by the passage of instruments. The short urethra of the