286 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. may form a fringe hanging from the edge of the cord, or may spread until it nearly fills the larynx. In children the growths are frequently multiple and show a marked tendency to recur after removal. They sometimes disappear spontaneously about puberty. The most prominent symptoms are hoarseness, aphonia, and dyspnoea, which in children may be paroxysmal. The treatment consists in removing the growth by means of laryngeal forceps or the snare, under cocain and adrenalin anaes- thesia. For the removal of multiple papillomata in children it is usually necessary to perform preliminary tracheotomy, and then split the thyroid cartilage and remove the growth, after which the thyroid is stitched. In a certain number of cases it has been found that the tumour disappears after the larynx has been put at rest by the operation of tracheotomy. Cancer. — Epithelioma of the larynx is a comparatively rare affection. It is almost always primary, and usually occurs in males between the ages of forty and seventy. It is important to distinguish between those cases in which the growth first appears in the interior of the larynx—on the vocal cords, the ventricular bands, or in the sub-glottic cavity (intrinsic cancer)—and those in which it attacks the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds, or the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage (extrinsic cancer). Clinical Features.—In the great majority of cases of intrinsic cancer the first, and for many months the only symptom is huskiness of the voice, which may go on to complete aphonia before any other symptoms manifest themselves. When the larynx is examined in an early stage of intrinsic cancer, the presence of a small warty growth on the posterior part of one vocal cord, or a papillary fringe extending along the free edge of the cord, should raise the suspicion of malignancy, especially if the affected cord is congested and moves less freely than its fellow. Early diagnosis is essential in intrinsic cancer, and the absence of enlargement of lymphatic glands, or of foetor and cachexia, must in no way influence the surgeon against making a diagnosis of malignancy. The impaired mobility of the affected cord is an important point in determining the malignant Fig. 79.—Papilloma of Larynx. (From drawing lent by Dr. Logan Turner.)