243 CUT-THROAT. Fractures of the Hyoid, Larynx and Trachea.—The hyoid \ hone, on account of its mobility and the protection it receives from the body of the lower jaw, is seldom fractured, except in old people in whom the great cornu has become ossified to the body of the bone. It is usually produced either by a direct blow, or by transverse pressure as in throttling. The fracture is almost always at the junction of the great cornu with the body, and there is marked displacement of the fragments. The patient usually feels the bone crack, and experiences a sensation as if something hard had stuck in his throat. The thyroid and cricoid cartilages are also liable to be fractured, particularly in old people after calcification or ossification has taken place. These fractures may be single or multiple, and they usually result from a direct blow, from throttling, or from the passage of a wheel over the neck. The trachea may be lacerated, or even completely torn from the larynx, by the same forms of injury as produce fracture of the laryngeal cartilages. The clinical features common to all these injuries are swelling and discoloration ; and if the mucous membrane is torn, air may escape into the tissues and produce emphysema. There is always more or less difficulty in breathing, which may amount to actual suffocation, and this may come on immediately, or in the course of a few hours from oedema of the glottis. Blood may pass into the lungs and be coughed up. Swallowing is usually difficult and painful, especially in fracture of the hyoid bone. There is also pain on speaking, and the voice is husky and indistinct. Spasmodic coughing is common. The prognosis is always grave on account of the shock, and the risk of suffocation and of septic pneumonia. Treatment.—In many cases tracheotomy is called for either to relieve impending suffocation or to anticipate dyspnoea from cedema of the glottis. In fracture of the hyoid the fragments may be replaced by manipulation through the mouth, after which the parts are supported by cotton-wool and a bandage, or in a poroplastic collar. Wounds — Cut-throat.— The most important variety of wound of the neck met with in civil practice is that known as “cut-throat”—an injury usually inflicted with suicidal, less frequently with homicidal intent. We are concerned here only with such cases as do not at once prove fatal. Suicidal wounds are usually directed from left to right (if the patient is right-handed), and they run more or less obliquely from below upwards across the neck; the wound being