THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 386 muscles is most marked in the upper part of the abdomen. In perforated duodenal ulcer, however, the rigidity spreads down the right side of the abdomen and thus involves the muscles in the right iliac region. The simulation of appendicitis is so close that in a considerable number of cases of duodenal ulcer the appendix has been cut down upon in the first instance. The most difficult cases are those in which a retro-peritoneal abscess has resulted from duodenal perforation. In colitis there is diffuse abdominal pain, but the tenderness is localised over the colon, which may be felt to contract under the examining fingers. The onset is not acute, and there is an absence of rigidity of the abdominal muscles. In affections of the gall-bladder an accurate history and careful palpation usually clear up the difficulty. In cases, however, in which the appendix is situated in the immediate vicinity of the gall-bladder, it may be impossible to differentiate the inflamma- tion of such an appendix from inflammation of the gall-bladder. In inflammation of the ureter—ureteritis, the presence of pain and tenderness along the line of the ureter, especially in that part of it which crosses the iliac vessels, may simulate those of appendicitis, but there is no rigidity of the abdominal wall, and there are changes in the urine, and other features, which enable a diagnosis to be made. In acute pneumonia and diaphragmatic pleurisy on the right side the pain may be referred to the abdomen, and the abdominal muscles on the same side may not move with respiration ; atten- tion should be directed to the seat of tenderness and to the examination of the lungs. In the female the following affections may .require to be differentiated from appendicitis: (1) Painful menstruation.— The sudden onset of pain at the beginning of a menstrual period in a young unmarried woman of neurotic temperament, especi- ally if accompanied by nausea, and some rigidity of the lower abdominal wall, may closely simulate appendicitis, but pyrexia is usually absent, and there is the history of similar phenomena at previous menstrual periods. (2) Pelvic peritonitis, resulting from a pyosalpinx or other diseased condition of the uterine adnexa on the right side, usually begins with high temperature, but with scarcely any increase in the frequency of the pulse or with any change in the facial expression ; vomiting is less pro- nounced, and the abdomen is tender in both ili^c regions and above che pubes. The progress of the disease is less continued than in an appendicitis; the symptoms and signs come and go, and the patient does not go downhill nearly so rapidly. A