227 SYMPTOMS OF NASAL AFFECTIONS. membrane. Obstruction from this cause is usually intermittent in character, and may be unilateral or bilateral. It is influenced by posture, being worse when the patient is in the horizontal position, and also by changes in atmospheric conditions and temperature. It .is characterised objectively by a swelling of the mucous membrane, which is pink or red in appearance and of a soft consistence, pitting when touched with the probe, and shrinking on the application of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain. Its soft consistence and the fact that it becomes smaller when painted with cocain differentiate it from true hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. Its situation and immobility, its pink colour, and the shrinkage under cocain, distinguish it from the mucous polypus of the nose. The turgescence may involve the whole extent of the mucosa of the inferior turbinated bodies, includ- ing their posterior ends. After anmsthetising with cocain, the electric cautery, or fused chromic acid applied on a probe, may be employed for the relief of the condition. If a true hypertrophy exists, it is better to remove it with a nasal snare. Nasal polypi spring from the mucous membrane covering the middle turbinated bone and from the adjacent parts of the middle meatus, but very rarely from the septum. They consist of oedematous masses of mucous membrane, and are as a rule multiple. They are usually pedunculated, and as they increase in size they become pendulous in the nasal cavity. They are smooth, rounded in outline, of a translucent bluish-grey colour soft in consistence, and freely movable. These characters, and the fact that the probe can be passed round the greater part of the polypus, serve to differentiate this affection from the erectile swelling. It must not be forgotten that nasal polypi may be associated with suppuration in one or more of the accessory sinuses. They are frequently present also in malignant disease, and in these cases they bleed readily. They are best removed by means of the cold snare, with the aid of the speculum and a good light. Several sittings are usually necessary. Carcinomata and sarcomata sometimes grow from the muco- periosteum in the region of the ethmoid. They tend to invade adjacent parts, giving rise to haemorrhage and symptoms of nasal obstruction, and as they increase in size they may cause considerable deformity of the face. If diagnosed early an attempt should be made to remove the growth. Deviations, spines, and ridges of the septum may produce partial or complete occlusion of the anterior naris. In deviation of the septum, the obstructed nostril is more or less occluded by