288 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. with the cricoid; the cut end is stitched to the skin at the lower angle of the wound and an ordinary trachea-tube inserted. The soft parts are then reflected off the thyroid cartilage, which may or may not be split in the middle line, and the larynx is detached from the pharynx from below upwards. If the disease is very extensive it may be necessary to remove the epiglottis and the anterior wall of the pharynx. The cavity is packed with gauze and treated by the open method ; the patient is fed for some days through a tube passed into the oesophagus, and by means of nutrient enemata. An artificial larynx may subsequently be inserted, but as a rule this apparatus may be dispensed with, as without it the voice, although “whispered,” is quite distinct. In cases in which excision is impracticable the sufferings of the patient may be alleviated by performing low tracheotomy, and by feeding with the stomach tube or by nutrient enemata. In some cases the difficulty of feeding the patient may make it necessary to consider the question of performing gastrostomy. Sarcoma of the larynx gives rise to the same symptoms as cancer, and can seldom be diagnosed from it before operation. Foreign Bodies in the Air-Passages.—Foreign bodies im- pacted in the pharynx usually consist of large unmasticated pieces of meat or large tooth-plates, and they occlude both the food and the air passages, frequently causing sudden death. They are considered with affections of the oesophagus (p. 265). The bodies most frequently impacted in the larynx are small tooth-plates in the case of adults, and buttons, beads, sweets, coins, and portions of toys in children. These are drawn from the mouth into the air-passages during a sudden inspiratory effort, for example, while laughing or sneezing. If the glottis is completely blocked rapidly fatal asphyxia ensues. If the obstruction is incomplete the patient experiences severe pain, difficulty of breathing, and a terrifying sensation of being choked. The irritation of the foreign body causes spasmodic coughing and retching, and may induce spasm of the glottis, with threatening suffocation. Small round bodies may lodge in the upper aperture or in one of the ventricles, and give rise to hoarseness and repeated attacks of dyspnoea and spasmodic cough. Wherever the body is situated the symptoms may suddenly become urgent from its displacement into the glottis, or from the onset of oedema of the glottis. The position of the body may often be ascertained by the use of the X-rays. Treatment.—If the symptoms are urgent tracheotomy must be