640 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. substance. If there are no septic complications, the wound in the kidney is closed by deep catgut sutures, but as the kidneys generally harbour and secrete micro-organisms, a cigarette drain should be inserted so as to drain the perirenal spaces. If the stone is lodged in the upper part of the ureter, it is displaced by manipulation into the pelvis, and removed as above. If this is not possible, the ureter is incised in its long axis— ureterotomy—the stone extracted, and the opening closed by fine catgut sutures. If the stone is impacted near the crossing of the iliac vessels, the original incision in the abdominal wall must be carried downwards parallel with Poupart’s ligament, so as to expose the ureter by the extra-peritoneal method, or an incision is made directly over it, like that made for the removal of the appendix, and it is reached by the trans- peritoneal method. Stones at the lower end of the ureter may be removed from the interior of the bladder after opening this viscus above the pubes or through the vaginal roof ; or in the male, through the perineum or by the para-sacral.route. Bilateral Stone.—The presence of stone in both kidneys, as demonstrated by the X-rays, precludes nephrectomy, even if there be pyonephrosis. Nephro-lithotomy should be performed on the kidney least affected, and, after an interval, on that of the opposite side. Calculous Pyelitis and Pyonephrosis. — The infection is usually derived from the blood-stream, and the changes are similar to those already described as occurring from sepsis apart from stone. There is progressive destruction of the secreting tissue, until, in extreme cases, the kidney is converted into a multilocular sac filled with stones and a mixture of pus and decomposing urine. Secondary deposit of phosphates commonly occurs both on the primary stone and on the walls of the pelvis and calyces. The septic process tends to involve the surrounding cellular tissue, and to give rise to perinephric abscess, and this may rupture externally, forming a fistula, which discharges, for an indefinite period, a mixture of pus and urine. With the onset of septic complications the prognosis becomes much more serious. The opposite kidney may become infected through the blood-stream, or death may result from general pyogenic infection, and the mortality of operations for the removal of the stone is increased about tenfold. The diagnosis from other forms of pyelo-nephritis and pyo- nephrosis is suggested by the history, and established by skiagraphy. Before recourse is had to operation, it is of great importance to determine the functional capacity of the