TUMOURS 769 Herpetic eruptions are frequently met with on the prepuce and glans, and are liable to be mistaken for venereal sores. If a history of recurrent attacks can be elicited, it may assist in making a diagnosis. Fibroid Sclerosis or Chronic Induration of the Penis.—This affection, which is usually met with in patients over forty years of age, is characterised by the formation of a plate of firm, fibrous tissue in the superficial part of the corpora cavernosa. The lesion usually begins on the dorsum of the penis near the middle line, and may involve only one side, but more frequently spreads downwards on both sides, forming a saddle-shaped area of induration varying in length from half an inch to two inches. Occasionally it invades the deeper layers of the erectile tissue, and several separate nodules may be present. Very rarely is the corpus spongiosum affected. Sometimes the condition dates from a previous injury, or it may follow the absorption of a syphilitic gumma, but in the great majority of cases no cause is discoverable. Its supposed association with gout or diabetes is not proven. Histologically the condition resembles keloid. The swelling is usually smooth on the surface, is not attached to the skin, but is embedded in the erectile tissue, and is painless except during erection. It gives trouble mainly by interfering with erection ; sometimes merely causing slight distortion, some- times making the penis bend to such an extent that coitus is impossible. In severe cases the distal portion of the penis remains flaccid, while the proximal portion is turgid. Any attempt to straighten the penis is attended with severe pain. The patient may suffer great mental distress. The prognosis is very unsatisfactory, and little benefit is derived from any form of treatment. Repeated blistering, mercurial inunction, the use of the constant current, and internal administration of potassium iodide may be tried. Tumours.—Papillomata or warts are usually met with on the glans and inner aspect of the prepuce as a result of venereal infection. They form red, vascular, cauliflower-like masses, more or less pedunculated, and there is often a foul-smelling discharge. They are described in vol. i. p. 370. Dermoid and sebaceous cysts are occasionally met with on the under aspect of the prepuce. Horns sometimes form, particularly in old men, either in relation to a sebaceous cyst or a hard wart. As they are liable to lead to the development of carcinoma, they should be excised. Carcinoma of the penis is comparatively rare. The disease VOL. II—-49