EXOPHTHALMIC GOITRE. 261 be recommended in all goitres which begin to grow rapidly, especially if the tumour is hard, irregular, and bossy, is fixed to its surroundings, and is accompanied by pain shooting towards the head and shoulders, and if there is enlargement of the lymphatic glands. In the later stages complete extirpation is not to be attempted, as it usually involves the removal of a portion of the trachea or oesophagus, and the operation frequently proves fatal. Operative interference is often called for, however, for the relief of respiratory embarrassment. Tracheotomy may prove a very difficult and dangerous procedure, owing to the trachea being buried under the goitre and displaced or narrowed by it, so that it is not easy to reach the trachea or to introduce an efficient tube beyond the point of obstruction. Cellulitis and fungation of the growth may complicate the after-treatment. A more certain and accurate method consists in exposing the goitre by an incision as for thyroidectomy, rapidly removing sufficient of the growth to expose the trachea ; it is then easy to open the air-passage and introduce a tube. If there is a retro- sternal prolongation compressing the trachea within the thorax, a long flexible lead tube may have to be passed beyond the site of the compression before the dyspnoea is relieved. Exophthalmic Goitre.—Graves’ or Basedow’s Disease.—This is essentially a medical affection, and in most cases is treated by medical measures. Among the more prominent symptoms are palpitation and irregular action of the heart, throbbing of the arteries of the head and neck, functional cardiac murmurs, anaemia, tremors, and excessive nervous excitability. The eyes are staring, the eyeballs are usually protruded from the orbit (Fig. 75), and when the patient looks from a higher to a lower object the upper lid lags behind the globe in its downward movement (von Graefe’s symptom), and other ocular symptoms are usually present. In the early stages the thyroid is usually enlarged and pulsatile, and bruits may be heard over it on auscultation; later, these vascular symptoms disappear and only a firm, diffuse, uniform swelling implicating all parts of the gland remains. In some cases the enlargement of the thyroid, and in others the eye symptoms, are scarcely appreciable, while the general symptoms are well marked. The disease has been variously attributed to excessive absorp- tion of thyroid secretion, and to lesions as yet undetermined in the cervical sympathetic ganglia or in the medulla. The affection is most common in women between the ages of