EXERCISES FOR SCOLIOSIS. 131 muscles and ligaments, to increase the mobility of the spine as a whole, and to correct the deviation that exists. The exercises should be taken twice daily, preferably in the morning and afternoon, and after each spell the patient should rest for an hour, lying on the back. During the exercises the breathing should be carefully regulated, and at the end of each movement one or two deep breaths should be taken. Each movement should be carried out slowly, the number of times it is repeated varying from four to twelve or more, according to the nature of the exercise and the strength of the patient. The exercises should be stopped if the patient begins to feel fatigued. Hot-air baths and massage are useful adjuvants to all forms of exercises. The following may be taken as typical examples of appropriate exercises :— A. General Exercises.—Patient lying on back, arms by side, palms upwards. 1. Slow inspiration by nose ; slow expiration by mouth. 2. Same breathing movements, with arms abducted to a right angle. 3. Rotation of head on axis vertebra to right and left alternately ; lateral flexion of neck to right and left alternately. 4. Simultaneous circum- duction of both shoulder-joints from before backwards, with elbows and wrists kept extended. 5. Hips alternately circumducted from within outwards, and from without inwards, with knees kept extended. B. Special Exercises for Dorsal Curvature with convexity to right.— 1. Staiid with arms by side ; palms directed forward ; shoulders braced back. This is referred to as the “best standing position” or original position. 2. Slowly raise arms from sides until level with shoulders, with palms directed forward; carry left arm straight upward—“the keynote position.” Then slowly lower left arm to level of shoulder ; lower both arms into original position. 3. Assume keynote position: slowly bend body forwards at hips until stooping position is reached, with legs kept quite straight, head bent slightly backwards, and eyes directed forward. Gradually return to keynote and original positions. 4. Keynote position: slowty bend whole spine to right ; resume keynote and original positions. 5. Keynote position: turn body forward sideways. 6. Keynote position: rise on to balls of toes. 7. Keynote position: rise on to balls of toes ; bend knees ; back to original position in reverse order. 8. Patient suspended from bar or rings, the left end of the bar or left ring being three inches higher than the right, (a) Draw right knee upwards and forwards against resistance, (b) Draw legs apart against resistance, (c) Draw legs together against resistance. 9. Patient lying on back, (a) Bend right knee- and hip-joints against resistance, (b) Extend right knee and hip against resistance, (c) Rotate right hip against resistance. 10. Patient lying on face with pilloiv under chest: slowly raise arms to keynote position. While limbs are firmly held by a nurse, raise the body backwards and to the right. 11. Same position : make swimming movements. 12. Patient astride a narrow table or chair, without a back, (a) Repeat exercises 3, 4, 5, and 11. (b) Bend body forwards, backwards ; and rotate to right and left against slight resistance made by nurse grasping patient’s shoulders. Klapp’s “four-footed ” exercises.—Rudolph Klapp, of Bonn, has devised a series of exercises designed to strengthen the muscles and ligaments of the spine, and to increase the mobility of the column. To take the weight of the body off the spine, and to render both ends of the column mobile, these exercises are carried out in the four-footed position, the patient crawling in imitation of a quadruped, that is, in such a way that the hand and knee of one side are approximated, while those of the