HYDRONEPHROSIS. 627 Differential Diagnosis.—The painful attacks met with in early cases of intermittent hydronephrosis may be confused with stone or with biliary colic. The large palpable cyst of advanced hydronephrosis may be mistaken for a hydatid or other solitary cyst of the kidney, an ovarian cyst, a cyst of the pancreas, an encysted tuberculous ascites, or a retro-peritoneal lipoma. In open hydronephrosis it is sometimes observed that a sudden diminution in the size of the cyst is associated with an increase in the amount of urine. If the two urines are obtained separately, that from the affected kidney shows a diminished degree of concentration. The X-rays may show whether or not the hydronephrosis is due to stone. Exploratory incision remains the final appeal in difficult cases. Prognosis.—If the cause of the retention is capable of being removed, the kidney recovers its functions, and may return to the normal if any healthy parenchyma remains in the wall of the sac. The danger to life lies in the risk of septic infection, and, when the condition is bilateral, of uraemia. Among palliative measures, tapping the distended pelvis may be of service by affording temporary relief in the painful crises of floating kidney, or when life is threatened by anuria as in bilateral hydronephrosis. The hollow needle should be inserted at the outer edge of the erector spinm, midway between the last rib and the iliac crest. The procedure is free from danger if the hydronephrosis is aseptic. Tapping and drainage is an extension of the above, a fine drainage tube being passed down the lumen of the needle, and left in on withdrawing the latter. Operative Measures.—To effect a cure in hydronephrosis it is necessary not only to remove the primary obstruction to the outflow of urine, but also to correct the secondary changes in the pelvis and ureter. When the primary obstruction is diagnosed to be in the renal pelvis or adjacent part of the ureter, the kidney and upper end of the ureter should be exposed by the usual lumbar incision. If the cause is found to be an abnormal mobility of the kidney, which permits of kinking or torsion of the ureter, it may be possible, by means of nephropexy, so to fix the kidney as to re-establish the outflow through the ureter. If, however, the kidney is not only movable, but also presents an irregular distension of the pelvis, or if the deviated ureter is fixed by adhesions, or its pelvic orifice is blocked by a valve, then the mere fixation of the organ cannot be expected to cure the hydronephrosis.' After exposing the kidney and drawing off its contents