280 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. larynx, and for the removal of foreign bodies from the bronchi. The essential steps of the two operations are the same. In children it is usually advisable to administer a general anaesthetic, but this must be done with great care, as the dyspnoea may suddenly become extreme and necessitate the operation being rapidly completed. In adults the operation can usually be performed under local anaesthesia. A roller pillow is placed beneath the neck to put the parts on the stretch, and an incision is carried from the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage downwards for about two inches. The sterno-hyoids and sterno-thyroids are separated ; the cross branch between the anterior jugular veins, and any other veins met with, secured with forceps before being divided; and the trachea exposed by dividing transversely the layer of deep fascia which passes from the cricoid to the isthmus of the thyroid. If the isthmus cannot be pulled downwards sufficiently it may be divided in the middle line. All active bleeding having been arrested, the larynx is steadied by inserting a sharp hook into the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, and the trachea is opened by thrusting a short, broad-bladed knife through the exposed rings. The back of the knife should be directed downwards, and the opening in the trachea enlarged upwards sufficiently to admit the tracheotomy tube. In children it is sometimes found necessary to divide the cricoid for this purpose (laryngo- tracheotomy). The slit in the trachea is then opened up with a tracheal dilator, and the outer tube inserted and fixed in position with tapes. The inner tube is not fixed, so that it may be coughed out if it becomes blocked, and that it may be frequently removed and cleaned by the nurse. The tube should be discarded as soon as the patient is able to breathe by the natural channel. Intubation of the Larynx. — This procedure is employed as a substitute for tracheotomy, especially in children suffering from membranous and oedematous forms of laryngitis. As experience is required to carry out the manipulations success- fully, and as its use is attended witli certain risks which necessitate that the surgeon should be constantly within call, the operation is more adapted to hospital than to private practice. O’Dwyer’s apparatus is that most generally employed. The operation consists in introducing through the glottis, by means of a specially constructed guide, a small metal or vulcanite tube furnished with a shoulder which rests against the false vocal cords. The part of the tube which passes beyond the true vocal cords is bulged to prevent it being coughed out.