65 INTRA-CRANIAL TUBERCULOSIS. from pathogenic lesions of the scalp. There are no symptoms that are pathognomonic, but oedema of the scalp with tur- gescence of its veins, epistaxis, and convulsions followed by paralysis, are those most likely to be met with. The cavernous sinus is usually implicated by spread of the process from other sinuses—for instance, from the petrosal or lateral sinuses—or from the ophthalmic veins in cases of orbital cellulitis. Although at first unilateral, the thrombosis usually spreads across the middle line to the sinus of the opposite side. The special symptoms—exophthalmos, oedema of the eyelids, and paralysis of the ocular nerves—are due to pressure on the structures entering the orbit. Operative interference is seldom feasible in phlebitis of the longitudinal or cavernous sinuses. Intra-cranial Tuberculosis.—Tuberculous meningitis is most frequently met with in patients below the age of twenty, and the infection usually takes place by the blood stream from some focus elsewhere in the body. In cases of tuberculous disease of the middle ear infection may spread to the membranes by way of the internal auditory meatus (Macewen). The arachno-pia, especially at the base, is studded over with miliary tubercles, and an excess of fluid collects in the arachno-pial space and in the ventricles (acute hydrocephalus). At first the symptoms of irritation of the brain predominate : severe headache, photophobia, inequality of the pupils, stiffness of the neck, cutaneous hyperaesthesia, vomiting, and convulsions. Kernig’s sign—pain on flexing the hip while the knee is extended, and inability to extend the knee while in the sitting posture—is present. There is usually obstinate constipation, and the abdomen is retracted. Later, signs of increased intra- cranial tension develop : unconsciousness deepening into coma, paralysis of ocular muscles, rapid pulse, Cheyne-Stokes respira- tion, and sometimes hyperpyrexia. Tubercle bacilli may be discovered in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture (p. 18). The only surgical measure that is justifiable is lumbar puncture, which often affords marked relief of symptoms, although the benefit is only temporary. Duret believes that it does good by withdrawing bacilli and toxins and so prevents or retards dissemination. Localised Tuberculous Nodules sometimes develop in the brain and form definite tumours. They vary in size from a pea to a hen’s egg, are rounded and encapsulated. Sometimes the centre is caseous, sometimes fibrinous or calcified. In children, YOL. II—5