STRICTURE. 493 on post-mortem examination do not accurately represent the degree of narrowing of the lumen of the bowel present during life. As in other tubes having circular muscular fibres and provided with an abundant blood-supply — for example, the gullet, the urethra, or the pylorus—the elements of congestion and spasm, which may be present during life, add considerably to the narrowing, and the evidences of obstruction are liable to vary from time to time although the cicatricial element remains constant. Innocent cicatricial stricture is a comparatively rare lesion, and nearly always affects the small intestine. It is met with chiefly as a sequel to tuberculous ulceration in the lower end of the ileum, and is then often multiple—from three to five or more constrictions sometimes being present (Fig. 137). The gut between the individual strictures is markedly dilated, and its peritoneal coat may present a number of scattered greyish or yellow tubercles. Stricture may follow also on a strangulated hernia which has been reduced by operation, the cicatricial contraction taking place in the site of the constriction groove at one or at both ends of the loop of bowel implicated in the hernia. Stricture is extremely rare as a sequel of intussusception or of wounds of the bowel, but may follow when an opening in the bowel has been sutured in the long axis of the gut. The coils above the one that is narrowed present a marked degree of hypertrophy, as a result of increased peristaltic movements. The clinical features develop insidiously. There is colicky pain, aggravated by the ingestion of solid food, and attended with loud gurgling noises. There is vomiting, which is attended with little nausea, the patient bringing up large quantities of greenish-brown watery fluid at irregular intervals, it may be of two or three days. The motions are scanty, and vary in con- sistence ; diarrhoea is not uncommon. There may be little distension of the abdomen, and the abdominal wall usually remains flaccid. The hypertrophied coils above the stricture may exhibit spontaneously, or when stimulated by handling, exaggerated peristaltic movements, and they frequently arrange themselves in a pattern suggestive of a ladder or of the pipes of an organ. Splashing sounds may be elicited, and the distended coils, if full of fluid faeces, yield a dull note on percussion. The progress of the malady is slow and intermittent; the patient loses flesh, although he may be able to go about, and even continue to follow his occupation. In exceptional cases the first symptoms are those of acute obstruction brought