714 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. ruptures into the urethra, with immediate relief of the symptoms. Suppuration may occur around the prostate, with rigors and symptoms of general illness, and, if the abscess is situated between the prostate and the rectum, the outline of the prostate is obscured and fluctuation is readily elicited; the abscess may rupture on the perineum or into the rectum, or it may open both into the urethra and rectum and so cause a recto-urethral fistula. Treatment.—The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is elevated, the bowels are freely opened, and the diet is restricted to slops. Hot fomentations are applied to the perineum, and the pain may be relieved by irrigating the rectum with hot water, or by sitz baths. If the patient is unable to pass water, a morphia suppository should be inserted into the bowel, and he should lie in a hot bath and endeavour to micturate in the bath ; if he fails to do this, the bladder may be aspirated above the pubes, as it is desirable to avoid passing a catheter if possible ; if a catheter must be passed, it should be a soft rubber one (No. 7 or 8). If an abscess forms, interference may be delayed in the ex- pectation of its bursting into the urethra, but, if the symptoms are urgent, it should be incised from the perineum and a drainage tube inserted. Chronic Abscess of the Prostate.—This is met with in two forms : one the result of tuberculosis, the other in patients who have suffered for a long time from urinary trouble, such as stric- ture of the urethra, and it is liable to be mistaken for an enlarged prostate. Catarrhal Prostatitis and Prostatorrhoea.—This condition is not uncommon in young adults from about eighteen to thirty years of age. Most frequently it is a sequel of gonorrhoea, but it may be met with apart from this as a result of irregular or abnormal forms of sexual excitement. The patient complains of the escape of a clear or milky, viscid discharge from the meatus, which is more often present in the morning than at other times, and may be observed after defecation, especially if the motions are constipated. The patient may also complain of premature ejaculations and of noctural emissions. Digital examination of the prostate from the rectum usually shows considerable alteration in the contour and consistence of the gland. The whole prostate may be enlarged or only one lobe, and the surface of the affected portion feels nodulated and lumpy, sometimes giving the sensation as if a number of good- sized shot were embedded in the gland tissue. After massaging the prostate, a flow of from one-half to two or three drams of a