THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 14 receives the fibres from the same side of both retinae. Destruction of one half-vision centre produces the condition known as homonymous hemianopia, in which the inner (nasal) half of one visual field and the outer (temporal) half of the other is affected, so that there is an inability to see objects which are situated on the side opposite to the lesion. Lesions of the prefrontal lobes may be associated with disturbance of the higher psychical functions. Disturbances of equilibration and co-ordination occur especially in connection with lesions of the cerebellum and its peduncles. Ataxia, vertigo, and nystagmus are frequently due to cerebellar lesions. Relation of Cerebral Centres to the Surface.—Numerous attempts have been made to formulate rules for locating the different parts of the Fig. 4.—Chiene’s Method of Cerebral Localisation. brain in relation to the surface of the head. The method devised by Chiene is free from many of the difficulties and fallacies common to most other methods inasmuch as the results obtained do not depend upon making definite measurements in inches, or determining particular angles. Certain fixed and easily recognised bony landmarks—the glabella, the external occipital protuberance, the external angular process, and the root of the zygoma—are taken, and connected by lines, which are further subdivided — always being bisected. Figs. 4, 5 explain the method. The head being shaved, a line (GO) is drawn along the vertex from the glabella (G) to the external occipital protuberance (0). This line is bisected in M, which constitutes the “mid-point.” The posterior half of the line MO is bisected in T, constituting the “three-quarters point,” and the posterior half of TO is bisected in S—the “ seven-eighths point.” The external angular process (E) is next connected to the root of the zygoma (P) by a line EP, and the root of the zygoma with the seven- eighths point by PS ; the line EPS thus forms the base line. The external angular process is now joined to the three-quarters point by ET. The two segments of the base line EP and PS are bisected in N and R respectively, and these points connected with the mid-