THE BREAST. 328 can only be made by exploratory incision. The points upon which we may rely are that in chronic interstitial mastitis the nodule is tender on pressure, is less hard and dense than a scirrhous tumour, and its outline is not so well defined. The swelling can be recognised best by picking it up between the fingers and thumb; when it is pressed firmly against the chest wall with the flat of the hand it is less distinct, and appears to be lost in the rest of the mammary tissue. It can be lifted up from the subjacent pectoral fascia, and, except when it results from a previous abscess, is not attached to the skin. A scirrhous tumour, on the other hand, is densely hard, has a well-defined outline, and these points are best appreciated when the mass is pressed against the chest wall; it is seldom tender on pressure, and the skin is usually tacked down to the tumour. In both conditions the nipple may or may not be retracted, and the axillary glands may or may not be enlarged. Chronic lobular mastitis, or multiple cystic disease, affects chiefly the parenchyma, that is, the acini and ducts of the gland, but the inter-acinous connective tissue is also implicated to some extent. As the disease progresses, proliferative and degenera- tive changes take place in the epithelial elements, with the result that numerous cysts form in the parenchyma—hence the term multiple cystic disease. In some cases small fibro-ade- nomatous nodules form in the inter-acinous connective tissue. Small warty growths frequently project into the interior of the cysts—intra-cystic growths. The lobular form of mastitis is more common than the interstitial. It usually occurs in women between the ages of thirty and forty who have not borne children, and affects both breasts either simultaneously or one after the other. There may be a history of dysmenorrhoea, or of some ovarian or uterine disturbance, but there is seldom any local cause dis- coverable. At first the patient merely experiences a sensation of fulness and uneasiness in the breast, later there are stinging pains which shoot through towards the shoulder or down the arm, and the breast becomes tender to the touch. These symptoms are worst during menstruation. On palpation the breast tissue is found to be firmer than normal, and to have a character- istically' coarse or knotty feel, which is best recognised by grasping it between the fingers and thumb. If there is a localised swelling which resembles a tumour it becomes less evident when the breast is pressed against the chest wall. One or more of the small cysts may enlarge sufficiently to form a