692 THE URETHRA. to nature, a peri-urethral abscess forms, and may rupture into the urethra, exposing the patient to the risk of extravasation of urine, but more often it ruptures on the skin, and a urinary fistula is found. In exceptional cases the stone does not cause retention, and for a time lies “ latent ” in the urethra. In course of time it increases in size by the deposition of phosphates until it may attain the dimensions of a pigeon’s egg, distending the urethra or lodging in a diverticulum. The stone may be palpated through the skin, or may be recognised by passing a full-sized bougie along the urethra. If the spasm of the urethra is allayed by hot baths, and the patient makes forced attempts to micturate, the stone may be passed. If not, it should be removed, in children under a general anaesthetic, in adults after cocainising the urethra. If the stone lies in the navicular fossa, the meatus is slit downwards, and the stone squeezed out or hooked forwards with a bent scoop or director. If it is in the penile urethra, the best plan is to expose it by a longitudinal incision through the floor of the urethra, as attempts to remove it with forceps by the meatus are liable to damage the mucous membrane and give rise later to stricture. If it lies in the posterior urethra, it may be gently pushed back into the bladder by means of a full-sized bougie, and then crushed with the lithotrite, or it may be cut down upon from the perineum and removed. Foreign bodies, such as slate-pencils or hat-pins, introduced through the meatus by the patient, usually lodge in the anterior half of the penile urethra. The symptoms are painful micturi- tion followed by haemorrhage and a purulent discharge, and the same complications may ensue as in calculus. Smooth bodies, such as slate-pencils, are removed in the same way as calculi, while sharp, pointed objects require manipulations appropriate to the conditions present in each case. The urethroscope and the X-rays may be of service in this connection. Cutting methods are preferable to prolonged attempts to extract the body by forceps, because of the greater risk of damage to the urethra which these entail. In the case of a hat-pin, the head of which has been passed down the urethra until the point has disappeared, the surgeon should force the point through the skin on the under surface of the penis and pull out the pin until the head alone remains in the urethra; the head is then pushed along the pipe until it emerges at the meatus, when the pin is easily withdrawn. Inflammations of the Urethra — Urethritis. — Since the demonstration of the specific organism of gonorrhoea by Neisser,