130 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. altered when the patient hangs from a horizontal bar or trapeze. Any backward projection of the ribs on one side is rendered more obvious if the patient folds the arms across the chest and bends well forward, while the surgeon looks along the back from behind. Pott’s disease may be excluded by the absence of rigidity and pain on movement, or on jarring of the spine. Scoliosis is sometimes simulated by hysterical girls. Any mechanical cause of deviation of the spine, such, for example, as inequality in the length of the limbs or contraction of the chest after empyema, must be sought for. Treatment.— The child must not be allowed to assume awkward attitudes while reading, writing, or playing the piano; she must sit on a low chair, the seat of which slopes slightly downwards and backwards, and the back rest of which reaches as high as the shoulders, and is at an angle of 100°-110° with the seat. The feet should rest on a sloping stool, and when the child is- reading or writing a desk sloping at an angle of 45° should be used. In weakly girls approaching the period of puberty, special care should be taken to avoid compression of the trunk by tight corsets. Adenoids or other sources of respira- tory obstruction must be removed; and if the patient is myopic she should be provided with suitable glasses. Standing should be avoided, as there is a great tendency to throw the weight on to one leg ; but walking, running, and other exercises which bring both sides of the body into action equally are permitted under supervision. Horse-riding is a suitable form of exercise, but girls must ride astride. In mild cases—that is, cases in which the curvature is obliter- ated when the patient is suspended—the prophylactic measures above mentioned must be rigidly enforced, and gymnastic exercises should be prescribed. The exercises should not be commenced, however, until all pain and feeling of tiredness in the back have disappeared after a period of rest in bed. In cases in which the curvature is not affected by suspension the deformity is irremediable, but by suitable exercises it may be prevented from becoming worse, and the patient may be educated to disguise it to a considerable extent. Only in very aggravated cases should the patient be recommended to wear a supporting jacket. Such appliances have no curative effect, and can only be expected to relieve symptoms. Exercises for Lateral Curvature.-—The particular exercises given must be carefully selected to meet the indications present in each case, the movements prescribed being designed to strengthen the weak