199 SALIVARY FISTUL7R. wounds and in the course of operations. If the blood-vessels traversing the gland are divided, such wounds are liable to bleed freely, and if the facial and auriculo- temporal nerves are damaged, motor and sensory paralysis of the parts supplied by them ensues. Wounds of the parotid heal rapidly and without complications so long as septic infection is prevented, but if suppuration takes place, they are liable to be followed by the escape of saliva, which may go on for weeks or months. In some cases a persistent salivary fistula is thus established. Stenson’s duct may be divided and a salivary fistula result. If the external wound heals rapidly a salivary cyst may develop in the substance of the cheek. This forms a swelling, which fills up each time the patient takes food, and which may be emptied by external pressure, the saliva escaping into the mouth. In a wound implicating the whole thickness of the cheek the cutaneous surface should be accurately sutured, care being taken that the stitches do not include the duct, but the mucous surface should be left open in order that the saliva may readily reach the mouth. Salivary Fistulae.—A salivary fistula may occur in relation to the glandular substance of the parotid or in relation to Stenson’s duct. Fistulse in connection with the glandular substance—parotid Jistulce—seldom result from wounds, made, for example, in the removal of tumours or in operations on the ramus of the jaw, so long as they are aseptic, but as a sequel of suppuration in the gland, and particularly of abscesses which develop around concretions, they are not uncommon. The fistulous opening is usually small, and may occur at any point over the gland. The fistula may be dry between meals, or the saliva may escape in small transparent drops, but the quantity is always greatly increased when the patient takes food. Parotid fistulm, although they may continue to discharge for weeks, or even for months, usually close spontaneously. In persistent cases the edges of the fistula may be pared and brought together with sutures, or the actual cautery may be applied to induce cicatricial contraction. Fistula of Stenson’s duct is much more serious. It is usually due to a wound, less frequently to abscess or impacted calculus. The opening, which is most frequently situated over the buccinator muscle, is usually very minute and is surrounded by a mass of pouting granulations. There is an almost con- tinuous flow of clear limpid saliva, which is greatly increased in quantity while the patient is eating. These fistulse show little tendency to close spontaneously. Attempts to close the opening