752 THE MALE GENITAL OKGANS. is often difficult, and it is sometimes impossible to distinguish between a hsematocele and a malignant tumour. The prognosis is always grave on account of the early date at which the glands become infected and the rapidity with which the disease becomes generalised. The treatment consists in performing castration as soon as the diagnosis is made. The whole gland, the cord as far as the internal abdominal ring, and any portion of the scrotum invaded by the tumour, should be removed. In the rapidly growing cellular forms the disease usually reappears in the glands or in the liver within a year, but the removal of the primary growth tends materially to prolong life and to diminish suffering. In fibro-sarcoma the results of operation are more satisfactory. In advanced cases, and when recurrence takes place after operation, the glandular masses, by pressing on the nerve roots, give rise to severe paroxysmal pain in the loins and back, and the pain may pass down the back of the thigh and simulate sciatica. The pressure on the pelvic veins causes congestion of the scrotum and cord, and oedema and venous congestion of the lower extremities. Secondary tumours may form in the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, and complete paraplegia may suddenly ensue from pressure on the spinal cord. Secondary deposits commonly occur in the liver and lungs. Cystic Tumours of the Testis.—Different forms of tumour are included under the term cystic disease of the testis. Some are comparatively benign, and are composed of numerous cysts, varying in size from a pea to a hazel-nut, with smooth walls, and containing a clear, glairy fluid. The stroma consists of a varying amount of fibrous tissue in which nodules of cartilage are fre- quently present. Others are distinctly malignant, and are com- posed of a few irregular cysts into which papillary growths project. The fluid is usually brown or blood-stained. The stroma is composed of a mixture of cellular connective tissue, mucoid tissue, and often definitely sarcomatous tissue—hence the term cystic sarcoma, which is sometimes applied to this variety. No hard and fast line separates these varieties, and it is not uncommon for the innocent forms to take on malignant characters and become disseminated. These cystic growths appear to originate in the remnant of the Wolffian body—the organ of Giraldes or paradidymis—which lies between the epididymis and the testis. The secreting tissue of the testis is found flattened against the upper and anterior part of the tunica albuginea.