228 THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. a smooth rounded swelling of cartilaginous or bony hardness, which is covered with normal mucous membrane, while the opposite nostril shows a corresponding concavity or hollowing of the septum. Sometimes the convex side is thickened in the form of a ridge. A simple spine of the septum is usually situated anteriorly, and presents an acuminate appearance, often pressing against the inferior turbinated body; it is hard to the touch. Ridges and spines may be cut or sawn off, or removed with the chisel. Many methods of dealing with a deviated septum have been suggested, such as forcible fracture or excision of a portion of the cartilage. A submucous resection of the deflected portion is to be preferred. Hcematoma of the septum is usually traumatic in origin. As the result of a blow an extravasation of blood takes place beneath the perichondrium on each side of the septum, and a bilateral, symmetrical swelling, smooth in outline and covered with mucous membrane, is visible immediately within the anterior nares. The blood is usually absorbed and should not be inter- fered with. If suppuration occurs, however, the swelling becomes soft, fluctuation can be detected, and the patient’s discomfort increases. The abscess must then be incised and the cavity drained. It is sometimes found that a portion of the cartilage undergoes necrosis, leading to perforation of the septum. Nasal discharge may be mucous, muco-purulent, or purulent in character. When it is of a clear, watery nature, it is usually associated with erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies. A purulent discharge may be complained of from one or both nostrils. If unilateral, it should suggest, in the case of children, the presence of a foreign body; in adults, the possibility of suppuration in one or more of the accessory sinuses. In infants, a purulent discharge from both nostrils may be due to gonorrhoeal infection or to inherited syphilis. Nasal discharge may be constant or intermittent. It is sometimes influenced by changes in posture; for example, it may be chiefly complained of at the back of the nose and in the throat when the patient occupies the horizontal position, or it may flow from the nostril when the patient bends his head forward or to one side. The discharge may be intra-nasal in origin, or due altogether to naso- pharyngeal catarrh. It varies somewhat in colour and con- sistence, and may be associated with such intra-nasal conditions as purulent rhinitis following scarlet fever and other exanthemata, or ulceration accompanying malignant disease, syphilis, or tuberculosis. Sometimes it contains shreds of false membrane, for example, in nasal diphtheria ; or white cheesy masses as in