SUBCUTANEOUS INJURIES OF ABDOMEN. 345 It is a significant fact that pain may be entirely absent in many visceral lesions, such as ulcers of the stomach or intestine, or stones in the gall-bladder. Inflammation of the parietal peritoneum is attended with rigidity and arrest of the respiratory movements of the abdominal muscles over an area corresponding to the extent of the inflammation. The term laparotomy or abdominal section is applied to the opening of the peritoneal cavity either for purposes of exploration or with the object of operating upon the abdominal or pelvic viscera. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdomen. In the normal condition of the abdominal muscles the belly wall is so movable and elastic that it may yield before an impinging force, and transmit the violence to the subjacent organs. If, however, the muscles are contracted, as, for ex- ample, when the person is prepared for a blow, the wall becomes rigid, and may itself suffer from the effects of the violence while the subjacent organs escape. The most important clinical point that arises when a patient has received a severe blow over the abdomen is to determine whether or not the viscera have been injured. Contusions of the Abdominal Wall without Visceral Injury.—These result from various forms of violence, and range in severity from a slight bruise to extensive tearing of tissue. In the more severe cases an accumulation of blood occurs between the muscles or in the extra-peritoneal fat, and although this is usually reabsorbed, it may persist as a haematoma. The clinical features are those common to bruises elsewhere, with, in .addition, a variable degree of shock due to the impression made on the nerve plexuses within the abdomen. The treatment ■consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed with the knees Hexed over a pillow, and in applying uniform pressure by means of cotton-wool and a bandage. Rupture of Abdominal Muscles.—The abdominal muscles, especially the recti, may be ruptured by their sudden contrac- tion, or as a result of violence applied to the abdomen, if at the moment of impact they are contracted. When the muscles are weakened by disease, as during convalescence from typhoid fever, they may rupture from comparatively slight violence or ■effort. Rupture of the rectus always occurs below the navel, because of the absence of the posterior layer of its sheath at this level. This accident has been observed chiefly in cavalry recruits in attempting to mount without placing the foot in the ■stirrup. A violent stabbing pain is felt in the lower part of