333 SARCOMA. between forty and fifty years of age. They may attain con- siderable size, and give to the breast a lobulated appearance (Fig. S6). They grow more rapidly than the solid fibro- adenoma, and in the cystic portions of the tumour fluctuation may be recognised. The skin over the cysts may be of a bluish colour, and is usually traversed by large dilated veins. The treatment for all forms of fibro-adenoma is excision. The tumour is pinched up between the fingers and thumb, an incision radiating from the nipple is carried down to the growth, which can usually be readily shelled out of its capsule. After bleeding has been arrested the wound is completely closed When the tumour is deeply placed in the lower segment of the breast, the scar may be hidden by making the incision in the thoracico-mammary fold, and, after throwing up the breast, reaching the tumour from the posterior surface of the corpus mammae (Gaillard Thomas). The cystic forms call for removal of the breast. Duct Papilloma.—Pedunculated papillomata sometimes grow from the walls of the larger ducts and lacteal sinuses. They may be single or multiple, and are usually met with in multiparse who have nursed their children for an unduly long period. The distended duct forms a small, firm, elastic tumour in the region of the areola. The escape of a clear or blood-stained fluid from the nipple serves to distinguish these tumours from fibro- adenomata. This discharge may be noticed for some months before any tumour is palpable. When the tumour is single and limited in size, the treatment consists in removing it along with the immediately adjacent breast tissue. When multiple, the whole breast should be removed. Malignant Tumours.—Sarcoma of the breast is compara- tively rare. It is met with at all ages, but generally before the age of forty. The tumour is usually of the spindle or round- celled variety, and is made up entirely of embryonic mesoblastic tissue. Any glandular elements that may be present are not of new formation, but merely represent portions of the original breast tissue which have been surrounded by the new growth. Cysts frequently develop in the substance of these tumours as a result of degeneration and of haemorrhage. In the early stages a sarcoma is usually more or less com- pletely surrounded by condensed fibrous tissue, which forms an apparent capsule to the growth. The tumour cannot, however, be shelled out of this capsule, which is directly continuous on the one hand with the stroma of the breast, and on the other with that of the new growth.