397 ETIOLOGY OF HERNIA. The frequency with which hernia occurs varies at different periods of life. Those forms due to congenital defects are common in infancy and childhood. The condition comparatively seldom develops during adolescence and early adult life, but as age advances it becomes more common. In old age, the attachment of the mesentery to the posterior abdominal wall may descend to a lower level than normal, and thus increase the tendency to hernia; this “ prolapse of the mesentery ” (Lockwood) is often associated with an alteration in the configuration of the abdomen—a flattening or recession above, and a bulging below the umbilicus. Among the exciting causes most importance attaches to those conditions which increase the intra-abdominal pressure, such as the muscular effort involved in laborious occupations, especially the lifting of heavy weights while in the stooping posture. In infants excessive crying, in adults coughing and straining at defecation or micturition, act in a similar manner. Constituent Parts of a Hernia.—In describing a hernia it is customary to refer to its sac, its coverings, and its contents. The sac is derived from the parietal peritoneum, and in the slowly acquired hernia of the adult is at first represented by a mere laxity or bulging of the peritoneum. Later, at one point a dimple is formed, which gradually deepens and becomes elongated into a tube-like process which forces its way between the layers of the abdominal wall. This tube-like structure gradually reaches the subcutaneous tissue, and there, relieved of pressure, expands and becomes spherical or pyriform in shape. To some extent the increase in length of the sac may be due to a gliding dis- placement of the peritoneum, but it is chiefly the result of gradual stretching of the membrane. The upper end or narrow portion of the sac is known as the neck, the expanded lower end as the fundus. The sac may present an hour-glass shape, or may be multilocular from the formation of diverticula. The sac becomes fixed by adhesions to the surrounding tissues, so that it cannot be returned within the abdomen. In congenital hernia the sac is represented by a tubular process of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis—which ought to have been obliterated before birth. If the neck of the sac becomes obliterated by adhesion of its walls or by a plug of omentum, it is cut off from the peritoneal cavity, and the sac may fill with fluid and consti- tute a hydrocele of the hernial sac. The coverings are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall traversed by the hernia, variously altered by stretching and pressure.