249 TUMOURS. accessory thyroids, and in connection with belated remnants of the branchial clefts—branchial carcinoma. The tumour is usually a squamous epithelioma; it iS deeply placed under cover of the sterno-mastoid, runs the same course as other forms of carcinoma, and is treated by excision. Cervical Ribs.—A supernumerary rib is sometimes de- veloped in connection with the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra on one or on both sides. Such a rib may be complete, attached at one end to the transverse process and at the other to the sternum. More frequently it is incomplete, the anterior end being free or fused with the first thoracic rib about the level of the scalene tubercle. The abnormality, which is twice as common in women as in men, is seldom recognised before the age of twenty, and attention is usually first directed to it after some emaciating illness, the hollow above the clavicle being filled up by a hard bony swelling. Sometimes attention is first directed to it by pain caused by the pressure of a tight collar. The cords of the brachial plexus are liable to be pressed upon and displaced, and the patient complains of pain, which begins in the root of the the neck and radiates to the shoulder, the back, and the pectoral region; sometimes shooting also up the neck, even to the ear. There may be perversion of sensation in the distribution of the nerves to the arm, in the form of numbness, tingling and a sensation of cold. In some cases atrophy of the whole limb has been observed. The subclavian vessels may be lifted up and compressed, giving rise to cyanosis and coldness of the limb, oedema of the hand and arm, and “ dead fingers.” The pulse may be small and feeble, or even obliter- ated. The displaced artery may be mistaken for an aneurysm, a systolic bruit sometimes being heard over it. The diagnosis is confirmed by the use of the X-rays. When serious pressure symptoms are present, the rib may be excised, but this operation should not be performed merely on account of the deformity. The Thymus Gland.—Under normal conditions the thymus gland begins to diminish in size towards the end of the second year, and by the time puberty is reached it has entirely dis- appeared. In some cases, however, the process of involution fails to take place, and the gland may even undergo hypertrophy. It may then exert pressure on the trachea, the great blood- vessels, or the left vagus nerve and its recurrent branch. This may be manifested by symptoms entirely referable to pressure on the trachea—thymus stenosis of the trachea—such as progressive dyspnoea accompanied by stridor, with paroxysmal exacerbations during which the child becomes asphyxiated. It