457 CANCER OF THE STOMACH. Treatment.—Complete excision of the affected segment of stomach and of the associated lymphatics is the only means of curing the disease. In many cases it is only after the stomach and the adjacent parts have been exposed by laparotomy that it is possible to say whether or not the radical operation is feasible. If the disease is confined to the stomach and has not formed any close adhesions to surrounding viscera, if the associated glands are capable of being removed, and if there is no evidence of metastasis having occurred, the radical operation should be carried out. The operation of gastrectomy, or resection of the stomach, consists in removing an elliptical portion of the stomach, or, it may be, a complete segment of the organ. The former operation involves less complicated stitching than the latter, and is to be preferred when by it the whole disease can be removed. The term pylorectomy is applied when the opera- tion is performed for malignant disease of the pylorus, although a considerable portion of the stomach must also be removed at the same time. The technique of the operation has been simplified by the preliminary ligation of the arteries distributed to the stomach, by the use of suitable clamps, and by re-establishing the continuity of the alimentary passage by means of a gastro- jejunostomy (Billroth’s second method of resection of stomach), where so much of the stomach has been removed that there is difficulty in uniting what remains of it to the duodenum. Mere extent of the disease is not in itself a bar to operation, as is shown by the fact that the whole stomach has been success- fully removed. The mortality from the radical operation is con- siderable, the chief causes of death being shock, septic peritonitis, pneumonia, and gangrene of the colon. If the patient survives the operation, he rapidly puts on weight, and may completely regain his health and strength. While the motor functions of the stomach are usually completely restored, secretion of hydrochloric acid may remain in abeyance for many years, and necessitate its administration with the food. After extensive resections the amount of food taken at one time must be restricted. Immunity from recurrence for four years may be considered as constituting a permanent cure. The prognosis appears to be most favourable in cases of columnar carcinoma ; we have a patient under observation who has survived the radical operation for nine years. The radical operation is contra-indicated when the disease is associated with ascites ; when the tumour has infiltrated the colon, omentum, liver, pancreas, or abdominal wall; or when