655 METHODS OF EXAMINATION. urethra and the contents of the bladder are normal, the urine in the first glass is found to contain pus, while that in the second is clear. If, on the other hand, the urine in the bladder contains pus, this is most abundant in the second glass, and may be confined to it. When the bladder is over-distended and contains, it may be, from one and a half to two pints, it forms a visible tumour above the pubes. Percussion usually elicits a dull note over such a full bladder, but in corpulent subjects this test may prove misleading. The distended bladder may be palpated between the two hands, if one is placed above the pubes and the index of the other in the rectum or vagina. The finger in the rectum comes in contact with the prostate in the middle line and should recognise its median groove and two lateral lobes. Pressure of the finger in the median groove of the prostate causes an immediate desire to make water. Above the prostate the finger comes into contact with the base of the bladder and on either side of the prostate with the seminal vesicle, although this structure cannot be recognised with the finger unless it is distended or indurated. In the female, the urethra may be dilated—preferably with the graduated dilator of Kelly—sufficiently to admit of the little finger being inserted into the bladder, and with the other hand above the pubes successive areas of the bladder wall may be accurately palpated. Catheters.—A catheter is a hollow instrument employed to draw off the contents of the bladder. It may be made of pure rubber, gum-elastic material, or silk-covered with shellac, or of metal or glass. In general terms it may be said that where there is no obstruction in the urethra one made of pure rubber is to be preferred, because it is readily sterilised by boiling, and is least likely to injure the mucous membrane of the urethra. In using a catheter every means must be taken to prevent septic infection. The operator’s hands must be disinfected or he should wear sterile gloves. The meatus and glans are cleansed, and the penis, after being wrapped round with sterile gauze, is drawn through an aperture in a sterile towel. The anterior urethra is irrigated with boracic solution by means of a glass-barrelled syringe provided with an acorn-sliaped urethral nozzle. The material used for lubricating the catheter—sterilised vaseline, glycerine, or soap—is best carried in a collapsible tube, from which the required amount is expressed on to sterile gauze, and thence transferred to the catheter. Rubber, glass, and metal catheters are sterilised by boiling, or, when this is impracticable, by prolonged immersion and washing through with carbolic solution (1 in 20) ; gum-elastic catheters by suspension in formalin vapour or prolonged immersion in corrosive sublimate (1 to 1000). The use of the cystoscope has already been described (p. 610) ; the use of the sound and other instruments will be described along with the individual diseases of the bladder. The X-rays may be employed in the recognition of a foreign body or of a stone in the bladder, and they may also prove useful for demonstrating the size and shape of the organ, when it has been filled with a ten per cent, emulsion of bismuth or a two per cent, solution of colloid of silver. Operations on the Bladder.—Cystotomy implies opening the bladder in order to explore its interior or to deal with disease in its walls, stones or foreign bodies. When the bladder is opened above the pubes, it is known as the supra-pubic or high operation ; when from the perineum, as perineal cystotomy. When the opening is intended to act as a temporary or a permanent fistula, the term cystostomy may be employed.