534 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. After removal of the stones by one or other of the above methods, it is necessary to drain the common bile-duct, either directly by a tube introduced into its interior through the opening made for removing the stone, or indirectly by a tube inserted into the gall-bladder. A cigarette drain should also be placed so as to drain the area outside the duct. The drains are left in position for from three to ten days. After-Treatment.—The patient must so regulate his life as to diminish the tendency to the formation of fresh stones. The bowels must be made to act regularly by the use of saline laxatives, preferably Carlsbad salts ; hot water should be drunk three or four times a day, a sufficient amount of exercise taken, and the diet regulated so as to obviate any disturbance of digestion. A course of treatment at Harrogate or Carlsbad is of service in getting rid of the chronic gastro-duodenal catarrh that so frequently accompanies cholelithiasis. The occasional return of colic within a few months of operation does not necessarily mean a return of stone; it may be due to adhesions round a crippled gall-bladder, which does not empty properly. Sequels of Gall-Stone Affections. Adhesions frequently form from the extension of inflamma- tion to the peritoneum, and involve the omentum and colon, pylorus and duodenum, the liver and gall-bladder. They increase the difficulty of operations for the removal of gall-stones, and may add to the sufferings of the patient by interfering with the functions of adjacent organs, notably of the pylorus, so that the stomach may be unable to empty itself. If adhesions are diagnosed, an operation may be undertaken to separate them ; to prevent their re-formation, the right edge of the omentum may be tacked up between the gall-bladder and the pylorus. Stricture of the bile-ducts is a rare sequel of gall-stones. It results from ulceration of the wall of the duct where it has been pressed upon by a calculus. Stricture of the cystic duct results in gradual distension of the gall-bladder with mucus, so that it forms a palpable abdominal tumour; the treatment consists in removing the gall-bladder. Stricture of the common duct causes jaundice of gradually increasing intensity, enlarge- ment of the liver, and the gall-bladder, if not already shrunken from gall-stone irritation, becomes distended with inspissated bile and forms a palpable tumour. The condition is rarely diagnosed with certainty, being usually mistaken for an impacted