145 THE ORBIT. The face is one of the commonest seats of rodent cancer (voh i. p. 371). THE ORBIT. ■ Injuries.—Contusion of the eyelids and circum-orbital region —the ordinary “ black eye ”—is associated with extravasation of blood into the loose cellular tissue of these parts, and is followed within a few hours of the injury by marked ecchymosis. The lids may swell to such an extent that the eye is completely closed. In some cases the impinging object lacerates some of the vessels of the conjunctiva and produces a sub conjunctival ecchymosis, which may be situated under the palpebral con- junctiva of the lower lid, or close to the corneal margin on the front of the globe. The characteristic play of colours which attends the disappearance of effused blood is observed within a week or ten days of the injury. This condition is to be distinguished from the effusions which sometimes follow such injuries as fracture of the anterior fossa of the skull, fracture of the orbital ridges, or bruises of the frontal region of the scalp, chiefly by the facts that in black eye the discoloration comes on within a very short time of the injury, that the swelling appears simultaneously in both lids, and that the sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, when present, is coeval with the ecchymosis of the lids. In fractures of the orbital plate and bruises of the forehead, on the other hand, the ecchymosis does not appear in the eyelids for several days, and that under the conjunctiva is usually disposed on the globe as a triangular patch towards the outer canthus. Firm pressure applied by means of a pad of cotton wadding and an elastic bandage, if employed early, may limit the effusion of blood ; and massage is useful in hastening its absorption. Wounds of the orbit may result from the introduction of pointed objects, such as knitting pins, pencils, or fencing foils, or from chips of stone, or metal, or small shot. They are attended with considerable extravasation of blood, which may be diffused throughout the cellular tissue of the orbit, or may form a defined hrematoma. In either case the eyeball is protruded, and the cornea is exposed to irritation, and may become inflamed and ulcerated. The optic nerve may be lacerated, and complete and permanent loss of vision result. Sometimes the ocular muscles and nerves are damaged, and deviation of the eye or loss of motion in one or other direction is produced. The globe itself may be injured. Foreign bodies lodged in the orbit, so VOL. II—10