CEREBRAL TUMOURS. 73 and the contraction of the cicatrix which results, may permanently interfere with the functions of the brain, or may induce Jacksonian epilepsy. Tuberculous tumours also may become arrested, and may cease for a time to cause symptoms, but permanent cure is extremely rare. We have known a sarcoma to recur as late as live years after removal. Death sometimes occurs suddenly from haemorrhage, from acute oedema, or from implication of vital centres. Treatment.—In all cases the administration of iodides in full doses is indicated, not only with a view to promoting the absorption of the tumour if syphilitic, but because other forms of tumour, especially gliomata, frequently benefit temporarily by this treatment. The question of removal by operation arises in cases where there is reason to believe that the tumour is situated near the surface of the brain and that it is circumscribed and of moderate size. Unfortunately it is only in a very small proportion (5 to 10 per cent.) of cases that these conditions are present and can be recognised before opening the skull. The technique of the operation is described on p. 17. Palliative Operation.—In many cases in which there is no hope of being able to remove the tumour, it is advisable to operate for the relief of symptoms due to excessive intra cranial tension, such as optic neuritis, severe headache, and persistent vomiting. When the site of the lesion can be diagnosed, a large opening is made in the skull over it, the dura is freely opened, and the external wound closed (V. Horsley). If the tumour cannot be located the skull should be opened over a “ silent area ” of the brain, for example, the right temporal region (Sanger). Cushing recommends that the temporal muscle should be split in the direction of its fibres (intermuscular operation) and stitched in position again after the dura has been opened. Spiller and Frazier believe that it is not necessary to open the dura, as the membrane is capable of stretching sufficiently to afford adequate relief of tension. The relief that follows such operations is often remarkable. Lumbar puncture, frequently repeated, has also been practised for the relief of tension in inoperable cases. When surgical treatment is contra-indicated, all that can be done is to palliate the symptoms by bromides, opium, phenacetin, caffein, and other drugs. Epilepsy.—The surgical aspects of Jacksonian epilepsy following head injuries have already been considered (p. 37). For the cure of those forms of epilepsy in which there is no