THE INTESTINES. 484 found in the left hypochondrium, the rotation varying in direction and extent. Volvulus may also affect a single loop of small intestine, especially as a complication of strangulation by a band, or it may affect the greater part of the ileum. The rotation is usually in the direction of the hands of a watch, and amounts to one com- plete turn or more. The morbid changes are the same as in the sigmoid, and there is usually blood-stained fluid in the abdomen. Clinical Features.—Volvulus of the sigmoid is most often met with in men between forty and sixty. The onset is usually sudden; there is severe pain with exacerbations, referred to the region of the umbilicus, or less frequently to the left iliac fossa. Vomiting is not a prominent feature and may be entirely absent or its occurrence may be delayed. Collapse is not so marked as in acute strangulation of the small intestine. The abdominal walls soon become rigid, partly from distension, and partly from the onset of local peritonitis. As peritonitis commencing in the twisted loop is very constant, tenderness is developed in the first instance over the gut affected, and then over the entire abdomen. Distension of the abdomen appears early, and may attain con- siderable proportions; it may be localised at first, appearing as a rounded elevation in the left segment of the umbilical region, but it very soon becomes general. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen; when the twisted loop of bowel is discovered, as much of it as possible is brought out at the wound and inspected. If greatly distended, it should be opened at once and emptied, and if the bowel seems viable after the twist has been undone, the opening is closed and the bowel returned within the abdomen. If the twisted bowel cannot be undone, or if the bowel is not viable, it must either be resected at once or the bowel is drawn well out of the wound and an artificial anus established above the seat of the volvulus, the affected loop being resected later when the patient has got over the immediate risks. In view of the possibility of relapse of the volvulus, the mesocolon may be stitched to the parietal peritoneum—colopexy. When an artificial anus has been temporarily established, it gives rise to adhesions which prevent recurrence. Intussusception.—This is one of the commonest forms of intestinal obstruction, and may be defined as the invagination of one part of the intestine into the lumen of the immediately adjoining part. An intussusception forms a solid, sausage-shaped tumour composed of three concentrically arranged tubes of bowel which are differentiated as follows : an external, known as the