THE NECK. 244 deepest towards its left end, that is where the weapon enters, and gradually tailing off towards the right. In most cases the would-be suicide throws his head so far back at the moment of inflicting the wound, that the main vessels are carried backward under cover of the tense sterno-mastoid muscles, and so escape injury. The knife may even reach the vertebral column without damaging the contents of the carotid sheath. Homicidal wounds are usually more directly transverse, and are of equal depth throughout. The main vessels are generally divided, the oesophagus and trachea opened into, and in some cases the spinal canal is opened and the cord and its membranes injured. In a large proportion of suicidal attempts the patient only succeeds in inflicting one or more comparatively superficial wounds across the front of the neck. In many cases the haemorrhage from these is trifling, but if the external jugular and other large superficial veins are divided, it may be fairly profuse, although it is seldom immediately fatal. The contraction of the platysma causes such wounds to gape widely, and their edges tend to be turned in. Occasionally, but very rarely, the wound is made above the hyoid bone, and opens directly into the mouth. There may then be sharp haemorrhage from the base of the tongue or from the lingual and facial arteries or their branches in the submaxillary region. There may be asphyxia from the base of the tongue and the epiglottis falling back and obstructing the larynx. There is great difficulty in swallowing. The thyro-hyoid membrane is frequently divided, and the pharynx thus opened. In such cases the upper portion of the epiglottis is often cut off, and the base of the tongue, the tonsil or the soft palate may be injured. The lingual, facial, and superior thyroid arteries and the hypoglossal nerve are also liable to be divided at this level, but the main vessels of the neck usually escape. There is pain and difficulty in swallowing, and food and saliva tend to escape through the wound. Particles of food may pass into the air-passages and cause violent fits of coughing. If the depressor muscles of the hyoid and larynx are divided, there may be some interference with deglutition and phonation, but respiration is not affected. In more severe cases the knife enters the larynx or the trachea. Sometimes the thyroid cartilage is divided—as a rule only partially—and the vocal cords are injured; in other cases the ti’aehea is opened, or it may be completely cut across. The