518 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. other abdominal viscera, and as the condition often coexists with other serious abdominal lesions, it is liable to be overlooked. There is tenderness over the liver, rigidity of the abdominal wall below the right costal margin, and the patient complains of pain radiating to the right shoulder. There is usually evidence of internal haemorrhage, with the general features of the blood- less state. The blood gravitates and accumulates in the pelvis and iliac fossae, and dulness may be recognised above Poupart’s ligament on either side, and this area of dulness may be observed to increase from hour to hour. Jaundice occurs only in a small proportion of cases, and after an interval of three or four days. If there is simultaneous injury to the ribs, diaphragm, or lung, the breathing is much embarrassed. Treatment.—An absolute diagnosis rarely being possible, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed if there is any likelihood of the liver having been ruptured, and the sooner the operation is performed the more likely is it to be successful. A vertical incision is made in or near the middle line, and may be supplemented by a transverse one across the right rectus. The rupture having been exposed, the haemorrhage may in some cases be temporarily arrested by compressing the vessels in the gastro-hepatic omentum between the fingers and thumb, one of these being passed into the foramen of Winslow. Large open vessels should be ligatured separately. Whenever possible, the edges of the rupture should be brought together by thick catgut sutures passed with a round needle deeply through the liver substance. If the bleeding is not thereby arrested, recourse must be had to packing with gauze, the end of the gauze being brought out at the wound. The possibility of there being a second rupture should be borne in mind. Injuries of neigh- bouring organs must also be sought for and attended to. The later complications of wounds and of rupture of the liver are for the most part the result of pyogenic infection, and include right-sided pleurisy, sub-phrenic abscess, and abscess of the liver. Diseases.—Hepatic Abscess. — The commonest form of abscess is that which follows on dysenteric ulceration of the intestine. From the frequency with which it affects Europeans who have lived in tropical climates it is commonly spoken of as “ tropical abscess.” It is nearly always solitary, and is usually situated towards the convexity of the right lobe. The pus is mixed with broken-down liver tissue, is chocolate-coloured and glairy, and has a mawkish odour. It is not usually possible to demonstrate organisms in the pus when the abscess is first