146 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. long as they are aseptic, may give rise to little or no disturbance, and are liable to be overlooked. The Rontgen rays are often useful in determining the presence and position of a foreign body. All wounds of the orbit require to be carefully purified to prevent septic complications, which might endanger the eyeball or the adjacent cranial cavity. In extracting foreign bodies, great care is necessary to avoid injury of the eyeball or of its muscles or nerves. Fracture of the margin of the orbit usually results from a direct blow, and is followed by marked circum-orbital and sub-conjunc- tival ecchymosis, and sometimes is associated with paralysis of the optic nerve, or of the other ocular nerves. Implication of the frontal sinus may be followed by emphysema of the orbit and lids. The roof of the orbit is implicated in many fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull produced by indirect violence. It is also liable to be fractured by pointed instruments thrust through the orbit, in which case septic intra-cranial complications are prone to ensue, and these in a large proportion of cases prove fatal. When the inher wall is fractured and the nasal fossa opened into, epistaxis and emphysema of the orbit are constant symptoms. Sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, and more or less marked exophthalmos, are almost always present. Treatment is directed towards the complications. When the nasal fossae or the air sinuses are opened into, the patient should be warned against blowing his nose, as this act is liable to induce or increase emphysema of the orbit or lids. Injuries of the Eyeball.—These injuries may be divided into two groups—(1) those in which the glebe is contused without its outer coat being ruptured, and (2) those in which the outer coat is ruptured. In cases belonging to the first group, while the sclerotic coat and cornea remain intact, the iris may be partially torn from its ciliary origin, and the blood effused collects in the lower portion of the anterior chamber; or the pupillary margin of the iris may be ruptured at several points, causing apparent dilatation of the pupil. The crystalline lens may be partially or com- pletely dislocated, and in the latter case it may pass forward into the anterior chamber or backward into the vitreous. Among other injuries resulting from contusion of the eye may be mentioned haemorrhage into the vitreous, rupture of the choroid, and detachment of the retina. Injuries in which the outer coat of the eyeball is ruptured may be further subdivided into two groups according to whether or not a foreign body is lodged in the globe.