516 CHAPTER XXVIII. THE LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. Liyek : Surgical anatomy — Injuries: Stab and gunshot wounds; Rupture—Diseases: Hepatie abscess; Hydatids; Syphilitic gummata —Tumours—Acquired deformities and displacements of the liver— Surgical treatment of ascites due to cirrhosis of the liver. Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts: Surgical anatomy — Symptoms— Characters and formation of gall-stones—Stones in the gall-bladder and cystic duct—Gall-stone obstruction of common duct—Sequelse of gall-stone affections : Adhesions; Stricture of ducts ; Abdominal abscess; Intestinal obstruction ; Fistula—Inflammatory affections of the gall-bladder and bile-ducts: Cholecystitis; Empyema of gall- bladder ; Phlegmonous cholecystitis—Cancer of gall-bladder and cystic duct—Cancer of bile-ducts—Injuries. The Liver. Surgical Anatomy.—The left lobe of the liver extends across the epigastric region into the left hypochondrium, and is in contact with the anterior ab- dominal wall. It is therefore more accessible than the right lobe, which is overlapped by the ribs and roofed in by the diaphragm. The space between the liver and the diaphragm is divided into right and left com- partments by the falciform or suspensory ligament. An accumulation of pus in one or other of these compartments constitutes a right or left sub- phrenic abscess. The highest part of the liver, which corresponds also to the highest part of the right arch of the diaphragm, during expiration reaches the level of the fourth intercostal space in the mammary line. In the erect posture the lower edge of the liver on the right side projects slightly below the costal margin. In the recumbent position it is entirely under cover of the ribs, except in the subcostal angle where the left lobe of the liver intervenes between the stomach and the anterior abdominal wall. On the inferior surface of the liver are found the gall- bladder and the larger bile-ducts and blood-vessels. The under surface of the right lobe is in relation from before backwards with the hepatic flexure of the colon, the duodenum at the junction of its first and second portions, and the right kidney and suprarenal capsule. Access to the lower margin and inferior surface of the liver is readily obtained by the abdominal route ; if the costal cartilages that lie below the reflection of the pleura—eighth to eleventh—are removed, access is also obtained to the upper or parietal aspect of the viscus. To obtain access to the convex surface of the right lobe, recourse must be had to the trans-