544 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. regions, and there is tenderness in the epigastrium and some fulness above the umbilicus. If the condition results from duodenal catarrh or other cause than gall-stones, pain is absent or there is only slight aching in the epigastrium, the jaundice is not marked, and the gall-bladder is usually distended and palpable. In thin patients, it may be possible to detect a swell- ing in the position of the pancreas, especially with the aid of a general anaesthetic. The dyspeptic symptoms are probably due to the absence of bile and pancreatic juice from the intestine. There is loss of appetite, flatulence, eructations, heartburn, nausea, and distaste for certain foods; the motions are pale, bulky, offensive, and obviously greasy from excess of fat; the faeces are acid in reaction to litmus, while in simple jaundice they are usually alkaline. The jaundice varies from a slight icteric tinge to a deep mahogany hue, depending upon the completeness of obstruction of the common bile-duct. Marked wasting is usually a prominent feature, and, when associated with progressive anaemia, may suggest the presence of malignant disease. In the diagnosis special stress should be laid upon the pro- gressive wasting, the presence of jaundice, the dyspeptic disturb- ances, the “ pancreatic reaction ” in the urine, and the chemical examination of the faeces. In the differential diagnosis the most important conditions to consider are : cancer of the head of the pancreas, cancer of the common bile-duct, cancer of the liver, gall-stones in the common duct, and chronic catarrh of the bile-ducts. In cancer of the head of the pancreas, the onset is usually insidious and painless; there is gradual failure of health, and, when jaundice supervenes, it becomes absolute and unvarying; the gall-bladder is nearly always distended and may attain a large size. The faeces are usually acid in reaction and contain a large amount of undigested fat. Cancer of the common duct is rare, and is usually associated with gall-stones. If the disease involves the papilla, the symptoms are indistinguishable from those of cancer of the head of the pancreas. If the growth is situated above the opening of the pancreatic duct, it will not interfere with the functions of the pancreas; the loss of flesh will not be so rapid, and, although there may be an excess of fat in the fseces, this will chiefly consist of fatty acids. Cancer of the liver is distinguished by the irregular enlarge- ment and nodular feel of that organ, the rapid deterioration of health, the less intense jaundice, which is nearly always associated with ascites, and the absence of fever and paroxysmal pain.