17G THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. short of the facial nerve. The facial artery as it crosses the jaw in front of the masseter is caught with forceps before being cut. The masseter, if not involved in the tumour, having been separ- ated from the bone, the flap is thrown up, the reflection of the mucous membrane on to the gum divided, and the jaw thus exposed. An incisor tooth on the affected side is extracted, and the body of the jaw divided a little to one side of the middle line, by means of a Gigli wire-saw. The knife is then carried along the inner side of the bone to divide the attachments of the genio-hyoid, genio - hyoglossus, digastric, mylo-hyoidand internal pterygoid muscles, the mucous membrane, and the inferior dental vessels and nerve. The jaw is then depressed to expose the coronoid prodess in order that the insertion of the temporal muscle may be divided. Finally, the condyle is disarticulated by dividing the external pterygoid tendon and the ligaments of the joint, care being taken to avoid injuring the internal maxillary artery as it lies between the neck of the condyle and the internal lateral ligament. After all haemorrhage has been arrested, the flap is replaced and stitched in position. When removal of the whole jaw is called for, each half is excised separately in the manner above described. The after-treatment is the same as for excision of the upper jaw. Fig. 59.—Osseous Shell of Myeloma of Lower Jaw. (From Professor Annandale’s collection.) Injuries of the Jaavs. Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—Fractures of the upper jaw are nearly always due to direct violence, such as a blow on the face, a stab, or a gunshot wound. They are usually rendered compound by opening into the mouth, into the antrum of High- more, or on to the skin of the cheek. The alveolar process, in whole or in part, may be separated from the body of the bone by a severe blow, such as the kick of a horse. When the whole alveolus is detached, it may carry with it the hard palate. Limited portions of the alveolus are frequently broken in the extraction of teeth. The main trouble after severe alveolar fractures is that the upper