666 THE URINARY BLADDER. may necrose and slougb off, as for example in the cystitis which attends retroversion of the gravid uterus, the condition being spoken of as membranous or gangrenous cystitis. The state of the muscular coat and the capacity of the organ vary with the condition of which the cystitis is a complication, and will be considered in the sections on stone, tumour, enlarged prostate, and stricture. It may be noted, however, that where there is a long-standing obstruction to the outflow of urine the bundles of muscle-fibres may stand out in interlacing columns—-fasciculated bladder (Fig. 182)—and the mucous membrane may be herniated between the columns, forming cysts or pouches in which the urine stagnates and decomposes, thus favouring the formation of stone. Clinical Features of Acute Cystitis.—These vary according to the cause of the cystitis and the conditions associated with it. In many cases spasmodic contraction of the bladder is the dominating feature, the patient complaining of frequent, urgent, and painful micturition. The pain is most marked at the end of the act, and is felt in the hypogastrium and radiating along the urethra. The spasm may be so great that it prevents the emptying of the organ, thus causing backward pressure and favouring the spread of the infection to the ureters and kidneys, and sometimes resulting in bilateral pyonephrosis. The urine is turbid, and on standing deposits flakes of fibrin, shed epithelium, red blood corpuscles, bacteria, and abundant leucocytes and pus corpuscles. In acid, urine the pus appears as a light, floating cloud or as a dense greyish deposit. In ammoniacal urine the pus corpuscles fuse together into a viscid, semi-translucent mass which entangles the other suspended matters and sinks to the bottom of the vessel. The recently passed urine should be centrifuged and films of the deposit stained for organisms. In gangrenous cystitis the urine is brown and putrid, and contains shreds of necrosed mucous membrane. Chronic cystitis may follow on an acute attack, or may commence insidiously ; in the latter case it is almost invariably a complication of an already existing affection of the urinary organs, such as stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. It then develops very gradually, the most prominent feature being the presence of pus in the urine, chiefly passed in the last one or two ounces, as may be demonstrated by the two-glass test. This condition may come and go over a period of years with occasional acute exacerbations attended with pain and frequency of micturition. If, from the presence of staphylococci or other urea-decomposing organisms, the urine undergoes alkaline fer-