22 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. or of a tumour. The only pathological idea the term conveys is that there is more inside the skull than it can conveniently hold. Concussion of the Brain. — As has been said, a patient suffering from concussion of the brain is practically in a condition of shock—shock induced by violence directly inflicted on the brain tissue. The symptoms characteristic of shock may be the only evidence of injury, or they may accompany such gross lesions as fracture of the skull, or contusion and laceration of the brain. The clinical features vary according to the severity of the violence. In the slightest cases the patient does not lose consciousness, but merely feels giddy, faint, and dazed for a few seconds. His mind is confused, but he rapidly recovers, and, perhaps after vomiting, feels quite well again, save for a slight shakiness in his limbs. In more severe cases, immediately on receiving the blow the patient falls to the ground unconscious. Sometimes he suffers from a general tetanic seizure, associated with arrest of respira- tion, which may prove fatal. This convulsion is usually of short duration, and is frequently overlooked. The pulse is slow, small, and feeble, and is sometimes irregular in force and frequency. The respirations are short, shallow, slow, and frequently sighing in character. The temperature falls to 97° F., or even lower. The skin is cold and pallid and covered with clammy sweat, and the features are pinched and pale. In uncomplicated cases the pupils are usually equal, moder- ately dilated, and react sluggishly to light. The patient can be partially roused by shouting or by other forms of external stimulation, but he soon subsides again into a lethargic condition. Although voluntary movement and the deep reflexes are abolished, there is no true muscular paralysis. After a period, varying from a few minutes to several hours, he rallies, the first evidence often being vomiting, which is usually repeated. Sometimes reaction is ushered in by a mild epileptiform seizure. He then turns on his side, the face becomes flushed, and gradually the symptoms pass off and consciousness returns. The temperature rises to 99° or 100° F., and in some cases remains elevated for a few days. In most cases it falls again to 97° or 97'5°, and remains persistently subnormal for one or two weeks. During reaction the pulse becomes quick and bounding, but after a few hours it again becomes slow, and usually remains abnormally slow (40 to 60) for ten or fourteen days. Very commonly the patient complains of pain in the head for some days after the return of consciousness. There is some-