302 THE CHEST. bones throughout the skeleton are involved, or as a complication of typhoid. Carbuncles are commonly met with on the posterior wall of the chest. Tuberculosis of the Eibs and Sternum.—Tuberculosis of the ribs and sternum is a comparatively common condition in patients who suffer from other tuberculous conditions. Although most common in middle life, it occurs also in adolescents, and less frequently in children. It is more common on the right side than on the left. In the ribs the disease usually begins as an osteomyelitis, less frequently as a periostitis, and affects the rib near to its junction with the cartilage. Sometimes the primary focus is in the perichondrium. It is, however, often difficult to differentiate between these forms. The sternum is usually involved about the level-of the second costal cartilage, and a sequestrum may form. Sometimes the bones are infected secondarily by tuber- culous disease spreading from the pleura or lung, or by a spinal abscess burrowing along an intercostal space. In all forms abscesses ultimately develop. When the pus forms on the outer aspect of the bone, it works its way towards the skin, and leads to the formation of sinuses, which are often long and tortuous, and open at a considerable distance from the diseased bone. When on the deep aspect, the pus tends to burrow between the bone and the pleura, where it may form a collection of considerable size. Infection of the pleura and lung is a rare sequela, but when the sternum is involved the abscess may invade the anterior mediastinum. Pathological fracture of the affected bone may take place. The disease begins insidiously and progresses slowly, without causing pain or other discomfort, and attention is usually first attracted by the swelling, which presents the usual characters of a cold abscess. Treatment.—If the skin is still intact, a flap should be thrown up, and the abscess, together with the affected portion of bone or cartilage excised, in one piece if possible, after which the wound is closed without drainage. In women it may be necessary to throw up the breast to gain access to the diseased focus. When sinuses are present they should be laid freely open so as to expose the affected portion of bone, which is excised ; the cavity is then purified and packed. Mere scraping of sinuses and bone is almost invariably followed by recurrence, and is not to be recommended. Syphilitic gummata are met with chiefly in the periosteum