THE TONGUE. 190 nut to a walnut, and feels like a hard body in the substance of the tongue. The mucous membrane over the swelling is of normal colour, but is usually devoid of papillae. The gumma may remain for months unchanged, or may approach the surface, soften, and break down, leaving a deep ragged ulcer. Syphilitic ulcers and fissures are nearly always preceded by gummata, which have softened and broken down. The ulcers have seldom the typically rounded or serpiginous outline of gummatous ulcers on other parts of the body. The base is ragged and unhealthy, and on it a yellowish grey slough re- sembling a piece of wash-leather may be seen. The edges are steep, ragged, and often undermined, and the surrounding parts thickened and indurated. The neighbouring glands are not usually enlarged. The ulcer is extremely painful when irritated by food, hot fluids, or spirits. If untreated, the sore may remain indolent and for months show no sign either of spreading or healing. It may at any time become the seat of cancer. Syphilitic fissures are met with as long, narrow, deep clefts, or as stellate or sinuous cracks in the substance of the tongue. After the healing of these ulcers and fissures permanent clefts and furrows remain. Treatment.—The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are treated on the same general lines as other tertiary lesions. Locally, the use of antiseptic mouth-washes, such as chlorate of potash or black wash diluted with lime-water, the insufflation of powdered iodoform and borax with a small quantity of morphin, or the application of mercurial ointment is useful. The sore must be thoroughly cleansed before these remedies are applied. Tumotjks. Carcinoma is by far the most common form of new growth met with in the tongue, and it is almost invariably a squamous epithelioma. Epithelioma generally occurs between the ages of forty and sixty, and attacks males oftener than females, in the proportion of about six to one. Its development is favoured by any long- continued irritation, such as the rubbing of the tongue against a carious tooth, an ill-fitting tooth-plate, or the rough end of a clay pipe. Chronic superficial glossitis, syphilitic fissures or scars, and chronic ulcers also act as predisposing factors. The repeated application of strong caustics to chronic inflammatory conditions of the tongue is, according to Butlin, an important determining cause of cancer.