593 INTERNAL PILES. few ounces of cold water into the rectum and cold sponging of the perineum are useful in toning up the rectal muscles. Local styptics, applied in the form of ointments, or as suppositories containing adrenalin, hazeline, gallic or tannic acid, may be used, but are not always efficacious. Inasmuch as an “attack of the piles” may lead to cure of the condition by thrombosis or sloughing of the affected veins, it is sometimes advisable to palliate the symptoms during the attack by soothing anodyne applications. In most cases, however, it is better to give the patient a general anaesthetic and remove the piles. Operative Treatment.—It is only necessary to refer particu- larly to three of the many operative procedures that have been suggested for the treatment of internal piles : ligature, excision, and clamp and cautery. Two or three days before the operation the bowels should be freely opened by castor oil, and no solid food should be taken thereafter. The evening before the operation the bowel should be washed out with a simple enema or with boracic lotion. Ligature.—This is the most simple and the most generally applicable method of treatment. Under general anaesthesia the anus is dilated by stretching the sphincters, and the piles are thus brought into view. Each pile is grasped separately by suitable forceps, and, after the mucous membrane around its base has been snipped through “with scissors, is securely tied with strong silk or pile-twine, and the part of the pile beyond the ligature cut off. If the ligature is carried through the base of the pile with a blunt needle and applied as a Staffordshire knot, there is no risk of it slipping off the stump. Redundant folds of skin around the anus should be snipped off with scissors, and any haemorrhage arrested by pressure or ligature. Excision.—A simple and safe method suggested by Mitchell, of Belfast, consists in clamping the base of each pile with a pair of Kocher’s artery forceps applied in the long axis of the bowel, and, after cutting off the redundant portion of the pile, intro- ducing a continuous catgut suture which includes the clamp and the tissues around the base of the pile. Just before tightening up the suture the clamp is removed. The suture not only arrests all bleeding, but also closes the wound, so that healing takes place more rapidly, and no raw surface being left, the bowels may be encouraged to move from the third day. Whitehead’s method, which consists in excising the whole of the pile-bearing area of mucous membrane, has been almost entirely abandoned on account of the loss of blood which it entails, and because it is needlessly severe for the majority of cases. VOL. II—38