HYDRONEPHROSIS. 625 Obstacles to the outflow from, the wreter into the blcCdder may affect one or both kidneys ; the most common causes are tumours of the bladder, calculus, enlargement of the prostate, paralysis of the bladder, and stricture of the urethra. All of these cause increased backward pressure which may result in hydronephrosis, and in the majority of cases septic infection is superadded, resulting in pyonephrosis. Functional Disturbances of Micturition.—It was pointed out by Dr. Alexander James,.in 1877, that the increased frequency of micturition that occurs in irritable bladders and in phimosis may raise the pressure of the bladder contents, and lead to dila- tation of the ureters, and later of the pelvis of both kidneys. Secondary Changes in Hydro- nephrosis.— The changes in the renal parenchyma are the result of the increased pressure within the pelvis, and consist in compression followed by atrophy; the distension of the pelvis and calyces results in atrophy and displacement of the septa between the calyces, until finally there is one large cavity with sacculations corresponding to the original calyces (Fig. 168). The renal parenchyma may entirely dis- appear. The contents of the cyst in course of time become poorer and poorer in urinary constituents ; in a closed hydronephrosis of old standing the urea disappears, and a colourless serous fluid containing a trace of albumin remains. The fluid is sometimes coloured with altered blood pigment derived from antecedent haemorrhages into the sac. In an infected hydro- nephrosis the fluid becomes turbid or actually purulent, con- stituting a pyonephrosis. The clinical features vary according to the nature of the hydronephrosis. The development may be so insidious, for example in those cases depending on malformation of the ureter, that the patient first applies for treatment on account of swell- ing of the abdomen, of a lump in the loin which is discovered accidentally, or of a feeling of weight and pressure, and disturb- ance of the stomach and bowels. Fig. 167.—The Renal Pelvis laid open to show valve at outlet. P = pelvis. K = valve. (After Israel.) VOL. II—40