WANDERING SPLEEN. 551 opened and drained either by the abdominal or by the trans- pleural route. In cysts of the spleen, whether hydatid or otherwise, in benign tumours, in sarcoma, and in tuberculosis, the organ should be removed. Enlargements of the Spleen. — The enlargement that results from malaria may necessitate removal of the organ if medical treatment has been found of no avail. In splenic anaemia, the organ should also be removed as early as possible, while the patient is able to stand the operation and before serious complications have arisen. Operative interference is contra-indicated in the splenic enlargement that accompanies leucocythcemia. In nearly all the cases in which removal of the organ has been attempted the patient has died of haemorrhage. Wandering or Floating Spleen.—This term is applied to a condition in which the pedicle of the spleen is abnormally long, and the organ therefore unduly movable. If it becomes fixed in its abnormal position by adhesions, it is spoken of as a dislocated spleen. It is almost exclusively met with in spare women who have borne children. In well-marked cases a floating spleen is capable of such wide excursions, that it may be found in any part of the abdomen or pelvis, hence it readily gives rise to errors in diagnosis. Attention should be directed to the absence of the normal splenic dulness, and to the shape of the prolapsed organ, which is usually freely movable and appears to float on the intestines. When it is displaced, it may drag or press on adjacent viscera, and give rise to symptoms referable to these. By pulling on the stomach, for example, it may kink the duodenum, by becoming adherent to the bowel it may interfere with peristalsis and cause obstruction, or by pressing upon the uterus it may displace that organ. The pedicle of a wandering spleen may become twisted, and give rise to symptoms which resemble those of a twisted ovarian cyst. Treatment.—-The condition may be palliated by rest in bed, and by the use of a belt when the patient is going about. If the organ is healthy and capable of being replaced in its normal position, it may be fixed there by the operation of splenopexy. The method of Rydygier consists in making a new pocket for the organ by incising the parietal peritoneum in the line of the tenth rib, separating the peritoneum from the parietes, and implanting the spleen in the bed thus made for it. If the organ is enlarged or if the pedicle is twisted, the spleen should be removed.