600 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. of metastatic growths. It is no longer held that excision is contra- indicated if the tumour is beyond the reach of the finger, and affects the wall of the bowel above the reflection of the peritoneum. The only absolute contra-indication is immobility of the tumour (Martin du Pan). jExcision of the Rectum—Rroctectomy.—The rectum may be excised from below by an incision in the perineum (Lisfranc, 1826); from behind by removing the coccyx and a portion of the sacrum (Kraske’s operation and its modifications); or by a combined abdominal and perineal operation. Opinions differ as to the value of a 'preliminary colostomy performed a week or ten days before the major operation. By some this measure is recommended on the grounds that it enables the bowels to be thoroughly emptied before the rectum is excised, and that it prevents the passage of faeces over the raw surface left by the operation. It is also urged, with good reason, that the opening of the abdomen enables the surgeon to determine the upper limits and attachments of the growth and the condition of the peritoneum and the pelvic and lumbar glands. Most surgeons, however, only perform colostomy if obstruction is actually present or is threatened. The perineal operation is selected when the growth is confined to the anal canal and the part of the rectum just beyond it. As the growth usually involves the anal orifice, it is seldom possible to conserve the sphincters. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and an incision is carried from the mid- point of the perineum to the tip of the coccyx, diverging on each side so as to include the anus. This incision divides the ano- coccygeal raphe, the rectal portion of the pelvic fascia, and opens into the loose cellular tissue that surrounds the lower part of the rectum. The levatores ani are then divided, and the finger introduced into the pelvi-rectal space. The rectum is separated from its surroundings by blunt dissection, care being taken not to injure the urethra or prostate. When the separation has been carried well beyond the growth the bowel is cut across, and its edges brought down and stitched to the anal margin of the wound. The levatores ani are then stitched round it with the object of obtaining some sphincteric action. The rest of the wound is packed with gauze and allowed to granulate. The bowels should not be encouraged to move for four or five days. Daily dressing of the wound is necessary to prevent septic com- plications and to promote healing, and the occasional passage of a bougie may be called for to prevent cicatricial contraction narrowing the bowel.