THE (ESOPHAGUS. 272 a preliminary gastrostomy, passing a bougie up the oesophagus to the mouth, with a stout silk string attached, and securing the end of the string, which is then used as a saw with which to divide the stricture. A larger bougie is then passed, either from the mouth or from the stomach, and fixed in position, and after the lumen has been restored the stomach is closed. If none of these measures succeed gastrostomy must be performed, and the patient fed through the fistula. This opening- need not be permanent, as it frequently happens that the rest afforded to the oesophagus so far diminishes congestion and spasm that a bougie can be passed. The stricture may then be dilated and the opening in the stomach allowed to close. Carcinoma of the (Esophagus—Malignant Stricture.— Carcinoma is by far the most common variety of malignant disease met with in the oesophagus, and is also the most common cause of dysphagia. The tumour is nearly always a squamous epithelioma. Carcinoma implicating the lower part of the pharynx and the upper part of the oesophagus is not uncommon, particularly in women. It tends to spread to the larynx, and forms a swelling in the neck which can usually be distinctly felt behind the larynx. When confined to the oesophagus the disease usually occurs in males between the ages of forty and sixty, and its appearance in most cases seems to be associated with some chronic form of local irritation, such, for example, as chronic oesophagitis, the habitual use of raw spirits, hot fluids, or irritating foods, or the presence of a cicatricial stricture. The disease may appear at any part of the oesophagus, but in about 80 per cent, of cases the lower third is affected, and when the lower aperture is involved the condition is indis- tinguishable from cancer of the cardiac end of the stomach. Not infrequently there is more than one focus of disease. The growth usually spreads over a considerable area of the wall before it completely encircles the tube, so that for a considerable time the canal remains permeable. The cancer tends to invade surrounding structures, such as the pleura, trachea, bronchi, and large blood-vessels. The vagus and recurrent laryngeal nerves also may be implicated. The bronchial and cervical lymphatic glands are usually infected, but unless the cardiac end of the stomach is implicated the disease does not spread by metastasis to the internal organs. Clinical Features.—In their general characters the clinical features resemble those of cicatricial stricture. Dysphagia is the most prominent symptom. It usually comes on gradually,