THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 604 increases in size, its reduction becomes more and more difficult, owing to constriction of its base by the sphincter, and cedematous infiltration of the submucous tissue. Eventually it may remain down permanently, in which case there is a free discharge of mucus, and the mucous membrane becomes paler in colour, and altered so as to resemble skin. Superficial ulcers are liable to form on this extruded surface, and in some cases sloughing of a part, or of the whole, of the protrusion takes place. In the more severe cases the patient may suffer from pain and difficulty in micturition, and from shooting pains in the loins and legs. The only condition for which a prolapse is liable to be mis- taken is an intussusception that has passed beyond the anal orifice. The distinction is readily made by noting that in in- tussusception the finger can be passed into a cul-de-sac between the anal margin and the protrusion, and the mucous membrane covering the protrusion is not continuous with the skin around the anus. Treatment.—The reduction of a prolapse is best effected by raising the pelvis—a child may be held up by the heels— smearing the protrusion with vaseline, and applying gentle pressure over the apex of the cone. After the mass has slipped through the anus, a soft pad is placed between the nates and fixed securely in position by a T-shaped bandage, or the buttocks may be pressed together and held in this position by a strip of adhesive plaster passed from one trochanter to the other. The patient should remain recumbent for an hour or two after reduction. Constipation or any other existing cause of straining must be corrected, and means taken to ensure easy and regular movement of the bowels. The child should be made to defecate while lying on the back or on the side. Injections of ice-cold water, or of astringent lotions, such as tannic acid, alum, or sulphate of iron, are sometimes useful. In children it is seldom necessary to have recourse to operation. In adults, on the other hand, it is, as a rule, only by opera- tive measures that a cure can be effected. When the protrusion is small, excision of a wedge-shaped portion of the posterior part of the prolapse is sufficient. The wound is closed with catgut sutures. In more severe cases the best results are obtained by ampu- tating the protruded segment. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position to ensure that no portion of bowel is- in the peritoneal pouch that accompanies the prolapse. The protrusion is clamped, an incision made through the mucous