713 PYOGENIC AFFECTIONS. smeared with vaseline, is slowly introduced through the anal canal, gradually overcoming the resistance of the sphincters. In the anterior wall of the ampulla of the rectum, immediately above the internal sphincter, there is a recess in the middle line which corresponds to the attachment of the recto-urethral muscle to the membranous portion of the urethra (Fig. 187). Immediately above this the finger encounters the posterior surface of the prostate, and recognises the firm, smooth substance and symmetrical contour of the lateral lobes, and between them a shallow median groove, pressure on which excites a desire to micturate. Im- mediately above the prostate a firm body is felt, consisting of the posterior aspect of the vasa deferentia in the middle line, and the seminal vesicles on either side, all of these being felt indistinctly because of the firm fascia which passes over them from the posterior aspect of the prostate on to the bladder (Fig. 192). Higher still the finger encounters the comparatively soft and yielding wall of the bladder. The pouch of Douglas, which extends to within half an inch of the upper edge of the vasa deferentia, cannot be identified unless it is the seat of pathological thickening as in tuberculosis, or is distended with fluid. Injuries of the prostate are most often met with as the result of the unsuccessful passage of urethral instruments, and will be referred to on p. 719. Pyogenic Affections — Acute Prostatitis; and Prostatic Abscess.—A gonorrhoeal or other infection may spread from the urethra along the prostatic ducts to the acini and subsequently to the stroma of the organ, resulting in inflammation of varying degrees of severity, which may or may not terminate in suppura- tion. When pus forms it may do so at different points corre- sponding to the individual gland follicles, and these foci may fuse together into a single abscess. The infection may spread along the ejaculatory ducts to the seminal vesicles, or along the lym- phatics to the peri-prostatic cellular tissue, especially that be- tween the prostate and rectum. The condition is most often met with towards the end of the third week of a gonorrhoeal urethritis, and its occurrence is favoured by congestion, induced, for example, by exposure to cold, the rid- ing of a horse or bicycle, or indulgence in alcohol. In mild cases there is merely a feeling of weight in the perineum with pain on micturition and defecation; on passing the finger into the rectum the parts are hot and the prostate is found to be swollen and tender. In more severe cases the patient is decidedly ill and feverish, there is considerable pain, the perineum is so tender that the patient is unable to sit, there may be painful erections, and micturition becomes urgent and unduly frequent, and there may be blood in the urine; not uncommonly there is retention. If suppuration ensues, the pain becomes throbbing in character, and the swelling as felt from the rectum will be found to have increased and become boggy or fluctuating. The abscess usually