THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. . 770 is almost always a squamous epithelioma, and commences usually on the dorsal aspect of the glans, less frequently at the reflection of the prepuce, and rarely on the inner aspect or at the orifice of the prepuce. In a few cases it has commenced in the urethra, and in others on the skin either near the point or near the root of the penis. From the frequency with which phimosis and chronic balanitis precede the development of epithelioma of the penis, these conditions would appear to be important predisposing factors. Clinical Features.—This disease is most common after the age of fifty, but has been met with in patients under thirty- five. It may begin as a wart, a fissure or excoriation, or a patch of leucoplakia. Occasionally the growth has commenced in an old cicatrix. The disease usually assumes the form of an irregular cauliflower-like excrescence which attains some size before ulceration occurs. The base is hard, and is fixed to the glans and body of the penis. When ulceration begins there is pain, the tumour bleeds readily and exudes a copious and peculiarly offensive discharge. The fibrous sheath of the corpus ' cavernosum resists the spread of the growth for a time, but is ultimately perforated, and the tumour then infiltrates the erectile tissue, in the substance of which secondary nodules may be detected. The urethra is seldom invaded, and there is rarely any interference with micturition. The inguinal and pelvic glands on both sides are early and widely implicated. It is most important to recognise the condition in its earliest stages before glandular invasion has occurred. A hard chancre under cover of a tight prepuce occurring in a patient beyond middle life is very liable to be mistaken for an early cancer, and in doubtful cases the prepuce should be slit up and the growth inspected before any more radical operation is performed. Treatment.—The only treatment is free removal, and this should be done as early as possible to prevent lymphatic invasion. The amount of the penis to be amputated depends on the stage and extent of the disease. Amputation of the Penis.—A. piece of rubber tubing is applied round the base of the penis to prevent haemorrhage. A straight bougie is passed down the urethra as far as the tourniquet. A short flap of skin and subcutaneous tissue is then raised from the ventral aspect, well behind the cancer, exposing the corpus spongiosum. This, together with the urethra, is divided by cutting down upon the bougie three-quarters of an inch beyond the base of the flap, A flap of skin, sufficiently long to cover the end of the stump, is then reflected from the dorsal and