THE TONGUE. 196 called for when the swelling causes interference with speech or swallowing ; it consists in removing the tumour by dissection. When the lower end of the tract becomes cystic it forms a swelling in the neck (p. 248). Malformations.—Complete or partial absence of the tongue is exceedingly rare. Occasionally the fore part of the tongue is bifid. The func- tion of the organ is not interfered with, and the operation of paring and suturing the two halves is only called for to remove the disfigurement. Congenital tongue-tie is a condition in which the tip of the tongue is bound down to the floor of the mouth by an abnormally short and narrow frenum, or by folds of mucous membrane on each side of the frenum. The patient is unable to protrude the tongue. This deformity is rare. It is very common, however, for parents to blame an imaginary tongue-tie when a -ehild is slow to begin to speak, or when he speaks in- distinctly or stammers, and surgeons are frequently requested to divide the frenum under such circumstances. In the vast majority of cases nothing is found to be wrong with the frenum. In the rare cases of true tongue-tie the edges of the shortened bands should be snipped with scissors close behind the incisor teeth, and then torn -with the finger-nail. Excessive length of the frenum is occasionally met with, and in children may allow of the tongue falling back into the throat and causing sudden suffocative attacks, one of which may prove fatal. In some cases the patient is able voluntarily to fold the tongue back behind the soft palate. Macroglossia is the term applied to a variety of conditions in which the tongue becomes unduly large, so that it tends to be protruded from the mouth, and become scored by the teeth. The typical form—lympliangiomatous macroglossia—is due to a dilata- tion of the lymphatic spaces of the tongue. It is often congenital, and may affect the whole or only a part of the tongue. The enlargement may be progressive from the first, or may remain stationary for years, and then begin to develop somewhat suddenly, sometimes after an injury or as a result of some infective condition. The treatment consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue. In certain cases of macroglossia in children the lesion has been found to be a fibromatosis of the nerves of the tongue, allied to the plexiform neuroma. Atrophy of the tongue is rare as a congenital condition. Hemi-atrophy occurs in various diseases of the central nervous