352 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Tumours of the Abdominal Wall. — Lipoma and fibroma are the most important of these. The lipoma may originate in the subcutaneous or in the extra-peritoneal areolar tissue. One variety of extra-peritoneal lipoma is represented by the small fatty hernia; which occur in the middle line in the epigastric region, and in the inguinal canal, and which are described at p. 427. The fibroma grows from the fascial coverings of the muscles and from the aponeuroses of the abdominal wall. At first small, hard, and insensitive, it may after a long period of slow growth become more active and attain a considerable size. It is met with chiefly in women who have borne children. On examination it is found that the tumour moves with the wall and not with the contents of the abdomen, and that it does not change its position with alterations in the position of the patient. The tumour should be freely excised, a zone of muscle fibres and aponeurosis in contact with it being removed at the same time. If the parietal peritoneum is involved in the growth, the adherent portion must also be resected. To prevent the forma- tion of a ventral hernia, the gap in the abdominal wall is care- fully sutured, the patient is kept recumbent for from four to six weeks, and must wear a belt or bandage on resuming the erect posture. A transitional form between fibroma and sarcoma — the “ recurrent fibroid of Paget ”—shows a marked tendency to recur after removal, and finally to become generalised over the abdominal wall. Affections of the Umbilicus. Persistence of the Vitelline Duct. — Patent Meckel's Diverticulum.—The vitelline duct—the channel of communica- tion between the intestine and the yolk sac—passes from the ileum a little above the ileo-ceecal valve to the umbilicus, and is usually obliterated at the eighth week of intra-uterine life. In its persistent tubular form it is known as a Meckel’s diverticulum. When the stump of the umbilical cord separ- ates after birth the duct may come to open on the surface, constituting a fistula, which discharges mucus, and in rare instances fecal matter. The wall of the duct may be pro- lapsed through the umbilicus, and it is sometimes followed by a protrusion of the intestine, which, by interfering with the passage of the contents, may result in obstruction of the bowels. If the fistula discharges fecal matter, the abdomen should be