ENLARGED PROSTATE. 717 prostatic tissue projects into the bladder in the shape of lobulated masses resembling tumours. When the middle lobe is specially involved, it projects upwards as a sessile or pedunculated tumour ranging in size from a cherry to a walnut. When the enlargement of the prostate is considerable, it alters the length, direction, and calibre of the urethra, as well as the relations of the urethral opening to the general surface of the floor of the bladder. When the organ is uniformly enlarged, the urethra is elongated, it may be by as much as two inches, and the intra- vesical projection may surround the internal meatus like a collar. If the enlargement specially affects one lateral lobe, the urethra is displaced towards the opposite side and the transverse diameter of its lumen is diminished. The enlarged middle lobe may project forwards into the urethra, displacing it towards the pubes, diminishing the antero-posterior diameter of its lumen, and exaggerating its forward curve; or it may project upwards into the bladder immediately behind the internal meatus, and, if pedunculated, it acts as a ball valve (Fig. 191). It should be pointed out, however, that an enlarged middle lobe is not necessary for the production of retention. In the rarer cases in which the fibro- muscular stroma mainly is the seat of hyperplasia, the enlargement of the organ is uniform, its shape is preserved, and it is tough in consistence. The obstruction to the outflow of urine in enlarged prostate is rarely con- fined to the internal meatus; it is usually throughout the whole length of the prostatic urethra. The elevation of the pros- tate within the bladder, and the raising of the internal meatus above the general level of the lioor of the bladder, interfere with drainage, so that urine accumulates in the cul-de-sac behind the prostate, and the bladder cannot be completely emptied (Fig. 189). In the tough, sclerosed prostate, the rigidity of the floor of the bladder and of the prostatic urethra prevents the proper opening up of the channel when the patient attempts to make water. Fig. 190.—Section of Bud- tier showing uniform en- largement of Prostate and lengthening of Prostatic Urethra. (From a photo- graph lent by Mr. C. W. C'athcart.) (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.)