573 INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS. bowel, and, it may be, of painful straining—tenesmus—which only results in the passage of mucus tinged with blood. The mass may press upon the bladder and cause frequency of micturition, or upon the cords of the sacral plexus, and cause shooting pains in the lower extremities simulating those of sciatica. Sharp or irregular bodies, such as fish-bones, pins, or tooth-plates, which become impacted in the rectal wall, cause extreme pain, particularly during and after defecation. The mucous membrane may become ulcerated, and give rise to a muco-purulent discharge and bleeding. An abscess may form in the submucous or perirectal connective tissue. A digital examination of the rectum should be made in all cases in which these symptoms are present, and if this fails to reveal the cause of the patient’s suffering, an examination should be made with the speculum. Treatment.—The removal of small bodies, such as fish-bones, is facilitated by the application to the mucous membrane of a 5 per cent, cocain ointment. In the case of larger bodies a general anaesthetic is required, and great gentleness is called for because of the risk of tearing the bowel. It may be necessary to lay open the anal canal by cutting backwards towards the coccyx. Inflammatory Affections.—Inflammation of the Rectum —Proctitis.—The rectum is subject to the same forms of inflammation as the colon, and it is not uncommon for proctitis and colitis to occur together. The rectal mucosa is specially exposed to bacterial infection from the nature of the contents of the gut, the folds and glandular recesses in the mucous membrane, and the frequency with which it is subjected to minor forms of trauma. Infection may be further aided by conditions causing congestion of the walls of the gut or lowering its vitality, such as the irritation produced by the presence of scybalous masses, foreign bodies, or intestinal parasites, or by the use of drastic purgatives or enemata. Dysenteric proctitis is usually an extension of a similar in- flammation from the colon. Gonorrhoeal infection of the rectum is met with chiefly in women, and is due to the discharge passing backwards from the vulva or to unnatural sexual practices. There is reason to believe that many cases of inflammation and ulceration of the rectum usually attributed to syphilis are of gonorrhoeal origin. Clinical Features.—The patient complains of a persistent feeling of weight and heat in the bowel, and of pains radiating to the loins and down the legs. A sensation as of a foreign