SPINA BIFIDA. 121 Under these conditions the term does not connote any inflammatory element. Under other circumstances, in cases of acute lepto-meningitis, for example, and in syphilis, the changes in the cord are associated with inflammation. The symptoms and treatment of myelitis vary with the cause and extent of the lesion, and with its level in the cord, and have already been described. Congenital Deformities of the Spine. Spina Bifida.—Spina bifida is a congenital defect in certain of the vertebral arches, which permits of a protrusion of the contents of the spinal canal. It is due to an arrest of development, whereby the closure of the primary medullary groove and the in- growth of the mesoblast to form the spines and laminae fail to take place. The cleft may implicate only the spinous processes, but as a rule the laminae also are deficient. The defect usually extends over several vertebrae (Fig. 36). While the protrusions vary much in size, there is no constant ratio between the dimen- sions of the swelling and those of the cleft in the spine. The condition is comparatively common, being met with in about one out of every thousand births. It is most frequent in the lumbar and sacral regions, but occurs also in the cervical (Figs. 37, 38) and dorsal regions. It is not uncommon to find spina bifida associated with other congenital deformities such as hydrocephalus, club-foot, or extroversion of the bladder. Varieties.—Four varieties are usually de- scribed according to the character of the pro- trusion. They are analogous, to a certain (Anatomical Museum, extent, to the varieties of ceplialocele (p. burgh!)' J ° 66). (1) Spinal meningocele, in which only the membranes, filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, are protruded (Fig. 38). (2) Meningo-myelocele, the form most commonly met with clinically, in which the cord and some of the spinal nerves are protruded, and spread out over the inner aspect of the sac (Fig. 37). (3) Syringo-myelocele, in which there is a Fig. 36.—Spina Bi- fida. Note defici- ency of arches of several lumbar vertebr®.