THE INTESTINES. 500 colon, it is to be differentiated from tumours of the gall-bladder, liver, stomach, or omentum. A tumour of the ascending or descending colon is to be differentiated from a tumour of the kidney. Tumours of the pelvic colon in women may resemble those originating from the uterine appendages. When symptoms of obstruction are present, the diagnosis is to be made from such other causes of ileus as stricture of the lesser bowel, volvulus, incomplete strangulation by a band, matting of the bowels, faecal accumulation, and tumours of other organs pressing on the bowel. In many cases the difficulty is not cleared up until the abdomen is opened. Treatment.—In the presence of actual obstruction relief must be given without delay by opening the bowel above the block. As it is seldom possible to be certain of the site of the obstruction or of its nature, it is usually advisable to open the abdomen to the right of the middle line, below the level of the umbilicus. If the caecum is found distended, there is reasonable certainty that the stricture is below this, and the condition of the trans- verse colon is next investigated. If distended, it is brought out into the wound and an artificial anus established. In cases of great urgency and where the abdominal distension is so pronounced that exploration is inadmissible, the incision is made over the ileo-caecal junction, and the caecum, if distended, is brought out and opened. When the obstruction is tided over, the removal of the cancerous segment of bowel may be under- taken under more favourable auspices. Before the onset of obstruction, the removal of the affected segment of bowel affords a good prospect of radical cure. The abdomen having been opened by an incision so placed as to give the best access to the tumour, the site and extent of the disease are investigated to determine the possibility of its removal. Having decided to proceed with the operation, there is a choice between two methods. The first consists in clamping and resecting the bowel and establishing an immediate junction. This may be preferred in the case of malignant disease of the caecum or sigmoid flexure, in which the conditions for immediate junction are more favourable than in other parts of the colon. At the point selected for section the bowel is crushed with an enterotribe and cut across; each end is then ligatured and invaginated, and the continuity of the lumen re-established by a lateral anastomosis. The fixed portions of the colon at the hepatic and splenic flexures may require to be mobilised by dividing the parietal peritoneum by blunt dissection. If the amount of bowel removed is too great to permit of joining the