374 THE PERITONEUM. The proximity of the abscess to the diaphragm may be indicated by a feeling of oppression and difficulty in taking a deep breath, and by pain over the lower ribs on one side radiating to the shoulder. There may also be tenderness and fulness over the lower intercostal spaces. In sub-phrenic abscess on the right side, there is usually a dome-shaped extension of the liver dulness, corresponding to the upward displacement of the diaphragm by the pus accumu- lated beneath it, and as the pus pushes the liver down, the liver dulness extends to a lower level than normally. Unless there is also an exudation of fluid into the pleura, the breath sounds are quite distinct immediately above the dull area. If there is gas as well as pus in the abscess, it may be possible to identify three zones, one above the other, which yield different notes on percussion : the lung resonance above; a zone of tym- panitic resonance in the middle due to the gas; and a dulness below, which corresponds to the pus and the liver. When the abscess is on the left side, it nearly always contains gas; the left lobe of the liver is displaced downwards and the heart upwards. If large, the abscess frequently extends forwards and bulges the epigastrium and lower ribs. The following zones may be identified by percussing the thorax from above downwards : firstly, the lung resonance; secondly, tympanitic resonance from the gas in the upper part of the sub-phrenic space; and thirdly, dulness from the pus in the lower part of the space, and below this, stomach resonance. If there is effusion into the pleura, a zone of dulness intervenes between the lung resonance and the tympanitic zone. It is advisable that the presence of pus be demonstrated before proceeding to incision and drainage. Exploratory puncture is carried out by means of a fairly long needle connected with the aspirator. The needle is inserted where the tenderness and dulness are most marked; its passage through the diaphragm may be recognised by the transmis- sion of respiratory movements. If the needle traverses the pleural cavity, serum may be withdrawn first, and when the needle is pushed in further, pus is obtained. If a single puncture is negative, the needle may be reinserted at different points. Before using the exploratory needle, all the preparations for operation should be made, and if pus is found the operation should be proceeded with at once. The incision is planned so as to afford the most direct access to the cavity of the abscess. If the abscess projects below the costal margin anteriorly, it is opened from the front; in the majority of cases the trans-