41 FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. variable, but limited, distance beyond. On the other hand, when the head is struck by a “blunt” object—for example, a batten falling from a height, or a horse’s hoof—the force is applied over a wider area and the elastic skull bends before it. If the limits of its elasticity are not exceeded, the bone recoils into its normal position when the force ceases to act; but if the bone is bent beyond the point from which it can recoil, a fracture takes place. The bone gives way over a wide area, the affected portion may be comminuted, and one or more of the fragments may remain depressed below the level of the rest of the skull. Cracks and fissures spread widely in different directions— frequently extending into the base. The brittle, inelastic character of the inner or “ vitreous ” table renders it less able to resist bending than the comparatively open and porous outer table. Hence it is that in almost all fractures of the vault the inner table splinters over a wider area than the outer. Von Bergman n reports thirty cases in which the inner table alone was fractured. Fractures by indirect violence—that is, fractures in which the bone breaks at a point other than the seat of impact—are almost always due to violence inflicted with a blunt object, and acting over a wide area—such, for example, as a fall on the head. Much discussion has taken place as to the method of their production. It has been shown that when the skull is depressed at one point by a force impinging on it, it bulges at another, so that its whole contour is altered. But the elasticity of the bone varies at different parts of the skull, owing to differences in thickness and in structure. If therefore the part which is depressed—that is, the part directly struck—happens to be less elastic than the part which bulges, it gives way, and a fracture by direct violence results; but if the bulging part is the less elastic, a fracture by indirect violence or by “ bursting ” takes place. The term “fracture by contre-coiq)” has been incorrectly applied to such fractures when the area of bulging happens to be opposite to the seat of impact. Contre-coup, properly so-called, is only possible in a perfectly spherical body, which, of course, the skull is not. Repair.—The repair of fractures of the skull is usually attended with an exceedingly small amount of callus. Except in the presence of sepsis, separated fragments live and become reunited, but they may unite in such a manner as to project towards the brain and cause traumatic epilepsy. In comminuted fractures, the lines of fracture remain permanently visible on the bone, but fissured fractures may leave no trace. Gaps left in