62 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. localised paralyses of the opposite side of the body, the distribution of which depends upon whether the cortical centres or the motor fibres are implicated. The treatment consists in opening up the original wound, removing any depressed bone, or foreign body that may be present, and establishing drainage. Disease of the hones of the skull, such as osteomyelitis or syphilitic caries, may be followed by cerebral abscess. Abscesses of pycemic origin are usually multiple, and may occur both in the cerebrum and in the cerebellum ; they are not amenable to surgical treatment. Sinus Phlebitis. Inflammation of the inti’a-cranial venous sinuses is due to the spread of infection from a local focus of suppuration, and while any of the general sources of intra-cranial infection may be the starting-point of the condition, by far the most frequent is chronic suppuration in the middle ear. Among other sources of infection may be mentioned erysipelas of the face or scalp, septic conditions of the mouth or nose, and infective diseases of the bones of the skull. The organisms may reach the affected sinus directly by continuity of tissue, as for instance, when the lateral sinus becomes infected from a focus of suppuration in the mastoid process spreading through the bone to the sigmoid groove and involving the walls of the vessel; or they may reach it by extension of thrombosis in a tributary vein, for example, when the longitudinal sinus is infected from an anthrax pustule of the lip which has caused thrombosis of the emissary vein which passes through the foramen caecum. The pathological changes are the same as occur in the suppurative form of thrombo-phlebitis in the peripheral veins (vol. i. p. 274). The soft clot which forms adheres to the inflamed wall of the sinus, and, being infected with pyogenic bacteria, it soon undergoes purulent disintegration. The infective process may spread backward along tributary vessels, and so give rise to cerebral or cerebellar abscess, or to purulent meningitis ; or it may spread into the internal jugular vein and lead to the development of a diffuse purulent cellulitis along its course. General pysemic infection may take place from pus or bacteria getting into the general circulation, either directly or by reversed flow through tributary veins. Septic emboli are liable