CARCINOMA OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 273 but in some cases is quite sudden in onset, and it is more often intermittent in cancerous than in simple stenosis. This is due to a temporary diminution of congestion and relaxation of spasm, which play an important part in causing the dysphagia. Some- times the power of swallowing is temporarily improved by ulceration taking place, or by a projecting portion of the growth being displaced. There is regurgitation of food, which is mixed with blood and discharge from the ulcerated surface. In some cases there is actual vomiting of the stomach contents, which adds greatly to the patient’s discomfort. There is excessive salivation, and as the patient cannot swallow the saliva he has constantly to expectorate. Sharp lancinating pain is usually complained of behind the sternum, in the epigastrium, or between the shoulders. The patient seldom complains of actual hunger, even when the amount of food entering the stomach is exceedingly small. Persistent cough and dyspnoea are present when the tumour invades the air-passages ; when the recurrent laryngeal nerve is implicated there is cough, hoarseness of the voice, and aphonia. Severe and even fatal haemorrhage may follow the erosion of large blood-vessels. Ulceration may take place into the left pleural cavity and set up empyema. The patient emaciates out of all proportion to the interfer- ence with the taking of food, and usually dies within twelve I months of the onset of symptoms from starvation, septic absorption, or left-sided empyema. The diagnosis may be confirmed by the use of a bougie, but gi’eat care is necessary in passing the instrument lest the wall I of the oesophagus be perforated. Auscultation over the left side of the spine while fluids are swallowed may be of some value in diagnosis. Treatment.—Removal of the malignant disease is impossible except in cases in which it is seated in the upper end of the tube. The treatment, therefore, is directed towards securing that the patient shall have sufficient nourishment and be relieved of suffering. The systematic use of bougies to dilate the stricture and permit of the patient swallowing food and saliva is attended with considerable risk, and is not to be recommended. Intubation.—In suitable cases — that is, cases in which the disease is low down in the oesophagus and the lumen is not excessively small—the introduction of a short Symond’s tube may give great relief for a time, by enabling the patient to swallow food and saliva. The tube is made of gum-elastic and VOL. II—18