706 THE URETHRA. a full dose of antipyrin or quinine should be given to prevent rigors. After the stricture has been dilated to the full size, it is most important that a bougie be passed at intervals, otherwise recontraction is almost certain to take place. These intervals are gradually lengthened till once a year may suffice. If the patient is to pass the instrument himself, he should use a gum- elastic bougie (size 9-13), and should be warned against using an instrument which has become rough, cracked, or brittle, in case of damaging the mucous membrane, or lest the end of it should break off inside the bladder. Continuous Dilatation.—The largest catheter that the stricture will admit is tied in for twenty-four hours, after which it is found to be quite loose, and a larger instrument can then be passed. This “ vital dilatation,” as it was formerly called, depends partly on the exhaustion of muscular spasm, and partly on softening of scar tissue. The method is not free from risk, and in tight strictures with superadded septic infection is liable to favour the development of peri-urethral cellulitis and extravasation of urine. Operative Methods.—The cutting of a stricture may be carried out with an instrument—the urethrotome—passed along the urethra—internal urethrotomy, or through an external wound—- external urethrotomy. Internal urethrotomy is most useful in resilient, valvular, and bridle strictures, especially of the penile urethra, when dilatation fails, or the urethra is so sensitive that the patient cannot bear it. It should not be attempted if there is any peri-urethral inflammation or other septic complication. Recontraction occurs unless a full-sized bougie is passed at intervals of a month or so. External urethrotomy is called for when no instrument can be passed through the stricture, or when the latter is complicated with peri-urethral cellulitis or abscess, fistulse, false passages, or extravasation of urine. It may have to be employed when the less radical measures have failed. In traumatic strictures it is often the only feasible method. Cyme's operation is to be preferred when an instrument can be passed through the stricture. If Syme’s shouldered staff can be introduced, the external operation is at once proceeded with ; if the stricture is too tight to admit of Syme’s staff being intro- duced, it must first be dilated with bougies, or cut from within by Maisonneuve’s urethrotome, the filiform guide of which can nearly always be got to pass. Syme’s staff is then passed until the shoulder is arrested against the face of the stricture; the