258 THE THYROID GLAND. all vessels are secured before being divided or torn. Special caution is necessary in dealing with the inferior thyroid artery on account of its close connection with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The isthmus is next isolated, and secured by a strong ligature as it is cut across, or crushed with a strong angiotribe. In separating the posterior edge of the thyroid from its attach- ment to the trachea, care must be taken not to injure the recurrent laryngeal nerve as it passes beneath the lower border of the larynx ; and to ensure the safety of the nerve it is advisable to cut through the substance of the thyroid, and so leave behind the part of the gland that is attached to the trachea. The wound is then closed, a drainage tube being inserted through a small opening made for the purpose. Kocher’s angular incision begins over the sterno- mastoid muscle at the level of the thyroid cartilage on the side most affected, is carried to the middle line, and thence vertically downwards towards the sternum as far as may be necessary. Risks of the Operation.—The chief danger in operations for goitre is cardiac insufficiency, as evidenced by disturbed rhythm of the heart-beats, lowering of the blood pressure, or dilatation of the cavities of the heart (Kocher). As the administration of a general ansesthetic is attended with considerable risk, particularly when there is respiratory difficulty and when the tumour passes behind the sternum, it is advisable to perform the operation under local anaesthesia. In a large series of cases Charles Mayo has found the use of ether administered by the open method safe and satisfactory. This surgeon gives /Ah grain of morphine and y-g-yth grain of atropine half-an-hour before the operation. The risk of injuring the recurrent laryn- geal nerve has already been referred to. Care should be taken to avoid as far as possible tearing and squeezing the thyroid during the operation, as there is reason to believe that the absorption of large quantities of thyroid secretion from the divided surfaces gives rise to a condition known as acute thyroid- ism during the first few hours after operation. The symptoms of acute thyroidism are marked elevation of temperature, increase in the pulse-rate (150-200), rapid respiration with dyspnoea, flushing of the face, muscular twitchings, and mental excitement. The employment of a drainage tube for the first forty-eight hours after operation diminishes this risk. Tetany, as evidenced by the occurrence of cramp-like contractions of the fingers, may supervene within a few days of the operation, if one or more of the para-thyroids have been removed at the same time. On no account may the whole of the thyroid gland be removed,