370 THE PERITONEUM. also occur and are liable to leave a fistula after being opened and drained. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen, and if the conditions are favourable, it is best to shell out the cyst after incising the investing peritoneum ; otherwise the cyst is stitched to the parietal wound and drained. Omental Tumours.—Primary growths in the omentum are usually of the nature of sarcoma, occurring in the form of multiple nodules and being attended with ascites. Cancer only occurs secondarily, and most commonly as a sequel to cancer of the ovary or stomach. Malignant Disease of the Peritoneum.—This may be a primary affection in the form of colloid cancer or endothelioma; more often it is secondary to cancer of the stomach, liver, intestine, or ovary. The clinical features are those of an insidious ascites, not unlike that resulting from tuberculosis, with nodular tumours in different parts of the abdomen. On tapping, there escapes an abundant serous exudate, frequently turbid from the presence of degenerated cancer cells, and blood-stained from haemorrhage. If the abdomen is opened, the peritoneum is seen and felt to be studded with cancer nodules, which in the omentum are collected into larger masses. In the secondary forms, it may be possible to recognise the diseased organ from which the peritoneal metastases originated. Chylous ascites is due to the entrance of chyle into the peritoneal cavity as the result of rupture of the lacteals, or of stagnation from obstruction to the outflow from the thoracic duct. The fluid is opaque and milk-like from the presence of emulsified fat, and it may contain degenerated cells. The condition is rarely diagnosed until some of the fluid is drawn off. Hydatid cysts of the peritoneum are usually secondary to hydatid disease in the liver or in some other viscus. The cyst forms a rounded, tense, elastic tumour which has grown very slowly without causing symptoms. In about one-half of the cases there is distinct hydatid fremitus. The diagnosis is to be made from other cystic swellings, notably ovarian cysts and hydro- nephrosis. The cyst may be ruptured by external violence and cause peritonitis, usually of the infective variety. If the patient recovers from this, a crop of fresh cysts may spring up all over the peritoneum. If the cyst suppurates, it may burst on the skin surface, into the peritoneal cavity, or into one of the internal organs.