HERNIA OF THE BLADDER, 431 most frequently met with, the ovary is protruded along a patent canal of Nuck. In infants the ovary may be felt in the inguinal canal or beyond the external ring as a small, smooth, elongated, solid body, which slips about when pressed upon, and is attached to a cord—the Fallopian tube—which can be traced to the in- ternal ring. The ovary rarely reaches the labium. In infants the condition may be only a temporary one, the ovary return- ing within the abdomen as the child grows, or it may, however, become irreducible because of the increase in size of the ovary. In adults the ovary is less readily identified, as it forms a mass very like adherent omentum. Occasionally it may be made to move by traction on the uterus through the vagina. If the patient menstruates, it may become swollen and sensitive at each period. The condition is best treated by operation. If the ovary is normal and can be easily replaced, it is returned to the abdomen ; if, on the other hand, it is diseased or irredu- cible, it should be removed. In the acquired form the ovary is usually accompanied by omentum or intestine. Hernia of the Urinary Bladder. — Cyslocele.—This com- paratively rare form of hernia is met with chiefly in men after middle life, and occurs more commonly in relation to inguinal protrusions. Three chief varieties are recognised according to the peritoneal relationships of the protruded portion of the bladder—(1) The extra-peritoneal form, in which the bladder lies alongside of the hernial sac; (2) The intra-peritoneal, in which the protruded portion of bladder is entirely covered by peritoneum and lies within the hernial sac; (3) The para- peritoneal, in which the inner wall of the hernial sac is partly represented by the peritoneum covering the postero-lateral aspect of the bladder, the rest of the bladder involved in the hernia having no peritoneal coating; the viscus, therefore, is not one of the contents of the sac, but merely projects into it. The third form is the most frequent. Hernia of the bladder may be acquired as the result of some obstruction to the outflow of urine, whereby the bladder becomes distended and dilated, or even pouched, or there may exist a thin-walled diverticulum from the bladder which is protruded alongside of a hernial sac. Minor varieties of the condition may be produced by the surgeon during an operation for the radical cure of hernia, a portion of the bladder being pulled into the inguinal canal by undue traction being made upon the sac. Few cases of hernia of the bladder have been diagnosed before operation. The patient sometimes notices that the hernia