683 MICTURITION DURING SLEEP. The patient has acquired the habit of emptying the bladder at long intervals, perhaps only once in twenty-four hours ; he is nervous about the act, is unable to make water in the presence of a stranger, and the stream is slow in starting and feeble in character. In some cases the patient is unable to make water except at the same time as the bowels are moved. The condition is apt to go on to overflow and dribbling during sleep or upon exertion or coughing. The sexual functions are usually in abeyance. Physical examination fails to discover any lesion of the urethra or prostate. It is important in such cases to examine the knee-jerks, the pupils, etc., so as to exclude any affection of the spinal cord. The treatment consists in emptying the bladder at regular intervals by means of the catheter, or in having recourse to continuous drainage by attaching the catheter to a suction appar- atus. Blisters may be applied to the lower part of the dorsal spine, the constant current may be employed, one pole in the rectum and the other above the pubes; nerve tonics should be given, and, if there is a history of syphilis, iodide of potassium. Micturition during Sleep—Nocturnal incontinence—Enuresis. —This is a functional disturbance which from its frequency calls for separate consideration. It is characterised by the involuntary discharge of urine during sleep, not a dribbling as might be inferred from the term incontinence, but a normal micturition with a full stream. In the infant, the act of micturition is a purely reflex pheno- menon, and such a slight stimulus as the exposure of the body may be sufficient to set the mechanism of the reflex into action. If, after the age of two years, the evacuation of the bladder is still excited by slight stimuli, which in the normal child would have no effect, the foundation is laid for nocturnal incontinence. The condition is met with chiefly between the ages of two and fourteen, and in the majority of cases micturition is quite normal during the waking hours. Some source of peripheral irritation may be discovered, which may explain the undue irrita- bility of the bladder,—crystals of uric acid in the urine, a tight or adherent prepuce, or rectal irritation such as may result from worms. In the great majority no such explanation is to be found, and the phenomena are ascribed to “ nervousness ” on the part of the child, which may be aggravated by the tendency to dream of the act of micturition, an undue sensitiveness of the bladder and of the micturition centres in the spinal cord, an anaesthesia of the deep urethra, or a want of tone in the sphincter muscles. These muscles are too weak to resist the vesical pressure, and