SARCOMA OF THE BOWEL. 501 ends, tlie lower end of the ileum must be inserted into the lower part of the colon—ileo-colostomy. The alternative method consists in performing the operation in stages ; at the first, the affected segment of bowel is brought out and fixed at the wound ; from two to five days later the diseased portion is removed by means of the thermo-cautery, a Paul’s tube being inserted into each of the open ends of the bowel. After a week or ten days, when adhesions have formed shutting off the peritoneal cavity, the ends of the bowel are dissected free and stitched to one another. If the conditions found on opening the abdomen exclude the prospect of radical cure, for example, if the disease affects two or more coils of bowel, or if it is adherent to the parietes or is inaccessibly situated, the symptoms may be relieved and life prolonged by performing an entero-anastomosis or by establish- ing an artificial anus. Entero-anastomosis is usually carried out by cutting across the lower end of the ileum, closing and inverting the distal end, and inserting the proximal end into the colon beyond the disease. When the cancer is situated too low down in the pelvic colon to permit of this, an artificial anus must be established in the descending or transverse colon. Sarcoma of the bowel is a rare affection. It is most fre- quently situated in the lower ileum, and usually assumes the form of a diffuse infiltration of the coats of the intestine, con- verting the bowel into a rigid tube. If the lumen is narrowed, the clinical features are the same as in innocent stricture of the ileum, only the development and progress of the disease are more rapid. If the lumen is not encroached upon, the disease progresses without symptoms until there is the formation of an abdominal tumour. As the former variety is more likely to be subjected to operation at an early stage, treatment is more successful. Removal is carried out as in cancer. Pressure on the Bowel by Tumours.—Obstruction may result from the pressure of large tumours of the uterus, ovary, kidney, mesentery, or omentum, and the lower end of the pelvic colon is the segment of bowel most likely to be pressed upon. The onset of obstruction may be acute, from a sudden change in the position of the tumour, or from kinking or strangulation of the bowel; more often it is gradual, the features resembling those of stricture; in some cases the constipation simply increases until it becomes complete. In pedunculated tumours such as ovarian cysts and dermoids, the pedicle may become twisted and give rise to symptoms which simulate those of obstruction; and the wall of the cyst, after being strangu-