THE OESOPHAGUS. 266 bodies, such as imperfectly masticated portions of meat, frag- ments of bone, coins, pins, or artificial tooth-plates, are frequently impacted in the pharynx or in the oesophagus. For obvious reasons the accident is most liable to occur in children, lunatics, and those who are under the influence of alcohol. It some- times happens also during the administration of anaesthetics, if the patient vomits solid substances. The object is most likely to lodge at one or other of the points where the tube is normally constricted. Clinical Features.—If a large bolus of unmasticated food becomes impacted in the pharynx it blocks the openings of both the oesophagus and the larynx, and the patient may, without manifesting any signs of suffocation, suddenly fall back dead, and, if he happens to be alone at the time of the accident, the cause of death is liable to be overlooked unless the pharynx is opened up at the post-mortem examination. When the object is of irregular shape, for example, a large tooth-plate, it is most likely to lodge in the pharynx, obstructing the openings of both the oesophagus and the larynx, and giving rise to sudden suffoca- tion, which may rapidly prove fatal. The patient is immediately asphyxiated, the face becomes blue and engorged, and violent efforts are made to eject the object by retching and coughing. The object can usually be seen through the mouth and touched with the finger. Smaller bodies, such as coins, bones, or pins, usually enter the oesophagus. The patient has sudden pain at the point of im- paction, which is increased on attempting to swallow, the face becomes congested, and severe retching and coughing are set up. Even after the foreign body has been ejected, the patient has for some considerable time the sensation that it is still present. This may be due to a scratch of the mucous membrane, in which case the swallowing of a few drops of cocain solution will cause the sensation to disappear, or it may be due to spasm of the gullet set up by the irritation. The position of foreign bodies in the oesophagus may be determined by external palpation, or by the careful use of an olive-headed metal bougie. In children, coins are nearly always arrested at the level of the upper end of the sternum. The obstruction to the passage of food may be partial or complete, according to the shape of the body and the manner in which it is impacted. Irregular bodies, such as tootli-plates, may become fixed by sharp edges or hooks piercing the mucous membrane, and may lie in such a way that they arrest solids but allow fluids to pass. Valuable information may be obtained as to the