ANATOMY OF THE GALL-BLADDER. 523 Treatment.—The abdominal walls may be supported, and the liver kept in place by a suitable belt or bandage applied while the patient is recumbent. Symptoms of neurasthenia should be treated. When these measures fail, the question of fixing the liver in its normal position—hepatopexy—must.be considered. The patient is placed in the exaggerated Trendelenbrug position, so that the liver may fall back into its normal place. An incision is made parallel with and below the right costal margin, and the upper edge of the divided parietal peritoneum is folded over the lower edge of the right lobe of the liver and fixed there with cat- gut sutures. The wound is then closed. For at least a month after the operation the patient should remain recumbent, with the foot of the bed elevated, and an abdominal belt should be worn when the upright posture is resumed. Surgical Treatment of Ascites due to Cirrhosis of the Liver.—In uncomplicated cases of ascites resulting from hepatic cirrhosis, where repeated tapping of the abdomen has failed to afford relief, the question of bringing about artificially a collateral circulation between the portal and systemic veins may be considered. This procedure, suggested by Talma of Utrecht, was first carried out successfully by Rutherford Morison in 1895. It should be carried out as early in the disease as possible, before the absorptive functions of the peritoneum have been destroyed by chronic inflammatory changes. Several tappings should precede the operation. The operation itself consists in opening the abdomen above the umbilicus, withdrawing the fluid, and bringing about adhesions between the great omentum and the parietal peritoneum; or the omentum may be drawn out and pushed into a pocket prepared for its reception in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. A drainage tube is passed into the pouch of Douglas through an opening above the pubes, in order to draw off the fluid and keep the peritoneal cavity dry, and so allow of close vascular adhesions forming between the omentum and the parietes. Those who suffer from alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver are necessarily bad subjects for operation, and the mortality is therefore relatively high. The operation should not be performed in the presence of cardiac, pulmonary, or renal disease, nor in cases in which the cirrhosis is due to syphilis. The Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Surgical Anatomy.—The gall-bladder lies against the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. Normally the fundus projects slightly