166 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. In some cases the cheek becomes adherent to the gum and to the jaw before the abscess bursts, and the pus escapes through the skin, leaving a sinus which leads down to the defaulting tooth, and which is very slow to heal because there is usually a small sequestrum at the bottom of it. The opening of the sinus is most commonly situated at the under margin of the lower jaw a little in front of the masseter muscle. An alveolar abscess deeply seated in the upper jaw may open into the antrum of Highmore and cause suppuration in that cavity. The abscess should always be opened from the mouth to avoid a scar on the face. In all cases the extraction of the carious tooth is necessary before the abscess will cease discharging and the sinus heal. If a sequestrum is present it must be removed, and the bone scraped with a sharp spoon. Among the other effects of dental caries may be mentioned localised necrosis of the alveolar margin, septic cellulitis of the neck, and enlarge- ment of the cervical lymphatic glands. Cysts are frequently found attached to the roots of decayed teeth. They are lined with- epithelium, and are probably derived from a belated portion of the enamel organ which has been stimulated to active growth by septic processes in the pulp cavity. They are seldom larger than a pea, and they contain a pultaceous mass like inspissated pus. They give rise to no symptoms, and are only recognised after extraction of the root. Odontomata have already been described (vol. i. p. 194). Affections of the Gums.—Inflammation of the gums— gingivitis—usually occurs in association with a general stomatitis. The gums are swollen and spongy, and may show superficial ulceration, associated with bleeding and extreme foetor of the breath. The teeth become loose, project from the alveoli, and sometimes fall out. These symptoms are prominent in cases of scurvy, and of chronic mercurial poisoning. In chronic lead- poisoning a characteristic narrow blue line is seen on the gums near the dental margin. The treatment consists in removing the cause, improving the hygienic and dietetic conditions of the patient, and administering appropriate drugs, such as lime-juice, iodide of potash, quinine, or cod-liver oil, according to the cause. Antiseptic mouth - washes and dentifrices are also indicated. Chlorate of potash, being excreted in the saliva, is particularly useful. When the gums fungate they may be cauterised. Pyorrhoea alveolaris is an extremely chronic form of gingivitis, which begins in relation to the necks of the teeth and the alveolo- dental periosteum. It is due to septic infection, and is associated