278 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. from the lateral margins of the epiglottis are the two ary-epiglottic folds which reach the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly. Between the two layers of mucous membrane of which the ary-epiglottic folds are com- posed are the cartilages of Wrisberg and Santorini. Situated in the interval between the two arytenoid cartilages is the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane, which forms the upper margin of the posterior wall of the larynx. This structure, along with the ary-epiglottic folds laterally and the epiglottis in front, constitutes the boundary of the upper aperture of the larynx. In the interior of the larynx the true vocal cords form the most prominent features, being conspicuous as two hat white bands. The vocal cords form the boundary of the rima glottidis or glottic chink. Above each true cord, and parallel with it, the false cord or ventricular band is evident as a pink fold of mucous membrane. Between the false and true cord on each side is a linear interval, which indicates the entrance to the ventricle of Morgagni. Direct Laryngoscopy.—The larynx may also be examined by the direct method by means of Kirstein’s tube-spatula. After cocainisation of the base of the tongue, the soft palate, and the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the patient is seated upon a low stool and his head supported by an assistant. The light is obtained from a small lamp in the handle of the instrument. The spatula is warmed and introduced under the guidance of the eye, its end being passed over the epiglottis, and pressure exerted so as to draw the latter structure forward. The interior of the larynx may thus be brought into view for purposes of diagnosis or operation. In children a general anesthetic is required, and the examination is made with the head hanging over the end of the table. Tracheoscopy and Bronchoscopy.—Direct examination of the trachea and larger bronchi may be carried out in a similar way, by passing through the mouth and larynx metal tubes, after the method devised by Killian. This procedure is described as direct upper tracheoscopy and bronchoscopy. The examination nuj also be made through a tracheotomy wound—direct lower tracheoscopy. These procedures have proved of great service in the recognition of foreign bodies in the lower air-passages, and in their extraction ; in the diagnosis of stenosis of the trachea ; and in cases of aneurysm pressing on the trachea. Operations on the Air-Passages. Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy consists in opening the pharynx by means of a mesial, vertical incision carried through the thyro- hyoid membrane. It is performed for the removal of foreign bodies and new growths in the vicinity of the upper aperture of the larynx. If additional room is required, for example in the case of tumours involving the epiglottis, the incision may be extended to the symphysis menti and the hyoid bone divided in the middle line — trans-hyoid pharyngotomy. It is usually necessary to perform a preliminary tracheotomy, to prevent blood entering the air-passages, and to diminish the risk from oedema of the glottis.