56 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Vomiting, of the cerebral type—that is, unattended with nausea and not related to the taking of food or to gastric dis- turbance—is common, and persists all through the illness. The bowels are usually constipated. The pulse is small and rapid. Starr has pointed out that in meningitis there is an increase in the number of leucocytes in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture, and that organisms also are found in the fluid. As this does not occur in cerebral abscess, this observation may be useful in differential diagnosis. There is a higher leucocytosis in the blood in meningitis than in cerebral abscess. When the inflammation is most marked over the cerebral hemispheres, there may be paralysis of the side of the body opposite to the seat of the original lesion; sometimes there is erratic rigidity of the limbs, sometimes clonic spasms of groups of muscles. In basal meningitis, temporary squinting due to convulsive movements of the ocular muscles, retraction of the head, and an excessively high temperature, are usually prominent features. The pupils at first are equally contracted; later they become dilated and fixed. Gradually the patient becomes unconscious, shows signs of increasing intra-cranial tension, slowing of the pulse, and laboured respiration, and the condition almost always proves . fatal within three or four days. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the source of infection when this is possible, but as a rule little can be done to arrest the spread of the meningitis or to ward off its effects. In cases resulting from a sub-dural abscess in relation to a compound fracture, a septic sinus phlebitis, or an erosion of the tegmen tympani, an attempt should be made, after exposing this, to purify and drain the meningeal spaces. Hitherto the results, however, have not been encouraging. Temporary relief of symptoms may follow the withdrawal of cerebro-spinal fluid by lumbar puncture, bleeding by leeches or cupping, or the use of an ice-bag or Leiter’s tubes. The bowels should be freely moved by purgatives or enemata. Cerebral and Cerebellar Abscess. Abscess due to Middle Ear Disease.—The most common cause of abscess in the brain is chronic middle ear disease, and the majority of cerebral abscesses are therefore situated in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. Some are due to direct spread from an abscess formed in relation to an erosion of the tegmen tympani, either inside or outside the dura, others to infection