543 CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. of fat necrosis, evidenced by the minute, opaque, white areas scattered through the omentum and mesentery, goes far to establish the diagnosis. The most simple and direct access to the pancreas is obtained by making an opening in the gastro-colic omentum, pulling the stomach upwards and the transverse colon downwards, and incising the posterior parietal peritoneum. The gland thus exposed is then palpated so as to localise the area of disease, and, after packing off the peritoneal cavity very thoroughly, the pancreas is incised. Necrosed tissue is removed with the spoon or scoop, and the resulting cavity packed with gauze. If there is an accumulation of blood, as in the haemor- rhagic form, this is removed, and to prevent further extravasa- tion, the cavity must be firmly packed with gauze. If there is a collection of pus, this must be emptied, and provision made for drainage either through the abdominal w'ound or through a fresh incision behind in the right or left costo-vertebral angle. Chronic Pancreatitis.1—This is by far the commonest form of inflammation of the pancreas. The inflammation may affect the interlobular or the interacinous connective tissue of the organ, and in either case may terminate in cirrhosis. The con- dition may involve the whole gland, or only part of it, more often the head where it is embraced by the duodenum. The affected portion of the pancreas is swollen, and harder than normal, and the lobules have the feeling of being mapped out or differentiated. To the inexperienced, the irregularity and hardness met with in the head of the pancreas may suggest the presence of malignant disease. Obstruction of the pancreatic duct, with damming back and infection of the secretion, is by far the commonest cause of the condition, and is due in most cases to the lodgment of a gall- stone in the terminal portion of the common bile-duct. Catarrh of the stomach and duodenum, or the presence of duodenal ulcer, is the next most common antecedent. The formation of 'pancreatic calculi and the deposit of calcium salts on the walls of the ducts is commonly associated with catarrh of the ducts and with chronic inflammation of the pancreas; the calculi being composed of lime salts are opaque to the X-rays. The clinical features of chronic pancreatitis vary with the cause. If the condition follows upon gall-stone obstruction of the common duct, there will be a history of this; the patient is jaundiced and complains of loss of flesh, and of pains passing from the epigastrium round the left side to the renal and scapular 1 We desire here to acknowledge our indebtedness to the writings of Mr. Mayo Robson on this subject.