EMPYEMA 307 bronchial breathing may be heard even in the presence of a large purulent effusion. There is usually some dyspnoea, the pulse is accelerated, the temperature raised, rigors are common, and there is often profuse perspiration. The patient usually emaciates rapidly. The heart may be displaced by the fluid, particularly in left-sided empyema, and the liver and spleen may also be dis- placed. As most of these symptoms may be caused by a serous effusion into the pleura, the diagnosis of empyema is seldom certain until pus is withdrawn by means of an exploring needle. If the fluid withdrawn, although not actually purulent, is turbid and rich in cellular elements, empyema is almost sure to develop. The 'pneumococcal form is the least serious, and is that most frequently met with in children as a sequel of pleuro-pneumonia. In early cases the effusion is usually thin and sero-purulent, but when the condition has lasted for some time thick flakes of lymph form and adhere to the surface of the pleura. The pus is often localised to the lower portion of the chest and encysted by adhesions, and the physical signs above mentioned may not be prominent. The streptococcal form is frequently met with after scarlet fever and influenza. It usually occurs in adults, and the prognosis is more serious than in the pneumococcal form. The pus contains thick flaky masses, and the pleura is liable to become thickened and form adhesions, which divide the cavity into loculi (Fig. 83). The clinical features of empyemata due to mixed infections vary with the virulence of the organisms present. If left untreated, empyema may prove fatal by the pressure exerted on the lungs or heart, by spread of the inflammation to the pericardium or peritoneum, or by general septic absorption. The pus may burst through the chest wall—usually at the outer edge of the pectoralis major in the fifth interspace—and so establish a sinus; or it may burrow through the lung into the bronchi, and give rise to purulent expectoration. Occasionally it burrows behind the attachments of the diaphragm, and may point in the lumbar, gluteal, or iliac regions. Treatment.—While repeated aspiration may occasionally effect a cure, especially in children and in the pneumococcal variety of the disease, it is not to be relied upon, and is only to be employed in exceptional circumstances, for example, when, on account of extreme weakness, the patient is unable to stand a more severe operation. The most satisfactory method of treatment is by incision and resection of a portion of one or more ribs. By this means