674 THE URINARY BLADDER. haemorrhage; all three are aggravated by exercise or jolting, and, so long as the bladder is not infected, are greatly relieved by rest in bed. The pain is referred to the perineum or to the point of the penis, and is most marked at the end of micturition when the sensitive neck of the bladder contracts upon the stone. Sudden arrest of the stream of urine, due to the stone obstruct- ing the entrance to the urethra, with renewal of the flow on a change of posture, is a characteristic symptom, but is not always present. If the stone enters the prostatic urethra, it may completely block it and so cause retention; but if it only partly obstructs the canal, it may keep it open and so cause incontinence. While some drops of bright blood may be observed at the end of micturition, hsematuria is rarely a prominent feature ; in exceptional cases, however, the haemor- rhage is as profuse as in tumours of the bladder, but it ceases promptly when the patient is confined to bed. Red blood corpuscles are frequently found on microscopical examination of the ur.ne. In boys, the irritation of the stone causes them to drag upon the penis and the prepuce is elongated thereby. At a varying stage in the history the clinical features of the stone are complicated by the occurrence of septic cystitis. The urine tends to undergo alkaline decomposition, and the stone may increase in size by the deposition of phosphates. The symptoms are no longer so markedly relieved by rest, and the patient suffers by night as well as by day. He is liable also to exacerbations of symptoms from the cystitis giving rise to continued spasm at the neck of the bladder, and he may have to urinate every quarter of an hour or so. Spasm of the wall of the rectum occurs at the end of micturition and tends to the development of prolapse. In the final stages, the health of the patient is further undermined by the ascent of the septic infec- tion to the kidneys and death usually results from suppurative pyelo-nephritis. Methods of Examination and Diagnosis.—In any case of suspected stone in the bladder it is essential that an investiga- tion be made of the urine, as this may reveal conditions which should receive treatment before the bladder is explored. In thin subjects and in children it may be possible to feel the stone on recto-abdominal examination, especially under an anaesthetic. In adult males the condition of the prostate should be investi- gated from the rectum. Sounding the Bladder for Stone.—The patient should be confined to bed for some hours before the exploration. The urine is drawn off, the bladder filled with boracic solution (four