112 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. the thorax is thus increased, while its vertical diameter is diminished. These changes, together with the telescoping of the vertebral bodies, lead to the deformity characteristic of the tuberculous hunchback (Fig. 28). The alterations in the shape of the chest may lead to functional disturbances of the heart and lungs. Dorsal Abscess.—When pus forms, it may pass directly back- wards along the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves, and come to the surface be- hind the transverse processes, or it may travel forward between the pleura and the ribs, and, passing along the course of the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostals, come to the surface opposite the middle of the rib. In the latter case the abscess is liable to be mistaken for one associated with tuberculous disease of the rib, particularly as the rib is usually found to be bare. In rare cases the pus opens into the pleura, con- stituting one form of empyema. When the disease is on the an- terior surface of the bodies of the lower dorsal vertebrae, the pus may spread down through the pillars of the diaphragm and reach the sheath of the psoas muscle. Treatment.—In the early stages extension should be applied both to the head and to the lower extrem- ities. When the more acute symp- toms subside, the patient is placed in a double Thomas’s splint (Fig. 30), or, if a child, in a Phelp’s box. Dorso-lumbar Region.—The symptoms are very similar to those of disease in the dorsal region. Children while standing often assume a characteristic attitude—the hips and knees are slightly flexed, and the hands grasp the thighs just above the knees (Fig. 31). In this way the weight is partly taken off the affected vertebras and borne by the arms. If the child be laid on its back and lifted by the heels, the spine remains rigid. By this test a projection due to tuberculous disease may be differentiated from one due to rickets, as in the latter case the projection disappears. Fig. 31. — Attitude in Pott’s Disease of Dorso - lumbar Region of Spine.