614 THE KIDNEY AND URETER, of the ureter. The exposure and fixation of a movable kidney is known as nephropexy or nephrorraphy. Resection of the kidney refers to the removal of a portion of the organ for localised disease or injury ; nephrectomy implies the removal of the entire organ. Nephro-litliotomy refers to the incision of the kidney for the removal of stone. Ureter- ectomy refers to the removal of part or the whole length of the ureter. These various operations may be performed with the patient lying on his side, a roller pillow being placed in the interval between the ribs and the iliac crest to open up this interval on the side that is uppermost ; or with the patient lying on his face, in which case a large air cushion, such as that introduced by Edebohls, is placed beneath the belly. The normal lumbar incision employed for the exposure of the kidney and upper part of the ureter begins at the angle between the last rib and the outer border of the erector spin®, and runs downwards and forwards towards the anterior superior iliac spine. This incision divides the strong lumbar fascia and the muscles arising from it, the latissimus dorsi, and the serratus posticus inferior ; in front, the posterior border of the external oblique and internal oblique are also divided. The transversalis fascia and loose perirenal fat are then opened up, and the kidney is exposed and may be brought out at the wound. Congenital Anomalies of the Kidney.—Persistence of the foetal lobulation of the kidney is occasionally met with, but is of little importance. The two kidneys may be nearer the middle line than normal and their lower ends be fused — horse-shoe kidney—the bridge of tissue joining them lying in front of the third lumbar vertebra, and being crossed by the ureters. One half may become the seat of disease, for example hydronephrosis, while the other half remains healthy. It is rarely possible to diagnose a horse-shoe kidney clinically, as the organ cannot be palpated. Sometimes one kidney is imperfectly developed, the organ being represented by a nodule of renal tissue not larger than a bean or a walnut. The renal vessels are present, and the ureter, although narrow, may be patent and admit a probe or catheter, at least at its lower end. Congenital absence of one kidney also occurs, and is sometimes associated with defective development or imperfect descent of the testis on the same side. On cystoscopic examination of the bladder only one ureteral orifice is seen, as the ureter also is absent. The possibility of these abnormalities should be borne in mind when considering the question of nephrectomy, although when one kidney is absent or imperfectly developed the other is usually considerably enlarged. Congenital Displacement or Dystopia.—The kidney may lie nearer the middle line than normal, or it may be displaced