399 CLINICAL CONDITIONS OF HERNIA. can be returned within the abdomen. The sac being fixed to the surrounding tissues, cannot be replaced. The reduction may take place spontaneously when the patient lies down, or may be effected by manipulation on the part of the patient or of the surgeon, this manipulation being known as taxis. A reducible hernia forms a soft, rounded swelling, which when the patient strains or coughs presents an expansile impulse known as the “impulse on coughing.” When the sac contains intestine alone, the swelling is elastic, uniform, and resonant on percussion; during reduction there is a characteristic gurgle, and the last portion of the bowel is the most easily reduced. When there is omentum only, the swelling is less uniform in consistence, is uneven, knotted or lumpy, and is dull on percussion ; there is no gurgle on reduction, and the last part is the most difficult to reduce. Very commonly both bowel and omentum are present in the sac. The symptoms of reducible hernia vary greatly in different patients. Many are unaware that they are the subjects of hernia, and go about for years without inconvenience or anxiety. Strong, young adults suffer a great deal and may, even before there is any swelling visible externally, complain of severe colicky pain in the region of the hernia, and, in the case of males suffering from inguinal hernia, of pain referred along the spermatic cord. There is an inability to lift weights, or to take part in any form of exercise calling for muscular exertion. Prognosis.—If untreated, a hernia tends to become larger and more unmanageable, and at any time it may become strangulated. A person with a rupture which is not controlled by a truss is not accepted for life insurance. Treatment.—The alternatives before the patient are, either to have the hernia controlled by a truss, or to have it cured by operation. The details will be described with the individual herniae. Irreducible Hernia.—An irreducible hernia is one in which the contents of the sac cannot be completely returned within the abdomen. The commonest cause of irreducibility is the presence of adhesions between the contents and the sac, especially adhesions implicating the omentum ; less frequently it is due to increase in bulk of the prolapsed omentum from continued deposition of fat in it. Sometimes, as in large umbilical or scrotal hernia, the mere bulk of the hernial contents is an obstacle to reduction, because there is no longer accommodation for them within the abdomen (Fig. 97). The symptoms and signs otherwise are similar to those of a