THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 440 parietal peritoneum by sutures. Finally, the tube is brought obliquely through the abdominal wall and the wound is closed. A broad silver ring, provided with two eyes to which tapes are fastened, is applied round the rubber tube where it emerges from the fistula. The patient is fed through a funnel introduced into the outer end of the tube, and the first meal may with advantage be given before he leaves the operating table. Between meals the tube is occluded by a clamp or a wooden spill. Great care must be taken during the first week not to displace the tube, as some difficulty may be experienced in re- introducing it, and, in the attempt, the sutures may be torn and leakage take place. After the fistulous track has become estab- lished, the tube may be removed and cleaned from time to time. Another method of performing gastrostomy is that associated with the names of Frank and Albert: a conical portion of the anterior wall of the stomach, after being brought out through the rectus, is drawn through a tunnel made in the subcutaneous tissue, and attached to the skin at a point above and to the left of the original wound. At this point the stomach is opened and a tube inserted through which the patient is fed. Pyloroplasty consists in dividing the anterior wall of the pylorus by a longitudinal incision, and stitching the edges of this at right angles to its long axis. Loreto’s operation consists in opening the stomach near the pylorus and stretching the sphincter by dilators ; the same object is achieved without open- ing the stomach by Hahn’s method, which consists in invaginating the anterior wall of the stomach through the pylorus with the forefinger. These procedures are contra-indicated in cicatricial contraction of the pylorus, and are now rarely practised. Gastro-enterostomy.—This operation consists in establishing a communication between the stomach and the small intestine, with the object of making a new, dependent outlet for the gastric contents. The anastomosis is usually made with the jejunum—gastro- jejunostomy ; and the intestine may either be brought upwards in front of the colon and anastomosed with the anterior wall of the stomach (Wblfler), or the anastomosis may be made with the posterior wall of the stomach (Von Hacker). The posterior operation is the one most frequently practised now, and it has been modified by W. J. Mayo, Moynihan, and others. The abdomen is opened by a vertical incision to the right of the middle line above the umbilicus. The stomach, transverse colon, and omentum are drawn out of the wound and