MASTOID DISEASE. 219 only necessary to open up the mastoid antrum and all the cells, and to establish satisfactory drainage by this route. The middle ear and its contents must not be touched, lest the function of the organ be interfered with. A curved incision is made over the mastoid about a quarter of an inch behind, and parallel with, the attachment of the auricle. The periosteum is detached and the auricle turned forward until the posterior and superior walls of the osseous meatus are exposed. If a sinus is found, it should be enlarged by means of a gouge, as it almost certainly communicates with the antrum. If there is no sinus, the gouge should be applied in the suprameatal triangle (Fig. 6), which is bounded above by the posterior root of the zygoma, below by the upper and posterior segment of the bony external meatus, and behind by an imaginary line joining these (Macewen). The instrument should be directed forwards and inwards to avoid injuring the sigmoid sinus. If the opening be carried too high, the middle fossa of the skull may be opened. The antrum and cells having been freely opened up, the cavity is irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze, which is renewed daily till the discharge ceases and the cavity is filled in by granulation. When mastoid suppuration is associated with chronic middle- ear disease, it is usually necessary to perform the complete radical operation—Stacke-Schivartze operation—which consists in throwing the antrum, attic, and middle ear into one cavity. After the mastoid antrum and cells have been fully opened up, the soft parts lining the meatus are detached from the upj^er and back part of the canal. The Stacke protector or a bent probe is then passed from behind forwards through the aditus, and the posterior wall of the osseous meatus, along with the bridge of bone forming the inner end of this wall, is removed with the chisel. At this stage of the operation care should be taken to avoid injuring the facial nerve, and the anaesthetist should be directed carefully to watch the patient’s face and observe whether any twitching occurs. The outer wall of the attic, that is, the inner end of the superior wall of the osseous meatus, should next be removed. The operation is then completed by removing the malleus and incus, if they are still present, the remains of the tympanic membrane, and all granulation tissue. The large cavity thus made in the bone is rendered as smooth as possible, the burr or chisel being applied to all ridges or overhanging edges. The cartilaginous meatus is enlarged by carrying two parallel, horizontal incisions through the soft parts previously detached from the posterior meatal wall. The flap thus formed