HERNIA. 404 protruded bowel has occurred. Shock is most pronounced in the small recent hernise of young adults ; sometimes it is entirely absent. The general condition of the patient does not neces- sarily correspond with the gravity of the changes in the hernial contents, and may be so little disturbed that he is able to sit up or even to walk although the bowel is already gangrenous. Vomiting is one of the most constant symptoms. At first the vomited matter is merely undigested food, later it con- sists of the contents of the upper part of the small intestine, bile being a prominent constituent, and, finally, of the decom- posing and foetid contents of the bowel above the loop engaged in the hernia. This dark brown or black, foul-smelling fluid is usually described as “ faecal ” or “ stercoraceous,” but the presence of recognisable faecal matter is rarely, if ever, observed. The higher up the segment of intestine involved the more severe is the vomiting; when the colon is strangulated vomiting is not so early or so marked a feature. As in other forms of intestinal obstruction, it is characteristic that the vomited matter is ejected without retching or appreciable effort. As a rule nothing is passed by the rectum, although an enema may bring away faecal matter from below the seat of obstruction. In a Richter’s hernia, and in a hernia in which omentum only is in the sac, there may be one or more movements of the bowels. Unless the loop of bowel concerned is high up in the jejunum, the abdomen tends to become distended and rigid, and it may be tender on pressure. Peristaltic movements of individual coils of bowel are, as a rule, only observed when the strangulation is not very tight and has lasted for several days. The temperature is usually sub-normal, the pulse small and rapid, the face pale and drawn, and the expression anxious. There is great complaint of thirst, and the tongue is dry and brown. The urine, which usually contains albumen, is small in quantity and dark in colour. If the condition is not relieved, the patient sinks with symptoms of progressive toxaemia. Strangulation of the omentum alone gives rise to the same kind of symptoms as strangulation of the intestine, but they are less severe, and there is not the same risk to life. Diagnosis.—When a patient presents the symptoms of intestinal obstruction above described, a careful examination of all the hernial regions is the first step in arriving at a diagnosis of the cause. The patient himself may be ignorant of the fact that he suffers from hernia, and in stout people a small hernia is liable to be overlooked even when sought for. An irreducible