563 UTERINE FIBROIDS. after rupture has occurred, and if there is reason to believe that the rupture has taken place extra-peritoneally, and that the foetus is dead, operative interference may be delayed temporarily, but there seems little advantage in waiting for absorption to take place. If the foetus is alive, and the gestation sac increasing in size, it is safer to operate and remove the tube. The chief difficulty in 'the operation lies in controlling the bleeding from the placenta. Operation is also indicated for the removal of a disintegrating or decomposing foetus to avoid the risks of septic infection and of abscesses and fistulm. The practice of allow- ing the gestation to go on to term in the hope of saving the life of the foetus is attended with too grave risk- to the mother to be justifiable, particularly as the foetus is usually imperfectly developed and is seldom viable. Uterine Fibroids.—This clinical term is applied to myo- mata and fibro-myomata of the uterus—tumours which are composed of irregularly interlacing bundles of muscular and fibrous connective tissue. They usually spring from the body of the uterus, less frequently (5 per cent.) from the cervix, as well-defined globular, or irregularly nodular growths, which are more or less completely encapsulated. They vary in size from a hazel-nut to a mass which occupies the greater part of the abdominal cavity. There may only be one tumour, but as a rule there are several. The tumour may develop under the uterine mucosa—the sub- mucous variety—projecting towards the cavity of the uterus, and showing a marked tendency to become pedunculated. The uterine cavity is enlarged, and the pedicle may become so attenuated that the fibroid is separated and cast off through the vagina. The interstitial or intra-mural variety forms in the muscular wall of the uterus, and is surrounded by normal muscular fibres. These tumours, having a more copious blood- supply, grow more rapidly than the other forms, and in their growth they tend to project towards the abdominal cavity rather than towards the uterus. The subserous or subperitoneal varieties grow from the outer surface of the uterus under the peritoneal covering of the organ, and extend towards the abdominal cavity. They tend to become pedunculated, and may grow to a large size. All varieties are liable to undergo degenerative changes, such as calcification or myxomatous degeneration, and to become the seat of cyst formation. Clinical Features.—In many cases these tumours attain a considerable size without giving rise to any symptoms that lead the patient to seek advice. While fibro-myomata are