HERNIA. 430 structures in relation to it must be thoroughly exposed before proceeding to the radical cure. When strangulation has occurred the abdomen should be opened in the semi-lunar line, and the strangulated intestine released from the abdominal aspect of the obturator foramen. If the ring requires division, it should be incised in a direction downwards and inwards to avoid injuring the obturator artery. Diaphragmatic hernia is described at page 479. Hernia of Individual Viscera.—Hernia of the Csecum and Appendix.—The csecum and appendix are most frequently met with in scrotal hernise of the right side, but they have been found in left-sided hernise. The peritoneal relationships of the csecum within the abdomen vary in different subjects. In the great majority of cases the csecum and commencement of the ascending colon are entirely invested with peritoneum, and when these portions of the bowel are herniated they enter a complete sac just as in other forms of hernia. In excep- tional cases the posterior surface of the csecum and adjacent part of the colon is uncovered with peritoneum, and if they enter a hernia it is by gliding downwards so that only the anterior and lateral aspects are free within the sac. Under these circumstances the hernia is irreducible and can only be efficiently treated by operation. In congenital hernia of the caecum the visceral descent is the result of the action of the gubernaculum. When the csecum is present in a congenital sac, there is usually a peritoneal fold— the plica vascularis—uniting the bowel to the testis. This fold contains the spermatic vessels, vas deferens, and upper part of the gubernaculum; and as the testis passes into the scrotum it occasionally pulls the bowel after it by means of the plica (Lockwood). The vermiform appendix may accompany the csecum, or it may be the only viscus found in the hernial sac. It can some- times be distinctly palpated through the coverings of a scrotal hernia, and is liable to become adherent to the sac or to the testis. There would appear to be some confusion between strangulation of the herniated appendix and appendicitis in a hernial sac. Clinically it is usually impossible to differentiate these, and even at the operation it is not always easy. In the majority of cases it is really a strangulation of the appendix. Hernia of the sigmoid flexure is met with in scrotal hernia of the left side under conditions similar to those described as occurring in hernia of the ctecum. Hernia of the Ovary.—In the congenital form, which is that