QUINSY. 159 and dryness of the throat, and the patient has the sensation of a foreign body being in the pharynx, with a constant desire to swallow. Swallowing is extremely painful, the pain shooting up into the ears, and there are often cracking and noises in the ears. The voice is thick and nasal, and the respiration is impeded and noisy. If the patient can open the mouth sufficiently to afford a view of the back of the throat (which, however, is seldom the case), the inflamed parts are seen to be of a dull reddish violet colour. One tonsil is often more swollen than the other, and the corresponding anterior pillar of the fauces more prominent. The uvula is deviated towards the side on which there is least swelling. Suppuration occurs in from three to seven days ; in adults it is usually in the peritonsillar tissue of the anterior pillar of the fauces, and extends into the soft palate. In children the pus sometimes forms in the substance of the tonsil. If left to burst, the abscess discharges itself into the mouth, and the patient experiences instant relief. The pus is always offensive, and if the abscess bursts during sleep, it may enter the air passages and cause septic pneumonia. The lymphatic glands in the neck are usually enlarged, and some- times they suppurate, and a diffuse septic cellulitis is liable to occur. Treatment.—The bowels should be freely moved by calomel or other opening medicine. In the early stages soothing anti- septic gargles are indicated. Later the inhalation of steam impregnated with the vapour of carbolic acid or friar’s balsam, and the application of hot fomentations, or a large linseed poultice, to the neck, may afford relief. When an abscess forms, it should be opened by means of a fine pointed pair of sinus forceps, thrust through the soft palate at a point opposite the base of the uvula, and in the line of the anterior pillar of the fauces. Hypertrophy of the tonsils is most commonly met with in children between five and ten years of age, and it is very often associated with adenoid vegetations in the naso-pharynx and chronic thickening of the pharyngeal mucous membrane. The whole tonsil is enlarged, the mucous membrane thickened, and the connective tissue more or less sclerosed. The crypts appear on the surface as deep clefts or fissures, and the lymph follicles are enlarged and prominent. Secretion accumulates in the crypts, and calculi may form from the deposit of lime salts. Sometimes food particles lodge in the crypts, and they may collect and form accumulations of considerable size, requiring the use of a scoop to dislodge them. Clinical Features.—The hypertrophy is bilateral, but not