160 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. always symmetrical. Sometimes the tonsils project to such an extent as almost to meet in the middle line ; sometimes they scarcely pass beyond the level of the pillars of the fauces. They are usually sessile, but sometimes the base is so narrow as almost to form a pedicle. During childhood they are usually soft and spongy, but when they persist into adolescence or adult life they become firm and indurated. The repeated attacks of catarrhal or suppurative tonsillitis to which the patients are subject cause this sclerotic change. The lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw are frequently enlarged. Swallowing is sometimes interfered with, and the patient is liable to attacks of nausea and vomiting. Respiration is always more or less impeded, and the patient breathes through the open mouth, and snores loudly during sleep. The hindrance to respiration interferes with the development of the chest. In some cases alarming suffocative attacks occasionally supervene during sleep, and disappear as soon as the child is wakened. The voice is characteristically thick and nasal, especially when adenoids are present. Hearing is often impaired from obstruc- tion of the Eustachian tube. In many cases the patient has a characteristically vacant and stupid expression. Treatment.—General tonic treatment is indicated in all cases. In early and mild cases the tonsils should be painted with glycerin of tannic acid, or some other astringent, and an antiseptic mouth-wash should be used several times a day. In more advanced cases, when the condition is interfering with the general health or with the development of the chest, or when there is deafness or disturbance of sleep, the tonsils should be removed. The parts are painted with a 5 per cent, solution of cocain, and the tonsil is seized with vulsella forceps and pulled out from between the pillars of the fauces, and is then shaved off with a curved probe-pointed bistoury, protected with adhesive plaster near the hilt to avoid injuring the lips or tongue. In tonsils that project prominently the guillotine may be preferred to the knife. Soft tonsils can sometimes be shelled out with the finger-nail. The haemorrhage usually ceases spontaneously; when it is excessive firm pressure should be applied over the bleeding point with a sponge moistened with adrenalin solution, and the patient should remain in a sitting position. In children as much of the tonsil as possible should be removed, but in adults it is usually sufficient to shave off the projecting portion. The subsequent cicatricial contraction reduces the organ to its normal size, and the operation is usually followed by a marked improvement in the general health.