TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. 707 patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a median incision made in the perineum, exposing the shoulder of the staff; the point of the knife is then inserted into the groove in the narrow part of the staff beyond the shoulder, and made to cut the stricture from behind forwards. A full-sized rubber catheter is then passed from the meatus into the bladder, aided by the linger in the wound, and is tied in. A wooden plug may be fitted into the catheter and removed at intervals to empty the bladder, or the catheter may be attached to a suction apparatus. In aseptic cases the perineal wound is closed by tiers of sutures, and healing frequently takes place without a drop of urine escaping from the wound. In cases complicated with sinuses or other septic conditions, it is lightly packed with iodoform worsted ; and if the urine is ammoniacal the bladder must be washed out several times a day, and the catheter is changed every second or third day, as it tends to become coated with phosphates. If there is such severe urethritis and cystitis that it is unwise to tie a catheter into the whole length of the urethra, the bladder should be drained through the perineal wound by means of Syme’s S-shaped catheter. After the urethritis and cystitis have subsided, bougies are passed at intervals to prevent recontraction of the scar. Perineal Section for Impermeable Stricture.—A staff, of the pattern introduced by Wlieelhouse, is passed down to the stricture with its grooved surface looking towards the perineum. The patient is then placed in the lithotomy position, and the end of the staff is cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum, and the urethra opened by cutting on the groove in the staff. The opening in the urethra being held aside by silk threads passed through each of its edges, the staff is rotated so that the hook on the end of it projects through the opening, and pulled up slightly so as to retract the upper angle of the opening and put the urethra on the stretch. With the aid of a probe-director the lumen of the stricture is then searched for; sometimes it can be identified by expressing urine from the bladder by pressing above the pubes. The director is passed through the stricture, which is then slit open along the floor throughout its whole length. The final steps and after- treatment are the same as in Syme’s operation. If the surgeon fails to find the lumen of the stricture, recourse must be had to the retrograde method, the bladder being opened above the pubes, after the method described in ruptured urethra (p. 691). Resection of the strictured portion of the urethra has been