768 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. apart. If there is phimosis, circumcision is often advisable to admit of thorough purification and to prevent recurrence. After middle life a chronic form of balanitis sometimes occurs, and, like similar chronic forms of inflammation of mucous surfaces, such as that of the tongue, may be an antecedent of cancer. Preputial Calculi.—Calculi composed of uric acid, urates, and phosphates are occasionally met with in the preputial sac of adults who suffer from marked degrees of phimosis. They are due to the deposit of salts from the urine which stagnates in the pouch, and the nucleus of the calculus may be a mass of inspissated smegma or mucus, or a small stone which has passed from the kidney or bladder and become lodged within the prepuce. They may be single or multiple, varying in size from a pea to a walnut or even larger, and are usually smooth and faceted (Fig. 203). Lymphangitis is usually an ac- companiment of primary syphilis, the main lymphatic trunks standing out as firm cords on the dorsal aspect of the penis. Cellulitis may result from balan- itis, or from sepsis complicating injuries or operations on the penis, for example circumcision. It may spread to the scrotum and abdomen, and has in some cases proved fatal. The spreading ulceration of the groin and scrotum met with in secondary syphilis sometimes invades the penis, and may eat into its substance to such an extent as to open the urethra and form a urinary fistula. Gangrene of the penis may result from such conditions as paraphimosis, phagadsenic chancres, or septic infection of acci- dental or operation wounds. It is also met with in elderly men suffering from enlarged prostate or stricture, with septic changes in the urethra, and may occur as a sequel of acute infective fevers, such as typhoid or smallpox. In some cases only the skin becomes gangrenous, but in others the whole thickness of the organ undergoes necrosis, and the distal portion is cast off as a slough. The gangrene is usually of the moist type, and the clinical features and principles of treatment are the same as in gangrene of the extremities. After the separation of the slough care must be taken to prevent stricture of the urethral orifice. Fig. 203.—Faceted Calculi from sac of Prepuce. (From Professor Annandale’s collection.)