COMPRESSION FRACTURE OF THE SPINE. 99 anaesthesia, gentle extension is made on the head by an assistant, and the abnormal attitude is first slightly exaggerated to relax the ligaments and to restore mobility to the locked articular processes. The head is then forcibly flexed towards the opposite side, after which it can be rotated into its normal attitude, (Kocher). Haphazard movements to effect reduction are attended with risk of damaging the cord. After reduction has been effected, the treatment is the same as that of a sprain. Isolated Fractures of the Arches and Spinous Processes.— These injuries usually result from direct violence, such as a blow on the back or a bullet wound, and are accompanied by bruising of the overlying soft parts, irregularity in the line of the spines, and by the ordinary signs of fracture. They are most common in the lower cervical and in the dorsal regions, where the spines are most prominent and therefore most exposed to injury. In many cases there are no symptoms of damage to the cord or spinal nerves, but when both laminae give way the posterior part of the arch may be driven in and cause direct pressure on the cord, or blood may be effused between the bone and the dura. In such cases immediate operation is indicated. When there are no cord symptoms, the treatment consists in securing absolute rest, with the aid of extension, if necessary, for several weeks until the bones are reunited. Isolated Fracture of the Bodies—“Compression Fracture.” —The “ compression fracture ” consists in a crushing from above downwards of the bodies—and the bodies only—of one or more vertebrae. It is due to the patient falling from a height and landing on the head, buttocks, or feet in such a way that the force is transmitted along the bodies of the vertebrae, while the spine at the same time is hexed. If the patient lands on his head the compression fracture usually involves the lower cervical or upper dorsal vertebrae. When he lands on his buttocks or feet it is usually the lumbar or the lower dorsal vertebrae that are fractured (Fig. 24). The patient is unable to walk, stand, or sit, and lies helpless. As a rule there are no external signs of injury over the spine. The sternum, however, is often fractured, and irregularity and discoloration may be detected on examining the front of the chest. The recognition of a fracture of the sternum should always direct attention to the spine. On careful examination of the back in the region injured, a more or less marked pro- jection of the spinous processes may be recognised. In the cervical and lumbar regions this projection may merely obliterate the normal concavity. The spinous process which