RECURRENT APPENDICITIS. 391 it may be extremely difficult to close it, and it becomes necessary to resect the caecum and implant the ileum into the colon. Such operations are by no means devoid of danger, and are sometimes followed by the formation of fresh fistulse. The occurrence of jaundice is a serious complication, as it is an evidence of general septic infection, which proves fatal in the majority of cases. Among other complications may be mentioned thrombosis of the femoral vein, usually on the left side ; various chest complications; and parotitis, these being common to all abdominal infections; sub-phrenic abscess has already been described (p. 371). Ventral hernia may follow an operation for acute appendicitis when the wound has been left open for drainage. The treatment is to excise the scar, to open the peritoneal cavity, divide omental and other adhesions, and reunite the different layers .of the abdominal wall. When operation is contra-indicated a pad and belt should be worn. Recurrent and Chronic Appendicitis. Recovery from a first attack of appendicitis is followed by recurrence in a proportion of cases which has been estimated at about 20 per cent; there would appear to be no difference in the liability to recurrence between those cases that suppurate and those that do not. The anatomical changes met with in and around the appendix vary widely. In some cases they are very slight, and, but for the fact that the attacks cease after removal of the appendix, it would be difficult to believe that it had been the cause of the symptoms. In many cases the appendix appears normal to the naked eye, but on microscopical examination shows catarrhal changes in the mucous membrane, hyperplasia of the submucous and muscular coats, and more or less round-celled infiltration throughout all the coats; in others the mucous membrane is atrophied and has been replaced by granulation or cicatricial tissue, and it is under these conditions that the opposing surfaces of the lumen may become united, or so narrowed as to cause stricture ■ when the lumen is completely obliterated the term appendicitis obliterans is applied to the condition. In many cases there are marked naked-eye alterations in the appendix : sometimes it is thicker, stiffer and firmer than normal; if the lumen is narrowed by cicatricial changes,