HERNIA. 410 stretched and protruded as a pouch through the internal abdominal ring, and gradually forces its way along the canal till it reaches the external ring through which it passes towards the scrotum. In the earliest stages a mere bulging at the internal ring may be observed during expulsive efforts. Once it enters the scrotum, the hernia increases more rapidly and becomes pyriform in shape, the neck or narrow portion of the swelling lying in the inguinal canal. In its further progress in the scrotum, the hernia lies above or in front of the testis with the structures of the cord behind it. In old herniae the internal and external abdominal rings become approximated until they lie di- rectly behind one another, and the neck of the sac and the canal which it occupies become pro- gressively shorter. This is best appreciated clinically by reducing the hernia and invaginating the scrotum by passing the finger along the cord until it is engaged in the external ring. In hernise of long standing the canal may be so dilated that the finger tra- verses the whole length of it, and may even enter the abdomen through the internal ring. In fully one-third of the cases of acquired hernia, a similar pro- trusion develops sooner or later upon the other side. Diagnosis.—While the hernia is still iii the stage of bubonocele, it is to be differentiated from an undescended testis, an encysted hydrocele of the cord, enlarged lymphatic glands, the softer forms of connective-tissue tumours, and a chronic abscess. When the hernia has emerged from the external ring, it is liable to be mistaken for a femoral hernia. When it has descended into the scrotum, it is to be diagnosed from varicocele, hydrocele, luematocele, and pathological enlarge- ments of the testicle. In the female, an acquired inguinal hernia escapes from the external abdominal ring, and if it enters the labium it has the same relations to the round ligament of the uterus as it has to the spermatic cord in the male. Labial hernia is to be Fig. 99.—Double Oblique Inguinal Hernia.