526 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. towards a point beneath the right scapula. When the spasm affects the common bile-duct, it tends to remain localised to the epigastric region, but may extend also a little to the left and through to the back between the shoulders. Severe attacks of colic are attended with a degree of shock and a feeling of cold which may amount to a rigor. The muscles of the abdominal wall below the right costal margin are rigidly contracted and do not move with respiration; there is usually retching and vomit- ing, and the vomiting is not infrequently followed by sudden and complete relief of the pain. The patient, once relieved, feels quite well, and beyond a little rigidity of the right rectus, presents no physical signs of disease. On one occasion we had the opportunity of seeing the gall-bladder (at an operation) during the height of an attack of colic; it was tense, glistening, of a pink colour, tightly distended, the muscular coat being in a state of tonic contraction. Tenderness is a common symptom, especially when the inflammation has spread from the gall-bladder or bile-ducts to the parietal peritoneum; in gall-bladder affections tenderness is situated below the right costal margin; in affections of the common duct it is located to the middle line between the ziphoid and the umbilicus. Jaundice, the yellow discoloration of the skin and conjunctiva due to the dissemination of bile pigment by the blood, is absent in affections confined to the gall-bladder, but when the flow of bile from the liver into the intestine is interfered with, as, for example, when the common duct is obstructed by a stone or pressed upon by a tumour, it becomes a prominent feature. Enlargement of the Gall-Bladder.—In many of the conditions associated with inflammation and with stone in the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, the gall-bladder does not project below the margin of the liver, and is therefore inaccessible to clinical examination. It may, however, become so large that it projects downwards towards the umbilicus as a palpable tumour. The contents of such a gall-bladder vary: if the cystic duct is patent, it may contain bile; if, on the other hand, this duct is blocked, bile is no longer present and is replaced by mucus or pus. The term hydrops has been applied when the bladder is distended with mucus. A distended gall-bladder forms a pear-shaped tumour directed downwards and forwards from the right costal margin towards a point in the middle line just below the umbilicus. Unless in a stout person or in one with rigid abdominal muscles, it is felt as a smooth, rounded, tense tumour, the lower extremity of which