THE CHEST. 300 lesion as possible. If the visceral and parietal layers of the pleura are then brought into contact by making firm pressure over the chest and diaphragm, they adhere by capillary attraction and the lung expands. Haemoptysis is treated by giving the patient ice to suck and by injecting ergotin or morphin. Surgical emphysema usually disappears spontaneously. In the treatment of penetrating wounds the primary indications are to arrest external haemorrhage, to purify the wound, and remove any foreign bodies that may be present. When the bleeding takes place from an intercostal artery, to enable the bleeding point to be secured it is usually necessary to enlarge the wound, or even to resect a portion of a rib. Sometimes the bleeding can be stopped by passing a ligature round the rib and its accompanying intercostal vessels. Desault’s method of pushing a cul-de-sac of sterilised gauze between the ribs, packing it tightly with strips of lint or gauze, and then pulling upon it, so that the pad thus formed presses upon the bleeding vessel, is sometimes successful. Bleeding from the internal mammary artery can only be arrested by exposing the vessel and securing it by a ligature either at or above the bleeding point. The artery is most readily reached in the second intercostal space. External haemorrhage having its origin in the lung is exceedingly difficult to arrest by local measures. Plugging the pleural cavity with gauze is practically useless. If the haemorrhage is serious, it may be justifiable to resect portions of one or more ribs and deal directly with the injured lung. The opinions of authorities differ regarding the expediency of exploring penetrating wounds with the probe. The majority agree that except in the case of gunshot wounds—and some- times even in them—the probe should be avoided. The external wound should be purified, being enlarged if necessary for the purpose of removing portions of clothing, fragments of broken ribs, or other foreign bodies that may have been driven'in. A drainage-tube or gauze packing is then introduced. Bullets or other foreign bodies lodged in the lung, after having been accurately localised by aid of the Rbntgen rays, may be extracted later. Prolapse of the Lung.—In extensive lacerated wounds of the chest wall a portion of lung may be prolapsed, either at the time of the accident or within a few hours of its occurrence. The protruded tissue is at first normal in appearance and crepitates when handled, but soon becomes congested and swollen, and, if constricted at its base, it is liable to slough. If seen early, an attempt should be made to reduce the prolapse, the