381 CONDITIONS OF OCCURRENCE. When the caecum and appendix have not descended from the position underneath the liver, which they occupy at an early period in development, the abscess may form in the region of the gall-bladder. In whatever position the abscess originates, it may extend in an irregular manner, the limiting adhesions melting away, while fresh adhesions form beyond the spreading margin, and there may be several collections of pus separated from one another by adhesions. It is by no means uncommon to find a collection of pus in the pouch of Douglas, completely shut oft’ from the abscess around the appendix—a point of importance in treatment, as the deeper collection may escape recognition. The original abscess may spread to a considerable distance from the seat of its formation, for example, upwards along the ascending colon to the under surface of the diaphragm, or down- wards into the pelvis, and the pus may open into one of the hollow organs—the caecum, rectum, or bladder. Diffuse Peritonitis.—When the reaction of the peritoneum fails to form adhesions, the infection rapidly spreads, and becomes diffuse, or even generalised. Sometimes the infection is so virulent that the peritoneum fails to react at all, and only a small quantity of odourless, blood-stained serum is found in the peritoneal cavity. In other cases there is diffuse suppura- tion, with accumulations of pus in the pelvis and flanks and between the lower coils of intestine, while in the upper part of the abdomen the exudate is serous or sero-purulent. In a third group of cases, although the suppuration is not confined to the appendicular region, certain areas of the peritoneal cavity are shut off by adhesions so that the larger collections of pus are separate from one another. The cellular tissue in the iliac fossa may be infected either directly or by way of the lymphatics ; this was formerly known as perityphlitis. The suppuration may spread along the iliac fossa between the peritoneum and the iliac fascia as far as Poupart’s ligament, being prevented from entering the thigh by the attachment of the fascia to Poupart’s ligament, or it may spread upwards behind the ascending colon towards the diaphragm, or backwards into the loin. Conditions of Occurrence.—Although appendicitis is chiefly a disease of youth, and occurs with greatest frequency between the ages of ten and thirty, it may be met with at any period of life. It is approximately three times more common in the male than in the female—a fact of which there is no satisfactory explanation. It has been suggested that the additional blood- supply from the ovarian artery enables the appendix in the