158 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. tube to the middle ear, and cause deafness, or it may set up chronic suppuration of the ear. The treatment of the throat condition consists in employing antiseptic and soothing gargles, inhalations of chloride of ammonium, or a spray of menthol or eucalyptol. Lozenges or pastilles containing chloride of ammonium, chlorate of potash, and cubebs may be employed. In rheumatic cases salicin, aspirin, and salicylate of soda are indicated. A chronic form of pharyngitis is frequently met with in clergymen and others who require to strain their voices in public speaking. In some cases the mucous membrane is congested, infiltrated, and swollen, the lymph follicles enlarged and prominent, and the surface covered with a viscid muco- purulent secretion (hypertrophic or granular pharyngitis); in others the mucous membrane is smooth and glazed, and dry scabs adhere to its surface (atrophic pharyngitis). In the follicular form the inflammation affects chiefly the lymphoid follicles, which abound in the pharynx and tonsils. The mucous membrane isNjed and swollen, and the tonsils are enlarged and project so that they obstruct the isthmus of the fauces, sometimes even meeting in the middle line. A viscid muco-purulent secretion adheres to the surface in patches, and in the openings of the crypts of the tonsils yellowish plugs, consisting of leucocytes and desquamated epithelium, may be visible. There is pain on swallowing, and the respiration is impeded and noisy, and there is usually some degree of fever. The glands behind the angle of the jaw are enlarged and tender. Treatment should first be directed towards improving the condition of the gastro-intestinal tract. Any abnormal condition in the nasal passages should also be corrected. The local treat- ment is carried out on the same lines as in the more acute form of pharyngitis. In the granular form the hypertrophied follicles may be destroyed by the galvano-cautery. When the tonsils share in the hypertrophy they should be removed. Acute Suppurative Tonsillitis—Quinsy.—This is an acute suppurative inflammation of the tonsils and peritonsillar tissues, due to infection with pyogenic bacteria. It most frequently occurs in persons of a rheumatic tendency, and those who are predisposed to the disease suffer from it frequently, the attacks sometimes coming on periodically. The inflammation affects the whole substance of the tonsils, the pillars of the fauces, the soft palate, and the pharynx. The onset is usually sudden, and the affection is ushered in by a rigor, high fever, and a feeling of malaise. There is persistent thirst