THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 580 Treatment.—The abscess should be opened as early as possible to prevent burrowing, and to avoid the formation of a fistula. A crucial or T-shaped incision is made extending well beyond the indurated area, the undermined, unhealthy skin is clipped away with scissors, the surface scraped and purified, and the open surface thus formed covered with a pad of iodoform gauze. Care should be taken not to divide the external sphincter. The after-treatment of this, and of other varieties of rectal abscess, calls for much attention to prevent the formation of a fistula. The wound should be dressed twice a day, the packing being carefully adjusted to ensure that healing takes place from the bottom. Hot sitz baths at the time the dressing is changed are useful in promoting discharge and ensuring cleanliness. Purgatives are to be avoided. An easy movement of the bowels may be ensured by injecting an ounce or two of warm olive oil into the rectum each night. In some cases the introduction of a rectal flatus-tube, or dilatation of the sphincter after the abscess has been opened, is useful in allaying spasm of the sphincters and preventing distension of the bowel by flatus (Tuttle). Ischio-rectal Abscess.—(Fig. 155).—This form of abscess be- gins in the loose cellular tissue of the ischio-rectal space as a septic cellulitis, which, in the course of a few days, ends in suppura- tion. At first the pus is scattered throughout the meshes of the cellular tissue, but it soon comes to fill the space and to bulge it in every direction. The weakest part of the abscess wall is situated towards the back of the rectum, where the posterior edges of the levatores ani blend with the ano-coccygeal liga- ments, and at this point the pus usually burrows into the rectum, passing between the external and the internal sphincters. In some cases it finds its way across the middle line, and so comes to invade the ischio-rectal fossa of the opposite side, forming what is known as a “dumb-bell” or “liorse-shoe abscess.” Either before or after bursting into the rectum, the pus also finds an exit through the skin, and in this way a complete fistula is formed. Clinical Features.—The condition usually develops some- what acutely, and is ushered in by a rigor and general feeling of malaise. There is at first a dull, aching pain in the ischio-rectal fossa, which later assumes a throbbing character. The patient is unable to sit or to walk with comfort, and there is intense pain during defecation. Frequently there is retention of urine. A hot, red, and tender swelling develops in the perineum to one side of the anus, and the surrounding integu- ment becomes indurated and cedematous. On rectal examina-