558 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. on her back with the legs drawn up, the abdominal muscles are rigid, and there is marked tenderness over the loiver part of the abdomen—symptoms indicative of peritonitis. These acute symptoms may last for a week or ten days and then gradually subside, giving place to those that characterise the more chronic type of the disease. In the majority of cases, and particularly in those of gonor- rhoeal and tuberculous origin, the disease runs a chronic course from the outset. The patient has recurrent attacks of pain in the region of the ovaries, pain in the back, and a bearing-down sensation in the pelvis. These are associated with fever and the signs of localised pelvic peritonitis. There is pain on micturition and defecation, and the bowels are markedly consti- pated. Menstruation is profuse, and there may be a persistent vaginal discharge. These attacks last for a week or ten days, and recur at irregular intervals. In the intervals between the attacks the patient is comparatively well, although a dull pain in the side is seldom absent; before the menstrual periods she suffers greatly (premenstrual dysmenorrhoea); and she gradually becomes a confirmed invalid. Her attitude and gait are char- acteristic ; she inclines the body forward, moves very cautiously, and to avoid jarring the pelvic viscera in making any sudden movement she presses firmly on the abdomen with her hands. Dyspareunia is usually present. On vaginal examination the uterus is found to be less movable than normal, and to the sides of the uterus irregular, elongated swellings, which are extremely tender to the touch, can be palpated. Even when the abscess is of considerable size fluctua- tion cannot always be detected through the vagina, indeed “a stony hardness of the vaginal vault is one of the most char- acteristic signs of the presence of pus ” (Kelly). In some cases the swelling is best felt from the rectum. In course of time the swelling may become palpable in the abdomen or in the flank, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for an ovarian cyst, a tumour, or the matting of parts around a diseased vermiform appendix. If left to nature the abscess may burst into the vagina or rectum, and if the opening is large and the drainage free, a speedy cure may thus take place. If, however, the opening is small the symptoms are only temporarily relieved, as all the pus does not escape, and the cavity soon fills again. In other cases the abscess bursts into the bladder, or on to the surface through the abdominal wall, leaving sinuses which show no tendency to heal, and from which pus continues to escape. If the pus bursts into