497 MALIGNANT STRICTURE. amount of gut seems to be involved in the growth, the typical appearance being as if a string hacl been tied round the bowel (Fig. 135). Viewed from within, the lumen of the bowel is contracted to the size of a lead-pencil or a crow-quill by a well- defined ridge or ring representing the oldest, central portion of the growth, while above and below this the cancer extends in the mucous membrane for a varying distance, but seldom farther than one inch in each direction. The free surface of the growth is ulcerated and bleeds readily. The bowel above is altered as the result of attempts to drive the contents through the stricture, although the hypertrophy js never so pronounced as in stricture of the small bowel, and* is sooner succeeded by paralytic dilatation. The distension is often most marked in the caecum, although the cancer may be situated as low down as the pelvic colon (Fig. 124). The mucous membrane above the stricture shows chronic catarrh from the stagnation and pressure of the bowel con tents, and it may be the seat of ulceration, which is occasionally followed by gangrene and per- foration. The affected segment of bowel may be adherent to others in its vicinity, to the omentum, or to the parietes, without any extension of the cancer into these adhesions. On the other hand, the cancer may infiltrate the parietes, especially in growths of the caecum, or it may invade and open into an adjacent loop of bowel, the stomach, or the bladder, producing an internal fistula. Cicatricial contraction of the mesocolon is a common cause of fixation of the tumour, when, as in the case of the sigmoid, it would otherwise be movable. Secondary growths in the mesenteric glands, peritoneum, or liver are exceptional, owing to the arrangement of the lymphatics. The occurrence of more than one malignant stricture is rare. Cellulitis, with the formation of abscess in the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue, is occasionally observed, especially in cancer of the caecum, and by simulating appendicitis may prove a source of difficulty in diagnosis. The rupture of the abscess may be followed by the development of a faecal fistula. The sites of malignant stricture may be stated in order of frequency thus: pelvic colon, caecum, descending colon, transverse colon, splenic and hepatic flexures, small intestine. VOL. II—32 Fia. 135.—Malignant Annular Stricture of Pelvic Colon.