INFECTIVE PERITONITIS. 357 stomach or bowel which is attended with inflammation or ulceration being liable to be the starting-point of peritoneal in- fection. Lesions of the vermiform appendix rank first in order of frequency. Among other sources of infection may be in- stanced perforating irlcer of the stomach or duodenum, intestinal ulcers, foreign bodies ulcerating through the gut, traumatic ruptures, various forms of enteritis, changes in the bowel associated with stricture and congenital diverticula of the in- testine. Circulatory disturbances resulting in damage to the wall of the gut and rendering it pervious to the passage of organisms, for example strangulation of the bowel, volvulus or intussusception, or obstruction of the mesenteric blood-vessels, may also determine infection of the peritoneum. Organs intimately related to the intestinal canal, such as the gall-bladder, liver, and pancreas, may be the seat of inflammatory complications which may extend to the peritoneum ; for example, cholecystitis with gall-stones, suppurating hydatid cysts, abscess of the liver, or suppurative pancreatitis. The female organs of generation, especially the uterus and Fallopian tubes, frequently prove the starting-point of peritonitis, particularly by the spread of infections related to the puerperium or to abortion. Less frequently peritonitis takes origin from infective lesions of the spleen, the mesenteric glands, the urinary organs, adjacent serous cavities such as the pleura or pericardium, the umbilicus in newly-born children, and from infective conditions of the abdominal wall. When infection occurs in relation to penetrating wounds or abdominal operations, the organisms are either introduced from without or are liberated from the alimentary tract. In the latter case it is not necessary that the lumen of the bowel be opened; it is sufficient that its wall be so damaged as to render it pervious to organisms. In a small minority of cases it is not possible to discover any antecedent lesion to account for the peritonitis. It is probable that some of these so-called “idiopathic” cases result from infection through the blood-stream, as for example in peritonitis of pneumococcal origin. Diffuse Peritonitis.—This is met with under conditions in which the infective agent is introduced in such quantity, or in such an active form, that the efforts of the tissues to combat it are ineffectual. In the most rapidly fatal forms—the so-called peritoneal septicaemia—the patient may die before any anatomical changes