642 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. tion of waste products by way of the bowels and skin cannot with safety be prolonged for more than forty-eight hours, because of the clanger that the renal epithelium may not recover its functions, even although the obstruction be relieved. The shortest and simplest operation is to be preferred. The kidney last occluded is laid freely open and a cigarette drain inserted into the pelvis, so as to relieve the intra-renal tension ; the obstructing stone, unless readily accessible, is left till the crisis has been tided over. If it is found that the exposed kidney is not the seat of obstruc- tion, or if it is destroyed by antecedent disease, then the opposite kidney must be exposed and laid open, either at once or within the next twenty-four hours. Tuberculosis—Tuberculous Pyelo-nephritis—Renal Phthisis. Chronic caseating tuberculosis in the parenchyma of the kidney is a comparatively common disease. In the great majority of cases the bacilli reach the kidney by way of the blood-stream. Morbid Anatomy.—Although at first localised to particular parts of the organ, the disease becomes diffused by the confluence of areas of caseous infiltration, and these areas break down, forming cavities filled with cheesy debris, which subsequently perforate into the calyces and pelvis. The mucous membrane of the pelvis and ureter becomes the seat of tuberculous thicken- ing and ulceration, and if the ureter be blocked, the pelvis and calyces become dilated, as in pyonephrosis (Fig. 174). The organ is then greatly enlarged, and presents as a fluctuating tumour with a bossy, hillocky surface, the projections corresponding to the individual abscess cavities, and yellow foci are visible on the surface. The ureter becomes adherent to its surroundings, as a result of peri-ureteritis, its outer and middle coats are thickened, its mucous membrane infiltrated with tubercle, and its lumen narrowed and sometimes blocked by caseous debris and pus. The fibrous capsule of the kidney and the perinephric fat partici- pate in the chronic inflammatory process, and become thickened and indurated, so that the kidney becomes fixed in its bed and adherent to surrounding parts—notably the peritoneum. We have observed such dense adhesions to the spleen, stomach, and colon, that the removal of the organ by operation was im- possible. A large perinephric abscess may form as a result of the rupture of an abscess through the cortex. The pus, both within the kidney and outside of it, usually contains not only