207 SYMPTOMS OF EAR DISEASE. Cardinal Symptoms of Ear Disease.—The most important symptom of ear disease is impairment of hearing, which varies in degree, and may be due to lesions either in the sound- conducting or in the sound-perceiving apparatus. The sudden onset of deafness may be due to impaction of wax in the external meatus or to haemorrhage or effusion into the labyrinth. A gradual onset is more common. In children there is a great tendency for acute inflammatory conditions of the middle ear to arise in connection with the exanthemata and in association with adenoids. In adult life chronic catarrhal processes are more common causes of gradually increasing deafness, while in advanced age there is a tendency to auditory nerve impairment. Certain anomalous conditions of hearing are occasionally met with, such as the “ paracusis of Willis ”—a condition in which the patient hears better in a noise; “ diplacusis,” or double hearing; and “ hyperaesthesia acustica,” or painful impressions of sound. Tinnitus aurium, or subjective noises in the ear, may con- stitute a very annoying and persistent symptom. These sounds vary markedly in their character, and may be described by the patient as ringing, hissing, or singing, or may be compared to the sound of running water or of a train. They are usually com- pared to some sound which, from his occupation or otherwise, the patient is accustomed to hear. They may be purely aural in origin, being due, for example, to increased pressure on the auditory nerve endings from causes in the labyrinth itself or in the middle or external ear; or they may be due to certain reflex causes, such as naso-pharyngeal catarrh or gastric irritation. Vascular changes such as occur in anaemia, Bright’s disease, and heart disease may also be concerned in their production. Pain, or earache, varies in degree from a mere sense of dis- comfort to acute agony. The pain associated with a boil in the external meatus is usually aggravated by movements of the jaw, by pulling the auricle, and by pressure upon the tragus. The pain of acute middle-ear inflammation is deep-seated, intermittent in character, and worse at night, and is aggravated by blowing the nose, coughing, and sneezing—acts which increase middle- ear tension through forcing air along the Eustachian tube. Mastoid pain and tenderness are indicative of inflammation in the antrum or cells, and when these symptoms supervene in the course of a chronic middle-ear suppuration, they should always be regarded as of grave import. Severe neuralgia of the ear may simulate the pain of acute mastoiditis, and it must not be forgotten that earache may be traced to a diseased tooth.