THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 748 usually neglected. The swelling gradually increases until the whole epididymis is involved and forms an irregular, nodular, crescentic swelling on the back of the testis. The body of the testis may be so buried in this swelling that it is only recognised with difficulty, and it may be further obscured by the presence of a hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis. In course of time parts of the swelling become soft and may even fluctuate, and these parts tend to become adherent to the scrotum, the skin of which becomes thinned out and of a characteristic reddish-blue colour. Very often it is this change in the skin that causes the patient to seek advice; but sometimes he does not do so until the skin has given way and sinuses have formed. These changes are not attended with much pain, but the patient may complain of a dragging sensation along the cord. The parts are tender on pressure, and testicular sensation is retained. The cord may be thickened and nodular, and on rectal examination the seminal vesicle and prostate may be felt to be enlarged, nodular, and tender. When the prostate is involved there may be pain with micturition and increased frequency. There is no marked constitutional disturbance, and the patient may appear to be in robust health even when the disease has completely destroyed the testis. Treatment.—In its earliest stages the disease may sometimes be arrested by placing the patient under the regime of a sanatorium, or by sending him for a sea voyage. In hospital practice the patients are seldom seen until the condition is too far advanced to yield to such general hygienic measures as are open to them. In the majority of cases, therefore, the only avail- able treatment is by operation. So long as the disease is confined to one testicle no attempt need be made to conserve any part of the gland if this involves the slightest risk of leaving tuberculous tissue behind. When the disease is bilateral, however, if any portion of the secreting substance can with safety be saved, this should be done, because, although the procreative function of the gland is lost, its internal secretion is believed to be of importance. It must be admitted, however, that even after complete removal of both testes in adult life the general health may not be affected. Evidence of involvement of the seminal vesicle, prostate, or bladder, is not a contra-indication to operation, as the removal of the primary focus of infection in the testes is usually followed by arrest or even cure of these secondary lesions. Even when pulmonary phthisis is present excision of the testes is not contra-indicated, as the operation removes one source of