THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 18 care being taken to secure any visible vessels before dividing them, which is most conveniently done by passing a fine suture through the dura so as to surround and include the vessel. Haemorrhage from arteries and veins in the cerebral tissue is controlled by ligature, or by passing a fine catgut stitch round the vessel with an intestinal needle. Venous and capillary oozing may be arrested by irrigation with saline solution at a temperature of 115° F. (Milne Murray), or by the inhalation of oxygen (Victor Horsley). To avoid the risk of septic infection during the after-treatment, drainage of these wounds should be avoided as far as possible. Lumbar Puncture. Quincke, in 1891, first suggested the withdrawal of cerebro- spinal fluid from the spinal theca in the lumbar region, as a means of relieving excessive intra-cranial tension in tuberculous meningitis, and to obtain specimens of the fluid for diagnostic purposes. The scope of the procedure, both as a therapeutic and as a diagnostic measure, has since been widely extended. Technique.—The puncture may be made with the patient either lying on his left side, the spine being fully flexed by approximating the knees and shoulders ; or sitting on a low stool and stooping well forward with the knees separated and the arms hanging loose (Fig. 7). The upper edge of the fourth lumbar spine is identified by drawing a horizontal line across the back at the level of the highest part of the iliac crests. The space between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, being the widest, is that usually selected for lumbar puncture. The skin having been purified, an exploring needle, about three inches long, attached to a syringe, is introduced about half an inch below the fourth lumbar spine, in the middle line, and passed in a direction forwards and slightly upwards. The needle usually encounters some resistance as it pierces the ligamentum sub- flavum, and then enters the sub-arachnoid space. If bone is struck the needle should be withdrawn and introduced at a different level. As it is not advisable to employ suction unless there is difficulty in getting the fluid to flow, the syringe is now detached and the fluid allowed to escape. If it does not do so at once a sterilised stillete should be passed through the needle to clear it of blood-clot or shreds of tissue. If the intra-thecal tension is. normal the fluid trickles away drop by drop, but if it is increased it may escape in a jet.