765 PARAPHIMOSIS. the sensitive papillae of the corona. After removing the forceps the lining membrane of the prepuce, which still covers the glans, is slit up along the dorsum, and the excess cut away with scissors. The bleeding is arrested by torsion or by fine catgut ligatures, special attention being paid to the vessels in the vicinity of the frenum. The cut edges of the outer and inner layers of the prepuce are then stitched together by a series of interrupted catgut stitches. In children the parts are smeared with sterile vaseline, in adults a dressing of vaseline gauze is applied, and full doses of bromides should be given to prevent erections which, besides causing pain, are liable to tear the stitches and so interfere with primary union. Paraphimosis.—This term is applied to the condition that results when the glans penis is constricted by a tight prepuce which has been drawn back and cannot be pulled forward again. The prepuce is turned inside out, and the margin of the orifice of the prepuce forms the con- stricting band. The swelling is at first confined to the tissues of the prepuce, and is most marked in its inner layer, which becomes congested and cedemat- ous (Fig. 202). If the con- dition persists, the venous return from the end of the penis may be interfered with and the glans may share in the swelling. Ulceration eventually occurs at the upper part of the ring on the dorsal aspect of the penis, and to some extent relieves the strangulation. In some cases, however, gangrene of the prepuce and glans has occurred. The condition is attended with severe pain, which is often aggravated by repeated or persistent erection of the penis. The point of the penis is greatly altered in shape by the oedema, and the whole organ may become bent or tortuous. In adults paraphimosis is frequently met with as a complication of venereal disease. Treatment.—In recent cases the glans can be reduced by applying steady and firm pressure to the parts. A piece of lint soaked in a 5 per cent, solution of cocain is laid over the end Fig. 202.—Paraphimosis in a boy, set. 6. (From a photograph lent by Mr. Stiles.)