THE PERITONEUM. 358 have had time to occur. In less virulent cases, the vessels of the membrane are injected, the surface loses its lustre and is covered with an exudate, which may only amount to a sticki- ness but more often consists of lymph which mats the intestines together and covers the solid organs. The lymph is usually thickest along the lines of contact between adjacent coils of bowel. It is at first fibrinous, but later becomes purulent and of a yellowish or greenish-yellow colour. The fibrinous lymph is usually accompanied by a fluid exudate, which is at first serous but tends to become turbid and to acquire the characters of pus. The inflammation may be diffused widely throughout the cavity of the abdomen, but as a result of the division of the cavity into pockets by the gumming together of adjacent surfaces, the exudate that accumulates in these pockets may vary in character at different parts of the belly. The inflam- matory .changes are always more marked in the visceral than in the parietal peritoneum, and are most advanced in the vicinity of the organ from which the infection took origin. The diffusion of the infection takes place by way of the subserous lymphatics, and by the movement of the exudate in the peritoneal cavity. The presence of foetid gas in the peritoneal cavity may be due to decomposition of the inflammatory exudate, or the gas may have escaped through a perforation in the bowel or stomach. The coils of small intestine are usually greatly distended with gas, and their contents are in process of decomposition. The toxins absorbed- from the peritoneal cavity poison the vaso-motor and respiratory centres, and the functions of other organs, notably the heart, are disturbed. In all cases of advanced septic peritonitis there ensues a paralysis of the intes- tine, which is probably due to a toxic poisoning of Auerbach’s plexus, and to inflammatory changes in the wall of the bowel. When the wall of the intestine is paralysed, it not only ceases to transmit the bowel contents, but the coats undergo changes which render them permeable to toxins and bacteria, which pass through the wall of the intestine into the peritoneal cavity. Clinical Features.—These vary with the nature of the primary lesion and the manner in which the peritoneum becomes infected, and according to whether the signs of inflammatory reaction or those of absorption of toxins predominate. The symptoms of peritonitis are superadded to those of the primary disease, and develop more or less suddenly according to the rapidity with which the peritoneum becomes involved, but as the peritonitis progresses the symptoms of the primary affection may be completely overshadowed.