94 THE SPINE AND CORD. The pulse is slow (40-50) and full; and the temperature often rises very high—a symptom which is always of grave omen. When the lesion is confined to the sixth cervical segment the arms assume a characteristic attitude, as a result of the con- traction of the muscles supplied from the higher segments. The upper arm is abducted and rotated out, the elbow is sharply flexed, and the hand supinated and flexed (Fig. 23). Sensation is retained along the radial side of the limb. Lesions of the lower cervical segments are usually fatal in from two or three days to as many weeks, from embarrassment of respiration or hypostatic pneumonia. When the lesion is confined to the first dorsal segment the attitude of the arm is usually that of slight abduction at the shoulder and flexion at the elbow, the forearm lies semipronated on the chest or belly, and there is slight flexion of the fingers. There is complete anaesthesia as high as the level of the second interspace, and along the distribution of the ulnar nerves (Fig. 22); the respiration is entirely diaphragmatic ; and the ocular changes depending on paralysis of the cervical sym- pathetic are present. Dorsal Region.—In injuries of the dorsal region—second to eleventh dorsal segments inclusive—the anaesthesia below the level of the lesion is complete and its upper limit runs horizontally round the body, and not parallel with the intercostal nerves. Above the anaesthetic area there is a zone of hyperaesthesia, and the patient complains of a sensation as if a band were tightly tied round the body—“girdle-pain.” The motor paralysis and the anaesthesia are co-extensive. The intercostal muscles below the seat of the lesion and the ab- dominal muscles are paralysed. The respiratory movements are thus impeded, and, as the patient is unable to cough, mucus gathers in the air passages and interferes with respiration. As the patient is unable to aid defecation or to expel flatus by straining, the bowel is liable to become distended with faeces and gas, and the meteorism which results adds to the embarrassment of respiration by pressing on the diaphragm. There is retention of urine followed by dribbling from overflow. As the reflex arc is intact there may be involuntary and unconscious micturition whenever the bladder fills. If septic infection of the bladder and the formation of bed- sores are prevented, the patient may live for months or even for years. At any time, however, septic infection of the bladder may occur and spread to the kidneys, setting up a