771 PRIAPISM. lateral aspects of the penis, and the corpora cavernosa divided by a circular incision at the level of the base of the skin flaps. The tourniquet having been removed and the bleeding arrested, a small opening is made in the dorsal flap opposite the level of the urethra, the end of which is slit up laterally for a short distance, pulled through this opening, and stitched to its edges. Finally the dorsal and ventral flaps are united by horse-hair sutures. When the whole penis has to be removed, the urethral opening should be placed in the perineum, and if possible the testes should be conserved. The infected glands in the groin should be removed at the same time. Functional Disturbances of the Male Sexual Organs.— Priapism.—This term is applied to painful, persistent, and irre- ducible erection of the penis, unaccompanied by sexual desire. Priapism may be a symptom of such conditions as adherent prepuce, stone in the bladder or prostatic urethra, stricture of the urethra, or cystitis; and it is frequently present in cases of gonorrhoea, the penis becoming curved downwards—chordee. Under these circumstances it seldom causes prolonged suffering, and disappears with the removal of the exciting cause. Less marked forms of priapism, in which the penis is merely turgid without actual erection, are sometimes met with in injuries high up in the cord in young adults. The term essential priapism is employed when the erection cannot be attributed to any of the above causes. This is usually met with in young, vigorous men after a drunken sexual debauch, and appears to be due to injury of the corpora cavernosa with extravasation of blood into the erectile tissue. The condition, which may last without intermission for days or even weeks, is attended with excruciating pain which interferes with sleep. Painful spots and firm nodules may be detected on making pressure over the corpora cavernosa, particularly at the root of the penis. Sometimes there is difficulty in emptying the bladder. Relapses are not uncommon. The treatment consists in administering such drugs as chloral, bromides, belladonna, or morphin, and in the use of hot baths and warm anodyne applications. R. W. Taylor recoi 14m ends the making of small incisions in the most turgid parts, and in the nodular swellings at the root of the penis. Impotence and Sterility.—It is necessary to distinguish between impotence, which is the inability to perform the sexual act, and sterility, which is the inability to beget children. The two conditions may be associated. Impotence may be due to deformities of the sexual organs,