684 THE URINARY BLADDER, the bladder empties itself before the patient awakes, or, if it occurs during the day, before he has time to get to a urinal. The condition tends to disappear at puberty. In adults, the occasional involuntary passage of urine during sleep may be a manifestation of epilepsy, and is to be distinguished from the dribbling of an over-distended bladder. The treatment must be selected according to the features of the case. Any such condition as spina bifida occulta, phimosis, or lithiasis should be dealt with. In purely neurotic cases suggestion may prove of service. The general health must be improved by tonics and sea-bathing. The child should be trained to lie on its side, preferably on a hard bed, the foot of which is raised some eight or ten inches. It should be wakened an hour and a half after it has gone to sleep, and if this is not sufficient, at regular hours throughout the night; regular habits as to micturition should be encouraged during the day. If it is believed that the bladder or the spinal centres are unduly irritable, belladonna may be given in increasing doses as recom- mended by Trousseau (ten minims of the tincture thrice daily gradually raised to a dram thrice daily). If there is hyper- acidity of the urine, citrate of potash should be given. If it is believed that the sphincter muscles are wanting in tone, a course of faradic electricity may be employed, one pole being placed in the rectum and the other over the pubes. In some cases improvement has followed upon stretching the posterior urethra by means of bougies, or applying to its mucous membrane a solution of nitrate of silver. Boys are more amenable to treatment than girls, and the most unfavourable cases are those in which the mental development is below the average. Cases are sometimes met with in which there is urgent and frequent micturition during the day, or micturition may take place involuntarily by day as well as at night, and in some cases there is also a want of control over the sphincters of the anus.