TUBERCULOSIS. 507 or papillomata (Fig. 136). Between the prominent folds of mucous membrane there are deep recesses, spoken of as “ false diverticula,” in which ulceration is liable to take place, and this may subsequently spread through the other coats of the bowel, sometimes leading to perforation. Beneath the serous coat there is a uniform layer of dense fat about an eighth of an inch in thickness. The muscular coat is not appreciably altered. The tibrosis of the submucous coat resembles similar changes in other organs, resulting from chronic infective conditions and from syphilis. The clinical features, which consist in alternating constipa- tion and diarrhoea, blood in the motions, abdominal pain, and progressive failure of health, closely resemble those of cancer of the lower bowel. When the rectum is involved, the examining finger discovers a decided narrowing of the lumen and a convoluted condition of the mucous membrane, with ulceration and bleeding. When the sigmoid is affected, a sausage-shaped tumour, somewhat resembling an intussusception, may be felt below and to the left of the umbilicus. It is seldom possible from the symptoms to differentiate this affection from malignant disease, but, when it affects the rectum, examination with the speculum should enable a diagnosis to be made. When the sigmoid is affected, it may be felt as an abdominal tumour, and on opening the abdomen there should be no difficulty in recognising the nature of the disease. Treatment. — The only satisfactory method of treatment would appear to be complete removal of the affected portion of bowel by the combined abdominal and perineal routes. Tuberculosis of the Intestine.—Apart from the general infection of the intestinal canal that sometimes ensues in cases of advanced phthisis, tuberculous disease is most often met with in the ileo-csecal region—ileo-caecal tuberculosis. Sometimes the condition produces stenosis of the gut; sometimes a tumour forms in the right iliac fossa. Tuberculous stricture forms in the situation of a pre-existing ulcer, and there may be several fibrous strictures scattered over a considerable length of intestine, with sacculation of the intervening segments of bowel (Fig. 137). The stenosis may be augmented by adhesions between the affected loops or between the bowel and the parietal peritoneum. The peritoneal invest- ment of the gut often shows miliary nodules of tubercle, and the glands in the corresponding segment of mesentery may be enlarged and caseous.