460 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. palpated as a transverse cord a little above the level of the umbilicus. The chief symptoms are epigastric pain—which is aggravated by standing and exercise, and is apparently due to stretching of the nerve plexuses of the stomach—and stagnation of the gastric contents; there is usually splashing on succussion after a prolonged fast, and other evidence of stasis, and the manifestations of neurasthenia are usually present. Relief may be afforded by the wearing of a supporting bandage, massage, attention to diet, and the occasional use of the stomach-tube. If these measures fail, the abdomen should be opened, and the gastro-hepatic omentum and gastro-phrenic ligament shortened by passing through them a series of silk sutures in such a way that, when they are tightened up, the stomach is raised to its normal level—gastropexy (Beyea’s operation). If the pylorus is stenosed or kinked, gastro- enterostomy may be indicated, but this should never be performed in patients in whom neurasthenia is the most prominent feature, as they rarely benefit from the operation and may be made worse. Dilatation of the Stomach—Gastrectasis (Fig. 119).—Dila- tation of the stomach has already been referred to in connection with pyloric stenosis, due to cicatricial contraction and to cancer. It may also result from external pressure on the pylorus or duodenum, for example, by tumours of the pancreas, gall- bladder, liver, or retro-peritoneal tissue. Further, the pylorus may be dragged upon and kinked by perigastric adhesions, especially those resulting from affections of the gall-bladder, or by a movable right kidney. In a limited number of cases there is no discoverable cause for the dilatation, and the condition is then regarded as a neuro-paresis. The treatment is directed towards the removal, by surgical measures or otherwise, of any discoverable cause. Failing this, or in addition to it, it may be necessary to drain the stomach by performing gastro-enterostomy, or the size of the organ may be reduced by gastroplication. This operation consists in making a series of horizontal folds or tucks in the anterior wall of the stomach by means of wide Lembert sutures passing from the lesser to the greater curvature. The sutures are of silk, and when tightened up they approximate the two curva- tures, and so diminish the capacity of the stomach (Bircher’s operation). Acute Post-operative Dilatation of the Stomach.—After abdominal operations, the muscular coat of the stomach may become paralysed, and the organ undergoes rapid dilatation so