NASO-PHARYNGEAL TUMOURS. 235 bulge the soft palate towards the mouth and interfere with deglutition. In some cases the face becomes flattened and expanded and the eyes are pushed outwards, giving rise to a deformity known as frog-face. Deafness may result from ob- struction of the Eustachian tube. The patient suffers from intense frontal headache, and there is a persistent and offensive mucous discharge from the nose. Profuse recurrent bleeding from the nose is a common symptom, and the patient becomes profoundly anaemic. The tumour can usually be seen on ex- amination with the nasal speculum or by posterior rhinoscopy, and its size and limits may be recognised by digital examination. Unless removed by operation these tumours prove fatal from haemorrhage, interference with respiration, or by perforating the base of the skull and giving rise to intra-cranial complications. Treatment.—These growths are seldom recognised before they have attained considerable dimensions, and owing to the fact that they are permeated by numerous large, thin-walled venous sinuses, their removal is attended with formidable haemorrhage. Attempts to remove them by the galvanic snare are seldom satisfactory, because the base of the tumour is left behind and recurrence is liable to take place. To obtain free access it is usually necessary to perform some osteoplastic operation on the superior maxilla, and to minimise bleeding during the operation a temporary ligature may be passed round the external carotid artery. Annandale has reached these growths from the mouth by splitting the hard and soft palate and temporarily separating the two halves of the upper jaw. Nelaton gained access by splitting the uvula and soft palate and removing a portion of the hard palate and nasal septum. Other surgeons—Rouge and Ollier—have oper- ated through the nasal cavity by temporarily displacing the nose. The best access is obtained by resecting the greater part of the superior maxilla, the orbital plate and the muco-periosteum of the hard palate being conserved to diminish the subsequent deformity. We have found that the method of splitting the upper lip, and separating the alveolar process from the rest of the bone by means of a chisel, and then dividing the alveolar process in the middle line and holding the two halves aside, gives good access. In view of the profuse bleeding attending these operations it is advisable to perform a preliminary laryngo- tomy, or to pass a tube through the glottis and pack the pharynx round it. When the patient is markedly anaemic there is a risk of his dying on the table from loss of blood, or death may be due to blood entering the air-passages.