376 CHAPTER XXIV. THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. Surgical anatomy—Pathological anatomy : Catarrhal changes : Erosions ; Strictures; Concretions; Necrosis; Perforation; Bacteria concerned; Adhesive peritonitis; Circumscribed suppurative peritonitis or peri- appendicular abscess ; Diffuse peritonitis ; Conditions of occurrence ; Clinical features ; Diagnosis ; Prognosis ; Treatment ; Expectant measures ; Indications for operation ; Recurrent appendicitis ; Rela- tionships of appendicitis to colitis ; Appendicitis in children ; Appendicitis during pregnancy ; Tuberculosis, actinomycosis, and malignant disease of the appendix. Surgical Anatomy.—The vermiform appendix is a narrow, blind tube arising from the inner and back part of the caecum about three-quarters of an inch below the ileo-caecal junction (Fig. 93). Its length varies from half an inch to nine inches, the average being about two and a half to three inches. Its origin from the caecum is approximately indicated on the surface of the abdomen by a point about two inches from the anterior superior iliac spine on a line between this and the umbilicus—the so- called M‘Burney’s point. As the caecum is itself a movable organ and as the appendix is fixed to it only at its base and is provided with a mesentery, it enjoys a comparatively wide range of movement, so that its position in the abdominal cavity varies. It has been met with in every possible situation -which its length would allow it to attain. To find the appendix in the course of an operation, the anterior longitudinal band of the caecum affords the most reliable guide. If this band is traced downwards, it inevitably leads to the appendix, as the muscular fibres pass on to the base of the appendix and are continuous with its muscular coat. The three commonest situations of the appendix are : (1) Curling upwards and inwards from the caecum, under cover of the lower end of the ileum and its mesentery ; this is the situation in which it is most frequently found and which is associated with the classical symptoms of appendicitis. (2) Sometimes it hangs downwards over the brim of the pelvis, and when it becomes inflamed the local signs are referable chiefly to the pelvis—pelvic appendicitis—and any inflamma- tory swelling that may develop is best recognised by rectal or vaginal examination. (3) Not infrequently it is directed upwards, behind and towards the outer side of the caecum, and when inflammation occurs the infection is liable to spread to the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue—retro- coecal or retro-colic appendicitis. The appendix is completely covered by peritoneum, and has a well- formed mesentery, which connects the process to the under surface of the