708 THE URETHRA. successfully practised; the cut ends are stitched to each other over a rubber catheter ; or if they are too widely separated for this, an attempt may be made to form a new urethra by means of a graft taken from the mucous membrane of the lower lip or elsewhere. When the gap in the urethra is so extensive that it cannot be bridged, as where it has been completely torn across or where a considerable extent has been destroyed by sloughing, the patient may have to be content with a 'permanent fistula in the perineum. Urination is necessarily performed in the sitting posture, but is completely under control. Complications of Stricture.—Acute Retention.—This nearly always follows exposure to cold after indulgence in alcohol, and is due to superadded congestion and spasm of the urethra. In ordinary cases it is best to temporise by using morphin and belladonna suppositories, and by placing the patient in a very hot bath. In urgent cases the bladder should be aspirated above the pubes, and it may even be advisable to repeat the aspiration rather than to pass instruments in the congested state of the urethra. Conditions may arise, however, in which it is imperative to get an instrument into the bladder; fine tapering metal bougies are passed through the stricture, if necessary under anaesthesia, until it is possible to introduce a No. 5 or 6 catheter, which is then tied in till the crisis is over. The alternative is to have recourse to perineal section by Wheel- house’s (p. 707); or by Cock’s method: the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and the left forefinger introduced into the rectum with its palmar surface upwards and its tip impinging against the apex of the prostate. A double-edged knife is then pushed into the middle line of the perineum about half an inch in front of the anus, towards the point of the finger in the rectum, until the membranous urethra is opened. The knife having been withdrawn, a straight probe-pointed staff is passed into the bladder. A No. 14 rubber catheter is then passed along the staff, fixed in position, and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a week or ten days the catheter is withdrawn, and the stricture dilated in the ordinary way. Peri-urethral Cellulitis and Rxtravasation of Urine.—The pathology of this complication has already been described (p. 689). The clinical features are those of a grave infective lesion ; there is high temperature with repeated rigors, and the perineum, scrotum, and penis become greatly swollen, brawny, and dis- coloured. In the worst cases, the cellulitis rapidly assumes the characters of a moist gangrene, and the patient dies of acute septic infection. In less severe cases, there is diffuse suppuration