592 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. persistent slight loss of blood from the rectum, which gradually produces a profound degree of anaemia. The usual signs of piles are absent, and it is only on making a proctoscopic examina- tion that the source of the bleeding is found to be a mass of varicose veins in the upper part of the rectal mucous membrane —six to eight inches from the anus. If these vessels are destroyed by the galvano-cautery, the haemorrhage ceases. Inflammation and Strangulation of Internal Piles. — In some cases internal piles periodically become the seat of acute inflammation—phlebitis and periphlebitis—attended with pain, tenesmus, and bleeding, while the skin around the anal margin is swollen and oedematous. This condition, which is spoken of as “an attack of the piles,” lasts for a few days, and then gradually subsides. It frequently happens also that piles of the second degree, after becoming prolapsed, are so tightly grasped by the sphincter that the circulation through them is completely obstructed. The extruded mass becomes swollen and oede- matous, blood escapes from the distended vessels into the surrounding connective tissue, and in some cases gangrene of the piles takes place. This occurrence is accompanied by severe local pain and some constitutional disturbance. When the slough separates the patient obtains relief. Piles of the third degree also may become engorged from various causes, notably septic infection, and be so tightly constricted that they slough off. Pyaemia has been known to follow septic thrombosis of piles. Treatment.—All cases of piles of the first degree, and mild cases of the second degree, should be treated by palliative measures in the first instance. As constipation is usually present, the bowels should be carefully regulated by the administration of such drugs as cascara, sulphur, castor oil, or one or other of the natural mineral waters, or by suitable dietary, so that the patient has a soft, easy motion at least once a day. Drastic purgatives, and especially such as contain aloes, are to be avoided, as excessive action of the bowels aggravates the hfemorrhoidal condition. Alcohol, too, should be avoided. Any cause for straining that may be present— such, for example, as stricture, prostatic enlargement, or vesical calculus—should also be remedied. If the motions tend to be hard, defecation is rendered easier, and bleeding may be prevented by lubricating the passage before the act with vaseline introduced with the finger, or by injecting an ounce of olive oil into the bowel. After defecation the injection of a