641 CALCULOUS ANURIA. opposite kidney by separate examination of the urine from eacli kidney. The operative treatment consists in performing nephro- lithotomy with subsequent drainage, or nephrectomy. In all cases attended with pronounced suppuration and destructive changes in the substance of the kidney, with obstruction to the flow of urine into the bladder, nephrectomy affords the best results, provided the secretory functions of the other kidney are satisfactory. In either operation the wound is left open, and several cigarette drains are inserted. Calculous Anuria. —Arrest of the renal secretion as a result of calculous obstruction is nearly always due to the sudden blocking of the ureter, the opposite kidney having been destroyed by antecedent calculous disease. It is maintained by some authorities, and notably Israel, that the sudden blocking of the ureter on one side may reflexly arrest the secretion of the opposite kidney, but the general opinion is that only a diseased kidney will stop secreting under reflex nervous influence. The anuria may develop suddenly in a person in apparently good health, it may be after jolting or exertion. It usually occurs in men after middle life, but has been observed in women and in young children. The symptoms of calculous anuria are not simply those of uraemia, and they differ from those of anuria due to other causes. Renal colic, or aching in the kidney recently obstructed, is often present at the outset, but usually disappears when the suppression of the renal secretion is complete. There may be trouble with micturition, such as a continual desire to pass water though the bladder may be empty, or the passage of urine with difficulty in drops or teaspoonfuls. Rarely there is abundant pale urine of low specific gravity. Even when the secretion of urine is completely suppressed, many days (7 to 10) may elapse without any ursenlic symptoms. When phenomena of uraemia do supervene—vomiting, drowsiness, contraction of the pupils, and muscular tremors—death ensues in a day or two (Henry Morris.) It is not usually difficult to differentiate calculous anuria from other forms of suppression, such as that due to Bright’s disease, but it may be extremely difficult to determine which of the kidneys was last obstructed, and yet this is of great importance, as it is this kidney that is most likely to recover its functions if the obstruction be relieved. Most reliance is to be placed on the site of the recent colic, and on unilateral rigidity of the abdominal muscles, with tenderness of the kidney on the same side. Treatment.—Palliative measures directed towards the elimina- VOL. II—41