THE CHEST. 308 efficient drainage can be secured, tlie cavity can be thoroughly explored, septa can be broken down, and masses of lymph removed from the pleura. In some cases the embarrassment of the respiration and of the heart’s action renders the adminis- tration of a general anaesthetic dangerous, and it is necessary to perform the operation under local anaesthesia. The soft parts can thus be rendered insensitive, but the division of the ribs causes considerable pain. From our own experience, we agree with I). M. Greig, that the risks attending the giving of a general anaesthetic in cases of empyema have been exaggerated, and that, if due precautions are taken, chloroform may be given with safety. The patient should lie flat on his back, the affected side of the chest projecting beyond the edge of the table. Care must be taken that the free movement of the healthy side of the chest is in no way impeded, that the head is kept low to avoid the risk of syncope, and that the patient is not moved during the administration. Thoracotomy for Empyema.-—Before making the incision the skin should be pulled up slightly over the rib to be resected— in cases of generalised empyema this will be the seventh, eighth, or ninth rib in the mid-, or posterior axillary line—to ensure that, when the chest falls in after withdrawal of the pus, the opening in the soft tissues will be opposite the opening through the rib. The incision, which is about two and a half inches long, is then made in the long axis of the rib, and is carried down to the bone, dividing the periosteum freely. The periosteum is then raised from the bone all round with a curved separator, care being taken of the intercostal vessels, which run in the groove on the under edge of the rib. With a suitable pair of rib forceps a portion of rib about an inch and a half long is resected. The pleura is opened by pushing a director through it, and the finger introduced through the opening thus made. Before the pus escapes the cavity should be explored with the finger, to determine its extent and the condition of the lung. The pus is allowed to flow out slowly, in order that the heart and lungs may gradually accommodate themselves to the altered conditions of pressure within the thorax. It is not advisable to scrape the walls of the cavity, and irrigation is to be avoided unless the pus is very foetid. When irrigation is employed care must be taken that the fluid is at the body temperature, and that the outflow is as free as the inflow, so that that there may be no accumulation of fluid, which by its weight may impede the action of the heart and lungs. Neglect of these precautions has led to serious, and in some cases to fatal, results.