THE URETHRA. 696 stains the linen. The night’s rest may be disturbed by painful erections—cliordee—the pain being due to infiltration and loss of elasticity in the corpus spongiosum. The acute symptoms usually last about ten days, after which they subside, but the discharge from the urethra usually continues for from five to eight weeks from its first appearance. Towards the end of this period it becomes thinner and more watery, is perhaps only seen in the morning, until finally it ceases altogether; or it may persist indefinitely as a mucoid, milky discharge known as gleet. Second and subsequent attacks of gonorrhoea are often subacute in character, but usually last quite as long as the initial attack. The symptoms of acute posterior urethritis vary very much in different cases; when the mucous membrane alone is involved there may be no symptoms except discharge ; on the other hand, when the imflammation spreads to the orifices of the ejaculatory ducts and to the follicles of the prostate, there are marked symptoms. The discharge sometimes diminishes in amount because it is prevented from coming forwards by the contraction of the compressor urethrae muscle. The most prominent symptoms are a feeling of distension and weight in the perineum, and a marked increase in the frequency and urgency of micturition; the passage of the last few drops of urine may be attended with violent, spasmodic pain, and the urine may be tinged with blood; sometimes there is retention; erections and nocturnal emissions are very distressing, and the patient suffers from symptoms of general illness not unlike those of influenza. If the finger is passed into the rectum, there is increased heat in the anterior wall, and a want of definition about the membranous urethra and prostate owing to inflam- matory swelling. The diagnosis of gonorrhoea is made by observing pus escaping from the urethra and demonstrating the gonococci in stained films (Fig. 188). Difficulty may arise, however, when there is phimosis and the meatus cannot be seen, as the discharge from the prepuce may be due to balanitis or concealed venereal sores. The diagnosis would then rest alone on the demonstration of the cocci. It is sometimes impossible to diagnose posterior urethritis unless the anterior urethra is washed out before the patient makes water into two glasses; if pus is present in the first of these, it must be derived from the posterior urethra. The patient must be warned of the infective character of the discharge, and especially of the danger of conveying the