THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 450 effectually sealed by infolding the stomach wall by a double layer of Lembert sutures. When it is impossible to close the perforation by sutures, it may be occluded by stitching a piece of omentum or other adjacent viscus over it.. If the stomach contains much fluid, it should be syphoned off by a rubber catheter inserted through the perforation, or by a tube passed down the oesophagus, and the opportunity may be taken of washing out the stomach. The second stage of the operation consists in cleansing the peritoneal cavity. When the perforation is a small one and the leakage of gastric contents limited to its immediate vicinity, it is sufficient to mop up the fluid with gauze : but when the infection is widespread, the whole peritoneal cavity must be irrigated with hot salt solution. Before doing so an incision must be made above the pubes, and a long wide glass tube passed to the bottom of the pouch of Douglas. The apparatus employed is a large glass funnel with four feet of rubber tubing attached, and a glass uterine douche tube. The tube is intro- duced in various directions until the fluid returns quite clear. The region of the perforation is flushed out first, next the pouch of Douglas, and then in order, the left -sub-phrenic space and the region of the spleen, the left iliac fossa, the right sub-phrenic space, the region of the hepatic flexure and pouch below the liver, and lastly the right iliac fossa. If the condition of the patient permits of it, a gastro- enterostomy should be performed, to promote the healing of the sutured ulcer, to prevent a second ulcer when present giving further trouble, and to obviate the risks of stenosis of the pylorus. The wound is closed, with or without a cigarette drain at its lowest point, the glass tube emerging from the opening above the pubes sufficing for drainage. After recovery from the anaesthetic, the patient should be propped up in a sitting posture with pillows, or the head of the bed may be elevated on blocks. Saline solution is introduced continuously into the rectum. The drainage tube is removed at the end of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. After the first twenty-four hours, albumin water is given in small quantity at frequent intervals, later milk and lime-water, beef-tea, and gruel. The escape of gastric contents from the wound sometimes occurs as a result of the formation of a gastric fistula, but this usually closes without operative interference. In some cases the patient, after recovery from the shock and infection of the peritoneum, develops chest complications such as pleurisy, pneumonia, or empyema : phlebitis of the portal vein and