537 CHOLECYSTITIS. The patient usually gives a history of previous attacks of biliary colic, but, instead of these disappearing, there develops a persistent pain and tenderness beneath the costal margin, and there is frequently a palpable tumour due to enlargement of the gall-bladder. The temperature is usually elevated two or three degrees. If the condition is left to itself, the gall-bladder usually becomes adherent to the parietes ; the pus makes its way to the surface and forms a fistula, which discharges pus, and later, mucus ; the escape of the gall-stones by the fistula is exceptional. The treatment is essentially operative, and consists in opening the inflamed bladder, emptying it of its contents and providing for drainage. If the gall-bladder is adherent to the parietal peritoneum, it is opened within the adherent areaif not, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze before the gall- bladder is opened. The fluid contents should be drawn off through an exploring needle before the viscus is incised. When the gall-bladder and cystic duct are readily accessible, chole- cystectomy may be preferred. Acute Infective or Phlegmonous Cholecystitis.—This is a rare form, first described by Courvoisier in 1890, and runs a very rapid course, usually terminating fatally in a few days from septic peritonitis. It may be regarded as analogous to the sloughing or gangrenous form of inflammation in the vermiform appendix. It is generally associated with the presence of gall- stones, but the gravity of the condition depends upon the fact that infective peritonitis is induced before there is time for the pouring out of a protective exudate and the formation of adhe- sions. The gall-bladder is enlarged, and its walls gradually become softened and gangrenous and readily give way, forming one or more perforations. The contents — pus mixed with bile—have a foul odour. The clinical features are those of acute peritonitis originating in the right hypochondrium, with rigors, sweating, and great prostration. The local signs are those of peritonitis, limited first to the region of the gall-bladder. On opening the abdomen there are the usual evidences of peritonitis, and the wall of the gall-bladder is discoloured and smeared with pus. The gall- bladder should be drained or excised, and the usual measures adopted for the prevention of the spread of septic peritonitis. Cancer of the gall-bladder and cystic duct is not uncommon; it is believed to result from the long-continued irritation of gall- stones, and from papillary growths, which are sometimes met with in the mucous membrane of the gall-bladder and appear to