553 OVARIAN TUMOURS. the prominence of individual cysts. The wall is composed of condensed fibrous tissue, and is for the most part smooth and glistening, and of a bluish colour. It sometimes presents calcified areas, and sometimes dark brown patches which indicate the position of previous haemorrhages. Adhesions to the omentum, the adjacent viscera, and the anterior abdominal wall frequently follow attacks of localised peritonitis. When arising from the free portion of the ovary, the pedicle of the cyst is formed by the ovarian ligament, the Fallopian tube, and the broad ligament, and it contains the parovarium. As a result of traction it may be stretched till it is several inches in length. When arising from the intra-ligamentary portion of the ovary, the cyst tends to burrow between the layers of the broad ligament downwards into the true pelvis, and is said to be sessile. Clinical Features.—The amount of discomfort caused by these tumours varies widely, and bears no constant ratio to the size of the growth. In most cases there are at first no symptoms. Attacks of severe pain lasting for a few days usually indicate localised peritonitis. The rate of growth varies, but as a rule is comparatively rapid, and sooner or later prominence of the abdomen and pressure symptoms develop. The tumour may, for example, press on or displace the rectum or bladder and interfere with their functions. Sometimes one or both ureters are pressed upon, and dilatation of the ureters or hydronephrosis results. Indigestion, vomiting, and flatulent distension may result from pressure on the stomach and bowTels. In the majority of cases menstruation is not influenced in any way. When the tumour reaches great dimensions it exerts pressure on the diaphragm, producing respiratory and circulatory disturbances. CEdema of the legs, abdomen, and vulva is sometimes present, and the super- ficial abdominal veins may be greatly distended. The general health suffers and the patient emaciates. Dermoid cysts are due to inclusion of a portion of the ectoderm in the development of the ovary. During the period of maximum functional activity of the gland, this ectodermic remnant begins to grow erratically, and forms a cyst which con- tains such tissues as skin, with its accessories, hair, sebaceous and sweat glands, teeth, rudimentary mammary glands, and a thick pultaceous material composed of the inspissated secre- tion of the sebaceous glands and the debris of the epithelium with which the cyst is lined. In many respects these cysts resemble cyst-adenomata; they occur frequently at an earlier age, grow more slowly, and show a greater tendency to attacks of localised peritonitis.