THE CHEST. 294 emphysema and by other evidence of injury to the pleura and lung, in the form of Inemo-thorax or pneumo-thorax. The treatment of uncomplicated cases of fracture consists in confining the patient to bed, and in controlling, as far as possible, the movements of the affected side of the chest. This is best done by strapping the injured side. The strapping is applied in strips, each about a couple of inches wide, and long enough to extend a little more than half-way round the chest. The strips are applied across the line of the ribs in an imbricated manner from below upwards, each strip being fixed in position while the chest is in full expiration. The strapping should be covered by a roller bandage, and should be worn for about three weeks. Another method consists in applying a roller bandage firmly round the chest, and to prevent it slipping it should be put on over a flannel semmit to which the different layers are stitched. Fracture of the costal cartilages is usually the result of direct violence, such as a fall against a projecting object, but it may occur from muscular action. While it may be met with in young subjects, the ossification of the cartilages that occurs with advancing years renders it more common in the aged. The fifth to the eighth cartilages are those most frequently broken. Union takes place by bone, usually without much deformity. The symptoms closely resemble those of fractured rib, and the treatment is carried out on the same lines. Dislocations of the ribs from the vertebrae and of the costal cartilages from the sternum are rare, and, as they result from severe forms of violence, they are usually complicated by internal injuries. Fracture of the Sternum.—In spite of its exposed position and the frequency with which it is subjected to violence, the sternum is comparatively seldom fractured. This is largely dufe to its mobility, and to the elasticity of the ribs and costal cartilages, which disperse the force and enable the sternum to yield before a blow. The injury is more common, however, than the statistics of fractures would appear to indicate. It often accompanies fractures of the spine, in many cases being un- attended with displacement or other external evidence of injury, and, being overshadowed by the more serious lesion, escapes notice during life, and is only discovered on post-mortem examination. The fracture may be due to a direct blow over the sternum, or to indirect violence, such as forcible and excessive bending of