HERNIA. 418 When there is straining on micturition from phimosis, circum- cision should be performed. If these exciting factors are got rid of, there is a strong tendency for the slighter forms of hernia to be recovered from. Irreducibility and strangulation are unusual. Hernia of the caecum is comparatively common in right scrotal hernia, and is characterised by its large size, the width of the neck, and the difficulty of retaining it with a truss. In some cases the vermiform appendix may be palpated through the tissues of the scrotum. These large scrotal hernia; are more liable to become irreducible and even strangulated. In examining male children for hernia it is important to make out whether or not the testes have descended into the scrotum, and to avoid mistaking the various forms of congenital hydrocele for hernia. It is not uncommon, however, to have a combination of hernia with encysted hydrocele of the cord. In female children the sac not infrequently contains the ovary and Fallopian tube. Treatment.—When the child is under six months old, the mother or nurse is shown how to reduce the hernia, and is directed to do so whenever it is noticed to be down. In children over six months, the hernia must either be controlled by a truss covered with india-rubber, or cured by opera- tion. The difficulty and discomfort which attend the use of a truss, and the uncertainty of cure by means of it, render it advis- able in the majority of children to have recourse to operation. The essential step in the operation is the isolation and removal of the patent funicular process, its neck being ligatured at the level of the internal ring. If the sac extends into the scrotum, as it does in the majority of cases, it should be cut across below the level of the external ring, care being taken not to injure the vas deferens or its vessels. One or more sutures may be passed through the pillars of the external ring, leaving only Fig. 107.—Double Congenital In- guinal Hernia in boy, set. 1 year. (First noticed on right side when two weeks old. Left hernia noticed four weeks later. Could not be controlled by truss. Treated by radical operation.)