645 TUBERCULOSIS. evidence; that from the affected organ is pale, turbid, and shows great diminution of urinary solids■ it may also yield tubercle bacilli; that from the healthy kidney shows increased concentra- tion. When performed in the early stage of the disease and with proper precautions these procedures are harmless; in advanced cases they are not only difficult or impossible, but may aggravate the symptoms. ' The prognosis is good when the disease is recognised early and is got rid of by nephrectomy ; advanced cases with septic infection and tuberculosis of the whole genito-urinary tract are well-nigh hopeless. Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is the procedure of choice. The fibrous and fatty capsules should be removed along with the kidney, but when adhesions render this impossible, the organ is shelled out from its capsule. If there is a perinephric abscess between the parietes and the kidney, it should be emptied in the first instance through a large trocar and suction syringe to avoid Hooding the wound with pus. Similarly, if the kidney is found to be merely a bag of pus, it should be emptied in the same way before enucleation. Partial resection of the kidney is not to be recommended, because it is impossible to be certain of the limita tion of the disease to the portion resected. To get rid of the disease in the ureter, Kiimmell uses a galvano-cautery of the size of a ureteral sound, which is passed down the ureter and then heated to a red heat and withdrawn slowly. Mayo injects the ureter with ten or fifteen drops of pure carbolic acid, and stitches the upper end in the posterior angle of the wound. If the ureter is to be removed, this should be done in its entire length, either at the same time as the kidney is excised or at a subsequent operation. Partial removal of the ureter is liable to result in the formation of a persistent sinus. The bladder tubercle tends to get well of itself, although in the female irritability and incontinence may persist for some weeks. After any operation for renal tuberculosis the patient should be placed under open-air treatment as soon as the shock has passed off, usually at the end of forty-eight hours. We have found this an invaluable addition to our therapeutics. When the disease is bilateral, the kidney that is most affected is opened and drained by nephrotomy. When the epididymis and prostate are also affected, benefit may follow removal of the testicle, and, when the testicular disease is bilateral, it may be advisable to perform double castration. Perinephritis.—Cicatricial changes in the perinephric fat may result in its transformation into a mass of dense fibrous