75 HERNIA CEREBRI. the onset of meningitis, which, if it occur, is usually fatal. When the hernia is soft and vascular, the application of a small ice-bag is sometimes useful in reducing its size. Pressure over the hernia, with the object of returning it to the skull, is to be avoided, as this increases the intra-cranial tension, and induces headache, giddiness, and slowing of the pulse. When the original opening in the skull is too small to admit of the escape of an amount of brain matter sufficient to reduce the tension, it may be enlarged with rongeur forceps. The herniated portion should not be cut away unless it is sloughing, or has become pedunculated. It may be got rid of by painting it with 40 per cent, formalin, which causes a dry, horny crust to form on the surface. This is picked off and the formalin applied again. After the hernia has disappeared and the wound is aseptic, Thiersch-grafting, the transplantation of bone, or the insertion of a celluloid or metal plate, may be employed to close the gap in the skull. Surgical Affections of the Cranial Nerves. Irritation, or more commonly paralysis, of one or more of the cranial nerves may result from lesions implicating their centres or trunks. The lesions of the cerebral centres with which nerve symptoms are most frequently associated are: laceration of the brain, hemorrhage, meningitis, tumours, and syphilitic gummata. The nerve trunks may be contused or torn across, especially in basal fractures which traverse their foramina of exit; or blood may be effused into their sheaths as a result of injuries not attended with fracture. They may also be pressed upon by inflammatory effusions, tumours, gummata, or aneurysms invading the base of the skull. When the nerve is merely contused, or pressed upon by blood clot, the paralysis tends to pass off in the course of a few days. When it is torn across, or compressed by a new growth, the paralysis is permanent. In some traumatic cases paralysis does not come on until a few days after the injury, and is then due either to gradually increasing pressure from blood-clot, or more probably to the onset of septic meningitis or of ascending neuritis. When the trunk of the nerve is affected, the paralysis is on the same side as the lesion ; when the cortical centre is involved, it is on the opposite side. I. The branches of the Olfactory Nerve may be ruptured as