271 CICATRICIAL STRICTURE. actual starvation. Ulceration of the mucous membrane may occur above the stricture, and terminate in perforation, which is followed by septic cellulitis. The diagnosis is made by a consideration of the history, and may be confirmed by the use of oesophageal bougies, or by administering an emulsion of bismuth and taking an X-ray photo- graph. By beginning with a full-sized olive-headed bougie and passing smaller and smaller instruments until the whole length of the oesophagus has been explored, the site, number, size, and shape of the strictures may be learned. Treatment.—Before an attempt is made to dilate the stricture by bougies, the patient should be laid up in bed for a few days, and fed upon bland fluid diet or by enemata, to diminish con- gestion and allay spasm of the muscular coat. In nervous subjects it is often found that the bougies are more easily passed if they are taken unawares, as, when they are previously warned, a spasm is induced which adds to the difficulty. If the stricture is only moderately tight, it may be dilated by graduated bougies passed every third or fourth day till the normal calibre is restored, after which a full-sized instrument should be passed at least once a month for the rest of the patient’s life. In resilient stricture the method of continuous dilatation is to be preferred. A Symond’s intubation tube is passed through the stricture and left in place for thirty-six or forty-eight hours, by which time the stricture is sufficiently dilated to admit of a larger tube being introduced. Larger and larger tubes are passed until the calibre of the oesophagus is restored. During the treatment the patient is fed through the tube. Any attempt to divide the stricture from within by shielded knives (internal aesophagotomy) is not to be recommended on account of the risk of septic cellulitis. If it is impossible to pass any instrument from the mouth, more direct access may be obtained by opening the oesophagus in the neck. In cases of impermeable stricture near the lower end of the oesophagus, the stomach should be opened and retrograde dilatation practised. A series of bougies are passed from below till the stricture is sufficiently dilated to permit of the passage of an oesophageal tube from the mouth. This is then fixed in position and the stomach wound closed. The tube is left in for a week or ten days, and graduated bougies are passed periodically. Another method, suggested by Abbe, consists in performing