HOSPITAL SORE THROAT. 157 local irritation, or may spread from adjacent parts. When it is confined to the palate it is treated by removal of the palatal and alveolar portions of the upper jaw ; when the disease is too wide spread for removal it may be treated by X-rays. Elongation of the uvula is usually due to a chronic inflam- matory engorgement combined with glandular hypertrophy of the mucous membrane. It often occurs in children, and is associated with a constant hacking cough, which is usually worst when the patient is lying down. By tickling the back of the tongue and pharynx it may induce vomiting after food. The treatment consists in snipping off the redundant portion with scissors. Epithelioma of the floor of the mouth frequently originates in the mucous membrane between the frenum of the tongue and the inner aspect of the gum. It develops insidiously, grows slowly, and gradually spreads to the lower jaw and to the substance of the tongue, tacking it down so that it cannot be pro- truded. The glands are early involved, and their enlargement not infrequently first draws attention to the condition in the mouth. For the complete removal of the disease it is usually necessary to excise a segment of the lower jaw, the tissues in the floor of the mouth, and a variable portion of the tongue, together with the lymphatic glands. THE FAUCES, TONSILS, AND PHARYNX. Inflammatory Affections.—An acute catarrhal inflammation of the back of the throat, characterised by congestion and hyper- semia of the mucous membrane, is very common. It may be symptomatic of some general acute febrile disease, such as scarlet fever, measles, influenza, septicaemia, or acute rheumatism. It occurs also in those who are much exposed to air contaminated with septic organisms—for example, patients who have been long in hospital, or the resident staff of hospitals (septic or hospital throat), and particularly in persons of a rheumatic tendency. There is slight pain on swallowing, and a peculiar tickling sensation passes along the Eustachian tube to the ear; the throat feels dry, and the patient has a constant desire to clear it, and there is usually a rise of temperature to 1 OL- IOS0 F. Among the complications that may ensue is inflammation of the mucous membrane of the larynx, causing some difficulty in breathing; or the condition may spread along the Eustachian