515 ENTEROPTOSIS. umbilicus and the pubes. One or both kidneys are frequently displaced downwards; more rarely the liver and spleen. The uterus may be prolapsed or even protruded from the vagina. In men, the condition is predisposed to by impairment of the health and muscular debility, and in women by loss of tone in the muscular and fascial structures of the abdominal wall, aggravated by compression of the waist and the weight of the skirts forcing the viscera downwards. Adhesions resulting from pelvic peritonitis may cause descent of the viscera by direct traction. The severity of the symptoms is not proportionate to the degree of displacement; in many cases the clinical features are mainly those of neurasthenia. The patient complains of con- stant dragging pain in the abdomen and loins, aggravated by standing or exertion, and relieved by lying down. Special symptoms referable to the displacement of individual organs may be present. The diagnosis is made by physical examination of the ab- domen, the patient being placed successively in the recumbent, the knee-elbow, and the erect posture. In the case of the stomach and intestine the displacement may be demonstrated by X-ray examination after filling the respective viscera with an emulsion of bismuth. Treatment is directed towards improving the general health and increasing the amount of adipose tissue, removing any causal factors, such as tiglit-lacing or over-exertion, regulating the stomach and bowels, and restoring the muscular tone of the abdominal walls by means of massage and suitable exercises. The falling down of the viscera may to a certain extent be con- trolled by an appropriate bandage, belt, or corset, applied while the patient is in the Trendelenburg position, and so arranged that the pressure is from below upwards. A large pad of wool, corresponding in shape to the anterior abdominal wall, and a wide domette roller bandage is usually found to be quite efficient. During the sleeping hours the foot of the bed should be raised. In aggravated cases, which do not yield to these measures, recourse may be had to surgical interference, the nature of which will be described with the individual organs. It should be pointed out that where neurasthenia is a prominent feature, it may continue after all displacements have been made good.