INTUSSUSCEPTION. 487 ileum descend so as to form an acute angle with the caecum, any prolapse of the lumen into the large bowel would point down- wards, and the effect of peristalsis would be to reduce the commencing invagination by pushing it up and thus prevent the formation of an intussusception. As the terminal coils of ileum descend into the pelvis about the end of the fourth month, the lower end of the ileum must ascend to its termination in the caecum ; it is during the months following the date when this descent is known to take place that the majority of acute infantile intussusceptions are met with. For the occurrence of intussusception the colon must be considerably larger than the ileum and must also be unduly movable, so that it readily allows itself to be invaginated once the process is begun. In the process of invagination the bowel is accompanied by its mesentery, which is compressed and closely packed between the entering and returning tubes (Fig. 129), and as the intussusception increases, the contraction exerted through the mesentery draws the tumour towards the posterior abdominal wall, while at the same time it causes it to become curved, the concavity of the curve being towards the mesenteric attachment. The compression of the vessels of the mesentery, and especially of its veins, results in venous engorgement and swelling of the invaginated bowel; the engorgement commencing first and being most marked at the apex and in the middle tube. The engorge- ment is attended with hemorrhage into the coats of the bowel and from the mucous surfaces. Blood thus escapes into the bowel below and is passed by the rectum mixed with mucus. The actual obstruction is due to the lumen being tilled up by the reduplicated and swollen tubes of bowel. After a variable period the intussusception becomes irreducible. This may be due to the swelling of the invaginated portion, the apex especially being often swollen into a large knob ; or to the formation of adhesions fixing together the opposed serous surfaces of the inner and middle tubes, this also being most commonly observed towards the apex. Thus it may happen that the whole intussusception can be readily reduced with the exception of the last few inches. In severe and advanced cases the interference with the nutrition of the bowel is followed by bacterial invasion of its coats, and this may, as in strangulated hernia, result in peritonitis or in gangrene, or in a combination of these con- ditions. Gangrene is most frequent and most extensive in the acute form, and usually appears first in the middle tube. The whole intussusceptum may become gangrenous, and may, after separation at the neck of the tumour, be discharged by the