623 HYDRONEPHROSIS. forms within a few days or weeks of the injury a rounded or sausage-shaped swelling, which is tender on pressure, in the line of the ureter. If the ureter becomes the seat of stricture, the kidney undergoes enlargement and constitutes a traumatic hydronephrosis. Septic infection is liable to occur and may spread to the kidney. Treatment.—If, by means of the ureteral catheter, the diagnosis can be made with certainty, the operation of primary suture of the ruptured ureter is indicated. In most cases treatment is confined to incision and drainage of the extravasated urine. Injuries of the Ureter.—In the course of pelvic operations, such as removal of the uterus, the ureter is liable to be included in a ligature, divided or crushed so that it subsequently sloughs. If the injury is recognised at the time of its infliction, it must be dealt with at once. If completely divided it may be sutured, or if this be impracticable, the proximal end should, if possible, be inserted into the bladder through a fresh opening. Hydronephrosis. {Synonyms: Uro-nephrosis, Nephrectasis, Renal Retention.) Pathogenesis and Morbid Anatomy.—If the escape of urine from the kidney is suddenly and completely arrested, as by ligation of the ureter, the organ soon ceases to secrete, and finally undergoes atrophy; but if the outflow is merely hindered over a long period, the secretion continues, and the pressure of the urine gradually distends the pelvis into a cyst. The cause of the obstruction to the outflow may be situated in any part of the urinary tract, and in each individual case of hydronephrosis, it is important to locate it in order that it may, if possible, be removed. Causes in the Kidney itself.—Apart from such conditions as a calculus or a villous tumour blocking the outlet of the renal pelvis, the commonest cause is an alteration in the position of the kidney, whether congenital or acquired, whereby the outflow from the pelvis is interfered with. Descent of the kidney usually results in a curving of the upper end of the ureter, the convexity of the curve being upwards, or, in extreme cases, it may be kinked and form an inverted V- If the hindrance to the outflow is temporary, as it is in a floating kidney which returns to its place, the pelvis readily regains its former size —intermittent hydronephrosis; but with repeated recurrence of the obstruction, secondary changes occur in the pelvis and ureter which tend to perpetuate the stagnation of urine—permanent