THE INTESTINES. 488 rectum as a blackish-green, tubular slough, varying in length from a few inches to several feet. Recovery has occasionally followed upon separation and extrusion of the gangrenous bowel. Ulceration and gangrene of the sheath is rare. In chronic cases the gangrene may be limited to the mucous membrane in the region of the apex. Varieties.—The commonest variety, at least in children, is the ileo-ccecal, which has already been described. The ileo-colic form, in which the lower end of the ileum is prolapsed through the ileo-csecal valve, is extremely rare, and it differs from the other forms in that the increase results from the introduction into the colon of more and more ileum, some portion of which forms the apex; for its occurrence it is necessary that the colon be fixed by a short mesentery or that the mesentery be absent. The colic form chiefly affects the descending or sigmoid colon and is usually limited. The enteric form is confined to the lesser bowel and is most frequent in the lower part of the jejunum. It is usually short, involving only a few inches of the bowel, and is of little clinical importance as it chiefly occurs during the “ death agony.” A rare form of intussusception occurs in connection with the appendix, in which this structure is turned completely inside out and projects into the lumen of the caecum. Mention may also be made of the invagination of a patent Mechel's diverticulum into the lumen of the small intestine, causing obstruction of its lumen, and, it may be, also starting an invagination of the intestine itself. Clinical Features of Acute Intussusception in Children.—This condition forms the most common variety of obstruction to which children are liable. Boys are more often affected than girls, and the child is usually in robust health. An acute attack is usually ushered in by the child suddenly screaming or crying out, turning pale, and vomiting; a normal motion may be passed soon after the onset of the attack. Attacks of pain recur at frequent intervals, and after some hours blood and mucus are passed by the rectum. Between the attacks of pain the child may appear to be quite well, and the pulse and temperature are usually normal, although he may be unnaturally quiet and listless. On examina- tion a cylindrical or sausage-shaped tumour, curved with its concavity towards the umbilicus, is the most constant and reliable sign of ileo-csecal intussusception. It is most often felt in the position of the descending or of the transverse colon. When the intussusceptum has reached the lower part of the colon, it may be felt in the rectum as a soft, conical mass with a