DANGERS ARISING DURING ANAESTHESIA. 779 ether; a napkin, or frame mask covered with two layers of lint; an ether inhaler; a wooden wedge for forcing open the jaws ; a strong gag, such as Mason’s or Fergusson’s; two hypodermic syringes; a 1 per cent, solution of strychnin; a few ounces of brandy; a pair of tongue forceps; a rough towel; a small basin; and a tracheotomy tube and the other instruments necessary for performing tracheotomy. Dangers arising during Ansesthesia.—As it is usually at the commencement of the administration that alarming symptoms develop, particularly when chloroform is being used, the patient must be most carefully watched, and the vapour must be well diluted with air and be very gradually made stronger. Once the patient is fully narcotised very little is necessary to keep him under, but the administration must be continuous, as there is considerable risk of syncope if he is allowed to come out by intermittent use of the drug. The early stages of ether administration are attended with much less risk. The dangers arising during the administration of an anaes- thetic are due either to depression or failure of the circulation, or to embarrassment of the respiration. Frequently these conditions coexist, but it is convenient to consider them separately. Circulatory depression or failure may be due to the toxic action of the anaesthetic, or to some cause connected with the operation. For example, syncope may occur during the early stages of anaesthesia, and more particularly of chloroform anaesthesia, from cardiac inhibition due to reflex stimulation of the vagus from the use of too concentrated a vapour. Or it may occur later from absorption of an overdose, which causes paralysis of the cardiac centre in the medulla, and of the heart itself. On the other hand, cardiac failure may arise from conditions apart from the anaesthetic used, the most important of which are—(1) mental perturbation, for example, at the very com- mencement of the administration; (2) raising the patient into the sitting posture while he is still under the influence of chloroform ; (3) nausea, or threatened vomiting; (4) shock and loss of blood from the operation. The most prominent symptoms are pallor, often appearing very suddenly, rapid failure of the pulse and respiration, and wide dilatation of the pupils. The pulse and respiration may fail simultaneously or within a few seconds of one another. In the syncope which occurs during the early stages of ansesthesia, the onset is extremely rapid and the condition is one of great danger