TUBERCULOSIS. 83 cerebral abscess, sinus phlebitis, and general pyaemia, are liable to develop at any time during the progress of the disease. Treatment.—Early, free, and if necessary, multiple incisions are indicated to admit of thorough disinfection of the affected area, and of the establishment of drainage. If the symptoms point to suppuration having occurred between the bone and the dura, the skull should be trephined and the pus removed. Time may be saved by separating the sequestrum with the aid of an elevator or sharp spoon, or by chiselling away the dead part till healthy vascular bone is reached. It is some- times advisable to perform an osteo-plastic operation for the closure of the gap, for example, by raising from an adjacent part of the skull a flap containing scalp, periosteum, and the outer table, and placing it in the gap. A portion of bone taken from one of the lower animals may be used for this purpose. Plates of calcined bone, celluloid, silver, and other materials have also been employed. When a permanent gap is left in the bone, the patient should wear over it a leather or metal shield to protect the brain from injury. In acute suppurative osteo-myelitis the result of infection through the blood-stream, as pus usually forms on both aspects of the bone, it is necessary to trephine the skull to ensure efficient drainage. Tuberculosis of the bones of the cranial vault is usually met with in children. The disease commences in the diploe, and results in the formation of a central sequestrum, around which the tuberculous process spreads. Granulations form between the skull and the dura, and on the outer aspect beneath the pericranium. The sequestrum is slowly thrown off, and when separated is circular, and presents a worm-eaten appearance. The clinical appearances are those of a circumscribed, tender swelling, which at first yields an obscure sensation of fluctuation like that of a gumma; and later, when the pus is no longer confined under the pericranium, assumes the characters of a cold abscess, which gradually becomes superficial and eventually bursts through the skin forming one or more sinuses. The abscess should be laid freely open, all tuberculous granula- tions scraped away, and the sequestrum removed, with the aid of the chisel if it has not already become loose. After healing is completed a depression or gap in the bone remains. Syphilis. — Syphilitic affections occur during the tertiary period of the disease, and usually implicate the frontal and parietal bones. They are described in vol. i. p. 605.