THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 744 attacked while the inflammation in the other is subsiding. Although essentially due to direct spread of infection from the posterior urethra, the attack may be determined by excessive exercise, such as a long walk or cycle ride, by exposure to cold, or by injections into the posterior urethra. Clinical Features. — The attack begins with swelling and tenderness of the spermatic cord, and an aching pain which shoots towards the inguinal region and pelvis. The temperature rises, sometimes with shivering, and the patient feels feverish and ill. There may be sickness and vomiting, and the bowels are usually constipated. The scrotum becomes red and cede- rnatous. On palpation the cord is found to be thickened, as a result of swelling of the vas and oedema of the connective tissues, and, it may be, congestion and thrombosis of the veins. The globus minor of the epididymis next becomes enlarged and painful, and the swelling soon spreads to the body and globus major, with the result that there develops behind the body of the testis a crescentic or C-sliaped swelling. The shape and disposition of this swelling is sometimes obscured by an effusion of fluid into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis—acute hydrocele. The body of the testis is seldom implicated. The pain in the epididymis is severe and interferes with sleep, and is aggravated by handling of the parts. With the onset of the epididymitis the urethral discharge ceases, and it usually remains absent as long, as the inflammation lasts. On rectal examination the seminal vesicle and lobe of the prostate on the affected side may be found swollen and tender. The symptoms increase in severity for four or five days, and after remaining at their height for two or three days gradually subside. It is usually two or three weeks before the patient is able to return to work. As the inflammation subsides the urethral discharge usually re- appears. Sequelae.—As a rule the inflammation subsides completely, and although the inflammatory exudate may take weeks or even months to disappear, it usually does so entirely. Atrophy of the testis rarely ensues. In some cases, and particularly if the source of irritation in the deep urethra persists, the patient is liable to suffer from repeated mild attacks, first in the one epidi- dymis, and then in the other—so-called chronic, or relapsing, or alternating epididymitis. This may result in chronic induration of the epididymis and vasa deferentia, occluding the tubes and leading to sterility. A small quantity of fluid may remain permanently in the tunica vaginalis, constituting one form of hydrocele. Suppuration is very rare.