690 THE URETHRA. In ruptures involving the posterior urethra, the urine fills up the compartment between the two layers of the triangular ligament, and then extends forwards or backwards according to which of these layers has been torn at the same time as the urethra. If the posterior layer is torn, the urine accumulates in the cellular tissue around the neck of the bladder, and extends upwards in front of this region into the space of Retzius and anterior abdominal wall between the fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum. In cases left to nature the tissues in which the urine is extravasated become the seat of septic infection, the clinical features slowly merge into those of a spreading cellulitis, resulting in suppuration, sinuses, and urinary fistulae • in some cases death results from septic or urinary poisoning. Diagnosis and Treatment.—A soft rubber catheter (No. 9 or 10, English) is sterilised and passed along the urethra. If it enters the bladder and draws off clear urine, it should be tied in, connected with a suction apparatus, and left in posi- tion for a week or ten days. More commonly it is arrested at the site of rupture, in which case the patient should be anaes- thetised to eliminate the contraction of the urethral muscles, and another attempt made. If this does not succeed, the catheter should be made rigid by means of a stylet or fine bougie, and the point of the instrument kept in contact with the roof, while its movements are controlled by the left forefinger in the rectum. Should these measures fail, it is necessary to cut down on the ruptured urethra—external urethrotomy. The patient is placed in the lithotomy position, a large bougie or Wheelhouse’s staff is passed as far as the seat of rupture, and the end of it cut down upon in the middle line of the perineum. The blood and clots are removed by a stream of hot saline solution, and the proximal end of the urethra is searched for; sometimes it is identified by the persistent bleeding from vessels in the wall of the tube, or its recognition may be facilitated by pressing on the bladder above the pubes so as to expel some urine. Having found the central end, a rubber catheter is passed from the meatus into the bladder, the torn urethra is stitched over it, and the perineal wound closed except where a small opening is left for drainage. The catheter is then connected with a suction apparatus. It should be stated that many authors, and among them Guyon, condemn the practice of merely tying in a catheter, on the ground that it does not necessarily prevent extravasation,