681 CYSTS OF THE BLADDER. of the mucous membrane through the spaces between hyper- trophied bundles of muscular fibres. Multiple small pouches are comparatively common in cases of urethral stricture and enlarged prostate. When of large size and solitary, the term cyst or diverticulum is applied. A diverticulum may be like a hen’s egg in shape and size, or it may be much larger than the bladder, and its wall may be very thin and contain no muscle fibres. Sometimes the urine which stagnates in such diverticula decomposes, and phosphatic stone of the “ encysted ” variety results. We have observed more than one case in which a large diverticulum of the bladder was protruded at the inguinal canal, constituting one form of bladder hernia. The condition seldom gives rise to definite symptoms. In some cases the patient micturates in two stages, first passing clear urine from his bladder, and then, on making pressure over the pubes, expelling turbid urine from the diverticulum. A large diverticulum may be recognised on bimanual examination as a fluctuating tumour distinct from but fixed to the bladder. The cystoscope may demonstrate the existence of a pouch, its situation, and possibly a stone in its interior. X-ray examina- tion, after distension of the bladder and diverticulum with bismuth emulsion, may prove of great assistance. In the majority of cases the treatment is merely directed towards complete emptying of the bladder and the prevention of bacterial decomposition. It is sometimes, however, possible to excise the diverticulum. Cystic tumours related to the bladder but derived from structures outside the organ are represented by cysts of the urachus, which are situated in the hypogastric region between the bladder and the navel (p. 353) ; cysts derived from the prostate or seminal vesicle, which develop behind the bladder and below the level of the recto-vesical reflection of peritoneum ; dermoid cysts; and hydatids. Any one of these may cause frequency of micturition and difficulty in emptying the bladder, and may be recognised on bimanual examination. Disturbances of the Functions of the Bladder—Neuropathic Affections of the Bladder.—The functions of the bladder are disturbed in various affections of the nervous system. Gross lesions of the brain, such as cerebral lnemorrhage, or of the cord, such as may attend fracture of the spine, myelitis, or Pott’s disease, are frequently attended with motor and sensory paralysis of the bladder. The organ is unable to empty itself and becomes over-distended, until the intra-vesical pressure overcomes the sphincter muscle and there is incontinence or dribbling from