427 VENTRAL HERNIA. be worn to support the abdominal wall. Where there is pain and inconvenience in spite of the belt, an operation should be performed similar to that described for umbilical hernia. Hernia in the linea alba, although it may occur below the umbilicus, is met with chiefly above this point, and is then known as an epigastric hernia. The linea alba above the umbilicus is represented by interlacing fibres which form a network, the meshes of which are disposed horizontally. In some cases this network is comparatively open, and diamond- or lozenge-shaped spaces are left between the fibrous bundles. When this is associated with the presence of a loose layer of extra-peritoneal fat, a lobule of fat may be protruded through one of the spaces of the network, and constitute what is known as a “ sub-peritoneal lipoma.” As the plug of fat is further pro- truded, it drags behind it a funnel-shaped process of peritoneum, which ultimately becomes the sac of a hernia. These hern ire are met with chiefly midway between the umbilicus and ensiform car- tilage in male adults above the age of thirty, who follow some occupation involving hard manual labour. In most cases the patient complains of colicky pains in the region of the stomach, sometimes described as “ cramp,” sickness, eructations, and sometimes diarrhoea. Strangulation may supervene suddenly in cases in which the hernia has never given rise to inconvenience, or it may be the culmination of a long period of suffering. It may quickly terminate in gangrene of the loop of bowel engaged in the sharp-edged ring in the linea alba. It should be subjected to operation on similar lines to that performed for umbilical hernia. Hernias in Relation to Cicatrices of the Abdominal Wall.— These, which are often described as traumatic ventral hernias, may be found at any part of the abdominal wall that is the seat of a scar resulting from a wound or from suppuration. They are most commonly met with after laparotomy wounds below the umbilicus in which primary union has not taken place, as, for example, those made in operating for acute appendicitis, in which drainage has been employed. While suppuration of the wound is the most important factor in its production, ventral hernia may be favoured by imperfect suturing, by too early absorption of the sutures, by inefficient support to the wound, and too short a period of rest in the recumbent position after operation. The hernia takes the form of a diffuse bulging, which appears when the patient stands up, or when he coughs or strains. It may attain a great size, and cause a sense of weakness and of