TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 715 viscid, milky fluid escapes at the meatus, and on examination this is found to consist of mucus and granular phosphates. The condition appears to depend upon a chronic catarrh of the gland follicles of the prostate. Some patients experience so little trouble that they give themselves scarcely any concern about the matter ; others may be troubled more or less in mind, but their health is not seriously affected. In some cases, however, the patient becomes weak and nervous and may present all the features of neurasthenia. The malady runs a long and irregular course, with periods of exacer- bation alternating with periods in which the symptoms are insignificant and may escape notice. In rare cases of chronic prostatitis the discharge is so copious that the term prostatorrhoea has been applied to the condition. In these cases there is a continuous and excessive production of mucus by the gland follicles, and the most striking symptom is the escape from the meatus of a clear, mucous fluid, which may be so copious as to wet the linen; sometimes there is increased frequency in micturition with uneasiness at the end of the act, and there may be slight pain or a scalding sensation. A sense of dulness and weight is often felt in the rectum, and pain and uneasy sensations are experienced in the perineum, thighs, and lower part of the spine. The first essentials in the treatment of catarrhal prostatitis are a regular, quiet life, with abundant exercise in the open air, and avoidance of sexual excitement. Most benefit results from massage of the prostate by way of the rectum. The main object is to reduce the size of the swollen organ and press out the accumulated secretion, improving the blood-supply and stimulating the tissues so as to favour a return to the normal condition. No rule can be laid down as to the frequency of the repetition of the massage, but, as a rule, once in five or seven days will suffice to produce good results. Benefit may also be derived from tonics and moi'al encouragement. Tuberculous Disease.—This is comparatively common in young adults as an accompaniment of tubercle in the epididymis or seminal vesicle. The patient, who may not previously have shown any evidence of tubercle and may appear to be in perfect health, complains of frequent and painful micturition, the pain being referred to the point of the penis ; and the last few drops of urine may be stained with blood. When examined from the rectum, the prostate gives the sensation as of pea-like nodules buried in its substance ; sometimes tender, boggy areas can be recognised, or there may be a fluctuating abscess. The tuber-