132 DEVIATIONS OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. other side are separated ; in other words, the hand and knee of one side should not move forward simultaneously (Fig. 42). With each step the spine is curved laterally, the concavity of the curve being towards the side on which the hand and knee are approximated. The exercises, for a case of dorsal curvature with the convexity to the right, for example, are graduated as follows: —(1) The child crawls in a straight line till he has acquired the “quad- ruped gait”; (2) with each step forward the head is inclined to- wards the side on which the hand and knee are approximated ; (3) at each step the hand and knee which are wide apart are brought over and cross the limbs on the other side ; (4) to open out the concave left side, he crawls in a circle to- wards the right. The exercises are practised morning and afternoon for from 15 to 60 minutes at a time. Hot-air baths and massage are useful adjuvants to the exercises. The hands, knees, and toes should be protected by suitable gloves and leather pads. Other forms of scoliosis are met with, but are less common. In rickety children, for example, the spine is fre- quently deviated. The curva- ture is usually in the dorso- lumbar region, and the convex- ity may be to the right or to the left. The deformity is often extreme and constitutes the humpback of the rickety dwarf (Fig. 233, vol. i.). It is possible that the position in which the child habitually lies or is carried has some influence in determining the situation and direction of the curve. A rickety child with weak muscles should never be carried sitting on the nurse’s arm, but always in the horizontal position in a fiat wicker basket. Massage and salt-water douches are useful in strengthening the muscles of the back. The usual treatment for rickets must, of course, be carried out. Among other con- ditions predisposing to scoliosis are late rickets, osteomalacia, and other diseases attended with softening of the bones and general debility. In children who have commenced to walk, any inequality in the length of the limbs — such as results, for example, fi-om Fia. 42.—Diagram of Klapp’s four - footed Scoliosis. attitudes in exercises for