SPINA BIFIDA. 123 can sometimes be palpated. It is, however, often very difficult to distinguish between a meningocele and a meningo-myelocele. Sometimes there are no nervous disturbances, and this is especially the case when the defect is in the lower lumbar and sacral regions beyond the termination of the cord. In most cases, however, there are paralytic symptoms referable to the lower extremities, the bladder, and the rectum, and there may also be trophic disturbances in the parts below. Paralytic symptoms may be absent during infancy, and develop during childhood or adolescence. Prognosis. — Comparatively few children born with spina bifida survive longer than four or five years. The great majority die within a few weeks of birth, death being due to the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid, or to septic infection setting up spinal meningitis. The condition in some cases remains stationary for years, but spontaneous disappearance is rare. Treatment.—The majority of cases of spina bifida only call for palliative treatment, which consists in applying a sterilised dressing and a supporting bandage. Operative treatment is seldom to be recommended in a young child unless the patient is moderately robust, and the swelling is increasing rapidly and threatening to burst, and there is reason to believe that the paralysis is due to pressure. The results obtained by operation after the age of five, however, justify an attempt being made. The operation consists in exposing the neck of the sac by an elliptical incision and isolating the sac. In the case of a meningocele a ligature is applied round the neck of the sac, the sac cut away, and the opening closed in such a way as to prevent escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. In the case of a meningo-myelocele the nerves are separated from the inner aspect of the sac and returned to the spinal canal before the sac is excised. To prevent the cerebro-spinal fluid escaping during the operation the pelvis should be well raised while the sac is being dealt with. The gap in the bone may be bridged across by flaps of periosteum or by pieces of bone taken from the adjacent laminae or ribs. The soft parts are sutured in successive layers, and the patient is kept in the prone position till the wound heals. The immediate results of this operation are usually satis- factory, but in a large proportion of cases the child subsequently develops hydrocephalus, from which he ultimately succumbs. The method of injecting the sac with iodine, as first recom- mended by Morton, of Glasgow, has been almost entirely given up.