585 TUBERCULOUS FISTULA. istic feature of the blind internal fistula is the way in which it repeatedly closes for a time and reopens again. There is tenesmus and pain on defecation. On digital examination the track of the fistula may be recognised as an indurated cord in the perirectal tissues, and the opening is felt as a small pit or depression with thickened edges. The opening is usually single, and is most frequently situated towards the posterior part of the rectum. When the fistula is due to the bursting of a prostatic abscess into the rectum, the opening is on the anterior wall. Tuberculous Fistula.—A considerable number of cases of fistula-in-ano are tuberculous in character. Great difference of opinion exists as to the relative frequency of such cases, and as to the precise role played by the tubercle bacillus. Some authorities believe that the ano-rectal condition is frequently a primary manifestation of tuberculosis, while others hold that the fistulous track is infected secondarily. Statistics seem to show that while fistula is by no means common in phthisical patients, a considerable number of those who suffer from fistula subse- quently develop tuberculosis. The complete form is that most frequently met with. It differs from the ordinary pyogenic fistula, chiefly in being situated towards the anterior, rather than towards the posterior part of the rectum, and in being for the most part painless and insensitive. The track of the fistula is markedly indurated, the discharge thin, pale, and watery, and the skin around the opening is usually undermined and of a bluish colour. In many cases the diagnosis can only be made with certainty by bacteriological examination of a scraping of the wall of the channel. Treatment.—The only satisfactory method of treating fistula- in-ano is to lay the whole length of the track and all its burrowings freely open, in order that they may be thoroughly disinfected and made to heal from the bottom. In doing this the internal sphincter should be injured as little as possible to avoid the risk of incontinence. If it is necessary to divide the external sphincter, the muscular fibres should be cut straight across, and not obliquely, and they should not be cut at more than one place. To ensure sound healing it is essential that the internal opening of the fistula be found and laid open. In a complete fistula a flexible probe or director is passed along the track from the external to the internal opening, a finger is introduced into the rectum, and when the end of the probe is felt it is bent and withdrawn through the anus. A curved probe-pointed bistoury is passed along its track, and the bridge of tissue between the probe and the surface cut through.