550 THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. The rupture varies in extent and depth, and is most frequently situated in the region of the hilus, thus implicating the larger blood-vessels. There is nothing characteristic in the clinical features. In addition to shock and abdominal pain and tenderness, the chief symptoms are those which result from haemorrhage into the peri- toneal cavity. When the larger vessels are torn, the haemorrhage may be so abundant as to prove rapidly fatal. If not immediately fatal, the blood which is poured into the peritoneal cavity gives rise to dulness in the flanks, more especially on the left side, and as the blood accumulates the extent of the dulness may be observed to increase. In a small number of cases the symptoms are delayed for twenty-four hours or more, due to temporary arrest of the bleeding by clotting. The diagnosis is completed on opening the abdomen, and this is done by a vertical incision through the left rectus. The pedicle should be clamped in the first instance, as this at once controls the hsemorrhage. When the rupture is extensive, the most effective and ex- peditious procedure is to remove the organ [splenectomy). When the laceration does not extend deeply, it may be possible to bring together the edges by deep sutures. Treatment must also be directed to any associated injuries, such as those of the ribs or adjacent viscera, and to the bloodless state. Stabs and gunshot wounds are to be diagnosed and treated on general principles. In extensive open wounds the organ may be protruded externally, in which case it should be replaced or removed according to the amount of damage it has sustained. Abscess of the Spleen.—Splenic abscess is most frequently met with in relation to endocarditis, pyaemia, or typhoid, and is usually the result of septic embolism. An abscess may form in the connective tissue around the spleen, as a result of localised suppurative peritonitis; for example, that associated with a perforated gastric ulcer. The abscess may either point and burst externally, or it may rupture into the pleural or peritoneal cavity, into the retro-peritoneal tissue, or into one of the adjacent organs. It may give rise to phlebitis in the portal vein, and to secondary abscesses in the liver. The clinical features are rarely characteristic. The spleen is found to be enlarged and tender, and the patient has rigors, sweats, and loses flesh rapidly. Peritoneal friction may be heard over the swelling, and there may be signs of pleurisy at the base of the left lung. If the condition is diagnosed, the area of suppuration may be