248 THE NECK. The cystic lymphangioma, hygroma, or hydrocele of the neck has been described with affections of lymphatics (vol. i. p. 317). Blood cysts sometimes develop in relation to large veins in the neck, at first constituting a diverticulum of the vein, but later becoming isolated. It is usually necessary to ligature the vein above and below the cyst, and to remove the intervening portion. Thyro-glossal Cysts in the Neck.—Sometimes the deeper end of the thyro-glossal tract becomes cystic and forms a swelling which appears in the middle line of the neck between the chin and the hyoid bone. The cyst has the same characters as that which occurs in relation to the tongue (p. 196). If it causes disfigurement or is the seat of haemorrhage, it should be com- pletely excised. Cystic swellings sometimes occur in relation to the supra- hyoid and thyro-hyoid bursce. They may be treated by incision and drainage, or by excision. Solid tumours, apart from the common enlargements of lymphatic glands, and the various forms of goitre, are not often met with in the neck. Both varieties of lipoma are occasionally met with. The circumscribed form usually occurs over the nape of the neck or in the supra-clavicular region. It usually attains considerable size, and from its weight becomes pedunculated and hangs down over the patient’s back or shoulder (Fig. 82). Diffuse lipomatosis usually begins over the nape and spreads more or less symmetrically till it completely surrounds the neck (Fig. 43, vol. i.). As the new-formed fat is not encapsulated, extirpation of the mass is difficult and seldom called for. Fibromata frequently grow from the ligamentum nuchse, from the periosteum covering the vertebral processes, and from other fibrous structures. They may attain considerable size. Extirpation is sometimes difficult on account of their deep attachments. Osseous tumours occasionally grow in connection with the transverse processes of the lower cervical vertebrae. They are to be distinguished from cervical ribs. Sarcomata may develop from any of the fascial structures in the neck, or from the connective tissue surrounding the blood- vessels. On account of their deep attachments, there is great difficulty in removing these tumours completely, and when they are found to infiltrate the surrounding tissues the attempt should be abandoned. Primary carcinomata have been met with growing from