INJURIES. 619 steel springs (Israel). The support to the kidney may be further increased by an air cushion fastened within the corset; the cushion is diamond-shaped, the two sides above corresponding to the costal margin and the two below to the iliac crest and Poupart’s ligament. The corset should be applied when the patient is in the dorsal position with the pelvis elevated. When such a corset is not obtainable, the abdomen may be supported by a large diamond-shaped pad of wool and a wide domette roller bandage, the pad and bandage being applied over a thin jersey, to which both are secured by safety-pins. Fixation of the kidney by operation—nephropexy—is especially recommended when there are recurrent attacks of colic likely to be followed by hydronephrosis. In cases complicated with neurasthenia the operation is not only uncertain to cure the patient, but may prove a disappointment and do harm. The operation consists in exposing the kidney and drawing the parts together by suture so as to make a shelf upon which the lower pole will rest. The incision is made from the tip of the twelfth rib downwards and inwards in the line of the fibres of the external oblique. The three layers of muscle are separated by the “ gridiron ” method ; the peritoneum and the ascending colon are displaced inwards and the perirenal space entered. The layer of prerenal fascia, which comes down in front of the kidney, should be stitched to the layer coming down from behind — the retro-renal fascia. The fascia transversalis and the parietal peritoneum just outside the line of the colon should also be tacked down by sutures to the lumbar fascia. Following the example of W. J. Mayo and M. L. Harris, we have practised this operation with satisfactory results, and prefer it to the method usually employed, which consists in passing stitches through the capsule of the kidney or through the substance of the decapsulated organ and carrying these round the last rib and through the lumbar muscles. Injuries. — Contusion and Rupture.—These injuries are met with most frequently in men. In the adult female the kidney is protected by the greater projection of the iliac crest, the greater amount of perirenal fat, and also by the corset. A blow or crush may act directly upon the kidney, or drive it against the lower ribs or the transverse processes of the first and second lumbar vertebrae. When a person falls from a height, the kidney is injured by the sudden concussion of the body or by its abrupt flexion. In severe accidents other viscera, such as the liver or spleen, are ruptured at the same time. Morbid Anatomy.—In contusions the capsule and pelvis of