299 INJUKIES OF THE LUNG. A consideration of the position of the external wound, the presence or absence of other symptoms of injury of the lung, and the way in which the blood escapes—whether in a continuous stream, or only when the patient coughs or moves—will aid in settling this point. The fact that the blood is mixed with air is not conclusive evidence that it comes from the lung, as the air may have been sucked into the chest by the respiratory move- ments. The risk of septic infection of the pleura is increased in penetrating wounds, and empyema, septic pneumonia, and gangrene of the lung are liable to ensue. Treatment.—In all cases in which the thoracic viscera have been injured, the patient must be kept absolutely quiet in bed in a warm room. He is usually most comfortable when propped up in a sitting or reclining position. Steps are taken to combat shock, but stimulation must be employed with discretion on account of the risk of increasing haemorrhage. If the ribs or sternum be fractured, the treatment already described for these injuries may be employed, unless, as is often the case, the necessary manipulations are contra-indicated by the general con- dition of the patient. The further treatment will depend upon the symptoms present. In many cases of hcemothorax, for example, no special treatment is required, as the bleeding does not continue long and the effused blood is rapidly re-absorbed; but if the effusion is causing dangerous pressure on the lung, it is advisable to withdraw some of it by aspiration. Care should be taken not to use a strong vacuum in the aspirator, and not to withdraw all the fluid from the chest, lest the rapid expansion of the lung should displace clots or open up the tear in the lung tissue and restart the bleeding. When the heart is embarrassed by the fluid in the pleura, marked benefit usually follows the withdrawal of ten or twelve ounces of blood from the systemic circulation by venesec- tion. When the fluid is not re-absorbed by the end of a fort- night, it may be withdrawn by a fine aspirating needle. By this time the wound in the lung will have healed and the risk of renewed haemorrhage be past. The occurrence of septic infection is an indication for incising the pleura, resecting portions of one or more ribs, and establishing drainage. Pneumo- thorax seldom calls for special treatment. When severe dyspnoea is present, relief may follow the escape of air through a hollow needle introduced into the pleura, provided the wound in the lung has healed. Macewen recommends that if this fails to allow the lung to expand, the pleural cavity be opened by the removal of a portion of rib as near the seat of the pulmonary