THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 350 resected. If the prolapse is of long standing, marked altera- tions may have occurred in the protruded viscus from septic infection, or, when the opening in the parietes is a small one, by strangulation ; the omentum or intestine, for example, may be gangrenous by the time the patient first comes under observation, and the treatment is then carried out on the same lines as in strangulated hernia. Gunshot Wounds.—Those met with in civil practice are usually produced by pistol or rifle bullets discharged at close range, and they are to be dealt with on the same lines as stab wounds. When a pistol bullet enters the abdominal cavity it may perforate several coils of intestine and traverse any solid viscus that lies in its course. Multiple perforations occur most frequently in the ileum, and are oftenest made by bullets which pass through the abdomen obliquely from side to side. The abdomen is opened in the middle line to allow of the necessary investigation of the viscera. If there is evidence of haemorrhage, the solid viscera must be examined first, and any wound found treated by suture or packing. In extensive wounds of either the spleen or the kidney the organ may have to be excised. The intestine must be examined methodically ; starting from a fixed point, such as the ileo-caecal junction, the whole of the small intestine is rapidly passed through the fingers, and as a rent is exposed it is at once sutured. It is rarely necessary to resect a portion of bowel. In gunshot wounds sustained in warfare, the conditions vary so widely that no definite lines can be laid down regarding their treatment. Recent experience has shown that when the abdomen of a fasting man has been traversed by a bullet of small calibre discharged at a distance, it is better to abstain from operative interference unless there is progressive haemorrhage within the abdomen. The patient should be kept under morphin and nourished by the rectum. Even when the abdominal cavity has been traversed by a bullet and perforation of one or more viscera has occurred, spontaneous recovery frequently takes place. If, however, in warfare the conditions, both as regards the nature of the injury and the facilities for operating, approximate those of civil practice, laparotomy should be performed, especially when there is evidence of internal haemorrhage or of perforation of the stomach or intestine. Wounds of the liver, kidney, and spleen by rifle bullets usually heal well, and require no operative treat- ment, except for secondary complications, such as fistula or abscess.