THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 616 Kidney—Nephroptosis.—A kidney which moves abnormally freely behind the peritoneum is said to be movable; one which moves forwards, or floats, towards the anterior abdominal wall is spoken of as a xvandering or floating kidney. In the second variety the peritoneum and the layer of perinephric fascia in front of the kidney are loosened and the renal vessels elongated, but the suprarenal capsule does not accompany the kidney in its wanderings. The presence of a meso-nephron is rare. The most important factor in the causation of abnormal renal mobility is an inherited and congenital peculiarity in the anatomical relations of the kidney. This is evidenced by the frequency of the condition in certain families, its association with congenital anomalies in the shape of the kidney and in the origin of the renal vessels, and the faulty formation of the niche or pocket in which the kidney lies. It is such congenitally dis- posed kidneys that become prolapsed and abnormally mobile from such determining or exciting causes as : (1) diminution in the intra-abdominal pressure from loss of tone in the abdominal muscles, emaciation with loss of the perirenal fat, repeated preg- nancies, or the removal of large abdominal tumours ; (2) altera- tions in the shape of the thorax produced by tight lacing; and (3) the disturbance of parts by falls on the feet or buttocks, violent gymnastics, and the nursing of heavy patients. When normally formed persons are subjected to similar influences they do not tend to develop abnormal renal mobility. In the majority of cases no such determining factors can be discovered. Secondary Changes in the Displaced Kidney.—As it descends, in virtue of its pedicle the kidney as a whole swings towards the middle line, and at the same time it rotates so that the upper pole moves forwards. The latter movement causes traction on the pedicle, and tends to bring about torsion or kinking of the renal vessels and of the ureter. Being fixed by the peritoneum, the ureter does not readily follow the kidney in its descent, and any alteration in its direction may interfere with the outflow of urine from the pelvis and induce hydronephrosis. As a result of inflammatory attacks, the organ may become fixed by ad- hesions in its abnormal position. The normal congestion of the kidney that accompanies menstruation is usually exaggerated. Effect of Displacement of the Kidney on the Ascending Colon.— It has been shown by Algave that downward displacement of the kidney may drag down the hepatic flexure of the colon and cause distortion or kinking of the ascending colon; this entails fecal accumulation in the caecum and obstinate constipation which may lead to colitis.