COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. 29 In uraemic and in diabetic coma there is no true paralysis, nor is there stertor. The urine contains albumin or sugar, and there may be oedema of the feet and legs. Prognosis.—The prognosis depends so much on the nature and extent of the injury to the brain, that it is impossible to formulate any general statements with regard to it. It may be said, however, that the symptoms which indicate a bad prognosis in compression are immediate rise of temperature, particularly if it goes above 104° F., the early onset of muscular rigidity, extreme and persistent contraction of the pupils, with loss of the reflex to light, conjugate deviation of the eyes, and the early appearance of bed-sores. In the majority of cases compression ends fatally in from two to seven days. On the other hand, recovery may ensue after the stuporous condition has lasted for several weeks. Contusion and Laceration of the Brain, and Traumatic Intra-cranial H.emorrhace. The brain is contused and lacerated to a greater or less extent in almost every head injury attended with cerebral symptoms. These lesions are usually most severe and dangerous when the skull is fractured and fragments are driven in upon the brain, but they may exist—indeed they may be very extensive—in the absence of fracture. Several degrees are recognised. (1) The occurrence of numerous minute petechial haemorrhages widely scattered throughout the brain in cases of concussion has already been referred to (p. 23). (2) In more severe cases there are often several visible areas of extravasation, most commonly into the grey matter of the cortex (Fig. 8). These foci vary in size from a split-pea to a hazel-nut, and consist of a dark central zone of extravasated blood, surrounded by an area of “ red softening ” of the brain matter, beyond which are numerous minute capillary htemor- rhages. These intra-cerebral lesions may be accompanied by an effusion of blood into the meshes of the arachno-pial mem- brane, and they may occur either at the part of the head struck, or at the opposite pole of the axis of percussion—the so-called point of contre-coup. The symptoms vary with the size and site of the extravasations. It is probable that the phenomena of “ cerebral irritation ” (p. 24) are to be explained by the occur- rence of such haemorrhages widely scattered through the cerebral