726 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. The treatment consists in opening the prostatic urethra in the perineum, removing the calculi, and providing for drainage. If there is a stricture of the urethra, this must be dilated up to the full size and kept dilated. In view of the great tendency to the re-formation of stone in the prostatic urethra, every effort must be made to prevent alkaline decomposition of the urine. Prostatic Calculi.—The corpora amylacea present in the glandular follicles of the prostate may have lime salts deposited upon them and form stones. The calculi may lie separately, each iii its own pouch, or the intervening tissue may become absorbed and the calculi come to lie in a cyst-like cavity which may or may not communicate with the urethra. In colour they are brown or black, with a smooth, polished surface, and, when a number of them lie in a single cavity, they are faceted. They are commonly situated in that part of the prostate which lies behind the urethra, and, if ulceration takes place, the cavity in which they lie opens into the urethra, and from the access of urine there is deposit of phosphates, and sooner or later suppuration. Symptoms are usually wanting until ulceration has taken place into the urethra, when the patient complains of discharge from the urethra, pain at the end of micturition referred to the point of the penis, and it may be hsematuria. In advanced cases the symptoms are similar to stone in the prostatic urethra, and there may be the formation of an abscess and of sinuses or fistulm in the perineum. A diagnosis can usually be made with one finger in the rectum and a metal instrument in the urethra. When there is a fistula in the perineum it may be possible to sti'ike the stone on passing a probe. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as for stone in the prostatic urethra. Malignant Disease. — Cancer of the prostate is not un- commonly met with after middle life, either apart from or as a later development of simple enlargement. The first symptoms resemble those of simple enlargement, but the progress of the disease is usually more rapid. In some cases there is a dull pain in the supra-pubic region, and pain in the urethra referred to the end of the penis or to the perineum; sometimes the pain shoots down the lower extremities, and especially along the line of the sciatic nerve on one or other side. Hsematuria is rarely a prominent symptom, but the escape of blood or of bloody mucus from the urethra, when it occurs apart from micturition and from the passage of instruments, is very significant. In some cases retention is the first symptom observed. On