THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 348 the possibility of natural cure, but as a rule, after an interval of comparative well-being, the features of peritonitis appear, and the inflammation of the peritoneum may be limited by adhesions and terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess, or it may extend and become general. Diagnosis.—It is often difficult to be absolutely certain of the existence of a visceral lesion, and especially when an accurate history of the injury is not obtainable, as in persons found injured or in cases of alleged assault. Although the persistence of severe shock is strongly suggestive of visceral injury, in some cases of rupture of the stomach or intestine the patient suffers little from shock, and may even be able to walk some distance. The diagnosis of visceral injury is rendered more certain by the persistence of vomiting after the stomach has emptied itself of food, and by the continuance of severe pain and rigidity of the abdominal muscles. Pro- gressive pallor with signs of accumulation of blood in the peritoneal cavity affords grounds for suspecting the rupture of a solid organ. So long as the diagnosis is in doubt the progress of the symptoms must be carefully watched, the patient being examined at frequent intervals. Rupture of the urinary bladder is so liable to be overlooked, especially in intoxicated persons, that it is advisable as a routine practice to pass a catheter in all cases of known or alleged injury to the abdomen. While it is not justifiable to operate indiscriminately in all cases of abdominal injury, or on patients with extensive injuries who are obviously dying, when the diagnosis is doubtful it is safer to perform an exploratory laparotomy than to wait until signs of peritonitis ensue. Except in the presence of severe shock, an exploratory operation cannot be said to add to the danger of the patient, while delay in operating upon a ruptured viscus with infection of the peritoneum may place him beyond relief by surgical measures. Treatment.—The operative treatment takes the form of a laparotomy, and when rupture has been diagnosed the sooner this is carried out the better. It is not permissible to wait until the symptons of shock pass off, because in many cases these are kept up by bleeding or by the escape of visceral contents into the peritoneal cavity. The chief indications to be fulfilled are: the closure of the rupture in the viscus, the arrest of haemorrhage, and the cleansing of the peritoneal cavity. The abdomen is opened by an incision over the seat of injury,