738 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. spermatic cord, while in others the cord passes beyond the testis and hangs as a loop in the scrotum. Sometimes the testis leaves its normal track altogether and comes to rest in some abnormal position, such as the perineum, the groin, the front of the pubes, or on the anterior abdominal wall. These abnormalities constitute the various forms of mis- placed testis or ectopia testis. It is believed that the testis in these conditions is either dragged into its abnormal position by undue contraction of one or other of the fasciculi of the guber- naculum testis, or that it is pushed there by a hernia coming down behind it. The most common variety of ectopia is the perineal, in which the testis lies in a pouch beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia a little in front and to one side of the anus. The gland is surrounded by its tunica vaginalis, and the epididymis and cord can usually be felt lying to its outer side. In the pubic form, the testis lies under the skin of the dorsum of the penis in front of the pubic bone ; in the crural form, in the fold close to the saphenous on the surface of the Fig. 196.—Retained Testis on left side, and im- perfectly descended Testis on right, in a boy, set. 13. The right testis forms a swelling in the line of the inguinal canal. The scrotum is empty and contracted. between opening : the scrotum and the groin and in the abdominal form, aponeurosis of the external oblique. Clinical Features.—These various abnormalities are usually unilateral, and occur on the right side more frequently than on the left. The scrotum on the affected side is found to be empty and is usually smaller than normal (Fig. 196). The processus vaginalis is usually present in the scrotum although the testis has not descended, and it may be occupied by omentum or intestine, constituting a congenital hernia. In cases of im- perfectly descended and of misplaced testis the gland can be recognised by palpation, and it may be possible by manipulation