FOREIGN BODIES. 289 performed at once, and an attempt made to remove the foreign body thereafter. In less severe cases the throat should be sprayed with cocain, the larynx examined with the mirror, and an attempt made to extract the body with intra - laryngeal forceps. As these manipulations are liable to induce sudden spasm of the glottis, the means of performing tracheotomy must always be at hand. If it be found impossible to remove the body through the mouth, laryngotomy or tracheotomy should be performed, and the body extracted through the external opening, or pushed up into the pharynx and removed by this route. In the case of small bodies, a strand of gauze pushed up from the tracheotomy wound, through the larynx and out of the mouth, catches the foreign body and carries it out (Walker Downie). The foreign bodies that are most likely to become impacted in the trachea are tooth-plates with projecting hooks, and small coins. If the body remains movable in the trachea, it is apt to be displaced when the patient moves or coughs, and it may be driven up and become impacted in the glottis, setting up violent attacks of'coughing and spasmodic dyspnoea. The X-rays often prove helpful in determining the position of the foreign body. Tracheotomy should be performed at once, and the edges of the tracheal wound held widely open with retractors, the patient being inverted, or coughing induced by tickling the mucous membrane with a feather. The foreign body is usually expelled, but it may be inhaled into one of the bronchi. One of Killian’s tracheal tubes may be introduced through the tracheotomy wound and the body extracted by means of suitable forceps. Foreign Bodies in the Bronchi.—Rounded objects, which pass through the larynx, usually drop into one or other of the bronchi, usually the right, which is the more vertical and slightly the larger. The body may act as a ball-valve, permitting the escape of air with expiration, but preventing its entrance on inspiration, with the result that the portion of lung supplied by the bronchus becomes collapsed. The physical signs of collapse of a portion or of the whole lung may be recognised on examination of the chest. In some cases the body is dislodged and driven up into the larynx, causing severe dyspnoeic attacks and spasms of coughing. The ii'ritation caused by the foreign body in the bronchus may set up bronchitis or pneumonia, and abscess of the lung may supervene. This has frecpiently followed the passage of an extracted tooth into the air-passages, and it may be a considerable time before pulmonary symptoms arise. Sometimes the tooth is ultimately coughed up and the symptoms VOL. II—19