437 OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. cream or milk, and after the lapse of an hour and a half, to withdraw by means of the stomach tube a sufficient amount of the gastric contents for the purpose of analysis. Attention is chiefly directed to ascertaining the total acidity, to determining the presence or absence of free hydrochloric acid, and to the recognition of butyric and lactic acids. Microscopical examination may in some cases yield information regarding the presence of blood, of sarcinre and other organisms, or, in cases of gastric cancer, of masses of epithelial cells. In gastric ulcer, free hydrochloric acid is usually present in excess— hyperehlorhydria. In conditions of profound nervous depression or of severe catarrh of the stomach, the secretion of an adequate amount of hydrochloric acid may be in abeyance, but in the absence of any symptoms of nervous disturbance, this is suggestive of carcinoma. In 343 cases of gastric cancer, free hydrochloric acid was absent in 89'7 per cent. (Osier and M‘Crae). Operations on the Stomach. To avoid repetition it is convenient here briefly to describe the methods of suturing the stomach and intestine, and certain operations which are performed on the stomach. Fig. 113.—Lembert’s Suture, interrupted—a, Sutures inserted ; b, Sutures tied. Sutures.—In closing wounds in the stomach or bowel, and in uniting divided ends of intestine, the sutures must be inserted in such a way as to prevent leakage of the contents. To ensure this the edges of the wound should be invaginated so that the mucous membrane is turned towards the lumen of the tube, and the serous surfaces on either side are brought into close apposi- tion in order that they may adhere rapidly to one another. The best material to employ is the finest Chinese-twist silk or linen thread, boiled in a solution of corrosive sublimate (1-1000), and the stitches should be introduced with a round needle, which may be straight or curved as preferred. A milliner’s needle suits the purpose admirably.