252 CHAPTER XVII. THE THYROID GLAND. Surgical Anatomy—Physiological Hyperaemia — Acute Thyroiditis — Goitre—Varieties: Parenchymatous ; Adenomatous; Malignant; Exophthalmic. Surgical Anatomy. —The thyroid gland consists of two lateral lobes connected by an isthmus. The lateral lobes lie in contact with the side of the larynx up to the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and with the sides of the first five or six rings of the trachea, and they move with these structures on deglutition. The isthmus lies in front of the second, third, and fourth rings of the trachea. The gland is enclosed in a capsule derived from the cervical fascia, which attaches it to the larynx ; and it lies under cover of the depressor muscles of the larynx. The recurrent laryngeal nerve runs in the groove between the thyroid and the trachea. The arteries of supply—the superior and inferior thyroids — are very large for the size of the gland, and enter it at its four corners. The thyroidea ima, when present, goes to the isthmus. A process of gland tissue — the pyramidal lobe—frequently passes up the neck from the isthmus ; and several isolated nodules of thyroid tissue—accessory thyroids—are sometimes met with in different parts of the neck. These are liable to the same diseases as the main gland. The secretion of the gland is absorbed into the general circulation through the lymphatics and veins, and consists of a complex colloid substance, which plays an important part in maintaining the normal metabolism of the body, particularly of the central nervous and cutaneous tissues in adults, and of the growing bones in children. The want of the secretion plays some part in producing the diseases known as myxoedema and cretinism. The para-thyroid glands—usually two on each side—lie in the loose areolar tissue along the posterior edge of the lobes of the thyroid, and outside the capsule of the gland. They are flattened, elliptical bodies, averaging a quarter of an inch in length and an eighth of an inch in width, of a light brown colour, smooth and glistening on the surface, and of a soft, flabby consistence (W. G. MacCallum). The removal of these glands in the course of operations for goitre has been followed by symptoms of tetany. Physiological Hypersemia.—The thyroid varies greatly in size even within normal limits, and may become engorged and swollen from physiological causes, particularly in females. Before the onset of menstruation at puberty, for example, the thyroid frequently becomes