AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 79 glands. Temporary paralysis may result from inflammatory conditions, such as parotitis, or from blows or pressure over the nerve, for example, by the forceps in delivery. As the nerve breaks up into numerous branches soon after it leaves the stylo- mastoid foramen, the paralysis may be confined to one or more of the branches. In brain lesions, such as haemorrhage, tumour, or abscess, the facial paralysis is less complete than when the nerve trunk itself is implicated. The paralysis affects the muscles of the cheek and angle of the mouth on the opposite side of the face, but does not as a rule involve the fibres supplying the orbicularis palpebrarum or the occipito-frontalis. The chorda tympani nerve escapes, and the sense of taste is therefore retained. Treatment.—In addition to removing the cause when this is possible, the paralysis may be treated by the administration of drugs, such as potassium iodide, strychnin, or iron, by the application of blisters, or by massage and electricity. These measures are most useful in cases due to blows or exposure to cold. When the nerve is accidentally divided in the course of an operation on the face, it should immediately be sutured. When this is impossible or fails, the function of the nerve may be restored by grafting its distal end on to the trunk of the hypoglossal or of the spinal accessory nerve. Facial Spasm.—Clonic contraction of the facial muscles (histrionic spasm) occasionally results from irritative lesions in the cortex or pons. Sometimes all the muscles are involved, sometimes only one, for example, the orbicularis palpebrarum (blepharospasm). This condition may be induced reflexly from irritation of the fifth nerve, notably of branches that supply the nasal cavities and the teeth. The treatment consists in removing any source of peripheral irritation which may be present, in employing massage, and in administering nerve tonics, bromides and other drugs. In severe cases, the facial nerve may be stretched with benefit, either at the stylo-mastoid foramen or on the face. VIII. Auditory Nerve.—The auditory nerve is liable to be damaged along with the facial in fractures which traverse the internal auditory meatus. Both nerves also may be torn across just before they enter the meatus in severe brain injuries apart from fracture. Complete and permanent deafness results. Effusion of blood into the nerve sheath, or into the internal or middle ear, causes transitory deafness, and the patient suffers from noises in the ear, giddiness, and interference with equilibration. IX. The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve is comparatively seldom