URETHRAL FISTULA. 709 in the perineum and scrotum, extending on to the anterior abdominal wall. When incisions are made there exudes a quantity of foul pus mixed with decomposing urine, and, if the patient survives, extensive sloughs of the cellular tissue come away, leaving suppurating tracks through which the whole or the greater part of the urine escapes. Free incisions must be promptly made throughout the whole of the infected area, and the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line of the perineum to allow of the free escape of urine. Drainage tubes are inserted in all directions, and are washed through with peroxide of hydrogen at frequent intervals. The treatment of the stricture itself is deferred until the septic element has subsided. Peri-urethral abscess results from a localised form of cellulitis, usually occurring in the perineum, and sometimes originating in Cowper’s glands. The abscess tends to rupture both externally and into the urethra, and so to cause a urinary fistula. The abscess should be incised as soon as it is recognised, and a drainage tube inserted and packed round with iodoform worsted. External urethrotomy may be performed at once, or deferred for a few days. Urinary fistula usually result from peri-urethral suppuration, as already described; they are most commonly situated in the perineum, and there may be only one, or there may be so many that when the urine escapes through them there is a suggestion of the rose perforation of a watering-can. The only way to bring about healing, is to divide thoroughly the associated stricture, and in the majority of cases this is most effectually carried out by external urethrotomy. Urethral Fistulae.—-In addition to those met with as a complication of stricture, urethral fistula may result from con- genital malformations, from accidental wounds, from necrosis of tissue following circular constriction of the penis, from suppura- tion in relation to impacted foreign bodies and calculus, from the ulceration caused by syphilis or new growths, from abscess in the prostate, and after operations such as amputation of the penis or lithotomy. The fistula may open on the under surface of the penis, in the scrotum, the perineum, or the rectum, and it discharges urine or a mixture of urine and pus. The patient complains of burning pain on micturition, and of wetting his clothes; and he is usually sterile. The fistula rarely closes of itself, because it acquires a lining of epithelium; when of long standing it may become the seat of epithelioma. Treatment is directed in the first instance to the removal of