582 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. should be incised, the unhealthy mucous membrane clipped away, and after scraping the cavity it is packed with iodoform worsted. The pelvi-rectal abscess (Fig. 155) is situated between the rectum and the levator ani muscle, in the loose connective tissue which is continuous above with the • various cellular planes of the pelvis. It differs from the other varieties in that it is comparatively seldom due to disease or injury of the rectum itself, in the majority of cases originating in the pelvis in relation to the base of the bladder, the prostate, the uterus, or the broad ligament. Sometimes the pus from a psoas or an appendicitic abscess, or from a focus of disease in the pelvic bones, finds its way into the pelvi-rectal space. Very frequently the pus burrows through the substance of the levator ani and invades the ischio-rectal fossa. The clinical features vary with the nature and seat of origin of the abscess. In most cases they are those of an ordinary pelvic cellulitis, followed by the development of a localised abscess in the vicinity of the rectum. In other cases they resemble those of an ischio-rectal abscess. On digital examina- tion of the rectum, a swelling is found bulging towards the bowel above the level of the internal sphincter, and, it may be, extend- ing beyond the reach of the finger. The treatment consists in opening the abscess at its accessible part, establishing efficient drainage, and dealing with the lesion from which it originated. Ano-Rectal Fistula.—The term fistula-in-ano is applied to any abnormal channel passing through the tissues in the vicinity of the rectum and anus, and opening either on the skin or into the rectum, or in both directions. Three varieties are recog- nised : (1) the complete fistula, which opens both on the cutane- ous and on the mucous surfaces (Fig. 156); (2) the blind external fistula, which opens only towards the skin (Fig. 158); and (3) the blind internal, which opens only towards the mucous membrane (Fig. 159). Inasmuch as the blind forms have only one opening, they would be more correctly described as sinuses. The fistulous track represents the shrunken but unobliterated cavity of an abscess, which has been prevented from healing by various causes, the most important of which are imperfect drain- age and constant reinfection of the raw surfaces. Other factors which favour the formation and persistence of fistula are the passage of faeces and flatus along the channel, the constant movement of the parts, caused by the contraction of the