298 THE CHEST. raised and tense, and a peculiar crepitant feeling is imparted to the fingers on palpation. Near the point where the air escapes the skin is sometimes discoloured by extravasated blood. In some cases the air is very rapidly reabsorbed, in others it remains in the tissues for a considerable time. Injuries of the Pleura.—One or both layers of the pleura may be lacerated by a severe contusion of the chest wall without fracture or external wound. More frequently the tear is produced by a fragment of a broken rib. The injury may be followed by hamiothorax, pneumothorax, or subcutaneous emphysema. After such injuries there is frequently some hypersemia of the pleura, attended with pain, friction sounds, and effusion of serous fluid into the cavity—so-called “ traumatic pleurisy.” As a rule this fluid is reabsorbed, but if it is infected with bacteria, for example by tapping with an imperfectly sterilised instrument, it is liable to become purulent. Penetrating wounds, produced, for instance, by pointed in- struments or bullets, are more liable to be followed by septic complications. Extensive open wounds, such as result from machinery accidents, explosions, or from the patient being im- paled on a railing, are attended with collapse of the lung. Injuries of the Lung.—Contusion and laceration of the lung may occur without fracture or any other gross lesion of the chest wall, but as a rule they are associated with fracture of one or more of the ribs, and are often directly due to fragments of the broken bones being driven into the lung substance. In most cases the tear in the lung is of considerable extent, and as it implicates the visceral pleura, haemothorax and pneumothorax almost always occur. Haemoptysis is usually present, but may be absent even when the lung is severely lacerated. If the parietal pleura is ruptured, subcutaneous emphysema may develop over the chest wall, while, if the pleura is intact, it may appear at the root of the neck. Shock is always a prominent feature, and for some hours the patient may remain collapsed, cyanosed, almost pulseless, and apparently moribund, and then recover rapidly. In other cases death results from haemorrhage and asphyxia due to blood entering the air-passages. In penetrating ivounds of the lung, caused, for example, by a stab or the entrance of a bullet, the patient presents the same general symptoms as in contusion and laceration. The open wound, however, permits of the escape of blood, which in many cases is very profuse. There is often considerable difficulty in determining whether the blood is coming from a divided inter- costal or internal mammary artery or from the lung tissue itself.