INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. 97 INJURIES OF THE SPINAL COLUMN. For purposes of clinical study it is convenient to distinguish between partial and complete lesions of the spinal column. Partial lesions include twists or sprains, isolated dislocations of articular processes, isolated fractures of the arches and spinous processes, and isolated fractures of the vertebral bodies. The most important complete lesions are total dislocations and fracture-dislocations. In partial lesions the continuity of the column as a whole is not broken, and the cord sustains very little damage, or may entirely escape; in complete lesions, on the other hand, the column is broken and the cord is always severely damaged. Twists and dislocations are most common in the cervical region, that is, in the part of the spine where the forward range of movement—flexion—is greatest. Fractures are most common in the lumbar region, where flexion is most restricted. Fracture- dislocations occur where the range of flexion is intermediate, that is, in the dorsal region. In all lesions of the spine accompanied by displacement the upper segment is displaced forwards. Twists or sprains are produced by movements which suddenly put the ligamentous and muscular structures of the spine on the stretch; in other words, by lesser degrees of the i same forms of violence as produce dislocations. When the interspinous and muscular attachments alone are torn, the effects | are confined to the site of these structures, but when the ligamenta ’ subflava are involved, blood may be extravasated and infiltrate the space between the dura and the bone and give rise to symptoms of compression of the cord. The nerve-roots emerging in relation to the affected vertebrae may be stretched or lacerated, and as a result radiating pains may be felt in the i area of their distribution. In the cervical region distortion usually results either from forcible extension of the neck—for example, from a violent blow or fall on the forehead forcing the head backwards—or from forcible flexion of the neck. The patient complains of severe | pain in the neck, and inability to move the head, which is often rigidly held in the position of wry-neck. There is marked tenderness on attempting to carry out passive move- !i ments, and on making pressure over the affected vertebrae or on the top of the head. The maximum point of tenderness in- dicates the vertebra most implicated. In diagnosis, fracture and VOL. II—7