GONORRHOEA. 697 infection to the conjunctiva; all contaminated dressings should at once be burned. Treatment.—The patient is directed to keep quiet, and if possible stay in bed during the first week or ten days; if this is not feasible, the parts are supported by a large pad of wool held in position by closely - fitting bathing drawers. The bowels should be opened every day by saline laxatives, and diluent fluids should be taken in abundance to render the urine bland and to flush out the urethra. The diet consists chiefly of slops ; red meats, spices, coffee, asparagus, and all forms of alcohol being forbidden. If there is much pain during micturition, it is relieved by immersing the penis in hot water during the act. Chordee may call for the admin- istration of bromides or of veronal, and the foot of the bed should be elevated. Any abnormal condition of the urine must receive appropriate treatment, and certain medicines may be given by the mouth with the object of being excreted in the urine and acting on the inflamed urethra; these include drugs of the urotropin class, sandalwood oil, cubebs, sanmetto, or santyl. Local Treatment.—Except in unusually severe cases, in which all local treatment is contra-indicated, great reliance is placed on the introduction of medicinal agents into the urethra with the view of acting directly on the gonococci. The agents most generally employed are permanganate of potash, the various salts of silver, the sulpho-carbolate and the chloride of zinc. Whatever substance is employed for injecting or irrigating the urethra, the patient must make water in the first instance to wash out the pus lying in the urethra. If the patient presents himself within the first, second, or third days from the onset of the urethritis, copious irrigations with a dilute solution of 'permanganate of potash (1-5000) should be employed. For the irrigation, a large glass-barrelled syringe provided with a urethral nozzle may be employed, or a douche-can placed two or three feet above the pelvis of the patient and connected to a urethral nozzle with a suitable length of rubber tubing. Half a pint or more of the solution is used for each irrigation and the procedure is repeated twice daily. Under this treatment the discharge usuallyjbecomes thinner and smaller in amount, and may disappear in a week, and it may be impossible to demonstrate gonococci after the first two or three days. The irrigation should be continued for two or three days after all discharge has disappeared. If the case is not seen until four or five days have elapsed since