71 CEREBRAL TUMOURS. surgical treatment, it is only necessary here to refer to those aspects of this subject that have a distinctively surgical bearing. Various forms of tumour occur in the brain, the most common varieties being tuberculous nodules, syphilitic gummata, gliomata, and sarcomata. Less frequently fibromata, osteomata, and parasitic, haemorrhagic, and other cysts are met with. The tumour may originate in the brain tissue primarily, or may spread thence from the membranes, or from the skull. Clinical Features.—The increase in size of a tumour in the brain inevitably results sooner or later in an increase in the intra-cranial tension, and to this the symptoms are chiefiy due. The earliest and most prominent of the general symptoms are severe paroxysmal headache, optic neuritis, and vomiting which is without relation to the taking of food and is usually un- attended by nausea. These symptoms are seldom absent, and are common to all forms of tumour, wherever situated. Vertigo, general convulsions, and signs of mental deterioration are also present in a considerable proportion of cases. In addition, certain localising symptoms may be present. When, for example, the tumour is situated in the cortex of the Rolandic area, attacks of Jacksonian epilepsy, preceded by an aura, which is usually referable to the centre primarily implicated, are common. The group of muscles first involved, and the order in which other groups become affected, are im- portant localising factors. As the tumour increases in size, these irritative phenomena are replaced by localised paralyses. The tactile and muscular sensations are also disturbed, and motor and sensory aphasia may be present. In some cases localised tenderness on percussing the skull may be of assist- ance in indicating the site of the tumour. When the tumour is sub-cortical, that is, in the centrum ovale, there are no Jacksonian spasms, the motor paralysis is more widespread, and sensation also is lost on the opposite side of the body. There is no special tenderness on percussion. It is not always possible, however, to distinguish between cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and in many cases both areas are invaded. Tumours situated in the region of the internal capsule, and in the deeper parts of the brain, are not attended with Jacksonian spasms, paralysis develops more rapidly than in cortical and sub-cortical tumours, and there is complete loss of sensation on the opposite side of the body. The cranial nerve trunks also are liable to be pressed upon. The effects of tumours in other situations are mentioned at p. 13.