270 THE OESOPHAGUS. The oesophagus is sometimes invaded by the spread of tubercu- lous disease from the larynx. Syphilitic affections of the oesophagus are rare, and give rise to symptoms similar to those of tubercle. Varix of the veins of the lower end of the oesophagus occasionally occurs in cases of cirrhosis of the liver. The only surgical interest attaching to the condition is that it may give rise to severe haematemesis, and is therefore liable to be mistaken for gastric ulcer. Cicatricial Stricture.—The commonest and most serious form of cicatricial or fibrous stricture of the oesophagus is that which follow's the swallowing of caustics. The narrowing is usually most marked at the upper or at the lower end of the oesophagus, but several contractions may be met with along the tube, or it may even be stenosed throughout its whole length. The strictures may be circular, linear, or irregular, and the opening is often eccentric, rendering the tube tortuous and the passage of instruments exceedingly difficult. Less frequently a stricture results from injury caused by an impacted foreign body, or in extracting it by operation or other- wise. In such cases the stricture is usually in the middle part or at the upper end of the tube. Localised thickening of the walls, producing a certain degree of stenosis, sometimes follows the healing of a syphilitic gumma or an ulcer, and is also said to occur as a result of habitual drinking of raw spirits. Clinical Features.-—The most prominent symptom is a gradually increasing difficulty in swallowdng, which may come on months or years after the accident. At first the patient observes that he requires to add fluids to his solid food in order to swallow it with ease. Later he is unable to swallow solids, and finally has difficulty even with fluids. He is usually able to indicate the point at which he feels the food suddenly stop in its passage along the oesophagus. The difficulty may be temporarily aggravated by spasm of the muscles, or by congestion of the mucous membrane. In the later stages regurgitation of unaltered food occurs, immediately after swallowing when the stricture is high up in the oesophagus, after a varying interval when it is near the lower end. Between meals the patient hawks up a quantity of viscid saliva mixed with mucus. There is pain, referred to the epigastrium or between the shoulder-blades, especially if there is ulceration above the stricture and the patient attempts to force the food through. The patient suffers greatly from hunger and thirst, and progressively emaciates, even to the verge of