277 CHAPTER XIX. THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. Examination of the larynx—Operations on the air-passages : Sub-hyoid pharyngotomy; Thyrotomy; Laryngotomy; Tracheotomy; Intubation of the largnx; Laryngectomy—Cardinal Symptoms of Laryngeal Affections: (1) Interference with the voice: Hoarseness; Aphonia —(2) Dysphagia — (3) Interference with respiration : Diphtheritic laryngitis ; Acute oedema of the larynx; Bilateral abductor paralysis; Syphilitic affections; Tuberculosis—Tumours: Papilloma; Epithe- lioma; Sarcoma—Foreign bodies in the air - passages : In the pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi. Examination of the Larynx.—For this purpose the examiner requires a laryngeal reflector with forehead attachment, one or two sizes of laryngeal mirror, a tongue cloth, and the means of obtaining good illumination. The source of light should be by preference placed opposite to and on the same plane with the patient’s left ear. The forehead reflector is placed over the observer’s right eye so that he may look through the central aperture, while at the same time he throws a good circle of light into the patient’s mouth. The patient should be seated with the head thrown slightly back ; the tongue is protruded and covered with the cloth, and held lightly but firmly between the finger and thumb of the left hand. A full-sized mirror, warmed so as to prevent the con- densation of the breath upon it, is inserted with the reflecting surface turned downwards, and pressed gently against the soft palate so as to push that structure upwards. The handle of the instrument is carried towards the left angle of the mouth and is somewhat depressed. By slightly altering the plane of the reflecting surface of the mirror the different parts of the larynx are in turn brought under inspection. The movements of the vocal cords should be observed during both respiration and plionation. For the latter purpose the patient should be directed to phonate the vowel sound “eh.” In addition to these movements the general appearance of the larynx should be observed, and any deviations from the normal noted. In the upper part of the mirror the epiglottis usually comes first into view. It is of a pinkish yellow colour, and presents a thin, sharply- defined free margin. In front of the epiglottis are the median and lateral glosso-epiglottic folds passing forwards to the base of the tongue, and enclosing the two valleculae. Extending backwards and downwards