8G THE SPINE AND CORD. vertebrae lie, roughly speaking, opposite the lower edge of their respective bodies ; those of the remaining dorsal vertebrae lie opposite the upper edge of the vertebra below ; while the spines of the lumbar vertebrae lie opposite the middle of their corresponding bodies. (Gowers and Taylor.) The spinal canal contains the spinal cord so suspended within its membranes that it does not touch the bones, and is not disturbed by the movements of the spinal column. The membranes of the cord are continuous with those of the brain. The arachno-pia invests the cord and furnishes a sheath to each of the spinal nerves as it passes out towards the intervertebral foramen. The arachno-pial space is filled with cerebro-spinal fluid, which forms a water-bed for the cord, continuous with that at the base of the brain. The dura mater constitutes the enveloping sheath of the cord. It hangs from the edge of the foramen magnum as a sac, and is connected to the bones only opposite the intervertebral foramina, where it is prolonged on to each spinal nerve as part of its sheath. Between the dura and the bony wall of the canal is a space filled with loose areolar tissue and traversed by large venous sinuses. The dura extends as far as the upper edge of the sacrum. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum to the level of the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebrae. One pair of spinal nerves leaves each “segment” of the cord. On leaving the cord the nerves incline slightly downwards towards the foramina by which they make their exit from the canal. The obliquity of the nerves gradually increases, till in the lower part of the canal—from the second lumbar vertebra onward—they run parallel with the filum terminale and constitute the cauda equina. It is to be borne in mind that only the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae lie even approximately opposite their corresponding segments in the cord. Owing to the obliquity of the spines of the dorsal vertebrae, and the fact that the cord is relatively shorter than the canal, the tips of the dorsal spines lie a considerable distance lower than their corresponding segments. Functions. — The essential function of the spinal cord is to transmit motor and sensory impulses between the brain and the rest of the body. The general course of the fibres by which these impulses travel has already been described (p. 11). In the grey matter of the cord there are groups of nerve cells— “centres”—which govern certain reflex movements. The most im- portant of these—the centres for the rectal, the vesical, and the patellar reflexes—are situated in the lumbar enlargement of the cord. In the great majority of cases of spinal disease or injury coming under the notice of the surgeon the symptoms are bilateral, that is, are of the nature of paraplegia, and the whole of the body below the level of the segment affected is involved in the paralysis. Lesions affecting only one-half of the cord are rare and give rise to symptoms which are exceed- ingly complicated. When the lesion implicates the nerve-roots only, the symptoms are confined to the area supplied by the affected nerves. Operation of Laminectomy.—As the operation for opening the spinal canal—laminectomy—will be frequently referred to in the succeeding pages, it is convenient to describe it here. The patient is placed either prone or lying on his left side with