492 THE INTESTINES. stained with bile; after the second day it may be stercoraceous. There is less shock than in acute strangulation of the intestine, and there is little distension or tenderness of the abdomen. In thin patients, under an anaesthetic, the stone may be felt through the parietes, and in a few cases it has been observed to change its position. If the coil of intestine containing the stone is lying in the pouch of Douglas, it may be felt by the rectum. Less commonly gall-stone ileus assumes a chronic or inter- mittent character. In its passage along the intestine the stone may become arrested at different points from spasm of the bowel, and repeatedly cause symptoms of partial obstruction, with intervals of days or weeks between the attacks. Such a case may terminate in complete obstruction, or the stone may finally be passed in the motions and the patient be entirely relieved of her symptoms. Treatment.—As it is seldom possible to diagnose the cause of the obstruction, the abdomen is opened in the middle line by an incision large enough to admit two fingers. The loop of bowel containing the stone is usually found Avithout difficulty if the condition is suspected and looked for. It is some- times necessary to pass the Avhole small intestine through the fingers, otherwise a small stone is apt to be overlooked. The stone having been found, the loop of bowel containing it is brought outside the wound and surrounded Avith gauze, the bowel opened by a transverse incision, the stone removed, and the incision closed by two tiers of continuous suture. In advanced cases with great distension, it is advisable to empty the bowel through the opening made to extract the stone, and if the boAvel itself is much damaged, it should be resected. Among the other solid bodies that may block the intestine may be mentioned fcecal concretions or enteroliths, concretions of insoluble drugs, such as magnesia or salol, taken over a long period in large doses, plates of false teeth, and the various foreign bodies swallowed by lunatics, and by mountebanks to “gain a livelihood.” The clinical features may be those of intestinal obstruction, or of septic complications ; for example, perforative and other forms of peritonitis, abscess, and fcecal fistula, due to pressure of the foreign body on the bowel. The diagnosis is difficult unless an accurate history is forth- coming, or the foreign body can be demonstrated by the Rontgen rays. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in gall- stone ileus. Stenosis of the Bowel, including Stricture, Malformations, and Tumours.—It may be stated that the appearances observed