556 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. Small ovarian tumours may simulate uterine or tubal growths, or faecal masses in the rectum. The chief points of difference between the various forms of ovarian cyst have already been mentioned. Treatment—Ovariotomy.—On account of the difficulty of distinguishing clinically between benign and malignant growths, it is advisable to remove all ovarian tumours as soon as they are diagnosed, provided the general condition of the patient warrants the operation. Early extirpation is further indicated in view of the risks attending suppuration, torsion of the pedicle, or rupture with dissemination of the disease in the case of papillary and malignant growths. Delay also involves the risk of adhesions forming as a result of peritonitis, and so adding to the difficulties of the operation. Neither childhood nor advanced age contra-indicates operation. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, with the pelvis moderately raised, and a mesial incision is made between the umbilicus and the pubes, exposing the tumour. Care must be taken not to wound the bladder. The cyst is brought to the surface and evacuated by an incision into it, or with the aid of a suitable trocar and cannula, care being taken that none of the contents enter the peritoneal cavity. As the cyst collapses it is drawn out of the wound until the pedicle lies between the edges of the incision. Any adhesions that may be present must be carefully separated, particularly those between the cyst and the intestine. After the cyst has been isolated, the pedicle is secured by transfixing it with a stout silk ligature, the ovarian and the terminal branches of the uterine vessels, which are usually grouped at its borders, being subsequently enclosed in separate ligatures. All blood and fluid having been removed from the pelvis, the abdomen is closed without drainage. The results of the operation are usually most satisfactory, but in papillary tumours, if the disease has extended to the surrounding peritoneum, the condition is very liable to recur, and finally cause death. Pyosalpinx.—The term pyosalpinx is applied to an accumu- lation of pus in a Fallopian tube. The affection begins as an inflammation of the lining membrane of the tube—salpingitis— which is almost invariably the result of a direct spread of some infective process from the lower parts of the genital tract. In many cases the infective agent is the gonococcus, the tubal inflammation being secondary to an ordinary vaginal gonorrhoea. Frequently streptococci and staphylococci are