710 THE URETHRA. any condition which interferes with the flow of urine along the urethra. The fistula may then close of itself, or will do so after being laid open and having its edges pared. In recto-urethral fistula, the respective tubes must be separated from one another by dissection, the mucous membrane of each inverted, and the openings closed by sutures. In 'penile fistula resulting from sloughing of the urethra, it is often necessary to divert the stream of urine through an opening in the perineum before attempting to close the fistula. The edges of the opening are then pared, the respective layers separated by dissection, and like stitched to like, or an area of skin around the fistula having been excised, the gap is filled with a flap taken from the scrotum. The lumen of the urethra is maintained by tying in a catheter. Catheter or Urinary Fever.—Attention was directed by Sir Andrew Clark to a form of pyrexia that may develop suddenly after operations on the lower urinary organs, or even after the simple passage of a catheter. Within twelve or twenty-four hours there occurs a rigor or a succession of rigors, the temperature running up to 102°-105° F., and then rapidly coming down again • the patient is soon well, and remains so until the catheterisation is repeated. By some the condition is attributed to septic infection, a view which obtains a certain amount of support from the marvellous rapidity of absorption possessed by the urethral mucous membrane, and the prevalence of sepsis in all pathological conditions of the lower urinary organs. By the majority it is regarded as a nervous phenomenon, an exaggeration of the slight shivering which may attend the act of micturition in perfectly healthy men. It is certainly more liable to occur in neurotic subjects, and its occurrence appears to bear no proportion to the degree of infection as determined by ordinary methods of examination. Moreover, the occurrence of such rigors can often be prevented by taking certain precautions, which, while allaying nervous susceptibility, could have little influence in preventing septic absorption, such, for example, as keeping the patient warm, the administration of antipyrin or quinine an hour beforehand, and the delaying of the act of micturition for as long as possible after the interfer- ence. The injection of two or three drams of a 1 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver into the deep urethra is the most reliable method of preventing rigors in susceptible persons. Catheter fever is not to be confounded with the progressive septic poisoning that is met with in cases of advanced septic cystitis and pyelo-nephritis.