737 DESCENT OF THE TESTIS. triangle near the saphenous opening; (4) to the perineum close to the anus; and (5) to the bottom of the scrotum. It is believed that the transit of the testis is largely due to the traction made upon it by the contractile tissue of the guber- naculum, and particularly by that band which passes to the bottom of the scrotum in relation to the processus vaginalis. When the action of this band predominates the testis passes to its normal position in the scrotum. It may happen, however, that one of the other bands controls the movement of the testis so that it passes into some abnormal position, and constitutes one of the varieties of ectopia testis to be presently described. In considering the congenital abnormalities of the testis, it is necessary to distinguish between those that are due to inter- ference with the development of the gland and its efferent ducts, and those related to its transit from the abdomen to the scrotum. Abnormalities in Development.—The occurrence of more than two testes (polyorchism) is exceedingly rare. The existence of only one testis (monorchism) and the absence of both (anorchism) are also very rare abnormalities, and can -only be diagnosed with certainty by dissection. In some cases the epididymis and vas deferens are normally developed while the body of the testis is absent. In a few cases of retained testis the two glands have been found to be fused (synorcliism). Abnormalities in the Transit of the Testis.—The descent of the testis may be retarded, the child being born with one or both glands still within the abdomen or in the inguinal canal. In the course of a few weeks or months, or it may be not till puberty is approaching, the testes pass on and reach their normal position in the scrotum. In other cases one or both testes are permanently retained within the abdominal cavity (cryptorchism), and may lie either in their original position below the kidney, or in the iliac fossa close to the internal abdominal ring. A retained testis is usually adherent to the peritoneum, and is not palpable through the abdominal parietes. When situated at the brim of the pelvis, however, it may be possible to elicit testicular sensation on making firm pressure over it. When the gland becomes arrested at any point in its passage along the inguinal canal, the term imperfectly descended testis is applied. This is the most common of the congenital defects. It is sometimes found that the testis enjoys a fairly wide range of movement, being at one time within the internal abdominal ring, and at another well down the canal (Fig. 196). In some cases the arrest of the organ seems to be due to shortness of the VOL. II—47