TUMOURS OF THE PERITONEUM. 369 The diagnosis is always difficult: a soft, movable tumour growing out of the lumbar region, and displacing the colon to one side, is probably retro-peritoneal; if the swelling is lobulated and yielding, it is probably a lipoma; if it is firmer in con- sistence, and associated with rapid loss of strength and weight, abdominal pain and irregular pyrexia, it is probably a sarcoma. The possibility of removing the tumour can only be determined after opening the abdomen; the peritoneal investment is incised and an attempt made to shell the tumour out from its bed. The chief danger arises from its relation to the intestine, as, if the mesenteric blood-vessels are injured, gangrene of the intestine may supervene. Mesenteric Tumours.—These originate in the retro-peritoneal tissue at the root of the mesentery, and as they increase in size insinuate themselves between the layers of the mesentery and project towards the abdominal cavity. They consist almost exclusively of fat, and form rounded or oval tumours occupying the central area of the abdomen, and showing a considerable range of movement from side to side and sometimes also from above downwards. One or more coils of intestine may run obliquely across the tumour. The operative treatment is carried out on the same lines as for the retro-peritoneal form. Mesenteric Cysts.—The chylous cyst, which takes origin from the lacteals or from the lymphatic glands in the mesentery, has a wall formed of tough connective tissue, which may undergo partial calcification, and it contains thick, turbid, greyish-white fluid, sometimes brown from admixture with blood pigment, and showing the presence of cholesterin and fat droplets. It is of insidious development, and may attain a considerable size before attention is directed to it by enlargement and prominence of the abdomen, by the sudden onset of colicky pains, or by symptoms of intestinal obstruction. The swelling, which may attain the size of an adult head, occupies the central part of the abdomen at or below the umbilicus, is rounded, tense and elastic, and if small, is freely movable from side to side. There is often a band of resonance across the cyst corre- sponding to a coil of intestine ; and there is usually an area of resonance between the cyst and the pubes. Although these points are characteristic, mesenteric cysts have frequently been mistaken for ovarian and pancreatic cysts and for other forms of abdominal tumour. The diagnosis often rests on the recognition of a freely movable rounded, cystic tumour which is not connected with the pelvis. Serous and haemorrhagic cysts are sometimes met with in the mesentery, and hair-containing dermoid cysts VOL. II—24