421 FEMORAL HERNIA. A femoral hernia forms gradually, and usually painlessly, and, in stout women, it may pass unnoticed by the patient for years. The hernia is often as small as a cherry or a pigeon’s egg, and may contain only a small tag of omentum which is irreducible, or only a portion of the circumference of the bowel—Richter’s hernia (Fig. 96). Large herniae containing several coils of small intestine are, however, sometimes met with. Diagnosis.—In fat women it is often difficult to distinguish between femoral and inguinal hernia. The neck of an inguinal hernia lies above and internal to the spine of the pubes; that of a femoral hernia below and external to the spine. If the hernia is reducible, it may be noticed that in the one case it disappears through the inguinal canal, and in the other through the crural canal. In irreducible hernia an attempt should be made to introduce the finger into each of the hernial canals—■ the one will be found empty, the other occupied. Varicose pouching of the upper end of the saphena vein may simu- late hernia ; both swellings may be made to disappear on pres- sure, but in varix the swelling reappears in spite of pressure on the crural canal, and it is associated with varix in other parts of the limb. When enlarged inguinal glands are matted together and prolonged into the crural caual, as in tuberculosis, it may be difficult to differentiate them from an irreducible femoral hernia. Among other conditions which may simulate a femoral hernia may be mentioned psoas abscess, enlargement of the bursa underneath the ilio-psoas, a fatty tumour, which may be a down- growth from the hypertrophied extra-peritoneal fat, and consoli- dated aneurysm of the common femoral artery. Treatment of Femoral Hernia.—As in inguinal hernia, the choice lies between the control of the hernia by a truss and the operation for radical cure. The method of measuring for a truss is the same as in inguinal Fig. 109.—Opposite-sided Truss applied for Femoral Hernia.