GALL-STONES IN COMMON BILE-DUCT. 531 gradually narrowing as it descends to the duodenum, hence a stone which may fit quite loosely in the upper part may be checked at a point lower down. Spasm of the muscular fibres in the wall of the duct plays an important part in arresting the progress of the stone. In a comparatively short time the stone increases in size, the added deposit being frequently sufficient to remove all traces of facets, and it is often joined by others enter- ing from the cystic duct. Mayo Robson estimates the frequency of concretions in the common duct at 40 per cent, of the total number of gall-stone cases observed by him, and that in 80 per- cent. of cases of stone in the common duct the concretions are multiple. The stones may lodge in any part of the duct, one of the common sites being in the dilated portion just before its entrance into the duodenum, and a stone impacted at this point may also press on the duct of the pancreas. The presence of a stone in the common duct is always associated with bacterial infection and catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane — cholangitis. In the case of a recent stone the cholangitis is of a mild character; but in chronic obstruction it tends to assume a suppurative type, the duct becoming greatly dilated, septic products accumulating within it, and superficial ulcers forming in the mucous membrane. The infection may spread along the hepatic ducts to those within the liver; to the portal vein, giving rise to pyelo-phlebitis; and to the peritoneum, leading to the formation of adhesions with the omentum, colon, stomach, liver, and gall-bladder, which may greatly increase the difficulty of an operation to expose the common duct. The ulceration, which commences in the mucous membrane, may spread through the other coats of the duct, and lead to perforation and the escape of the stone, either into the general peritoneal cavity or into a cavity shut off by adhesions. The inflammation in the common bile-duct may spread to the ducts of the pancreas and set up disease in that organ, and, if the pancreatic duct is obstructed at its entrance into the duodenum by a stone implicating both ducts, the ducts of the pancreas also become dilated. The liver may become the seat of cirrhosis, or of secondary abcesses scattered throughout its substance. In chronic obstruction of the common duct, the gall-bladder is nearly always small and contracted as a result of repeated attacks of cholecystitis, it frequently contains stones, and it may be buried in adhesions resulting from antecedent peri-cholecystitis. Clinical Features.—In the acute or recent form, the symptoms closely resemble those resulting from stone in the cystic duct;