THE NECK. 240 and the deformity is established. There is evidence that in some cases the deformity is really congenital, while in others it is acquired in the manner suggested. The cicatricial contraction which follows the disappearance of a syphilitic gumma of the sterno-mastoid may produce wry-neck. In some cases errors of refraction, astigmatism, and other abnormalities of the eyes play an important part in the production of wry-neck. In rare cases torticollis results from paralysis of one sterno-mastoid. Clinical Features.—The appearance of the patient is very characteristic (Fig. 70). The shortening of the sterno-mastoid pulls the head towards the affected side, usually the right, so that the ear is approximated to the shoulder. At the same time the head is rotated towards the opposite side and slightly tilted backwards, with the result that the chin is directed towards the opposite side, and is somewhat, raised. The shortened sterno-mastoid stands out prominently, and, on any attempt to straighten the head, can be felt as a firm, fibrous band. The skin of the affected side of the neck may be thrown into transverse folds. The patient is unable to correct the deformity, but it is usually possible to diminish it by manipulation. If the condition is not corrected early, all the soft structures on the affected side of the neck undergo organic shortening, with the result that the deformity becomes accentuated. In aggravated cases a lateral curvature, with the concavity towards the affected side, occurs in the cervical region, the vertebrse becoming wedge- shaped from side to side, and a compensatory curve may develop in the upper dorsal region. There is often a marked asymmetry of the head and face, the affected side being the smaller. The eye on this side lies on a lower level, and is more oblique than its neighbour, the cheek is flattened, and the mouth is asymmetrical. The asymmetry may extend to the shoulders and thorax. Treatment.—When the condition is recognised early, it may be possible to correct the deformity by forcibly stretching the muscle under anaesthesia and fixing the neck in a rigid apparatus. Prolonged treatment by massage, exercises, and electricity is necessary to prevent relapse. In infants potassium iodide should be given, to exclude the possibility of the condi- tion being due to a gumma. In the majority of cases the short'ened structures must be divided. Subcutaneous tenotomy—at one time the favourite method of treatment—has been almost entirely replaced by the open operation, which enables the surgeon to divide thoroughly