SUPPURATION IN ACCESSORY SINUSES. 231 or of the chromic acid bead fused on a probe, is the best method of treatment. Plugging of the posterior nares is rarely necessary, as, in the majority of cases, an anterior plug suffices. Suppuration in the Accessory Nasal Sinuses.—As already stated, the presence of pus in the nose should always direct attention to its possible origin in one or more of the accessory sinuses, especially if the discharge is unilateral. The condition is usually a chronic one, and may be present for months, or even years, without the patient suffering much inconvenience save from the presence of the discharge. If on examination by anterior rhinoscopy, pus is seen in the middle meatus, suspicion should be aroused of its origin in the antrum of Highmore, frontal sinus, or anterior ethmoidal cells, as all these cavities communicate with that channel. If, on the other hand, the pus is detected in the olfactory sulcus, attention must be directed to the posterior ethmoidal cells and sphenoidal sinus (Fig. 68). Further evidence of its source in the last-named cavities may be gained by finding pus in the superior meatus above the middle turbinal on examination by posterior rhinoscopy. As the anterior group of sinuses is most frequently affected, and of these most commonly the antrum of Highmore, attention should first be turned to this cavity. The complaint of a bad odour or taste, the reappearance of pus in the middle meatus after mopping it away and directing the patient to bend his head well forwards, and opacity on illumination of the suspected cavity, are signs which strongly suggest an affection of the maxillary sinus. Puncture through the thin outer wall of the inferior meatus of the nose with a fine trocar and cannula, and the washing out of pus after first carefully cleansing the nasal cavity, will establish the diagnosis. The treatment consists in opening the antrum through the canine fossa, and, after curetting its walls, packing the cavity with iodoform worsted. To avoid the risk of reinfecting the cavity from the mouth, an opening may be made into the nose, by removing the anterior portion of the nasal wall of the antrum and part of the inferior turbinated bone, after which the incision in the buccal mucous membrane is closed with sutures. Suppuration in the frontal sinus may be diagnosed after first excluding the antrum, and finding that pus continues to flow into the nose ; the posture test is probably negative, and there may be tenderness upon pressure over the sinus. After removal of the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone it may be possible to catheterise the sinus and blow out or wash out pus from its interior. The diseased sinus may present a darker