422 HERNIA. hernia, and for unilateral hernia a single truss is sufficient. The pad is elongated from above downwards so as to cover the femoral canal, and it should press directly backwards. The metal spring may encircle the pelvis on the same side as the hernia or on the opposite side; in the latter case the appliance is known as an “opposite-sided truss” (Fig. 109). When there is difficulty in controlling the hernia, the pressure of the pad may be rendered more efficient by incorporating it in a Belt which encircles the upper part of the thigh. Any form of truss for femoral hernia is irksome and interferes to a certain extent with the freedom of movement of the limb, and this is often an additional argument for having recourse to operation. Operative treatment should be recommended to all patients who are fit subjects for operation, and it becomes imperative in the majority of cases in which the hernia is irreducible or cannot be controlled by a truss. Operation for Radical Cure.—It may be pointed out that the femoral canal is more difficult to close than the inguinal because of the unyielding bone posteriorly, and of the close proximity of the femoral vein. The incision may be made parallel with Poupart’s ligament or in the long axis of the femoral canal. The coverings are divided so as to expose the sac, and this should be cleared from its surroundings right up to where its neck dis- appears under Poupart’s ligament. A small opening is then made through the three layers of muscle above Poupart’s liga- ment, and the sac brought out through this and its neck fixed by sutures (Kocher). To occlude the canal, an incision is made upwards and outwards from the middle of the external ring through the aponeurosis of the external oblique for about an inch and a half, and the inner of the flaps thus formed is made to slide behind the outer, and is stitched to Gimbernat’s liga- ment, the pectineal fascia, and Poupart’s ligament, so that it forms a “ shutter ” over the crural ring. The outer flap is then stitched to the aponeurosis of the external oblique (W. H. Battle). Another method is to tack Poupart’s ligament down to the bone by means of a metal staple (Roux). In strangulated femoral hernia the danger of delaying operation is greater than in inguinal hernia, because of the risk of the bowel being damaged by the sharp edge of Gimbernat’s ligament. Gangrene may take place rapidly, and is often localised to the constriction ring at the neck of the sac, opposite the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament. Strangulated hernia is often overlooked because of the small size of the protrusion, and the fact that its existence is unknown