THE EAR 210 parency of the whole disc. Circumscribed atrophic patches appear as dark transparent areas, which show considerable mobility and bulge prominently on inflation. A cicatrix in the membrane is evidence of a healed perforation, and is also trans- parent, but differs from an atrophic patch in being more sharply defined from the surrounding membrane. A thickened membrane presents an opaque white appearance. Calcareous or chalky patches are markedly white, and when probed are hard to the touch; they are often evidence of past suppuration. An indrawn or retracted membrane, resulting from Eustachian obstruction, is characterised by increased concavity, undue prominence of the short process of the malleus and of the anterior and posterior folds, and by the handle of the malleus assuming a more horizontal position. An inflamed membrane, showing congestion of the vessels about the malleus, or a general diffuse redness is evidence of middle - ear inflamma- tion. A yellow appearance of the lower part of the membrane, limited above by a dark line stretching across the drum-head, is indicative of sero-purulent exudation into the tympanum. The membrane may be bulged outwards into the meatus by the fluid, and thus lie nearer the observer’s eye than normal. A perforation is usually single, and varies in size from a small pin- head to complete destruction of the membrane. The inner wall of the tympanum may be visible through the perforation, and is recognised by being on a deeper plane than the membrane, and by its hard bony -consistence when touched with the probe. The diagnosis of a perforation associated with middle - ear discharge may be further assisted by inspection during inflation, when bubbles of air and secretion are visible. When the perforation is invisible, its existence may be inferred if a small pulsating spot of light can be recognised through the speculum. Granulations in the tympanum appear as red fleshy masses of different sizes. When large they constitute aural polypi, which are recognised by their proximity to the outer end of the meatus, their soft consistence and mobility, and the fact that the probe may be passed round them. Granulations and polypi always indicate the presence of middle-ear suppuration. Inflation of the Middle Ear.—Before proceeding to inflate the middle ear the examiner should carefully inspect the nose, naso-pharynx and pharynx. This should be made a routine part of the examination in all cases of ear disease. As inflation is not only an aid in diagnosis, but is also of great assistance in prognosis, it is very necessary that the hearing should be tested and noted before the ear is inflated. There are