INJURIES OF THE CHEST WALL. 293 When due to a direct blow the rib gives way at the point struck, and, if the force is severe, the fragments may be driven inwards and cause injury of the pleura, lungs, diaphragm, spleen, or liver. Although protected to some extent by the clavicle, the first rib may be broken by a severe downward blow driving that bone against it. Indirect violence, as by a crush between buffers or the passage of a wheel over the chest, is much the most frequent cause of fracture, the ribs usually giving way towards one or other end—just in front of the angle being the commonest situation. It has been shown that the fracture is due to a force acting in the long axis of the rib and driving one segment i:>ast the other, and that the rib does not break, as is frequently stated, like an over-bent bow (E. H. Bennett). The ribs most frequently fractured are the fourth to the eighth. Owing to their shortness and mobility the floating ribs are not often fractured. It is comparatively rare for fracture to be limited to a single rib; as a rule two or more are broken. Fracture due to a severe muscular effort, such as coughing or the straining of parturition, usually implicates the anterior portions of one or more of the ribs between the seventh and the eleventh, and is of the sub-periosteal variety. Old age, wasting diseases, and those conditions which, like rickets or mollities ossium, lead to undue softness or brittleness of the bones, predispose to fracture. In certain types of insanity also, particularly in general paralytics, fracture of the ribs is specially prone to occur. In asylum practice such fractures may be wrongly attributed to roughness on the part of attendants. Clinical Features.—The patient is often conscious of some- thing giving way with a snap at the moment of fracture. There is a sharp, stabbing pain on coughing or sneezing, and at the end of inspiration on taking a deep breath. The respiration is usually shallow and rapid. Tenderness is elicited on pressing directly over the seat of fracture, or over the affected rib at a distance from the break, also on compressing the chest antero- posteriorly. When asked to point to the seat of pain the patient usually does so by placing the tip of his thumb over the spot— a gesture that is characteristic. Crepitus and mobility of the fragments cannot always be detected. As any displace- ment that may exist is usually inwards, the fracture is rarely rendered compound by fragments piercing the skin. Union invariably occurs with a considerable amount of callus, which is most abundant on the inner aspect of the rib. Fractures of the ribs may be complicated by subcutaneous