385 DIAGNOSIS OF APPENDICITIS. Diagnosis.—While it is true that in the majority of cases there is little difficulty in recognising the disease, in a consider- able number the clinical features so closely simulate those of other acute abdominal affections that it may be extremely difficult by external examination alone to arrive at a diagnosis. The three cardinal signs to be borne in mind are : (1) sudden and severe abdominal pain coming on in one previously well; (2) unilateral rigidity of the lower part of the abdominal wall; and (3) tenderness over the site of the appendix. Stress should also be laid on the order of onset of the symptoms : first pain, then vomiting, and later tenderness, with rise of temperature (Murphy). In acute indigestion there is no rigidity of the right lower quadrant of the abdominal wall, no tenderness on pressing in the right iliac fossa, and the pain does not become localised in the region of the appendix. In acute gastro-duodenal catarrh, associated with what is popularly called a “ bilious attach-,” there are cramp-like pains in the abdomen and vomiting, but the pain and tenderness are more pronounced above the umbilicus. In intestinal colic and in acute enteritis there is no tenderness, the pain being rather relieved by pressure, and there is no rigidity of the abdominal wall. In intestinal obstruction the pain is markedly remittent, and after being at first referred to the umbilicus, becomes located at the site of the obstruction; the vomiting is persistent, and the vomited matter soon shows the presence of intestinal contents; the temperature is normal, and in acute cases shock and collapse appear early. In inflammation of a Aleck cl’s diverticulum—diverticulitis— the clinical features so closely resemble those of appendicitis that it is impossible to differentiate between them until the abdomen is opened. In typhoid fever the onset of the illness is different; when the disease has existed for some days the Widal reaction is present; and the local features are usually sufficiently distinctive to differentiate the two diseases. When, however, there is perforation of the bowel in typhoid fever, and especially in ambulatory cases, the diagnosis may be very difficult; the sudden fall of the temperature and the immediate symptoms of collapse which follow perforation of a typhoid ulcer are usually decisive. In perforated gastric or duodenal ulcer, the onset of symptoms is usually much more sudden; the patient immediately becomes collapsed, and the contraction and rigidity of the abdominal VOL. II—25