388 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. children and in adolescents because of the frequency with which in them the disease terminates in suppuration or in gangrene. Operation.—The most favourable time for operation during an attack is within forty-eight hours of the onset. As the danger of operative intervention during this period is scarcely more than that of an exploratory laparotomy, this should be considered the period of action. In cases operated on within the first forty- eight hours there is every prospect of complete recovery, with a short convalescence; every hour of delay increases the risks associated with the occurrence of suppuration and peritonitis, and prolongs the period necessary for recovery. In acute cases attended with persistent vomiting, and parti- cularly when peritonitis has commenced, it is advisable to wash out the stomach before operating. One or two pints of saline solution may be injected into the rectum, and the bladder should be emptied by the aid of the catheter if necessary. The patient must be kept very warm, and to render the appendicular region more accessible the pelvis should be slightly raised by tilting the table. The abdomen is opened by an incision over the appendix, either in the line of the fibres of the external oblique, or parallel with the outer edge of the rectus. The edges of the peritoneum are covered with gauze held in place by fine forceps. A large pad of gauze wrung out of hot salt solution is placed beneath the inner edge of the wound, a second in the upper angle towards the liver, and a third in the lower angle towards the pelvis. The caecum is now identified, and the appendix sought for by fracing to it the anterior longitudinal muscular band of the caecum. When found, the appendix, together with the caecum, is drawn towards the surface, the meso-appendix ligatured, the base of the appendix crushed with strong forceps, and a ligature tied in the groove left by the forceps. The appendix is then cut across and removed, and the stump invaginated into the caecum by tw7o super- imposed purse-string sutures, or by a double tier of Lembert’s sutures. The pads of gauze walling off the peritoneal cavity are now withdrawn, and if they are found to be stained with serous or purulent exudate the surrounding area must be purified by removing this exudate, either with swabs of gauze or by gentle irrigation. A cigarette drain is then passed into the lowest part of the cavity and brought out through the lower angle of the wound. It is sometimes advisable to bring a drainage tube through a counter-opening in the loin, just above the iliac