685 CHAPTER XXXIV. THE URETHRA. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Congenital malformations : Occlusion; Hypospadias; Epispadias—Injuries: Wounds; Con- tusions; Rupture—Urethral calculus—Foreign bodies—Urethritis: Gonorrhoea and its complications; Gleet■—Stricture and its com- plications : Retention; Peri-urethral cellulitis; Extravasation of urine ; Fistulas—Urethral fistulae—Catheter or urinary fever. Surgical Anatomy. — In the male the urethra averages about eight inches in length. That portion of the canal which extends from the meatus to the opening in the triangular ligament, a distance of about six inches, is spoken of as the anterior urethra. It is surrounded by the elastic erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum, and may be sub- divided into four parts : navicular, penile, scrotal, and bulbous. The navicular portion, so called because when distended it is elliptical or boat-shaped, corresponds to the glans penis ; it is contracted at its junction with the penile portion, and also at the meatus, which is the narrowest portion of tire entire urethra. In passing a fine instrument along this portion the point should be kept in contact with the floor to prevent it entering any of the pit-like recesses which are present in the roof. The penile portion is the most mobile and varies in length, and being superficial it is readily palpated through the skin on the under aspect of the penis, particularly when there is a stricture or when a stone or foreign body is lodged in its lumen. The scrotal portion is deeper and more fixed than the preceding portions, but is easily palpated when an instrument is passed into it. The bulbous portion (Fig. 187) is surrounded by the expanded posterior end of the corpus spongiosum, and is fixed to the anterior surface of the triangular ligament. It is the most dependent part of the urethra, is about half an inch in length, and is roomy and distensible ; it cannot be palpated from the perineum unless a rigid instrument has been passed, or its walls are indurated by fibrous tissue. It is the commonest seat of gonorrhoeal stricture, and also of stricture resulting from a fall on the perineum. The junction of the anterior with the posterior urethra is represented by the opening in the tri- angular ligament, the most fixed, and, next to the meatus, the narrowest part of the entire tube. In passing an instrument through it the point must be kept in contact with the roof of the canal, and the handle depressed as soon as the resistance of the triangular ligament is encountered. False passages usually perforate the floor of the urethra at this point.