143 DEFORMITIES OF THE FACE. Microstoma is due to excessive fusion of the maxillary and .mandibular processes. In some cases the mouth is so small as only to admit a probe. Facial cleft is due to non-closure of the fissure between the nasal and maxillary processes. It passes upwards through the lip and cheek to the internal angular process of the frontal bone. Mandibular cleft occurs in the middle line of the lower lip, and may extend to or even beyond the chin; it is due to non- union of the two lateral halves of the mandibular arch. These various deformities are treated by plastic operations carried out on the same principles as for hare-lip. Fistulce of the Lower Lip.—Two small openings, about the size of a pin’s head, are occasionally met with on the free border of the lower lip, near the middle line. On passing a probe, each is found to lead into a narrow cul-de-sac, which runs for about an inch outwards and backwards under the mucous membrane. Watery, saliva-like fluid exudes through the openings. These fistulae frequently occur in several members of the same family, and are usually associated with hare-lip. The treatment consists in dissecting them out. Injuries of the Soft Parts of the Face.—Wounds on the face present the same general characters as wounds elsewhere. In incised wounds the bleeding is usually very free at first, but unless one of the larger arteries, such as the facial or temporal, is injured, it soon ceases. Paralysis of the muscles of expression may follow injuries of the facial nerve ; and loss of sensation may result from injury of the supra-orbital and infra- orbital nerves. If Stenson’s duct is involved, a salivary fistula may form. Punctured wounds may perforate the orbit or the cranial cavity and be followed by septic complications ; or the maxillary sinus may be injured and emphysema result from escape of air into the cellular tissue. Contused and lacerated wounds result from explosions and injuries by firearms, and foreign bodies, such as particles of stone or coal, or grains of gunpowder and small shot, may lodge in the tissues. Every effort should be made to remove such foreign bodies, as they cause unsightly pigmentation of the skin if left embedded. Owing to the extreme vascularity of the tissues sloughing seldom occurs. Ligatures are seldom necessary for the arrest of haemorrhage unless the larger branches are injured, as the bleeding from smaller twigs can be arrested by the sutures. The edges of the wound are approximated by means of Michel’s clips, or by a series of interrupted horse-hair