THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 764 Nocturnal incontinence is sometimes attributable to phimosis, particularly when the prepuce is adherent to the glans. Inflammation of the sac of the prepuce—balanitis—is a frequent complication, and the itching and pain which result cause the child to rub and pull the penis, and the habit of masturbation may thus be acquired. The constant straining during micturi- tion tends to the production of inguinal hernia or of prolapsus ani. Convulsions, epilepsy, paraplegia, and numerous other nerve disturbances have been, rightly or wrongly, attributed to phimosis, and in some cases these have disappeared after circumcision. In adult life the existence of phimosis renders the patient specially liable to acquire venereal disease if exposed to infection, as the preputial pouch forms a favourable site for the lodgment and growth of organisms; and when infection occurs it tends to aggravate the disease, the discharges being retained within the prepuce. When it is associated with chronic balanitis, phimosis would appear to favour the development of cancer of the penis. The condition may interfere with coitus, the semen being retained in the preputial pouch. Acquired phimosis is usually met with in adults, and is due to oedematous swelling and congestion of the prepuce, resulting, as a rule, from such inflammatory conditions as gonorrhoea, soft sores, hard chancre, eczema, or herpes preputialis. It may also occur in diabetic patients from the irritation caused by fermentation of sugar-containing urine. It is most likely to develop in those who have naturally a long and narrow prepuce, and is therefore rather an aggravation of a congenital phimosis than a new condition. Treatment.—The only method of treatment that need be con- sidered is circumcision. The slighter degrees of congenital phimosis tend to disappear spontaneously. Treatment is only called for in childhood, therefore, when the condition is well marked and interferes with micturition, or is associated with recurrent attacks of balanitis. If towards the onset of puberty there is no sign of improvement, circumcision should be per- formed to diminish the irritation incident to the changes in the genital organs at this period of life. After puberty the condition tends to get worse rather than better, and operation is always indicated. The glans is pushed back, and the prepuce grasped with a pair of dressing forceps applied to it obliquely from above downwards and forwards. The portion of the prepuce in front of the blades of the forceps is then cut off with a long bistoury. Care must be taken to remove just enough skin to enable the glans to be completely exposed, and yet to leave a covering for