THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 622 firm flannel bandage, the diet is restricted to fluids, and urotropin is given to diminish the tendency to septic changes. In severe cases operative interference is indicated if there is evidence of increasing loss of blood, whether external or internal, rapid increase of the swelling in the loin, or marked diminution in the amount of urine passed. The kidney region must be freely opened up by the usual lumbar incision. If the organ is deeply ruptured but still viable, the rupture is closed with deep catgut sutures, or packed with gauze. If the kidney is extensively lacerated, if the main vessels are ruptured, or if the ureter is torn away from the kidney, the entire organ is removed—primary nephrectomy. If the bladder is distended with clots and micturition seriously interfered with, it should be emptied by means of the litholapaxy evacuator, and, if this fails, it should be opened from the perineum and a large drainage tube introduced, otherwise septic cystitis and ascending infection of both kidneys may supervene. If the severity of the shock and symptoms of internal haemorrhage point to tearing of the peritoneum over the kidney, the abdomen must be opened from the front, the blood and urine removed, and the kidney dealt with as the injury demands. . At a later stage, septic changes may call for operative inter- ference • the swelling is freely incised from the loin and drained ; whether or not the kidney is removed—secondary nephrectomy —will depend, not only on the condition of the affected kidney, but also on that of the opposite side. Open wounds of the kidney are usually the result of stabs or gunshot injuries. The situation and direction of the external wound may suggest that the kidney has been injured, and the suspicion is confirmed if blood appears in the urine; urine does not usually escape from the wound unless the pelvis of the kidney is involved. These injuries may also implicate the pleura, diaphragm, liver, or intestine. In uncomplicated cases the wound, if aseptic, heals well; if septic, suppuration is liable to ensue in and around the kidney. The external wound should be disinfected and drained, and complications dealt with as they arise. Subcutaneous Rupture of the Ureter is a rare injury, and usually results from the patient being overridden or crushed. If the ureter is displaced so as to be driven against the transverse processes of the vertebrae, it may be partially or completely torn. The peritoneum over the ureter usually remains intact, and unless the rent in the ureter is blocked by a clot, a mixture of urine and blood accumulates in the retro-peritoneal cellular tissue, and