729 THE SEMINAL VESICLES. free discharge of pus into the urethra, most of the pus escaping with the urine; rarely an abscess forms in the cellular tissue between the bladder and rectum, and still more rarely the inflammation spreads to the peritoneum, and sets up a local or general peritonitis. The patient is confined to bed, the foot of which is raised. Pain is relieved by anodyne suppositories, by repeated hot-water enemata, and by poultices applied to the perineum. In gonorrhoeal cases the local treatment of the urethra should be suspended. In chronic vesiculitis, which may be a sequel of the acute variety or may develop insidiously, the vesicle becomes distended with fluid ; its walls become sclerosed, and granulations which bleed readily may form on the mucous membrane. The clinical features resemble those of the acute variety, but are less marked. Pain is complained of after exertion, especially on horseback or cycle, after sexual excitement or the passage of instruments. In some cases there is a sensation of pain, weight, or discomfort referred to the penis, testicles, or scrotum, or of pains in the loin and thighs, described as lumbago or sciatica. There may be a persistent discharge of clear fluid from the urethra, especially after straining at stool ; the patient is often depressed and melancholy ; he broods over his troubles, and is apprehensive of his sexual functions. It is often difficult to differentiate this condition from prostatic catarrh, and the diagnosis is only made after rectal examination; the distended and tender seminal vesicle is felt with the finger, and on pressing over it a milky, muco-purulert, or blood-stained fluid may escape from the urethra. The treatment consists in employing measures directed to improve the general and particularly the mental health, such as plain living, open-air exercise, tonics, with the change of air and scene obtained by a sea voyage. Eugene Fuller recommends the procedure called “ stripping the vesicles,” which consists in emptying the distended sacs by stroking the vesicles in a down- ward direction with the tip of the forefinger introduced into the rectum. The procedure is repeated once a week or once a fortnight. The presence in the vesicle of faceted calculi composed of phosphate of lime may aggravate the symptoms of chronic vesiculitis, and render the condition most persistent. The calculi should be removed through an incision in the perineum. Tuberculous disease is occasionally met with in young adults in association with tubercle in the prostate and epididymis.