TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. 365 shadow the local signs to such an extent that the condition is mistaken for typhoid fever. The disease is not amenable to surgical interference, and usually proves fatal within a few months. The chronic forms of peritoneal tuberculosis are much more important surgically. For descriptive purposes they may be divided into two main types, according as the exudation of fluid or the formation of adhesions is the predominant feature. Tuberculosis ivith Fluid Exudation—Tuberculous Ascites.— In the majority of cases the exudate is serous in character— tuberculous ascites—and the Huid may be diffused throughout the whole of the peritoneal cavity, or it may be confined by adhesions to one or more limited areas. In a few cases the fluid becomes purulent. In the diffuse form, which is the more common, the patient gradually loses strength. The peritoneal cavity slowly fills with fluid which yields a dull note on per- cussion, the dulness varying in position with the attitude of the patient. On palpation it may be possible to feel enlarged mesenteric glands. In advanced cases the abdomen is prominent, the skin is tense and shiny and shows distended veins, and there is fever of the hectic type. The large belly presents a striking contrast to the emaciated condition of the rest of the body. In male children, if the processus vaginalis is patent, it also becomes filled with fluid. If the child is placed under favourable conditions, including the open-air treatment, there is a decided tendency towards recovery. This may be aided by rubbing into the skin of the abdomen ichthyol, oleate of mercury, or cod-liver oil. In the absence of improvement within from three to six months, recourse should be had to laparotomy. A small incision is made below the umbilicus, and the fluid—clear, straw-coloured serum—is allowed to drain away. If the finger is inserted, the peritoneum is found to be studded with firm tuberculous nodules varying in size from a pin’s head to a hazel-nut, and the mesenteric glands may be felt to be enlarged. If these are undergoing softening, they should be enucleated or cleared .out with the sharp spoon. If the Fallopian tube or ovary appears to be the primary focus, it should be removed. The wound is sutured and the usual dressings are applied. We have found it better to dispense with a drainage tube, as it tends to favour the formation of a sinus, and in some cases a faecal fistula subsequently forms at the site of the drainage opening. The improvement which follows laparotomy is often remarkable, and is probably due to reactive changes in the peritoneum increasing its bactericidal