339 VARIETIES OF CANCER, wall, and having the skin firmly adherent to it. The axillary glands may remain free of infection for several years, but eventually they become enlarged and hard, particularly if the growth ulcerates. Colloid Cancer.—In rare cases carcinomatous tumours of the breast are of the colloid variety. The tumour, which is smooth, rounded and densely hard, projects from the surface of the breast, and is characterised clinically by its slow growth and low degree of malignancy. The axillary glands are only implicated late in the disease, and metastases are seldom met with. The prognosis after operation is more favourable than in any other form of breast cancer. Adeno-carcinoma.—Under this term Halsted has described a tumour of the breast which is made up of “large tubular spaces lined with many layers of epithelial cells.” The condition is usually met with in women between fifty-live and sixty years of age. The tumour is larger, softer and more vascular than the scirrhous variety, and it tends to fungate through the skin, forming a pedunculated swelling. The axillary glands are seldom, if ever, implicated, and the tumour is much less malignant than the scirrhous form of carcinoma. Acute, Encephaloid, or Medullary Cancer.—In this form of carcinoma the epithelial elements predominate, while the stroma is scanty, soft, and vascular. From the rapidity of growth of the tumour the condition is sometimes spoken of as “ acute cancer.” The terms “encephaloid” and “medullary” refer to the homogeneous, brain-like appearance of the tumour on section, but as this appearance is also seen in sarcomata, and in other forms of tumours as a result of mucoid and haemorrhagic degeneration, these terms are liable to lead to confusion. Acute cancer is usually met with in women below the age of thirty, and in many cases appears during pregnancy or lactation. A swelling forms in the breast, and rapidly increases in size till the whole gland is implicated. The skin over the breast is invaded early and assumes a characteristically coarse “ orange- peel like ” appearance, and outlying nodules of cancer soon appear in the skin of the chest wall. Involvement of the axillary glands takes place soon after the tumour appears, and the disease usually proves fatal from metastatic growths within a few months of the onset. When the disease occurs during lactation, the skin is red and hot, and as there is a general rise of temperature, the condition is liable to be mistaken for mastitis or a mammary abscess. The prognosis is so unfavourable that operation is seldom to be recommended.