STONE IN THE BLADDER. 671 Pericystitis and Peri-vesical Abscess.—Inflammation of the peri-vesical cellular tissue is a localised form of pelvic cellulitis, clue to lymphatic extension from lesions of the bladder itself or of neighbouring organs, such as the Fallopian tube or vermiform appendix. The inflammation may resolve with the formation of adhesions and fixation of the organ—a common result of chronic cystitis—or may be suppurative, resulting in the formation of one or more abscesses bounded by peri-vesical adhesions. Such abscesses are found chiefly on the posterior or lateral aspect of the organ, and may be discovered on bimanual examination ; they are liable to be overlooked, however, and to rupture into the bladder, and it may be also into the bowel, causing a recto-vesical fistula. When suppuration occurs the treatment consists in incision and drainage either above the pubes or through the perineum, along with measures directed to the lesion of the bladder or other organ with which the suppuration is associated. Stone—Vesical Calculus. The general facts as to urinary lithiasis have been referred to in describing stone in the kidney. A primary stone is one which forms in the normal bladder con- taining acid urine, and composed of uric acid, urates, or oxalate of lime, and of the same substance throughout. A secondary stone forms in a bladder which is the seat of chronic cystitis with alka- line urine; it is chiefly com- posed of phosphates, but these Fig. 183.'—Uric Stone from the often surround a primary stone bladder, about one-half natural size, composed of uric acid, which has (From Professor Annandale’s Collection.) acted as a nucleus. The same varieties are met with in the bladder as in the kidney, but phosphatic concretions due to ammoniacal decomposition of the urine are more commonly met with in the bladder, and are much softer and more friable than similar stones which have come down from the kidney. As regards their shape, in contrast to renal calculi, which frequently present a triangular or branching formation in association with the form of the renal pelvis and calyces, vesical stones are usually rounded, ovoid, or discoid (Fig. 183), and when there are several they tend to acquire faceted