THE MOUTH. 155 subjects with decayed teeth, and is specially liable to occur during the course of acute febrile diseases in which sordes accumulate about the teeth and gums. It is also symptomatic of scurvy and secondary syphilis, and of poisoning by lead, phosphorus, or mercury. Some patients show a special susceptibility to mercury, and one of the first signs of intolerance of the drug is some degree of stomatitis, which may ensue after a com- paratively small quantity has been administered. It begins in the gums, which become tender, swollen and spongy, and bleed readily. A greenish discoloration appears on the teeth at the edge of the gum, and the teeth may become loose and fall out. In severe cases the alveolar margin of the jaw may undergo necrosis. There is also profuse salivation, and the breath has a characteristically offensive odour. The treatment consists in removing the cause, and in employ- ing antiseptic and astringent mouth-washes. The internal ad- ministration of chlorate of potash is also indicated, as this drug is excreted in the saliva. Gangrenous stomatitis, or cancrum oris, has already been described (vol. i. p. 108). Roof of the Mouth.—Suppuration in the muco-periosteum of the palate is usually secondary to suppuration at the root of a carious tooth. The inflammation usually begins close to the alveolus, just behind the incisor teeth, and may spread back along the palate. The muco-periosteum becomes swollen, red, and exceedingly tender, and, as pus forms, is raised from the bone, forming a prominent, firm, elongated swelling, which on bursting or being incised gives exit to foul-smelling pus. The inflammation then speedily subsides. It may also arise in excoriations caused by an ill-fitting tooth-plate, or from the impaction of a foreign body, such as a fish or game bone, in the mucous membrane. The syphilitic gumma, which begins as a rounded indolent swelling, is usually situated in the middle line near the posterior edge of the hard palate. The swelling gradually softens and ulcerates, and a sequestrum may separate and leave a perforation in the palate (Fig. 53). The treatment consists in employing the usual remedies for tertiary syphilis. If the perforation persists and causes trouble by allowing food to pass into the nose, or by giving a nasal tone to the voice, it may be closed by an operation on the same principle as that performed for cleft palate, or an obturator may be fitted to occlude the opening. Tuberculoids disease is chiefly met with in the form of lupus which has spread from the nose or lips, and it may lead to