PULMONARY CAVITIES. 313 cavity. The results of operation are satisfactory, particularly in cases following pneumonia. Bronchiectasis consists in a dilatation of the bronchial tubes resulting in the formation of fusiform or saccular cavities in the lung, in which secretions accumulate and decompose. It is rarely amenable to operation unless the cavity is localised and saccular. Phthisical Cavities.—As incision and drainage of a tuber- culous abscess in the lung is no more likely to result in cure than similar treatment of a cold abscess elsewhere, it is not to be wondered at that so far the results of operation in this disease have been disappointing. To admit of contraction of a limited cavity in the apex of the lung, portions of the overlying ribs have been resected. For hydatid cysts of the lung, incision and drainage have proved highly satisfactory. Pneumonectomy.—Operations for the removal of tuberculous areas in the lung or of malignant tumours have been un- successful in the majority of cases in which they have been attempted. Primary carcinoma of the lung is occasionally met with, and may sometimes be recognised by the presence of tumour elements in the sputum or in the fluid withdrawn from the pleura. It is not amenable to surgical treatment. The Heart. Injuries.—In considering wounds of the heart it is necessary to distinguish between those which implicate only the walls of the organ and those which penetrate its cavities. Non- penetrating wounds are usually caused by stabs, or by a sharp fragment of a broken rib being driven into the heart. Pene- trating wounds may also result from stabs, but are most frequently due to gunshot injuries, and the bullet may either pass right through the heart or lodge in its substance. From its exposed position the right ventricle is the cavity most frequently injured. Needles sometimes pass into the heart, either through the chest wall or from the oesophagus, without doing much damage, and they may lodge and remain for long in the substance of the organ without causing symptoms. Wounds of the auricles are more speedily fatal than wounds of the ventricles, as the comparative thinness of the auricular walls favours the rapid escape of blood into the pericardium. Clinical Features.—Penetrating wounds usually prove rapidly