EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. 561 into any of the adjacent viscera—bladder, rectum, uterus, or vagina, the discharge containing fragments of foetal bones. Clinical Features.—Ectopic gestation may occur at any time during the child-bearing period, and it is usually the case that several years have elapsed since the last normal pregnancy. There is often a history of previous tubal disease, although this is usually quiescent, and the patient is apparently in good health at the time the abnormal impregnation occurs. In some cases the ordinary general symptoms of pregnancy are present, but in others the patient is not aware that she is pregnant. It often happens that the patient misses one or two periods, and then suffers from irregular, intermittent haemorrhages, the blood being thick, dark in colour, and varying in amount. The uterine decidual membrane may be thrown off during the early weeks, either in the form of a complete cast of the interior of the uterus or in shreds mixed with the blood. This, when present, is a valuable diagnostic sign. The external genitalia present the ordinary signs of pregnancy; the uterus is enlarged to about the size of a two months’ pregnancy, soft and globular, and appears to be displaced slightly to one side by a tense, elastic, and fluctuating swelling in which pulsating vessels may be felt. This swelling, which is the gestation sac, is ovoid, and is situated to one side of the uterus, and as it increases in size becomes fixed and very tender on palpation, and the seat of a dull, aching pain. If the pregnancy continues to develop, the abdomen increases in size, the foetus can be distinctly, felt through the parietes, and foetal heart-sounds may be heard. Before the occurrence of rupture or intra-peritoneal bleeding through the ostium, the differential diagnosis is often extremely difficult, and in considering it the following conditions are to be borne in mind :—Pregnancy in the rudimentary horn of a bicornate uterus, retroflexion of a gravid uterus, ovarian, fibroid, and other pelvic tumours complicating ordinary intra- uterine pregnancy. An ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy has been mistaken for an ectopic gestation, but can usually be diagnosed by the varying consistence of the tumour due to the periodic uterine contractions. It must be remembered that the two conditions may coexist. The diagnosis is often aided by the administration of a general anaesthetic, but in difficult cases may only be cleared up by an exploratory operation. Rupture of the Sac.—Primary rupture may take place at any period, and is seldom delayed beyond the fourteenth week. It may be determined by some slight injury, by jumping from a chair, or by straining, for example in vomiting, or it may occur YOL. II—36