230 THE NOSE AND NASO PHARYNX. the odour, and by the fact that it is not influenced by potassium iodide and mercury. Various methods of treatment are in vogue, but thorough cleanliness is the most essential factor, and this is best secured by regular syringing. Plugging of the nostrils with cotton-wool for half an hour before washing out the nose greatly facilitates the detachment of the crusts. A pint of lukewarm solution, containing a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda or of common salt, is then used with a Higginson’s syringe, the patient leaning over a basin and breathing in and out quickly through the oj^en mouth. The patient should then forcibly blow down each nostril in turn, the other being occluded with the finger, so that the septic material may thus be blown out without risk of it entering the Eustachian tubes, as may happen when the handker- chief is used in the ordinary way. Antiseptic sprays and oint- ments may be applied to the mucous membrane after cleansing. Epistaxis.—Bleeding from the nose may be due either to local or to general causes. Among the former may be cited injuries such as result from the introduction of foreign bodies, blows on the face, and fractures of the anterior fossa of the skull, and the ulceration of syphilitic, tuberculous, or malignant disease. Amongst the general conditions in which nasal haemorrhage may occur are typhoid fever, anaemia and purpura, cardiac and renal disease, cirrhosis of the liver, and whooping cough. Nasal haemorrhage usually takes place from one or more dilated capillaries situated at the anterior, inferior part of the septum close to the vestibule, and in such cases the bleeding point is readily detected. Occasionally bleeding occurs from one of the anterior ethmoidal veins, and under these circum- stances the blood flows downwards between the middle turbinal and the septum. Before steps are taken to arrest the bleeding, the interior of the nose should, if possible, be inspected and the bleeding point sought for. As a preliminary to the use of local applications the nose should be washed out with boracic lotion or salt solution to remove all clots from the cavity. In many cases this is all that is necessary to stop the bleeding. If the bleeding is not very copious, it may be stopped by grasping the alse nasi between the finger and thumb, or by spraying the nasal cavity with adrenalin. If the blood is evidently flowing from the olfactory sulcus, a strip of gauze soaked in adrenalin, turpentine, or other styptic should be packed between the septum and middle turbinated body. If recurrent haemor- rhage takes place from the anterior and lower part of the septum, the application of the electric cautery at a dull red heat,