FOREIGN BODIES. 443 may cause stenosis of the pylorus or an hour-glass constriction in the body of the stomach. As a rule the gullet also is damaged and becomes the seat of stricture. Foreign Bodies in the Stomach.—When such articles as small coins, buttons, beads, or fruit-stones are swallowed, being comparatively smooth and rounded, they usually traverse the pylorus and are passed by the rectum. Other bodies, such as tooth-plates, large nails, pieces of bone, forks, etc., are liable to be retained in the stomach, either because they are too large to pass through the pylorus, or because they are sharp and irregular, and catch on the gastric mucous membrane. Sharp bodies may perforate the stomach and cause fatal peritonitis, or they may lodge in its cavity and give rise to symptoms simulat- ing those of gastric ulcer. Large bodies may be palpable through the abdominal wall, and when opaque they may be demonstrable by the Rontgen rays. In young girls who have acquired the habit of biting their hair, the fragments which they swallow are liable to accumulate in the stomach, and by the contraction of its muscular coat they become rolled into balls which may attain a very considerable size. These hair- balls may be felt as round bodies which are freely movable within the stomach, and they give rise to gastric pain, indiges- tion, and emaciation. They are met with chiefly in imbecile children. Treatment.—The passage of foreign bodies through the pylorus and intestines is facilitated by administering a large meal of porridge, rice-pudding, or pease-brose, which will enclose the foreign body and fill up any crevices in it. When there are any rough projections on the body, a quantity of chopped-up worsted or string is a useful addition to the bolus, the strands being wound round the projections by the churning movements of the stomach. The object should be sought for in the stools, which should be mixed with water and strained through muslin. Hair- balls and large irregular bodies such as plates of teeth should be removed by operation—gastrotomy. Ulcer of the Stomach. The common form of gastric ulcer is probably due to a digestive action of the gastric juice on a portion of the mucous membrane that has been damaged or deprived of its blood- supply. Such ulcers are single or multiple in approximately equal proportion. They are rounded or oval, and vary greatly in size. In some cases only the mucous membrane is destroyed,