60 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. or by extension of the thrombotic process along the cerebellar veins. While the abscess is small, it may give rise to few symptoms, and the patient may be able to go about, but as it increases in size serious symptoms develop. The patient suffers from vertigo, and is unable to co-ordinate his movements. If he attempts to walk he reels from side to side; even when sitting up in bed he may feel giddy and tend to fall, usually towards the side opposite to that on which the abscess is situated. The head and neck are retracted, the pulse is slow and weak, and the temperature subnormal. There is frequent yawning, and the speech is slow, syllabic, and jerky. There may be optic neuritis and blindness. There is sometimes unilateral or even bilateral paralysis of the limbs from pressure on the medulla. The respiration is greatly embarrassed, and may occasionally be interrupted for a few minutes, while the heart continues to beat vigorously. This arrest of respiration is especially liable to occur during anaesthesia. Prognosis.-—Abscess of the brain is always a dangerous condition, but is amenable to surgical treatment if this is carried out early and thoroughly. Spontaneous evacuation of a temporo-sphenoidal abscess may take place. through the middle ear. The abscess, however, is much more likely to burst into the sub-dural space or into the ventricles and set up general meningitis, which proves fatal. Treatment.—The abscess having been localised, the skull is opened and the pus removed. Macewen recommends that for temporo-sphenoidal abscess the centre-pin of the trephine should be placed at a point in line with the posterior osseous wall of the external auditory meatus, three-quarters of an inch above the posterior root of the zygoma (Fig. 6). When the abscess is large, the dura may bulge unduly through the opening in the skull, and the pulsation of the brain may not be recognisable. A small abscess, if deeply placed, however, may not affect the cerebral pulsation. The dura is opened near the centre of the trephine circle, and the brain explored by means of a pair of sinus forceps, or a cannula with a blunt point and lateral apertures, passed downwards, inwards, and forwards towards the tegmen tympani. When pus is struck, the blades of the forceps are expanded to admit of its escape and to facilitate the withdrawal of any sloughs which may be present. The cavity may be very gently flushed with sterilised salt solution. As the resilient brain soon obliterates the cavity, it is seldom possible to retain a drainage-tube in position. Iodoform worsted is placed in the wound, and a dressing applied.