364 THE (ESOPHAGUS. detection of foreign bodies. Various forms are employed, of which the most generally useful are the conical-pointed gum-elastic or silk-web bougie, and the olive-lieaded metal bougie, consisting of a flexible whale- bone stem, to which one of a graduated series of aluminium or steel bulbs is screwed. For some purposes the sponge probang—which consists of a small round sponge fixed on a whalebone stem—is to be preferred. For the passage of an oesophageal bougie the patient should be seated on a chair with the head thrown back and supported from behind by an assistant. The bougie is lubricated with butter or glycerin, and is held like a pen. With the left forefinger the surgeon depresses the tongue while he passes the bougie to the back wall of the pharynx and guides it over the epiglottis. As soon as the instrument engages in the opening of the oesophagus, the patient usually hacks and coughs, but this stops in a few seconds, and if he is now directed to swallow, the instrument may be carried down the oesophagus, or can be passed on by gentle pressure. The spasm induced by the introduction of the instru- ment may sometimes be prevented by getting the patient to take full, deep breaths somewhat rapidly. Great gentleness must be exercised, and no attempt should be made to force the instrument past any obstruc- tion. The instrument may catch against the hyoid bone, and this may be mistaken for a stenosis of the gullet. Before passing bougies it is necessary to make certain that the symptoms are not due to the pressure of an aortic aneurysm on the oesophagus. Cases have been recorded in which a thin-walled aneurysm has been perforated by an oesophageal bougie. The existence of ulceration or suppuration also contra-indicates the use of bougies. It is to be borne in mind that in some cases the passage of a bougie may be attended with a considerable degree of shock, and cases are on record in which this has proved fatal without any gross lesion being found after death. The cesophagoscope—a form of speculum which enables the oesophagus to be illuminated by an electric lamp—is employed for the examination of tumours and strictures of the tube, and in the removal of foreign bodies. With its aid, also, it is possible to remove a portion of a growth for microscopic examination. In cases of stricture auscultation during deglutition sometimes aids the diagnosis. The stethoscope is placed at various points along the left side of the dorsal spine, and abnormal sounds may be heard as the fluid impinges against the stricture or trickles through it. For the detection and localisation of opaque foreign bodies the Rontgen rays are of great value. Wounds of the oesophagus inflicted from without, for example, stabs, cut-throat or gun-shot injuries, are comparatively rare, and are almost invariably accompanied by lesions of other important structures in the neck, which rapidly prove fatal. It is more common to meet with wounds inflicted from within, for example, by the swallowing of rough and irregularly shaped foreign bodies, or by unskilful attempts to remove such bodies or to pass bougies along the oesophagus. The severity of the lesion varies from a scratch of the mucous membrane to a com- plete perforation of the tube. The less severe injuries are