THE BREAST. 320 corpus mammae becomes firm and flattened out, the subcutaneous fat over it disappears, and the gland lies in close apposition with the pectoral muscles. In stout women, on the other hand, the breast tissue is replaced almost entirely by masses of fat, and, as the adipose tissue both behind and in front of the gland is greatly increased in amount, the whole organ is soft and pendulous. After inspecting the breasts, and noting any asymmetry or other abnormal appearance that-may be present, the parts are examined by palpation, the surgeon standing either by the side of the patient or behind her. First the condition of the skin may be noted, to deter- mine if there be any abnormal attachment to the breast, or to any tumour that may be present. Dimpling of the skin is in some cases visible to the eye, but in others can only be detected on an attempt being made to pinch up or to stretch the skin. The condition of the nipple must also be noted to see if it he unduly adherent to the breast or retracted. As the two nipples are often not equally prominent, inquiry should always be made of the patient as to the history and duration of any apparent retraction that may be observed. The breast should then be palpated, its size, disposition, and consistence being noted, first by grasping it between the fingers, and then by pressing firmly against it with the flat of the hand. Should any tumour be detected, its size, shape, and consistence must be determined, as well as its relation to the skin, the nipple, and the gland tissue. The arm should be abducted to a right angle to put the pectoral muscle on the stretch, and the mobility of the breast on the chest wall tested, by moving the gland first from side to side, and then up and down. At the same time it should be observed whether the tumour can be moved independently of the breast or only with it. The consistence of a tumour in the breast is best determined by pressing it back against the chest wall with the flat of the hand while the patient’s arm is abducted. The condition of the various groups of lymphatic glands in the axilla and above the clavicle should next be noted. Malformations. Complete absence of one or both breasts—amazia—occasion- ally occurs. It is usually met with in males, and is generally unilateral, affecting most frequently the left side. The sternal fibres of the pectoralis major and the subjacent portion of the chest wall are often imperfectly developed in these cases, and sometimes the whole upper extremity on the affected side is defective. Congenital absence of the nipple—athelia—is more common than amazia, and is usually bilateral. The condition known as micromazia, in which the infantile type of mamma persists after puberty, is usually associated with a deficiency in the organs of generation, as well as in the pectoral muscles and chest wall. The occurrence of supernumerary breasts—polymazia or 'poly- mastia— or of supernumerary nipples—polythelia—is by no means uncommon. These accessory structures are usually