521 TUMOURS OF THE LIVER, The recurrence of hydatids after operation, formerly ascribed to portions of the eyst wall or daughter cysts having been left behind, is believed to be due to the microscopical elements in the fluid—the scolices—and the recurrence is brought about by the dispersion of these elements in the wound and its surround- ings. To prevent this, Deve recommends that before opening the cyst, it should be injected with a 1 per cent, solution of formalin, which is allowed to remain in the cyst for five minutes. This kills the scolices with the greatest certainty. Syphilitic Gummata.—These form rounded nodular tumours, which may be palpated if they project from the anterior surface of an enlarged liver. A solitary gumma, especially if pedun- culated, may simulate a new growth or an abnormal lobe of the liver. Tumours.—Innocent tumours, such as adenoma and angioma, are very rare. The adenoma is a rounded, encapsulated tumour which, if solitary, may lend itself to removal by operation. Apart from hydatids, two forms of cyst are met with in the liver, the solitary and the multiple. The solitary cyst projects downwards from the free margin of the liver and may attain such dimensions as to be mistaken for a pancreatic or mesenteric cyst. It should be enucleated. In multiple cystic disease, the liver is greatly enlarged and honeycombed with cysts, and the condition may be associated with similar disease in the kidneys (p. 649). It is not amenable to treatment. Primary cancer is a rare disease, which usually escapes recog- nition until it has reached a stage at which surgical interference is of no avail. The same may be said of sarcoma. The chief clinical feature is the rapid enlargement of the organ. In a few instances it has been possible to excise a segment of the liver containing a malignant growth. For the successful removal of hepatic tumours, it is essential that they should be growing from an easily accessible part of the liver; the presence of a pedicle and the absence of adhesions to surrounding structures are favouring conditions. The pedicle being controlled by an elastic ligature, the liver tissue is divided with the knife or cautery, and the larger blood-vessels secured by ligatures. The wound in the liver is closed with catgut sutures; when this is not possible or does not arrest the bleeding, it is packed with gauze, the end of which is brought out through the wound in the abdominal wall. The dressings may be stained with bile for a few days. Acquired Deformities and Displacements of the Liver.— Riedel's lobe is a downward projection from the right lobe,