229 NASAL DISCHARGE. coryza caseosa. The formation of crusts is significant of foetid atrophic rhinitis (ozama) and syphilis, and in these last-named conditions the discharge is associated with a most objectionable and distinctive foetor. Pus from the maxillary sinus is often foetid, and the odour is noticed by the patient; while the odour of ozama is not recognised by the patient, although very obvious to others. Foreign bodies of various descriptions have been met with in the nasal cavities, particularly of children. They set up suppura- tion and give rise to a unilateral discharge, which is often offensive in character. The surgeon must not be satisfied with the history given by the parents, but, with the aid of good illumination, and, in young children, under general aniesthesia, the nose should be carefully inspected and probed. If there is much swelling, the introduction of a 5 per cent, solution of cocain will facilitate the examination by diminishing the conges- tion of the mucous membrane. No attempt should be made to remove a foreign body from the nose by syringing. If fluid is injected into the obstructed nostril, it is liable to force the body farther back, while if injected into the free nostril, it is apt to accumulate in the naso - pharynx and to pass into the Eustachian tubes. A fine hook should be passed behind the body and traction made upon it, or sinus forceps or a snare may be employed. Care must be taken that the body is not pushed still deeper into the cavity. Fungi and parasites should first be killed with injections of chloroform water, or by making the patient inhale chloroform vapour. Rhinoliths.—Concretions having a plug of inspissated mucus or a small foreign body as a nucleus sometimes form in the nose. They are composed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and have a covering of thickened nasal secretion. They are rough on the surface, dark in colour, and usually lie in the inferior meatus. They give rise to the same symptoms as a foreign body, and are treated in the same way. The stone, which is usually single, may be so large and so hard that it is necessary to crush it before it can be removed. Ozcenci, or foetid atrophic rhinitis, is characterised by atrophy of the nasal mucous membrane, and sometimes even of the turbinated bones, and is accompanied by a muco-purulent dis- charge and the formation of crusts having a characteristic offensive odour, which is not recognised by the patient. It is usually bilateral, and the nasal chambers, owing to the atrophy, are very roomy. It may be differentiated from a tertiary syphilitic con- dition by the absence of ulceration and necrosis of bone, by