275 DIVERTICULA OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. Paralysis of the oesophagus sometimes occurs after diphtheria., and in the course of certain diseases of the central nervous system. The difficulty of swallowing may be temporarily relieved by feeding the patient through a tube. Malformations. — Congenital Malformations—such as im- perforate gullet, stricture, diverticulum, or fistulous communica- tion between the oesophagus and the trachea—are rare, and are ■seldom within the reach of surgical treatment. Acquired Malformations.—Two forms are recognised—general dilatation and diverticula. General circumferential dilatation of the oesophagus is sometimes met with; it is associated with paralysis of the muscular coat of the oesophagus, with cardio-spasm, or occurs above an organic stricture. Diverticula. — A diverticulum may form on the gullet from a localised weaken- ing of the wall which admits of it gradu- ally stretching, or it may be produced by traction on the tube from without. When due to pressure from within, the diverticulum or pouch is usually situated at the junction of the pharynx with the oesophagus. At this level the posterior wall of the canal is normally weak, and the pressure on this area causes it to bulge so that a pouch is gradually formed. All the coats of the gullet may enter into the formation of the pouch, or the mucous *IG’ If — Diverticulum coat maybe herniated through the mus- its junction with the cular. The opening is situated at the pharynx, pharyngo - oesophageal junction, at the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the pouch hangs down alongside the gullet as a pear-shaped sac, varying in length from one to live or six inches. As it increases in size it presses on the gullet and so causes dysphagia. Less frequently a diverticulum forms in the middle portion of the oesophagus, about eight or ten inches from the teeth. Clinical Features.—In most cases the condition has first attracted attention in men above forty years of age, and the patient has usually been in the habit of bolting his food. Dysphagia and regurgitation of food are the most prominent symptoms. The length of time the food remains in the oesophagus varies greatly.