301 HERNIA OF THE LUNG. opening through which it comes being enlarged, if necessary, and subsequently closed to prevent recurrence. When the herniated portion has become gangrenous, it should be cut away after a ligature has been placed round its base. Hernia of the Lung.—A portion of lung may become herniated through a weak part of the chest wall, for example, the scar left after the healing of a penetrating wound. The most common situation for such a hernia is the anterior part of the lower intercostal spaces. It is usually the thin, mobile edge of the lung which is protruded, and it is furnished with a sac derived from the pleura. The condition is usually produced by coughing, or other form of violent expiratory effort, and it has been met with in trombone and cornet players. The swelling is soft, smooth, and crepitant. It increases on forced expiration and diminishes on inspiration, yields a vesicular murmur on auscultation, and is resonant on percussion. Reduction is rarely possible without operation, and this is seldom called for, as the condition does not cause serious inconvenience. The swelling may be protected from external pressure by a suitable pad. Diseases of the Chest. Diseases of the Chest Wall.—Cellulitis may occur in the subcutaneous connective tissue, or in the cellular tissue beneath the pectoral muscles and aponeuroses. It is usually due to the spread of infection from suppurating axillary glands, but in some cases the source of infection is not discoverable. A firm, brawny swelling forms and spreads over one-half of the chest; the skin is red and oedematous, there is marked tenderness over the affected area, and the respiratory movements are restricted. After a few days pus forms, the swelling becomes boggy, and fluctuation may be detected. The pus usually erupts on the skin surface ; sometimes the inflammatory process spreads to the pleural cavity. There is marked evidence of septic absorption; and, unless treated by multiple incisions and drainage, the con- dition may prove fatal. An acute localised abscess may follow the lodgment of a foreign body in the chest wall, the infection of a hsematoma, or acute osteomyelitis of the ribs or sternum, particularly as a sequel of typhoid fever. Less acute forms of localised abscess result from the perforation of an empyema, or of a pulmonary or pleural abscess. Acute osteomyelitis of the ribs or sternum is comparatively rare, except as part of a multiple infection in which several