494 THE INTESTINES. on by blocking of the narrowed bowel by indigestible food, congested mucous membrane, or inspissated fie cal matter. Even in typical cases of chronic obstruction due to stricture of the lesser bowel, it is seldom possible to be certain as to the cause of the obstruction without performing an exploratory operation. A similar train of clinical features may be brought about by new growths, by matting, bending, or compression of the gut from adhesions or from shrinking of the mesentery. It is, fortunately, unnecessary to differentiate between these various conditions, as laparotomy is the first step in the treat- ment of all of them. Treatment.—The sooner the condition is subjected to operative interference the easier and more successful will this prove. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, unless the seat of the stricture is indicated by some definite localising factor, such as an antecedent hernia. There is rarely any difficulty in finding the affected loop of intestine, or in bringing it out at the wound, except when adhesions are present, in which case these must first be separated. If there is a single annular stricture, the lumen of the bowel is most easily restored by making a longitudinal incision through the stricture on the convexity of the bowel, opposite the mesenteric attachment, and suturing the wound at right angles to its long axis—a procedure known as entero- plasty. If the segment of bowel affected is the seat of a stricture, or of several strictures in close proximity to one another, and especially if it is bent on itself and involved in adhesions, the choice lies between performing an immediate resection and establishing an anastomosis between the bowel above and below the diseased segment. If the conditions are favourable for its performance, enterectomy is the more satisfactory procedure. It is essential that the resection should extend well beyond the disease so that a section of healthy bowel is obtained for imme- diate union by sutures. Inequality in the size of the lumen of the two ends is overcome by cutting across the lower contracted segment obliquely, and slitting it on the side opposite the mesenteric attachment. Entero-anastomosis is to be preferred when there is extensive matting from adhesions. The formation of an artificial anus—enterostomy—except in critical and urgent cases, is to be avoided because of the irritating effects of the intestinal contents upon the skin, and because of the loss of nutriment; if the opening is made in the jejunum, there is serious risk of starvation. If an artificial anus is necessary to tide the patient over the critical period, a second and curative