316 THE CHEST. either fail to close, or they heal with a thin, weak and stretch- able cicatrix, which readily favours the formation of a hernial protrusion. When bowel is prolapsed, it is liable to become strangulated either at the time of the accident or later. In many cases the lesion is only discovered after death. In treating these injuries, attention is first directed to the associated lesions of the viscera. If practicable, the rent in the diaphragm should be sutured by the trans-pleural route. Diaphragmatic hernia is described later. Diaphragmatic pleurisy may closely simulate the onset of acute perforative peritonitis and other abdominal conditions— particularly appendicitis. Spread of infection through the diaphragm may take place either from the thoracic or abdominal side. An empyema, suppura- tive pericarditis or mediastinitis, for example, may spread through the diaphragm and infect the peritoneal cavity or the retro-peri- toneal connective tissue. When adhesions have formed the pus may form a sub-phrenic abscess, or may burst directly into the alimentary canal. On the other hand, a sub-phrenic abscess may burst into the pleura, the pericardium, or the mediastinum. The Mediastina. Mediastinitis is most commonly met with in the anterior mediastinum, and is usually due to the extension of inflamma- tion from an adjacent part. Among the sources of infection may be mentioned inflammatory affections of the larynx, trachea, thyroid, or oesophagus, disease of the ribs or sternum, abscess or gangrene of the lung, and inflammatory processes in the pleura or pericardium. There is pain behind the sternum and shooting through between the shoulder blades; the front of the chest is red and cedematous, and is tender on pressure. If pus forms, there may be shortness of breath, irregularity of the heart, and a general feeling of oppression. Rigors and sweating are common symptoms. The abscess may make its way towards the surface, and point in an intercostal space either near to the sternum or at some distance out. On the other hand it may burst into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pericardium, or the pleura. The treatment consists in opening the mediastinum by trephining the sternum, or by incising to one side of it and resecting as much bone as is necessary to ensure drainage. When an abscess forms in the posterior mediastinum it may point above the clavicle, and should be opened there. To reach