535 FISTULA. calculus, and is only recognised after the abdomen is opened. It may be possible to get rid of the stricture by a plastic operation similar to that for stricture at the pylorus. When this is not feasible a communication should be made between the gall-bladder and the intestine (cholecyst-enterostomy), or between the dilated duct above the stricture and the intestine (choledoch- enterostomy) ; failing either of these, the symptoms may be relieved by establishing a permanent biliary fistula. Abdominal Abscess.—This results from the ulceration of a stone through the wall of the gall-bladder or bile-duct into an area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions. The abscess is usually situated between the right costal margin and the umbilicus, and, if left to itself, may discharge at or near the umbilicus, giving vent to pus and portions of broken- down gall-stones. The treatment consists in incision and drainage of the abscess, and at a subsequent operation the gall-bladder should be explored and emptied. Intestinal Obstruction. — When a large stone ulcerates through the wall of the gall-bladder into the duodenum, it is liable in its course down the jejunum to be grasped by the wall of the bowel and cause symptoms of acute obstruction (p. 491). Fistula.—Fistula; may form when cases of impacted gall- stone are left to nature. Internal fistidce are those in which the communication is between the gall-bladder and an adjacent hollow viscus. Those which communicate with the bowel do not give rise to any symptoms, and are only discovered accidentally during the course of an operation. When the communication is with the stomach, the bile is poured into that organ, and, while this may be attended with no symptoms, there is sometimes persistent vomiting of bile. If operation is called for, the gall-bladder should be freed from the stomach and excised, and the opening in the stomach closed by sutures. External fistula; open on the skin and usually owe their origin to the rupture of an abscess which has formed in relation to an impacted stone; the skin orifice is usually near the umbilicus. The persistence of a fistula after an operation for gall-stones is due either to incomplete removal of the stones, or to the edges of the wound in the gall-bladder having been stitched to the skin. When the cystic duct is blocked the fistula discharges mucus only; this is merely a source of inconvenience and rarely calls for operation. Removal of the gall-bladder is sometimes indicated. When the fistula discharges bile—biliary fistula—the patient