114 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. the patient showing any characteristic signs of spinal disease (Fig. 33). When the disease begins in childhood it may induce a permanent deformity of the pelvis, the conjugate diameter at the brim being increased, while the transverse diameter at the outlet is diminished—kyphotic pelvis. Tuberculous Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint. — This con- dition may occur as a primary affection, but is much more frequently secondary to disease in the ilium, sacrum, or lower lumbar vertebrae, and is most common in adolescents and young adults of the male sex. It is attended with pain in the lumbar region, and sometimes in the buttock and along the course of the sciatic nerve. The pain is aggravated by move- ments, especially such as in- volve sudden and violent con- traction of the lumbar and abdominal muscles, for ex- ample, coughing, sneezing, or straining during defecation. Tenderness is elicited on mak- ing pressure over the joint, on pressing together the iliac bones, or on ^attempting to abduct the limb while the pelvis is fixed. The muscles of the buttock and thigh are atrophied. As any attempt to bear weight on the affected limb causes pain, the patient walks with a limp, and to save the joint he assumes an he throws his weight on the a stick for support, tilts the affected side of the pelvis downwards, and flexes the hip and knee-joints of the diseased limb. The anterior superior spine is unduly prominent on the affected side, and the limb appears to be lengthened. Sooner or later, in most cases, an abscess forms, and the pus may reach the surface over the posterior aspect of the joint. When the pus forms in front of the joint, it may spread outwards in the iliac fossa as an iliac abscess, or may gravitate downwards in the hollow of the sacrum and emerge on the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen—sub- gluteal abscess. Sometimes it passes into the ischio-rectal fossa Fig. 33.—Right Iliac Abscess from disease of the lumbar spiue. attitude which is characteristic : sound limb, leans forward using