THE SPINE AND CORD. 88 molecular shaking of the cord or to mere shock. In all cases that have been thoroughly investigated, definite lesions have been found usually in the form of minute haemorrhages into the grey matter of the cord, or into the membranes (Kocher, Byrom Bramwell). These haemorrhages may be due to squeezing or tearing of the cord or of the emerging nerve-roots by a partial and temporary displacement of a vertebra, or to violent distortion of the spine; or they may be produced by a disturbance of the cerebro-spinal fluid, in the same way as the corresponding lesions which accompany concussion of the brain. The condition is commonly met with in miners as a result of a mass of coal falling on the back, or it may occur when a rider is thrown from his horse and lands on his back. The most constant symptoms are temporary retention of urine requiring the use of the catheter, and transient loss of power and numbness in the legs. Simple concussion of the cord is practically never attended with the symptoms characteristic of “railway spine” —a condition with which it is often confused—and it is very rarely, if ever, followed by organic disease of the cord (Byrom Bramwell). The treatment consists in keeping the patient at rest in bed, preferably in the prone position, applying ice-bags to the spine, and administering ergot when bleeding is suspected. The bladder must be emptied by the catheter if necessary. “Railway Spine.”—This term is employed to indicate a peculiar disturbance of the nervous system which frequently develops in persons who have been in railway accidents, and which may be described as a traumatic neurasthenia. The condition is seldom, if ever, met with in its characteristic form after injuries sustained in any other way. It is a remarkable fact that it seldom occurs in railway employees, or in passengers who sustain gross injuries, such as fractures or lacerated wounds. Clinical Features.—The patient usually gives a history of having been forcibly thrown backwards and forwards across the carriage at the time of the accident. He is stunned and dazed for a moment, or, it may be, is little the worse at the time, and is able to continue his journey. On reaching his destination, however, he feels weak and nervous, and complains of pain in his back and limbs. There is no local sign of injury, beyond, perhaps, slight bruising of the back. For a few days he may be able to attend to business, but eventually feels unfit for it and has to give it up. The symptoms that subsequently develop are for the most part purely subjective, and they vary widely in different cases.