CEREBRAL ABSCESS. 57 carried by the veins, and in this way the infective material reaches the white matter; less frequently infection from the middle ear takes place along the perivascular lymph spaces. Macewen has pointed out that cerebral abscess never occurs from pyogenic organisms passing from the middle ear by way of the internal auditory meatus, although lepto-meningitis may do so. Cerebral abscess is much more frequently met with in the white matter of the centrum ovale than in the cortex. In the majority of cases the abscess is single. The pus from a cerebral abscess is often of a greenish-yellow colour, or it may be dark brown from admixture with broken- down blood-clot; in some cases it is thin and serous and contains sloughs of brain matter. It has frequently an exceedingly foetid odour. In quantity it varies from a few drops to several ounces. The arachno-pia over an abscess usually has a turbid and milky appearance. The brain tissue surrounding an acute abscess is inflamed and infiltrated with pus. In a chronic abscess, on the other hand, it is condensed, and the pus may become encapsulated by the formation of a zone of young fibrous tissue round its periphery. In this condition the abscess may remain “latent” for many weeks or even months. Clinical Features.—The clinical course of a cerebral abscess has been described by Macewen as embracing three distinct stages : the initiatory stage, the stage of the fully-formed abscess, and the terminal stage. The initiatory stage, which may last for from twelve hours to two or three days, rarely comes under the direct observation of the surgeon. He is usually able, however, to elicit a history of the presence of chronic purulent middle ear disease. The patient is somewhat suddenly seized with intense pain, located mainly in the ear and temporal region, but radiating in different directions through the head. He has a rigor, varying in intensity from a slight feeling of chilliness to a severe fit of shivering, and lasting from a few minutes to half an hour. In uncomplicated cases the shivering is not repeated. There is well-marked cutis anserina. During this stage attacks of cerebral vomiting are common. The temperature and pulse rate are somewhat higher than normal. The tongue is foul and coated. The patient may complain of pains in the limbs. Coincidently with the onset of these symptoms the discharge from the ear usually diminishes, or may even cease. Second Stage—Fully-formed Abscess.—In the course of from one to three days the patient gradually passes into a stuporous