THE GUMS. 167 with an accumulation of tartar between the gums and the teeth. A muco-purulent discharge escapes from within the free edge of the gum and alveolus. The alveolar borders and the gum subsequently undergo atrophy, so that the roots are exposed, and the teeth are liable to become loose and eventually to fall out. The condition may only affect a few teeth, or it may spread to the whole set, in which case the patient may in the course of some years become edentulous. It is essentially a disease of middle and advanced life. The treatment consists in removing the tartar from the teeth, applying strong antiseptics —pure carbolic, or 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate—to the groove between the teeth and the gums, and employing antiseptic mouth-washes and dentifrices. Hypertrophy of the gums is occasionally met with in children and young adults. The patients are usually mentally defective, and the teeth develop very early and are abnormally large. The gums almost bury the teeth, and form large polypoid masses which tend to fungate. The treatment consists in removing not only the hypertrophied gums, but also the affected alveolus (Heath). A localised hypertrophy—polypus of the gum—sometimes results from the irritation of a carious tooth, and may simulate an epulis (p. 170). The swelling is usually pedunculated, and if cut away close up to the alveolar margin does not tend to recur. Epithelioma sometimes originates on the gum in relation to a carious tooth or to an artificial tooth-plate. The growth tends to invade the bone and to spread to the cheek or buccal mucous membrane, or to the antrum of Highmore. The malignant nature of the growth is suggested by its persisting after the removal of the irritation. The only treatment is early and complete removal of the tumour and adjacent segment of the bone. Other tumours of the gums, such as angiomata and papillomata, are extremely rare. The Jaws. Inflammatory Affections.—Pyogenic Inflammations. — The great majority of pyogenic inflammations of the jaws originate in relation to carious teeth, beginning as a periodontitis which is followed by the formation of an alveolar abscess. It has already been mentioned that these conditions may cause diffuse periostitis which leads to necrosis of considerable portions of