OVARIAN TUMOURS. 555 walls, or from injury or violent contraction of the abdominal walls. In rare cases the rupture implicates a large blood- vessel, leading to serious haemorrhage. More frequently there is merely an escape of fluid into the peritoneal cavity, the fluid being excreted by the kidneys, and the patient for a few days passing large quantities of urine. The cyst collapses and forms adhesions with adjacent structures. In some cases rupture of the cyst is followed by generalised peritonitis. Severe haemor- rhage may occur into the cyst cavity and cause rapid distension associated with the typical clinical features of bleeding, and with great abdominal pain. Diagnosis.—The presence of a tumour springing from the pelvis can usually be recognised by palpation and percussion of the abdomen, combined with vaginal and rectal examination. In fat women, however, errors are liable to occur, flatulent dis- tension, masses of subcutaneous fat, and so-called “ phantom tumours ” being mistaken for new growths. On the other hand, in such patients the existence of a small abdominal or pelvic tumour is liable to be overlooked. In doubtful cases the patient should be examined under an anaesthetic. In the differential diagnosis of ovarian from other forms of abdominal tumour, it is to be borne in mind that an ovarian tumour is dull on percussion over its convexity, that the dul- ness extends into the pelvis and is surrounded by a zone of resonance above and at the sides. On rectal examination, the pedicle formed by the broad ligament can usually be recognised ; and on vaginal examination the tumour is found to have replaced the ovary on the side from which it springs. An ovarian tumour can usually be distinguished from an over- distended bladder by the use of the catheter; from retro- peritoneal tumours by the fact that the rectum lies in front of these growths; from a large cystic kidney by noting the tympanitic area due to the presence of the colon in front of the kidney; and from ascites by the fact that the intestines are floated up on the fluid, and the highest part of the swelling is therefore tympanitic, while the flanks are dull, and the dull area changes with the position of the patient. The ascites which accompanies papillary tumours, however, may readily be mistaken for the ascites resulting from tuberculous disease of the peri- toneum. Encysted areas of tuberculous peritonitis are very liable to be mistaken for ovarian cysts. Among the other conditions to be borne in mind may be mentioned mesenteric and pancreatic cysts, tumours of the omentum, mesentery, or spleen. The pregnant uterus has also been mistaken for an ovarian tumour.