CLOSURE OF THE JAW. 183 times occurs after exanthematous fevers and in gonorrhoea. The clinical features are similar to those of the non-suppurative form, but the signs referable to the joint are often masked by those of the adjacent inflammation. When the pus originates in the joint, it may point either towards the skin or into the external auditory meatus through the Glaserian fissure. The joint is usually completely disorganised and ankylosis results. Tuberculous arthritis is very rare. It may occur as a primary infection, but is usually secondary to tuberculous disease of the jaw, the temporal bone, or the middle ear. It leads to destruction of the joint and ankylosis. It is treated by incisioU and scraping, or by excision of the condyle. Arthritis deformans is a comparatively common affection, and is generally bilateral. In the earlier stages of the disease the condyle is usually hypertrophied and distorted, and the glenoid cavity is correspondingly broadened and flattened, and in time may be filled up by new bone. Osteophytic outgrowths form around the joint and lead to fixation or locking. The enlarged condyle may be felt in front of the ear, and there is pain and cracking on movement; the pain is worst at night and in wet weather. The jaw is usually depressed and the chin protruded. The disease runs a very chronic course, with occasional acute exacerbations. Excision of the condyle may be advisable when non-operative measures have failed to give relief. In the later stages, the condyle, together with the meniscus, may be worn away and completely disappear. Closure or Fixation of the Jaw.—It is necessary to distinguish between temporary and permanent fixation of the jaw. Temporary fixation is due to spasmodic contraction of the muscles of mastication, particularly the masseter. This may be symptomatic of some inflammatory condition in the vicinity, such as a pyogenic affection of the lower jaw—for example, that associated with a carious root or an unerupted wisdom tooth, or of parotitis or tonsillitis. In such cases the spasm passes off on the removal of the cause. It is occasionally hysterical. Temporary fixation may be due to rheumatic or syphilitic myositis, and this is sometimes followed by fibroid degeneration of the muscle, rendering the fixation permanent. Permanent fixation may be due to a variety of causes. Fibroid degeneration of muscles following myositis has already been mentioned. Much more frequently it results from cica- tricial contraction of the soft parts of the face or mouth following such conditions as cancrum oris, ulceration, or burns. Fixation of the joint, as a result of fracture or dislocation, or of any