695 GONORRHOEA. formation of pus when inoculated into other tissues such as the synovial membrane of joints or the peritoneum. Methods oj Infection.—Infection practically always occurs during the sexual act, but it may result from contact with gonorrhoeal pus on the seat of a lavatory, on underclothing, bed linen, towels, or sponges. The occurrence of gonorrhoea after connection with a woman who is free from gonorrhoeal infection may be due to the lighting up afresh of a gonorrhoea which has long lain latent in the recesses of the male urethra. Similarly a woman may not show any discharge and yet gonococci may lie latent in the folds of the mucous membrane of the cervix uteri, and be capable of infecting the male. A latent gonorrhoea may also be lighted up by alcoholic indulgence, or by the passage of instruments, especially when the urethra is the seat of stricture. Pathological Anatomy. — The cocci penetrate between the epithelial cells lining the urethra, and are taken up by leucocytes, in the interior of which they multiply. The tissue changes consist in an acute catarrhal inflammation with shedding of epithelial cells, and infiltration of the subepithelial layers with serum and leucocytes, and are most marked in the glandular follicles opening into the urethra. The inflammatory changes may extend to all the coats of the urethra and involve the peri- urethral cellular tissue. It tends to be very persistent in the bulbous urethra, and in some cases the cellular infiltration in the mucous and submucous coats goes on to the formation of fibrous tissue, which takes the place to a large extent of the erectile tissue; at a later period, it may be years afterwards, the contraction of this fibrous tissue results in stricture of the urethra. The infection may spread to the prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, bladder, and kidney, and may be transferred to distant parts of the body, especially the joints, tendon sheaths, and endocardium. When suppuration occurs in the lymphatic glands of the groin—the gonorrhoeal bubo—it is usually due to the presence of other pus organisms. Clinical Features.—The incubation period varies from three to five days, and rarely exceeds a week. There is heat and itching about the orifice of the urethra, and smarting or scalding on passing urine, and from the swollen lips of the meatus there escapes a discharge which is at first mucous, but rapidly becomes purulent. As the inflammation travels back towards the bulb all the symptoms become more marked; there is severe pain on micturition due to distension of the sensitive urethra; the dis- charge is more abundant, and consists of thick, greenish pus which