282 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. shower-bath and cold douching, the administration of chloroform, and even hypnotism may be tried. An examination of the lungs should be made in all cases of adductor paralysis, as this functional condition may be met with in early pulmonary tuberculosis. Dysphagia.—Pain on swallowing, due to causes originating in the larynx, is usually associated with ulceration of the mucous membrane covering the epiglottis, ary-epiglottic folds, or arytenoid cartilages, that is, in connection with those parts with which the food is brought into direct contact. The most frequent causes of such ulceration are tubercle, syphilis, and malignant disease. The differential diagnosis of these conditions is often difficult, and it may be impossible to arrive at any definite conclusion merely from local inspection. Careful inquiry into the previous history and into the condition of the lungs and sputum should not be neglected, and the results of anti-syphilitic treatment should be closely watched. The treatment of dysphagia, apart from that of the disease associated with it, resolves itself into the use of local sedative applications, such as a weak cocain or eucain spray before meals, insufflations of acetate of morphin and boracic acid, and the use of a menthol spray. One of the best anaes- thetic applications is orthoform powder, introduced by means of the ordinary laryngeal insufflator. Its action is more prolonged than that of any of the others, often lasting for from twenty- four to forty-eight hours. Interference with Respiration. — It is only necessary here to refer to such causes of interference with respiration as may call for surgical treatment. The chief forms of laryngitis to be considered in connection with the production of dyspnoea, are membranous or diphtheritic laryngitis and acute inflammatory oedema. Diphtheria of the larynx may be primary, but in the majority of cases it is secondary to that in the fauces and pharynx. Careful inspection of these parts may reveal the presence of false membrane, which materially assists in the diagnosis. In addition to the general symptoms there may be huskiness of the voice and a croupy cough. Gradual increase of dyspnoea and cyanosis indicate the spread of the false mem- brane. Laryngoscopic examination may reveal the presence of patches of membrane, and so corroborate the diagnosis. It must not be forgotten that a membranous exudate may be produced by other organisms than the Klebs-Lbffier bacillus, for example, the streptococcus and the bacillus coli.