504 THE INTESTINES. in some cases the symptoms are indistinguishable from those of intestinal obstruction. This may be recovered from, but there is a great tendency towards gangrene of the bowel and death from septic peritonitis. The diagnosis is always extremely difficult, even when conditions are known to be present which predispose to embolism, such as valvular disease of the heart. In all cases the prognosis is grave. When the abdomen is opened soon after the onset of symptoms, it is found to contain blood- stained fluid, and a greater or less extent of the small intestine —-from a few inches to many feet—is found to be firm, dark, swollen, and solid like a sausage, while the bowel below is collapsed and empty. When the condition has lasted some time, the affected bowel shows evidence of commencing gangrene. Immediate resection of the damaged bowel holds out the only chance of recovery, but in many cases the operation is im- practicable and should not be attempted. In thrombosis of the mesenteric veins the anatomical and clinical features are very similar. Perforation of Typhoid Ulcer.—This is one of the most serious complications of typhoid fever. The perforation may occur in the mild or “ ambulant ” form of the disease, which has not previously given rise to any symptoms. More fre- quently it occurs in a patient who is under treatment for the disease, usually during the second or third week of the fever; or it may happen during convalescence. Perforation is much more common in men than in women, and is sometimes met with in children; it is usually solitary, although occasionally multiple, and it is most often situated within the last two or three feet of the ileum. The clinical features are marked by the sudden onset of severe abdominal pain, referred to the umbilicus or to the right lower half of the abdomen, and tenderness on pressure, followed by signs of peritonitis in the right iliac fossa. There is frequently a want of certainty in the diagnosis, and when there is a reasonable doubt, the safe course is to make a small exploratory opening. The sooner this is done the better, as success largely depends on the shortness of the interval between the occurrence of perforation and the operation for its closure. Local anaes- thesia is to be preferred. A small incision is made in the vicinity of the right semilunar line; the caecum is identified and examined, and then the lower coils of the ileum. Enlarge- ment of Peyer’s patches is easily recognised on inspection and manipulation. The perforation may be obscured by purulent lymph, gumming together the coils of bowel. When the open-