532 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the colic, however, remains located in the centre of the epigastric area and radiates through to the back between the shoulders. Tenderness also is most marked in the middle line. Jaundice is a constant sign in common-duct lithiasis, though it is often revealed only by an icteric tinge of the conjunctivse. After a few days the symptoms may suddenly disappear. This may be due to the stone having been passed into the duodenum ; or to relief of tension by bile and inflammatory products getting past the obstruction. In chronic obstruction of the common duct, pain is usually present, but the attacks of colic are not as a rule so severe as in cases of recent obstruction. In cases of floating stone, pain may be absent. The jaundice varies greatly in degree from time to time, the variation depending upon a ball-valve action of the stone, which floats to and fro in the dilated duct, and on the degree of cholangitis. When the stone is impacted in the ampulla of Vater, the jaundice is extreme and persistent. The urine contains a variable amount of bile, the motions may be clay-coloured or may show some of the alterations associated with disease of the pancreas (p. 544). The infective element is shown by the occurrence of irregular fever and sometimes by pronounced rigors, so that the recurrence of ague-like seizures associated with remittent jaundice is very characteristic of chronic gall-stone obstruction of the common duct. The gall-bladder cannot be felt, the liver and spleen may show some degree of enlargement, and the general health undergoes progressive deterioration. One of the signs of this is an increased liability to haemorrhage, especially when the pancreas also is affected, and this may prove a serious complication in regard to operations for the relief of the condition. Diagnosis.—Chronic obstruction of the common bile-duct may be simulated by malignant disease of the bile-ducts, of the head of the pancreas, or of the liver itself. A history of recurrent biliary colic, of variation in the intensity of the jaundice, of irregular pyrexia, and the presence of tenderness in the central area of the epigastrium are in favour of the disease being due to gall-stones in the common duct. “ In cases of chronic jaundice due to obstruction of the common bile-duct, a contracted gall-bladder signifies that the obstruction is due to stone ; a dilatation of the gall-bladder, that the obstruction is due to causes other than stone ” (C our noisier's law). The coexistence of jaundice with a distended gall-bladder, therefore, is against the diagnosis of gall-stones; but this, like other laws, is subject to exceptions, as, for example, when gall-stone