PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. 379 the catarrhal process to which it owed its origin rather by damming up the secretion than by pressure. These concretions often bear a striking resemblance to date-stones, plum-stones or orange-pips, but it is extremely rare for any recognisable foreign body, which has been swallowed with the food, to be found in the appendix. Perforation of the appendix (Fig. 94) may result from the extension of an ulcer of the mucous mem- brane through the remaining coats, or from the bursting of an abscess which has formed in the wall of the appendix. More com- monly it results from gangrene, which may follow on catarrhal or ulcerative changes, or the infection may be so intense that gangrene takes place at the outset. The gangrene may affect one or more circumscribed areas, the necrotic patches being sharply defined from the surrounding tissue; or the whole of the distal portion of the appendix may become gangrenous. Sometimes the entire organ undergoes necrosis, and appears as a blackish-green, flaccid slough, completely separated from its connections, and scarcely to be recognised as an appendix. In ex- treme cases the gangrenous process spreads to the adjacent part of the caecum, and may cause extensive sloughing of its wall. When perforation of the appendix results from localised ulceration or necrosis, it may take place at the apex, particularly when the meso-appendix does not extend to the tip, or on the convex border, usually opposite the point at which the mesentery stops, or it may occur at the junction with the csecum. According to Murphy, the mesenteric attachment is the most common loca- tion of perforation. Perforation frequently takes place at the site at which a concretion is impacted in the lumen, and the resulting aperture may be large enough to allow the concretion as well as the material pent up in the appendix to escape into the peritoneal cavity (Fig. 94). Peritonitis.—Except in the mildest forms of catarrhal appen- dicitis, the serous coat is involved, and the subsequent course of the disease depends on the capacity of the surrounding peritoneum to contend with the infection. Fig. 95.—Faecal Con- cretions from the Appendix.