64 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. Three clinical types of sinus phlebitis are recognised— pulmonary, abdominal, and meningeal—but it is often im- possible to relegate a particular case to one or other of these groups. Many cases present symptoms characteristic of more than one of the types. In the pulmonary type evidence of septic infection of the lungs appears towards the end of the second week, in the form of dyspnoea, cough, and pain in the side, coarse, moist rales, and dark foetid sputum. Death usually takes place from gangrene of the lung. The brain functions may remain active and acute to the end. In the abdominal type the symptoms closely resemble those of typhoid fever, for which the condition may be mistaken. The absence of a rash and the co-existence of septic middle ear disease are important factors in diagnosis. When the disease is of the meningeal type, symptoms of general purulent lepto-meningitis assert themselves, and soon come to dominate the clinical picture. Evidence of the pres- ence of meningitis may be obtained by lumbar puncture. The mind is at first clear, but the patient is irritable, and later be- comes comatose. The prognosis is always grave on account of the risk of general systemic infection. Treatment. — The primary focus of infection must first be removed. This usually involves clearing out the middle ear and mastoid process. The sigmoid sinus is then exposed either by extending the opening in the mastoid region backwards, or by making a second opening about three-quarters of an inch behind the external auditory meatus. Granulation tissue and pus are frequently found occupying the sigmoid groove and surrounding the sinus, and should be removed. If on palpation the sinus feels firm and tense, it is probably occupied by a disintegrating thrombus, and this should be removed by opening the vessel. With the object of preventing the dissemination of septic material, a ligature should be applied to the internal jugular vein in the neck before the sinus is opened, as was first recommended by Victor Horsley. For the thorough removal of the thrombus it is necessary to expose at least an inch of the sinus. The septic material having been removed, the cavity is purified and stuffed with iodoform worsted. Haemorrhage is seldom serious, and it can readily be controlled by pressure. If the phlebitis is accompanied by other intra-cranial infections, these are of course treated at the same time. The superior longitudinal sinus is liable to be infected