81 THE CERVICAL SYMPATHETIC. markedly wasted, and is, therefore, less prominent in the neck than normal, and the functions of the arm and shoulder are impaired, especially in making overhead movements. When divided accidentally, the nerve should be immediately sutured. Even when the paralysis has lasted for some time, secondary suture should be attempted. Massage, electricity, and the administration of tonics are also indicated. XII. Hypoglossal Nerve.—This nerve has been ruptured in fractures passing through the anterior condylar foramen. It is also liable to be divided in wounds of the submaxillary region— for example, in cut throat, or during the operation for ligation of the lingual artery, or the removal of diseased lymphatic glands. The paralysed half of the tongue undergoes atrophy. When the tongue is protruded, it deviates towards the paralysed side, being pushed over by the active muscles of the opposite side, and speech and mastication may be seriously interfered with. The Cervical Sympathetic.—The cervical sympathetic cord and its ganglia may be injured in the neck from stabs or gun- shot wounds, or in the course of deep dissections in the neck; and in injuries of the lower part of the cervical enlargement of the spinal cord (p. 93) or of the first dorsal nerve root (vol. i. p. 343). Paralysis of the cervical sympathetic is characterised by diminution in the size of the pupil on the affected side. The pupil does not dilate when shaded, nor when the skin of the neck is pinched—“ loss of the cilio-spinal reflex.” The palpebral fissure is smaller than its fellow, and the eyeball sinks into the orbit. There is anidrosis or loss of sweating on the side of the face, neck, and upper part of the thorax, and on the whole upper extremity of the affected side. The sympathetic cord in the neck has been resected along with its ganglia for such varied conditions as exophthalmic goitre, epilepsy, trigeminal neuralgia, and glaucoma. The operation is performed through an incision carried along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. This muscle is pulled forward, the carotid sheath inwards, and the sympathetic cord is exposed lying on the front of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae. Jonnesco, Jaboulay, and Gerard-Marchant first carried out these operations; their real value is still undetermined. VOL. II—6