INTERNAL PILES. 591 la other eases bright arterial blood comes in jets from a single nicer on a protruded pile, and the bleeding may continue after the piles have been returned, with the result that a considerable quantity of blood collects in the rectum, and is passed, either in a fluid or coagulated state, some time after defecation. From piles of the second degree the patient may lose from several drams to several ounces of blood each time the bowels move, and as a consequence he becomes weak and amende, and exhibits a characteristic clay-like pallor. Such patients also tend to become unduly irritable, anxious, or mentally depressed. In piles of the third degree, there is seldom much bleeding, as the mucous membrane becomes thickened and leathery, and the normal columnar epithelium covering it is replaced by stratified squamous epithelium. Pain localised to the lower part of the bowel is seldom severe in uncomplicated cases of piles, except while they are actually protruded and constricted by the sphincter, and it ceases soon after the piles are returned. If pain persists for any length of time after reduction, the presence of a fissure should be suspected. On the other hand, pains referred to the sacral and lumbar regions are common to all forms and degrees of piles. It is only in piles of the third degree that a profuse discharge of mucus takes place, and in some cases this gives rise to con- siderable irritation and pruritis of the skin around the anus. Diagnosis.—A local examination should always be made on a patient who complains of “ piles,” as this term is applied by the laity to all conditions affecting the lower bowel, and it is necessary to exclude such affections as condylomata, fistula, and cancer. In cases of piles it is usually found that the skin around the anus is loose and lax, and that the normal folds or rugae are markedly redundant and often oedematous. If the piles are of long standing and are uncomplicated by fissure or ulceration, the sphincters are usually relaxed, and the piles can be brought into view by the patient straining slightly. When a fissure or ulcer is present the sphincters are spasmodically contracted, and the piles cannot be brought down by straining. The piles may be seen with the speculum, but a digital examination does not always reveal their presence, in many cases nothing more than a series of ridges on the mucous membrane close to the anal orifice being recognisable. In the majority of cases the upper part of the rectum contains fames even although there has been a recent action of the bowels. It is not uncommon to meet with cases in which there is a