246 THE NECK. attempt on his life. In some cases it is necessary to feed the patient through a tube passed into the stomach either through the mouth or through the nose; when this is not feasible, nourishment must be given by the rectum. Wounds of the thoracic duct have been described with affections of the lymphatics (vol. i. p. 313), and wounds of the brachial plexus with injuries of individual nerves (vol. i. p. 343). Inflammatory Affections. Diffuse suppurative cellulitis may occur in any of the cellular planes in the neck, the most important form being that which occurs under the cervical fascia; for example, in the course of acute infective diseases, such as scarlet fever, measles or general pyaemia. The pus tends to spread widely throughout the neck, infiltrating the connective tissue spaces around the blood-vessels, the air-passages and the oesophagus. The density and tension of the cervical fascia cause the pus to burrow downwards towards the mediastinal spaces of the thorax, where it may give rise to such complications as empyema, septic peri- carditis, or gangrene of the lung. In some cases the pus reaches the axilla by spreading along the blood-vessels. A particularly virulent form — sometimes spoken of as Ludwig’s angina—is met with in debilitated subjects as a result of infection of the cellular tissue of the neck with streptococci, which are usually derived from some septic focus about the floor of the mouth. Clinical Features.—In all forms the process spreads rapidly, and the tissues of the neck become swollen, brawny and of a dusky red colour. The neck is flexed towards the affected side, and there is pain on attempting to move the head and on palpating the swelling. Pus forms early, but, as it is under great tension, fluctuation can seldom be detected. Respiration may be interfered with by the inflammatory products exerting pressure on the air-passages, or by the onset of oedema of the glottis, and tracheotomy may be urgently called for on account of dyspnoea. Swallowing may also be affected by pressure on the pharynx and oesophagus. Pressure on the important nerves traversing the neck may give rise to irritative or paralytic symptoms. The main vessels may become thrombosed or eroded —particularly when the cellulitis is associated with scarlet fever —and in the latter case copious haemorrhage may follow the incision of the abscess.