751 TUMOURS OF THE TESTIS. lymphadenoma and the different varieties of chondroma, seldom occur except in combination with sarcomatous elements, and are therefore most conveniently included among malignant growths. In all these varieties the treatment consists in removing the testis. Malignant Tumours.—The soft, medullary, or encephaloid carcinoma is, for all practical purposes, the only form of carcinoma of the testis that need be referred to. All varieties of sarcoma are met with, the soft, rapidly growing, cellular forms being the most common. As it is seldom possible to distinguish clinically between a carcinoma and a sarcoma, and as a microscopic ex- amination of the growth does not always serve to remove the doubt, it is convenient to consider these two forms of malignant growth together. Clinical Features.—Malignant disease of the testis may occur at any age, the majority of cases being met with between the ages of twenty-five and forty-five. Sarcoma is not uncommon in children below the age of ten. The swelling of the testis may come on insidiously, without obvious cause, but not infrequently it is observed to follow an injury. The patient complains of a dragging pain along the line of the spermatic cord, but the testicular swelling is neither painful nor tender, and testicular sensation is soon lost. The swelling increases rapidly and continuously until the testis may be three or four times its natural size. As long as the tunica albuginea remains intact, the normal shape of the gland is pre- served, and the swelling is of uniform consistence ; but when this capsule is perforated, the swelling becomes irregular in shape, bossy, and of varying consistence, some parts being soft and boggy, while others are firmer and more resistent. In the early stages the recognition of the tumour is sometimes rendered difficult by the presence of fluid in the tunica vaginalis. The scrotal swelling may suddenly undergo a rapid increase in size from the occurrence of haemorrhage into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis—hasmatocele. The epididymis is usually incorporated in the tumour mass and cannot be differentiated from it. The spermatic cord be- comes enlarged and thickened from congestion of its vessels, but is seldom directly invaded by the growth. The scrotum is free at first, but ultimately becomes invaded by the growth, which eats its way through the skin and so leads to the formation of one variety of fungus testis. When the iliac and lumbar glands are infected, they may be palpable above the brim of the pelvis, and when the scrotum is invaded the inguinal glands become enlarged. The diagnosis from other testicular swellings