108 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND COED. and in the later stages from excessive destruction of one side of a vertebra, or from partial luxation between two diseased vertebrae. Abscess Formation.—All forms of tuberculous disease of the spine are liable to be complicated by abscess formation. Spinal abscesses occur with greater frequency and at an earlier stage in adults than in children, because in adults the disease usually begins on the surface of the vertebrae. Pyogenic infection of such abscesses after they have burst constitutes one of the chief risks to life in Pott’s disease. Cord and Nerve Symptoms.—When the spinal cord is pressed upon the motor fibres are first affected, as they lie superficially on the antero-lateral aspects of the cord. There is at first weakness or paresis of the muscles supplied from the part of the cord below the seat of pressure. The knee-jerks and plantar reflexes are exaggerated, and there is marked ankle clonus. Later, there is paralysis varying in extent and sometimes amounting to complete paraplegia, and this may come on gradually or quite suddenly. There is wasting of muscles, and later a tendency to contracture and the development of deform- ities, as a result of sclerosis or descending degeneration of the cord, and in this stage the reflexes are lost. The sensory fibres usually escape, although in some cases there is partial anaesthesia and perversion of sensation. In cases of myelitis, loss of sensibility to pain (analgesia) below the level of the lesion is one of the most characteristic symptoms. In severe cases, there is incontinence of urine and of faeces, as the patient loses control of the sphincters. Acute bed-sores are not uncommon. The symptoms referable to pressure on the nerve-roots are pain and hypereesthesia along the course of the nerves that are pressed upon at their points of emergence, and occasionally weakness and wasting of the muscles supplied by them. General Principles of Treatment.—In every case of Pott’s disease absolute rest in the recumbent posture must be main- tained until all the symptoms have disappeared ; and from the nature of the disease this line of treatment must usually be persisted in for from one to two years. While the more acute symptoms last, the spine may be immobilised by means of extension and counter-extension with weight and pulley. Later, a double Thomas’s splint or a Phelp’s box may be used, to admit of the patient being moved from one room to another or into the open air. Appliances, such as jury-masts, corsets, or plaster jackets, designed to be worn while the patient goes about, are