754 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. As the right processus vaginalis closes later and less com- pletely than the left, encysted hydrocele of the cord, like other conditions depending upon the non-closure of this peritoneal tube, is more common on the right than on the left side. It may develop at any age, but is most frequently met with in young children. The swelling is ovoid, smooth, tense, and elastic. By traction on the testis the swelling may be capable of being pulled down towards the scrotum, and pushed well into the inguinal canal, but it does not enter the abdominal cavity. It may receive an apparent impulse on coughing, and so simulate an inguinal hernia, an affection with which it is often confused. Not infrequently the two conditions are present together. Treatment.—These cysts tend to disappear spontaneously during infancy; if they do not do so, they should be tapped or dissected out from the cord. Tumours of the Cord.—Primary tumours of the cord are rare ; the varieties met with include fibroma, fibro-myoma, and sarcoma. They may attain a considerable size, and it is not always easy to diagnose them from tumours of the testis. A pad of extra-peritoneal fat is frequently found protruded through the internal abdominal ring and growing down along the cord, closely simulating an omental hernia. This is sometimes spoken of as a lipoma of the cord, or as a fatty hernia. All varieties are treated by excision; in the case of the sarcoma it is usually necessary to remove the testis as well as the cord. Varicocele.—This term is applied to a varicose condition of the veins of the spermatic cord. The varix may affect all the veins in the cord, but is usually confined to those of the pampini- form plexus. These veins originate in the tunica vasculosa of the testis, and after perforating the tunica albuginea they accompany the spermatic artery, lying in the anterior part of the cord, in front of the vas deferens and its companion artery and veins. In the upper part of the scrotum the smaller vessels of the plexus combine to form two or three larger trunks which traverse the inguinal canal, and eventually unite to form the spermatic vein. On the right side the spermatic vein opens into the vena cava obliquely, and on the left enters the left renal vein at a right angle. In their course the spermatic veins communicate with branches belonging to the portal system; they are therefore liable to become engorged when, from any cause, the circulation in the portal system is obstructed. Causes.—This particular form of varix is, so far as is known, due to the same causes as other forms, the most important of which is perhaps a congenital deficiency in the valves and in the