509 ABNORMAL ANUS. Except in very stout subjects, the tumour is easily recognised on combined palpation from the Hank and loin. It is firm, little sensitive, roughly cylindrical, and its surface is uneven or bossy, and the resonance over it is impaired. At first freely movable, it tends to become fixed as a result of adhesions and infiltration of the mesentery. Abscesses may form, and if they rupture externally may cause persistent sinuses or a fsecal fistula. The disease is very chronic, and, unless the lumen of the bowel is much narrowed, may progress slowly for years with long periods of latency. Apart from the risk of obstruction, danger to life results from extension of the tuberculous infection directly to the peritoneum, or by way of the blood-stream to other organs. The differential diagnosis from chronic lesions resulting from appendicitis and from carcinoma of the caecum may be exceed- ingly difficult, and the differentiation from cancer may not be possible even when the abdomen is opened, unless one of the associated lymphatic glands is examined microscopically. If the conditions are favourable, it is best to resect the diseased segment of bowel, but, if this is difficult or impossible, an anastomosis should be made between the ileum and the colon well beyond the limits of the disease. Actinomycosis.—This is a less common, but more aggressive and dangerous disease than tuberculosis. The infection takes place from the mucous membrane of the bowel, and spreads to the peritoneum. There is a great deal of inflammatory infil- tration of the coats of the bowel and adhesion to adjoining structures, giving rise to an ill-defined, diffuse, and fixed swelling, most often situated in the right iliac fossa. Abscess formation and persistent sinuses commonly supervene, and the fungus may be found either in the pus or in the granulation tissue in the wall of the sinus. Treatment consists in opening up sinuses, removing the infected tissues with the spoon and scissors, and administering iodides internally. Abnormal Anus.—This term is employed to describe an opening in the skin through which the intestinal contents escape. The term fcecal fistula and intestinal fistula may with advantage be restricted to those openings that result from disease or injury, and the term artificial anus to those that are made by the surgeon for therapeutic purposes. Fcecal or Intestinal Fistula.—The fistuke of congenital origin occurring at the umbilicus have already been described (p. 352). Other modes of origin are: (1) from any trauma which damages the wall of the gut, such, for example, as a penetrating