NERVOUS AFFECTIONS. 197 system, as well as after injuries and diseases implicating the hypoglossal nerve. Nervous Affections of the Tongue.—Neuralgia confined to the distribution of the lingual nerve is comparatively rare. It usually yields to medical treatment, but in inveterate cases it is sometimes necessary to resect the nerve. It is more common to meet with a condition in which the patient complains of severe burning or aching pain in the region of the foliate papilla, which is situated on the edge of the tongue just in front of the anterior pillar of the fauces. The patient is usually a middle-aged woman, decidedly neurotic, and often with a gouty or rheumatic tendency. The pain, for which it is seldom possible to discover any cause, is usually worst at night, and may last for months, or even years. The practical importance of the condition is that, as the foliate papilla is prominent and red, it is very liable to be mistaken on super- ficial examination for a commencing epithelioma. An inspection of the opposite side of the tongue, however, will reveal an exactly similar condition, which is not painful. The first and most important step in treatment is to assure the patient that the condition is not cancerous. Potassium bromide and anti-gouty and anti-rheumatic drugs may be prescribed, and if the pain is severe, cocain may be applied locally. Caustics and other irritating applications are to be avoided. Spasm of the tongue sometimes occurs after injuries of the head implicating the centre or trunk of the hypoglossal nerve. It may also appear as a reflex condition in inflammatory affections of the teeth and gums, or as a manifestation of some general disease of the central nervous system. Paralysis of the tongue—unilateral or bilateral—may be due to injury or disease of the nerve centres of the hypoglossal nerve, less frequently to injury or pressure on the nerve trunk. The nerve may be bruised or divided in operations for the removal of tuberculous glands or other tumours in the neck.