318 CHAPTER XXL THE BREAST. Surgical Anatomy — Clinical examination — Malformations: Amazia ; Micromazia; Polymazia; Diffuse hypertrophy; Gynecomazia— Affections of nipple and areola : Paget's disease—Inflammatory affections: Physiological engorgement; Puerperal mastitis and mammary abscess—Varieties of abscess; Chronic mastitis—Varieties; Tuberculosis; Actinomycosis — Neuralgia — Cysts: Galactocele ; Involution cysts ; Hydatid cysts—Tumours: Non-malignant: Fibro- adenoma — Duct papilloma — Malignant: Sarcoma — Carcinoma : Scirrhous; Atrophic; Colloid; Adenn - carcinoma; Acute cancer; Inoperable cancer. Surgical Anatomy.—The breast of the nulliparous female may be taken as the type. It is made up of (1) the parenchyma or gland tissue proper ; (2) the stroma or connective tissue framework, which supports the parenchyma, and in which the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves ramify ; and (3) the mammary fat, which lies in and around the stroma. Collectively these elements form a gland which consists of a central part—the corpus mammas, and a number of peripheral processes, which radiate in all directions into the surrounding adipose tissue. On the superficial aspect of the breast some of these processes pass, in the suspensory ligaments of Cooper, to the deeper layer of the skin ; while on the deep aspect others pass into the pectoral fascia, and sometimes even into the pectoral muscle. The mammary gland lies embedded in the superficial fascia of the chest wall, and extends vertically from the lower border of the second rib to the lower border of the sixth costal cartilage ; and horizontally from the edge of the sternum to the mid-axillary line. It overlies portions of the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, serratus magnus, and external oblique muscles, from which it is separated by that portion of the deep fascia of the thorax known as the pectoral fascia. From the upper and outer quadrant a process of mammary tissue—referred to by Spence as the “axillary tail ”—passes into the axilla under cover of the pectoralis major as far as the third rib. The milk ducts open on the summit of the nipple. The nipjde is surrounded by the dark-coloured areola, in which are numerous small rudimentary milk glands. During pregnancy these glands become enlarged and form prominences on the areola. The blood-supply of the breast is derived chiefly from the long thoracic or external mammary branch of the axillary artery, and from the second,