668 THE URINARY BLADDER. especially if there is the slightest tendency to alkaline fermenta- tion of the urine. The introduction of remedies into the bladder by means of a catheter is rarely called for in acute cystitis. In chronic cystitis the most important element in treatment is to get rid of the associated condition—stricture of the urethra, enlarged prostate, or stone; if these have been removed and the urine has been rendered unirritating and free from decomposition by means of a course of one or other of the drugs above mentioned, the symptoms usually improve and finally disappear. Failing this, local treatment is indicated, and this is applied either by irrigation or by instillation. Irrigation of the bladder is carried out by means of a rubber catheter, attached to a large glass-barrelled syringe or to a douche-can. The amount of fluid introduced should not be sufficient to cause pain from tension. Nitrate of silver is the best germicide in septic cystitis, the insoluble chloride which is formed appearing to have a special facility of inhibiting the growth of organisms. The bladder is first irrigated with salt solution until this returns quite clear. The strength of the silver nitrate solution varies from a tenth to one per cent., and from two to four ounces is run in ; after two or three minutes it is allowed to escape, and to prevent the silver solution coming into contact with the urethra, the bladder is then rinsed out with sterilised water before the catheter is withdrawn. If the silver nitrate aggravates the symptoms or causes pain, it may be replaced by potassium permanganate (1 - 5000) or boracic acid (ten grains to the ounce). The irrigation should be repeated twice daily or less frequently according to the conditions present. Instillation of the bladder — a procedure introduced by Guyon—consists in injecting slowly drop by drop a small quan- tity—15-30 minims—of a germicidal solution into the neck of the bladder after the organ has been completely emptied. Instillation is indicated when the inflammation affects chiefly the parts about the neck of the bladder. It is carried out by means of a small graduated syringe attached to one of Guyon’s flexible olivary-headed catheters, with a terminal orifice and a very fine bore. Nitrate of silver is used in the strength of from 1 to 5 per cent., or perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000 to 1 in 10,000). The procedure is repeated every second, third, or fourth clay according to the reaction it excites. Special Forms of Cystitis.—Gonorrhoeal cystitis results from the extension of a gonococcal infection from the posterior urethra to the bladder, and is usually confined to the region of the neck and trigone. It is remarkable for the frequency and