257 PARENCHYMATOUS GOITRE. the trachea and causes dyspnoea, and there are occasional paroxysmal attacks of breathlessness, which may be mistaken for asthma, particularly as the patient is usually the subject also of bronchitis and emphysema. In some cases the patient can, by a violent expiratory effort, project the goitre upwards into the neck. When the goitre is fixed in the thorax, the clinical features are those of a mediastinal tumour with lateral displacement of the trachea, and engorgement of the veins of the neck. Treatment.—The medicinal treatment consists in administer- ing internally such drugs as iodine, potassium iodide, or iron and arsenic, and the local inunction of blue ointment or yellow iodide of mercury ointment. Kocher has obtained better results by the administration of pure phosphorus. The evidence regarding the benefit derived from the internal administration of thyroid extract is conflicting. Operative treatment is indicated when there are pressure symptoms, and in goitres which are steadily increasing in size. The risk of a goitre becoming malignant may also be a reason for removing it by operation. It is considered advisable to operate if, on making pressure on the goitre from side to side, the patient becomes breathless (Kocher). It is not justifiable to operate merely for the removal of the disfigurement caused by the swelling. The operation — thyroidectomy — consists in excising that portion of the thyroid which is causing pressure symptoms, and this usually involves removal of one-half of the gland. If the goitre is of moderate size, the transverse curved incision of Kocher, which affords free access and leaves an almost imper- ceptible scar, is the best. It is carried over the most prom- inent part of the swelling, and is prolonged farther upwards and backwards over the sterno-mastoid upon the side on which the disease is most marked. . The skin, platysma, and deep fascia are divided, the vessels being secured and ligatured before being cut. The depressor muscles of the hyoid thus exposed are hooked aside, or they may require to be divided, in which case they should be cut near to the hyoid bone to preserve their nerve-supply, and to give better access to the superior thyroid artery, and to ensure that when they are stitched the line of suture will lie at a different level from that of the skin incision (C. H. Mayo). In exposing ' the portion to be removed, the layers of connective tissue overlying it are carefully divided layer by layer until the actual substance of the goitre is reached. The lobe is then shelled out of its capsule, care being taken that VOL. II—17