169 THE JAWS. maxilla and in the region of the malar bone. In the lower jaw it usually occurs near the angle. The sinuses that form when a cold abscess bursts on the surface are peculiarly intractable and only heal after the diseased bone has been removed, leaving a characteristically depressed scar. Syphilitic affections of the jaws are also rare. A localised gumma may develop in the neighbourhood of the angle of the lower jaw, or the whole of the body of that bone may be the seat of a diffuse gummatous infiltration. In either case the clinical importance of the condition lies in the fact that it is liable to be mistaken for a new growth, such as an osteo-sarcoma, or for actinomycosis. Treatment.—In all inflammatory conditions which have gone on to suppuration, the first indication is to let out the pus, and, whenever possible, this should be done from the mouth to avoid a cicatrix on the face. In certain situations, however—for example, the angle or ascending ramus of the lower jaw, or the facial portion of the upper jaw—it is seldom possible to avoid making an external opening. Efficient drainage must be secured, and the mouth kept sweet by the frequent use of antiseptic washes. When the condition is due to a carious stump or to an unerupted tooth, this should be extracted at the same time as the abscess is opened. The popular belief that the tooth should not be removed until the inflammation subsides is without foundation. The process of separation of a sequestrum is usually slow, taking from two to four months according to the acuteness of the inflammation and the extent of the necrosis. In the lower jaw the sequestrum becomes surrounded by a sheath of new periosteal bone, so that, even if the greater part of the jaw undergoes necrosis, the arch is reproduced, and after removal of the sequestrum little or no deformity results. The sequestrum can usually be removed from the mouth by dividing the mucous membrane and gouging away a portion of the outer aspect of the new sheath. The cavity is swabbed out with pure carbolic acid and stuffed with iodoform gauze. When the ascending ramus is involved, precautions must be taken to prevent closure of the jaw during the healing process. In the upper jaw no new case is formed. Actinomycosis. — Actinomycosis is met with in the jaws more frequently than in any other part of the body, and the lower jaw is attacked oftener than the upper. The actinomyces is believed to gain access to the bone through a carious tooth or through the gum.