OBSTRUCTION OF COMMON BILE-DUCT. 533 obstruction of the common duct is associated with an impacted stone in the cystic duct and distension of the gall-bladder with mucus. Treatment of Stone in the Common Duct.—The removal of the gall-stones by operation is the only treatment to be recommended, and, if performed before the onset of septic complications, it is not a dangerous operation. The lower thorax having been projected forwards by a firm pillow or sandbag placed under the back, and the table slightly tilted so that the head of the patient is raised about six inches, a vertical incision is made through the right rectus near its outer border from the costal margin downwards. If more room is needed, the upper end of the incision is carried upwards and inwards, dividing the fibres of the rectus muscle (Mayo Robson). After a preliminary exploration has been made to determine the presence and site of the stone, a gauze pad is placed in the right kidney pouch, a second towards the middle line, and a third so as to cover the intestines. The liver and gall-bladder are then freed from adhesions and all bleeding points ligatured. The gall-bladder, with the liver around it, is gently dragged downwards from under the shelter of the ribs, and then turned upwards, so as to bring the cystic and common ducts nearly into a straight line and to render the common duct more accessible. If the stone is situated in the supra-duodenal portion of the duct, that is, the part lying in the free edge of the gastro- hepatic omentum, the stone, which will often be found to slip about in the dilated duct, is grasped between the index finger and thumb of the left hand, and the duct incised over the stone —choledochotomy. The stone having been removed, the ducts are explored both upwards and downwards by means of a scoop, or preferably with the finger if the dilatation of the duct permits. The duct is then either closed by suture or drained by a rubber tube pushed upwards for about an inch towards the liver. If the stone is in the retro-duodenal portion of the duct, the peritoneum is incised vertically, about one and a half inches to the right of the duodenum, so as to permit of turning the second part of the duodenum over to the left, thus exposing its under surface. The duct is then incised and the stone removed. If the stone is in the third portion of the duct—in the ampulla of Yater—it is best reached by opening the duodenum from the front through a vertical incision, and incising the orifice of the ampulla so as to permit of the extraction of the stone. This operation is known as duodeno-clioledochotomy, and was first performed by M‘Burney of New York, in 1891.