416 HERNIA. as high as the internal abdominal ring, and is then obliterated in such a way that no depression or pouch which would favour the re-formation of a hernial sac remains in the parietal peritoneum. This may be done by ligaturing and cutting across the neck of the sac flush with the level of the parietal peritoneum (Mitchell Banks); or the sac may be invaginated and its neck displaced upwards and outwards by drawing it through an opening in the internal oblique and transversalis muscles at a point three-quarters of an inch above and to the outer side of the internal abdominal ring (Kocher). The next step consists in approximating the walls of the inguinal canal, by stitching the arched lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles to the deep aspect of Poupart’s ligament. The divided edges of the aponeurosis of the external oblique are then overlapped and stitched so that the lower and outer portion overlaps the upper and inner. The spermatic cord may be made to lie in front of the line of sutures joining the internal oblique and Poupart’s Ligament (Bassini); or between the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the skin (Halsted). In order to diminish the size of the cord, its veins may be resected after the manner adopted in operating for varicocele (Halsted). It may be pointed out that the operation should be adapted to the anatomical conditions present in each individual case. In congenital hernia, the obliteration of the sac is the most important element in cure, while in acquired hernia, special attention must be given to the reconstitution of the inguinal canal. The patient should avoid any muscular exertion for at least two months after the operation, and some surgeons hold that a light truss should be worn for twelve months. In operating for strangulated inguinal hernia, the line of incision through the integument and the aponeurosis of the external oblique is the same as is described above. This incision is deepened layer by layer over the upper part and neck of the sac until all its coverings are divided, after which it is usually found that on opening the sac it is possible to draw down the bowel so as to inspect its condition at the site of the constriction grooves. If the bowel is viable it is gently compressed and returned. When two or more loops of intestine are present in the sac, the most posterior loop should be replaced first. If the bowel does not appear to be likely to live, it must be dealt with on the lines already laid down (p. 406). If the neck of the sac is so tight as to be the chief agent in causing the strangulation, it also must be divided so as to relieve the constriction and permit of the reduction of the contents. The operation is then completed