ACUTE ORCHITIS. 745 Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotum elevated on a pillow, and the parts should be covered with pads of gauze soaked in 10 per cent, ichthyol and glycerine. Leeches, cupping, or incision may be employed when the congestion is great and extreme tension threatens the vitality of the tissues. After the acute inflammation subsides the induration may be dispersed by inunctions of oleate of mercury ointment, and when the patient gets up he should wear a suspensory bandage. Iodide and bicarbonate of potassium may be given to promote absorption of inflammatory products. Forms of epididymitis other than Gonorrhoeal.—Less severe forms of epididymitis frequently follow the passage of instru- ments and slight injuries of the urethra, such, for example, as may be caused by the passage of a stone or the removal of a foreign body. The symptoms usually come on two or three days after the passage of an instrument, but they may appear suddenly within a few hours. In some cases of enlarged prostate the occurrence of these attacks interferes with the employment of the catheter, and may necessitate operative interference. The body of the testis is involved rather more frequently than in the gonorrhoeal form, and the swelling subsides very slowly. Acute Orchitis.—In the course of certain acute infectious diseases—for example, mumps, scarlet fever, typhoid fever, in- fluenza, tonsillitis, malaria, and pysemia—the body of the testis may become acutely inflamed. A similar condition is some- times met with in gouty and rheumatic subjects. Orchitis in Mumps.—This complication of mumps is met with chiefly in patients about the age of puberty. Towards the end of the first week of the parotitis the body of the testis suddenly becomes swollen and painful. The testis is firm, tense, and smooth, and extremely tender, the pain radiating along the cord to the loin. There is no enlargement of the epididymis or cord, nor is there any effusion into the tunica vaginalis, but the scrotum becomes red and oedematous. The condition is usually unilateral; when both glands are attacked the swelling has usually subsided on one side before the 'other becomes affected. The inflammation lasts for about three or four days and then gradually abates. Suppuration is very rare, but atrophy of the testis is not uncommon, and, when bilateral, renders the patient sterile. The orchitis that occurs in the course of the other acute infectious diseases above mentioned closely resembles that