VOL. II—28 433 CHAPTER XXVI. THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. Surgical anatomy — Methods of suture—Operations on the stomach— Injuries: Contusion; Rupture; Penetrating wounds; Effects of corrosive agents; Foreign bodies and hair-balls—Ulcer of stomach : Surgical aspects; Operative treatment of uncomplicated ulcer; Com- plications of gastric ulcer: Haemorrhage; Perforation; Perigastric abscess and fistula ; Perigastric adhesions ; Gastric tetany ; Effects of cicatricial contraction following gastric ulcer ; Stenosis of pylorus ; Hour-glass contraction — Tumours: Carcinoma; Other tumours — Pyloric obstruction of infants — Gastroptosis — Dilatation of the stomach, gastrectasis — Acute post-operative dilatation — Cardio. spasm—Ulcer of duodenum. Surgical Anatomy.—Our knowledge of the shape and position of the stomach has been modified by the examination of bodies hardened in formalin, by observing the viscus in the course of operations, and by the study of skiagrams made in the living subject after introducing an emulsion of bismuth into the stomach. The stomach is a saccular dilatation of the alimentary canal interven- ing between the oesophagus and the duodenum. It presents an upper surface directed forwards and to the right, and a lower surface directed backwards and to the left, and these surfaces meet at the lesser and greater curvatures. The oesophagus enters the stomach at the upper end of the lesser curvature, and this portion is known as the cardia ; the saccular portion, which extends upwards and to the left of the cardia, is called the fundus. The middle portion, called the body, is continued into the pyloric portion by an obtuse angled or right-angled bend, which produces a distinct furrow in the lesser curvature. The terminal portion is more cylindrical, and is called the pyloric antrum, and it is often indicated by an indistinct furrow in the great curvature. The pyloro- duodenal junction is defined by a marked thickening of the circular muscle fibres—the pyloric sphincter. On the peritoneal surface of the gastric side of the pyloric ring will be found a peculiar arrangement of the blood-vessels, which is nearly con- stant. From the lower side a thick vein passes upward somewhat more than half-way upon the anterior surface. From the upper border a second vein reaches downward in the same line, nearly, if not quite, meeting the first (W. J. Mayo). The function of the body and fundus is chiefly that of a reservoir,