182 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. means of a four-tailed bandage for a week or ten days. The patient is warned to avoid all wide movements of the jaw for some weeks. Old-standing Dislocation.—It sometimes happens that, from having been overlooked or neglected, the dislocation remains unreduced. In such cases the movement of the jaw is in time partly restored, and the patient acquires sufficient control of the lips to be able to articulate intelligibly and to prevent dribbling of saliva. The power of masticating the food, however, remains impaired. The hollow behind the condyle and the projection of the chin persist. Reduction by manipulation is seldom possible after the dislocation has existed for more than three months, but it has been effected as long as ten months after the accident. Several attempts at reduction should be made at intervals of two or three days, and if these fail recourse may be had to operation. As the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles have assumed a vertical position and become shortened, they form an obstacle to reduction, and to overcome their action it is necessary to separate them from their insertion to the ascending ramus of the bone through an incision carried round the angle. If the adhesions about the dislocated condyle are then separated, reduction can be effected (Samter). In some cases it is neces- sary to excise the condyle to restore movement. Sub-luxation of the Temporo-maxillary Joint. — In rare cases the inter-articular cartilage becomes loose, and is liable to be displaced and to interfere with the movements of the jaw. Annandale has successfully treated this condition by suturing the cartilage in position. Acute arthritis of the temporo-maxillary joint occurs in two forms, non-suppurative and suppurative. The non-suppurative form is usually due to rheumatism or to gonorrhoeal infection, and as a rule is bilateral. The patient complains of neuralgic pains shooting towards the ears and temples, and of pain in the joint on movement. The jaw is therefore kept fixed, usually with the mouth slightly open and the chin protruded. He is unable to masticate, and the speech is indistinct. There is effusion into the cavity of the joint and a swelling may be detected in front of the ear. The inflamma- tion may subside and movement be restored, or fibrous ankylosis may ensue. The suppurative form may be due either to direct spread of inflammation from adjacent parts, as, for example, in middle ear disease, suppurative parotitis, or pyogenic affections of the lower jaw, or it may be part of a general pysemic infection, as some-