CHRONIC EMPYEMA. 311 opening has been delayed until the lung has collapsed and become fibrous, and dense adhesions have formed. In some cases the failure of the cavity to close is due to a drainage-tube or other foreign body having been inadvertently left in the pleural space. While some patients are able to continue at work for many years in spite of a constant discharge, the majority succumb sooner or later to septic poisoning, hectic fever, or waxy disease. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing a sufficient amount of the chest wall to enable the parietes to fall in and lead to the obliteration of the cavity—thoracoplasty. This may be done by the Estliinder-Schede operation, which consists in excising subperiosteally portions of several ribs, the number and length of the portions resected depending on the size and shape of the cavity to be obliterated. One or more incisions are made over the ribs to be dealt with, or a large horseshoe-shaped musculo- cutaneous flap, extending from the fourth to the ninth or tenth rib, is turned up, and the exposed ribs resected. The periosteum, the intercostal muscles, and the thickened parietal pleura are then removed, and the cavity packed with gauze before the flap is replaced. When the lung is firmly bound down in the vertebral groove, multiple incisions may be made through the thickened visceral pleura, or the procedure known as “decorti- cation of the lung ” may be carried out as an addition to thoracoplasty. This consists in peeling off the thickened pleura from the surface of the lung (Delorme). Hydrothorax is a condition in which, as a result of extreme feebleness of the circulation in advanced stages of cardiac, renal, and other diseases, a passive effusion of serous fluid takes place into the pleural cavity. It is usually bilateral, and is not attended with fever or pain. In malignant disease, in phthisis, and in certain bacterial diseases of the lungs, the fluid may be deeply stained with blood. Sometimes air escapes with the fluid, particularly in phthisical patients, and the condition is known as hydro-pneumothorax. When the lungs or heart become embarrassed by the pressure of the fluid aspiration is called for. Pulmonary Cavities.—Under this heading we may for convenience include pulmonary abscess, gangrene of the lung, bronchiectasis, phthisical cavities, and hydatid cysts. The diagnosis is always a matter of difficulty, and in many cases it is all but impossible to determine the exact position and extent of a cavity. The physical signs are often misleading, and Tuffier has pointed out that, if we trust to stethoscopic