639 NEPHROLITHOTOMY. Sometimes a definite shadow is cast by dense masses of scar tissue, calcareous glands, or scybala in the bowel. Riddell believes that a skiagram to be of any value must show the iliac crest, the last ribs, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrm, and the edge of the psoas muscle. Unless the last mentioned is seen, a negative opinion should never be formed, however good the skiagram may be in other respects. The shadow of the stone remains constant both in its contour and in its position; it is most often found a little below the twelfth rib, and about an inch distant from the second lumbar vertebra, in the area corresponding to the pelvis of the kidney. Stone may be excluded if repeated examinations yield a negative result. Information is also gained as to the exact situation of the stone, its size and shape, and whether there is more than one —all points of importance in planning an operation. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stone.—Short of operation, treatment is directed chiefly towards diluting the urine; the patient should take large quantities of bland fluids, of which the best is hot water, or such mineral waters as those of Contrexe- ville or Wildungen. Drugs of the urotropin class are useful in preventing the onset of septic complications. Renal colic is to be relieved by hot local applications or hot baths, and by large doses of belladonna, hypodermic injections of morphin, or, in severe cases, by the inhalation of chloroform. Operation is indicated in cases with severe recurrent colic, or with constant aching in the loin which interferes with the pur- suits of the patient, also in all cases in which a stone is impacted in the ureter, and when there is evidence of septic infection. Operation is contra-indicated in cases of frequently recurring colic, in which every attack is followed by the passage of a small non-faceted stone, and the patient between the attacks is quite well, and the urine normal, because in such cases there is probably fresh stone formation from time to time, and an opera- tion would be useless. The operation for the removal of stone is known as nephro- lithotomy, and was first carried out successfully by Henry Morris, in 1880. The kidney is exposed by the usual lumbar incision, and is brought out at the wound and carefully palpated. If a stone is felt in the pelvis, this is opened into by cutting through the kidney substance. The vessels at the hilurn being controlled by the fingers of an assistant, the organ is incised slightly on the dorsal aspect of its convex border, to admit the finger to the pelvis and calyces. If no stone is felt with the finger, a long straight needle or hat-pin may be employed to search the kidney