INTUSSUSCEPTION. 489 central, slit-like depression resembling the os uteri, and the examining finger when withdrawn is stained with bloody mucus resembling red-currant jelly. The presence of the tumour in the rectum is usually associated with tenesmus and relaxation of the sphincters. The intussusceptum may finally protrude from the anus, presenting the appearances of congestion or of gangrene. The child exhibits the general features of intestinal obstruction, but there is little or no distension of the abdomen, and the vomiting rarely becomes faecal. In the diagnosis of intussusception from other acute abdominal affections in children, examination of the rectum is of great value, and it may be necessary to anaesthetise the child to carry it out satisfactorily. Treatment.—When the condition is diagnosed, the abdomen should be opened without delay. If the tumour is confined to the region of the ascending colon, the incision is made there ; in other cases it is made in or near the middle line, with its centre about the level of the navel. The fingers are inserted into the abdominal cavity, and an attempt made to deliver the tumour. In carrying out reduction the tumour should be straightened as far as possible, and an attempt made to push back the intussus- ceptum by compressing the sheath just beyond the apex. On no account should the entering loop be pulled upon because of the risk of tearing the bowel. Most difficulty is experienced at the end of the procedure, and to prevent damage to the bowel at this stage, the pressure should be exerted through a pad of gauze wrapped round it. After reduction has been successfully accomplished, to diminish the tendency to recurrence a longi- tudinal tuck or fold may be made in the mesentery of the ileum, or the mesentery stitched to the ascending meso-colon so as to make the ileum descend to the ileo-crecal junction. If reduction is impossible, or if there is evidence of gangrene, the invaginated portion must be resected. The sheath and the intussusceptum are first united by a continuous suture through the serous and muscular coats at the neck of the tumour, the sheath is then laid freely open and the intussusceptum removed ; the operation is completed by sewing up the wound in the sheath, or in stitching the edges of the opening in the colon to the parietal peritoneum so that it may act for a time as an artificial anus. If the sheath is not viable, the whole tumour must lie resected. In cases that have been successfully reduced by operation, the formation of adhesions may result, after an interval of months or years, in kinking or narrowing of the lower end of the ileum, with symptoms of intestinal obstruction.