HERNIA. 406 constriction is relieved. The latter method is to be preferred in those hernial regions to which it is applicable, not only because the tissues to be divided are seen before they are cut, but also because it will often be possible to preserve the integrity of the neck of the sac, and this is of advantage in carrying out the radical cure. The constriction having been divided, the affected loop of bowel is drawn down and the region of the constriction grooves examined to see if the bowel is viable at these points. After the bowel has been freed and washed with hot water its condition often improves. It is certainly viable if a wave of peristalsis passes the constriction groove when the bowel is flicked with the finger. If the changes present result only from venous con- gestion, the bowel should be emptied of its contents by gentle compression and returned within the abdomen. If it is covered with a lymphy exudate and is otherwise viable, it should be irrigated with hot water and returned within the abdomen. If, however, there are alterations in the lustre, colour and consistence of the bowel which indicate incipient or actual gangrene, the damaged bowel must be resected. In rare cases the' gangrenous area may be small enough to permit of its being invaginated by Lembert’s sutures without unduly narrowing the lumen (F. M. Caird). As a rule, the gangrene is too extensive to permit of this, and the entire loop must be resected together with its mesentery. The resection should extend well beyond the apparent limits of the devitalised bowel in order to obtain perfectly healthy intestine for union by end-to-end suture. It is only when the condition of the patient is so critical as not to permit of this being carried out that the damaged bowel is left in situ ; it should then be freely incised to allow of the escape of the intestinal contents and the formation of a faecal fistula. The omentum, if healthy, is returned within the abdomen; if damaged or infected, it is removed, the divided vessels being ligatured. The operation is completed by performing the radical cure, which consists in obliterating the neck of the sac and closing the hernial canal. The details vary with the individual hernia;. After-Treatment.—If the patient continues to vomit foul- smelling fluid, this should be regarded as an indication for washing out the stomach. An enema should be given the following morning, and castor oil or a Seidlitz powder on the second day. Blood is sometimes observed in the stools after herniotomy for strangulation, but is not a cause for anxiety. The foot of the bed should be elevated, and the patient kept