405 HERNIOTOMY. hernia may be present and yet the symptoms may be due to obstruction of the bowels from some other cause. If there is any possibility that the hernia is the cause of the symptoms, it is wiser to subject it to operation in the first instance. Treatment. — The strangulation must be relieved and the contents of the hernia returned within the belly with the least possible delay, and this is best done by operation. If the patient is seen very soon after the onset of strangulation and the symptoms are not urgent, this may be postponed for an hour or two; the foot of the bed is elevated ten or twelve inches, and a rubber bag filled with hot water is applied over the hernia. While awaiting the result of these measures, the pre- parations for operation are proceeded with. Operative Treatment.—Herniotomy.—Once a diagnosis of strangulation has been made, no time should be lost in having recourse to operation. The operation is not in itself a serious one; the danger to the patient consists in its being delayed. In aged and weakly patients, and in those who are the subjects of diabetes or consumption, it may be advisable to employ local anaesthesia, but as a rule a general anmsthetic is to be preferred. When there is vomiting of foul fluid, the stomach should be washed out before beginning the operation. An incision is made which will give the necessary access to the sac of the hernia and the seat of strangulation at its neck. The coverings, which are sometimes oedematous, are divided without any attempt to differentiate them anatomically, and the sac is exposed. It is not always easy to recognise the sac, so that the operator must proceed with caution, picking up any layer which he believes to be the sac with caution, so as to avoid cutting into the contents of the hernia. The inner surface of the sac is smooth and shining, and when such a surface is exposed and fluid escapes it is more than probable that the sac has been opened. If the fluid is turbid and foul- smelling, it will probably be found that the vitality of the bowel has been seriously impaired, and it is wise at this stage to irrigate the sac and its contents with hot saline solution to minimise the risks of infection. The next step consists in dividing the constricting agent, which is usually found at or about the neck of the sac ; the actual constriction is brought about either by tightness of the neck itself or of one or more of the layers of the abdominal wall immediately surrounding it. The constriction may be divided by a probe-pointed hernia-knife, guided to the neck of the sac by the finger or a broad hernia-director, or it is effected by open dissection, dividing layer after layer until the