162 THE MOUTH, FAUCES, AND PHARYNX. Tumours.—Innocent tumours—fibroma, lipoma, myoma—are comparatively rare. When sessile they cause inconvenience only by their bulk; when pedunculated they may hang down into the pharynx and interfere with swallowing and breathing. They may be shelled out, or ligatured at the base and cut off according to circumstances. Malignant Tumours.—The tonsil is frequently the primary seat of lymplio-sarcoma, a very malignant form of round-celled sarcoma. The tumour is at first confined to the tonsil, but rapidly infiltrates the surrounding structures, encroaching upon the cavity of the pharynx and causing interference with swallowing and breathing. The mucous membrane soon gives way, and widespread ulceration and sloughing of the tumour substance occurs, leading to septic complications, and sometimes to serious and even fatal haemorrhage. The patient emaciates very rapidly. The adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected. The squamous epithelioma usually implicates the fauces, soft palate, and pharyngeal wall as well as the tonsil, and the disease may begin in the. tonsil, in the groove between the tonsil and the tongue, or in the soft palate. The naso-pharynx is seldom involved. Males suffer more frequently than females. The disease may exist for a considerable time before giving rise to marked symptoms, and attention may first be drawn to it by pain and difficulty in swallowing, or by pain shooting towards the ear. In some cases enlargement of the glands behind the angle of the jaw is the first thing to attract the patient’s atten- tion. The other symptoms are very like those of epithelioma of the tongue—pain during eating or drinking, salivation and foetid breath. Sometimes fluids regurgitate through the nose, and the voice may become nasal and indistinct. As the patient is usually unable to open the mouth widely, it is seldom possible to learn much by inspection, but a digital examination may reveal an irregular, hard, and ulcerated growth. The tumour is sometimes palpable from the outside, filling up the hollow behind the angle of the jaw, and in this situation also the enlarged lymphatic glands may be felt. These are often enlarged out of all proportion to the size of the primary growth. The disease tends to spread locally, causing increasing difficulty in swallowing and breathing. The patient gradually loses strength and may die from exhaustion induced by pain and insomnia, from haemor- rhage, or from septic pneumonia. Treatment of Malignant Tumours.—In early cases an attempt may be made to remove the disease, a preliminary laryngotomy