511 FyECAL FISTULA- the lesion to which the fistula owes its origin. Fistula; in the colon discharge fmcal matter, and if this is solid or semi-solid, its escape is more or less under the control of a pad and bandage. The discharge from a fistula in the small intestine is fluid, and is composed of partially digested food material mixed with the various secretions discharged into the bowel; its appearance, chemical characters, and nutritive value varying with the level of the fistula. If it is situated in the upper part of the jejunum, the loss of nutriment may cause rapid emaciation, and terminate in death by starvation. The fluid, moreover, is extremely irri- tating, and causes inflammation and, it may be, superficial ulceration of the surrounding skin. In a general sense it may be said that the discharge from a fistula in the upper part of the jejunum is decidedly acid, and contains bile and undigested foocl material, while in the lower ileum its reaction is neutral or alkaline, and bile and undigested food materials are not recognisable, but personal observation has shown us that these and other reputed differentiating factors cannot be relied upon. The loss or gain in weight affords the most reliable information regarding the influence of the fistula on the nutrition and health of the patient, and the necessity of adopting means for its closure. Treatment.—In considering the propriety of attempting to close an intestinal fistula, it is to be borne in mind that in one group of cases the fistula is only an incidental element of the original disease, which is still present, for example, tuberculosis, cancer, and certain lesions of the appendix, and that it is only advisable to close the fistula if the primary condition can be got rid of. In a second group, the fistula is the result of trauma, or of some disease which has run its course, and treat- ment is directed exclusively to the fistula. It is with this group that we are here concerned. There is a considerable tendency to natural cure, especially in fistulae which are lined by granulation tissue, provided always that there is no obstruction in the bowel beyond. The patient should be confined to bed, the diet restricted to foods which leave little fmcal residue, and the bowels emptied by enemata. The irritation of the skin around the fistula is allayed by soothing applications. To make the fistula granulate from the bottom, the track is packed with iodoform worsted, which is changed at frequent intervals. If there is an abscess cavity, it should be laid open and packed. Natural cure is unlikely to take place if the fistula is lined with mucous membrane, and especially if there is a double tube of bowel opening on the surface with a spur or septum between.