INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS. 743 recurrence cannot take place. When this is impossible, or when the testis is in the inguinal canal, the gland should be excised, as it is usually functionless, or is likely to become so as the result of the congestion. If necrosis has ensued, the organ must be removed. Inflammatory Affections of the Testis and its Appendages. Any portion of the spermatic tract—testis, epididymis, vas deferens, or seminal vesicle—may be the seat of inflammation, and, according to the cause and nature of the inflammatory pro- cess, it may remain confined to one or other of these structures, or may spread to adjacent parts. The term orchitis is applied when the body of the testis is chiefly involved, and epididymitis when the epididymis suffers most. When both are implicated the term epididymo-orchitis may be employed. Inflammation of the cord and vas deferens (funiculitis), or of the seminal vesicles (vesiculitis), seldom occurs apart from a similar affection of other segments of the tract. The more acute inflammations are due to infection with some form of pyogenic bacteria, and most frequently with the gonococcus, while the more chronic forms are usually tuberculous or syphilitic in nature. Acute Epididymitis and Acute Orchitis.—In considering the acute inflammations of the epididymis and testis, it is convenient to distinguish between those varieties which are due to direct infection from the urethra, for example, in gonorrhoea, and those in which the infection takes place through the blood-stream, as in mumps, typhoid fever, or general septic conditions, or in gout. When the infection spreads from the urethra the main incidence of the inflammation is on the epididymis, and epididymitis results; when by the blood-stream, the body of the testis is chiefly involved, constitut- ing an orchitis. Acute Epididymitis. — Acute Epididymitis of Urethral Origin.—Any form of urethritis may spread to the epididymis by way of the ejaculatory duct and vas deferens. Gonorrhoeal Epididymitis.—This, the most common form of acute epididymitis, occurs in about one in every ten cases of gonorrhoea. It is usually met with during the third, fourth, or fifth week, but may occur at much later periods, and even after all urethral discharge has ceased. The condition is usually unilateral ; when it is bilateral the second gland is usually