202 THE SALIVARY GLANDS. thrombosis may ensue. Persistent paralysis may follow de- struction of the facial nerve; and salivary fistula.; may form. Death may take place from septic absorption even before pus forms. Treatment.—During the first two or three days hot fomenta- tions are applied, and the mouth is frequently washed out with an antiseptic. As soon as there is reason to believe that pus has formed it must be let out. An incision is made behind the angle of the jaw, parallel to the branches of the facial nerve, the abscess opened by Hilton’s method, a finger passed into the gland, and all septa broken down and drainage secured. Acute inflammation of the submaxillary gland is met with under the same conditions as that of the parotid. Both glands are occasionally attacked at the same time. An acute phlegmonous periadenitis sometimes occurs in the loose"Cellular tissue around the submaxillary gland, and spreads with great rapidity through the cellular planes of the neck. The condition—which goes by the name of angina Ludovici—is usually met with in adults, and appears to originate in some septic focus in the mouth. The onset is sudden and acute, and is marked by a rigor, with high temperature and a rapid, inter- mittent, and compressible pulse. The submaxillary region becomes densely infiltrated and brawny, and the swelling extends upwards towards the root of the tongue and downwards in the neck towards the mediastinum. The mouth is closed, the tongue fixed, and swallowing is impossible. The inflammatory swelling may spread to the air-passages and induce oedema of the glottis. Diffuse suppuration and sloughing of the cellular tissue usually occur, and may lead to general pyaemia. The treatment consists in making incisions through the deep fascia in order to relieve the tension, or to let out pus if it has formed. Acute suppurative inflammation of the sublingual gland may occur under the same conditions as in the parotid, and is associated with the formation of an exceedingly painful and tender swelling under the tongue. The tongue is gradually pushed against the roof of the mouth, so that swallowing is difficult and respiration may be seriously impeded. There is marked constitutional disturbance. An incision into the swell- ing is immediately followed by relief of the symptoms. Tuberculous disease of the salivary glands is rare. It usually begins in the lymphatic glands within the capsule of the parotid or submaxillary, and spreads thence to the salivary gland tissue.