402 HERNIA. The usual effects of venous congestion are at first well marked : the bowel becomes turgid, swollen, and firm in con- sistence ; its colour varies from a livid blue to a claret or even black colour, which last is due to extravasation of blood into the coats of the bowel. The strangulated loop becomes dis- tended with gas. There is an exudation of serum into the sac. The peritoneum of the sac and of its contents for a time retains its shining lustre. If an opening is made into the bowel the contents are found to be stained with blood as a result of haemorrhage from the congested mucous membrane. If the loop of bowel engaged in the sac is liberated from the constriction, it is usually found to present, at one or at both ends, a deep groove, known as the constriction groove, the bowel appearing as if a string had been tightly tied round it. The groove or furrow is pale, with scattered points of haemorrhage, and the mucous aspect may show superficial ulceration. The damage to the bowel may be completely recovered from, or the formation of scar tissue in the position of the groove may sub- sequently result in an annular stricture or stenosis of the bowel. The further changes are due to bacterial infection of the coats of. the bowel, and they partake of the characters of inflammation or of gangrene, or of a combination of these. The organisms concerned — colon bacilli and less frequently staphylococci, streptococci or pneumococci— are derived from the lumen of the bowel. When inflammation predominates, the usual phenomena of peritonitis are present: the serous surfaces of the bowel and sac become opaque and covered with fibrinous lymph, and the fluid in the sac becomes turbid from admixture with flakes of lymph. When gangrene ensues, the bowel loses its natural lustre and firm consistence; it becomes flaccid and sodden like wet blotting-paper, and its colour changes to an ashen-grey, yellow, or green. The fluid in the sac becomes dark in colour and acquires a putrefactive, sometimes almost cadaveric odour, the result of bacterial decomposition. Gangrene may involve the entire loop engaged in the sac, or only its convexity, or it may be confined to the situation of the constriction grooves. It is of great importance, therefore, in operating for strangulated hernia, after dividing the constriction, to pull down the bowel from the neck of the sac and examine it. In exceptional cases the sac also may be gangrenous. In the rare instances in which two or more loops of bowel are strangulated in the same sac, the gangrene may involve the protruded bowel only, or the connecting loop within the abdomen may be similarly affected ; the internal connecting loop may,