THE NECK. 250 is only inspiration that is interfered with, as with each in- spiratory effort the gland is sucked in towards the mediastinum; with expiration it rises again and so frees the air-passages from pressure, and during expiration a soft swelling is sometimes recognisable in the episternal notch. The paroxysms occur at irregular intervals, and any one of them may prove fatal. In some cases the symptoms seem to be associated with pressure on the blood-vessels and nerves rather than on the air-passage, and in these there is great distension of the veins and a tendency to syncopal attacks. The only way to afford relief is to expose the gland and withdraw it from behind the sternum by making traction on its capsule. If the breathing is not thereby improved, the capsule should be opened and the gland shelled out. The term thymic asthma has been applied to another form of disturbed respiration due to a large thymus, which comes on suddenly in infants otherwise apparently healthy. Without warning, the child seems to choke, has great difficulty in breathing, with inspiratory stridor and indrawing of the epi- gastrium ; he rapidly becomes cyanosed and in the majority of cases dies in a few minutes—thymus death. No satisfactory explanation of the sudden onset of the symptoms is forthcoming, but it appears to be associated with something which suddenly 'narrows the mediastinal space, such as backward bending of the head, or venous engorgement of the thymus gland. Cases are recorded in which an attack has come on during the ad- ministration of a general anaesthetic. Tumours of the Carotid Gland {Potato-like tumour of the neck).—The carotid gland under normal conditions is about the size of a grain of corn, and lies to the posterior aspect of the bifurcation of the carotid. It is sometimes the seat of endo- thelioma. The tumour has a definite capsule, is moderately firm and elastic, increases in size slowly and gradually for a time, and then may grow more rapidly. Its relation to the vessels is characteristic : as it grows it envelops the common carotid and its branches and becomes adherent to the internal jugular vein ; and it may come to implicate the large nerves in the neck, par- ticularly the vagus and its recurrent branch, and the cervical sympathetic. It gives rise to few symptoms, and in the majority of cases the surgeon is consulted on account of the disfigurement resulting from the presence of the swelling in the neck. This swelling is ovoid, smooth or slightly lobulated • it lies at the level of the bifurcation of the carotid and tends to grow up-