SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE BREAST. 319 third, and fourth perforating branches of the internal mammary. The venous blood returns to the axillary, cephalic, and external jugular veins. The nerve-supply to the skin over the breast is derived from the descending cutaneous branches of the cervical plexus, and the lateral and anterior cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The gland itself is supplied with sensation through the per- forating terminal branches of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intereostals. A knowledge of the lymphatic system of the breast is of great import- ance in relation to the question of the spread of cancer. The anastomosis between the different sets of lymphatic vessels in the breast being very free, malignant disease in any part of the mamma is readily disseminated throughout the gland and to surrounding structures. According to Stiles, the cutaneous lymphatics anastomose with the trunks which accompany the main lactiferous ducts in a large lymphatic plexus under the areola—the subareolar plexus of Sappey. The lymphatics of the subcutaneous fat that overlies the mamma occupy for the most part the ligaments of Cooper, and receive lymph, on the one hand from the deeper layers of the true skin, and on the other from the lymphatics in the more superficial parts of the breast. Then again the lymphatics of the posterior part of the gland and of the pectoral fascia communicate with one another. Eventually the lymph passes by large efferent trunks through the deep fascia to the lymphatic glands, the most important of which are situated in the axilla. These glands are arranged in groups : (1) the pectoral group, lying under the edge of the pectoralis major in the line of the long thoracic artery ; (2) the axillary group, accompanying the axillary vessels ; (3) the subscapular group, lying far back in the axilla with the vessels of the same name ; (4) the infra-clavicular group, lying in relation to the costo-coracoid membrane ; and (5) the supra- clavicular group, lying above the clavicle. Some of the efferent lym- phatics from the inner and upper part of the breast pass through the intercostal spaces and open into (6) the sternal glands lying alongside the internal mammary artery. Clinical Examination of the Breast.—To permit of a thorough examination of the breast, the patient should be seated on a chair, with the whole thorax exposed. It is to be borne in mind that the physical characters of the breast vary with the age of the woman, with her general build, and according to whether or not the gland has been functionally active. In the young nulliparous woman, the breast stands out from the front of the chest as a smooth, rounded prominence, which is composed of the corpus mammae and a varying thickness of subcutaneous fat. The margins of the gland are thick and well defined, and the organ is uni- formly firm in consistence. It can be moved freely on the surface of the pectoral muscles, from which it is separated only by a thin layer of con- nective tissue. The breast is surmounted by the nipple, which is soft and movable, and is surrounded by a pigmented areola of a delicate rose-colour. After the breast has been functionally active it loses its regular out- line, so that the body of the gland cannot be clearly differentiated from the peripheral processes, and it becomes looser in texture and irregular in consistence from the dejiosit of fat in the stroma. The quantity of retro-mammary fat increases, and the breast tends to become pendulous. After the menopause involution changes occur, the secreting sub- stance undergoes atrophy, and the breast, particularly towards its deeper parts, becomes coarse and knotty to the feel. In spare women the