5 DISEASES; OF THE SCALP. The onset of sepsis * is indicated by throbbing pain and heat in the wound, a feeling of chilliness or the occurrence of a rigor, and tension of the stitches from cedematous swelling of the surrounding tissues. The oedema often extends to the eyelids and face; a puffiness of the eyelids, indeed, is not infrequently the first evidence of the occurrence of suppuration in the wound. Treatment.—When suppuration ehsues the stitches should at once be removed, the wound opened up and purified with peroxide of hydrogen, and packed with iodoform worsted. A moist dressing should be employed for a few days. The risks of intra-cranial complications demand that these measures should be promptly taken. Erysipelas of the scalp may originate even in wounds so trivial as to be almost invisible, or from suppurative processes in the region of the frontal sinuses or nasal fossae. On the head, erysipelas tends to be limited by the attachments of deep fasciae, and seldom spreads to the cheek or neck. Cerebral complications in the form of noisy delirium or coma are common, and symptoms of meningitis may supervene. Cellulitis from mixed infection is a common and dangerous complication of erysipelas of the scalp, and calls for free incisions (vol. i. p. 114). Diseases of the Scalp. Inflammatory Conditions.—It is not uncommon for localised abscesses to occur in the subcutaneous cellular tissue in delicate children, and such collections are not infrequently associated with chronic eczema, impetigo, or pediculi. They develop slowly and painlessly, and are only covered by a thin, bluish pellicle of skin. It is not improbable that they result from a mixed infection by pyogenic and tuberculous organisms. As a rule they heal quickly after incision and drainage, but when they are allowed to burst tedious superficial ulcers may result. Localised abscesses may also form in connection with disease of the cranial bones. Suppuration following upon injuries has already been referred to. Boils and carbuncles are not common on the hairy part of the scalp. Lupus rarely originates on the scalp, although it may spread thither from the face. Syphilitic eruptions and ulcers present the same characters on the scalp as elsewhere. Gummata may develop in the soft parts of the scalp, but more commonly they take origin in the periosteum or bone. Eczema