356 THE PERITONEUM. other more dangerous organisms, mainly by chemiotaxis, but also in some degree by the formation of a protective film of exudate upon the surface of the peritoneum ; in presence of the white coccus, the peritoneal fluid is generally rich in active poly-morpho-nuclear leucocytes. When normal bile escapes from a rupture of the gall-bladder it may be reabsorbed, or there may be a reaction on the part of the peritoneum which results in the formation of adhesions. Similar phenomena may follow upon the rupture of an ovarian cyst. Like changes may also be observed as a result of circulatory disturbances, as from the rotation of the pedicle of a wandering spleen or of an ovarian cyst. If, however, the disturbance of circulation and nutrition is so great as to permit of the passage of other bacteria, and especially colon bacilli, through the wall of the bowel, the characters of the lesion are altered and assume those of infective peritonitis. Infective Peritonitis.—When the peritoneum is infected with virulent organisms and these gain the upper hand, the condition of septic peritonitis ensues. Sometimes the infective material is so abundant or so exceptionally virulent that the patient is poisoned and dies before reactive changes have time to occur. This condition is termed 'peritoneal intoxication cr septicaemia. The organisms chiefly concerned are the colon bacillus, the streptococcus pyogenes, and the bacillus pyocyaneus; the gonococcus, the pneumococcus, and the organisms of acute rheumatism are less frequently met with. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a mixed infection. In some cases, especially those originating from lesions of the Fallopian tubes, the pus is found to be sterile; and it may be stated generally that the organisms most frequently met with in pelvic peritonitis are the less virulent ones and the mortality is relatively low. In investigating the organisms in any given case of peritonitis it is better to make cultivations from the lymph than from the fluid exudate. The extent and characters of the peritonitis vary with the conditions which attend infection of the membrane. If the organisms have it all their own way, the infection spreads widely, and a diffuse peritonitis ensues; if on the other hand the tissues are in a position to react, they may succeed in limiting the infection, and a localised or encysted peritonitis results. Points of Origin of Septic Peritonitis. — Infection may originate in any of the organs covered by, or adjacent to, the peritoneum. The gastro-intestinal canal is much the most common seat of origin of peritonitis, any condition of the