746 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. associated with mumps, but is on the whole less acute, and the pain and other symptoms are less severe. As the swelling of the testis usually occurs when the fever is at its height, the local symptoms are apt to be overshadowed by those of the general disease, and the testicular condition, particularly in adults, may be overlooked or only discovered accidentally. Orchitis in Gout.—Gouty orchitis usually occurs in patients over fifty years of age, who are subject to repeated attacks of arthritic gout, and manifests itself just before the onset of one of the regular attacks. The swelling is most marked in the body of the testis, but the epididymis often shares in the inflammation, and there is frequently an effusion into the tunica vaginalis. The condition is frequently bilateral, and relapses are common. Treatment.—The treatment of these various forms of orchitis is carried out on the same lines as that for epididymitis, due attention being paid to any general disease that may be present. When suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened, an attempt being made to save the testis. Tuberculosis of the Testis and Epididymis.—The epididymis and testis are frequently the seat of chronic tuberculous disease, and the condition may involve serious consequences to the patient, not only on account of its tendency to spread to other parts of the genito-urinary tract, but also from the fact that the function of the gland is lost, and, when the disease is bilateral, it results in sterility. It may be the first manifestation of tuber- culosis exhibited by the patient, or may occur in association with pulmonary phthisis, or some other tuberculous affection. It is more than doubtful if it is ever due to a downward spread from the prostate or bladder (Baumgarten). In young children it occasionally occurs in association with tuberculous peritonitis, infection taking place along the processus vaginalis, and the body of the testis is chiefly involved. The disease may remain confined to the epididymis, but as a rule sooner or later it invades the body; in rare cases the body alone is involved. As a rule the condition is unilateral, but both sides may be involved either simultaneously or consecutively, and an interval of several years may elapse between the two infections, the patient meanwhile having exhibited no other manifestation of tuberculous disease. The disease usually begins in the epididymis—sometimes in the globus major, sometimes in the globus minor—in the form of small tuberculous nodules scattered throughout its substance. These gradually increase in size, run together, and caseate,