43 FRACTURES OF THE VAULT. objects or from falls, and they usually extend far beyond the area struck, in many cases passing into the base. The fissure may pass through the bone vertically or obliquely, and it may implicate one or both tables. So long as the fracture is simple, it can scarcely be diagnosed except by inference from the associated symptoms of meningeal or cerebral injury. When compound, the crack in the bone can be seen and felt. It is recognised by the eye as a narrow split in the bone, filled with red blood, which, as often as it is sponged away, oozes again into the gap. Sometimes a tuft of hair is caught between the edges of the fracture, and this adds to the difficulty of purifying the wound. Diagnosis.—A normal suture may be mistaken for a fissured fracture. A suture, however, may generally be recognised by its position, the irregularity of its margins, and the absence of blood between its edges. At the same time it is not uncommon, especially in children, for a suture to be sprung by violence applied to the head, or for a fissured fracture to enter a suture and, after running in it for some distance, to leave it again. The edges of a clean cut in the periosteum may be mistaken for a fissure in the bone, especially when reliance is placed on the probe-for diagnosis. With the finger-nail the edge of the peri- osteum can be raised from the bone, and the true nature of the lesion revealed. The prognosis depends upon associated meningeal haemorrhage, brain injury, or septic infection. Treatment.—Fissured fractures as such call for no active treat- ment. When compound, the wound must be disinfected; and intra-cranial complications are to be treated on the lines already described. Punctured fractures are of necessity compound. They result from the localised impact of a sharp, and usually infected object, the point of which is not infrequently left either in the bone or inside the skull. Fragments of bone are often driven into the brain, and short fissures frequently pass in various directions from the central aperture. Diagnosis.—When the instrument impinges on the head obliquely, after piercing the scalp it may pass for some distance under it before perforating the skull, so that on its withdrawal a valvular wound is left, and at first sight it appears that only the scalp is involved. Sometimes a foreign body left in the gap so fills it up that it is difficult to detect the fracture with a probe or even with the finger. In all doubtful cases, the scalp wound should be sufficiently enlarged to exclude such fallacies.