URETHRAL CALCULUS. 691 and they recommend an immediate external urethrotomy in all cases. In cases seen soon after the injury, we are quite satisfied with tying in a catheter, but it is necessary to keep a watch on the swelling in the perineum, and be prepared to operate if extravasation occurs. In ruptured urethra with fracture of the pelvis, it is often impossible to pass a catheter, and if it does enter the bladder it may become blocked with clots ; it is therefore nearly always necessary to perform perineal section. If it is impossible to find the proximal end of the urethra, and if the patient can stand a more prolonged operation, the urethra is reconstituted by “ the retrograde ” route; the bladder is opened above the pubes, the internal meatus identified with the tip of the left forefinger, and a long probe is passed through it and brought out in the perineum. The outer end of a rubber catheter is then attached to the probe by a silk thread, and in its turn brought out in the perineum, the silk thread is then detached, and the catheter pushed along the anterior urethra until it emerges at the meatus; it is then connected with a suction apparatus. It is rarely possible efficiently to suture the rent in the urethra, the perineal wound should therefore be left open for drainage; the opening made in the bladder should be closed and a drain placed in the space of Retzius. If extravasation has already taken place, perineal section must be performed without delay, and if there is evidence of septic infection, multiple incisions are made throughout the whole area of extravasation, and the cellular tissue irrigated with salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. Urethral Calculus.—A small stone which has come down from the kidney and passed through the bladder may become impacted in the urethra behind the triangular ligament, in the penile portion, or just within the meatus. Stone in the prostatic urethra is described on p. 725. A urethral calculus may be rounded and flattened like a lentil, or elongated and fusiform like a date-stone. In children the impaction usually persists, but in adults violent efforts to pass water frequently succeed in expelling the stone. There may be a history of antecedent renal colic, or the first sign of trouble may be a sudden cutting pain during micturition, with arrest of the stream and subsequent retention, due partly to the mechanical obstruc- tion and partly to spasm of the muscular coat of the urethra. The retention may be absolute, or in the case of a small stone may terminate in dribbling of urine tinged with blood, and later mixed with pus from superadded septic urethritis. If left