ENLARGED PROSTATE. 719 with vigorous health and an entire absence of urinary symptoms for a period which may range from months to years, according to the physical conditions at the outlet of the bladder. The earliest symptom is that the patient has to rise to make water, especially during the early morning hours (6-7 A.M.). The urine is slow in coming, the stream is less forcible, and urine escapes after the patient thinks the act is completed. The patient is inclined to strain in making water, although this hinders rather than helps the flow, and the repeated straining may induce piles and prolapse of the anus. At any time the prostate may become congested from alcoholic or sexual excess, from exposure to cold, or as the result of a railway journey, especially if the patient has allowed the bladder to become full; he then finds himself unable to make water, in other words, there is acute retention. The retention is essentially due to two factors—the obstruction offered by the enlarged prostate, and the failure of the bladder muscle; the muscle may have fought and overcome the obstacle over a long period, but some day it fails. The patient complains of pain in the bladder and loins, and of an urgent desire to make water, becomes anxious and restless, strains ! unduly but without success, and the bladder becomes over-distended, so that even when relieved by the catheter the muscular coat may never completely recover its contractile power. Chronic, incomplete retention or stagnation of urine is the condition that results from the patient failing to empty his bladder completely. The amount of residual or stagnating urine gradually increases until the bladder has very little extra capacity, and the patient has to make water every half-hour or so, thus greatly disturbing his night’s rest, and preventing his taking part in business or in social functions. If a catheter is passed after he has made water, and, as he supposes, emptied his bladder, the residual urine is drawn off, and varies in amount from two to ten ounces or more. This condition may merge into incontinence, the bladder being continually filled to its utmost, and the overflow escaping in drops from the urethra. The patient states that he cannot hold his water, and is usually quite unaware that his bladder is full. The general health is now affected, the kidneys perform their work under difficulties, there is indigestion and want of appetite—the result of chronic urinary poisoning—and there is a constant risk of septic infection. Hcemo7'rhage may occur at any stage, but is most frequently met with after catheterisation at a time when the prostate is congested. The blood from the engorged mucous membrane