LOCAL ANESTHESIA. 781 operations, by squeezing the heart through the diaphragm. In four out of twenty-five recorded cases the patients recovered. Patients who become blue or cyanosed during anaesthesia do so as a rule from respiratory obstruction. A failing pulse may coexist: in the later stages and in more serious cases it always does. The cyanosis is more marked in the lips, ears, and malar prominences, and there is frequently spasm of the masseter muscle. The first thing to be done is to open the patient’s mouth with a wooden wedge or a gag and pull out the tongue. If this does not clear the air-way, the finger should be swept round the fauces to ascertain if is there is any solid matter lying there. If there is nothing to be found, tracheotomy or laryngotomy should be performed, and artificial respiration carried out by Sylvester’s method. The withdrawal of several ounces of blood by opening the external jugular vein is often beneficial. The term delayed chloroform poisoning has been applied to a condition which occasionally follows the administration of this anaesthetic, particularly in children suffering from acute infective conditions. It is associated with the presence of acetone in the urine—post-ancesthetic acetonuria—and the symptoms, which have hitherto been attributed to delayed shock or sepsis, appear to depend on defective excretion of acetone due to degenerative changes in the epithelium of the kidneys and liver induced by the anaesthetic. Local Anaesthesia . The operations that may suitably be performed under local anaesthesia are those in which the field of operation is com- paratively limited and comparatively superficial, and in which the extent of the dissection can be determined with certainty before the operation is begun. Operations in deeply-seated tissues and on tumours of uncertain extent and attachments are unsuitable for local anaesthesia. It is to be borne in mind that the sensibility of different tissues in the body vairies greatly : the skin, for example, is highly sensitive, the subcutaneous fat, muscles, tendons, and fasciae much less so; periosteum, again, is very sensitive, while bone denuded of its periosteum is for all practical purposes devoid of sensation. Lennander’s observa- tions have shown that while the parietal peritoneum is very sensitive to all forms of stimulation, the visceral peritoneum and most of the abdominal viscera are insensitive. Hence, when for any reason a general anaesthetic is contra-indicated, if the tissues of the abdominal wall and the parietal peritoneum are injected