CHLOROFORM. 775 patients. If the patient is very feeble or collapsed, a pint of saline solution containing an ounce of brandy should be injected into the rectum half an hour before the operation. Milk should not be given before an operation, as it coagulates in the stomach, and if there is vomiting, the solid curd is liable to be drawn into the air-passages. When there is vomiting of the stagnant contents of the stomach or intestine, as in cases of gastric dilata- tion or intestinal obstruction, the stomach should be washed out before giving an anaesthetic. The preliminary administration of one-tliird of a grain of morphin and one-hundredth of a grain of atropin is sometimes of service in operations on the brain or in alcoholic or maniacal patients. In some cases, and especially when the patient is collapsed before operation, from live to ten minims of liquor strychninae injected hypodermically is of service, and this may be repeated if necessary. Before administering an anaesthetic inquiry must be made as to the presence in the mouth of artificial teeth or other loose bodies, such as sweets in the case of children, and pieces of tobacco in male hospital patients, as they are liable to fall back into the throat and cause choking. As a rule, it is advisable to put the patient on the operating table before beginning to administer the anaesthetic, and it is best to place him in the position he is to occupy during the operation, so that it may not be necessary to disturb him after he is amesthetised, as this frequently causes vomiting and allows the patient to come out. During the early stages, the administrator should speak to the patient so as to reassure and encourage him ; and once he is beginning to go under the anaesthetic, the preparation of the part to be operated on may be commenced. It is needless to say that the whole attention of the admin- istrator must be given to the patient. Chloroform.—The anmsthetic properties of chloroform were discovered by James Young Simpson in 1817. Chloroform for anaesthetic purposes is prepared from pure ethyl alcohol or from methyl alcohol. We have found methyl chloroform to be as good in every way as chloroform made from ethyl alcohol. Chloroform may be administered with a napkin or towel, or with a mask covered with lint, which should be put on with the smooth side outwards, and the chloroform is sprinkled on the inside of the mask or towel from a drop-bottle. A space of about half an inch should be allowed to intervene between the mask and the patient’s face to allow free airway, and the chloroform should never be poured on in such quantities as to saturate the