THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 762 a hoematocele. The blood may be effused into a previously healthy or into a chronically inflamed tunica vaginalis, or into a pre-existing hydrocele (Jiydro-hcematocele). Hteniatocele may also develop in association with malignant disease of the testis. The haemorrhage is almost always due to trauma, for example, a blow or kick over the scrotum, a sudden strain or twist, or a punctured wound, as in tapping a hydrocele. In the last instance the bleeding may result from wounding a blood-vessel of the scrotum, tunica vaginalis, or testis. Clinical Features.—The physical signs of a hsematocele resemble in a general way those of hydrocele, but being traumatic in origin the swelling usually develops suddenly. The tunica vaginalis rapidly becomes filled by the extravasated blood, form- ing a tense oval swelling which distends the scrotum and obscures the testis. With the onset of the swelling the patient experiences a sickening pain, but there are no signs of inflammation. The scrotum may become discoloured at once from extravasation taking place into its tissues, or some days later from the deposition of blood pigment. The swelling is at first uniform in outline, soft and fluctuating, but in the course of a few days the blood coagu- lates, and it becomes irregular in shape and consistence. Still later it becomes firm from thickening of its walls by the deposit on them of fibrin and laminated clot. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis is occupied by a dark brown sanious fluid into which project shreddy masses of coagulum. An old standing hematocele may simulate a solid tumour of the testis, and calcareous plates may develop in it's walls. When the haemorrhage occurs into a pre-existing hydrocele, the swelling suddenly becomes larger, firmer, and heavier. Suppuration sometimes occurs either from infection from without, as in tapping a hydrocele, or through the blood- stream. When the haematocele is. of long standing the testis may undergo atrophy. Treatment.—In recent cases the patient should remain in bed, with the scrotum elevated on a pillow placed between the thighs, and evaporating lotions or lead and opium fomentations applied. In the course of a few days the sac should be opened, the clots removed, and the radical cure of hydrocele performed. In old-standing cases the thickened sac should be excised. When suppuration occurs, free -incision and drainage are called for, and if the testis is atrophied its removal is indicated.