THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 586 The walls of the fistula are then scraped with a sharp spoon and sponged over with pure carbolic acid, and the wound packed with iodoform worsted. A careful search is made for any lateral offshoots from the main track, and if found these are opened up and treated in the same way. The wound must be dressed frequently to prevent septic complications, and must be packed so that it heals from the bottom. A blind external fistula, when superficial to the internal sphincter, should be converted into a complete fistula by passing a probe along its track, and forcing it through the mucous membrane at the upper end. The track is then laid freely open and treated in the manner above described. If the fistula passes deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, and approaches the rectum above and outside the internal sphincter, it should not be opened into the rectum, as this would necessitate dividing the internal sphincter. The external sinus should be freely enlarged, purified, and packed. A blind internal fistula, if submucous and below the internal sphincter, is rendered complete and slit up. If the internal opening passes through or above the internal sphincter, the fistula should be rendered complete, but should not be slit up. The external part is opened freely and thoroughly packed in the hope that the internal opening may close. Tuberculous fistulce are treated on the same principle as other forms, provided the general condition of the patient warrants operation. Fistulse between the rectum and other organs.—The most common of these is the recto-vaginal fistula which, in the majority of cases, results from rupture of the perineum, or from prolonged pressure of the foetal head, during labour. Sometimes it is due to syphilitic ulceration or to malignant disease. Gas and faeces escape into the vagina, setting up irritation and a persistent leucorrheal discharge. On digital examination both openings can be felt; they can be seen also through the speculum. The only satisfactory treatment is to pare or split the edges of the fistula, and re-form the septum between the rectum and vagina, or to excise the whole fistulous track and perform perineorraphy. Recto-urethral fistula is almost always met with in men, and is frequently associated with the presence of a stricture of the urethra. It may be produced by injury, such as the making of a false passage, or may follow the bursting of a prostatic or peri-urethral abscess. Less frequently it is due to the spread of malignant disease. It is more common for urine to pass into the rectum than for gas and feces to enter the urethra. On digital