FRACTURE OF THE STERNUM. 295 the back either forwards or backwards. In cases of forcible forward flexion the fracture is sometimes due to impact of the chin against the manubrium. The most common situation of the fracture is at or just below the junction of the manubrium with the body of the bone, and the break may be transverse or slightly oblique. The displacement varies considerably; in the majority of cases the upper fragment passes backwards and is overlapped by the lower; less frequently the opposite occurs (Fig. 80); and in some cases there is no displacement. Clinical Features. — When the fragments are displaced and overlap one another, there is a marked promin- ence on the front of the chest, with extravasation of blood around it, and the projecting edge of the anterior fragment—usually the lower one— can be palpated through the skin. When no displacement exists there may only be a slight staining of the skin from extravasated blood. As movement causes pain, the head and neck are inclined forward and held rigid, and as there is also pain on taking a full breath, the respiration is shallow and rapid. When there is marked displacement, or when exten- sive effusion of blood has taken place into the anterior mediastinum, the respiration may be seriously impeded. By the aid of the stethospope crepitus may be recognised when the patient takes a deep breath. This fracture is usually complicated by injury to the internal organs. In all cases in which it has been produced by forcible bending of the trunk, the possibility of a coexisting fracture of the spine should be borne in mind. The treatment consists in placing the patient at rest in bed with a firm pillow behind the back. When overlapping exists, an attempt should be made to reduce the deformity by bending the patient backward over a rounded object, such as a large firm cushion. If the displaced fragments continue to interfere with Fio. 80.—Oblique Fracture of the Body of the Sternum, with backward and upward Dis- placement of the Lower Frag- ment. Result of forward flexion of the trunk. There was also a compression fracture of the lumbar vertebrae (Fig. 24).