441 INJURIES. turned upwards, and an opening is made in the meso-colon parallel with its blood-vessels, so as to expose the posterior surface of the stomach. A portion of stomach at the lowest part of the greater curvature is selected for the anastomosis and grasped by a clamp. The upper part of the jejunum is then found by passing the fingers along the under surface of the meso-colon immediately to the left of the spine, and the highest available portion of it brought into contact with the stomach and secured in a clamp, in such a way that the loop of bowel selected runs from right to left. An anastomosis is then made between the stomach and jejunum, an ellipse of mucous mem- brane being excised from each viscus. The edges of the opening in the meso-colon are then stitched over the line of junction, so as to bury it and prevent any hernial protrusion through the gap. After being cleansed, the viscera are replaced in the abdomen, and the wound in the parietes closed. When the patient has recovered from the anaesthetic he is propped up in bed with pillows. Operations have been devised by Kocher and by Finney, in which the duodenum is united to the anterior wall of the pyloric portion of the stomach—gastro-duodenostomy. A rare sequel of gastro-enterostomy is the formation of an ulcer—the peptic ulcer of the jejunum—which is usually situated on the efferent loop near to its junction with the stomach, and is apparently due to the acid contents of the stomach being brought into contact with the mucous membrane. Injuries of the Stomach. The stomach may be contused or even ruptured from a severe blow over the epigastrium, without there being any evidence of damage to the abdominal wall. The lesion is usually on the anterior wall near the pylorus. Contusions are important chiefly from the fact that the damaged portion of the stomach wall may subsequently become gangrenous, in which case signs of perforation-peritonitis ensue several days after the injury. In complete rupture, gas escapes into the peritoneal cavity, and the fluid contents of the stomach may also escape and set up perforation-peritonitis. The patient is profoundly collapsed, the pulse small and rapid, and the temperature subnormal. The abdominal muscles are rigid, and the respiration is entirely thoracic. There may be vomiting of unaltered blood, or of blood blackened by digestion. The liver or spleen may be ruptured