ULCER OF THE STOMACH. 445 met with when the ulcer is situated in the pyloric portion or in the pylorus itself, especially in cases in which adhesions have formed between these parts of the stomach and the anterior abdominal wall. The contents of the stomach usually show an abnormally high percentage of free hydrochloric acid. In cases in which there is pyloric obstruction, the stasis of the contents may lead to fermentative changes and the formation of lactic and butyric acids; and sarcinae and yeast granules are sometimes present. In ulcers of long standing—ten to fifteen years—free hydro- chloric acid may no longer be found in the gastric contents, and the differential diagnosis of such cases from cancer may be difficult or impossible. It remains to be said that in a certain number of cases the clinical features are indefinite, and partake of those of chronic dyspepsia. Treatment of Gastric Ulcer.—In the absence of urgent com- plications, medical treatment should be had recourse to in the first instance, the patient being kept in bed for a month or six weeks, and fed at first only by saline injections by the rectum (F. D. Boyd), and then on milk diet. It has been estimated that the proportion of real cures, even after prolonged treatment by diet and rest, is under 25 per cent. (Mayo Robson). If, after a thorough trial of medical measures, the patient is not free from digestive troubles, or if, after a period of freedom from symptoms, there is relapse, recourse should be had to surgical treatment, which results in cure in a proportion of from 80 to 90 per cent., and is attended with a very low mortality. Surgical Treatment.—The measures to be adopted in any individual case cannot be decided on until the abdomen has been opened and the condition of the entii'e stomach investigated. Attention should be directed to the presence of adhesions, of a cicatrix, of a contraction or stenosis of the pylorus, of an hour- glass constriction, of a palpable induration or tumour, and to the amount of dilatation. The position of the ulcer is often shown on the outer aspect of the stomach by a thick milky-white patch, which, in ulcers involving the lesser curvature, is frequently saddle-shaped, the flaps of the saddle extending down the anterior and posterior walls respectively. A small ulcer may sometimes be located by an enlarged “sentinel” gland in the adjacent omentum (Lund). Excision of the Ulcer.—This was first practised by Rydigier in 1881. It is not to be recommended, however, unless the ulcer is favourably situated in an accessible portion of the organ,