THE KIDNEY AND URETER, 628 through a hollow needle, the kidney in its collapsed state is shelled out from its bed and drawn out at the wound; it should then be turned forwards towards the umbilicus so that the ureter, which is found closely applied against the posterior wall of the pelvis, may be inspected. To expose the communication between the pelvis and the ureter, the pelvis must be opened, preferably by incising the convex border of the kidney to an extent that will permit of an inspection of the interior of the pelvis. If there is a valve-like septum between the pelvis and the ureter (Fig. 167), it may be got rid of by the procedure intro- duced by Fenger, in 1892; the valve is divided longitudinally and then stitched at right angles, and a catheter is passed two or three inches down the ureter and retained for a few days. If, on the other hand, the upper end of the ureter is twisted and buried in adhesions, it should be separated from the pelvis and inserted through a fresh opening at the most dependent point of the sac—uretero-pyeloneostomy ; or a lateral anastomosis made between the free portion of the ureter and the dependent portion of the pelvis—uretero-pyelo-anastomosis. If the ureter cannot be found at its exit from the pelvis, it must be exposed lower down and traced upwards. If the pelvis is greatly dilated, it may be reduced in size by folding in its walls by tiers of sutures—pyeloplication (Israel)—or by excising the greater part of the sac (Fenger), in either case endeavouring to bring the orifice of the ureter to the lowest part of the pelvis. Anastomos- ing the pelvis with the bladder has been carried out by Witzel. These operations are only performed if the kidney is still functionally adequate. Drainage of the pelvis through the loin is an essential accompaniment of these plastic operations on the pelvis and ureter. It not only favours the healing of the wound made in the plastic operation, by draining away the urine, but it also gives the relaxed wall of the pelvis a chance of recovering its tone. The fistula usually closes when the drainage tube is removed. In some cases nephrostomy alone is followed by cure of the hydronephrosis, it may be by the mere fixation of the sac to the wound, as in cases of movable kidney, or by restoring the elastic tone of the wall of the pelvis and thus enabling it to overcome any remaining obstacle to the outflow through the ureter. A stone in the pelvis or ureter, or a stricture of the ureter, must be got rid of at the time the kidney and ureter are exposed at the .operation.