TUMOURS OF THE ORBIT. 149 usually occurs at the outer angle of the orbital margin (Fig. 50). A less common situation is the anterior part of the orbit, near the nasal wall, and this variety, from its position and from the fact that it is usually met with in children, is liable to be con- fused with orbital meningocele or encephalocele. Clinical Features. — In children the tumour is usually a glioma, and it is frequently bilateral. It usually occurs below the age of four, is associated with increased intra-ocular tension, protrusion of the eyeball, and dilatation of the pupil, and soon produces blindness. The tumour fungates and bleeds, and rapidly invades adjacent structures and spreads along the optic nerve to the brain. It is highly malignant, and recurrence usually takes place, even when the tumour is removed early. In adults melanotic sarcoma is most common. It occurs between the ages of forty and sixty, and is almost always unilateral; and while it shows little tendency to invade the brain, the adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected, and death usually results from dissemination. In all varieties of intra-orbital tumour exophthalmos is a prominent feature (Fig. 49). The degree and direction of the displacement depend on the position, size, and direction of growth of the tumour. It is seldom directly forward except when the tumour is growing in the optic nerve or its sheath. When the tumour is solid the eye cannot be pressed back into the orbit, but in cystic tumours it may to some extent. When the protrusion of the eyeball is marked the lids become swollen, cedematous, and dusky. The movements of the eyeball are restricted in a varying degree, and ptosis often results from paralysis of the levator palpebrae superioris. In almost all cases there is also more or less visual disturbance. The cornea being unduly exposed is liable to become inflamed, or even ulcerated. Pain is a variable symptom. When present it usually radiates along the branches of the first and second divisions of the trigeminal nerve. Tenderness on pressure is not always present. It is comparatively uncommon for a tumour of the orbit to invade the globe directly. Treatment.—In all cases removal of the tumour is the only method of treatment. In malignant tumours it is often necessary to sacrifice the eye to ensure complete removal. When the tumour has invaded the orbit secondarily, its removal may be impossible, but it may be necessary to excise the eye for the relief of pain. Orbital aneurysms have already been described, vol. i. p. 305.