287 CANCER. nature of the growth. As the glands are not involved the disease can be removed by thyrotomy. Intrinsic cancer may spread over the upper boundaries of the larynx and become extrinsic, or the disease may be extrinsic from the outset. In cases of extrinsic cancer the early symptoms are much more marked, pain and difficulty in swallowing, and the secretion of frothy, blood-stained mucus being among the earliest mani- festations. The cervical glands are infected early, sometimes even before there are any symptoms of laryngeal disease. Difficulty of breathing is also an early symptom on account of the growth obstructing the entrance of air. Tracheotomy may therefore be called for. In other respects the course and terminations are similar to those of intrinsic cancer. When the growth spreads into the tissues of the neck the patient’s sufferings are greatly increased. The oesophagus may be invaded by the disease spreading from the box of the larynx, with resulting dysphagia ; the nerve trunks may be pressed upon, causing intense neuralgic pains; the lymphatic glands become infected and break down, and the growth fungates through the skin. The general health deteriorates and death results, usually from septic pneumonia set up by the passage of food particles into the air-passages, from septic absorption, or from haemorrhage. The duration of this form of the disease varies from one to three years. Treatment of Cancer of the Larynx.—This consists in per- forming a preliminary tracheotomy, and some days later remov- ing the growth—partial or complete laryngectomy. To prevent the entrance of blood into the air-passages the patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, or a Hahn’s trachea-tube, sur- rounded by compressed and dehydrated sponge, is employed. In early and limited forms of intrinsic cancer a partial laryn- gectomy is performed, the thyroid cartilage is split in the middle line—thyrotomy (p. 279)—the infected tissues are removed with the scissors, and the two halves of the thyroid cartilage brought together again by sutures. In more advanced cases the entire larynx must be removed—complete laryngectomy— and at the same time, or after an interval, the associated lymphatic glands are removed from the anterior triangle of the neck on both sides. A vertical incision is carried from the tracheotomy wound to the hyoid bone, and horizontal incisions are carried outwards as far as the sterno-mastoid muscle on either side to enable the soft parts covering the larynx to be reflected. The trachea is exposed and cut across at its junction