439 OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. tinuous Lembert suture circularly round an area of bowel, for example, that around the stump of the appendix, or a perfora- tion, so that when it is tightened the enclosed area is puckered in, and the serous surfaces brought into apposition. Operations on the Stomach. —The operation of gastrotomy, or opening the stomach, is most frequently performed for the removal of foreign bodies from the stomach or lower end of the oesophagus, but may also be performed to allow of the interior of the stomach being explored. The incision is made through the rectus muscle to one side of the middle line above the umbilicus. The stomach having been identified, and its con- tents pressed onwards into the duodenum, the part to be opened is brought out at the wound and the adjacent area of the peri- toneal cavity is packed off with gauze wrung out of hot salt solution. An incision is then made in the anterior wall of the viscus, midway between its curvatures and parallel with the blood-vessels. A finger is inserted and the interior of the stomach explored. The examination of the posterior wall can be facilitated by passing two fingers through a hole made in the gastro-colic omentum and invaginating the posterior wall of the stomach through the wound made in the anterior wall. After the exploration is completed, the wound in the stomach is closed by a continuous suture through all the coats, and a superimposed Lembert suture which does not include the mucous membrane (Fig. 114). Gastrostomy.—The object of this operation is to establish a gastric fistula through which the patient may be fed, for example, in cases of stricture of the oesophagus. To prevent leakage of the stomach contents, and consequent irritation of the skin around the orifice, the operation should be so planned as to make the fistula valvular or tortuous. The operation devised by Witzel yields most satisfactory results. The stomach is exposed, the pyloric portion pulled out of the wound, and an opening just large enough to admit a number 12 English catheter made in the anterior wall about the middle of the pre- senting portion. Through this opening a flexible rubber tube is introduced so that it projects about an inch into the cavity of the viscus, and fixed in position by means of a catgut stitch. What may be called an artificial oesophagus is next made by embedding about two or three inches of the tube in the stomach wall. This is done by raising on each side of the tube a fold of the sero-muscular coats of the stomach, and uniting the two folds by a series of Lembert sutures. The part of the stomach from which the rubber tube emerges is then securely fixed to the