THE INTESTINES. 490 The treatment of intussusception by inflation or irrigation of the colon is not recommended. Chronic Intussusception.—In children chronic intussusception is usually of the ileo-csecal variety. The course of the malady may extend over several months, or may be protracted even for a year. There are occasional attacks of pain and vomiting, the bowels are irregular, and blood may be passed in the stools. The symptoms are sometimes aggravated by the taking of food. Coils of intestine are often to be seen in movement beneath the abdominal wall. A tumour is to be made out in about one-half of the cases, and it may be observed to vary considerably in its position within the abdomen from time to time. It may come down into the rectum and protrude at the anus, and is thus liable to be mistaken for prolapse or polypus. In the early periods of the disease, and in the intervals between attacks of pain, the child may appear to be in fair health. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in the acute form of the disease. In the Adult.—Chronic intussusception of the colon occurring in association with a polypus or cancer of the bowel is the variety most frequently met with in adults, although cases of the acute variety occasionally occur. The new growth usually precedes the invagination, and is found at the apex of the intussus- ceptum. Obstruction due to Impaction of Gall-Stones and other Foreign Bodies in the Lumen of the Bowel.—The most im- portant form in this group is that known as gall-stone ileus. The gall-stone that is likely to cause intestinal obstruction is one that has formed a cast of the gall-bladder, and has made its way into the bowel, not by the ducts, but through a fistulous channel formed by ulceration. In some cases the stone may have increased in size after entering the gut, by the deposit on it of materials derived from the intestinal contents. The stone most frequently ulcerates into the duodenum, but the most common seat of impaction is the lower ileum, where a com- paratively small stone—three-quarters of an inch in diameter —assisted by spasmodic contraction of the circular muscular coat, may block the bowel. Larger stones may become impacted high up in the jejunum. If the stone remains impacted, the mucous membrane is liable to ulcerate and thus favour the spread of infection to the peritoneum ; perforation is exceptional. Clinical Features.—Gall-stone ileus is met with chiefly in women over fifty years of age. The patient has usually suffered from gall-stones, and there may also be a more