448 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. referred to the right iliac fossa, and this may lead to an errone- ous diagnosis of appendicitis. In most cases, after having lasted for a period varying from half an hour to about two hours, this overpowering pain gradually eases off, and the patient experiences a sense of relief, tempered, however, by the feeling that at any moment the suffering may be renewed. The whole abdomen remains tender to touch, and by careful palpation an area in which the tenderness is most marked can generally be delineated, and this is usually found to correspond with the position in which the initial pain was most severe. In the majority of cases even light pressure cannot be borne over the abdomen, the muscles of which are tightly braced up. There is often a remarkable correspondence between the site of the maximum tenderness and the seat of the perforation. When the most tender area is in the left hypochondrium, the perforation is almost invariably towards the cardiac end of the stomach ; when around the umbilicus, in the body of the stomach; and when in the right hypochondrium, near the pyloric end, or in the duodenum. So constant is this association, that it may be relied upon as a guide to the site of incision. The temperature is sub-normal, and the skin is cold and pallid; vomiting is more often absent than present. There is marked rigidity of the abdominal muscles, and the abdomen does not move with respiration. On percussion, a uniform, tense, drum-like note is elicited all over the abdomen, and the area of liver dulness is usually diminished or lost. The severity of the symptoms varies, being least marked when a small perforation is surrounded by adhesions or opens into the lesser sac, and when the stomach is empty at the time of perforation. Period of Reaction.—In the course of one or two hours reaction conies on and the severity of the condition abates. The pain and tenderness are less marked, the pulse improves, the face becomes slightly flushed, and the patient both looks and feels better. So marked may the improvement be that it is sometimes difficult to persuade the patient or the friends that the condition is a serious one. The rigidity and immobility of the abdomen, however, persist, and the pulse becomes progress- ively more rapid and loses in quality. Onset of Symptoms of Peritonitis.—Sooner or later—usually within three or four hours—the apparent improvement ceases, and symptoms of infection of the peritoneum supervene. The pain returns, and, although less severe than at first, is more generalised over the abdomen ; the pulse becomes rapid—120 to