711 CHAPTER XXXV. THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. The Prostate : Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Injuries— Pyogenic affections : Acute prostatitis ; Abscess; Chronic prostatitis ; Prostatorrhcea — Tuberculosis—Enlargement of the prostate — Pro- statism without enlargement—Calculi in the prostate and prostatic urethra—Malignant disease. The Seminal Vesicles: Surgical anatomy—Acute and chronic vesicu- litis—Tuberculosis. Surgical Anatomy.—The prostate gland surrounds the first part of the male urethra (Fig. 187). It has two lateral lobes, and two commissures —the anterior joining the lateral lobes in front of the urethra and the posterior uniting them behind. The prolongation of the posterior commis- sure upward and backward between the ejaculatory ducts is known as the middle or third lobe. The gland tissue is distributed in those parts of the prostate which lie behind and on either side of the urethra, the anterior commissure being almost entirely composed of muscular and fibrous tissue. The fibro-nniscular framework or stroma of the gland is condensed at the periphery to form a strong, laminated envelope known as the cap- sule of the prostate ; it differs from the capsule of the kidney, thyroid, and other organs, in that it cannot be stripped from the gland tissue. Outside the capsule and intimately connected with it is a thin fibrous sheath derived from the recto-vesical layer of the pelvic fascia, and between the layers of the sheath, mainly in front, are lodged the veins of the prostatic plexus. The superior surface of the prostate is uncovered by the pelvic fascia, and is related to that part of the floor of the bladder which surrounds the opening of the urethra, and each lateral surface rests against the fascia covering the levator ani muscle. The posterior surface is in contact with the anterior wall of the rectum, while the anterior surface faces the symphysis pubis. The apex points downwards and is in relation to the posterior layer of the triangular ligament. The prostatic urethra traverses the gland nearer its posterior than its anterior surface, is at first vertical and straight, but below the verumontanum it curves forward. It is about one inch in length, and is narrower below than in its middle portion, which is indeed the widest part of the whole urethral canal. Except while fluid is passing, the mucous membrane of the anterior and posterior walls is in contact; when distended with fluid the middle or widest part has a diameter of about one-third of an inch. The posterior wall or floor of the urethra presents a mesial elevation called the verumontanum, and on either side of this is