630 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. embolism. The organisms may gain access to the circulation through the skin, for example, from a boil or whitlow, or from any other source of septic infection, and there may be an interval of from one to four weeks before the metastasis to the kidney takes place, during which time the initial septic lesion may have healed. iThe infection is usually unilateral, and assumes the form of an abscess in the cortex, and sometimes there is sup- puration outside the kidney. The metastasis to the kidney is attended with symptoms of general infection, fever, disturbance of the digestive functions, pain in the side or loin, and tenderness below the twelfth rib; in course of time a swelling may form in the loin. As soon as the condition is recognised the kidney should be cut down upon and the abscess opened and drained. Acute infective pyelo-nephritis is usually a complication of septic cystitis, and is a frequent cause of death in cases of chronic septic disease in the lower urinary organs. The most striking appearance is that of multiple minute abscesses scattered throughout the cortex and beneath the capsule, and of lines of suppuration in the medulla. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is in a condition of acute catarrh. The lesion may be confined to one kidney, but is usually bilateral, and is then nearly always more advanced on one side than on the other. Clinical Features.—The acute phase of the illness is of sudden onset, and is ushered in by a rigor, which may be repeated ; there is thirst, headache, and constipation; the tongue is dry, coated, and cracked, and the patient goes downhill rapidly. There may be pain and - tenderness over the kidney, but the organ can rarely be palpated. The urine is scanty and turbid, and contains pus, albumin, blood, and tube casts, and, if there has been ante- cedent chronic cystitis, it is usually foul and ammoniacal. If death occurs, it is preceded by coma and other symptoms of uraemia. Treatment is usually confined to the relief of symptoms. The kidneys are flushed by administering diluted milk, Contrexeville and barley water, and urinary decomposition retarded by such drugs as urotropin. It was formerly believed that the condition was always bilateral and beyond relief by surgical means, but Israel has shown that the lesion may be confined to one kidney, and that incision or removal of this organ may be followed by recovery. Pyonephrosis may be defined as that form of suppuration in the kidney and its pelvis which is associated with obstruction