13 SURGICAL ANATOMY. in those groups of muscles on the opposite side of the body which are supplied by the centres implicated (Jacksonian epilepsy). The cortical discharge may overflow into neighbouring centres and cause more widespread convulsive movements, or, if strong and long-continued, may even lead to general convulsions. Contractures may occur in the muscles affected after the spasms cease. If an area of the cortex is destroyed by such a lesion, paralysis is produced on the opposite side of the body, the seat and extent of the paralysis depending upon the area of the cortex destroyed. Lesions situated in the centrum ovale, which destroy the fibres pro- ceeding from the overlying cortex, produce a corresponding paralysis on the opposite side of the body. No irritative phenomena are associated with a lesion limited to this situation. Lesions in the region of the internal capsule often produce complete hemiplegia of the opposite side of the body. When the posterior part of the capsule is involved there are, in addition, hemianajstliesia and hemianopia. A lesion of the crus may in like manner produce hemiplegia and hemiansesthesia of the opposite side, often associated with paralysis of the third nerve of the same side. Lesions of the corpora quadrigemina cause interference with the reaction of the pupil, disturbance of the functions of the oculo-motor nerve, ataxia and inco-ordination of the movements of the limbs. The symptoms produced by lesions of the pons and medulla vary according to the position of the lesion. If it is unilateral, there may be hemiplegia and hemiangesthesia of the opposite side ; if it is situated in the lower part of the pons or in the medulla, there is often also paralysis of one or more of the cranial nerves on the same side as the lesion (crossed paralysis). Paralysis of the external rectus of one eye and of the internal rectus of the other (conjugate paralysis) is a characteristic symptom of pontine lesions. Lesions of the pineal body are associated with the symptoms of acromegaly. A unilateral lesion of the spinal cord causes paralysis and wasting of the muscles supplied from the cord at the level of the lesion, with par- alysis of motion on the same side of the body, and of sensation on the opposite side, below the level of the lesion. Other special Centres.—The cortical centres that are related to the different forms of aphasia are of importance. Thus Broca’s convolution is the seat of the motor speech centre, and lesions of it result in “ motor aphasia.” The auditory speech centre, through which spoken words are appreciated; occupies the posterior part of the first, and probably also of the second, temporo-sphenoidal convolutions. Lesions of this centre produce “word deafness,” that is, the patient is unable to understand spoken words, although he may be able to read, write, and speak intel- ligently. A special centre for the appreciation of written words—the visual speech centre—is located in the angular gyrus, and lesions in this region cause “ word blindness,” a condition in which the patient cannot read words although he may be able to speak, to understand spoken language, and to write. A special centre for writing is supposed to lie in the posterior part of the middle frontal convolution, and “agraphia,” or inability to write, results from its destruction. All the above-mentioned special centres are situated in the left cerebral hemisphere in right-handed people. The half-vision centres, or cortical centres for vision, lie on the median surface of the occipital lobes, in the neighbourhood of the calcarine fissure. Each half-vision centre, for there is one in each occipital lobe,