481 STRANGULATION BY BANDS. Owing to its free mobility and its capacity for forming a knuckle or loop, the small intestine is almost exclusively implicated, and the lower portion of the ileum is the segment most often in- volved. The lesion is usually situated in the lower part of the abdomen because of the frequency with which adhesions and bands form in relation to appendicitis, pelvic peritonitis, and hernial openings, or from a Meckel’s diverticulum. Bands result- ing from tuberculous peritonitis and disease of the mesenteric glands are most frequently situated in the umbilical region. The average length of the strangulated loop is about fifteen inches, and the changes which take place in it are precisely the same as those already described as occurring in strangulated hernia. The peritoneal exudation which takes place into the abdominal cavity is often copious, and in acute cases is blood-stained. Smooth, rounded or slit-like ajiertures, through which a knuckle of bowel may pass and become strangulated, are occasionally met with, chiefly in the mesentery of the lower ileum. These openings may be congenital, or may result from a tear, or from neglect, to stitch up the mesentery after an operation for resection of the bowel. The clinical features associated with strangulation by bands or through apertures closely resemble those of strangulated hernia. Although there is no age limit, the patients are usually between the ages of twenty and forty, and there is often a history of a previous attack of peritonitis or of some other con- dition likely to lead to the formation of adhesions. In the majority of cases the onset of obstruction is sudden and acute, and pain, vomiting, and collapse are the prominent features. Less frequently there is a history of abdominal discomfort or pain, or a previous threatening of obstruction. In these cases, the patient has usually had some pain with trifling vomiting and incomplete constipation for some days before the develop- ment of signs of acute strangulation. On examining the abdomen it is seldom possible to detect any localised swelling caused by the strangulated loop of bowel, or to recognise dulness from effusion of fluid into the peritoneal cavity. Nothing is found as a rule on rectal examination, but in several of our own cases there has been a considerable discharge of blood by the rectum. In this, as in many other forms of intestinal obstruction, a definite diagnosis cannot be made until the abdomen is opened. If, on opening the abdomen, a blood-stained fluid escapes, the inference is that it is a band or a volvulus. If the strangulated bowel is not within easy reach of the wound in the middle line, it can usually be discovered by tracing any loop of collapsed VOL. II—31