DEFORMITIES OF THE NOSE. 223 from the bone ; the bone is then broken into several pieces with necrosis forceps, and the fragments moulded into shape. A rubber drainage tube introduced into each nostril maintains the contour of the nose till union has taken place. When it results from disease, it is much less amenable to treatment. The most satisfactory results hitherto have been obtained by the injection of paraffin. The paraffin, with a melting-point of about 110° F., is slowly injected into the subcutaneous tissue, and while still fluid is moulded to the shape of the nose, care being taken to prevent it passing into the eyelids or on to the cheek. The introduction into the tissues of solid paraffin has proved successful. An artificial bridge has been made by turning down from the forehead a flap, including the periosteum and a shaving of the outer table of the skull. In other cases portions of bone or plates of gold, alu- minium or celluloid have been implanted. Portions of the aim nasi may be lost from injury, or from ulceration such as lupus, syphilis or rodent cancer. After the destructive process has been arrested, the gap may be filled in by a flap taken from the cheek or adjacent part of the nose. When the tip of the nose is lost, it may be replaced by Syme’s operation, which consists in raising flaps from the cheeks and bringing them together in the middle line. The whole of the nose, including the cartilages and bones, may be destroyed by syphilitic ulceration or by lupus. In some parts of India the nose is sometimes cut off maliciously or as a punishment for certain crimes. Numerous operations have been devised for the restoration of the nose, but on account of the tendency of the transplanted tissues to contract and shrivel up, the results are not always satisfactory. In the “ Indian operation ” a racket-shaped flap, including skin and periosteum, is turned down from the fore- head and fixed by sutures to the edges of the gap, which have been previously rawed. Rubber tubes are introduced into the nostrils to support the flap and to enable the patient to breathe through the nose. Plates of bone have been implanted to support the skin flaps and to prevent subsequent contraction. The “ Italian or Tagliacotian operation,” in which a pedicled flap is cut from the front of the forearm and fixed to the nose, has been almost entirely abandoned. When the deformity cannot be corrected by operation, the appearance of the patient may be greatly improved by his wearing an artificial nose held in posi- tion by spectacles. The term Rhinophyma has been applied by Hebra to a