148 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. Clinical Features.—The disease is ushered in by general malaise, rigors, high temperature, and severe pain, which radiates all over the affected side of the head. There is marked ex- ophthalmos and fixation of the globe, with redness, swelling, and tenderness of the eyelids, and congestion and ecchymosis of the conjunctiva. The pupil is usually dilated, the cornea becomes opaque and may ulcerate, and there is photophobia and some- times diplopia. Resolution is rare. The pus that forms burrows in every direction, and may ultimately point through the eyelids or conjunctiva Sometimes the inflammation spreads to the meninges of the brain, or it may set up a septic phlebitis of the oph- thalmic vein, which spreads to the cavernous sinus. The eyeball may be infected and destructive panophthalmitis result. The prognosis is therefore always grave. The treatment consists in making one or more in- cisions into the cellular tissue for the purpose of removing the pus and establishing drainage. A narrow bistoury is passed in parallel to the wall of the orbit, care being taken to avoid injuring the globe. When j^ossible, the incision should be made through the reflection of the conjunctiva, but in some cases efficient drainage can only be established by incising through the lid. When the eye is destroyed by panophthalmitis, the propriety of eviscerating or enucleating it will have to be considered. Tumours of the Orbit.—Tumours may originate in the orbit or may invade it by spreading from adjacent cavities. Those which originate in the orbit may be solid or cystic. Of the solid tumours the glioma and the sarcoma are the most common, and when they originate in the pigmented structures of the globe they present the characters of melanotic growths. Primary carcinoma begins in the lachrymal gland. Osteoma—usually the ivory variety—may originate in the wall of the orbit, or may spread thence from the adjacent sinuses. Of the cystic tumours the dermoid is the most common. It Fig. 50.—Dermoid Cyst at outer angle of orbital margin.