36 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. ment of spastic paralysis of one or more limbs, on one or on both sides of the body, by blindness, deafness, and varying degrees of mental deficiency, or by Jacksonian epilepsy. Treatment.— To obviate these after-effects the clot should be removed by raising an osteo-plastic flap, including nearly the whole of the parietal bone. If care is taken to keep up the body-warmth, and to prevent undue loss of blood, infants bear these operations well (Cushing). Traumatic CEdema.—After severe injuries to the head, just as in inflammatory conditions, it is not uncommon for a diffuse cedematous infiltration of the brain substance or of the arachno- pial membrane to take place in the vicinity of the injured portion of brain. This serous exudation, on account of the natural adhesions of the arachno-pia, usually remains limited to the damaged area, but it may become general. In the former case, in addition to the symptoms of increased intra-cranial tension, there are focal symptoms varying with the site of the lesion. When situated over the motor area, the symptoms may simulate those of middle meningeal haemorrhage, from which it is diagnosed with difficulty. The main points of difference are, that in oedema the unconsciousness and coma are less marked and are not steadily progressive, headache is very severe, and on percussion over the head there is marked tender- ness, which may be elicited even after the patient has ceased to answer questions or to take notice of his surroundings. The tenderness may extend down over the cervical spine. The knee- jerks are usually diminished or absent. The condition is most common in children, and, as it tends to spontaneous cure, opera- tion is seldom called for. If life is threatened, however, the intra-cranial tension should be relieved by trephining. Wounds of the Brain.—Incised wounds of the brain usually result from sabre-cuts, and are met with chiefly in military practice. A portion of the scalp and cranium may be raised along with a slice of brain matter, and in some cases the whole flap is severed. The extent of the injury, the conditions under which it is received, and the occurrence of septic infection, render such wounds extremely dangerous. Punctured ivounds may be inflicted on the vault by stabs with a knife or dagger, or by other sharp objects, such as the spikes of a railing. More frequently a pointed instrument, such as a fencing foil, the end of an umbrella, or a knitting needle, is thrust through the orbit into the base of the brain. Oc- casionally the base of the skull has been perforated through the roof of the pharynx, for example, by the stem of a tobacco-pipe.