GONORRHOEA. 701 there is fever and general illness with enlargement of the uterus, and the discharge is mixed with blood. When the infection has spread to the Fallopian tube, it gives rise to salpingitis and pyosalpinx, and may spread to the peritoneum and set up peritonitis. Chronic affections of the tubes, ovaries, and pelvic peritoneum are liable to ensue, causing prolonged ill-health, pelvic pains, painful menstruation, and sterility. Inflammation of Bartholin's gland is a common complication ; in the posterior part of the labium majus, usually on one side, there appears a tender, hard, clearly-defined swelling about the size of a hazel-nut, together with cedematous swelling of the labium on the same side. When suppuration occurs, the pus usually escapes on the inner surface of the labium, but it may burrow in various directions and form extensive sinuses. Infective material is liable to lodge for an indefinite period in the recesses of the mucous membrane of the cervix, and may thus be the means of imparting gonorrhoea to the male long after all traces of the disease have disappeared from the vulva and urethra. In order to determine this latent infection in women, it is recommended by Neisser that repeated microscopical examinations should be made of the discharge towards the end of the menstrual period; during menstruation, gonococci, if present, are carried to the surface and large numbers of them are cast oft’ in the epithelium of the cervical glands. Another method consists in gently curetting the mucous membrane of the cervix and staining the scrapings for gonococci. Treatment.—The patient is confined to bed and should have frequent sitz baths. Vaginal douches are to be employed \\ ith caution in view of the risk of causing extension of the infection to the uterus. The parts should be swabbed out with cotton- wool moistened with peroxide of hydrogen, and swabs soaked in 1 per cent, protargol placed between the labia. Suppositories containing 1 or 2 per cent, protargol may be inserted into the urethra or into the cervix. If an ab&cess forms in Bartholin’s gland, it should be opened and packed. In the chronic form of gonorrhoea affecting the cervix, the mucous membrane should be curetted, and gauze wrung out of protargol inserted. Vulvo-vaginitis in children is a very common condition, and to establish the gonorrhoeal origin in any given case it is necessary to examine stained films of the discharge; the subject is one of much importance, as charges of criminal assault on young children are by no means uncommon, and they are fre- quently based solely upon the existence of a vaginal discharge.