TUMOURS OF THE SPINAL CORD. 119 is almost entirely confined to females, and the patients are usually of a neurotic type. On rectal examination the coccyx is exceedingly tender, and it is sometimes found to be less movable than normal, and unduly arched forward. When medicinal treatment fails to give relief the coccyx may be excised. Tumours of the Spinal Cord and Membranes.—Tumours may develop in the substance of the cord (intra-medullary), in the membranes (meningeal), or in the tissues between the dura and the bone (extra-dural), or the cord may be pressed upon by a tumour originating in the vertebrae. Tumours growing in the substance of the cord are nearly as common as extra-medullary growths, and as they are usually sarcomata, gliomata, or tuberculomata, and infiltrate the cord, they are seldom capable of being removed by operation. The great majority of meningeal tumours are primary sarcomata, and in about 25 per cent, of cases they are multiple. Hydatid cysts and fibromata are also met with in this situa- tion, and they too may be multiple. Extra-dural growths are comparatively rare. The forms usually met with are sarcoma and lipoma. These extra-medullary tumours seldom infiltrate the cord; they simply compress it, and are therefore amenable to operative treatment if dealt with before secondary changes are produced in the cord. It is seldom possible to diagnose the nature of a tumour before operation, and it is often difficult to determine in which of the above situations it is growing. The symptoms vary according as the tumour presses on the nerve-roots, on one-half, or on both halves of the cord. Pressure on the nerve-roots gives rise to pain, which, according to the level of the tumour, passes round the trunk (girdle-pain), or shoots along the main nerve trunks of the upper or lower limbs. When the cord is pressed upon, intense neuralgic pain related to the segment first involved is one of the earliest symptoms, particularly in extra-medullary tumours. The pain is at first unilateral, but later becomes bilateral—a point of importance in diagnosis. The painful areas are at first hypersesthetic, but as the pressure increases this gives place to anaesthesia reaching to the level of the lesion. In intra-medullary tumours the pain is less severe and is seldom an initial symptom. The next symptom to appear is motor paresis, followed by complete paralysis, and later by contracture of the paralysed muscles—spastic paraplegia. In intra-medullary tumours the paraplegia is usually less complete than in those that are extra-