338 THE BREAST. Bilateral carcinoma sometimes occurs. As a rule, one breast is attacked some time after the other, probably as a result of direct spread across the middle line by way of the lymphatics. Course and Terminations.—If left untreated, the tumour infiltrates the skin, and may ulcerate through it, forming an irregular, excavated ulcer with an indurated base and raised and everted edges—the crateriform ulcer. The discharge from such an ulcer is thin and watery, and may become foetid and offensive. At the same time the tumour invades the retro- mammary fat and becomes adherent to the pectoral fascia and muscles of the chest wall, producing the characteristic fixation of the breast. Occasionally a tumour develops in the opposite breast. Numerous cancerous nodules may appear in the skin, and spread till they form a hard, brawny patch, which may involve a large area of the chest wall, rendering it leathery and rigid—cancer en cuirasse. The disease may spread to the anterior mediastinum, either directly through the chest wall or by way of lymphatics. Metastatic deposits may occur in different parts of the body, the spread taking place either through the lymphatic system or, as Goldmann has shown, by direct invasion of the veins in the neighbourhood of the tumour. Metastatic growths seldom occur within two years of the mammary tumour first being noticed. The organs most fre- quently invaded are the liver, the pleura, the lungs, the stomach, and the bones — particularly the vertebras and sternum, the humerus and femur. The advanced stages of the disease are attended with severe pain, in marked contrast to the painlessness of the early stages, and the patient loses sleep. She presents the so-called cancerous cachexia, becoming emaciated, worn, feeble and anxious, with dry, yellow or earthy-coloured skin. Death usually takes place from pain and want of sleep. When the tumour has ulcerated, septic absorption occurs and may hasten the patient’s end. Sometimes the fatal issue is determined by a metastatic growth occurring in a vital organ. Atrophic Scirrhus.—This form of cancer is usually met with in patients beyond the age of sixty-five. It is characterised by its extreme hardness, the slowness of its growth, and the long course the disease may run—the patient in some cases living as long as fifteen or twenty years after the appearance of the tumour. It may occur as a single small nodule in the substance of the breast, or may affect the whole of the gland. The nipple is usually deeply retracted, and, in the diffuse variety, the breast forms a small, hard, projecting lump firmly fixed to the chest