STONE IN THE KIDNEY. 633 ascending infections it must be directed towards the disease in the lower urinary organs as well as towards the kidney. So far as the kidney is concerned the surgical treatment resolves itself into nephrotomy or nephrectomy. Nephrotomy is indicated in cases of pyonephrosis in which there is a prospect of re-establishing the outflow through the ureter, and in which all the cavities in the kidney can be opened up and drained without destroying the functions of the organ. Nephrectomy is indicated in more severe cases, especially when there is irremediable obstruction in the ureter, and when there is suppuration around the kidney, which can only be properly dealt with after removal of the organ. Nephrectomy is per- formed by the lumbar route, and the divided ureter should be brought out at the wound. Stone in the Kidney and Ureter—Calculous Diseases— N EPHRO-LITHIASIS. We are here concerned only with the formation of a stone in a kidney which was previously healthy, that following on disease of the kidney—secondary stone—is referred to under the different affections in which it occurs. General Characters of Urinary Calculi.—A stone consists of solid urinary constituents held together by an organic basis of an albuminous nature, possibly derived from epithelium which has been shed as a result of catarrhal processes. A stone com- posed of uric acid or urates is yellowish-brown in colour, of hard consistence, and has a smooth or morocco-leather-like surface; on section it is homogeneous or concentrically laminated. Such stones are frequently multiple, and may attain a large size. The oxalate of lime calculus is dark brown or black from admixture with blood pigment; it is very heavy and densely hard; the surface is rough, tuberculated, or beset with sharp projections, and on section shows a wavy lamination. It is of very slow formation and is usually solitary. The phosphatic stone is composed of the triple phosphates and carbonates of lime and magnesia; it is usually of a white or dirty grey colour, is light and porous, rough on the surface, and friable, and it may attain a considerable size. Its formation is frequently attended with'alkaline decomposition of the urine. Other varieties of stone are rare, but mention may be made of the cystin calculus, which is white or yellowish, soft and friable, and on section presents a resemblance to wax. The chemical