739 IMPERFECTLY DESCENDED TESTIS. to push it back into the abdomen or down into the scrotum. It is usually smaller and softer than normal, and testicular sensation is present. In some cases the chief complaint is of neuralgic pain referred to the line of the cord; and sometimes there are attacks of severe pain probably associated with a partial torsion of the cord. In the majority of cases the gland is functionless, its secreting elements not having developed. It has been shown experimentally by Griffiths that the testes do not develop per- fectly unless they descend into the scrotum—hence the importance of treating these conditions in early life. A number of cases are on record, however, in which the testes, although undescended, attained their full functional development, and the patient was able to procreate — a point which may have an important medico-legal bearing. So long as one testis is fully developed and normally placed, the patient preserves his masculine char- acteristics and retains his sexual power, but when both glands are imperfectly developed, there is usually marked interference with the physical growth and mental vigour. The patient may acquire certain feminine peculiarities, such as absence of hair on the face, enlargement of the breasts, plumpness of the figure, and sometimes a thin contralto voice. In addition he is usually impotent as well as sterile. These changes are probably due to the want of the “internal secretion” of the testis, which is believed to be essential to full and perfect development. Complications.—The most important complications are con- genital hernia, congenital hydrocele, and torsion of the cord. These conditions are described elsewhere. An abnormally situated testis may become acutely inflamed, for example, as a result of infection from the urethra in gonorrhoea, and in the case of a testis retained in the abdomen the inflammation may spread to the peritoneum. When acute inflammation attacks a testis arrested in the inguinal canal, the condition may closely simulate a strangulated hernia. Consider- able swelling of the gland, attended with oedema of the overlying skin, and great pain, is liable to result from a blow or twist, or from repeated irritation from pressure caused by the contraction of the abdominal muscles. It is believed by some that abnor- mally placed testes are prone to become the seat of malignant disease in adult life, but the evidence on this point is conflicting. Treatment.—The treatment depends upon the position of the gland, the length of the cord, whether the condition is unilateral or bilateral, and the presence of complications such as hernia, hydrocele, or inflammation. When the testis is arrested in its progress along the inguinal