700 THE URETHRA. of the urethra, such as a raw or granular spot seen with the endoscope. The treatment of gleet is one of the most difficult problems that the practitioner has to deal with. The general health must be improved in every possible way and the mental attitude of the patient towards the affection must be combated. As the condition usually depends upon chronic catarrh of the follicles of the prostate, marked benefit is usually derived from massage of the -prostate, and this should be repeated once or twice a week. When definite lesions are found in the urethra on examination with the endoscope, they may be treated by direct applications. The method of instillation of the posterior urethra, introduced by Guyon, is that generally employed. The instru- ments necessary are a soft rubber catheter and a small graduated syringe. One should aim at placing the eye of the catheter just at the apex of the prostate. If the catheter is cut so that it measures eight and a half inches, when it is passed down the urethra until only an inch protrudes from the meatus, its eye will be at the level of the apex of the prostate, and on pressing the piston, the fluid will readily pass into the prostatic urethra. The injection is repeated daily or two or three times a week. The agents usually employed are per- manganate of potash (1-1000), or nitrate of silver (1-10,000). The same measures may be employed when there is chronic gonorrhoea involving the bulbous portion of the urethra; or direct applications may be made to this portion with the aid of the endoscope, nitrate of silver being employed, beginning with a solution of 1-2000, and gradually increasing the strength to 1 per cent. Raw granular patches in the anterior urethra may be swabbed with nitrate of silver through the endoscope. Gonorrhoea in the female is met with in children as well as in adults, and assumes the characters of an acute vulvitis and urethritis. The infection may spread to the mucous membrane of the cervix, of the uterus, and of the Fallopian tubes. Vaginitis due solely to the gonococcus is extremely rare except in children and young girls. The patient complains of a sense of heat and burning about the genitals, profuse, purulent discharge, and of irritation and scalding on micturition; the mucous membrane of the vulva is infiltrated, reddened, and eroded, and there is oedema of the labia. If the bladder has not recently been emptied, pus can be milked from the urethra. When the cervix is affected, pus escapes from the external os, and, when the mucous membrane of the uterus also is involved,