346 THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. the abdominal wall to one or other side of the middle line. The respiratory movements of the abdomen are arrested ; the body is bent forwards and the patient is aware that something has given way. There is no ecchymosis. Palpation is painful, the most tender spot being over the seat of rupture, and there is a sharply defined swelling with its long axis directed transversely. It is rarely possible to feel any gap between the ends of the muscle because of the resistance of the sheath overlying the rupture. To relax the ruptured muscle, and to enable its ends to be approximated, the shoulders are raised on pillows, and the thighs flexed on the abdomen ; if this fails, the ends may be exposed by operation and sutured. When the patient begins to go about he should wear a bandage or belt to prevent the forma- tion of a ventral hernia. Subcutaneous Injuries of the Abdominal Viscera.— Injury to the viscera most often results from violence inflicted with a blunt object applied at right angles to the abdominal wall, as by a kick, the passage of a wheel across the body, a crush between buffers, or a fall against a projecting object. The small intestine, and to a less extent the pancreas, are especially liable to suffer in such accidents, through being nipped between the impinging object and the bodies of the vertebrae. Visceral injuries may also result from acute flexion of the trunk, as when a person is seated, and a heavy weight falls, on his shoulders, compressing the contents of the abdomen. Those which result from falls from a height are usually immediately fatal and are therefore chiefly of medico-legal interest. Certain parts of the intestine are specially exposed to injury ; some from their situation, for example, the centrally placed coils of small intestine; others from the way in which they are attached, for example, the duodeno-jejunal junction, where the peritoneum fixes the duodenum to the posterior abdominal wall, while the jejunum is freely movable in virtue of its mesentery. Distension of a hollow organ such as the bladder or stomach renders it more liable to rupture. Certain diseases also, for example, ulcer of the stomach or malarial enlargement of the spleen, predispose to rupture of these organs. A viscus may be merely contused or it may be ruptured, llupture of the liver, spleen, mesentery or omentum is attended with serious liEemorrhage and may prove fatal from loss of blood. In hollow organs such as the stomach, intestine or urinary bladder, a distinction may be made between complete and incomplete rupture; in the former all the coats are torn