560 UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. pelvis with pus from the tube, and, if this should occur, a drain must be introduced through the vagina, after which the abdominal wound is closed. Extra-uterine or Ectopic Gestation.—When an impreg- nated ovum becomes implanted elsewhere than in the cavity of the uterus, the condition is spoken of as an extra-uterine or ectopic gestation. It is only necessary here to refer to that variety in which the site of implantation is the Fallopian tube— tubal gestation—as the abdominal and ovarian forms are ex- tremely rare. The middle or ampullary portion of the tube is the most common situation in which the ovum becomes arrested. The ovum becomes embedded in the mucous membrane, and at first the walls of the tube are swollen, vascular, and turgid, but after the sixth week they gradually become thinned out until the affected portion of the tube is represented by a delicate, transparent sac. The foetal membranes develop at the site of implantation in very much the same way as in an ordinary intra-uterine pregnancy. The uterus increases in size, and a thick, soft, decidual membrane develops in its interior. The ovum is liable to various accidents during the process of its development. If situated towards the fimbriated end of the tube, it may easily be extruded into the peritoneal cavity—tubal abortion—and this may be accompanied by severe and even fatal luemorrhage. More-frequently the ovum dies in the tube and persists as a tubal mole, which consists of a small amniotic cavity in which the foetus lies surrounded by blood-clot enclosed within the chorion. The formation of a tubal mole is associated with repeated luemorrhages into the peritoneal cavity through the abdominal ostium, which leads to the formation of an intra- peritoneal haematocele. At the same time blood escapes from the separated ovum through the uterus and gives rise to irregular vaginal haemorrhage. Tubal moles are the most frequent termination of ectopic pregnancy. In other instances rupture of the tubal sac occurs generally before the fourteenth week; this may take place directly into the peritoneal cavity and lead to rapidly fatal haemorrhage, or between the layers of the broad ligament, in which case the haemorrhage is less copious. The ovum usually perishes when rupture occurs, and ulti- mately is absorbed and gives rise to no trouble. It may continue to grow to full time, when spurious labour occurs, with subsequent death of the foetus, after which its tissues may become impreg- nated with lime salts (lithopcedion), or be converted into adipocere (lipopcedion). The introduction of septic infection leads to the formation of a pelvic abscess, which may burst externally, or