194 THE TONGUE. of tlie mouth. It consists in carrying an incision in the middle line through the lower lip, over the chin, and down to the hyoid bone. The symphysis of the lower jaw is then divided by means of a Gigli’s saw passed between the incisor teeth, and the tongue separated from the alveolar process on each side. The anterior pillars of the fauces having been divided, the muscles inserted into the genioid tubercles are separated from the bone, and the diseased tissue dissected up from the floor of the mouth. The tongue is then divided transversely well beyond the disease, the lingual arteries being secured if possible before being cut. The two halves of the jaw are then wired and the soft parts sutured. If, as not infrequently happens, the growth is adherent to the symphysis, this portion of the bone must also be removed. In all these operations, before putting the patient back to bed a loop of silk-worm gut should be passed through the stump of the .^tongue to prevent it falling back and obstructing the respiration. The after-treatment consists in keejring the mouth sweet by spraying it frequently with peroxide of hydrogen and washing it out with Condy’s fluid or other antiseptic lotion. The patient is fed with nourishing fluid food through a tube attached to a feeding cup. It is of great importance to allow him to sit up, and to get him out of bed, as early as possible. The great risk after operation is septic pneumonia from the inhaling of blood and septic products. Hence the importance of keeping the mouth as dry and as sweet as possible. The patient is usually able to be out of bed on the fourth or fifth day, and is well in a fortnight or three weeks. The operation, even when followed by recurrence, usually prolongs life by six or eight months, and renders the patient more comfortable by removing the foul ulcer from the mouth. When recurrence takes place it is usually in the glands, and may be attended with great suffering. Treatment of Inoperable Cases.—The mouth must be kept as sweet as possible. The pain may be relieved to some extent by cocain or orthoform, but as a rule the free administration of morphin is called for. Pain shooting up to the ear may be relieved by resection of the lingual nerve. If haemorrhage takes place from the ulcerated surface and cannot be controlled by adrenalin, or other local styptics, it may be necessary to ligate the lingual, or even the external carotid artery. Interference with respiration may necessitate tracheotomy. When the patient has difficulty in taking food recourse should be had to the use of the stomach tube or to gastrostomy.