INJURIES. 621 by a clot, or has been torn from the kidney. If the bladder contains urine, the blood mixes with it, and the patient soon experiences a desire to micturate, and what is passed is seen to be tinged with blood or to resemble pure blood. If the bladder is empty, the blood accumulates and coagulates in its interior, so that when the patient desires to urinate he is unable to pass anything, or passes only a few clots, in spite of severe and painful straining. In severe injuries the haemorrhage may be very profuse; it aggravates the shock and causes increasing blood- lessness which may terminate fatally. In cases which recover, the haematuria lasts for from two to five days. Later or recur- rent hsematuria is due to the breaking down of clots in the kidney either as a result of admixture of urine or of septic changes. Swelling in the loin, due to perirenal extravasation of blood or.of blood and urine, is present in most cases in which the kidney is actually ruptured; it is diffused over the loin, is hard, fixed, and very sensitive. If the capsule remains intact, it may become distended with blood, causing an increase in the size of the kidney, and forming a circumscribed, rounded, and mobile swelling which may be palpated and moved on bimanual exami- nation. If the peritoneum is torn, the blood and urine pour into the peritoneal cavity, giving rise to increasing dulness in the dependent parts of the belly, and death usually results from shock or from septic peritonitis. Uraemia from diminution or suppression of the urinary secre- tion is a rare complication and is due to direct interference with the injured kidney. After the first forty-eight hours, septic changes may occur affecting the kidney itself, or more frequently the blood and urine extravasated into the perirenal tissues. These changes are attended with rigors and irregular fever, sweating, increased size and greater tenderness of the swelling; the urine is diminished in amount and usually contains pus. When septic infection occurs early, the perirenal suppuration assumes the character of a diffuse suppurative cellulitis ; when it occurs later, suppuration is encysted by the reaction of the surrounding tissues, constitut- ing a localised abscess. When the bladder is full of blood-clots undergoing decomposition, septic infection is liable to spread up from the bladder to the opposite kidney. Treatment.—In cases seen soon after the injury, attention is directed to the relief of urgent symptoms—pain, shock, and haemorrhage. In slight cases the patient is merely confined to bed, and a large mass of wool is retained over the loin by a