766 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. of the penis and covered with a thick pad of cotton-wool. A narrow elastic bandage is then evenly and firmly applied, and the penis supported in a vertical position. In the course of ten or fifteen minutes the glans is thoroughly lubricated with vaseline, and the penis grasped between the index and middle fingers of both hands, while steady pressure is made on the glans with both thumbs. With a little manipulation reduction is usually readily effected. If these measures fail, so long as the vitality of the parts is not threatened, nothing more should be done. In many cases the swelling disappears, and the prepuce remains permanently retracted,—a condition resembling that produced by circumcision. In cases which are not seen until the constriction has lasted for some days and the vitality of the congested parts is threatened, it is necessary to divide the constricting band on the dorsum of the penis, and leave things to settle down, after which circumcision may be performed. Other malformations of the penis are occasionally met with, such as total absence, double penis, inclusion of the penis in a web of skin w'hich binds it to the front of the scrotum, epispadias and hypospadias. Injuries. — Injuries of the penis are comparatively rare. The erectile tissue is sometimes lacerated as a result of forcible bending of the penis while in a state of erection. In slight cases there is a localised area of swelling and discoloration due to extravasation of blood, or a haematoma may form in the tissues. As a rule the extravasated blood is reabsorbed and recovery is complete. In severe cases the whole thickness of the organ may be involved — “fracture of the penis." The extravasated blood infiltrates the whole of the penis and may spread to the scrotum, the parts assuming a deep purple or black colour and becoming greatly swollen—an appearance which is very alarming to the patient. Repair takes place by the forma- tion of a scar in the corpus spongiosum, which may subsequently cause deviation of the penis during erection ; or, if the cicatricial tissue involves the whole thickness of the organ, erection is incomplete, the distal portion of the penis remaining flaccid while the proximal part becomes engorged. The only treatment available consists in supporting the parts and applying gentle elastic pressure. Incised wounds are met with chiefly as a result of attempts at self-mutilation; they are attended with severe haemor- rhage, and, if the urethra is implicated, may be followed by the formation of a stricture and a urinary fistula. Treatment is directed towards arresting the bleeding and restoring the