330 THE BREAST. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the affected glands. Actinomycosis has occasionally been met with in the breast. Clinically it closely simulates tuberculous disease. The diagnosis is made by finding the ray fungus in the discharge. Excision of the whole mamma is the best line of treatment. Neuralgia of the breast or mastodynia is a condition usually met with in neurotic young women, who suffer at the same time from disturbances of the generative organs. The pain, which is usually worst during the menstrual period, is described by the patient as being very severe, and of a burning or shooting character. As a rule it affects only one breast, and this is excessively tender even to the gentlest touch. In the majority of cases no local cause for the pain can be discovered. In others, however, it appears to be associated with the presence in the breast of an area of chronic mastitis, a small cyst, or a sub- cutaneous neuro - fibroma. When any such definite cause is discovered, it should be removed. When no local abnormality is present, the patient should be reassured that the condition is not cancerous—a point on which she is usually extremely anxious —and the general health should be improved by tonics and change of air and scene. Any pelvic disorder that may be present must also be corrected. Locally, a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage should be applied to prevent handling of the breast. - Cysts. Multiple cystic disease, which is so often associated with chronic lobular mastitis, and cystic degeneration of new growths are described elsewhere. Of the cysts which form apart from these conditions, the most important are galactoceles, involution cysts, and hydatid cysts. A galactocele is a retention cyst formed by dilatation of one of the main ducts or lacteal sinuses, which has become occluded by cicatricial contraction in or around its walls. The contents consist of the constituents of milk variously altered, and may be fluid or semi-solid. The cyst, which is usually single, forms near the areola usually during lactation or pregnancy, and increases rapidly, forming a smooth, rounded, or oval swelling, which varies in size from a cherry to a Tangerine orange. The consistence of the swelling varies with the contents, but it is usually soft and elastic. When lactation ceases the swelling may disappear, but