106 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. with angular deformity, but rather with a wide backward curvature, which corresponds in extent to the number of vertebrae affected. The accumulation of tuberculous pus under the periosteum and anterior common ligament of the spine is the first stage in the formation of the large abscesses with which this form of spinal tuberculosis is so commonly associated. Effects on the Spinal Cord and Nerve-roots.—In some cases the cord and nerve-roots are pressed upon by an oedematous swelling of the mem- branes ; in others, the tuberculous pro- cess attacks the dura mater, and gives rise to the formation of granulation tissue on its outer aspect—tuberculous pachy- meningitis. Less frequently a collection of pus forms between the bone and the dura, and presses the cord back against the laminae. The cord is never sub- jected to pressure as a result of curving of the spine alone, but occasionally a sequestrum becomes displaced backward and exerts pressure on it, and it some- times happens that the cord is nipped by sudden displacement of diseased vertebrae—a condition which is compar- able to a fracture-dislocation of the spine. The severity of the symptoms is aggravated by the occurrence of inflam- mation of the cord—myelitis—which is not due to tuberculous disease of the cord, but to interference with its blood- supply from the associated meningitis. Repair.—When the progress of the disease is arrested, the natural cure of the condition is brought about by the bodies of the affected vertebrae becoming fused by osseous ankylosis (Fig. 28). process is progressing, the cicatricial Fig. 28.—Osseous Ankylosis of Bodies of Dorsal Verte- brae following Pott’s Dis- ease. There is marked kyphosis at the seat of the disease and compensatory lordosis above and below. (Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) While this reparative contraction renders the angular deformity more acute, and it may go on increasing until the bones are completely consolidated. An increase in the projection in the back, therefore, is not necessarily an unfavourable symptom. In rare cases the 'disease affects only the articular or the