724 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. the attack is tided over■ if, on the other hand, the urine is septic, it is advisable to open the bladder above the pubes under a local anaesthetic, a drainage tube being inserted and connected with a suction apparatus. In some cases the supra-pubic wound may be kept permanently open, a full-sized rubber catheter, No. 16 or 18, being fixed in position and fitted with a stopcock. This may enable the patient to go about in comfort, and he may acquire a satisfactory control over the urine. A per- manent supra-pubic opening for this purpose was first advocated by Annandale; and the formation of a perineal opening by Reginald Harrison. Haemorrhage resulting from congestion of the enlarged prostate is often beneficial, but, if it persists, recourse should be had to hot baths and full doses of ergot. If these measures fail, a full- sized catheter should be passed and tied in for a few days. Con- siderable difficulty may arise in such cases from the accumulation of blood-clots in the bladder. If these are not got rid of by irrigating through the catheter with saline solution, it may be necessary to use the litholapaxy eva'cuator or to open the bladder above the pubes. Cystitis, in mild degree, is an almost constant accompani- ment of the continued use of a catheter by the patient, and it should be counteracted as far as possible by the usual antiseptic measures. In more severe cases it may be necessary to drain the bladder continuously through a catheter connected with a suction apparatus, or to open the bladder above the pubes. When the infective element has been subdued, the question of radical operation may be considered. Stone as an accompaniment of enlarged prostate, as has already been mentioned, is an indication for the supra-pubic operation. Gangrene of a moist type may attack the urethra, penis, and scrotum, and may call for prompt operative interference. Castration for Enlarged Prostate.—Influenced by the fact that removal of the testes is followed by atrophy of the normal prostate, Ramm and White some years ago recommended castration as a method of treatment in enlargement of the organ. The operation was performed in a sufficient number of cases to demonstrate that the results were remarkably successful in causing the disappearance of the enlargement of the prostate, but, as castration does not necessarily restore the functions of the bladder, and may be followed by psychical disturbances, it has been abandoned. Prostatism without Enlargement of the Prostate.—The occurrence of symptoms similar to those of enlarged prostate