TUBERCULOSIS OF THE TESTIS. 747 until the whole of the epididymis is destroyed and replaced by an irregular caseous mass. When the disease spreads to the body of the testis the nodules form first at the hilum, and spread in lines which radiate into the substance of the gland. These nodules also caseate and the testis is destroyed. The vas deferens may be thickened and infiltrated with tubercle throughout its whole length, but as a rule the disease is limited to its two extremities ; the seminal vesicle also is liable to be invaded, becoming enlarged, nodular, and thickened. There is often a moderate effusion of fluid into the tunica vaginalis, and, as adhesions are frequently present, the resulting hydrocele. may be multilocular. As the disease progresses the softened parts form adhesions with the tunica vaginalis, the scrotal tissues, and finally with the skin, which eventually gives way, and from the sinuses which form there escapes first a thick curdy debris, and later a thin yellow sero- purulent fluid. As the epididy- mis is the most common seat of disease, these tuberculous sinuses are usually situated on the lower and back parts of the scrotum. When they are met with on the front and upper parts of the scrotum, it usually indicates that the disease affects chiefly the body of the testis. Sometimes a considerable area of the skin of the scrotum is destroyed, and the testis, covered with granulations, projects through the gap, constituting one form of fungus testis. The destructive process may become arrested at any stage, but as a rule it progresses until the testis is completely dis- organised, and the disease may spread to other parts of the genito- urinary system, or general tuberculosis may ensue. Clinical Features.—The disease is most commonly met with between the ages of twenty and thirty. The patient’s attention is first attracted to a small, firm nodule, generally towards the back or lower end of the testicle, but as this is not painful it is Fig. 197.—Tuberculous disease of Epididymis, Testis, and Cord.