172 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. spread in the various directions already indicated. Sometimes a tumour, which appears to have its seat in the upper jaw, is really a downward prolongation of a growth originating in the base of the skull. In all cases the tumour tends to infiltrate the surrounding tissues indiscriminately. There is severe pain referred to the distribution of the second division of the fifth nerve. Hsemorrhage is liable to occur when exposed portions of the tumour ulcerate —for example, in the nasal fossae. Sarcomata are to be distin- guished from the solid and cystic forms of odontoma, which also may distend the bone, bulging the hard palate and projecting on the face (Fig. 57). Carcinoma. — This occurs in the upper jaw in two forms: the columnar or acinous epithe- lioma, which originates in the glandular structures of the mucous membrane of the ant- rum or of the nasal cavities, and forms a soft, rapidly- growing tumour, which tends to invade its surroundings, and to expand the bone and project on the cheek. The squamous epithelioma, which usually originates in the muc- ous membrane of the alveolus or palate, or which may spread to the iaw from the lips or face, has already been described (pp. 152, 157). ... Treatment of Malignant Disease.—The only treatment is com- plete removal, and in most cases this involves excision of the whole of the upper jaw. When the growth has trespassed the limits of the superior maxillary bone the operation is contra- indicated. In general terms it may be said that the cases favourable for operation are those in which the tumour is of slow growth, hard, well defined, limited to the upper jaw, and with the skin still movable over it (Jacobson). The operation consists in reflecting the cheek outward by an incision carried through the middle of the upper lip, round the ala, along the side of the nose to the inner angle of the eye, Fig. 56.—Sarcoma of the Upper Jaw involving sphenoid, ethmoid, and right superior maxilla, and projecting into the right orbit and nose, forming prominent tumour in the situation of the antrum on the right side. (Anatomical Museum, University of Edinburgh.)