522 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. immediately to the right of the gall-bladder; it forms a smooth, painless, elastic tumour, sometimes freely movable, sometimes fixed by adhesions. It is very commonly associated with the presence of gall-stones. It has been mistaken for a movable kidney. The deformity of the liver due to tight-lacing consists in a portion of the right lobe being segmented off from the rest, to which it remains connected by a bridge of variable thickness. The constricted lobe appears to be separate from the rest of the organ and acquires a mobility independent of it, and as it becomes thickened, and its lower margin rounded, it may closely simulate a floating kidney. For examination the patient should be placed on her left side • the abnormal lobe sinks towards the middle line, and the fingers may then pass between it and the kidney. The deformity is rarely attended by definite symptoms. If such are present, and are not relieved by a supporting belt, the segmented portion may be fixed to the parietes by suture, or it may be removed. Hepatoptosis—Prolapse of the Liver.—The liver is held in position by the vena cava, by the suspensory ligaments, and by the intra-abclominal pressure. When the ligaments are stretched and the abdominal muscles have lost their tone, the organ descends to a lower level in the abdomen. The posterior part remains fixed by the vena cava, while the anterior moves down- wards through part of a circle, so that the upper convex surface becomes anterior; the right lobe becomes flattened from before backwards, and in many cases there is a deep transverse furrow across the anterior surface, in which the peritoneum is thick and of an opaque white colour. If freely movable and capable of being replaced in its normal situation, it is described as a wandering liver ■ if fixed by adhesions in its new situation, it is said to be dislocated. Prolapse of the liver is often associated with the descent of other abdominal organs, especially the right kidney, the stomach, and the intestine—a condition to which the terms splanchnop- tosis or Glenard’s disease is applied. Clinical Features.—A tumour having the physical characters of the liver is found in the middle or lower part of the abdomen, and the normal liver dulness is replaced by resonance. There may be no subjective symptoms, and the condition is only discovered accidentally; or there may be complaint of pain and a feeling of weight in the right hypochondrium, aggravated by exertion, and relieved by lying down. In some cases the symptoms simulate those due to gall-stones. ■ Neurasthenia may be the most prominent feature in the case.