382 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. female better to withstand the attacks of bacteria. The infective process usually occurs in those who are apparently in good health, although in some cases it may follow upon constipation, an antecedent catarrh of the bowel, or on some general blood infection, such as influenza. The influence of cold, injury, excessive exertion, especially that entailing use of the psoas muscle, sometimes assigned as causes of appendicitis, are rather to be regarded as factors which may light up an acute inflamma- tion in an appendix which is already diseased. Certain families show a predisposition to appendicitis, which is probably due to some inherited structural peculiarity of the appendix and diminished resistance to infection. Whatever be the explana- tion, there is no doubt of the fact that the disease has increased in frequency within recent years. Clinical Features.—It should be stated at the outset that it is not always possible to co-relate the various clinical mani- festations of appendicitis with the different pathological lesions above described. The following description refers to a moderately severe, first attack of appendicitis in an adolescent, when the appendix is in its usual situation at the inner side of the caecum, and overlapped by coils of small intestine. The usual history is that the patient experiences a sudden, severe, griping or colicky pain in the abdomen, usually referred at first to the umbilicus. Within three or four hours of the onset of pain there is nausea and vomiting, and after the stomach has been emptied, the nausea passes off. There is some general sensitiveness of the abdomen, and although there is no general rigidity, the muscular fibres directly over the inflamed area may be spasmodically contracted and form a swelling, which is liable to be mistaken for the appendix. Soon after the onset of the attack the temperature begins to rise, and at the end of from eight to twelve hours reaches 100° to 101° F., and the pulse is accelerated (90 to 100). The pain and tenderness soon become localised to the right iliac fossa, and are most marked in the region of M‘Burney’s point. The tenderness prevents deep palpation, and even under an anaesthetic nothing abnormal can be felt. The bowels do not move and no flatus is passed. If the inflammation does not spread beyond the appendix, the pain gradually passes off and the other symptoms subside in the course of from twelve to thirty-six hours, and nothing remains but a little tenderness in the region of the appendix. Such attacks, however, are liable to recur, - constituting what is known as recurrent appendicitis. If the inflammation spreads to the surrounding peritoneum,