WRY-NECK OR TORTICOLLIS. 241 all the structures at fault, including the cervical fascia, and at the same time to avoid injuring other structures in the neck. A horizontal incision is made over the lower third of the muscle, and each of the heads of origin is thoroughly and completely divided. Any shortened bands of fascia that stand out after division of the muscle are also freely divided. The wound is sutured, and the head fixed in a slightly over-corrected position by means of an elastic bandage carried under the axil Ire and round the body. When the wound has healed, the patient is encouraged to move the head freely. To prevent relapse, massage, passive movements, douching and electricity must be employed for months after the operation. The asymmetry may disappear entirely within two or three years after operation. Spasmodic wry-neck is the term applied to a condition in which clonic contractions of certain of the muscles of the neck produce convulsive jerkings of the head. The muscles most frequently at fault are the sterno-mastoid of one side, and the posterior rotators of the opposite side. By these muscles the head is pulled into the position of ordinary wry-neck, and is at the same time slightly retracted. In some cases there is more or less constant nodding or jerking of the head. The condition is usually met with in adults of a neurotic disposition who are in a depressed state of health, and is due to some lesion, as yet undiscovered, in the nerve mechanism of the affected muscles—most probably in their cortical centres. By some authorities it is believed that the spasmodic jerkings are originated by certain movements habitually made by the patient in the course of his work. It has been observed in some cases that, as a result of astigmatism and other errors of refrac- tion, the patient has acquired the habit of repeatedly tilting his head to enable him to see clearly, and that these movements have become continuous and uncontrollable. The disease tends to become progressively worse until the patient is incapacitated for work or enjoyment. Sleep even may be seriously interfered with. Treatment.—Experience has shown that in well-marked cases little benefit is to be derived from drugs, electricity or restrain- ing apparatus. Massage has been temporarily beneficial in some of the milder cases. Of the operative procedures resection of portions of the spinal accessory nerve on one side, and of the posterior primary branches of the first three spinal nerves on the opposite side, seems to offer the best prospect of recovery. The spinal accessory is reached through an incision beginning at the tip of the mastoid VOL. II—16