PYOSALPINX. 559 the peritoneal cavity, the symptoms are not unlike those that follow the rupture of an appendicular abscess into the peritoneum. Occasionally the pus becomes encysted and may eventually disappear. Diagnosis.—Acute salpingitis or pyosalpinx, in which the symptoms and signs are confined to the right side, is very liable to be confused with acute appendicitis, especially the pelvic form of this disease. In the tubal lesion the general symptoms are less severe; they tend to come and go over a period of several days, the pulse is less affected than the temperature would lead one to expect, the abdominal wall is less rigid, and the pain and tenderness are more marked in the middle line than is observed in appendicitis ; a rectal or vaginal examination may reveal the bilateral character of the tubal lesion. If a clear history of gonorrhoea or of septic endometritis is forthcoming, the diagnosis is seldom difficult. The other condi tions from which pyosalpinx is to be differentiated are pelvic cellulitis, tumours and cysts of the broad ligament, ovarian cysts, and uterine fibroids. Retroflexion of the uterus, a kidney dis- placed into the pelvis, a tumour of the sacrum or innominate bone, cancer of the cajcum, and faecal accumulation in the rectum, have all been mistaken for pyosalpinx. Treatment.—In the vast majority of cases operative interfer- ence is indicated, but this should not be undertaken during the acute stage or during an exacerbation. To relieve the patient’s suffering, rest in bed, purgation, the application of ice-bags over the abdomen, and, if necessary, the administration of opium, are called for. Vaginal incision and drainage is recommended by Kelly for selected cases in which there is a single, well-defined abscess, and in which fluctuation can be detected through the vault of the vagina. The abscess is evacuated, the cavity irrigated and packed with iodoform gauze. This operation has the advantage of conserving the ovaries and tubes, but is attended with the risk of injuring the rectum, the ureter, or the uterine artery, and of opening into the general peritoneal cavity. In most cases it is necessary to remove the affected tubes and ovaries through a mesial abdominal incision—salpingo-oophorec- tomy. The patient is placed in the exaggerated Trendelenburg position, the abdomen opened, all adhesions, and particularly adhesions to the intestine, are carefully separated, till the pyo- salpinx is clearly defined; the intestines are then packed off, the uterine and ovarian arteries are secured, the tube clamped and removed. Care is taken to avoid infecting the cavity of the