384 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. contracted and continues to move on respiration; no definite swelling can be felt, but an ill-defined, deeply-seated resistance may be recognised. There may be flexion of the right hip as a result of irritation of the ilio-psoas muscle, and there is some- times marked tenderness in the loin, where at a later stage there may be evidence that the pus is approaching the surface. In the pelvic form of appendicitis, the abdominal symptoms are less pronounced, and, as the abscess forms within the pelvis, it is only recognised on rectal or vaginal examination as a soft, sensitive swelling in the pouch of Douglas. The patient complains of frequency of micturition, difficulty in starting the act, and pain while the bladder is contracting, and especially at the end of micturition ; these symptoms are due to traction on the inflamed peritoneum covering the bladder. There may also be rectal tenesmus, and pain shooting down the right leg. If left to itself, an appendicular abscess may rupture on the skin surface, and this is usually followed by a persistent sinus, and sometimes by a fiscal fistula. The abscess may rupture into the rectum, and pus may be recognised in the stools; or it may rupture through the roof of the vagina, or into the bladder, in which case the pus is voided with the urine. If the infection reaches the peritoneum without having given rise to limiting adhesions, the phenomena are those of diffuse peritonitis—fulminating appendicitis. The symptoms of general peritoneal infection progress without any evidence of local reaction. The face assumes a dusky cyanotic hue, the features becoming drawn and pinched, and the expression anxious. Vomiting is usually persistent and is not accompanied by retching. The abdominal walls are rigidly contracted, do not move on respiration, and, in the later stages, the abdomen becomes distended. There may be nothing to indicate the appendicular origin of the disease, although pain and tenderness are usually more marked in the right iliac fossa than elsewhere. As these cases are not attended with any reaction on the part of the tissues, there is no swelling to be made out in the iliac fossa, and there is no leucocytosis. The symptoms of most value as indicating the gravity of the disease are : collapse, a rapid subsidence of the temperature to subnormal, and a small, feeble and rapid pulse. The patient may die within thirty-six hours of the onset of the illness, and he is often to the end remarkably calm and free from suffering, and fails to realise the gravity of his condition. In some cases the patient lives for several days, the Anal symptoms being those of intestinal obstruction due to paralysis of the bowel.