233 ADENOIDS. normal lymphoid tissue which constitutes the naso-pharyngeal or Luschka’s tonsil. Adenoids form a soft, velvety mass, which projects from the vault of the naso-pharynx and extends down its posterior and lateral walls, in some cases filling up the fossae of Rosenmiiller behind the Eustachian cushions. They do not grow from the margins of the posterior nares. Adenoids are frequently associated with hypertrophy of the faucial tonsils, and the patient often suffers from granular pharyngitis and chronic nasal catarrh. The possibility of the condition being tuberculous must be borne in mind. These growths are sometimes met with in infants, but are most common between the ages of five and fifteen, after which they tend to undergo atrophy. They may, how'ever, persist into adult life. Clinical Features.—The most prominent symptom in most cases is interference with nasal respiration, so that the patient is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The facies of adenoids is characteristic : the mouth is kept partly open, the face appears lengthened, the nose is flattened by the falling in of the aim nasi, the inner angles of the eyes are drawn down, and the eyelids droop, while the whole facial expression is dull and stupid. As the respiratory difficulty is increased during sleep, the patient snores loudly, and his sleep is frequently broken by sudden night terrors. Owing to the disturbed sleep, to imperfect oxygenation of the blood, and to frequent attacks of nasal and bronchial catarrh, the child’s nutrition is interfered with, and he becomes languid and backward at his lessons. When the adenoids encroach upon the Eustachian cushions, the patient suffers from deafness, frequent attacks of earache, and some- times from suppurative otitis media with a discharge from the ear. Among the rarer conditions attributed to adenoids are asthma, inspiratory laryngeal stridor, persistent cough, chorea, and nocturnal enuresis. A diagnosis should never be made from the symptoms alone ; an attempt should be made to examine the naso-pharynx by posterior rhinoscopy and by digital examination. The interior of the nose must always be examined and any further cause of obstruction excluded. Treatment.—Thorough removal is the only satisfactory line of treatment, and this should be done under general anaesthesia. The methods of operating are various, but the following brief description will indicate how the adenoid mass may be satis- factorily removed. The following instruments are necessary :— two Gottstein’s adenoid curettes, one provided with a cradle