192 THE TONGUE. enlarged, so that they are palpable. The submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands are also liable to be affected. The enlarged cervical glands are liable to undergo softening, or to suppurate and burst on the skin surface, forming fungating ulcers. Metastasis to the liver, lungs, and other viscera is exceptional. If the disease is allowed to run its course, the patient usually dies in from twelve to eighteen months from repeated small haemorrhages, septic absorption, or septic pneu- monia. Differential Diagnosis.—Cancer of the tongue has to be diagnosed from syphilitic and tuberculous affections, from papillomata, and from simple ulcers and fissures. It is to be borne in mind that any of these conditions may take on malignant characters and develop into epithelioma. The micro- scopic examination of a portion of the growth removed under cocain anaesthesia is often useful. When there is still doubt as to the nature of the growth, it should be treated as if it were cancerous. An unbroken gumma is liable to be confused only with the uncommon form of epithelioma, which begins as a nodule under the mucous membrane. Gummata, however, are often multiple, and the tongue shows old scars or other evidence of syphilis. Gummatous ulcers are usually situated on the dorsum of the tongue, are frequently multiple, and have sloughy, undermined edges; the surrounding parts, although indurated, are not so densely hard as in cancer; there is not necessarily any involve- ment of lymphatic glands. The cancerous ulcer is usually single and situated on the edge of the tongue ; its edges are hard, raised, and nodular; and the glands are usually enlarged and hard. It must not be forgotten, however, that cancer may become engrafted on syphilitic lesions. Tuberculous ulcers usually occur in association with other and unmistakable evidences of tuberculosis. It is not so essential to establish the diagnosis with certainty as the treat- ment is the same as for cancer, namely removal. This remark applies also to papillomata which show a marked tendency to become malignant. Simple ulcers and fissures are usually recognised by the history of the condition, the absence of indura- tion and of glandular involvement, and by the fact that they heal quickly on removal of the cause. Treatment.—The only treatment that offers any hope of cure is early and free removal of the disease. Not only must the segment of the tongue on which the growth is situated be