265 WOUNDS OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. attended with slight pain on swallowing and a sensation as if something had lodged in the oesophagus. In more severe cases there is bleeding, followed by attacks of coughing and expectora- tion of blood-stained mucus. When the oesophagus is perforated, diffuse cellulitis of the neck or of the posterior mediastinum may ensue. In the treatment of these injuries the chief point is to give the oesophagus rest by feeding the patient entirely by the rectum. Swallowing of Corrosive Substances.—The oesophagus is frequently damaged by the swallowing of strong chemicals, such as sulphuric acid, nitric acid, carbolic acid, or caustic potash. These substances usually produce their worst effects at the two ends of the oesophagus, but in some cases the whole length of the tube suffers. The mucous membrane alone may be destroyed, or the muscular and even the fibrous coats may also be implicated. The damaged tissue undergoes necrosis, and when the sloughs separate, raw surfaces are left, and. are very slow to heal. If not rapidly fatal from shock and concomitant lesions of the air-passages, these injuries are usually attended with intense pain, severe thirst, and vomiting of blood. Shreds of mucous membrane of varying size are often ejected in the vomit. There is pain on swallowing, and not infrequently complications such as cellulitis, perforation of the oesophagus, or peri-oesophageal abscess follow. Later, cicatricial contraction takes place at the injured portions, producing one of the most intractable forms of fibrous stricture. The treatment consists in administering fluids that will neutralise the poison taken, for example, solutions of carbonate of potash, of soda, or of magnesia when an acid has been swallowed, or vinegar diluted with water in the case of an alkali. When carbolic acid has been swallowed, the patient should have a large quantity of olive oil administered. The stomach should be washed out with a copious stream of water, the stomach tube being passed with the greatest gentleness to avoid perforating the softened oesophageal wall. Subsequently the patient should be fed for some days by the rectum. As soon as the ulceration of the oesophagus has healed, say in three or four weeks, conical gum-elastic bougies should be passed every three or four days to prevent cicatricial contraction. As the calibre of the tube is restored, the instruments may be passed less frequently, but for some years—it may be for the rest of the patient’s life — a full-sized bougie should be passed at least once a month. Impaction of Foreign Bodies in the (Esophagus.—Foreign