THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 464 rigidity and tenderness from below the costal margin to the iliac fossa. When there is doubt as to the diagnosis, an exploratory laparotomy should be performed. On opening the abdomen, either by a vertical incision through the right rectus, or by one parallel with the right costal margin, a turbid, brown- or orange-yellow fluid is found in the peritoneal cavity, and there may be also a small quantity of gas. The extravasation is often tinged with bile, and is usually neutral in reaction. It appears to be less irritating than that in gastric perforations ; the lymphy exudate is found chiefly in the region of the duodenum, but the fluid exudate is found down the right side and in the pelvis, the pouch of Douglas being usually full within an hour or two of the perforation. This distribution of the extravasation is characteristic of duodenal perforations, and appears to be due to the fact that the perforation occurs on that wall of the duodenem which looks directly outwards, so that the fluid is directed down the right side by the ascending meso- colon. The closure of the aperture is effected in the same way as in gastric perforation, but on account of the dilatation of the stomach and colon, and the depth of certain parts of the duodenum from the surface, there is usually greater difficulty in obtaining access to the perforation and in introducing the sutures. After the edges have been invaginated, a portion of the right border of the great omentum should be secured over the line of suture. If the lumen of the duodenum is narrowed as a result of the invagination, or if the closure of the perforation is not entirely satisfactory, a gastro-enterostomy must be performed. The purification of the peritoneum and the subsequent drainage are carried out on the same lines as in perforation of the stomach. If the perforation is not efficiently sealed, and in spite of a gastro-enterostomy having been performed, the contents of the duodenum escape from the wound in large quantity, saturating the dressings and causing partial digestion of the skin around the opening, provision must be made for the leakage by a large glass tube, provided with a rubber collar and flange, and connected with a suction apparatus. The fistula closes in a period varying from one to four weeks. Perforation of a duodenal ulcer into an area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity results in the formation of an abscess which may be localised around the duodenum or may spread upwards beneath the diaphragm constituting one form of sub- phrenic abscess.