ETHER AND CHLOROFORM. 777 inhaler, or in the bag, according to the type of inhaler used. The face-piece is brought within about an inch of the face (which has been turned to one side), and the patient is requested to breathe regularly. In a few seconds the face-piece is brought nearer, and finally closely adapted to the face, care being taken to catch a few expirations, and so have some air in the bag to mix with the ether vapour. If the inhaler is of the Clover type, the ether is slowly turned on by rotating the chamber around its own axis; if of the Ormsby type, by slowly raising the bag containing the ether and sprinkling the anaesthetic over the sponge. As the ether is added, the patient may cough and choke a little, but if no attempt is made to make him inhale a strong vapour before he is partly unconscious, this will generally pass off, and, if the administration is judiciously conducted, anaesthesia will be complete in about five minutes. When the patient is once under, less ether need be given, and a breath of air—one inspira- tion—should be allowed in every five breaths, the ensuing expiration being caught in the bag so as to maintain a supply of air which is not de-oxygenated. The inhaler can be kept applied by means of one hand, the thumb and forefinger grasp- ing the face-piece, while the other fingers push the ascending ramus of the jaw forwards. Mixtures of Ether and Chloroform.—The use of a mixture of alcohol, chloroform, and ether, known as ACE., has been much advocated as a substitute for chloroform or ether alone, but this combination cannot be considered an ideal one, as the alcohol evaporates at a much slower rate than the other con- stituents, so that the lint or sponge becomes saturated with alcohol and refuses to take up any chloroform or ether. The most useful mixture is chloroform, one part, and ether, two parts—for convenience spoken of as CE. mixture. It is an excellent anaesthetic for all classes of patients except the worst of alcoholics and drug-takers. It is best given on a conical mask made of celluloid or metal, with flannel or sponge inside to take up the anaesthetic. The signs of anmstliesia are almost identical with those when chloroform is employed, except that the breathing is more like that when ether alone is employed. It is important to bear in mind, however, that the mixture is weak chloroform and not strong ether, and that it must on no account be given in a close inhaler with the bag. It is quite permissible, how- ever, to give it in a Clover’s inhaler ivithout the bag, and this method has been largely used.