698 THE URETHRA. the onset, one of the silver preparations such as protargol is preferred to the permanganate. Four to six drams of a 1 per cent, solution of protargol, freshly prepared with cold water, are injected by means of a glass - barrelled syringe provided with a urethral nozzle, under such pressure as will distend the urethra as far as the triangular ligament. The glans is then grasped so as to retain the fluid for from five to ten minutes; the injection is repeated thrice daily and is continued for two or three days after the discharge has disappeared, the number of injections and the strength of the solution being gradually diminished. Unless the local treatment is carried out with reasonable intelligence and care on' the part of the patient, it is better omitted altogether; patients of the hospital class can rarely be trusted to carry out the injection treatment at home. When the posterior urethra is involved and there are acute symptoms, all injections are stopped, and the patient should be confined to bed and the symptoms allayed by sitz baths, and belladonna and morphin suppositories. The treatment of chronic posterior urethritis is discussed with gleet (p. 699). The Continental test as to whether the disease is cured or not is the capacity of the patient to drink beer without causing a return of the discharge ; a more accurate test is to provoke a fresh discharge by an injection of nitrate of silver (1-100) or corrosive sublimate, and examine films for gonococci. Marriage must be for- bidden until every trace of the infection has disappeared. Complications of Gonorrhoea. — Gonorrhoeal affections of the bladder, prostate, seminal vesicles, epididymis, prepuce, inguinal lymphatic glands, joints and tendon sheaths, are described elsewhere. Peri-uretliral abscess is the result of a superadded pyogenic infection of the glands opening into the urethra. When it occurs in relation to those opening into the fossa navi- cularis the local signs are obvious, and the abscess discharges into the urethra or is incised through the prepuce. In the penile urethra the abscess is easily palpated from the under surface of the penis, and should be opened early from this aspect to prevent urinary fistula. Abscess originating in Cowper’s glands is a late complication, and tends to point towards the perineum ; if not treated by incision, it may lead to a urinary fistula in the perineum. Gonorrhoeal pyaemia is a rare condition attended with severe and repeated rigors, and sometimes with endocarditis; it