70 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. old face; the eyes are pushed downwards and forwards by the pressure on the orbital plates, and the eyebrows are displaced upwards. The head rolls helplessly from side to side ; the child moans and cries a great deal; and vomiting is often a prominent symptom. In most cases the intelligence is defective, and epi- leptic seizures and other functional disturbances of the brain may be present. In mild cases, especially when associated with rickets or syphilis, recovery sometimes takes place, but in the majority the condition progresses, and death results either from convulsions or from some intercurrent disease. Few hydrocephalic subjects reach adult life. Treatment.—Antisyphilitic treatment should be tried in the hydrocephalus of infants and young children. The rachitis element when present must also be treated. Aseptic puncture of the ventricles is sometimes followed by a remarkable improvement in the symptoms, and may even result in apparent cure. An exploring needle is introduced through the anterior fontanelle, to one or other side of the superior longitudinal sinus, and from a half to one ounce of cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn. This is repeated once a week for several weeks. Continuous drainage of the fourth ventricle through an opening made in the occipital region (Parkin), and the establishment of a communication between the ventricular and subarachnoid spaces (Watson-Cheyne), or between the sub- arachnoid space of the spinal cord and the peritoneal cavity, or the retro-peritoneal space (Cushing), have been tried, with little more than temporary benefit, however, in the majority of cases. Ligation of the common carotids has "been followed by improve- ment. Operative treatment, if it is to do good, must be undertaken early, before permanent changes in the brain have taken place. Micrencephaly.—On the supposition that this condition is due to premature closure of the cranial sutures and fontanel les, the removal of long strips, or of triangular or quadrilateral areas of bone from each side of the skull, was suggested and practised by Lannelongue. Portions of the dura mater have also been removed. Although improvement followed these procedures in a few cases, the operation has been abandoned, as the essential defect has been shown to be in the brain itself and not in the skull. Cerebral Tumours. As not more than 10 per cent, of tumours of the brain— using the term tumour in its widest sense—are amenable to