GALL-STONES. 529 invalid life. When the cystic duct is blocked, the gall-bladder, whether distended with stones or with mucus, may be felt as an abdominal tumour. In the majority of cases, however, when there is a history of recurrent biliary colic lasting over months or years, the bladder is small and contracted, and is so deeply placed beneath the liver that it is out of reach of the examining lingers. There is always, however, tenderness beneath the costal margin, and a tendency to contraction of the right rectus when pressure is made upon it. The best way of detecting tender- ness in these cases is that suggested by Naunyn—namely, to press the fingers under the right costal arch below the hepatic margin, and then ask the patient to take a deep inspiration. When the sensitive gall-bladder impinges upon the fingers inspiration suddenly ceases. The diagnosis of stone in the gall-bladder or cystic duct is to be made—(1) from affections of the pylorus and duodenum, especially ulcer and cancer; (2) from lesions of the vermiform appendix, the seat of tenderness during the attack being the most important differentiating feature; (3) from right renal colic, in which the pain passes through the loin, is most intense behind, and, if there is tenderness on pressure, this is greatest just below the twelfth rib posteriorly ; (4) from lesions of the pancreas. An attack of biliary colic may be simulated by the onset of diaphragmatic pleurisy. Prognosis.—Apart from their capacity for causing a great deal of suffering and ill-health, gall-stones which are allowed to remain in the bladder may become complicated by dangerous septic complications; and by causing long-continued irritation they may eventually determine the growth of cancer. Treatment.—While medical measures are capable of relieving or palliating the symptoms, the only certain means of getting rid of the offending gall-stones and of curing the inflammatory con- dition of the gall-bladder which always accompanies their presence, is to remove them by operation. On opening the abdomen there is often found evidence of peri-cholecystitis in the form of adhesions between the gall-bladder and the parts in the vicinity —pylorus, colon, omentum, parietal peritoneum—and, in cases of long standing, the walls of the gall-bladder are thickened and the viscus itself is often contracted and hidden beneath the liver. The incision is made vertically through the right rectus, or parallel with the costal margin. The region of the gall-bladder is explored with the fingers, and, if feasible, the lower edge of the liver should be drawn first downwards and then out at the wound so as to expose the whole extent of the gall-bladder and VOL. II—34