THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 632 the kidney (Fig. 170). Their communications with the pelvis and with each other are narrowed or obliterated, so that they may be regarded as separate cavities from the operator’s point of view. The purulent contents are often mixed with crumbly masses of phosphates. The mucous membrane of the pelvis and calyces is converted into granulation tissue, and, in advanced cases, becomes the seat of ulceration which eats into the paren- chyma. The renal blood-vessels are thickened and narrowed by endarteritis, so that there maybe very little haemorrhage when the pedicle is divided or torn. The perinephric cellular tissue is converted into granulation and scar tissue, and is frequently the seat of scattered foci of sup- puration, and sometimes a large perinephric abscess is found to communicate directly with one of the dilated calyces. The perinephric suppuration may extend into the psoas andquadratus muscles, or into the cellular planes of the abdominal wall. Clinical Features.—When the kidney becomes infected the patient’s general condition becomes worse, and to the symptoms of the antecedent affection are added pain in the loin and abundant pus in the urine. If the outlet from the pelvis becomes blocked the symptoms are aggravated, and the pus may disappear from the urine; there is high fever with or without rigors, the pain may amount to renal colic, and the kidney becomes enlarged and tender. Variations in the size and tenderness of the kidney, and in the amount of pus in the urine, are characteristic of a pyonephrosis which is alternately open and shut. The diagnosis is difficult in the absence of a palpable tumour of the kidney and of abundant jms in the urine. Most reliance is to be placed on examination of the urine obtained separately from each kidney. The treatment depends on the conditions present. In the Fig. 170.—Section of pyonephrosis show- ing abscess cavities. The specimen measured 18 inches in length. (Museum, Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.)