THE TONGUE. 188 cases the infection is due to direct spread of lupus from the face or nose. The condition may begin as a firm, painless lump, seldom larger than a hazel-nut, on one side or near the tip of the tongue. At first the swelling is covered by epithelium ; in time caseation takes place, the epithelium gives way, and an open sore is formed. The tuberculous ulcer is the form most frequently met with. The surface of the ulcer is uneven, pale, and flabby, and is covered with a yellowish-grey discharge, with here and there feeble granulations showing through. The edges are shreddy, sinuous in outline, and there is little or no induration. The surrounding parts are slightly swollen, and may be studded with small tuberculous foci. The ulcer may be quite superficial, or it may extend into the muscular substance. The tip of the tongue may be completely eaten away so that it looks as if it had been cut off with_ a knife. As the disease advances there is severe pain and usually profuse salivation. The submaxillary glands may be, but are not always, enlarged. The ulcer may heal over, but it soon breaks down again. Unless there is advanced pulmonary disease, or other contra- indication to operation, the ulcer should be excised. Care must be taken to avoid reinfecting the raw surface of the wound. When excision is impracticable it is only possible to palliate the symptoms by dusting with orthoform, or applying local anaes- thetics, and by attending to the hygiene of the mouth and removing all sources of irritation. Syphilitic Affections.—A 'primary sore on the tongue is accompanied by marked enlargement of the submaxillary lym- phatic glands on one or on both sides. It is most common in men, infection usually taking place through the medium of tobacco pipes, or implements such as the blow-pipes of glass- blowers. During the secondary stage of syphilis—particularly in the later periods—mucous patches and ulcers are very common, and they may assume a condylomatous or warty appearance. The tertiary manifestations of syphilis in the tongue are sclerosing glossitis, gummata, and gummatous ulcers. Sclerosing glossitis is the term applied by Fournier to a condition in which there is an abundant new formation of con- nective tissue in the substance of the tongue, leading to the appearance of tuberous masses on the dorsum. These tend to be oval in outline, are elevated above the level of the normal mucous membrane, and present a dull red mammillated or lobulated