25 CEREBRAL IRRITATION. The pulse is small, feeble, and slow, seldom above 70. The sphincters are not usually affected, and the patient will pass urine when the bladder requires to be emptied; there may, however, though rarely, be retention. “ The mental state is equally peculiar. Irritability of mind is the prevailing characteristic. The patient is unconscious, takes no heed of what passes, unless called to in a loud tone of voice, when he shows signs of irritability of temper or frowns, turns away hastily, mutters indistinctly, and grinds his teeth. It appears as if the temper, as much as or more than the intellect, were affected in this condition. He sleeps without stertor. “After a period varying from one to three weeks, the pulse improves in tone, the temperature of the body increases, the tendency to flexion subsides, and the patient lies stretched out. Irritability gives place to fatuity ; there is less manifestation of temper, but more weakness of mind. Recovery is slow, but, though delayed, may at length be perfect. ...” The treatment consists in keeping the patient quiet, in a darkened room, on much the same lines as for concussion. Compression of the Brain.—This term is used clinically to describe the train of symptoms which follows a marked increase of the intra-cranial tension produced by such causes as hiemor- rhage, oedema, the accumulation of inflammatory products, or the growth of tumours within the skull. Clinical Features.—The following description refers to cases of compression due to haemorrhage having taken place within the skull as a result of injury. In a majority of traumatic cases, the symptoms of compression supervene on those of concussion ; in a certain proportion there is an interval, during which the patient regains complete consciousness; in others the symptoms of concussion gradually and imperceptibly merge into those of compression. The rapidity of onset of the symptoms and their course and duration vary widely according to the nature and extent of the brain lesion. Death may occur in a few hours, or recovery may take place after the patient has been unconscious for several weeks. The first symptoms are of an irritative character—dull pain in the head, restlessness, and hypersensitiveness to sensory stimuli. The face is suffused, and the pupils at first are usually contracted. The temperature falls to 97°, or even to 95° F. Vomiting is not infrequent. As the pressure increases, paralytic symptoms ensue. The patient gradually loses consciousness, and passes into a condition