91 TRAUMATIC SPINAL HAEMORRHAGE. of the cord it is the arms that are most frequently affected. At the same time there may be transitory paralysis of the most distant parts—e.g. the feet—from pressure on the conduct- ing fibres. Except that operative treatment is contra - indicated, the treatment is the same as for extra-medullary haemorrhage. Traumatic Lesions of the Cord. Gross lesions of the cord are usually the result of severe injuries of the spine, stabs, or gun-shot wounds. Total transverse lesions, that is, those in which the cord is completely crushed or torn across, are much more common than partial lesions. Total transverse Lesions.—Crushing or tearing of the whole thickness of the cord is an almost invariable accompani- ment of a complete dislocation or of a fracture-dislocation of the spine. Even when the displacement of the bones is only partial and temporary, the cord may be completely torn across. Similar lesions may result from bullet-wounds (vol. i. p. 230). The clinical features vary with the level at which the cord is injured, and the diagnosis as to the nature and site of the lesion is to be made by a careful analysis of the symptoms. By gently passing the fingers under the patient’s back as he lies recumbent, any irregularity which may be present in the spinous processes or laminae may be detected, but movement of the patient to admit of a direct examination of the local injury to the spine is attended with considerable risk, and should as far as possible be avoided. Immediate Symptoms.—At whatever level the cord is damaged, there is immediate and complete paralysis of motion and sensa- tion (paraplegia) below the seat of injury. The paralysed limbs are flaccid. On careful examination a narrow zone of hyper- esthesia may be mapped out above the anaesthetic area, and the patient may complain of radiating pains in the line of the nerves derived from the segments of the cord directly implicated. In complete transverse lesions the paralytic symptoms are sym- metrical. Any marked difference on the two sides indicates an incomplete lesion. Retention of urine and retention or incontinence of faeces are constant symptoms. In young men priapism is common—the corpora cavernosa are filled with blood without actual erection. There is evidence of vaso-motor paralysis in the form of dilata-