SPINAL ANAESTHESIA. 783 chloride solution (‘75 per cent.), 10 drachms (-T. W. Struthers). As much as four ounces of the solution may with safety be injected, but it is seldom necessary to use this quantity. Among the operations for which infiltration anaesthesia is suitable may be mentioned : Thiersch skin-grafting, removal of small epitheliomata, rodent cancers, wens, dermoid cysts, ganglia, or bursae; tendon suture; tracheotomy; rib resection for empyema ; piles, fissure, and anal fistulae ; circumcision, etc. Regional Anaesthesia.—By injecting cocain into, or imme- diately round, a nerve trunk, a physiological block on the nerve may be produced, with resulting motor and sensory paralysis in the area of its distribution distal to the level of the injection—- regional or conduction anaesthesia. Oberst has pointed out that fingers, toes, and extremities generally can be rendered anaes- thetic if cocain is injected round the nerves supplying them, and localised to the site of injection by the application of a tourniquet loosely on the proximal side of the level of injection. By Oberst’s method such operations as opening a whitlow of the tendon sheath, removal of sequestra from the phalanges, excisions of interphalangeal joints, or partial amputations of the digits, can be painlessly performed. The solution recommended is: Cocain, 1 grain; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 8 drops; solution sodium chloride (‘75 per cent.), 4 drachms. From 20 to 40 minims of this solution will render a finger com- pletely anaesthetic. Braun has extended this method to more extensive operations on the extremities, injecting the solution around the main nerves of supply to the region to be operated upon. His method is par- ticularly useful in dealing with suppurative conditions in the palm, in removing needles from the hand or foot, or for partial amputations of the hand or foot. Spinal Anaesthesia.—It has been shown that the injection of certain drugs into the spinal sub-arachnoid space by lumbar puncture (p. 18) induces anaesthesia of the areas supplied by the lower dorsal, lumbar, and sacral nerves, and admits of opera- tions on the lower extremities, rectum, and pelvic organs being carried out painlessly. Bier, of Bonn, who first placed this method on a practical basis, after an experience of over a thou- sand cases, now uses ’05 grammes of tropacocain in isotonic solution without the addition of adrenalin. This is diluted with cerebro-spinal fluid allowed to escape through the cannula used for injection to make up 6 or 8 c.c. Stovain, with or without the addition of adrenalin, has been extensively used for producing spinal anaesthesia, but, according to Bier, this