442 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. at the same time, and the patient show signs of internal haemorrhage. Means are taken to counteract shock; and the abdomen is opened to one or other side of the middle line, and the rent in the stomach closed by a double tier of sutures. If the soiled area of peritoneum is limited to the region of the tear, gentle sponging with sterile normal salt solution is sufficient to purify it, but if the stomach contents have been widely disseminated, it is necessary to irrigate the whole peritoneal cavity with large quantities of fluid. An additional opening above the pubes should be made to enable the pouch of Douglas and the pelvic cavity to be thoroughly irrigated and drained. Penetrating Wounds.—The stomach may be perforated by a sharp object, such as a knife-blade or a spike, thrust through the abdominal wall, or by a bullet. Except when produced by a high-velocity bullet, the wound in the stomach is usually sufficiently large to permit of the escape of gastric contents into the peritoneal cavity, and not infrequently there is internal haemorrhage from injury to the vessels of the stomach wall. If the penetrating body passes through the abdominal wall obliquely, the wound in the parietes may be valvular, and as its external aperture does not lie opposite the level of the stomach, the possibility of a gastric lesion may be overlooked. As there is comparatively little shock at the time of the injury, it may be some hours before the gravity of the condition is made manifest by the onset of symptoms of perforation-peritonitis. Occasion- ally the stomach is perforated from within by the unskilful use of an oesophageal bougie, or by sharp bodies passed along the oesophagus—by “sword swallowers,” for example. The treatment is to explore, and, if necessary, to enlarge the abdominal wound. If a perforation is found, its edges, if damaged, should be pared with scissors. Before closing the perforation the posterior wall should be investigated in case it also has been damaged. The perforation is then closed by a double tier of sutures, the damaged edges being invaginated into the interior of the organ. Perforations caused by ride bullets have been considered in vol. i. p. 230. Effects of Corrosive Agents.—When a concentrated acid or alkali or other caustic substance has been swallowed, the corrosive action is most severe along the lesser curvature and at the pyloric end of the stomach, and it may prove fatal, either immediately from perforation of the stomach, or later from sloughing. When the destructive action does not at once extend to all the coats, cicatricial contraction subsequently ensues, and