THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 232 shadow than the healthy one in an X-ray photograph. In some cases the diagnosis can only be made by opening the cavity through an incision in the line of the eyebrow. The anterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected in con- junction with the frontal, and sometimes with the maxillary sinus, and a diagnosis may only be arrived at by eliminating these. The presence of polypi and granulations, with pus oozing out from between them, and increasing after withdrawal of the probe, and the detection of carious bone are significant of the condition. Suppuration in the sphenoidal sinus is characterised in many cases by the presence of eye symptoms. Pus in the olfactory sulcus, on the upper surface of the middle turbinal posteriorly, and on the vault of the naso-pharynx, is suggestive of sphenoidal suppuration. If removal of the middle turbinated bone permits of inspection of the ostium sphenoidale by anterior rhinoscopy, pus may be seen escaping from the orifice. Exploratory catheterisation or breaking down of the anterior wall of the sinus and irrigation may be used as additional aids in diagnosis. The posterior ethmoidal cells are frequently affected along with the sphenoidal sinus. The nasal appearances just noted are present, and if the sphenoidal sinus can be washed out and its osteum temporarily plugged, and pus rapidly reappears, its origin from these cells is probable. Anomalies of Smell and Taste.—Anosmia or loss of smell is not infrequently a symptom of nasal affections. Any lesion that prevents the passage of the odoriferous particles to the olfactory region of the nose interferes with the sense of smell. In oztena the sense of smell is lost. Anosmia may also be of central origin. Parosmia, or the sensation of a bad odour, may be of functional origin; it sometimes occurs after influenza. It may also be associated with maxillary suppuration. Impair- ment or loss of the sense of recognising flavours is due to interference with the olfactory nerve. Reflex Symptoms of Nasal Origin.—It is only necessary here to draw attention to the relation that exists between affections of the nose and asthma. Nasal polypi, erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies, spines of the septum in contact with the inferior turbinal, or of areas on the mucous membrane which, when probed, produce coughing, when present in asth- matic subjects, call for treatment with the object of modifying the asthma. Post-nasal Obstruction—Adenoid Vegetations.—The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is hypertrophy of the