446 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. or unless there is a suspicion that it may be undergoing malignant transformation. When practicable, infolding of the portion of stomach wall comprising the ulcer should be preferred to excision. Whichever procedure is adopted, it should be combined with a gastro-enterostomy. Gastro-jejunostomy is the operation of choice. It acts by affording a free, dependent outlet from the stomach, thus over- coming stasis, relieving excessive acidity, and diminishing the tendency to muscular spasm at and near the pylorus. As a curative operation, it is most successful in cases in which the ulcer is situated in the vicinity of the pylorus, and hypertrophy has resulted from the long-standing obstacle to the emptying of the organ. The after-results in these cases are usually remark- able : the pain vanishes, all kinds of food are easily digested, and, as a rule, the patient rapidly gains in weight. Gastro-duodenostomy, by the method of Kocher or Finney, entails the disadvantage that the gastric contents must pass through the part of the stomach in which the ulcer is situated in order to reach the outlet (Mayo). Complications of Gastric Ulcer.—Haemorrhage—Gas- trorrhagia.—Haemorrhage is one of the common accompani- ments of gastric ulcer, and it may threaten life by repeatedly recurring at short intervals and producing anaemia. In such cases the bleeding is usually from capillaries, and can be con- trolled by medical measures. Cases are recorded, however, in which capillary oozing has been sufficiently profuse to prove fatal, and in which on examination after death the source of the bleeding could not be discovered. When the haemorrhage is due to erosion of a large artery exposed in the base of the ulcer, for example, the coronary or splenic artery, it is a serious complication, although it is exceptional for a first haemorrhage to prove fatal. In all cases of recurrent haemorrhage, gastro-enterostomy should be performed, and, when possible, this should be done in an interval between two bleedings rather than while the haemor- rhage is in progress. It is only in exceptional cases that the ulcer should be dealt with directly by excision, infolding, ligature, or cauterisation. Perforation.—Perforation is a comparatively common com- plication, and while it occurs most frequently in young women, it may be met with in adults of either sex and of any age. Per- foration has been met with as early in life as 12 and as late as 71 (F. M. Caird). The ulcers that most frequently perforate are those situated in the anterior Avail near the pylorus and