689 RUPTURE. separate tiers. The catheter is connected with a suction appar- atus, and full doses of bromides or trional are given to prevent nocturnal erections, which tend to reopen the wound; when healing is complete a bougie is passed at intervals to prevent contraction of the cicatrix. Contusion and rupture of the urethra are by no means uncommon injuries from violence applied to the perineum, as by a kick, or a fall astride a paling. The urethra is driven against the pubic arch and bruised or torn, usually at the junction of the bulbous and membranous portions, and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament is often torn at the same time. In frac- ture of the pelvis a displaced fragment of bone may lacerate the urethra, usually the membranous but sometimes the prostatic portion, or the urethra may be actually torn away from the bladder. Clinical Features.—If the urethra is merely contused, there is tenderness and swelling, with or without eccliymosis in the perineum, and pain and difficulty in micturition, which pass off in the course of a few days. If the urethra is actually torn, there is free hemorrhage from the mucous membrane and corpus spongiosum, and blood drips or flows from the meatus. This may be all that attracts the patient’s attention, or there may be pain at the seat of injury and a considerable degree of shock. He is usually unable to make water and the bladder becomes distended. The perineum is the seat of a tender swelling due to extravasated blood. The patient has sometimes passed water before being seen, without untoward result; or he may have attempted, to do so, the attempt being attended with intense burning pain in the perineum, and extravasation of urine. In cases of fracture of the pelvis in which the posterior urethra is torn, there is considerable shock, but bleeding from the meatus may be entirely absent, and swelling in the perineum little marked. The patient is unable to pass water and the bladder becomes distended. Extravasation of Urine from Rupture of the Urethra.—In the common site of rupture—in front of, or through the anterior layer of the triangular ligament—the urine infiltrates the cellular tissue of the anterior part of the perineum, the scrotum, penis, groins, and anterior abdominal wall. It is prevented from pass- ing backwards by the attachment of the perineal fascia to the base of the triangular ligament, and from passing down the thigh by the attachment of the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdominal wall to the fascia lata along a line a little below Poupart’s ligament. YOL. 11 — 44