TREATMENT OF APPENDICITIS. 389 crest. The anterior wound is closed with sutures, except where the drain emerges. If there is diffuse peritonitis, irrigation of the peritoneal cavity should be carried out (p. 362). Much difference of opinion exists regarding the value of irrigation under these conditions, but we believe it to be the least damaging method of cleansing the peritoneal cavity. After the patient is put back to bed and has recovered from the effects of the anaesthetic, he is placed in the semi-sitting position—-35 to 45 degrees; or the head of the bed is raised on high blocks, to cause the fluid in the peritoneal cavity to gravitate towards the pelvis, and so to favour drainage. Saline fluid is allowed to flow gently into the rectum from a douche-can placed about twelve inches above the level of the patient; and if vomiting persists, the stomach should be washed out. The day after the operation a turpentine enema is given. At the end of forty-eight hours a purgative (3 to 5 grains of calomel) is given by the mouth. Some surgeons refrain from giving a purgative for seven or eight days. After the operation the pulse and temperature must be care- fully watched ; an increase in the temperature or in the pulse rate usually indicates that the drainage is imperfect; it may be that pus has collected in the pouch of Douglas, where it can be detected by rectal or vaginal examination. Operation for Circumscribed Abscess.—It is not always possible to tell by examination whether an abscess has become adherent to the anterior abdominal wall, or whether the general peritoneal cavity will have to be crossed in order to reach the pus. It is a safe rule to cut down directly over the abscess rather than over the supposed position of the appendix. The parietes are incised until the peritoneum is reached, and a small opening is made in the peritoneum. If pus oozes out, the opening is enlarged and the pus soaked up with gauze swabs. If the appendix is easily found, it should be removed, the mesentery and the stump of the organ being simply ligatured. Drainage is then provided for by glass or rubber tubes, surrounded by cigarette drains of iodoform worsted, passed to the lowest part of the abscess, and the rest of the wound is closed. If, on the other hand, the appendix, cannot be identified without breaking down adhesions in searching for it, and so running the risk of infecting the general peritoneal cavity or of giving rise to a faecal fistula, its removal should be deferred until after the abscess has been drained and the septic element eliminated. If the peritoneal cavity must be crossed to reach the pus, it