33 MIDDLE MENINGEAL HAEMORRHAGE. the eye, with paralysis of the third nerve and wide dilatation of the pupil. In most cases of middle meningeal haemorrhage there is no gross injury to the brain. The area underlying the clot is merely compressed and emptied of blood, and, on being exposed, the brain is found flattened, or even deeply indented by the blood-clot, and it does not pulsate. If the clot is removed, the brain soon regains its normal contour and its pulsation returns. If the fracture is compound, the blood can escape, and there- fore the pressure symptoms are less evident or may be entirely absent. It is a fact of some medico-legal importance that haemorrhage from the middle meningeal may not take place till some days, or even weeks, after an injury, which at the time was only attended with symptoms of concussion. This condition is known as traumatic apoplexy. In the majority of cases left to nature death takes place within twelve or eighteen hours. Even after removal of the clot, death may ensue if the brain has been lacerated, or if there is hamiorrhage at the base. Treatment.—Immediate operation is imperatively called for, not only to arrest the haemorrhage and remove the clot, but also to ward off the traumatic oedema of the brain, which is often responsible for the fatal issue. When a wound already exists, it is enlarged as far as is necessary to secure the bleeding vessel and to remove all clots. When there is no external wound, the point at which the skull is to be opened is determined by the symptoms; for example, paralysis of the arm and face on one side indicates trephining over the centres governing these parts on the opposite side. If the symptoms fail to indicate which branch of the artery is torn, an opening should first be made over the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone (Fig. 6), and if nothing is found there, a second opening is made over the parietal bone a little above and behind the external ear. Should no blood be found outside the dura, this membrane should be incised, as there may be a clot inside it. Sometimes there is considerable difficulty in securing the bleeding vessel, and the haemorrhage may assume serious propor- tions. It may be necessary to enlarge the trephine opening downwards with rongeur forceps to enable a ligature to be passed round the vessel. In some cases the artery runs in a canal in the bone, and the bleeding can only be arrested by inserting a small wooden peg into the opening, or by plugging it with antiseptic wax. If these measures fail, it may be VOL. II—3