UTERINE FIBROIDS. 565 patient, do not call for any treatment. When marked symptoms are present palliative treatment is only to be undertaken where the menopause is at hand. Among palliative measures may be mentioned curettage of the uterus, and the application of the galvanic electric current, by introducing the positive pole into the uterine cavity, and placing the negative pole over the anterior abdominal wall (Apostole). The electrical treatment not only stops the bleeding, but may also arrest the growth of the tumour, or even bring about a permanent diminution in its size. Operative treatment is called for when haemorrhage, pain, and interference with the general health are so marked that the patient becomes a chronic invalid. Theoretically the ideal operation is myomectomy, which consists in enucleating the tumour without sacrificing any material portion of the uterine wall. This procedure is specially indicated in young women, and in isolated and pedunculated growths of the subserous and interstitial varieties, which can be shelled out of their bed in the uterus. The tumour should be freely exposed through a mesial abdominal incision, isolated, and, if possible, brought out through the wound. An incision is made round the pedicle or into the capsule, and the growth enucleated. Hiemorrhage must be completely controlled by securing the main vessels of supply, by ligaturing the pedicle in the stalked subperitoneal type, and by stitching the bed of the tumour by layers of buried sutures in the sessile and interstitial varieties. Several growths may be removed from the uterus in this way. The abdominal wound is closed without drainage. Most cases, however, do not lend themselves to myomectomy, and removal of the uterus has to be undertaken—hysterectomy In the supra-vaginal operation the cervix is preserved ; in the complete operation—pan-hysterectomy — it is removed along with the rest of the uterus. Opinions differ as to the relative merits of these procedures, but statistics show that the mortality is higher in the complete operation. If the patient has not reached the climacteric, the ovaries should in all cases be pre- served, unless they are diseased. When fibroids complicate pregnancy and give rise to urgent symptoms, it may be necessary to terminate the pregnancy by inducing abortion, or to perform myomectomy or hysterectomy according to circumstances.