METHODS OF EXAMINATION. Gil resembles a sound in shape ; the beak, which is about an inch long, joins the shaft at an ojien angle and contains near its tip an incandescent lamp by which the interior of the bladder is illuminated, the wires passing hack inside the shaft to be connected with a battery or accumulator. The shaft contains also a system of lenses or telescope, which magnifies the object examined. At the junction of the shaft with the beak is a window closed by a prism, which refracts the rays of light reflected from the object illuminated through the system of lenses and thus into line with the observer’s eye. To bring the object into focus the beak is approached to or withdrawn from it. The image is an inverted one. In the “irrigating cystoscope ” there is a channel in the shaft through which fluid may be withdrawn from or injected into the bladder without withdrawing the instrument. In using the cystoscope a general anaesthetic is not necessary ; the urethra may be rendered insensitive by injecting into it two or three drachms of a 1 per cent, solution of eucain, to which 1 in 5000 adrena- lin may be added with advantage. After an interval of ten minutes the patient is placed in the lithotomy position ; the bladder is washed out with boracic lotion until the solution returns clear, and from six to ten ounces are left in the bladder. If the urine is quite clear and there is a sufficient amount of it in the bladder, the washing out may be dispensed with. The cystoscope is then introduced, and when in the bladder, the circuit that turns on the light is completed. Having made a general survey of the mucous membrane—which is normally of a pinkish-white colour with ramifying blood-vessels running in it—attention is directed to the base of the bladder, and especially to the openings of the ureters. If the kidneys are functionating, a wave-like movement is visible in the fluid each time the ureteral orifice opens. If there is pus coming from the kidney, minute particles are seen floating in the wave of fluid, like dust in a sunbeam. If there is bleeding from the kidney or ureter, a whorl of bloody urine is seen escaping from the orifice, or a blood-clot may project from it. If one ureteral orifice is retracted or depressed, it implies contraction of a thickened ureter such as is often present in association with tuberculous disease of the kidney. The condition of the mucous membrane of the bladder around the ureteral orifice should be carefully inspected ; in unilateral disease it may show engorgement of the blood-vessels, a granular condition, or minute superficial ulcers. The instrument should remain half a minute in the bladder after the current has been shut off, to allow the beak to cool before it is withdrawn. Separation of the Secretion from each Kidney—“ One-Kidney Urine." —Various instruments, known as separators or segrcgators, have been devised with the object of obtaining the secretion from each kidney. They are provided with a partition, which, after the instrument has been introduced into the bladder, is projected in such a way that it forms an antero-posterior septum between the ureteral openings, the urine that escapes on either side of the septum being conveyed by a separate canal in the shaft of the instrument into a receptacle. The Separator of Luys.—The separator of Luys is the best known and the most generally applicable (Fig. 164). The instrument is sterilised by boiling for five minutes in plain water. The patient is laid horizontal, the urine is drawn off with a soft rubber catheter, and the bladder washed out with boracic lotion till it returns clear, and about six to eight ounces are left in the bladder. The separator is lubricated and introduced.