OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEPHRITIS. 651 1896, showed that in cases of acute nephritis (Bright’s disease) the relief of tension afforded by incision of the capsule of the kidney—renal capsulotomy—is followed by disappearance of the lumbar pain, and of the blood and albumin from the urine. Even when only one kidney is thus dealt with, the functional condition of the other kidney is much improved by the diminu- tion of the demands made upon it. In 1901, Edebohls recorded a series of cases of chronic Bright’s disease in which he had operated by incising the kidney substance and stripping off its capsule—decapsulation of the kidney. These operations have been practised with considerable benefit in many cases. Animal Parasites in the Urinary Tract.—The Filaria san- guinis hominis may be carried to the urinary organs in the blood stream, and in the course of its elimination through the kidney it may give rise to haematuria and chyluria. The con- dition is met with in those who have resided in tropical countries. The urine looks like milk or cream, streaks or clots of blood appear mingled with it, and the embryo filarue are found on microscopical examination. The Bilharzia hcematohia is met with in those who have resided in certain parts of Africa, and especially in Egypt. The parent worm inhabits the portal vein and its tributaries, but after impregnation the female buries herself in the submucosa of the renal pelvis, ureter and bladder, in which she lays her eggs. These are provided with a sharp terminal spine, by means of which they bore their way through the mucous membrane and gain access to the urine. These processes are attended with haematuria and sometimes with pain and spasm. The mucous membrane may become the seat of granulations and fungosities, which may partly block the pelvis and ureter. In the bladder, the eggs are found in the superficial layers of the mucous membrane and cause pain and intermittent haematuria; if septic infection is superadded, there is an aggravated form of cystitis with a tendency to phosphatic deposit and stone formation. The patient should be removed, if possible, from the district in which the disease prevails, and treatment should be directed to the relief of symptoms and the maintenance of the general health. Urinary antiseptics have little in- fluence on the parasites, but recent trials of exposure to the X-rays of the region of the body affected have yielded encour- aging results. The Echinococcus hominis is responsible for the development of hydatid cysts in the kidney. If these rupture into the