371 SUB-PHRENIC ABSCESS. The Mesenteric Glands. These glands lie between the layers of the mesentery, and receive lacteals from the small intestine and the colon as far as the sigmoid flexure. Along with the retro-peritoneal glands, which lie beside the aorta, they transmit lymph and chyle to the thoracic duct. Infective agents may pass from the mucous membrane of the intestine to the glands by the lymph-stream. Tuberculous disease is extremely common. A diffuse caseating form, associated with tuberculosis of the peritoneum and intes- tine, is almost exclusively met with in children, and is known as tabes mesenterica. It is not amenable to surgical treatment. Disease localised to a single group of glands may give rise to complications which call for operation. It may, for example, lead to obstruction of the bowels, by setting up a localised adhesive peritonitis, followed by the formation of a band • by causing infiltration and contraction of the mesentery; or by adhesion and kinking of the intestine over a tuberculous gland. A rarer complication is that in which the gland, having become the seat of acute inflammatory softening, ruptures and discharges its purulent contents into the peritoneal cavity, setting up acute peritonitis. A group of tuberculous glands, usually those of the lower ileum, may become inflamed and give rise to a palpable mass in the right iliac fossa, which, when associated with severe pain and high fever, may be mistaken for ap- pendicitis. Enucleation of the inflamed glands should be performed if practicable. Suppuration in the mesenteric glands is one of the recognised complications of typhoid fever ; when met'with in the form of a circumscribed abscess this should be opened and drained. In lymphadenoma, lymphatic leucocythasmia, and in various forms of malignant disease, the mesenteric and retro-peritoneal glands are often extensively involved, and may form multiple tumour-like swellings within the abdomen. Sub-phken'ic Abscess. The term sub-phrenic abscess is applied to a collection of pus beneath the vault of the diaphragm. This space is divided by the suspensory ligament of the liver into two compartments —right and left—and the abscess may be situated in either of these. In a certain proportion of cases the pus accumulates in the cellular tissue behind the peritoneum, but in the majority the abscess is intra-peritoneal, the general peritoneal cavity