198 CHAPTER XIII. THE SALIVARY GLANDS. Surgical anatomy — Injuries—Salivary fistul®—Salivary calculi — In- flammatory affections : Parotitis; Inflammation of submaxillary gland-; Angina Ludovici; Inflammation of sublingual gland; Tuberculous disease — Tumours : Ranula ; Mixed tumours of parotid; Sarcoma; Carcinoma; Tumours of submaxillary and sub- lingual glands. Surgical Anatomy. —-The parotid gland lies between two layers of fascia on the outer surface of the masseter muscle. It reaches up to the posterior part of the zygoma, and down to the level of the angle of the jaw. A prolongation of the gland usually passes deeply between the glenoid cavity and the mastoid process, and there is often a detached portion on the surface of the masseter—the soda parotidis. The deep surface of the gland lies in close relation with the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, and the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves. The external carotid artery passes through the substance of the parotid, and bifurcates opposite the neck of the condyle into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It is accompanied by the venous trunk formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. The facial nerve and its branches traverse the lower third of the gland from behind forwards. The excretory duct—Stensons duct—emerges from the anterior border of the gland, and after crossing the masseter pierces the buccinator muscle and the mucous membrane obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second upper molar tooth. The course of the duct is indicated by a line passing from the upper part of the lobule of the ear to the ala of the nose—that is, at a higher level than the facial nerve. Several lymphatic glands lie inside the capsule of the parotid just in front of the ear. The submaxillary gland lies under the integument and fascia in the triangle formed by the lower jaw and the two bellies of the digastric muscle. Its anterior part is crossed by the facial vessels, and several lymphatic glands lie inside its capsule. The duct—Wharton’s duct— opens into the mouth by the side of the frenum of the tongue. The sublingual gland lies in the floor of the mouth just beneath the mucous membrane. It has numerous ducts, some of which open directly into the mouth, others into Wharton’s duct. Injuries.—The parotid is frequently injured by accidental