DYSENTERY. 505 ing is found, it is closed by sutures. If there are areas in the adjacent bowel that appear likely to perforate, these should be invaginatecl by Lembert sutures, or covered over with an omental graft. Sometimes the bowel is so extensively damaged as to call for resection, but if the patient’s general state does not permit of this being carried out, the affected loop should be brought outside the wound and an artificial anus established. Cases are recorded of a second perforation, when convalescence from the first is well established, calling for a second laparotomy. Dysentery.—In acute dysentery the chief symptom is frequent passage of slimy or bloody stools, attended with colicky pains and tenesmus. The colon, either throughout or in parts, is in a condition of acute inflammation, frequently associated with ulceration and sometimes with gangrene. In cases that resist medical treatment the question of opening the colon may be considered, in order to give rest to the bowel, and to allow of irrigation and the direct application of remedial agents to the inflamed mucous membrane. In chronic dysentery similar features persist or recur from time to time, and there may also be symptoms of narrowing of the colon from cicatricial changes in the wall of the bowel, or from adhesions interfering with its peristalsis. Surgical interfer- ence is more often called for than in the acute disease. If the chief object is to admit of the colon being irrigated, this is most easily carried out by using the vermiform appendix as a channel for conveying fluid into the colon—appendicostomy —a procedure introduced by Weir of New York. The appendix is brought out through a small wound over the caecum, and, after being fixed with sutures, the terminal portion is amputated A rubber catheter is inserted and retained in the appendix so long as the treatment by irrigation is called for. When the treatment is completed, the fistula is closed by resecting the stump of the appendix. An advantage of this method is that all leakage of caecal contents is avoided. If the appendix is not available, a rubber tube may be inserted and fixed in the caecum in the same way as the tube is fixed in the stomach in a WitzeFs gastrostomy. The solutions most commonly employed are normal saline solution, and dilute solution of nitrate of silver (1-2000), using ten to twelve pints three times a day. If the object is to divert the course of the faeces and afford rest to the diseased colon, an artificial anus is made in the first part of the ascending colon, and through this irrigation may also be carried out. When the artificial anus is no longer wanted it is closed by dissection and suture.