THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 378 Appendicitis. Pathological Anatomy.—Appendicitis is due to bacterial infection of the mucous membrane and lymphoid tissue of the appendix, the organisms most commonly present being the bacillus coli, staphylococcus albus, and the streptococcus. The anatomical changes range from those which attend a simple catarrh of the mucous membrane to gangrene of the wall of the appendix. In catarrhal inflammation the swelling of the mucous membrane narrows the lumen, and may block the communication between the appendix and the caecum, so that the contents of the tube are retained and furnish a favourable nidus for organisms. Erosions are liable to form on the epithelial surface, and these enable the organisms to invade the submucous tissue, from which they may spread to the muscular and peritoneal coats. Such erosions are liable to be converted Fig. 94.—Inflamed Appendix showing perforation from which a rounded concretion projects. From a girl, net. 18. (Natural size.) into ulcers, similar to those described by Kocher as occurring in the mucous membrane of the intestine in obstruction of the bowels. The cicatricial changes that follow upon catarrh and ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane may result in the formation of one or more annular constrictions of the tube, which, by causing retention of the contents, may determine fresh outbreaks of inflammation from time to time. Another result of catarrhal inflammation with stagnation of the contents of the tube, is the formation of appendicular con- cretions (Fig. 95). These are rounded or oval calculi, consisting of a variable mixture of lime salts, bacteria and materials derived from the faeces, and they are usually so soft that they can be crushed between the fingers. They are commonly grasped by the wall of the appendix either near the apex or towards the middle of the tube, and they are sometimes found between two annular constrictions. Once formed, a concretion increases in size by further deposit on its exterior, and it tends to keep up