407 TAXIS. recumbent for a period which varies according to the progress of the wound and whether or not a satisfactory radical cure has been performed. Taxis.—If an operation is refused or is contra-indicated, recourse may be had to taxis—that is, the reduction of the hernia by external manipulation. The foot of the bed having been raised, the patient is placed in such an attitude as will relax the parts in the region of the hernial opening. The neck of the hernia is then steadied with one hand, while with the other the hernia is gently compressed in such a way as to cause the contents to pass back into the cavity of the abdomen. No force is to be employed, and the manipulations should not be persevered with unless they result in a gradual diminution in the size of the hernia, and there is evidence that the contents are entering the abdomen. The disappearance of the hernial contents should be complete, and should be tested for by passing the finger into the hernial canal. A pad and spica bandage are applied over the hernial canal, and the patient should be kept in bed until the further treat- ment, by truss or operation, has been decided upon. Dangers from Taxis.—The bowel may sustain further damage, favouring the occurrence of gangrene, or it may be actually ruptured. The most frequent accident, however, is that known as apparent or false reduction, of which there are three principal forms:—(1) Rupture of the sac in the region of its neck, and escape of the contents into the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue; when this occurs, the surgeon recognises that the reduction is obviously incomplete. (2) Reduction into another sac. This is most likely to occur where there are two sacs with a common neck at which the bowel is strangulated. The bowel is forced by the taxis from one sac into the other, the strangulation at the neck of the sac being still unrelieved. This accident is met with chiefly in interstitial hernia. (3) Reduction en bloc or en masse (Fig, 98). This is usually the result of long-continued Fig. 98.—Diagram of Reduction of Hernia en bloc.