PYOGENIC DISEASES. 53 At the bedside there is often great difficulty in discriminating between the various intra-cranial diseases that result from pyogenic infection, partly because many of the symptoms pre- sented by the patient are common to all the diseases of this group, but still more because the different conditions are not infrequently associated with one another in various combinations. Thus we may have a localised meningitis spreading to the brain and setting up a cerebral abscess; a sinus phlebitis giving rise to a purulent lepto-meningitis; or a cerebral abscess bursting into the subarachnoid space and producing meningitis. The symptoms of one condition blend with and obscure those of another, and thus lead to difficulties in diagnosis. Meningitis. Pachymeningitis.—This term is applied to inflammation con- lined to the dura mater—a condition which is usually due to the spread of infection from a localised osseous lesion, such as erosion uiL the tegmen tympani in chronic suppuration of the middle ear, of the wall of the sigmoid groove in mastoid disease, or of the posterior wall of the frontal sinus in suppuration of that cavity. It also occurs in cases of septic compound fracture, attended with a mild degree of infection and with imperfect drainage ; and in contusion of the skull without an external wound, the infection taking place through the blood-stream. The outer layer of the dura in contact with the affected por- tion of bone is inflamed, thickened, and covered with a layer of granulations, and between it and the bone there is an effusion of fluid—external pachy meningitis. Up to this point the process is largely protective in its effects ; and gives rise to no symptoms, beyond perhaps some pain in the head. In the majority of cases, however, suppuration occurs between the dura and the bone—suppurative pachymeningitis—and leads to the formation of an extra-dural abscess (Fig. 14). When this happens in association with disease in the middle ear or frontal sinus, it is attended with severe headache, referred to the seat of the abscess, a sudden rise of temperature, preceded by shivering, and by other evidence of septic absorption. Over the situation of the abscess, the scalp becomes markedly swollen and oedematous —a condition which Percival Pott, in 1760, first observed to be characteristic of extra-dural suppuration, hence the name, Pott’s puffy tumour, applied to it. Under these circumstances the abscess is seldom of sufficient size to cause a marked increase in