CONGENITAL ANOMALIES. 615 downwards so that it lies on a level with the sacral promontory, or even in the cavity of the pelvis. Anatomically this congenital displacement is differentiated from the acquired variety—the wandering kidney—by the low origin of the renal vessels, which may spring from the common or internal iliac arteries. Clinically the condition may pass unobserved, unless the displaced kidney becomes the seat of disease, for example, hydronephrosis or calculous pyonephrosis. Under these circumstances it may be difficult to diagnose the condition from tumours of the bowel, of the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, or of the retro peritoneal tissue. Congenital Anomalies of the Ureter.—Abnormal origin of the ureter from the pelvis of the kidney, with the formation of a valve at the orifice, is an important cause of hydronephrosis. Double ureter is met with in a variety of forms. There may be two complete ureters draining the one kidney and opening separately into the bladder, or the ureter may only be double at its upper end. When hydronephrotic or pyonepliritic processes occur, they may be confined to one segment of the affected kidney. This may result, for example, from abnormal termina- tion of the supernumerary tube, the lower end of which may be so narrow, or may pass so obliquely through the wall of the bladder, that the outflow through it is interfered with and there results a hydronephrosis of the portion of kidney drained by it. In other cases the intramural portion of the ureter becomes distended into a cyst, which may interfere with the emptying of the bladder by projecting like a tumour into its interior, or may even compress the normal ureter of the opposite side. In some cases the supernumerary tube does not open into the bladder at all. In the male, it may open into the prostatic urethra or seminal vesicle, but as the opening is controlled by the sphincter muscles, it does not cause any abnormality in micturition, and the condition is practically never diagnosed during life. In the female, the supernumerary tube may open into the urethra, vagina, or vestibule, and cause a con- tinuous dribbling of urine, which is beyond the control of the patient. The history is that from childhood there has been a minor degree of incontinence or dribbling, although the patient is able to pass urine in a normal stream when she wishes to do so, a state of affairs which is pathognomonic. If operative treatment is called for, the abdomen should be opened, the supernumerary ureter cut across and inserted by a fresh opening into the bladder. Abnormal Mobility and Acquired Displacements of the