758 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. serous exudate, and differs from that met with in chronic forms of hydrocele in being more rich in cells, more highly coagulable, and more liable to be followed by adhesions between the opposing walls of the sac. The condition is apt to be overlooked clinically, as its signs are overshadowed by those of the orchitis or epididymitis with which it is associated. As a rule the fluid disappears as the primary inflammation subsides, and no special treatment is called for. Chronic Hydrocele.—Several varieties of chronic hydrocele are recognised, according to the situation of the effused fluid. In the most common variety — the ordinary or acquired hydrocele — the fluid occupies and distends the cavity of the normal tunica vaginalis. In the congenital hydrocele, the fluid distends the tunica vaginalis and communicates with the peritoneal cavity through the processus vaginalis, which remains unobliterated. When the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded, and the fluid is confined to the tunica vaginalis and the unobliterated portion of the process, the condition is known as infantile hydrocele. The term inguinal hydrocele is applied when fluid collects in the tunica vaginalis of an imperfectly descended testis. The fluid in a chronic hydrocele is serous in character, con- tains about 6 per cent, of albumin and a small quantity of fibrinogen, and has a specific gravity of from 1022 to 1025. It does not coagulate spontaneously. It may be clear and watery, or of a pale straw or greenish colour. In old standing hydroceles it often presents a glistening appearance from the presence of numerous shiny cholesterin crystals, and in some cases calcareous plates are found scattered over the walls of the sac, or the whole of the parietal layer may be calcified and rigid. According to the size of the hydrocele the quantity of fluid varies from a few ounces to several pints. Sometimes fat or chyle is present in the fluid, and gives it a white, milky appearance—chylous hydrocele; this may be due to the presence of the filaria sanguinis hominis. The etiology of hydrocele is obscure. In a certain number of cases the fluid develops in association with some obvious disease of the testis or epididymis, such as syphilis or tubercle, but in the great majority the testis is healthy. It may follow upon a single, or upon repeated injuries. Pedunculated fibrous bodies are sometimes met with projecting from the tunica vaginalis into the cavity of the hydrocele, but it is doubtful whether these are the cause or the result of the hydrocele. The ordinary or acquired hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis