520 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the right lobe must be opened by the trans-pleural route. A large drainage tube is inserted and the cavity of the abscess washed out with salt solution. The drainage tube is gradually shortened, but is not removed until the cavity is obliterated and the discharge has ceased. The multiple abscesses of the liver met with in pyaemia are beyond the reach of surgical treatment. Hydatids of the Liver.—Hydatid cysts may occur in any part of the liver, but, like abscesses, are chiefly met with in the right lobe. The clinical features vary with the size, situation, and number of the cysts. When a large solitary cyst projects down- wards into the abdomen, it forms a painless, smooth, globular tumour in the epigastric or hypochondriac region, obscurely fluctuating, elastic, and resisting. The characteristic “hydatid fremitus ” or thrill may be recognised on palpation if the wall of the cyst is lax. If the cyst wall is thick and calcareous, the tumour may appear to be solid. If the cyst is embedded in the right lobe, it may produce no signs other than hepatic enlargement; if of large size, it may bulge the thoracic parietes, or project upwards towards the pleural cavity. Constitutional symptoms are slight or may be absent. Large cysts cause symptoms refer- able to pressure on the diaphragm, stomach, or abdominal veins. If the cyst suppurates, the features resemble those of hepatic abscess. While spontaneous cure is possible by desiccation and death of the parasites, rupture of the cyst is the commonest natural termination, and it may take place into one of the adjacent abdominal viscera, or into the pleura or lung. The diagnosis of hydatids may be confirmed by withdrawing some of the contents of the cyst through a hollow needle, and demonstrating the presence of scolices or booklets. This procedure is not recom- mended except as an immediate preliminary to operation, because of the risk of leakage through the needle puncture into the peritoneal cavity. Treatment.—Cysts projecting below the costal margin are dealt with by the abdominal route; if the cyst is pedunculated and has a narrow neck, this may be ligatured and divided and the cyst removed; if it is surrounded by liver substance, it is incised and emptied ; the cyst wall can frequently be shelled out entire. ' If the fluid contents are aseptic, the cavity may be closed again by sutures; if they are purulent, it must be drained, but the cure of thick-walled cysts by means of drainage is very tedious. Cysts bulging the thoracic parietes and pro- jecting upwards towards the lung should be dealt with by the trans-pleural route.