139 HARE LIP AND CLEFT PALATE. ing to one or to both sides in the fissures between the inner and outer segments of the premaxillary bone, or between the outer segments and the superior maxillm. These cases are combined with double hare-lip. The cleft varies considerably in width. It may be so wide that the imperfectly developed nasal septum is seen between its edges, and gives to the cleft the appearance of being double, or the septum is adherent to one edge of the palate—usually the right—and the cleft appears to be to the left of the middle line. In most cases the roof of the mouth is unduly arched, and is narrower than normal. Clinical Features.—Single hare-lip is about twice as common on the left as on the right side, and it occurs more frequently in boys than in girls. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a well-marked hereditary tendency to these deformities, and they frequently occur in several members of a family. The nose is characteristically broad and flattened, the ala being bound down to the alveolar margin of the jaw by fibrous tissue. The margins of the cleft in the lip are also attached to the alveolus by firm reflections of the mucous membrane. The orbicularis oris and other muscles of expression about the mouth being defective, the deformity is exaggerated when the child cries or laughs. In simple hare-lip the child may have difficulty in sucking, but this can usually be overcome by some mechanical contrivance to occlude the cleft. When the liare-lip is double and combined with cleft palate, the child is unable to suck, and food introduced into the mouth tends to regurgitate through the nose. The nutrition can only be maintained by having recourse to spoon-feeding, and in feeding the child it is necessary to throw the head well back and to introduce the food directly into the back of the pharynx. Many of these infants are of such low vitality, however, that in spite of the most careful feeding they emaciate and die. In those who survive, the voice has a peculiar nasal twang, as in phonation the air is expelled through the nose instead of through the mouth, and the articulation, especially of certain consonants, is very indistinct. Taste and smell are deficient. The constant exposure of the nasal and pharyngeal mucous membrane renders it liable to attacks of catarrhal inflammation and granular pharyngitis. Treatment.—The only means of treating these deformities is by operation, and, speaking generally, it may be said that the earlier the operation is performed the better, provided the general condition of the child is equal to the strain. In simple