755 VARICOCELE. strength of the walls of the veins. The length and tortuosity of the veins, the slight support they receive as they hang in the lax and pendulous scrotum, and the feeble vis a tergo of the blood- stream in the comparatively long and small spermatic artery, are probably additional predisposing factors. It is alleged that prolonged or repeated backward pressure on the column of blood, resulting, for example, from habitual constipation, disease of the liver, or repeated violent muscular efforts, is a determining factor in the production of varicocele, but it is seldom possible to attribute the condition to any such cause. Varicocele frequently develops as an early symptom in patients suffering from malignant disease of the kidney. Varicocele is an affection of puberty and early manhood, it tends to disappear in adult life, and is very rare in old age. It is much more common on the left side than on the right (30 to 1). In about 7 per cent, of cases it is bilateral. The excessive frequency of left-sided varicocele has been attributed to various causes, the most probable of which is the obstruction offered to the blood as it enters the left renal vein at right angles to the stream. In its morbid anatomy varicocele resembles ordinary varix of the superficial veins of the extremities. The vessels are dilated, elongated, and tortuous, their walls irregularly thickened, with here and there fusiform or sacculated dilatations. Clinical Features.—The condition usually develops insidiously and painlessly, and is often first observed when the patient applies for admission to one of the public services. The scrotum is usually abnormally lax and pendulous, its walls thin and transparent, and the dartos wanting in tone and contractility. The scrotum is occupied by a soft mass of distended veins, which on palpation feels like “ a bag of worms.” The dark blue vessels may be visible when the skin is put upon the stretch. The varicosity is most marked in the scrotal portion of the cord, and seldom extends into the inguinal canal. The testis is sometimes obscured by being enveloped in loops of varicose veins hanging down to the bottom of the scrotum. When the patient lies down, the veins slowly and gradually empty, and the swelling largely disappears. It reappears, however, when he stands up again, slowly increasing from below upwards, and a slight impulse is perceptible when he coughs. The swelling can be rendered more prominent by compressing the veins against the pubes. If the condition begins about puberty, the development of the testis may be interfered with and the gland remain small and soft, but when it first appears in early manhood, the testis is