THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. 142 the tendency to inversion of the margins when the sutures are tightened is obviated. The connections with the septum of the nose are divided with a pair of curved scissors. After paring both edges in this way, interrupted sutures of silver wire, silk, or horse-hair are introduced. In the after-treatment steps should be taken to prevent vomiting, crying, or coughing. The child must be fed on fluids, carefully administered with a spoon. The mouth must be kept sweet by frequent sponging with a mild antiseptic, such as boro-glyceride, or by spraying with peroxide of hydrogen. The sutures may generally be removed in about a fortnight. The raw surface left on each side along the inner margin of the alveolus speedily granulates, the vitality of the palate bone being maintained from its nasal aspect. An alternative and in many respects a more efficient method of closing the palatal cleft is that introduced by Davies-Colley and modified by Arbuthnot Lane. It consists in raising the soft parts from the palate and adjacent alveolus in the form of flaps, which are folded across the cleft in such a way that their raw surfaces are opposedVto one another. Brophy, of Chicago, recommends that the palate should be closed in early infancy, by paring the edges, and then forcibly thrusting the superior maxilla; towards the middle line by digital pressure if possible, or by raising the cheek from off the bone and passing stout silver wire sutures round the palatal processes, and through the maxillae across the cleft. This operation is attended with con- siderable shock and has been known to prove fatal. Voice Training.—The treatment of cleft palate does not cease with a successful operation; the importance of voice training must be explained to the parents. The child must be taught, in speaking, to send the stream of air through the mouth, instead of through the nose, by using the soft palate. If the soft palate is not sufficiently large and mobile to shut off the mouth from the nasal cavity, little improvement in speaking can be looked for. Mechanical appliances, such as obturators or artificial vela, are only to be recommended in aggravated cases of cleft palate in patients over twenty years of age, or in cases in which operative treatment has failed. They should be in the form of plates of vulcanite or gold, fitted to the teeth, and kept in position by suction. Other Congenital Deformities of the Face.—Macrostoma is an abnormal enlargement of the mouth in its transverse diameter, due to imperfect fusion of the maxillary and mandi- bular processes.