SARCOMA. 195 Sarcoma of the tongue is rare. The small-celled, the round- celled, and the lympho-sarcoma are the varieties usually met with. Some show little tendency to recur after removal, while others are extremely malignant. The diagnosis is always difficult, and is seldom made until a portion of the growth has been removed and examined microscopically. Innocent Tumours and Cysts.—Lipomata, fibromata, and various forms of angiomata are occasionally met with. They are all of slow growth, and only give rise to inconvenience by their bulk. Papillomata may occur on any part of the tongue, and at any age. They may be pedunculated or sessile, and are very liable to become malignant, especially when associated with leucoplakia. They should be freely removed by excising a wedge-shaped portion of the tongue. Dermoid cysts are met with beneath the tongue, lying in the middle line, between the genio-hyoglossi, and on the upper sur- face of the mylo-hyoid muscles. They may be noticed soon after birth, or may only attract attention during adult life. The cyst usually projects under the chin, forming a soft fluctuating swell- ing, which varies in size from a pigeon’s to a turkey’s egg. When it bulges towards the mouth it is liable to be mistaken for a retention cyst of one of the salivary glands. It is dis- tinguished by its mesial position, its yellow colour, and its opacity, the retention cyst being to one side of the middle line, purplish in colour and translucent. The cyst should be dissected out, either from the mouth or from under the chin according to circumstances. Hydatid and cysticercus cysts have also been met with in the tongue. Thyro-glossal Tumours and Cysts.—Solid tumours and cysts may develop in the embryonic tract which passes from the isthmus of the thyroid gland to the foramen csecum at the base of the tongue—the thyro-glossal tract of His. The solid tumours have the same structure as the thyroid gland, and in some cases they attain considerable size. These tumours are liable to become cystic, the cysts being lined with ciliated epithelium and containing colloid material. The growths occupy the dorsum of the tongue, and extend from the foramen csecum backwards towards the epiglottis. They are of a bluish-brown or dark red colour, and are liable to repeated attacks of lnemorrhage. In the cystic forms bleeding may take place into a cyst, causing it to become suddenly enlarged, or the cyst may burst and the blood escape into the mouth. These variations in size and repeated attacks of bleeding help to distinguish thyro-glossal tumours from other swellings of the tongue. Treatment is only