447 PERFORATION OF GASTRIC ULCER. towards the lesser curvature, and next to these, those in the body of the stomach towards the cardiac end. It has been estimated by Finney that there are two or more perforations in about 20 per cent, of cases, but in 100 cases operated upon by ourselves and F. M. Caird only one instance of double perfora- tion was met with. The perforation varies in size from a pin- point opening to a hole large enough to admit the tip of the little finger ; its edges are usually sharply defined and indurated, and a variable area of the wall surrounding the ulcer is rigid from oedema. The perforation may occur directly on to the free surface of the visceral peritoneum and so infect the general peritoneal cavity, or it may take place at a point where the stomach has formed adhesions to the surrounding structures and thus give rise to a localised peritonitis or to a perigastric abscess. When the ulcer is on the posterior wall of the stomach, it may open directly into the lesser sac, and if the foramen of Winslow is obliterated, this leads to the formation of a sub-phrenic abscess on the left side. In minute perforations into the general peritoneal cavity, and especially if the stomach is empty at the time, the leakage may be so small that the resulting infection becomes limited by adhesions. Clinical Features.—It is important to discriminate clearly between the symptoms that come on immediately on the giving way of the ulcer, and those that ensue later as a result of infection of the peritoneal cavity. The former present certain features which are characteristic of perforation of the stomach or duodenum, and are helpful in diagnosis; the latter are common to nearly all forms of acute infective peritonitis, and are therefore only of diagnostic value in the light of what preceded them. Pain.—The most striking, constant, and characteristic symptom of the occurrence of perforation is the sudden onset of intense abdominal pain, which is variously described by different patients as of a stabbing, cutting, tearing, burning, or twisting character. It is always of extreme severity, doubling the patient up, causing him to writhe in agony, and usually to cry out. The initial pain, as a rule, radiates all over the abdomen, and the patient indicates its site by sweeping the hand across the belly or round the umbilical region. In most cases there is an area situated in the epigastrium, or in one or other hypochondrium, in which the pain reaches its maximum intensity. In a few instances, both in gastric and duodenal perforations, the pain is specially