THE URINARY BLADDER. 676 to be dilated with bougies and the meatus incised, in order to permit of the passage of the instruments employed—about Nos. 16-20 of the English scale. The lithotrite is introduced into the bladder, and when its blades are opened at the most dependent part of the organ, the stone usually falls between them. The stone is then grasped and moved towards the centre of the cavity to ensure that the bladder wall is not included. The blades are locked and the screw action of the instrument employed to crush the stone, the pressure being increased gradually. As the stone breaks the fragments fall to the most dependent part of the bladder, and are in turn picked up and crushed until they are reduced to fragments small enough to pass through the evacuating catheter, which is introduced after withdrawing the lithotrite and attached to a suction pump known as the evacuator. To ensure that all fragments have been removed, the bladder may be searched with a sound, or, what is better, inspected with the cystoscope. In children smaller lithotrites and evacuat- ing catheters must be employed, ranging from No. 4 upwards of the English scale. In uncomplicated cases, the patient is up and about again in the course of a week. The mortality is slightly under 4 per cent. When it is impossible to pass the crushing instruments by way of the meatus, the membranous urethra is opened upon a staff in the middle line of the perineum, and the largest size of lithotrite introduced through the wound into the bladder, the stone crushed, and the fragments removed through an evacuating catheter. The wound in the perineum is usually healed before the end of a week. This is known as perineal litholapaxy or Keith’s operation. When the stone is so large and so dense that even the largest lithotrite is likely to fail, the membranous urethra is opened in the middle line as in the last procedure, and the prostate is incised sufficiently to admit the finger into the bladder. A strong straight crushing forceps or lithoclast is then introduced, and the stone broken into fragments small enough to be extracted by the ordinary lithotomy forceps or scoop ; this procedure is known as perineal lithotrity. Lithotomy—“ Cutting for Stone.”—It is difficult to define the conditions which render a cutting operation preferable to one or other of the crushing procedures. Formerly it was largely determined by the size and consistence of the stone, but increased experience has shown that even the largest and densest stones may be crushed, provided the operator possesses the necessary skill and a perfect set of instruments. Within