772 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. such as hypospadias or epispadias, or to some mechanical obstacle to coitus, such as curvature of the penis during erection from the presence of a scar in the erectile tissue. Apart from these conditions, the most frequent cause of impotence is incom- pleteness or absence of erection of the penis. This is frequently due to psychical causes, and is often met with in young men on the eve of marriage from fear of inability to perform their marital functions. In another group of cases it is due to over- stimulation by sexual excitement resulting in exhaustion of the nervous mechanism. In certain diseases of the nervous system, for example, locomotor ataxia, the power of erection is gradually lost. The prolonged and excessive use of certain drugs, such as opium, cocain, arsenic, camphor, or alcohol, may interfere with erection. Less common causes of impotence are premature ejaculation before erection is complete, and delayed ejaculation, the emission not taking place till after the penis has become flaccid. These conditions may result from chronic affections of the prostate and prostatic urethra. Sterility is due either to absence of semen or to abnormal composition of the fluid. In some cases no spermatozoa are present in the seminal fluid ejaculated—azoospermia. This may be due to spermatozoa not being formed by the testes, as a result of atrophy or disease. When both testes are undescended, spermatozoa may be absent from the semen. There is reason to believe that prolonged exposure to the X-rays induces azoospermia. Azoospermia may be temporary or permanent according to the condition to which it is due. In other cases, although the sexual act is performed, no seminal fluid is ejaculated—aspermia. This is usually due to some obstruction in the seminal tract, for example, obliteration of the vas deferens or ejaculatory duct from gonorrhoeal inflamma- tion or from the presence of concretions, or to stricture of the urethra or enlarged prostate. When there is a tight stricture of the urethra, the semen may pass back into the bladder, and subsequently be passed in the urine, in which spermatozoa may be foqnd on microscopic examination. Aspermia may exist temporarily as a result of congestive or inflammatory conditions in the ducts or urethra. The presence of a tight stricture of the urethra with fistulae behind it through which the semen escapes also involves sterility. As there is reason to believe that in one case out of every six in which marriage is unfruitful the husband is the sterile partner, when no obvious cause of sterility is found in the wife, an