UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 554 Parovarian cysts originate in the tubular remnants of the embryonic Wolffian body, in the layers of the mesosalpinx between the Fallopian tube and the ovary. They grow rapidly and form smooth, thin-walled, unilocular cysts, over which the Fallopian tube is stretched out in a characteristic way. The ovary is adherent to the under or posterior aspect of the cyst. The cavfty is lined with cylindrical epithelium, which is often ciliated, and it contains a clear, limpid fluid. Papillary tumours of the ovary form a group intermediate between the cystic and the solid growths. They are due to a proliferation of the germinal epithelium on the surface of the ovary, or in the Graafian follicles, and are stated by some observers to arise from the parovarian tubules which penetrate the ovary. The tumour may be made up of solid masses of warty or cauliflower-like excrescences springing from the surface of the ovary, and spreading over the adjacent peritoneal surfaces till they fill up and block the pelvis; or it may take the form of a large unilocular cyst with papillary growths projecting from its surface as well as into its interior. The rupture of such a cyst is followed by dissemination of the disease over the peritoneum. These growths show a marked tendency to spread by continuity, and are thus locally malignant, but metastasis to distant parts is rare. They are most common in women nearing or past the menopause, and are frequently bilateral; they usually grow slowly, and are often associated with ascites. Complications. — Ovarian tumours are liable to various accidents which modify their clinical course. Inflammation and suppuration, for example, may occur in the cyst, infection taking place from the Fallopian tube, the vermiform appendix, or the intestine. The swelling becomes painful and tender, general symptoms of septic absorption supervene, and if pus forms, it may escape either into the general peritoneal cavity or into an adjacent viscus. Recovery may be followed by the formation of widespread adhesions. Rotation or twisting of the pjedicle is also liable to occur, interfering with the venous return from the tumour, and causing haemorrhage into the cyst, or even gangrene. This accident is attended with sudden onset of acute pain, pallor, and faintness ; the tumour rapidly increases in size and becomes tense and tender. The condition closely simulates the onset of acute intes- tinal obstruction, symptoms of peritonitis ensue, and if suppura- tion or gangrene occurs, the condition is liable to prove fatal unless promptly treated by operation. Rupture of the cyst may result from gradual thinning of the