THE BREAST. 334 Clinical Features.—The tumour appears as a rounded swelling in the substance of the breast. There is no retraction of the nipple, and at first the skin is not implicated nor the axillary glands enlarged. The tumour, which is comparatively soft, cannot be moved apart from the corpus mammae. For some months the swelling may remain almost stationary and then begin to grow, rapidly infiltrating the whole organ. The skin over the breast becomes stretched, assumes a dusky red hue, and has large veins coursing through it. The axillary glands become enlarged and soft. There is often some general rise of temperature. Dissemination may take place through the blood-stream to the lungs, liver, brain, or other internal organs. The treatment consists in excising the breast and the axillary glands on the same lines as for carcinoma, but in the rapidly growing varieties the prognosis is extremely unfavourable. Carcinoma.^—In the great majority of cases carcinoma of the breast originates in the epithelium of the acini, and the tumour is made up of masses of atypical epithelial cells surrounded by a varying amount of connective tissue. While it is convenient for clinical purposes to distinguish between different forms of cancer of the breast according to the relative amount of the epithelial and connective-tissue elements present, the disposition of these elements, the rate of growth of the tumour, and the extent to which it implicates the corpus mammae, it is to be borne in mind that these forms are merely variations of one and the same disease. Females suffer from cancer of the breast more frequently than males in the proportion of something like fifty to one. The age incidence varies in different forms, but it may be stated generally that the younger the patient the less favourable is the prognosis. The axillary hemisphere is more frequently the seat of cancer than the sternal hemisphere • in the latter situation the prognosis is worse than in the former. In a considerable proportion of cases the patient has previously suffered from puer- peral mastitis and mammary abscess. In some instances there is a definite history of a blow or other injury preceding the appearance of the tumour, but the importance of the role played by these antecedent conditions is difficult to determine. There is evidence in favour of the view that there is an hereditary proclivity to the disease. Scirrhous Carcinoma.—This is by far the most common form of cancer of the breast. In it the connective-tissue elements predominate, while the masses of epithelial cells are compara- tively few in number and small in size. Towards the centre of the tumour the epithelial clusters are compressed by contraction