THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 542 duodenum or from the common bile-duct. Gall-stones and catarrh of the stomach and duodenum are common antecedents of pancreatitis. Less frequently the infection is derived from the blood—as in pyaemia; or by direct extension from neighbouring organs—as in ulcer of the stomach. In acute pancreatitis there is a sudden onset of acute illness, attended with pain in the epigastrium, nausea, and vomiting, which may lead to the condition being mistaken for intestinal obstruction or peritonitis from perforation. The upper part of the abdomen becomes distended, there is marked tenderness above the umbilicus, the temperature is raised, there may be delirium, and death usually supervenes in from two to five days. When acute pancreatitis is associated with serious haemorrhage into the pancreas itself or diffused in the surrounding tissues, the condition is known as haemorrhagic pancreatitis. The extravasated blood undergoes changes, the colour altering to a chocolate or slate-grey. The onset of the illness is very acute, the symptoms are referred to the upper part of the abdomen, and there may be the rapid formation of a large tumour-like swelling due to extravasation of blood. In a case observed by ourselves, the sudden onset of pain below the right costal margin, the collapse of the patient, and the board-like contraction of the muscles below the right costal margin led to a diagnosis of perforated duodenal ulcer. In the less acute forms the patient survives for a longer period, and suppuration occurs, the pus being diffused throughout the gland, or collected into one or more abscesses in the pancreas itself or in its immediate vicinity. The symptoms are similar to those observed in the acute form, but are less severe. The temperature is irregular, the patient loses flesh and strength, and presents the features of septic poisoning. There is usually diarrhoea, the stools being foetid, and they may contain pus and blood. If a large abscess forms, a swelling may appear and come to the surface above or below the stomach; the pus, however, may burrow into either loin, forming a peri-renal abscess, or pass upwards under the diaphragm and form a sub- phrenic abscess, or it may follow the psoas muscle into the iliac region. Sometimes an abscess bursts into the stomach or bowel, or into the peritoneal cavity. Recovery may take place after a tedious and prolonged illness, but death is the usual termina- tion in cases left to nature. Treatment.—An exploratory laparotomy must first be per- formed to establish the diagnosis, which can seldom be made certain otherwise. After the abdomen is opened, the recognition