17 OPERATIONS FOR OPENING THE SKULL. amount of anaesthetic is required. Chloroform is preferable to ether as a general anaesthetic, as it produces a lowering of the blood pressure and causes less congestion of the cerebral vessels. It must, however, be used with great caution on account of the risk of paralysis of the respiratory centre. When there is ah’eady a wound in the scalp, for example, in a case of compound fracture, this is enlarged sufficiently to allow the trephine to be applied, care being taken to make the incisions in such a way as to avoid cutting across the vessels and nerves supplying the haps. When the scalp is intact, a horse-shoe shaped hap, with its base below, is raised. The incision is carried down to the bone, and the pericranium is rehected along with the scalp. The trephine is then applied, and a disc of bone removed from the skull. As the thickness of the bone varies greatly at different parts of the skull, care must be taken to avoid perforating at one part of the circle sooner than at another, the depth of the groove made by the trephine being noted from time to time by means of a sterilised toothpick or probe. The opening may be enlarged if necessary by means of rongeur or gouge forceps or by a Hey’s saw. If bleeding from the vessels of the diploe persists, it may be controlled by crushing the edge of the bone with strong forceps, or by the application of Horsley’s antiseptic putty, which con- sists of carbolic acid one part, oil two parts, and wax seven parts. When a large opening in the skull is required, for example in exploratory operations, or for the removal of extensive tumours, Wagner’s osteoplastic operation, or some modification of it, should be performed (Figs. 2, 6). Wagner’s operation consists in raising a sequent of bone with the overlying periosteum and scalp attached to it. An omega-shaped incision is made through the scalp and pericranium, and at each of the four angles of the area'of bone so delimited a half-inch disc is removed by the trephine. The openings thus made are united by means of the chisel or saw—Gigli’s wire saw is very suitable for this purpose —and the flap, consisting of bone, periosteum, and scalp in one piece, raised. Cotterill lays stress on the importance of applying the saw obliquely in cutting this osseous flap, so that the part to be lifted up is bevelled at the expense of its under surface. B}r attending to this detail it is possible to replace the flap without fear of its sinking below the level of the surrounding bone. The dura mater is opened by a crucial or semilunar incision, VOL. II—2