305 PLEURAL EFFUSIONS. re-absorbed, but when it persists, or exerts injurious pressure on the lung, or displaces the heart and impedes its action, it should be withdrawn by means of the aspirator, the needle being inserted in the seventh or eighth interspace a little outside the angle of the scapula. Rapid withdrawal of the effusion is to be avoided, as it may induce bleeding from the inflamed and vascular pleura or lung tissue, may give rise to syncope from too sudden diminution of the intra-thoracic pressure, or may occasion acute oedema of the lung. Empyema or Pyothorax.—The term empyema is applied to any collection of purulent or sero-pumlent fluid in the cavity of the pleura. When the fluid is localised to a limited area of the pleural sac the term encysted empyema is employed; when it is diffused throughout the whole cavity it is spoken of as total empyema. For clinical purposes it is convenient to describe separately those forms due to infection with pyogenic organisms, and those due to the tubercle bacillus. Pyogenic Empyema.—In the great majority of cases pyogenic empyema occurs as a complication of some other serious illness, the most common form being that which follows on an attack of pleurisy or pneumonia, and the organisms most frequently present are pneumococci, less commonly streptococci or staphylococci. Another way in which infection takes place directly from the lung is by the bursting into the pleura of a pulmonary abscess, a bronchiectasis, or a gangrenous focus. The organisms present vary with the nature of the primary condition, and the infection is usually a mixed one, saprophytic bacteria generally being present. In injuries of the pleura and lung accompanied by effusion infection may take place, either directly through a wound or by way of the blood-stream, and give rise to empyema. In addition to those forms which are secondary to pulmonary affections, empyema may result from an abscess of the liver, or a subphrenic abscess bursting through the diaphragm, or from an abscess of the chest wall bursting through the parietal pleura. Lastly, infection may take place from the blood-stream in the course of such acute infective diseases as typhoid, scarlet fever, influenza, puerperal sepsis, or general pyaemia. Morbid Anatomy.— The fluid in the pleural cavity varies from a thin, turbid, sero-purulent effusion, to a thick creamy pus in which masses of fibrin float. As a rule the pus is odour- less, but when the condition is secondary to gangrene of the lung, sub-phrenic abscess, or an infected wound, it may be foetid. Even in comparatively recent cases the pleura is thickened and covered with masses of flaky lymph which may be as much as an VOL. II—20