720 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. may pass the sphincter of the membranous urethra and escape by the meatus, sometimes in such quantity as to saturate the clothing ; more frequently it passes back into the bladder and mixes with the urine. If there is much bleeding, all the urine may be coloured and contain numerous clots; in moderate haemorrhage the first portion is bloody, the greater part of the stream is only faintly tinged, and, lastly, when the bladder is nearly empty, it is again bloody as a result of the contraction of the neck of the bladder upon the congested prostate. The patient is often relieved by the haemorrhage, and the prostate may afterwards be observed to have diminished in size. Septic infection of the bladder also may occur at any stage, but is most frequent when there is stagnation of urine in a bladder which is no longer capable of emptying itself. Although it usually follows the use of a catheter, it may develop apart from this. The phenomena may be those of acute cystitis ; more commonly they are of the chronic variety, the chief feature being the appearance of pus in the last portion of urine passed. The urine may then decompose, favouring the deposit of phosphates, and, in course of time, the infection ascends to the kidneys, and the patient succumbs to a combination of urinary and septic poisoning. The diagnosis of enlarged prostate is usually easy from the urinary history, and the condition of the organ as felt from the rectum; in the majority of cases the prostate projecting as a tumour-like swelling immediately behind the pubic arch. It varies in consistence and may be firm and fibrous, or elastic and yielding, according to its nature. If a catheter is passed, difficulty may be met with in entering the bladder, and the instrument passes beyond the normal length of the urethra before the urine flows. When the urinary symptoms are caused by an enlarged middle lobe, the enlargement felt by the rectum may be inconsiderable. The cystoscope is of service in demon- strating the conditions within the bladder, especially when stone is suspected but cannot be struck with the sound, but it should not be used in advanced cases with septic complications. The differential diagnosis from cancer of the prostate will be referred to on p. 727. Treatment.—The treatment to be recommended in any given case of enlarged prostate can only be determined after a full consideration of all the features of the case. When the symptoms are entirely due to the mechanical obstruction at the neck of the bladder, and the health and vitality of the patient are unimpaired, a radical operation for removal of the