699 GONORRHOEA. is supposed to originate in a phlebitis of the veins of the corpora cavernosa or in those surrounding the prostate. Gleet.—This term is applied to the condition in which there is a persistent mucoid or muco- purulent discharge from the urethra. It is almost invariably a sequel to gonorrhoea, and the term chronic gonorrhoea is sometimes employed as synony- mous with gleet; a gleety discharge, however, may appear in the absence of gonorrhoeal infection. The discharge is scanty and may dry up and gum together the edges of the meatus; it is chiefly observed in the morning because of the longer interval from the - last micturition, and is sometimes only demonstrated by repeatedly pressing along the anterior urethra; it is often impossible to demonstrate cocci in it. If the two-glass test is employed, a small amount of pus may be observed in the first portion passed, and there are frequently “ threads ” and filaments composed of muco-purulent material floating in the urine. These “ threads ” appear to have formed in the ducts opening into the urethra, mainly those of the prostate, and it is always difficult, and sometimes impossible, to demonstrate cocci in them. The condition is chiefly met with in neurotic patients, and its persistence appears to depend, in part at least, on the mental perturbation with which it is so frequently associated. Some- times the patient presents marked symptoms of neurasthenia, complaining of all kinds of pains, itchiness, feelings of heat and cold, and of mental depression, and hopelessness as to the possibility of cure. In our opinion, the discharge and the “ threads ” are derived in the great majority of cases not from the urethra but from the follicles and ducts of the prostate. We nearly always find that during the day when no pus can be expressed from the urethra and no shreds can be demonstrated in the urine, massage of the prostate furnishes a half-teaspoonful or more of viscid fluid at the meatus, and, if the patient makes water, a number of threads are observed floating in it. After the massage the discharge disappears altogether for some days or for a week or more, and the mental and other symptoms are greatly relieved. On examining the prostate in these cases, one or both lobes is found to be irregularly enlarged, and there is nearly always a localised bulging in the central portion of the right lobe, which under pressure empties itself into the urethra, giving the impres- sion to the finger as if it had expressed the contents of a grape. In only a small minority of cases have we found the gleety discharge to depend upon a lesion of the mucous membrane