656 THE URINARY BLADDER. When the bladder is opened for the removal of a stone, the operation is known as lithotomy. Resection of the bladder, partial or complete, is known as cystectomy. Before any of these operations the bladder is thoroughly washed out until the water conies away quite clear, and it is then filled with five to seven ounces of hot boracic lotion. In performing perineal cystotomy a staff with a median groove is passed into the bladder, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, an incision about an inch and a half in length is made in the middle line of the perineum extending downwards to about one inch in front of the anus. After dividing the super- ficial structures, the left forefinger nail feels for the groove in the staff as it lies in the membranous urethra, the knife is inserted along the finger - nail into the groove in the staff, and is pushed on until its point enters the bladder. The staff is then withdrawn and the forefinger is passed into the bladder to explore its cavity. A tube is then tied in and attached to a suction apparatus (Fig. 178). In performing supra- pubic cystotomy the bladder is filled with water or with air, and the patient is placed in the Trendelen- burg position. A vertical or curved horizontal in- cision is made above the symphysis, through the skin, superficial fascia, and fascial layers covering the recti. In order to obtain more room the attach- ments of the recti to the symphysis may be partly divided together with the pyramidales muscles and the tense insertion of the linea alba. The finger is introduced behind the symphysis and draws upwards the thin fascia transversalis, the extra - peritoneal fat, and the reflection of the peritoneum, exposing the smooth, bluish, outer surface of the bladder, which is then incised behind the symphysis. In aseptic conditions the wound in the bladder may be closed by two tiers of stitches, but when drainage is called for it is left open and a glass drainage tube inserted and connected with a suction apparatus. Drainage of the Bladder.—To keep the bladder empty, continuous Fig. 178.- -Cathcart’s Apparatus for Drainage of the Bladder.