THE BREAST. 322 seldom become larger than an ordinary nnlliparous female breast. It is frequently associated with congenital malformations of the sexual organs. If the breasts are so large as to constitute a deformity, they may be excised. Affections of the Nipple and Areola. One or both nipples may be abnormally small or depressed, either congenitally or as a result of cicatricial contraction follow- ing an abscess, with the result that suckling is rendered difficult, and the irritation produced by the efforts of the child causes cracks and fissures to form, and so predisposes to mastitis. As a rule the nipple can be withdrawn sufficiently to enable it to be used for nursing, by systematic gentle traction and the use of a breast pump. Cracks and fissures of the nipple are of importance from the fact that they are often the starting-point of acute mastitis and mammary abscess. They usually develop during lactation, as a result of injury inflicted by the child while suckling, or in association with eczema of the areola. On account of the soft and delicate nature of the areolar skin, the moist condition of the parts, and the repeated irritation to which they are subjected, these fissures are prevented from healing, and are liable to become infected with micro-organisms, which are so abundant in the cutaneous glands in this region. The infection spreads along the lymphatics to the breast, setting up acute mastitis, which may end in suppuration. The pain caused by suckling is frequently so severe as to cause the patient to desist from nursing, with the result that the gland becomes engorged and the tendency to inflammation is thereby increased. Fissures can usually be prevented by adopting 'prophylactic measures during the later months of pregnancy. Care must be taken, for example, that the corset does not press unduly on the parts ; and the nipple, if retracted, should be gradually withdrawn by traction or by suction with a breast pump. It must be kept scrupulously clean by frequent washing with a mild antiseptic lotion, and after being dried should be bathed with methylated spirit or eau-de-Cologne. During lactation the parts should be washed with boracic lotion after nursing, dried, and dusted with boracic powder. If the fissures are very painful they may be painted with cocain, and an artificial nipple should be worn during suckling. Any inflammatory condition of the child’s mouth should be corrected, lest it prove a source of infection of the nipple.