468 THE INTESTINES. made sufficient to admit a Paul’s tube; the suture is then tightened up so as to grasp the tube firmly and hold it in place. The term colotomy, or more correctly colostomy, is applied to an operation in which the colon is opened to establish an outlet for the faeces, this being known as an artificial anus. The operation is most often performed for cancer of the rectum. A loop of colon—preferably the pelvic colon—is pulled out, its mesentery transfixed with a strand of gauze or a glass rod, the bowel fixed by a few sutures passed through its serous coat or its mesentery, and the parietal peritoneum. If possible, the opening of the bowel should be postponed for a few days to enable adhesions to form, and so shut off the peritoneal cavity. A sheet of green protective, or gauze smeared with vaseline, should be applied next the bowel. The opening in the colon is best made with the thermo-cautery—the bowel being insensitive no the affected portion cut across; the mesentery is divided, and its blood-vessels clamped and ligatured. This operation when performed on the large intestine is known as colectomy. The means taken to re-establish the continuity of the tube vary with the condition for which the resection is performed, and the length and relations of the portions of bowel implicated. End-to-end suture (Fig. 120) is the method of choice. The divided ends are brought into apposition, and a continuous suture is introduced through all the coats to approximate the adjacent edges. Over this a continuous Lembert suture is made to bring together the serous surfaces. Lateral implantation (Fig. 121) consists in occluding one end of the divided bowel and stitching the other end to an opening made in the side of the occluded segment. Doyen’s method of occluding the bowel is simple, rapid, and efficient. The divided end is compressed by powerful forceps (enterotribe), and in the constriction ring thus formed a silk ligature is tied. The stump beyond the ligature is trimmed with scissors and cauterised with the actual cautery, and is then anaesthetic is called for— and a Paul’s tube is fixed in the opening by a purse- string suture. Fig. 120.—Encl-to-End Suture nf Small Intestine. Enterectomy consists in excising a segment of the bowel, for example, for tumour, gangrene, or in- jury. The gut is clamped above and below the seg- ment to be resected, and