408 HERNIA. and ill-regulated taxis, the whole sac being forced within the abdominal wall, although still outside the peritoneum, the rela- tions of sac and contents to one another being unaltered, the strangulation at the neck persists. In all of these forms of false reduction the symptoms of strangulation continue, and a fulness and sense of resistance may still be felt in the region in which the displacement has occurred. The manipulator, moreover, is usually conscious that although he has changed the position of the hernia he has not relieved the obstruction. When this accident occurs, an operation should immediately be performed for the relief of the strangu- lated bowel. Sequelae of Strangulation: Stenosis and Stricture of the Intestine.—The symptoms of obstruction may continue after the strangulation has been relieved, from the loop of bowel which has been returned failing to transmit its contents. This may be due to paralysis of its muscular coats, to the occurrence of gangrene, to the persistence of the constriction grooves, or to kinking of the bowel by adhesions. A combination of these conditions may be present. If the obstruction symptoms do not yield to washing out the stomach and irrigation of the lower boivel, the abdomen must be opened in the vicinity of the hernial region concerned, and the damaged loop drawn out of the wound. If the patient’s general condition is favourable, immediate re- section and end-to-end suture should be performed; if not, the damaged bowel is secured outside the wound, an opening is made into it above the obstruction and a Paul’s tube inserted, thus establishing an artificial anus, which can be dealt with at a later period. Recurrence of symptoms of intestinal obstruction coming on towards the second or third week after the operation, the patient meanwhile having progressed favourably, is usually due to the development of a fibrous stricture in one, rarely in both, of the constriction grooves. The clinical features are those of chronic, incomplete obstruction, with occasional vomiting of large quantities of fluid, colicky pains and gurgling noises in the abdomen. Distended coils of intestine may be visible, and may show active peristalsis, which is readily induced by manipulation of the abdomen. The treatment consists in opening the abdomen in the vicinity of the herniotomy wound and drawing out the affected loop of intestine. The stenosed segment may be resected there and then, or an artificial anus may be established as a temporary measure.