TRAUMATIC EPILEPSY. 37 All such wounds are of necessity compound, and the risk of septic infection is considerable, particularly if the penetrating object is broken and a portion remains embedded within the skull. The septic complications of such injuries are described later (p. 52). Bullet wounds have many features in common with punctured wounds. There is more contusion of the brain substance, disintegrated brain matter is usually found in the wound of entrance, and the bullet often carries in with it pieces of bone, cloth, or wad, thus adding to the risk of septic infection. Aseptic foreign bodies, especially bullets, may remain em- bedded in the brain without producing symptoms. The treatment of punctured wounds consists in enlarging the wound in the soft parts, trephining the skull, and removing any foreign body that may be in it, purifying the track, and establishing drainage. After-effects of Head Injuries.—Various after-effects may follow on injuries of the head. Thus, for example, chronic interstitial changes (sclerosis) may spread from an area of cicatrisation in the brain ; or cerebral softening may ensue, either in the form of pale areas of necrosis (white softening), or of hcemorrhagic patches (red softening). The symptoms vary with the area implicated. Adhesions between the brain and its membranes may produce attacks of vertigo and pain, especially on the patient making sudden movements. Traumatic epilepsy may ensue as a sequel of such injuries as cause symptoms of concussion or compression. The disease is due to some circumscribed cortical lesion, such as a spicule of bone projecting into the cortex, the presence of adhesions between the membranes and the brain, a cicatrix in the brain tissue leading to sclerosis, or a haemorrhagic cyst in the membranes or cerebral tissue. The role of cicatrices in the scalp in the production of traumatic epilepsy is more than doubtful. The convulsive attacks are of the Jacksonian type, beginning in one particular group of muscles and spreading thence to neighbouring groups till the whole body may be affected. The disease may manifest itself soon after the injury, for example, when the cause is a fragment of bone irritating the cortex. In other cases it may be several years before the symptoms appear. The onset is usually sudden, and the “ signal symptom,” for ex- ample, jerking .of the thumb, conjugate deviation of the eyes, or motor aphasia, indicates the seat of the lesion. At first the attacks only recur at intervals of, it may be, weeks or months,