INTERSTITIAL HERNIA. 417 by performing the radical cure. The foot of the bed should be elevated and the patient kept recumbent for three or four weeks. Interstitial Hernia.—This form of hernia receives its name from the fact that the sac of the hernia forms in the interstices of the abdominal parietes. The hernial sac is made up of two or more compartments, which open into the abdomen by a common mouth. The outer or lower compartment occupies the upper part of the inguinal canal, and rarely descends into the scrotum; the upper and inner extends between the layers of the abdominal wall in one of three situations:— (1) Between the peritoneum and the fascia transversalis, constituting what is known as a pro-peritoneal or intra-parietal hernia; (2) between the internal and external oblique muscles, the inter-parietal variety—the most common of the three ; and (3), between the external oblique muscle and the skin—the extra-parietal variety. The pro-peritoneal loculus of the sac may pass upwards and outwards towards the anterior superior spine, or directly backwards so that it occupies the inner part of the iliac fossa; or it may pass downwards and inwards into the true pelvis, and lie by the side of the bladder. This form of hernia, although rare, is of special clinical importance, because from the absence of an external swelling the diagnosis is rarely made until strangulation occurs and the hernia is exposed by operation. In the second and third varieties the interstitial sac is capable of being recognised, as it is visibly distended with the usual hernial contents. Strangulation is infrequent. In males, the development of the interstitial sac probably depends upon imperfect descent of the testis, which bars the way to the extension of the hernia downwards towards the scrotum, and causes the sac to spread in the direction of least resistance. In both sexes it is more common on the right side. As these hernias cannot be controlled by a truss, they should be treated by operation. Inguinal Hernia in Children.—Inguinal hernia is very com- mon in children of both sexes. The commonest form met with in boys is that in which the funicular process, although shut off from the tunica vaginalis, remains patent, closely resembling an acquired sac. It is more frequently met with on the right side, because of the later closure of the funicular process on that side. While the predisposing cause is the incomplete closure of the processus, various exciting causes may be present, such as diarrhoea and gaseous distension of the bowels, excessive crying or vomiting, whooping-cough, or rectal irritation by worms. Hence the importance of medical treatment, especially in infants. VOL. II—27