INFLATION OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 211 three methods of inflating the tympanum : Valsalva’s method, Politzer’s method, and by means of the Eustachian catheter. In Valsalva’s inflation the patient himself forces air into his Eustachian tubes by holding his nose, closing his mouth, and forcibly expiring. This method of inflation has only a limited application and is of very little therapeutic value. Politzer’s Method. — For this a Politzer’s air-bag and an auscultating tube, one end of which is inserted into the patient’s ear and the other into the ear of the examiner, are required. The nasal end of the bag should be protected with a piece of rubber tubing or be provided with a nozzle. The patient retains a small quantity of water in his mouth until directed to swallow. The nozzle of the bag is inserted into one nostril, while the other is occluded by the lingers of the surgeon. The signal to swallow is then given, and, simultaneously with the movement of the larynx during this act, the bag is sharply and forcibly compressed. Holt’s modification of this method consists in directing the patient to puff out his cheeks while the lips are kept firmly closed. Inflation through the Eustachian Catheter.—For this method, in addition to the Politzer’s bag and the auscultating tube, a silver or vulcanite Eustachian catheter is required. The silver instrument has the advantage that it can be sterilised by boiling. The patient is seated facing the light, while the surgeon stands in front of him, and having placed the auscultating tube in position, with his left thumb he tilts up the' tip of the patient’s nose. The beak of the catheter is now inserted into the inferior meatus, point downwards, and carried horizontally backwards along the floor of the nose until the convexity of the curve touches the posterior wall of the naso-pharynx. When the posterior pharyngeal wall is felt, the point of the instrument is rotated inwards through a quarter of a circle; the position of the point is indicated by the metal ring upon the outer end of the catheter. The finger and thumb of the left hand should now grasp the stem of the catheter just beyond the tip of the nose so as to steady it. It is now gently withdrawn until the concavity of the beak is brought against the posterior edge of the septum nasi. With the right hand the point of the instrument is then rotated downwards and outwards through a little more than half a circle, so that the point slips into the Eustachian orifice and the metal ring looks outwards and upwards towards the external canthus of the eye of the same side. While the instrument is maintained in this position by the left hand, the nozzle of the Politzer’s bag is inserted into the funnel-shaped