THE EAR. 212 outer extremity of the catheter, and inflation is gently carried out with the least possible jerking. Before withdrawing the catheter its point must be disengaged from the Eustachian opening by turning it slightly downwards. Difficulties in introducing the catheter may arise from the presence of spines and ridges upon, and deviations of, the septum, and it may be necessary to pass the instrument under the guidance of the mirror and speculum. More accurate information is gained from the use of the catheter than from Politzer’s inflation, and it is the safer method to employ when a cicatrix or atrophied patch exists in the tympanic membrane, as by the latter method rupture of these areas might occur. Further, the catheter has the advantage of only inflating one ear, and thus preventing any undue strain being put upon the other. In children the catheter can seldom be employed, on account of the difficulty in passing it. Considerable information may be derived from inflation. If the Eustachian tube is patent, a full clear sound is heard close to the examiner’s ear through the auscultating tube. If the Eustachian tube is obstructed, the sound is fainter and more distant. If there is fluid in the tympanum, a fine moist sound may be detected, which must not be confounded with the coarser and more distant gurgling sound associated with moisture at the pharyngeal opening of the tube. If a small dry perforation exists in the tympanic membrane, the air may be heard whistling through it, while if the perforation is large, a sensation which is almost painful may be produced in the examiner’s ear. If there is fluid associated with the perforation, these sounds may be accompanied by a bubbling noise. The effect of inflation upon the hearing must be carefully tested and recorded. Affections of the External Ear. Deformities of the Ear.—The auricle, together with the external auditory meatus, may be congenitally absent on one or on both sides. The condition is not amenable to surgical treatment. Double auricles are occasionally met with; more frequently rudimentary auricular appendages about the size of a pea, consisting of skin, subcutaneous connective tissue and nodules of cartilage, occur in front of the tragus, on the lobule, or in the neck. These appendages should be snipped off with scissors. These congenital deformities are due to errors in development of the mandibular arch, and are frequently associ-