THE URETHRA. 704 backward pressure; the renal functions suffer as a result of chronic interstitial nephritis, and septic infection of the renal pelvis and kidney — pyelo-nephritis and pyonephrosis — is a frequent cause of death. Clinical Features of Cicatricial Stricture.—The first thing to attract the attention of the patient is that he has some difficulty in starting the act of micturition and that the stream of urine is smaller in size and less forcible than normal. In some cases undue frequency of micturition is the first symptom complained of. The act of micturition is prolonged, is attended with straining, and urine trickles through the stricture after the effort is completed and wets the clothing. Twisting or forking of the stream is an inconstant and uncertain feature. A slight muco-purulent discharge from the meatus, due to associated urethritis, is very common, and may have persisted from the original gonorrhoea. The symptoms are greatly aggravated by exposure to cold or by the taking of alcohol, inducing congestion of the mucous membrane and spasm, and this combination of conditions is liable to bring about retention of urine. In neglected cases the symptoms progress, the urine is voided with greater and greater difficulty, the bladder is incompletely emptied and micturition has to be repeated at frequent intervals, and any slight indiscretion results in retention, which, if un- relieved, ends in dribbling from overflow. Septic infection is rarely absent in strictures of long standing, and while com- paratiyely unobtrusive so long as it is confined to the mucous membrane of the urethra and bladder, may at any time en- danger life by spreading to the peri-urethral tissues and causing extravasation, or by ascending to the kidneys. The lighting up of a long standing, almost dormant, infection is frequently observed to follow the passage of instruments or operative interference. Diagnosis and Methods of Examination.—The clinical history is usually suggestive of stricture, but the diagnosis must be confirmed by examination. It is instructive to observe the patient during the act of micturition and to note the condition of the stream. An indurated area of scar tissue in the spongy urethra may be recognised on palpation. Before an instrument is passed, the patient should be in a warm bed, and the usual precautions taken to prevent septic infection. The stricture is first located by passing a No. 10 or 12 metal bougie until it is arrested; after which smaller instruments are passed, until one becomes engaged in the stricture and passes through it, the point being made to enter the bladder. The calibre of the