601 EXCISION OF RECTUM. The sacral operation is employed when the disease is situated in the ampulla of the rectum, and in the majority of cases the anal canal is intact and the sphincters can be preserved. The patient is placed on his right side, or in the exaggerated lithotomy position, and an incision made from the middle of the sacrum to the anus. The coccyx is freely exposed, cleared on its anterior aspect to avoid injuring the middle sacral artery, and removed. The incision is then carried down to the fascia enclosing the rectum, and the bowel freed by blunt dissection above the sphincters surrounding the anal canal, until the finger can be passed round the lower part of the ampulla, which is then clamped between two pairs of forceps and cut across. The finger is then passed up between the hollow of the sacrum and the rectal fascia, and the bowel freed, the blood-vessels being secured as they are reached. When the peritoneal reflection is reached on the anterior aspect of the bowel it is opened, and this gives free access to the pelvic colon, the mesentery of which is divided and ligatured, so that it can be pulled well down. The gut is cut across an inch and a half above the tumour and removed. The lower end of the divided colon is then brought down and sutured to the upper end of the anal portion, thus re-establishing the continuity of the bowel and conserving the sphincters (Kocher). The combined abdominal and perineal operation is indicated when the disease extends to the pelvic colon. The abdomen is opened in the middle line, the sigmoid double-clamped and divided, and its mesentery and the affected segment of bowel freed from their attachments. The removal of the diseased portion is then carried out from the perineum, and the lower end of the colon brought out in the inguinal region as an artificial anus. In cases in which it is impossible to eradicate the disease, much relief may be afforded by colostomy (p. 468). This operation should be performed before there are symptoms of obstruction. It can then be done in two stages, an interval of several days being allowed to elapse between the withdrawal of the loop and the opening of it. When the patient refuses all operative interference, the palliative treatment consists in regulating the diet in such a way as to diminish the quantity of fecal matter. The bowel should be washed out frequently with mild antiseptic lotions, such as boracic acid. When pain is a prominent feature, opium must be given, either in the form of suppositories or by hypo- dermic injection.