596 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. several independent growths present. Multiple polypi scattered over the rectal mucous membrane in many respects resemble the condition met with in the colon, described on p. 506. The most common varieties of polypi are the adenoma and the fibroma. The adenoma is usually met with in children, and originates in one of the glands of the rectal mucosa, forming a soft, vascular tumour varying in size from a small cherry to a walnut. It is of a dull-red colour, and being somewhat irregular on the surface resembles a large raspberry in appearance. It may be sessile, or may have a pedicle varying in length from one to four or five inches. The fibrous polypus differs from the adenomatous variety chiefly in the fact that the fibrous tissue is greatly in excess of the other elements in the growth. It is met with in adults, and forms a hard, nodular tumour covered by thickened mucous membrane. It is usually pear-shaped, and about the size of a hen’s egg, but may attain much greater dimensions. Clinical Features.—The main symptoms of polypi are irrita- bility of the rectum, a sensation as if a foreign body were present, and a constant desire to empty the bowel. The tenesmus is accompanied by a discharge of thin and offensive mucus, and there is sometimes slight bleeding. During defeca- tion the tumour may be extruded through the anus, and its pedicle grasped by the sphincter. In some cases the pedicle is torn and the polypus passed with the faeces. On digital examination, the growth may be detected by passing the finger well into the rectum and sweeping it round the bowel in order to catch on the pedicle, and it may be possible to protrude the tumour from the anus. Anal fissure is a common accompani- ment of fibrous polypus, and prolapse of the bowel is frequently induced by the constant straining, particularly in children. The treatment consists in stretching the sphincters, apply- ing a ligature around the pedicle as high up as possible, and snipping away the polypus. If the pedicle is very narrow the growth may be twisted off without much risk of bleeding, but care must be taken in doing this not to tear the mucous membrane. When the base of the pedicle is broad, the anus should be dilated, and after the ligature has been applied and the tumour cut off, the mucous membrane should be sutured with catgut. The soft sessile adenomata of children are removed with the sharp spoon or curette. The papilloma or villous tumour of the rectum, although not common, calls for special mention on account of its tendency to show signs of malignancy by recurring after removal and