FEMORAL HERNIA. 419 sufficient room for the passage of the cord. Instead of the usual dressings, which are apt to be soiled with urine, a paste of bismuth may be applied over the skin around the wound. Tuberculosis of the hernial sac is not uncommonly met with in association with tuberculous ascites in children; the peritoneum lining the sac is thickened and studded with tubercles like sago grains. This thickening of the sac may be recognised on manipulation, and in many cases examination of the abdomen will reveal the existence of tuberculous nodules and of enlarged mesenteric glands. Strangulation in children is usually a more gradual and less severe process than in adults, and there is little risk of the rapid occurrence of gangrene. The prominent symptoms are griping pains, with crying, vomiting, and arrest of urinary secretion. If seen at an early stage, the child should be placed in a warm bath, and this should be followed by the application of hot fomentations over the hernia. If these means fail to bring about • reduction, the child should be put under chloroform with a view to operation. The constriction is usually situated at the apex of the external abdominal ring, and is therefore divided in splitting the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is a remarkable fact that in children herniotomy for strangulation is most frequently called for during the early months of infancy, the greatest number of operations having been performed during the first three months. Femoral Hernia. A femoral or crural hernia escapes from the abdomen at the crural ring, passes down the crural canal, and emerges in the thigh through the saphenous opening. Next to inguinal it is the commonest form of hernia. It is oftenest met with in the female, probably because the pelvis is wider, the crural ring larger, and Gimbernat’s ligament less strongly developed in women than in men, and it is most common in women who have borne children. It is probable that in some cases a rapid loss of fat may tend to the production of a femoral protrusion, owing to the removal of tissue which helps to support the abdominal aspect of the crural ring. Femoral hernia is almost invariably acquired, and is rarely met with under the age of twenty, because there is practically no crural ring or canal until the pelvis is fully developed. Surgical Anatomy.—The crural ring or upper end of the crural canal is represented on the abdominal aspect by a slight