68 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. of the gap in the skull can be distinctly felt, the diagnosis is greatly simplified. Treatment.—It is only small cephaloceles that are amenable to surgical treatment. Those which are large and contain brain sub- stance are best left alone. They should, however, be protected from irritation and septic infection by soft antiseptic dressings. When surgical interference is deemed advisable, it is best to expose the protrusion by reflecting a flap of the scalp, and, after returning the contents, if this be possible, and isolating the neck of the sac, to ligature it, closing the membranes in such a way as to prevent leakage of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Some- times it is necessary to remove the protruded brain matter, to enable the membranes to be closed. On the whole, while the immediate results of operation are satisfactory, the ultimate results are disappointing, as the essential cause of the intra-cranial pressure persists, and the child develops hydrocephalus. The method of tapping the sac and injecting iodine has nothing to recommend it. Traumatic Cephal-hydrocele.—Certain rare cases of simple fracture of the vault occurring in early childhood have been followed by the development beneath the scalp of a localised fluid swelling, which varies in size from time to time and is partially reducible by pressure. In a majority of cases the swelling pulsates synchronously with the heart, and becomes tense on exertion. A distinct opening in the skull may sometimes be felt. The swelling results from laceration of the membranes, and sometimes of the brain-substance, so that the cerebro-spinal fluid of the subarachnoid sjjace, or even of the lateral ventricle, escapes through the opening in the skull and bulges beneath the scalp. When associated, as it frequently is, with mental deficiency or the occurrence of fits, the cyst may be tapped or its neck ligatured (Hogarth Pringle). Otherwise it should be left alone. Hydrocephalus. An excess of cerebro-spinal fluid may collect in the arachno- pial space surrounding the brain, or in the interior of the ventricles, constituting in the former case an external, and in the latter an internal hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus may be acute or chronic. Acute hydrocephalus is practically synonymous with tuberculous meningitis, but it may result from other forms of meningeal inflammation. The excess of fluid is found both in the arachno-pial space and in the ventricles. This condition