463 DUODENAL ULCER. stools (melaena), or in the vomit as coffee grounds or pure blood (haematemesis). As a rule there is nothing to be made out on examination, but in some cases, especially those in which adhesions have formed, there is tenderness below the right costal margin, and some rigidity of the right rectus. The diagnosis, in the absence of hsemorrhage, is nearly always difficult, and the differentiation from gall - stone affections, especially in women, is seldom made with certainty until the abdomen is opened. In men the symptoms may be closely simulated by those of lead colic. Treatment.—While the symptoms may be relieved by rest, suitable diet, and the application of blisters below the costal margin, there is always the risk of the ulcer persisting in a latent form and at some future time causing serious haemorrhage or leading to perforation. It is therefore advisable in the majority of cases of suspected duodenal ulcer to have recourse to operative interference, especially as the diagnosis may only be completed after the abdomen is opened. A vertical incision is made through the right rectus, and the stomach, duodenum, gall-bladder, and neighbouring parts are systematically examined. When there is an ulcer of the duo- denum, the overlying peritoneum shows a white opacity ; some- times it is puckered, and it may be indurated. In some cases, access to the duodenum is rendered difficult by the presence of adhesions between it and the colon, omentum, gall-bladder, and under surface of the liver. Gastro-enterostorny usually gives immediate, and apparently permanent relief from the symptoms ; the diversion of the acid chyme enabling the ulcer to heal. Excision of the ulcer does not appear to be necessary to bring about a cure, and is only practicable when the ulcer is small and easily accessible. Perforation of Duodenal TJlcer.—This resembles gastric per- foration in so many of its features that it is not necessary to describe them in detail. In duodenal perforation the pain and tenderness are most marked a little to the right of the epigastrium and below the right costal margin, and the pain may be reflected to the right shoulder. The board-like contraction and rigidity of the abdominal muscles is at first most marked below the right costal margin, and spreads rapidly downward towards the iliac fossa. A jerky or panting type of respiration, when present, is a characteristic feature. The diagnosis is to be made from diaphragmatic pleurisy, from gall-bladder affections, acute pancreatitis, and appendicitis. The most important feature to observe is the extension of the