471 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION-ILEUS. peritoneum is opened there may be an escape of blood-stained faecal fluid. If there is abundant bleeding, a search should be made for a rent or rents in the mesentery; the bleeding vessels should be tied and the edges of the rent brought together by suture. The intestine is then examined methodically, beginning at the caecum and working upwards along the small intestine. If a rent is discovered, the affected coil is wrapped in moist gauze and held aside while the search is continued. Small ruptures are closed by a double tier of sutures; in larger tears with bruising of the edges, it is safer to resect the loop of bowel. In the rare cases in which the intestine is torn from its mesentery, the separated portion of bowel should be resected. In bullet wounds of the abdomen perforation of the bowel is usually multiple (vol. i. p. 230). Subcutaneous injuries of the large intestine usually result from crushing forms of violence. The general symptoms of rupture of the colon are indistinguishable from those of rupture of the small intestine, but extravasation may be delayed, and the occurrence of peritonitis thereby be deferred, owing to the less active peristalsis and the more solid consistence of the contents. Rupture of the colon behind the peritoneum is usually attended with emphysema in one or other flank, and results in the gradual onset of cellulitis and abscess, which may rupture externally and be followed by faecal fistula, or the infection may spread to the peritoneum and cause peritonitis. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in the small intestine. Intestinal Obstruction—Ileus. The clinical term “ obstruction of the bowels ” implies a com- bination of symptoms of which the most obvious are cessation of the passage of intestinal contents, abdominal pain, persistent vomiting, and distension of the abdomen. It is always a serious condition, and endangers life. In acute cases the initial symptoms—pain, collapse, and vomiting—are due to the pro- found impression made upon the sensory nerves of the abdomen, and are those of abdominal shock, to which the term “peri- tonism ” has been applied by Gubler. They are not peculiar to intestinal obstruction, but attend upon all acute abdominal affections. The later symptoms—collapse and failure of the circulation—are due not merely to occlusion of the lumen of the intestine, but also to the absorption of poisonous material from