776 AN /ESTHETICS. lint and cause dripping. In inducing anaesthesia with chloroform the vapour should be well mixed with air until the patient gets accustomed to it, but after the first two minutes, as he is losing consciousness, the proportion of chloroform should be gradually increased ; the vapour inhaled, however, should always contain a considerable proportion of air. Six minutes may be considered a fairly reasonable time in which to induce full anaesthesia. If struggling occurs, the chloroform must be with- drawn until it has subsided, as it is dangerous to push the drug during its continuance. No absolute rule can be given, but for the majority of operations proper anaesthesia cannot be considered present unless the following signs are observed :—(1) The breathing is auto- matic, like that of a person asleep, with a soft, quiet snore; (2) the conjunctival reflex is abolished; (3) the pupil is contracted and fixed, or sluggishly mobile to light; (4) muscular relaxation is complete; (5) the cough and vomiting reflexes are abolished. When chloroform vapour is introduced into a closed room lighted or heated by coal-gas or paraffin, it is decomposed and phosgene gas is given off. This pungent gas is highly irritating to the mucous membranes, particularly of the respiratory and alimentary passages, and causes coughing, vomiting, and some- times intense headache. If it is necessary to operate under chloroform in a room lighted by gas or paraffin, the top of the window should be kept open in order that the phosgene, which is lighter than air, may escape. Ether.—There are two methods of administering this anaes- thetic—the open and the close methods. In patients who are not habituated to alcohol, ether admin- istered by the open method, after a preliminary injection of morphin and atropin, is an ideal means of inducing surgical anaesthesia. It is best given on a frame mask covered with stockinet, the ether being dropped on the mask continuously till narcosis is produced. The Close Method.—The administration of ether by the close method involves the use of an inhaler consisting of—(1) a face-piece with a pneumatic pad or cushion ; (2) an ether chamber ; (3) a rubber bag of about one gallon capacity. There are a variety of inhalers in use, of which Clover’s and Ormsby’s may be taken as the two types. In the first-named the ether lies entirely in a special reservoir situated between the face-piece and the bag. In the latter, the ether lies partly in the bag and partly on a sponge which is placed between the face-piece and the bag. An ounce and a half of ether is placed in the chamber of the