THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 602 Sarcoma is very rarely met with. When it occurs it originates in the submucous tissue, and is usually situated low down in the bowel near the anal orifice, and as it gives rise to the same clinical features as cancer, it is seldom diagnosed until the specimen is examined after removal. The sacral, lumbar, and inguinal glands are usually soon infected, and metastasis to the lung, pleura, or peritoneum is liable to occur early. Epithelioma of the Anus.—Squamous epithelioma occurs at the muco-cutaneous junction. It begins as a nodular thickening of the skin or mucous membrane, which later develops a series of raw, warty projections on the surface. There is a scanty discharge of thin ichorous fluid, which dries on the sore and forms a crust. The base of the sore is characteristically indurated. The growth increases slowly, and tends to spread on the cutaneous surface rather than towards the lumen of the bowel. It causes considerable pain, but there is not much bleeding. The treatment consists in excising the growth, and this usually entails sacrificing the sphincters. If the glands in the groin are enlarged, they also should be excised. Prolapse of the Rectum or Procidentia Recti.—The term “ prolapse ” is applied when any portion of the rectum is pro- truded beyond the anal margin. When the protrusion consists merely of the rectal mucous membrane, it is spoken of as a partial or incomplete prolapse; when all the coats of the bowel are protruded the prolapse is said to be complete (Fig. 161); the term “ procidentia recti ” is applied to the complete form. In the complete variety the peritoneum which forms the pouch of Douglas is sometimes dragged down in front of the prolapsed portion, and it is possible for a loop of intestine to enter the cul- de-sac thus formed. While this condition may be met with at any period of life, it is most common in young children, and in women between the ages of fifty and sixty. Causes.—In most cases several factors contribute to the pro- duction of the prolapse, the most important and constant of which are undue laxity of the perineal and rectal tissues, in- cluding the sphincters and levator ani muscles, and some cause of repeated and excessive straining. In young children, for example, after any exhausting illness the perineal muscles are liable to become weakened and relaxed, and the pads of fat which surround the rectum disappear, and thus the bowel is deprived of its natural support. If, under these conditions, the patient suffers from constipation, diarrhoea, rectal polypus, worms, phimosis, stone in the bladder, or any