66 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. they are usually multiple; in adults they may be single—the so-called “ solitary tubercle.” They are most common in the pons, basal ganglia, and cerebellum; but occur also in the cerebral cortex and sometimes in the centrum ovale. They usually originate in the pia and invade the brain substance, but do not as a rule involve the dura. The membranes in the vicinity of the growth are often the seat of tuberculous disease. As these nodules give rise to the same symptoms as other forms of cerebral tumour, 41 nd as their nature can be diagnosed only in exceptional cases, their clinical features and treatment are described with tumours of the brain (p. 70). Cephaloceles. The term cephalocele is applied to a protrusion of a portion of the cranial contents through a congenital deficiency in the bones of the skull. This malformation is believed to be due to an irregularity in development, whereby a portion of the primary cerebral vesicle remains outside the mesoblastic layer of the embryo. It is usually associated with adhesion of the membranes in the region of the fourth ventricle, and with internal hydrocephalus. In many cases the condition is quite incompatible with life. Cephaloceles are covered by the scalp, and are most commonly met with in the occipital region and at the root of the nose ; less frequently at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and in the line of the sagittal suture. Very rarely they occur at the base of the skull and project into the pharynx, the mouth, or the nose, where they are liable to be mistaken for polypi. Cephaloceles vary greatly in size, some being so small as almost to escape detection, while others are larger than a child’s head. Several varieties are recognised. They are known as (1) meningocele, which consists of a protrusion of a cul-de-sac of the membranes, containing cerebro-spinal fluid ; (2) encephalocele, in which a portion of the brain is protruded in addition to the membranes; and (3) hydrencephalocele, in which the protruded portion of brain includes a part of one of the ventricles. Clinical Features.—The meningocele is commonest in the occipital region, where it escapes through a cleft in the bone between the foramen magnum and the occipital protuberance. It forms a tense, smooth, translucent, globular swelling, which may be sessile or pedunculated, and is usually covered by thin, smooth skin in which the vessels are dilated and ntevoid. The