423 UMBILICAL HERNIA. to the patient, hence the necessity of carefully examining the femoral canals in all cases presenting symptoms of acute in- testinal obstruction. In performing herniotomy, after the sac has been exposed and isolated, a broad, flat hernia director is passed along the canal between the neck of the sac and Gimbernat’s ligament, and with a hernia knife inserted along the groove of the director, two or more shallow nicks are made in the ligament, so that in the event of an aberrant obturator artery being present, this will escape injury. The hernia is then reduced and the radical cure performed. Umbilical Hernia. Three varieties of umbilical hernia are described: (1) con- genital hernia of the umbilical cord, (2) umbilical hernia of infants, and (3) umbilical hernia of adults. Congenital hernia of the umbilical cord is due to a defective coalescence of the lateral halves of the abdominal wall, and has been aptly compared to a spina bifida. The contents of the hernia probably were never at any time within the abdominal cavity. When the gap at the umbilicus is small, the condition is described as a hernia at the root of the cord, and it may be con- trolled by a pad and bandage. When the gap is moderate in size, the hernia is sacculated, and over it are expanded the structures of the cord, which may be so thin as to be trans- parent. As this variety, if left to itself, nearly always terminates fatally, it should be subjected to operation if the condition of the child permits. The sac is opened, the contents returned within the abdomen, and the gap in the wall closed by sutures. The extreme form in which the abdomen is open through- out its entire length—exomphalos—is merely of pathological interest. Umbilical Hernia of Infants. — This form develops subse- quently to the closure of the abdominal wall, and is due to yielding of the umbilical cicatrix. It appears some weeks or months after birth, and is equally frequent in the two sexes. It forms a small, rounded or cylindrical projection, which is easily reducible, and which almost without exception disappears before puberty. The treatment consists in reducing the hernia, and approximating or overlapping the edges of the opening by broad strips of adhesive plaster applied round the abdomen. The Umbilical hernia of adidts is met with chiefly in corpulent women over thirty-five, and especially in those who have borne