394 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. so doing he will get rid of one of the sources of suffering and of danger, and experience has shown that in many cases the colitis is benefited by appendectomy. Appendicitis in Children.—In infants, below the age of two, appendicitis is comparatively rare. It usually supervenes on an attack of gastro-enteritis ; the symptoms are severe, and the disease runs a rapid course, and in a large proportion of cases ends fatally by setting up diffuse peritonitis. In cases occurring during the second year, localised suppuration sometimes occurs, and even when operation is performed the prognosis is grave. As childhood advances, from two to fifteen, the disease be- comes increasingly frequent. Localised suppuration is common, and when diffuse peritonitis occurs it is usually due to the rupture of an abscess into the general peritoneal cavity. Actual perforation and gangrene are perhaps less common below the age of fifteen than above it. Recurrent appendicitis is un- common at this age, and when it does occur, is more liable to lead to the formation of pus than in adults. The clinical features are similar to those of adults, but as it is impossible to elicit a clear consecutive history from the patient, they are more difficult to interpret. In children vomiting is more apt to be repeated, the fever is usually higher, and the pulse more rapid. Rigidity of the abdominal muscles is not so valuable a sign as in adults, because a child is apt to resist any examination of the abdomen; but when it is accompanied by persistent pain referred to the region of the appendix, and tenderness on pressure in this area, it is strongly suggestive of appendicitis. The early development of a palpable swelling aids materially in the diagnosis. A rectal examination, under an anaesthetic if necessary, should never be neglected, as a sense of resistance or swelling in the right side of the pelvis may thus be detected. The differential diagnosis is to be made from intussusception, stone in the bladder, a distended bladder, pleurisy or pneumonia with referred abdominal pain, latent tuberculous peritonitis with acute exacerbation, softening tuberculous glands in the right iliac fossa, and pneumococcal peritonitis. In persons over fifty years of age, the appendix tends to become involuted, with disappearance of the lymphoid tissue. When it becomes the seat of inflammation it is rare to have extensive gangrene ; usually there is a small perforation, resulting in the formation of a large abscess in the iliac fossa. The recur- rent form is rare, and adhesions are exceptional. The occurrence of appendicitis during pregnancy is not