SYMPTOMS OF LARYNGEAL AFFECTIONS. 281 In an emergency a gum-elastic catheter with a terminal aper- ture may be passed, as recommended by Macewen and Annandale. Laryngectomy is described at p. 287. Cardinal Symptoms of Laryngeal Affections. The cardinal symptoms of laryngeal affections are interference with the voice, pain on swallowing, and interference with respira- tion. Laryngeal cough of a croupy or barking character may be present, and is usually associated with a lesion of the posterior wall or inter-arytenoid fold. Hiemoptysis is seldom of laryngeal origin, and unless the bleeding spot is visible in the mirror, the source of the bleeding is much more likely to be in the bronchi or lungs. Interference with the Voice. — Hoarseness is due to an affection of the vocal cords, and may be of inflammatory origin, as in simple laryngitis, or due to some specific cause, such as tuberculosis or syphilis. It may arise also from such conditions as prevent the proper approximation of the vocal cords, as in tumours and certain forms of paralysis. Huskiness of voice occurring in a middle-aged person, lasting for a considerable period, and unattended by any other local or constitutional symptom, should always arouse suspicion of malignant disease, and calls for an examination of the larynx. Should this reveal a congested condition of one vocal cord, associated with some infiltration, and should the mobility of the cord be impaired, suspicion of the malignant character of the affection is still further increased. The hoarseness in these cases is sometimes greater than the local appearances would seem to account for. Aphonia, or loss of voice, sudden in origin, and sometimes transient, frequently occurs in women, and is usually func- tional or hysterical in nature. Although the patient is unable to speak she is quite able to cough and to laugh. In these cases there is a bilateral paralysis of the adductor muscles, so that the cords do not approximate on attempted phonation ; or the internal tensors may be paretic, leaving an elliptical space between the cords on attempted phonation. If the arytenoideus muscle alone is paralysed a triangular interval is left between the cords posteriorly. There is no inflammation or other evidence of local disease. The treatment of functional aphonia should be general and local; tonics such as strychnin, iron, and arsenic should be administered; the intra-laryngeal application of electricity usually effects a sudden cure. In obstinate cases the use of the