475 ACUTE INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. severe pain in the abdomen attended with vomiting — are common to many acute abdominal conditions, it is often difficult to make a diagnosis in the early stages. Among the conditions with which, at the onset, acute obstruction is most liable to be mistaken are: appendicitis; perforation of a gastric ulcer, a pyosalpinx or an ectopic gestation; acute pancreatitis; and obstruction of the mesenteric blood-vessels. The different forms of colic—biliary, renal, and intestinal—also simulate the onset of obstruction. These latter conditions, however, tend to pass off within an hour or two, and are more amenable than the others to medical treatment. In any of these conditions the initial pain may be so severe as to call for the use of opium, but this drug should be withheld as long as possible, and no more than is necessary to alleviate the suffering should be given. If a single moderate dose fails to give relief, the condition is probably not of the nature of a colic, and no more opium should be given until a diagnosis has been arrived at and arrangements have been made for operation, if this is considered necessary. When the symptoms are progressive and it is impossible to arrive at a diagnosis, an exploratory laparotomy should be per- formed with as little delay as possible. Exploratory Laparotomy. — The stomach should first be washed out, and the bladder emptied, by the use of the catheter, if necessary. Unless there are decided indications for making the incision elsewhere, the abdomen is opened at or near the middle line below the umbilicus. Two or three fingers are introduced into the abdominal cavity to discover the seat and nature of the obstruction. The caecum should first be examined, because if it is found to be distended, this indicates that the block is in the large intestine, while if it is empty the obstruc- tion is in the small intestine. The pelvis and the inner aspect of the hernial openings are then explored, and if no obstructing lesion is found there, search should be made for any fixed loop of small intestine, or for a loop of collapsed and empty bowel which can then be traced to the lesion. It is only if these measures fail that recourse should be had to eventration, the distended bowel being withdrawn from the wound, and received in a towel wrung out of hot saline solution, outside of which is a sterilised rubber sheet. When the obstructed loop is identified it is relieved, the measures varying according to its nature, and the distended bowel above is then emptied of its contents by enterostomy (p. 467), the bowel returned within the abdomen, and the wound closed.