OPERATION OF LAMINECTOMY. 87 a pillow supporting the chest, and a longitudinal or semilunar incision, from four to six inches long, is made so as to expose the spinous processes of the vertebrae to be dealt with. When there are signs of fracture of the neural arches, the centre of the incision should lie over the broken vertebra. When there are no signs of fracture, the site of the incision is determined by the spinal symptoms. The muscles, along with the periosteum, are separated from the spines and laminae, and the hannorrhage, which is often very free, is arrested with forceps. The inter- spinous ligaments are then divided with scissors, and the spines snipped off at their bases with bone pliers. The ligamenta subdava are next divided close to the bone and the laminae sawn across and levered out, or cut away with rongeur forceps. The fatty tissue outside the dura is separated, and any veins that are torn are ligatured. The extra-dural space is now examined by pushing aside the cord, and any blood-clots or fragments of bone which may be present are removed. If it is necessary to open the dura, it should be securely sutured again to prevent leakage of cerebro-spinal fluid. The divided muscles are brought together with catgut sutures, but, as there is usually a good deal of oozing for some hours after the operation, a large rubber drainage tube should be inserted down to the gap in the bone, and left in position for forty-eight hours. Special care must be taken to avoid soiling of the dressings by discharges from the paralysed bowel and bladder. Lumbar puncture is described at p. 18. INJURIES OF THE SPINAL CORD. As the clinical importance of a spinal injury depends almost entirely on the degree of damage done to the cord, we shall consider injuries of the cord before those of the vertebral column. They will be described under the headings : Concussion of the Cord; “ Railway Spine ”; Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage; Total Transverse Lesions ; and Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve- roots. Concussion of the Spinal Cord.—It is necessary to restrict this term to such injuries as implicate the cord alone, apart from lesions of the vertebrae, or of the spinal ligaments or membranes. In this limited sense concussion of the cord is extremely rare. The term concussion of the cord has only a clinical signifi- cance—its pathological equivalent is “ contusion of the cord.” It can no longer be believed that the symptoms are due to a