PYOGENIC INFECTIONS. 629 Nephrectomy, or extirpation of the hydronephrotic kidney, is to be had recourse to when conservative measures are im- practicable or have failed, provided always that the opposite kidney has been proved to be capable of carrying on the work of both. The lumbar route is preferred, but the trans-peritoneal route may be selected when the hydronephrosis affects a con- genitally displaced kidney, or one which floats freely within the abdominal cavity. When the cause of the hydronephrosis cannot be removed, and nephrectomy is contra-indicated, a permanent fistula may be established in the loin. Pyogenic Infections of the Kidney. Pyelitis, Pyelo-nephritis and Pyonephrosis.—The term pyelitis is applied to pyogenic infection of the renal pelvis; pydo -nephritis indicates that both the pelvis and renal parenchyma are involved; and pyonephrosis that there is super- added obstruction to the outflow of urine, so that the calyces become distended and form abscess cavities. The term surgical kidney was formerly applied to suppurative affections of the kidney, because they frequently followed upon the passage of instruments or upon operations on the lower urinary organs. Pyogenic organisms may reach the kidney by the blood- stream—hcematogenous infection, or by way of the ureter from the lower urinary organs — ascending or urogenic infection. It is not always possible, either clinically or anatomically, to differentiate between these inodes of infection, and it is probable that they are frequently combined. The kidney is specially liable to organismal infection when it is congested, or when its secretion is retained as a result of obstruction to the outflow of urine; hence it is that pyogenic affections of the kidney are frequently met with as a sequel of hydronephrosis, and of obstructive lesions in the lower urinary organs. The blood infections, in which the colon bacillus plays the chief part, may follow on any acute infective disease, such as carbuncle, lymphangitis, osteomyelitis, or typhoid. The urogenic infections are most often met with as a sequel of septic cystitis, and the organisms concerned include the colon bacillus, staphylo- cocci, streptococci, and gonococci. Renal and perirenal abscesses of embolic origin.—In addition to the pyogenic lesions of the kidney that are associated with pre-existing or coexisting disease of the urinary organs, sup- puration may attack the healthy kidney as a result of bacterial