THE NECK. 242 process and passing downwards and forwards parallel with the lower jaw. The nerve runs obliquely from above downwards and backwards and enters the muscle on its deep aspect. Simple division of these nerves or resection of the spinal accessory alone has not proved permanently curative. Division of the offending muscles without interfering with the nerves has given good results (Kocher). True spasmodic wry-neck must be distinguished from the hysterical variety occasionally met with in neurotic females. This, after lasting for weeks, or even months, may pass off com- pletely, but, like other hysterical affections, is liable to recur. The cicatricial contraction of the integument of the neck that results from extensive burns (Fig. 48), wounds, abscesses or ulcers, may cause unsightly deformity and fixation of the head in an abnormal attitude, and call for surgical treatment. Deviations of the neck simulating torticollis occur in various diseases and deformities of the spine. Injuries of the Neck. Contusion of the neck may result from a blow or crush, as, for example, the passage of a wheel over the neck, or from throttling, strangling or hanging. In medico-legal cases the distribution of the discoloration should be carefully noted. When due to throttling, the marks of the individual fingers may be dis- tinctly recognisable, and nail-prints may be present. In cases of strangling, the mark of the cord passes straight round the neck, while in suicidal hanging it is more or less oblique and is higher behind than in front. When due to a direct blow, for example by a fist, the discoloration is limited, while it is usually diffused all over the neck when due to the passage of a wheel over the part. The clinical importance of these injuries depends on the complications that may be present; for example, extravasation of blood under the cervical fascia may press upon the air- passages and oesophagus to such an extent as to cause inter- ference with breathing and swallowing; the larynx or the trachea may be so grossly damaged that death results immedi- ately from suffocation, or later from gradually increasing swelling causing obstruction of the glottis. * If the mucous membrane of the air-passage is torn, emphysema of the connective tissue may develop and spread widely over the body. In contusions of the lower part of the neck the cords of the brachial plexus may be injured.