393 RECURRENT APPENDICITIS. affections of the ureter associated with the passage of oxalate gravel or stone; or to disease of the ovary or Fallopian tube, may also simulate appendicitis. Treatment.—The removal of the appendix after a first attack of appendicitis is indicated : if the patient wishes to insure his life; if he desires to enter one of the public services; or if he intends to reside where he will be out of reach of surgical assistance. Operation is advisable also in children, because, if recurrence takes place, it is often of a grave type; and in cases in which the first attack has never been entirely recovered from. After a second attack, the appendix should be removed, unless some such contra-indication to operation as phthisis, Bright’s disease, diabetes, or other grave constitutional disease is present. The operation, as a rule, is a very simple one, and is carried out on the same lines as that for the removal of the appendix in the early stages of the acute disease. Sometimes the presence of adhesions renders it more difficult, and much care must be exercised in separating the appendix if it is firmly adherent to such organs as the intestine or the bladder; in some cases it is safer to leave the serous coat of the appendix attached to the viscus than to run the risk of injuring the latter. When the appendix is so buried in adhesions or in the wall of the caecum as to render its complete removal impossible, it should be split open and its mucous membrane removed with a sharp spoon, any remains of it being destroyed with the cautery. In operations upon women, the right ovary and tube should be examined, in case a lesion of these organs may have contri- buted to the production of the symptoms. As drainage is not required, the abdominal wall can be accurately reconstituted by suturing in layers, and the patient may be allowed up within ten days or a fortnight. Relationships of Appendicitis to Muco-membranous Colitis.— When a patient is the subject of colitis and suffers from painful crises, accompanied by diarrhoea and the passage of mucus or false membranes in the stools, and if the caecum is the main seat of the inflammation, the condition is liable to be mistaken for a chronic or recurrent lesion of the appendix and a needless operation may be performed. On the other hand, a colitis in- volving the caecum and a chronic lesion of the appendix may co-exist, although the combination is very rare, and it is often difficult to determine which of the two diseases occurred first; under these conditions the surgeon cannot promise the patient that by removing the appendix the colitis will be cured, but by