703 STRICTURE. the impaction of a stone or foreign body in the urethra, or on rough attempts to remove the same, and when due to such causes the stricture usually affects the spongy portion, and may be far forwards near the meatus. Gonorrhoeal Stricture.—While a stricture may result from a urethral chancre or a non-specific urethritis, it is in the great majority of cases due to gonorrhoea. The gonorrhoea has usually been a persistent one, or there may have been more than one attack. The scar tissue may be confined to the mucous membrane, or it may involve the submucous coat and the erectile tissue. The constriction is most commonly situated at the bulb, but it may be in the penile portion, even close up to the meatus ; there may be more than one stricture. The scar tissue may be confined to the floor of the urethra, or may entirely surround the tube—the annular or cylindrical stricture ; or it may form a band across the lumen—the bridle stricture. When the urethra has sloughed, the lumen may be entirely obliterated, all the urine passing by a fistulous opening in the perineum. When the scar tissue is very dense and unyielding, the stricture is described as callous; if it yields to dilatation, but quickly contracts again, it is described as resilient. If it is possible to pass an instrument through the stricture, it is described as 'permeable ; while a stricture through which nothing can be passed is said to be impermeable. Secondary Changes and Complications.—Behind a stricture the lumen of the urethra and of the ducts and follicles opening into it are dilated, and pockets or diverticula are formed in which secretions stagnate. Favourable conditions are thus afforded for bacterial development, the mucous membrane be- comes inflamed, and, with or without a breach of the surface, the infection may at any time spread to the peri-urethral cellular tissue, leading to cellulitis, abscess, and sometimes to gangrene. The septic process may involve the wall of the urethra and destroy a portion of it, so that extravasation of urine takes place. It was formerly believed that such extra- vasation was due to the urethra having burst during a violent effort to pass water, but there is no proof of this. The urine leaks out drop by drop, and is added to the inflammatory exudate in the peri-urethral cellular tissue. The bladder frequently shows hypertrophy with fasciculation and pouching of its walls, and this may be followed by atrophy and over-distension. In other cases, as a result of septic infection and irritability of the organ, it may be contracted and of small capacity. The ureters and kidneys show the effects of