480 THE INTESTINES. The commonest form of band is a stretched adhesion between two peritoneal surfaces, one attachment being nearly always to the mesentery, frequently over a diseased mesenteric gland, while the other is to the parietal peritoneum, to another part of the mesentery, or to one of the abdominal or pelvic viscera. Bands vary greatly in length, and those that result from antecedent peritonitis are frequently multiple. An adherent portion of the lower border of the great omentum may be moulded into a band by the dragging and rolling move- ments of the bowels; an omental band frequently develops in relation to a femoral hernia, and its parietal attachment is usually in the vicinity of the femoral opening. When the free end of a MecJcel’s diverticulum is attached to the anterior abdominal wall in the region of the umbilicus, or forms an attachment to the mesentry or to an adjacent viscus, the diverticulum may act as a band. Other structures may constitute bands—for ex- ample, a vermiform appendix, which has become adherent by its tip to the mesen- tery of the ileum, an adherent Fallopian tube, an elongated epiploic appendage, or the pedicle of an ovarian cyst. A band may bring about strangulation either by one or more coils of intestine passing underneath it — as beneath a shallow and narrow arch (Fig. 127); or by the bowel being snared and constricted by a noose formed by the band itself. The first is the more common mode, and is associated with a short band; the latter is rare, and requires a long and loose band. In either case the loop of bowel engaged is apt to undergo rotation, and this may be the chief factor in the actual obstruction of the gut. Probably there are other factors concerned, such as exaggerated peristalsis, venous congestion and swelling of the intestine, and the development of gas in the strangulated loop of bowel. The constriction may be so tight that the obstruction is complete immediately the bowel becomes engaged ; or it may only become tight enough to strangulate the bowel after the secondary factors have come into play. Obstruction by a band usually occurs in the lower part of the abdomen because of the frequency with which adhesions and bands form in relation to appendicitis, pelvic peritonitis, hernial openings, or from a Meckel’s diverticulum. Fig. 127.—Strangulation of Small Intestine by diverticulum of Small Intestine. (Anatomical Museum, Uni- versity of Edinburgh.)