AFFECTIONS OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. 77 quently associated with paralysis of other ocular muscles. When all the muscles of the eye are paralysed, the condition is known as “ ophthalmoplegia externa ” ; it is usually due to syphilitic disease in the door of the third ventricle. IV. The Patheticus Nerve, which supplies the superior oblique muscle, may suffer in the same way as the third nerve. When it is paralysed there is defective movement of the eye downward and outward, and the patient may complain of diplopia or double vision when he looks downward. V. Trigeminal or Trifacial Nerve. — The most important surgical affection of this nerve is “ trigeminal neuralgia,” which has already been described (vol. i. p. 353). One or other of the divisions of the nerve may be torn in fractures of the base of the skull, and anaesthesia in the area supplied by it result. In fractures crossing the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the great and small superficial petrosal nerves may be ruptured, with the result that the soft palate and uvula are paralysed and there is difficulty in swallowing ; there are also painful sensations in the ear. When the ophthalmic division is implicated, the conjunctiva is rendered insensitive, and con- junctivitis, which may be followed by ulceration of the cornea, results from exposure to dust and other foreign bodies, which, on account of the anaesthetic condition of the eye, are allowed to remain and cause irritation. VI. Abducens Nerve. — This nerve, which supplies the external rectus muscle, has the longest course within the skull of any of the cranial nerves. In spite of this fact, it is com- paratively seldom torn in basal fractures; but it is prone to be pressed upon by tumours, gummata, or aneurysms in the region of the base of the brain. When it is paralysed, internal strabis- mus results. VII. Facial Nerve.•—Paralysis of this nerve, more or less complete, may result from lesions in its cortical centre or in the region of the internal capsule ; or the nerve may be implicated as it passes through the temporal bone, or in its course outside the skull. Lesions of the nerve trunk between its point of emergence from the brain and the stylo-mastoid foramen are most frequently the result either of fractures implicating the middle fossa of the skull or of chronic suppuration of the middle ear. In fractures passing across the petrous temporal, the nerve may be torn at the time of the injury, or it may become pressed upon by callus later. Considering the frequency of these fractures, this nerve is comparatively seldom damaged.