CLINICAL FEATURES OF APPENDICITIS. 383 there is a recrudescence of pain, which is of the peritonitic type and no longer colicky in character. The abdominal wall in the right iliac region ceases to move with respiration, becomes rigid from muscular contraction, and excessively tender to touch, both on superficial and on deep palpation. The symptoms of general illness continue, vomiting may recur, the temperature remains elevated, and the pulse quickened. At this stage also the progress of the disease may become arrested, the severity of the illness abate, the signs of peritoneal reaction become localised, and, if the rigidity of the abdominal wall has yielded sufficiently to allow of palpation, a swelling can be recognised in the right iliac fossa. This swelling, which is composed of the parts that have become matted together with lymph, is roughly discoid in shape, varies in diameter from two to four inches, is not movable, and is tender to touch. If suppuration does not occur, the general symptoms still further subside, the evening rise of temperature is less, the bowels move or flatus is passed, and from the fifth to the seventh day onwards the swelling diminishes from the periphery towards the centre. The abdominal wall recovers its pliability, and the swelling usually disappears altogether in from fifteen to twenty days, but traces of it may remain as long as six or eight weeks. The persistence of adhesions after the attack has disappeared may determine recurrent attacks of appendicitis. If, on the other [hand, suppuration takes place within the area shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions — circumscribed peri-appendicular abscess—the symptoms of localised peritonitis persist, the temperature continues to rise, or, if it has fallen, rises again, often reaching 103" to 104" F. The pulse also becomes more rapid and loses in quality. Sweating is often a prominent feature • and an examination of the blood reveals marked leucocytosis. The swelling increases in area, and may form a visible bulging in the right iliac fossa; it tends to become softer and more doughy, and is more tender. (Edema of the abdominal wall, dilatation of the surface veins, and fluctuation are later developments, and indicate that the pus is increasing in amount and approaching the surface. When the appendix is situated elsewhere than to the inner side of the CEecum, the physical signs differ from those above described. In the retro-ccecal and retro-colic forms of appendicitis, the pus accumulates behind or to the outer side of the colon, and, being outside the peritoneal cavity, the signs of peritonitis are absent or are little marked; the abdominal wall is not