METHODS OF EXAMINATION. 613 liminary examination with the simple cystoscope enables the operator to determine whether the ureteral openings will lend themselves to catheterisation, or whether this is impossible, as, for example, on account of marked swelling of the mucous membrane, extensive ulceration, or pronounced fasciculation of the bladder. If feasible, the cystoscope, armed with a ureteral catheter, is introduced, the bladder having been again washed out and filled with boracic solution. The ureteral opening —say, on the left side—having been brought into view at the lower part of the field, in order to introduce the catheter, the outer end of the cystoscope must be pushed to the opposite side and elevated. The head of the observer will then be close to the right thigh of the patient. Along with the cystoscope,-the catheter is slowly pushed onward unt:l its point enters the ureteral orifice, without touching the vesical mucous membrane. The catheter is pushed in for a distance of about three- quarters of an inch, the stylet withdrawn, and the urine collected. The urine obtained from each kidney is examined chemically, microscopic- ally, and bacteriologically. In the female, the bladder may be inspected and the ureters may be catheterised directly by Kelly’s method. The patient is placed in the genu-pectoral or in the lithotomy position, with the pelvis elevated. The urethra is dilated until the speculum with its obturator can be introduced. When the obturator is withdrawn the bladder fills with air, and is illuminated by means of a frontal mirror reflecting sun or electric light. Each ureteral orifice is searched for and tested with a probe before the catheter is introduced. To estimate the extent of destruction of the kidney substance in cases of stone and hydronephrosis, Kelly devised a plan of measuring the capacity of the renal pelvis. A catheter is passed up the ureter and the urine allowed to flow for a few minutes, and then, by means of a graduated syringe, boric lotion is gently injected until the patient feels pain in the kidney. Under normal conditions this occurs when from 2 to 5 c.c. have been injected. Testing the adequacy of the excretory functions of the kidney by means of kryoscopy, or the estimation of the freezing-point of the blood, is a procedure introduced by Koranje, and especially advocated by Kiimmell. The estimation of the freezing-point of the blood is attended with technical difficulties, and it is maintained by Rovsing, Israel, Kock, and others that the inferences drawn from such estimation are apt to prove misleading ; it has therefore been to a large extent abandoned. The adequacy of the renal functions has also been tested by estimating the electrical resistance of the blood and urine respectively—the tuemo- renal index (Dawson Turner). Pain in affections of the kidney is referred chiefly to the angle between the last rib and the erector spin®, a point which corresponds with the lower pole of the organ ; pain may also be felt in front over the lower pole. The pain of renal colic starts at one or other of these points and shoots down towards the external abdominal ring, and sometimes along the cord to the testicle, or into the thigh. Pain above and a little internal to the external abdominal ring is present in affections of the lowest part of the abdominal portion of the ureter. Operations on the Kidney and Ureter.—The following terms are used in describing these :—Nephrotomy implies exposure and incision of the kidney ; pyelotomy, incision of the renal pelvis. If the incised kidney is kept open by packing or tubes for purposes of drainage, the procedure is called a nephrostomy. Ureterotomy implies the exposure and incision