AN AESTHETICS. 778 Ethyl Chloride.—In 1896, Carlson, of Gothenburg, drew attention to the fact that ethyl chloride possesses general as well as local anaesthetic properties. Since then it has been increasingly used for general anaesthesia, and is now regarded as a comparatively safe and reliable anaesthetic for minor opera- tions, such as the removal of tonsils and adenoids. The dose varies from three to five cubic centimetres. It can be ad- ministered by spraying it into the bag of a Clover’s inhaler and attaching the face-piece, or a special inhaler may be employed. Anaesthesia is induced in about sixty seconds, and lasts for from one to two minutes after a single administration, but the anaesthesia can be kept up by repeated doses. It is sometimes employed to induce anajsthesia prior to the administration of chloroform or ether for prolonged operations. The Choice of an Anaesthetic.—So much depends on the personal preference of the individual surgeon, the custom and traditions of different schools and hospitals, and the experience and capacity of the administrator, that no rigid rules can be laid down regarding the choice of an anaesthetic., In general terms it may be said that the following points require to be taken into consideration : the age and general condition of the patient; the nature and probable duration of the operation; and the position of the patient during its performance. Chloroform and ether (CE.) mixture is, as a rule, suitable for children under five and for adults over sixty. In vigorous adults from eighteen to forty-five, anaesthesia may be induced with some other anaesthetic than chloroform, as there is some risk during the struggling stage. Experience has shown that in organic heart - disease, if compensation is present, anaesthetics are remarkably well borne; if compensation is failing, CE. mixture should be used in preference to chloroform alone. For patients with renal disease, chloroform or CE. mixture answers best. In patients suffering from phthisis the CE. mixture is to be preferred, while in the presence of bronchitis, chloroform is best given alone. In intra-cranial operations and in operations within the mouth and pharynx, anaesthesia should be induced with CE. mixture and maintained with chloroform. If the operation necessitates that the patient’s head and shoulders be raised to any extent, chloroform should not be given under any circumstances. The administrator should provide himself with the following articles before undertaking any anaesthesia :— A four-ounce bottle of chloroform ; a six-ounce bottle of