VOLVULUS. 483 contracted as to interfere with peristalsis. The clinical features resemble to a certain extent those produced by stricture of the bowel. There is frequently a history of antecedent trouble in the abdomen and of increasing difficulty in getting the bowels to move. There are sudden attacks of pain in the belly and vomiting, which subside and recur without going on to actual obstruction. Distended coils of bowel may exhibit peristaltic movements. In these forms of obstruction it is rarely possible to make an accurate diagnosis until the abdomen is opened. Limited adhesions should be separated. When there is extensive matting an anastomosis should be established between the bowel above and below the obstruction, or a temporary opening—enterqgtomy —may be made in the bowel above. Although the conditions within the abdomen may look far from promising, such cases, especially those of tuberculous origin, usually do remarkably well. In cases of cicatricial contraction of the mesentery the thickened peritoneum is divided parallel with the long axis of the bowel, and sutured again at right angles to this. Volvulus.—This term refers to a twisting or rotation of a segment of bowel around its mesenteric axis. Volvulus most commonly affects the sigmoid flexure, chiefly because of the length of its mesentery. In some cases the peritoneal investment of the meso-sigmoid is thickened and contracted so that the two ends of the loop are unduly approximated. The usual ante- cedent is chronic constipation and unequal loading of the loop. The actual twist is brought about by irregular peristalsis, by alterations in the position of the body, or by the movement of adjacent coils of bowel or other organs. The rotation usually amounts to a half or a whole circle ; but in rare cases the bowel is twisted two or three times on its mesenteric axis. The ends of the loop are occluded by their pressure on one another, and the loop itself becomes engorged with blood and filled with gas, and is so distended that it may reach to the umbilicus, or even into the right hypochondrium, lying in front of the small intestine. Peritonitis develops early in relation to the affected loop and spreads thence by continuity. The congestion of the loop becomes more and more marked, the walls become dark red or black, are infiltrated with blood, and tear readily, and, if the patient lives long enough, they present irregular areas of gangrene. The ascending colon and ccecum, when provided with a long mesentery, are also subject to volvulus. The rotated caecum may come to lie in any part of the abdomen, but is most commonly