117 ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS. the main incidence is on the periosteum; the symptoms are less severe, it does not tend to suppurate, and is usually recovered from. The treatment consists in applying extension to the spine, and in opening any abscess that may be detected. The suppurative form usually proves fatal, and, indeed, is often only diagnosed on post-mortem examination. Rheumatic Spondylitis. — In rheumatic subjects the liga- ments, muscles, and intervertebral articulations of the vertebrae are liable to undergo changes similar to those met with in other joints. The affected part of the spine becomes stiff and painful, and changes occur in the bones and ligaments which result in permanent rigidity. In the cervical region the spine is twisted laterally, producing a deformity which simulates wry-neck. In the lumbar region the symptoms simulate those of lumbago. The treatment is the same as for other forms of articular rheumatism. Arthritis Deformans of Spine.—This disease usually begins between the ages of thirty-five and forty, and attacks men who follow some laborious occupation which involves exposure to cold and wet. There is sometimes a previous history of gonor- rhoea, rheumatism, or other toxic disease, and occasionally the condition is attributed to injury. The articular surfaces of the vertebrae undergo changes similar to those of arthritis deformans. The discs disappear, osteophytic outgrowths develop> at the margins of the bodies and in connection with the trans- verse processes, and bridge across the space between neighbouring vertebrae (Fig. 34). The articulations between the ribs and the vertebrae show similar changes, and the ligaments of the several joints tend to undergo ossification, so that the bones are fused together (Fig. 35). In the early stage the patient complains of pain and stiffness in the back; later the spine becomes rigid, and gradually develops a kyphotic curve, sometimes accompanied by lateral deviation (Figs. 34 and 35). The chest is flattened and restricted in its movements, with the result that the respiration is embarrassed and becomes almost entirely abdominal. The muscles of the back, shoulders, and hips undergo atrophy, and may exhibit tremors, and the deep reflexes become exaggerated. The nerves are liable to be pressed upon as they pass through the intervertebral foramina, and this gives rise to pain and other disturbances of sensation in their area of distribution. The disease simulates tuberculous caries, from which it may be diagnosed by the tuberculin test. Osteophytic outgrowths may be recognised by the use of the X-rays.