177 FRACTURES OF THE JAWS. teeth clo not accurately oppose the lower ones, and mastication is thereby interfered with. When the nasal portion of the superior maxilla is broken, the lachrymal sac and nasal duct may be damaged and the flow of the tears obstructed. In such cases emphysema is also liable to develop. Fractures of the facial portion are frequently compli- cated by haemorrhage from the infra-orbital vessels, and anaesthesia of the area supplied by the infra-orbital nerve. Suppuration may occur in the antrum later. In some cases the upper jaw is driven in as a whole, and in others the fracture radiates to the base of the skull and cerebral symptoms develop. The treatment consists in reducing any deformity .that may be present, ensuring efficient drainage, and keeping the mouth as aseptic as possible. Union takes place very rapidly, and owing to the vascularity of the parts necrosis is rare, even when suppuration ensues. When the alveolar portion is comminuted, the fragments may be kept in position by fixing the lower jaw against the upper by means of a four-tailed bandage, or by adjusting a moulded lead or gutta-percha splint to the alveolus and palate. The malar bone is sometimes fractured by direct violence, along with the adjacent portion of the superior maxilla. It may be possible to manipulate the displaced fragments into position from the mouth with the fingers introduced between the cheek and the gum; if this fails a small incision should be made in the mucous membrane anterior to the masseter, and the bone levered into position with a periosteum separator. The zygomatic arch is occasionally fractured by a direct blow. As the depressed fragments are liable to interfere with the movements of the lower jaw they should be elevated either by manipulation, or through an incision. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—The most common situation for fracture of the lower jaw is through the body of the bone in the vicinity of the canine tooth (Fig. 60). The depth of the socket of this tooth, and the comparative narrowness of the jaw at this level, render it the weakest part of the arch. The fracture is usually due to direct violence, such as a blow with the fist, the kick of a horse, or a fall from a height. It is sometimes bilateral, the bone giving way at the canine fossa on one side and just in front of the masseter on the other; or both fractures may be at the canine fossae. The fracture is usually oblique from above downwards and outwards, and is nearly always rendered compound by tearing of the mucous membrane of the mouth. VOL. II—12