THE INTESTINES. 474 severe abdominal pain, which is usually referred to the region of the umbilicus, sometimes to the seat of the obstruction. He may be “ doubled up ” by the pain, and roll in anguish on the door. The pain is of a griping character, and is usually constant, with repeated exacerbations. At first there is little if any tenderness of the abdomen. In the more severe cases the patient rapidly becomes collapsed, and passes into a state of great depression, with pallor, sunken eyes, a rapid, feeble pulse, a cold sweat over the face, and sighing respiration. Vomiting appears early, and is one of the most distressing and persistent symptoms. The ejected matter is at first composed of the contents of the stomach, later it becomes bilious, and still later brownish or yellowish and offensive; finally, it becomes ster- cox-aceous. The higher up the intestine the obstruction is, the earlier and more persistent is the vomiting. Stercoraceous vomiting is most often met with in obstruction of the small intestine, and is uncommon in obstruction of the colon. The pain in acute obstruction depends on several factors. It is chiedy the result of irregular and crampdike peristaltic move- ments excited in the intestine above the seat of obstruction. The recurrent exacerbations of pain or colic are due to the passage along the intestine of periodic peristaltic waves that “hurl themselves, as it were, against the obstruction.” This variety of pain is aggravated by any handling of the abdomen, and is markedly relieved by opium. In the later stages pain may be due to the great distension of the gut causing traction on the sensitive parietal peritoneum, or to the onset of peritonitis. Neither faecal matter nor datus is passed by the rectum. The abdomen becomes distended, particularly when the obstruc- tion is in the lower reaches of the bowel, but when the obstruction is high up in the jejunum distension may be absent ; the respiration is chiedy thoracic, although the abdominal muscles are not rigidly contracted as in peritonitis. If the obstruction is not relieved, the temperature becomes sub-normal, the pulse small and rapid, the tongue dry and brown, and there is intense thirst; the face is drawn and anxious, and the eyes sunken. As the distension increases, the abdomen becomes tender on palpation. The patient becomes exhausted, and dies with symptoms of septic intoxication like those which mark the termination of acute peritonitis. He usually remains conscious to the last, and often fails to realise the gravity of his condition. Vomiting and thirst remain the most prominent and distressing symptoms. Diagnosis.—As the initial symptoms of acute obstruction—