DISEASES OF ABDOMINAL WALL. 351 Diseases of the Abdominal Wall. Inflammation and Suppuration. -The subcutaneous cellular tissue may be the seat of circumscribed abscess or of diffuse cellulitis, a good example of the latter being afforded by the cellulitis that spreads to the abdominal wall in cases of extra- vasation of urine. The extra-peritoneal cellular tissue may likewise be the seat of abscess or of cellulitis. The situation and the direction of spread of the suppurative process vary with the origin of the infection. That, for example, which originates in the urinary bladder may ascend from behind the pubes towards the umbilicus, forming a spherical swelling resembling the distended bladder ; and that which originates from the uterus may spread outwards in the broad ligaments, and come to the surface in one or other iliac fossa. Among other forms of extra-peritoneal cellulitis and suppuration may be instanced those which arise in the loin from lesions of the kidney-—-perinephric abscess; in the right iliac fossa from appendicitis and malignant disease of the caecum; and in the vicinity of the pelvis from osteomyelitis of the pubes and ileum. In connection with the extrusion of biliary calculi and of foreign bodies in the stomach or intestine also suppuration may occur. The clinical features vary with the origin and seat of the cellulitis. The condition is seldom diagnosed until the in- flammatory products form a definite swelling, and the presence of pus is uncertain until the abscess approaches the surface. Fortunately the pus tends to make its way towards the skin rather than into the peritoneal cavity. The pus in abscesses which form in the vicinity of the bowel is frequently foetid from the presence of the colon bacillus. The treatment consists in making an incision through the overlying skin and fascia, and passing a director through the muscles and transversalis fascia until the purulent collection is reached. Additional openings may be required to establish free drainage. The lesion from which the cellulitis took origin must also be treated. Actinomycosis is met with in the abdominal wall chiefly as a result of extension from the intestine. It appears as an ill-defined, hard swelling which gradually softens and ruptures on the skin surface, discharging pus which contains the char- acteristic fungus. The affection runs a slow and prolonged course, and usually results in the formation of one or more sinuses which may lead down to the bowel.