THE KIDNEY AND URETER, 648 clots are a marked feature, it may cease abruptly from temporary blocking of the ureter. Clots may also cause typical renal colic, and worm-like coagula forming casts of the ureter may be passed in the urine. The recognition of a tumour in the loin is not always possible ; growths at the upper pole, especially in stoutly built men with rigid parietes, are only palpable at an advanced stage. When present, the tumour is irregularly ovoid, firm or hard, with a smooth or bossy surface. The diagnosis may be aided in the early stages by the use of the cystoscope, which may demonstrate the escape of blood from one or other ureter, or by obtaining the urine from each kidney separately. The urine from the affected kidney is less concentrated than normal, and contains albumin. In a certain proportion of cases there is a recent varicocele on the same side. Prognosis.—The most favourable cases are those in which hsematuria occurs early, and draws attention to the condition so. that the kidney can be removed while the growth is still localised in the central part of the organ. A palpable tumour which is fixed by adhesions, the presence of anaemia, and loss of flesh are all unfavourable symptoms. In some cases the disease runs a latent course and the patient may live for as long as five or even ten years (Guyon). Treatment.—Lumbar nephrectomy is to be performed in selected cases, and the fatty capsule is removed along with the kidney. If adhesions are so great that it is only possible to shell out the organ from its capsule, the operation holds out little prospect of cure. Tumours of the renal pelvis and ureter form a group of which the villous papilloma is the best-known representative. Haunaturia is the chief symptom, but the growth may block the pelvic outlet and cause retention of urine and blood, and, in infected cases, of pus, whereby the kidney may become sufficiently enlarged to be recognised on palpation. Fragments of the villous growth may be grafted on the mucous membrane of the ureter, and if sprouting from the lower opening of this tube, may be seen with the cystoscope. Portions of villous growth and clumps of epithelial cells may be found in the urine. An exact diagnosis can rarely be made without an exploratory incision through the kidney into the pelvis; if a tumour is discovered, nephrectomy should be performed, as it is never safe to regard such tumours as innocent. Solitary Cysts of the Kidney.—These arise in the cortex