4 THE SCALP. Gunshot wounds of the scalp are usually associated with damage to the skull and brain. A spent shot, however, may pierce the scalp, and then, glancing off the bone, lodge in the soft parts (vol. i. p. 229). Complete avulsion.—In women, the scalp is sometimes torn from the cranium as a result of the hair being caught in revolving machinery. The portion removed, as a rule, consists of integument and aponeurosis with portions of muscle attached. In a few cases the pericranium also has been torn away. So long as any attachment to the intact scalp remains, the parts should be replaced, and, if asepsis is maintained, a satisfactory result may be expected. When the scalp is entirely separated, recourse should be had to primary skin-grafting by Thiersch’s method. Treatment of recent Scalp Wounds.—To ensure asepsis, the hair should be shaved from the area around the wound, and the part then thoroughly purified. Gross dirt ground into the edges of lacerated wounds is best removed by paring with scissors. Undermined flaps must be further opened up and drained—by counter-openings if necessary. When there is reason to suspect their presence, foreign bodies should be care- fully sought for. Bleeding should be arrested by forci-pressure or by ligature; when the vessels cannot be caught with forceps, the haemorrhage may be controlled by passing a needle threaded with catgut through the tissues of the scalp so as to include the bleeding vessels. The wound is stitched with horse-hair or sterilised silk, and, except in very small and superficial wounds, it is best to allow for drainage. Complications of Scalp Wounds.—The most common com- plications are those due to bacterial infection, which not only aggravates the local condition, but is apt to lead to spreading cellulitis, osteomyelitis, meningitis, or to inflammation of the intra-cranial venous sinuses. These dangerous sequelae are liable to follow infection of any scalp wound, but more especially such as implicate the sub-aponeurotic area, or the pericranium. In the integument, a small localised abscess, attended with pain and oedema of surrounding parts, may form. Pus forming under the aponeurosis is liable to spread widely, pointing above the eyebrows, in the occipital region, or in the line of the zygoma. Suppuration under the pericranium tends to be limited by the inter-sutural attachments of the membrane. Necrosis of the outer table, or even of the whole thickness of the skull, may follow, although it is by no means uncommon for large denuded areas of bone to retain their vitality.