THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 578 apart from the stools. If the condition merges into obstruction, the abdomen becomes distended with flatus, the patient loses appetite, and becomes greatly emaciated. The stricture seldom completely occludes the lumen of the gut, but symptoms of acute obstruction may suddenly supervene if a mass of hardened faeces becomes impacted and blocks the passage. All forms of stricture are liable to be complicated by periproctitis, leading to the formation of abscesses and fistulse. The diagnosis is made by digital examination, by the use of the rectal speculum, and by the passage of bougies. Treatment.—In all cases of rectal stricture the diet should be restricted to fluids to diminish the amount of faeces, and the bowels regulated by mild laxatives and the use of enemata. The operative treatment to be adopted in a given case depends upon the site and nature of the stricture. In moderately tight and short annular, or tubular strictures low down in the bowel, the frequent passage of graduated bougies may suffice to keep the patient comfortable. Internal 'proctotomy, which consists in dividing the stricture at one or more points from within the bowel, and then passing large bougies, is only suitable when the stricture is near the anal orifice. It is liable to be followed by septic complications in the perirectal tissues. External or linear proctotomy is employed in long tubular strictures. It consists in carrying an incision through the posterior aspect of the whole length of the stricture or lower part of the bowel, including the sphincters. This ensures complete relief to the obstruction and perfect drainage. During the healing process bougies should be passed from time to time to prevent recontrac- tion. Excision, as for malignant disease of the rectum, with end- to-end suture, may be performed if the stricture is annular and situated low down. Unless primary union takes place it is apt, however, to be followed by the formation of a fresh stricture as a result of cicatricial contraction. Inguinal colostomy may be an essential preliminary in advanced and neglected cases com- plicated with periproctitis and fistulse; the local condition improves as soon as the rectum is afforded absolute rest, and becomes amenable to local measures. Abscesses in the Region of the Rectum and Anus. Suppuration is common in the region of the rectum and anus, and several varieties of abscess are recognised. As a rule the suppurative process is of a low type, the pus forming slowfly and without the acute symptoms which accompany the formation