314 THE CHEST. fatal from haemorrhage. The blood may escape in great quantity from the external wound, or may fill up the pericardium and arrest the heart by pressing upon it. In cases that are not immediately fatal the patient is profoundly collapsed, shows extreme pallor, and is often agitated and restless. Dyspnoea and other signs of “air hunger” are present. The heart’s action is tumultuous, irregular, and feeble, and on auscultation, whizzing, blowing, and other abnormal sounds may be heard. There may be signs of effusion of blood into the pericardium, or into the left pleura, as this cavity is often traversed by the wound. If the bleeding is arrested, recovery may take place by organisation of a clot in the wound, or by the formation of adhesions with the pericardium. In a considerable number of recorded cases death has occurred suddenly in from ten to four- teen days after the injury, from softening and displacement of occluding clots, either as a result of septic complications, or from the patient exerting himself too soon. In other cases septic pericarditis has been the cause of death. Treatment.—The primary indication is to reduce the force of the heart’s action as much as possible, in order that haemorrhage may cease and a reparative clot form in the wound. To this end absolute rest, bodily and mental, must be ensured, and morphin may be freely given if necessary. Exploration of the wound by finger or probe must be avoided, lest clots be disturbed and the bleeding start afresh. Low diet is given and thirst is relieved by enemata. Within recent years numerous operations have been performed with the object of suturing wounds of the heart, with results which are distinctly encouraging. The heart is exposed by resecting the fourth, fifth, and sixth costal cartil- ages, and the wound sutured with fine catgut, care being taken not to perforate the whole thickness of the wall, as haemorrhage is apt to take place along the tracks of the stitches. The pericardium is sutured after having been emptied of clots. The external wound is drained. Needles embedded in the wall of the heart may be extracted after having been localised by the X-rays. Pericardial Effusions.—When a serous effusion is exerting dangerous pressure on the heart and impeding its action, relief may be given by tapping the pericardium. A fine exploratory needle is introduced through the fifth interspace on the left side, either close to the sternum, or about an inch and a half from it, to avoid the pleura and internal mammary artery. When there is an excessive amount of fluid present it is not advisable to withdraw it all at one time.