390 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. should be carefully packed off with gauze on all sides before proceeding to empty the abscess. When the abscess is in the pelvis, the drainage afforded by the abdominal wound may not prove sufficient, and it is then necessary to bring out a drainage tube through the posterior fornix of the vagina or through the rectum. If the appendix has not been excised at the time the abscess was opened, its removal should be undertaken as soon as is practicable, as there is considerable risk of recurrence of the disease so long as it remains. Complications which may follow an operation for Ap- pendicitis.—These are rarely met with if the operation has been performed during the first forty-eight hours, but are not un- common in cases in which operation has been longer delayed. (1) Secondary abscesses are usually due to defective drainage of the original collection of pus or to separate foci of suppuration amongst adhesions. They may form in the pelvis and may heal spontaneously after discharging by the vagina or rectum ; or in the right sub-phrenic space, necessitating an operation for their drainage. (2) Intestinal obstruction is usually due to adhesions involving the small intestine and causing kinking of it; or to the formation of a band which causes strangulation of the bowel. The obstruction may occur after an interval of weeks, months, or even years. (3) A sinus discharging pus or muco-pus may persist in the track of the drainage tube, and may be due to the presence in the wound of an infected ligature or a concretion, or to a portion of the appendix which has been left behind. (4) Faecal fistula. A communication may exist with the bowel, and discharge faecal matter mixed with pus and intestinal secretions. The discharge may come from the lumen of a perforated appendix, or from the caecum or other portion of intestine, as a sequel to necrosis and sloughing of the wall. The sloughing may be due to the appendicitis, to the pressure of a drainage tube, or to packing of the wound or abscess cavity with gauze which has not been protected with rubber tissue. In most instances the fistula heals spontaneously. The dressings should be changed several times a day, and the surrounding skin must be protected by an ointment containing oxide of zinc. Sometimes the continued use of a drainage tube prevents the healing of the fistula. If the fistula persists, it is necessary to close it by an operation, which consists in opening the peritoneal cavity, removing the appendix or what remains of it, and closing the opening in the intestine by sutures. When a considerable portion of the wall of the caecum has sloughed,