.CEREBELLAR ABSCESS. 61 For cerebellar abscess, in order to avoid the lateral sinus, the trephine is applied about an inch and a half behind and half an inch below the centre of the external auditory meatus. During operations on the cerebellum there is often a temporary cessation of respiration, although the heart continues to act, but as soon as the skull is opened, the breathing is re-established. It is necessary, therefore, to remove the bone as rapidly as possible. Abscess from Causes other than Middle Ear Disease.— From the nasal passages, infection may spread to the inside of the skull directly through the walls of the frontal, ethmoidal or sphenoidal air sinuses, or indirectly by way of the veins, and give rise to a cerebral abscess. The pus is usually in the frontal lobe. The symptoms are similar to those of abscess following middle ear disease, but focal symptoms are seldom present. When the abscess is on the left side motor aphasia may be present. Spontaneous evacuation may take place by the abscess bursting into the nose through the cribriform plate. The treatment consists in trephining through the frontal bone or through the temporal fossa, according to the site of the abscess and its seat of origin. The primary focus of infection must also be dealt with. In septic compound fractures an abscess may form in the cortical grey matter within a few days of the injury from direct spread of infection from the bone and membranes. This is usually associated with a spreading lepto-meningitis, the symptoms of which predominate. The condition usually proves fatal, but by opening up the original wound, removing depressed fragments of bone, and establishing drainage, the patient’s life may be saved. An abscess may develop in the white matter of the centrum ovale some weeks, or even months, after an injury, particularly if a fragment of bone or a foreign body has been driven into the brain. If the infection has spread along the track of the missile the abscess is usually near to the seat of the brain injury, but if it is due to spread of a thrombo-phlebitis it may be at a considerable distance from it, even on the opposite side of the head. These chronic abscesses are usually in the parietal or frontal lobes, and as the pus is encapsulated they may remain latent for long periods, during which they may cause some degree of headache, neuralgic pains in the distribu- tion of the fifth nerve, and occasional rises of temperature. When the abscess becomes active general symptoms, similar to those of other forms of abscess, develop, and there may be