DISLOCATION OF JAW. 181 In some persons the ligaments of the joint are unnaturally lax, and dislocation is liable to occur repeatedly from compara- tively slight causes—recurrent dislocation. Clinical Features.—The appearance of a patient suffering from bilateral dislocation is very characteristic. The mouth is open, the jaw fixed, and the chin protruded so that the lower teeth project beyond those of the upper jaw. The patient has diffi- culty in swallowing, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. As the lips cannot be ap- proximated the speech is indistinct and guttural. Just in front of the auditory meatus a deep hollow can be felt, and in front of this the condyle forms an undue projection. The coronoid process is dis- placed below and behind the malar bone, and may be felt through the mouth. The contracted belly of the temporal muscle forms a more or less marked pro- minence above the zygoma. In unilateral dislocation (Fig. 62) the deformity is the same in character, but is less marked, and in mild cases its cause is liable to be overlooked. In most cases the chin deviates towards the sound side. Treatment. — In recent cases reduction is usually easily effected. The patient should be seated on a low chair or stool, an assistant supporting the head from behind. The surgeon, standing in front, places his thumbs, well protected by a roll of lint, far back on the molar teeth, and with his other fingers grasps the body of the jaw. Pressure is now made downwards and backwards to free the condyles from the articular eminence, and as this is effected the tip of the chin is carried upward, while the whole jaw is pushed directly backward. The condyle slips into position, sometimes with a distinct snap. When diffi- culty is experienced in levering the condyle from its abnormal position, a cork may be placed between the molar teeth on each side to act as a fulcrum. After reduction the jaw is fixed by Fig. 62.—Unilateral Dislocation of Lower Jaw, caused by yawning, showing promin- ence of right condyle on cheek.