361 DIFFUSE PERITONITIS. In the differentiation between peritonitis and acute intestinal obstruction, most stress should be laid on the presence or absence of the respiratory movements of the abdominal wall; in obstruc- tion, moreover, the pain is spasmodic and griping in character, and there are intervals during which the patient is free from pain. The differentiation of a diffuse from a localised peritonitis depends chiefly upon recognising that the rigidity of the abdom- inal muscles, the absence of movement, and the tenderness are spread over a wide area; that in the former the general symp- toms are aggravated, and that the pulse is becoming more rapid and more feeble. Treatment.—The rational treatment of septic peritonitis is to open the abdomen and deal with the lesion from which the peritonitis originated. This should be undertaken unless the manifestations of septic poisoning are so pronounced that there is no hope of recovery, or the distension of the abdomen is so great that any operative interference is unlikely to benefit the patient. The preliminaries of the operation include the hypodermic injection of strychnin, and the emptying of the bladder ; and if there is regurgitant vomiting of dark coloured material, the stomach should be washed out with hot water. A local anes- thetic may suffice, but if it is necessary to secure relaxation of the abdominal muscles, a general anesthetic must be employed. Unless there is a definite guide to the seat of the lesion, an incision three or four inches long is made near the middle line to one or other side of the umbilicus, and is extended as may be required. An attempt should be made to discover and remove the source of the peritonitis, and the more accurate the diagnosis of the initial lesion is, the quicker and safer will be the operation. If the intestinal coils protrude, they are wrapped in hot saline compresses covered with thin rubber sheeting, and outside this hot dry towels. It may be advisable to incise and empty one or more of the distended coils, especially if the distension is an obstacle to some essential step in the operation, as for example when a distended caecum prevents access to a diseased appendix, or when it is found impossible to return distended coils to the abdomen. The bowel being paralysed, it is only possible to empty a limited length of intestine through each incision. The opening is closed again by a purse-string suture carried through all the coats of the bowel, and a serous suture at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. The cleansing of the peritoneal cavity is effected by soaking up the exudate with pads of gauze