THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 598 and the bursting of an abscess into the bladder or vagina may establish a recto-vesical or recto-vaginal fistula. In some cases an ischio-rectal abscess forms, and, after bursting, leaves an intractable form of fistula-in-ano. The lymphatic glands in the hollow of the sacrum, and those lying alongside the lumbar vertebrae, are enlarged at an early stage of the disease; the enlargement, however, is not necessarily malignant, but in the early stages may be the result of septic infection. The enlarged sacral glands may sometimes be recognised on digital examina- tion of the rectum. Metastatic growths most frequently occur in the peritoneum, liver, and lungs. Clinical Features.—Cancer of the rectum is a disease chiefly of adult life, but it occasionally occurs in young subjects. We have met with a case of colloid cancer in a boy, aged twelve and a half. It is more common in men than in women. As the disease gives rise to little or no discomfort in its earliest stages, and as the first symptoms are usually attributed by the patient to constipation or to piles, the surgeon is seldom con- sulted until the disease has advanced to a considerable extent. The first thing to arrest the patient’s attention is an increasing difficulty in obtaining a regular action of the bowels, which necessitates the taking of laxatives more frequently than hitherto. This is most marked when the tumour grows round the bowel and forms an annular stricture. This tendency to constipation frequently alternates with attacks of diarrhoea, during which a considerable amount of mucus is present in the stools, and there may be a persistent inclination to pass flatus. It is not uncommon for the patient to develop internal piles at this early stage of the disease. It cannot be too strongly emphasised that when a patient past middle life exhibits these symptoms a digital examination of the rectum should be made, and if this does not reveal the presence of cancer, the proctoscope should be used. When the growth has ulcerated, but as a rule not till then, there is blood in the stools. The tendency to diarrhoea increases, the patient passing a small quantity of thin faeces together with much blood-stained muco-purulent matter, having a character- istically offensive odour. This is usually passed soon after the patient gets out of bed in the morning, and is a characteristic sign of rectal cancer. After this “morning diarrhoea” there may be a good motion, but1 the patient never feels that the bowel has been completely emptied, and usually has repeated calls to stool without being able to pass more than some blood- stained mucus. The attempt to empty the bowel is attended with