WOUNDS OF ABDOMINAL WALL. 349 if this can be determined. If blood is found extravasated, the haemorrhage must be traced to its source and arrested. If gas and other bowel contents have escaped from the alimentary canal, the perforation must be searched for and closed. If neither blood nor bowel contents is discovered, a more detailed search is necessary, especially a methodical examination of the intestine. All escaped blood or other material must be removed, and the drainage of inflammatory exudate provided for. The details of the operation vary with the different organs, and will be considered later. Wounds of the Abdominal Wall.—A stab, produced by a pointed body such as a knife or the spike of a railing, presents the characters of a punctured wound ; and the important point to determine is whether or not the peritoneal cavity has been penetrated, and if so, whether any injury has been inflicted on the viscera. Complete penetration of the abdominal wall usually implies a perforation of some viscus also. In small wounds of the intestine there is a prolapse of the mucous membrane, which temporarily blocks the opening and prevents escape of the intestinal contents. If the intestine becomes distended later, extravasation occurs. The severity of the symptoms of visceral injury varies; some- times there is well-marked rigidity of the abdominal wall, .persistent pain and the presence of blood in the vomit or in the stools; sometimes the symptoms are ill-defined, or there may even be no evidence of internal injury. If the position and direction of the wound, its size, and the character of the instrument with which it was inflicted, give reason to suspect that the peritoneal cavity may have been entered, the wound must be disinfected and enlarged sufficiently to remove all doubt. If the puncture is found to have reached the peritoneal cavity, the wound must be opened up sufficiently to admit of the interior being examined. If there is evidence of haemorrhage or of escape of visceral contents, the lesion must be sought for and dealt with; and the possibility of multiple wounds of the intestine must be borne in mind. In some cases the protrusion of viscera—usually the omentum, less commonly the small intestine—is the most striking feature ; and the prolapsed viscus is exposed to infection, which may spread to the peritoneal cavity. When the patient is seen soon after infliction of the wound, the viscus must be cleansed with salt solution and returned to the abdomen, but if the omentum is much soiled, the damaged portion should be removed; if the intestine is wounded, it must be stitched or the damaged portion