( RUPTURE OF BLADDER, 661 its movements. It is quite exceptional for its point to pass through, the rent and tap the urine in the peritoneal cavity; in the event of its doing so, a' large amount of urine slightly tinged with blood may escape. It is sometimes stated that the existence of a rent in the bladder may be demonstrated by injecting a measured quantity of fluid through the catheter into the bladder and observing the amount which returns, but the procedure is deceptive, as all the fluid may return even although the bladder is ruptured. In the intra-peritoneal variety there are rarely any character- istic signs of the presence of the accumulation of urine in the abdominal cavity. Dulness when present is ill defined, but a fulness of the pouch of Douglas may be recognised on rectal examination. From the third day onwards there is general illness with vomiting, gradually merging into septic peritonitis, and death usually ensues on the fifth or sixth day, from a com- bination of septic and urinary poisoning. hi the extra-peritoneal variety the urinary extravasation, through being confined within narrower limits, shows recognis- able signs within from twelve to twenty hours of the accident. When it spreads upwards above the pubes there is a well-defined area of dulness, and there may be also a fulness in the hypo- gastric region, with a convex upper border directed towards the umbilicus. When it accumulates in the cellular tissue of the pelvis the resulting swelling is recognised on bimanual examination. Treatment.—The indications are to get rid of the extravasatecl urine, and to close the rent in the bladder before septic changes have had time to occur. . In the intra-peritoneal variety the abdomen is opened in the middle line below the navel, the peri- toneal cavity irrigated with saline solution, the rupture in the bladder sutured, and a glass drain inserted into the pouch of Douglas, after which the abdominal wound is closed except where the tube emerges. If there are already signs of pelvic peritonitis, a drain should be passed from Douglas’s pouch into the rectum and brought out at the anus. Suture of the rent in the bladder is carried out after the method employed in other hollow viscera, except that catgut is to be preferred to silk, and the sutures must not include the mucous membrane, as phosphates from the urine may be deposited on them. Two tiers of continuous sutures are necessary, the superficial one in the fashion of Lembert, so as to invaginate the serous coat. The sutures should extend beyond the limits of the wound in the bladder, otherwise there is apt to be leakage