58 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. condition, which at first bears a close resemblance to that of opium poisoning. The pain in the region of the ear becomes less intense, but the whole of the mastoid and temporal areas are tender on percussion as compared with the unaffected side. Although the patient is quite conscious, his cerebration is slow, he seems unable to sustain his attention for any length of time, and he answers questions “ slowly, briefly, but, as a rule, correctly.” At the same time, while there is no actual paresis, there is a “gradual diminution of the ability to apply his strength.” The temperature falls, and as a rule becomes persistently sub- normal. Rigors are unusual in this stage, their occurrence generally indicating the development of some complication, such as sinus phlebitis. The pulse is full and slow (40 to 60)■ further slowing indicates an increase in the size of the abscess. The respiration is slow and regular. The gastro-intestinal functions are disturbed, and there is loss of appetite, obstinate constipation, and occasionally vomit- ing. There may be retention of urine, and albuminuria. The site of the lesion is usually indicated by localised paralysis. Convulsions are not common, and are of little diagnostic value. Optic neuritis is an inconstant and often misleading symptom. “ The face is expressionless, passive, and cloudy. It may assume a meaningless smile with which the features are not lit: it is too mechanical ” (Macewen). The pressure symptoms bear no direct proportion to the size of the abscess : they depend more upon its site than upon its size. Examination of the ear, as to the character and amount of discharge, and the condition of the membrana tympani and middle ear, must never be neglected. Terviinal Stage.—If left to itself, a cerebral abscess usually ends fatally by causing gradually increasing stupor and coma, or by bursting, either into the ventricles or into the subarachnoid space, and setting up a diffuse purulent lepto-meningitis. Symptoms of Abscess bursting into the Ventricles.—When this happens, the patient suddenly becomes much worse, and dies within a few hours. “ The pupils become widely dilated, the face livid, the respiration greatly hurried, and either shallow or stertorous. The temperature rises within a few hours with a bound from subnormal to 104° or 105° F. : the pulse from 40 or 50 per minute quickly reaches 120 and over. There are muscular twitchings all over the body, possibly associated with convulsions and tetanic seizures, and these are followed by coma and speedy death ” (Macewen). Localisation of Cerebral Abscess.—The presence of a cerebral