THE SPINE AND CORD. 100 forms the apex of the projection belongs to the vertebra above the one that is crushed. There are seldom marked signs of pressure on the cord, but the nerves emerging in relation to the damaged vertebrae may be bruised, and this gives rise to girdle-pain. Local tenderness is elicited on pressing over the affected vertebrae or on the head and shoulders. As might be expected from the nature of the accident producing this lesion, it is often associated with serious injuries to the head, limbs, or internal organs which gravely affect the prognosis. The treatment consists in taking the pressure off the injured vertebrae in order that the reparative material may be laid down in such a way as to restore the integrity of the column. In the cervical region, extension is applied to the head, and a roller-pillow placed be- neath the neck. In the dorsal and lumbar regions, the extension is applied through the lower limbs, and the pillow placed under the loins. The patient is confined to bed for six or eight weeks, and before he gets up a poroplastic or plaster of Paris jacket is applied. This is worn for a month or six weeks. Traumatic Spondylitis.—This con- dition is liable to develop in patients who have sustained a severe injury to the back. It is believed to originate in a compression fracture which has not been recognised, and is probably due to the callus thrown out for the repair of the fracture being subjected to strain and pressure too early, or to a progressive softening of the injured vertebra and of the bodies of those adjacent to it. This leads to an alteration in the shape of the affected bones. The usual history is that some considerable time after the patient has resumed work he suffers from pain in the back, and radiating pains round the body and down the legs. He becomes more and more unfit for work, and a marked projection appears in the back and may extend over several vertebrae (Fig. 25). While the condition is progressive, the prominent vertebrae are painful and tender. In course of time the softening process is arrested, and the affected bones become fused, so that the area Fig. 24.—Compression Frac- ture of Bodies of Third and Fourth Lumbar Vertebra. Woman set. 28, who fell three storeys and landed on the buttocks.