COMPLICATIONS OF GASTRIC ULCER 451 hepatic abscess ; sub-phrenic abscess ; or phlebitis of one of the peripheral veins. We have observed cases in which the patient, having recovered from the peritonitis, died at periods ranging from one to six months after the operation from causes directly- associated with the perforation. Perigastric Abscess and Gastric Fistula.—These complica- tions are usually associated with the perforation of a chronic gastric ulcer which has become adherent to surrounding structures. The stomach contents which escape from the perforation are thereby limited to its immediate vicinity, and set up a localised suppuration. This occurs most frequently in ulcers situated on the lesser curvature and towards the cardiac end of the stomach, and the resulting abscess forms below the left vault of the diaphragm, constituting one variety of sub-phrenic abscess (p. 371). Ulcers on the posterior wall may give rise to a localised abscess in the lesser peritoneal sac, or in the retro-peritoneal tissue, according to the disposition of the adhesions. When a perigastric abscess forms in connection with an ulcer on the anterior wall of the stomach, it usually projects below the costal margin in the left hypochondrium, or in the loin. When it bursts it is liable to be followed by the formation of a gastric fistula. The characters of these fistulse vary with their site. In those near the cardiac end of the stomach the escape of gastric contents is intermittent, and the general health of the patient does not deteriorate ; in those near the pylorus, it is continuous, with a corresponding effect on the patient’s nutri- tion. The abscess should be thoroughly drained, and if the fistula is small, it may heal spontaneously if the patient is fed for a time entirely by the rectum. If it persists, the abdomen should be opened, the ulcer exposed and excised, and the stomach securely closed. A fistulous communication occasionally forms between the stomach and some part of the intestine, particularly the trans- verse colon—gastro-colic fistula. The stools contain undigested food, and the patient complains of foetid eructations and of vomiting of faecal matter. This condition is best treated by exposing the viscera, separating them by dissection, and closing the respective apertures by sutures. Perigastric Adhesions.—In many cases adhesions between the stomach and surrounding parts give rise to no symptoms. In other cases, by fixing some part of the stomach and so disturbing its motor functions, or by causing kinking of the pylorus, they interfere with the onward passage of the gastric contents, and so lead to dilatation. The patient complains