6 THE SCALP. capitis is of surgical importance only in so far as it often forms the starting-point of infection of lymphatic glands by pyogenic and other organisms. Cystic and Solid Tumours.—A great variety of tumours and other non-inflammatory conditions is met with in the scalp, but the majority of these are of extreme rarity. Sebaceous cysts or wens are of frequent occurrence, and have already been described (vol. i. p. 367). Dermoid cysts of the scalp are most commonly situated over the position of the anterior fontanelle, in the region of the occipital protuberance, or at the outer angle of the eye (Fig. 50). As they frequently lie in a gap in the skull, they may be connected by a pedicle with the dura mater, and are liable to be mistaken for meningoceles. Serous cysts are occasionally found in the occipital region. They are believed to be meningoceles which have become shut off from the interior of the skull before birth. Adenomata originating in the sebaceous or sweat glands are sometimes multiple, of a purplish colour, and the skin covering them is thin and glistening. They show a tendency to ulcerate and fungate, giving rise to a foetid discharge, and are liable to become the seat of epithelioma (Fig. 1). They are treated by excision. Large, flat papillomata, or warts on the scalp, may be single or multiple, are of slow growth, and may become the starting- point of epithelioma. The plexiform neuroma forms a loose soft tumour situated in the course of one or more branches of the fifth nerve, especially the supra-orbital branch. In its most aggravated form the tumour hangs over the face or neck in large pendulous masses, and is described as a pachydermatocele (Y. Mott). Sarcomata usually have their origin in the bones of the skull, and only implicate the scalp secondarily. Epithelioma of the scalp (Fig. 48, vol. i.) may originate in relation to a wart, an ulcerated wen or sebaceous adenoma, or the cicatrix of a burn. It may affect comparatively young persons, may spread over a wide area, or pass deeply and involve the bone. Free and early removal is indicated. Rodent cancer may originate on the scalp, but usually spreads thither from the face. In operating for extensive tumours of the scalp the haemorrhage is sometimes formidable. It may be controlled by an elastic tourniquet applied horizontally round the head, or if, on account of the position of the tumour or from other causes, this is not