140 THE FACE, ORBIT, AND LIPS. hare-lip the best time is between the sixth and the twelfth weeks. When cleft palate co-exists with hare-lip, the lip should be operated on first, as the closure of the lip often exerts a beneficial influence on the cleft in the palate, causing it to become narrower. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to when the cleft in the palate should be dealt with. Some surgeons, notably Arbuthnot Lane, recommend that it should be done in early infancy, as soon as the viability of the child is assured. Others, including R. W. Murray and James Berry, prefer to wait until the child is between two and a half and three years old. It should not be delayed longer, because, even if the cleft in the palate is repaired, the nasal character of the voice persists, as the patient cannot overcome the habit of expelling the air through the nose. Before the operation is undertaken, the child must be got into the best possible condition of health; and arrangements must be made for its constant supervision by a competent nurse. Success depends largely on the avoidance of septic complications, and on absence of tension between the rawed surfaces that are brought into apposition. Frequently more than one operation is required to effect complete closure of the cleft. Operation for Hare-lip.—In operating for hare-lip steps must be taken to free the ala of the nose and the margins of the cleft from their attachment to the maxilla, and to support the ala in such a way that the flattening is corrected. Provision must also be made for the formation of a papilla on the free margin of the lip. When there is merely a slight notch in the lip, Nelaton’s operation is appropriate. It consists in carrying a A-shaped incision through the substance of the lip around the notch, but without dividing the free edge of the lip. The apex of the notch is drawn down and the wound becomes lozenge-shaped. It is then sutured in its vertical axis. In cases of complete hare-lip Rose’s operation may be em- ployed. The edges of the cleft are pared in a crescentic manner, so that, when the raw surfaces are brought into apposition, a projecting papilla is formed on the free margin of the lip. When the gap is wide, and it is undesirable to sacrifice tissue by parmg the edges, the method of splitting the lip along the junction of skin and mucous membrane, suggested by John Duncan, may be employed. To form a papilla two small flaps are cut from the lower margins of the cleft and turned down. The skin edges are united by one row of sutures, and the edges of the mucous membrane by another. In cases of double hare-lip in which the premaxilla retains its normal position, it is only necessary to pare its margins so that