TUMOURS. 247 There is always marked constitutional disturbance, as evidenced by rigors, high temperature, a small, rapid pulse, and delirium. The prognosis is grave, and death may result within a few days from general septic infection. Treatment. — In the earliest stages hot antiseptic fomen- tations should be applied. If the process does not begin to abate within twenty-four hours, and if the swelling becomes brawny in character, one or more incisions should be made through the deep fascia where the signs of inflammation are most intense, and the deeper planes of the neck should be opened up by Hilton’s method. Drainage is secured by tubes or strips of rubber tissue. Actinomycosis occasionally manifests itself in the neck as an acute phlegmonous inflammation, which causes wide destruction of tissue. Boils and carbuncles frequently occur on the back of the neck where the skin is thick and coarse and is rubbed by the collar (vol. i. p. 358). The affections of the cervical lymphatic glands have already been described (vol. i. p. 318). Tumours. Cystic Tumours.—A great variety of cystic tumours are met with in the neck. Branchial cysts are formed by the distension of an isolated and unobliterated portion of one of the branchial clefts. They usually form in connection with the third cleft, and are met with in the region of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, to which the wall of the cyst is almost always attached. Less frequently they take origin in the second cleft, and lie below the mastoid process, in which case the cyst is adherent either to the mastoid or to the styloid process. In some cases these cysts project towards the floor of the mouth. When near the cutaneous surface they are of the nature of dermoid cysts, being lined with squamous epithelium and filled with sebaceous material. When deeply placed, they are lined by cylindrical or ciliated epithelium and contain a glairy mucoid fluid. Although of congenital origin, these cysts do not usually attract attention till about the age of puberty, when they are noticed as small, soft, fluctuating tumours over which the skin moves freely. They grow very slowly, but may attain great dimensions. The only treatment that yields satisfactory results is complete excision.