ANAESTHETICS. 782 with a local anaesthetic, such operations as herniotomy, colostomy, gastrostomy, or gastro-enterostomy may be performed painlessly. The drugs most frequently employed for the production of local anaesthesia are cocain hydrochlo7'ate, eucain JS, and stovain, and it has been shown that if these are combined with small doses of the active principle of the supra-renal gland, their anaesthetic action is increased, and the risk of poisoning by absorption is diminished. The properties and relative value of cocain and eucain B for local anaesthesia may be summed up as follows (J. W. Struthers): —Both drugs act powerfully as local analgesics. Cocain acts as a vaso-constrictor; eucain as a vaso-dilator. For intra-neural injection they give equal results. Cocain diffuses among the tissues more readily than eucain, and is therefore preferable for perineural injection and infiltration anaesthesia, acting more surely and more quickly than eucain. Cocain is more toxic than eucain, and should not be used in doses of more than 1 grain in per cent, solution, or 2 grains in 1 in 1000 solution when combined with adrenalin, while eucain may be used in doses of 2-6 grains in corresponding solutions. Eucain should be used when very large quantities of solution are likely to be required for infiltration. Eucain solutions may be boiled without losing their analgesic power; cocain solutions are neutralised by boiling. Stovain is less suitable for local anaesthesia than either cocain or eucain. Infiltration Anaesthesia.—In this method the solution is injected into the subcutaneous tissue close below the true skin in sufficient quantity to produce a moderate distension or oedema of the whole field of operation. Endermic injections are not necessary to render the skin analgesic. Marked blanching of the skin appears in three or four minutes from the vaso-con- strictor action of the adrenalin ; from ten to twenty minutes should be allowed to elapse before commencing the operation; the analgesia lasts for about two hours. In operating under local anaesthesia the tissues should be cut with a sharp knife, all blunt dissection or dragging on the parts being avoided. As the analgesia wears off, there is sometimes a considerable degree of “ reactionary pain,” which may last for some hours. The following solutions are recommended for inducing infiltration anaesthesia: (1) Cocain hydrochlorate, 1 grain; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 12 drops; solution sodium chloride (-75 per cent.), 2 ounces. (2) Eucain lactate, 1 grain ; solution adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000), 5 drops; sodium