677 LITHOTOMY. recent years the limits of litholapaxy have one by one been removed. The following may be regarded as indications for preferring lithotomy to litholapaxy.—(1) When there is some condition, such as an enlarged prostate, which is to be dealt with at the same time as the stone is removed; (2) when the stone cannot be grasped by the lithotrite, for example, in encysted stone; (3) when the bladder is so contracted upon and adherent to the stone that there is no space for the manipulation of the lithotrite ; (4) when there is a stricture of the urethra which cannot be dilated sufficiently to allow the passage of the instruments required for litholapaxy; (5) in stones immovably fixed in the neck of the bladder. Except in the last of these conditions, the bladder is opened above the pubes—supra-pubic lithotomy. The patient is placed in the Trendelenburg position, the bladder washed out and filled with boracic lotion, and the urethra compressed by a turn of bandage round the penis. An incision is made in the middle line, beginning over the symphysis and running upwards towards the navel, and the pyramidales and recti muscles are drawn apart. Where more room is required, Kocher’s incision, which runs parallel to the brim of the pelvis, may be employed. The pre-vesical fat behind the symphysis is displaced upwards, carry- ing with it the reflection of the peritoneum. The wall of the bladder is recognised by its muscular coat, and an incision large enough to admit the finger is made. The stone is felt for and removed with the scoop or lithotomy forceps, the wound in the bladder being enlarged if necessary. The interior of the bladder is then further explored in case of there being more than one stone. If the prostate is enlarged, its removal may be undertaken at this stage, particularly if the bladder is pouched, as these conditions are likely to favour the formation of fresh concretions. If the urine is aseptic, the wound in the bladder is sutured. If there is septic cystitis, a large drainage tube is introduced and connected with a suction apparatus. Healing takes place in from three to six weeks. Perineal lithotomy is performed when the stone is impacted in the neck of the bladder, or when crushing procedures are contra- indicated by the presence of a stricture of the urethra. The available space is very limited, however, and only comparatively small stones can be extracted by this route. The steps of the operation have been described under the heading of perineal cystotomy (p. 656). A tube is inserted into the bladder through the wound and connected with a suction apparatus. The