572 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. from without. Less frequently it passes through the anal orifice and perforates the bowel from its mucous aspect. The rectal wall may also be damaged from within by the unskilful use of a rectal bougie or an enema syringe, or from without by a urethral instrument which has made a false passage, or by the surgeon’s knife during the operation of perineal lithotomy or prostatectomy. It has been ruptured by objects introduced intentionally by the patient. The lesion is usually of the nature of a large puncture or tear with contused and lacerated edges. In most instances the whole thickness of the bowel is implicated, and the wound extends into the perirectal tissues. When a pointed object, such as a spike, passes through the anal orifice, it is apt to be forced through the wall of the rectum where it joins the colon, and enter the peritoneal cavity, and at the same time injure the bladder or urethra. The most prominent immediate symptoms are shock, pelvic pain, and haemorrhage. The blood escapes externally, but may also enter the peritoneal cavity. Inflammation of the wall of the bowel, perirectal cellulitis and abscess, and septic peritonitis may ensue. The nature and extent of the injury must be determined by careful examination, and this usually calls for the use of a general anaesthetic. In the case of injury to the rectum the sphincters’ must be stretched to give the required access. If the peritoneum is found to have been opened, laparotomy should be performed to permit of the pelvic cavity being purified, and if the wound can be reached it should be closed. The suturing will be facilitated by placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position. Colostomy may be performed to pre- vent the faeces traversing the rectum while the wound is healing. Foreign Bodies.—Foreign bodies may become impacted in the rectum and give rise to symptoms, either by obstructing the canal, or by injuring the wall of the bowel and causing inflammatory complications. Three varieties of foreign bodies are met with: (1) those that are swallowed and pass along the alimentary canal, for example, tooth-plates, game and fish bones, pins, buttons, nails, etc.; (2) those that form in the alimentary canal or its associated glands, such as enteroliths or gall-stones ; and (3) bodies introduced through the. anus by lunatics, criminals, and others, of which an endless variety might be named. When the body lodges in the rectum, the patient complains of a constant feeling of discomfort and desire to empty the