THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. 28 embolism, epileptic coma, alcohol and opium poisoning, uraemic and diabetic coma, sunstroke, and exposure to cold. The commonest error is to mistake a case of cerebral compression for one of drunkenness. It is scarcely necessary to say that a man who smells of alcohol is not necessarily intoxicated : the drink may have been given with the object of reviving him. It may be that one or other of the above-named conditions has caused the patient to fall, and in his fall he has incidentally sustained an injury to the head, which, however, is in no way responsible for his unconsciousness. Wherever there is the least doubt, therefore, the patient should be admitted to hospital. In the first instance careful search should be made for any sign of injury, especially on the head. The discovery of a severe scalp wound or of a fracture of the skull, in association with the symptoms of concussion or compression, will in most cases indicate that the unconsciousness is due to some traumatic intra-cranial lesion. In the absence of evidence of a head injury, the stomach should be washed out and its contents examined to see if any narcotic poison is present. The urine also should be drawn off and examined for albumin and sugar. In haemorrhage due to disease of the cerebral arteries (apoplexy), or to embolism, the symptoms are essentially those of compression, and, in the absence of a definite history of injury to the head, it is seldom possible to arrive at an accurate diagnosis as to the cause of the patient’s condition. The history that the patient has previously had “an apoplectic shock,” and the fact that he is up in years and shows signs of arterial degeneration or of cardiac disease which would favour such conditions, are presumptive evidence that the lesion is not traumatic. If a history is forthcoming that the patient is an epileptic, there is a strong presumption that the symptoms are those of epileptic coma. In alcoholic poisoning the nature of the stomach contents will furnish evidence. The patient is not completely unconscious, nor is he paralysed. The pupils are usually contracted, but react. The temperature is often markedly subnormal. Improve- ment soon takes place after the stomach has been emptied. In opium poisoning the general condition of the patient is much the same as in poisoning by alcohol. The pupils, how- ever, are markedly contracted, and do not react to light. When the poison has been taken in the form of laudanum, this may be recognised by its odour.