THE INTESTINES. 502 lated, may become adherent to a coil of intestine and cause obstruction. Treatment must be directed not only to the con- dition of the bowel, but to the tumour causing the pressure. In the case of a large tumour, such as an ovarian cyst, it may be necessary to remove or empty the tumour before the condition of the bowel can be investigated. Faecal Accumulation. — Considering the frequency of ob- stinate constipation, it is remarkable that faecal accumulation is so rarely a cause of obstruction. It would appear that when obstruction does occur in patients who are the subjects of chronic constipation it is due to some additional factor, probably in the near vicinity of the rectum, such as bending or torsion of the sigmoid ilexure, from its being unequally loaded with masses of hardened faeces. Such variations from the normal arrange- ment of the bowel, as pouching of the caecum so that it hangs down into the pelvis, looping of the transverse colon into a V with its apex hanging towards the symphysis, or undue length of the sigmoid, so that when loaded it gravitates into the pouch of Douglas, also favour the occurrence of obstruction. Several of these factors may combine to produce this form of obstruction. The accumulation of faecal matter may be enormous, and the colon may be so distended as to fill the greater part of the abdomen. The caecum especially suffers from distension, and its mucous membrane may be extensively ulcerated and per- foration of the bowel take place. Faecal accumulation is met with after middle life. The history is not unlike that of malignant stricture, only it is much longer, and dates back many years. The patient has all through life been troubled with constipation, and may have had previous threatenings of obstruction with colicky pains and distension, which were tided over by enemata, and were followed by intervals of comparative well-being. Such patients have an unhealthy appearance, the outcome of chronic poisoning from the absorption of the products of decomposition within the bowel. The distension may be so great as to press upon the diaphragm and cause embarrassment of the heart and lungs. Vomiting is not a prominent feature, and rarely becomes ster- coraceous. The lower bowel is usually found to be full of hard faecal masses—seybalce. Treatment.—The first indication is to empty the colon, and this is best effected by the use of enemata. The pro- cedure is attended with considerable pain which may necessitate the administration of a general anaesthetic. It is also attended with some risk, for if fluid is rapidly poured into the already