11 SURGICAL 'ANATOMY. depressed fracture, room is made, up to a certain point, for the extraneous matter by displacement of the cerebro-spinal fluid. Its role in concussion of the brain will be referred to later. The Brain.—It is convenient here to consider briefly such points as have a direct bearing upon surgical diagnosis and treatment. Motor Functions and Mechanism. — Grouped in the region of the fissure of Rolando (Fig. 2), in what are known as the central convolu- tions of the brain, are certain cortical nerve centres which together make up the motor area, and govern the voluntary muscular movements of the body. Each grouj) of muscles lias its own regulating centre, and these have been localised on the surface of the brain with approximate accuracy. For example, the upper third of the ascending frontal con- volution is occupied by the centres governing the inferior extremity, and the middle third of the same convolution contains the centres for the superior extremity. Still lower lie the centres for the facial muscles, the tongue, the pharynx and the larynx. In the inferior frontal (Broca’s) convolution is the centre governing the muscular movements concerned in speech. This centre is located on the left side of the brain in right-handed persons. The motor fibres pass from the cortex through the centrum ovale towards the base of the brain. They converge at the internal capsule, and pass through the anterior two-thirds of its posterior limb (Figs. 3, 16). The fibres for the eyes, face, and tongue lie further forward, and next in order from before backward, those for the arm and leg. From the internal capsule the motor fibres pass as the •pyramidal tract through the crusta of the crura cerebri, the pons and medulla. At the decussation of the pyramids in the lower third of the medulla, the main mass of the motor fibres crosses the middle line and enters the lateral column of the spinal cord as the crossed pyramidal tract. The remaining fibres pass on in the anterior column of the same side as the direct pyramidal tract. In the cord, the fibres of the pyramidal tracts terminate at different levels by breaking up into fine branches around the multipolar nerve cells of the grey matter of the anterior horns, the axis cylinders of which leave the cord as the anterior nerve-roots to supply the voluntary muscles. Sensory Functions and Mechanism. — The sensory nerve fibres pass from their peripheral distribution in the sense organs of the skin, muscles, Tendons, and other structures through the posterior nerve-roots into the sjiinal cord. Some of the fibres ascend the cord in the posterior and lateral columns of the same side, passing upward to the medulla, where most of them enter the nuclei gracilis and cuneatus ; the axis cylinders of the cells of these nuclei cross the middle line at the decussa- tion of the fillet, which is situated just above the motor decussation in the medulla, and there unite with sensory fibres which have ascended in the lateral column of that side, having decussated in the cord soon after their entry. Thence the sensory fibres pass through the dorsal portion of the medulla and pons to reach the tegmentum of the crura cerebri. They then enter the posterior third of the internal capsule, some of them terminating in the optic thalamus, others passing to the cortical sensory centres, which are situated in the Rolandic region and in the parietal lobes immediately posterior to it. Effects of Lesions of the Motor and Sensory Mechanisms.—Localised cortical lesions of an irritative kind, for example, a patch of meningitis, a tumour, meningeal hemorrhage, or a spicule of bone, produce spasms