THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 458 metastasis has occurred. Infection of the deeper glands, particularly those along the upper border of the pancreas, and in the retro-peritoneal tissue, also forbids excision. Under these circumstances the surgeon has to decide whether or not a palliative operation is calculated to relieve the symptoms. When the pylorus is obstructed, and the patient suffers from symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation, considerable relief is usually afforded by g astro-enter ostomy. The vomiting ceases, the nutrition improves, and for a time the patient may feel quite well. In some cases, however, no benefit follows the operation. In the majority of cases the patient succumbs to the primary disease in the course of a few months, although in some cases of undoubted cancer subjected to gastro-enterostomy the patient has survived as long as three and a half years. When the disease is too extensive even to permit of an anastomosis with the intestine, the highest loop of the jejunum may be brought to the edge of the wound and an opening made in it—jejunostomy—sufficient to admit a No. 10 soft rubber catheter through which the patient is fed. This operation holds out but little promise of relief and is rarely called for. In cancer of the cardia, the symptoms are greatly relieved and life may be prolonged by gastrostomy. Other tumours of the stomach, for example, myomata, adenomata, and sarcomata, are very rare, and are seldom diagnosed before being exposed by operation. Pyloric Obstruction of Infants.—This condition, probably congenital in origin, is due to an hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the pylorus. The pylorus appears as a solid cylinder about one inch in length, and about twice as thick as a normal pylorus; it is pale in colour, as hard as cartilage, and very sharply defined from the duodenum (Stiles). The lumen is greatly narrowed by an increase in thickness of the circular muscular coat, and when this contracts, it is completely closed by the projection of the mucous membrane in longitudinal folds. The affection is characterised by the onset, in the second or third week of life, of intractable vomiting, which is unattended by retching, and occurs within a few minutes of taking food. The vomited matter consists of unaltered food, mixed with mucus, but free of bile. When the condition has lasted for some time, peristaltic waves may be seen passing along the enlarged stomach from left to right, and a palpable tumour can sometimes be recognised in the position of the thickened pylorus. If the condition does not yield to medical treatment and an operation is called for, this should be performed before the