ANATOMY OF THE BILE-DUCTS 525 foramen of Winslow, the common duct may be felt in the gastro-hepatic omentum, where it forms the anterior boundary of the foramen. The duct then passes behind the first part of the duodenum, and is continued downwards on the inner and posterior wall of the second part in close relation to the head of the pancreas, and for a short distance in contact with the pancreatic duct—duct of Wirsung. Along with this duct it perforates the muscular coat of the duodenum, and after running obliquely for three-quarters of an inch in the submucosa, opens into the bowel by a common orifice, three inches beyond the pylorus. Just behind the orifice, the duct is dilated to form the ampulla of Vater, in which a gall-stone may lodge. In two-thirds of subjects there exists an acces- sory pancreatic duct (duct of Santorini), and in about 10 per cent, the common bile-duct and the duct of Wirsung open by separate orifices into the duodenum (Fig. 146). Although the cystic duct normally admits a No. 5 catheter, on account of the way in which its mucous membrane is thrown into folds the passage of a probe along the duct is always difficult, and may be impossible. The common duct is slightly larger than the cystic duct, but at its entrance into the duodenum it is so narrow that it only admits a fine probe. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder is reticulated and is abundantly furnished with mucous glands. The gall-bladder forms a reservoir of bile, but this function is apparently unimportant, as the gall-bladder may be excised without detriment to health. The gall-bladder is related to the hepatic flexure of the colon, and towards its neck to the first part of the duodenum, and occasionally to the piylorus. Branches from the lower four dorsal and upper two lumbar nerves pass along the diaphragm to the common and cystic ducts and neck of the gall-bladder, accounting for the deep- seated piain in biliary colic and the attendant spiasm of the diaphragm. Affections of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts. Inflammation of the gall-bladder — cholecystitis, and of the ducts—cholangitis, are very commonly associated with the deposition from the bile of its solid constituents in the form of sand or stones — cholelithiasis, and they are attended with symptoms which to a considerable extent are common to both. It will facilitate the study of the subject if the chief symptoms which are common to inflammation and stone are described in the first instance. Biliary colic is the name given to the agonising attack of abdominal pain which is due to spasmodic contraction of the muscular coat of the gall-bladder or bile-duct. The muscular spasm appears to result from irritation of the mucous membrane, as, for example, by inflammation or by the movement of a stone, and the seat and radiation of the pain vary according to the part of the biliary passages affected. When the spasm affects the gall-bladder and cystic duct, the pain, which at the outset is referred to the epigastrium, tends to become located below the right costal margin and to radiate round the right side