462 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. difficulty in swallowing, by the large amount of food which is regurgitated from the dilated oesophagus, by the fact that thei’e is as much difficulty with fluids as with solids, that bougies can be passed on one occasion and not on another, by the appearances seen with the oesophagoscope, and by the flask-shaped shadow of the dilated gullet seen in X-ray photographs after an emulsion of subnitrate of bismuth has been swallowed. The treatment consists in stretching the circular muscle which surrounds the cardiac orifice. This is best done by passing into the stomach a bougie surrounded by an india- rubber tube, which is filled with water under pressure until the resistance of the muscle-fibres is overcome. The use of ordinary bougies is not recommended. The Duodenum. Duodenal Ulcer.—The duodenum, above the opening of the common duct of the liver and pancreas, is exposed to the same ulcer-producing causes as the stomach, and operative experience has shown that duodenal ulcer is a comparatively common disease (Mayo). The ulcer is nearly always solitary, and is situated most often within three-quarters of an inch of the pylorus, and on that aspect of the first part of the duodenum which looks directly outwards; its anatomical characters are similar to those of gastric ulcer. The sexes are affected in the proportion of about three males to one female, and the condition is most frequently met with between the ages of thirty and forty-five. The clinical features vary very widely in different persons. In many cases there is a history of indigestion, which differs little from that of gastric origin except that the discomfort occurs later, usually some two or three hours after food. In a certain proportion of cases, pain is a marked feature ■ as a rule, it is referred to the epigastrium and below the right costal margin, but the patient is sometimes unable to localise it; it occurs from two to three hours after meals, and we have observed cases in which the pain lasted the whole night. The patient may be altogether free from pain for several days and then have a severe paroxysm not unlike biliary colic. There is often a history that for many years the patient has had to be very careful about his diet, and that he has felt unable for work. In some cases the ulcer only causes symptoms when it bleeds, the blood appearing as a tarry material in the