133 VARIOUS FORMS OF SCOLIOSIS. infantile paralysis, hip disease, congenital dislocation of the hip or genu-valgum—necessitates a tilting of the pelvis, and may determine the development of a lateral deviation of the spine (static scoliosis). In addition to the treatment already described, the length of the limbs must be equalised by wearing a boot with a thick sole, or an “ elevator ” inside the boot. Scoliosis may develop from purely mechanical causes; for example, in cases of empyema followed by collapse of the lung, in Pott’s disease, and in traumatic lesions of the spine. It may also occur in association with sciatica (vol. i. p. 352) and lumbago. It is frequently met with in those who have suffered from infantile paralysis, and in cases of long-standing hemiplegia. In 'paralytic scoliosis the curve is all to one side, the weak muscles of the back not being able to produce compensatory curves. There is a projection forward of that side of the chest which corresponds to the convexity of the curve, and as there is no rotation of the vertebra; there is no rib-hump. Fixation of the spine is a late development. Kyphosis.—Kyphosis, or backward curvature of the spine, may be due to a variety of causes. Those forms which result from Pott’s disease and injury have already been mentioned. In infants it is usually a manifestation of rickets or of general debility. The weak muscles, ligaments, and bones are unable to support the weight of the body, and when the child is carried in the sitting posture, or attempts to sit or stand, the spine arches backwards, usually in the dorso-lumbar region at first, and later throughout its whole length. In most cases the deformity disappears as the child grows older and gains strength, but in some it is followed by scoliosis. The child should be kept recumbent, and treated on the same lines as for rickety scoliosis. In adolescents also the development of kyphosis is generally due to an enfeebled condition of the muscles of the back. The curve is usually first observed in the cervico-dorsal region, the patient becoming “ round-shouldered.” This deformity is often determined in rapidly-growing girls by their assuming a stooping position for prolonged periods; for example, in sewing, writing, or piano-playing. In those who are myopic the necessity of bending over their work increases the tendency to kyphosis. The treatment consists in removing the causes of the condition, and in employing exercises, massage, and tonic treatment on the same lines as for scoliosis. In adidts who follow occupations that involve continuous stooping, such as tailors, cobblers, or porters, persistent bending