326 THE BREAST. abscess. The whole cavity should be freely incised—the incisions always radiating from the nipple, to avoid cutting across the ducts—and counter-openings should be made, if necessary, to ensure efficient drainage. The finger should be passed into the abscess and the septa broken down. After clearing out all pus and sloughs, glass or rubber drainage tubes are inserted. These should be removed as early as possible to prevent the formation of persistent sinuses. If bleeding is troublesome, the wound should be packed. If sinuses have formed they should be slit up, purified, and packed with iodoform worsted. In some cases the breast is so completely disorganised that complete removal is the only efficient means of treatment. Retro-mammary Abscess.—When pus forms in the areolar tissue between the breast and the pectoral muscle, the abscess is spoken of as retro-mammary. Although this sometimes follows on puerperal inflammation, it is more frequently due to pyogenic infection of a hsematoma, or results from the bursting of an empyema through the .chest wall. A cold abscess forming in connection with tuberculous disease of the ribs may burrow into the retro-mammary space. The whole breast is pushed bodily forward by the pus behind it, and stands out in bold relief from the chest, and fluctuation can be detected towards the periphery of the gland. If left to point, the pus usually reaches the surface at the most dependent part of the periphery of the breast, the situation varying, of course, with the attitude assumed by the patient. The commonest situation is at the lower and outer part of the breast. Chronic Non-tuberculous Abscess.—A chronic non-tubercu- lous abscess is occasionally met with in the breast of married women past middle life, and is liable to be mistaken for a cyst or a new growth. Such an abscess may be due to infection of a hsematoma resulting from injury, to suppuration in a retention cyst, or to recrudescence of a former acute abscess—residual abscess. The organisms may be introduced either by way of the lymphatics or through the blood-stream. Clinically, it forms a firm elastic swelling in the substance of the breast, and, the wall of the abscess being thick and fibrous, fluctuation as a rule is not detectable. There is slight tenderness on pressure, and sometimes a throbbing pain. The skin over the abscess may be cedematous, the nipple is often retracted, and a purulent fluid may sometimes be expressed from it. The axillary glands are usually enlarged and tender. The treatment consists in cutting down upon the abscess, and