618 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. kidney descends belowthe examining fingers and can be retained in this position during and after expiration, or can be moved about in the abdominal cavity. If the examination is negative in the dorsal position, it should be repeated with the patient resting on the healthy side, or in the knee-elbow attitude. It may be possible to recognise the mobility on some occasions and not on others; hence the necessity of more than one examination if the first is negative. Floating kidney constitutes an abdominal tumour with a wide range of mobility ; the differentiation from other abdominal tumours is usually easy, but difficulty may arise in relation to a distended gall-bladder, a partially separated “ constriction lobe ” of the liver, an ovarian cyst or uterine fibroid with a long pedicle, a tumour of the colon or of the pylorus. Chief stress is to be laid on the fact that it is impossible to cause any other tumour than a floating kidney to disappear completely by pushing it into the renal pouch. Before commencing the treatment in any case of abnormal renal mobility, the patient should be further examined with the object of determining whether the symptoms complained of are due to the mobility alone or to some other condition, for example, organic disease of the kidney, uterine displacement, disease of the uterine appendages, dilatation of the stomach, or enteroptosis. In cases attended with symptoms of neurasthenia and of gastro- intestinal disturbance, it is often difficult to estimate how far the renal mobility is responsible for these. Treatment.—In the great majority of cases the condition can be relieved or cured by non-operative measures. Any affection of the stomach, bowels, or generative organs must first be remedied. The patient should be advised to avoid standing as much as possible, and to lie up at the menstrual periods. When the nervous symptoms are prominent, such measures as massage, baths, and electricity should be employed to tone up the nervous system, and it may be necessary to have recourse to the Weir- Mitchell treatment. In cases of renal mobility attended with symptoms of torsion of the pedicle, the patient is confined to bed during the crisis, the foot of the bed is elevated, and hot fomentations are applied to the loin. In applying a belt or bandage, the object is to retain the viscera which tend to prolapse by raising equably the intra- abdominal pressure, and to give support to the muscles that have lost their tone. The best appliance is a corset made of elastic webbing and strengthened at the sides and in front by light