756 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. normal and its nutrition is seldom impaired. Phlebitis and thrombosis, with the formation of phleboliths, are rare, and the varicose vessels seldom rupture. In the majority of cases there is no discomfort beyond a dragging sensation in the line of the cord, which gets worse towards evening, or after prolonged standing or walking. Nocturnal emissions are sometimes unduly frequent. In some cases the patient complains of severe neuralgic pain, and suffers from mental depression and sexual hypochondriasis, based on the fear that impotence and sterility may result. Treatment.—The majority of cases only call for palliative treatment, which consists in regulating the bowels, administering general tonics, and wearing a suspensory bandage. The applica- tion of a cold spray to the scrotum and surrounding parts night and morning is useful in bracing up the scrotum. At the same time the patient should be assured that the condition is an un- important one, which tends to pass off, and which is not liable to lead to any functional disability. When the swelling increases and causes pain and discomfort, or when it is a bar to the patient entering one of the public services, the veins should be removed. An incision, about two inches long, and parallel to Poupart’s ligament, is made over the external abdominal ring. The coverings of the cord are divided, and the testis is pulled out of the scrotum. The vas and its accompanying vessels are isolated and hooked aside. The dilated veins are then secured between forceps as they enter the inguinal canal above, and close to the epididymis below, the intervening portion removed, and each end securely ligatured with a Staffordshire knot. The ligatures are left long and tied to one another, so that the ends of the divided veins are brought together in order to shorten the cord and allow the scrotum to contract. It is only necessary to remove an elliptical portion of the scrotum when it is unusually long and lax. The patient should remain in bed for at least a fortnight, and should wear a suspensory bandage for some time after the operation. Neuralgia Testis.—This condition, in which the patient is liable to repeated attacks of paroxysmal pain referred to the testis, may occur at puberty or in adult life, and is usually met with in men of a highly neurotic temperament. It may be a pure neuralgia, or may be attributable to inflammatory ad- hesions or cicatrices in the tunica vaginalis, the testis or vas deferens, to fibrous bodies in the tunica vaginalis, a small encysted hydrocele, a new growth, or a varicocele. In other cases the neuralgia is associated with such conditions as irritation of the