THE SPINE AND CORD. 90 first of an irritative kind — muscular cramps and jerkings, radiating pains along the course of the nerves pressed upon, and hyperaesthesia. It is only when the blood accumulates in sufficient quantity to exert definite pressure on the cord that symptoms of paralysis ensue, and it is characteristic of extra- medullary haemorrhage that the paralysis comes on gradually. When the effusion is in the cervical region—the commonest situation—the arms are more affected than the legs, which may only exhibit an exaggeration of the knee-jerks. Blood may trickle down the canal and collect at a level lower than that of the lesion which causes the bleeding, and produce paralysis which slowly spreads from below upwards—gravitation para- plegia (Thorburn). The patient should be confined to bed, preferably in the prone position; ice-bags are applied over the spine; ergot is administered internally; and the bladder and bowels are attended to. When there is evidence of progressive pressure on the cord the blood should be removed by spinal puncture if possible, or by laminectomy performed at the seat suggested by the symptoms. Inti n-medullary Haemorrhage—Hcematomyelia.—Traumatic haemorrhage into the substance of the cord occurs almost invari- ably in the lower cervical region, and results from forcible stretching of the cord by acute flexion of the neck. The blood is usually effused into the anterior cornua of the grey matter and into the central canal. The severity of the clinical features depends upon the extent of the lesion. In contrast with what results in extra-medullary haemorrhage, paralytic phenomena predominate, and come on immediately after the injury. When the haemorrhage is only sufficient to cause pressure on the cord the paralysis is usually most marked in the lower extremities because the conducting fibres are pressed upon. This is associated with evanescent anaesthesia for temperature and pain, while tactile sensibility is preserved. There is retention of urine and faeces, and, in young men, priapism. As the fibres which supply the dilator pupillae are involved, the pupils are contracted. The symptoms soon subside, sensation being restored before motion, and recovery may be comparatively rapid. When the blood extravasated in the cord causes disintegration of its substance, there is persistent paralysis with atrophy, and anaesthesia in the area supplied from the segments of the cord directly implicated. As the lesion is usually in the upper part