716 THE PEOSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. culous nature of the lesion is confirmed if either seminal vesicle is felt as a cake-like induration, or if a nodular mass of tubercle is found in one or other epididymis. If a cold abscess develops, it usually ruptures into the urethra and the urine is loaded with pus and debris. Sometimes it ruptures in the perineum and may lead to the formation of a sinus or a urethral fistula. If the primary focus of tubercle in the epididymis is removed, the disease in the prostate may remain latent or may even undergo cure. The treatment therefore consists in removing any tuberculous disease that may be present in the epididymis or testes, and if the condition is bilateral, this may involve double castration. If an abscess has formed in the prostate, it should be opened from the perineum and packed with iodoform worsted. In the absence of suppuration it is rarely advisable to attack the prostate itself with a view to removal of the tuberculous disease. Open-air treatment should be instituted from the outset, and be persevered with whether an operation is performed or not. Enlargement of the Prostate This vague but convenient term refers to an affection met with in men after middle life, of which the most prominent feature is an inability properly to empty the bladder. The most obvious change in the structure of the organ is a diffuse hyperplasia of the gland tissue; there is apparently both a new formation of gland epithelium, in the shape of buds extending outwards from the existing tubules into the surround- ing stroma, and also a dilatation of the tubules into large saccular spaces, which are occupied by granular debris and corpora amylacea. Much less commonly the fibro-muscular stroma is the main seat of the hyperplasia and the gland tissue is reduced in amount and may to a large extent disappear. Transition forms to carcinoma are also met with. When the prostate is the seat of glandular hyperplasia, it not only undergoes a considerable increase in size, but, as the growth takes place irregularly, the shape of the gland may be greatly altered. As it increases in size it encounters various obstacles to its expansion, the chief hindrance to downward extension being offered by the sheath of fascia which invests the gland posteriorly and on either side and is continued at the apex into the triangular ligament. Expansion in an upward direction towards the bladder is hindered by the fibres of the sphincter muscle, which, however, yield more readily than the pelvic fascia, with the result that the sphincter becomes dilated and the