315 THE DIAPHRAGM. Purulent effusions are best treated by incision and drainage. The embarrassed condition of the heart usually forbids the use of a general anaesthetic. Before beginning the operation the heart may be relieved by tapping the pericardium. Au incision is then made in the fourth or fifth left interspace, and, if necessary, a portion of one of the adjacent costal cartilages is resected. The pericardium is opened and a drainage tube inserted. Care must be taken to avoid injuring the left pleura, which overlaps the pericardium to its outer side. The internal mammary artery is also liable to be injured in separating the costal cartilage. Pericardial adhesions, the result of chronic adhesive media- stinitis, may lead to indrawing of the wall of the thorax during systole, greatly increasing the strain upon the heart. Such adhesions may be freed after resecting portions of several ribs on the left side—cardiolysis. The Diaphragm. Injuries.—Open wounds are usually the result of gunshot injuries, stabs, or sabre cuts. As the lung does not extend as far down as the pleura, or the pleura as far as the diaphragm, it is possible for the diaphragm to be wounded alone, or along with the pleura, while the lung escapes. Subcutaneous rupture is rare. It usually occurs on the left side, and is produced by a sudden and great increase of the intra-abdominal pressure, as, for example, when a patient is crushed under a heavy weight, or is making violent muscular efforts in vomiting or during parturition. The jagged end of a fractured rib, and an unskilfully manipulated oesophageal bougie, have also been known to cause this injury. Clinical Features.—So far as the symptoms of injury to the diaphragm can be dissociated from those of the concomitant visceral lesions, they are : localised pain, haemorrhage, and shock. The pain is aggravated on deep inspiration or coughing, and causes the patient to restrain the action of the muscle as far as possible. Risus sardonicus, which is supposed to be peculiarly related to morbid conditions affecting the diaphragm, may be present. In many cases the abdominal viscera are displaced, and clinical evidence of their presence in the thoracic cavity is forthcoming. When the alimentary canal is ruptured septic complications ensue. As this muscle never is, and never can be at rest, its wounds