679 PAPILLOMA. disease is uncertain, but it is quite common for the luematuria to come and go over a period of years without further develop- ments unless cancer supervenes. The diagnosis is suggested by the history and is confirmed by examination with the cystoscope, a period being chosen when the urine is free from blood. The cystoscope may fail from the view being obscured by haemorrhage, or from the bladder being filled up with villous growth so that there is no cavity to illuminate. In the female, if the cystoscope fails, the interior of the bladder may be inspected with the speculum or explored with the finger. In a limited number of cases minute fragments of the tumour may be found in the urine on microscopic examination. Bimanual examination is rarely instructive in innocent tumours. Treatment.—This consists in removing the tumour, and the best results are obtained when the operation immediately follows upon the cystoscopic examination. The bladder is opened above the pubes, the mucous membrane around the base or stalk of the tumour outlined with the knife or scissors, and removed along with the tumour. The “ caisson ” speculum is often useful. Growths near the trigone are made more accessible by a Petersen’s air-bag or by the fingers of an assistant in the rectum. Ekemorrhage is arrested by irrigation with a solution of adrenalin in hot water, 1-5000, or by sponge pressure exerted directly against the bleeding area. If possible the raw surface is closed by sutures. Small, multiple villous patches may be scraped with the curette. In the female, the growth may sometimes be removed through the dilated urethra. Nitze of Berlin removes the growth in patients of either sex by means of his operating cystoscope ; the portions shaved off by the instrument are left in the bladder to be passed in the urine. Myoma, fibroma, myxoma, and angioma are very rare. Malignant Tumours. — The commonest form of malignant disease of the bladder is squamous epithelial cancer, which may commence as such or may follow on the removal of a papilloma, particularly of the sessile, warty type. The tumour tissue infiltrates the wall of the bladder, causing induration, fixation, and adhesion to surrounding structures. The exposed surface of the growth may become encrusted with phosphates. As the patient usually succumbs at a comparatively early stage to septic complications in the urinary tract, or to obstruction of the ureters and suppression of urine, metastasis to lymphatic glands or to distant organs is exceptional. The clinical features of vesical cancer are similar to those of