THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 456 person previously in good health. In course of time the patient becomes anaemic, and being easily tired is disinclined for exertion. Pain or discomfort after food is usually complained of, especially when the cancer involves the pyloric orifice, and vomiting of food, sometimes mixed with altered blood, is frequently observed. This altered blood presents the appearance of coffee grounds; rarely is pure blood vomited as in gastric ulcer. There is generally an absence of tenderness on pressure and of rigidity of the recti. Free hydrochloric acid is absent from the contents of the stomach, and lactic and butyric acids make their appearance when fermentation changes have occurred. There is usually marked leucocytosis. The detection of a palpable tumour should not be relied upon for diagnostic purposes, as in a large number of cases the growth is drawn up beneath the costal margin; it can, however, sometimes be brought within reach by distending the stomach with air. The tumour is more frequently palpable when it occupies the anterior aspect of the body of the stomach, and in such cases the swelling may be so circumscribed, firm, and mobile as to be mistaken for a floating kidney, a tumour of the colon, or a movable spleen. In cases of pyloric cancer the stomach is usually dilated, and the characteristic symptoms of gastric stasis with splashing and visible peristaltic movements are present. In cancer of the cardia, the stomach is usually small and atrophied, and the symptoms resemble those of cancer of the oesophagus. Enlargement and induration of the lymphatic glands in the root of the neck on the left side is usually associated with an ex- tension of the cancer from the lesser curvature to the diaphragm. In cases of “ ulcer-cancer,” pain is a fairly constant and early symptom, and free hydrochloric acid not only is present in the gastric contents, but may be in excess; the existence of cancer may be suggested but it is rarely diagnosed until the stomach is explored by operation. Tumours of the stomach have to be diagnosed from tumours of the colon, the omentum, the gall-bladder, the liver, the pancreas, and the abdominal wall; from swellings resulting from ulcer with perigastric adhesions; and from a floating kidney or spleen. In many cases it is only by performing an exploratory laparotomy that the diagnosis can be made. This operation should only be performed when there is reason to expect that the disease is removable, or that a palliative operation which will relieve the symptoms can be done—that is to say, it should not be performed merely for purposes of diagnosis.