BALANITIS. 767 continuity of the urethra, a catheter being passed into the bladder and retained in position during healing. When a portion of the penis has been completely cut away, the end of the urethra should be dealt with as described in amputation of the penis (p. 771). Strangulation of the penis may be produced by metal rings, elastic bands, or cords applied round the penis. The distal part of the organ becomes (edematous, congested, and may finally become gangrenous. The constricting object is buried out of sight in the swollen tissues and may escape notice. The urethra becomes occluded, and extravasation of urine may occur leading to the formation of urinary fistulas. The treatment consists in removing the tight band by scissors, cutting forceps, or a file, and in attempting to preserve the vitality of the strangulated tissue. When necrosis occurs the gangrenous portions are covered with mild antiseptic dressings, and the sloughs are clipped away as they become loose. Plastic operations may be required to restore the shape and function of the organ. Inflammatory Affections.—Balanitis.—The term balanitis is applied to an inflammation of the skin lining the prepuce and covering the glans. It is most common in patients who suffer from phimosis, and is due to septic infection and decomposition of accumulated smegma and epithelial debris retained in the preputial pouch. In gouty and diabetic patients urine retained in the pouch may undergo decomposition and cause balanitis. The most severe forms occur in cases of concealed chancre, and in these the infection may be so virulent as to terminate in phagedena. Clinical Features.—There is persistent itching, and burning pain inside the prepuce especially during micturition; the skin becomes red, swollen, and cedematous, and from the orifice there escapes an offensive discharge of pus. If the prepuce can be drawn back, its inner surface may be found studded over with raw areas in the form of excoriations or small ulcers which are liable to be mistaken for venereal sores. If the patient has been exposed to venereal infection, it is often difficult to differentiate between a septic balanitis and gonorrhoea, or a chancre inside the prepuce. A film of the discharge should be examined for gonococci or other organisms. It is sometimes necessary to slit up the prepuce to arrive at a diagnosis. The treatment consists in thorough cleansing of the parts, the pouch being syringed out with Condy’s fluid or hydrogen peroxide, and packed with a strip of lint to keep the opposed surfaces