OBTURATOR HERNIA. 429 the left than on the right side. The swelling is small, soft, globular, and readily reducible. It may become irreducible, and in a number of cases has become strangulated. The only con- dition with which it is liable to be confused in diagnosis is a dumb-bell shaped chronic abscess, which may have an impulse on coughing, and may be partly reducible. Lumbar hernise rarely cause any symptoms, and they are either supported by means of a truss or belt or they are sub- jected to operation. Obturator Hernia.—An obturator hernia escapes from the pelvis at the opening for the obturator vessels and nerve in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, and presents in the upper and inner part of the thigh. The protruded viscus— which is nearly always small intestine—carries before it the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat, and the pelvic fascia. Beyond the foramen it may pass between the obturator membrane and the obturator externus muscle, and remain deeply placed ; or it may make its way above the muscle and become more superficial, being covered by the pectineus and adductor brevis. The vessels and nerve are usually to the outer side of the sac, less commonly in front. Obturator hernise are most frequently met with in elderly women, and the development of the hernia is sometimes associated with rapid loss of flesh in a person who was previ- ously stout. The majority of the recorded cases have been recognised only after the abdomen has been opened for acute intestinal obstruc- tion, and a loop of small intestine has been found engaged in the obturator opening. As a rule there is little swelling in Scarpa’s triangle, although in some cases a fulness may be found below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament somewhat resembling a femoral hernia. It is most readily felt from the inner side of the thigh behind the origin of the adductor longus, when the limb is flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards. The inner aspect of the obturator aperture should be explored by the finger introduced into the rectum or vagina. Disordered sensation, in the form of pain and numbness along the course of the obturator nerve, is met with in about one-half of the cases. If the condition is recognised apart from strangulation, it should be treated by operation. The thigh is abducted, and an incision made below the inner end of Poupart’s ligament. The interval between the pectineus and adductor longus muscles is opened up, or the pectineus may be divided. The sac and the