116 DISEASES OF THE SPINE AND CORD. by treatment. The tumour may encroach upon the spinal canal and cause pressure on the cord (p. 119). In the sacrum—the most common site—the tumour implicates the sacral nerves, and causes symptoms of intractable sciatica; and the real nature of the disease is often only detected on making a rectal examination. Secondary cancer is not uncommon, particularly in cases of advanced scirrhus of the breast. It leads to extensive softening of the bodies of the vertebrae, so that they yield under the weight of the body, as in Pott’s disease. Clinically it is associated with pain in the region of the vertebrae affected, and along the course of the nerves emerging in the neighbourhood. If paralysis occurs from the tumour pressing upon the cord (paraplegia dolorosa) it is of very rapid development, often becoming complete in a few hours. When the cervical region is involved all four limbs are paralysed, and from interference with respiration the condition is rapidly fatal. Actinomycosis and hydatid cysts also occur in the spine, and are very difficult to diagnose from Pott’s disease. Hysterical Spine.—This term is applied to a functional affec- tion of the spine occasionally met with in neurotic females between the ages of seventeen and thirty, and liable to be mis- taken for Pott’s disease. The patient complains of pain in some part of the spine—usually the cervico-dorsal or dorso-lumbar region—and there is marked hypersesthesia on making even gentle pressure over the spinous processes. As the patients are usually thin, the pressure of the corset is apt to redden the skin over the more prominent vertebrae, and give rise to an appear- ance which at first sight may be mistaken for a projection. The general condition of the patient, the freedom of movement of the spinal column, and the entire absence of rigidity, are sufficient to exclude tuberculosis. The condition is treated on the same lines as other hysterical affections (vol. i. p. 674). Acute osteomyelitis of the vertebrae is a comparatively rare affection, usually met with in young subjects. It most frequently attacks the more mobile portions of the spine— cervical and lumbar—and may begin either in the bodies or in the arches. It is attended with severe localised pain in the region of the vertebrae attacked and a marked degree of fever. Pus usually forms rapidly, but being deeply placed, is not easily recognised unless it points towards the surface. The inflammation is liable to spread to the meninges of the cord and give rise to septic spinal meningitis, particularly when the disease begins in the arches. A milder form occurs, in which