186 THE TONGUE. Inflammatory Affections.—Acute Parenchymatous Glossitis. —Acute inflammation implicating the whole of the substance of the tongue is comparatively rare. It may follow on an attack of erysipelas or of scarlet fever. The numerous forms of bacteria that exist in the mouth play an important part in its production. When streptococci are present the condition is of the nature of a diffuse cellulitis, and may spread to the tissues of the neck—one form of angina Ludovici; a staphylo- coccal infection results in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. The onset is usually sudden, and is marked by severe pain and stiffness of the tongue, particularly when the patient attempts to masticate or to speak. The tongue rapidly swells, and in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours may fill the mouth and protrude beyond the teeth. It is fixed and covered with a thick white fur. There is profuse salivation, and in addition to difficulty in swallowing and speaking there may be considerable interference with respiration. The salivary and lymphatic glands in the submaxillary space are enlarged and tender. If suppuration does not occur, the symptoms begin to subside in three or four days. The treatment consists in administering a sharp purge and employing an antiseptic mouth-wash; leeches may be applied to the submaxillary region with benefit. When dysphagia and dyspnoea are prominent symptoms, it may be necessary to make longitudinal incisions into the substance of the tongue to relieve the congestion. If an abscess forms it must of course be opened. Occasionally the inflammation is confined to one-half of the tongue —hemi-glossitis. The swelling is confined to the anterior part of the tongue, usually on the left side. This variety rarely ends in suppuration. Mercurial Glossitis.—An acute form of glossitis was formerly common among workers in mercury, and in patients taking this drug medicinally. There is profuse salivation and extreme foetor of the breath. The swelling of the tongue is associated with a spongy condition of the gums, looseness of the teeth, and other signs of mercurial stomatitis. The treatment is the same as that for mercurial stomatitis (p. 155). Chronic Superficial Glossitis. — Several forms of chronic superficial glossitis are met with. The most important, as it is frequently followed by the development of epithelioma, is that known as leucoplakia or leuco-keratosis. The tongue is covered with white patches, which result from overgrowth and cornification of the surface epithelium, whereby