THE CESOPHAGUS. 268 symptoms are less urgent, and there is time to investigate the condition and to make suitable arrangements for dealing with it. In this connection it may be mentioned that drunkards frequently suffer from a form of spasm of the oesophagus, which simulates clinically the impaction of a foreign body, and this fact should be borne in mind, as it may prevent needless search being made for bodies that have not been swallowed. The measures adopted vary with the nature of the body, its site, and the way in which it is impacted. A bolus of food, for example, or a small smooth object that is likely to pass safely along the alimentary canal, if it cannot be extracted with forceps, may be pushed on into the stomach by the aid of a bulbous-headed or sponge probang. This must be done very gently, especially if the body has been impacted for any length of time, as the inflammatory softening of the oesophageal wall may predispose to rupture. Small, sharp, or irregular objects, such as fish bones, tacks, or pins, may be dislodged by the “ umbrella probang ”—an instru- ment which, after being passed beyond the foreign body, is expanded into the form of a circular brush which carries the foreign body out among its bristles. Coins usually lodge edgewise in the oesophagus, and are best removed by means of a special instrument known as a “ coin-catcher,” which is passed beyond the coin, and on being withdrawn catches it in a specially constructed flange. In emergencies a loop of stout silver wire bent so as to form a hook makes an excellent substitute for a coin-catcher. The removal of solid objects is greatly facilitated by carrying out the manipulations in the dark room with the aid of the X-rays and the fluorescent screen ; in difficult cases the oesophago- scope may be used. Irregular bodies with projecting edges or hooks, such as tooth-plates, tend to catch in the mucous membrane, and attempts to withdraw them by forceps or other instruments are liable to cause laceration of the oesophagus. When situated in the cervical part of the oesophagus these should be removed by the operation of oesophagotomy. An incision three or four inches long is made a little in front of the anterior edge of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. The trachea and the carotid sheath having been exposed and separated from one another, the oesophagus is palpated, a bougie having first been passed through the mouth to facilitate its recognition and to aid in localising the foreign body. The oesophagus is then opened in its long axis, rather towards its posterior aspect, to avoid the recurrent laryngeal nerve (which