10 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. it run the large intra-cranial venous sinuses. Under the dura, and separated from it by a narrow space—the sub-dural space — lies the arachno-pial membrane, which consists of a thick outer (arachnoid) layer, and a thinner, highly vascular, inner layer (pia mater). The pia mater lies in contact with the surface of the brain and passes into the larger fissures. The space between these layers—the sub - arachnoid space — is traversed by a network of fine fibrous strands, in the meshes of which the cerebro-spinal fluid circulates. Each nerve trunk as it leaves the skull or spinal canal carries with it a prolongation of each of these membranes and their intervening spaces. The membranes gradually become lost in the fibrous sheaths of the nerves, and the sub-dural and sub-arachnoid spaces become continuous with the lymph spaces of the nerves. The cerebro-spinal fluid occupies the meshes of the sub-arachnoid space, the ventricles of the brain, and surrounds the intra-cerebral blood- Fig. 2.—Cerebral Centres according to Griissbaum and Sherrington. Brain exposed by Wagner’s Osteoplastic Operation. vessels down to their minutest branches. Each nerve cell is surrounded by this fluid. Through the foramen of Magendie in the roof of the fourth ventricle, the sub-arachnoid fluid of the cranial cavity communi- cates with that of the spinal canal. It has already been mentioned that each nerve as it leaves the central cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by this fluid. The whole nervous system, therefore, lies bathed in the cerebro-spinal fluid—a point of great physiological and pathological im- portance. The main function of the cerebro-spinal fluid seems to be to compensate for changes in the size of the brain resulting from increase or diminution of its vascular supply. An increased flow of blood to the brain, such as occurs with each cardiac systole, is accompanied by a recession of cerebro-spinal fluid into the spina] canal and nerve-sheaths, while during diastole, as the blood leaves the brain, the intra-cranial pressure is maintained by the c^ebro-spinal fluid again entering the cranial cavity. In cases of cerebral haemorrhage, abscess, tumour, or