THE PERITONEUM. 366 properties. If the fluid re-accumulates, the laparotomy may require to be repeated. Tapping the peritoneal cavity, as an alternative to laparotomy, is only to be employed to tide over a critical period in desperate cases. The encysted form of tuberculous ascites is much rarer, and is usually met with in adults, especially of the female sex. The infected area is enclosed by adhesions which may become con- densed so as to form a wall of considerable thickness and strength. The clinical features may closely resemble those of an ovarian or other cystic tumour, for which the affection has been mistaken. As there is little tendency towards recovery, recourse should be had to operation. The incision is made over the cystic swelling, wherever it may be, and the fluid removed. The wound is then closed with sutures. If the cavity is drained, a discharging sinus is liable to result. The 'purulent form of tuberculous peritonitis—or cold abscess of the belly—is rare, and is met with chiefly in female children. The illness runs a somewhat rapid course, emaciation is very pronounced, there is tenderness of the belly, and the temperature curve is of the hectic type. If left to nature, the abscess may reach the surface and rupture at the umbilicus. There should be no delay in performing laparotomy. The fluid resembles green pea-soup, and escapes in enormous quantity. No tubercles are felt on introducing the finger; the viscera are covered over by a uniform layer of gelatinous exudation. Although the prognosis is less favourable in purulent than in ascitic cases, we have observed remarkably rapid improvement and complete recovery. In the dry forms of peritoneal tuberculosis, associated with the formation of adhesions and matting of viscera, the abdomen is only moderately distended, and pain and tenderness are slight. On percussion there are irregular areas of dulness and resonance ; and on palpation there is either a general feeling of increased resistance, amounting to doughiness, or else hard, irrregular or nodular masses are felt. In some cases a sausage-shaped mass —the thickened and crumpled omentum—may be palpated running transversely across the abdomen about the level of the umbilicus. Fluid may collect in the spaces between adhesions, but it is small in quantity and does not yield fluctuation, nor does it change its position with the movements of the patient. On rectal examination it may be possible to feel scattered nodules in the peritoneum, or a prominent swelling consisting of adherent coils of bowel occupying the pouch of Douglas. The prognosis is grave in this form. There is little tendency