GONORRHCEAL CYSTITIS. 669 severity of the spasms which attend micturition, the urine being passed with great agony and in very small quantities. Gonococci as well as ordinary pus microbes are usually found in stained films of the purulent deposit. Treatment is conducted on the lines indicated in acute cystitis; the severity of the spasms may require repeated full doses of sedatives. If the disease persists, instil- lation into the neck of the bladder of a solution of silver nitrate, protargol, or argyrol should be carried out, or the bladder may be irrigated with permanganate of potash solution, 1 in 5000. Typhoid cystitis, due to the typhoid bacillus, occurs in the later stages of the fever or during convalescence. Cystitis complicating lesions of the spinal cord is char- acterised by the absence of any complaint on the part of the patient. The urine rapidly becomes loaded with pus and undergoes alkaline fermentation. The amount of pus and the reaction of the urine vary from time to time, as if there were waves of activity on the part of the bacteria concerned. Large quantities of fluids and full doses of urotropin and salol are given; the latter may be pushed until the urine presents a slight greenish tinge. The bladder should be washed out twice daily with boracic lotion, and occasionally with a half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver. If there is complete incontinence, the penis is wrapped round with sterilised gauze and inserted into the neck of a urine bottle — the latter being frequently changed and disinfected; or a catheter is in- serted into the bladder and connected with a suction apparatus ; in the female, a self-retaining catheter is employed, which con- ducts the urine into a receiver, or is connected to the suction apparatus. If there are threatenings of ascending renal infection, the question of cystotomy may be considered ; in the male this is done by the perineal route, in the female through the anterior wall of the vagina, the incision commencing a little below the cervix uteri; a tube is inserted through the wound and attached to a suction apparatus. Tuberculous Cystitis—Tuberculosis of the Bladder.—The bladder appears to be fairly resistant to infection by tubercle bacilli contained in the urine, for these may descend from the kidney over long periods without the bladder becoming affected. Vesical tuberculosis is always secondary to tubercle of the kidney or of the seminal vesicle, prostate, and epididymis. From the kidney—•descending infection — the bacilli pass by way of the lymphatics of the renal pelvis and ureter to those in the submucous coat of the trigone and neck of the bladder, and the disease com- mences in the vicinity of the orifice of the ureter on the same side.