635 STONE IN THE KIDNEY. superadded swelling of the mucous membrane and spasm of the muscular coat. Uric and phosphatic stones are not infrequently multiple, and are then usually faceted. Both kidneys are the seat of stone in about one-third of the total cases, and the stones may be of different composition on the two sides. Morbid Anatomy of Calculous Kidney.—In the absence of septic infection the changes in the kidney are the result of mechanical irritation, with or without retention of urine accord- ing to the situation of the stone. The irritation induces an increase in the interstitial connective tissue, whereby the organ becomes tougher and harder, and the fatty and fibrous capsules become thickened and fused with one another, and firmly adherent to the parenchyma. The mucous membrane of the pelvis is injected and swollen, and the stone tends to become buried in it as a result of contraction of the wall of the pelvis. If the stone hinders the outflow from the pelvis, hydro-nephrotic changes result. In some cases there is a remarkable overgrowth of fat, which originates at the liilum, surrounds the calyces, and finally replaces the parenchyma, the kidney being ultimately transformed into a solid lipoma enclosing a cavity—the pelvis— in which the stone is lodged (Fig. 172). When infective processes are superadded there ensue the same changes as have already been described under pyelo- nephritis and pyonephrosis. The perinephric cellular tissue also may become the seat of suppuration and of abscess. The addition of sepsis may result in the deposition of phosphates upon the existing stone, which may thereby be greatly increased in size. The opposite kidney may remain healthy, and may even undergo hypertrophy to compensate for the loss of function in the diseased organ, but it also is liable to become the seat of stone formation and of infection and suppuration. The clinical features vary widely in different cases. In the absence of sepsis a stone may lie in one of the calyces for years without giving rise to symptoms — latent stone. The symptoms of the septic complications, on the other hand, may so predominate that the existence of stone is not suspected. As a rule, however, the patient seeks advice because of dull aching and weight in the loin, or of recurrent attacks of colic. Renal colic is due to spasmodic contractions of the pelvis and ureter in the attempt to get rid of the stone. It is characterised by agonising pain shooting from the loin to the bladder, testicle, or thigh ; nausea and vomiting, shivering and collapse, with cold perspiration. There may be frequent desire to urinate, with the