426 HERNIA. throughout the whole extent of the wound. The dissection then proceeds so as to expose the sac; this should be opened, not over its convexity where the coverings are thinnest and where adhesions are most likely to be met with, but close to the margin of the aperture in the abdominal wall. The omentum is unravelled, its adhesions divided between ligatures, and the protruded portion removed. The intestine is then reduced and retained by a large flat pad of gauze. The entire sac is cut away, thus exposing the hernial ring, and the upper edge of the aperture is brought down so as to overlap the lower edge and is fixed there by a series of strong sutures of silk or chromic gut (Mayo). The patient should be kept recumbent for at least four weeks, and thereafter should wear a tightly-applied, twelve-inch domette roller bandage, and over this an accurately-fitting abdominal belt. Strangulated Umbilical Hernia in the Adult.—This condition often supervenes insidiously as a sequel to obstruction of the protruded bowel, and the patient may pass into a very critical state before the condition is brought under the notice of the surgeon. The operative treatment is carried out on the same lines as those described above. The surgeon must be prepared to find two or even more separate compartments in the sac and must investigate the contents of all of them, otherwise a strangulated loop of bowel is liable to be overlooked. There is rarely any difficulty in returning the protruded bowel, because the hernial opening is usually large. Should the opening require to be enlarged, this is done by cutting outwards on either side. The operation is completed in the same way as has been described in the radical cure. Ventral Hernia.—Under the term ventral hernia are in- cluded all such protrusions through the anterior abdominal parietes as do not appear at the inguinal, femoral, or umbilical apertures. Several varieties are recognised. In young children divarication or separation of the recti muscles is sometimes met with above the umbilicus, so that on straining a cylindrical protrusion appears in the interval between the umbilicus and the ensiform cartilage. The condition dis- appears spontaneously, and is of no clinical importance. In adults, and especially in multiparous women, the separa- tion of the recti usually occurs below the umbilicus, and an elliptical swelling appears between the muscles on the least exertion. The fingers can readily be introduced between the recti, and the margins of these muscles can be distinctly felt. The condition is merely troublesome, inasmuch as a belt must