TUMOURS OF INFERIOR MAXILLA. 175 involvement, and the tumour shows little evidence of malig- nancy. The periosteal sarcoma is the most malignant form. It grows rapidly, and infiltrates the surrounding tissues. The submaxillary salivary gland and the cervical lymphatic glands are usually implicated, and the disease tends to spread by metastasis to distant parts. Epithelioma is the commonest tumour affecting the lower jaw. It is usually due to direct spread of cancer from the lip, tongue, or floor of the mouth, and involves the central portion of the bone, including the symphysis. Treatment.—Partial removal of the lower jaw may be under- taken in cases of myeloma, and in certain cases of sarcoma and epithelioma when the tumour is limited to a small area of the bone—for example, to the alveolar process, the angle, the hori- zontal ramus, or the symphysis. In very small tumours it is possible to perform the operation through the mouth, but in most cases an external incision is indispensable. When practi- cable, the arch of the jaw should be left intact by conserving the lower border of the bone. If this cannot be done with safety, the integrity of the arch should be maintained tem- porarily by means of a simple wire splint or other suitable apparatus. Later a plate bearing artificial teeth is fitted by the dentist. Removal of the Symphysis.—In cases of epithelioma of the floor of the mouth the central portion of the lower jaw is fre- quently implicated, and requires to be removed along with the soft tissues. The bone is exposed to the necessary extent by an incision along its lower border, and divided with a Gigli’s wire- saw ; and the muscles inserted on its inner aspect are separated. To prevent the tongue thus deprived of its anterior attachments from falling back into the pharnyx and interfering with respira- tion, it should be transfixed with a strong silkworm-gut suture and held forward. Means should be taken to prevent the lateral segments of the jaw falling together, by interposing a temporary metal or wooden prop. After the wound has healed a denture is fitted, and the prominence of the chin and the alignment of the teeth are thus preserved. Removal of one-half of the lower jaw is called for in the majority of cases of malignant tumour. An incision is made through the lower lip, in the middle line, beginning just below the red margin, and is carried down to the chin, then along the lower border of the bone as far as the angle, and up behind the ascending ramus to a little below the lobule of the ear, stopping