688 THE URETHRA. median groove and fibrous bands by a transverse incision deep enough to extend into the septum between the corpora cavernosa. When the penis is straightened the wound becomes diamond- shaped, and its edges are brought together so that they are parallel with the long axis of the penis. The penis is enveloped in gauze and strapped to the anterior abdominal wall. After an interval an attempt is made to make a new floor to the urethra from flaps derived from the scrotum or from the lateral aspects of the penis. To prevent the urine passing over the wound, the urethra is opened in the perineum and the bladder drained by means of a tube (Chiene). It is rarely possible to obtain a normally functionating organ owing to the small size of the penis and to the imperfect development of the urethral muscles concerned in ejaculation. In the third degree the scrotum is cleft, and the urethra opens in the perineum—scrotal or perineoscrotal hypospadias. The appearance of the external genitals resembles that in the female, and the determination of the sex of the infant may be difficult or impossible, especially if the testes have not de- scended. There are many cases on record in which the subject of complete hypospadias has been brought up as a female, and the condition has only been discovered accidentally in adult life. In very exceptional instances it is associated with true hermaphroditism. Epispadias—the reverse of hypospadias—is a condition in which the roof of the urethra is deficient, and the urine escapes through an abnormal opening on the upper aspect. It is rarely met with apart from extroversion of the bladder (p. 657). The urethra appears as an open gutter on the dorsum of the stunted penis. When the deficiency is confined to the roof of the urethra it may be made good by an operation in which skin flaps are raised from the adjacent parts. Wounds.—Wounds of the urethra, apart from those made by the surgeon, are usually the result of attempts at self-mutilation. Those in the long axis of the urethra heal readily without any tendency to subsequent contraction of the tube; those which cross the urethra transversely or obliquely are very apt to lead to stricture and to a urinary fistula. If the urethra is partially or completely cut across, a full-sized catheter is passed into the bladder, and the urethra is exposed at the site of the wound by a free longitudinal incision of the overlying skin and fascia. The cut edges of the urethra are then accurately united by fine catgut, the sutures being inserted by Lembert’s method, avoiding the mucous membrane, and the fascia and skin are stitched in