POTT’S DISEASE. Ill closed without drainage. An opening made through the mouth is attended with the risks of pus being inhaled into the air passages and of septic infection. When the patient is allowed to get up, a rigid collar which supports the head and controls the movement of the cervical and dorsal vertebrae must be worn until the cure is complete. Cervico-dorsal Region.—When the lower cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae are affected, in addition to the fixed pain in the diseased bones, the patient complains of pain radiating along the distribution of the superficial cervical nerves and down the arms. There is often marked angular deformity. If an abscess forms, it may come to the surface in the lower part of the posterior triangle, or may spread into the posterior mediastinum or into the axilla. Sometimes the pus burrows behind the oesophagus and trachea, and it may find its way into the pleural cavity. The cord is less frequently involved than when the disease is in the lower dorsal region. When the fibres of the cervical sympathetic that supply the dilator pupil lie are irritated in the cord, the pupils are dilated; when they are paralysed, the pupils are contracted. Dorsal Region.—When the disease is confined to the dorsal region, stiffness of the back and boarding of the vertebral muscles are prominent features. On being asked to pick up an object from the floor, the patient reaches it by bending his knees and hips, — Thomas s whde he keeps his back rigid. He refuses to Tuberculous Disease make any .movement that involves jolting 0f Spine, of the spine, such, for example, as jumping from a chair to the ground. . Children often attempt to take the weight off the diseased vertebrae by placing the palms of the hands on the edge of a chair so that the weight is borne by the arms. Angular deformity is often well marked, and may im- plicate several vertebrae. In order to maintain the head erect, the spine above and below the seat of disease becomes unduly arched forward—compensatory lordosis. In advanced cases, the ribs become approximated, and the lower end of the sternum is projected forward. The antero-posterior diameter of