THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 620 the organ remain intact, and blood is extravasated into the peri- renal fat (Fig. 165), or into the parenchyma, whence it passes down the urinary tubules into the pelvis. When the organ is ruptured there are one or more deep fissures passing through the capsule and parenchyma, and often extending into the pelvis; the organ may be completely torn across; there is severe haemorrhage, the blood infiltrates the perirenal fat, and may spread widely in the loose cellular tissue behind the peritoneum. If the ureter remains patent, the blood passes down into the bladder, which may become distended with clots. In children, perirenal fat being ab- sent, the peritoneum is liable to be torn, and the blood is then poured into the peritoneal cavity. If the rupture involves the pelvis, urine escapes into the surrounding tissues and follows the track of the extravasated blood. Rupture of the renal artery or of one of its main branches, and avulsion of the ureter, are occasionally met with. The risk from haemorrhage is fol- lowed by that from septic infection, as pyogenic organisms derived from the blood or from the adjacent colon readily flourish in devitalised por- tions of the kidney and in the extravasated blood, especially when it is mixed with stagnant urine. Fm.165. — Contusion of Kidney jn the absence of septic infection, blood into the perirenal fat. ruptures of the kidney heal rapidly and well. Clinical Features.—Immediately after the injury, the local symptoms are masked by profound shock. Shock is succeeded by nausea, vomiting, and pain in the region of the kidney and radiating down to the thigh and into the testicle. After subsiding for a time, the pain may return in the form of renal colic, due to the passage of clots down the ureter. There is marked tenderness in the region of the kidney, the abdominal muscles on the same side are rigidly contracted, and the bowels may become distended with gas, even although the peritoneum is uninjured. Bruising of the overlying soft parts is exceptional. Hsematuria is one of the most important signs of injury to the kidney, being absent only in cases in which the ureter is blocked