538 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. predispose to the development of cancer. The walls of the bladder are uniformly infiltrated with cancer, so that the gall- bladder is transformed into a hard tumour, usually projecting beyond the edge of the liver. The disease appears to remain localised for a considerable time before extension takes place to the glands in the omentum, and to the adjacent substance of the liver. The diagnosis is always difficult and often impossible before opening the abdomen. The disease is more common in women, and there is usually a history of biliary colic extending over a lengthened period. The patient complains of discomfort, scarcely amounting to pain, in the region of the gall-bladder. When there is an associated empyema of the gall-bladder, the pain and tenderness are much more marked. As the tumour increases in size, a rounded mass is felt below the costal margin, nodular on the surface, and more fixed and harder than a gall-bladder which is merely distended. When the disease is limited, excision of the gall-bladder, the adjacent portion of liver, and the associated glands affords a fair prospect of cure. Cancer of the Hepatic and Common Bile-Ducts.—Cancer is most often situated at the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts or in the ampulla of Vater. In nearly all cases there is a history of gall-stones, and, as the symptoms of both diseases are usually present, the diagnosis is difficult. There is progressive jaundice, with increase in size of the liver, and the gall-bladder is usually distended and easily palpated. To relieve the symptoms the gall-bladder may be opened and a permanent biliary fistula established, or, if practicable, chole- cyst-enterostomy should be performed. Injuries of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts.—Puncture or laceration of the gall-bladder is not common, but may result from gunshot or stab wounds, or from the passage of a heavy vehicle over the upper part of the abdomen. At first there are no symptoms distinctive of these injuries, and there is no immediate risk to life, for, normal bile being sterile, septic peritonitis does not occur. In the course of a few days the patient becomes jaundiced from absorption of the bile extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, and examination of the abdomen reveals the presence of free fluid, sometimes in enormous quantity. The fluid consists of serum, bile, and blood, with flakes of fibrin, and there is a deposit of fibrin on the surface of the serous membrane. In penetrating wounds there is the usual risk of septic infection, and bile and blood may be discharged externally. The prognosis is on the whole more favourable than in similar lesions of other