FOREIGN BODIES. 6G3 The clinical features vary with the foreign body. A pointed object, such as a hair-pin, may cause cutting pains, tenesmus, and hsematuria soon after its introduction, but some bodies give rise to no symptoms until the occurrence of cystitis and the deposition of phosphates upon the object leads to the formation of a stone (Fig. 181). These secondary changes may occur within a few days, or may be delayed for several months. The diagnosis is often rendered difficult by misleading in- formation, or by wilful deception on the part of the patient. In the female, the body may be recognised on vagino-abdominal examination, or by introducing the linger through the dilated urethra. In both sexes, however, chief reliance is to be placed on the cystoscope, which not only tells of the presence of the body, but also its nature, its position, and how best to remove it. Opaque bodies may be detected by the X-rays. Hard bodies, or soft ones encrusted with phosphates, may be struck with the sound or grasped with the lithotrite. Fig. 181.—Deposition of Phospliates upon a portion of Catheter. (From Professor Annandale s Collection.) The treatment consists in removing the body, if its shape and size permit, by way of the urethra. In the female this may be accomplished by means of dressing forceps introduced through the urethra, or in the male by means of the lithotrite. If these methods are inapplicable or do not succeed, the bladder should be opened above the pubes. Bacteriuria.—This implies the presence of bacteria in the urine without changes in the bladder wall. In about one-half of the cases observed the colon bacillus is the only organism present; the next most frequent is the typhoid bacillus, which appears in the urine after the second week of the fever and sometimes persists for years. As a rule the patient’s only complaint is that the urine when voided is cloudy or opalescent and has an offensive, fishy odour. Sometimes there is slight irritability of the bladder and an excess of mucus in the urine. The cloudiness does not disappear with the addition of an acid or on filtration, and the urine itself is nearly always acid. The diagnosis is based on the discovery of bacteria in urine