342 CHAPTER XXII. THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Surgical anatomy—Injuries of the abdominal parietes : Contusions; Rupture of abdominal muscles—Injuries of the abdominal viscera : Traumatic rupture of holloiv and of solid viscera—Wounds of the abdomen: Punctured and Gunshot wounds — Diseases of the abdominal Avail: Abscess and Cellulitis ; Actinomycosis ; Tumours —Affections of the umbilicus : Persistence of the vitelline duct; Persistence of the urachus ; Urachal fistula; and cysts ; Inflammation ; Umbilical fistulce of other than congenital origin: biliary, urinary, . faecal; Tumours. Surgical Anatomy.—Abdominal Parietes.—The superficial fascia contains a variable quantity of fat, on the amount of which chiefly depends the thickness of the belly Avail. The muscles are arranged in three groups—anterior, posterior, and lateral. The anterior group comprises the recti and the pyramidales muscles ; above the navel the recti are separated from one another in the middle line by a strong fibrous banc!—the linea alba ; Avhile below the navel they are practically in contact. The posterior group comprises the quadratus lumborum and erector spin*. The muscles of the lateral group—the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis—are arranged in three superimposed layers sepiarated from one another by a small amount of loose areolar tissue. The internal oblique and transversalis muscles arise posteriorly by a tendon of origin called the lumbar fascia, Avhicli is attached to the lumbar vertebrae and splits to ensheath the erector spin® and quadratus lumborum. Anteriorly all three lateral muscles are inserted into a common tendon, Avhich splits to form a sheath for the rectus muscle. Beneath the muscles is a layer of fascia known as the transversalis fascia, Avhich may be said to line the entire abdominal cavity. Between the. transversalis fascia and the parietal peritoneum is a layer of loose areolar tissue known as the extra-peritoneal fat. The peritoneum lines the general cavity of the abdomen and pjelvis, and is reflected from the parietes on to the viscera. The parietal and visceral layers are in contact, the space betAveen them being under uormal conditions only a potential one. The peritoneal cavity consists of tAAro sacs, a greater and a lesser. The greater sac is that which is opened Avhen the abdominal parietes are cut through in the operation of laparotomy. The lesser sac, or omental bursa of continental writers, lies behind the stomach. The tAvo sacs communicate through the