CHAPTER VI. 85 THE SPINE AND CORD. Surgical anatomy — Operation of laminectomy — Injuries of the spinal cord: Concussion; “Railway spine'’; Traumatic hcematorrachis; Traumatic kcematomyelia; Total transverse lesions at different levels; Partial lesions—-Injuries of the spinal column: Sprains; Isolated dislocation of articular processes; Isolated fracture of arches and spinous processes; Compression fracture of bodies —Traumatic spondylitis — Fracture - dislocations — Penetrating wounds. Surgical Anatomy.—The spinal column is the central axis of the skeleton, and, in addition to connecting the different parts of the body to one another, it supports the head, furnishes a point of attachment for the ribs, and affords a protecting casement for the spinal cord. The spine is movable in all directions—flexion, extension, lateral flexion, and rotation around the long axis of the column. Flexion is accompanied by compression of the intervertebral discs, and by a slight forward movement of each vertebra on the one below it. This forward movement is checked by the tension of the ligamenta subflava which stretch between the laminae. In the cervical and lumbar regions the range of movement is greater than in the dorsal region. In the infant, the spine is either straight or presents one long antero- posterior curve with its convexity backwards. With the assumption of the erect posture the normal S-shaped curve is developed, the cervical and lumbar segments arching forward, while the dorsal and sacral segments arch backward. Through the skin it is often difficult to identify with certainty the individual spinous processes. The spine of the seventh cervical vertebra —vertebra prominens—is that most readily felt. While the arm hangs by the side, the lower angle of the scapula is on the same level as the seventh dorsal spine. The twelfth dorsal vertebra may be recognised by tracing back to it the last rib. The bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae may be felt through the posterior wall of the pharynx. The epiglottis lies on the same level as the body of the fourth cervical vertebra. The cricoid cartilage corresponds in level to that of the lo\ver border of the sixth cervical vertebra and its transverse process—the carotid tubercle. It is important for surgical purposes to bear in mind that most of the spinous processes do not lie on the same level as their corresponding bodies. The tips of the spines of the cervical and first two dorsal