INOPERABLE CANCER 341 Enlarged glands in the supra-clavicular triangle may be removed by extending the incision upwards, or through a separate incision. It is sometimes necessary to divide the clavicle to obtain free access. In spite of the free removal of muscle in this operation, the usefulness of the arm is not seriously impaired. The bandage which secures the dressing should be applied firmly to prevent oozing. The arm on the affected side should not be included in the bandage, but should be abducted to a right angle with the trunk and fixed on a pillow beside the patient. In this way the patient is rendered more comfortable, and the stiffness and impairment of movement which so often occur if the arm be bound to the side may be avoided. Inoperable Cancer.—In cases in which the disease is so widespread that it is impossible to remove it completely, palliative measures must be adopted to alleviate the patient’s suffering. For example, pain may be diminished and the patient’s mind relieved by the removal of the main mass of the growth, particularly when ulceration, haemorrhage, and septic complications are present. For cases otherwise inoperable, the method of treatment introduced by Beatson of Glasgow may be tried. This consists in removing the ovaries and Fallopian tubes. The idea under- lying this procedure is that the removal of these organs interferes with the nutrition of the mammary tissue in such a way as to arrest - the progress of the new growth by increasing the fibrous stroma of the tumour at the expense of the cellular elements. From a study of about one hundred collected cases treated by this method, Hugh Lett has found that nearly one-half of the patients under fifty years of age derived marked benefit, in the form of relief from pain, improvement in the general health, diminution or even temporary disappearance of the growth, and healing of ulcers. The operation is contra-indicated in patients over fifty; in cases in which secondary growths in the viscera are present; in rapidly growing tumours; and in cases in which recurrence has taken place soon after the primary operation. It is recom- mended that thyroid extract should be administered after the operation with the object of promoting the absorption of the degenerated cancer cells. The Rontgen rays have proved of service in bringing about the healing of cancerous ulcers, in causing the disappearance of secondary nodules in the skin, and in relieving pain; while in these ways they may retard the progress of the disease, they have not so far succeeded in bringing about a cure.