753 CYSTS OF THE TESTIS. Cystic disease usually appears in men of about thirty, and the symptoms vary with the malignancy of the growth. In the more innocent forms the swelling is painless, ovoid, smooth, and of a semi-solid consistence. There is no glandular enlargement, the cord is not implicated, and the general health of the patient is unaffected. In the malignant forms the growth is more rapid, the swelling is irregular, bossy, and of unequal consistence, the pelvic and lumbar glands are early involved, and the patient soon exhibits the general signs of malignant disease. Early removal of the testis is indicated in all forms of cystoma. Cysts of the Epididymis: Encysted Hydrocele of the Epididymis.—Cysts are occasionally met with in relation to the epididymis, and are probably due to dilatation and degeneration of one or other of the remnants of the Wolffian body, which lie between the head of the epididymis and the testis. They are entirely outside the tunica vaginalis, and contain an alkaline, colourless or opalescent fluid, which differs from that found in hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis in being of a lower specific gravity (about 1004) and practically free from albumin. Haemorrhage may occur into the cavity—encysted hcematocele of the epididymis. As the majority of these cysts contain spermatozoa—sometimes complete and motile, but more frequently immature—they are known as spermatoceles. The condition is often bilateral, and is usually met with in men above forty years of age. Sometimes these cysts give rise to severe and persistent neuralgic pains. A tense rounded or pyriform swelling, varying in size from a hen’s to a turkey’s egg, can be recognised above and behind the testis, to which it is attached and with which it moves. The cyst increases in size very slowly, and in its earlier stages is liable to be mistaken for a supernumerary testis. The cyst should first be tapped, and if it fills up again it should be excised. Hydrocele of the Cord.—The most common form of hydro- cele of the cord is the encysted hydrocele—a condition in which serous fluid accumulates in an unobliterated portion of the pro- cessus vaginalis. This process may be occluded only at its upper and lower ends, in which case the hydrocele forms a single cyst extending from near the internal abdominal ring almost to the top of the testis, and occupying the inguinal canal and upper part of the scrotum. When only a short segment of the process remains patent, the cyst is correspondingly circum- scribed. Sometimes the obliteration is irregular and several small cysts develop. VOL. II—48