476 THE INTESTINES. If the condition of the patient is so critical that a thorough exploration to discover the cause of the obstruction is not per- missible, the operation is limited to establishing a faecal fistula to empty the distended bowel above the block. The most dis- tended coil of intestine that presents at the wound is stitched to the edges of the parietal peritoneum by a continuous serous suture and opened, a Paul’s or other tube being introduced to drain away the intestinal contents without soiling the wound. After the patient has got over the immediate risks, if the symptoms point to a continuance of a mechanical block, this must be dealt with at a second operation; if, on the other hand, it can be shown that the bowel is pervious beyond the artificial opening, the fistula may be closed. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—Chronic obstruction of the bowels develops insidiously. The symptoms appear gradually, and the progress of the malady is irregular and intermittent. Attacks of abdominal pain may follow the ingestion of food, and at first they are ascribed to indigestion and attract little notice; in time, however, they become frequent and more severe, and are attended with occasional vomiting and a more or less constant uneasiness within the abdomen. There is a history of increas- ing difficulty in getting the bowels to move; opening medicines are efficacious in the early stages, later they act with less and less effect, and finally only cause sickness and griping pains. There is frequently a history of the occasional passage of a small quantity of faecal matter mixed with a considerable quantity of mucus—-described by the patient as diarrhoea—but this is. a result of catarrh of the bowel caused by retained faecal matter above the obstruction, and does not result in emptying the bowel. It is chiefly met with when the obstruction is seated low down in the colon. Except during these attacks of pain and “ diarrhoea,” the patient may feel fairly well and be able to go about. In the majority of cases, as the bowel becomes dis- tended and hypertrophied above the seat of obstruction, the abdomen becomes more and more prominent, and there are frequent rumbling and gurgling sounds in the belly—“stenosis- noises.” On palpation exaggerated peristaltic movements may be recognised, the bowel becoming firm and rigid under the examining fingers, the patient at the same time complaining of colicky pain. In thin subjects individual coils of bowel may be seen to stand out prominently, and when these belong to the small intestine they present an arrangement described as the “organ-pipe” or “ladder” pattern (Fig. 125). When the large intestine is distended, the transverse colon and sigmoid flexure are