TUBERCULOSIS. 329 definite tumour or lump. The breast is freely movable on the pectoral fascia and the skin is not implicated. The axillary glands may be enlarged and tender. The induration may disappear when the parenchyma atrophies at the menopause, but usually the enlargement of one or more cysts necessitates operative interference. In exceptional cases a carcinoma supervenes. Treatment.—li there is the least doubt as to the innocent nature of the condition, an exploratory incision should be made, and if an examination of the parts exposed does not remove the doubt, the breast should be amputated. If cysts are present, also, and particularly if they are found to contain intra-cystic growths, the breast should be removed, but it is not necessary to clear out the axilla. If an operation is declined, the application of a belladonna plaster and a supporting bandage is useful in soothing the part and in preventing the patient handling it. Tuberculosis of the Breast.—Tuberculous disease of the breast is rare. It is occasionally met with in the form of numerous caseating nodules scattered throughout the gland — the disseminated form—but more frequently as a single irregular abscess cavity, resulting from the coalescence of several of these caseating nodules—the confluent form. The bacilli may reach the breast in the blood - stream by metastasis from some tuberculous lesion elsewhere, for example, in the lungs or pleura; or the infection may take place by way of the milk ducts or lymphatics passing from the nipple. In other cases the mammary tissue becomes infected by direct spread of a tuberculous focus from the ribs, sternum, pleura, or axillary glands. Clinical Features.—The disease is almost invariably met with in women between the ages of twenty-live and thirty-five, and as a rule the patient suffers from some other tuberculous lesion. The condition is usually unilateral. Its onset is slow and insidious, and, not being attended with pain, the disease is usually well established ere it is recognised. In the early stages the breast is swollen, brawny, and nodular; later, several small areas of softening appear, and run together, forming an irregular, ill-defined mass in the substance of the breast. Gradually the swelling reaches the subcutaneous tissue and invades the skin, which ultimately gives way at one or more points, forming sinuses with characteristically undermined edges. The axillary glands are almost always infected, in some cases even before the swelling in the breast is recognisable.