26 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. of coma. The pulse becomes slow, full, and bounding; the respiration slow and deep, and eventually stertorous or snoring in character from paralysis of the soft palate. The lips and cheeks are puffed out from paralysis of the muscles of these parts. The temperature, which at first falls to 97° or even 95° F., in the course of three or four hours usually rises (100'5° or 102'5° F.). If the temperature reaches 104° F., or higher, the condition usually proves fatal. Sometimes it rises as high as 106° or 108° F.—cerebral hyperpyrexia. Retention of urine from paralysis of the bladder, and involuntary defecation from paralysis of the sphincter ani, are commonly present. During the progress of the symptoms there is frequently evidence of direct pressure upon definite cortical centres or cranial nerves, giving rise to focal symptoms. Particular groups of muscles on the side opposite to the lesion may first show spasmodic jerkings or spasms (unilateral monospasm), and later the same groups become paralysed (monoplegia). The paralysis frequently affects the whole of one side of the body (hemi- plegia), and the oculo-motor nerve is often paralysed at the same time. The pupils vary so widely in different cases that their condi- tion does not form a reliable diagnostic sign. Perhaps it is most common for the pupil on the same side as the lesion to be contracted at first and later to become fully dilated, while that on the opposite side remains moderately dilated. As a rule, they are irresponsive to light. On ophthalmoscopic examination, swelling of the disc is often to be detected. In cases which go on to a fatal termination, the coma deepens and the muscular and sensory paralyses become general and complete. The vital centres in the medulla gradually become involved, and death results from paralysis of the respiratory centre. The fatal issue is often hastened by the onset of hypostatic pneumonia. Not infrequently a modified type of Cheyne-Stokes respiration is observed for some time before death ensues. A similar train of symptoms may ensue in cases of head injury as a result of septic infection having given rise to meningitis or abscess (p. 53). Pathology of Compression.—When any addition is made to the bulk of matter inside the cranial cavity, room is gained in the first instance by the displacement into the vertebral canal of a certain amount of the cerebro-spinal fluid. The capacity of the spinal sheath, however, is limited, and as soon as the tension oversteps a certain point, the pressure comes to bear injuriously