636 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. passage of a little blood-stained urine. There is rigidity of the abdominal muscles on the affected side. The colic may recur at intervals till the stone is passed, or, after one or two attacks, may disappear altogether, the stone settling down, as it were, in the renal pelvis. Apart from colic, the patient may complain of a persistent boring pain or feeling of weight in the loin, excited or aggravated by exertion, jolting, local pressure, or errors in diet. When asked to indicate the seat of the pain, he usually places the tip of his thumb over the end of the last rib. Renal tenderness is most marked in the region of the hilum, and is best elicited on bimanual examination if the thumb be pressed into the angle between the last rib and the erector spinse at the commencement of expiration. It is exceptional to recognise any enlargement of the kidney. Tenderness of the ureter may be elicited at the site where a stone has become impacted; if this be at the brim of the true pelvis, the seat of tenderness is a little above and internal to the external abdominal ring; more commonly it is at the termination of the ureter in the bladder, and is felt on rectal or vaginal examination. According to Israel 50 per cent, of ureteral stones may be pal- pated from the vagina or rectum. Even if the urine appears normal a careful microscopical and chemical examination should be made. Red blood corpuscles are to be found, especially after exertion, and more often in the evening than in the morning urine ; they are often devoid of colouring matter, and may be so altered in shape that it is difficult to identify them. Marked hsematuria is sometimes present, but is not characteristic of stone. So long as there is no infection there is a complete absence of leucocytes, and only a faint trace of albumin. The diagnosis, without the aid of the X-rays, is often extremely difficult. In cases attended with colic the first step is to ascertain that the colic proceeds from the kidney or ureter, and the second is to determine that it is due to stone. Differential Diagnosis.—Renal colic is to be diagnosed from biliary colic chiefly by the seat of the pain and tenderness ; from intestinal obstruction, by the seat of tenderness, and by the radiation of the pain to the thigh, buttock, testicle, or vagina; from pancreatic-stone colic, by the presence of red blood corpuscles in the urine. The impaction of a stone in the lower abdominal part of the ureter with colicky pain, and tenderness in the vicinity of the external abdominal ring, may be mistaken for a lesion of the vermiform appendix.