THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 380 The formation of fibrinous lymph which gums together the adjacent peritoneal surfaces represents a successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to circumscribe and enclose the infection. These fibrinous adhesions usually involve the right lower border of the great omentum and the adjacent portions of the caecum and ileum, and the matting of these parts that results is partly responsible for the formation of the swelling in the right iliac fossa, which is one of the characteristic signs of appendicitis. If the process is arrested at this stage, the fibrinous lymph may be re-absorbed and complete recovery ensue, or the lymph may become organised into connective tissue and form adhesions, which may interfere with the functions of the caecum, by limiting its movements. The appendix also may be involved in adhesions so that it is fixed to adjacent structures or twisted or kinked—conditions which predispose it to repeated attacks of inflammation—recurrent appendicitis. Circumscribed suppurative peritonitis, resulting in the forma- tion of a peri-appendicular abscess, represents a less successful attempt on the part of the peritoneum to overcome the in- fection. It usually results from a perforation of the appendix into a space already shut off from the general peritoneal cavity by adhesions. The abscess is walled in by the peritoneum of the iliac fossa, the caecum, the lower coils of the ileum, and the great omentum, which lies over these structures and becomes adherent to them. Such an encapsulated abscess forms a definite tumour in the right iliac fossa. Here again recovery may take place, the pus being re-absorbed and the limiting adhesions persisting to a greater or less extent. More frequently the abscess enlarges and ruptures, either through the abdominal parietes or into an adjacent viscus such as the rectum, bladder, or vagina, and in this way recovery is brought about. Some- times, however, the suppurative process destroys the limiting adhesions, and the abscess bursts into the general peritoneal cavity, and sets up a diffuse peritonitis. The appendix may hang free in the abscess cavity • more frequently it is buried in the purulent lymph forming the wall of the abscess ; in rare cases it sloughs off from the caecum and lies loose in the cavity. The situation of the abscess varies with the- anatomical position of the appendix. It is most often situated in the right iliac fossa to the inner side of the caecum, but not infrequently it is found on the outer side of, or behind the caecum, or in the pelvis. Sometimes it lies in the middle line below the umbilicus, and, in the case of a very long appendix, or when the caecum is displaced, it may actually be found in the left iliac fossa.