THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. 452 of dragging pains, and of a sense of discomfort after meals. These symptoms are aggravated by exertion, but are relieved by lying down or by wearing a tight belt. Sometimes there are symptoms of gastric stasis and dilatation, with vomiting after food. When the anterior wall of the stomach is fixed by dense adhesions to the parietal peritoneum, a tumour may be palpable in the epigastric region. In mild cases relief may be obtained by restricting the diet, wearing a tight belt, and resting for some time after food. In more severe cases it is necessary to have recourse to operation. While it may sometimes be feasible to separate the adhesions— (/astrolysis—and interpose the right free border of the great omentum between the pylorus and its abnormal attachments so as to hinder their re formation on the same scale as before, in the majority of cases it is better to leave the adhesions undisturbed and perform gastro-enterostomy. Gastric Tetany.—In some cases of chronic ulcer associated with stasis and fermentation of the gastric contents, the patient suffers from paroxysms of peculiar spasms or cramps of the extremities, and hyper-excitability of the muscles and nerve- trunks of the limbs. The features resemble those of tetany arising from other causes, and they are usually relieved by restoring the functions of the stomach by performing gastro- enterostomy. Effects of Cicatricial Contraction following Gastric Ulcer. —These include stenosis of the pylorus and hour-glass constric- tion of the stomach. When stenosis of the 'pylorus results from cicatricial contrac- tion of an ulcer the food is obstructed in its passage and accumulates in the cavity of the stomach, where it undergoes fermentation. The stomach becomes hypertrophied and dilated to such an extent sometimes that the greater curvature may reach the level of the pubes. Peristaltic waves may be seen passing across the stomach from left to right, and splashing sounds may be elicited on palpation. The patient vomits large quantities of sour-smelling, partially digested food, mixed with frothy mucus and containing large numbers of sarcinae. There is marked loss of flesh and obstinate constipation. The symptoms may be palliated by careful dieting and by washing out the stomach, but the condition can be cured only by operation; in the majority a most satisfactory result is obtained by gastro-enterostomy. When there is reason to suspect the existence of cancer of the pylorus, the operation of pylorectomy should be performed.