725 STONE IN THE PROSTATIC URETHRA. without there being any enlargement of the organ has been drawn attention to, especially by French surgeons. It is believed to depend upon a fibroid change in the neck of the bladder, whereby the prostatic urethra is unable to open up to a degree sufficient to permit of normal micturition. If the bladder is opened above the pubes, the outlet of the urethra, which is normally sufficiently large to admit the index finger, is so con- tracted as barely to admit the tip of the little finger. Apart from operation, the condition may be suspected if the prostate is not found to be enlarged on rectal examination, and if a catheter only requires to be introduced to the normal limit for the urine to flow away. The best treatment is to incise the neck of the bladder with the Bottini galvano-cautery. Stone in the Prostatic Urethra.—Stones composed entirely of phosphates may form in the prostatic urethra. A stone derived from the kidney or bladder may enter the prostatic urethra and be arrested there, and in course of time become enlarged by the deposition of phosphates upon it. As the stone increases in size the prostatic urethra becomes greatly dilated and the prostatic tissue is absorbed; sometimes the stone is lodged in a pocket of the urethra. A stone which is partly in the urethra and partly in the bladder may present an hour-glass constriction corresponding to the neck of the bladder, as is represented in Fig. 186. In a considerable number of re- corded cases there was a stricture in the bulbous or penile urethra. The clinical features are seldom characteristic and are often misleading. There is usually a history of difficulty in micturi- tion, and sometimes there is dribbling, but retention of urine is exceptional. There is sometimes pain referred to the point of the penis, cramp-like contractions of the neck of the bladder, and haematuria. In cases left to nature, the urine decomposes and becomes ammoniacal, and suppuration takes place in the peri-urethral cellular tissue leading to the formation of sinuses in the scrotum or perineum. On rectal examination the prostate may appear to be enlarged, but its consistence is unequal, and, if there are several stones, they may yield grating or crepitus. On passing a metal instrument along the urethra the stone may be struck at once, but, if it is lodged in a pouch of the urethra, it may only be touched accidentally as the in- strument passes in or out of the bladder, or it may not be detected at all. The stone can usually be recognised with one finger in the rectum while a metal instrument is in the urethra.