675 LITHOLAPAXY. to six ounces in the child, eight to ten in the adult), and the patient placed in the Trendelenburg position. The instrument —preferably a combined catheter and sound—is then passed. If the stone is free and movable, it is usually struck at once; if not, the sound must be rotated and moved backwards and forwards systematically so as to explore the entire cavity. If the prostate is enlarged, the floor of the retro-prostatic pouch must be raised by a finger in the rectum. When the stone is struck there is a metallic click in the case of uric and oxalic calculi, or a soft grating in those composed of earthy phosphates. In the event of failure to strike the stone, the table is lowered to the horizontal, and the bladder is then allowed to empty itself through the catheter, when the stream may bring the stone against the point of the instrument. An idea of the size of the stone may be gained by drawing the beak of the sound from end to end and then from side to side of it. The patient should remain in bed for some hours after the exploration. When the sound fails to detect the stone, a small lithotrite may succeed ; its blades are opened at the most dependent part of the bladder, the pelvis shaken with the left hand, and the stone tends to fall between the blades. The cystoscope is often instructive, as it tells the shape, size, and nature of the stone, may reveal a stone which cannot be reached by the sound, and gives information as to the condition of the mucosa. The X-rays are of value in doubtful or difficult cases, and should be had recourse to when for any reason it is undesirable to introduce an instrument into the bladder. Although the diagnosis of stone in the bladder is rarely attended with difficulty, clinical experience has shown that the condition is often overlooked because it is not suspected. This is especially true of cases in which stone complicates some pre- existing urinary affection, such as stricture or enlarged prostate. Treatment.—By whatever means it is proposed to remove the stone, the patient should previously be confined to bed for some days, and the urine and bladder brought into the best possible condition. Litholapaxy—introduced by Bigelow in 1878—is the ideal operation in all cases in which it is possible to perform it. Such is the unanimous opinion of surgeons in the Indian Army and of others who have had large experience in the treatment of stone. After disinfection of the parts concerned, the patient is anaesthetised and placed in the Trendelenburg position. The bladder is irrigated with boracic solution, and from six to ten ounces of the fluid left in the bladder. The urethra may require