INGUINAL HERNIA. 415 while the patient is recumbent, and the pad should cover the internal ring and inguinal canal, and should exert pressure in an upward and backward direction. It must not rest on the pubic bone, as it is liable to chafe and may fail to control the hernia. The truss should be constantly worn when the patient is in the erect position, but may be discarded when he is recumbent, unless there is some condition, such as cough or frequent straining at micturition, which necessitates its being worn at night. A vulcanite or other waterproof truss may be worn while bathing. Whether a single or double truss should be worn for a unilateral hernia is largely a matter of personal opinion. Some object to the wearing of a pad on the side on which there is no hernia because the pressure is believed to weaken the abdominal wall. If, however, the pad is large enough to distribute the pressure, and does not dimple the wall at any one point, no such weakening results. A double truss sits more comfortably, and can often be worn without under-straps. A single truss with an uncler-strap is that most commonly employed in congenital hernia. The soft part of the pad may be prolonged downwards into a tail or under-strap—the “ rat-tailed truss ” ; this truss may be employed also in cases of direct hernia. Operative Treatment.—When the hernia cannot be efficiently controlled by a truss, when it is irreducible, and when there has been a threatened or actual strangulation, this is the most satisfactory method of treatment. In congenital cases, and in cases complicated by imperfect descent of the testis, also, opera- tion is indicated. Operation is also performed in young men who intend entering one of the public services, or who are going abroad where they may be out of reach of surgical assistance ; and in cases in which, from the nature of the patient’s occupation and habits, the use of a truss is liable to be interfered with. It may be added that, in many cases, the choice between the wearing of a truss and operation may be left to the patient. Cases unsuited for operation include those in which the hernia is of such enormous size that the abdomen is unlikely to be able to accommodate the protruded viscera, and those in which the abdominal walls are flaccid and bulging, and in which the conditions that have led to the acquisition of the hernia are likely to con- tinue, for example, persistent coughing, or straining on micturition. In the radical cure of inguinal hernia, the integuments are divided by an incision placed in the long axis of the inguinal canal. The aponeurosis of the external oblique is split to give access to the upper part of the sac. The neck of the sac is isolated from its surroundings—including the spermatic cord-—