27 COMPRESSION OF THE BRAIN. on the cerebral capillaries, diminishing the freedom of the circulation, and so interfering with the nutrition of the brain tissue. As the intra-cranial tension still further increases, the pressure gradually begins to affect the cerebral tissue itself, and so the extreme symptoms of compression are produced. The vagus and vaso-motor centres are irritated and this causes slow- ing of the pulse, contraction of the small arteries, and increase of the arterial tension. The parts of the brain directly pressed upon become anaemic, while the other parts become congested, and the nutrition of the whole brain is thus seriously interfered with. Different parts of the brain and cord show varying powers of resistance to this circulatory disturbance. The cortex is the least resistant part, and next in order follow the corona radiata, the grey matter of the spinal cord, the pons, and last the medulla. Hence it is that the respiratory and cardiac centres hold out longest. Depressed Bone as a Cause of Compression.—-It is more than doubtful if a depressed portion of bone is of itself capable of inducing symptoms of compression of the brain. When such symptoms accompany depressed fracture, they are to be attributed either to associated haemorrhage, or to interference with the circulation and consequent oedema which the displaced bone produces. Fragments of bone may, however, aggravate the symptoms by irritating the cerebral tissue on which they impinge. Foreign Bodies. — The role of foreign bodies, such as bullets, in the production of compression symptoms is very similar to that of depressed bone. That foreign bodies of themselves are not a cause of compression seems evident from the fact that it is not uncommon for them to become permanently embedded in the brain substance without inducing any symptoms whatever. Not only have bullets, the points of sharp instruments, and other substances remained embedded in the brain for years without doing harm, but in many cases the patients have continued to occupy important and responsible positions in life. Differential Diagnosis.—It not infrequently happens that a patient is found in an insensible condition under circumstances which give no clue to the cause of his unconsciousness. He is usually removed to the nearest hospital, and the house-surgeon into whose care he comes must exercise the greatest care and discretion in dealing with him. In attempting to arrive at the cause of the condition, numerous possibilities have to be borne in mind, but it is often impossible to make a definite diagnosis. The chief of these causes are trauma, apoplexy or cerebral