THE INTESTINES. 470 about two inches long. The lumen of each portion of bowel having been cleansed, a suture is introduced through all the coats and is continued all round until the point of starting is reached. After completion of this suture, the clamps are removed, the gauze changed, and the parts cleansed, and the original sero- muscular stitch is now completed so as to invaginate the edges of peritoneum. If one of the segments of bowel to be anastom- osed is so fixed by a short mesentery or by adhesions that it cannot be drawn outside the abdomen, the anastomosis will be more readily carried out with the aid of a Murphy’s button. Exclusion of the Intestine.—When an anastomosis has been made as described above, the length of intestine which inter- venes is said to be “ partially excluded.” When the intestine is divided at two points, and the proximal end of the upper segment united to the distal end of the lower segment, the intervening portion is said to be “ completely excluded.” In complete exclu- sion, one end of the excluded portion must be brought to the surface and left open. Complete exclusion has been chiefly per- formed in tuberculous or malignant disease of the caecum and colon, and in cases in which fistulae have formed between the small intestine and the bladder or vagina. The operation of enteroplasty may be performed for limited cicatricial stricture of the intestine. It is carried out on the same lines as pyloroplasty (p. 440). Enter opexy consists in fixing a portion of intestine to the abdominal wall. It has been chiefly performed on the pelvic colon (colopexy) in cases of chronic prolapse of the rectum. Injuries of the Intestine. — The small intestine may be injured by a blow, a kick, or a crush, the most common lesions being contusion and rupture, and the parts of intestine most frequently implicated are the duodeno-jejunal junction and the more centrally placed coils of jejunum and ileum. In contusions and in small ruptures, if the bowel is empty at the moment, adhesions may form with adjacent coils or with omentum, and leakage thus be averted ; but if the bowel is widely torn, and especially if it is full at the time, peritonitis inevitably ensues. There is a third possibility: a contused portion of bowel may undergo necrosis later, giving rise to peritonitis some days after the injury. The clinical features and diagnosis have already been con- sidered with abdominal injuries in general (p. 346). If there is any reason to suspect a rupture of the intestine, an exploratory operation should be performed without delay. The incision is made in the middle line or to one or other side of it; when the