732 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. glistening, black or violet-coloured swelling, which is semi-solid in consistence, and yields the peculiar soft, crepitant sensation characteristic of blood-clot. The testis, which usually lies below and behind the scrotal swelling, is found to move independently of it—a point which serves to distinguish a Ineinatoma of the scrotum from a hamiatocele of the tunica vaginalis. Rest in bed, the application of warm fomentations and of support to the scrotum, are the chief measures employed, and when the patient gets up he should wear a suspensory bandage. Diseases.—Acute Cellulitis and Gangrene.—The most im- portant form of acute inflammation of the scrotum is that which occurs in association with peri-urethral cellulitis as a complication of stricture (p. 708). A similar condition occurs apart from stricture, the infection taking place either from an abrasion of the skin or from the blood-stream. All the signs of diffuse suppurative cellulitis are present (vol. i. p. 56). The process may spread to the penis, the groin, or the anterior abdominal Avail, and considerable portions of the scrotum may slough, exposing the testes. The testes, also, may slough, but as a rule after the inflammation subsides they are covered over with granulations, and the rapidity and completeness with which cicatrisation takes place under these conditions is often remarkable. Treatment.—The patient should be confined to bed Avith the pelvis and scrotum elevated, and have antiseptic fomentations applied. Suppuration and gangrene can sometimes be prevented by making several free, longitudinal incisions through the skin and dartos. Such incisions are attended with comparatively little bleeding, but a copious oozing of inflammatory exudate usually continues for some time. When gangrene threatens or has actually taken place, the incision should be carried through the discoloured patches. Charcoal poultices are useful in promoting the separation of the sloughs. As the sloughs separate they should be clipped away with scissors, and the raw surfaces covered with an antiseptic dressing. It is seldom necessary to have recourse to plastic operations or skin grafting in these conditions. Eczema and prurigo of the scrotum, perineum, and thighs are sometimes induced by urine dribbling over the parts in patients suffering from incontinence of urine or from urinary fistulse. A chronic form of eczema frequently affects the scrotum in chimney sweepers and in paraffin workers, and is liable to become the starting-point of cancer. The scrotum and adjacent parts are