115 TUMOURS OF VERTEBRAE. or into the perineum. The presence of an abscess in the pelvis may sometimes be recognised on rectal examination. Occasionally the appearance of an abscess is the first thing to draw attention to the condition. As pain across the small of the back and along the course of the sciatic nerve may be among the early symptoms of sacro- iliac disease, the condition is liable to be mistaken for lumbago or for sciatica. From hip disease it is recognisable by noting that the movements of the hip joint are not restricted. It is not always possible to differentiate sacro-iliac disease from disease of the lumbar spine, and the two conditions often co-exist. The prognosis is unfavourable, particularly in cases com- plicated by extensive disease of the ilium with abscess formation and septic infection. Treatment.—In early cases, the patient should use crutches and wear a patten on the foot of the sound side ; in more advanced cases he must be confined to bed, and absolute rest to the joint be secured by means of extension applied to both legs, or by other apparatus. In children a Phelp’s box is a convenient appliance. Counter-irritation by blisters or the actual cautery may be had recourse to in dry cases in which pain is a prominent feature. If operative treatment becomes necessary, access to the seat of disease is obtained by removing the posterior portion of the iliac bone. A cold abscess is treated on the usual lines (vol. i. p. 150). Syphilitic Disease of the Spine.—All the clinical features of Pott’s disease may be simulated by gummatous disease of the vertebrae. This is usually met with in adults who have suffered from acquired syphilis ; it is most common in the upper cervical vertebrae, and begins on the anterior surface of the bodies. The onset is more sudden than that of tuberculous caries, and the progress more rapid. The bone is early and extensively destroyed, but abscess formation is rare. Severe nocturnal pains are complained of, and some degree of angular deformity may develop. In almost all cases other evidence of tertiary syphilis is present, and this, together with the history and the effects of antisyphilitic treatment, aids in diagnosis. The local treatment is carried out on the same lines as for tuberculous disease. Tumours of the Vertebrae.—Sarcoma is the most important of the primary tumours met with in the spinal column. It gives rise to symptoms which are liable to be mistaken for those of Pott’s disease. The pain, however, is more intense, and the disease progresses more continuously, and is entirely uninfluenced