646 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. tissue, which binds the kidney to the parietal peritoneum, the diaphragm, and adjacent viscera. Should it become necessary for any reason to remove the kidney under these conditions, the organ must be shelled out from its fibrous capsule—subcapsular nephrectomy—to avoid injuring the organs to which it is attached. Suppurative Perinephritis and Perinephric Abscess.—This results from bacterial infection of the perirenal cellular tissue, and is usually secondary to some septic tuberculous disease in the kidney or ureter. Less commonly the perinephric tissue is infected from other sources, for example, as a sequel to appendicitis, typhoid ulceration of the intestine, empyema, psoas abscess, or pelvic cellulitis in women. /t The pus usually forms between the parietes and the kidney, displacing this organ forwards and upwards. The abscess may spread upwards into the sub-phrenic space or downwards into the iliac fossa, and may rupture externally in the loin, in the buttock, or in the thigh. Rupture has occurred into the colon and into the bronchi. A perinephric phlegmon or abscess is to be differentiated from a renal tumour by the absence of definition, by extension of the swelling into the surrounding parts, and by the fact that it does not move with respiration. The abscess should be opened by the usual oblique lumbar incision, and its interior investigated both as to the existence of secondary collections of pus, especially in the deep retro-peritoneal tissue, and also as to the condition of the kidney. Any suppura- tive lesion of this organ may be dealt with either then and there, or on a subsequent occasion. Tumours and Cysts of Kidney.—Innocent new growths, such as fibroma and adenoma, are merely of pathological interest. Cancer occurs in a diffuse infiltrating and in a circumscribed nodular form. A circumscribed cancer in the parenchyma may erupt into the pelvis, and cause bleeding and partial obstruction of the outlet. Even diffuse cancer may not cause any appreci- able enlargement of the kidney. Sarcoma is occasionally met with in childhood, between the ages of one and four, and it has been met with at birth. In addition to embryonic connective tissue, the tumour contains newly-formed epithelium arranged in a glandular manner, and a number of smooth and striped muscle fibres in the stroma. The kidney may attain an enormous size — equal to one- third of the weight of the body—but has comparatively little