733 THE SCROTUM. frequently the seat of secondary syphilitic eruptions which usually assume a moist character. Elephantiasis of the scrotum is common among natives in certain tropical countries, but is rarely met with in Europeans. The condition is due to lymphatic oedema and overgrowth of the skin and subcutaneous connective tissue. It usually follows upon repeated attacks of erysipelatous inflammation, causing obstruc- tion of the lymphatics of the scrotum. In many cases the lymphatic obstruction is attributable to the presence in the vessels of the fllaria sanguinis hominis. The extent to which the scrotum may become enlarged, and the way in which the penis is completely buried in the swelling, are illustrated in Fig. 193. The treatment consists in isolating the penis and testes by dissection and folding them up over the pubes; an elastic ligature is then applied round the base of the scrotum to control haemorrhage, and the hypertrophied tissue removed with an amputa- ting knife. The tourniquet is then removed, thehamior- rhage arrested, and de- nuded parts covered in. In the condition known as lymph-scrotum the lym- phatics are dilated and varicose, the scrotum ue- comes enlarged and nodu- lar, and from its surface there oozes at intervals a milky fluid composed of lymph and chyle. It is frequently associated with the presence of the fllaria sanguinis hominis in the lymphatics (vol. i. p. 315). (Edema of the scrotum is often met with in general dropsy from cardiac or renal disease. When the oedema spreads to the penis this organ may assume a peculiar twisted appearance—the “ ram’s horn penis ”—and the passage of urine may be impeded. Scrotal fistulas and sinuses are usually due to the bursting of abscesses in connection with tuberculous disease of the testis, or with stricture or stone in the urethra, and in the latter case urine may escape from the fistulae. Tumours, such as lipoma, fibroma, angioma, and sarcoma are Fig. 193.—Tropical Elephantiasis of the Scrotum in a Native of Samoa.