606 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. after the cure of the apparent cause. On the assumption that there is some change in the sensory nerves of the affected area in sucli cases, Sir Charles Ball has devised an operation designed to divide the sensory terminations of these nerves. A curved incision is made on each side of the affected area enclosing the entire ellipse with the exception of a narrow neck in front and behind; these incisions are carried down to the sphincter muscle, and the flaps raised from the surface of the muscle, round its anal margin, and up the anal canal to above the muco- cutaneous junction. The pedicles in front and behind, and the outer margin of the incision, are now under-cut to a distance of at least a quarter of an inch free of the involved skin all round. After arresting the bleeding the flaps are replaced and secured in position with sutures. We can confirm Ball’s favourable opinion of this procedure. Incontinence of Faeces.—In voluntary discharge of the contents of the rectum may result from a variety of causes. It may, for example, be due to interference with the nerve mechanism of the sphincter muscles, as in injuries and other lesions involving the centre for the sphincters in the lumbar portion of the cord. On digital examination the anal orifice is found to be patulous and the sphincters lax. Even in these cases, however, the escape of faeces is not continuous, but takes place at intervals which vary with the activity of the intestinal peristalsis. In nervous children a degree of incontinence is occasionally met with, which appears to be due to feebleness of the sphincter—sometimes of the muscle itself, sometimes of its nerve mechanism. In the terminal stages of an exhausting illness, and in conditions of coma, the patient loses control of the bowels and incontinence results. In another group of cases the condition is due to direct damage to the sphincter muscles. For example, after operations for fistula-in-ano, when the sphincters have been divided, and especially if the external sphincter has been cut obliquely or in more than one place, incontinence is liable to ensue. So long as the internal sphincter remains intact, even if the external is incompetent, the incontinence may not be absolute, but the patient loses voluntary control of the anus, and the bowels move precipitately as soon as feces enter the ampulla of the rectum. Less frequently, operations for piles, prolapse, and polypi are followed by incontinence. Rupture of the perineum into the rectum during labour is a comparatively common cause of incontinence. The treatment varies with the cause. When the condition is