98 THE SPINE AND CORD. dislocation are excluded by the absence of any alteration in the relative positions of the bony points, and by the fact that passive movements, although painful, are possible in all directions. In the lumbar region sprains are usually due to over-exertion in lifting heavy weights, or to the patient having been suddenly thrown backwards and forwards in a railway collision. The attachments of the muscles of the loins are probably the parts most affected. The back is kept rigid, and there is pain on movement, particularly on rising from the stooping posture. Treatment.—Unless carefully treated, a sprain of the spine is liable to cause prolonged disablement. The patient should be kept at rest in bed, and, when the injury is in the cervical region, extension should be applied to the head with the nape of the neck supported on a roller-pillow. Early recourse should be had to massage, but active movements are forbidden till all symptoms have disappeared. In patients predisposed to tuber- culosis, the period of complete rest should be materially prolonged. Isolated Dislocation of Articular Processes.—This injury, which is most frequently met with in the cervical region and is nearly always unilateral, is commonly produced by the patient falling from a vehicle which suddenly starts, and landing on the head or shoulders in such a way that the neck is forcibly flexed and twisted. The articular process of the upper vertebra passes forward, so that it comes to lie in front of the one below. The pain and tenderness are much less marked than in a simple twist, as the ligaments are completely torn and are therefore not in a state of tension. The patient often thinks lightly of the condition at the time of the accident, and may only apply for advice some time after on account of the per- sistent deformity. The head is flexed and the face turned towards the side opposite the dislocation, the attitude closely resembling that of ordinary wry-neck. The bony displacement is best recognised by palpating the transverse process of the dislocated vertebra. In the case of the upper vertebrae this is done from the pharynx, in the lower between the sterno-mastoid and the trachea. There is pain on attempting movement, and tenderness on pressure, particularly on the side that is not displaced, as the ligaments there are on the stretch. There are often radiating pains along the line of the nerves emerging between the dislocated vertebrae. As the bodies are not separ- ated damage to the cord is exceptional. Treatment.—Reduction should be attempted at once, before the vertebrae become fixed in their abnormal position. Under