72 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. With the further growth of the tumour the symptoms become aggravated, the optic neuritis is followed by optic atrophy and blindness, the patient gradually becomes stuporous, and finally dies in a state of coma. The severity of the symptoms depends to a large extent on the rapidity of growth of the tumour; thus an osteoma growing slowly from the inner table of the skull and implicating the brain, may reach a considerable size without producing cerebral symptoms, while a comparatively small sarcoma or syphilitic gumma of rapid growth may endanger life. A sudden and serious aggravation of symptoms may result from haemorrhage into a soft tumour, such as a glioma. The diagnosis of the pathological nature of a cerebral tumour is generally “hardly more than a guess” (Gowers). At the same time it may be borne in mind that syphilitic gummata occur in adults, from forty to sixty years of age, who have suffered from acquired syphilis, and who may present other evidence of the disease. Severe nocturnal pain which interferes with sleep is often a prominent symptom. Gummata are generally situated on the surface of the brain; they often originate in the dura mater, and when exposed are easily enucleated. They tend to increase somewhat rapidly. Improve- ment in the symptoms may follow the administration of iodides and mercury, but in many cases the growth is very resistant to antisyphilitic treatment. Tuberculous masses occur most frequently in children and adolescents, and other signs of tuberculosis are usually present. The cerebellum is a common seat of these tumours, and they are often multiple. Their growth may be rapid at first, and then become arrested for a time. Spasmodic growth of a tumour strongly suggests its tuberculous nature, and superadded signs of basal meningitis confirm the diagnosis. Gliomata are usually met with in the young; they tend to grow slowly at first, but may take on a rapid growth at any time, and haemorrhage is liable to occur into the substance of the tumour, causing a sudden aggravation of the symptoms. Sarcomata occur between puberty and middle life; they grow slowly, and compress rather than destroy the brain tissue. They are sharply defined from the surrounding cerebral tissue and are therefore more favourable for surgical treatment than gliomata. The prognosis is grave in all forms of brain tumour. Even in syphilitic growths, although the more urgent symptoms may be ameliorated by the use of drugs, recurrence is very liable to occur, and the structural changes induced in the cerebral tissue,