392 THE VERMIFORM APPENDIX. concretions may be present; or if there is a localised obliteration of the lumen, the distal portion may be distended into a cyst. In a considerable number of cases, while the appendix itself is not the seat of any structural change, it is kinked, twisted, or bound down by a localised contraction of its mesentery. Less commonly the appendix is bound to the caecum or buried in adhesions, so that it can be discovered only with considerable difficulty; or it may be attached to the parietal peritoneum, the ovary, the Fallopian tube, the bladder, the rectum, or even to some such distant organ as the gall bladder. The clinical features vary widely both as to the frequency and severity of the attacks. After the original attack the patient may remain well for weeks, months, or even years before being troubled again, or the attacks may recur at short intervals, so that the patient is never really well, and is unable to continue his occupation. In some cases the attacks are slight from the first, the patient never having suffered acutely. The history frequently is that each attack commences with a feeling of discomfort in the abdomen, which the patient from his previous experience recognises as indicating the advent of another seizure. This discomfort is succeeded after a variable period by pain, which is at first slight, but gradually becomes more and more severe, and may be followed by vomiting. The pain is referred all over the abdomen, and after lasting for some hours subsides, leaving some tenderness, especially in the right iliac fossa, which gradually passes off. In other cases, each recurrent attack may present the features of an acute appendicitis, and is liable to culminate in suppuration, and the complications attendant upon this may ensue. The recurrent attacks are usually attributed by the patient to such causes as strain, chill, indiscretions in diet, or inattention to the bowels, factors which would probably be inoperative unless the appendix or its mesentery were already the seat of patho- logical changes. The diagnosis is easy when the patient is seen during one of the attacks, the symptoms already described being present, and the physical signs of appendicitis being recognisable in the right iliac fossa. In cases in which the patient has not been under observation during the attacks, however, and in cases of recurrent appendicular colic, attacks of pain associated with colitis in- volving the caecum or adhesions in the vicinity of the appendix from antecedent injury or dysentery, or with chronic ulcer of the duodenum, may be mistaken for appendicitis. Attacks of pain due to renal calculus or movable kidney; to inflammatory