682 THE URINARY BLADDER. overflow. As this condition, which has been called ischuria paradoxa, predisposes to infection of the retained urine and of the walls of the bladder, the measures employed for its relief demand the most rigid exclusion of sepsis. The bladder must either be emptied at regular intervals—every four or six hours —or a catheter should be tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. In partial lesions of the spinal cord the paralysis may affect the motor functions while sensation is retained, so that the patient is aware of the necessity of emptying the organ although he is unable to do so; or sensation alone may be abolished and the patient passes water unconsciously. In locomotor ataxia the functions of the bladder are some- times disturbed, before the characteristic features of the disease are developed. There may be spasm of the bladder with urgent desire to urinate ; the flow may be interrupted and recommence after the patient thinks he has finished ; there may be difficulty in commencing the act; or retention with distension and drib- bling. There are sometimes neuralgic and colicky pains, or there may be anaesthesia, so that the patient is unaware of the state of his bladder, or unconscious of the urine being passed. In functional derangements of the nervous system, notably in hysteria, the bladder functions are frequently disturbed, but over-distension of the organ rarely terminates in dribbling. A peculiar habit may develop regarding the act of micturition— a nervous incontinence—the patient making water with undue frequency from no apparent cause, perhaps thirty or forty times a day, while during sleep the bladder remains at rest. “ Stammering of the bladder ” is the term employed by Paget to describe a disorder of micturition of nervous origin in which clonic spasm of the urethral muscles plays a part; there is no undue frequency of micturition, but a difficulty in commencing the act, and it may be spasmodically arrested when once started. The spasm is best overcome by the daily passage of a large bougie, which should be left in position for five or ten minutes. Lesions of the rectum and anus in the male, and of the generative organs in the female, may be attended with disturb- ances of the functions of the bladder. Retention of urine, for example, frequently supervenes upon an operation for piles. A feeling of irritation in the bladder, and increased frequency of micturition, without the relief and satisfaction that normally follow the act, may be due to changes in the urine, such as hyperacidity, or excess of phosphates or of oxalates. A disturbance of the nerve mechanism of micturition is some- times met with in men between forty and fifty-five years of age.