269 GESOPHAGOTOMY. on the left side lies in front of the oesophagus), and, after the foreign body has been removed, is sutured with chromic gut. Lest there should be leakage subsequently, the wound in the neck should be left open to admit of free drainage. For the first few days after operation the patient is fed by the rectum, and for a few days more through a soft tube passed into the stomach. After this he may have fluids and soft solids by the mouth. If the foreign body is lodged near the lower end of the oesophagus, it may be necessary to perform gastrotoyny, making an opening in the anterior wall of the stomach large enough to admit suitable forceps, or, if necessary, the whole hand, in order that the body may be extracted by this route. When the body is impacted half-way down the oesophagus the condition is most serious, as it may not be within reach of an opening in either the oesophagus or the stomach. Under these conditions it is best to perform gastrostomy, to enable the patient to be fed, and to rest the oesophagus and allow of relaxation of spasm so that the body may pass on into the stomach. Attempts have been made to remove such bodies by the operation of mediastinal oesophagotomy, which consists in resecting portions of several ribs close to the left of the spine, pushing aside the pleura, and opening the oesophagus, but these have usually proved fatal. Rupture of the oesophagus has been described as occurring during violent attempts to eject a foreign body by vomiting, and as a result of diseased conditions of the oesophageal wall. The accident is, however, very rare, and has usually proved fatal by setting up left-sided empyema or cellulitis. Inflammatory affections of the oesophagus due to pyogenic infection (oesophagitis), and of the cellular tissue around it (peri-oesophagitis), are rare apart from those forms due to the swallowing of caustics and to direct injury of the walls of the tube by foreign bodies. A chronic form of oesophagitis occasionally occurs above a stricture and in alcoholic subjects. It is attended with severe pain and difficulty on deglutition, and attacks of vomiting. Tuberculous lesions also are occasionally met with. They are usually the result of direct spread from the bronchial glands, and the most prominent symptoms are pain during and after taking food, dysphagia, vomiting, and sometimes severe hsema- temesis. These symptoms are most marked when the condition has gone on to ulceration, and the disease is liable to be mistaken either for gastric ulcer or for cancer of the oesophagus.