324 THE BREAST. becomes swollen, firm, and tender, and a few drops of milky fluid may be expressed from the nipple. It may happen that the nurse, acting upon the popular belief that it is necessary under these conditions to “ break the nipple strings ” by vigorous rubbing, irritates and infects the parts, with the result that suppuration ensues. About the time of puberty the ducts increase in number and become branched, the acini begin to develop, and associated with this change, particularly in females, one or both breasts may become engorged, tense, and painful—mastitis of adolescents. During pregnancy a great increase in the acini takes place, and is accompanied by engorgement of the breast. An extreme degree of physiological engorgement may also occur during lactation, when, for example, the milk is retained owing to imperfect formation of the nipples, blocking of the ducts, or failure of the child to suck—milk engorgement. The breast becomes swollen and painful, the skin over it is congested, and the superficial veins prominent. On palpation it is found to be firm and tender. The temperature may be raised to 100° or .101° F. These conditions are only related to inflammation as pre- disposing factors, and in so far as they furnish a suitable nidus for the development of any organisms that may gain access to the breast. In puerperal cases the most important step in treatment is the withdrawal of the milk, which may be effected by the aid of a breast pump. The child should be weaned, and the further secretion of milk arrested by the administration of saline purga- tives and of potassium iodide and belladonna. The breast should be protected by a wool dressing and supported by an ascending spica bandage, the arm on the affected side being supported. If suppuration occurs the abscess must be opened and drained. It occasionally happens that an acute congestion of the breast occurs in association with an attack of mumps or of one of the other acute infective diseases. The condition is usually transient, and seldom ends in suppuration. Puerperal Mastitis and Mammary Abscess.—In a consider- able proportion of cases of acute physiological engorgement of the breast occurring in puerperal women, a suppurative inflam- mation supervenes, and ends in the production of a mammary abscess. This usually occurs in women between the ages of twenty and thirty, and as a rule during the first six weeks of lactation. Infection usually takes place through a crack or