742 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. accident is most frequently met with in cases in which the testis has not completely descended, and the epididymis and cord are included with the testis in the processus vaginalis, it is probable that these conditions, by increasing the mobility of the testis and its appendages, act as predisposing factors. In five cases of recurring torsion observed by J. W. Dowden, the cord was abnormally broad and flat, and its constituents were spread out in the mesorchium. The actual twisting is probably determined by a sudden congestion of its numerous tortuous veins, resulting, for example, from some sudden jar or strain, or from spasmodic contraction of the cremaster muscle. In some cases it has followed a direct injury or an attempt to reduce a hernia by taxis. The degree of torsion varies from half a twist to a complete twist and a half, and its direction is usually from without inwards. The kinking of the vessels of the cord causes intense congestion of the testis, which becomes dark bluish-purple or black in colour, and assumes an appearance aptly compared to that of a ripe plum. The epididymis and cord are swollen and discoloured, and the processus vaginalis is filled with blood- stained serum. Clinical Features.—The accident is most common about the age of puberty, but has been met with in infants and in old men. Its occurrence is indicated by the sudden onset of pain, followed some hours later by swelling of the testis, and accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The abdomen may be rigid and slightly distended, and the thigh on the affected side is flexed. The temperature is usually raised. Above the testis, the twisted cord may be recognised as a lobulated swelling. The parts become hot, red, and cedematous, and the swelling is rounded, tense, and exceedingly tender. There is no impulse on coughing. If necrosis of the testis ensues, the pain becomes less or may disappear. In recurrent cases the symptoms are less severe, the patient merely suffering from occasional attacks of sickening pain, which may be relieved by gently stroking the testis. One of these attacks may, however, culminate in complete torsion. Torsion of the cord is to be diagnosed from strangulated hernia, acute orchitis, and acute suppuration of a lymphatic gland. In many cases an exact diagnosis can only be made by exploratory incision. The treatment consists in exposing the testis by dissection. When the testis is in the scrotum, an attempt should be made to undo the twist and to anchor the testis in such a way that