312 THE CHEST evidence, we are apt to place lesions above the level of the root of the lung too high, and lesions below that level too low. The nature of tbe expectoration should be noted, but it is to be borne in mind that the quantity expectorated bears no constant relation to the size of the cavity. An exploratory puncture made with an aspirator needle is the most certain diagnostic measure we possess. The X-rays have been found useful in a certain proportion of cases in determining the site, extent, and number of cavities in the lung. As the operative procedure—pneumonotomy—is practically the same for all forms of pulmonary cavities, it may be described now. Local anaesthesia is to be preferred. The operation consists in exposing the area of lung in which the cavity is believed to lie, by an incision sufficiently large to permit of the subperiosteal resection of about three inches of two or more ribs. If no adhesions exist around the area thus exposed, the pleural cavity must be shut off before incising the lung. This is done by passing, with a fully curved Hagedorn needle, a ring of sutures through the lung substance and parietal pleura so as to bring the two layers of the pleura into apposition. The lung is then incised with a knife or thermo-cautery, the opening dilated with dressing forceps, the cavity evacuated, and drainage tubes inserted. Irrigation is not advisable. Pulmonary abscess when acute is usually a sequela of septic pneumonia. Chronic abscess may be due to the bursting of an empyema or of a hepatic abscess into the lung. The sputum is abundant, yellow, and cream-like, and contains elastic fibres and hsematoidin crystals. The physical signs of a cavity in the lungs are present, and this may be localised by the X-rays. The result of pneumonotomy in such cases is on the whole satisfactory. Pyremic abscesses are usually multiple, and therefore not amenable to surgical treatment. Gangrene of the lung usually results from acute septic pneumonia, pulmonary apoplexy, or embolism of the terminal branches of the pulmonary artery. The most important symptom is the sputum, which is copious and has a putrid, cadaveric odour. When collected in a glass it forms three layers : the uppermost frothy, muco-purulent, and of a greyish-green colour ; the middle watery and clear, or slightly turbid from shreds of mucus; the lowest dirty greyish-green, with pus and fragments of gan- grenous lung tissue and blood-clot. The gangrenous area is usually near the base, and the pleural cavity is generally pro- tected by adhesions over or around it. It may be localised by the X-rays, which also show whether there is more than one