472 THE INTESTINES. the stagnating contents of the bowel above the seat of obstruc- tion. In other words, when death results, it is from auto- intoxication, and if a sufficient quantity of poison has been absorbed, death takes place whether the obstruction is relieved or not. Hence the surgical treatment of intestinal obstruction should be undertaken before the patient has absorbed a fatal dose, and in addition to relieving the actual cause of the ob- struction, it is necessary to secure the emptying of the bowel above the block, and thus prevent further septic absorption. Pathology and Morbid Anatomy.— When the occlusion is complete and suddenly induced, as when the intestine is snared by a band, the changes are very similar to those seen in strangulated hernia. The intestine below the obstruction is pale, contracted, and empty, while that above is usually distended with gas and fluid, and its mucous membrane is swollen and injected, and may show haemorrhages and superficial erosions. The surface epithelium is shed, and organisms are thus enabled to pass through the wall. The accumulation of gas is due to bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel, and the resulting distension may be so great that, when the abdomen is opened, the affected coils of bowel are projected from the wound, and when thus deprived of support the peritoneal coat may give way, and wide rents form on the surface opposite the mesenteric attachment. Sometimes the erosions on the mucous membrane become deepened into minute, sharply circumscribed, necrotic ulcers—first described by Kocher—which by extending through the whole thickness of the wall may eventually lead to perfora- tion. Perforation is liable to occur during an operation for obstruction when the affected coils are being separated from one another by the exploring fingers, or are allowed to escape from the abdomen, and we have seen cases in which there were several minute perforations like pinholes, through which the fluid contents escaped under considerable pressure. When the obstruction is incomplete and gradually induced, as in the case of cicatricial stricture, the lumen of the bowel is narrowed, but not occluded, and the contents pass with difficulty. The bowel above is not merely distended, but its walls are hyper- trophied as the result of persistent and prolonged efforts to drive the contents through the narrowed segment of the gut. The hypertrophy is most marked in the case of the small intestine, its coats becoming thicker and firmer, chiefly from increase in the circular muscular fibres. In the case of the large intestine distension is more prominent than hypertrophy, and the colon may attain enormous dimensions—as great as a