594 THE RECTUM AND ANUS. Clamp and Cautery.—In this method the base of each pile is seized with a specially constructed clamp, applied in a direction radiating from the anus, and the pile is burned off and its stump seared with the cautery at a dull-red heat. This method is of special service in friable or ulcerated piles. After-Treatment.—A morphin suppository (-£ to \ a grain) is introduced into the rectum, and a dressing of gauze smear eel with vaseline applied and retained in position by a T-shaped bandage. The dressing should be changed daily. Many patients have difficulty in passing water' after the operation. The catheter, however, should not be used unless absolutely necessary, as, if once used, it may not be dispensed with for some days, and there is a risk of infecting the bladder. The patient is kept on a fluid diet until the bowels are moved on the third or fourth day; a dose of castor oil at night, followed by the injection of about half a pint of warm olive oil in the morning, ensures a soft and easy evacuatiop. The patient should be confined to bed for about a week or ten days. External Piles. — These may occur either alone or in association with internal piles. Several different conditions are included under the term “ external piles.” The variety that most frequently coexists with internal piles consists in a dilatation and slight varicosity of the subcutaneous veins around the anal orifice. The turgescence of the vessels is only evident when the patient strains, and then the perianal skin, which is usually loose and redundant, is raised as a bluish cushion-like ring, which completely surrounds the orifice. When the patient ceases to strain the swelling disappears. This condition is common in patients who are habitually constipated, or who follow a sedentary occupation. It giveB rise to no trouble beyond a slight feeling of fulness at the anus during and immediately after defecation, and a sensation as if the bowel had not been completely emptied. This causes excessive straining which aggravates the condition, and the external sphincter becomes hypertrophied and indurated. When internal piles coexist bleeding and pain are usually present. The treatment of this variety consists in removing the piles. The term venous or thrombotic pile is applied to a condition in which an extravasation of blood takes place around one of the perianal veins which has been ruptured by violent straining of any kind, for example, during defecation or in making some severe muscular effort. The effused blood forms a small, rounded, tense, bluish swelling just beneath the skin or muco- cutaneous surface. At first the swelling is soft, but later, when