TREATMENT OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. 723 and fibrous variety, which is little amenable to enucleation. The Bottini instrument—a galvano-cautery shaped like a sound—is introduced into the prostatic urethra previously anaesthetised by local applications, and, the current having been turned on, right and left oblique incisions are carried through the base of the middle lobe, in such a way that the bladder outlet is depressed to the level of the retro-prostatic pouch. An advantage of this method is that the patient is able to be out of bed in the course of a few days, thus diminishing the risk of chest complications to which prostatic subjects are peculiarly susceptible. When operation is contra-indicated or is declined, a good deal may be done to make the patient more comfortable. He should be instructed to have the bowels emptied regularly, to avoid all red and spiced meats, exposure to cold, and sexual excitement. He should aim at emptying the bladder every three or four hours during the day, and once or twice during the night. If the bladder is incapable of emptying itself, the urine should be drawn off once, twice, or thrice daily, according to the amount of residual urine, and, if one of the occasions selected is just at bedtime, a better night’s sleep will be secured. When the use of the catheter becomes indispensable the patient is said to have entered upon “ catheter life.” In selecting a catheter, a soft rubber one should be preferred. When it fails, a coude or bi-coude of gum elastic material may be substituted. The object of the elbow bend, which was intro- duced by Mercier, is to keep the point of the catheter in contact with the anterior wall of the urethra. Sometimes the English gum elastic catheter is useful, the curve of the catheter being made more acute by partial withdrawal of the wire stylette. Treatment of the Complications of Enlarged Prostate.—The occurrence of retention is always a serious event in a case of enlarged prostate, and relief must be given with as little delay as possible. A hot bath should be tried in the first instance; if this fails, a catheter should be passed. If a soft rubber or a gum elastic instrument cannot be made to enter the bladder, a silver one should be used, either one of the sharply-curved, short- beaked catheters introduced by Chiene(No. 10 English scale), or the widely curved instrument known as a prostatic catheter. If. there has been difficulty in introducing the catheter, it should be tied in and connected with a suction apparatus. If it is impossible to introduce a catheter into the bladder, or if it excites so much pain or haemorrhage that it seems unwise to make further attempts, the bladder must be punctured above the pubes. If the urine is aseptic, puncture may be repeated until