540 CHAPTER XXIX. THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. Pancreas. — Surgical anatomy — Pancreatitis : Varieties — Cysts : Varieties ; Situations—Malignant tumours—Pancreatic litliiasis— Injuries. Spleen.—Surgical anatomy : Removal of the spleen—Injuries : rupture, stabs, and gunshot wounds—Abscess—Hydatids—Primary Sarcoma —Enlargements of the Spleen—Wandering and Dislocated Spleen. The Pancreas. Surgical Anatomy.—The pancreas is deeply placed at the back of the abdomen, the greater part of the gland lying in the epigastrium behind the stomach, while the tail and adjacent part of the body extend into the left hypochondrium. It is placed behind the peritoneum, the lesser sac of which lies directly in front of the gland. The head is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum, the neck crosses the middle line opposite the disc between the first and second lumbar vertebra, and the tail touches the spleen. The termination of the main duct of the pancreas curves down to meet the common bile-duct, and the two pierce the wall of the duodenum obliquely and open by a common orifice (Fig. 146). Functions.—-The pancreas not only secretes pancreatic juice, which is poured into the intestine and plays an important part in the digestion of all food materials, but it is believed to furnish to the blood an internal secretion which is intimately related to the general metabolic phenomena of the body and particularly to carbo-hydrate metabolism. If this second secretion is absent as a result of extensive disease of the organ, one form of diabetes ensues. If the main duct of the pancreas—duct of Wirsung —is obstructed, the duct of Santorini, or other accessory ducts, may be equal to the task of conveying the pancreatic juice into the duodenum, and the physiological conditions are undisturbed. If, however, the accessory ducts are incapable of performing satisfactorily this increased duty, the pancreatic secretion is dammed up within the gland with serious consequences. It has been shown experimentally that, if the pancreas is tied across with two ligatures and divided between them, death takes place within twenty-four hours with all the phenomena of acute pancreatitis. If a portion of such a pancreas is injected into another animal, it also dies within twenty-four hours with the same phenomena. It would appear, therefore, that poisonous substances are produced in the damaged