284 THE LARYNX, TRACHEA, AND BRONCHI. or from the fauces and pharynx, dyspnoea becomes a prominent and grave symptom. The patient may rapidly become cyanosed, the inspirations assume a noisy, stridulous character, and great distress and imminent suffocation supervene. If laryngoscopic examination is possible, the ary-epiglottic folds may be found greatly swollen and the upper aperture of the larynx partially occluded. Digital examination may detect the swollen condition of the parts. The urine should be examined for albumin and tube casts. Treatment depends to some extent both upon the situation and amount of the oedema and upon the gravity of the patient’s condition. In the milder forms the sucking of ice, the inhalation of medicated steam, or spraying with a solution of adrenalin, and the application of poultices to the neck, may suffice to relieve the condition. Scarification of the epiglottis and ary-epiglottic folds with a knife, followed by free bleeding, may give com- plete relief. Diaphoretic and purgative treatment should not be neglected. Intubation or tracheotomy may suddenly be called for. Bilateral Abductor Paralysis. — Both recurrent laryngeal nerves may be interfered with by such conditions as enlargement of the thyroid, tumour of the oesophagus, or intra-thoracic tumour, or by injury in the course of operations for goitre. A gradually increasing inspiratory dyspnoea is developed, which at first is only noticed on exertion, when the desire for air is increased; later it becomes permanent, and even during sleep the stridor may be marked. Suffocation may become imminent. When the larynx is examined with the mirror the vocal cords are seen to lie near each other, and on inspiration their approxi- mation is still greater. The treatment of bilateral abductor paralysis is directed to removing the cause of pressure on the nerves. In the majority of cases tracheotomy is called for to relieve the dyspnoea. Syphilitic Affections of the Larynx.—Secondary syphilitic manifestations in the form of congestion of the mucous membrane, mucous patches, or condylomata, are occasionally met with, and give rise to a huskiness of the voice. These conditions usually disappear rapidly under the influence of mercury. In tertiary syphilis, whether inherited or acquired, the most common lesion is a diffuse gummatous infiltration, which tends to go on to ulceration and to lead to widespread destruction of tissue. It usually attacks the epiglottis, the arytenoids, and the ary-epiglottic folds, but may spread and implicate all the structures of the larynx. Syphilitic ulcers are usually single,