673 STONE IN THE BLADDER. walls of the bladder contracting upon it, and, when there is chronic cystitis, by granulations springing from the mucous membrane inserting themselves into irregularities on the surface of the stone. A stone is said to be encysted when it lies in a pocket which communicates with the vesical cavity. The encystment of a stone may be due to its partial retention in the ureter, to its passing into, or forming within, one of the pouches of a sacculated bladder, or the cyst may result from a localised con- traction of the bladder-wall upon the stone, in which case the wall of the cyst contains muscle fibres. As an encysted stone does not move about in the bladder, the characteristic symptoms of calculus may be absent, and it may escape detection by the sound ; on bimanual examination it may feel like a tumour. Clinical Features.—While stones form in the kidney with about equal frequency in the two sexes, males suffer from stone in the bladder much more frequently than women. This comparative immunity of women to vesical stone depends partly on the fact that the female urethra permits of the escape of small calculi from the bladder, and partly on their exemption from those forms of chronic cystitis attended with stagnation of the urine which lead to the formation of secondary stone. Vesical calculus is comparatively common in boys under twelve. The symptoms of stone are due in the first place to the calculus acting as a foreign body; and in the second, to inflam- matory changes in the bladder set up thereby. A small stone, in virtue of its capacity of moving about in the bladder, is on the whole more likely to cause typical symptoms than a large stone upon which the wall of the bladder has contracted. A stone with a smooth surface does not give rise to the same urgent symptoms as a rough stone, such as one composed of oxalate of lime. The clinical symptoms are pain, frequency of micturition, and VOL. II—43 Fig. 186.—Hour-glass Stones. Natural size. (From Sir Patrick Heron Watson’s Collection.)