643 TUBERCULOSIS. tubercle bacilli, but also colon bacilli, staphylococci and strep- tococci. The presence of stone in the pelvis is exceptional, although we have ourselves observed it in two cases, in both of which the resemblance to calculous pyonephrosis was so great that the tuberculous nature of the lesion was only cleared up by the microscope. The spread of the tuberculous infection down the ureter, mainly by the lymphatics, results in infection of the mucous membrane of the bladder, at first round the ureteral orifice on the affected side, later over the greater part of the floor. It is a fact of great clinical im- portance, that primary tuberculous infection of the kidney through the blood-stream is nearly always uni- lateral. According to Kronlein, the disease is confined to one kidney in 92 per cent, of the total number of cases. The disease is three times commoner in women than in men. Tuberculous disease of the Fal- lopian tube in the female, and • of the epididymis and prostate in the male, may precede or follow upon renal tuberculosis, but it is probably the result of an independent infection through the blood-stream. Clinical Features.—In the early stages the symptoms usually suggest an affection of the bladder rather than of the kidney, as the patient may complain chiefly of frequent and painful micturition. The irrita- bility of the bladder is due to nerve influences proceeding from the kidney and ureter, for it occurs before there is any disease in the bladder, and it usually disappears as soon as the affected kidney is removed. Some- times there are attacks like renal colic from contractions of the ureter while tuberculous material is passing down the tube. Sometimes haematuria is one of the first symptoms, and when occurring in persons in apparent good health it is apt to suggest the presence of a tumour or of a stone in the kidney. As the disease progresses the features become characteristic ; there is failure of health and loss of flesh, and in the female, amenor- rhoea ; tenesmus of the bladder is almost continuous day and night, and as its cavity becomes more and more contracted Fig. 174. — Advanced Tuber- culous Kidney showing mul- tiple abscess cavities in paren- chyma. Removed by lumbar nephrectomy.