THE ORBIT. 147 Rupture of the outer coat, especially when it results from a punctured wound, adds greatly to the risk of the injury by opening up a path through which septic material may enter the globe, and this risk is materially increased when a foreign body is retained in the cavity of the eyeball. When the globe is burst by a blow with a blunt object, the sclerotic usually gives way, and as the rupture takes place from within outwards, there is less risk of septic infection than in cases of punctured wounds. The lens may be extruded through the wound, and the iris pro- lapsed. If the rupture is large, the conjunctiva torn, and the globe collapsed from loss of vitreous, the eye should be removed without delay. If sight is not entirely lost and there is no marked collapse of the globe, an attempt should be made to save the eye. Wounds produced by stabs or punctures are very liable to be followed by septic complica- tions ending in panophthalmitis. When this is threat- ened, removal of the eye is indicated, not only because the af- fected eye is destroyed beyond hope of re- covery, but to avoid the risk of “ sym- pathetic ophthalmia ” affecting the other eye. Orbital Cellulitis.—The loose cellular tissue of the orbit is frequently the seat of an acute and diffuse inflammation, which usually passes on to suppuration. It is met with at any age, but is most common in adults. As a rule it is unilateral, but both orbits may be affected. The pyogenic bacteria that give rise to the condition may gain access to the orbit through punctured wounds or compound fractures, particularly when foreign bodies are lodged in the cavity, or they may spread directly from the conjunctiva or the eyeball when these are the seat of suppurative processes. Orbital cellulitis may also be secondary to erysipelas of the face, or to inflammatory condi- tions in the nasal fossae or their accessory air sinuses. Fig. 49.—Sarcoma of Orbit, causing exophthalmos and downward displacement of the eye, and projecting in temporal region.