653 CHAPTER XXXIII. THE URINARY BLADDER. Surgical anatomy—Methods of examination—Catheters—Operations on the bladder—Drainage of the bladder—Extroversion or ectopia— Injuries: Rupture; Penetrating wounds—Foreign bodies — Bac- teriuria—Bacterial infections : Cystitis ; Special forms of cystitis ; Tuberculosis; Pericystitis■—Stone, Vesical calculus — Tumours — Pouches, diverticula and cysts—Disturbances of function, Nocturnal incontinence. Surgical Anatomy.—The bladder occupies the anterior part of the pelvic cavity lying behind the symphysis pubis. In the adult, the bladder, when empty, is entirely within the pelvis, its walls are contracted and firm a®d lie in contact with one another. As the organ becomes filled the cavity becomes spherical, and the superior wall is projected upwards until the highest point lies above the symphysis. As the bladder rises into the abdomen it carries with it the peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall, so that there is an area of the organ, extending for from one to two inches above the symphysis, uncovered by peritoneum, through which it may be punctured or incised without opening the peritoneal cavity. Posteriorly the peritoneum dips down, in the male, between the bladder and the rectum forming the recto-vesical pouch ; in the female, between the bladder and the uterus. Laterally the peritoneum passes on to the sides of the pelvis. The region of the urethral orifice or neck of the bladder, although the most fixed part of the organ, is slightly lower when the bladder is full, and higher when it is empty, especially if at the same time the rectum is distended. The mucous membrane of the bladder is devoid of glands ; in the empty organ it is thrown into folds except in the triangular area—the trigone— the apex of which is at the urethral orifice, while the base is represented by a line drawn between the openings of the ureters. Stretching across between the ureteral openings is a smooth, curved ridge due to bundles of muscle fibres disposed transversely ; this ridge is known as the inter- ureteral bar, and becomes unduly prominent in cases of enlarged prostate with difficulty in emptying the bladder. The ureters pierce the bladder wall obliquely, thus affording a valvular hindrance to the reflux of urine ; their orifices are readily seen with the cystoscope as elliptical slits open- ing at intervals to emit urine. The desire to micturate comes on when the bladder contains from eight to twelve ounces, but it can easily hold as much as a pint, and under abnormal conditions the bladder may