THE CHEST. 310 spirometer (Fig. 84). The wound is dressed once or twice daily according to the amount of discharge. The tubes are left in as long as the discharge is purulent, and when it becomes serous they may be discarded. The sooner the patient can be got into the open air the better. Bilateral Empyema frequently follows double pneumonia, particularly in children below the age of twelve. It is seldom advisable to operate on both sides at once. The safest procedure is to aspirate each side on two or three successive days to relieve the pressure on the lungs and heart, and to avoid a sudden change in the intra-thoracic pressure, and then to incise and drain one side. In the course of a few days the second side may be operated upon. Tuberculous Empyema.—This may originate as a serous effusion associated with tuberculous pleurisy ; or from the rupture of a phthisical cavity into the pleura, in which case it is some- times complicated by pneumothorax. The pus is usually encap- sulated by the greatly thickened pleura, and the condition is practically a cold abscess. When the condition is due to rupture of a phthisical cavity the onset is acute, and is attended with constitutional disturbance ; in other cases it is insidious, and the progress of the disease slow. The lung ultimately becomes collapsed from the pressure of the fluid, and undergoes fibrous changes, which render it hard and leathery and incapable of expanding again. Operative treatment is much less satisfactory than in the pyogenic forms, as the lung fails to expand, and the sinuses continue to discharge, and if septic infection occurs, symptoms of hectic fever supervene and the condition of chronic empyema is established. Chronic or Old-Standing Empyema with Infected Sinuses.— The obliteration of an empyemic cavity is effected, under ordinary conditions, partly by the expansion of the lung, so that the visceral and parietal pleurae are brought into contact, partly by the elevation of the diaphragm and the displacement of the other lung and the heart, and partly by falling in of the chest wall. It frequently happens that these reparative processes fail to take place, or do not progress sufficiently to obliterate the cavity completely, with the result that a space with rigid walls is left between the lung and the parietes. The pleura which lines this space is greatly thickened, and is covered with granulation tissue, and pus escapes through one or more sinuses, either con- tinuously or at intervals as it accumulates in the lower part of the cavity. This is most common in cases of tuberculous empyema, but it may occur in pyogenic cases in which the