536 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. is much distressed because of the amount of discharge—from one to two pints of bile in twenty-four hours—necessitating the wearing of an apparatus to prevent soiling of the clothes. Experience has shown that the escape of all the bile externally is not attended with any disturbance of digestion or nutrition. If the common duct is patent, only a small amount of bile may escape externally, but, if it is obstructed, all the bile escapes. The treatment depends upon the condition giving rise to the fistula, the most satisfactory cases being those in which there is a stone or other obstruction capable of being removed by operation. When the obstruction does not lend itself to removal, the escape of bile externally may be obviated by the performance of cholecyst - enterostomy or choledoch- enterostomy. Inflammatory Affections of the Gall-Bladder and Bile-Ducts.—While these affections are nearly always met with in association with gall-stones, they may result from pyogenic infection alone, colon and typhoid bacilli being the most common organisms present. Inflammation of the Gall-Bladder — Cholecystitis. — The walls of the gall-bladder are infiltrated and the organ itself may be distended with bile and mucus. When the inflamma- tion is of long standing or has frequently recurred, the gall- bladder usually undergoes cicatricial contraction and is retracted under cover of the liver, its cavity being greatly diminished in size. From the extension of inflammation to the peritoneal coat adhesions are often present. The clinical features are the same as when cholecystitis is associated with gall-stones, except that the colic is less severe ; tenderness below the costal margin and rigidity of the upper part of the right rectus are prominent features. If the condition resists treatment by medical measures, the gall-bladder should be opened and drained, or, if there is any doubt as to the patency of the cystic duct, the gall-bladder should be removed. When the cholecystitis goes on to the formation of pus, the condition is known as empyema or purulent catarrh of the gall-bladder. It is almost invariably associated with gall-stones, and in practically every case the cystic duct is obstructed. The size of the gall-bladder varies : it may be small, contracted, and buried beneath the liver as a result of previous attacks of cholecystitis ; or it may be so enlarged as to form a pear-shaped tumour with thickened walls and fixed to the neighbouring parts by adhesions.