PRURITIS ANI. 605 membrane and then through the rest of the gut. If the peritoneum is opened it is immediately shut off by means of sutures. The muscular and mucous coats are then united by continuous sutures. This method has the disadvantage of leav- ing at the anal margin a circular cicatrix, which is liable to tear if exposed to forcible stretching (Kocher); and it may be fol- lowed by recurrence of the protrusion (Ludloff). An alternative method consists in placing the patient in the Trendelenburg position and opening the abdomen in the middle line, pulling up the pelvic colon, and fixing it by means of sutures passed through its mesentery to the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, along Poupart’s ligament, or to the peritoneum of the iliac fossa—colopexy. If there is also prolapse of the vagina and uterus, these conditions must receive appropriate treatment. Pruritis Ani.—This term is applied to a condition in whicli there is intense and persistent itching in the anus and perianal portion of the perineum. Itchiness in the anal region is a symptom of many rectal affections, such as thread-worms, piles, ano-rectal ulceration, and fistula ; of eczema and other diseases of the skin; and of certain constitutional diseases, notably gout and diabetes; and as a rule it ceases with the cure of the primary condition. It is only when the itching becomes inces- sant and intolerable, and persists in spite of treatment, or when no cause can be discovered for it, that it is to be looked upon as a disease in itself. The condition begins with a feeling of uneasiness and a tendency to scratch the anus ; later the irritation increases, and the inclination to scratch becomes irresistible. For a time the itching is intermittent and is worst at night, preventing sleep; eventually it is incessant, so that the patient is unable to con- centrate his attention on his work, and from the want of rest and the continuous irritation he becomes dyspeptic, restless, and manifests extreme nervous irritability and depression ; sometimes the distress occasioned by pruritis is such as to render life almost unbearable. The skin around the anus is excoriated by scratching, becomes moist and sodden, loses its stratified epithelium, and is thrown into a series of thickened and cedematous folds which radiate from the anus in an arborescent fashion—an appearance that is characteristic of the affection. Treatment.—The first indication is to treat any local or con- stitutional condition present that might account for the itching. In some cases, however, the itching persists, it may be for years,