482 THE INTESTINES. bowel that is found, or by sweeping the fingers round the brim of the pelvis. If a band is found, it may be torn through or divided between ligatures; if a Meckel’s diverticulum or a vermiform appendix is acting as a band, it should be resected. If the bowel is strangulated through an abnormal opening, it must be disengaged, and to admit of this it may be necessary to enlarge the opening, bearing in mind, however, the risk of wounding the mesenteric blood-vessels. If the bowel is viable, the operation is completed by closing the abdomen. If the bowel is not viable or is already gangrenous, it must either be resected then and there, or brought outside the wound and opened, the resection being postponed for a few days until the conditions are more favourable. We have met with cases of strangulation by a band in which the extent . of intestine involved was so great that the initial shock was not recovered from, and death took place within a few hours. Obstruction by Adhesions, Kinking, or Matting of the Bowel, or by Cicatricial Contraction of the Mesentery.— This group includes cases in which the obstruction results directly or indirectly from peritoneal adhesions due to antecedent traumatism or inflammation. The mere fixation of a segment of bowel to the abdominal wall by an adhesion interferes with the passage of its contents; if, in addition to being fixed, the bowel is also bent or kinked, it readily becomes occluded. The symptoms vary widely ; when the bowel is suddenly kinked they are those of acute obstruction, such as result from strangulation by a band ; in the absence of kinking they simulate those of chronic and incomplete obstruction associated with stricture. The obstruction may involve either the small or the large intestine. Matting by adhesions may affect only two adjacent coils, or several coils may be bound together into a confused mass. This is most often met with in cases of disease of the mesenteric glands or of tuberculous peritonitis. The symptoms may come on suddenly, but are usually gradual and progressive, or inter- mittent, culminating in complete stoppage. Sometimes the matted coils form a tumour-like swelling, which if situated in the pelvis may be felt from the rectum. In this group may also be included cases in which the bowel is narrowed as a result of cicatricial shrinking of its own mesentery, subsequent to inflammation associated with disease in the mesenteric glands or antecedent disease in the appendix. The bowel affected is usually the lower end of the ileum, the caecum, and the ascending colon. The peritoneal investment of the mesentery is thickened, fibrous, and opaque, and is so