364 THE PERITONEUM. The diagnosis from appendicital or tuberculous peritonitis may be difficult. Idle prognosis is more favourable than in most other forms of infective peritonitis. Although spontaneous recovery is not impos- sible, the proper treatment is to open the abdomen and establish drainage on the lines already laid down for peritonitis in general. Gonococcal Peritonitis.—This form of peritonitis occurs as a sequel to gonorrhoea, and is met with chiefly in females, both adults and children, the peritoneum being infected by way of the Fallopian tubes, either through the ostium or by the rupture of a pyosalpinx. In the male, the infection is believed to spread from the seminal vesicles. In either sex the peritonitis may be limited to the pelvis—pelvic peritonitis—or may become generalised. A characteristic feature is that while the onset is very acute, the urgent symptoms soon show an abatement, and, in spite of the apparent gravity of the illness, the patient gradually recovers with or without the formation of extensive pelvic adhesions. Unless gonococci are discovered in the discharge from the cervix, vagina or urethra, the diagnosis may be difficult. The question of operative interference is still an open one. Recovery may take place without operation, but there is little doubt that incision and drainage of the peritoneum, and the removal of a pyosalpinx when this is present, afford a better prospect of permanent cure. Chronic Peritonitis.—A primary and progressive chronic peritonitis can scarcely be said to exist apart from such chronic infections as tubercle, syphilis, or actinomycosis. It appears inadvisable to apply this term to the reparative changes in the peritoneum which attend upon almost every form of intra- abdominal disease. Peritoneal Tuberculosis and Tuberculous Peritonitis.—This affection is specially common in children and young adults, although it may be met with at any period of life. It rarely exists as an independent disease; as a rule it is secondary to some other tuberculous lesion in the abdomen, particularly in the intestine, the Fallopian tube, or the mesenteric glands, the peritoneum being infected by direct extension. Tuberculous disease of the lung or pleura may spread to the peritoneum by way of the lymphatics; and tubercle of the bronchial glands, the bones and joints, or the genito-urinary organs, by way of the blood-stream. Acute miliary tuberculosis usually affects the peritoneum and pleurae simultaneously, and is met with chiefly as part of a general tuberculosis. The constitutional symptoms may over-