THE SPINE AND CORD. 102 the patient’s back as lie lies recumbent, it is usually found that there is some backward projection of the spinous processes, the most prominent process being that of the broken vertebra. The spinous process immediately above it is depressed as the upper segment has slipped forward. Pain, tenderness, swelling and discoloration may be present over the injured vertebrae. There is complete loss of motion and sensation below the seat of the lesion. The symptoms of total transverse lesions of the cord at different levels have already been described (p. 93). Treatment.—An attempt may be made to reduce the displacement under anaesthesia. Gentle traction in the long axis of the spine is made by assistants, while the surgeon attempts to mould the bones into position. No special manipulations are necessary as the ligaments are all extensively lacerated, and the bones are, as a rule, readily replaced. A roller-pillow is placed under the seat of the fracture to allow the weight of the body above and below to exert gentle traction, and so to relieve the cord of pressure. Operative treatment is almost never of any avail, as the cord is not merely pressed upon, but is severely crushed, or even completely torn across. Even when the cord is only partially injured operative treatment is not likely to yield better results than are obtained by reduction and extension. Great care must be taken to prevent cystitis and bed-sores (vol. i. p. 109). Total fracture-dislocation between Fig. 26.—Fracture-Dislocation of Ninth Dorsal Vertebra, showing downward and for- ward displacement of upper segment, and compression of cord by upper edge of lower segment. (Anatomical^Museum^^University ^he aflas an(], ax{s js almost always instantaneously fatal. The odontoid process is either dislocated from under the transverse ligament or it is fractured. This is the osseous lesion that occurs in judicial hanging. Penetrating Wounds.—These result from stabs or gunshot accidents, and are practically equivalent to compound fractures of the spine; their severity depends on the extent of the