38 THE CRANIUM AND ITS CONTENTS. but as time goes on they become more and more frequent, until there may be as many as forty or fifty in a day. Sometimes the patient loses consciousness during the fit; sometimes he remains partly conscious. In course of time the same degenerative changes as occur in epilepsy of other than traumatic origin, ensue : certain groups of muscles may become paralysed; the patient may pass into a state of idiocy; or into what is known as the “ status epilepticus,” in which the fits succeed one another without remission, the breathing becoming stertorous, the temperature rising, the pulse becoming very rapid ; finally coma supervenes, and the patient dies. Treatment.—The administration of bromides is only palliative. Operation is indicated in all cases in which the “ signal symptom ” indicates a limited and accessible portion of the brain as the seat of the lesion, and also in cases where there is a depression of the skull or other definite evidence of cranial injury. The more recent the injury the better is the prospect, as secondary changes are less likely to have taken place, and the peculiarly irritable state of the brain—sometimes referred to as the “epileptic habit ”—has not developed. The operation consists in opening the skull freely, and removing any discoverable cause of irrita- tion—depressed bone, thickened and adherent membranes, a cyst, or sclerosed patch of cortex. The point at which the skull is opened is determined by the seat of the injury and the focal brain symptoms. When no visible lesion is discovered after opening the skull, the cortical area governing the muscles in which the fits originate should be excised with a view to preventing recurrence. The focus to be removed may sometimes be recognised by stimulating the motor cortex with a mild electric current, and so inducing contraction of the group of muscles which give the “signal symptom” of the fits. The clinical value of this procedure, however, is not great. To prevent adhesions forming afresh, some surgeons insert a thin plate of gold or silver or Cargil membrane, between the brain and the overlying parts. Kocher has pointed out that it is not advisable to replace the bone after operating for epilej>sy. The patient must abstain from work, especially manual labour, for several years. The return of fits within a few days of the operation does not necessarily mean failure, as they often pass off again. Complete and permanent cure is not common, but the number and severity of the attacks are usually so far diminished that the patient’s life is bearable. In alcoholic subjects the prognosis is less favourable.