50 INJURIES OF THE SKULL. Clinical Features. — Sometimes a comparatively limited fracture of the occipital bone results, and in the course of a few days blood infiltrates the scalp in the region of the occiput and mastoid, or may pass down in the deeper planes of the neck. As a rule, however, there is no immediate external evidence of fracture. The patient is generally unconscious, and shows signs of injury to the pons and medulla, causing interference with respiration, which soon proves fatal. The rapidly fatal issue of these cases usually prevents the manifesta- tion of any injury to the posterior cranial nerves. Diagnosis of Basal Fractures.—In the diagnosis of fractures of the base reliance is to be placed chiefly upon : (1) the nature of the injury ; (2) the diffuse character of the cerebral symptoms; (3) the evidence of injury to individual cranial nerves; (4) the occurrence of persistent bleeding from the nose, mouth, or ear; (5) the extravasation of blood under the con- junctiva or behind the mastoid process; and (6) the presence of blood in the cerebro-spinal fluid withdrawn by lumbar puncture. In rare cases the diagnosis is made certain by the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid or of brain matter from the nose, mouth, or ear. It must be admitted, however, that in a large proportion of cases which end in recovery the diagnosis of fracture of the base is little more than a conjecture. The external evidence of damage to the bone is so slight and so liable to be fallacious that little reliance can be placed upon it. The associated cere- bral and nervous symptoms also are only presumptive evidence of fracture of the bone. In all cases, however, in which there is reason to suspect that the base is fractured, the patient should be treated on this assumption. It is often found that, when there are no cerebral symptoms present, it is very difficult to convince the patient of the necessity for undergoing treatment, and of the risk involved in his leaving his bed and resuming work. Prognosis in Basal Fractures.—The prognosis depends upon the severity of the cerebral lesions, and on the occurrence of septic intra-cranial complications. Many cases prove fatal within a few hours from the associated injury to the brain, the patient dying from cerebral compression due to haemorrhage. It is possible that the free escape of blood from the nose or ear may in some cases prevent compression, and to a certain extent render the prognosis more favourable. Punctured fractures are frequently fatal from septic complications — meningitis, sinus thrombosis, and cerebral abscess. These complications