THE RECTUM AND ANUS. 570 The rectum proper may be entirely absent, the colon ending in the pelvis as a cul-de-sac (Fig. 152). In some cases the anal canal also is absent; in others it is fully developed, but is separated from the colon by a thick bridge of fibrous tissue. A more common deformity is that in which the rectum, although fully formed, does not communicate with the anal canal (Fig. 153). The two cavities are separated by a septum which varies in thickness, in some cases being so thin that the meconium causes it to bulge towards the anal canal, in others being so thick that even on bi-manual palpation no trace of the those which result from imperfect formation of the septum that divides the primitive cloaca into its genito-urinary and rectal com- partments. The rectum may then communicate with the vagina, the bladder, or the urethra. In such cases the anal canal may be fully developed, or it also may present abnormalities. In about 50 per cent, of all cases the abnormal opening is into the vagina close to its outlet (Fig. 154),- and the condition may give rise to so little disturbance that it is for long entirely overlooked, and only attracts attention in adult life. Communications with the bladder and urethra are less common, and occur usually in males. The opening is generally so small as only to admit of the passage of meconium and fluid faeces. Obstructive symptoms rectal tube can be detected. In a certain number of cases a pouch of peritoneum in- tervenes between the two cavities — an arrangement which renders it dangerous to attempt to establish a communication by means of a trocar and cannula. In these conditions, the meconium being retained, the clinical features are those of intestinal obstruc- tion. It is seldom possible to determine by physical examination the precise nature and extent of the deformity. Fig. 154.—Imperforate Anus ; the Rectum opens into the Vagina close to its outlet. (After Tuttle.) Communications with the Genito-urinary Passages.— More common than the pre- ceding malformations are