INGUINAL HERNIA. 409 The Varieties of Hernia—Inguinal Hernia. This is by far the commonest variety of hernia, and includes all forms that traverse the inguinal canal. If the hernia leaves the abdomen through the internal abdominal ring to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery, and traverses the entire length of the inguinal canal, it is called an oblique, or, from its relation to the deep epigastric, an external inguinal hernia. If it escapes in the interval between the deep epigastric artery and the outer border of the rectus muscle—Hesselbach’s triangle—that is, to the inner side of the deep epigastric, it is called a direct or internal inguinal hernia. If the protrusion descends into the scrotum or labium it is called a scrotal or a labial hernia; if it stops short of either of these it is spoken of as a bubonocele. Surgical Anatomy.—The inguinal canal extends from the internal abdominal ring, which lies half an inch above a point a little internal to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, to the external ring, situated immediately above the crest of the pubes. In the adult it is about an inch and a half long, and is directed inwards, with a slight inclination downwards and forwards. The anterior wall is formed by the aponeurosis of the external oblique, strengthened in the outer third by the fibres of the internal oblique that take origin from Poupart’s ligament. The posterior wall is formed by the transversalis fascia, together with the conjoined tendon at its inner part, and a distinct layer of tendinous fibres derived from the transversalis muscle at its outer part. The conjoined tendon is often thin and weak, arid blends internally with the sheath of the rectus. The floor of the canal is formed by Poupart’s ligament and its reflection on to the body of the pubes—Gimbernat’s ligament; and the roof, by the arching fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. In the male the canal transmits the spermatic cord, and in the female, the round ligament. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, from without inwards, are : the integument, the intercolumnar fascia derived from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the cremasteric fascia and cremaster muscle continuous with the internal oblique, the infundibuliform fascia representing the fascia transversalis, the extra-peritoneal tissue, and the peritoneum, which constitutes the sac. Oblique Inguinal Hernia. — In the acquired, form in the male the sac is derived from the parietal peritoneum, which is