678 THE URINARY BLADDER. wound heals in three or four weeks. The operation known as lateral lithotomy is no longer practised. Stone in the female is removed by litholapaxy or by supra- pubic cystotomy. Recurrence of stone may be due to failure to remove all the fragments after litholapaxy, to the descent of another stone from the kidney, or to the formation of a fresh phosphatic stone in the bladder. The last is the most frequent, and usually occurs in men over sixty with enlarged prostate, pouching of the bladder, and septic cystitis; in such cases, therefore, it is essential that treatment should be directed not only to the removal of the stone, but also of those conditions that are liable to lead to the formation of fresh concretions. Tumours of the Bladder. The commonest tumour is the papilloma. In its typical form it projects from the mucous membrane into the interior of the bladder as a villous growth whose long .thread-like processes are floated out like seaweed when the organ is full of fluid. The purely innocent variety is usually pedunculated, and is situated in the vicinity of the trigone, and it is common to find the parent tumour with a number of satellites around it, or the entire mucous membrane may be studded with villous growths, suggesting a local contagiousness like that observed in papillomata of the skin. A warty form of papilloma, resembling the cauliflower growths of the skin, is also met with; it is more commonly sessile and solitary, and is more prone than the villous growth to become the seat of cancer. Rehn of Frankfort has observed twenty-three cases of vesical tumour among those employed in aniline dye-works. The outstanding clinical feature is recurrent hsematuria, each attack coming on suddenly without apparent cause, and without any other urinary symptom, and after lasting for a variable period disappearing as suddenly as it came. The period between attacks may extend to months or years. The urine may look like burgundy owing to a uniform admixture with blood, or the discoloration may be most marked in the urine passed towards the end of the act, from the compression of the delicate growth by the contracting bladder. Pain or difficulty of micturition is exceptional, and is due to mechanical blocking of the urethra by clots, or by a pedunculated growth attached near the neck of the bladder. The health does not suffer unless the amount of blood lost is sufficient to cause ansemia. The progress of the