CONCUSSION OF THE BRAIN. 23 times a tendency to constipation, and the patient is liable to allow the bladder to become distended, although he has no diffi- culty in making water. Children often sleep a great deal during the first few days, but sometimes they are very fretful. In cases complicated by gross brain lesions the symptoms of concussion imperceptibly merge into those of compression. Pathology.—It is probable that in all cases in,which the patient loses consciousness there is some definite damage of the cerebral tissue. On microscopic examination we have found1 numerous minute petechial haemorrhages scattered widely throughout the brain substance. Colloid bodies, patches of miliary sclerosis, and pigmentary degeneration of nerve cells were found in a majority of the cases examined. Three theories have been put forward to explain the clinical features of concussion :—(1) That which supposes that the brain is thrown into a state of vibration which causes a temporary suspension of its functions, is on anatomical and physical grounds untenable. (2) It has been suggested that the capillary hemorrhages which are found throughout the brain substance produce the symptoms. The majority of observers reject this theory also, on the grounds that the number and extent of such hemorrhages bear no relation to the severity of the concussion symptoms, and that the lesions persist long after the symptoms have passed off. (3) The view of Duret is that most generally accepted. He ascribes the symptoms to stimulation of the restiform bodies by a fluid wave of cerebro-spinal fluid driven towards the base of the brain by the impact of the blow on the skull. This sudden stimulation of the restiform bodies induces a profound anaemia of the brain, to which the symptoms are directly attributable. The momentary increase in the tension of the cerebro-spinal fluid in every part of the brain accounts for the lesions already referred to. We have experimentally con- firmed Duret’s observations, and agree with his conclusions. After-Effects of Concussion.—The majority of patients recover completely. A number complain for a time of headache, languor, museular weakness, and incapacity for sustained effort. Sometimes there is a condition of mental instability, the patient is easily excited, and is unduly affected by alcohol or other stimulants. Occasionally there is permanent mental impairment. It is not uncommon to find that the patient has entirely forgotten the circumstances of the injury and of the events which immedi- ately preceded it. In some instances the memory is permanently 1 Miles, Laboratory Reports, Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, vol. iv.