761 HYDROCELE. points are now secured with ligatures, and the testis returned to the scrotum. A small drainage tube is introduced through a puncture made at the bottom of the scrotum, the inguinal incision completely closed, and firm pressure is exerted on the scrotum by means of a bandage. In large hydroceles with thick, rigid walls, such as are met with in tropical countries, the entire parietal layer must be excised through a free incision in the scrotum. Drainage of the sac through an incision in the scrotum is so tedious, so uncertain in its results, and so liable to be followed by sepsis, that it is not recommended. The injection of strong tincture of iodine or carbolic acid into the sac, formerly much in vogue, has been given up in favour of the more speedy and certain results obtained by operation. Congenital hydrocele is usually met with in children. It presents the same general characters as the chronic hydrocele of adults, but as the processus vaginalis is patent, the fluid flows into the peritoneal cavity when the patient lies down, or can be slowly pressed back by squeezing the swelling. It differs from a congenital hernia in being dull on percussion, and in the slow and gradual way in which it is reduced without gurgling or sudden jerk. The swelling resembles a hernia in becoming tense when the patient cries or coughs. The diagnostic value of translucency is diminished by the fact that a hernia of small intestine in young children may also transmit light. If the fluid does disappear spontaneously, the sac should be dissected out. Infantile hydrocele resembles the ordinary acquired hydrocele of adults, save that the sac extends farther along the inguinal canal, as only the upper end of the processus vaginalis is occluded. In some cases a constriction exists where the tunica vaginalis and the funicular process join, and the upper compart- ment of the sac becomes greatly distended and bulges, either up between the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, forming a salient fluid swelling which may reach to the umbilicus, or into the iliac fossa and pelvis, where it may displace the pelvic viscera and be palpable from the rectum. This constitutes one of the forms of bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. It is treated by excising as much of the sac as possible. A condition comparable to infantile hydrocele is produced when fluid collects in a hernial sac emptied of its contents and occluded at its upper end —hydrocele of a hernial sac. Haematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis.—An extravasation of blood into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis is spoken of as