MALIGNANT DISEASE. 727 rectal examination the prostate is found to be irregularly en- larged and very hard in consistence. The diagnosis from innocent enlargement is to be made chiefly from the more rapid development and progress of the dysuria, the hardness of the swelling, and its unequal distribution as felt from the rectum. A radical operation, consisting in the removal of the entire prostate, the seminal vesicles, the vasa deferentia, and the trigone of the bladder, has been practised by Young of Baltimore. In the majority of cases it is only possible to relieve the symptoms by opening the bladder above the pubes and establish- ing continuous drainage. While this may give great relief for a period of several months, the final stages of the disease are usually attended with great suffering, owing to recurrent agonising spasms of the neck of the bladder. Large doses of hyoscyamus, or a few inhalations of chloroform vapour on a handkerchief, inhibit the spasm if taken as soon as it commences. If the rectum becomes obstructed, it may be necessary to per- form colostomy. A latent form of cancer is sometimes met with in the prostate, and may give rise to multiple secondary growths, especially throughout the skeleton, which may present the features of cancerous osteo-malacia (Recklinghausen). Sarcoma may originate in the prostate—sometimes in boys— and may in a short time attain a very considerable size, filling up the bladder and projecting above the pubes; the symptoms may be relieved by a supra-pubic cystostomy. The Seminal Vesicles. Surgical Anatomy.—The seminal vesicles are oblong, flattened, nodular bodies which lie above and behind the prostate, against the base of the bladder, to which they are loosely attached by a small quantity of connective tissue (Fig. 192). The long axes run in a plane directed downwards and forwards so that the two vesicles converge at their lower ends and meet at the base of the prostate. The upper, broader end of each is covered by the recto-vesical reflection of the peritoneum, and lies in close relationship with the ureter. The lower end is tubular, and towards its mesial aspect is the terminal portion of the vas deferens, with which it joins to form the ejaculatory duct, which opens on the floor of the prostatic urethra. The vesicles, which serve as a store- house for the spermatic fluid, are lined with columnar epithelium, secreting an opalescent fluid which nourishes the spermatozoa