180 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. purified by an antiseptic mouth-wash, or by a spray of hydrogen peroxide. In a certain number of fractures implicating the body of the jaw, and particularly in bilateral fractures, there is some difficulty in maintaining the fragments in apposition by the four-tailed bandage and external splint. It may then be necessary to employ some form of dental splint, of which Hammond’s is perhaps the best. It consists of a stout nickelled-iron or silver- wire frame, which is accurately moulded so as to surround several teeth on each side of the fracture. Loops of wire are then passed between the individual teeth and round the frame so that the splint is divided into a series of compartments, each of which contains a tooth. To obtain the most satisfactory results with this appliance the aid of an expert dentist is necessary. The method of applying loops of wire round the teeth on each side of the fracture is open to the objections that it fails to secure complete and absolute apposition, and that the teeth are liable to be loosehed or displaced. In rare cases it is necessary to unite the fragments by wire sutures. Even in badly united fractures the original contour of the bone is eventually restored by the movements of the tongue moulding it into shape. Affections of the Temporo-maxillary Articulation. Dislocation of the Lower Jaw.—Dislocation of the lower jaw may be unilateral or bilateral. The bilateral form is the more common, and is met with most frequently in middle life, and in females. The liability to dislocation is greatest when the mouth is widely open—for example, in yawning, laughing, or vomiting—as under these conditions the condyle, accompanied by the meniscus, passes forwards out of the glenoid cavity and rests on the summit of the articular eminence. If, while the bone is in this position, the external pterygoid muscle is thrown into contraction, it pulls the condyle forward over the eminence into the hollow beneath the root of the zygoma, and the con- traction of the masseter and temporal muscles retains it there. Muscular contraction is therefore an important factor in the production of these dislocations. Dislocation may be produced also by a downward blow on the chin, by the unskilful introduction of a mouth gag, particu- larly while the patient is ansesthetised, or even in the attempt to take a big bite—say, of an apple. The dislocation that results from such causes is usually unilateral.