95 TRAUMATIC LESIONS OF THE CORD. septic pyelonephritis; or the patient may develop an ascending- myelitis, and these conditions are the most common causes of death. Lumbo sacral Region.—All the spinal segments representing the lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerves lie between the level of the eleventh dorsal and first lumbar vertebra-. Injuries of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar vertebras, therefore, may produce com- plete paralysis within the area of distribution of the lumbar and sacral plexuses. The anaesthesia reaches to about the level of the umbilicus. There is incontinence of urine and faeces from the first. Priapism is absent. Bed-sores and other trophic changes are common, and there is the usual risk of septic com- plications in relation to the urinary tract. Cauda Equina.—As the cord terminates opposite the lower border of the first lumbar vertebra, injuries below this level only implicate the cauda equina. The extent of the motor and sensory paralysis varies with the level of the lesion and with the particular nerves injured. Sometimes it is complete, some- times selective. As a rule all the muscles of the lower extremity are paralysed, except those supplied by the anterior crural, obturator, and superior gluteal nerves. The perineal and penile muscles are also implicated. There is anaesthesia of the penis, scrotum, perineum, lower half of the buttock, and the entire lower extremity, except the front and outer aspects of the thigh, which are supplied by the external cutaneous nerve and the cutaneous branches of the anterior crural. There is incontinence of urine and faeces. The prognosis is more favour- able than in lesions affecting the cord itself, and the only risk to life is the occurrence of septic complications. Treatment.—When the cord is completely divided no benefit can follow operative interference. The treatment of patients suffering from total transverse lesions is chiefly directed towards the prevention of septic complications from cystitis and bed- sores. Partial Lesions of the Cord and Nerve-roots.-—Partial lesions of the cord, such as bruises, lacerations, or partia] ruptures, usually result from distortions or incomplete fractures and dislocations of the spine, or from bullet wounds (vol. i. p. 230). They are comparatively rare. When the nerve-roots alone are injured sensory phenomena predominate. Formication, radiating pains, and neuralgia are present in the area of distribution of the nerves im- plicated. There is motor paresis or paralysis, which may disappear either suddenly or gradually, or may persist and be