THE NOSE AND NASO-PHARYNX. 226 soft palate. When a good examination of the naso-pharynx is obtained, the following parts may he seen reflected in the mirror : the posterior surface of the uvula and soft palate, and above them, in the mesial plane, the posterior free edge of the septum nasi. On each side of the septum the apertures of the posterior nares, in which may be seen the ujDper part of the posterior end of the inferior turbinal, the middle meatus, the posterior end of the middle turbinal, the superior meatus, and occasion- ally a portion of the superior turbinal. On the lateral wall of the naso-pharynx the Eustachian opening and cushion can be seen, while by tilting the mirror backwards the vault of the naso-pharynx can be inspected. Digital examination of the naso-pharynx may be required, especially in children. The examiner passes his left arm and hand round the back of the child’s head, and with one of his fingers presses the cheek inwards between the jaws. His right forefinger is carried along the dorsum of the tongue, passed up behind the soft palate, and a rapid examination made of the post-nasal space. Cardinal Symptoms of Nasal Affections. — The chief symptoms of nasal disease are : nasal obstruction, nasal dis- charge, anomalies of smell and taste, and certain reflex phenomena. Nasal Obstruction.—This may be partial or complete, inter- mittent or constant, and may be the cause of such symptoms as alteration in the tone of the voice, catarrh of the respiratory passages, snoring, cough, headache, inability to concentrate the attention, alteration in the physiognomy, or deformity of the chest. The half-open mouth, drooping jaw, lengthened appearance of the face, narrow nostrils, and vacant expression are charac- teristic signs of nasal obstruction. Nasal obstruction may be due to intra-nasal or to post-nasal (naso-pharyngeal) causes. Amongst the former may be noted as the more common, erectile swelling and hypertrophy of the mucous membrane covering the inferior turbinated bones, and nasal polypi growing from the middle turbinal and middle meatal region. Causes originating in the septum include deviations, spines and ridges, and septal hsematoma and abscess. Obstruction may also be due to the presence of a foreign body in the nasal cavity, to rliinoliths, and to imperfect development of the nasal chambers. Further, tumours, both simple and malignant, and such conditions as tubercle, lupus, syphilis, and glanders may interfere more or less with nasal respiration. The most common cause of post-nasal obstruction is the presence of adenoids; more rarely fibro-mucous polypi, fibrous tumours, malignant disease, and cicatricial contractions and adhesions resulting from syphilis are met with. Erectile swelling of the inferior turbinated bodies is due to engorgement of the venous spaces contained in the mucous