662 THE URINARY BLADDER. of urine when the bladder is distended. A catheter is then tied in the bladder and attached to a suction apparatus. In the extra-peritoneal variety the position of the incision is determined by the seat of extravasation. If this is in the hypo- gastric region, the incision is made above the pubes as in supra- pubic cystotomy; the urine thus escapes, and the contaminated area is washed out with saline solution introduced through a catheter passed along the urethra into the bladder. Tepid water should be used for irrigation, otherwise the muscular coat of the bladder contracts, rendering the rupture inaccessible to suture. When the extravasation is low down, around the neck of the bladder and between the bladder and rectum, the incision is made in the middle line of the perineum, as in rupture of the posterior urethra. Penetrating Wounds.—These result chiefly from falls on pointed objects, stabs, and gunshot injuries. The penetrating instrument may enter through the anterior abdominal wall, the vagina, the rectum, or the perineum, or by way of the buttock through the sacro-sciatic foramen. Under this heading also may be included wounds accidentally inflicted on the bladder in the course of pelvic operations, the perforation of the bladder from within by a catheter, and in the radical cure of hernia. Gunshot wounds are usually associated with injury to the pelvic bones. The clinical features are similar to those of ruptured bladder, and the same complications are liable to ensue. The escape of blood-stained urine by the external wound is not constant. Unaided recovery is most likely to occur in wounds traversing the perineum, the vagina, or the rectum. In some cases a urinary fistula persists, and if a foreign body has been carried into the bladder, it may form the nucleus of a calculus. The treatment is the same as in ruptured bladder; if the peritoneal cavity is not implicated, it is usually sufficient to open up and drain the external wound; means are also taken to combat septic infection in the bladder. Foreign Bodies.—Objects of all kinds have been met with in the bladder, and they may gain access by various routes. Bodies entering by the urethra include portions of catheters, lithotrites, or other instruments introduced by the patient or surgeon ; and hair-pins, pencils, and similar objects by the patient. As a result of suppurative and ulcerative processes involving the wall of the bladder, various objects may gain access to its interior, as, for example, sequestra from disease of the pelvic bones, hairs and teeth from ovarian dermoids, or silk threads employed in gynecological operations.