368 THE PERITONEUM. great omentum may be similarly elongated and moulded into a band. Bands consist of fibrous connective tissue invested by peritoneum, and they vary in length and in thickness from that of thick catgut to that of the little finger. Adhesions and bands may exist without giving rise to any symptoms, or they may, by fixing or dragging upon structures to which they are connected, cause suffering and bring about conditions dangerous to life. Abdominal pain and discomfort may result from traction on the parietal peritoneum; the functions of the stomach may be disturbed from the pylorus being dragged upon or narrowed; the intestine may become kinked, twisted or strangulated, causing colicky pain, constipa- tion or even obstruction of the bowels. The formation of adhesions after abdominal operations may to some extent be pre- vented by taking care to avoid irritating the peritoneum by rough handling or prolonged exposure, by removing all blood-clots from the peritoneal cavity, and by suturing the peritoneum over raw surfaces and pedicle stumps. Foreign Bodies in the Peritoneal Cavity.—It has been observed that when a foreign body such as a sponge, a portion of gauze or a metal instrument, has been accidentally left in the peritoneal cavity, it may enter the lumen of the bowel or may become encysted ; more frequently it determines the onset of peritonitis, and if this becomes localised an abscess forms which may rupture through the anterior abdominal wall or through the floor of the pelvis, and in fortunate cases the foreign body may be extruded and got rid of. When the condition is diagnosed the treatment consists in opening the abdomen and removing the body. Tumours of the Peritoneum and , Extra-peritoneal Cellular Tissue. Retro-peritoneal Tumours. — These originate behind the peritoneum in the extra-peritoneal cellular tissue, usually to one or other side of the vertebral column, and project towards the abdominal cavity, pushing forwards the posterior peritoneum and the intestines connected to it. They are usually innocent, and consist almost exclusively of fat—retro-peritoneal lipoma. In some there is a mixture of fat and myxomatous tissue; and transition forms to sarcoma are also met with. They do not cause symptoms until they attain a large size—tumours weighing over fifty pounds have been recorded—and then by their bulk they may exert pressure on adjacent viscera, or displace the intestines to one or other side or towards the hypochondrium.