760 THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. shaped process sometimes passes towards the inguinal canal and gives an appearance which simulates a hernia. Sometimes a marked constriction exists about the middle of the sac, dividing it into two compartments—bilocular hydrocele or hydrocele en bissac. As a result of adhesions the cavity may be multilocular. Diagnosis.—A careful analysis of the signs and symptoms will usually enable an ordinary hydrocele to be diagnosed from a scrotal hernia, a tumour of the testis or epididymis, a liannatocele, or from other forms of hydrocele. It is to be borne in mind that hydrocele may be complicated by hernia, and that more than one form of hydrocele may coexist. Treatment.—As spontaneous cure seldom occurs in adults, and as the swelling by its size, weight, and unsightliness is a source of annoyance to the patient, an attempt should be made to cure the condition. Tapping.—The patient is seated on the edge of a chair, and the surgeon grasps the swelling in such a way as to render the front of the hydrocele prominent and tense. A fine trocar and cannula is then thrust in a backward and upward direction into the swelling a little below its middle. Care is taken to avoid injuring the testis or any of the larger veins of the scrotum. The trocar is now withdrawn and the cannula pushed well into the cavity, and pressure is kept up till all the fluid has escaped, after which the cannula is quickly withdrawn. The puncture is sealed with collodion, a pad of wool applied over the scrotum, and pressure exerted by an ordinary or a suspensory bandage. The patient should rest for some hours after the tapping. Simple tapping is seldom curative in adults, although some- times successful in children. Operative treatment is indicated in large hydroceles with thickened or calcified walls, in cases where loose or pedunculated bodies are present, when there is reason to believe that the hydrocele communicates with the peritoneal cavity or with the sac of a hernia, and in cases in which the fluid has reaccumulated after repeated tapping. Owing to the difficulty of keeping scrotal wounds aseptic, it is best to reach the hydrocele through an incision above Poupart’s ligament. A transverse incision is made over the external abdo- minal ring, exposing the cord. The upper end of the hydrocele is cleared, and having been made to project towards the wound, is opened and the sac emptied. The collapsed sac, together with the testis, is then withdrawn from the scrotum, and the parietal layer turned inside out, the edges of the sac being sutured along the back of the epididymis and testis with catgut. All bleeding