INTRA-CEANIAL HAEMORRHAGE. 35 spontaneous arrest of the haemorrhage usually takes place, and recovery ensues. In some cases, however, the amount of blood extravasated is sufficient to cause compression. If the dura mater is torn, the blood passes into the sub-arachnoid space and may spread over the whole surface of the brain. In the presence of an open wound, the venous source of the bleeding is recognised by the dark colour of the blood and the continuous character of the stream. It may be arrested by pressure with gauze pads, or, if this fails, by grasping the sinus with forceps and leaving these in position for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. A small puncture in the outer wall of the sinus may be closed with sutures. Signs of increasing compression call for trephining and opening the dura to enable the clot to be removed. Intra-cranial Haemorrhage in the Newly-Born. An ex- travasation of blood into the arachno-pial space frequently occurs during birth. The observations of Cushing seem to show that this is usually due to tearing of the delicate cerebral veins which pass from the cortex to the longitudinal sinus, from the strain put upon them by the overlapping of the parietal bones in the moulding of the head. It may sometimes be due to an excessive degree of asphyxia during birth. The effusion is usually most marked over the central area of the cortex near the middle line, and it is often bilateral. TJiis condition is most frequently met with in a first-born child—and more often in boys than in girls—the labour having been prolonged and difficult, and the presentation abnormal. There is usually a history that the infant was deeply cyanosed when born, and that there was difficulty in getting it to breathe. As a rube, there is no external evidence of trauma. The anterior fontanelle is tense and does not pulsate, the pulse is slow, and for several days the child appears to have difficulty in sucking and swallowing, and is abnormally still. In the course of a few days definite symptoms of localised pressure appear. It is noticed that one leg, or arm, or one side of the body is not moved, or both sides may be affected. When the paralysis is bilateral, the absence of movement is more liable to be over- looked. The infant may suffer from convulsions • there may be paralysis of certain of the ocular muscles, and inequality of the pupils; sometimes there is blindness. Persistent rigidity of the limbs, with turning of the thumbs towards the palm, is present in some cases. Lumbar puncture may reveal the presence of blood corpuscles in the cerebro-spinal fluid, and is useful where the diagnosis is uncertain. If untreated, the condition is usually followed by the develop-