170 THE JAWS, INCLUDING TEETH AND GUMS. At the outset the patient complains of pain and tenderness referred to one or more carious teeth. Within a few weeks a swelling forms—in the lower jaw near the angle as a rule, and in the upper jaw in some part of the cheek. The swelling, which varies in consistence, implicates the bone and cannot be moved apart from the jaw. The skill over it becomes inflamed, suppuration occurs, and sinuses form and give exit to a sero- purulent fluid in which the characteristic yellow “ sulphur grains ” may be detected. The surrounding soft tissues become infiltrated, and the part becomes riddled with sinuses, which lead down to bare bone. The disease usually runs a chronic course, lasting for one or two years, and is not attended with fever, unless pyogenic infection is superadded. In the absence of the characteristic yellow granules actinomycosis may readily be mistaken for tuberculous or syphilitic disease of the jaw, or for sarcoma. The treatment consists in removing the diseased tissue by the knife or sharp spoon, and in the administration of large doses of potassium iodide. Tumours of the Alveolar Process.—Epulis.—The tumours that grow from the alveolar processes of the jaws are essenti- ally of the nature of fibro-sarcomata. They originate in the periosteum of the alveolus or in the periodontal membrane. In some the fibrous element predominates, and they closely resemble fibromata, but the frequency with which they recur after removal, unless the segment of bone from which they spring is also excised, indicates their malignant tendency. In some cases the tumour is of the myeloid type—myeloma—in others it contains masses of bone in its substance—osteo-sarcoma. The tumour may begin between two teeth or in the socket of a tooth which has been lost. It grows slowly, either towards the cavity of the mouth, or more frequently towards the lip or cheek, where it appears as a smooth, firm, rounded swelling, which is adherent to the jaw, and may be sessile or pedunculated. It causes little pain, but is liable to interfere with mastication. As it increases in size it becomes softer, assumes a dark violet colour, and if subjected to pressure or irritation may ulcerate and bleed. The true alveolar tumour is to be diagnosed from a mass of redundant granulations such as may form in relation to a carious stump, from polypus of the gum, from an epithelioma of the gum, a tumour of the body of the jaw, or an angioma. The treatment consists in removing the tumour together with a wedge-shaped or quadrilateral portion of the alveolar