STRANGULATED HERNIA. 401 a truss. If it fails, an operation becomes imperative. In those who are not tit subjects for operation, the symptoms may be relieved, and the danger of strangulation lessened, by wearing some form of apparatus, such as an excavated pad or a bag, which will support the protrusion. Obstructed or Incarcerated Hernia.—This condition is chiefly met with in fat women who suffer from irreducible umbilical hernia, and have allowed the bowels to become overloaded. The passage of faeces along the loop of bowel involved in the pro- trusion is impeded, and the hernia becomes swollen, tender, and firm or doughy in consistence, the patient complaining of colicky pains and vomiting. The condition is often looked upon as a bilious attack, and therefore as of little importance, but it is really a grave condition, and may merge insensibly into strangulation. The treatment consists in confining the patient to bed, the foot of which is raised, and emptying the colon by means of copious enemata, succeeded by gentle kneading and taxis. If the symptoms are not relieved, recourse must be had to operation. Strangulated Hernia.—A hernia is said to be strangulated when the circulation of blood through the contents of the sac is seriously impeded. The passage of intestinal contents along the loop of bowel contained in the sac is also arrested, and there is in consequence obstruction of the bowel. Strangu- lation may occur at any stage in the history of a hernia, even the first time the intestine is protruded, or it may develop in a hernia of many years’ standing. It is on the whole less likely to occur in large hernise in which the canal is widely dilated than in small ones. The occurrence of strangulation involves serious risk to life, because of obstruction of the bowels and septic complications. Mechanism of Strangulation. — Strangulation ensues when the disproportion between the calibre of the neck of the sac and the bulk of the structures passing through it is such that the blood-vessels of the protruded viscus are compressed. This may be brought about by an addition to the contents of the hernia, for example, by a sudden exertion on the part of the patient forcing an extra loop of intestine down through the hernial aperture. The pathological changes vary with the tightness of the constricting ring and the duration of the strangulation. The early changes in the bowel are the result of mechanical interfer- ence with the circulation, while the later and more serious effects depend upon bacterial invasion of its coats. VOL. II—26