587 ANAL FISSURE. examination the rectal opening is usually felt above the internal sphincter. The best results have been obtained by making a temporary artificial anus, and systematically drawing off the water with the catheter. Various plastic operations have been tried, but without much success. Recto-vesical fistula is rare. It may result from the same pathological conditions as the urethral variety, but is most frequently due to the spread of cancer of the rectum. Anal Fissure.—This term is applied to a small irritable ulcer situated close to the anal orifice. The sore is usually elliptical or pear-shaped, and lies in one of the folds into which the integument around the anus is thrown by the contraction of the external sphincter. It is almost always single, and varies in length from a quarter to one inch, its narrow upper end being situated on the mucous membrane, reaching to the lower border of the internal sphincter; while its broader, lower end may extend on to the skin and overlie the external sphincter. In depth the sore varies from a superficial abrasion of the mucous membrane to an ulcer which exposes, or may even invade, the muscular fibres of the external sphincter. The edges are usually inflamed and elevated, and curl in over the feeble granulations which cover the base of the ulcer. At the lower end of the fissure there is frequently an cedeinatous or hypertrophied tag of skin simulating an external pile, and named by Brodie the sentinel pile. The most common cause of these ulcers is laceration of the mucous membrane by the passage of hard faecal masses or foreign bodies, or, in women, overstretching of the mucous membrane of the anterior rectal wall during parturition. Ac- cording to Ball, in the majority of cases the initial lesion is a tear or rupture of one of the crypts of Morgagni, and the swollen and oedematous margins of the valve constitute the sentinel pile. Fissure may be associated with piles, polypus, fistula, or other rectal affections. Clinical Features.—Fissure is usually met with in adult life, and is, on the whole, more common in women than in men. When it occurs in childhood it is usually a result of inherited syphilis. The most characteristic symptom is intense pain during and after defecation, from spasmodic contraction of the sphincters and levator ani muscles. In the early stages, while the ulcer is comparatively superficial, the pain is of an acute tearing or cutting nature, and lasts only for a few minutes. Later it becomes burning, and is accompanied by spasm of the sphincters and bearing-down sensations, which may last for an