RENAL COLIC. 637 The inference that the colic is due to stone is arrived at mainly by excluding the other conditions that give rise to renal colic. Renal colic may be due to any condition which interferes with the escape of urine from the pelvis or ureter, such as kinking of the pedicle of a movable kidney, commencing hydronephrosis, or blocking of the ureter with clots as in new growths of the kidney, or with caseous debris as in tuberculous pyelitis. Colic may also be induced by anything which causes a sudden increase of pressure within the kidney, as acute con- gestion or inflammation, or haemorrhage into the parenchyma. It may also be due to abnormal conditions in the ureter, such as stricture, involvement in adhesions, or injury occurring in the course of pelvic operations. The mere passage of oxalate of lime crystals may cause symptoms like those of stone, even to the extent of hsematuria. Great difficulty may arise in relation to certain forms of chronic nephritis attended with pain and hsematuria, and in cases in which, from the vagueness of the patient’s complaints, a diagnosis of lumbago and sciatica, chronic rheumatism, or nervous dyspepsia may be made. Statements by patients that they have passed blood or sand are to be accepted with caution, as they are apt to be deceived by the high colour of the urine and the deposit of urates on standing. The demonstration of the concretions by the Rongten rays is to be regarded as the only certain clinical means of recognising renal calculus. Uric acid and urate of ammonia calculi are almost as transparent as soft tissues, while those composed of oxalate of lime, phosphate of lime, and even cystic oxide, are fairly opaque. The opacity of the cystic oxide stone is due to the presence of sulphur. The procedure is best carried out after the method described by Kiimmell of Hamburg. The bowels having been cleared out, the patient is placed in the dorsal position, with the thighs acutely flexed and the head bent forwards, so that the loin lies evenly on the sensitive plate. A trial radiogram'*!* taken by means of a soft tube placed at the maximum distance from the plate, and if a suspicious shadow is found on the negative, its position is accurately marked on the back of the patient, and the corresponding point on the anterior abdominal wall determined. A second radiogram is then taken with the tube immediately over this point, while the surrounding parts are protected by a leaden shield as large as a dinner plate; the tube is to be as close to the body as possible, so as to render, by magnification, even small stones more easily recognisable. Another method is described by J. R. Riddell of Glasgow.