279 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-PASSAGES. Thyrotomy consists in splitting the thyroid cartilage in the middle line for the removal of papillomata or of foreign bodies from the interior of the larynx, or for exploration in cases of cancer. It is also the best procedure in the treatment of cases of intrinsic laryngeal cancer. A mesial incision is made from the hyoid bone to the cricoid cartilage, the muscles are separated, and the thyroid split longitudinally. After completing the intra-laryngeal part of the operation, the two halves of the cartilage are sutured in position, special care being taken to approximate accurately the vocal cords in order to avoid interference with phonation; the stitches should not penetrate the whole thickness of the cartilage. A preliminary tracheotomy is usually advisable, but the tube need not be worn for more than twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Laryngotomy consists in opening the larynx below the glottis by dividing the crico-thyroid membrane. It is performed as an emergency operation in cases of sudden asphyxia, induced, for example, by the impaction of a foreign body, or by spasm or oedema of the larynx; and as a preliminary to operations on the mouth or throat, with a view to diminishing the risk of blood entering the air-passages. A vertical mesial incision, about an inch and a half long, is made so as to expose the membrane; the edges of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles are separated, and a transverse incision carried through the membrane close to the upper border of the cricoid cartilage to avoid injuring the crico-thyroid arteries, which cross the membrane at a higher level. The opening is held open by the handle of the knife or by forceps until a short oval tube is inserted. In children the available space is so small that it may be necessary to divide the cricoid cartilage and one or two rings of the trachea to admit of the tube being introduced. Tracheotomy is the operation of choice for the relief of laryngeal obstruction. It is frequently employed also as a preliminary measure in severe operations on the mouth and larynx, to enable steps to be taken to prevent blood and dis- charges entering the air-passages, and to facilitate the administra- tion of the amesthetic. The trachea may be opened either above or below the thyroid isthmus, which usually covers the second, third, and fourth tracheal rings. The high operation is to be pre- ferred as a rule, being more easily performed, and attended with less risk from haemorrhage and from septic complications in the connective-tissue planes of the neck. The loiv opera- tion is indicated, however, in cases of malignant disease of the