567 SURGICAL ANATOMY. of Morgagni. This line of valves marks the junction of the anal canal and rectum proper. The submucous connective tissue is specially loose and lax, and in it run the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves of the bowel. The muscular coat is made up of an outer series of longitudinal fibres, the downward continuation of the three longitudinal bands of the colon, and an inner series of circular fibres. At the lower end of the rectum, for about an inch of its length, the circular fibres are larger and more numerous, and constitute the internal sphincter, the terminal fibres of which interlace with those of the levator ani and external sphincter muscles. The nerve-supply of the muscular tunic, including the internal sphincter, is derived from the pelvic sympathetic plexuses. The arteries that supply the rectum are : the superior heemorrhoidal, the continuation into the pelvis of the inferior mesenteric ; the middle heemorrhoidal, from the inferior vesical ; the inferior heemorrhoidal, a branch of the internal pudic ; and the middle sacral, from the abdominal aorta. The veins begin as small, bulbous sacs, situated along the line of the ano-rectal junction, just above the crypts of Morgagni. The blood entering the superior heemorrhoidal veins is carried through the inferior mesenteric vein into the portal circulation, while that collected by the middle and inferior heemorrhoidal and middle sacral veins enters the general circulation through the vena cava. The lymphatics of the upper part of the bowel enter the sacral and lumbar glands, while those from the anal and perianal region pass to the inguinal glands. Under normal conditions, except when the bowels are about to act, the rectum is empty. In the interval between evacuations the fieces accumulate in the pelvic colon, and the presence of feces in the rectum between stools is an indication that the patient suffers from chronic constipation or from some condition which prevents complete evacuation. Examination.—A digital and visual examination should be made in all cases in which the patient complains of symptoms referable to the rectum, and the lower bowel, if loaded, should first be washed out by an en^ma. The examination may be carried out with the patient lying on the left side, in the lithotomy position, or in the knee-elbow position. In many cases it is most satisfactorily made with the patient bending over the back of a chair. Rubber gloves or a finger-stall should be worn, and the finger lubricated with sterilised vaseline from a collapsible tube. In making the examination the surgeon should note in turn the state of parts around the anus, the condition of the sphincters, the mucous membrane of the anal canal and of the rectum beyond the internal sphincter, with special reference to ulceration, swelling, and the presence of sinuses. The condition of the prostate, seminal vesicles, and coccyx should also be noted. On the finger being withdrawn the presence of discharge or blood should be observed. It is possible in this way to explore the lower four inches of the bowel. When a higher examination is called for, a general aneesthetic should be administered and the sphincters gently stretched. For the inspection of the lower bowel, the best method is that of Howard Kelly. The patient assumes the knee-chest attitude ; the chest rests on the bed and, the pelvis being on a higher level, the pelvic viscera fall away towards the diaphragm, so that when the speculum or proctoscope is introduced air passes in and distends the cavity. A bright light is reflected into the bowel from a forehead mirror. A longer