589 INTERNAL PILES. rectum and anal canal. Two varieties are recognised : internal piles, which originate inside the anal orifice, and implicate the terminal branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal vessels; and external piles, which lie outside the external sphincter and im- plicate the branches of the inferior htemorrhoidals. When both varieties co-exist, as is frequently the case, the piles are spoken of as mixed. Internal Piles.—The internal is the more common and more important variety. Each pile consists of a central arterial twig, surrounded by a bunch of varicose and sacculated veins, and a varying quantity of condensed connective tissue — the whole forming an elongated, pear-shaped swelling over which is stretched the rectal mucous membrane. There may be only one pile present, in which case it usually lies in the right anterior quadrant of the rectum, or there may be several scattered round the bowel, the rounded ends of the piles reaching down to the muco-cutaneous junction. Phlebitis and periphlebitis frequently occur in relation to piles, and phleboliths may form in throm- bosed veins. Piles may occur at any period of life, but are rarely met with before puberty, and are most common between the ages of forty and sixty. The two sexes seem to suffer with about equal frequency, but men apply for treatment much oftener than do women. Many factors contribute to the pro- duction of piles, the most important of which are habitual con- stipation, and repeated and prolonged causes of straining, for example, enlarged prostate, urethral stricture, or stone in the bladder. Increased backward pressure in the venous circulation, such as occurs, for example, in cirrhosis of the liver and in heart disease, also tends to induce piles. The pressure of the enlarged uterus during pregnancy, or of abdominal or pelvic tumours, acts in the same way. In many cases there is a distinct hereditary tendency towards the development of piles, as there is in other forms of varix. Clinical Features.—Three degrees or stages may be recognised. In the first degree the piles remain inside the anal orifice, and are not protruded during defecation or on straining. The veins are varicose, but do not form distinct masses. In the second degree the vessels are dilated and sacculated, and form fleshy masses, which are protruded during defecation but return spontaneously after the act, or can be readily returned by the patient. In the third degree the piles remain protruded and can only be returned by the patient with difficulty, if at all, and there is frequently also some prolapse of the mucous membrane.