705 TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. stricture, the extent of urethra involved, and the number of strictures present may be learned by passing a fine flexible instrument with an acorn-shaped tip; the acorn tip passes through the stricture with difficulty, and hitches against it on being withdrawn. By means of a urethrometer, such as that of Otis, the calibre of the stricture may be accurately measured. Treatment of Uncomplicated Stricture.—The patient should abstain from alcohol and avoid exposure to cold, and the urine should be rendered bland by diluent drinks, the liberal use of Vichy, Contrexeville, or Wildungen water, and occasional courses of medicines of the urotropin class. Intermittent dilatation, the object of which is gradually to overstretch the scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, is carried out by the passage of bougies at intervals of two or three days. In tight strictures, horsehair, black olivary, or fine metal bougies are employed, and great care and patience must be exercised. If the urethra is sensitive and congested, a solution of eucain and adrenalin should be injected beforehand. The pas- sage of instruments is often made easier if the urethra is distended with sterilised oil or glycerine. In difficult cases the entrance to the stricture may be found with the aid of the endoscope. If the point of the bougie catches in the mucous membrane, it should be slightly withdrawn and then pushed on again, the urethra being kept on the stretch by making traction on the penis. In the use of steel bougies, when there is difficulty at the triangular ligament the left forefinger in the rectum controls the point of the instrument, and ensures its being kept in the middle line. It is in this region that “ false passages ” are most often made, the point of the instrument perforating the urethra, and being felt between the prostate and the wall of the rectum. If false passages already exist, dilatation is better deferred for two or three weeks. No force is permitted until the instrument is fairly engaged in the stricture and is felt to be grasped by it. For strictures above the size of No. 5 (English), conical metal bougies such as those of Lister or Chiene are most serviceable. The latter have a shorter curve (one-sixth of the circumference of a circle whose diameter is three inches), and the point is therefore more under control. The amount of dilatation that should be carried out at each sitting varies in different cases; in some the size of 15-17, English scale, may be attained in one or two sittings, in others such rapid progress is inadvisable or impossible. Before the instruments are passed, the patient should make water so that the bladder may not require to be emptied for some hours after, and a hot drink and VOL. II—45