THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 344 if tlie fluid contain in solution a large amount of poisonous material, for the struggle is thus transferred from the peritoneum to the general circulation. The capacity for absorption is greatest in the upper part of the abdomen and least in the pelvis, hence the practice of propping up the patient into the sitting posture (Fowler's ■position) when infective material has escaped into the peritoneal cavity. The reaction of the peritoneum to irritants is usually manifested by the throwing out of an exudate, in the form of a clear serous fluid which may become turbid from the presence of phagocytic cells, and may coagulate, forming what is known as fibrinous lymph. In the case of an aseptic foreign body, such as a portion of tissue which has been ligatured with silk, it is surrounded by the lymph, and as the latter becomes organised the foreign body is encapsulated or may be finally absorbed. Even infective material, if small in amount, may in this way be walled in and rendered innocuous or prevented from spreading. There is probably no tissue in the body more capable of resisting organismal influence than the peritoneum. If, however, the infective material is large in amount, exceptionally virulent, or introduced under conditions favourable to the lodgment and multiplication of bacteria, the properties of the peritoneum become harmful, inasmuch as the exudate affords an excellent medium for the growth of organisms, and the rapidity of absorption floods the circulation with their poisonous products. These considerations are of special importance in relation to peritonitis. The Great Omentum consists of a reticulated, connective tissue, covered with endothelial cells and containing abundant blood and lymph vessels. The lymph stream passes first to the glands along the greater curvature of the stomach. In virtue of its vascularity it is capable of forming a collateral circulation ; through its lymph and blood vessels it has a great capacity for absorbing inflammatory products, and through its capacity for producing phagocytes it is a strong protection against bacterial infection ; and lastly, by its tendency to form adhesions it may circumscribe and envelop inflammatory foci. Sensibility of the Peritoneum and of the Abdominal Viscera.— Observations made in the course of operations performed without a general amestlietic have revealed a number of interesting points bearing on this subject. The parietal peritoneum is sensitive to touch and pain, especially that portion of it lining the anterior abdominal wall and the iliac fossfe. It is most sensitive to stretching, as when the edges of a wound are drawn apart, or when one of the viscera connected with the parietal peritoneum is pulled upon ; traction on adhesions connected with the parietal peritoneum also causes pain. The painful impulses are transmitted by the spinal nerves. The visceral peritoneum, and to a great extent the viscera themselves, are insensitive, and, provided the parietal peritoneum is not put upon the stretch, may be handled or subjected to operative interference without the patient being aware that anything is being done. All organs innervated solely by the vagus or by the sympathetic nerves are devoid of sensibility to pain, pressure, heat and cold. Adhesions between viscera rarely cause pain, while those involving the parietal peritoneum cause suffering by dragging on its nerves. It has hitherto been maintained that the visceral peritoneum becomes sensitive when it is inflamed, but Lenander, to whom we are indebted for the preceding observations, believes that it is insensitive, even in acute peritonitis, and that the pain in this affection is due to the involvement of the parietal peritoneum.