647 PERINEPHRIC ABSCESS. tendency to form secondary growths, or to erupt into the pelvis and cause hsematuria. In adults the disease usually causes great enlargement of the kidney, and in a considerable proportion it fungates into the pelvis and causes hsematuria. Malignant tumours of the kidney may perforate the capsule and infect the perirenal cellular tissue,-may spread along the renal vein into the vena cava and spermatic vein and plug these vessels, or fragments may be carried off in the blood-stream and give rise to secondary growths. On the whole, metastasis takes place at a late stage of the disease, and less widely than in malignant disease of other internal organs. Infection of the retro- peritoneal lymphatic glands is exceptional. Adrenal tumours may be conveniently studied along with tumours of the kidney, with which they are liable to be confused. They may be of the nature of cancer or sarcoma, or may present a structure like the cortical portion of the adrenal, being then described as hypernephroma. Adrenal tumours in children are usually hypernephromata, and are sometimes associated with pigmentation of the skin and precocious development of the sexual organs; in the adult, they are usually of the nature of sarcomata, and when the tumour has attained a large size it may be difficult to determine whether it has originated in the supra- renal capsule or in the kidney. Clinical Features. — In the child, there are, as a rule, no symptoms until the tumour has attained sufficient size to attract the attention of the mother or nurse, and by this time the disease is so far advanced that operation holds out little prospect of permanent cure, and is scarcely to be recommended. In the adult, the tumour has usually existed for a considerable time before giving rise to symptoms, and attention may first be drawn to it by the discovery of a swelling in the loin, or by the occurrence of a profuse hsematuria. In a few cases there is an obvious failure of health, with amemia and uneasiness in the loin, before any swelling is discovered. Sometimes, and especially in rapidly growing tumours, there is pain, due to stretching of the capsule, which may shoot downwards to the thigh or testis. Hsematuria is common, and is due to the growth erupting through the mucous membrane of the renal pelvis. It may follow some exertion or slight violence, but there is seldom any obvious cause. The patient may experience no discomfort, or he may have to strain to express a clot before the urine, which is of the colour of burgundy, escapes. The urine gradually becomes clear, or if