DIFFUSE PERITONITIS. 359 In a typicaV case of acute peritonitis, such, for example, as accompanies the fulminating form of appendicitis, the patient rapidly becomes extremely ill, and his general appearance usually betokens the gravity of his condition. The face is pale and drawn, and assumes an anxious expression, the eyes are clear and bright, and the mental faculties are often abnormally alert. He lies on his back, sometimes with the knees drawn up to relax the abdominal muscles. Instinctively he avoids any movement of the abdomen, and as the abdominal muscles are refiexly con- tracted, and do not move in respiration, the breathing is entirely thoracic, and is usually shallow and slightly accelerated. In the early stages, the pulse is usually quick and feeble, and the temperature normal or subnormal; this association of a sub- normal temperature and a rapid, feeble pulse is characteristic of progressive peritonitis. A regurgitant form of vomiting is one of the cardinal symp- toms, and is rarely absent except in some cases of perforated ulcer of the stomach. It is continuous and persistent, the stagnating and decomposing contents of the stomach and upper coils of intestine being ejected in mouthfuls in a characteristi- cally gulping manner, without effort and without preliminary retching. The vomited matter at first consists of sour-smelling, undigested food, later it is green from admixture with bile, and finally it is brownish from altered blood, and offensive as a result of decomposition. Although the patient only brings up a mouthful or two at a time, the amount regurgitated from the stomach may be so great that the body is drained of its fluids, and the patient complains of a burning thirst. Abdominal pain is an early and prominent symptom, and in cases of abrupt onset is severe enough to produce marked symptoms of shock. As the pain and tenderness are usually most acute over the organ from which the peritonitis has originated, for example, in the right iliac fossa in appendicular lesions, and in the epigas- trium in perforations of the stomach, their situation may afford evidence as to the seat of origin of the peritonitis. As the inflammation extends and becomes more intense, the pain and tenderness become more widely distributed. The abdominal walls not only cease to move with respiration, but become rigid and board-like from reflex contraction of the muscles. In the later stages, the abdomen tends to become distended and prominent from the formation of gas within the bowels, and this distension of the bowels bulges the anterior wall, and pushes up the diaphragm and liver, the latter organ being rotated so that its normal area of dulness may diminish or disappear. As a result