INJURIES OF THE SKULL. 46 interference even in simple fractures with the object of elevating the depressed bone, and to anticipate subsequent complications such as persistent headache, attacks of giddiness, traumatic epilepsy, or insanity. Others, including von Bergmann and Tillmanns, consider that the risk of such sequelse ensuing is not sufficient to justify a prophylactic operation of such severity as trephining. The operation consists in exposing the fractured area by enlarging the wound in cases of compound fracture, or by throwing down a horseshoe-shaped flap in cases where no wound exists. Fragments which are still connected with the pericranium or dura mater should be placed in position and left to unite ; when entirely separated, they should, as a rule, be removed. There is often considerable difficulty in elevating the depressed fragments, and it is necessary to remove a portion of the intact bone by means of the trephine, Hey’s saw, or rongeur forceps, to enable the elevator to be inserted under them. The raising of the fragments is sometimes followed by haemorrhage from torn vessels of the dura which have been prevented from bleeding by the depressed portions of bone. To diminish the risk of epilepsy in the future, Kocher considers it an advantage to leave a gap in the skull, which will admit of variations in the intra-cranial tension. Fractures of the Base. The base of the skull may be fractured by a pointed object, such as a fencing foil, a knitting pin, or the end of an umbrella, being forced through the orbit, the nasal cavities, or the pharynx. These injuries will be referred to in describing fractures of the anterior fossa. The majority of basal fractures result from such accidents as a fall from a height, the patient landing on the vertex or on the side of the head, or from a heavy object falling on the head. The violence is therefore indirect in so far as the bone breaks at a point other than the seat of impact. In other cases the base is broken by the patient falling from a height and landing on his feet or buttocks, the force being transmitted through the spine to the occiput, and the bone giving way around the foramen magnum. Sometimes the condyle of the lower jaw is driven through the base of the skull by a blow or fall on the chin, and fissures radiate into the base from the glenoid cavity. It is usual to describe these also as fractures by indirect violence, but as the skull gives way at the point where it is struck, they are really fractures by