467 OPERATIONS ON THE INTESTINE. such as a gall-stone, or to evacuate the contents of a dis- tended loop during an operation for obstruction. The open- ing is made in the long axis of the gut on the side farthest from the mesenteric attachment, and is closed by Lembert or Czerny-Lembert sutures, preferably inserted in such a way that the line of suture is at right angles to the long axis of the bowel. When the object is to evacuate the distended small intestine while operating for obstruction, the procedure is a little different. The selected coil is pulled out at the wound, and its contents having been displaced by pressure with the fingers two clamps are applied ; in the area between these a purse-string suture is inserted ; the bowel is then opened sufficiently to admit a rubber tube which is pushed in an upward direction for about one or two inches, the suture is pulled tight, and the clamps removed to allow of the contents escaping. When this is finished an assistant withdraws the tube, while the purse-string suture is tightened and tied, thus closing the opening. A few Lembert sutures are inserted to invaginate the edges of the peritoneum. The closure of such a wound, or of a perforation or rupture of the bowel, is spoken of as enterorraphy. Enterostomy consists in making a communication between the bowel and the surface of the abdomen. When the operation is performed to enable nourishment to be introduced directly into the intestine, for example, in certain cases of gastric cancer, the opening is made as high as possible in the jejunum—-jejun- ostomy. An incision is made through the left rectus, and the highest loop of jejunum is stitched to the parietal peritoneum ; the abdominal wound is closed except for a narrow canal that exposes one square centimetre of jejunum ; either at once or on the following day a soft rubber catheter is inserted and pushed down the bowel for three or four inches. When the object is to establish a fecal fistula, for example, in cases of obstruction of the bowels, the opening is made as low down as possible in the ileum—ileostomy. The loop of bowel selected is brought to the surface and stitched to the parietal peritoneum and transversalis fascia by a continuous serous suture. If the condition of the patient permit, the opening of the bowel should be delayed for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, to diminish the risk of infection of the peritoneal cavity, and to prevent the infective contents of the bowel coming in contact with the wound in the parietes. Before opening the bowel the skin should be smeared with vaseline to protect it from the irritant effects of the evacuations. If, on the other hand, the bowel must be opened at once, a purse-string suture is inserted, and within its area an incision is