FRACTURE-DISLOCATION OF THE SPINE. 101 of the spine involved becomes rigid and permanent deformity results. Dislocations and Fracture - Dislocations. — It is seldom possible at the bedside to distinguish between a complete dis- location of the spine and a fracture-dislocation. Fracture- dislocation is by far the more common lesion of the two, and is the injury popularly known as a “ broken back.” It may occur in any part of the column, but is most frequently met with in the dorso-lumbar region. It usually results from forcible flexion of the spine, as, for example, when a miner at work in the stooping posture is struck on the shoulders by a heavy fall of coal. The spine is acutely bent, and breaks at the angle of flexion and not at the point struck. The lesion consists in a complete bilateral dislocation of the articular processes, together with a fracture through one or more of the bodies. This fracture is usually oblique, running downwards and forwards. The upper fragment of the body with the segment of the spine above it is dis- placed downwards and forwards, and the cord is crushed between the posterior edge of the body of the lower vertebra and the arch of the vertebra above it (Fig. 26). In almost every case the cord is damaged beyond possibility of repair. Total dislocation, in which the ar- Fig. 25.—Traumatic Spon- ticular processes on both sides are dis- dylitis aflecting Lower placed and the contiguous mterverte- following compression bral disc separated, is rare, and is met fracture, with chiefly in the lower cervical region. Clinical Features.—The outstanding symptoms of total lesions are referable to the damage inflicted on the cord. The diagnosis should always be made by a consideration of the mechanism of the injury and the condition of the nerve functions below the lesion. On no account should the patient be moved about to enable the back to be examined, as this is attended with con- siderable risk of increasing the displacement and causing further crushing of the cord. On passing the fingers under