TUBERCULOSIS OF LARYNX. 285 deep, and crateriform; the base is covered with a dirty white secretion, and the surrounding mucosa presents an angry red appearance. When the perichondrium becomes invaded necrosis of the cartilages is liable to occur. Hoarseness, dyspnoea, and, when the epiglottis is involved, dysphagia, are the most prominent symptoms. Cicatricial contraction leading to stenosis may ensue, and may cause persistent dyspnoea. The usual treatment for tertiary syphilis is employed, but on account of the tendency of potassium iodide to increase the oedema of the larynx, this drug must at first be used with caution. Intubation or tracheotomy may be called for on account of sudden urgent dyspnoea or of increasing stenosis. The stenosis is afterwards treated by gradual dilatation with bougies, which may conveniently be passed from below upwards if a tracheotomy has been performed. Tuberculosis. — The larynx is very seldom the primary seat of tubercle. In the majority of cases the patient suffers from pulmonary phthisis, and the laryngeal mucous membrane is infected from the sputum. The disease may take the form of isolated tubercle nodules in the vicinity of the arytenoid cartilages, of superficial ulceration of the vocal cords and ad- jacent parts, or of a diffuse tuberculous infiltration of all the structures forming the upper aperture of the larynx. The mucous membrane becomes cedematous and semi-translucent. The nodules coalesce and break down, leading to the formation of multiple superficial ulcers. The parts adjacent to the ulcers are pale in colour. Perichondritis may occur and be followed by necrosis of cartilage and the formation of abscesses in the sub- mucous tissue of the larynx or in the cellular tissue of the neck. The voice becomes hoarse or may be lost, there is persistent and intractable cough, and in some cases dyspnoea supervenes. When the epiglottis is involved there is pain and difficulty in swallowing. In the presence of advanced pulmonary phthisis the treatment is chiefly palliative, but if the disease in the lungs is amenable to treatment, and the laryngeal lesion limited, excellent results have been obtained by local measures. Tracheotomy may be called for on account of urgent dyspnoea. Tumours.—The commonest form of simple tumour met with in the larynx is the •papilloma. It may occur at any age, and is comparatively common in children. It most frequently springs from the vocal cords and adjacent parts, forming a soft, pedunculated, cauliflower-like mass of a pink or red colour, which