702 THE URETHRA. Stricture of the Urethra. The term stricture is applied when the lumen of the urethra is narrowed as a result of changes in its wall. According to the nature and cause of the narrowing, a stricture is spoken of as spasmodic, congestive, or cicatricial. Spasmodic stricture affects chiefly the membranous urethra, and is due to spasm of the compressor urethrae muscle, excited by inflammation of the mucous membrane of the urethra itself, as in gonorrhoea, or by reflex irritation in adjacent parts, such as the anus or rectum, or it may be due to fright or hysteria. The spasm comes on suddenly and causes retention of urine. The treatment in this as in other forms of retention is first directed towards allaying the spasm by means of hot fomenta- tions, hot baths, and rectal suppositories of morphin and bella- donna. If these measures fail, the water is drawn off with a soft rubber or black olivary catheter (No. 8-10); the instrument is first resisted and then firmly grasped by the urethral muscles, but by steady pressure it can be pushed on into the bladder. Congestive stricture is met with chiefly in gonorrhoea when the infection has spread to the posterior urethra; the lumen of the urethra is encroached upon by the oedematous and congested mucous membrane, and this may be aggravated by spasm of the extrinsic muscles. As it is undesirable to pass a catheter because of the risk of carrying the infection to the bladder, the attempt should always be made to relieve the retention by rectal suppositories and hot baths, or by aspiration above the pubes. Cicatricial or “ Organic ” Stricture.—This, by far the most important variety of stricture, is primarily due to the con- traction of scar tissue in the wall of the urethra, to which congestion and spasm are commonly superadded. The scar tissue results from trauma or from gonorrhoea, hence the two varieties, traumatic and gonorrhoeal. Traumatic stricture most commonly results from rupture of the urethra, the scar tissue being formed during the process of repair. When the urethra has been completely torn across—for example, the membranous portion in fracture of the pelvis—the interval between the retracted ends is occupied by scar tissue, and the urine escapes by a fistula in the perineum. When the rupture is incomplete, the continuity of the tube is maintained by part of the mucous membrane constituting a narrow channel in the centre of the scar tissue. Stricture may also follow on