740 THE MALE GENITAL OKGANS. canal and there is no hernia, an attempt should be made to manipu- late the gland into its proper position in the scrotum by system- atically applying gentle pressure and traction so as to lengthen the cord. If this fails, the testis should be transplanted into the scrotum by operation—orchidopexy. The inguinal canal is opened up as in the operation for hernia, the coverings of the cord divided and separated, and the constituents of the cord, save the vas and its artery, divided, so far as they interfere with the placing of the testis in the scrotum. The testis is pulled into the scrotum, and its lower end made to project through a small opening at the lower part, where it is anchored by stitches passed through the remains of the gubernaculum and the edges of the scrotal wound. To maintain steady traction on the cord while the testis is becoming attached in its new position, the ends of the stitches may be passed through the skin of the inner aspect of the thigh, either of the same or of the opposite side. The processus vaginalis is then closed and the canal sutured, as in the radical operation for hernia. A similar operation may be performed for ectopia testis. If it is found impossible to place the testis in the scrotum, it should be returned to the abdomen. Such operations should be performed as early as possible, as there is experimental evidence that a testis returned to the abdomen or placed in the scrotum has a better chance of attain- ing complete development. If there is evidence of torsion of the cord, or if the testis is atrophied, or if the patient suffers from neuralgic pains, the gland should be removed—orchidectomy. In adults, when the condition is unilateral and is complicated with hernia, it is usually advisable to remove the testis in order that the radical cure of the hernia may be satisfactorily effected. Contusion of the Testis.—This, the most common form of injury of the testis, is accompanied by intense sickening pain radiating down the thigh and along the cord towards the loin, and it may be so severe as to cause syncope. There is always a considerable degree of shock, and in some cases this has proved fatal. The scrotum may be discoloured, and the body of the testis is swollen and tender. In a considerable proportion of cases a severe contusion of the testis is followed by atrophy of the gland, which in the course of six or eight weeks may have shrivelled to the size of a haricot bean. The epididymis does not share in the atrophy. Severe neuralgia of the testis may follow a contusion, and it is not uncommon for tuberculosis of the gland to date from an injury of this kind. The patient should be confined to bed with the scrotum