AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 213 ated with macrostoma, facial clefts, and other malformations of the face. Outstanding ears may be treated by excising a triangular or elliptical portion of skin and cartilage from the posterior surface of the pinna and uniting the cut edges with sutures. Abnor- mally large ears may be diminished in size by the removal of a V-shaped portion from the upper part of the auricle. The term hcematoma auris is applied to a sub-perichondrial effusion of blood, which may occur either as the result of injury to the auricle, for example, in football players, or as a result of trophic changes in the cartilage and perichondrium. The latter form is not uncommon among the insane. A more or less tense fluctuating swelling forms on the anterior surface of the auricle, presenting in some cases a distinctly bluish coloration. In- flammation may ensue, and in some cases suppuration and even necrosis of cartilage may follow. The treatment in a recent case consists in applying cold or elastic compression with cotton-wool and a bandage, or in with- drawing the effused blood by means of an aspirator. In the event of suppuration supervening, incision and drainage must be carried out. Epithelioma may occur on the auricle and extend along the external auditory meatus. It begins as a small abrasion, and is attended with a constant foetid discharge and intense pain. The disease may spread to the middle ear and invade the temporal bone, and facial paralysis then ensues. The adjacent lymphatic glands are early infected. The treatment consists in removing the growth freely and in excising the associated lymphatic glands, in the early stage of the disease. In inoper- able cases the X-rays may be employed. Rodent cancer also may attack the outer ear. Impaction of Wax or Cerumen.—Hypersecretion may result from unknown causes, or it may accompany or be induced by the discharge from a chronic middle-ear suppuration. The association of these two conditions should be borne in mind. An accumula- tion of wax may be caused by the too zealous attempts of the patient to keep the ear clean, the wax being forced into the narrow deeper part of the meatus. The chief symptom of impacted wax is deafness, which is often of sudden onset. Impaction of wax causes deafness only when the lumen of the auditory canal becomes completely occluded by the plug. Tinnitus aurium and vertigo are sometimes present, and may be very troublesome if the wax rests upon the tympanic membrane. Pain is occasionally complained of, and is usually