THE THYROID GLAND. 256 When the swelling is unilateral, the larynx and trachea may be markedly displaced to the opposite side ; when bilateral, they may be compressed laterally so that the air-passage is reduced to a mere chink—scabbard trachea. The cartilages become softened so that the trachea may collapse under the weight of the goitre, giving rise to dyspnoea, which may be increased by swelling of the mucous membrane and accumulation of mucus in the tube. The shape of the trachea and its position in relation to a goitre can be demonstrated in a radiogram, and in this way valuable information may be obtained as to the portion of the gland that should be removed by operation. The large vessels of the neck also may be displaced outwards, as far even as the posterior triangle. In all varieties the skin is freely movable over the tumour, and the subcutaneous veins are usually large and prominent. The tumour can be moved transversely, carrying the larynx and trachea with it, but it cannot be moved vertically. It moves up and down with the larynx on deglutition—a point of great diagnostic value. It is important to observe that the symptoms produced by the goitre bear no constant ratio to the size of the tumour. In some cases the patient only complains of the disfigurement caused by the swelling. There is seldom pain, but as a rule there is more or less interference with respiration. It may only be shortness of breath on exertion, or the patient may suffer from sudden and severe attacks of dyspnoea, especially when lying on the back during sleep, and such an attack may prove fatal. This may be due to the weight of the tumour pressing on the trachea, which has been softened and distorted by the goitre, or to temporary congestion and engorgement of the mucous membrane of the air-passages. In these cases there is marked stridor both on inspiration and expiration, but no aphonia. In other cases the goitre presses upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve, causing spasmodic dyspnoea, hoarseness and aphonia from impaired movement of the vocal cords. The presence of these symptoms, especially if accompanied by pain, usually raises the suspicion of malignancy. Occasionally the oesophagus is pressed upon, and there is difficulty in swallowing. Among the less prominent symptoms are palpitation, sudden attacks of syncope, a feeling of fulness in the head, and giddiness. The occurrence of hsemorrage into the substance of the goitre or into a cyst, or an attack of inflammation, produces an aggrava- tion of all the symptoms. In intra-thoracic or retro-sternal goitre the tumour displaces