THE MALE GENITAL ORGANS. 736 divided, the vessels secured with forceps and ligatured separately, and the testis removed. If the cord is invaded by the disease, the inguinal canal is opened up by splitting the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the constituents secured at the internal abdominal ring. The canal is then repaired and the external ring closed. If all bleeding is arrested it is seldom necessary to drain the wound, but if this is considered advisable the tube should be inserted through a small opening at the lowest part of the scrotum. When the scrotum is involved, and particularly when there are sinuses, or a fungus testis, the affected portion must be included between semi- lunar incisions and the ellipse of skin removed along with the testis. Congenital Abnormalities.—Development. — The testis is developed from a mass of embryonic tissue — the genital eminence—which lies in front and to the inner side of the Wolffian body. As the genital eminence increases in size the Wolffian body diminishes and ultimately becomes the epididymis, its duct—the Wolffian duct—becoming -the vas deferens. The testis, epididymis, and vas are therefore developed from three separate and distinct structures. Hence it comes that any one or all of them may be congenitally absent. In the foetus the testis and epididymis, separated from one another by a narrow sulcus, lie in the extra-peritoneal tissue below and behind the permanent kidney. The Wolffian body is furnished with a fold of peritoneum, which eventually becomes the mesorchium, in which run the spermatic vessels. As the foetus increases in length the space between the kidney and the testis is increased, and by the end of the sixth month the testis has come to lie near the brim of the pelvis. The next stage in development is known as the transit or descent of the testis. During the seventh and eighth months the testis passes along the inguinal canal and through the external abdominal ring, and by the middle of the ninth month it has usually reached the bottom of the scrotum. Considerable differ- ence of opinion exists as to how this transit is brought about, but it is generally conceded that the structure known as the guher- naculwm testis plays an important part in the process. This structure is composed of a central fibrous cord, surrounded by muscular fibres derived from the layers of the abdominal wall, and a tubular sheath of peritoneum—the processus vaginalis. Above, the gubernaculum is attached to the testis, the epididymis, and the vas deferens as they lie on the brim of the pelvis. Its lower attachments are numerous and widespread, the strongest and most important being—(1) to the lower margins of the abdominal muscles in the region of the inguinal canal; (2) to the front of the pubes; (3) to the deep fascia of Scarpa’s