151 THE LIPS. fluid. The lip is swollen and everted, and there is a considerable area of induration around the chancre. The sub-mental and sub-maxillary glands on one or on both sides soon become en- larged. They may reach the size of a pigeon’s egg, are firm, and somewhat painful. In some cases the sore is much less characteristic, resembling an ordinary crack or fissure, and its true nature is only revealed when secondary manifestations appear. Mucous patches and superficial ulcers are frequently met with on the mucous surface of the lips and at the angles of the mouth during the secondary stage of syphilis. In the inherited form of the disease deep cracks and fissures form, and often leave characteristic scars which radiate from the angles of the mouth (Fig. 38, vol. i.). Gummatous lesions occur on the lips, and are liable to be mistaken for epitheliomata. Tumours.—Naevi are not un- common on the lips. When fined to the mucous sur- face they may be dissected , out, but when they invade 0 the skin they are best treated by electrolysis. Lymphangioma. —The term macrocheilia is ap- plied to a congenital hyper- trophy of the lips (Fig. 51), which is probably of the nature of a lymphangioma (Middeldorpff). One or both lips may be affected. The lip is protruded, the mucous membrane everted, and, when the lower lip is implicated, it becomes pendu- lous and is liable to ulcerate. The substance of the lip is uni- formly firm and rigid, so that it moves in one piece, and sucking, mastication, and phonation are interfered with. The operation consists in removing a wedge-shaped portion of the swelling on the same lines as for “ strumous lip,” or in employing electrolysis. Mucous cysts occur as small rounded tumours, growing from the inner surface of the lip. They are of a bluish colour, and contain a glairy fluid. They are treated by removal of the cyst wall together with the overlying portion of mucous membrane. Fig. 51.—Macrocheilia. (From a photograph lent by Mr. H. J. Stiles.)