FIBROADENOMA. 331 is liable to re-form if the breast again becomes active. There is no retraction of the nipple, the axillary glands are not enlarged, and, as a rule, there is no pain. During pregnancy or lactation it is not necessary to interfere with these cysts unless they are increasing rapidly and causing discomfort. Under these conditions the child should be weaned and the secretion of milk arrested. The cyst may then either be opened and drained, or excised. Involution Cysts. -During the normal process of involution which occurs at the menopause, small cysts frequently develop as a result of obstruction of minute ducts or acini. They contain a clear, serous fluid or a dark brown, mucoid substance, and are known as involution cysts. It is probable that in most cases the so-called serous or lymphatic cysts—formerly believed to be due to dilatation of lymph spaces—are of the nature of involution cysts. These cysts are frequently multiple, and are most abundant towards the periphery of the breast and on its deep surface. They form smooth, rounded or oval swellings, varying in size from a cherry to a walnut, are movable with the breast, but not independently of it, and are not attached to the skin. When the fluid is under considerable tension these cysts are liable to be mistaken for solid tumours, and, as a rule, it is only on making an exploratory incision that the diagnosis is arrived at. If single, the cyst along with the breast tissue immediately surrounding it may be excised either through a skin incision, or by throwing up the breast (p. 333); but when they are multiple the whole breast should be removed. Hydatid cysts of the breast are rare. They usually suppurate, and are seldom diagnosed before being operated upon. Tumours of the Breast. The most important of the non-mcdignant tumours are the fibro-adenoma, in its various forms, and the duct papilloma. Lipoma, chondroma, osteoma, and angioma are so rare that it is not necessary to refer to them further. Fibro-adenoma. —This tumour is composed partly of fibrous and partly of glandular tissue. The glandular element consists of numerous branching tubes and irregular acinous spaces, the epithelium being arranged on the same plan as that of the normal gland tissue, and showing no tendency to spread beyond its basement membrane. Between the epithelial masses is a variable quantity of fibrous connective tissue in which the blood-vessels