722 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. is almost necessarily sacrificed, and portions of the ejaculatory ducts and of the membranous urethra may be found on examin- ing the specimen after its removal. The bladder is irrigated with hot water and adrenalin (1-5000), a large tube is brought out at the wound and connected with a suction apparatus. At the end of a fortnight or three weeks the urine passes by the urethra, and the functions of the bladder speedily return to the normal. It may sometimes be desirable to perform the operation in two stages, first opening the bladder, and after a few weeks of irrigation and drainage removing the prostate. Whether or not the entire prostate is removed in the above operation is largely an academic question. We are inclined to agree with those who maintain that the separation usually takes place within the outermost films of prostatic tissue, and have ourselves observed that when the specimen removed appeared to represent the entire organ, microscopical examination of the wall of the cavity left behind showed glandular spaces belonging to the prostate. So far as the patient is concerned, the operation amounts to complete prostatectomy. When the bladder has been opened supra-pubically and a well-marked middle lobe is found, it is perfectly justifiable to be content with the removal of this by means of the scissors or tumour-forceps, as this will, in the great majority of cases, bring about complete relief of all the symptoms. The perineal operation, which has been specially advocated by French and American surgeons, may be carried out by one of two methods. In the first and simpler procedure, the membranous urethra is opened on a median staff, the prostatic urethra or the fascia investing the prostate torn through with the finger-nail, and the organ enucleated, usually in two halves, by blunt digital dissection. In the second, a curved incision is made across the perineum, the prostate is exposed by open dissection, and brought down into the wound by the use of a suitable tractor such as that devised by Young of Baltimore, and the removal of the lateral lobes of the organ is effected under the guidance of the eye ; in this operation it may be possible to preserve the whole or part of the prostatic urethra and also the ejaculatory ducts. Whichever method has been adopted, a rubber tube is inserted into the bladder and con- nected with a suction apparatus. Cauterisation of the prostate, after the method of Bottini, may be had recourse to when the condition of the patient precludes a radical operation, and especially when the prostate is of the hard