TUMOURS OF SUPERIOR MAXILLA. 171 process from which it grows. The area of bone to be removed is outlined by an incision through the mucous membrane and gum, and the bone is divided with a chisel or saw. A plate with teeth should be fitted to fill up the gap in the alveolus. After being freely removed these tumours show little tendency to recur and metastasis is rare. Malignant Tumours of the Superior Maxilla.—Sarcomata are the most common primary tumours of the upper jaw. All varieties are met with, the round or spindle-celled being the most common. Their malignancy is evidenced by the rapidity of their growth, the manner in which they infiltrate adjacent parts, and the frequency with which they recur after removal. They occur at all ages, and have been met with even in children. The clinical features vary according to whether the tumour originates on the outer aspect of the bone, in the maxillary antrum, or behind the bone in the spheno-maxillary or pterygo-maxillary fossa. When the tumour begins in the perios- teum covering the front of the bone, it forms a swelling under the cheek, usually in the vicinity of the malar bone. The tumour grows towards the mouth as well as towards the surface. The cheek is gradually invaded, and in some cases the growth extends into the antrum. In the FlG- 55,. EPulis irom 0 , „ ,, upper law of a woman, early stages there is no obstruction of the a„e(j nasal passage or of the tear duct. There is no displacement of the eye or bulging of the palate. When the tumour originates in the interior of the antrum, it first fills the cavity and then bulges its walls in every direction, so that, on pressure being made over the swelling, the osseous shell of the antrum dimples and crackles under the finger. The antrum is dark on transillumination. The tumour may cause obstruc- tion of the nostril on the corresponding side, and, by pressing on the tear duct, may cause the tears to flow over the cheek. The tumour may be seen through the anterior nares, and may be attended with a sanious discharge from the nose. The eyeball is liable to be displaced upward, and if the ethmoid cells are invaded, it is also pushed outward; the palate may be depressed and the cheek projected (Fig. 56). When the tumour begins in one or other of the fossae behind the jaw, the eyeball is usually protruded by the invasion of the orbit from behind, and in time a swelling appears in the temporal region. If the antrum is invaded, the tumour may