76 DISEASES OF THE BRAIN AND MEMBRANES. they pass through the cribriform plate, in fractures implicating the anterior fossa of the skull, and there results complete and permanent loss of smell (anosmia). Haemorrhage into the nerve sheath or contusion of the nerve may cause a transitory loss of smell. The trunk of the nerve may be implicated also in tumours and meningitis in the anterior fossa. In all cases of anosmia there is also impairment of the sense of taste. II. Optic Nerve.—Temporary paralysis of one or both optic nerves is a comparatively common result of traumatic effusion of blood into their sheaths; the resulting blindness may pass off in a few days, or may last for some weeks. When a large effusion takes place, the prolonged pressure on the nerve may result in optic atrophy and permanent blindness. Complete severance of the nerve by a bullet, the point of a sharp instrument, or a fragment of bone, results in loss of sight in the eye on the same side. In cellulitis of the orbit, intra-orbital tumours, gummata, and aneurysms in the region of the cavernous sinus, also, the optic nerves may be implicated. Lesions implicating the cortical centre for sight in the occipital lobe give rise to hemianopia—that is, loss of sight in the lateral halves of the fields of vision of both eyes—colour- blindness, subjective sensations of light and colour, and other eye symptoms. Double optic neuritis, followed by optic atrophy, is one of the most constant effects of the growth of a tumour within the skull, and is not uncommon in cases of cerebral abscess and meningitis. III. Oculo-motor Nerve.—One or more of the branches of this nerve may be compressed by extravasated blood, or be contused and lacerated in fractures implicating the region of the sphenoidal fissure. Tumours and aneurysms growing in this region also may press upon the nerve. Sometimes both nerves are implicated, for example, in fractures involving both sides of the anterior fossa, and in tumours, particularly gummata, grow- ing in the region of the floor of the third ventricle. In lesions of the cerebral hemispheres the third nerve is very frequently paralysed. Its cortical centre lies in close proximity to the centre for the face (Fig. 2). ' The most prominent symptoms of complete paralysis are ptosis or drooping of the upper eyelid, external strabismus, and slight downward rotation of the eye. There is also dilatation of the pupil from paralysis of the circular fibres of the iris, and loss of accommodation from pai’alysis of the ciliary muscle. Paralysis of the muscles supplied by the third nerve is fre-