657 MALFORMATIONS. suction drainage should be employed after the method devised by C. W. Cathcart. The method is founded on the principle of the Sprengel pump. A soft rubber catheter is tied in the bladder. The catheter is connected, by means of about two inches of glass tubing, with one end of a flexible rubber tube, the other end of which is attached to the stem of a T-shaped glass tube pinned to the edge of the bed. To each end of the transverse limb of the T-tube a piece of rubber tubing is fixed. The upper tube leads to a douche-can or reservoir, which is suspended at the head of the bed above the level of the patient ; the lower tube passing over the side of the bed, ends in a glass tube with several bends like a double S, which hangs over a pail on the floor. A screw clip on the upper tube regulates the rate of outflow from the reservoir ; a drop every few seconds is sufficient. lly introducing a V-shaped glass tube into the rubber tube between the bladder and the T-shaped tube the urine can be collected in a separate receptacle. The principle is that the water falling by its own weight through the dependent j>art of the lower tube, causes negative pressure or suction above it, which, owing to the regulating clip, can only be partially satisfied by entrance of water from the reservoir. The rest of the sucking force is necessarily exercised upon the tube leading from the bladder. It is essential that there shall always be some portion of the tube between the T and the pail completely filled, otherwise air will pass and destroy the suction ; hence the value of the S-tube, at least one bend of which is always filled with fluid. It is also essential that the calibre of the narrowest part of the tube from the reservoir (i.e. at the clip) shall be less than that of the narrowest part of the tube between the T and the pail; otherwise the reservoir becomes an ordinary head of water, the pressure in the system of tubes becomes positive, and water is forced into the bladder. The apparatus works equally well in draining by the urethra, through the perineum, or supra-pubically. The difference is that in the two former cases there is no air in the system of tubes ; in the last case there is necessarily air in the bladder which is sucked along with the urine down the tube. An average case of supra-pubic drainage requires a flow of about four to six pints in twenty-four hours. In urethral or perineal drainage one pint is often sufficient. Malformations.—Extroversion of the Bladder—Ectopia vesicae.—This is a rare malformation, in which there is an arrest of development of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, symphysis pubis, bladder, urethra, and external genitals. The term extroversion is applied to it because the posterior wall of the bladder, being unsupported in front, is pushed forwards like a hernia, and projects in the middle line below the navel (Fig. 179). In the infant it presents as a rounded tumour about the size of a walnut, moving with respiration, and being partly reducible on pressure. The surface is covered with mucous membrane, which is sensitive, and may show minute haemorrhages and excoriations from contact with the clothing, and the skin around often presents irregular cicatrices. At the lower part of the tumour are the ureteral openings, from which the urine VOL. 11—42