THE URINARY BLADDER. 670 From the seminal vesicle or prostate—ascending infection—the disease spreads by direct continuity, or by the lymphatics, to the submucous coat, and finally to the mucous membrane in the region of the trigone. The mucous membrane presents tuber- culous nodules and superficial ulcers with ragged edges, at first in the region of the trigone, but more widely spread as the disease progresses. The tuberculous infection is soon complicated with pyogenic organisms, and septic cystitis with alkaline decomposi- tion of the urine is liable to occur. In consequence of the excessive irritability of the bladder the walls become indurated and contracted, and the capacity of the organ greatly diminished. Clinical Features.—The disease is usually met with in a young adult who is already the subject of tuberculous disease in the kidney, prostate, seminal vesicle, or epididymis. When the condition is secondary to renal tuberculosis, it is difficult or impossible to distinguish between the symptoms due to the kidney and those due to the bladder. The cystitis is of an aggravated type and is particularly intractable. The pain on micturition is referred to the distal end of the urethra. There is usually a small quantity of blood in the urine at the end of micturition. The symptoms are not relieved by rest in bed and are often worst during the night. Bacilli are found with difficulty, even after centrifuging the urine. The diagnosis is greatly aided by the recognition of tubercle in the kidney, seminal vesicle, or prostate. The cystoscope is of value in the early stages ; later it can scarcely be used because of the extreme irritability and the contracted state of the bladder. In the female direct examination with a Kelly’s speculum is more generally applicable. Treatment.—As vesical tuberculosis is always a secondary condition, its radical treatment involves the removal of the primary focus of infection. If this is carried out, or if the primary disease becomes arrested, the bladder trouble is amenable to treatment and may even undergo spontaneous cure. The general dietetic and hygienic treatment for tuberculosis should be carried out, and marked benefit usually follows treatment in the open air. The local measures employed in septic cystitis are of little or no value, and irrigation as a rule does more harm than good. If the urine is ammoniacal, the injection of two or three ounces of boracic or corrosive sublimate lotion (1 in 10,000) may relieve the symptoms. In some cases the bladder should be opened above the pubes, the diseased mucous membrane removed with the scissors or sharp spoon, and the raw surface cauterised.