780 ANAESTHETICS. and frequently proves fatal. That which occurs later, while the operation is in progress, comes on more gradually, and treatment is more frequently successful. Respiratory difficulty may be due to an overdose of the anaesthetic, and is then often associated with cardiac failure. It may also be due to obstruction of the respiratory passages, for example, from—(1) falling back of the tongue; (2) spasm of the muscles of the jaw and neck; (3) spasm of the ary- epiglottic folds of the larynx ; (4) general spasm of the respiratory muscles, including the intercostals ; (5) the position of the patient, for example, the completely prone position; (6) foreign bodies entering the air-passages, such as vomited matter, blood-clot, accumulated mucus, or an artificial denture. The characteristic symptoms are : increasing stertor or cessa- tion of the breathing, duskiness of the lips, ears, and face, increasing to cyanosis. When the obstruction is mechanical, the chest continues to heave without air entering or leaving it, and .unless the cause of obstruction is removed the patient becomes completely asphyxiated. Under these circumstances the condi- tion is seldom fatal, as the heart usually continues beating for some time after the respiration has ceased, and there is time to remove the obstruction and carry out artificial respiration. Treatment.—From the point of view of treatment, patients in the conditions described above may be divided clinically into those who become pale and those who become cyanosed. When the patient shows signs of approaching syncope, it can often be warded off by rubbing the lips and face vigorously with a rough towel. In dealing with patients who have become pale from a circulatory failure or a combination of this with respiratory failure, the head should be lowered, and, in the case of children, the body may be completely inverted; the tongue is drawn out with forceps and held by an assistant, while artificial respiration is promptly carried out. The movements must not be made more rapidly than in normal respiration, that is, about eighteen or twenty to the minute. Care must be taken that the chest is firmly contracted by pressing the patient’s elbows well into his sides, and then fully expanded by carrying the arms well above the head; an assistant or nurse should administer a hypodermic injection of strychnin, which may be supplemented by a dram of ether, and the introduction of about a pint of hot water into the rectum is often of great service. In desperate cases massage of the heart has been carried out. This has been done through an opening in the chest- wall made for the purpose, or, in the course of abdominal