CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. 31 are comparatively common at the tips of the frontal, temporo- sphenoidal, and occipital lobes, on the surface of the cerebellum, and at the base of the brain. These are usually associated with symptoms of compression in its most typical form, and as a rule prove fatal. The grey matter is torn, and extensive effusion of blood takes place into the brain substance, and on the surface, tilling up the sulci, and distending the araclmo-pial space (Fig. 8). In a compound fracture or a penetrating wound, brain matter may be extruded through the opening in the skull. (4) The extravasated blood may burst into the lateral ventricles, in which case the pulse becomes small and rapid— 130, 160, or even 170. The respiration also is rapid—45 to 60 —and greatly embarrassed, and the temperature suddenly rises to 103° or 104° F., and continues to rise till death ensues. Mechanism.—The occurrence of these widespread and variable haemorrhages is explained by the disturbance of the cerebro spinal fluid which accompanies an injury of the head. It has already been mentioned that this fluid not only surrounds the brain and Alls the ventricles, but that it also permeates its substance in every direction, so that any increase in the tension of the fluid affects, by hydrostatic pressure, every portion of the brain. The momentary depression of the skull caused by a blow suddenly increases the pressure throughout the whole brain, and so may lacerate vessels at any point. Hence it is that the lesion is. not always at the seat of impact, but may be at the opposite side of the skull or at other remote points. Repair.—When recovery takes place, the disintegrated brain matter is replaced by cicatricial tissue, neither the nerve cells nor the fibres being regenerated. A localised extravasation of blood'may become encapsulated, and constitute a “haemor- rhagic cyst.” Middle Meningeal Haemorrhage.—The commonest cause of extra-dural haemorrhage is laceration of the middle meningeal artery. This artery—a branch of the internal maxillary—after entering the skull through the foramen spinosum, crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch which supply the meninges and calvaria. Either branch may be injured in association with fractures, or from incised, punctured, or gun-shot wounds. The vessel may be ruptured without the skull being fractured, and sometimes it is the artery on the side opposite to the seat of the blow which is torn. The most common situations for rupture are at the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, in which case the anterior branch is torn (90 to 95 per cent.);