CONGENITAL DILATATION OF COLON. 495 operation must be performed if possible not later than a week or ten days after the first. Congenital Malformations.—Certain congenital malforma- tions of the bowel may give rise to clinical features closely resembling those of stricture, for example, narrowing of the gut due to the presence of a diaphragm or septum stretching across the intestine, with a central aperture through which only fluid is able to pass. Although the condition is quite compatible with the attainment of adult life, obstructive symptoms may occur at any time from changes in the intestinal contents, or from inflammatory changes in the wall of the gut. Complete obliteration of a longer or shorter segment of the intestine sometimes occurs and proves fatal within a few days after birth ; it is not amenable to surgical treatment, although life may be prolonged for a time by the formation of an artificial anus. Congenital dilatation of the colon or Hirschsprung’s disease is a rare condition characterised by obstinate constipation, extreme distension of the abdomen, and visible peristalsis of individual coils of intestine. There is great dilatation and hypertrophy involving the whole colon, or chiefly the pelvic portion. The affected colon may attain enormous dimensions, as large as the thigh of an adult • it contains large quantities of yellowish-green fseces, with but little fmcal odour, and the mucous membrane may show superficial ulcers. There is no structural narrowing of the bowel, but, when the condition is fully developed, there may be a valvular hindrance, as is shown by the fact that when an artificial anus is made in the descend- ing colon, water may easily be made to pass from the natural to the artificial anus, but not in the reverse direction. The small intestine is usually collapsed and empty. The chief clinical features are constipation and distension of the abdomen ; in some cases the bowels never open spontane- ously, in others only at intervals of days or weeks and then only with the assistance of enemata. Although the child may be unable to pass flatus, when a tube is passed up the rectum gas escapes under considerable pressure. The abdomen becomes enormously enlarged without tension of its wall, and the contour of individual parts of the colon may be recognised and may show peristaltic movements. Pain and vomiting are usually absent, and death generally takes place from toxsemia. The nature of the malady is still under discussion. Hale White regards the condition as a “ congenital inertness ” of the colon or neuro-muscular defect, whereby it is incapable of