510 THE INTESTINES. wound, a subcutaneous contusion or rupture, or an operation in which the bowel has been opened and sutured and the stitches have subsequently given way. The fistula may form directly or through the mediation of an ABO. WALL MESENTERY Fig. 138.—Fiscal Fistula of Small Intes- tine, opening directly on surface. ASD. WALL abscess ; in the latter case the external opening may be at a considerable distance from the opening in the bowel. (2)From inflammatory or ulcerative pro- cesses in the wall of the bowel or in the tissues immediately adjoining it, such, for example, as appendicitis with sloughing of the wall of the caecum, tuber- culosis, actinomycosis, cancer, or foreign bodies impacted in the gut. When a segment of bowel is involved in the wall of an abscess, the suppurative processes may extend into the lumen, as well as towards the skin surface, and thus establish a faecal fistula. The situation and anatomical characters of the fistula vary with its mode of origin. In the majority of cases the opening in the bowel is a comparatively small one, so that, provided there is no obstruction in the bowel beyond, only a propor- tion of the intestinal contents escape externally. If the seg- ment of bowel is adherent to the parietes (Fig. 138), the margin of the fistulous orifice is often lined with intestinal mucous membrane, and this may protrude at the mouth of the fistula. If the opening is large enough, the bowel as a whole may prolapse as a result of increase of the intra-abdom- inal pressure or of peristaltic movements in the intestine immediately above the opening. If, on the other hand, a suppurating channel or abscess cavity inter- venes between the bowel and the parietes, the fistula is lined by granulation tissue (Fig. 139). The clinical features vary with the distance of the fistula from the normal anus, with the pro- portion of intestinal contents escaping, and with the nature of MESENTERY Fig. 139.—Faecal Fistula of Small In- testine with Track of Suppuration between the Bowel and the Abdominal Wall.