650 THE KIDNEY AND URETER. within a few days from suppression of urine. The oldest recorded case died at the age of 88. Not infrequently there is polyuria, slight haematuria, and thirst or dryness of the mouth. Sometimes the chief complaint is of palpitation and breathless- ness, or an enlargement in the abdomen may have attracted attention. In typical cases bilateral renal tumours are discovered on palpation. The swelling retains the shape of the kidney, moves with respiration, and can be moved between the two hands. If only one kidney can be felt to be enlarged the diagnosis is more difficult, unless the liver is also affected, in which case the liver is enlarged, and the cysts may be felt on its anterior surface. The urine is like that met with in the contracted kidney; it is increased in amount, pale in colour, and of low specific gravity ; there is a trace of albumin, occasionally tube casts, and decolorised haemocytes ; sometimes there is visible haematuria. The presence in the urine of concentrically laminated colloid bodies like those met with in the prostate is believed to be pathognomonic. The surgical importance of this condition lies in its diagnosis, as it is not amenable to any form of treatment. If not recognised until the kidney is exposed, the proposed operation should be abandoned. Renal Haemophilia or Essential Haematuria.—These terms have been applied to a condition in which severe haemorrhage occurs periodically from one kidney in the absence of any of the usual causes of bleeding, such as stone, tumour, or tuberculosis. In some cases there is unilateral pain, sometimes amounting to definite renal colic, and on cystoscopic examination blood has been found to issue from the ureter on the same side. Casper records cases in which, even on most' careful microscopical examination of the kidney after removal, no lesion could be discovered to account for these symptoms. In another group of cases presenting similar symptoms the kidney has been found to be the seat of chronic diffuse ’paren- chymatous nephritis. In view of the importance in these cases of making a differential diagnosis from other renal lesions giving rise to haematuria, the kidney should be exposed by operation, incised and thoroughly examined. Both in the cases in which nephritis has been found and in those in which no lesion could be discovered, the operation has been followed by the disappear- ance of the haematuria and complete recovery. Operative Treatment of Nephritis.—Reginald Harrison, in