HYPOSPADIAS. 687 and force of the stream, the characters of the urine, and the discharge of pus or blood from the meatus. The anterior urethra is accessible to palpation through the skin, and the posterior urethra from the rectum. The mucous membrane may be inspected by the urethroscope or endoscope, which consists of a metal tube through which a beam of light is pro- jected in line with the eye of the observer. The use of catheters has been considered on p. 655 ; the use of bougies and other urethral instru- ments is described with the different diseased conditions of the urethra. Congenital Malformations.—These include occlusions of the urethra, hypospadias, epispadias, and abnormal communications between the urethra and the rectum. Occlusion of the urethra is usually dite to the presence of a valvular fold or diaphragm situated at the external meatus, or just behind the glans, or in front of the prostate. It may be associated with escape of the urine from the bladder by some abnormal channel, such, for example, as a patent urachus. Occlusion of the meatus is usually recognised shortly after birth, and is remedied by incising the diaphragm with a fine knife and maintaining the patency of the canal by the passage of bougies. Occlusion of the posterior urethra usually calls for perineal section. Hypospadias.—The floor of the urethra may be deficient to a greater or less extent as a result of imperfect fusion of the lips of the uro-genital sinus. In the slightest degree—hypospadias of the glans—the urethra opens at the base of the glans penis ; the frsenum is absent, and the imperfectly developed prepuce overhangs the dorsal aspect of the glans like a hood. This variety is of little importance ; the patient may have to lift up the penis by the prepuce in order to direct the stream of urine forwards ; it may inconvenience the surgeon in the treatment of urethral lesions, especially if the urethral orifice is unduly narrow, as is often the case. The second degree is that in which the urethra opens on the under surface of the body of the penis—penile hypospadias. In front of the urethral opening there is a shallow groove lined with mucous membrane representing the roof of the urethra. The penis is curved with the concavity downwards, and attempts to straighten it are resisted by tight, scar-like, fibrous bands on either side of the median groove. The curving of the penis makes it difficult for the patient to urinate without wetting his clothes, and in the sexual act the seminal fluid may not enter the vagina. This deformity calls for surgical interference, and this should be resorted to between the ages of six and twelve. The curve of the penis is redressed by cutting across the