367 TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. to spontaneous recovery, and various complications may ensue, such as abscess formation with rupture at the umbilicus or in the ileo-csecal region, sometimes followed by a faecal fistula or by the sudden or gradual development of intestinal obstruction. These graver cases are frequently associated with tuberculous ulceration of the bowel and with pulmonary phthisis. The treatment in this group of cases is not hopeful, and is surrounded with difficulties. The operation of laparotomy may prove very difficult on account of the dense matting of the intestines to each other and to the abdominal wall, and misguided attempts to unravel the coils may result in tearing the fragile intestine, thus bringing about a faecal fistula. In more favourable cases the tuberculous infection is limited to the neighbourhood of the primary focus—an intestinal ulcer, a tuberculous appendix or Fallopian tube—which primary focus should be removed. After any laparotomy for peritoneal tuberculosis there is a risk of tuberculous infection of the scar, resulting in its breaking down into an ulcer, sometimes followed by a faecal fistula, or after healing by a ventral hernia. Actinomycosis of the peritoneum usually arises from pre- existing disease in the intestine, especially in the caecum. A large insensitive mass, consisting of coils of intestine, omentum and inflammatory exudation, forms in the belly. This mass, which is at first hard, gradually softens, forming a chronic abscess, which bursts externally, leading to the formation of tortuous sinuses dis- charging pus containing the characteristic fungus. The disease tends to progress and to prove fatal. Treatment consists in the internal administration of iodides and the removal of the infected tissues with a sharp spoon. Peritoneal Adhesions and Bands.—Adhesions between ap- posed surfaces of peritoneum may result from any form of lesion within the abdomen. They result not only from affections which give rise to acute peritonitis, but also from those which pursue a chronic or latent course, such as gastric and intestinal ulcers, gall-stones, disease in the mesenteric glands, or tuberculous peritonitis. They also occur in relation to external hernia and after abdominal operations, especially those in which the peri- toneum has been roughly handled, or in which surfaces have been denuded of their serous covering. Adhesions are frequently reabsorbed. If they persist, they are liable to become elongated from being constantly dragged upon by the movement of the viscus to which they are attached, and to be moulded into a cord-like structure or “band” by the rolling movements of the intestines. A portion of adherent