660 THE URINARY BLADDER. believed to take place from within outwards, and the serous coat is that most widely torn. The urine, slightly tinged with blood, escapes into the peritoneal cavity, and the ruptured organ collapses. In spite of active absorption by the peritoneum, the amount of urine in the abdomen increases, and with the advent of organisms from the kidneys, the intestine, or an infected catheter, there ensues an insidious form of septic peritonitis. Extra-peritoneal rupture is met with under two sets of con- ditions. In the first variety the bladder is over-distended, and is raptured by localised violence applied to the lowest part of the abdomen, the tear being situated in the anterior wall below the reflection of the peritoneum. The urine escapes into the cellular tissue of the space of Retzius, and as the amount of urine in- creases, it infiltrates the cellular tissue upwards towards the navel, outwards as far as the anterior iliac spine on either side, and downwards behind the symphysis as far as the neck of the bladder. The second variety is associated with fracture of the pelvis, and the bladder is torn, usually by the outer fragment of the horizontal ramus of the pubes, sometimes by the body of the pubes when the symphysis is forced asunder, rarely by traction on the anterior ligaments of the bladder. The tear is usually situated in the anterior wall close to the neck, and the urine escapes into the cellular tissue around the neck; it may then ascend towards the abdominal wall, or infiltrate the cellular tissue of the pelvis and accumulate between the bladder and the rectum. Bacterial infection usually occurs later than in the intra- peritoneal rupture, and results in diffuse cellulitis and suppuration in the track of the extravasated urine. Clinical Features.—Apart from cases associated with fractured pelvis, it is a remarkable fact that a rupture of the bladder is frequently overlooked when the patient is first seen. This error is more likely to occur in intoxicated persons, and in those who have sustained the lesion in a street brawl or accident, and are brought to hospital without a reliable statement of what has taken place, and sometimes there is comparatively little shock, and the patient may be able to walk, stooping forwards as he does so. If the patient is conscious, he complains of hypogastric pain and tenderness, and of a desire to pass water, although he is unable to do so. A catheter is easily passed, but although the bladder may not have been emptied for many hours, only a few drops of blood-stained urine are drawn off. If a rigid catheter is employed the bladder is usually recognised to be contracted, and the point of the instrument is restricted in the range of