THE BREAST. 340 Radical Operation for Cancer of the Breast.—The only treatment is complete removal of the breast and of all the adjacent tissues to which the disease is liable to spread. The researches of Heidenliain, Stiles, and other shave shown that in order to prevent local recurrence of the disease it is necessary to remove—(1) the tumour, together with the whole of the mammary gland, the skin over it, and the surrounding fat; (2) the pectoral muscles in whole or in part; (3) the fat, lymphatic vessels and glands in the axilla, and those in relation to the pectoralis minor, costo-coracoid membrane, and subscapular vessels. There are many different ways of performing the operation so as to fulfil these requirements. We shall here describe the method of Kocher. The arm being fully abducted, an incision is carried from the clavicle downwards to the anterior fold of the axilla, dividing the integument and the deep fascia, and exposing the cephalic vein in the furrowT between the upper border of the pectoralis major and the deltoid. The pectoralis major is freed an inch or so from the arm and divided. The pectoralis minor is then freed, and divided close to the coracoid process. The fat and glands which surround the axillary vessels and nerves are dissected off from above downwards till the whole extent of the axillary vein is exposed, and the branches of the axillary vessels are grasped with forceps close to the main trunks before being divided. The fat and glands are then stripped off the anterior surface of the subscapularis and latissimus dorsi muscles until the serratus magnus is exposed. The long thoracic artery, and the posterior thoracic and sub- scapular nerves, may have to be taken away to ensure complete removal of all the lymphatics which accompany them. The axilla having thus been cleared, the incision is continued in a curved direction round the lower border of the breast and on as far as the sternum. The fascia and fat are then stripped off the latissimus dorsi and serratus magnus, and the costal origins of the pectoralis minor exposed and detached. The sternal origin of the pectoralis major is next divided, and, along with the breast, is separated from the ribs and intercostal muscles. The incision is now made through the skin above the breast, and a skin flap dissected from the subcutaneous fat as high up as the clavicle, and the clavicular origin of the pectoralis major is divided close to the clavicle. Finally, the vessels as they lie behind the clavicle are cleared, the bleeding arrested by torsion or ligatures, and the wound closed, a drainage tube being inserted at the posterior axillary fold, passing up between the scapula and the chest wall as far as the clavicle.