EXTERNAL PILES. 595 the blood coagulates and the connective tissue around it becomes condensed, it becomes firm. This condition was formerly supposed to be due to thrombosis occurring in a varicose vein, but this is seldom the true explanation. At the moment of rupture the patient experiences a sharp, pricking pain, as if something had given way in the vicinity of the anus. This is immediately followed by the appearance of a swelling, which is painful and tender. The acute pain soon subsides and gives place to a dull feeling of tension, which in the course of a week or ten days disappears. In some cases the swell- ing also disappears, in some a fibrous nodule remains, and in others infection of the clot takes place and a perianal abscess forms. The treatment consists in making an incision over the swelling and turning out the clot. The wound usually heals in two or three days. A third condition, sometimes, but erroneously called the “ connective-tissue external pile,” is met with in the vicinity of the anus. It consists merely in an hypertrophied tag of peri- anal skin—the so-called “ dog-ear pile.” It does not contain any varicose vein, and is, strictly speaking, not a pile at all. The swelling causes itching and irritation around the anus, and may become infected and give rise to a perianal abscess. Such swellings are frequently found at the lower end of a fissure, and constitute the so-called sentinel pile. These tags of skin should be snipped off with scissors, the bleeding being arrested by forceps and a ligature or suture. Under an antiseptic dressing the wound rapidly heals. Tumours of Rectum. Tumours of the rectum may be simple or malignant, and transitional forms are met with which it is impossible to place definitely in either class. Innocent Tumours.—As the majority of innocent rectal tumours tend to be pedunculated, they are spoken of generically as rectal 'polypi. The term polypus, however, only denotes that a growth is attached to the rectal wall by a longer or shorter pedicle, and conveys no indication of its histological structure. The pedicle is composed of a varying quantity of submucous connective tissue covered by mucous membrane, and in it run the vessels that supply the growth. The traction exerted on the tumour by the muscular efforts of the bowel in attempting to expel it tends gradually to lengthen the pedicle. As a rule the tumour is single, but in some cases there are