THE PERITONEUM. 362 wrung out of saline solution. Irrigation may be called for in the more generalised forms of peritonitis ; two large tubes are pushed in alongside each other to successive regions, and a steady stream of saline solution, at a temperature of about 105° F., is sent along one of them until it returns quite clear. The viscera must be handled gently, and adherent lymph should not be removed. It may be necessary to make additional openings for drainage, especially one above the pubes to drain the pouch of Douglas. In the female, it is better to drain the pelvis through the roof of the vagina. The operation is concluded by closing the abdominal wound, leaving room for the various drainage tubes. A wick of iodoform gauze or worsted should be passed to the bottom of each tube, or cigarette drains may be used instead of tubes. If it has been impossible to remove the focus of infection, the area should be packed with a large strand of iodoform gauze or worsted, surrounded by rubber tissue. After-treatment. —The head of the bed should be raised about eighteen inches, or the patient propped up on pillows so that any fluid in the abdomen may gravitate into the pelvis. Saline solution should be introduced in sufficient quantity to restore the blood pressure and to increase the excretory action of the kidneys and skin. It may be run continuously into the rectum through a vaginal nozzle and rubber tube connected with a douche-can placed at a level of about six to twelve inches above the pelvis; the salt solution, at a temperature of 100° F., is allowed to flow at the rate of about three-quarters of a pint per hour (Murphy). Should the rectum not be available, the saline solution is introduced into the subcutaneous cellular tissue, or preferably, directly into the median basilic vein. An attempt should be made as soon as possible to open the bowels. M‘Cosh’s procedure of injecting a saturated solution of sul- phate of magnesia into the lumen of the bowel—preferably the jejunum—before closing the abdomen is an attempt to fulfil this indication. The alternative plan is to give calomel either in repeated small doses, or in one dose of five grains, followed by a saline purgative. Flatulent distension may be relieved by an enema containing turpentine. The prognosis after operations for peritonitis depends chiefly upon the etiology and virulence of the infection and the stage of the illness at which operation has been performed. Localised Forms of Infective Peritonitis. — Owing to the capacity of the inflamed peritoneum to form adhesions, septic infection frequently remains localised to the vicinity of the organ in which it originates. This is most frequently observed in