527 GALL-STONES. is freely movable. When there are adhesions, the tumour is less defined and more fixed, and when it is inflamed it is tender on pressure. In some cases the distended gall-bladder is best felt when the patient is in the genu-pectoral position. A distended gall-bladder is liable to be mistaken for other abdominal tumours, and particularly for a floating kidney. A gall-bladder tumour is continuous above with the liver, its lower extremity is movable from side to side, and it is always found in the same situation at every examination ; it can be pushed backwards into the belly, but always comes forward again into its former position. In stout patients, and in those with rigid abdominal muscles, it may be necessary to examine the patient under a general anaesthetic. Cases have been recorded in which a distended gall-bladder reached down, to the symphysis pubis or even into the pelvis, and was mistaken for an ovarian cyst. Enlargement of the liver—as recognised by percussion or by feeling the lower margin of the organ projected down below the costal margin—is exceptional in inflammatory affections of the biliary passages; it is more often present in syphilis, cancer, and in hypertrophic cirrhosis. Characters and Formation of Gall-Stones.—A solitary stone is usually shaped like an egg or a hazel-nut; multiple stones are usually facetted (Fig. 145). They are usually firm and hard, but are sometimes so soft that they can be crushed between the fingers. Pure cholesterin stones are rare; mixed forms con- taining bilirubin or biliverdin and calcium salts are those commonly met with. They are almost exclusively formed in the gall-bladder, very rarely in the hepatic or common ducts. The X-rays are of little value in the diagnosis of gall-stones, as a definite shadow is only seen with stones rich in lime salts, and these are very rare. Thick bile is even more opaque to the rays than cholesterin. The formation of gall-stones is always associated with catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane following upon bacterial infection of the biliary passages. The infection is usually conveyed by the blood of the portal vein as it passes through the liver, the organisms reaching the bile and thus being carried through the gall-bladder and ducts ; less commonly it passes up directly from the duodenum through the common duct. Typhoid and colon bacilli are those most constantly present, but other pyogenic organisms are occasionally met with. While bacterial infection is the essential cause of gall-stones, certain accessory conditions favour their formation, for example,