ANATOMY OF THE SPLEEN. 549 the vertebral column by violence applied to the abdominal wall, as for example when the body is crushed between buffers. It is impossible to diagnose such lesions at the time of their occurrence. In some cases death takes place from haemorrhage, in others from fat necrosis. In less severe forms the lesser sac of the peritoneum becomes filled with blood-stained greenish fluid, constituting the so-called traumatic pancreatic cyst. Garre records the case of a young man whose abdomen was caught between buffers and the pancreas nearly torn across ; the two portions were brought together with silk sutures and the patient recovered. Wounds implicating the pancreas are usually rapidly fatal from haemorrhage or from accompanying injuries to adjacent viscera. The Spleen. Surgical Anatomy.—The concave, inner surface of the spleen lies against the fundus of the stomach and the upper pole of the left kidney. The convex, outer surface is applied against the diaphragm. The long axis of the organ corresponds to that of the tenth rib. The spleen is almost completely invested by peritoneum. From the hilus the peri- toneum is reflected on to the fundus of the stomach as the gastro-spilenic omentum ; and a similar fold—the lieno-renal ligament—passes back- ward to the anterior surface of the left kidney. The upper and posterior part of the spleen is overlapped by the left lung, from which it is separated by the peritoneum, the diaphragm, and the pleura. The splenic vessels pursue a tortuous course behind the stomach, and the splenic artery near its termination breaks up into a series of from five to seven branches, which enter the organ separately, so that they require to be ligatured individually in excising the spleen. The functions of the spleen are imperfectly known, but experience has shown that, while removal of the organ may be followed by temporary anaemia and leucocytosis and enlargement of the lymphatic glands, the general health is not permanently impaired. Herczel has pointed out that the pyrexia which may be observed after removal of the spleen is due to the leakage of pancreatic fluid due to injury of the tail of the pancreas in ligaturing the splenic vessels ; he therefore recommends that in removing the spleen the use of clamps should be dispensed with, and that the splenic blood-vessels should be secured one by one close to the hilus. Injuries.—Rupture of the spleen may result from a blow or crush implicating the left hypochondriac region. It may be complicated by fracture of the overlying ribs, or by injury to one or other of the adjacent viscera. Sometimes rupture follows upon a sudden movement or strain, or a slight blow such as that with the palm of the hand, but in these cases the spleen is unduly soft or is the seat of changes due to malaria.