THE CHEST. 304 Of primary malignant tumours the sarcoma and the chondro- sarcoma are the most common types. The former occurs most frequently in the sternum, attacking patients in middle life, and being very vascular and pulsatile, it is liable to be mistaken for a thoracic aneurysm eroding the bone. The chondro-sarcoma usually appears on the ribs near their junction with the cartilages, is met with chiefly in early adult life, and may grow to a great size. Both forms tend to spread towards the thoracic cavity and rapidly implicate the pleura, lung, or diaphragm. They are comparatively painless, and may present few physical signs even when the thoracic viscera are extensively invaded. In some cases the position and extent of the growth may be recog- nised by skiagraphy, in others these points can only be determined by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—The pleural cavity should be opened through an intercostal space a little distance from the tumour, and if on exploring with the finger it is found that the parietal pleura alone is involved, the removal of the tumour may be undertaken. The soft parts are reflected by turning up a large U-shaped flap, and the ribs divided well beyond the limits of the growth, which is then rapidly removed. The tendency of the lung to collapse when the pleura is freely opened may be overcome by placing a towel wrung out of hot saline solution over the wound. When the skin flap is accurately stitched in position so that the cavity is completely closed, the lung expands again in the course of a few hours. Secondary invasion of the chest wall is most common in cases of cancer of the breast. The original mammary tumour may invade the ribs or sternum, but more frequently these bones become implicated in recurrent growths. The manubrium sterni is a common seat of metastatic tumours in cases of mammary cancer in which the disease becomes disseminated. Sarcoma originating in the pleura or lung may spread to the bones of the chest wall. Pleural Effusions.—An effusion into the pleural cavity may be serous, sero-fibrinous, or purulent, and the fluid may collect in a localised area of the pleural sac shut off by adhesions, or may occupy the whole cavity. In cases of pleurisy with effusion, the fluid is at first serous or sero-fibrinous, and in a considerable proportion of cases is associated with the presence of the tubercle bacillus. In other cases pyogenic organisms— pneumococci, streptococci, and staphylococci—are present, and the fluid becomes purulent, constituting an empyema. In the serous and sero-fibrinous forms the fluid is usually