INJURIES OF THE TESTIS. 741 elevated, and have warm antiseptic compresses or lead and opium fomentations applied to the parts. Dislocation of the Testis.—The testis may be squeezed out of the scrotum by such violence as the passage of a wheel over the part, or it may be dragged out by forcible contraction of the cremaster muscle during violent muscular efforts. The gland may pass back into the inguinal canal, or on to the abdominal wall or front of the pubes. It may remain per- manently in its new position, especially if adhesions form in connection with the injury, or it may eventually pass back into the scrotum. The treatment of acquired ectopia is carried out on the same lines as in the developmental form. Injuries of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord may be contused by blows or sudden strains, as for example in falling with the legs widely apart. Violent efforts in coughing have been known to cause rupture of one of the spermatic veins in patients suffering from varicocele. These injuries are followed by effusion of blood into the connective tissue of the cord, and the extravasated blood may either collect in a limited space, or be widely diffused throughout its substance. Some- times thrombosis occurs in the veins. A firm, elongated, sausage-shaped swelling develops in the line of the cord, and may extend from the scrotum to the iliac fossa. There is discoloration in the line of this swelling and in the surround- ing parts. The vas deferens may be ruptured by such external injuries as the passage of a wheel over the groin, or sudden and forcible abduction of the thighs. The injury is usually accompanied by extravasation of blood into the cord, and in some cases blood escapes by the urethra. It is usually followed by atrophy of the testis. Incised and lacerated wounds of the cord, including the vas, may be accidentally produced in the course of such operations as the radical cure of hernia or the excision of a hydrocele of the cord. They are frequently inflicted in attempts at self- mutilation by lunatics. Severe haemorrhage occurs in incised wounds, but lacerated wounds do not bleed much. Atrophy or fatty degeneration of the testis usually ensues. Torsion of the Spermatic Cord.—The spermatic cord is liable to be suddenly twisted to such an extent that the vascular supply of the testis is interfered with. The vitality of the testis may be endangered the first time a twist occurs, or there may be recurring attacks of a milder degree, culminating in strangulation. The causes of the torsion are obscure, but as the