HEAD INJURIES. 21 osseous projections, with the membranes attached to them, all tend to diminish vibration ; and the external buttresses formed by the zygoma and the malar bone, and the thick muscular pads related to these processes, act in the same direction. The mobility of the skull upon the spine, and lastly, the water-bed of cerebro-spinal fluid in which the brain floats, also protect it from injury. In all cases, the questions which dominate the whole clinical outlook are, whether the brain is directly damaged or not, and whether it is likely to become involved by sejitic infection. It is impossible to consider separately in their clinical aspects injuries of the cranium and injuries of the brain. It seldom happens that one is seriously damaged without the other suffering to a greater or less ext.ent. Sometimes the skull suffers com- paratively little while the brain is severely damaged, but it is rare for a serious injury to the bone to be unaccompanied by definite brain lesions. In any case it is the damage to the brain, however slight, which gives to the injury its clinical importance. It is an old and a true saying that “no injury of the head is so trivial as to be despised or so serious as to be despaired of.” Injuries at first sight apparently slight may prove fatal from haemorrhage or sepsis, while, on the other hand, recovery has followed injuries of great severity—for example, the famous “ American crow-bar case,” in which a bar of iron three and a half feet long and one and a half inches thick passed through the head, and yet the patient recovered. It is convenient to consider the injuries of the brain before those of the skull. Concussion and Compression of the Brain. The clinical manifestations of cerebral injury are embraced under the two terms “concussion ” and “compression” of the brain. No true pathological significance attaches to these terms; they are essentially clinical. As the conditions which they indicate do not occur as separate and independent entities, separate descriptions of them are of necessity more or less arbitrary. The symptoms associated with concussion of the brain are to all intents and purposes those of shock, and the term “ cerebral shock ” is sometimes employed as synonymous with concussion. Compression is a general term used to indicate the presence of increased intra-cranial tension from whatever cause resulting —it may be from haemorrhage, from the presence of an abscess