436 THE STOMACH AND DUODENUM. lumbar vertebra and of the vena cava, and then turns abruptly upwards in front of the aorta. This last portion is crossed by the superior mesen- teric vessels and by the root of the mesentery ; it reaches the left side of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, and there, overlapped by the stomach, it bends sharply forwards to join the jejunum—the duodeno- jejunal junction. This junction is firmly attached to the diaphragm by means of the suspensory muscle of the duodenum. The Peritoneal Covering of the Duodenum.—A part of the left wall of the first portion looks into the lesser sac and is covered by its peritoneum. The right and upper walls are completely covered by peritoneum. The descending portion possesses a serous covering on its right and anterior walls, while the horizontal or third portion is only covered in front and below. In the vicinity of the duodeno-jejunal junction there is a pouch of peritoneum—the duodeno-jejunal fossa—into which intestine may be protruded, and constitute one variety of internal hernia. The common bile-duct penetrates the wall of the second or descending portion of the duodenum at the junction of its left and posterior walls, and opens along with the duct of the pancreas (duct of Wirsung), either close to one another by two openings, or when they have previously united, by a common opening. The lesser duct of the pancreas (duct of Santorini) opens above and a little in front of this (Fig. 146). Ochsner has described a thickening of the circular muscular fibres of the duodenum a little beyond the entrance of the common bile-duct ; this appears to act as a sphincter and serves to retain the chyme in the upper part of the duodenum sufficiently long to provide for its being thoroughly mixed with the bile and pancreatic juice before it is passed on into the jejunum. When thrown into spasmodic contraction, as it may be by irritation of the mucous membrane of the duodenuum or of the bile- ducts, it causes damming back of the bile, which may then enter the stomach and appear in the vomit. Ochsner explains in this way the almost constant presence of bile in the vomit in the sickness which follows upon general anaesthesia and in what are popularly known as bilious attacks. Bacteriology.—The normal stomach, when empty, is free of micro- organisms, but immediately after a meal a number of different varieties of organisms appear according to the nature of the food taken. If the food is in a liquid form, it is rapidly passed onwards into the intestine, and the bacterial forms are but slightly, if at all affected. If the food is in a solid form, it remains in the stomach, and the number of bacteria undergoes a steady diminution until digestion is completed. In the disordered digestion which attends upon stagnation of the gastric con- tents due to spasm or cicatricial contraction of the pylorus, there is a great increase in the number of bacteria ; if, under these conditions, the contents are extravasated into the peritoneal cavity, the infection of the peritoneum which ensues is of a more severe character than when the contents are normal. The contents of the duodenum are believed to be sterile. Clinical Methods.—In order to bring out the shape and size of the stomach different means of distension have been adopted, the simplest being to administer the two halves of a Seidlitz powder separately with an interval of a few minutes between them, or, what is perhaps safer, to pass a stomach tube and pump in air by means of a ball syringe. To ascertain the state of matters with regard to the chemical changes within the stomach, it is usual, following the practice of Ewald, to give a test-meal, consisting of toast or rusk without butter, and tea without