693 URETHRITIS. in 1879, the pathology of urethritis has been rescued from the confusion which existed prior to that date. The examination of stained films of the discharge from the urethra enables us, in the majority of instances, to determine whether the case is one of gonorrhoea or not. In examining a patient who is the subject of urethral dis- charge, it is desirable that he should not have made water for some hours before the examination, as, if the discharge is small in amount, it may be completely washed away by the urine. Where the discharge is so small in amount that it is not seen on inspection of the meatus, the bulbous, scrotal, and penile portions of the urethra should be compressed from behind forwards so as to force what little discharge may be lodged in the urethra out at the meatus. If the discharge is derived from the prostatic urethra, it may not be possible to demonstrate it until the prostate and prostatic urethra have been digitally compressed from the rectum. In the female, the urethra is compressed from behind forwards by the finger through the anterior vaginal wall, which causes the pus to appear at the meatus. Unless the discharge is very small in amount, it appears as a purulent deposit in the urine, and it is desirable to carry out the two-glass test as a routine measure. Urethral pus appears in the first portion, while pus derived from the bladder is most abundant in the second glass and may be confined to it. To differentiate by means of the two-glass test between pus derived from the anterior and that from the posterior urethra, it is necessary first to wash out the anterior urethra until the fluid returns clear; and then, if the first portion of the urine passed contains pus, it is justifiable to infer that it is derived from the posterior urethra. Urethritis of other than Gonorrhoeal Origin.—The healthy urethra does not readily lend itself to infection with ordinary pyogenic organisms. It may, for instance, transmit urine full of pus organisms derived from the kidney or bladder over long periods without becoming infected. When subjected to frequent catheterisation, when a catheter is tied in for a time, or when irritants are injected into its lumen, the urethra may become inflamed and discharge pus, but when the traumatism ceases, the urethritis rapidly disappears. Contact with septic discharges from the vagina occasionally causes urethritis in the male, but this “ spurious gonorrhoea,” as it has been called, appears very soon after exposure to infection, the discharge is a thin muco-pus, there is little inflammatory reaction or pain on