363 PNEUMOCOCCAL PERITONITIS. relation to the appendix, the female pelvic organs, and the gall-bladder. If at any stage of the process resolution occurs, the organisms die out, the exudate is reabsorbed, and recovery ensues. If the inflammatory exudate becomes purulent, a circumscribed abscess is formed, the v/all of the abscess con- sisting of inflamed and adherent serous surfaces gummed to- gether by lymph. The clinical features and progress vary according to the lesion from which the peritonitis originates and the extent of the infection. They are at first similar to those of diffuse peritonitis, but the general symptoms are less severe, and the inflammatory signs are confined to the region of the organ primarily affected. A more or less defined swelling forms, and is sometimes palpable through the anterior abdominal wall, sometimes through the rectum or vagina. The general condition of the patient improves as the inflamed area becomes walled in by adhesions and the absorption of toxins diminishes. If pus forms, it usually approaches the surface, and the skin becomes oedematous and pits on pressure before the abscess ruptures externally ; the pus may, however, burst into the general cavity, into one of the adjacent hollow organs, or into the extra- peritoneal cellular tissue. The treatment is essentially operative, and is best studied with the individual organs. Pneumococcal Peritonitis.—This may occur in association with pneumonia, pleurisy, or meningitis, and is then part of a general infection. The organisms reach the peritoneum through the blood-stream, by extension from the pleura through the diaphragm, or, in the female, by way of the genital tract. Pneumococcal peritonitis is met with chiefly in female children ; it is seldom possible to determine in what part of the abdomen the process originates, although in some cases the changes are most pronounced in the vicinity of the ovaries and tubes. After an acute onset characterised by pain in the lower part of the belly, vomiting, and fever, the symptoms may moderate for a time and then become more aggressive. The abdomen becomes distended, especially in the lower umbilical region, and there may be physical signs of the exudation of fluid. Sometimes there are several distinct encapsulated collections of fluid, mostly situated below the umbilicus. In suppurative cases an abscess has been known to point and rupture at the umbilicus. The pus is of a greenish colour, without odour, and is mixed with a large amount of fibrin. It may contain pneumococci alone or along with other pyogenic organisms.