STRANGULATED HERNIA. 403 however, become gangrenous without gangrene of the protruded coils. The changes in the bowel above and below the hernia closely resemble those that take place in other forms of intestinal ob- struction. The bowel below the hernia is usually contracted and empty. The bowel above becomes distended with gas and fluid, minute haemorrhages occur in its walls, and the superficial layers of the mucous membrane are shed, giving rise to shallow ulcers. Bacterial decomposition of the contents of the bowel results in the formation of toxins, which are readily absorbed through the devitalised mucous membrane, and give rise to general intoxication which may prove fatal. If the omentum alone is strangulated, it merely exhibits the effects of venous congestion and of haemorrhages into its substance, but if intestine is present in addition, the omentum participates in the septic process set up by the bacterial in- fection from the bowel. Natural Terminations.—In the majority of cases of untreated strangulated hernia the condition proves fatal from septic absorption. In a limited number the gangrenous bowel gives way, and the sac and its contents are converted into a foul- smelling, faecal abscess containing gas; the coverings slough as the abscess points and ruptures, and if the patient survives, a faecal fistula is formed. Clinical Features.—The symptoms of strangulated hernia are essentially those of intestinal obstruction. They vary according to the tightness of the strangulation, the part involved—whether bowel or omentum—and the nervous constitution of the patient. There is often a history of a previous threatening of strangula- tion which has been tided over. On the occurrence of strangu- lation the patient is often aware of a change in the hernia; he may, for example, after a sudden effort, be conscious of the descent of an addition to the hernial contents, and observe a decided increase in the size of the hernia. There is an immediate difficulty in effecting reduction, the hernia becomes tense, hard and painful, and the expansile impulse on coughing is diminished or lost. Simultaneously with these changes there is complaint of pain in the abdomen, usually referred to the region of the umbilicus ; in some cases pain is the first symptom. The pain is very acute, with exacerbations of a colicky nature, causing the patient to stoop forward or compelling him to lie down. It is attended with sweating, with a feeling of coldness and collapse, and is nearly always followed by nausea and vomiting. The cessation of pain is usually an indication that gangrene of the