718 THE PROSTATE AND SEMINAL VESICLES. Congestion of the prostate may cause a rapid enlargement of the organ and swelling of the mucous membrane of the prostatic urethra, so that the escape of urine is rendered more difficult, or even impossible, or haemorrhage may take place. Prom the increased difficulty in voiding the urine, there ensues hypertrophy of the bladder, and the interior of the organ presents a fasciculated appearance (Fig. 182). The mucous membrane may then be protruded between the reticulated columns of muscle fibres, constituting cysts, in which phosphatic concretions may be deposited and lead to the formation of Fig. 191.—Enlargement of Prostate, showing deeper And more Capa- intra - vesical projection of the so-called ClOUS than the pouch in Middle Lobe. (From a photograph lent by front of the prostate, and Mr. C. W. Cathcart.) js especially liable to (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) become the seat of stone Septic infection is liable to be superadded, the urine under- going ammoniacal decomposition and depositing phosphates. The mucous membrane presents the changes that attend cystitis, the muscular fibres degenerate and are replaced by fibrous tissue, and as a result of the inflammation spreading through to the cellular tissue around the bladder—pericystitis— the organ may become fixed in its dilated and pouched condition, so that it is no longer a contractile organ under the influence of the will, but an inert sac subject only to the laws of fluid pressure. The kidneys are frequently the seat of chronic interstitial nephritis, and when there is a combination of septic infection with increased backward pressure, they become the seat of pyonephrosis. Clinical Features.—Enlargement of the prostate is compatible encysted stone. Dilatation of the bladder is the result of the accumulation of re- sidual urine; the wall becomes pouched in front of and behind the intra-vesical projection of the prostate, while the urethral opening. rises more and more towards the pubes. The retro- prostatic pouch is usually formation.