UTERUS AND ITS APPENDAGES. 562 while the patient is at rest in bed. The severity of the symptoms varies according as the rupture is intra- or extra-peritoneal. In intra-peritoneal rupture the patient is suddenly seized with intense abdominal pain, and a feeling as if “something had given way.” She becomes collapsed and extremely pale, with low temperature, a small, rapid, feeble, and thready pulse, sighing respiration, and other signs of the bloodless state. There is usually some bleeding from the vagina, but this may be absent. On vaginal examination the pouch of Douglas is found dis- tended with fluid, and on withdrawal the examining fingers are stained with blood. The abdomen may become distended with blood. Vomiting and diarrhoea are not uncommon. The condition may prove fatal in a few hours, or the haemorrhage may cease and the patient slowly rally. Intra-peritoneal bleed- ing from the abdominal ostium is associated with the same symptoms but less severe, as the ooze is slower and usually less in amount. The effused blood gives rise to peritoneal adhesions by which it is confined to definite limits, and thus gives rise to characteristic physical signs — namely, a large ' retro -uterine swelling which displaces the uterus forwards and upwards behind the symphysis pubis. In extra-peritoneal rupture also, the onset is sudden and attended with severe pain, but the patient is less collapsed and soon rallies, and the evidence of profuse haemorrhage is not so prominent. Rupture of an ectopic gestation is to be diagnosed from perforation of a gastric or duodenal ulcer, perforation of the intestine or of the vermiform appendix, acute intestinal obstruc- tion, rupture of an ovarian cyst or torsion of its pedicle, rupture of a pyosalpinx, and renal or biliary colic. Reliance is placed chiefly on the history of amenorrhcea, the occurrence of bleeding from the vagina, microscopic examination of the decidual shreds, and the extreme pallor and other signs of internal haemorrhage. Treatment.—If the condition is diagnosed before rupture takes place, the abdomen should be opened and the affected tube removed. The majority of cases only come under observation when rupture has occurred and the patient’s life is in danger from haemorrhage. In such cases laparotomy should be performed at once, the clots cleared out, the ovarian and uterine arteries secured with forceps, and the tube removed entire. The peri- toneal cavity is then cleared of clots and the abdomen closed without drainage. The bloodless state is counteracted by in- fusion of saline fluid into the veins or peritoneal cavity, and by large saline enemata. If the patient is not seen until some time