CHRONIC PANCREATITIS. 545 A diagnosis of gall-stones may be made by the sequence of a long history of spasms without jaundice, then a severe attack of pain followed by jaundice, and after a time recurrent pains and increase of jaundice associated with ague-like seizures. The absence of a distended gall-bladder is more common in gall- stones than in chronic pancreatitis. The paroxysmal attacks in chronic pancreatitis may be as severe as in gall-stone seizures, but there is usually less pain. In gall-stones the tenderness is over the gall-bladder, in pancreatitis it is in the middle line, where the swollen gland can sometimes be felt, especially if the patient is thin or under an anaesthetic. The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis from gall-stones is not of practical importance, as the two conditions are often associated, and the treatment is, at least up to a certain point, the same. The treatment is directed towards removing the cause, whether that be gall-stones, pancreatic calculi, duodenal catarrh, duodenal or gastric ulcer, alcoholism, or syphilis. In operating for chronic pancreatitis, the surgeon must be prepared to do a thorough operation so as to expose the whole of the common bile-duct as well as the head of the pancreas, so that he may be able to remove the cause, should it be a gall- stone, a pancreatic calculus, or any other removable condition. In the absence of any removable cause, it is advisable to secure efficient drainage of the infected bile and pancreatic ducts, either by cholecystotomy or cholecyst-enterostomy, preferably the latter. When the pancreatic disease is dependent upon catarrh associated with ulcer of the duodenum, it may be advisable at the same time to perform a gastro-enterostomj. Experience has shown that if the cause can be removed at an early stage, an absolute cure is possible, and, though complete restoration of the damaged gland may not always be promised, yet an arrest in the morbid process may be looked for, and the remaining portion of the pancreas will be able to carry on the metabolic functions of the gland, even if it does not carry on the digestive functions completely. Cysts of the Pancreas.—The term pancreatic cyst has been applied not only to a true cyst of the pancreas, but also to an accumulation of fluid in the lesser sac of the peritoneum (Jordan Lloyd). From the fact that a true pancreatic cyst may project into and distend the lesser sac, or may rupture into it, it may be difficult or impossible to differentiate clinically between these conditions. True pancreatic cysts originate in different ways, and are VOL. II—35