327 CHRONIC MASTITIS. if possible dissecting it out entire. If this is impossible, it is opened, the walls scraped, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. Chronic Mastitis.—The term chronic interstitial mastitis is applied to an affection of the breast which is of the nature of a fibrosis, and which primarily implicates the stroma of the gland. The inter-lobular and inter-acinous connective tissue becomes densely sclerosed, and the fatty tissue and parenchyma are largely replaced by fibrous tissue. There is little or no proliferation of the epithelial elements, and there is no tendency to the formation of cysts. This form of the disease is comparatively rare, and it runs a very chronic course. It is met with in married, as well as in single women, usually about the time of the menopause. As a rule only one breast is affected, and there is no history of a definite injury or of a previous inflammation. For a time—it may be several months, or even two or three years—the whole breast gradually increases in size and becomes firmer than normal, without forming adhesions to the pectoral fascia or to the overlying skin. Eventually it ceases to grow, and the gland undergoes cicatricial atrophy, causing retraction of the nipple and puckering of the skin by dragging on the ducts and suspensory ligaments of Cooper. The condition is usually painless, and the axillary glands are not enlarged. It is very liable to be mistaken for a diffuse carcinoma, and in many cases the differential diagnosis is all but impossible without the evidence afforded by an exploratory incision. Treatment.—In the early stages the application of a bella- donna plaster or of the liniment of the iodide of potassium sometimes proves useful. Mercurial inunction and the internal administration of iodides should be tried when there is reason to suspect a syphilitic element. When these means are ineffectual an exploratory incision should be made, and if the diagnosis remains uncertain the gland should be excised. Circumscribed Chronic Interstitial Mastitis.—It is not un- common to find a localised patch of chronically indurated breast tissue in women who have prolonged suckling unduly, or who have sustained some injury to the mamma. A similar condition may be met with after an abscess has been evacuated, after suppuration in an operation wound, or when a foreign body, such as a needle, is embedded in the breast. The importance of recognising this condition lies in the fact that it is very liable to be mistaken for a circumscribed cancer. The differential diagnosis is always difficult, and in many cases