THE PERITONEUM. 360 of the intestinal paralysis nothing is passed by the rectum, not even flatus. In certain forms of peritonitis, in those for example which attend puerperal infections, there may be diarrhoea. Owing to the rigidity of the abdominal wall it is rarely possible to learn anything by palpation, and the tenderness prevents percussion being employed. An area of dulness in the flanks or in other dependent parts of the abdomen may be due to an accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity, but it may also be caused by coils of small intestine filled with fluid faeces. A collection of fluid in the pouch of Douglas may be felt through the rectum or vagina. Fibrinous exudation may cause rough friction, especially over the liver. The urine is scanty and concentrated, and often contains traces of albumin and indican; the presence of tube casts is probably the result of a toxic nephritis. As the disease progresses, the patient presents more and more the general features of septic poisoning; the face and extremities become cold and cyanosed from defective circula- tion and imperfect aeration of the blood. The pulse becomes small, rapid, and running, and the temperature may rise to 103° or 104° E., or may become subnormal. The intellect may become dulled by increasing toxcemia, but as a rule the patient remains conscious to the last, sometimes ceasing to complain or even expressing himself as feeling better. In cases which recover, the general symptoms improve before the local, the pulse becomes slower and improves in quality, the pain and vomiting become less aggressive, and the bowel recovers its functions, and there is passage of flatus and later of faeces. The local phenomena gradually disappear, or may become local- ised to the region of the organ primarily affected, and terminate in the formation of a circumscribed abscess. Diagnosis.—For the recognition of peritonitis stress is chiefly laid on the presence or absence of abdominal respiratory move- ments. While in the majority of cases the condition is not difficult to recognise, one or more of the typical signs may be wanting, as for example when the infection is limited to the centre of the peritoneal cavity and does not implicate the parietal peritoneum. It is to be noted that when peritonitis follows upon intra-abdominal operations it may not give rise to the pain and other local phenomena to which attention has been directed. Among the conditions most likely to be mistaken for periton- itis are biliary and renal colic, ruptured extra-uterine pregnancy, acute pancreatitis, and acute inflammations above the diaphragm, such as pleurisy or pneumonia.