‘ RAILWAY SPINE.’ 89 They usually include a feeling of general weakness, nervousness, and inability to concentrate attention on work or on business matters. The patient is sleepless, or his sleep is disturbed by terrifying dreams. His memory is defective, or rather selective, as he can usually recall the circumstances of the accident with clearness and accuracy. He becomes irritable and emotional. He complains of sensations of weight or fulness in the head, and of temporary giddiness. There is weakness of vision and photo- phobia, but there are no ophthalmoscopic changes. He is hypersensitive to sounds and sometimes complains of noises in the ears. He has pain in the back on making any movement, and there is a diffuse tenderness or hypersesthesia along the. spine. There is weakness of the limbs, sometimes attended with numbness, and he is easily fatigued by walking. There may be loss of sexual power and irritability of the bladder ; retention is extremely rare. The patient tends to lose weight, and may acquire an anxious careworn expression, and appear prematurely aged. In examining the patient special attention should be directed to the condition of the deep reflexes and to the state of the muscles, as any alteration in the reflexes or atrophy of the muscles indicates that some definite organic lesion is present. This condition is not to be confused with “ concussion of the cord.” It will be observed that the symptoms of so-called “ railway spine ” are almost entirely referable to derangement of the brain rather than of the cord. There is, however, no evidence of organic disease in any part of the central nervous system (Byrom Bramwell, Kocher). The pain in the back is usually the result of muscular sprain and not of lesions of the cord or nerve-roots. As the symptoms are so entirely subjective, it is often extremely difficult to exclude the possibility of malingering. So long as litigation is pending the patient derives little benefit from treatment. After his mind is relieved by the settle- ment of his claim however—whether favourable to him or not— his health is usually restored by the general tonic treatment employed for neurasthenia. Traumatic Spinal Haemorrhage. — Haemorrhage into the spinal canal is a common accompaniment of all forms of injury to the spine. The lower cervical region is the most common seat of such haemorrhage. The blood may be effused around the cord (extra-medullary), or into its substance (intra-medullary). Extra - medullary Haemorrhage — Hcemato7'raehis. — The symptoms associated with extra-medullary haemorrhage are at