RETRO-PHARYNGEAL ABSCESS. 1G3 and temporary ligation of the external carotid being performed to facilitate the administration of the anaesthetic, and the control of haemorrhage. The operation can seldom be done through the mouth, and is most satisfactorily accomplished by making an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, from the level of the lobule of the ear to the level of the cricoid cartilage, and from this incision carrying another which curves forwards in the line of the hyoid bone and passes on to the jaw in front of the masseter muscle. Through this incision the infected glands may be removed, and to afford free access to the tumour it has been found advantageous temporarily to resect the lower jaw. In advanced cases it is only possible to relieve the patient’s suffering by palliative measures. Antiseptic mouth-washes are used to diminish the fcetor of the breath and the risk of septic pneumonia, and morphin to relieve pain. The use of the nasal tube, or even a gastrostomy, may be necessary to enable the patient to take sufficient food, and tracheotomy may be called for to relieve dyspnoea. Retro-pharyngeal Abscess.—The chronic retro-pharyngeal abscess associated with tuberculous disease of the cervical vertebrae, in which the pus accumulates behind the prevertebral fascia, has already been described (p. 109). The acute abscess occurs in the space between the pre- vertebral fascia and the wall of the pharynx. The inflammation usually begins in one of the lymphatic glands that occupy this space, and rapidly ends in suppuration, which spreads to the surrounding cellular tissue. It is most common in children during the first and second years, and the patient may be con- valescent after one of the eruptive fevers attended with inflam- mation of the bucco-pharyngeal mucous membrane—such as scarlet fever, measles, or chicken-pox—or may suffer from nasal excoriations or coryza. In some cases the irritation of dentition is the only discoverable cause. In infants, the condition is usually very acute, and is attended with fever, rigors, vomiting, and often with convulsions. The head is held rigid, and usually twisted to one side, and there is pain on attempting to move it. The child has great pain on swallowing, there is regurgitation of the food, and the saliva dribbles from the mouth. There is marked dyspnoea and a short, dry cough. The back of the throat is red and swollen, and a localised projection, which is soft and fluctuating, and is usually asymmetrical, may be recognised by digital examination. Some- times the voice is lost, and the patient has severe attacks of