TUBERCULOUS DISEASE. 187 it becomes thickened and raised above the surface, and at the same time there is small-celled infiltration of the submucous tissue. The patches are irregularly lozenge-shaped, and when crowded together they present the appearance of a mosaic. Similar patches are often present on the mucous membrane lining the cheek. The disease is met with almost invariably in men between the ages of forty and fifty. Syphilis appears to be an important predisposing factor, and any form of irritation—for example, the chewing or smoking of tobacco, the drinking of raw spirits, friction by a rough tooth or tooth-plate—tends to induce or to aggravate the condition. The milder forms give rise to no discomfort, but when the condition is advanced the patient complains of dryness and hard- ness of the tongue, with impairment of the sense of taste and persistent thirst. When cracks, fissures, or warts develop, there may be pain on taking hot or irritating food. The glands below the jaw may be enlarged. The disease is most intractable and persistent, and even after disappearing for a time is liable to recur. After a variable number of years epithelioma is prone to develop, usually in one or other of the fissures which accompany the condition. The treatment consists in removing all sources of irritation and employing mouth-washes. Butlin recommends antiseptic ointments applied before going to bed. In some cases painting the patches with chromic or lactic acid is useful in removing the excess of epithelium, but stronger caustics are to be avoided. Constitutional treatment is of little use even when the patient has suffered from syphilis. The “smoker’s patch” consists of a small oval area on the front of the tongue from which the papillae have disappeared. It is slightly raised, smooth and red, and may be covered with a yellowish-brown or yellowish-white crust. It causes no dis- comfort unless the crust is removed, when a raw sensitive surface is exposed. The condition is liable to spread over the tongue if the patient persists in smoking. It may eventually assume the characters of leucoplakia. The treatment consists in stopping the smoking or chewing of tobacco, and painting the patches with chromic acid, tannic acid, or alum, and using a chlorate of potash mouth-wash. Tuberculous Disease.—The tongue is very rarely the primary seat of tuberculosis. The majority of cases occur in adult males, who suffer from advanced pulmonary or laryngeal phthisis, the tongue being infected by bacilli from the sputum. In other