517 RUPTURE OF THE LIVER, pleural route ; portions of certain ribs—usually the seventh and eighth —are resected in the mid-axillary line, the pleural cavity traversed, and the diaphragm divided. Injuries.—It has been shown experimentally that under aseptic conditions wounds of the liver heal readily, and also that there is great capacity of regeneration in liver tissue. Penetrating wounds of the liver result from stabs and gunshot injuries. They are dangerous chiefly on account of haemorrhage, the blood escaping externally as well as into the peritoneal cavity. If the portal vein is wounded, death may take place rapidly, as in the case of President Carnot. There is rarely any escape of bile from the wound unless the patient survives for several days. The treatment con- sists in enlarging the external wound, ex- posing the injured liver, and arresting the lnemorrhage by approximating the edges of the wound in the liver by sutures of thick catgut passed deeply through the liver substance, and superficial sutures of fine silk passed through the divided capsule. Plugging the wound in the liver with gauze should only be had recourse to when sutures fail to arrest the lnemorrhage. Subcutaneous Injuries—Rupture of the Liver.—Rupture of the liver is a comparatively common result of such injuries as a fall from a height on to the feet, a blow from the shaft of a cart, a crush by the wheel of a waggon, or violent flexion of the body. The rupture assumes the form of a tear of the capsule and of the liver substance, and usually implicates the convex aspect of the right lobe (Fig. 143). In extreme cases a large portion, or even an entire lobe, may be torn off and lie free in the peritoneal cavity. The condition is usually fatal as a result of haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, or at a later stage from absorption of bile (cholsemia). Less frequently death results from liver-cell embolism. The clinical features resemble those attending injuries of Fig. 143.—Rupture of Right Lobe of Liver from a crush between buffers.