SYPHILITIC TESTIS. 749 infection, and may prevent the spread of the disease to the other genito-urinary organs. When there is advanced disease of the bladder and kidneys little benefit is likely to accrue from any operation on the testes. When the disease is limited to one part of the epididymis the affected tissue may be excised or scraped, and the cavity packed with iodoform worsted. If the whole of the epididymis is invaded, it is excised, care being taken not to interfere unduly with the vesicular supply to the body of the testis. When both elements of the testicle are implicated castration is called for. Acute tuberculosis of the epididymis is a rare affection, which in its mode of onset and general features closely simulates an acute gonorrhoeal epididymitis. In the course of a few days the acute symptoms abate, but the testicular swelling persists, and the gland is usually destroyed by the tuberculous disease. Syphilitic Affections of the Testis and Epididymis.— Gummatous Orchitis.—Syphilitic Testis.—This may take the form of a diffuse interstitial sclerosis of the connective tissue between the tubules of the testis, or of a localised gumma in the substance of the gland, or these two conditions may be combined. When the sclerotic element predominates it tends to destroy the secreting substance of the testis; the gummatous tissue tends to caseate and break down, leading to ulceration of the scrotum, and in some cases to the formation of one form of fungus testis. Clinical Features.—This affection is usually met with in adults suffering from acquired syphilis, but a similar condition sometimes occurs in young children who have inherited the disease. The onset of the condition is slow and insidious, and the swelling is often discovered accidentally, or the attention of the patient is drawn to it by a sensation of weight in the scrotum, or by a dragging pain in the line of the inguinal canal. As a rule only one testis is affected, but occasionally the two are involved consecutively. The body of the testis slowly becomes enlarged till it is twice or three times its natural size; its normal shape is retained, or it may be somewhat flattened from side to side. The surface is usually smooth, but there are sometimes small hard nodules scattered over it. The testis is hard and of a characteristically “ wooden ” consistence. There is neither pain nor tenderness, and testicular sensation is usually lost. For its bulk the swelling is unduly heavy. The epididymis is not invaded by the disease, and may be so