THE URINARY BLADDER. 654 contain several pints, and project as a rounded tumour above the symphysis (Fig. 177). In the female, the bladder as a whole lies deeper in the pelvis, and even when distended does not rise so far into the abdomen. In the child, it occupies relatively a much higher level, and even when empty its anterior aspect is usually in contact with the abdominal wall, and is therefore more liable to be wounded in performing a median laparotomy than in the adult. The space of Retzius is the name given to the area in front of the bladder that is occupied by loose, mobile lobules of fat which are easily moulded to accommodate the bladder as it fills up from below. The space is limited in front by the pubes, above by the peritoneal reflec- tion, and behind by the bladder ; laterally it is continued into the general space occupied by the extra-peritoneal fat, and below into the cellular tissue of the pelvis. The capacity and relations of the space are best recognised in cases of extravasation of urine from rupture of the anterior wall of the bladder below the peritoneal reflection. The bladder receives an abundant blood-supply through the vesical Fig. 177.—Over-distended Bladder forming an Abdominal Tumour. arteries. The lymphatics form a network in the submucous and muscular coats, and communicate with those that surround the prostate, seminal vesicles, vas deferens, and terminal portions of the ureters. So long as the epithelial covering of the mucous membrane is intact there is no absorption from the bladder, this being in marked contrast with the urethra, which absorbs with remarkable rapidity. In the absence of inflammation the mucous membrane is but slightly sensitive to contact—except in the region of the neck—hence a foreign body or a stone may be present without giving rise to symptoms, and the contact of instruments employed for exploration is scarcely appreciated except while passing through the neck. Methods of Examination.—A pihysical, chemical, microscopical and bacteriological examination of the urine should be made in all cases. It is instructive also to see the pjatient making water, as valuable informa- tion may be gained by noting the character and size of the stream, the duration of the act, and whether or not any pressure is required to expel the urine. It is also important to carry out the two-glass test, which consists in the patient passing the first portion of urine into one glass and the second portion into another. When there is pus in the