THE PANCREAS AND SPLEEN. 548 Puncture of the cyst for diagnostic purposes should never be practised, as it involves the risk of extravasation or of puncturing the stomach or colon. If the diagnosis is doubtful, an explora- tory operation should be performed. Treatment.—The treatment consists in removing the cyst entire when this is possible, or in opening and draining it. After the abdomen has been opened, the relations of the cyst to the stomach and colon are first investigated. When the cyst projects between the stomach and the colon—the commonest situation—its wall is exposed by dividing the gastro-colic omentum, care being taken not to interfere with the blood- supply of the colon. Before the cyst is opened its wall should be sutured to the parietal peritoneum, but if it is so thin as to make this impossible, the peritoneal cavity must be packed off with gauze. The cyst is drained by means of a rubber tube, for which gauze may be substituted when the discharge has diminished in quantity. The surrounding skin should be smeared with ointment in case the fluid draining away from the cyst should possess digestive properties. The filling up of the cavity and the closing of the sinus may take from four to six weeks, or may be indefinitely delayed. Cysts arising from the tail of the pancreas usually project in the left lumbar region, and may be opened and drained from the loin, behind the peritoneum, but this is not as a rule practicable until the cyst has been explored fyom the abdomen. Malignant Tumours of the Pancreas.—Cancer of the pancreas produces as a rule no symptoms, unless it involves the head of the gland, when the symptoms that arise are due to pressure upon adjacent organs. It is chiefly of interest from the point of view of diagnosis, as its removal by operation is very rarely practicable. In certain cases it may be possible to relieve the jaundice and associated symptoms by cholecystotomy or preferably by cholecyst-enterostomy. Stones in the ducts of the pancreas are met with chiefly in association with inflammation and suppuration in the gland. They may give rise to symptoms resembling biliary colic, but the pain and tenderness are located in the middle line, and the reflected pain is in the mid-scapular region. The occurrence of ague-like seizures is due to the associated inflammatory con- ditions. When the outlet of the main duct is blocked by a large stone, the common bile-duct may be pressed upon and jaundice result. If pancreatic calculi can be diagnosed, they should be removed by operation. Injuries.—The pancreas may be bruised or ruptured against