INTERNAL FISTULA. 513 obstruction in the bowel beyond, only a proportion of the intes- tinal contents escape externally. For the closure of an artificial anus in the colon it may suffice to dissect the margin of the bowel where it is adherent to the skin and close the opening by two tiers of sutures, introduced so as to invaginate the edges. More commonly it is necessary to open the abdominal cavity, separate the bowel completely from the parietes, and close the opening in it by a double tier of sutures inserted in a direction at right angles to the long axis of the gut. If the condition of the bowel is such as to render doubtful the success of this procedure, it is better to resect the affected segment and join the ends by one or other of the methods already described. Although the abnormal anus has been discharging faeces up till the time of the operation, it is usual to obtain primary union, not only of the bowel, but also of the wound in the parietes. Fistulae between the Intestine and other Organs—Internal Fistulae.—These result from disease originating either in the bowel or in the organ with which it communicates. Fistulae between the small and large intestines only cause symptoms if the opening in the small bowel is high up and a long tract of the gut intervenes between the two openings, in which case the bile and undigested food may appear in the stools, and the patient may emaciate. Fistulae between the stomach and intestine— usually the transverse colon—may be attended with eructation of intestinal gases or vomiting of intestinal contents, and the appearance of undigested food in the stools. Fistulas between the biliary passages and the duodenum or colon result from gall- stone affections, and are seldom attended with symptoms. Fistulae between the intestine and the genito-urinary organs are chiefly met with in the pelvis; of these the recto-urethral and recto-vesical are the most important, as life is endangered by septic infection ascending to the kidneys. Operative measures for the closure of an internal fistula are only called for when it is a source of danger to life, and are only justifiable when it is possible to cure the disease to which the fistula owes its origin. Apart from fistulae in the pelvis, in which it may be possible to get access from the perineum, it is necessary to open the abdomen; the organs connected by the fistula are separated from one another, and the opening in each closed by sutures. Tumours of the Intestine.—An adenoma may originate in Lieberkiihn’s follicles, and form a sessile tumour in the mucous membrane, or project from the surface as a polypus (Fig. 142). VOL. II—33