THE SPINE AND CORD. 96 followed by marked atrophy of the muscles concerned. In con- trast to what is observed from pressure by tumours and in- flammatory products, twitchings and cramps are rare. In partial lesions of the cord the motor phenomena pre- dominate. Paresis extends to the whole of the motor area below the seat of the lesion, but the weakness is more marked on one side of the body. The distal parts—feet and legs— suffer more than the proximal—arms and hands. The paresis develops slowly, may vary in extent and degree, and may soon improve. Yaso-motor disturbances accompany the motor symptoms. Irritative phenomena, such as twitchings or con- tractures, may come on later. Sensory disturbances may be entirely absent. When present they are incomplete, and are chiefly irritative in character. They may not reach the same level as the motor phenomena, and the different sensory functions are unequally disturbed in the areas corresponding to the several nerve-roots. There is sometimes a combination of hypersesthesia on one side and anaesthesia on the other. The deep reflexes, particularly the knee-jerks, may be absent at first, but they soon return, and are usually exaggerated. Retention of urine is not always present even when the limbs are completely paralysed, as the fibres of one side of the cord are sufficient to maintain the functions of the bladder. The patient may be aware that the bladder is full, although he is unable to empty it. Similarly sensation in the rectum and anus may be retained although the control of the sphincters is lost. Priapism may be present, but tends to disappear. In partial lesions the difficulties of diagnosis are sometimes increased by the occurrence of haemorrhage into the substance of the cord, so that symptoms of generalised pressure are superadded to those of the partial lesion. In time the symptoms due to the intra-medullary haemorrhage may pass off, but those due to the tearing of the cord persist. The prognosis is generally favourable, but must be guarded, as permanent organic changes in the cord may take place and prevent complete recovery. Septic infection from bed-sores or from the urinary tract is the most common cause of death in cases which terminate fatally. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for total lesions. Laminectomy, however, is indicated when there is reason to believe that the pressure is due to some cause, such as a blood-clot or a displaced fragment of bone, which is capable of being removed.