276 THE (ESOPHAGUS. In some cases it is returned almost immediately after being swallowed ; in other cases it collects for hours, or even days, before being returned. The regurgitation is distinguished from true vomiting of stomach contents by the fact that the material brought up is free of pepsin and hydrochloric acid, and by observing that articles of food, taken it may be some days before, are returned unaltered. When the food lodges for any length of time it undergoes decomposition, and the patient’s breath becomes offensive. Eructations of this decomposed material add greatly to the patient’s discomfort. When a diverticulum is present the patient has a peculiar sense of oppression in the region where the food accumu- lates, and in many cases a distinct swelling can be recognised in the neck after the patient has taken a meal. Pressure over this swelling may cause the food to regurgitate into the mouth. It is sometimes possible to pass one oesophageal tube into the diverti- culum and another into the stomach. The oesophagoscope has proved helpful in diagnosis. In several cases the diagnosis has been verified by filling the pouch with an emulsion of bismuth and then taking a radiogram, the pouch showing as a dark shadow. Foreign bodies are liable to lodge in the pouch and cause ulceration, and even perforation. Treatment.—The palliative treatment consists in carefully regulating the diet, and in some cases it is advisable to feed the patient through a tube passed into the stomach. Irrigation of the sac with antiseptics has given relief in some cases. The operative treatment consists in excising the diverticulum through an incision in the neck similar to that made for oesophagotomy (Butlin). The opening in the oesophagus is closed by Lembert sutures, and the external wound drained. Diverticula produced by traction from without are usually on the anterior aspect of the gullet about the level of the bifurcation of the trachea. They are seldom larger than a hazel-nut, are funnel-shaped, with the apex directed upwards, forwards, and towards the side. They are probably due to the cicatricial contraction of tuberculous bronchial glands which have become adherent to the gullet (Rokitanski). As a rule they give rise to no symptoms, and are only discovered accidentally after death.