MALIGNANT STRICTURE. 499 to move in various directions, and it also may be associated with distension in the right flank. A growth in the descending colon or sigmoid is usually more or less fixed in the left iliac fossa or pelvis, but if the mesentery is long and free, it may be found near the centre or in the right side of the abdomen. Sometimes the tumour can be recognised on bi-manual examination or may be seen through the rectum with the aid of a long speculum—sigmoidoscopy. Although stricture at this level is seldom accompanied by distension and exaggerated peristalsis in the small intestine, we have seen an organ-pipe pattern formed by coils of small intestine in malignant stricture situated as low down as the sigmoid. The passage of blood and mucus by the rectum or the presence of traces of blood in the stools, is suggestive of cancer in the descending colon or sigmoid, and stricture low down in the colon is often attended with tenesmus. The majority of cases of cancer of the colon first come under observation when obstruction is the dominant feature. The symptoms of ileus may gradually supervene on those described above, or they may come on suddenly in a patient who has not made any complaint of his bowels. It is noteworthy that the acute symptoms have sometimes followed the taking of a strong purgative. They are in no sense peculiar to malignant stricture, and the diagnosis is usually impossible unless a history of symp- toms of gradual narrowing is forthcoming. If there is pain, it is often referred to other seats than that of the stricture, for example, in cancer of the pelvic colon the pain may be referred to the caecum. Vomiting is a late symptom, and even towards the end, when it becomes constant, is not very distressing, and does not always become stercoraceous. Hiccup is often a trouble- some feature. Absolute constipation may last for as long as ten days or more without the symptoms becoming urgent. Balloon- ing of the rectum—that is, dilatation from paralysis—is often present in stricture of the descending or sigmoid colon, but is not peculiar to these. The abdomen becomes more and more distended, and the individual coils that become prominent may indicate the seat of the obstruction, or it may be blown up so uniformly that no inference as to localisation of the block is possible. Differential Diagnosis.—It is not always possible to diagnose a malignant stricture with anything approaching certainty. When there is a palpable tumour and this is situated in the ileo-cgecal region, the diagnosis is to be made from tuberculous disease of the caecum and from inflammatory swellings originat- ing in the appendix. When the tumour is in the transverse