343 PROPERTIES OF THE PERITONEUM. foramen of Winslow, which lies just below and behind the portal fissure of the liver. The margins of the foramen are normally in contact with each other, and they may become fused, obliterating the opening, so that accumulations of fluid resulting, for example, from perforation of the posterior wall of the stomach or from injuries involving the pancreas, are confined to the lesser sac. As it passes from one organ to another and to the abdominal wall, the peritoneum forms numerous folds and fossae, the number and extent of which render the cleansing of the cavity when infected a procedure of the greatest difficulty. The largest of the peritoneal folds, the great omentum, which forms an apron-like covering for the greater part of the intestines, by contract- ing adhesions with adjacent surfaces of peritoneum, frequently serves to close perforations of the bowel and to limit infective processes in the peritoneal cavity. The mesentery, which conveys all the blood-vessels and nerves for the small intestine, is attached at its root along a line which commences above at the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and inclines obliquely downwards to the right iliac fossa. It may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into a right and a left compartment. Lesions of the mesentery endanger the vitality of the intestine by inter- fering with its blood-supply. The transverse meso-colon is attached to the posterior abdominal wall at the level of the second lumbar vertebra along the lower border of the pancreas ; with the great omentum it may be said to divide the peritoneal cavity into an upper and a lower com- partment. The compartment above the transverse meso-colon is roofed in by the diaphragm, and contains the stomach and part of the duodenum, the liver with the gall-bladder and bile-ducts, and the pancreas. If pus forms in relation to any of these organs, it may extend upwards beneath the vault of the diaphragm and constitute a sub-plirenic abscess. This compartment may be shut off from the lower abdomen by adhesions between the great omentum and the anterior abdominal wall. Purulent accumulations in this area may be drained through the anterior abdominal wall, through the loin below the last rib, or by the trans- pleural route. The space to the right of the mesentery and below the transverse meso-colon contains the caecum and appendix and the ascending colon, and is related to the small intestine and to the right kidney and ureter. If sujipuration occurs in relation to any of these organs, especi- ally the appendix, the pus may accumulate in the right lumbar or iliac region, and may extend either upwards along the ascending colon to the sub-phrenic area, or downwards into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. The compartment to the left of the mesentery is a very extensive one, being related to the greater part of the small intestine as well as to the transverse, descending and pelvic portions of the colon, and when suppuration occurs within its area the pus is liable to gravitate into the pelvis and pouch of Douglas. Purulent collections in the iliac and lumbar regions are to be drained through an incision in the loin or anterior abdominal wall ; those in the pelvis through an opening above the pubes, or by a drainage tube brought out through the vagina or rectum. Properties of the Peritoneum. —In addition to permitting of free movement of the viscera and supporting them in their proper relations, the peritoneum is capable of absorbing large quantities of fluid, and it reacts very rapidly to irritants. Its remarkable capacity of absorbing fluids may be beneficial by preventing such an accumulation as might serve as a culture medium for micro-organisms ; but it may prove harmful