ACUTE (EDEMA OF THE LARYNX. 283 Treatment.—Diphtheria antitoxin should be administered in all cases, as there is no doubt that a lower rate of mortality has prevailed since the introduction of the serum treatment. The use of medicated steam and spraying the throat with peroxide of hydrogen may also be employed. Careful watch must be kept lest, in the event of the respiration becoming seriously interfered with, the necessity for intubation or tracheotomy should arise. Acute (Edema of the Larynx.—(Edema of the larynx may be inflammatory or non-inflammatory in origin. The former is the more common, and it may arise in connection with previously existing disease of the larynx, such as tubercle or syphilis, or it may be secondary to acute septic conditions at the base of the tongue, or in the fauces or pharynx ; more rarely it results from inflamma- tion in the cellular tissue or glands of the neck. The non-infiammatory form may be a local dropsy in renal or cardiac disease, may be induced by press- ure on the large cervical veins, and in some cases it appears to follow the ad- ministration of potassium iodide in the treatment of laryngeal affections. The oedema consists of an exudation into the loose submucous areolar tissue, which may be of a simple serous character or may become sero-purulent. The situations mainly involved are the glosso- epiglottic fossae between the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, the ary-epiglottic folds (Fig. 78), and the false cords. If the inflammatory process commences in front of the epiglottis this structure becomes swollen and rigid, and often livid in colour—points which are readily discerned on examination with the mirror, or even without its aid in some cases. The patient complains of great pain on swallowing, and has the sensation of a foreign body in the throat. Should the inflammation spread to the ary-epiglottic folds, either from the interior of the larynx l Fig. 78.—Larynx from case of sudden death due to oedema of ary-epiglottic folds, a, a. (From drawing lent by Dr. Logan Turner.)