353 AFFECTIONS OF THE UMBILICUS. opened and the entire diverticulum excised, the orifice of com- munication with the ileum being closed by suture. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is obliterated while the portion in the umbilical cord remains patent, the separation of the stump of the cord may be followed by pro- trusion of the mucous membrane of the duct and the gradual formation of a raspberry-like tumour known as an entero- teratoma. This forms a pedunculated tumour, covered with mucous membrane, which is continuous with the surrounding skin, and secretes a little clear mucus. The absence of a fistu- lous opening at the apex of the tumour differentiates it from a prolapse of the duct, while the presence of columnar epithelium differentiates it from a granuloma. The treatment consists in excising the tumour. If the intra-abdominal portion of the duct is obliterated only at its two extremities, the intervening portion may become dis- tended with fluid and form a cyst in the hypogastric region. Persistence of the Urachus.—Urachal Fistulce and Cysts.— The urachus, or duct of communication between the urinary bladder and the allantois, may remain patent and extend into the substance of the umbilical cord. In such cases, when the stump of the cord separates, a urachal fistida is formed and discharges a varying quantity of urine. If it does not close spontaneously, the patent urachus should be dissected out, and the opening at the summit of the bladder be closed by sutures. Sometimes, although closed at the umbilicus, the urachus remains unobliteratecl in the rest of its course, and if there is any difficulty in voiding the urine by the natural channel, attended with septic infection, inflammation may extend from the bladder, into the urachus and lead to a fistula at the umbilicus which discharges pus and urine. The treatment consists in removing any obstruction to the escape of urine by the normal channel, allaying the inflammation of the bladder, and finally dissecting out the urachus and closing the opening in the bladder. Urachal cysts result if the vesical and umbilical openings of the urachus are obliterated while the rest of it remains patent. Inflammation of the umbilicus is usually the result of want of cleanliness, the epidermis and sebaceous secretion accumulat- ing and undergoing decomposition. The umbilicus becomes red and swollen, and a foetid discharge escapes on the surface. The symptoms disappear if the parts are kept clean. The umbilical granuloma is a projecting mass of granulation VOL. II—23