CANCER OF THE STOMACH. 455 the divided ends of the stomach brought together by sutures— circular resection of the stomach. New Growths of the Stomach. Carcinoma.—Carcinoma is by far the most common form of neoplasm met with in the stomach. It appears to occur with about equal frequency in the two sexes, and usually develops between the ages of forty and sixty, although it has been met with in persons under thirty. The pathological and clinical features vary according as the tumour involves the pylorus, the body, or the cardia. Mention must be made of the fact that cancer is liable to develop in an old-standing gastric ulcer—so- called “ ulcer-cancer ” of the stomach. The region of the lesser curvature near the pylorus is that most frequently attacked, the growth being situated there in fully 60 per cent, of all cases. It is in this situation also that “ ulcer-cancer ” is most likely to develop. The disease is usually of the infiltrating scirrhous variety, and forms a small, hard tumour, which tends to surround and occlude the pyloric orifice. It increases slowly, shows little tendency to invade the duodenum, but spreads towards the body of the stomach, and especially along the lesser curvature in the line of the main lymphatics. The glands lying between the layers of the gastro- hepatic omentum along the lesser curvature are usually infected ; those in the great omentum along the greater curvature, and those behind the pylorus, between it and the head of the pancreas, may also become involved ; but it should be stated that these glands are sometimes enlarged without being infected with cancer. The tumour is liable to form adhesions in front with the liver and gall-bladder, and behind with the head of the pancreas. Tumours of the body of the stomach are frequently of the columnar variety and increase rapidly, the growth projecting in the form of cauliflower-like masses into the lumen of the organ, and being liable to ulcerate and bleed. They frequently undergo colloid degeneration. In cases of hour-glass stomach, due to cicatricial contraction of a gastric ulcer, cancer frequently develops at the isthmus. Cancer at the cardia may be a columnar epithelioma, or a squamous epithelioma which has spread down from the oesophagus. Clinical Features.—The first symptoms are gradual loss of appetite and loss of flesh, developing without obvious cause in a