735 THE TESTIS AND EPIDIDYMIS. Spermatic artery Pampiniform plexus epididymis, and after traversing the inguinal canal and entering the internal abdominal ring, turns downwards into the pelvis. After running along the side of the bladder, it reaches the base of the prostate gland (Fig. 192), and is there joined by the duct from the corresponding seminal vesicle, the two forming the common ejaculatory duct, which, after travers- ing the prostate gland, opens into the floor of the prostatic urethra. The spermatic cord extends from the testis to the internal abdominal ring. It is made up of the vas deferens — which lies posteriorly and is accompanied by the small artery to the vas ; the spermatic artery, which lies in front of the vas, and the cremasteric artery, which ramifies in the superficial structures of the cord. The veins of the cord are arranged in two bundles, the larger of which—the pampiniform plexus—accompanies the spermatic artery, while the smaller lies farther back and ac- companies the artery to the vas. The cord also contains the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, twigs from the sympathetic, and numerous lymphatics. These vari- ous elements are held together by a quantity of connective tissue, and are enclosed in the coverings of the cord. The coverings of the testis and cord are derived from the layers of the abdominal wall during the tran- sit of the testis: the inter-columnar fascia, a fibrous sheath prolonged from the edges of the external ab- dominal ring ; the cremaster muscle and fascia, composed of loops of muscular tissue prolonged from the lower, free edge of the internal oblique ; and the infundibuliform fascia, a funnel-shaped process con- tinuous with the margins of the internal abdominal ring. The testis has, in addition, a serous covering—the tunica vaginalis—originally derived from the peritoneum ; one layer—the visceral—covers the outer aspect of the testis ; the other—the parietal—lines the inner aspect of the infundibuliform fascia. Between the two layers is a serous space, the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. Removal of the Testes—Castration.—As this operation is called for in various affections of the testes it may be described here. If the skin of the scrotum is intact, and is not involved in the testicular disease, the incision, about two inches long, is made in the line of the inguinal canal, about a finger’s breadth above the inner portion of Poupart’s ligament, exposing the aponeurosis of the external oblique and the external abdominal ring. The coverings of the cord—inter- columnar fascia, cremaster, and infundibuliform fascia—are divided, and the spermatic cord exposed. The testis is pulled out of the scrotum, the vas deferens separated from the other constituents of the cord and Globus minor Fig. 195.—Testis, Epididymis, and Spermatic Cord.