617 ABNORMAL MOBILITY. Clinical Features.—The condition is chiefly met with in ■women between the ages of twenty and forty, and is about twelve times more frequent on the right than on the left side. In some cases the mobility is bilateral. The clinical features are subject to wide variations, and are not proportionate to the degree of abnormal mobility. In many cases the patient only suffers from symptoms referable to floating kidney when she is out of health from any cause—anxiety, illnesses such as influenza, late hours, dissipation, or dancing; in such cases the digestion is upset, the urine small in amount and loaded with urates, the breath foul, and the patient is languid and disinclined for exertion. In other cases there are no symptoms, and the condition is discovered accidentally in the course of an examination of the abdomen. Sometimes the chief complaint is of vague abdominal pains, accompanied by symptoms of neurasthenia, and in some the patient only com- plains of symptoms after having been told that she is the subject of floating kidney. It is only in a minority of cases that there are symptoms directly referable to the renal displacement. These consist in pain and dragging sensations in the loin and on one side of the abdomen. The pain may shoot down the thigh, it is aggravated by standing, walking, and exertion, and is usually, but not always, relieved by lying down. If there is torsion of the renal pedicle with kinking or twisting of the upper end of the ureter, the renal pelvis becomes distended and there are painful crises like renal colic, which last for several hours and are attended with shivering, vomiting, and pain down the line of the ureter. During these attacks the kidney is tender and sometimes enlarged, and the amount of urine is diminished; after the attack the quantity of urine passed exceeds the normal. Physical Examination.—If the kidney is out of place at the time of examination, a tumour corresponding in size and shape to the kidney is felt in the abdomen, and is easily replaced in the renal recess. We have observed the right kidney engaged in the brim of the pelvis and easily felt from the rectum. If the kidney is not displaced at the time of examination, it can usually be brought down by the patient taking a series of deep respira- tions, while the abdominal muscles are relaxed by flexing the trunk and the hips, or by the patient standing up. Three degrees of mobility may be recognised : a first in which the lower pole of the kidney can be grasped between the fingers towards the end of a deep inspiration; a second in which the greater part or the whole of the organ can be grasped, but ascends again during expiration; and a third in which the whole