292 THE CHEST. indicates the lower reflection of the pleura. The lower border of the lung lies about two fingers’-breadths higher than the pleural reflection. Injuries of the Chest. For clinical purposes it is necessary to distinguish between those injuries of the chest that are confined to the soft tissues of the parietes, and those in which the ribs or sternum are fractured; also between those that are complicated by lesions of the internal organs and those that are not. When there is a wound of the soft parts, it is further necessary to discover whether or not it penetrates the thoracic cavity. It is to be borne in mind that the thoracic viscera may be injured without there being any lesion of the parietes. Severe shock, which may even prove fatal, may follow a blow over the chest without there being any evidence either before or after death of a gross lesion of the chest wall or viscera. Injuries of the Chest Wall.—Simple contusion of the chest wall produced by a crush, a fall, or a blow, or in a run-over accident, is one of the most common casualties met with in hospital practice. The patient suffers from a considerable degree of shock even when the violence is comparatively slight. There is marked pallor, the pulse is weak, and the respiration short, shallow, and rapid. As there is tenderness over the part struck, and a sharp, stabbing pain when the patient coughs, sneezes, or takes a long breath, the condition is liable to be mistaken for a fracture of the ribs. Extensive extravasation of blood into the connective tissue planes is frequently met with, particularly in the pectoral region. Children suffer less from such injuries than adults, probably on account of the greater elasticity of the ribs and the more rounded shape of the chest, but the respiration often remains- markedly accelerated (60-70), without dyspnoea or cyanosis, for several days after the injury. The treatment is directed to the relief of symptoms, and consists in combating the shock, and securing rest in bed for several days. Non-penetrating wounds are sometimes attended with sub- cutaneous emphysema, air being sucked into the wound by the movements of the chest. In other respects they present the same characters and call for the same treatment as similar wounds elsewhere. Fracture of the Ribs.—Fracture of the ribs may be the result of direct or of indirect violence, or of muscular action.