CANCER, 599 straining which may induce the formation of piles, or of prolapse of the anus. The solid motions passed are sometimes altered in shape, but no importance is to be attached to this in diagnosis. Pain is a variable symptom, but is usually present, and in some cases is agonising. It is of a stabbing or burning character, and is worst while the bowels are moving. It may be referred to the bowel, to the sacrum, or to the distribution of the sciatic nerves, in which case it is liable to be mistaken for ordinary sciatica. When the bladder wall is invaded by the growth there may be pain and frequency of micturition, and if perfora- tion occurs and a recto-vesical fistula is established, faeces and flatus may pass by the urethra. On making a digital examination, if the growth is within reach of the finger, the irregular ulcerated surface, with firm, indurated edges, will be felt, or the finger may encounter a stricture. The degree of fixation of the rectum and its rela- tions to adjacent parts should be noted, special attention being directed to the prostate or vagina in front, and to the sacrum behind. The presence of infected glands in the hollow of the sacrum should be sought for. Sometimes the digital examina- tion yields more information if the patient is in the erect posture. In many cases, however, a satisfactory examination is only possible under general anaesthesia, and even when the growth is situated in the pelvic colon it can be palpated if pressure is made from above. The use of the proctoscope or the sigmoidoscope may yield useful information. Microscopic examination of a portion of the growth does not always furnish reliable evidence regarding its malignancy. When the cancer has caused stenosis of the bowel, symptoms of chronic intestinal obstruction supervene, but the tumour seldom encroaches sufficiently on the lumen to cause complete obstruction. If the narrowed lumen becomes occluded by a mass of fseces, however, the signs of complete obstruction ensue, but are never so acute and urgent as in cases of obstruction in the colon. Perforation of the bowel above the stricture occasion- ally occurs, and gives rise to septic peritonitis. The duration of the disease varies with the nature of the growth, the age of the patient, and other circumstances, but it usually proves fatal in from six months to two years of its onset, although in some cases the disease is remarkably latent, and the patient may survive for several years. Treatment.—The radical operation is indicated in all cases in which the tumour is confined to the bowel or has formed but slight attachments to adjacent parts, and in which there is no evidence