THE KIDNEY AND URETER. 644 there is practically incontinence, especially in the female. The urine shows an abundant mixture of pus and caseous debris, but at times may become almost clear, such intervals correspond- ing to blocking of the affected ureter. When the ureter is so blocked there is more lumbar pain, and the kidney may be felt to be enlarged and tender. On making a vaginal examination, an enlarged, cord-like ureter, sometimes nodular and sometimes so infiltrated and rigid that it feels as though it would break under firm pressure, is felt through the anterior vaginal wall, slipping round the front of the cervix. Pressure upon this often induces an intense desire to urinate. The opposite fornix is, as a rule, soft and yielding, and here the practised touch detects the normal ureter slipping like a soft, wet string between the fingers as it is handled bi-manually or pressed against the pelvic wall. In the male, the thickened ureter can sometimes be felt through the wall of the rectum. Septic infection of the urinary tract is liable to follow ex- amination of the bladder, or the ill-advised treatment of the bladder symptoms by local measures. This greatly accelerates the progress of the disease, the amount of pus in the urine is greater, and if there is retention in the pelvis there is fever, often of the hectic type, attended with rapid emaciation and sweating; the kidney is felt as a tender movable tumour, or, if a perinephric abscess be superadded, the loin is filled up by a diffuse fixed swelling in which fluctuation may be detected. In advanced cases the urine may become alkaline and offensive, and if the disease is allowed to run its course, death ensues from uraemia. Diagnosis.—The onset in a young adult of symptoms of cystitis which cannot be traced to gonorrhoea or to infection from a catheter, should raise the suspicion of tuberculous kidney. In contra-distinction to calculous affections, the symptoms are not relieved by rest; in fact, they are often worse during the night. As tubercle bacilli are not constantly found, their absence does not exclude tuberculosis, but their presence in acid urine along with pus is characteristic. The cystoscope, which can scarcely ever be employed in advanced cases because of the contracted and irritable state of the bladder, may show minute tubercles and ulcers, and injection of the mucous membrane around the ureteral orifice on the side of the affected kidney. When there is chronic induration and contraction of the ureter, the ureteral orifice is retracted. Examination of the urine obtained from each kidney by the separator or by the ureteral catheter affords the most conclusive