109 POTT’S DISEASE. not to be relied upon for the fixation of the spine so long as the disease is active. They are only useful in giving support to the spine after the disease is cured. Even in cases attended with paraplegia, treatment by rest and extension may be followed by recovery, although the process is sometimes a very slow one. Operative inteference by laminectomy (Macewen, 1883) is indicated in a limited number of cases, when, for example, the disease is confined to the neural arches of the vertebrae; when the symptoms tend to get worse in spite of prolonged and efficient treatment; or when fresh symptoms develop and threaten life. The importance of preventing septic infection of any abscess that may form has already been referred to. Pott’s Disease as it affects Different Regions of the Spine. Upper Cervical Region, including Atlo-axoid Disease.— When the disease affects the first and second cervical vertebrae, the alto-axoid articulation becomes involved, and as a result of the destruction of its component bones and ligaments, the atlas tends to be dislocated forward. When this occurs suddenly, the odontoid process may impinge on the medulla and upper part of the cord and cause sudden death. When the displacement occurs gradually, the atlas and axis may be separated to a considerable extent without the cord being pressed upon, and recovery with ankylosis may ensue. When the third, fourth, and fifth vertebme are affected, the tendency to dislocation and compression of the cord is not so great, but a portion of bone may be displaced backwards and exert pressure on the cord. The patient complains of a fixed pain in the back of the neck and of radiating pains along the course of the sub-occipital and other cervical nerves.' The neck is held rigid, and to look to the side the patient turns his whole body round. As the disease advances the head may be bent to one side as in wry-neck, or the head may be retracted and the chin protruded. To take the weight of the head off the diseased vertebrae the patient often supports the chin on the hands (Fig. 29). An abscess may form between the vertebrae and the wall of the pharynx—retro-pharyngeal abscess—the pus accumulating between the diseased bones and the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. The abscess may project towards the pharynx as a soft fluctuating swelling, and may cause difficulty in