347 INJURIES OF ABDOMINAL VISCERA. through, and unless the opening is blocked by omentum or protruded mucous membrane, the contents escape at once into the peritoneal cavity and set up septic peritonitis. In in- complete ruptures, one or other of the coats remains intact, and the escape of contents is thereby prevented. As a result of infection and subsequent necrosis the rupture may, however, become complete, and extravasation ultimately take place. Injuries in the epigastric region may lead to haemorrhage in or around the pancreas and accumulation of blood-stained fluid in the lesser sac of the peritoneum. Clinical Features of Visceral Injuries.—These necessarily vary with the nature and severity of the violence, the extent of the injuries, and the viscus involved. As a rule there is no evidence of bruising of the abdominal wall. The degree of shock varies widely in different cases; it may be slight and evanescent, or it may be so great that death ensues within a few minutes. Vomiting when present usually continues after the stomach has emptied itself of food. There is persistent pain, which radiates over the whole belly, and is increased by the least movement or manipulation. The abdominal muscles contract and immobilise the wall, and, as the action of the diaphragm is restrained, the respiration becomes almost entirely thoracic. The flattening of the belly may later give place to fulness and prominence, either from gaseous distension of the paralysed bowel, or from the escape of gas into the peritoneal cavity, for example, in rupture of the stomach or intestine. Diminution or loss of the liver dulness may result from such an escape of gas, but is not a reliable sign of this, as it may be produced by gaseous distension of the colon. As a result of the arrested peristalsis of the bowel the patient passes nothing by the rectum, not even flatus. When rupture of a solid organ is attended with haemorrhage into the peritoneal cavity, the initial shock, instead of passing off, gradually gives place to the phenomena of the bloodless state : the pallor increases, the pulse becomes smaller and more frequent, the patient faints or becomes very restless, exhibiting the effects of “air-hunger,” and the accumulation of blood within the belly may be recognised on percussion by the in- creasing dulness in the flanks. In rupture of hollow organs, the symptoms of the initial shock gradually merge into those of septic peritonitis. When rupture of a hollow viscus is incomplete, or when the perforation is so small that escape of contents does not take place, the initial shock is followed by a period of reaction during which there is an amelioration of the symptoms. There is here