AFFECTIONS OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. 215 piece of cotton-wool. Care should be taken that none of the fluid is allowed to escape upon the cheek, otherwise staining of the skin occurs. A plug of cotton-wool is inserted, and the solution is re-applied at the end of a week. Sometimes the condition is very intractable. Occasionally the vegetable parasite aspergillus is present in the external meatus, and produces a condition that is very liable to be mistaken for eczema. Strong antiseptic lotions are required to kill the fungus. Furunculosis or Boils.—Boils in the ear may arise singly or in crops, and may be associated with eczema of the meatus or with chronic suppuration of the middle ear. Pain is the chief symptom complained of, and it may be very acute. Deafness ensues when the meatus becomes completely blocked by the swelling. The boil occurs in the cartilaginous meatus, and it is to be borne in mind that the skin may present a normal appearance although suppuration has already occurred within it. Palpation of the affected area with the probe causes intense pain. Sometimes oedema over the mastoid with dis- placement forwards of the pinna supervenes, and simulates acute inflammation of the mastoid. Treatment.—If seen in the earliest stages, an attempt may be made to relieve the pain by the application of a 20 per cent, menthol and parolein solution, or by the use of carbolic acid and cocain (5 grains of each) to a dram of glycerine. When suppuration has occurred the best line of treatment is by early incision, transfixing the base of the swelling with a narrow knife and cutting into the meatus. Foreign Bodies.—It is unnecessary to enumerate all the varieties of foreign bodies that may be met with in the ear. They may be conveniently classified into the animate—for example, maggots, larvae and insects, and the inanimate—for example, beads, buttons and peas. Pain, deafness, tinnitus and giddiness may be produced, and such reflex symptoms as coughing and vomiting have resulted. The main practical point consists in identifying the body by inspection. The mere history of its introduction should not be taken as proof of its presence. In children it is advisable to give chloroform so that a thorough examination may be made with the aid of good illumination. If previous attempts to remove the body have caused inflammation of the meatal walls, and if the symptoms are not urgent, no further attempt should be made until the inflammation has been allayed by syringing with warm boracic, and by applying one or more leeches to the