530 LIVER, GALL-BLADDER, AND BILE-DUCTS. the portion of cystic duct that descends to meet the com- mon duct. If the wall of the gall-bladder is normal or but little altered, the operation of cholecystotomy is performed. The peritoneal cavity having been packed off with gauze, the fundus is incised, any fluid that escapes is mopped up, the stones are removed with a bent scoop assisted by the pressure of the fingers outside the viscus; special attention is paid to the cystic duct, as it is essential that any stone impacted in it should be removed. The end of a rubber tube, eight to ten inches in length, is secured in the bladder by a purse-string suture; the edges of the gall-bladder are then invaginated along with the tube by a second purse-string suture, so that when the tube is removed peritoneal surfaces are in contact and rapidly unite. The tube is connected with a rubber bag, supported outside the dressings, to collect the bile, which, provided the cystic duct is patent, is certain to escape. The tube is removed at the end of a week or ten days and the fistula allowed to heal. If prolonged drainage is required, the edges of the wound in the gall-bladder are stitched to the edges of the parietal peritoneum. If the walls of the gall-bladder are greatly thickened and are converted into fibrous tissue, or if the cystic duct is the seat of stricture, it is preferable, provided there is no doubt as to the patency of the common duct, to excise the gall-bladder— cholecystectomy. The gall-bladder is shelled out from its bed on the under surface of the liver, and the cystic duct is clamped near its junction with the hepatic duct and divided where it springs from the gall-bladder; the mucous membrane in the portion of duct projecting beyond the clamp is dissected out or cauterised, and the fibro-muscular coat is invaginated with fine Lembert sutures in successive tiers. If there is an infective element, one end of a cigarette drain is stitched with catgut over the stump of the cystic duct, and the other end brought out at the wound. The edges of the raw surface on the under aspect of the liver, formerly occupied by the gall-bladder, are brought together by a continuous catgut suture. In very stout patients, and when the gall-bladder is buried in adhesions, the danger of cholecystectomy should determine the choice in favour of drainage. Gall-Stone Obstruction of the Common Bile-Duct.— When a stone escapes from the gall-bladder through the cystic duct into the common duct, it may pass through the bile papilla into the duodenum and be passed with the motions; more frequently, however, it remains in the common bile-duct and causes obstruction of it. The common duct is funnel-shaped,