DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS 675 vegetables, macaroni, etc.; the objects are covered with pulveru- lent bread and minced vegetables to increase the surface for the absorption and concentration of the gravies. Originally, gratin meant the burnt (browned) part of rice; an gratin, a dish so pre- pared as to be similarlj' browned. Gratinate, to : to bake, fry, and brown a dish while it is surrounded b}’ savoury juice which concentrates upon it, and acquires a crisp surface. Grenade, also called granada: a dish of German origin, imitation of the hand-thrown bomb invented at the Spanish town of that name. Grenadines: French, diminutive of the foregoing; misapplied to fricandeaus, dishes on a basis of forcemeat. Griskin: English, back or loin of pork. Grondin; French, gurnard, girrnet (fish). Groseille a maquereau: French name oigooseberry, probably derived from circumstance of unripe gooseberries having been placed in ragouts, particularly of fish, to heighten their taste (‘ Diet. Mat. M^d.,’ art. ‘Ribes’)- Gronte, de la: French, a dish which the Ford of Addington (now the Archbishop of Canterbury) has the privilege of presenting to the King of England at his coronation banquet. Gruel: English, from French gruau, Latin gruimu, grutuUcum, oatmeal boiled in water. Gulasck, Hungarian: a ragout of rumpsteak flavoured with pabrica (mild capsicum). H Haddock: English name of a fish; in culinary F'rench aigrejin, aiglejin, merhiche. Haggis: Scotch, minced meat, etc., steamed; from hag, Scotch, to chop ; German Hacken, hence Hackjieisch; French hachis. Haricot: as applied to stewed meat, probably a contraction for corrupted synonym /wmVo (‘Eaton’s Dictionary’). Harslet, pig’s: English, hasla in Icelandic; .synonym haslet, the inside organs of a pig; also their best parts, liver, sweetbread, and small pieces of flesh, prepared and spiced, enclosed in a cawl or caul, roasted, and eaten with a sauce. Hart of grease: a fat hart or stag in full season, with three inches of fat on the brisket. Hatelet (attelet): French, a kind of skewer of metal, preferably silver, which is stuck through roots, truffles, crayfish, etc., and fixed on large dishes, joints, entries, etc.; perhaps from hastula, dim. of hasta, lance. Hatereau: French. See Attereau, Hateur de la bouche da Roy: ancientl}', overseer of the roast meat of the French King’s household (Dictionary). Hatier: French, spit-rack. Hors d’oBuvres: Frencli, all dishes which, without being themselves suffleient to constitute a .substantial meal, are yet served b)- themselves on plates of a jiarticular form, and complete the elegance of the table (D.D.). Hot hors d'ccuvres are very light entree.s, such as patties of all kinds, rissolc.s, croquettes, minced