ASPARAGUS 329 most tender; the freshly-cut white is tender throughout, but becomes woody by being kept. An average sprout of the asparagus weighs from 15 to 24 grm. It contains from 93 to 94 per cent, of water, nearly 2 per cent, of nitrogenized matter, namely the albuminoiis substances and asparagin, some fat, nearly 0’5 per cent, of sugar, and 2’5 per cent, of other soluble organic substances free from nitrogen, besides woody fibre and ash. The asparagin forms one-seventh part of the whole amount of nitrogenized matter, or of the fresh sprout 0’35 per cent. Under the hands of most modern cooks this vegetable is now, like cauliflower, almost invariably overboiled. When it is immersed in boiling water during twenty minutes, it is completely done; indeed, the high green sprouts require even less time. But they are. generally heated so long that much of their flavour, and a great deal of their cohesion, is lost, by the aid of which it can alone be conveniently eaten. Hence much of the asparagus served is broken, without heads, or otherwise incoherent and painfully mangled. Yet boiling is the only mode in which asparagus can be usefully prepared. Cooks should therefore remember the Eoman saying, which became applicable when things had to be done quickly: ‘ Do it in no more time than is neces- sary to boil asparagus.’ Now, this was evidently not equivalent to the twinkling of an eye, but it excluded the lingering destruction to which sparrowgrass, as Dr. Johnson declared it legitimate to call it, is subjected in urban as well as rural saucepans. Dumas properly prescribes : ‘ Faites les cuir croquantes dans I’eau et le sel, et les servez toutes chaudes sur une serviette plice qui egoutte leur eau. ’ There- fore, though fully cooked, the asparagus should yet preserve a certain crispness or solidity. It should be served on a folded napkin, and not on toasted bread previously soaked in the water in which it has been boiled—firstly, because this bread does not influence the asparagus ; secondly, because.