THE SPIRIT OF COOkERY 572 truffles, cocks’ combs and kernels (d la Financiere), turbot toith bdchamel, salmon with ravigote, cod loith bechamel and Parmesan, salt cod, and others. It is reported that Taillevaut, the master cook of the French King Charles V., had said that tourte signiiied at one time a household loaf of bread in a round form, that this name was afterwards given to delicate pastry, and that by corruption it was called tart in certain provinces. (We do not think it impossible that the French tourte might be derived from tourette, ‘ a little tower,’ to the shape of which the French loaf of Taillevant would correspond.) The word tart is in England not rarely misapplied to fruit pies ; while fruit tarts should have the fruit on the top and within a rim of paste, to recall its evolution from the Eoman twisted ring called torta. In Germany Torte means a delicate cake of a round form, mostly without fruit or meat, patronized by ladies at coffee-parties. The applica- tion of the word tourte to paste-cases of an edible nature containing prepared meat, ragouts, and fricassees, is there- fore exclusively French. It also follows that a tourte cannot be very different from a^ pdti or vol-au-vent; if difference there be, it is probably in the kind of dough employed for the construction of the case. A pasty-case was not necessarily edible, mostly uneatable; a vol-aurvent case is certainl)’ intended to be eaten with its contents; it is always made of 2Mste. The tourte-case is made of some dough more delicate than the paste of the pate, and less rich than that of the vol-au-vent—namely, what old English cooks called tart paste (Simpson, loc. cit., p. 508), commonly called short paste. The name tourte seems to disappear with the thing in the general decadence of cookery; neither word nor thing occurs in the French cookery-book of Gouffe, or in the German one of Eottenhbfer. The latter gives, how- ever, twenty-eight recipes for Torteii of the German kind. Francatelli treated vol-au-vents and tourtes as identical.