107 BOUILLON, OR MEAT-BROTH led again to absurdly complicated extravagance, which out- shone the efforts at reasonable moderation as expressed in the popular work ‘ Cuisiniere Bourgeoise.’ The result was affected over-complication, which was at first fostered by the ‘ Almanach des Gourmands,’ a publication of which we have spoken under the chapter on literature, and the affected over-refinement reached an almost grotesque climax in the ‘ Physiologie du Gout,’ the author of which in reality stood in the same relation to good cooking as the promoter of the ‘ Almanach ’ to polite manners. It was about the year 1820 that the scientific consideration of the principles of cookery was for the first time attempted. For the first time broth was spoken of as extract or essence of meat, the strength and value of which stood in direct proportion to the weights of the essential ingredients used in its preparation. A standard was established by means of which all cooks could compare facts, processes, and pro- ducts, and work within reasonable outlines drawn by economy as well as hygienic, and even elegant nutrition. Before considering more closely the details of this discovery, we must notice the scientific and practical forerunners of this movement. Claude Joseph Geoffroy, the younger brother of Etienne Francois (a Parisian chemist, lP86 to 1752), made some researches* in 1730 to 1732, the object of which was to ascertain the amount and nature of the matters which boiling water extracted from meat ordinarily consumed ; he endeavoured to weigh the proportion of extract soluble in water in the dry state, and compare it to the quantity of insoluble residue also reduced to and weighed in the dry state. The residues of both processes were afterwards subjected to Examen chimique des viandes, qu’on emploie ordinairement dans les bouillons, par lequel ou peut reconnaitre la quantite d’extraifc qu’elles four- nissen et determiner ce que chaque bouillon doit contenir de sue nouris- sant. IVI^m. de 1 Acad. d. Sc., 1732. [Lavoisier published ‘Note ,sur le bouillon, in ‘ M^in. de la Soc. Hoy. de Med.’ vii.]