THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 678 Legumes : French, the grains which come in pods, and are collected {lego, I collect) by hand: peas, lentils, beans, haricot beans, etc. (falsely applied to all kinds of fruit, roots, stalks, leaves, which serve for nourishment, or to green herbaceous vegetables). Liquamen ; Latin for broth or juice (Columella and Palladius). Liquamentum : the same as liquamen (Vegetius). Liquaminatus : provided or mixed with broth (Apicius 8, 7). Liquaminosus : full of broth, juicy (Marcus Empiricus 5, ext.). Liquo, liquare: to make fluid, fuse, melt; to filter; to clarify wine; to purify {e.g., liquata vox, pure, clean voice); to ex- tract. These words are here interpreted with reference to liquamen, which may have been, or have contained, an}' kind of meat-broth, and we doubt very much whether, as .some com- mentators have supposed, it ever meant garum, except in con- nection with preparations of fish. Garum (q.v.), however, was, of course, a liquamen. Loin is (the half of) the lower part of the back of a beast cut up for food, one side of the loins ; this plural is synonymous with that of the reins, or parts of the back behind and below the kidneys. Old French logne, French longe, Latin Inmbns, a loin, one .side only. Lumbi are the loins, the thick part between the gluteal region and the back. = region of loins or kidneys ; includes the psoas muscle, in front of the spine (fillet or undercut). Luting : a paste made of flour and water, and used for fastening the lids of .stewpans or other vessels, to make them somewhat better fitting, and diminish evaporation. M Macaroni: sometimes spelled macarolli (La Chapelle, i., p. 6). Macedoine of fruit: is a .sweet jelly with whole fruit in its .sub- stance. Macedoine of vegetables: is a jardiniere or mixture of .several vege- tables, cooked, with some white sauce added. Mackerel: a fish; name from Latin macularelli (little spots); French maquereaii. Madeleine: French, a particular kind of cake: madeleines of Commercy have a great reputation. Magira: Latin, the art of cookery ; from Greek mageira, magirus, cook; magirium, kitchen or cooking vessel; related to mao, rnago (Greek), I knead ; hence magma, dough, paste. Harmelade : originally the Spanish name of the jam of the flesh of quinces (marmelas in Spanish), which, when solid, is called cpiince cheese; then, transferred to other jams, e.g., what ought to be called orange jam, is affectedly called orange marmelade. Matelote : a dish of fre.sh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, as of eels; sometimes of several kinds mixed. Mayonnaise : an emulsive sauce, made of yolks and oil; synon} in viagnonnaise, also bayonnaise (conjecture of the ‘Man. (les Ampliit.,’ p. T57); also said to be a corruj)tion from mahounaise. Magnonaise is the oldest spelling we have met with. Mazarines: ornamental entrees made of forcemeat, with fillets of meat (cf. Grenadines).