501 FA/SAN LUCULLUS cock pheasant, such as they are in November, and take care it was snared, and not pierced by shot. Prepare and bone it; place it in a mirepoix made of sliced carrots, onions, herbs, all fried in butter, and a bottle of effervescent champagne, a bottle of sauterne, half a glassful of madeira, and a pint of consomme; let all boil during four hours. During the interval, prepare a farce of veal, bacon, chopped truffle-parings, salt, pepper, allspice; also have ready some slices of veal, ham, and fat bacon. Have, further, ready two boned woodcocks, and stuff them lightly with these ingredients; then pack them inside the pheasant into the cavity {coffre) in which you have placed only a little farce to serve as mortar, and chopped truffles. Sew up the pheasant, and wrap it in a well-buttered cloth, tying it strongly all round so that it cannot burst. Put this into a braising-pan; add a mirepoix, and a bottle of champagne, a bottle of sauterne, a bottle of madeira ; boil all strongly until it be reduced to half its bulk ; then let it simmer for two hours more. Probe the galantine from time to time to assure yourself that it be well cooked. When the pheasant is taken out of the cloth, it is to be garnished with twelve ortolans stuffed with the farce as above, and boiled with truffles in the pheasant’s mirepoix, and is to be glaced, as well as the ortolans, with meat glace. Adorn the pheasant with skewers bearing cocks’ combs, crayfish, and truffles, and send to table; offer the sauce {coulis) in a separate sauce tureen or boat. When a pheasant has been boiled for six hours in altogether more than five bottles of wine, it has no longer any taste of its own; it is therefore a mere neutral carrier of the taste of its contents. We advise the omission of the absurd extravagance in wine, and the braising of the pheasant in a standard mirepoix without any wine whatever. For roasting, a pheasant should be young, fat, and tender. Some cooks leave the feathers of head and tail on, and