HISTORY AND DRESSING OF TURKEYS 4^9 trader Jaques Coeur, then a great merchant, later Master of the Mint, or Treasurer and Director of Artillery in the service of Charles VII. of France. Hence the French name of 'povXc, cVIudc, transformed into dincle, or diiidon, and to show that the India here referred to was East India, the Germans, who received the turkey from France or Italy, and have termed it mostly Wdlscher-Hcihii, or Welsch-Huhn, frequently yet call it a Calicut cock. (In North Germany the name of Puter- or Trut-Hahn is more common.) The turkey lived wild in America at the time of the discovery of that continent, and is not yet quite destroyed ; according to some authors we have received it from thence. Brillat- Savarin figures as the hero of a hunt for wild turkey. In the present day turkeys are reared all over the world, and in Spain we have seen flocks of many thousands. There are many modifications of the treatment which the turkey experiences after it has been killed and plucked, for the purpose of adapting it to the particular culinary opera- tion by which it is to be made an important feature of the dinner-table. Thus, the removal of the trail is effected by some through an incision at the hack of the neck, and when the vent begins to be drawn in it is cut round with a sharp, narrow-bladed, pointed knife, and the small hole thus pro- duced is at once sewn up. Some then singe off the hair- like feathers, and divest the legs of their black skin by scalding; others break the leg-bone and draw out the sinews, many of which are bony, as in the pheasant; all cut off the neck close to the back, leaving a portion of the skin of the neck adherent to that of the body. Some then break the keel of the breast-bone by laying a manifold cloth over it, and forcing it strongly on one side by pressure or blows with a bat, to make the breast appear more round and plump. The limbs are then fixed close to the sides by skewers, an operation called trussing; some place the liver and gizzard in the angles of the pinions of the wings, which.