404 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY sugar, aud ornamented outside, fit for the confectioner’s show-window. Waffles are artistically-shaped pancakes as to their con- stitution, and, like these, admit of interesting and even greater variations. Their name"^ in Old French was wa^tfrc, which was developed into gaufre and gauffre. The word is related to the German Wahe, honeycomb, and as such would be derived from the shape of the loaffle, which represents a large-celled honeycomb; it also occurs as luafer, signifying a thin leaf of cooked starch paste, used for sealing letters, or for producing the thin round cakes used as a religious symbol of bread, and as a base for small cakes which, like macroons and ratafias, would adhere to the baking-sheet, if the wafer did not intervene. They take a place in the history of culture of several widely different nations, and by their constitution and parallelism to Eoman scriblita, to croplets and the series of cakes with two doughs, challenge a philosophical treatment. Amongst the western Anglo- Saxons they have gradually been neglected, but survive amongst the Flemish branch of the Teutonic race, and are there cultivated by specialists, who travel far and wide over the Continent, to fairs and feasts, and offer their wares to the appreciating multitude. As a means of social enjoy- ment and refection waffles offer several advantages over other agreeable cakes and confections. They can be made impromptu—e.g., in the country after the arrival of unex- pected or expected visitors, over a free coal or wood fire, or gas flame, and require no oven. They can be consumed pari passxc as they are baked, and their quantity or number can be adapted to the number of persons to be fed. They are more certainly produced and less easily spoiled than * Waffle was also supposed to be related to the English muffin, and through this to the maj'ida of the Moors in Morocco, which, e.g. at Tangiers, is sold in the streets, at the house-doors, by itinerant vendors, who use a bell like the London muffin and crumpet men. But the etymo- logy above given makes this relation doubtful.