REMOVAL OF BRAN AND WHOLEMEAL BREAD 377 which more or less considerable volumes of marsh-gas are formed. Eough bran, as formerly used, furnished the materials for this decomposition less readily than the finely pulverized, and acted as a stimulant to the peristaltic move- ments of the intestines, whereby the time and opportunity for the formation of these anomalous products were limited. Indeed, in tender individuals—particularly in young persons —rough bran acted as a cathartic, and was used by many strong persons in the shape of so-called brown bread as a peristaltic persuader. The whole experience of mankind was against the retention of the bran in the meal, and the grounds against that retention, so thoroughly proved by the experience of the baker, and urged by every observant eater of bread, were so overwhelming that by common consent every possible effort was made to keep all particles of bran out of the flour, and whiteness of the flour as well as of the bread became the first criterion of excellent quality. Under such circumstances arose what may be termed the Wholemeal Bread Proposition. Bran contains a consider- able amount of albuminoid material, the cerealin already alluded to. On the other hand, bread, however excellent, does not contain a sufficient amount of the albuminous matter to make it a complete human food. Based upon these two facts, some persons, amongst them a number of ladies in easy circumstances, moved by philanthropic en- thusiasm, not unlike that which was exhibited in the move- ment on behalf of the bouillon d’os, started the proposition that bread should be made more like a perfect food by the retention of the bran; the obvious objectionable effects of the silica and cellulose of bran they proposed to overcome by grinding it into a very fine dust. Wholemeal bread became an object of speculation, but when its realization was attempted the proposition proved a failure. It was a retrograde movement, and properly met with the un- qualified condemnation of all scientific men. We leave the