196 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY assume that soup from the proceeds of a turtle of 120 lb. to 150 lb. has to be made. Taking 3 11). of raw ham, 40 lb. of leg of beef and knuckle of veal, and the carcases of four old hens (as equal to 2 lb. of flesh), we obtain 35 lb. of pure flesh. If this were fully extracted, it would be equal to a little more than a pound of Proust’s extract, and this would yield 35 pints of standard broth of such a quality as the process actually adopted could never yield. But allowing that the greater part of the extractives had actually been obtained in solution, they would, with the herbs, roots, etc., be sufiicient to yield 40 pints, or 5 gallons, of soup, enough for more than forty persons. This would be soup better than any that is ordinarily obtained, and it might be diluted, probably, so as to satisfy a hundred persons. If, instead of making the broth from the shins and knuckles and old hens just described, it be made by dis- solving 1 lb. of Proust’s extract in 20 quarts of hot water, and boiling in this the butter, sliced ham, and fleshy parts of the turtle, the head and flippers, and the symphony of vegetables, turtle spices, and salt, for one hour, four hours’ work will be saved. If the soup, or half of it, be thickened with a roux, the other half be clarified with albumin, and each be pointed with tincture of cayenne and lemon-juice, and receive its portion of turtle fat and of quenelles, a soup will be obtained which is not only one quarter of the price of the former, but also of much better quality ; for it will be composed of standard broth of which every pint contains the soluble ingredient of an entire pound of flesh, free from bones and fat. It will not require a stock-pot of greater capacity than six gallons, whereas the traditional process requires at least one stock-pot of eighteen gallons capacity. The new process will, therefore, save space on the hearth, reduce the time for cooking the broth from six to three hours, and leave as residue only some vegetables, which are not anything like so laborious and difficult to manage as