571 PATTIES AND BOUCHEES cold state, and be warmed up just before use, for the flake dough does not much deteriorate by being kept and heated, and the forcemeat, if it be not too dry, rather improves. In buying petits pclUs ready made, take care that there be no flavour of questionable butter about them ; or, in making them, provide for the perfect sweetness of your own hutter. The most favoured pates are stuffed with forcemeat, with meat and gravy, with loliite meat in bechamel sauce, with fat livers, with salpicon, carp’s roe, etc. When patties are made very small, so as to be a tradi- tional moutlifid each, they are termed in French bouchees; the English word has not advanced to the dignity of a technical term. All the recipes for patties may be modified into recipes for bouchees, while dealing with the same puff paste and the same forcemeat; hut for bouchees the force- meat should he somewhat more telling in savour than for patties. Take care not to fill either with flour paste instead of sauce; such negligence destroys the dish, while when properly sauced it is always attractive. Sometimes preparations are termed patties which may correspond somewhat in shape, but do not answer the rest of the definition. Thus, some egg and ham patties currently described in books are really croustades—namely, cup- shaped pieces of fried bread, with a mince of ham steeped in broivn sauce in the cup, each being covered with a poached egg. This is a very elegant ancient Italian preparation, but should be placed with the croustades. Most ragouts f ricassees, and appertaining sauces, which are placed in raised pates, are termed entrees in the French kitchen; they are given surnames mostly derived from the sauce, but for many surnames the fancy of some cook or other is the only warranty. Such should not be retained, but make room for descriptions derived from essential quali- ties. Amongst favourite ragouts for vol-au-vents are those of calj’s brain, sioeetbrcad, quenelles of foiol, mushrooms and