THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 548 the head is very large and useless as food, only fish of at least a foot in length, and from four to six pounds in weight, should he taken for cooking. Whiting—French merlan—is reputed to be a most delicate fish, and very easily digested by a human stomach ; ‘ Merlans manges ne pesent non plus dans I’estomac que pendus a la ceinture.’ Moreover, it is a fish of great practical value, as it is in season all the year on different parts of the coast. The best size for cooking purposes is about nine inches long; some rare specimens have been known to attain a length of twenty-four inches. Fish less than six inches in length may not lawfully be taken. Their flesh should be firm, and their eyes bright. The trimming of the whiting consists in skinning it, bending it in a circle, and fixing the tail in its mouth with the aid of a wooden peg. French cooks only scrape the whiting, and score or crimp it obliquely; this scarifying is superfluous. Whiting is mostly fried, rarely boiled; may be broiled, braised, a.nd finished au gratin. The latter requires many additions. Gouffe demands for two fish of a pound in weight each—therefore 1,000 grammes—no less than 900 grammes of mushrooms ! This reminds of the proverbial drowning of the miller. A hundred grammes of mushrooms are sufficient for the gratination. Whiting admits, by its neutrality, of many forms of preparation—it may be baked, fried, filleted, marinaded; presented as boudins, quenelles, or farce. As the flesh basis of farces for stuffing it is particularly valuable. There are some rare and little-used varieties of fish, which we will only name ; Scad, or horse-mackerel; garfish, horn- fish, or tobacco-qnqye fish; skipper, or saucy pike; whiting pollock, or glassen; black pollock, rate pollock, or coal fish, and their young, called pollards; the capcling; the ling, whose name is supposed to be a corruption of long, as it grows up to ton feet in length ; hake, when salt called Poor John; forked hake; bass, also called sea wolf, a species of