683 DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS O Quasi de veau ; French, the thick end, jump end, of a loin of veal. Queneffes: French, synonym of quenelles, used by Carenie. Quenelle: a delicate sort of forcemeat, ball or dumpling, used in the preparation of entrees, and put in soups. Called kneffs in ‘Dons de Comus,’ ii. 127, and in some German culinary works also Skenejfes. Translated as Kiwdel by Rottenhbfer (Joe. at.. p. 73) erroneousl}'. The name is probablj' derived from the Greek knesma, knisma, triturated or scraped, grated matter. Quodling: a cooking apple. See Codlin. R Ragout: a rich compound, consisting of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, fat livers, mi.xed with a rich sauce, and used for garnish- ing highly-finished removes and entrees. It is therefore not really a dish by itself, but a complement or garnish of other preparations; but these, when so garnished, are also termed ragouts. Rascane : French, a fish (not in dictionary). Ratafia, also spelled rataffia and tafia, is believed to be derived from the Malay tafia, a spirit or liqueur from cane-sugar .syrup, therefore the East Indian original of the West Indian rum. The prefix ra is a contraction of the Arabian arrack, the spirit dis- tilled from malted and fermented rice, and sweetened, araq meaning both juice and sweet—i.e., as we term it, a tiqueur. Ravioli (Italian), ravioles, raviotles, rabioles (French), was originally the name of ‘des raves tendres bieii epluchees et blanchies’ (‘ Dons de Comus,’ ii.395); at present signifies an Italian nationat ctisfi, con.sisting of little shells or capsules of thin nouilles dough, in which a savoury meat farce is enclosed. They are boiled in broth, and served either in the soup as quenelles, or separately with brown grav}' as entree. The name is derived from the .shape given to the little capsules, which are formed by turning up the four corners of the dough enclosing the farce, and twisting them into a tapering stem like the thin part of the little rave. Rabiotles described as Italian dish in ‘ Dons de Comus,’ iii. 146. Refectioner; Old English, a restaurateur. Releves, or removes: the top and bottom dishes, as the)' are designated in Fhigland, following the .soup and fish on ordinary tables. They usually con.sist of roasts, joints, turkeys, capon.s, highly or plainly dressed fillets, or rolls, etc., of beef, calfs head, etc. Some innovators have releves for every course, a useless and confusing extension. Rissoler; to brown by frying or baking in an oven ; metaphoric use of the effect of sunlight upon human skin ; e.p;., rissotc (visage) par le soteit (sunburnt). Rissoles: mincemeat fritters. Ris de veau (not riz): the sweetbread, pancreas; name not ex- plained. siqiposed tropic from ris, laughter, is not easilv derived. Rob : English and French, from Arab. Robiib (contracted rblib), inspis.sated fruit juice of the consistence of honey; that of grapes.