THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 396 the prodigality with which children are spoiled {(jdlcs) by the indiscriminate distribution of cakes as rewards or gastronomic encouragements. We believe this surmise to bo a mere pleasantry. The most renowned of cakes in France is the GcUeau des Hois, or Cake of ike Three Kings, in which a beau is concealed. On the day of Epiphany friends and lamilies assemble to draw the kings—that is to say, to draw a piece of a cake divided into as many pieces as persons are present, and he who gets the concealed bean is deemed par- ticularly lucky for all futurity. In certain parts the cake is cut into so many pieces that there is a piece in excess of the number of drawers. This is called the part dti bon Dieu, and is given to the first poor mendicant or wayfarer. The name of the remarkable cake called .fir/oc/ic is alleged by Dumas to be derived from the fromage de Brie, which he states had formerly entered upon its composition. But there is not the slightest proof for this surmise; on the contrary, from the comparison of analogous pastries, and the actual character of the thing itself, we believe that no cheese of any kind was ever used in the composition of the brioche proper, and that its name, like many other names of original invention, is shrouded in mystery. This conclu- sion is not weakened, but confirmed, by the fact that at the beginning of the century a French culinary faddist mixed cheese, not of Brie, but of Gruyere, with brioche paste, and termed the ultimate product brioche an fromage. In Dumas’s Dictionary the brioche receives certain adjectives, which we have not seen in any noted work on French pastry, such as fine and royale, also mousseline. The latter term is said to be used by patisseurs, but we think them all quite unneces- sary, and signifying nothing, as there is but one brioche, the beauty and perfection of which should be maintained unscathed and uumixed for all time to come. The brioche is one of the six remarkable cakes or cake- like productions which are compounded of a fermented