THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 362 Two parts of flour and a little salt made into a rather stiff paste, and mixed with one part of finely-chopped suet, is a recipe easily remembered. When the suet is diminished to one-fourth of the weight of the flour, four eggs have to be added to every pound of flour, and as much milk instead of water as will make the flour into a thick paste. This latter dough can be baked as well as boiled. For suet puddings or dumplings others prescribe six parts, say ounces, of suet, six parts of flour, two parts of bread- crumb, and some salt; to this a mixture of eggs with milk is to be added as the liquid—say two eggs upon 6 oz. of flour. Tie each dumpling in a separate cloth, which, while wet, has been dredged with flour, and boil during one hour. If a pudding of 8 oz. of flour and an equal weight of suet, 2 oz. of breadcrumb, with eggs and salt, be tied into one cloth, it requires two hours’ boiling. Dumplings may be boiled with beef or mutton without cloths, and do not abso- lutely require either milk or eggs in their composition; they should be rolled in flour before being put into the pot. By the addition of 6 oz. of currants to the paste of 8 oz. of flour currant pudding is formed, and by dividing this quantity into convenient parts currant dumplings are produced. The addition of breadcrumb adds to the lightness of the dough, and is made to plain and many fine suet puddings. Scalded-Water Paste is used for making the cases for cold raised pies. Some butter (one part) is incorporated with flour (six parts), and two eggs to each pound of flour ; this incorporation is effected with the blade of a knife. Boiling water is now added, and when all is incorporated, the hot dough is to be worked with the hands until it be homogeneous ; it must be so stiff as to stand up in a ridge when raised by compression with two fingers. According to some the butter may be fused on the hot water and together with this incorporated with the flour. Cold-Water or French Paste {Pdte a Dresser) is made