38 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY One of the most accomplished of French magiric authors of the present century was Marie Antoine Carerae, a Parisian, 1784 to 1833. He was one of fifteen children of an operative, and at the age of eleven found employment in a cooking-shop. At the age of seventeen, having been for a year assistant to a restaurateur, he became ‘ first raised pie- maker ’ [premier totirtier) of the renowned pastrycook Bailly. Here he designed pdtds after all kinds of engravings in the National Library, and competition in the most com- plicated structures of paste became a rage, and the pies a prevalent fashion. The successors of the patissier Gendron, jealous of the great, the illustrious Avice, engaged the young tourtier, with liberty to use his talents, mainly on extra- ordinary occasions, and in the high ofiice of maitre d’lwtel. Then he came to mount dinners for the Directorate, became intimate with the house-master of Prince Talleyrand, one Bouch^e (also called Bouchesec, perhaps a descriptive sobriquet), and with Laguepierre, the cook of Bonaparte, who died during the retreat from Moscow. Having got into affluent circumstances, Careme wrote a work on ‘ The Eoman Table,’ but it was lost, together with its illustrations. He then wrote works more within his professional range, which are quoted below.* His success had made him excessively vain, and caused him to pen sentences such as this : ‘ I contemplated from behind my furnaces the kitchens of India, China, Egypt, Greece, Turkey, Italy, Germany, and Switzerland, and I felt crumbling under my critical blows the ignoble fabric of routine,’ Thus spoke his Parisian conceit, and in a similar strain many of his observations * Careme, Marie Antoine [c/. S. Fagot in the ‘ Livre de cent et un,’ 1833, L. xii., pp. 294-313], ‘ Le Patissier pittoresque,’ Paris, 1815, 1825, 1828, 8vo. ‘ Le maitre d’hdtel frangais, ouParallfele de la Cuisine ancienne et moderne,’ nouv. edition, ib., 1842, 2 vols., 8vo. ‘Le Cuisinier Parisien, ou I’Art de la Cuisine au dix-neuvihme sihcle,’ ib., 2nd edition, 1828, 8vo. ‘ Le Patissier Royal Parisien,’ ib., 1825, 1828, 2nd edition, 8vo. ‘ L’Art de la Cuisine fran9aise au XIX™' sihole,’ par Plumeret, 6 and 7“' et dernihre parties de I’ouvrage de Careme. Paris, Gamier frhres. No date.