514 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Thus, the early form of the Botryocei)hahis latus, and per- haps other varieties of the species, live in the flesh of the 2)ike or jacl-, and are imported into man probably by its agency. This parasite is endemic in Northern Eussia, in Switzerland, and the South of France. The parasites of sea-water fish are more injurious to the piscivorous animals, including fishes devouring their own kind, than to man, but, nevertheless, should be guarded against by all means. This is the more easy as the rule for safety coincides with the desire for good taste of the fish. All fish must be cooked in some way before it is eatable (we do not at present speak of shellfish), and of all modes of cooking, boiling is the easiest and most certain in effect. Fish should not be boiled in common water unless there be added to it a quantity of salt equal to a quarter of a pound to the gallon, or an ounce to the quart of water. Whenever sea-water is available for boiling fish, it should be preferred to salted water; as the Dutch commonly use sea-water, and produce excellently cooked fish, the dish thus pi’oduced by the aid of sea-water is termed by the French d VHol- landaise. When fish is boiled in a mixture of wine, vinegar, roots, rhizomes, and spices, it is called uw court houillon, and when the wine used in this process is in part red, the fish is said to be done au bleu; there is, however, also fish, e.g., eel, done blue, in the confection of which red wine has no part. When fish is boiled in broth, or in water impreg- nated with vegetables and spices, it is called d la bonne cau, and then the fish may be sent to table in some of the soup-like liquid ; what is called soiichy or souchet is a slice of fish boiled in such broth or water with vegetables. The water should always be, as regards quantity, the minimum with which the purpose can be effected ; excessive quantities of water make the fish tasteless. Opinions differ as regards the initial temperature of the water, between the extremes of cold and boiling, some proposing an uncertain medium