671 DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS Duxelles : name of a French marquis wlio lived at the end of the seventeenth century, and whose ccuyer de cuisine was De la Yarenne, author of an excellent cookery-book (1699). D’Uxelles also means a special preparation of mince. E Eclanche : French, shoidder of mutton. Edge-bone. See .-Vitch-bone, supra. Entrees: French, conventional term for hot side-dishes, which accomjjany or follow the soup and releves; also defined as all hot dishes which are eaten with a sauce—e.g., cutlets, fricassees, fricandeau.x, fillets, kebobs, salmis, boudins, sweetbread, pate.s- chauds, chartreuses. Cold entrees may include fricassees, salmis, cutlet.s, ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultr}-, fish, aspics, salads of p^bultr}', fish and shellfish, boar’s head, potted meat. Appro- priate for cold collations. Some French cooks refuse to term a cold 'dish an entree. Entreraiw, or second course side-dishes, to accompany the roasts, include the just named cold entrees; dressed vegetables, scolloped shellfi^, and dressed eggs, and the infinitely varied and variable sweets,, consisting of puddings, cake.s, timbale.s, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, creams, fritters, etc. Epan'ada; South Spanish and Portugaiese for panada {q.v.). Epigram; English, epigramme French, name of dishes not defined, of ancient u.se. Escabecher: to cure sardine.s, then other fish; English, to cabcach. Escallope: Vx^wc\\tscollop Engli.sh, obsolete cascalope; originalh'the large edible shellfi.sh in the beautiful ribbed deep shell with a flat cover; metaphorically, something edible placed into and hotted in such a shell used as a dish; tlien luiup.s, or slices, or dice of any meat; scollops, .synonym kollops, then in Germany degenerated to a name for mince of ail kinds of meat, called Klops. Espagnole: French, the main or grand brown sauce from which most other brown sauces are made or theoreticall}^ derived. 1- Fanebonettes, also .spelled fanchonnetles: French, small cakes covered with meringue froth; same as Jlorcntines. Fares; French noun, from the participle farsum of the Latin verb farcio, farcire, to stuff, to fill (so as to make full), fill up, to cram, for fattening, e.g., chickens. From this is derived jarcimen^ the sausage; secondarily, finel3'-niinced meat, fat, brcafl, and spice, or sausage meat for stuffing birds, filling raised jiies and gratins; English corruption forcemcat—viande fatede, also = cooked sorrel. Clinfs a la farce=\y,\rA eggs with .sorrel stewed, riin.s farce mav bnt nee(l not contain an_v meat at all, ami may consist of sjneed panada with eggliaison. The J'higlish jorcemeal therefore involves a widening of the definition which niakes the j)re.sencc of meat essential. I'orcemcat balls are in Lrencli termed bouleties de Itachis. Filet; French, the undercut of the loin (psoas mu.scle) of oxen and venison; breasts of fowls ami game when cut out; the outer