68o THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY O 011a : Spanish ragout (falsely called potrida), on which see text. Omelette : also spelled aumelettc, c.g. b}' de Varenne, loc. cit., p. 343 et seq., who has twenty-two recipes for ‘ annielettes.’ Beaten eggs fried in fat. Orgeat, or orgeade: originally a thick, i.e., turbid, drink, made with barley, used by the ancients and adopted b}’ the French ; this decoction of barley also bore the Greek name of ptisana, or French tisane. While the latter name gradually became ex- tended in its application to many kinds of decoctions and infu- sions of vegetable substances, having no longer anj- barley in their composition, the names orgeat and orgeade slipped awa}- from barley, and became attached, the first to syrup of almonds, the second to milk of almonds, or were used promiscuously for both. The S3 rup of almonds, when stirred in water, immediatel v forms milk of almonds. Orly, also horly: a name given to dishes prepared in a certain style. See Hors d’oeuvres, supra. P Pabrica : the fleshj’ fruit of the green or red mild capsicum, grown in the South of Europe, and used as .spice for ragouts or salads, e.g., Hungarian Panade : bread soaked in water, milk, cream, or broth, and pressed. Such is the definition now obtaining in culinar)- works. An- cientl}’ panade was a kind of soup, made of bread, soaked in water, and pressed, with the addition of butter, salt, milk, or water, and a liaison of eggs with cream. More commonl}- panade is eaten in the South as a salad, with oil and tomatoes, onions, garlic, etc. The Portuguese form is called sourde {cf. D.D., 796), and the SiDanish gaspacho. Simpson [loc. cit., p. 19) calls a puree of chicken panade, and sa}^s that panade of beef, mutton, or veal is made in the same wa^-. Mine, de Joncourt (in ‘Whole.some Cookerj',’ § 431) calls ‘panade’ a puree of rumpsteak and fowl or pheasant; there is no allusion to bread in the recipe, and the dish is no panade at all, but a mere piir^e, and must be termed so. Epanada is South Spanish and Portuguese for panada. Some German cooks call panade a paste made of flour, butter, and water, stirred with egg.s, to be mixed with forcemeat for making quenelles or aii}- other farce (propanade). Paner; French, to breadcrumb, over egg-3'olk, sauce, butter, or fat previous to fr3'ing. Panure: French = cutlets, scollops, croquettes, or aii3' other entree which is breadcrnmbed. Pastry, French patisserie, and all the tribe of words derived from it, comes, perhaps, fi'om pasco, or fascor, I feed, e.g., on a meadow. Pastus is the feeding, pastio the fbeding-groiind ; and to such a past3', or raised pie, with its various and voluminous contents, is strictlv comparable. (JeafTre.son, loc. cit., vql. ii., p. 45, derives it, in our ojiinion erroneonsh’, from Latin pistum, past participle of pinso, pinscre, to beat together in a mortar, to pound.) In the prosecution of the connection of the tribe of words