THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 546 sprats, and when feeding on them their flesh is richer than when they are feeding on whitings. They must be eaten quite fresh or cured. When large haddocks are sold in the London market, they are generally called Dublin Bay, but in reality are mostly taken on the coast of Sussex and Hampshire. Haddock deteriorates even more than cod by being kept, so that some gastronomers declare it the poorest fish that swims, with neither the delicacy of the whiting nor the juiciness of the cod. Haddock ie mostly boiled plain, or salted and boiled, or fried, broiled, stuffed, and baked. Salted and dried haddock is not rarely called Findhoni haddock in England, from a promontory in Scotland where this preparation is particularly well made. The word is generally corrupted into Finnon, whence some persons derive the erroneous idea that the fish came from Finland, or that the mode of preparation was Finnish. All the best rules for preparing, dressing, curing, and cooking haddock are Scotch. The French think very little of haddock, so that D.D. and Beauvilliers have not a single recipe for its preparation, and do not even mention it. The gurnet, or gurnard or noud—French grondin—derives its name from the grunting noise it makes by friction of its jowl-bone. The Eomans call it cuculus, from the supposed similarity of its notes to those of this bird. There are several varieties of gurnet, called the gray, red, streaked, yellow, and sapphirine. All of them are good to eat, but the sapphirine is considered better than the rest, which collectively are called pipers. The sapphirine has a very long upper jaw. Its side, or pectoral, fins are on the outside green, and purple underneath; its sides are red, its belly is white, and its back green. The entire fish, when seen in a clear sea, has a beautiful appearance. Gurnet may be stuffed and baked, or braised, boiled, sauced, egged, crumbed, and baked, or stuffed and boiled, or filleted and fried. It requires a good sauce.