THE ONION, LEEK, AND GARLIC TRIBE 349 (of sugar garlic shows but a trace); other carbo-hydrates and matters free from nitrogen, 19'91 per cent. The rose- coloured onion contains 85‘99 per cent., and leek 87'62 per cent., of water. The Alliacese contain from 5 to 10 per cent, of ash, and in this from 3-46 to 17‘72 per cent, silica, a feature in which they resemble the graminaceous plants. Pearl onions in July weighed on an average 6'2 grm. each. Pale red, so-called rosy onions, weighed at the end of November 45 grm., while plants from the same field at the end of August weighed 19‘9 grm. Of leeks, of which the average weight had been 45 grm. (15’09 per cent, roots, 30T8 per cent, bulb, 54'73 per cent, leaves), the practically usable bulb weighed in the middle of October 13*6 grm.; therefore, out of 45 grm., only 13'6 grm. are available for eating, or 30 per cent. Of garlic a compound bulb weighed in the mean at the end of December 19'7 grm. The alliaceous and cruciferous plants are distinguished by active smelling and tasting principles, which are isolated as oils. Oil of garlic is obtained from garlic by distillation with water, and sinks in water; it is yellow, very volatile, of powerful odour, sharp taste, and reddens the skin. It occurs in the roots and seeds of several other plants, mostly mixed with oil of onions, and can be prepared from oil of mustard. One hundred pounds of garlic bulbs yield 3 oz. to 4 oz. of oil. The oil contains no oxygen, but much sulphur, and when distilled by itself takes up oxygen and decom- poses, but when distilled with water-vapour, or rectified over potassium, which absorbs any oxygen, some pure oil is obtained. When oil of mustard is heated with persulphide of potassium, persiolphide of ally I is formed, and sublimes. It is distinguished by an intense odour of asafcetida, the vegetable gum formerly used in medicine and in cookery. Volatile oil of mustard is a product of decomposition of an acid, which is present in mustard as potassium salt, and passes as myronic acid. It is obtained from black mustard.