PREPARATIONS OF VEAL 449 midriff. The hind-quarter begins close to the anterior end of the kidney, which marks the loin or Iddney-ioiece ; the inner part of the hind-leg in cow-calves, including the udder, is called met; the thin end with the hock-joint is called knuckle ; the thick part of the leg is mostly cut up in slices perpendicular to the bone, and such a slice in London is called fillet—quite falsely, we admit, but the use of the word cannot be avoided. A Hind-leg of Veal, properly called a Leg of Veal, in France and Germany weighs from 12 to 15 lb., in England two or three times that amount. On this section of the veal there are three parts, which are called nut, or noix in French. The first nut is the cushion, or motose-piece, which is just inside the leg, and the fattest and tenderest part. It is taken off in a technical manner which we need not describe. After having removed this, the butcher takes out the under-cushion, or %inder-nut, in French sour-noix. Then there is a third nut, called noix du pdtissier, which is near the rump or buttock, at the base of the tail, called by German butchers and cooks the pasty-piece—Pastetenstiick. This latter is the piece which in the ox is called the fillet, or under-cut, but in the calf is not so called. As a matter 'of fact, some French cookery-books have no dish called ‘ Fillet of Veal,’ but have several preparations called of ‘ Noix de Veau.’ These varieties of cushions, or noix, have to be dis- tinguished in cookery, because they are used for different purposes if choice be free. The cushion, or nut, generally makes an entree ; the under-cushion, sour-noix, is used for making godiveaus and cooked farces ; the noix du patissier, or under-cut, goes to make godiveaus, and its ends velotiU, or sauce toemide. The chump end and the remaining parts of the flesh may help to make an espagnole. The expres- sion ‘ fillet part of the neck,’ which occurs in some writers, could only mean the mass of flesh on the back above the 29