THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 510 male and female are called heath-poults. The red grouse is also termed gorcock, or moorcock, or moorgarne (in French attagas). The tvhite grouse is better known as ptarmigan (French lagophde); it comes to us from Norway during the time from February to May, when its plumage is white ; in summer it assumes a gray plumage. There is also a large kind of grotise known as loood-grouse, or capercailzie, German Auerhahn, which comes to us from Norway, and in more southern countries is shot like the woodcock, as a bird of passage in spring and autumn. In size it may exceed a domestic cock. It has an enormous breast, of dark and light-brown meat; its skin is sometimes so hard that it has to be removed. Its legs are never worth any attempt at eating, as they are always hard, and contain numbers of bony tendons, much larger and more numerous than those in pheasant and partridge legs. All birds of the grouse family should always be roasted. An excellent garnish for them is saucrkra^U, stewed with butter, standard broth, and a little wine. The becca-fica, bec-figtie of the French {avis Cypria of the ancients, as it was brought to Greece and Borne from Cyprus, in a preserved state), is eaten roasted in buttered or oiled paper, and the roast is distinguished by three qualities—its fat, its flavour, and a slight bitteruess of the flesh. Of these three qualities, Brillat-Savarin says that they fill and beautify all the digestive powers. But this is again modified later on by the statement that all the merit the birds possessed was their fat. In France they are confined to the south and east; in Italy they are more frequent. In France, at Belly, bec-figues, birds of passage, appear in the first days of January, and disappear about the 25th of that month. Dumas tells an anecdote concerning a gastro- philist, P^re Faby, who always came to Belly during the January season, and was a great lover of a dish of these birds. This was so well known, that when the cry went in