THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 34 cookery-books published in the Italian language, one was by Martin Giegher,* a Bavarian born at Mosburg, the other by Vittorio Laucelotti,t of Camarino. The latter gives still more striking evidence than the cookery-books of Eosetti and Scappi, belonging to the sixteenth century, of the luxurious tables of the Eomau Catholic clergy. The literary period closes with the work of Antonio Frugoli, entitled ‘ Pratica Escalcaria,’ which is adapted to the wants of great people as well as ‘ ordinary persons.’! The Eighteenth Century—French Literature takes the Lead. In the eighteenth century the French took the lead in cookery, although the number of works on the art published in other countries was perhaps as large as that published in France. In particular the number of cookery-books§ pub- lished in Germany since the end of the seventeenth century is legion; most of them were called after the city in which they were published. Of celebrated cooks in France who also wrote works, the following are the most note- worthy : Menon,|| A. Viard,1T and Antoine Beauvilliers.** * Giegher, Martin, ‘ Li tre trattati di M. Giegher, bavaro di Mosburc, Trinciante dell’ illustrissima nacione alemana in Padova, nel priino si mostra il modo di piegase ogni sorte di panni lini, civ6 Salvietti e Touaglie, e d’apparechiare una tavola, con altre galanterie ; nel secondb, intitulato lo Scalco, s’insegna oltr’al conoscere le stagioni di tutte le cose che si mangiano, la maniera di mettere in tavola le viande ; nel terzo detto il Trinciante s’insegna il modo di trinciare ogni sorte di vivnnde’; Pad., 1639, 4to. This is a curiosity, as the longest title of any book on the tab e and carving. Layard, loc. eit., p. 327, ‘gives the author’s name as Mattia, and the beginning of the title as ‘ I tre trattati.’ f Lancelotti, Vittorio, ‘Lo scalco prattico.’ Roma, 1627, 4to. He gives the menus of a number of banquets, served for the most part in the palace of Cardinal Ippolito Aldobrandino. X Editio princeps, Rom., 1635. § See a list of these treatises in Pierer, ‘ Encyclopoed.,’ Bd. XL, p. 458 ct seq., I. Supplem, Bd. IV., p. 156. II Menon, ‘Les soupers de la Cour ou Part de travailler toutes sortes d’aliments’; Paris, 1768, iii. 12. (See the observations of Carome upon this work, according to whom the menus were the result of pure imagina- tion, and were never carried out.) ir Viard, A., ‘Le Cuisinier.’ Paris, 1808, 8vo. ** Beauvilliers, Antoine, ‘ L’art du cuisinier.’ Paris, 1814, 2 vols., 8 VO.