EARLY FORMS OF BREAD 371 Now gruel is boiled, but the poorest Scotch occasionally ate a paste of oatmeal and water uncooked,* and, next to chewing the unmilled grain, this Scotch method of eating flour seems the most simple mode of cereal feeding of which we have any knowledge. Simple forms of bread, which by contrast with the more developed forms are termed unleavened, are the oatcaha of Scotland, her peas and barley bannocks, the Passover bread of the Jews, the damper of the Australian shepherd, the American corn-bread, the Indian chuppattee, Spanish wheat- flour cake, and others. The Schmarn of the Bavarian and Austrian wood-hacker is also unfermented, but, being fried in fat, assumes a particular character. Leavened bread was perhaps first made by the Chinese; it was understood by the Egyptians, from whom the art of making it proceeded through the Greeks to the Eomans. Leaven held its ground almost everywhere down to our present century, when it was superseded in countries with advanced culture by the yeast of breweries and distilleries. For leaven is inferior to yeast, inasmuch as it acts slowly, and gives rise to high-coloured products, which make the bread dark, heavy, and acid. The bearing of cereals, particularly of their purified meal or flour, in the process of fermentation by leaven or yeast is a compound process, which is governed by reactions between the several components and the ferment, or in the case of leaven several distinct ferments. To appreciate this bear- ing, and to be able to govern all its details, the baker, no less than the cook, must have a knowledge of the ingredients of his cereal materials, or, in other words, he must know the composition of the flour he intends to use. We will pass them in review as briefly as we can. Ihe Scotch mendicant, or poor vagrant, carried some flour in a bag, and kneaded the dough for eating in a corner of his plaid. In Polish inns omelettes were not rarely mixed in the apron of the hostess, and then poured into the pan for frying.