APPENDIX DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS. A Abaisse: French, thin nndercrnst ofpastr_v. Ache: Old Ivngli.sh name for celerj-; retained in name for celery-root. Accrued ; mostl}' applied to pork, meaning <rro;7/-yd’rf—abljreviated, corned; transferred to sal t boiled beef, as corned or corn beef. Aillolis; a preparation of olive-oil or fat flavoured with garlic. Aitch-bone: part of the pelvic bone of the ox; \\dien with flesh, a joint for cooking. The right mode of spelling this word is so difficult to find that Dr. Kitchiner avoided the decision by writing H-boue. In Mrs. Mason’s ‘ Ladies’ Assistant ’ it was caWeA haunch-bone; in ‘Domestic Management,’ and many other book.s, aitch-bone ; inRe5mold’s ‘ Cooker)-,’ ische-bone; in Hender- son’s ‘Cooker)',’ edge-bone; in Mns. Lydia Fi.sher’s ‘Prudent Housewife,’ ach-bone; in Mrs. IMcIver’s ‘ Cooker)-,’ hook-bone. Kitchiner had also seen it spelled each-bone and ridge-bone, and heard it called natch-bone. We are inclined to believe Rey- nold’s ische-bone might be correct, as being the .Anglicized form of ischiadic bone, the hip-bone, more correctly ischion, the hip. Allemande: white veloute .sauce, bound with yolk, and mixed with cream, flavoured with nutmeg and lemon-juice. Aloyau: French, loin of beef The undercut is termed filet dn dedans. The back is called morcean des clercs. The French con- noisseurs declared the latter of better taste tlian the fillet, and consequently preferred it, though it were less tender. Andouille : chitterling, tripe, q.v. Andouillette ; forcemeat or farce (dictionary—doubtful). Angelica: the .sugar-preserved and dried, tender tubular green and aromatic stalks and leaf-stalks of a plant of that name. Angelica archangelica, L., or officinalis : an aromatic product of northern climates. Angevine: French, ijrobably better anchevine (a I'anchcvine. i.c.. dressed with anchovies). Api: name in Languedoc of celery, Apinni gravcolens, L. = fU'//A q.v. Api, pommes d’. ,See Pommes. Apple postilla : pulp of baked sour ajiples, c.g., codlins, beaten with honey nr sugar, and baked in thin ]a)-er.s one s])read over the oilier. The pul]) to be beaten during four hours, the mixture