467 PREPARATIONS OF LAMB mutton, which had better be called liciij mutton. House lamb might be in season from Christmas to Lady Day, yyass lamb from Easter to Michaelmas j hut sham lainb was independent of the season. For a quarter of porkling was sometimes skinned, cut and dressed lamb fashion, and thus ‘ lambified ’ was sent as a substitute for it. The leg and loin of lamb, when little, should be roasted together, the former being lean, the latter fat, and the gravy better preserved. In the case of roast lamb, to the usual accom- paniments of roast meat green mint sauce is commonly added ; and some cooks, about five minutes before the lamb is done, sprinkle it with a little finely-minced parsley. Lamb, like all other young meat, ought to be thoroughly done; therefore, do not take either lamb or veal from the spit or jack till you see it drop white gravy. This rule, which is applicable to pork of all ages, is of great import- ance for the preservation of health. As regards the roasting of lamb the rules regarding mutton obtain. We will therefore here merely mention the average time which is required for each joint. A hind-q^carter of lamb of about 8 lb. will take from an hour and a quarter to two hours ; it requires basting and frothing. A fore-qicarter of 10 lb. will require about two hours. In the carving of this joint the shoulder is generally excised entire, and its cavity treated with butter and orange-juice. A leg of lamb may weigh about 5 lb., and take about an hour or an hour and a half in roasting. A shoulder, which is a small joint, will take an hour. Bibs require to be nicely jointed; the ribs must be cut or fractured, so that they can be easily severed from the brisket after it is roasted; if this be omitted, the slices of ribs are inconveniently long on the plates of the diners. Loin takes an hour and a quarter; necTc an hour; breast three-quarters of an hour. Lamb is rarely boiled; a leg of about 5 lb. should simmer very gently for about two hours. So-called grilled lamb is