THE SP/fHT OF COOKERY 636 shortened. We recognise frianclise in its twofold significance —firstly, as the mode or condition of mind of persons who like delicate, maybe select or rare, things ; and, secondly, as these things themselves. Such a person who desires quality for his food is termed a friand; he is far superior to the' gourmand, who sets up for quantity and multiplicity. This significant French expression is now almost as obsolete as the old cognate verb friander; but society will practise what it signifies more than ever. The wit of the Parisians has, however, embalmed in an imperishable form. ‘Avoir le nez tourne a la friandise comme Saint Jaques de I’Hopital,’ is an expression derived from an image of St. Jaques de I’Hopital over the building of that name near the Eue aux Oies at Paris, a street since become by corruption Eue aux Ours ; in this street were the shops of the principal meat-roasters of Paris. As the saint looked in the direction of the frying shops, he was said to have ‘ le nez tourne a la friandise.’ The period of transition in cookery to modern times coincides with the great French social scrimmage. The Eepublicans and the Directorate accepted and used all the culinary traditions of royalty and aristocracy—we have the accounts and the menus of their dinners and feasts; but refinement gradually yielded to coarse extravagance. After Napoleon came the Eestoration, and with Louis XVIII. a system of gluttony and waste. This is sufficiently charac- terized by the bill of-fare of a ro3fal dinner on a maigre day. The king began persecuting the new men who had served Napoleon ; amongst the victims of this policy was the Marquis de Gussy, who is described by Dumas as ‘ the last gastronomist of the epoch.’ He had been cast out of office, and the King refused to listen to his petition for a place ; but hearing from a courtier that M. de Gussy was the inventor of a mixture of strawberries, cream, and champagne, the King at once wrote under the application