93 PEPPERY SUBSTANCES ture of the effects of fire or heat, pain, and undefinahle dis- tress, which lasts for hours, and even days. Its active extract must, therefore, be always greatly diluted by cooks, for it is very bad form to cause surprises to guests by putting before them dishes containing excess of these spices. Allspice, Jamaica pepper, French Piment de la Jamaique, consists of the berries of Myrtus pimenta, L. Its taste and smell is much hke that of a mixture of nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and pepper, but less energetic. It might, perhaps, be placed in the following third group, to which it forms, at all events, a transition. It is little used in cookery in this country, but enters largely into the adulterated spice powders sold to the public. The French term all the capsicums as well as allspice piment, and distinguish them from each other by adjectives or places of origin ; thus, the small chili to them is piment enragi; as thrushes, ruffs and reeves, and Other birds can eat and digest this berry in quantities, it is also calledpmewi des oiseaux. There is here an immunity resembling that of rabbits to the effect of foxglove or digitalis. The bush pro- ducing the Jamaica piment is by the French called hois d'Inde; its ripe berries are violet, juicy, sweet, and highly perfumed, but very hot to the taste. They are eaten in great quantities by wood-pigeons, thrushes, and blackbirds, and other birds, which thereby acquire an exquisite flavour and become very fat. For the production of allspice the berries are collected in a somewhat under-ripe state, and dried in the sun. The foregoing are in daily use in cookery or at the table. The following kinds of peppery substances are either used only in certain localities, or only as medicine, or for particular objects and rarely, or are obsolete, and used for adulteration: Ava, or Cava, Piper methysticum, Forst., Tahiti; used as an intoxicant. Unone Ethiopica, D.C., Ethiopian pepper, from Unona aromatica; used as spice in Guyana.