22 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY impossible to read many of the prescriptions in this work without coming to the conclusion that they are, indeed, absurd recipes for mixtures in which the natural ingredients of food were so comminuted, confounded, and overlaid with flavours and spices, that the whole could not by any means produce a pleasant impression on the palate or be whole- some for the stomach. We therefore decline to believe that an artist, such as the writer of the body of tbe work of Apicius evidently was, could also have been the author of such enormities as are contained in the work attributed to him. We hold all such passages to be corruptions partly by omission, partly by later additions effected by ignorant persons, principally copying clerks ; in particular, it appears to us that many prescriptions are alternatives which have been clumsily strung together as if they were parts of a single process. We think it probable that an analysis and expurgation of the text of Apicius, by the light of this hypo- thesis, would result in a much better knowledge of antique cookery than that which is available at the present time. In connection with this it should be remembered that there lived at Eome at different periods three persons of the name of Apicius whom fame connects with cookery; one under the republic at the time of Sylla; the second one under Augustus and Tiberius; the third under Trajan. The observations made by Seneca, Pliny, Juvenal, and Martial refer to the second Apicius, surnamed Marcus Gabius; to this gastronomer Tiberius sent the turbot of Capri, which he was not rich enough, he said, himself to buy. This man possessed a property of two million pounds sterling in value : of this he squandered four-fifths upon his Senectute ’ Cato, and that ‘ De Amicitia ’ Lslins. See the entire literature of this discussion in Graesse, ‘Liter. Geschichte,’ vol. i., p. 1201. Opwuium or obnoninm, from the Greek, is everything eaten with bread, such as vegetables, meat, and fish. Horace uses obsonia for dishes of fish (Gr. btpci) ; hence obnonare or obsonari, to buy for the kitchen or give a dinner.