THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 544 as hard will make the fish tough. Barrelled cod requires less soaking, but must be boiled in soft water. According to Count Eumford (Essay x., p. 18),‘people of fashion’ in the seaport towns of the New England States of North America dined regularly on the Saturday of every week on salt fish; its good quality was explained by the practice of keeping it for several hours in water that was just scalding hot, but was never actually made to boil. Dr. Kitchiner’s favourite vegetable accompaniment of salt cod was a dish of equal parts of red beetroot and parsnips. When lohitings are scarce, the fishmongers sometimes skin and dress young codlings, so that inexperienced persons can hardly tell the difference; as the codling has a heard, which the whiting has not, this also is cut away, whence the appellation of shaved codling; however, if you turn up the jowl, you may see the mark where the beard was, or the place where it was not, and thereby discover whether the fish be a real lohiting or a shaved codling. Cod may be steived, stuffed, and baked in several varia- tions. Fried God in Slices, in rice with tomatoes, called d la Seville, with mussel sauce, is an excellent dish. Curried Cod, French cabillaud d Vlndienne or d la Kari, is a stewed form. Caheaclied Cod was a favourite of our friend Ignotus. Slices of Crimped Cod, crumbed and fried, French cabillaud 2)ant!, is a quickly-prepared form. A good ragout is Mdtelote Normande. More rarely used forms are Cod stuffed, covered with egg and crumb, to which Farina cheese has been added, French cabillaud d I’ltalienne; Cabillaud au Gratin, also with cheese. Preparations of salt and dried, or merely dried, cod, klipp- Jish and stockfish of the Dutch, should be studied by persons who travel in remote districts of Portugal and Spain, or in Africa, or in America, whether north or south of the equator, or who have to live in those lauds ; for at periods they may find it to be the only animal food obtainable.