57S THE Sf’lErr OF COOKERY sarily have excluded from their fare. At last with the Chartists went the chartreuse, and its name was misapplied to a simple pudding of incongruous parts of flesh and vegetables, which had none of the virtues of the Spanish olla, though resembling it in its larger features, and which was, moreover, inconvenient to deal with on the table, in whatever way its distribution to the diners might be at- tempted. Chartreuses also have received that eclectic and tiigbly-mixed form which French cooks like to distinguish by the words a la Parisiennc. A striking example of this is the meat entree falsely called Chartreuse d la Parisiennc en Surprise, as given by Careme. It is throughout calculated to produce ‘ charming effects,’ of course upon the eye, by crawfish tails. When he found that the structure ‘ est d’uu tres bel effet,’ he no doubt thought of his original severe definition of the grande chartreuse, and added a surprise to the title in order to have in the programme the astonishment which it was to be foreseen the absence of all vegetables, except the mushrooms, must produce in the convivants. But he added an actual surprise, the result, we hope, of a lightning pain inflicted by his conscience upon his culinary genius, in calling this chartreuse an entrde de farce. The predilections of the Carthusians extended from con- cretes to abstracts, and from pies ascended to liqueurs; this was effected by a process of evolution which passed through an apple pudding. The Chartreuse of Apples begins with apple jam, which German and English cooks affectedly and falsely call apple marmelade. Then the angelica enters as an orna- menting incrustation over the yellow, red, aud wdiite apples cemented by the jam ; the whole is to be boiled in a water-bath, and turned out on a plate. Here ended the apple chartreuse, and apples assumed their ancient rights and shapes. But the angelica wandered to the brandy bottle, and chartreuse became a spirit, the Carthusians