BOILED AND BOAST LEG OF MUTTON 461 tion of the water, with any vegetable additions chosen, skim the broth and close the vessel, take it off the fire and enclose it in a box lined with thick felt, so that air and heat can get in and out only through the felt. Thus they let it stand for some hours, up to six, and on opening the case after that time they find the meat not only hot, but quite done, and ready for the table. Prom this experi- ence one can see how much value is lost in certain parts of culinary practice by hurrying, when mere conservancy and time would effect the business. The Leg of Mutton to be boiled should be put on the fire in cold water, together with the vegetables, if any, and heated to ebullition; it should then be skimmed, and continue to be simmered for from two and a half to three hours, until the meat, while still juicy, be no longer red in its interior. The knuckle should be so well boiled that its tendinous parts are on the point of dissolving, and quite gelatinous. The broth in which the mutton was boiled will help to make a good soup, particularly if vegetables were boiled in it, and some Protest’s extract of mutton were added before the boiling began. This addition of extract is particularly to be recommended when the joint is divided, as flavoured broth will impart to the meat at least as much flavour as it will dissolve of the extractive by boiling. Boast Leg of Mutton should be done, as the cooks of former generations expressed it, toith the gravy in it, but not underdone; that is to say, the interior of the meat should reach a temperature at which the red juice is coagu- lated, but the white gravy is not expelled by contraction of the meat. Experiment with the thermometer shows this temperature to be 194° Fahr., being 18° below the boiling- point of water. The meat should be buttered with a brush and dredged over with flour; some defer this external application to a later stage. The art of roasting a leg of mutton in such a manner that the outside shall be brown,