480 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY kept more juicy is the so-called Baron of Hare, roasted or baked in the oven. Having cased the hare (casiiuj is a technical term for skinning and drawing, or paunching), cut off the anterior part with the shoulders, the ribs, and place all these parts with the liver, head, and kidneys, to make a brown ragout with ; split the pelvic bones in the middle line ; cut away the tendinous outer skin, lard the hare, and place it in an aromatic marinade of vinegar and water for at least twenty-four hours. Braise it with all additions; reduce the braise to a proper adhesive consistency. A young hare will be done in little more than half an hour, an older one in less than an hour. When the hare is certainly young, the marinade may be omitted. Fillets of Hare may be similarly treated, or with Pur6e of Hare, and be served with any suitable sauce — tomato, poivrade, cinnamon, and cherry sauce; the latter is termed d VAlle- mande. Fillets of Hare can also be dressed as cutlets, aio naturcl, or in various complicated forms. Civet of Hare is believed to derive its name from the fact that the dish was originally flavoured with civet {cive, civette, in French, is the name of Allium schamoprasum; English, chives), and that later, the special green condiment being omitted or replaced by leeks and onions, a preparation strongly and finely flavoured by general spices retained the name. The hare is cut into small joints ; streaky bacon or ham is fried in a roux, and after the removal of the fry the pieces of hare are also fried in the same roux. Both fries having been united, receive an addition of mushrooms, onions studded with cloves, nutmeg, a carrot, a garnished faggot of parsley, pepper and salt, some port wine, and a suitable volume of standard broth. Heat to ebullition, with gentle stirring; then add any suitable parts of the hare— such as liver and lights—and reduce to proper consistency of the sauce. The dish admits of several garnishes, and is very tasty and tender. Kebobs or Scollops of Hare may bo