niCriONARY OF CULINARY TERMS 669 Cote ; French, a rib, hence diininiitive cdtelctte, a small rib, or part of a rib; a piece of meat with a portion of a rib attaclied, of smaller animals, calves, and sheep. The Anglicised form of the word is cutlet. Coulis: F'rench, a strong, thick, savoury sauce; German, Gniuci- saucc, i.e., bottom sauce below the fat; lean sauce of a braise or blanc. Coulis was then used to denote asoup, and Anglicized into cullis. In ‘ Dons de Comns’ coulis has three allied but distinct meanings: (i) that of a liaison of flour heated in fat, there- fore =ronx (toe. cil., pp. 16, 24, 28); (2) purees of peas and lentils, etc.; (3) thick soups and sauces. The word is now obsolete both in France and I^ngland, but persists in German writings of cooks who have inherited classical manuscripts. Crambambuli: a punch made from fired whisk}' and sugar fused in the flame. Perhaps derived with the aid of bainbalein, the Greek verb to stammer, as the drink is very intoxicating. Crapaudine: French, a grating, gridiron ; hence mettre a la crapau- dine, to grill, e.g., pigeons. Crepine: F'rench, kell, caul; hence crepinette, flat sausage wrapped in caul (dictionar}-), hence plural crcpinelles, a ragout made with hashed meat placed in pieces of crepine. Croquantes ; French, a bright mixture of fruit and boiled sugar. Croquants: French, confections giving the sound of crunching or cracking between the teeth. Croquettes: French, minced meat, coated with eggs and bread- crumb, and fried crisp; almost the same as rissoles, but these latter bear their name from the rice which ought to be contained in them. Croustades: French, fanciful ornamental pie-cases, carved out of breadcrumb, and fried brown in fat. Croutons: French, sippets of bread, of various sizes and shapes, fried in butter, ami used to garnish salmis, fricassees, dresseil vegetables, etc., or to accompany soups, particularly of purees; also absurdly used for pieces of jelh- placed round cold entrdes (croiitonner, Gouffe, loc. cil., p. 351). Curry : a strongh -.spiced ragoiit; is derived from Old Knglish cury. See ‘ I'orms of Cury,’ where iwocury, or curry, />«rc'fl'<r/aregiven, forte and douce. F'rom these powders highly-spiced (lishes derived their appellation. This roll of ancient cookery was coni- ])iled by the master cooks of King Richard II., about 1390, and jniblished by Robert Warner in 1791. Curries are therefore indigenous in Kngland, and by no means an imjiortation from Ilindostan. The F'rench speak of the supposed Indian dish as Nari a I'Indienne. Custard: Fhiglish, aeoniiiosition of milk and eggs mainly, .sweetened and flavoured, jmrboifed. Once spelled custade, a corruption of F'rench a jiic with a crust, from Old French croustadc, from hatiii cruslatus, cnisletl (‘ Cliamber.s’ FHymological Dic- tionary’). Custard is also a name sonielinies given (in hondon) .4y a iiecnliar tropical fruit. Cnsiara apples = name jirojier of the apjiles; hence the seller ol costards (/.<■., apjjles) was called a costard-monger, now degenerated to costermonger.