129 BOUILLON D'OS of gelatine obtainable from powdered bone on the one hand, and from merely roughly-broken bone on the other; he found that the qualities of gelatine obtained from different parts of the same skeleton were not identical: that from ribs was better than that from pelvic bones; jelly from mutton bones had the flavour of mutton. Proust also studied the extraction of fat from hones. The hardest bones contained 0‘05 per cent, of fat at the outside, others yielded 0T25, and others even 0'25 per cent.* Por the extraction of the fat the bones, broken into rough pieces, have to be boiled in water; they must not be powdered, as the fat remains adherent to the powder, and does not rise on the water. (Calcined magnesia has a similar detaining effect upon lard.) \ These observations of Proust were given in a separate , publication, of which ten years later, in 1801, he published I an abstract.! In 1803 Cadet Devaux published a brochure on gelatine, j; This author, one of the so-called ‘ philanthropists ’ of that . period, exhibited a tendency to imposture by speaking of gelatine as if it were his own discovery; he intentionally did not read, he alleged, the essays on gelatine of his pre- decessors, for fear that their ideas might ‘ chain up and paralyze his own thoughts.’ Only in 1818 he mentioned Papin, and called his digester ‘ a volcano - hydraulic I machine,’ and declared it unsuitable for the extraction of gelatine from bone. The dog, he averred, discovered the : utility of bone for alimentation; he, Devaux, only imitated : the dog by breaking, dividing, and moistening bones. He By boiling the bones from the ration meat of the soldiers during at fifteen hours, distributed over three days, the cooks in the camp at Aldershot extract 5 oz. of fat from 20 lb. of bones, or a little more' than I’O per cent. t Joxirn. d. Physique, vol. liii., ‘ Recherches des moyens d’amcliorcr la subsistance du soldat.’ Here also ‘ pastilles of extract of meat ’ are mentioned. J ‘ bur la gelatine des os et son bouillon.’ y