THE SPIklT OF COOKERY 6ii the mouth by hard water, but also more or less indigestible, aud, therefore, to delicate or young persons positively injurious. In the kitchen three means can be adopted for obtaining practically so/i water. The best is to buy, aud have always ready, a jar full of distilled water; the second is to obtain and keep a supply of natural soft loater, such as rain-water from pure sources, filtered, or such as many towns and districts have naturally at their disposal or are provided with by art. Several water-supplying institutions in England do actually soften all the water they deliver for domestic purposes, and this softening process, known as Clark’s, ought to be applied to all water from chalky sources. Clark’s process is, however, not very well adapted for private use. There remains, therefore, failing the processes just mentioned for use in the kitchen, when relatively soft water is desired, only the addition of some carbonate of soda to the water, follow'ed by boiling, and decanting the clear water from the deposited carbonate of lime. Merc boiling also will relatively soften water, but requires a longer time than the boiling with the addition of some soda. The amount of soda to be added to the water to be boiled should not exceed the size of a filbert for a gallon of water. There are in many parts of the world, particularly in regions where volcanic action was formerly or is now going on, a great number of springs which contain, besides larger or smaller quantities of dissolved fixed mineral nuittcrs, a certain amount of dissolved gas, most frequently and mainly consisting of carbonic acid, now more commonly called carbonic anhydride. Such waters, being pure, refreshing, and wholesome, are in great demand. The best and longest known is the water of Setters in Nassau, in this country known as Seltzer (an abbreviation of Scltcrser), w'hich was and is still sold in the actual state in which it rises in the wonderful spring. The demand for similar