THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 40 as represented in the ‘ Dons de Comus,’ Menon’s ‘ Soupers de la Cour,’ and the ‘ Cuisinier Moderne ’ of La Chapelle. He worked and wrote, as he himself said, not for the mass of the people, but for the class of sensualists (fZes sensuels), and with their extinction under the influence of the July Eevolution of 1830, his exaggerated style of ornamentation and garnishing of all kinds of pastry became obsolete. Amongst the important works of French culinary authors who have developed special branches of the art are a ‘ Treatise on Baking,’ particularly of cakes, by Parmentier,* and one on confectionery by J. J. Machet.f The widest and most lasting reputation was obtained by Fran9ois Appert,^ who invented a method for preserving all animal and vegetable substances in a state in which they remain fit for aliment during several years, which is now practised on a very large scale all over the world, and has given rise to a colossal trade. In 1826 was published at Paris an anonymous work under the title of ‘ Physiologie du Goilt,’ etc.§ An edition of the year 184:0 was accompanied with a preface by the physician Eicherand, and a poem by Berchoux. It appears to be a book written with a great deal of knowledge of the world, but abounds in extravagances, which, notwith- standing their dialectic glitter, not rarely reach the para- doxical. Its lively style and frequently elegant diction attracted to it many readers, and its contents were con- sidered as oracular by the newly made in society, and it was translated into several languages. Bereft of its French * Pannentier, ‘ Le parfait boulanger.’ Paris, 1778, 8vo. f Machet, J. J., ‘ Le confiseur moderne, ou I’art clu confiseur et du dis- tillateur.’ Paris, 1821, 8vo. X Appert, Pran9ois, ‘ Le livre de tons les menages, ou I’art de conserver pendant plusieurs annees toutes les subsUnces animales et vegdtales,’ 4th edition. Paris, 1861, 8vo. _ ^ § ‘ Physiologie du Goftt, ou meditation de gastronomie transcendante, par un professeur. 1st edition, Paris, 1826, and others. ‘ Edition prt'cedee d’une notice de Kicherand, suivie de la gastronomie, poeme p. Beichou.\.’ Paris, 1840, 18mo.