HISTORY AND PREPARATIONS OF PHEASANT 499 From Greece it spread to Rome, and from thence to the rest of the world. It is nowhere encountered in a wild state, hut requires the continued assistance of man for its preservation and multiplication. As a desirable object for the sportsman’s gun, as well as the cook’s art, it is reared in large numbers on the estates of many landed proprietors, and it is believed that a pheasant sold in the market gener- ally costs its rearer and original owner, about three times as much as is the ultimate price paid by the consumer. Pheasants have shared with truffles the misfortune of becoming objects of an adoration on the part of gastro- philists which is sometimes purely ridiculous. ‘ The flesh of the pheasant,’ says Dumas, ‘ is perhaps the most delicate and the most tasty [sapicle^ which can be found.’ In reality these two adjectives contradict each other: the flesh is delicate, no doubt in this, that it has little taste, and therefore admits of being combined with a great variety of flavoured sauces and stuffings; but what taste the pheasant has, when it is there, is of a specific and attractive nature. On the other hand, a great number of tasteless pheasants are encountered on dinner and supper tables. It has, however, the faculty of, when properly matured by keeping, or, as the French say, when properly viortified, of being tender, short, and easily digested. It is for this reason most liked by aged and delicate persons. Of course, Brillat-Savarin has a fervent effusion on this bird, which contains passages of such exquisite nonsense, that even pathetic declamation could not hide it: ‘ The pheasant is a riddle, of which the word ’ (meaning the solution) ‘ is re- vealed only to the adepts.’ ‘Every substance has its apogee of excellence,’ which ‘ the pheasant attains only when it begins to decompose.’ By this tropic apogee was meant the highest degree, or climax. This it does not reach in less than three days after its death, requiring sometimes many more, and not rarely running into the space of hope-