THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 238 sauce by adhesion to allow it to be rolled into a ball by turning the knife round its axis, and when this ball after cooling can bo rolled between the fingers without adhering to them, then dilute the extract with standard broth to its original volume. Now filter the liquid through a tammy, cloth or stout calico filter into a large basin. The Brown Boux.—Have the brown roux ready in a large stewpan, pour the brown extract over it, and mix them by diligent stirring. Eegulate the consistency of the resulting sauce by the cautious and gradual addition of normal broth, so that after boiling up and subsequent gentle simmering it may be ready to have the fat removed from its surface. Bemoval of the Fat.—When the butter with which the roux was made and other coarser particles have risen to the surface, either as a scum or in the form of a membrane, skim them off. By this operation the sauce assumes a per- fectly smooth appearance, and will make a corresponding impression upon the tongue. Add a further pint of standard broth, and skim off crudities during about twenty minutes’ boiling, and then pass the sauce through a tammy or cloth into a white basin; stir it until it be cold, and put it either into the water-bath for immediate, or into the larder for future, use. Finishing the Espagnole so as to prodiixe Esjjognole Tra- vailUe or Coulis Brim.—Place any required part of the sauce into a lai'ge stewpan, add a desirable volume of essence of mushrooms and a suflicient volume of blond dc veau to enable the mixture on the application of heat to expel some further mechanically suspended matters. Make sure that the liquid boil up at first, and then continue merely to simmer ; reduce it to the consistency you desire, pass it through a tammy, and use it with sautes or as simple sauce. In this operation the principal effect is obtained by the addition of the mush- room essence, and the subsequent boiling is only necessary to expel the water introduced by the generally very dilute essence.