658 n-lE SPIRIT OF COOKERY however, in any case, can derive qualities essential to broth only from any meat, or actual muscular fibre, which may be contained in the parings. We therefore advise all soldiers who are desirous of cooking soup (while roasting or frying their meat rations) to proceed as follows : Firstly, avoid all and any bones, and thus never lose time or material in boil- ing them. Secondly, put into the kettle in which you want to make broth only meat, scraps, or slices, or hard and tendinous fleshy parts close to the joints, such as inordinary life are judged to be uneatable, and regularly used as gravy beef only. Thirdly, mince such fiesh very fine, and to a pound of it put a pint of water for strong, or more up to two pints of water, for weaker, but still very good broth. Fourthly, heat to ebullition, decant the broth to be further developed into soup if desired, and throw the exhausted mince away. Fifthly, never put any other materials, gristle, tendons, or parts of internal organs, with the meat for broth, as they are perfectly useless for the intended purpose. Sixthly, good broth or good soup being both agreeable and wholesome, make it directly by dissolving half an ounce of (Proust’s) extract of meat in a pint of hot \yater, or larger quantities in proportion. Such a pint contains the soluble ingredients of a pound of beef free from bone, fat, and gristle. With vegetables, cereals, leguminous seeds, or bread, such broth will make an excellent, savoury and nutritious sowjj, to the effect of which upon a hungry man in cold or wet weather nothing can be superior. Seventhly, the rations of every company should therefore include such a quantity of extract of meat in tin boxes or stone jars as will be sufli- cient for the production of such a quantity of soup as experience teaches will be eaten by soldiers when they can have it. Eighthly, such soup, with bread, can be produced quicker than any other hot preparation of food, and with the addition of some fat becomes an almost complete and easily digested nutriment.