s THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY countries as long as male cooks had not obtained the pre- ponderance in the higher realms of culinary practice which they at present enjoy. The works actually written by women can be recognised at once by the style, the subjects, and their treatment, and a general character which botanists when diagnosing plants term the liahittis, and which it would take a long analysis to define, but which once known is immediately evident without detailed scrutiny. Dr. Johnson, the lexicographer, once discussed this subject in a characteristic manner, when he had in conversation pro- posed to write a book about cookery ‘ on philosophical prin- ciples.’ The information which he then received, that Mrs. Glasse’s ‘ Art of Cookery,’ which was much used and spoken of at that time, had been written by a physician, helped him to accentuate his thesis that the subject of cookery was best treated by a philosopher, and he added that his inter- locutors should see what a book of cookery he would make. Thereupon a lady said, ‘ That would be Hercules with the distaff indeed.’ Whereupon Johnson replied, ‘ No, madam, women can spin very well, but they cannot make a good ‘ First case your hare ’ had been changed into ‘ First catch your hare.’ Mr. Waller showed that neither of these passages occurred in ‘ The Art of Cookery,’ and ascribed the work to Aaron Hill, a ^vriter who lived in the first part of last century. Mr. Sala, on the other hand, supported the authorship of ‘Mrs. Hannah Glasse, habit-maker to the Koyal Family,’ and showed that the ‘Hill,’ to whom the authorship had been ascribed, as above stated, was not Aaron Hill, as assumed by Mr. Waller, but John Hill, as alleged in Boswell’s ‘Life of Johnson’ (vol. iii., p. Ml). Mr. Sala’s criticisms do not affect the historical sources of the allegation that Dr. Hill was the author, ‘ Hannah Glasse ’ the nom de plume assumed by him, namely the work of Boswell and the ‘ Memoirs of Cumberland ’ (4to., London, 1806, p. 259). Mr. Sala mentions a recipe from a cookery-book, written by ‘ an ingenuous Gaul ’ in the middle of the seventeenth century, which begins with what he terms ‘ a culinary truism,’ since changed into ‘ proverbial platitude,’ namely the words : ‘ Pour faire un cinet prenez un lidvre.’ This is really only a culinary commonplace, and the imperative of prendre has not the calchmi/ meaning apparently attached to it by Mr. Sala. The humorous direction to first catch your hiire is not of magiric origin, but is a secondary application of a humorous exposition of absolute conditions in other relations. Thus, ‘ The Niirnberg citizens do not hang any one, except they have caught him first.’