i'k>E/‘ARATJO.\'S OF TURBOT 523 the academician M. Auger had brilliant eyes and a radiant face, like an author who is applauded; and another academician, M. Villemain, had his head inclined, and his chin turned to the west, like one who listens with attention. M. Lorrain, ‘ degustateur fortement papille,’ also took his part well, and host and hostess, the latter Savarin’s cousin, who had differed on the treatment of the fish before the great solution, became reconciled; the trencher rested, aud Savarin was happy. Turbot is more frequently plain-hoiled than steamed. Vincent de Lachapelle gives a recipe for trimming and boiling, of which the peculiar part is the direction to cut a piece out of the middle of the fish, or split it open on the black side from head to tail, probably in order to admit the heat better to the thickest part. For the thinner parts are liable to be overdone while the thickest ones are yet under or just done. He also directs the cook to add ^ ])int or two of milk to the salt water in which the fish is to be boiled; the mixture is to be flavoured with lemon zest, but the pulp, /.(?., juice, of course is to be excluded, as it would curdle the milk. When the mixture and fish are heated up to boiling, the coction is to be completed by mere simmering. The fish, after removal on its perforated tray, is to be trimmed with scissors of fins and tail, and to be garnished with parsley ; the trimming is better done on the raw fish. The ivhite side is kept white by being rubbed with lemon-juice before immersion; it should be turned upwards during boiling, and served in the same position on the dish. The sauce for turbot should always be sent to table in a separate boat. It may be a ichite sauce with capers, or sauce piquante, as sung by Berchoux, or one made with rich coulis, or fish bouillon, or Dutch sauce; others prefer oyster or tomato sauce. In this country lobster sauce is most commonly served with boiled turbot; its place may suitably be taken by shrimp sauce. Those who think much of ornamental