THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 6SS boiled with shallots and anchovies, mace, cloves, pepper, and garlic. Kept in well-stoppered bottles. Some add vinegar. Excellent addition to sauce.s, such as fi.sh sauce. Wastle cake: Scotch; zvasile bread was baked on a girdle, therefore analogous to the English girdle, or griddle, cake. Water-fish occurs in various barbarizations, which are handed down through all the books published during two centuries. The word was intended to mean szveel-zjeatcrfish, and came from Ger- many through Holland to France. The latest English author has Vaslrefiche, in recipes taken from ‘ Dons de Comus,’ ii., 68, 113,151. The climax was reached by a la Vaslrefiche, when a thing became a method. The recipes have no vitality, and will soon be ob- solete. Careme has zoater-zuish, and a choice between water-fiche and vater fiche (‘Maitre d’Hot,’ i., pp. 34, 74, 120). White pot: English, ancient preparation of cream (a pint) with yolks (four, beaten), pulp of apples, sugar, spices, and smpets of ‘ white ’ bread, to be baked in a dish or in a crust. This is a kind of custard fruit puree pie, verging towards a charlotte. A simpler recipe has milk instead of cream, but a greater number of yolks. Z Zythogala: grsecified name applied by Sj'denham, the English physician, and later by the French doctor Pecquet, to the then popular posset; it was curds and wdiey produced bj'the addition to milk either of an acid wine, such as cyder, or of vinegar merely. Begin, in the ‘Diet. Med.,’ gave the name of zythogala to a mixture of beer and milk; but this does not generally curdle, except the beer be acetified. This use of beer has given rise to the misapprehension that posset could also be made with the aid of perhaps perry in place of cyder; but it is more probabl}' a misprint or clerical error arising from misreading Birnen (pears) instead of Bier (beer). Zythos: an alcoholic liquid prepared b}' fermentation, beer, friiil- zuine, cyder (as apple-wine); the name also extends to vinegar, prepared from beer or fruit-wine (Kraus, ‘Med. Dex.’). Cham- bers’ ‘Etymological Dictionary’ spells arff;'(<7.z'.).