THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 410 sharp knife. A chocolate custard is suitable for filling them. Mecca calces are made with soft flour-paste or batter con- taining cream, and called ixite viollette ; they ai*e also filled with cream or preserves, and are the cream-tarts of the ‘ Ai’abian Nights ’ tales by which the sister of the exiled Sultan recognised her brother in his incognito of pastrycook. There are choux with cheese; choux with almonds, Medina loaves (nohis); choux puffs, or choux soufflSs, flavoured with the zest of oranges; cJmix soufflds in moulds with cedrat; 2)etits choux hedgehogged with sgolit jgistnchios. Of cakes of which nouilles or macaroni, or other dry Italian paste preparations, are leading ingredients, Nouilles Cake d VAllemande is typical. Nouilles paste is said by Dumas to be of German origin ; hence the French name is probably a euphonious (for the French tongue) expression for the German name Nudcln. Translated into English, this might become noodles, but owing to the collateral humorous significance of this word, it became impi’acticable to use it for culinary purposes, and we therefore retain the French derivate nouilles as most widelj'^ applicable. The cake is a thin flat one which is doubled upon itself, or laid over a second one after having been covered with apricot jam. Some garnish the cake with a thin layer of meringue paste, over this shredded pistachios, granite sugar, and small pink and white comfits. All these garnishes are more adapted to the confectioner’s window than the service of the private kitchen. The Nudelkuchen can be classified in a system like ours only by its leading ingredient, for in its execution it is varied so as to become now a gmdding, now a savoury cheese entremets, and again a cake in the principal sense of the word. Analogous cakes may be made with macaroni, vermicelli, semolina, rice, potatoes, sago, tapioca, but they have little specificity. Meringues are classical confections having a good prospect of immortality, as they cannot easily be improved, spoiled.