THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 6H6 tables or their extract. Soup is defined in ‘ Chambers’ Etymo- logical Dictionar}'’ as ‘the juice obtained by boiling (it is not said what substance nor in what material), seasoned, and often mixed with vegetables. From German Suppc.' Soy: Japanese, called also Indian and Chine.se, condensed, as it is said, fermented extract of the soy bean; an agreeable, somewhat aromatic, warm, salted, brown, sauce-like fluid, which serves as an agreeable flavouring to dishes—e.g., fish. English (‘Eaton’s Dictionar}’’) is lualnut ketchup {q.v.). Spitchcock, to: to grill; .spitchcocked eel^anguille grille, spitch- cocked chicken = poult grille. Squab: English, a young pigeon, name used particular!} in North America; squab-chicken, a }'oung chicken ; applicable to animals while young, fat, and clums}'. Squab-pie is therefore primarily a (young) pigeon-pie. Such a pie becomes Devonshire squab-pie b}- the addition of apples. Sq\x&hs= pigeons innocents of French cooks. Stake signifies not only the wooden pole or tree so often employed in the ecclesiastical mode of loving your neighbour, but also the small meal, breakfast, luncheon, lunch, and tiffin. Although the pronunciation of both words is equal, }-et the}' are perhaps not connected with each other. The word stake for small meal is not often used, but may be derived from steak, which, in fact, more often serves the purpose of lunch than of dinner. Steak means the slice of meat which is to be grilled, roasted, or fried; its Danish equivalent is steeg, its German Stilck = piece. Stove, to: to heat or bake in a stove or oven. Sweet-pot is not an eatable, but a collection of perfumed and savoury floAvers, herbs and spices, stratified Avith salt in a pot. It is therefore a siueet-scented pot. T Talmouse: a dariole, the custard contained in which has received an addition of cheese of any kind, fresh or ripe. Tansy; English, tanaisie Vreweh., the yellow flowering composite Avild plant Tanaeetum vulgare; its expressed juice Avas used for flavouring, and (with spinach extract) colouring certain dishes. A tansy Avas a kind of custard of cream and eggs so coloured, poured over Naples biscuits or breadcrumb, Avith wine, sugar and nutmeg, and either baked in paste in a pie-dish, or boiled in a basin coA'ered with a buttered cloth, therefore a pudding (‘Eaton’s Dictionary’). Tart: from the Eatin torta, a baked ring of tA\jsted dough, Avhich Avas laid round, and eaten with, cooked fruit. The name noAV includes a great number of cakes of a complicated kind. Tartlets: French iartelettes, small tart.s, mostly Avith preserved fruit or jam. Tendrons: French, the cartilages of ribs near the sternum of the yoAing calf (erroneously termed tendons in some culinary Avorks of this century—Beauvilliers, Gouffe, Erancatelli). Timbale: a drum-like pudding-shell, made of macaroni or rice, filled with forcemeat or ragout.