THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 45 the camp-cooking of the troops in the field. He was the inventor of the hundred-guinea dish, to produce which a hundred turkeys had to he killed, of which each gave only the two dark meat lumps from the ischiadic region, called by the French le, sot I’y laisse, and notorious by Eeyni^re’s wholesale roasting of turkeys to obtain these bits, from which absurd extravagance Soyer no doubt borrowed his owm. Modern Publications—French and English. Amongst the more noteworthy French publications of the present century we have yet to mention M. de Courchamps’ ‘ Dictionary further, the great ‘ Dictionary ’j published by Alexandre Dumas in 1873. This work contains much excellent matter, and owing to the technical supervision extended to it by D. F. Vuillemot, a pupil of Careme’s, is in the main reliable; but it also contains much irrelevant matter in the shape of inventions of the nominal author, flat anecdotes, and shallow observations. Much of this shortcoming is no doubt due to the alleged circumstance of Dumas having availed himself of the assistance of subor- dinate contributors, whose performance, consisting mainly in abstracting older authors, he did not take the trouble to control. This circumstance also led to many repetitions; but leaving these out of sight, the work is an admirable compilation, and in many parts an enthusiastic picture of French cookery at the beginning of the last quarter of the century now drawing to its close. An interesting and in some respects important English publication, intended specially for the use of the English in India, entitled, ‘ Culinary Jottings for Madras,’J saw the * Courchamps, M. de, ‘ Dictionnaire de la cuisine frangaise.l f Dumas, Alexandre, ‘Grand dictionnaire de la cuisine’; Paris, 1873, imp. 8vo., pp. 1155. With two etchings by Rajon : (1) frontispiece, re- pre.senting A. Dumas ; (2) D. P. Vuillemot, Chef Restaurateur. + ‘Wyvern’ (pseudonym), ‘Culinary Jottings for Madras: a Treatise in Thirty Chapters on Reformed Cookery for Anglo Indian Exiles, based