286 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY In Italy frying is a popular art, in which most urban housewives and the average^;a?/sa7^?^es are experts; the art of making a fritto is no doubt facilitated by the plentiful supply of olive-oil. In the North of Europe, however, but few cooks understand the production of a good fritto, even with all the advantages of lard and butter. Frying can be effected in clarified butter, suet, Urd, or olive-oil. The latter causes the surface of the fried material to be particularly crisp, and is particularly suited to the frying of some kinds of fish. When doughy substances being fried begin to float on the surface of the fat, or to burst by expansion, it is time to remove them with the wire cradle or spoon. Some kinds of dough, such as krapfen or the Eoman scriblita, float from the beginning when made with fermented dough, and with them colour is the only criterion of the completion of the coction; a golden brown colour is the best, a darker brown may taste bitter. The fried material— or, as it is sometimes termed, the ‘ fry ’—should be placed in a wire cradle, or on blotting- paper, to drain. It may then be salted or sugared, as the case may be. The Italians fry many things, which Northern Europeans merely boil—e.g., calf’s head, cauliflower, arti-. chokes; and these are much better when enclosed in a batter of yolk, flour, and breadcrumb. Other materials— such as calf’s liver, lamb’s fry, water-melons, pumpkins, mushrooms—are better without any batter, but may be cut in slices or flat pieces, dusted with flour, and fried. Frying offers many advantages to the small household, the one particularly that it is the quickest mode of cooking raw materials ; above all, the objects retain their juice and flavour in a remarkable manner, if only suitable provisions are made. Thus, forcemeat may be enclosed in moist wafers, turned in yolk, covered with breadcrumb, and fried; ox-cheek may be cut in thin strips, and covered with yolk and lemon-juice, or surrounded with boiled and