HISTOKV AND PREPADATIONS OF CODFISH 541 land, many more millions of fish, come to market, and a much greater number than formerly arrive in a living, fresh state. By the practice of traders to keep living, and mostly wounded, codfish in boxes in the harbours at Grimsby and other places, in a state of starvation, the flesh of the animals is greatly deteriorated, and becomes watery and flabby, or woolly. Yet the sooner cod is killed and eaten after having been taken the better it is in quality and taste. Cod generally comes into full season in October, when the weather is cold. From the end of January to the middle of March codfish are generally out of condition ; but, having shot their spawn, they resume a good condition during the end of March and the whole of April and May. The Dogger Bank cod are the most esteemed, as they generally cut in large fine flakes ; the North Country cod, which are caught off the Orkney Isles, are generally very stringy, or what is commonly called woolly, and sell at lower prices, but are caught in greater abundance than Dogger cod. The cod are all taken with hook, and brought in well-boats, or when kept, in boxes, killed in the evening, and brought to London or other places by night trains, expressly running for the transport of fish only. Codfish ought to be fresh and firm ; the uncoloured part of its skin ought to be white with yellow spots; it ought to have its two-pointed chin-beard at the symphysis of the lower jaw. When cod is boiled there ought to be a layer of white curdled albumin between each two flakes or coherent groups of muscular fibres, which some call cream, others curd, others by other names ; when this is wanting the cod was poor, sick, e.g., from wounds, or starved, or kept in ice too long. Never buy the head of cod unless you have a special liking for and experience regarding it, for it is very dear compared to its food value. Some amateurs affect to believe that the head of the Dogger Bank cod has about it several tit-bits.