/i'.VA7::TS, SILL.UUJh'S; I'ARIF.TIES OF CHIillSE 605 before being eaten. This is really a preparation of cream ; when it draws liquid it may be filtered off on muslin. A mixture of milk with cognac or rum is by Englishnaen in India called ‘ tiger’s milk.’ The vanetics of cheese commonly used in cookery require a short notice. Cheddar is a typical cheese formerly made at Cheddar, in Somersetshire, only, but now produced in several other counties of England and Scotland. From America, including Canada also, cheese made in imitation of Cheddar comes to us. It contains from 30 to 37 per cent, of xvater; 23 to 29 per cent, nitrogenized snhstaiice, or cascine and its products; 23 to 35, rarely near 40, per cent, oi fat; from 1 to 6 per cent, of extractives free from nitrogen; and 3 to 5 per cent, of salts. The savoury ingredient is very small in quantity, and has never been measured by analysis. Cheshire cheese has a very similar composition, but con- tains more carbo-hydrate extractive, mainly sugar of milk. Gruyere, or, as it should be called, Cirauerzer, is of very regular composition, containing tvater, 32 to 35 per cent.; caseine and products, 29 to 32 per cent. ; fat, 24 to 32 per cent. ; a little sugar of milk; and salts, from 3 to 5 per cent. Parma or Parmesan Cheese contains from 27 to 35 per cent, of water, 34 to 43 per cent, of caseine and products, and only from 16 to 24 per cent, of fat. Edam [Edcmier), Dutch cheese, contains from 32 to 42 per cent, of water; 19 to 24 per cent, of caseine and derivates; 27 to 34 per cent, of fats ; 5 to 6 per cent, of sugar of milk. Of a great variety of other cheeses made and sold in the world, only few are, and that not often, used for cooking ; we therefore do not mention them in this place. Cheese owes the elements of its savour to the decomposi- tion of its caseine, this substance in its original state being by itself quite tasteless. For this decomposition the pre- sence of fat is not essential, but it seems convenient, as pre- venting the process from becoming excessive. Besides meat