HISTORY AND PREPARATIONS OF GOOSE 493 Some special forms of turkey are the following; Boast Turkey, a la Financiere, a sumptuous dish ; Boiled Turkey filled with veal stuffing. Breasts or Fillets of Turkey are made and prepared like those of fowls. A number of pre- parations after methods, the philosophy of which has been discussed in earlier chapters, require no special notice. The Leg of Roast Turkey is much impro.yed by a second braising with some savoury gravy and spice, or grilling, in which case it is termed devilled or helzebuhhed. The Goose was much valued in antiquity as a delicate dish by the Egyptians, and by the ancient Britons at the time of the invasion of Julius Caesar. It was also surrounded with a halo of sanctity, and used as an authority for the authentication of an oath by Ehadamanthus and his Lycian subjects. At Eome the goose was for a period not eaten, but honoured as the saviour of the Capitol from the besieging Gauls, but after Caesar’s conquest of Gaul, geese, particularly those from Picardy in France, were largely imported into and consumed at Eome. A Eoman consul, Metellus Scipio, invented, according to Pliny, the art of fattening geese and making their livers more delicate. The learned physician Julius Caesar Scaliger had much humorous admiration for these animals. It may be interesting to cooks to know that the French chemist M6mery saw a goose which had been trained by a cook to turn a spit. It seized the handle with the beak, and by alternately extending and contracting the neck it did the work of a turnspit. Some humorous sayings about roast goose exhibit the attractive quality of the flesh of the bird. A goose intended for roasting should not be excessively fat, as it will lose most of its grease during roasting. In trimming and trailing the goose, the lungs, technically called soal (or soul), which adhere to the chest-wall, are not i*emoved. It may receive various kinds of stuffing, of which that made with sage and onions has been very popular, although, owing to the.