THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 454 tenderness. The sweetbreads of adult bovines are also very good, and, owing to their size, offer better opportunities for preparation. In French, all sweetbread, whether from calves, cows, or oxen, is called ris de veaic, a name the derivation of which is not very certain. In dictionaries the word is ranged under ris, laughter. Sweetbread may be larded and braised, and dished with espagnole; or it may be cut into Icebohs (klmbabs), skewered, and braised—Hdtelets de Bis de Vea^^; or it may be made into a ragout, and offered in a pudding-case. It may be crumbed and baked; prepared with nmshrooms and truffles; as fricandeau; glaced; in croquettes or en cassolettes; in loapillotes, and various other forms. Calf’s Kidneys are minced and braised, and go well,with a brown sauce. Tendrons of Veal have already been alluded to above. The French word tendron, in its widest significance, means gristle ; but in Smith and Hamilton’s Dictionary ‘ gristle ’ is not translated back into French teiulron, but into cartilage. Popularly, tendinous parts of joints are termed gristle, but they cannot also be termed tendrons. The necessity for the discussion of this terminology will be understood from the fact that, in several English and French works, the term tendrons is persistently given as tendons,* meaning a totally different thing—namely, sineios. Tendrons, then, in our system, implies the cartilages which intervene between the breast-bone and the ribs attached thereto. If ever the word had, or has, any other significance, such will, for the purposes of this work, be excluded from consideration. Temlrons are dressed d la potdette, in shape of peacock's tail, in macedoine, in mayonnaise, in ravigotc, mannaded and * Beauvilliers is, according to my observation, the first who persistently, through nine recipes, erroneously writes tendons, instead of tendrons. The error, now nearly a century old, has been introduced into nearly all French and English cookery-books. Rottenhbfer gives nineteen reciiies for tendrons, and spells the word correctly.