631 RENAISSANCE COOKERY AND DINING Italians knew little of the elements of savour as we under- stand them now, but dressed even naturally savoury dishes so as to make them sweet, or accompanied them with sweet entremets, as we do pork and goose with apple sauce, or mutton and venison with currant jelly. The, time of day at which the wealthy classes took their meals was different from that at which they take them now. Of course, the great majority of mankind always took their principal meal at about noon-tide, and will necessarily always do so. But a select minority did find it more convenient, and will hereafter find it expedient, to deviate from that habit, and take their meals at different hours. And thus it has been during the last three hundred years. In the beginning of the sixteenth century, under Louis XII. and Francis I., the upper classes of the French ‘ dined ’ at ten o’clock in the morning; they ‘ supped ’ at four o’clock in the afternoon. In the seventeenth century they ‘ dined ’ at noon, and ‘ supped ’ at seven o’clock p.m. On the peculiarities of this period, the reader may consult the ‘ Memoires ’ of the physician Herouard, who kept a list of the breakfasts and dinners of Louis XIII. At this time the dinner was announced by blowing a horn ; from this came the order, •' Cornez le diner.’* The social status of coohs has seen great fluctuations in historical times. Athens had never what the Komans termed a great—i.e., a grand—kitchen; nevertheless, the best coohs at Rome were Greeks, as the best cooks in our days are reputed to be Frenchmen. These officers were highly valued, and enriched by their conquering masters ; thus, Antony gave a town to one of his chefs de cuisine. The office of carver also was considered of great importance. All these arrangements were revived at the Renaissance, and developed in extreme intensity. The office of cook, or of privy cook, and of carver, or trinciante, were deemed * Cj. ‘ Nouv. .Vlmanaeli J. Goumi.,’ iii. (1827), l>. 178.