THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 37 ‘Manuel des Amphitryons,’ 1808, p. 291). In his early days the third Baron Grimod was an impious son and grandson, and at his banquets perpetrated coarse practical jokes, in which he treated the memory of his great-grand- father, the charcutier, with contempt. His extravagance compelling his father to put him under some restraint, he was, under a lettre de cachet, banished to Lorraine, but his father dying six months afterwards, he came into possession of the ancestral fortune, which had been squeezed out of the Prench taxpayers. The Revolution ‘ retorqueated,’ and Eeyni^re’s fortune having changed proprietors, he luckily remained in possession of his head, and took to literature for the purpose of making a living. He began the ‘ Almanach ’ in the last year of the Republic, and continued it during the prosperous years of the Empire, and after a long pause during the Restoration. This publication thus appeared in two series, the first terminating with the eighth volume (it had not been an annual for four years) in 1812 ; the second series began in 1825. The first series contained, besides general essays, critical reviews of Parisian culinary establishments, which are praised or condemned, and in such a manner that it is probable that praise could be had for a consideration, and those who did not advertise were at least not praised. The coarseness of the conceptions and the extent of the exaggerations contained in these early volumes have not influenced the practice of good society, but have helped to make the Paris style of cooking compli- cated and overladen. The ‘ faisan Lucullus ’ of Vuillemot is perhaps the acme of exaggeration in this direction. In later publications Reynike overcame these faults, and his ‘ Manuel des Amphitryons,’ Paris, 1808, is a work of great historical and practical merit, and written in a. most polished and attractive style, a monument of the refinement of the eighteenth century, which perished in the Revolution, and is not likely soon to be revived.