THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 390 steam, they must be brought to the table hot, in the in- flated condition, before they have time to collapse.* As the starch or Hour, by the aid of which they are made, contributes little to the specificity of the souffles, they should Ije named either after the flavouring and characteristically prevailing ingredient only, or both the floury base and the flavouring should be named. B.g., a chocolate souffle made with rice-flour should be distinguished from that made with potato-flour, as they taste somewhat differently. The, kinds of flour useful for souffles are wheat-flotor, groimd rice, IMtato-starch, arroioroot starch, tainoca swelled starch, totis- les-mois, and rough ground Italian paste, called semolina. The flavourimj may be orange, lemon, orange-flowers, cinna- mon, vanilla, ginger, chocolate, coffee, or any kind of essence or liqueur. Th.e.fruit-ja7ns to be mixed or given with them may be apricots, peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums. Of fruit, raspberries, currants, strawberries, gooseberries, apples, and pineapples have been put in souffles, but their addition not only compromises their success, but appears to us to destroy their character. Such additions of fruit and acid flavours, if desired at all, had better be made in the shape of sauce. A comparison of sotoflles with other preparations con- taining the same ingredients is not without philosophical interest. Thus, pancakes are batter fried in a raw state, the frying being their only and final coction, while souffles are first cooked and then baked. The former admit of the introduction into their body of fruit in substance, such as apples, but then receive a new name, that ol fritters; the apples taking the lead, and the batter acting only as a sub- * We have collected many excellent recipes for souffles, the best being contained in old family records. For all souffles, cf. Careme, ‘Pat. Roy. Paris,’ vol. i., pp. 349 to 365, where the difficulties attending souffle .are well described. He advises souffles to be made broad, and not high— 12 inches by 3 or 4 inches high. He .also terms every souffle Frau{'aii. Id., ibid., vol. ii., pp. 169, 317 (‘Petits Souffles ’).