PUNCH AND ITS VARIETIES 619 Punch is a specifically English preparation, anti has a jovial history. It is an alcoholic drink made wi.n the juice and zest of lemon, sugar, and any of the principal distilled spii’its. The most characteristic punch is no doubt made with rum—at least, in part. To heighten its flavour some wine may be added, but never so much as will make its bouquet prominent. For the practice of a great establish- ment, a hotel, or restaurant, it is expedient to have the ingredients of punch ready, and with this view the cook or butler should prepare syrup of lemon, syrup of citric acid, quintessence of lemon-peel, tincture of lemori-j^eel, orange syrup (for punch and puddings), syrup of orange or lemon peel, quintessence of orange-peel, or curagoct, and variations. The actual mixing of the punch becomes an empirical process, for which no proportion can be stated without a previous knowledge of the strength of the spirit to be employed, and, in places of sale, of the profit to be exacted. Punch may be drunk hot or cold ; the hot form is preferred in winter. It should never be stronger than the presence of 20 per cent, of absolute alcohol will make it; this is about the average strength of sherry or port w'iue. It will be more wholesome if it contain less spirit, down to 10 per cent, of absolute alcohol. A practised taster may adjust the alcoholicity of the mixture by mere gustation within 2 per cent, of error. It is evident from the foregoing that a great many varieties of punch can be produced, but it is unnecessary to give even the titles of many. We will, however, point out the features by which some special sorts of punch are distinguished. The French cooks colour most rum punch of a dark amber, nearly brown, by means of caramel. In the production of caramel for this purpose great care must be taken to make the burnt sugar as little bitter as possible. In so-called Yorkshire {hoi) Punch some calf’s-fooi jelly is introduced, possibly to give it some body, by means of which slight