490 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY in case the birds be roasted, causes them invariably to be spoiled ; they should always be treated in conjunction with some forcemeat, as a stuffing for parts of the turkey or the whole of its cavity. Upon the operation of stuffing the turkey a vast amount of ingenuity has been expended. Thus, the disciples of the ‘ Almanach,’ at the head of these M. de Gussy, directed the turkey to be killed and drawn, and while warm to be filled with 8 lb. of truffles; it was then to be hung as long as was compatible with preservation, to let the truffle flavoui'pene- trate the flesh, and then only was it to be plucked and trussed for cooking, receiving an entirely new stuffing {truffes vierges) after the removal of the first truffles. A reasonable stuffing, or garnish in lieu of stuffing, is a great addition to the bird, and should rarely be omitted. Thus, of a 'plcdn forcemeat of veal and pork, well spiced, about a pound may be placed under the skin in front of the breast, that which holds the crop during life; and such stuffing produces a hopeful impression of contents. A large turkey to be roasted or braised will take about 4 lb. of truffles in its cavity; they should be previously fried with bacon, spices, and fat livers, including the liver of the turkey itself. It is then called dinde an truffes or d la Perigord, and placed amongst the removes (De Courchamps). On the other hand, Brillat-Savarin termed the dinde au trttff'es a rdti. This was considered heretical by the sur- vivors of the orthodox fraternity of truffle-worshippers, and Courchamps, the old friend of Lauraguais and of the Ximeneses, who had often been a guest at the little soupers of Sophie Arnould and of Marshal Eichelieu, wrote the following note to his recipe, in which, as Dumas says, one can recognise the hatred—one might almost say the con- tempt—which the nobility of the sword has always shown for the nobility of the gown : ‘ It is hardly necessary for us to observe that the dinde mac