THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 594 is a reliable resource in the construction of any impromptu meal. To prepare an omelette remove the strings from the eggs, and add to the latter a little not exceeding a tahle- spoonful of water, some cream or fused butter, and beat the mixture. Keep the omelette thick, and to ensure this use a special ovielette-i>an—that is, a small frying-pan six inches in diameter. Let the hutter or lard be hot, and flavour it by frying in it a small piece of onion, -which you remove when done. Pour the preparation on to the hot fat, keep it thick together, and fry quickly and carefully. The moment the bottom of the omelette is set, withdraw the pan ; do not attempt to turn the omelette, hut fold up its sides so as to treble it, put it on its dish, place it a moment in the oven, garnish, and send to table. With good management, the whole of the white of egg may be incorporated with the omelette. Most modern recipes seem to rule so; but some, amongst them all cookery-books up to 1840, prefer to omit a number up to half of all the whites. This prevalence of the yolks makes the omelette more tasty, and loose or tender; indeed, Kitchiner, p. 348, thinks this suppression of a part of the whites so important that he says no art could prevent the omelette being hard if too much of the white were left in it. An omelette should not be greasy, not be burnt, not coloured, and not even too much done. It is one of the commonest mistakes of inexperienced cooks to try to make an omelette look like a pancake; to prevent its burning, they fry it slowly, and thus make it dense, hard, and indigestible. The best omelette takes the least work and preposition a) of lameMe, diminutive of lame, Latin lamina, a thin plate. This definition is as erroneous as the common cook’s conception of an omelette as a pancake. An omelette is not thin, but thick, while a pan- cake should be thin ; an omelette should not be browned, while a pancake ought to be browned ; an omelette should not be baked on both sides, while a pancake ought to be made crisp on both sides. We therefore hold the transition from amelette. to alume.lk disproved by the facts themselve.'<.