THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 460 may be divided, and each part cooked in a different manner : the rumi) end may be roasted, and the knuckle end boiled ; the thick end will also yield slices to be dressed as cutlets, or scollops, or to be stewed, or incorporated with a China Chilo, so that similarly to the division of a piece of sirloin, which we have described above, a leg will give three good and different hot dinners. The boning of a leg of mutton, as technically understood, consists of the removal of the thigh-bone, and no more. The tibia, or bone in the knuckle, is preserved, at least in part, inasmuch as the condyle or cartilaginous surface of the head, by means of which it was in union with the thigh-bone, is sawn off; the opening thus made is the one through which the femur is removed, the flesh being pushed upwards, and the head of the thigh-bone cut out of the pan. Into the cavity thus made any skiffing may be put, and the joint may be roasted or braised. The cook must choose the leg of mutton according to the purpose for which it is wanted. If you desire to have a small leg, choose one of Welsh mutton, which may vary between 5 and 7 lb. in weight. Welsh mutton is perhaps less suitable for boiling. Of ordinary legs of mutton, choose a lean one for roasting, and a fat one for boiling. The success of cooking, particularly of roasting, depends much upon the observation of the rules regarding time required for cooking. The interior of a thick piece of meat, like the leg of mutton, can be reached by the cooking process only by continued heating during a certain time. If an underdone joint, completed outside, be placed for a period in an oven, even at a temperature at which roasting from without would not continue, the underdone inside will nevertheless become done by the gradual even distribution of the heat from the roasted outside inwards. This is well illustrated by the mode in which some Norwegians boil their mutton and other meat. They heat the joint just to ebulli-