THE SPIRIT OE COOKERY 6iS culinary composition, the latter acquires the i\l\&au Kirsch* Much is made in Dalmatia from a cherry called marasche, hence called maraschino, and from the place of export di Zara. Maraschino is used in some compound drinks, but mainly in confections, to which it imparts a very fine flavour. The art of distilling spirits is so far developed, that from the most unlikely materials chemically pure alcohol can be isolated. As this has no collateral taste, and does not reveal its origin, it is termed silent sxiirit. Such spirit is used in connection with cookery for the production of tinctures—i.c., real solutions of colouring matters as well as alcoholic extracts of spices—for the preservation of many varieties of fruit, such as cherries (known in England as cherry brandy), or pears, peaches, and plums, etc.; in these alcoholic preserves many manufacturers in the South of France carry on a considerable trade. The English mince- meat, with which the Christmas mince-pies are perfected, should be made some weeks before it is used, and preserved during maturation by an addition of alcohol; but when a cook uses so-called alcohol or spirit, he must remember that what practically comes into use is a mixture of alcohol and water, and of the ingredients he must know the relative proportions in order to correctly interpret any recipe. In England the strength of alcoholic liquids is usually stated in degrees of jjroof spirit. Proof spirit consists of about equal parts by weight of water and alcohol; rectified S2)iril contains about 84 per cent, of alcohol and 16 per cent, of water; absolute alcohol contains one, or at most two, per cent, of water. These are preparations prescribed in the British Pharmacopceia, and they can therefore l)e always obtained from any chemist and druggist. * The reader may note that the French buyers of kirsch rejected all such spirit as did not become blue with tincture of ouaiacum, as not genuine, lloussingaidt proved that this reaction was due to the jiresence of copper, imported by dirty stills. For years manufacturers who mail(! pure. Kirsehen- wasser could not sell it at its proper value.