NATIONAL SOUPS AND COMPOUND DISHES ii-] slices of raw ham into the pilau-pot; but this is in strict- ness inadmissible, as the pilau is essentially a Mussulman dish. The following is an Indian recipe* : Take 1 seer of good rice, 1 seer of butter, 2 fowls (or other meat as above), 3 pahs of almonds, J lb. of raisins (sultanas), 1 oz. of a mix- ture of allspice, powdered mace, cardamoms, cloves, 1 tolah of saffron, 1 fresh onion, 2 oz. ginger, 1 oz. salt, ^ oz. whole black pepper, 1 lb. dhiey. Boil the rice till it is half done ; fry the onions in the butter until they are brown; then take them out and put in the raisins till they are fried, and take them out, or boil the raisins. Then cut the fowls to pieces, and rub them over with the ginger and dhiey, and allow them to remain in this state two hours ; put some butter at the bottom of a casserole, over this put a layer of rice, over this distribute some of the onions, raisins, and almonds; sprinkling it with saffron and water, then put a layer of the meat, and so on alternately till the vessel is filled; then pour the butter over it; cover the casserole and close it with paste, so that little steam may escape; put it between a slow top and bottom, or braising, heat, or in an oven, and cook it three hours. Valencia Rice, or Arroz a la Valenciana, is a dish supposed to be of Moorish origin. The rice is boiled granular, open, and soft, but not pasty. It is then mixed with a combina- tion of oil and tomatoes, whereby it receives a beautiful yellow colour. Pepper-pot Soup is an East Indian dish, consisting of a julienne soup with dice of pickled pork, veal, fowl, and the meat of a good-sized crab. Chinese Bird s-nest Soup) is also called Indian and Batavia Soup. The Japanese call the nests Sunan, the Chinese Salangan. They are the nests of the marine rock-swallows, Alcyo petrceus, which breed in caverns on islands of the * Indian recipe for pilau, from the late Captain .Tohn Rose Troup. A Bombay fieer—12 oz. ; a (ola/i is equal to the weight of one rupee, or A of » pound, Dhiey is curds.