THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY no shallow pans, and dried in hot closet or oven as above described, to the condition of solid glue. La Chapelle says (p. 12) that some made great mystery of these tablets, but his under-cooks knew all about them, and left their production to the plain helps. Perhaps this information may assist in explaining how it was that they became discredited. A recipe printed in Johann Christoph Wiegleb’s* edition of the ‘Natural Magic’ of Martius, seems to be a copy, with slight variations, of that of La Chapelle; the two sheep are omitted, but the single turkey is multiplied by twelve. The recipe and the tablets seem to have been gradually forgotten, and found httle or no practical application. Towards the end of the last and in the beginning of the present century, however, there were pre- pared at Buenos Ayres, by a privileged company, and in England and some of her colonies, tablets which were sold in trade for the rapid and cheap production of bouillon. On analysis, one hundred parts of these yielded to alcohol only five parts (instead of fifty, as true meat-extract would have yielded) ; allowing five further parts as matter in- soluble in alcohol belonging to true meat-extract, the tablets contained ninety parts in one hundred of mere gelatine. The part soluble in alcohol had only an undecided and feeble taste of meat. On inquiry this was fully explained by the manner in which the tablets were made, for they were produced from offal, feet, cartilages, bone-ivory and (stag) horn shavings. Thus the savory principle was replaced by glue; the tablets, even with the addition of vegetable-extract, salt and spice, would never yield a tasty * Wiegleb was born at Langansalza in 1732, and was therefore ten years of age when La Chapelle wrote ; he died in 1800. Martins’s ‘ Instruction in Natural Magic’ was first published in 1751, completely rewritten by Wiegleb, and published at Berlin in 1779, 8vo. ; a supplement, by G. Fr. Cr. Rosenthal, appeared in 1789, sq. xx., 8vo. (ex Graesse, loc. cit., vii. 1302 and 1305).