CULINARY PROCESSES 85 nence from food altogether, but that of excUmon of flesh food from the dietary. This rule was never imposed upon the Spanish people—at least, it was not compulsory in the Peninsula for Fridays. Some religious brotherhoods—e.y., the Chartists—excluded flesh food from the dietary alto- gether all the year round, and thus laid the foundation for the equivocal doctrines embodied in the system of vege- tarianism. The exclusion of flesh food was at first rigidly observed, so that all food which was derived from animals, such as eggs, milk, blotter, cheese, lard, suet, was prohibited, as well as fish, flesh, and fotol. Gradually eggs and milk, with their derivates, were excluded from the prohibition, and fish as well as articulate animals and shell-fish were also set free. This latter license was physiologically irre- concilable with the argument against flesh, and proved more than anything else that the clerical rules relating to diet were intended more for the furnishing of the oppor- tunity of the exercise of despotic discipline than as benevolent prescriptions for the improvement of the phy- siological constitution. These rules, with their several modifications and relaxa- tions, have had some influence upon cookery in various ways. In the first place, they conferred greater importance on farmaceous and vegetable dishes, and some of the latter, like the vegetable piidding or chartreuse, properly so-called, became developed to systematic perfection. The permission to eat fish forced the modes of treating fish in the kitchen to some extent upon populations, who would have other- wise gone without fish altogether. Farinaceous dishes were developed to greater perfection. In our days, at last, a certain number of persons have on alleged ethical grounds systematized abstinence from flesh food, and under the name of vegetarians have confined their diet to vegetable products, with the prudent addition, however, of milk, eggs, and the products derived from them. This mode of living