568 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Fish pies derive importauce from the Friday abstinence from meat. The most frequently used materials are eel, salt cod with fish farce, and many others. Pdt6s or raised pies, pies in cases, pasties, are distinguished ' from the pies previously mentioned by their meat being contained in cases made of paste altogether, and orna- mented in various fanciful ways. Case and pie are there- fore produced independently of each other, and are united only for the last purpose of being sent to table. If the case be edible in a manner, it is certainly not generally eaten by those who consume the contents. Of this experience the potter has availed himself, and has made p>ic-cases of clay, coloured and ornamented just like those made of paste, and has thereby relieved cooks from a large amount of unquestionably useless labour. The construction of elaborate pie-cases of paste has been considered an art for a long time, but was never carried to such development as in the early part of the present century. We know from Careme’s works that he was employed for long periods by Paris piite- makers, pcbtissiers, to elaborate new designs for such cases, and much of his reputation as a cook rested upon • the external appearance of these cases, and the effects they produced when seen on the table. The contents of raised pies are generally rcujoiUs or'fricas- sees of a more delicate kind, and less substantial, than the contents of pies of the English type; the latter, therefore, fit Kitchiner’s definition of pies, the former do not. The diminutives, p>etits pidtes, are interesting and useful in the course of meals, as they can be got ready for service quickly by mere hotting if kept ready prepared in the larder. We now give the titles of some ragoilts and fricassees which are most commonly preferred for filling piitos, but without any reference to the outer structure or case: Pasty of Beef and Veal Farce {Pate a la Ciboidette); Ecujout of Cocks Combs (a la Financihre), Payout of Giblets