666 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Borage : French bourmchc, Borneo officivalis, L., a plant with rough spiny leaves ami blue flower, excellent for flavouring lettuce salads. The name ‘borago’ is conjectured to be a modi- fication of the verb cora^o, ‘ I rejoice the heart.’ Bouchee: ti ver}- small pclit pdtl, .so as to be a traditional mouthful only; to be made of puff-paste. The forcemeat in its cavitv should be somewhat more telling in taste than that for the ordi- nary petit pate. Boudin: a delicate entree, prepared with quenelle forcemeat or mince. The common type is the bouditi ordinaire, a sausage made of pig’s lilood, dice of pork fat, grits or rice, spice and salt. In English blaek pudding, boudiu noir (‘Manuel des Amphi- tryons,’ preface, p. 15). Bouquet garni, or faggot: a bundle tied with twine, consisting of a handful of parsley, .six green onions, a bayleaf, and a sprig of thi'uie. It is tied to facilitate removal after use in braise or broth, etc. Bouride, la: French name for a fi.sh (not in dictionary). Braise: French, originally embers, burning embers. Braise de Bou- langer: quenched charcoal, then transferred to a compound sauce, y\\ which meat is smotliered in a covered ves.sel on and under embers; analogous to mirepoix,poi’le, and blanc, all similar compounds for imparting flavour to smothered meat. Simp- son, toe. cit: p. 12, distinguishes three kinds of brai.se— brorvn, and dry. Braise, to: to cook, fry and roast meat in a clo.sed ember-covered vessel in an aromatic sauce in an atmosphere of steam ; to smother, German schmoren. Braisier: a firepan, a panful of live charcoal. Braisiere: French, a camp-kettle. Brandade: French, a Provencal or Languedocien ragout made of salt codfish; name derived’from brandir, to stir. Bresolles : French, stewed slices of meat, veal or rabbit, analogous to .scollops (cf. La Chapelle, vol. iii., p. 72). Brioche: a French national rich cake of superlative quality', to be eaten hot with coffee for breakfast. Brisquet: the breast (chest) of an animal; the part of the breast (chest) next to the ribs (French, brechet or bricnet). Broche : I'rench, .spit for roasting. Broohet: F'rench, jack, pike, luce. Brocheton: Iwench, jack, pickerel. Burgoo: Scotch = oatmeal, lia.stj-pudding, or gruel. C Cabeach: English form of P'rench escavecher, to preserve fi.sh in a jieculiar manner. Cabeached, e.g., cod (escabeached). Canelons: I'rench, rugosities, or corrugations of ox-palate {q.v.); also preparations of ox-palate.s, covered with farce, rolled and gra- tinated. A number (six) of such enclosed in buttered paper and tied up are called a paupiette (popiette)', the bimdles may be boiled (.see Paupiettes).