670 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Cutlet: ICnglish corruption of French cdtddte, a small rib, or part of a rib. Cyder: Soutli-west Kiifrlisli name of apple zuiuc, which latter name prevails in the Midland Counties; from zythos, Greek, an alcoholic liquid prepared by fermentation {q.v.). ‘Chambers’ Etymological Dictionar}'’ spells dder, French ddre, and derives it from sicera, genitive ce, intoxicating liquor, from the Greek But cyder, at least, when young, is the least intoxicating of common fer- mented drinks, and therefore least liable to receive as specific name a general appellation. C}'der is mostl}- made from apples which are not eatable in substance. Its production is a German invention, according to Herat and Delems, ‘Diet. Mat. Med.’ Its Latin name is pomaceum, made at a time when potnum, originally signifying ever}' kind of fruit—cherry, fig, date, nut, even truffle and grape—had been specialized for malum (of Greek origin), apple ; but this name included in its turn pomegranates, peaches, oranges of all kinds, lemons (pomecitrons), and quinces. D Darioles: French, pastry of entremets, constructed like English cheese-cakes. Darn: English substantive, a slice or cutlet, e.g., a transverse chop of fish, such as salmon or cod. The term is in ‘ Smith and Hamil- ton’s English-French Dictionary,’ and was used freely by cooks of the last century. English form of the French darne, substantive feminine, a slice (of some fishes only, but varieties not specified). Daub: English, daiibe French, culinary term for stew; thus, gigol h la daiwe=\c^ of mutton stewed. The French word dauber has no culinary application. [In Francatelli, 570, and other places to daube (with the final e) is irsed as equivalent to larding, or, as this writer also has it, interlarding (a confusion with a literary tropic). The English expression is to daub, without the final e. Thus we have (Simpson, p. 337) daubed foivls, which are braised, and not larded; and (ibid., p. 338) we have Foivl a la Daube, larded, which is to be finishetl like Fowl a la Daube (p. 29), which is not larded. Simpson (p. 76) has Rump of Beef a la Daube, the recipe for which begins thus: ‘Trim a rump of beef, take the bone out, daub it (i.e., the rump, not the bone), and put it into a marinade.’ Plere to daub must mean to lard it. See also id. ibid., p. no, where rump of veal is to be daubed the same as rump of beef. Daubing must be a particular kind of larding, with thick lardooins, for Simpson descrilies onl}' beef and veal as daubed, fowls, etc., always as larded. (See also loc. cit., p. 112.) Dinde en Daube (Beauvilliers, i. 348) is larded with aromatized lardoons. Daubiere: French, a vessel in which joints or birds are to be daubed or .stewed. Dress, to: to bring a matter into good form, to clean, trim, etc. Dressed vegetables are samples of the irarticular forni implied. Dunelm: a kind of dish of mutton, or other meat, possibly local to Durham (Dunelmemsis.=). Dunelm of veal: vide ‘Eaton’s Dic- tionary.’