THE SP/R/'T OF COOKERY 5«4 almost satirical, contrast the indigestibility of several of these ices. Spongaclas, lastly, are mere compound cream ices, to which so much luhite of egg has been added that by dexterous manipulation the whole mixture may form a heavy froth of twice the original volume of the ingredients. The arrangement in one group of preparations which have mainly this feature in common, that they are cooled down artificially below the freezing-p>oint of water, and thereby, in part at least, congealed so as to be hard and resistant, is a mere matter of convenience suggested by the materials and apparatus employed, and the means required to keep the preparations ready for use at the desired moment. Not- withstanding their being here massed together, frozen pre- parations belong to different classes of the culinary list. A rigid adherence to definite classification wmuld compel us to range an iced or ice pudding with p>uddings; a frozen cake with cakes ; a custard with preparations of eggs ami milk. A sweet solution of any fruit juice, called in Oriental language a sherbet, remains so, though it be made solid by frost; lemonade remains so, though it be made solid under the name of lemon-ioater ice. The frozen bavaroises, which we have termed compound jellies, or cream jellies, remain exactly the same in composition and definition whether they are served at the mean temperature of the earth, in our latitude about 52° Fahr., or at a much lower tempera- ture, produced by a mixture of snow or ice and salt. The production of these confections is a relatively simple process, and easy to be learned. For domestic puiqjoses the apparatus required is very compendious and simple, and the freezing materials are of low' price. Without describing apparatus or process, we point out some principles to bo absolutely observed. A guulfnl of ice would require at least 10 lb. of poxodcred fine salt. A factor in the time required for the operation is motion imparted to both the freezor and