668 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Cargme, hecatise it is a pate of meat onh-, Avhile a chartreuse should contain no meat at all. Chatteries: dainties or delicacies for company (Ralzac); term u.sed by French ladies in last century, when chatteries were much in favour. Chingaras, au: French, after the manner of the gipsie.s. Italian, zingams. Misinterpreted by an author as au chien gras. Chitterling: English, the bosom stripe of a shirt, the frill. Chitterlings: plural of the foregoing: .signifies the boiled intestine or gut of the ox niainl}% but also of calf and pig, the small tripe, which has .some resemblance in shape to a shirt-frill. German Kutteln, Kaldauven, meaning also tripe in general. Chitterlings also means sausages in some parts. Cider (apple wine). vSee C3'der. Civet, Engli.sh {civettc, French, means a strong peculiar .scent from an animal, and is not related): civet, French ( = chives ?): a highly- flavoured dish, e.g. of hare. Cock-ale: obsolete: ale mixed with the jellv or minced meat of a boiled cock, l)esides other ingredients (New English Dictionar3' on Historical Principles). Codlin, Codling, or Coddling: a good hard kind of cooking apple; diminutive of cod—s. pod containing seeds. Some surmise a con- nection with to coddle, to pamper, or to parboil, or soften 133- boiling water, or sa3' that an apple of aii3' kind thus softened (‘intenerated’) would be a codling. These apples are deprived of their peel 011I3' after having been parboiled in water, and are preserved in that state, and thus receive a treatment differing from that of other apples. Codled cream, or codlin cream, i.e., apple puree mixed with cream (apple fool), fits the meaning of cream mixed with codlin apples. Codling is also spelled quodling, and, according to Jeaffreson {toe. cit., ii. 48), a recipe for cooking such is given 133- Robert Ma3'. Compote : French, cooked fruit, probabh- originalh- mixed fruit, or fruit preserved in .S3Tup; also used, e.g., 133- author of ‘ Dons de Comus,’ to designate savour3- dishes of pigeons, cpiails, and larks, mixed with pease or mu.shrooms. Consomme: French, strong broth obtained 133- boiling meat and vegetables, and concentrating the extract to slight browning or caranielization, used for soups and sauces. La Chapelle has a more restricted meaning. [The present habit of London cooks to call their dish-water soups ‘consommes’ .shouhl be condemned l33' ever3' lover of honest fare.] Contiser: French, the tattooing or inla3’ing of fillets of anv kind with .small slices of truffles, red tongue, etc., so as to produce au ornamental mosaic. From name proper Conti, hence a la Conti, or contisi, rendered in English as conlisated. When the pieces inserted are more nail-shaped, the operation is termed clontcr, to nail. Corned pork ; abbreviation of acorned pork, or ]3ork which has been fed upon acorns. Transferred to salt beef, which is absurdly called corned, or even corn beef. Corner le diner: French, to blow the horn calling the messmates to dinner.