170 THE SPIRIT OF COOKER)' In the form of ribbons this paste remains nouilles or nudeln; but, broken up into small fragments, like grits, it is called semolina—French semozde. Plain or Clear Semolina Soicp.—The semolina soups, or German Nudeln soups, are closely analogous to the soups of Italian paste above alluded to. Semolina Soup with Fillets of Larks or Beccaficas.—The fillets are to be taken from birds braised with fine herbs. Semolina Soup with Calf’s Feet and Quenelles.—In this recipe the mock turtle of the calf’s feet remains in the soup, and takes the place of the fillets in the previous recipe.* Gratinated Crust Soups—Potages Croute au Pot. A good English equivalent for the name vfould be soups loith gravy-browned cntsts. Broth is transformed into gravy by being condensed, dried, and caramelized by beat while fixed on the breadcrusts, which here act as spongy mechanical media; later on, after solution and softening, as distributors of the tasty gravy, and as nutriment. Some of these soups are very substantial. The crusts are obtained by excavating small rolls, specially baked for the dish, to obtain much crusty surface, yet the glassy surface of the crust has to be cautiously rasped off. When no special rolls are at hand, take slices or crusts of ordinary bread, for as the crusts hardly preserve their shape in the tureen, or in the serving, it is not of much consequence to the aspect of the dish. On the other hand, the crusts of small half-rolls, placed side by side with the open cups upwards, are con- venient for being basted or moistened with the bouillon, and * For some further uses of nouilles as well as macaroni, etc., see ‘ En- tremets and Preparations of Eggs,’ infra. For a practical note on the soups, cf. Gouffe, loc. cit., p. 52. For Comp. Macar. and Semol. Soups, rf. F., 384 et seq. ; Cord. Bl., 25. For semolina=Fr. semoule, cf. D.l)., 1014. The best semolina is that of Genoa—white, made of rice-flour; yellow, of wheat-flour; or deep yellow, coloured with saffron, coriander, and egg-yolk.