ii8 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY their presence does not affect the decoction advantageously, but may easily deteriorate it. But, then, what is boiled are not bare bones, but bones with connecting joints, cartilages, ligaments, tendons, and some gristle. Now, all these parts just enumerated consist of collagenon,s or glue-forming tissue (the cartilages are peculiar, and yield but little soluble matter in culinary operations except after long boiling). And, indeed, all they yield to the decoction is gelatine or glue. This, being perfecthj tasteless, contributes nothing of a flavour even ; its nutritive value, owing to its limited amount, is very small, and does not nearly equal the cost of the coal spent in its solution. Supposing the stock ultimately obtained were to set, i.e., to gelatinize well on cooling, the quantity of gelatine dissolved might be estimated to amount to an ounce (in the dry state) per quart, rather less than more. A portion of this gelatine would be obtained from the con- nective-tissue of the meat, beef as well as veal, but the latter would yield it easier, quicker, and in a greater relative quantity. The entire result of this seven hours’ boiling, so far as the gelatine is concerned, could be obtained in a few minutes by the solution in the intended stock of a pro- portionate quantity of prepared gelatine. But for us to adopt such a proceeding in actual practice would require some proof that the presence of gelatine in stock or broth was advantageous to it in some manner or other. Anyhow, the presence of gelatine in broth is not by any means essential to the latter attaining very high perfection as well by itself as in most of its preparations. On the contrary, gelatine in broth or gravy may become indirectly the passive means of deterioration of the broth, for while pure extract of meat admits of being browned by beat without acquiring any disagreeable flavour, but, on the contrary, rather gain- ing in sapidity thereby, gelatine on being browned acquires a disagreeable flavour sui generis.* When present in meat- * The belief or opinion of Gouffd, that the colour and flavour of gravy were due to broivned gelatine, is completely erroneous.