i86 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY applied to the production of the most characteristic results from the given materials. But we also find amendments proposed to well-estahlished recipes, which merely exhibit the want of information of the authors. Whether in the case of bisque to make it clear or thick is a matter of choice, but whether the thickening should be effected by a con- somme of fried bread in veal-broth or by boiled rice is immaterial. Some recipes are distinctly retrograde, and, compromising the fundamental idea, do not, in fact, yield a true bisque. In one of these the carapaces are not directed to be pounded, but left unused, while the meat of the tails, constituting the most delicate morsels, is pounded, and sub- sequently mostly left on the tammy. As the writer of this recipe loses sight of the colouring matter contained in the carapaces, which, being itself a fatty matter, unites with the butter during the cooking after comminution, particu- larly with the aid of a little spirit or wine, it is not sur- prising that he prescribes that the butter in which the crayfish were done should be coloured with red lobster spawn. This trouble, even when feasible, is totally un- necessary. The extraction of the pounded carapaces yields not only the red colour of the fat, which makes the bisque so nice to look at, but also the grand flavour which con- stitutes so great an attraction to the gustatory organs. On the other hand, the pounding of fleshy tails, while probably imparting some flavour to the soup, is destructive of the meat, and thereby of the visible proof of the genuineness of the bisque, for the tails are a kind of evidence which cannot be imitated, not only of the nature, but also of the richness of the preparation. In some parts of Germany forcemeat and marrow-balls, or quenelles, are poached into the soup besides the sliced tails and fried bread. The pounding of the carapaces is done in the presence of butter, and they are comminuted to a pulp. This pulp is now set to fry until the butter is coloured red