640 THE SEIRIT OF COOKERY at dinner, as we hold that it always will act beneficially, provided it be good. Any disrepute of soup can only be owing to its frequently low quality. Nothing is rarer than good soup at grand dinners. The grand cooks either attri- bute little importance to soup, or they do not know how to make it; enough, it may be stated, as a fact ascertained by frequent observation, that they produce bad soup. Some of them employ most of the bouillon for their ragouts; others give no time to the production of the soup, and fill up the diminished contents of the stock-pot with water. A French author, in affirming and lamenting that state of affairs, praised the pot-au-feu as a preventive of bad soup; but the modern essence of meat, Proust’s immortal discovery, has made even this unnecessary, and has put the smallest menage in a position to produce as good soup as the largest establishment, and, what is of still greater importance, in a short time. The hors d’ceuvres are divided into two classes, hot and cold ones. To the cold ones belong, c.g., those radishes of which the aspect is the best part, for, as a French author says, their ‘ verdeur ne convient pas fi tous les estomacs.’ The radishes are mostly accompanied with heaps of butter w'orked into fanciful shapes; fillets of anchovies, with chervil and chopped eggs ; sardines ; marinaded tunny cut in thin slices, and garnished with green herbs; olives in salt water (picholines); marinaded or pickled fruit and vegetables, or only green gherkins. Some eat melon, others fresh green or violet-red figs (which, however, are mostly reckoned to belong to the dessert). As oysters are apt to spoil the table linen, and make the hands of the diners salty, they are not given by some enter- tainers ; others give oysters, but change the table linen after them, which is very laborious ; others, again, serve them in a side room, where the guests take them standing before they go to the actual dinner-table. All these artifices