THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 56 eight small saucepans, should be kept in a generally warm place, never heated to boiling. This arrangement serves to keep sauces, gravies, and small preparations hot until the time for their being served up shall have arrived. Of heavier apparatus is further required a large, mortar of stone, granite, or marble, or of iron, on a cylindrical 2^icce of a tree, partially imbedded in the wood, and a hox-wood pestle for use with the mortar ; it serves for pounding meat and other materials tor farces and 2^urdes. There is also required a chopping-hloclc, being a cylindrical section of a tree with three inserted legs, for chopping and dressing meat. The chopper and dressing-knives should be suspended close to the chopping-block. Of lighter movable ap>paratus the kitchen requires three iron galvanized spoons of different sizes, and a number of ivooden spoons. It is advisable to have a dozen of these, as they are much used for stirring, and must not be used except after having been washed and dried. A hasting-ladle is indispensable in the management of roasts, and although some people hold basting in pretended abhorrence, the flavour of the roast and its gravy depends so much upon proper basting that we hold a j)roper ladle for its per- formance to be a necessary instrument. A fish-slice is needed to dress and fllet the larger kinds of fish. A set of sheiocrs, to be kept in a cylindrical tin box, is requisite for the proper dressing and trussing of joints, fowls and game, so as to keep the various parts in proximity to each other, and prevent extremities from getting dry or burnt. The skewers for the larger joints, such as roast beef, or lamb, or boned roll of beef, are mostly supplied by the butcher. These are made of wood. A set of larding needles is an essential in an elegant kitchen. The needles must be of several sizes to be able to receive and carry, the one thicker, the other thinner lardoons or bacon-strips. These needles, like the skewers, should be kept in a cylindrical tin box.