THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 324 Greek for dog, because the spines of its calyx resemble the teeth of dogs. Its relative, the car don, Cynara cardun- czohcs, L., which has served as an illustration in a former chapter, comes frorti Barbary, and is cultivated in Central and Southern Europe. Its leaves are etiolated to prepare their large and thick petioles for being eaten. (These cardans must be distinguished from the cardes, which are the petioles of Beta vulgaris, var. Cicla, mangold.) They are prepared much like the true artichoke. The artichoke, Cynara scolyvius, L., comes also from Barbary, and its name indicates its Arabian origin; for from the Arab khar chiof are derived all other names which it bears in European languages. It was well known to the ancient Greeks and Eomans, and cultivated all over Central Europe. Its large flower-buds, called heads, contain the eatable part, which is excessively small in comparison to the large size of the entire plant. This edible part is the receptacle or base of the calyx and the calicinal leaves, while the centre, called hay, consisting of flowers and silky threads, has to be removed. Young artichokes may be eaten raw, as salad, but they soon become solid, and then require boiling. In any case the calicinal leaves have to be chewed or pulled between the teeth in order to extract their edible contents. The base, called in French cul d’artichaut, is more substantial, and may be cut in pieces for prepara- tion. Some dry the artichoke in summer, and in winter, after soaking it in water, etc., put it in sauces and ragouts. The French artichoke has a nice, particular flavour, but it is always a laborious dish. The esteem in which it is held by many persons seems to us to be mainly the result of tradi- tion; its price in the English markets makes it a fancy article, as it is of inconsiderable nutritive value, but a source of amusement to the person plucking and sucking leaf after leaf, and fiuisliing with the bonne-bouche of the bottom.