MUTTON CUTLETS 463 convenient, and cooks who have no opportunities for boning and sawing, do well to obtain their cutlets thus split, and. trim them in detail. The amount of trimmed cutlets obtained from a given weight of rough joint is little more than half the original weight; for the removal of the bones, all but the small pieces of rib, of the fat, of the fibrous flaps, in which layers of meat and fat alternate, and of the yellow elastic tissue, or ‘ cat’s meat,’ which lies close to the spine, and is not eatable for man {ligamcntwn nuchce), makes such havoc of the purchased piece, that whoever sees the process for the first time thinks it a very wasteful or very expensive one. Hence persons with an economical turn of mind en- deavour to leave the cutlets larger by not removing fat entirely, and by leaving the flaps on. But this is mostly vain, as these parts will then be trimmed off on the plate and left on it. Whoever thinks thoroughly trimmed cutlets extravagant should avoid cutlets in any form, and use chops. Not to trim cutlets down to the fillet is to spoil them. Mutton cutlets are liable to a great number of modes of preparation, but two are universal—grilled cm naturel, and fried in egg and crumb; when fried in butter, the French term them sauties, or d la minute. The names given by French and English authors to different more complicated preparations are not comparable, as different preparations are described by the same name. With relation, e.g., to cutlets called d la Maintenon, Gouffe observes that French cooks had generally very different notions as to the manner in which they should be prepared; he had seen some eooks wrapping them up in caul, others garnishing them with cocks’ combs and truffles, others serving them with a soubise, and others again with a financiers sauce. ‘ As many kitchens,’ he exclaims, ‘ as many different methods 1’ lie adds that such divergences were frequent as to other dishes, and proceeds to attempt to remedy those concerning these cutlets by a new recipe, which might be headed: Mutton