THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 526 on which it feeds ; on a light sandy bottom it has a sandy colour, and is called lemon sole, and this, if not really a different species, is, at all events, a very inferior quality of sole; on a muddy, dark bottom its upper surface is hlach, and this tint becomes its distinctive adjective. The under side of all soles is white. The natural history of soles, and of flat fish in general, offers many points of remarkable interest. Thus, the twist of the head takes place only during growth, and is not congenital; then there are soles in which the twist has taken place, in a sense, the opposite of the usual direction. However, all these points influence the quality for cooking but little. The sole is trimmed by pulling off the dark, lemon, brown, or black coloured skin, cutting off the head, and with a pair of scissors clipping away the fins close up to the fillets, slitting open the abdominal cavity and removing the intestinal tract, as also the gills. For boiling, select large and thick fish, such as Torbay or Silver Pits, and crimp or score it before immersion in salt water. When it is trimmed, rub it over with lemon-juice to keep it white, and boil it in well-salted or sea water. If you desire to have it well flavoured, put into the salt-water roots, rhizomes, and spices; send it to table with either butter, slirimj), Dutch, or lobster sauce. For frying, the trimmed sole must be dried by being kept wrapped in a dry cloth for an hour. Dredge it with wheat- flour or oatmeal, paint it with beaten egg, and crumb it with perfectly dry breadcrumb or biscuit-powder. A large pair of soles will take the fourth part of a quartern loaf made into crumb so called, i.e., powder. Moist crumb spoils every attempt at good frying. Sole is a good object for test- ing the accomplishment of a cook in the matter of fritnre, the philosophy of which we have discussed in an early chapter. Drying, dredging, egging, crumbing, must all be done evenly and equally all over the fish, in default of which