t53 JULIENNE AND JARDINIERE SOUPS addition of slices of bread to, and solution in, the soup, recommended by some recipes, is here omitted, as deteriorat- ing the quality of the product. Becipe for Julienne as now pi-epared.—Take equal quanti- ties or numbers of each—carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, and heads of celery (English leaf-stalk celery, not celeriac; in case celeriac be available take half a root); cut them into thin slices an inch in length; put them into a stewpan with 2 oz. of butter, some salt, and a teaspoonful of powdered, sugar. Braise the vegetables slowly until they begin to colour; then pour over them from three pints to three quarts, according to the quantity of vegetables taken, of standard broth, or blond de veau, or mutton-broth, or good mixed stock; let the soup boil, skim off the fat, add the white leaves of two cabbage lettuces, some sorrel, tarragon, and chervil, and boil the whole for ten minutes more. You may avoid the frying and subsequent removal of the fat, although at the cost of some gravy flavour, by boiling the vegetables, including some white or savoy cabbage, or Brussels-sprouts, directly with the desirable quantity of standard broth for one hour, or until they be perfectly tender. Some cooks {e.g., Beauv., i. 20) add an elaborate treatment of the sorrel by parboiling and braising it. Julienne a la Langueclocienne, or Languedoc soup, is a julienne soup the vegetables for which are braised with oil instead of butter. Jzilienne h la Nivernaise is characterized by a limitation of vegetables, carrots prevailing.* A Nivernaise in French culinary art is a ragout-like dressed dish of carrots, mostly formed after the shape of olives, used as a garnish; the consomm6 in which they are stewed is condensed to adhesion (glace). Of this ragout the soup is a mere derivation by dilution. Turnips have been added to the soup, but they * Voce. Nivernaise Soup : Carotles en Olives, diles Nivernaises, Goufft?, 4.’).3.^ F., 257, adds turnips ; Mdine. de Salis, p. 36, omits carrots, and has turnips only. Beauvilliers knows it not.