67 CULINARY PROCESSES hard by hotting to the boiling-point of the same is very objectionable, and rather indigestible. Therefore, meat to be hotted should not be placed over the fire, but, like the eggs in the egg-cooker, be hotted by having the sauce, and this boiling hot, poured over it in a previously well-warmed vessel. A saucepan standing in a water-bath is the most suitable receptacle. Some Si)ecial Considerations regarding the Boiling of Meat. —The boiling of meat gives rise to various considerations, which have to be treated practically in the preliminary con- sideration of the different materials. Only few are suffi- ciently general to be mentioned in this place. Thus, the question is frequently asked whether meat to be boiled should be put in cold, hot, or boiling water, and has been as variously answered. On the whole evidence it may be con- tended that it does not matter much what temperature the water may possess when it comes in contact with the meat, provided alt other conditions of good coction be observed, such as minimum of water and slow conveyance of heat. All meat will yield a little dissolved albumin to water, less to hot than cold. This albumin, as well as the red colour- ing-matter of fresh red meat, myochrome, will curdle on cooking, and have to be removed as scum. This rising of the scum when the pot is coming to a boil will always occur with the cleanest meat and the clearest water, but both the meat and the water (if the latter be chalky) will contribute materials to its formation; if distilled water be employed, the materials of the scum are furnished by the meat only. Skimming will, therefore, have to be done whether the meat be put on the fire in cold or in hot water. It is done best at a temperature below boiling, for experienced cooks first skim during boiling, and then stop the boiling for a moment by the addition of a little cold water, and during this period of quiescence the remainder of the scum rises to the surface and is removed by the skimmer. It is preferable to put