THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 662 tions, which some authors declare to be sine qvd nom of their recipes. Preserved fish should be eaten cold, after all liquid has been drained away; if it be desired to have it hot, it should be warmed in a matelote, velout6, or other sauce, or grilled quickly in oiled paper. Tinned American or A^tstralian meat is almost always overcooked, and on being wanned falls into fibrous masses ; if it be intended to eat such meat, it should be served cold. A very good part of the tin’s contents is generally the qravy, which while cold is a jelly. If it he not eaten with the meat it may be melted, strained off, and made into soup. The meat, on the other hand, will thereby become rather flat; it may be minced, exhausted with boiling water, and thrown away; or the mince may be made into rissoles or pancakes, with additions, flavours, and spices.* Tough meat may be made easily digestible by boiling it in water, passing it through the mincing-machine, and mixing it with dough about to be made into bread; the dough digests the meat and causes it to dissolve ; the result is meat- bread, which has been described above. A pound of flour, as dough, will digest half a pound of prepared meat. The messing of British soldiers has been much improved of late, particularly with regard to the utilization of the fat furnished in his rations. But the Memoi'anda pub- lished by the Army School of Cookery contain on p. 4 the old fallacies about the stockpot and the boiling of bones.t On p. 8 we are informed that any system of good and economical cooking must be based upon the principles * More details coucerning ‘ Advanced Field Cookery ’ may be found in ‘ Wyvern,’ loc. cit., p. 314 ; this is treated more from the point of view of the sporting gentleman than the soldier, and with sole regard to India. Oil preserved soups and Australian meat, etc., cf. ‘ Wyvern,’ /oc. cit., pp. 322 and 32.5. f The rules issued by authority for the Aldershot division say, p. 4 : ‘ Half a hundredweight of bones, in addition to those removed from the ration meat, for 500 men should be sufficient to provide good soup.