THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 27 of Ferrara. It is illustrated with a portrait of the author, a person of grave and dignified appearance, and by two quaint engravings, representing a banquet and a kitchen, apparently in the open air. He gives receipts for a vast variety of dishes, and describes some of the dinners and suppers which he himself prepared. This publication, which depicts the feasts of the highest class of Italian society, was followed by the book of Giovanni Battista Eosetti,* and the instruc- tive work by the privy cook (cwoco secreto) of Pope Pius V., Bartolomeo Scappi.f The latter contains many isolated observations, but no systematic appreciation of the art, and shows a renewed inclination to mannerism, which was perhaps inseparable from the experimental stages of the attempt to attain excellence and refinement. Layard gives an agreeable analysis of this work, from which we quote the following extract: ‘ Judging from his portrait which he presents to us, Scappi must have been a gentleman of dignified and senatorial appearance. His book was written, he tells us, for the instruction of Giovanni, his pupil, who was recommended to him by Cardinal Carpi, and who had been brought up from his tenderest age to the profession of a cook, of which profession Scappi desired to make the boy an honour. He commences by describing what a head-cook should be. Besides the leading general ideas he should have a full knowledge of every kind of beast, fowl, fish, and vegetable fit for human food, and of the proper season for placing them on the table. Moreover, he should have a perfect acquaintance with the tastes and preferences of his master. He proceeds to give directions as to the site, design, and arrangements for a kitchen, which should be spacious, airy, and cheerful. He then describes the various utensils and instruments required by the cook, of which he * Rosetti, Giov. Battist, ‘ Lo Scalco.’ Rerr., l.')84, 4to. t Scappi, Bartolom., cuoco secreto di Papa Pio V., ‘ Opera dell’ Arte del Cucinare’; xvi. libri. Venez. et Firenz., 1.570, 4to.