482 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY has no tail; in Cochin China it cannot fly; in India there is a common variety which has black flesh and black bones, but is still very good to eat. Fowls have been used as food in all historical ages.* The French cooks distinguish four varieties of chickenst for use in the kitchen : 1. The common poulet, or chicken, which is generally used in fricassee, and of the flesh of which various descriptions of forcemeat are made. 2. The half-fat chicken {2^oulet demi-gras), used for marinading raw, and for curries and different entrees which do not require very large poulets. 3. The chicken d la reine, which serves for entries and roasts. 4. The large fat chicken, or poulet, which is more commonly used for roasting than ‘for any other purpose. The earliest poulets come to market in France, and, indeed, now in most of the large towns of Europe, towards the end of April; they are easily recognised by the whiteness or yellow colour of their skin. When dead and plucked, they are commonly left covered with little sprouting feathers to show their youth ; their feet (toes) are more united than those of older birds, softer to the touch, and of a blue, slaty colour. Old hens and old cocks are, in the kitchen, only useful to give some extractive to bouillons or consommes; capons come later in the 5'ear, when chickens and poulardes have become more rare. The most common form in which chicken is used in this country is roast plain. Before putting the dressed animal before the fire, put into its inside some butter, lemon-juice, and salt; close it up, and wrap it in slices of bacon. It will take an hour or less to roast; when it is done, take OS' * Aristotle, ‘ De Longit. et Brevit. Vitae,’cap. iv. ; Galen, ‘ Ue Aliment. Facultat,’ iii. 18 ; Laws of Fannius, forbidding the Romans to eat fowls, cf. D.D., 880 ; but Fannius ate capon, Aul. Gellius, ii. 24 ; Plin., x. .00 ; Macrobius, ‘ Sntiirnaliorum Conviviorum,’ L. viii. (i.e., ‘Table-talk during Saturnian Holidays,’ written 422 p. Ch. n.), iii. 17 ; Antiquity of poultry, cf. Soyer, Pantropheon, p. 424 e( seq. f Cf. Beauv., i. 302 ; this arrangement is spoiled in D.D. 879.