564 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY and that no other nation has to show anything like this. The French raised pies are products of special artists, and not poj)ular food preparations, and they are used for the cooking of meat mainly, and hardly ever for the service of fruit. It is the universality of its applicability which makes pie so remarkable a form of food preparation. Of late it has become a practice of some circles to call fruit pies tarts. This should be avoided, as it is quite incorrect. In the true tart, the fruit is inside a ring of baked dough ; in the derived tart, such as it has been accepted in English life, the fruit is on the top of the baked dough. As regards meat pies, we are happy to say this erroneous nomenclature has not yet been attempted, and we hope it never will. contained living creatures, such a.s frogs and birds ; such pies with living birds came yet on the table of Charles I.—also toy-terriers, squirrels, hares, foxes, and mannikin pages ; thus, the dwarf Jeffrey Hudson was hidden in, and came out of, a surprise pie at an entertainment of the Duke of Buckingham’s at Burleigh-on-the-Hill in 1630. A recipe for a so-called London pie is given in a cookery-book entitled ‘ Archimagirus Anglo-Gallicus,’ ascribed by its compiler to Sir Theodore Mayerne, the Court physician, who, however, had no share in its production. The London pie contained marrow-bones (8), sparrows (18), potatoes (1 lb.), eringoes, lettuce stalks, chestnuts, oysters (a peck), eggs, lemon-peel pre- served, artichokes, spices and currants. (Eringoes = campestre, the fallow-thistle.) A moyister pie (modern Americans would call it a mammoth pie) was made by Mrs. Dorothy Patterson, housekeeper to Sir Henry Gray at Howick (1770), which contained many birds, of which a list is preserved, also rabbits and neats’ tongues, weighed 12 stones, and w.as moved round the dining-table on a carriage, as are joints at Simpson’s and elsewhere. Of mince or shred pies .Jeaffreson gives a history and recipe. Their earliest recorded examples are the veal tartlettes of the form of cury, consisting of veal, raisins, currants, etc., in a basis of paste, and covered, called coffins. The expression coffin or trap was applied to patt3’ —or pasty—cases : their contents were called sometimes tartee. Notwith- standing their antiquity, mince pies were objected to by the Puritans, who also opposed the use, at Christmas time, of plum porridge, fat pig and goose, and custards, for reasons which are no longer quoted. Jeaffreson discusses the decrease in the flesh ingredients of mince pies, and their supposed ultimate disappearance ; but this was not generally the fact—their decrease and omission, wherever it occurred, shows a deterioration of the art of cooking, and a degraded deviation from the finest models of national tradition. The restoration of royalty after the exhaustion of the Common- wealth brought with it a reviv.al of French cookery under the literary guidance of Giles Rose, chief cook to Charles II. He revived marrow pics and bacon tarts for a short time, after which they disappeared.