155 DETERIORATION OF SOUPS obtained. But it is never colourless. Any broth of quality has always some yellowish colour; to be colourless to the eye it must be exceedingly dilute. A gravy-broth or con- somme is necessarily brown; hence when in modern hotels, etc., you receive a colourless liquid under the name of con- somme, you see at once that the name is either the product of a misapprehension from ignorance, or an imposture ; a consomme once made cannot be deprived of its colour by any means. The broth from young animals, c.y., veal, is generally turbid, and the amateurs of clear soup will have such broth clarified. This is done by causing albumin, or white of egg, to curdle in the broth, made more acid by lemon-juice, a process which, when applied to wine without heating, is called fining. This clarifying, however, removes a good deal of the flavour of the soup, and thus sacrifices to the eye what it deprives the palate of. The clearer the soup, the more strength and colour does it require; it should have no mechanical additions suspended in it. But in modern hotels and restaurants, clubs, etc., clear soups are the very reverse of all this—colourless, like water; tasteless, or with a minimum of recollection of savour, such as mere water would acquire by standing on the hearth in the atmosphere of the kitchen ; and suspended in them is a finely-comminuted mixture of shredded vegetables, a kind of dwarf macedoine with no taste at all. The thick soiqos, on the other hand, while somewhat more tasty, yet are, even when containing any puree of quality, e.g., tomatoes or chestnuts, mostly set up with thickenings of flour, and not even a white roux, and in this exhibit a retrograde tendency towards the ancient gruel. This deterioration of soup, which is now widespread, many members of society having only known these shadows, has been going on for now at least seventy years, it having been animadverted on in the ‘ Ahnanach des Gourmands ’ in 1826, and controverted by Careme in the decade following that year. It was explained