354 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Amongst the herbs useful for Salads of Uncooked Vege- tables, earliest in spring grows Corn Salad, or Lamb’s Lettuce, in the fields, self-sown, here and there also cultivated. It is the field forget-me-not, Myosotis arvensis. When tender and dressed with oil and vinegar, it has a nutty taste, w'hence the Germans call it Niisschen-Salat. In French it is mdche, but it is not used in all the provinces. About Easter-time appear the forced letkices, mainly of the so-called cabbage kind, from their globular shape (German, Kopf-Salat, head- salad) ; later on those grown in the open air. Any salad made with them is best with a simple dressing of oil and vinegar, but bears complicated additions : hens’ eggs, boiled hard, cut in quarters or discs; turtles' and plovers' eggs, marinaded oysters, tails of shrirngos, lobster flesh, fillets of a7ichovies, olives filled with forcemeat. Some French recipes add a few drops of soy to the dressing. Of all these addi- tions, the lobster commands the greatest popularity in English society, soy, an otherwise useful sauce, the least. The Cabbage Lettuce {Lactuca sativa vericeps) is cultivated in many varieties—early, late, green, brown, yellow—but its heart should always be white, or merely yellowish ; about one-third of its weight consists of succulent ribs, two-tbirds of green or white thin leaf tissue. Its slightly bitter, agreeable taste is due to the presence of a inilky juice, which contains a soothmg prindi^le similar in action to opium, lactucin. The action of the lettuce in this respect was so well appreciated in antiquity, that the Greek ph3’^sician Galen, who practised at Eome, ate of it occasionally daily for supper, for the purpose of procuring sleep. He reports this himself in his treatise on the properties of aliments, and terms the plant pthilosoidiei-'s, or tvise-man’s herb. The condensed milky juice was termed thridax in France, this word being the Greek name of the lettuce itself, and lactu- carium in England. It was obtained like opium, either by incisions made into the plant, and allowing the juice to