540 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Galen is said to have been the first to teach the manner in ■which it could be preserved and made fit for transport. Nearly all the tunny eaten in France and Switzerland comes from Provence, where it is caught in nets in the rivers. For being tinned it is cut in pieces, fried on the grill, then in oil; it is then peppered and salted, placed in little barrels, and infused with vinegar and oil (Galen’s method). At the present time it is more commonly preserved in tins by Apperts’ method, without any preparation or addition. Current forms of preparation are obtained by roasting, hraising, and frying. It is not rarely added in scollops to salads. Codfish was estimated highly by the Greeks, and prepared with grated cheese, vinegar, salt and oil. After them, history is silent about cod until the Northern fisheries were or- ganized in the ninth century; from this time for six hundred years the inhabitants of Europe mostly used cod taken by fishermen of many nations on the coast of Norway. The great development of cod fisheries, and the systematic curing and ti’ansporting of this fish, date from the first third of the sixteenth century. In 1533, Francis I., King of France, sent J. Verrazano, and afterwards Jacques Cartier, to explore the neighbourhood of Newfoundland; these mariners were followed by French fishermen, who, if they did not discover, at least established the knowledge of the prodigious number of fish living in the seas of that island. In the first three months of the year 1792, 210 vessels, of an aggregate capacity of 191,158 tons, left the ports of France to go to the various localities where codfish abounds ; and in the beginning of the present century more than 10,000 vessels of all nations were employed in this trade, and brought more than 40,000,000 of salted and dried cod to market. Since the great development which the fisheries on the Dogger Bank in the North Sea have taken, and with the extension of the rapid transport by sea and