THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 26o concentrated by heat, and then stirring is not so essential to gelatinization, as it is in the case of cold juice. Some kinds of fruit contain the gelatinizing principles in large quantity —quinces and apples, mangoes, and sometimes oranges. These principles, which belong to the starch, gum, or sugar family, contain no nitrogen, are therefore essentially different from the substance which is yielded by animal bodies and is called gelatine—when used for mechanical purposes, glue. Starch also yields very firm jelly, and is used for its production in blanc-mangers and other similar arrangements; these are, therefore, congeners to the fruit jellies, and very much like them in taste and appearance; when they are mixed with a little vegetable acid and some sugar [Bahat-Lahoum), they retain a fusibility by heat, but the gelatinizing faculty is not strong, and is easily lost by fusion and other influences. The latest substance which has been acquired for culinary use is the pure and cheap agar-agar, prepared in the Bast Indies from a sea- weed. Its gelatinizing power is double that of animal gelatine. To prepare it for use, it is allowed to swell in cold water like gelatine, is then cut in small pieces, and dissolved in the liquid—be it water, wine, broth, or milk— which it is intended to gelatinize. Some of the purest-tasting gelatine is obtained from the swimming bladders of fish (sturgeon), and passes by the name of isinglass. It has now become so expensive that only few can use it habitually ; and, on the other hand, gelatine from hones has become so excellent and cheap that all can use it for the most ordinary as well as special purposes. This has also replaced the gelatine which was formerly made from hartshorn, and from the skin of pigs. Practically the gelatine used in large kitchens was for centuries made of calf’s feet, and every cook of our days ought to be fully acquainted with its preparation from that material, as well as with the use of the mercantile in-eparations caWed gelatine.