THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 646 all the useless so-called oruameuts of the silver hatelets and trappings of an uneatable kind with w'hich dishes are now so frequently overloaded. And we should, all the art of preserving notwithstanding, urge them to consult the seasons regarding the fruit which they bring forth, and use it while it be in season, and avoid the employment of materials out of season, which are always purchased not only at the cost of quality, but also of money which might be employed more advantageously. There are some differences in the modes of serving dinners after the manner termed ‘ d la Franqaise ’ and ‘ d la Busse.' The French mode of serving a dinner consists in placing on the table all the dishes of a service, and then taking them away again in order to carve or to serve them ; the so-called Bussian mode consists in either placing the dishes already carved upon the table (in which case an attempt is some- times made to cause the pieces to maintain the aggregation of their original parts, which is always difficult and rarely successful), or in not placing the dishes on the table at all, but on the sideboard, and carving them there, and sending the carved pieces to the guests singly. In the discussion of these divergencies modern French cooks admit that both methods contain good elements which might be adopted, and bad ones which should be avoided. The service d la Busse is without question more expeditious and simple in its details than the old French service, whicli is frequently embarrassed and slow ; but it cannot be denied that this manner of carving everything beforehand ‘ tends to destroy the fine art of decorating and dressing, in which so many of our most celebrated cooks have excelled, and, indeed, to extinguish wdth one blow the external appearance of our great French cuisine, that great development of taste and show which has given it a prominent position amongst all others.’* On the other hand, it is incontestable that * This (luotatioii may bu teniiud (joulle’s lament. Of. loc. ctt., p. -Mi. Observe that in it he terms cookery a line, art.