RIBS AND ROUND OF BEEF 437 knife, of the spine bones, and in shortening the ribs on the side farthest from the spine, so as to leave them only about 10 inches in length. When completely honed, the soft parts are rolled, or collared, with the thick part of the meat inside and the flap from the chest wall outside, all being well tied and skewered. Eibs, whether boned or not, may be roasted plain, or salted, or brine-pickled and stewed, or braised in the various ways just considered. A perusal of many recipes has in the case of these preparations also convinced us that the materials include an excess of loine, half a bottle of madeira being generally the prescribed minimum. The name of the Aitch-honc of Beef is spelt in many ways, and the right mode of spelling it appears so difficult to find that Dr. Kitchiner avoided the decision by writing H-bone. In Mrs. Mason's ‘ Ladies’ Assistant ’ it was called Haunch-hone; in ‘Domestic Management,’ Aitch-hone; in Eeynolds’ ‘Cookery,’ Ische-hone; in Henderson’s ‘Cookery,’ Edge-hone; in Mrs. Lydia Fisher’s ‘ Prudent Housewife,’ Ac/i-6o?ie; in Mrs. Mclver’s'Cookery,’Kitchiner 1 had also seen it spelled Each-hone and Ridge-hone, and heard i. it called Natch-hone. Most London butchers spell it Aitch- ' hone, but we are inclined to believe Eeynolds’ Ische-hone I might be correct, as being the Anglicized form of Ischiadic i hone, the hip-bone. As in the case of ribs, the meat bears > the name of the bone to which it is attached. ' The Bound of Beef is mostly salted and boiled, latterly, \ with the aid of the improved cooking-ranges, not rarely ! braised, a form in which we prefer it to the boiled. The braising should be begun with standard broth, and be effected in a well-heated oven in a closed braising-pan. If no such pan be at hand, cover the joint with a coat of dough. The Sportsman s Bound, or Boeuf de Chasse, is the ancient title of the largest joint that graces the table of hunting- parties. The name has been limited to the narrow title of