492 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY another as roa&t braised turkey, both containing incom- patible adjectives. On closer examination of these recipes, we find that the adjective braised is meant merely to indicate the addition of the complement of vegetables which is mostly added to braises, but which is not an essential part of the process at all. In the case of ‘ roast braised turkey,’ the symphony of sliced vegetables mixed with oil is enclosed in the threefold paper in which the trussed turkey, whitened by slices of lemon, and covered with rashers of bacon, is wrapped and heated before the fire. In this case an effect of good braising, namely, the browning of the surface of the meat by radiated heat in an enclosed moist space, is actually prevented from being attained. The case of the boiled turkey is worse, the conditions of the boiling process ex- cluding any braising at all, unless it were merely succeeded by the latter, which would be a laborious mode of operating. The larding of the turkey for braising excludes boiling. Tiirkey larded and braised is the dhide en daube of Beau- villiers. The bird is to be old, which means full-grown, at the end of its second or third year. In the present time turkey is rarely larded, but commonly elaborately stuffed, braised, glaced, aud, if eaten cold, garnished with aspic ; if eaten hot, the garnishes are more elaborate. Sausages, fried or boiled in broth (aux chipolates), or introduced into the bird as forcemeat, are most welcome to the diners. Pre- pared chestnuts, with half their weight of chopped suet, or bacon well spiced, are also very suitable. Veal skiffing is less elegant. Boned and Stuffed Turkey is termed by French cooks dindon en ballon. We have improved this dish when intended for a large supper-party by having a smaller boned and stuffed tui’key placed inside the larger boned turkey in an inverse direction, and filling the intervals between again with farce. This should be braised and glaced. It might bo termed a galantine.