8o THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY small ambitions for innovation, the practice degenerating, as Dumas says, into faniaisies cle saucer, de victtre sur Ic gril, et da faire rdtir nos grands hommes* A number of names are quite natural by the fact that the dishes which they indicate are derived from certain countries, nation- alities, provinces or towns, such as d VAnglaise, a la Fran- qaisc, d la Provenqale, or d la Boniaine; there were also the names of a few patrons of the culinary art, under whose influence certain products had been invented, such as d la Bdchamel or d la Richelieu. In all these names the ex- pression is really the result of an ellipse, meaning originally d la mam'ere Anglaise, or d la maniere patronises par M. le Margxus de Bdchamel, or le Mardchal de Richelieu. Such a nomenclature has its conveniences, and becomes very useful when it is accepted as the symbol of typical preparations, and adhered to by convention as unchangeable. But when the names are abused in the manner in which we shall show below that the expression cotelattes d la Maintenon is abused or misused by French cooks, of whom almost each has his own formula for a dish of that name, which differs greatly as regards external features from the formulae of his neighbours, they lose all significance, and had better be omitted. It is therefore necessary to make a selection from the great number of such names occurring in literature, and to retain only those which are symbols of typical forms of dishes, and on the other hand to reject all those which are neither attached to typical preparations nor recognised by convention over a large area. Many apparent names of dishes are mere adjectives derived from sauces, with which the dishes are to be graced, and have no reference to the joint or piece of meat to which they are attached; these also, if derived from standard saxices, should be retained. * Vide Fantaides de saucer, etc., D.D. 734 ; A la Boimjuignolls, Francatelli 1071; prunes d VAllemande, D.D. 612; venuon sauce, D. D. 61; quenelles, D.D. 702 ; d la Flamande, ineaning the presence of Brussels- sprouts, D.D. 718. (D.D., abbreviation for Dumas’ ‘ Dictiounaire de la Cuisine.’)