THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 590 boiling water, and then opened, it will be found that the white is almost completely set, while the yolk retains a degree of fluidity. This some call waxy consistency, a term for which there is no practical explanation. This form also has its friends. The third form we may call solid-boiled. It requires more than three minutes’ boiling, and the com- pletion of the process is indicated by the egg rising to the surface of the water, or, at all events, exhibiting a lesser specific gravity than at the beginning of the boiling. If the egg be now opened, it will be found solid thi’oughout, but of equable granular consistency, and agreeable to eat. But if the egg be retained in the boiling water for any con- siderable time beyond this point—say up to ten minutes— •a stage which we will describe as hard-boiled, the white will become hard, elastic, shiny, the yolk rough, and the whole egg will become not only less good in taste, but also much less digestible; or, to put it more definitely, its digestion will require more time than it would if it had been eaten when just boiled solid. There are culinary authors who prescribe that eggs to be parboiled, or boiled soft, should be put up in cold water, and gradually heated. This is probably the most difficult proceeding by which to arrive at a definite result; but everyone can adapt this process to his liking if he observe the following principles which govern the process. There is even a machine, called an egg-cooker, which ensures the cooking of eggs to the desired point. Eggs must be assumed to be at the average temperature of the air. Now, if such an egg be placed in boiling water, the effect produced upon it will depend upon the quantity of the tcater and the sioiftness of the qjroduction of heat underneath the vessel in which it is boiling. As these conditions will be constantly varying, and, more particularly, the eggs will be varying in number, no mathematical rules for boiling eggs can be laid down such as could be observed practically in a