525 J'REPARA 'J'IONS OF BRILL AND SOLE and any minced garden herbs, such as cress, parsley, or mar- joram, and sent to table hot. The recipe applies to fish already cooked, as well as to fresh fish; it is advisable to make it savoury by some strong broth or some made sauce (‘Wyvern,’ l.c., p. 168). Brill, or hrett, or fcarl turbot, French barbue, may be cooked in every variety of form applicable to turbot. "When cooked its flesh is less firm than that of the turbot. The sole, black sole, Dutch toncje, is taken principally in the North Sea, but also in the Channel and on the Irish coast. A celebrated fishing-ground for sole is the so-called Silver Pits, a place some distance off the mouth of the Humber. Sole lives principally on small crabs and shell- fish, and will take such bait as a lug-worm ; but it is mainly caught in trawl-nets, which scrape the ground, and, rousing the fish lying on it, cause it to enter the bag-shaped net behind the trawling-beam. On the ability of the fisherman to manage his trawl depends much of the quality and flavour of the fish; for, while if he sail slowly the fish is likely to escape the net, on the other hand, if he sail very fast the fish are all swept to the bag end of the net, and get smothered, bruised, and injured; thus are produced the soles with the filled black veins (not to be confounded with pigmented veins) and the extravasations of blood which dis- colour the white meat. Sole does not keep long, and should be eaten as fresh as possible; by being kept even on ice it loses its quality, and becomes flabby. The small-sized soles caught in shallow water on the coast are the best. The older soles are the greater in their size, and their weight, which reaches as much as seven pounds, can be judged of by the appearance of the scales. Those in roe should only be used for fillets, as their flesh is insipid or destitute of flavour. The fish seem to spawn, not at a fixed period, but at various periods of the year. The colour of the sole varies with the ground