DICTIONARY OR CULINARY TERMS 667 Carachee: a compound viue_^ar, containinsi Japanese soy, walnut pickle, some garlic, ca3'enne, and lemon pickle. Caramel: burnt .sugar, i.c., .sugar heated until it is brown. TT.sedfor colouring .solutions; ta.stes bitter; name also used formerly for condensed sauces, glaces—e.g'., b}^ La Chapelle. See Glace, infra. Carbonade: meat grilled over a charcoal fire; in France and South Germany applied mainly to cutlets of veal, pork, and mutton. Frroneously applied to a boned braised joint by Francatelli. Gouffe seems to restrict the name to braised fillets of mutton or boned chine. Carcass: culinar}’, the skeleton and remains of an animal, mostly' small, after the fillets have been removed. Gardes: French, the petioles of Beta vulgaris, van cicla, man- gold, a vegetable much esteemed as an entremets in France; used as puree, with cream, a la inoelle, a Vcspagnolc. In the last centur}- cooks who excelled in their preparation became noted (‘M. d. Amph.,’ p. 205). .Such an artist in entremets was Moril- lion, a cook of the time of Louis XVI. {ibid., p. 159). Cardons: French, synonym cardoons, and chardoons, Fngli.sh cor- ruption, the etiolated large and thick leaf-stalks or petioles of the cardon, Cyuara cardunculus, L., a relation of the artichoke. They are prepared much like the foregoing carde.s, and must not be confounded with them ; but the3- are also prepared like the true artichoke. Spanish cardoons were formerh- much valued. Carrole, {e.g. of rice): probabl3'^ an abbreviating corruption of casserole. Cartridge: a circular piece of oiled jjaper used to cover meat during braising in a pan. Carviol: name of cauliflower at Vienna. Cascalope : French, same as escalope, or scollop (La Chapelle, iii. 73). Casing: skinning and trailing {e.g. the hare). Casserole: French, stewpan. Casserole of rice: an ornamental pie- case made of paste or prepared rice. Caudle is practically warm ale with groats. It is defined 113- et3'- mologists as ‘ a warm drink given to the .sick,’ and as being derived from the old French chandel. Cold cliandel is used now and then b3' unwar3’ writers. Varieties: white caudle; flour caudle (‘Raton’s Dictionary’). Caul: English (sometimes spelled cawl), the omentum of large quadrupeds used for food ; Iwench, cripine. Celeriac : French a;id Rnglisli, the colossal root of celery ; the ac of this terminal recalls the English name of celer3’, nameh', ache. Charcutier: French, a vendor of cooked meat, chair-cuite. Charlotte: French, a raised pudding made in a mould with a crust or case of thin .slices of bread steeped in clarified butter and filled with fruit, typically apples. Chartreuse: French, origiiiall3' ^ preparation consisting of vege- tables onl3% arranged in a plain mould. In its degenerate form the interior is garni.shed with game, small birds, kebobs, tendrons, etc. Chartreuse a la Parisienne: French, a show3' entree, composed chiefl3- of quenelles of forcemeat; the interior contains ragouts, kebobs; termed entric de farce and a surprise, satirically, by