424 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY able precaution the preparation and boiling of puddings is one of the most certain processes of culinary practice. We shortly define some puddings without giving the details of their recipes. Sir Watkin Wynn Pudding: A suet, bread, and sugar mass, with eggs, juice and zest of lemons; a classical dish. Somersetshire Pudding: Egg, flour, sugar, and butter in equal parts, flavoured. The stiri’ed mass is poured into small conical tins which are only half filled; during baking they rise to double the volume of the dough or batter. They are eaten with wine sauce, and when cold admit of being dressed with liqueur, or wine and custard, or as trifle. They ai’e related to the biscuit puddings, resembling Savoy cake. Phimi Pudding is the national English representative of this class of dishes. It is generally boiled, but may be baked in a buttered casserole. A French author says that plum pudding was a farinaceous dish, without which there was no good meal in England; essen- tial and constitutive were flour, eggs, and butter, the taste of which was enhanced by different ingredients: cherries, sago, citron, cauliflower, etc. Plums, required by the title, are not mentioned. Puddings of vermicelli, semolina, tax>ioca, and luheat-grits are analogous to souffles, inasmuch as their ingredients are twice cooked. Broion Bread and Cherry Pitdding is an English analogue to the German thick Cherry Cake so called, which is really a pudding, mostly eaten cold. Brioche Jam and Custard Pudding is made with variations. Bread Pudding is very popular in this country; when the top is well gratinated it is very agreeable. It admits of many variations, which increase in complication until they result in cabinet pudding. Rusk Jam ami Ctistard Pudding is the transition to Cabinet Puddimj, a composition of sponge- cake, macroons, and lemon custardj with dried cherries and candied citron, etc. Savoy Cake or Biscuit Pudding is closely related; French authors justly describe these last puddings as entremets anglais. There are various puddings