205 BOUILLABAISSE, RAVIOLI whether they are to represent an entr4e or a soup. Two of them, Bouillabaisse and Eavioli, in the countries in which they are at home, are served as entrees as well as in the form of soups, and the former bears the name of Provenqale Soup. Bouillabaisse is a mixture of various sorts of fish, fried and braised in olive-oil and wine, with salt and spices, and made savoury by a roussi, i.e., flour fried in oil and flavoured with onions. It is essential to the highest form of the bouillabaisse that it should be compounded with the chops of as many varieties of fish as can be got. Some spell Bouilli (o baisse, but give no motive. Bouillabaisse of Marseille* is composed of chops of eel, whiting, gurnet, turbot, sole, and other fish. Make a roux with oil in the ordinary way, and fry the fish therein; then add standard broth; boil for half an hour, then simmer until the fish be done. Pour the bouillon over fried bread in a tureen ; serve the fish in a separate dish. Potage a la Bouride et d I’Aillolisj is the Proven9ale form of bouillabaisse. The fish, bouride, is boiled with garlic, spices, wine, and bouillon. To this is added the aillolis or pomade, or mayonnaise made of a clove of garlic pounded with salt, worked into an emulsion with yolks and oil. The boiled fish is further fried until it assumes colour. Bouillon and fish are served separately. This dish is too character- istically flavoured to be acceptable out of Proven9e. Bouillabaisse d la Nimoise.—The Nimes cooks make this dish by boiling the fish with fish-broth; the fishes they use are rascanes, moraines, St. Pierres, fagels, hups merlans. The broth is made into sauce, and not served as soup; it is thickened with the pur6e of the liver of a boudroie, well boiled in broth, and sustained by a liaison of yolks. The * According to M. Roubion, restaurateur at Marseilles, D.D., 852. Cf. Gouffe, 392. t Recipe by Roubion, D.D., 853. Bouillahaisae d la Nimoise, ibid.; roussi of Lucca oil, R., 379.