THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 25 Italian art of cooking travelled early into Germany, Eumohr supposes by way of France, but the importation was direct, as is testified by the cookery-books which were published in Germany in the second half of the sixteenth century. The condition of Italian cookery is beautifully represented in the work of a man who united learning with much fateful experience and the epicurean principle of life, that there might be pleasures which could be enjoyed with perfect honesty or virtue—Bartholomeo Sacchi.* He was born in 1421 at Piadena, in the district of Cremona, and hence sur- named with the Latinized Platina. After he had been a soldier for some time he turned to the sciences, and, finding a patron in Cardinal Bessarion, was appointed an abbre- viator to Pope Pius II. Accused under the papacy of Paul II. of participation in a conspiracy against this poten- tate, he was thrown into prison, but, after long detention, released by Sixtus IV. This Pope made Sacchi, in 1457, Superintendent of the Vatican Library, in which office he remained up to his death in 1480. Together with Pom- ponius Laetus he founded a learned society. Of works of this period published in Germany we have to mention that of Hans Folzt; further, the anonymous treatise entitled ‘ Kiichenmeisterey,’ and a Netherlandish work in the Dutch language. I The end of the fifteenth century developed Baptista Fiera, who lived at Mantua, and is best known in literature as a * He is not rarely, but erroneously, quoted as Baptista S. As author he bears the name of Bartholomseus Platina, and his book the title ‘ Liber de honesta voluptate et valetudine, seu de arte coquinaria et cibariis libri decern’; 1^75, and later editions. German translation of the Latin original by Stephanus Vigilius, Augsburg, 1542. Graesse, loc. cit, v., p. 713, also alludes to a book of Platina, ‘ De Obsoniis,’ and refers to iii., p. 557, where, however, the title is not quoted. t Polz, Hans, ‘Liber Collationum.’ ^Ypocras, Abstinentia est summa medioina.’ Niirnbeyg, 1485, folio. In German called ‘ Confect-Buch.’ t ‘ En notabel boecxken van cokereyen,’ etc. Bruesel, 1501, quarto and folio. This work contains many directions as to the providing of feasts, banquets, and state dinners.