HISTORICAL SMALL CAKES AH tahnouses receive au addition of flour in their custard paste, which is not made to cheese cake. Darioles with apricot jam and nuts, such as almonds, pistachios, or filberts, are termed Placoicses by a few moderns, though the name does not occur either in La Chapelle, or ‘ Dons de Comus,’ or Careme. The apricots and nuts being above the custard, a placousc is a transition from dariole to fanchonette. The culinary levellers of small modern manuals have absurdly called the placome ‘apricot nougat,’ their intended product being a common puff paste cake with jam spread over it, thus proving that they know neither the nature of a placousc nor the character of nougat. Pastry Custard, or Comp>ound Pastry Cream for garnishing Tarts and Tartlets, is a smooth batter of equal parts of flour and sugar, with eggs, milk, or cream and butter; its lowest form is the substitute with which ‘ art bakers ’ pro- duce their counterfeit darioles. Florentines are darioles which combine certain features of cheese cakes and fancho- nettes, without being entirely one or the other. They contain curds, butter, yolks, flour, bitter almonds, zest of lemon, and the composition is placed on thin shells of puff' paste; the rest is much like the finishing of fancho- nettes ; a florentine might therefore be defined as a fancho- nette into the custard of which caseine has been introduced. Love Wells, or Gdteaux de Puits d’Amour, are laborious little jam tarts, with a rather ambitious title, and an example of what the French ladies used to call chatteries, i.e-., dainties or delicacies for company (Balzac). They were much in use in the last century. Pu,f Paste is made to assume various forms for which it is inappropriate. Such are the walnuts of culinary malaprops ; or the sandwiches absurdly called ‘ bread-and-butter pastry,’ which are, in fact, simple slices of puff' paste baked and then agglutinated by jam ; puff paste wreaths or rings; plain jam tartlets, termed Polish cakes for reasons not stated 27