36 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY en cochon. The author finds such arrangements to be results of caprice, and soon leaves them for what he calls simple and natural ones. We shall have to refer lower down to some special features of these works, to which we must limit any further observations. In 1802 was begun at Paris the publication of a duodecimo annual volume, entitled ‘ Almanach des Gourmands.’* It was conceived and carried out with the aid of contributors by one Grimod de la Eeyniere, known as a culinary author only, and the subject of an interesting bit of biography. He was the grandson of Gaspard Grimod de la Eeyniere, the son of a charcutier, a vendor of cooked meat, who had, by dint of genius and enterprise, become fermier-gdndral of taxes and Postmaster-General of France; he purchased his nobility, and becoming one of the most noted (foncd) gourmands of the eighteenth century, died characteristically in 1754, in consequence of an indigestion contracted by a surfeit of pdtd da foie gras. His widow, nde Mazade, married a M. de la Ferrik'e, and kept up to her death the best house and table in Paris. Her maitre d'hdtel was the then noted Damours, who was said to have elevated the science of politeness and social culture, and the practice of the amphitryonic service, to such perfection that nobody before or after him attained equal excellence. It was here in the establishment of his grandmother, and after her death, in 1773, in that of his father, that the editor of the ‘ Almanach ’ collected the principal and earliest experience, of which he subsequently made use in his writings (c/. * ‘ Almanach des Gourmands, servant de guide dans les moyens de faire excellente chi^re. Par un vieil amateur.’ Paris, 1802-1812, 8 vols., 12mo. The first six volumes are dated 1802-1808, the seventh is dated 1810, the eighth 1812. This volume has a dedication to the shade of Vatel, cook of the great Cond^, who committed suicide with a sword because the fish did not arrive in time from the sea coast, when his master was entertaining Louis XIV. The second series is entitled, ‘ Nouvel Almanach des Gourmands,’ etc., as above. ‘ Dedie an Ventre. Par A. B. de Perigord.’ Paris, 1825.