524 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERS garnishes may place the empty shell of the lobster on the white surface of the turhot, and further encumber it with crayfish, truffles, and silver skewers. Turbot may be honed in so far as its spine admits of removal; it may then be stuffed, braised, sauced, crumbed, and baked. This is a Parisian complicated form. Turbot may be broiled, being scored for that purpose ; it is best cut in slices, at right angles to the spine, and marinaded before being broiled. Eub the gridiron with chalk, unless it be made of silver, to prevent the fish being marked ; braise the slices in a sauce, in oven and hot closet, and send allemande sauce with it. Variations of this and the Parisian form are Turhot d la Careme, Turhot d la Vatel, Turhot in Cream Sauce, gratinated; variations with hechamel. A winter on this combination is so enthusiastic on this sauce and its combination with Parma cheese that he says : ‘ The sauces really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express purpose of setting them off.’ The Turhot d la Mate- lote Normande is a savoury stew, and flavoured with cider. We find in literature a great number of recipes for prepara- tions of turbot which have no practical application—a Danish hot pasty of turhot, some braises, with bottles of champagne and other wines, and profusion of garnishes of shellfish and quenelles. There are further numerous recipes for the preparation of fillets of turhot, one yielding curried fillets, or d VIndienne; some are half fried, half simmered, and accommodated wdth the sauce termed (V la ravigote. Many recipes are without specificity, and mere repetitions of recipes for the preparation of salmon. Kegeree, or Kitchri, Prench Kadgiori, is a dish which comes to us from the East Indies, where several varieties of fish are used for its production. Kegeree of the English type is composed of boiled rice, chopped hard-boiled eggs, cooked minced fish, and some fresh butter; these are tossed all together in the frying-pan, flavoured wnth pepper, salt,