DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS 679 Mead: EiikUsIi, Meth Gennan, an alcoholic drink prepared from honev boiled in water, flavoured with herbs and malt, fermented with'yeast, spiced, and matured by keeping. Sometimes hops were added to the mead. Meringues ; light .sjDOngy cakes or confections, made of sugar and white of egg froth, mostly filled with whipped cream. Derived from Merovingians, the Franconian kings preceding the Kai'O- lingians. Merlan : French, whiting (fish). Merluche: French, haddock. Mignonette pepper: a form of comminuted pepper, from either white or black pepper-corns, which, after being broken so as to resemble mignonette seed, are sifted to remove fine dust. Mirepois, Mirepoix, la: French, a compound sauce for braising meat, originally imagined by the Marechale de Mirepoix, ‘ who ’ (sa3-s ‘ Man. d. Amph.,’ p. 165), ‘ as regards gourmandise, but gourmandise onh-, was almost the second volume of the Mare- chale de Luxejnbourg.’ Mirepoix, with poets and blaiics, belong to the category of braises. Mirlitons are tartlets with a basis of pulf paste, constructed like cheese cakes, with the cheese left out. Mirliion means a reed- pipe, and has therefore a metaphorical significance. Related to Jjatis. Miroton: French, boiled beef smothered in onions; misapplied to an arrangement on a dish, e.g., cotelettes, or fish fillets, laid in a • circle, so that one half of each covers the other half of the next one, while the central space is occupied b\- a sauce or a ragout; this is called en miroton. Hitoaiiaga : the art of simmering broth and its ingredients. Mitonner : French, to simmer, soak, stew. Mousseron: French; mushroom English; .signifies in French a particular kind, in English a generic term. Mull, to: practically means to'heat and spice, particularly wine, e.g., sherry or claret; it is supposed to be derived from the Latin mollio, I soften, make milder ; it therefore includes the sweeten- ing of acid and the diluting of alcoholized wine. Mullet, red: English; in French Ovuget del ocean' and woodcock of the sea. Mumbled bare: Phiglish, minced cooked hares’ meat, flavoured, salted, .spiced, and acidulated, put into a stewpan with a dozen egg.s, a pound of butter, and cooked to point, with constant stirring (‘ Eaton’s Dictiouar}- ’). N Norfolk dumplings : English, often called drop dumplins, or spoon diimplins, because the batter of milk, flour, eggs, and salt is dropped into boiling water from a .spoon. They are now often fermented, or raised with baking powder, and are much used in the coun ty of Norfolk and neighbouring districts. Nougat: French (perhaps meaning nut cake, from noux and gateau), a mixture of almonds and honey baked together. Nouilles : P'rcnch, a kind of vermicelli or macaroni to be made in the kitchen. German Nndcln, q.v. ; Taillerius, La Chapellc, i. 7.