THE SI'IRIT OF COOKERY 630 American Emerson and his claptrap about inspiration of daily thought. An inspiration must needs be a communica- tion from without by spiritual means, not by materials coming from the kitchen. But neither is there any proof that in the Middle Ages there was no ‘ kitchen,’ meaning that there existed no art and practice of cookery. And, indeed, when we study closely the system of Eoman cookery, we do not easily perceive that much could be lost that was superior to the practice of any nations that rose at all above the level of ‘ the age of innocence and acorns.’ Gastronomy was restored by the opulent cities Genoa, Venice, Florence, Milan. Autocratic rulers, who, like all tyrants, including spiritual ones, are deteriorated hy con- tact with their tools, did much less for culture and refine- ment than republican cities. Even the hierarchy did not much for the promotion of the culinary art, although they used it when it was achieved. But with art in general, that of cookery also rose in Italy, and much by the same kind of genius, beginning with Leonardo da Vinci; from Italy it spread into France and Germany, together with the luxury so well represented in contemporaneous pictures, particu- larly by Paul of Verona in the ‘ Wedding of Cana.’ When the new science of cooking and dining had passed iuto France with Catherine of Medicis, it developed there under the reigns of Francis II., Charles IX., and Henry III., covering a period of thirty years—1559 to 1589. Then returned again that most desirable of all table luxuries — the service of clean table linen—which had been practised at the time of Augustus, but had been discontinued in the retrogression of the Middle Ages. For a highly instructive and attractive descriptiou of cookery and dining as practised by the highest classes at the time of the Eenaissance, we may refer the reader to the article of the late bir A. II. Layard already quoted, p. 13. One of the principal results of this relation was that the