KITCHEN REQUISITES AND CULINARY AXIOMS 55 One large 'saucepan should be provided with a steamer, mounted on its upper rim. A three-gallon digester of copper or iron, a so-called stock-pot, provided with a brass tap at its lower end, is a useful reservoir of broth or water, but in our economy has, owing to the systematic exclusion of bones, lost some of its former importance. A hraising- pan should admit of the application of top-heat by live charcoal or hot embers. A frying-pan should have a most p>erfect polish all over its inner iron or steel surface, so perfect, indeed, that it could act as a mirror. Such a surface conducts heat quickly, and prevents catching, therefore secures fritures, particularly those from which much fat has to be excluded, from their worst danger. A saxiU-pan, also spelled sauta-pan, should always be made of copper, well tinned, and provided with a broad handle and a fitting lid. A special omelette-pan should, like the frying- pan, be of polished steel, and kept perfectly bright. A fluted gridiron should be silvered or tinned, and have a small gravy-trough. A tin flsh-kettle, with a perforated bottom piece raised above the bottom plate, and removable, a so-called drainer, should be adapted in size, not only to ordinary use, but also to an occasional demand for the cooking of larger fish to be set before guests. An ordinary iron kettle, of a capacity of a gallon or two, will serve for heating water to ebullition, and for serving it out in small portions boiling, such as the larger kitchen-boiler does not supply. In kitchens where roasting on the spit is to be practised, at least tioo spits of different sizes will be required; but where that is not to be, a roasting-jack and screen will have to be provided. The concavity of the screen should be kept in a brightly-polished state, as only thus it will be able to reflect and concentrate the rays of the fire upon the joint in the focus under the jack. A loater-bath of copper, bain-marie of the French, a longish flat pan, with a handle at each end, holding from six to