359 USE AND AVOIDANCE OF GAELIC While the Egyptians, apparently of all ranks, valued garlic highly, the higher society of the Greeks absolutely detested it. The Eomans, on the whole, used it regularly. Virgil speaks of it as useful to the reapers during periods of great heat, and Macer, also a poet, believed that it would keep serpents away from sleepers. Nevertheless, according to Athenteus, the more refined part of society put an inter- dict upon its use, which took this emphatic form—that it was made an offence to enter a temple of Cybele after having eaten garlic. Horace having on the day of his first arrival at Eome dined on sheep’s head dressed with garlic, and contracted an indigestion, ever after entertained feelings of abhorrence for the bulb. King Alphonso of Castile had a similar dislike ; for when he created a new order of knights in 1368, he forbade them to eat any garlic. In our century Easpail did yet recommend garlic as a wholesome flavour ; and the gall-stone specialist Durand, in recommending it to patients, ascribed to it the quality of sapidity, probably by a confusion of terms. The quantity of garlic which may be used safely so as not to make the diner perceptible as a sufferer from culinary coarseness is so small that in France it goes by the expres- sion of soupqon, or a suspicion. But in Latin countries garlic is used broadly. ProvenQal cookery is said to be based on garlic, and, as already mentioned, the very air of the land is said to be perfumed with its odour. It is the main condiment of the unmitigated bouillabaisse, and of the principal sauces, and, as related of Gascony, the ‘ capon ’ in the salad in the Dauphine also. Pounded with oil, it yields a kind of mayonnaise, aillolis, which the people eat with fish and snails. The lower classes in the Proven9e flavour their bread by rubbing some garlic on, and pouring oil over ic. We once relished garlic of a particular kind as garnish to mutton chops while travelling in Spain. Other forms share in our taste the sentiment of Greek polite society.