History and prrtar.itioa’s of sau/on 531 purple, and blue spots (bruises) on its sides ; the male has the snout long, the female the snout hooked. When in season the colour is silvery pink gray; the flesh when cooked should be of a dark rose colour ; the flesh of salmon out of season is pale. The supply of salmon in the London market has altered somewhat since 1837, when the earliest, from the Severn, began to arrive in November; the supply then rose until February, when the full season began, and lasted until the following October. We have seen it alleged that in the early decades of the present century Thames salmon was preferred in the London market, and some gastronomers pretended to be able to distinguish by taste in which reach of the river any given salmon was taken. But we doubt very much whether, after the construction of the more than forty locks of the river, Thames salmon ever were at home in it in any appreciable number. What salmon was taken in the Thanet was generally cahered, i.e., as it is now termed, crimped, as defined above, mostly while it was alive. Small salmon, if from 5 lb. to 10 lb. in weight, are termed salmon cjioilts, or salmon peel. They are much sought after because they make handsome dishes of fish when sent to table doubly curved in the shape of the letter S. Very similar to gwilts, though, according to some, distinct from them, are the Berwick trout, caught in the river Tweed; they are dressed exactly like the gwilt. Salmon is plain-hoiled, grilled, or broiled, mostly in envelopes of oiled paper; crusted xuith quenelle farce, or skinned and glaced; all these processes* may be executed on entire fish, if of moderate size, or on'sections, darns (French manchon^mujf). Thus a darn of salmon, braised with aspic, is an excellent cold entree. It may be filleted, fried, sauced, and egged, or filleted, sliced, fried, and stewed; rolled or collared as practised in Ireland. There is * Francatelli warns against excessive garnishing, which he quaintly terms ‘an unseemly species of medley.’