CULINARY PROCESSES 65 ebullition, but merely to such as is in the state of simmering. This latter operation must be continued for the time which may be necessary to cook the material throughout, and this time can be ascertained only by experience. In boiling materials for the table, the cook must take especial care that the water really boils or simmers all the while he is cooking, or he will be deceived in time.* Now, as for the complete cooking of meat or vegetables, the tem- perature of 100° C. or 212° F. is by no means necessary, and as they can be cooked to complete maturity at a tem- perature much below boiling water, it follows that cooks adopt the boiling or simmering only as a visible, easily ascertainable sign of their having a sufficiently qidch source, of heat at work for the accomplishment of the object. If a shiver source of heat be allowed to influence the material to be cooked, but for a longer 2)eriod of time, the same—nay, a better—result will be obtained. This is proved by the Norwegian method of heating a joint just to ebullition, and then placing it, closely covered, in the vessel with the water, in a non-conducting felt box, and leaving it here for many, say six, hours; after that time the meat is found perfectly cooked, and very juicy. This method, therefore, is doubly economical; it saves trouble, fuel, and time, and produces an excellent result. The Cooking of Eggs.—Hitherto, perhaps, no product of the kitchen prepared by boiling was more uncertain than that called soft-boiled eggs. These agreeable adjuvants of the breakfast and tea table produced frequent disappoint- ments to either those who liked them more or to those who liked them less done. Time-keepers, sand-glasses, knack, and experience were alike frequently defeated, until now at last an apparatus has been invented which will cook eggs to a desirable degree, and does not allow them to be over- * Cf. Kitchiner, loc. cit., p. 71, nnd p. 73, the illustration of the two u.utton chops quoted below.