THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 23 extravagant table; be tben had a balance-sheet made, and finding the remains of his fortune insufficient to maintain his extravagance at the accustomed rate, he committed suicide by opening his veins and bleeding to death in his bath. To this man some have ascribed the hook bearing the title ‘ De re Culinaria.’ But the learned Lister believes a much later writer of the name of Coelius to have been the author of this treatise. Experiments* which were made at various periods to practically cook according to Apicius failed for a series of reasons : firstly, the prescriptions were followed without previous purification; and secondly, the preparations described by a single word, such as liqxiamen, were not at hand, because they were not understood; and thirdly, some ingredients which the Romans used, such as asafcetida, were used in excess or omitted. The cookery of Athenseusf is likened by himself to the simplicity of Homeric times, and rated far below that of Apicius, as he knew it. He baked onions in hot ashes, just as we bake them in the oven. His times and all subsequent centuries of Italian cookery upheld the endeavour of Apicius to maintain the shape and colour of vegetables as far as possible; the colour of green vegetables, in particular, they were most anxious to preserve, or even to improve; and this craze surviving to our time, though happily not prevail- ing in England, has seized the French, and caused them to impregnate their fresh and tinned green vegetables with copper. The vast preparations which the Romans made towards the latter end of the reiJublic, and in the first centuries of '* Some of these experiments became the object of some witty observa- tions by Smollett in ‘ Peregrine Pickle.' f Athenteus, ‘ Deipnosophistai,’ lib. i.,.xxx. This work reports ia fifteen books conversations on many matters concerning the table, luxury, and pleasure which took place during a costly dinner given by a rich and learned Roman of the name of Larensius, at which Ulpiaii, the physician fialenus, an unnamed cynic, and Athenaaus were present (ex Graesse, loc. cit., i., p. 1273).