7 THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY Latest French Literature. French cookery as accepted during the last twenty-five years has been most sumptuously represented in ‘ The Book of the Kitchen,’ by Jules Gouffe,* who for some years was culinary ofiicer of the Jockey Club at Paris. The pon- derous and elegantly-printed tome is divided into two parts, of which the first describes what we may call ordinary household cookery {la cuisine, des mdnages), pp. 1 to 338; while the second part, pp. 339 to 804, treats of the cookery of great establishments (la grande cuisine). This division is somewhat arbitrary; e.g., crayfish sough in French bisque d’dcrdvisses, which on the Continent is a popular soup in thousands of households, hotels, and restaurants, is not given in the first part, but only in the second. On com- parison of the two parts, it appears clearly that in society no such sharp separation exists as is here marked off; the .grande cuisine is nothing better than the cuisine de menage in the disguise of a great mass of perfectly useless garnishes, which, with the main viands, are elevated on socles of stearin, or propped up by croustades, surrounded by borders never intended to be eaten, and surmounted by unmeaning skeioers of silver poked through cock’s combs, crayfish, truffles, and rudely carved pieces of carrots, turnips, and beetroot. The author’s recipes are expressed in aphorisms, each of which begins with a new line, so that upwards of a third of the space of the more than 800 pages is not occu- pied by printed matter. The author’s recipes are eminently practical, because they run on the lines of tradition, although he says that ‘ most of the books on cookery published up to his time were useless.’ This sweeping assertion is made out of sight of the literature of the science, and the very * Gouff^, Jules, ‘Le Livre de Cuisine, comprenant la cuisine de Manage et la Grande Cuisine.’ Avec 25 planches, impriin^es en chromolithographie, et 182 gravures sur bois, dessinees d’apres nature par E. Ronjat. Paris, Hachette and Co., gr. 8vo. edition p. 1867 ; 7tli edition, 1888.