24 THE SPIRIT OF COOKER} imperial rule, to fill cellar, larder, and kitchen with all the delicacies of the known earth, particularly the establish- ment of fish reservoirs {inscince*), must have been accom- panied with an adequate expansion and rise of the art of cooking. Unfortunately, the attention of the authors of those times was mainly directed to extravagances, and not to the actual practice of the prudent householder. We shall quote some recipes from early and late authors, from Cato of Utica to Athenseus ; but they do not enable us to obtain a judgment of the true preparation of good and elegant dishes which were current in those times. Authors during and since the Renaissance. The culinary literature of the modern culture world begins with the Renaissance in the fifteenth century. The Italians transferred or extended their artistic striving to the table; the dishes were to be not only of good taste, but also of artistic appearance ; and towards the attainment of this object painters and sculptors contributed mostly themselves by their elaborate artists’ dinners.! Jellies were decorated with coloured heraldic designs by men of the brush, and this led sometimes to indigestions and poisonings, such as those which occurred to the ambassadors of Pius II. at Siena. J The testhetical refinement of the older Italian cookery migrated with the princesses of the house of Medici to the Court of France. It was a part of the artistic taste of the time, the transplantation of which succeeded, while that of the Italico-Spanish poetry perished in vain imitations. The * Piscina’. Cf. Plinius, ‘Hist. Nat.,’ lib. ix., cap. liv. to Ivi. The acclimatization of the scarus (fish) on the coast of Campania is alluded to in the same book (cap. xvii.). To the fish-reservoirs alludes Cicero ad Alt.: ‘ Qui ita sunt stulti, ut amissa republica piscinas suas fore salvas sperare videantur.’ f Italian artists’ dinners were described in the ‘ Osservatore Fiorentino ’ (ex Rumohr, loc. cit.). t liegarding poisonous colours or jellies cf. ‘ Novelle Senesi ’ (ex Rumohr, loc. cit.).