162 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Lettuce and whole pea soup and Flemish soup are mere modifications of the jidienne and jardinidre class; the Flemish has also been termed p)oly-oleric, or many-fold vegetable soup. Besides carrots, turnips, celery, and leek, boiling in standard broth, there are sliced cucumbers added, and further, a secondary selection of oleraceous vegetables, namely, Brussels-sprouts (which justifies our adjective Flemish), young green peas, a few French beans cut small, and some asparagus-heads; when these are parboiled, they are added to the main soup. A mere modification of Flemish soup is cabbage or kale soup, in which summer cabbages are substituted for the autumnal sprouts. Another modification is Dutch sotip, or Soupe a la Hollandaise; this contains the cucumber, but omits the cabbage. Soup of of spring herbs, comminuted p>rintaniere, is made with early green vegetables, sorrel, dandelion, and burrage. For the closely-related Bonne Femme soup, cabbage lettuces are braised with the sorrel, in butter, treated with bouillon, and a liaison of yolk, butter, sugar, and glace. Sorrel and lettuce must be present in about equal quantity; we have seen a recipe in which the sorrel is diminished to two leaves, which seems useless ; strong flavours, like chervil, diminish the homogeneity of the soup. The following vegetables yield purees, which can be worked into soups : Asparagiis, made green with some spinach, and mixed with aspiaragus-heads or points; artichokes, endives, leek,* scorzonera, or salsify,\ white and black. Cucwmb&r also yields a purde soup in the two usual forms ; gourd,% or * Leek soup also passes as soupe A la Bresanne, D.D., 863 ; no deriva- tion is given. f Scorzonera soup, D.D., 863, ex Brillat-Savarin. It is practical to put scorzoneras into soup when their quantity is insufficient to produce a dish of stewed vegetable for entremets. J Gourd is the true English name ; the other is the product of affecta- tion. The French name is courge, to which neologists have added the absurd A la moelle.