THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 522 resp. China, resp. Jajnin, and which soy, he says, was the result of the fermentation of fish with mushrooms. But soy is made from a bean, soya, and neither fish nor mushrooms ever come near it. (Spurious soy contains besides the bean extract, a quantity of molasses.) Muria may be translated as brine simply, for it signified the mother liquor of common salt, or nitre, etc. (by Linne it was applied to solid salt made from salt springs uot con- nected with the sea), but it was also a synonym of garum. Savarin had evidently never tasted soy, as gustation alone, if he had that diagnostic power, would have taught him that it contained no principle of either fish or fungus. According to Dioscorides (c/. Matthiolus, ‘ Comment.,’ 154), garum was also used as an antiseptic to wounds, and in a variety of surgical applications. The turbot is one of the most elegant fishes, and has been so highly appreciated at all historical times that it has become the object of anecdote. Juvenal relates that the Emperor Diocletian, having received a present of a very large turbot, consulted the Senate regarding the vessel in which the fish was to be cooked, and the sauce which was to be served with it. The senators, however, perhaps perceiving that they were being played with, separated with- out coming to a resolution. The statement by Berchoux, the culinary bard, in his inagiric epic ‘ Gastronomic’ attached to Brillat-Savarin’s book, that this turbot ‘ had been put to the sauce piquante,’ is probably a product of his imagination. Brillat-Savarin himself relates a story of which he was the magiric hero, and a turbot the corjrus rile of experiment. He steamed a turbot in an old hitherto unused wash-copper (boiler) on a tray cut out of the cover of a wicker wine- basket, loaded with herbs, roots, rhizomes, etc. The fish pleased the convivants : the General Labassee smiled at every morsel; the cure had his neck extended, and his eyes fixed on the ceiling as a sign of his esctatic delight;