1^0 THE SPIRIT OE COOKER)' exposed to the air when once the bottle is opened. In case you get it in a little wooden barrel, subdivide it in small bottles, and close them with cork and bladder to exclude the air until the caviar be wanted. The salmon is said to derive its name from its habit of leaping over difficulties, particularly up waterfalls, when ascending streams for the purpose of spawning. It is con- sidered the most delicate of round fish, but varies in quality with the river in which it is taken. It may not be taken during the spawning season, from September 1 to February 1, but it is said to be in season all the year round in some places, e.g., in Loch Carra, Co. Kerry, Ireland. The fish is not called salmon before it attains the age of six years, but is known and sold under different names ; in the first year it is called smolt, in the second sprod, in the third mort, in the fourth fork-tail, in the fifth half-fish. That caught at sea is the best, being fatter and more tender than river fish. The male is the finest-flavoured fish, and has more curd than the female. When it is scored perpendicularly to its long axis with a sharp knife, immediately after removal from the water, and thus put into a condition termed crimped, its flesh remains more solid, and retains the curd, that is to say, the coagulable albumin which, after the fish is boiled, shows itself as milky curd. But when kept a few days it undergoes a change, whereby the curd dis- appears, the meat becomes tender and improved in taste, or, as some enthusiasts say, ‘ produces oily and balsamic par- ticles which render it nutritious and invigorating, diuretic, pectoral, and restorativeif it is partaken of too profusely it produces vomiting; the crimped flesh, on the other hand, is hard and dry, lies heavy on the stomach, and when eaten to relative excess, to which its nutty taste invites, causes indigestion. The earliest Jish comes to London from Ireland and Scotland, and is mostly sold at prices up to 10s. per pound. When out of season the fish has large scarlet.