THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 302 we wish to take notice only of such preparations as preserve the identity of the tubers. They may be hcikecl in ashes, braised in a wine mirepoix, or steamed over brandy and boater. The result of the braising is called by the French Truffes d la serviette, because they are carried to table on a napkin. The mirepoix is to contain a bottle of wine (Dumas has champagne; Baron Thiry orders wine of Collioure, M. Bignon, Madeira or Jerez). The application of alcohol in this manner appears to be both extravagant and un- sesthetical. The wine or spirit does not enter into the truffle, happily for its taste, but boils away, and does not even furnish a good sauce. It is therefore preferable, for all those who desire to preserve to the truffles their natural unmixed flavour, to wrap them in buttered paper and steam them in a suitable apparatus, or bake them in hot ashes, or, most conveniently, bake them, wrapped in buttered paper, in an oven. Truffles boiled in court botiillon are a mere variety of those braised in wine mirepoix. When such truffles are set up in a pyramid they are called en roche, therefore peculiar only as to external form. Truffles may be minced, fried, gratinated, excavated and stuffed loith farce, baked hi slices with Parma cheese, or boiled and roasted on a spit while being basted with oil, lemon-juice, and spices. They ma,y be made into a ragodt with any sauce, espagnole being the most suitable, some varieties being called d VItalienne, d la PiOnontaise, and d la POdgueux, or formed into a pudding in glace, i.e., savoury jelly; mixed with mushrooms, etc. The white Piedmontese truffles do not require to be cooked, but, after having been thinly sliced, may be dropped in any hot sauce or garnish with which they are to be associated. A technically distinct preparation to be mentioned in this place is D'Uxclles, which may be termed a ragofit, but is, perhaps, more properly termed a vegetable farce, consisting of minced mushrooms, parsley, shallots, butter, and spices.