BOUILLON D'OS 133 Van Copenael, already mentioned above. The chemical examination was given to Chevreul, and he also was made reporter. D’Arcet resigned his seat on the commission on September 23, 1831, in consequence of differences with his colleagues. Experiments had been made of which the com- mission were left uninformed. Chevreul, who was offended thereby, resigned his post as reporter shortly afterwards. There being then a good understanding between D’Arcet and Magendie, the former was desirous of getting Magendie appointed reporter. This was effected, but science proved stronger than intrigue, and the commission ended in the celebrated report to the effect that gelatine was non- nutritions, because dogs who had only glue to eat died, the devoured gelatine notwithstanding, of starvation. The unanimous report of the commission was read to the Academy on March 19, 1832. The fallacy involved in Magendie’s experiments was discovered only forty years later. Payen made some researches on the gelatinogen (left by hydrochloric acid and called cartilage) of the bones of horses. Just as the fats of different parts of the body have different temperatures of fusibility, so the bones of horses give different amounts and qualities of gelatine j with age the gelatinogenous tissue seems to diminish. Chevreul believed that future generations of readers would be astonished that gelatine should have given rise to such long debates in the Academy. He gives credit to physicians for having been but of one opinion regarding the effect of bouillon cVos on the sick in hospitals. These latter were the only persons on whom this ‘ charity ’ could be inflicted. No person with sound sense and taste, would consent to drink the boicillon cl’os* foregoing follows mainly a discourse delivered by Chevreul in 18/0, and reported in G. Grimaud de Caux’s work, ‘ L'Acaddmie d. Hciences pendant le Siege de P.ari.,’ 18/1. In thi.s discourse Proust’s c aim to the discovery of the true nature of the bouillon d'os was for the