MUTTON CHOPS, KEBOBS, AND COLLOPS 465 hot dish. Make it a rule never to put gravy either to beef- steaks or mutton chops ; it removes the outer coating of condensed gravy, which is the most savoury part, and even though it remain in any added gravy, is so diluted by it as to lose its most pleasing effect. When a fire sufficiently clear for grilling is not at hand, chops have to be fried in butter in a pan. Care should be taken that the butter be quite hot, so as to make the meat close the pores on its sur- face and take colour quickly. Mutton chops should be sent to table as hot as possible, be covered over, and not allowed to stand or wait; they should be eaten with a small quantity of concentrated brown gravy or a savoury made sauce. Mutton chops produce an excellent ragout when dressed as a so-called haricot. This word haricot in connection with mutton is surmised by some to be a contraction of ‘ Plant ragout if so, it need not be derived from the white haricot beans, which certainly in the present time form no part of the dish. Eoundish slices of mutton, cut in imitation of the shape of a scollop, or escallope, the mollusc which owns the shell known by this name also, bear the abbreviated appellation of (Scotch) collops, German Clops. It would be better to term slices of mutton, be they nummulite or cubical (dice- like), which are to be roasted or fried by themselves, hchobs, the Oriental or Turkish name, well understood throughout the Levant, and parts of India, where they are called khzcbabs, and Africa. The kcbobs or collops maybe cut from leg or loin, or any filleted thicker muscle, across the grain, dusted with flour, fried in butter, again dusted with flour, and placed in a sauce j or they may be ranged on skewers, dredged with flour, and grilled or fried. This is the quickest mode of cooking mutton with a minimum of fire. When such kebobs are dusted over with a little curry-powder, and eaten with some well-buttered rice, they form a very relishing disb. 30