THE. HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 29 elaborate directions for cooking the porcupine, an animal still occasionally served in Roman tvcittoTicis. It is in season from the beginning of October to the end of January, at other times it has a disagreeable odour, and requires at all times garlic, cloves, and rosemary to overpower any peculiar flavour. It should be served hot, with a sauce made of boiled mint, red vinegar, pepper, cinnamon, cloves, and its own gravy.’ The period which was distinguished by the activity of the Italian group of authors closes with Vincenzio Oervio* and Dominico Eomoli.f Cervio was trinciante, or carver, to Cardinal Farnese. He describes the qualifications necessary for his office. The highest ofifice in the household of a great Italian personage in the sixteenth century was that of scalco, who had the general direction and control of all the other servants, of the kitchen, and of the credenza, or side- board, ordered the manner in which the dinner should be served, and selected the dishes, the principal of which it was his duty to place on the table. He had, we are told, the life and honour of his master in his hand—his life, as it was not an uncommon practice to put poison into the food of rivals in love or enemies in politics; his honour, as the honour of a great man was estimated by the magnificence and extravagance of his entertainments. After the scalco and the trinciante came the credenziero, who had charge of the credenza, or side-board, and of the plate and linen. The wine was in the keeping of the bottigliere, or butler. The cook held a very responsible charge in times when great people lived in constant fear of poison. It was essential that he should be thoroughly honest and trustworthy, and * Cervio, Vincenzio, ‘II Trinciante.’ Venet., 1581; Rom., 1593, 4to, Fifty years later this work was republished in an amplified form by the ‘Cavaliere reale Fusorito da Nami ed il Maestro di Casa di C. Pandini.’ Ven., 1643, 4to. + llomoli, Dominico, ‘ La singolare dottrina soprc nominate Panonto, dell’ ufficio dello scalco.’ Venez., 1580, 8vo.