529 STURGEON AND CAVIAR covered with forcemeat, or be glaced and garnished ; it may be curried, or prepared au gratin with fine herbs ; or a inujf of sturgeon (inanchon) may be prepared as fricandeau, like grenadins of veal. Other preparations, such as blanguettcs, kebobs, scollops, cutlets, pdt^s, glacis, and even a soup, offer no specific features. Caviar.—The eggs of the sturgeon, taken from the freshly- caught fish, are packed in barrels after having been prepared in three forms. The first form remains as they leave the fish, without any addition; the second form is called half salted, or mild ; and the third fully salted. The barrels hold from 15 lb. to 20 lb. each. The most important time for the production of caviar is the winter fishing, which takes place in January. Caviar is a hors d’oeuvre accord- ing to French classification of edibles*; we have never heard of any preparation made from it; it is eaten with bread and butter or toast and butter, and is a great whetter of the appetite. It is made principally in two localities, on the Elbe and on the Volga. Caviar made on the latter river, passing under the name of caviar of Astrachan, is con- sidered the best. This dainty, according to A. Payen, con- tains in 100 parts, water, 37'50; nitrogenized substance, 28-04 ; fat, 16-26 ; other matters free from nitrogen, 7‘82; salts, 9-25. An analysis by J. Konig and C. Brimmer gave: Water, 45-05 ; nitrogenized matter, 31-90 ; fat, 14-14 ; salts, 8'91; of these salts 6-38 were common salt. These analyses, the best on record, are of doubtful value; the amount of water we may accept, but there being no distinction between nitrogenized albuminous and nitrogenized phosphorized, and, thirdly, nitrogenized cerebrin substances, we cannot accept the rubric of so-called fat either ; probably it included the phosphorized matters soluble in ether. Caviar is very tasty when eaten spread on the top of fresh (not hot) buttered toast or on buttered bread. It should not be kept long * Beauvuailller.s, loc, cit., ii. 39, writes Kavia. 34