BAKED EGGS, OMEI.ETTES 593 for the browning does not, as in the case of meat, produce any flavour. Break the eggs into the hot fat; do not turn them, but while they are frying keep pouring some of the hot fat over them with a spoon. When the yolk just begins to look white, which it will in about two minutes after the beginning of the frying, they are sufficiently cooked; the white must not lose its transparency on the convex upper side, but the yolk be seen blushing through it. A well-fried egg should look as white and delicate as a poached one. French cooks put some little sj^ring onions shredded, called by them petits appetits, into the fat in which the eggs are fried, and later on parsley and tarragon vinegar. It is said not to be advisable to fry eggs in oil; but a typical French dish. Fried Eggs a la Provencale, is done in oil only. Baked eggs are done in butter previously browned—(Eiifs an Beurre Noir. This dish is excellent when so made that the yolks are yet soft; but when it is left in the oven until wanted, the eggs become solid throughout, and the character of the dish is lost. When the eggs on being done have to be kept a short time, they should be transferred to a merely warmed plate to arrest the access of heat from below. When covered with cream and pellets of butter, baked eggs are called by German cooks Setz-eier or Spiegel-eier; French, CEufs sur le Plat, dits an Miroir. For variation, baked eggs may be mixed with bacon, fried, or ham, minced. A very dainty dish is baked eggs with braised lettuces and a little brown gravy. A dish of well-beaten eggs fried gently in butter or lard has received the name of omelette. It is undoubtedly of French origin, and in ancient works is spelled aumelette; but its etymological derivation is uncertain.* An omelette * VoceOmdellc. Chambers’ ‘ Etym. Diet.’ defines omelette as a pan- cake chiefly of eygs. Its old French form is given as amelelle, which, con- tinues the dictionary, through the form almnctta is traced to alemelle, the old French form of French aliimelle, a thin plate, a corruption (with the 38