659 ADVANCED CAMP COOKERY We will now cast a glance at a more advanced cookery for soldiers, travellers, sportsmen, ycologists, ininers, squatters, pastoral ranchers, and others. For all these remains abso- lutely valid all we have said on camp cookery for soldiers in the held. But as many of these persons have at their com- mand greater means of transport, and a greater range of materials, they are able to adopt somewhat more compli- cated processes, and to enjoy better and more varied fare. They may, e.g., carry with them a petroleum stove. There are many varieties and sizes of stoves heated by means of mineral oil, suitable not only for domestic, but also for camp cookery such as is here to be considered. They are prin- cipally American inventions, but used largely on the con- tinent of Europe and in other parts of the world. They are cheap, portable, strong, and easily managed, fed with mineral oil, kerosene, or paraffin ; they are provided with arrangements for boiling, stewing, frying, grilling, and an oven for baking. A good practical stove with baking-dishes and a griddle, a radiator, a kettle, and a frying-pan can be bought for from £2 to £3. With such a stove the smaller ordinary saucepan may also be used ; a Warren’s cooking- pot and a griller may be fitted to it for respectively £1 Is. and os. 6d. When it is not wanted for cooking it can be used for heating a room by the instrumentality of a so-called radiator or ornamental chimney. Thus adjusted it is also very useful for airing damp linen or drying wet clothes. Place a circular basket over it, and spread the things thereon; the chimney being so contrived that the heat radiates laterally, there is no chance of burning, scorching, or smoking. In camp or kitchen the petroleum stove will boil water for tea or coffee, and milk; it will bake bread for the breakfast, and cook any small dish besides. Similarly, it will cook the mid-day and evening meal. Of course, it cannot supply the power of a charcoal or wood hre, which may often be