68i DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS there are many difficulties, or inversely, suggestions encountered. E.s;., paste from dough is only found as late Latin, while pastilkis, a little ball of flour-paste (or any similar hall of paste) is said to be a diminutive of pains, bread (Festns; cf. also Pliii., 22, 12, 14). • This is the more likely, as, according to Varro, pas- tillns, or pastil linn, signifies a small loaf ot bread, or roll, as we term it. Probably paste as dough was derived later from pastus, the food of man (L,ncretins). Old Vrer\c\i=paste; New French, pate; Fate Latin, pesta. But as regards our pasties, pates and patties, all these .supposed derivatives are invalid, apjia- reiitly, before the Greek 1} iraari], a mixed di.sh of meat, a ragout, as the French term it, the old artocreas, to which pastaetum, pasty, was considered a barbarous substitution; aprog (0) being- bread, artocreas means bread-meat, and is therefore a symbol of all pies and pasties, from sausage-rolls to giant pie up- wards. But the co-ordination of waari] with aproKpmg renews the problem, to which the derivations from passo, to .sprinkle, are no satisfaction at all. For artocreas see Persius, 6, 50. “Aprog is xvheaten bread, for barley bread is paX,a, Hebrew mazze; rraari] is defined as a dish of mixed and cut-up food, meat being neither expressly mentioned nor excluded. But the word is the feminine form of the adjective iraarog or, bestrewed, strewed over, particu- larly with salt, pickled, and its use as a sub.stantive therefore involves an ellipse, and its identit)- with artocreas must be the result of evolution. Kraus, in his ‘Medical Dictionarj-,’ gives the Greek paste as .signifying ‘a firm cake made of a dough or paste,’ with many possible derivations. But this tran.slation is not supported b}- the great dictionaries. Paupiettes: French, from Italian polpettes, .slices of meat covered with slices of bacon, over which a layer of farce has been spread; they are rolled, wrapped in paper, and roasted on the .spit; when the\- are done, they are taken out of the paper, crumbed, and slightl}-browned, and served with sauce piquante (D.D., 809). See Canelous. Petty toes : the feet of sucking pigs. Pie: English, a quantity of meat or fruit baked in a di.sh while it is covered with a lai-er of paste, which is baked along with it. The etymology of the word is uncertain, some deriving it from the Irish and Gaelic name, pighe, for the same di.sh, which brings ns no nearer. Pie being peculiarly national to England, we conclude \\\a.tpie is probably the older, a.nApighet\\<i derived form. Piping; a kind of decoration made of icing, used for ornainentiug cakes, pastry, small pastr}-, and stands; it is produced with the aid of a short funnel or conically - shaped instrument of tin (inserted within a large-sized and .siniilarl3'-shaped paper funnel or cornet, the pointed end of which is cut off, so as to allow the tin instrument to protrude; the icing, or glacing (a mixture of fineL’-pounded sugar and white of egg worked into a smooth jiaste), is placed in the cornet or forcer, the upper part of which IS completel)' closed ; the glacing is then forced out at the point by pressure of the thumb on the upper part of the cornet. Placenta : tlie Latin name for cake in general, not for anj’ jiarticular cake; derived from the Greek placous, which also means cake,