10 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Mayerne* a treatise entitled ‘Archimagirus,’ which is now very rare.f Professor Eichard Bradleyl was also an author on culinary subjects ; Dr. John Hill has, as we have already stated above, been credited with having been the author of ‘Mrs. Glasse’s’ ‘Cookery.’ Towards the end of the eighteenth century we have yet Dr. Pegge’s republication of the ancient (1390) treatise entitled ‘ Forme of Cury ’ (London, 1780) j while early in our century Dr. Hunter ‘ edited,’ as he called it, a work by an author disguised as ‘Ignotus,’ entitled ‘ Gulina Famulatrix Medicinse.’ Later authors have ascribed this work to Dr. Hunter himself; the medical observations appended to many receipts are calculated to support this conjecture. In 1833 was published the last culinary work by a medical author. Dr. Kitchiner’s ‘ Cook’s Oracle and Housekeeper’s Manual,’ one of the most learned, philosophical, and practical treatises on cookery ever com- posed. We cannot tarry here to sum up the merits of physicians of all times about the selection of a proper diet for the healthy as well as the sick, as this would become a chapter of dietetics, to which branch of science a work on cookery is only as a forerunner, though an essential basis. Many physicians since the time of the school of Salerno discoursed learnedly on cookery ; thus the Dutch Professor Boerhaave, who was particularly quahfied by his chemical * Theodor Turquet de Mayerne, of Geneva, 1573 to 1665, was Professor of Chemistry and Physics at Paris, a Paracelsist; the faculty had for- bidden (about 1566) the use of antimony in medicine ; but he, disobeying, was dismissed from his professorship and interdicted the practice of medicine. He went to England and became physician to the Court. The work ascribed to him is entitled ‘Archimagirus.’ Jeaffreson, ii. 60, doubts his authorship, and believes that a bold impostor borrowed his name. Graesse, vi. 664, reports the publication by Mayerne of ‘ Opera Medica.’ t See ‘Phil. Trans.’ for 1675, vol. x., last quarter of p. 304. On ‘Re- naissance Cookery,’ cf. Sir A. H. Layard’s essay in Murray's Magazine, No. 51, March, 1891, p. 342. X Bradley, Professor Richard, died 1732 (Graesse, vi. 662) ; wrote on plants and gardening, during 1716 to 1731, and in these compilations he referred much to cookery.