/C0J/.-4X GARUJ/ XADE OF SEA FISH 5'9 heading notwithstanding, ‘ court bouillon ’ is not a sauce, but a material to boil fish in, or to marinade fish in by pouring the boiling bouillon over the fish and letting it cool. It is stated to be used to bind certain fish sauces with ‘ a lier certaiues sauces de poisson ’ (D.D. 467, 468), but this is the least well defined of its uses. In the recipe just con- sidered, the fish is entirely forgotten, and the boiling down to two-thirds is without any meaning. From other sources of information we learn, that the fish boiled in court bouillon is to be dished on a plate with a napkin intervening, and to be eaten with oil and vinegar, proof sufficient that in this case at least it is not to be accompanied by any portion of the court bouillon as a sauce. In other recipes, however, this is the case. The writer in- forms us that a more economical way of preparing ‘ this sauce ’ was by using equal quantities of vinegar and water instead of white wine, and by omitting some of the vege- tables. Court bouillon may yield good fish, but will never yield good sauce ; it is an extravagantly costly material, the product and result of the employment of which is in no proportion to its expense, except in localities where the litre of wine is bought for twopence. In England this court bouillon will be, if at all, but little used. Gariim of iJie Bomaiis was a celebrated fisJi, sauce made of fish, and to be eaten with fish* The recipe for its pro- duction used by the ancients is supposed to be lost. Pliny states that garum had originally for its basis the flesh of shrimps, which derives probability from the fact that the Greek name for shrimp is garos, the Latin gams. It was * V. Garum, vf. Pliny, xxxi. 3, 7 ; Ibid., xxxii. 11, and several loc. Isidorus, Archbishop of Sevilla from 59.5 to 63(1, mentions garum in his ‘ Urigines, sen Ptyinologice, etc., lib.’ (a great encyclopaedia in twenty books); in b. x.x., cap. iii. (Open edit. 1577, fob, p. 71 H mj.), which is entitled ‘lie iis qme ad victuin, sedes, et instrumenta,’ ttc. Ex Graes.se, Lit. Gesch., ii. 498. V. Scomber, Martial, xiii. 102; V. Garum from tunny ; rf. Stephan. Thes. Ling. Grace., v. ; V. Garon ; r/’. Geoponica, xx., etc.