THE SPIRIT OF COOKER} 28 gives a list of considerably above one hundred, illustrating his descriptions hy engravings. He insists that the kitchen should be at some distance from the dwelling-house, to avoid the danger of people having access to it who might tamper with the food in preparation, the dread of poison always prevailing. He then shows how to judge of various condiments, and how to keep fresh such things as oil, lard, butter, and cheese, and mentions the wines best suited for making sauces. The discussion of salary, outfit, and honour- able treatment of the cook complete this part. Having instructed his pupil in the duties of a cook, he proceeds to give about 280 recipes for roasting, boiling, and other- wise preparing for the table the flesh of beasts and birds of various kinds, and for the proper sauces, and for soups, fricassees, mincemeat pies, and other dishes. Amongst the animals fit for eating are mentioned the chamois, stag, fallow-deer, wild-boar, bear, porcupine, hedgehog, hare, rabbits, guinea-pigs, and dormice; amongst birds, nightin- gales, sparrows, redbreasts, hecca- ficM, and swallows, ortolans, pheasants, red and gray partridges, francolins, peacocks, pea-fowl, cranes, herons, and wild geese. For the various ways of cooking all these beasts and birds he gives formulae. That for dressing bear’s flesh is as follows : “ The bear must be young, and must be caught in winter, when the flesh smells less strong than in July, though it is then fatter. Having first skinned the animal, you must take the best part of the carcase, such as the haunches and the shoulders, and keep them until they are sufiicieutly tender. Before putting them on the spit, leave them for a short time on a gridiron, and sprinkle them with salt, fennel, pepper, cinnamon, and cloves. Then roast them as you would the same parts of a goat. You can make the same dishes of bear’s meat as you can of venison, but it is not much esteemed, nor is it commonly eaten.” Nevertheless, Scappi informs us that he had often dressed it. He gives