RAGOUTS OF MUSHROOMS, TRUFFLES, ETC. 299 faux, /I. tortilis, D.C.; the gray Mousseron, A. imusseron. Bull.; and the Mousserou petite oreille, A, virgineiis, Pers. These mousserons were used mixed for the production of ragouts. It is related that Barras, the Director who pro- duced Napoleon and the 13th Vendemiaire, employed several individuals to collect these delicate fungi for him. He had them prepared by frying in butter or lard with herbs and pepper; the fry was then moistened with veal-broth or bouillon, and reduced, and the sauce thickened with butter and hour. Another edible fungus is the viorel, Morcliella escidenla, Pers. {Phallus esculentus of Linne); Fr. morelle, Germ. Morchel. It is agreeably flavoured, of a firm spongy con- sistency, and abounds in April and May in certain localities, along wet ditches. It is eaten cooked fresh, or strung up to dry. Some champignons pass in France under the name of cepesfrancs, in two varieties, white and black. They yield extracts of good flavour, but are liable to degenerate during preparation and become uneatable. At the sight of truffles, or even the hearing of their name, a proper French gastronomer is expected to go into ecstasies of delight and admiration. French authors call them the sacrum sacrorum of gastronomers, the diamonds of the kitchen, and other nonsense. According to Dumas, the truffle says, ‘ Eat me and adore God.’ He also informs us that to write the history of truffles would be attempting an account of the civilization of the world. The author of ‘ The Physiology of Taste ’ ascribes to truffles such metaphysical effects as that ‘ they awaken erotic recollections,’ and, with- out being positively aphrodisiac, will, under certain con- ditions, make women more loving and men more amiable. The truffle, Tuber cibarkim, or Lycoperdon gulosorum, grows nearly in the whole of France, south of Burgundy, wild and uncultivated. It assumes four modifications, of which three are distinguished by the colour of their flesh,