THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 554 features. An Accolade of Eels on the Sjnt used to be put every Saturday upon tlie table of Anne of Austria, Queen of Louis XIII., and mother of Louis XIV. Eel honed, stuffed, and steioed gives an opportunity for exhibiting the qualities of tvMting for the production of forcemeat from fish. This form may also be eaten cold in aspic; when the slices are arranged in a turret-like structure the dish is called Bastion d Angtoille. A ragout with steioed eel and other ingredients makes a good pasty. Carp lives in rivers and ponds in South Europe. It was naturalized in England hy Peter Marshall in 1514, in Den- mark by Peter Oxe in 15G0, and a few years later in Sweden and Holland. Greek and Eoman writers mention it as a fish of secondary quality. It is reported that very heavy carps were taken in the Phone and the Oder, but these reports are as little substantiated as those about the carps of King Francis I. in the ponds of Fontainebleau. The carp is so proliferous that Dr. Petit could count 342,000 eggs in a female of eighteen inches in length; a carp weighing 9 lb. contained 621,600 eggs. Of this roe of carp the Oriental Jews, who are forbidden to eat the caviar from sturgeon, make a mock caviar as a substitute for the real. Dumas relates that when he was at Poti, at the mouth of the river Rioni, he made an excursion to the Lake of Poti, which is eight leagues in circumference, and communicates with the sea. With the aid of a fisherwoman, he took many fish, amongst them a carp 40 lb. in weight. It contained 13 lb. of egg-roe, and one of its scales covered entirely a five-franc (silver) piece. The flesh of this carp had no muddy taste, but was of quite pure flavour. As the carp, like the eel, burrows much in mud, partly for protection, partly for spawning, feeding, and wintering, |it acquires the peculiar flavour called muddy. From this it is freed liy keeping it for some time, days or weeks, in running pure water, enclosed in boxes with perforated bottoms and sides. Some