BILLS OF FARE, OR MENUS 649 varied the fare, the more necessary became the hill or menu. Cooks are advised never to construct their bills too long in advance of the dinner, in order not to be obliged to alter them later on owing to the accident of the failure of this or that material. They are also advised never to let their menus be printed before they have got together all their necessary provisions, and are quite sure of their ability to carry out their program to the letter. Some authors give long series of menus as supposed illus- trations : ‘ Wyvern,’ for example, gives most of his recipes as mere commentaries to exact bills of fare; Simpson has a complete bill of fare for the table of a great house for every day of the year. Other authors give shorter or varied lists, from imperial and royal banquets down to philosophical tete-d-tetes under the patronage of the Muses, or even the Graces, or the god Amor himself. To most of them attaches a certain degree of interest, but for practical purposes they are of little use. They can hardly ever be copied, as they may be opposed by the changes of opportunities, seasons, materials, and special abilities of the cook, and, above all things, by that rarely ascertainable factor, the likings and dislikes of the master or mistress of the house, or even the divergences of the tastes of such nearly allied persons. For these reasons every bill of fare must be the result of the concurrence of all kinds of practical considerations, and should never be a theoretical prescription culled from such lists as have just been alluded to. A practical cook should have a reasonable choice of seasonable dishes of all the services, so to say, at his fingers’ ends, not only as the result of training and practice, which might be unduly limited, but also as the result of the study of good works on cookery, and the exact sciences by which it is supported. The reader must take great care not to be deceived by spurious culinary literature, which even appears in volumes under grand titles. Carcme, in his work ‘ Le Maitre