513 BOILIXC OF SALT-WATER OR SEA FISH toga. In the neighbourhood of this place, where Lucullus carried out this feat, stands a monument known in archaeo- logy as the temple of Serapis, remarkable in geological science as a supposed means of proving the repeated raising and sinking of the territory on which it stands, under the influence of volcanic action. These ruins are now supposed to be the remains of a piscina, or fish-preserving pond; and from a consideration of all the arguments advanced in this discussion, some are inclined to accede to the latest interpretation. All housekeepers and cooks should be acquainted with the proper seasons for the use of fish, and the times during which this kind of food is WJi- seasonable. Some Grimsby firms publish lists containing all necessary information on this subject, and to such circulars we would refer our readers. Fish may be prepared in the kitchen for being eaten by boiling in water or broth, by baking in an oven, by broiling before a fire, by frying in fat in a pan, by stewing in a com- pound sauce with vegetables, and by braising under similar conditions. All other forms of preparations are mere variations of these principal processes. We therefore confine ourselves to a survey of the principles of the main processes only. The Boiling of Fish,.—It is necessary that all fish before being eaten should be heated up in some way to a tempera- ture at which all germs of a vegetable or animal nature which may be living in fish are dead. This is the first rule of safety in the consumption of fish, and must be enforced with regard to them as vigorously as with regard to veal or pork, and for similar reasons ; for it has been proved that several varieties of fish harbour in their flesh the young forms of certain parasites, which, when they escape being killed by the process of cooking, and are eaten by man, develop in his intestine into the adult form of the parasite, and cause serious illness and long-continued disturbance. 33