THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 49 of meat, fowl, game and fish, and have been quite unable to discover any objective standard by which the value or concentration of bis broths could be ascertained, or even estimated. While he carefully weighed and measured numerous ingredients, he never ascertained what he ex- tracted from his stock-pot, and by this omission vitiated his quantations. This omission was, and is, so general in the grande cuisine that the ‘ Almanach -des Gourmands ’ for 1826 said that it was a fact, based upon observation, that the grand cooks produced bad soup. Careme was in his time highly incensed at this criticism, but it has retained its truthfulness down to the present day, when extremely dilute, pale, almost tasteless preparations of hot water, with some finely minced roots or herbage distributed in them, are put forth as consommds, of which they are in every respect either the negative or the reverse. Although the work of Gouffe excels in style many of his forerunners, it is not free from grave misapprehensions, arising from the fact that he occasionally loses sight of his principles and does just the same as that which has been done hitherto; thus, tendrons, the soft rib-cartilages of the calf, are throughout termed tendons, i.e., sinews, a confusion which, initiated by Beau- villiers, has affected, during the last eighty years, all those treatises which have uncritically copied his recipes. Latest German Works. The developments of German cookery are represented in the work of J. Eottenhofer.'*'’ The author was for some time first cook to the late Maximilian II., King of Bavaria, and subsequently ’major-domo, or Haushofmeister, to the un- fortunate King Ludwig II., circumstances which must be borne in mind during the perusal of the treatise. It con- * Kottenhofer, .T., ‘ Illustrirtes Kochbuch ; Neue vollstiindige Iheoretiscli- practische Anweisung in der feineren Kochkunst mifc besonderer Beriick- sichtigung der herrschaftlichen and busgerlichen Kiiclie.’ Miinchen, 8vo, No date ; illustrated with woodcuts. 4