486 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY and by a certain monotony compel the cook to vary them in that forced manner which ends in disguises of which the true a3sthetical gastronomer is not likely to approve. In the preparation of the supreme, care must be taken to remove the tendinous or aponeurotic envelopes, particularly the one which separates the main from the minion hllet. The fillets are then fried white in butter, and after re- moval of the excess of butter, covered with supreme sauce, garnished with button mushrooms, and sent to table. The variations are many, and consist mostly in additions. When cuttings of red tongue are placed between the fillets, the dish may be termed d Vecarlate. The cook may separate the minion from the main fillet, and treat them a little differently, e.cj., stud them with truffles, and then you have supreme of fillets of foiols cm trujfes. When the fillets are arranged round a ragoiit, they receive the title of this latter. This toying with small variations, leading only to the construction of new paragraphs and titles in cookery-books, becomes ultimately transcendental, when a few slices of steioed cucicmber, practically a rather tasteless and indifferent dish, must furnish the means for varying, under the surname of d la Bellevue, the beauty and quality of a preparation which Beauvilliers first described in his practical manner. While in the preparations just described the fillets are fried with the precaution to keep them white, in the case of the Breasts or Fillets of Fowls d I'Indienne, both the fillets and the ham with which they are covered are fried until they have acquired a light brown colour. They are then covered with cspagnole in which finely cut mango has been simmered. These brown fillets also admit of many varia- tions both as to sauce and central ragout. The Legs of Chickens and Foiols, which are left after the excision of the breasts for supremes, may be employed for the production of so-called galantines of legs of foiols, also