THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 250 Crayfish Sauce is veloutd with fumet of crayfish and cray- fish tails. To flavour this sauce well, the carapaces of the crayfish should be extracted, as for bisque. Colour with alkanet-rooi. Lobster Sauce is velout6 coloured with Armenian hole, or lobster coral. Gascony Sauce is velout6, with capers, truffles, and a leason of yolk.* Sauces derived from Bdchamel Sauce. For the compounding of these sauces either the true bechamel, i.e., veloute mixed with an equal volume of cream, or the direct bechamel, in which butter is substituted for cream, can be employed. White Bavigote, veloute flavoured with spiced vinegar and Harvey sauce, is made in three modifications, of which the second one is by Urbain Dubois, the cosmopolitan chef, and * Notes on, and Literary Refer edicts to. Finished Brown and White Sauces. —How many brown sauces are mixed with wine can be seen from F., 28 et seq. ; D.D., 989 et seq. For Sauce Bordelaise, F. prescribes red, Gouffe white, Bordeaux wine. As a general rule, wine should be avoided in savouries, as its flavour is heterogeneous to them. Poivrade, according to Gouffe, 98, is to be coloured a sham-brown by caramel. Matelote is treated by D.D., 989 ; F., 31 ; Gouffe, 429 ; the latter omits fish court bouillon. De Varenne writes matelotte. Voce Brown Regency Sauce, cf. F., 49; Gouff^, 434. The equivocal use of the names of dishes is demonstrated by the sauces passing under the name of Regency, a word started by Careme when he was for the first time one of the chefs of George IV. Gouffe’s Sauce iL VEssence de Volaille, dite Rigence, differs entirely from that of F., in this, that its fumet is not made of eel, not even of fish, but of fowl, and is therefore much less characteristic ; the wine to be added is not red, but white Bordeaux, as in the case of the Sauce Bordelaise, only the es- pagnole remains the same. If for this preparation the name of Brown Sauce luith Essence of Fowl were adopted, the surname of Rigence would be as unnecessary as it is meaningless. Various sauces, including one called Devil’s, may be seen in Gouffe, 434 ; F., 16 et seq. ; U.D., 994 et seq.; most of these sauces are paralleled by analogous ragoftts. Voce Sxipr6me Saxice, cf. Gouffe, 439, where also see a discussion on the different opinions which cooks entertain regard- ing this sauce, and two alternative recipes. Tlie Horseradish Sauce of Gouffe, 442, is mere cream with horseradish. Voce Moringa Sauce, cf, ‘ Wyvern,’ 89.