THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OF COOKERY 31 pleasant to the sight. After this he entered upon the order of the service, full of important and beautiful considerations; and all this set out in rich and magnihcent words, such, indeed, as one employs in treating of the government of an empire.’* Spanish, French, and German Authors. In Spain were published two editions of the work of Eoberto Nola,t who was cook to King Kerdinand of Naples, and signed his name as E. de Nola. France in the sixteenth century produced two remarkable works, that of Pierre Pidoux,i and that of the celebrated Taillevant,§ the father of French sauces. Germany possessed cookery-books H which had originated in the fourteenth century, and several anonymous works, which generally bore the title ‘ Kiichenmeisterey.’ The sixteenth century is distinguished by works, one from the pen of an otherwise unknown physician, Walther Eyfi',11 another from that of Marx Eumpolt,** cook to the Elector of * Manuel des Amphitryons (Preface, p. 6). f Nola, Roberto de, ‘Libro de cozina compuesto por R. de Nola, cozinero del rey 1). Fernando de Napoles Toledo, 1525, 4to. It was printed with Gothic letters. This is a translation from the Catalan into the Cas- tilian dialect. It was republished at Logrono, in 1529, under the title: ‘ Libro de guisados, manjares, y potajes intitulade Libro de Cozina.’ J Pidou.x, Pierre, ‘ La fleur de toute cuysine, contenant la maniere d’habiller toutes viandes tant chair que poisson,’ etc., ‘ compose par plusieurs cuysiniers.’ Rev. et correct. Paris, 1543, 16mo. § Taillevant, ‘ Cj apres sensuyt le viandier pour appareiller toutes manibres de viandes que tailleuent queulx du roi notre sire fit tant pour abiller et appailler boully rousty poissons de mer et deaue doulce ; saulces, espices et aultres choses a ce convenables et necessaire.’ Paris, about 1500. II A list of German cookery-books is given by Pfeiffer in the Serapeum, 1848, Nr. 18, p. 273 tt seq. ; 1849, Nr. 21, p. 331 et seq. One of the four- teenth century is entitled : ‘ Ein guot lere von guoter spise ’ (Suabian dialect), published by Maurer Constant, Stuttgart, 1844. IT Ryff, Walther, ‘New Kochbuch. Wie man kranker Personen in mancherlei Fehl und Gebrechen warten und pfiegen soil, mit Zurichtung und Kochung vieler niitzUcher gesunder Speiss und Getriinke.’ Frankfurt- am-M., 1564. ** Rumpolt, Marx, ‘ Ein New Kochbuch.’ Frankfurt-am-M., 1564.