538 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Herrings may receive a great number of different dress- ings ; they may be baked, or prepared en matelote or an (jratin. The preserved and salted herring (French liaremj 2)ec, i.e., j)iclded) is frequently eaten uncooked, like an- chovies, with hot green vegetables (entremets); when it is salted, smoked, and dried, it is best grilled; when dipped into pyroligneous acid, and dried, it becomes kippered, as it is technically termed ; it then tastes of vinegar and smoke. Boned, stewed, and marinaded in the collared, rolled-up state, fillets of herring pass in North Germany under the name]of Boiler-Mops, in Lancashire and Scotland under that of sour herring. In Eoman Catholic districts several pre- parations from preserved herrings are current. The sardine is a small sea-fish, bearing its name from the Mediterranean island where it abounds. It occurs in many seas, abundantly on the coast of Brittany, where many thousands of barrels and millions of tin cases of this fish are annually filled. They are, like the sprats, hardly good to eat fresh, owing to an oil, which has to be got rid of. This is done by draining and pressure, and by salting. Great masses of sardines are taken along the coast of Galicia and imported in a salted state into Spain; then they are fried in oil, and we always found them excellent. Fresh sardines should be broiled like sprats, clamped in a gridiron. Sardines have scales, and thereby are distinguished from anchovies at first sight, the skin of which is bare. The anchovy, French anchois, German Sardelle, is a small sea-fish little more than five inches in length, with a smooth skin destitute of scales, a large head, large black eyes, a large swallow, a silvery body, and round back. It is taken during the night on the eastern coasts of Italy, France and Spain. The head being cut oft' and the trail removed, the washed fish is immediately stratified with salt in barrels. The fishermen of Broven9e used salt coloured with ochreous earth, which made the fish red. Both