//OiV.V D'CEri’RES, REMOVES, ENTREES 641 destroy the unity of the dinner. Hence it is advisable to omit oysters from a formal dinner. The hot hors cVoeuvres are distinguished hy never having any sauce. Grillades of small charcuterie, truffled petty- toes, cotelettes de presale, grilled sheep’s kidneys, are examples of ordinary hot hors d’cEuvres; another kind are little pates, such as were formerly sold, and distributed in the streets of Paris in the same manner as muffins and crumpets are in London, but really hot, and served from portable ovens. Many persons give these little pates as the only kind of hors d’oeuvre. When the soup is removed, its place is taken either by fish, or in absence of that, or after it, by a large dish, or by several such dishes called the relevds or removes. First of all releves is beef. That which comes from the bouillon, hence called houilli, is not served now at dinner; it is replaced by larded fillet, or roast beef with potatoes. Other releves are fish, e.g., carp, tui'bot, or any other sweet or salt water fish; calf’s foot, or a chicken bedded upon (an otto- man of) rice, with only a little gravy, or rough salt, or tarragon. The distinction between certain releves and entrees is often arbitrary, so that at some tables one may have offered to one under the appellation of the former what other equally distinguished tables offer under the title of the latter. Further, some dishes are given in one place as releves which elsewhere figure as roasts, such as truffled turkey [vide sugna, p. 490). The dishes preceding this course are considered prepara- tory, and the actual dinner is supposed to begin only with the dishes called entries. These, then, are the first essential part of a dinner; for there may be dinners without hors d’ceuvres, without soup, and even, or rather, of course, if there be no soup, without releves, but there cannot be a dinner without an entr6e. The recorded recipes for entrees are very numerous. A gastronomer of the name o*f Viard, 41