THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 3o6 sight of, and the name imrte. was applied to the thick paste of peas only, and to various other matters which admitted of similar treatment, and thus the following definition was arrived at. Purees are the products obtained by cooking, mashing, crushing, pounding, and sifting, from farinaceous substances, such as chestnuts, potatoes, or peas. These lend themselves naturally to the production of these preparations; but a number of other edible substances, vegetable as well as animal, have been forced through the process for the production of purees, and although they are not so suitable as the leguminous seeds, they furnish pro- ducts of essential usefulness in culinary practice, for purees may be served as dishes by themselves, or as garnishes or bases for roasts and entrees. They differ from sauces by their greater consistency and firmness, while a great number of them serve as bases—i.e., principal materials—for soups, of which they form the characteristic solid ingredients. To these we have already referred in previous paragraphs; here we confine our view to those preparations which serve as garnishes or as dishes by themselves. Some authors have words of lively praise for purees, and think that they ought to be more generally understood and practised. The production of a puree is essentially, as a certain interpretation of the name indicates, a purifying process, whereby edible parts are separated and removed from the rough or hard or inedible parts, and that by the mechanism of sifting. Thus, from leguminous fruit the indigestible shells are removed; from roots and leaves the stringy cellulose. Meat, which from its poverty or tough- ness would be sorry fare if boiled or roasted only, can be worked into a palatable and digestible condition. Old hens or partridges, the remains of cold poultry and of all game, can be turned to good account in a puree. Even an ancient and extraordinarily tough moorghee of Madras, says ‘ Wyveru,’ may be thus rendered fit to be eaten. Such vegetable and