651 COOKERY OF SOLDIERS IN THE FIELD affect the greatest number of victims are of the infectious and contagious kinds, and amongst these the most virulent and frequent are those which have their main seat in the intestinal canal, namely, enteric fever, or abdominal typhus, and dysentery. Healthy persons are the more liable to these diseases, the worse is their state of nutrition, and the more predisposed, the longer they have to live on coarse, indigestible, badly prepared food, particularly in case they have already contracted a state of indigestion or enteric catarrh by such agencies. It is therefore of the greatest im- portance for the preservation of the health of the soldier that his food should be of good quality and well prepared, so as to be easily digestible, and that can be attained only with the aid of proper cooking. Food is nutritious only as far as it is digestible, and what is of doubtful digestibility had better not be eaten, as it is sure to cause disturbance. Food must also be tasty, for man, at least, is practically unable to eat of tasteless or bad-tasting food such a quantity as is necessary for the maintenance of his weight and strength. For a similar reason changes of food are requisite, for mono- tony in food also produces an aversion, which acts as a hindrance to the full satisfaction of bodily wants. These con- siderations, which are valid as regards mankind in general, obtain particular emphasis in the case of armies in the field. The German war of 1866, though very short, had never- theless a severe outbreak of cholera in its train. But the Franco-German war of 1870-71 was relatively free from epidemic disease. This is ascribed to the rapid and great success of the German armies, who cleared the land of soldiers, or confined them in the fortresses, and were then enabled to quarter themselves comfortably and live on the entire wealth of the fertile country, almost without native competition. While they were in the lines round Paris the provisions were sometimes scanty, as beef was failing owing to the cattle plague ; but the mostly excellent quarters