42 THE SPIRIT OF COOKER! fashion; these circumstances produced him the nickname of “the tambour-major” of the Court of Cassation.’ We know from another judge of the same court, a colleague of Savarin, that the latter could no doubt hold forth theo- retically on culinary subjects, but that his dinners were of very inferior quality. ‘ One nowhere heard better talk about dining, and nowhere ate worse dinners, than at Brillat-Savarin’s table,’ said M. Pag6s. These circum- stances have produced an impression that Dr. Eicherand had a share in the spiritual authorship of this work. How- ever interesting it may be as a jm d'esprit, the ‘ Physiologie du Gout ’ has added nothing to the development of culinary art; the only (four) recipes left by Savarin prove that he was not an inventor. In Germany, Baron (or, as he is mostly called. Count) Eumohr published a work written by his privy cook, Konig,* to which we shall have to make repeated reference. A. Anthust and Baron Vaerst| published important works on gastrosophy, in which the French standard was at least attained. The scientific knoioledge of food, which bad been discussed and enlarged during the latter half of the last century by Johann Friedrich Zlickert§ (1737 to 1798), was augmented with its chemical consideration by Baron Liebig, || mainly after the precedent of the French chemist, Louis Proust. Food in general, and its dietetic relative estima- tion, was discussed by Jacob Moleschott,H the professor of * Konig, Jos., ‘ Geist der Kochkunst,’ iiberarbeitet und herausgegeben von C. F. von Ilumohr. 1832, 8vo., 2nd edition. t Anthus, A., ‘ Vorlesungen iiber Esskunst.’ Leipzig, 1838, 8vo. J Vaerst, Baron, ‘ Gastrosopby, oder die Lehre von den Ereuden der Tafel.’ Leipzig, 1851, 2 vols., 8vo. § Ziickert, Job. Friedr., j‘Materia alimentaria, in genera, classes, et species disposita’; Berol., 1769, 8vo. ‘Allgem. Abhandlungen von den Nahrungsmitteln,’ herau.sg. v. Sprengel ; Leipzig, 1790-98. ‘ Von den Speisen aus dem ThierreichBerlin, 1777, 8vo. ‘Von den Speisen aus dem Pflanzenreichib., 1778, 8vo. II Liebig, J. Baron von, ‘ Chemische Untersuchungen iiber das Fleisch Heidelb., 1847, 8vo. ‘Cbeinische Briefe’; ih., iii., 1851, 8vo. 1 M' leschott, Jacob, ‘ Lehre der NahrungsmittelEilangen, 1850, 8vo.