WHITEBAir AND MACKEREL 535 the Latin macularelli, little spots, the fish being marked with black irregular spot like stripes on the back. The skin of the French mackerel is of a sea-green colour ; their eyes are bright and golden ; the gills are very red, and, when they are pulled, carry the trail with them. These fish generally make their appearance off the Land’s End about the beginning of April, and as the weather gets warm they gradually come round the coast, and generally arrive off Brighton about May, and continue to remain about the Channel until they begin to shoot their spawn. After they have let go their roes, they are called shotten mackerel, and are not worth eating. It is in the early season, when they have least roe, that the flesh of these fish is in the highest perfection. There is also an after-season, when a few fine mackerel are taken (i.e., during the herring season, about October). These fish, after having had time to fatten and recover their strength, are full of high flavour, and their flesh is firm and juicy; they are commonly called silver mackerel, from their beautiful appearance; their colour is almost as bright when they are boiled as it was when they were taken. The roe of the male fish is soft, like the brains of a calf; that of the female is full of small eggs, and called hard roe. The latter principally, but sometimes also the former, is used in the garnishing of sundry dishes. Mackerel is frequentlyAoiZed, but many prefer it in the broiled state. Some French and English writers direct it to be served with cjooseberry sauce {sauce cl VAncjlaise ait groseilles a maquereato), a mixture of equal parts of goose- berry puree with butter sauce or veloute. Now, although this sauce is termed d VAncjlaise, we have never met with it in this country, nor, on inquiry, found a person who has had it made for his table, or eaten it. Its inception is evidently the result of the fact that the name of the fish in French is maquereau, and the name of the gooseberry in French is cjroseille a maquereau, probably because unripe