THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 330 not being eaten, it is mere waste ; and thirdly, because, being soaked, it fails in what we believe to have been its original object, when applied dry, as alone it ought to be, namely, to suck up as a sippet the superfluous liquid. In France asparagus is eaten either with butter or with oil, and people sometimes show strong preference for one or the other. Fontenelle js related to have had a strong liking for asparagus accommodated with oil. His friend, the Abb6 Terrason, on the contrary, liked to eat the asparagus with butter. The latter came one day to Fonte- nelle and invited himself to dinner. Fontenelle, knowing the preference of his guest for buttered asparagus, made, as he said, a sacrifice of half of what he had appointed all for himself; the Abbe was to have his share in butter, the host the remaining half with oil. Shortly before they were going to sit down to dinner, the Abbe grew very ill, and was seized with an apoplectic fit. Thereupon Fontenelle rose quickly, and, running towards the kitchen, called out: ‘ All the asparagus with oil now—all with oil !’ In culinary works a long list of special preparations of asparagus is generally found, but as they mostly begin with boiled asparagus, the difi'erences consist in the additions or the finishings only, and are mostly unimportant. Practi- cally the shoots are eaten in two forms—hot, with butter sauce, allemande or Dutch sauce, or cold with oil and vinegar. Some eat them hot with gravy, but the practice is rare. When the green shoots are cut into short slices, as long as thick, they are called asjjaragus peas—in French, more appropriately, asparagus en petits pois. For the pro- duction of such chopped asparagus sprue asparagus is to be used. The word ‘ sprue,’ used as an adjective, requires interpretation. It ordinarily signifies scoria3 or clinkers; sprue asparagus therefore, probably, are such as are unfit for service as entire shoots, and have to be cut up to hide their previous mutilation. A select luxury is Asparagus Points