536 THE SPIRIT OP COOKERY gooseberries were put into certain ragouts, particularly of fisb, to heighten the taste thereof. Thus the application furnished a surname. {Gj. M^rat et Delens, ‘Diet. Mat. Med.,’ art. Hibcs, vol. iv., p. 82.) The idea of combiniuf^ the sauce with the fish is evidently exclusively French, and the sauce should pass under the name of a la Gauloise. Marinaded and braised mackerel can be kept for a week or two in the larder ready for use. Fillets of mackerel may be grilled in ])aper ox fried. A recipe for stexoed mackerel is so complicated as to suffocate all natural flavour of the fish. Simpson, under a recipe entitled Mackarel a la Maitre cVHotel, directs the cook to boil mackarel herbs, and chop them quite fine, but without defining their nature; but we may infer from the composition of his mackarel sauce that they were chopped parsley, fennel, and mint, parboiled. Herrings, when iu season, that is, when the roe is just forming, are excellent and wholesome fish. They are generally of one size, because they are caught in nets of a certain mesh, in which they are arrested hy their own act of erecting the dorsal fin ; hut they are obtained otherwise of various sizes, as short as six inches and as long as four- teen inches, and of proportionate width and depth, weighing up to 4 lb. When of this exceptional size a fish is called a king or (iu,cen herring. You recognise them to be fresh by the redness of their gills and the brightness of their skins. The best herring for eating or preserving is the half full fish, or so-called mafic. The earliest fisheries for herring, at the time of King Alfred, were on the coast of Scotland. The Dutch first bought the fish from the native Scotch, and afterwards caught it themselves. The commerce in herrings, according to Eidous, began about the year 1320, just after the Teutons had established themselves on the Baltic. The invention of the art of salting and barrelling herrings is ascribed to a Dutch fisherman, whose name is variously spelled as William Beuckels, or Biicking, or Buckling, and