THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 422 Diet at Frankfort, that town was the metropolis of sel^ct international coolcery. The table d’hote of the Russische Hof on the Zeil reflected this culture, and its enterprising proprietor, Herr Sarg, well maintained this merited reputa- tion. He did so in all courses, all served on silver plate, but particularly by his puddings. When the Universal Peace Congress was assembled at Frankfort before the middle of the present century, many of its members dined at the Russische Hof, and they so well appreciated the fare, and particularly the puddings, that the quantity which was known to suffice for a certain number of persons in ordinary times had to be almost doubled during the Congress. In his ‘ Letters on Chemistry ’ the late Baron Liebig ascribed this fact, communicated to him by Sarg himself, to the cir- cumstance that a number of the Peace Congress men were total abstainers from alcoholic liquids. That may have contributed to the increased consumption of puddings, but we believe that the main cause of the unparalleled appetite, particularly of the Quaker members of the Congress, during that time was the unrivalled good quality of the puddings themselves. Our comparison of pudding with breccia has been anticipated by mineralogists in this, that they call some kinds of breccia imdding - stone. The concrete ■ of builders is an artificial imitation of the natural breccia; the concreted variegated Carrara marble is the finest example of natural pudding-stone. Puddings are, for the purpose of being boiled, placed into a shape or mould, or tied up in a cloth, or secured in both a cloth and a mould as well. All moulds, whether of metal or earthenware or poi’celain, have to be buttered, and crumbed or floured, before the pudding material is placed in; unlike souffles, puddings require but little space for ex- pansion. The mould containing the pudding may be sur- rounded by an outer vessel containing boiling water, a so- called water-bath, and may in this be placed in a hot oven