ASPIC JELLY 265 gtUe,; of these words the English jelly and the German (jallertc are corruptions. Moreover, gelatina, was made to indicate no longer the finished jolly, but the dry material from which it is produced. Savoury jelly is not only usefal in cold pasties and in the combination with cold meat, but it is also a very excellent refreshment for sick or weak persons. It is a tasty and easily assimilated refreshment only, and by no means a substantial nutriment. The common error, that the con- dition of jelly, assumed, e.g., by broth on cooling, in case it has been boiled for a long time with gristle, indicates the presence of a considerable amount of nutritive matter, must be eliminated. A quart of normal jelly contains but an ounce or one thirty-second part of its weight of gelatine; meat contains one quarter of its weight of albuminous substance. Allowing the elements of flesh and of collagen, the gristle out of which jelly is produced, to be of equal nutritive oxidizable value, a pound of meat would be eight times more nutritious than a pound of well-made culinary jelly. Jellies flavoured with fruit juices and aromatic herbs, sub- acidulous, faintly sweet, and well cooled, serve as agreeable, easily-digestible refections, by which dinners are agreeably prolonged, and the gustatory organs are cooled and amused at the same time. Such jellies belong to the ornamental and gustatory class of dishes in French termed g}lctts de goiXt. They may, of course, not contain any meaty flavour, no bouillon, no meat extract, no glace. It is a moot question whether the name asggic applies to the savoury jelly only, or also to the meat which may be enclosed in it, such as fillets of fowl, game, or fish, hard 6ggs, mushrooms and truffles. Dumas terms the aspic a cold enti'(ie, while allowing that the great cooks had ruled that there were no cold entries, which is the same as to say that they or their employers would not permit any such on their bills of fare. Some are said by Dumas to elect that