//ISTOKV AND PREPARATIONS OP CODFISH 543 rendered cahillaiid, or cabiau. When it is salted the French term it moruc (from the systematic Latin name Gadus morrhua). Salt cod in Holland and Germany is called laherdcm, salt and dried cod is termed kliiypfisli. Cod merely dried without having been salted is termed stockfish. The Portuguese term the latter bakeljau; if this be not a mere corruption by displacement of consonants, there may be a linguistic connection between stock, a stick, and baled, as a derivate from the Latin bctcuhcs, a stick. The codfish is stated by Anderson* to have the power of ejecting anything indigestible he may have swallowed by turning his stomach inside out through his mouth, and, after having emptied and well washed it with sea water, to retract it into his belly, and be ready for another meal. This fable is probably the result of the observation that the cod’s stomach is mostly found quite empty and clean, the result of his enormous digesting power. This has no doubt a great influence upon the flesh of the animal, and helps to keep it so healthy and clean as it is mostly found. Codfish plain-boiled, French cabillaud, or monte fraichc d la Hollandaise (Beauv., ii. 40), is a favourite form of pre- paration ; many put the fish in hot water, but Kitchiner p. 173, directs it to be placed, and its slices also, in cold water, and boiled for twenty minutes ; a piece of a large fish requires half an hour’s boiling. Take care that you always obtain and boil and serve with the fish a piece of the cod’s liver, its roe, and so-called chitterlings ; never allow these parts to be abstracted. The liver imparts more flavour than oyster sauce. Serve with brown butter and boiled potatoes; in England oyster sauce is preferred. Scollops of cod with bdchamel sauce is also a good formula. Salt cod boiled must be well prepared by soaking in water, for from six hours to two days ; take care to use soft water, • Ex D.D., 71y. Fresh cod, cf. ‘The Cook’s Cookery,’ p. IIG If you can, get a cod hot out of the sea,’ Kitchiner, p, 172.