THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 684 which is inucli used, is termed sapa. Robs were much used iu cookery; they are now called extracts, and a little more con- centrated than were the robs. Koti: French, meat cooked on the spit before the fire, roasted, or in the oven, baked. The roasts at festive dinners are the principal part of the so-called second service. The French call gros roti the large joints of roast meat, such as beef, veal, leg of mutton ; le petit roti is a fowl; game and small quadrupeds are petits pieds. Eoux, French, is the result of the frying of flour in butter or grease (lard, dripping). While frying, the mixture is constantly stirred to prevent the flour from forming lumps; from roux, feminine rousse, red, sandy {i.e. in colour). Roux brim is fried to a darker colour (a caramel of .starch); roux blauc (actually a con- tradiction in terms, but used) is hardly coloured or uncoloured; probably the starch is only a little caramelized, but mainly transformed into dextrine. Sauce rousse is brown sauce; beurre roux is broiuned butter without flour, also called beurre noir. Un (substantive) is given as ‘ brown butter sauce ’ in ‘Smith and Hamilton’s Dictionary’; but this is erroneous, as the roux is not complete by itself, but is an addition to sauces, soups, and ragouts. Some German cooks call the white roux Weissmeht, the brown roux Braunmehl, and the proce.ss of producing them das Einbreunen. S Sabayon : Italian name for wine (madeira or malvoisie) mulled with yolks, sugar, and cinnamon (D.D., 471). Saindoux; French, hog’s lard for frj-ing. Sally Lunn: Engli.sh, a tea-cake, after its inventor. Careme has Solilemie a I'Anglaise {toe. cit., ii. 32), and terms it \s[rossepiece de fond.' Salmagundy: a kind of salad of cold chicken, veal, eggs, beetroot, par.sle}-, anchovies, red pickled cabbage, ham, all finel}- minced, grated tongue, seasoning, herbs, and .spices. The ingredients are laid in rows, so as to produce designs, strata, and colour effects ; almost identical with Polish salad. Derivation of name not known ; may be connected with salmis in part. Salmis : a highly finished hash or ragout made with roast game or wild-fowl in a rich gravy or sauce. Salpicon, synonym salipicon : a savoury mixture of equal parts of meat and vegetables—such as truffles, nmshroom.s, tongue, sweet- bread, poultry', or game—that has undergone the process of cooking in a separate state, and of mincing preparator}- to being mixed with bechamel, allemande, or e.sjDagnole sauce. It may be used for filling boudins or patties. Salsiiis. See Scorzonera. Sarrasin: Saracen, buckwheat brought to France by the Moors. Sauce: What we now term sauce the ancient Romans called jus, plural,• the word became limited to the designation oCnicat- juice or gravy. A liquid in which meat was preserved or matured for cooking (now called a marinade) was at the time of Pliny termed salsngo, or salsitago. Jura and salsugos I'jccame mixed in