THE SPIRIT OF COOHERi Ii6 cold, and remove the fat from the top, or the bouillon from underneath the fat (the latter would be the quicker process if proper apparatus were employed). Secondly, we would have to clarify the broth by means of dissolving and causing to curdle in it, by heat, a certain quantity of white of egg. This would involve the purchase of the eggs, the heating of the white of the eggs, mixing it with the broth, adding lemon-juice, heating the mixture first to coagulation, next to boiling, and then allowing it to simmer until the separation of albumin and broth be complete. We should then have to filter the broth through a fine napkin. And then, with all this labour and expense, we should be just at the same point as that which we attain immediately by dis- solving an ounce of Proust’s extract in a quart of hot water. A quarter of a pound of the best manufacture of Proust’s extract of meat, or beef, costs 2s., therefore 1 oz. costs 6d.; this gives a quart of broth certainly equal in value of every description, if not superior, to the quart of broth for which the meat alone costs from Is. 4d. to Is. 6d., and upon which we should have to spend all the trouble, time, and expense (coals, eggs, lemon) described in the foregoing. Our standard broth therefore costs, as regards first outlay, only one-third of its equivalent of gravy-beef; but when we consider the work and expense of producing first-class broth from beef or mutton directly, we are constrained to say that such broth as elaborated from gravy-beef is at least six times as dear as broth from beef-extract of equal culinary value. In this argument it is assumed that the time of the cook, wear of apparatus, firing, albumin, lemon, and washing of two napkins, may be estimated at Is. fid. Preparation of Stock as commonly understood. Now let us compare with these processes for the prepara- tion of pure genuine bouillon, or meat-extract, the prepara- tion of stock as commonly understood and practised in even