648 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY taking their places, would behold something more nutritious than flowers, compotes, fruit, and gilt bronces. At the same time, all preparations which require to be eaten a point might be served on Jlyiny plates {an assieites volantcs) without their having had the opportunity of pleasing the eye by their appearance before they were served. During the serving of these latter dishes the large dishes could be con- veniently carved, and thus the intervals between two courses could be abbreviated. (This would be a repetition, on a small scale, of the old Italian mode of serving, at great banquets, alternately a hot course from the kitchen and a eold one from the sideboard.) But this alleged abbreviation is a fallacy, as the service d la Eusse would still remain the shortest one, the large dishes not having to be removed from the table, and being in all other respects in the same position as those intended to be served in French fashion. Those who like the table to be well covered with showy dishes maintain that ‘ one eats with the eye also,’ meaning that the sight of a dish proposed to be oaten is a pleasure or satisfaction. It is so as an assurance of the immediate realization of a desirable prospect. But the overdressed dishes to which we have objected are more apt to produce the feelings which were roused in Sancho Panza’s breast on the occasion of the feast by which he was deluded. If the service d la Franqaisc is to be continued in any form, the overdressing of the dishes will have to be omitted. A hill of fare, in French termed menu, is a culinary pro- gram, which has been arranged by the master or mistress of the house, or their deputy, mostly in consultation with the cook, has been carried out by the latter, and is laid before the diners at the table, in order that they may take their choice of the viands to be offered during the repast. With the French mode of service such a notice was less necessary than with the Bussian, to which latter, indeed, it is indispensable. The greater the dinner and the more