553 EEL AND ITS PREPARATIONS Of preparations, ccl sjntchcocked and grilled was once very popular; for this the eel was skinned, gutted, and boned, covered with spice, herbs, egged and crumbed, and grilled on a gridiron. The verb ‘ to spitchcock,’ of which the origin is not known, does not include frying, but only grilling. The Fi’ench cooks call spitchcocking the English way of di’essing eel. In some recipes the skin is left on the fish, but in others its removal is directed, as it is apt to offend delicate stomachs. Variations of spitchcocking are Anguille d la Broclie and d la Ste. M&neliould. Owing to its freedom from spinous bones, its fine flavour, and its universal distribution, eel is the most. popular of sweet-water fishes ; accordingly, it has been honoured with a great many modes of cooking. Stexving is perhaps the most frequently employed ; or it is steivcd, and then critmbed and fried ; or it is baked in the oven; or it may be boiled (French d la mimite), and eaten with brown butter, Dutch sauce, or poivrade. Plain-frying is the most rapid process of preparation. The Coxnpoxind Matelote of Eel deserves some notice, because it offers some analogy to the Boidlle abaisse in having carp, eel, tench, and perch for ingredients ; but it is saturated with garlic and onions, and to be ‘ moistened ’ with two bottles of Narbonne wine. The recipe is recorded and formulated by Vuillemot, the col- laborator of Dumas on the Dictionary, and, like much of what we have seen of his cookery, is essentially coarse ; but it was originally suggested by that gastro-philistine writer, Grimod de la Eeyniere, and this makes us wonder how a hard-headed business man could lend himself to perpetrate it. It shows the same waste of wine as the faisan Lxicullus, and this makes it impracticable on the one, and unsesthetical on the other, hand. Dumas, in wholesome fear of small bones, advised the matelote to be made of eeZonly, with soft and hard roe of carp. A number of variations of the matelote do not much alter its principal