OBJECTS AND RESULTS OF COOKERY 17 Reyuiere, but possess no trace of the refinement which their patron of the ‘ Ahnanach cles Gourmands ’ had at least in view. Most q%Londam housekeepers who have in later life become domestic encyclopedists endeavour to achieve the excelsior by mere additions of materials. They cannot write orthographically or grammatically,* and leave to the printers’ reader the task of correcting their spelling, at least in part; but no benevolent adviser weeds out the incongruous materials from recipes which were never really compounded anywhere, but invented at the writing-tahle for the astonishment of the poor cooks and housewives who could not bring together so many costly materials on so liberal a scale as that which sprang from the authoresses’ unbridled and cheap, imagination. The dogmatic manner in which some of the modern authoresses spoke of decoction of cow-beef as Kraft Briihen, or power-giving broths, did not deceive either physiologists or kitcheners, and even those who overlooked the ungrammatical diction for the supposed practical wisdom which might perchance have been collected from aristocratic or even royal kitchens, had to admit that the possible good to be obtained from the recommendations of these Kraft Briihen was overpowered by that hypocrisy, which defaces not a small number of French and German culinary publications. Happily we know not a single example of this intellectual aberration in British culinary literature, and we therefore need not follow the subject any further. The Delusion of Economical Cookery with ‘ Scraps costing Nothing.’ We are differently affected by culinary works which pro- fess to teach what they term economical jiractices, particularly * Mary Smith, in her ‘ Complete Housekeeper,’ 1772, 8vo., pp. lOo and 247, gave S.auce-Robert as ‘Roe-Boat-Sauce,’ an Omelette as ‘A Hamlet, and Queenly Soup as ‘Soupe k la Rain ’ (ex Kitchiner, p. 311, foot-note). Simpson, pp. 98 and 180, called .lulienne Soup ‘Soup Julian,’ etc. The style of some modern German culinary works is very vulgar, and dis- figured by barbarisms of French technical words provided with German endings. 2