THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 140 proportion which is contained in our standard broth. It is not improbable that the coat of the vegetables, bought ; retail, will amount to nearly (in London it would amount to more than) the cost of the meat. The nutritive value of the vegetables would be very small as compared to that of an equal money-value of meat. On the whole, therefore, the ■ pot-aio-feu, as above directed to he made, is an expensive ^ dish, however well it may suit those who seek the satis- faction from meals more in formality than in actual re- stocking of the physical powers. Gouffe'"'' gives some technical directions for the manner in which the boiling of ( the pot-au-feu is to be conducted. Firstly, the lid of the | boiler is not to be closed ‘ hermetically,’ because this would cause the broth to be turbid; but an opening is to be left two fingers in width ; then the boiling is to be interrupted three times by the addition of three decilitres of cold water to the large, and one decilitre to the small boiling-pot, and the scum is to be removed with the skimming-ladle each time. At this stage the vegetables are to be added, the pot is to be heated to ebullition, and then allowed to simmer on a moderate fire until all be done. You have next to remove the meat, which had been boned and tied up with a string before being placed above the bone in the water; you are then to take out the vegetables as soon as they are cooked, as they are said to take away much of the savour of the broth if allowed to remain too long in it. While the pot is boiling after the removal of meat and vegetables, you are to remove the grease from the top with the spoon provided to that end. You are to colour the bouillon, not with baked onions, or burnt carrots, or so-called colouring balls, but with caramel made from sugar by the cook’s own hand. Of the watery solution of caramel (made from h lb. of sugar, then dissolved in 2 lb. of water, and kept in liottles) you add a few drops to * Loc. cil., p. 41.