CODFISH AND HADDOCK 545 t _ __ Both require soft water for soaking, and the merely dried hsh must be kept in a solution of potash (carbonate) first, and then for forty-eight hours in a solution of caustic potash— i.e., 0. solution of carbonate (or beech-wood ash) made caustic with milk of lime. When again watered and cleaned, the fish may be parboiled—i e., kept in scalding water until done—but should never be boiled. It requires hroicn fitter, or butter sauce, in the alternative brown aromatic or piquant sauce. Racjotit of Salt Codfish—^French brandade de morue— much used in Proven9e and Languedoc, at a former period celebrated at Paris, derives its French name from the old French verb brandir, to brandish, fiourish, meaning, in its application to our dish, to stir, agitate, or shake; for, in order to attain its utmost excellence, it requires much patient stirring of a particular technical kind. The Bran- dade de Morue d la Mode de Montpellier is the most com- plete and accomplished dish of this kind, and can be served as releve of fish at a set dinner. The brandade can also be made with fresh cod, and is then de Gabillaud. Cods' sounds are their sioimmincj bladders, the analogues of isinglass, the bladder of the sturgeon. Cods’ sounds do not, on Ijoiling, dissolve as gelatine; they are prepared in various ways, and are more an object of fancy than a nutri- tious dish. Haddock is the callarias and galeris of the Eomans, Schellfish of the Germans, aigrefin or cglejin of the French. It has a very fine flavour when fresh and in season, which is from November to January for large fish, and from February to May for smaller ones. Some believe a fish weighing from six to seven pounds to be the best size ; but such fish are rare, and still more rare are fish weighing up to twelve pounds. The haddocks of the Loudon retail trade weigh a few pounds only at the outside, and the smaller ones are very disadvantageous food. When in the sea searching for their prey, they follow the young herrings and 35