228 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY in hot fat, is called roux, from its red colour. But colour is not essential to the quality of flour heated in fat to become a binding material, for dextrine is colourless ; but this colour- less binding material has no name of its own in culinary language ; it passes by the name, involving a contradiction in terms, of white rotix. Like the figure 1, which is the beginning of a number, so a white roux is the beginning of a roux actual. It would be useless to try to eliminate terms established by daily use in kitchens, and we there- fore deal with them as we find them, reserving our belief in the unlimited improvability of mankind, particularly that portion of it which is devoted to cooking. Now, these dextrines, red and white, on coming in contact with hot water swell up into more or less viscous, or gela- tinous, or adhesive masses, and impart to the liquids with which they are mixed a consistency reminding of paste. This consistency has the mixed advantages of solidity, or at least cohesion, and quick divisibility by dilution. The material which causes the viscosity or cohesion of the par- ticles of what is by itself a water-like broth, which gives it the physical body, as it is termed, is in culinary language called a thickening or binding, or liaison in ifrench, in English sometimes called leason. Besides these floury or dextrine leasons, there are the leasons made with eggs, also applicable to sauces. And here we may add that all these varieties of leasons or thickenings are applicable to sauces, soups, ragouts, and entrees. The addition of broth to roux must be done gradually, in small portions, with constant stirring in one direction, so that every portion of liquid added is cooled and absorbed before the next portion is added. If the broth were added to the roux suddenly, the two would not incorporate with each other, but remain separate, and the result would be the very contrary of the object of the operation, and quite irremediable. Egg-bindings also have to be added to the