THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 358 We add a dietetic caution to this enumeration of the most acceptable salads—namely, that great care should be exercised to obtain all the ingredients of these salads in as tender a state as possible to maintain their digestibility. Consumers, on the other hand, must be warned to use the salads as relishes with the meats and entremets, and there- fore in moderate quantity; this caution is the more requisite the more appetizing and attractive are these salads by the excellence of the materials or the diversity of the garnishes. An excellent herb with which to flavour salads, particularly those of lettuce, is the borage—Borago officinalis, L.; French, hourrache—with rough spiny leaves and blue flowers. The name borago is conjectured to be a modification of the verb corago, I rejoice the heart. The use of garlic in salads is as contested a subject as the use of these bulbs in general cookery. It is a practice of those desirous of imparting a mild garlic flavour to cichory or endive salad to place on the bottom of the salad-bowl a crust of stale bread which has been rubbed with more or less garlic. This small piece of bread is, in-France, called a capon {chapon). Of this name some humorous, though conflicting, explanations have been given, in which the Greek island of Cos, and the county of Gaux in France, dispute each other the honour of having first produced the capon. On the other hand, it is asserted that the chapon, consisting of a crust of stale bread rubbed with garlic, originated neither in Cos nor in Caux, but in Gascony ; and it is surmised that as the Gascons were poor and inclined to vanity, it might have, occurred to one of them to call the crust rubbed with garlic in the bottom of his salad-bowl a ‘ capon,’ in order to be able truthfully to reply to sympathetic friends inquiring after his dinner, or to spontaneously boast, that he had dined superbly on a and salad. And this combination of salad with a piece of bread a humorist has alleged to be a good enough dinner for a Gascon.