/•'A’)7.V6', S'l'EiyiXG, AXD COLLARIXG OF SEA FISH 517 crimped in boiling water, and then broiled. A mackerel should be split for broiling; slices of salmon or red mullet, and several others, should be grilled in paper envelopes. Frying is applicable to small fish in its entirety, or to slices and fillets of fish ; the piece to be fried should always be egged and crumbed. Mullet should be scored up on each side. Whitings and small jack are to be bent in a circle, and fixed in that position by skewers. Many varieties of fish are more conveniently fried after having been filleted; that is to say, after their flesh has been cut off the bones and divided in pretty equal pieces, dredged with flour, or egged and crumbed, or dipped in batter. Fry in hot oil or butter, and drain the friture of fat by placing it on absorbent or bibulous paper, sprinkle it with salt, and dish it upon a napkin or absorbent paper punched to a pattern or design. Stewing is less frequently applicable to fish than the previously considered modes of cooking. Eels and lampreys are stewed cut in slices; other fish require to be filleted before being stewed; the larger varieties must be cut in small slices (scollops or kebobs). Fry them in fat with a little onion, and herbs and spices; then add standard gravy, and stew for fifteen minutes or more, if the slices be large ; add some wine; thicken the sauce with yolk, or roux, and point with any essence or ketchup at hand to increase the savoury character of the sauce. Some writers make a dis- tinction between a stew and a fricassee of fish, which is based mainly upon tbe omission, in the case of stewing, of the preliminary frying. We think the distinction unim- portant and unnecessary, and, moreover, hold that the term fricassee, originally applied to a preparation of chicken only, should not be extended to fish. The collaring of fish signifies a process which consists in isolating in one piece the whole of the flesh of one side (or of both sides) of a fish, divesting it of head, tail, fins, and