THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 672 pectoralis major muscles are the large filets; the inner flesh close to the bone, pectoralis minor muscles, the small filets, or filets migiwns ■; the long back muscles of quadrupeds, on both sides of the spine, loins, when cut out are also called filets; roundish pieces cut out of meat or fowls; masses or strij)es of flesh cut out of fish; longish strips of any material, roots, nouilles, etc. In English culinary books spelt fillet. Fine herbs; a mixture of tarragon, parsley, chervil, shallots, chives, basil, and mushrooms chopped and .sweated in fat; practically, and in recipes, it means parsley only. Fisoli: Italian name for beans {pliaseoii) used at Vienna. Flamms; English, a kind of pancake. Flans: French, varieties of cake.s, resembling cheese cakes in con- struction. Flat cakes: English, cakes of flour, sugar, carawa3’S, eggs, and water. The stiff paste is rolled out thin and baked; when nearl}- done, each cake is dipped into a hot sj'rup of sugar and water in equal parts, and then completel}' dried in the oven. They keep for a long time. Fleurons; French, punched-out ornaments of bread, crust or fried, or of paste baked, or of other materials. Flip: English, a warm drink made of ale, eggs, and moist sugar, flavoured with nutmeg or ginger, and strengthened with .some rum or cognac brand}’. Florentines; French, small cakes covered with meringue froth {cf. Fanchonettes). Flummery; English, cold sweet dish, mainly of cereals, originally of oatmeal (‘Eaton’s Dictionary’), set in a mould (starch jelly), and turned out; to be eaten with wine, cider, milk, or a com- pound sauce. Dutch flummery is made with isinglass, yolk.s, and flavourings; Spanish flummery, of cream, rice flour, cinnamon, and .sugar, to be eaten with sweet preserves. Fond; French, the broth or juice of flesh which has been cooked in a Ijraise: may be, and mostly is, served as sauce; may be passed through tammy, separated from grease, thickened with roux. The juice of fish similarly obtained is called fish fond. Fondu; French (Careme writes fondu, and other.s .spell fondue), a preparation of cheese (three parts), eggs, mainly yolks (nine parts), and butter (one part), fused like Welsh rabbit. Friand, un, or une fnande: a dainty or nice person. Friander; to be dainty; seleet dainty things. Friandise ; daintines.s, epicurism, as well as the dainty itself Fricandeau; French, prune parts of veal or fillets of poidtry, etc., trimmed, larded, and glaced ydth a concentrated jelly; .served as side-dishes. A fricandeau is sometimes called a grenadin, a jierverted diminutive of Granada, (j.v. Fricassee: French, chicken cut in pieces and prepared in a while sauce, with truffles, mushrooms (cocks’ combs) as accessories. Friture: I'rench, the edible thing which has been fried; a fried culinary preparation. Frothing of roast joints or roasts in general = dredging the surface with flour, and bri.skly heating it to a brown colour before the fire, or with a red-hot disc of iron—a so-called salamander.