GIBELOTTE AND BRESOLLES OF RABBIT 477 tive, to signalize a dish, and to describe the form of the ingredients of the dish. Magiric authors of the last century placed bresolles with scallops, as they termed them casca- lopeSy and implied thereby slices of meat of the size of a penny, which might be cut from veal, mutton, lamb, or rabbit; they were always fried in oil, and then transformed into a ragout, to be served as entree or as hors d’muvre. Some modern French anecdote-hunters derive the name of the dish from that of a French marquis who served during the Seven Years’ War, in the course of which his valet is said to have invented the dish, and termed it, after his master, Bresolles. But bresolles were in use and well known long before that date, as is shown by the fact that, to- gether with cascalopes, they occupy the whole of chapter iii. of vol. iii. of La Chapelle’s ‘ Cuisinier Moderne.’ We have met in books of the present time v^'ith paragraphs on Lapins an Brezole, and with the deviating spelling a very different dish, which we believe more likely to have been invented by the valet than the other one. For the rabbit’s flesh worked into a farce, with the usual additions, was to be tied up in the rabbit-skin, and braised, but you were not told how to deal with the hair of the skin. Brdsolles of Fillets icith Croquettes of Legs of Babbit are a very accomplished dish, to be served with garnishes and allemande sauce. Babbit cooked in its Skin is a recipe of Vuillemot’s, from the time when he was proprietor of the Tete Noire at St. Cloud, and had a contract for the sale of rabbits from large hunting-fields. It was then that he made that dish of a hundred rabbits' tongioes, which was so much admired. The rabbit to be cooked in its skin should be a wild one, and have been captured with a snare. It should be gutted and stuffed through a small opening. Some oil is then to be introduced between skin and flesh, and distributed by hanging up the carcase and changing its position from head