OBJECTS AND RESULTS OF COOKERY 7 sion of the keys to practical solutions which they have obtained from their masters, and which were more fre- quently preserved as secrets than proclaimed for general use. But even when we scrutinize these keys, manuscript collections of recipes, or their elaborate forms in works on cookery which have been under the correcting, or, at all events, grammatically modifying, influence of literary skill, we find them displaying a great number of shortcomings, mainly arising from the want of the knowledge of scientific principles. Of this the completely erroneous notions about hones and their influence in the inoduction of hroth are the most universal proof. These errors were never discovered, never even dreamt of by cooks ; maintained by housewives with rare pertinacity; upheld in all cookery-books with concerted fallacy, and practised in the smallest kitchens as well as the richest and highest ones in all lands. It re- quired a scientific physician and chemist to dispel such deleterious notions, and put in their place a correct scien- tific knowledge of the principles which guide the production of savour, and of the materials which are its foundation. The history of this error illustrates in a striking manner that part of the first aphorism of Hippocrates which enunciates that experience is fallacious and judgment diflicult. Some have supposed that women were particularly qualified to become authoresses of works on cookery. This conception was so prevalent in the last century that a medical practitioner, a Dr. Hill, is reported to have pub- lished a work of his own under the assumed name of ‘ Hannah Glasse.’* This practice was followed in other The question of the authorship of Mrs. G-lasse’s ‘ Art of Cookery ’ has been discussed in the columns of the Times, September 17--21, 1891, by Mr. W. F. Waller and Mr. G. A. Sala. Someone had alleged that the popularly known opening or preamble of a fabulous receipt for cooking a hare was to be found in Mi’s. Glasse’s work ; others endeavoured to explain the humour by a misprint imputed to the same work, whereby