LAMPREYS AND FABLES CONCERNING THEM 55T that the Eomans fed lamprej^s upon tlie dead bodies of slaves; or that Pollio ordered a living slave, who had maliciously broken a glass vessel, ‘ to be thrown to the lampreys’ (as if they were tigers); or that Henry L, King of England, died (1135) of a surfeit of lampreys; and that other persons in subsequent centuries had a similar mis- fortune. The lamprey resembles the eel in shape ; it lives in the sea, but in spring rises into rivers ; in colour it is greenish yellow, with golden patches and black points ; its under side is paler; it grows up to 7 lb. in weight. The river Severn yielded some of the best, and the town of Gloucester used to present annually (about New Year) a pasty of lampreys to the sovereign of England. Platina reproved the popes and great folks of Eome for their luxury in lampreys, which were, he said, drowned in Cyprus wine, with a nutmeg in the mouth and a clove in each gill-hole. Perhaps the wine was drunk after all, as in the case of salmon a la CiSnevoise, and appeared only in the kitchen bills as the court bouillon of the fish. Young lampreys (in French lamjprillons) are much fancied. The fry are called in French sejpt-ceil, in German nine-eye, from the gill-holes on the neck ; some declare these fish to be a distinct species. They are prepared at Eouen and Barfleur with a mixture of butter, pur4e of sorrel, and fine herbs, and considered as a delicate hors d’oeuvre. The large lampreys are to this day in France prepared in the same manner as in the sixteenth century; the prepara- tion is called Vangevine. We conjecture that this word should be spelled anchevine, and thus show its relation to, or descent from, anchovy. The lamprey of the Thames is much smaller than that of the Severn, and considered to be a different sort; it is called laniggefn, and can be obtained from London fishmongers during the time from October till March. The lampreys must be parboiled in salt and water to discharge the muddy taste with which they are