398 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Careme, in his ‘ Patissier Eoyal Parisien ’ (i. 34), said of the true brioche : ‘ C’est une bonne chose qu’ane brioche bien faite et mangee chaude.’ K'lUjelhoi^fe is the German counterpart of the French brioche, and passes in French culinary works under the name of cougloff a Valhmande. The best recipe is that given by Careme, who obtained it from Eugen Wolf, cook of Fiirst Schwarzenberg, as producing the best Vienna make, and believed it to be an enrichment of the grand French, national pdtisserie* Variations of Kugelhopfe (also termed Kugellmpf in Austria and Bavaria) are obtained by additions. English recipes add Jordan almonds. A Fvench Parisian Cake is essentially a Kugelhopfe with the addition of pistachios, almonds, or candied orange peel. Another compound Kugelhopfe has been called Victoria Cake, its only peculiarity being dried cherries and cinnamon. A royal cook served this cake hot as a second course remove, with hot sauce made of apricot jam diluted with lemon-juice or with German custard and wine sauce. The Baba is a cake of Polish origin, and, according to the Countess Eisleff, n6e Countess Potoka, and related to King Stanislas Leczinsky, the father-in-law of Louis XV., ought sti’ictly to be made with rye-flour and moistened with sweet wine of Hungary. But it has now been assimilated to the great cakes of the cultured nations, and, like them, is made with wheateu flour. It should whenever practicable be made of sufficient size to be served as a large massive dish, and as entremets, and to be able to figure during several days on the buffet for accidental want. * Careme called his informant ‘ M. Eugene,’ omitting his family name of Wolf. He also disapproved of the crumbing of the mould, as it spoiled the colour. Dumas’s recipe is inexact by the omission of 8 oz. of liquid butter and the premature introduction of sugar. Many other copyists have similar errors. In our experiments we followed Carfime and some Austrian inodiKcations with coinj)lete success ; also for small Frankfort Kwjdhopfe., S.G.]<'. (anonymous German cookery-book), 553.