353 SALADS AND THEIR DRESSINGS should be the last, and should be made with a sparing hand. Wine vinegar is preferable to any other, next comes malt vinegar; least acceptable, though chemically pure, is the diluted acetic acid obtained from the products of the dry distillation of wood. Some may consider these injunc- tions superfluous, but they are either unknown to or un- observed by numbers of cooks even in great establishments. We have so often seen cucumbers immersed in mere vinegar, dusted over with pepper, and oil floating on the top, and other similar gaucheries, that we point out anew the old well-known rules. Many prefer salads with oil and vinegar only; others choose more complicated dressings. Some of these can be kept ready in bottles, and are therefore suitable for quick applica- tion or oft-repeated use, as in restaurants. They all resemble mayonnaise sauce ; one is made with puree of boiled yolks, a little milk, and oil or fried butter, salt, sugar, mustard, and at last vinegar ; another is made with boiled yolks and raw yolks added later, oil, vinegar and spices. These sauces or dressings must be creamy, and so thick as to adhere to the lettuce or other vegetable. Other dressings have been mentioned under the heading of Gold Sauces. For Potato Salad the thinly-sliced boiled tubers of suit- able, consistent, not floury quality should be drenched with good bouillon or standard solution of Proust’s meat extract, half an ounce to the pint of hot water. No more bouillon must be added than the thinly-sliced potatoes will absorb. Then salt and pepper, and after them the oil, has to be added, care being taken to lubricate the salad with a sufficiency of the latter. If to this a little good vinegar be added, it forms an excellent dish. It may be made the basis of more compound salads, either with vegetables, or with such and fish, or meat; such compositions have re- ceived certain names by which they appear appropriated to nationalities, Italian, Polish, Russian, etc. Of these dishes more will be said in subsequent chapters. 23