THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 470 stomach of man and that of the pig have no great resem- blance to each other. In man this viscus has the shape of a bagpipe, in the pig it is globular; in man the liver is divided in three lobes, in the pig it is long and flat; in man the intestinal canal is seven to eight times as long as the body, in the pig it is from fifteen to eighteen times the length of the body. The caul {cawl, hall, epiploon, net, in French commonly called toilette or crdpine) is larger and more charged with fat, and what is most consoling for delicate souls who want to have nothing in common with the nature of the pigs is this, that its heart differs notably from that of man. I may add for the learned and aesthetical that the volume of the pig’s brain is also much smaller than that of man, which proves that its intellectual faculties are much smaller than those of our Academicians.’ The pig is, like the rabbit, one of the most prolific animals. The French Marshal Vauban wrote a treatise on pigs, humorously entitled ‘ Ma Cochonnerie,’ in which he calcu- lated the possible posterity of a sow to be, after twelve years, more than 6,000,000 of porkers. The various parts of the pig are more frequently used in the kitchen than those of other animals, as is proved by the perusal of any cookery-book, and as can be seen in many kitchens where cookery is carried on by mere tradition, without any written or printed record. Bacon and ham are most frequently used, the other parts of pork are less sought after; however, hoar’s limcl is a dis- tinguished dish when prepared by a cook who understands that its value consists in its appreciation as an atavistic tradition. The feet are dressed after the fashion of Ste. M6ndhould, or stuffed with truffles ; the ears are served cn meim de roi; and tlie breast is used in many ragoiUs. No part need be thrown away. Of its blood black pudding is made; of its intestines are made chitterlings (Fr. andonilles, Lat. edulia, Germ. Kaldanncn), of the fragments