682 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY and is itself a contraction of placoeis, meaning flat, plane, even, broad, so that the Greek name of cake seems to embody the idea of its accidental shape, and not to he a symbol of its' intrinsic nature. Placouse: a dariole with apricot jam and nuts, such as almonds, pistachios, or filberts. (The name does not occur in either ka Chapelle, ‘Dons de Comus,’ or Careme.) Apricots and nuts being above the custard, a placouse is a tran.sition from dariole to fanchonette. The culinary levellers of small modern manuals have absnrdl}- called the placouse ‘apricot nougat,’ thus proving that they know neither the nature of a placouse nor the character of nougat. Plucke, French, or plush English, a mixture of leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettixce, or sorrel, chopped or cut small; the herbs are used mixed or separatel}^ as may be prescribed. Polony : a dr}' sausage, made of meat partly cooked. A corruption of Bologna sausage (‘Heyse’s Etymological Dictionary’). Pommes d’Api; small rosy apples named after the Roman Appius (‘Smith and Hamilton’s Dictionary'), bxxt the nature of the con- nection of the name with the fruit is not explained. Perhaps the French name has some relation to the German Apfel and the English apple. Porringer: a small dish for porridge. Posset: hot milk, curdled with wine or acid ; from the Welsh posel, curdled milk; pusoid, possetnm ; zythogala {q.v.). Potage: French for soup. The French national comic person is called ‘Jean Potage,’ as the German equivalent goes by the name of ‘ Plans Wurst,’ and the Engli.sh used to be called by the now obsolete name of ‘Jack Pudding.’ Pottinger, or potter: learned pottinger, potter carrier; ancient popular name of apothecary or spice merchant. Poupeton: French, a preparation consisting of rice boiled in broth, and set up as a border, filled with fricassee of fowl or fish ; or a ragout of meat, covered with rice, breadcrumb, Parma cheese, butter, and baked to colour in an oven. D.D., 903, defines it as a cake made with ha.shed meat or fish. Roa.st pigeons or fowls are immersed in the hachis. Poupetonniere: French, a vessel to make a poupeton in. Praline : burnt almond; hencepraliner, to roast, burn crisp. Presale, or pre-sale: specially good mutton, from a place of that name (‘ M. des Amphit.,’ p. 43 ; Goufte, 534). Profitrolles: a light kind of pastry, creamed inside. Puchero: Spanish national dish, ragout of meat and vegetables, the simple form of olla {q.v.). Pudding, English, is of uncertain derivation ; in French it was formerly called poutin (La Chapelle), or poutinade (‘Dons de Comu-s,’ i. 298), but the spelling does not occur in modern dic- tionaries. The modern French culinary word bondin is not prac- tically equivalent to pudding, as its application is confined to compositions of meat, or other animal products, such as the English black piiddmg. Puree; French, a pulpy maceration or paste of roa,st meat, vcge- table.s, fruit, etc., pas.sed through a tammy or sieve.