THE SPIRIT OP COOKERY 236 of preparing the broth for sauces again in this place. Let the cook bear in mind that the flavours must be adapted to each grand sauce; the brown or espagnole bears the strongest flavours and admixture; velouU, hichamel, alle- mande, and butter sauce require to be mildly flavoured and spiced. If these general conditions are remembered, the principles of the preparation of the sauces and their derivates will be easily understood and applied. In what is called the bourgeois kitchen, or, rather, in the recipes written for the use of such, the rule that a sauce must he savoury luith meat-extract is strangely forgotten; also the necessity of transforming flour into dextrine is not insisted upon, or the process is so imperfectly defined that it is only partially attained. More commonly a thickening with mere flour is obtained, as in the liaison above stated after Gouffe; this imparts a crude paste taste, the taste which characterizes badly-made so-called melted butter, being a gruel with a little butter stirred into it. We have studied many cookery-books in this particular respect, and have found most of them lamentably deficient owing to the want of the proper theoretical appreciation of the processes in question. The next essential part of the preparation of savoury sauces consists in the boiling down of all the extracts, including the aspic added to a glace. This produces, as we know from the consommes in the last stage, the caramels of osmazome, which are the most savoury sub- stances attainable. This was so well known to the master cooks of the last century that they termed such condensed coulis caramels directly, without qualification or adjective. The broion coulis are only fit for broion sauce, hence brown sauce is that which can be made the most tasty of all sauces; but for luhite and bland sauces the coulis must be kept as pale as possible; evaporation, therefore, must not be carried to the point of caramelization; just as the roux has been kept white, so tlie couUs must be kept white.