THE SPIRIT OF COOKER) 676 fish, scolloped shellfish, macaroni, poullr}^ game, sweetbread, brains, ox-pith, horlys of fish, poultry, or game. Cold hors d'ceuvrcs are eaten immediately after 'the soup and fish, and consist of sardines, anchovies, tunny, Dutch herrings, savoury butter, oysters, oiled salads (Francatelli). Hotchpot: Scotch dish of mutton, corrupted to ‘hotch-potch,’ and further to ‘ hodge-podge ’; from French hochc-pot. The novelist R. D. Blackmore, in ‘Kit and Kitty,’ p. 282 (1890), has the following statement: ‘ “ It (Hotchpot Hall) taketh its name,” .sa}'s an old countj^ book, “from a very ancient rule of law, that if sisters be in coparcenar}-, as heiresses to landed e.state, and one of them has from the same source a several estate by franc marriage, she shall (as is just and seemly) bring that into hotch- pot, which signifieth a mixture for a pudding, ere ever she can enjoy rights with the rest.” ’ I Ische-bone. See Aitch-bone. J Jacobins; nickname of quenelles of custard which became fashion- able during the Revolution; after the restoration their name was changed to Royals. Jardiniere: French, a jireparation of mixed vegetable.s, stewed in a sauce, with savoury additions ; also a soup with the .same. Julep: ancient Arabian name for a calming drink, containing mucilage and opium; possibly connected with the Persian aiul Arabian name of the bulbs of orchis—shlep, sahhlcb, salap, or Salop (spelled saloop in ‘ Faton’s Dictionari' ’)—which yields a mucilaginous infusion (satyrion of the ancients). Jumbles: under this name pass confections of varj'ing degrees of complication, as the name, signifi-ing confused mixture, seems to indicate. Early in the present centiir}'jumbles were thin cakes made of equal parts of flour and sugar, with a little yolk flavoured with rose-water and lemon-peel. The paste, cut into fancj" shapes (hence perhaps the name), was baked on tins until the edges began to brown. In Eondon, during the nineteenth centurj^ jumbles were sweetmeats much coveted b}’ children, represented b}- thin, semi-transparent, crisp, fragile, brown, rollecl-iip or conicallv- bent leaflets, having the appearance and taste of rolled-out butter-scotch. In this iiopular confection a degradation is perceptible, iiiasmuch as frequentl)- it is no longer crisp and vitreous, but flexible, viscous, and sticky to the fingers. Almond jumbles are little cakes made of flour, butter, sugar, almonds, 3'olk, and cream, flavoured at pleasure, iced with sugar and white of egg, and baked. Junket: English, hot milk curdled with rennet, sweetened with sugar, flavoured with brand}' or whisky, and enriched with Devonshire clotted or with whipped cream. Eventually, junket is a preparation of curdled milk, or curds, which are placed upon rushes (ha.i\n juncu.s) to allow the last portion of whey to nercolate and become absorbed. Junket has also been defineu as any sweetmeat carried in little ba.skets made of rushes; also used