21 THE HISTORIC LITERATURE OE COOKER} different interpretations. Thus, Rumohr* quotes, as a proof of the deterioration and downfall of Roman cookery, and of its tendency to lose sight of the natural destination of eat- able things, the passage from Horace f given below; but to our mind this passage proves nothing of the kind. Even supposing, with Rumohr, that the fish alluded to in this passage, the sea-barbel, had been reduced to a mince, or to a pounded and sifted paste, such as we know in our days as puree, or potted meat, and had be'en served as such in single fricandelles or poached quenelles, this would prove to our mind as little a downward tendency of cookery as the use of potted meat and fish, e.g., potted bloater or chicken and ham, is proof of any decay in our days. That the fish was not always served in its natural shape follows from a passage in Apicius but a passage in Seneca, § less open to doubt than that from Horace, seems absolutely to oppose the interpretation of Rumohr. Roman and Greek Culinary Writers. When the work ascribed to Apicius j| was written, the art of cookery must have been greatly developed. But it is * Rumohr, Count, ‘ Geist der Kochkunsb,’ p. 3. f Horace, Sat., ii. 2, 341 : ‘ Laudas, insane, trilibrem Mullum, in singula quenl minuas pulmenta necesse est.’ Now, according to Rumohr, singula pulrntnla would mean separate dishes, separately prepared ; but according to Georges, Diet. Lat., singula pulmenta are single pieces, carved portions of the served fish which each guest receives. Georges quotes just this passage from Horace (Sat., ii. 2, 341). , Apicius, lib. ix., cap. xiii. (de mullo): *et si volueris in foi'mella piscem formabis. ’ § Seneca, Epist. 95, ‘ torti distractique sine ullis ossibus mulli ’ This seems an accurate description of rolled fillets of barbel, and may have been a very accomplished and by no means over-dressed dish. .11 Apicii Coelii, ‘ De Arte Coquendi.’ Libri decern, ‘de opsoniis et cou- dimentis, s. arte c-quinaria.’ Many editions, a good one by Mart. Lister Amstelodam., 1709. Lister believes the author to have been an Africaii who compiled his work from different Greek, Roman, and African authors, and whose_ name was Cselius or Ctecilius, and who gave to his book the title Apicius, in the same manner as Cicero entitled his work ‘De