forcemeat FOR STUFFINGS, ETC. 29S in which case some cooks are satisfied with old hens as material; of i)cu'trichjcs and phcascmts, in which cases also age is no objection, if the meat be pounded and mixed with panada and butter. Of fish several varieties are suitable for farce ; foremost the ivhiting, because it is neutral, and may he adapted to a variety of farces; haddocks, eels, and the cheaper varieties of fish should be employed. Lobster also is suitable. All fish farces require binding material, panada, egg-yolk, and thick sauce. The liver of calves and of venison also gives a good farce, by scraping and using the pulp only. Veal and pork also may be scraped instead of minced and pounded, and thus become most suitable for stuffings for turkeys and capons. Smaller birds, like pigeons, of milder taste, are better stuffed with a savoury panada, well spiced and egged, and kept rather fat. The panada should be soaked in broth. Many cooks prefer as binding material for farce a hatter made of flour, butter, chicken- broth, and eggs, and cooked, called cooked batter, or pate d choux; from its substitution for panada, it is also termed jjdte d choux panada, a false pleonasm to be discontinued. The reason for which this paste was called d choux has not been preserved. The broth panada and cooked batter are mainly used with minces or purees of meat for the pro- duction of quenelles. Water panada is a regular ingredient of so-called Cambridge sausages; such on every section become blue-black with iodine. Apart from the question of diminished value, the admixture of bread not rarely gives rise to the formation of sugar from starch by the diastatic action of the gut in which the farce is enclosed. A delicate farce much fancied by the French is made of calfs ndder boiled in broth and transformed into purde ; mixed with pounded fillets of chicken, panada, etc., and delicately spiced and sauced, it forms an excellent material for quenelles. Variations are obtained by substituting for fowl grouse, pheasant, partridge, or hare. When small birds.