443 PREPARATIONS OF OX-PALATES enclosed in a buttered paper and tied up, the bundle is called a pawpietta (also spelled popiette). Such paupiettes may be boiled in broth, drained on paper, and sent to table with the canelons enclosed ; or the canelons may be removed from the envelope, and served with financihre sauce. The palates may be accommodated with Italian broion or cspagnolc sauce; with white velouti sauce {a la Poulctte); they may be made into a salpicon, bound with egg-yolks, egged, crumbed and fried as croqiicttes. With salpicon wrapped in sliced calf's redder or jjzy’s caid, they are termed cn Grctcovie. Stewed in brown sauce they become d la Lyonnaise. Sandwiched with ham and grilled, they are termed an Chingaras, meaning after the manner of the gipsies (Zingaras). Of this expression an author has made au chien gras. Minced, called en menus droits, or en allu- mettes, the palates may be fried with additions, and covered with allemande or espagnole sauce ; but this ragout suffers from the want of external appearance. They may be dressed with the sauce best adapted to the ragout of calf's head, THe de Veau en Tortue (falsely termed d la tortue), and then also pass as en tortue; in this form they are very much like the thinner flaps of turtle. They may be made in a ragout with truffles and mushrooms, and served in paper capsules. Ox-palates en Hatereaio require a light -and fine farce, and covering with a batter, and frying in flowing fat.* For the form called en Hatelettes a good synonym would be on skeiuers or as hubabs. There are other forms, but not characteristic, such as h la Bavigote, au Parmesan. The classic forms have a social significance not difficult to appre- ciate, for if they are tasty they remain light entertainments, gustatory amusements, of the class of entrees, which are not An atlereau or halercau was originally a dish made of stewed veal and pork, a popular ragoftt at home in the Bretagne. The recipe which is given by Francatelli, N. 825, for ‘ A Iter emix (surnamed a la Duxellcs),' is the result of a confusion of an halereati with an hatelelte. Both wore given originally in ‘Dons de Cornus,’ i., pp. 158, 162. '1