673 DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS Frumenti: corrupted synonym fiirincnti, also Jiruiily (Somerset- shire finuity, ‘Eaton’s Dictionary’), a food eaten warm or cold, made of wheat, boiled in milk to a jellj'; later currants, siiji^ar, yolks, and spice are added. Old Frenchboiled wheat, or boiled corn of any kind; from Latin fniDicntuin, ^rain. The limitation to wheat is very late. In this connection it should be remembered that frumcn (Latin) signifies a paste, gruel, or better porridge. Fumet; French, an extract of game, or any peculiarly flavoured substance used to impart the flavour to other dishes. [Also a ragoiit of partridges and rabbits braised in wine; this exceptional meaning (D.D., 5S0) should be expunged.] G Galantine: a fowl boned and stuffed with pieces of meat and farce, and garnished with jelly or aspic. Galimafre (D.D., 585), or Galimafree (thus He3'se, ‘Etymol. Diet.’): name of a ragout, made of so-called offal or remains of meat with certain flavourings. Origin of word unknown. Tropicall3' = con- fused speech, unintelligible mixture. (See Galimafree of Sheep’s Head and Pluck under Preparations of Mutton.) Garbure: French, originally a soup of cabbage and bacon. Sei^eral garbures, with turnips and other vegetables, are mentioned. In ‘iNIan. d. Amphit.’ a number are named, e.g., p. 215, au fromage. ‘Garbure came from Spain to France, where it was best made in Languedoc, and frequently used; the addition of (Parma) cheese introduced an Italian element, and the preparation thus represents a triple alliance in a soup-dish’ (‘Man. d. Amphit.,’ p. 217). Gargotage: French—ill-dressed victuals. Gargote: small or bad cookshop. Gargoter: to frequent small or low eating-houses. Gargotier: keeper of a cook.shop, abso a bad cook. The root gargol is supposed 1)3’.some to be derived by corruption from the Gernian Garkoch, a cook and vendor of ready-cooked viands. Garnish, to: English, FrenchItsMun giiarnire, to ornament or adorn, to add .something which will make the thing which is garnished look better or more iileasing. Garnish: English, the thing added to a cooked article on a plate read3’ for being pre.sented to the diners, in order to surround, support, or adorn it. The woial is now frequentl3’ u.sed in culinary works to signify vegetables added to preparations in cour.se of cooking for the jnirpose of imparting flavour. A garnish may but need not be eatable—e.g., the iiar.sle3’ round cold meat. A frequent garnish to ragouts are sippets of toast, which have the advantage of sucking up .sauce, whence their name; a more accomplished form of thc.se sippets are the croutons, or sippets fried in fat, perhajis the garnisli most fre(iuentl3’ useil bv Italian anfl I'rench cooks. Cocks' combs are a garnish freiiucntlv u.sed in ragoiils; small mushrooms, i\w(\. /yo/j carved in fanciful s'hajies, are abso amongst the garnishes. 43