io6 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Eumohrwas in possession of accounts of the housekeeping of Louis XV. of France for the year 1756 ; these documents proved that at the table of the Eoyal Family only eight or nine dishes were served, while sixty appeared daily on the table of Louis XVIII. But two-thirds of the meat which was used in the kitchen were employed in the production of bouillon intended for incorporation with the rest. This is a very clear manifestation of the tendency of the art of cookery since the Eenaissance. In culinary publications of the same period, e.p., ‘ Dons de Comus,’ a book which passed through many editions, the genuine French mode of preparing dishes with broth is given, but at the same time, and very properly, many of the over-mixed and over-cooked little dishes of Italian art are described. Thus, in the chapter on ‘ Divers Entremets ’ we find, under the title of roties, those little pieces of fried bread, crustini, covered with some forcemeat, which to this day form so prominent a part of the garnish of Italian dishes.* The French Eevolution improved the condition of the lower classes, and with this revived the use of the old French domestic meat-soup, the po^-u«-/czi.t This had the effect of making the taste of the nation averse to the strong spices, and inclined to a blander, simpler, finer diet. The whole canon of French cooking was spread through Europe, and even to East India, by the soldiers as well as the fugi- tives from France. And the latter learned in England and transferred to France those splendid modes of roasting meat for which the English kitchen is celebrated, and which the French kitchen, though largely profiting, has not even at present completely acquired. Eepublic and First Empire maintained the best traditions, as is shown by memis from the time of Barere to the end of that of Napoleon. But the Eestoration, under the corrupting example of Louis XVIII., * ‘ Tant en gras qu’en maigre,’ tom. iii., chap, vi., p. 137. t Of. infra, where several modern recipes for this dish are given.