442 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY running down the palate in the median line. Each corruga- tion or fold is crenulated at its free margin ; each half of the palate has sixteen corrugations, the whole, therefore, thirty- two. These arrangements give to the dressed ox-palate and its slices a very characteristic pattern. Many palates are perfectly unpigmented, and these should be chosen for white sauce accompaniment; some, however, are piebald, with greater or smaller patches of pigment, brown or black in colour. These spots, if confined to the middle, when they are called in French diirillon du milieu (‘ Dons de Comus,’ i., p. 156), or not too large in area, maybe cut out if they affect the appearance of the dish; they never affect its taste or quality, and rather lend depth to a brown sauce. In the principal culinary works of the seventeenth and early parts of the eighteenth century ox-palates are not treated, so that neither De Varennes nor La Chapelle mentions them. They appear on the literary scene with ‘ Dons de Comus,’ and receive at once thirteen different kinds of treatment; of these Beauvilliers retained seven, Goufle only one. All recipes, wherever described, are after ‘ Dons de Comus,’ except one, which is a generalization with curry. Ox-palates require a general preparation for the removal of the mucous membrane, which if left gives them a ragged appearance. This may be done quickly by skilful grilling, or more slowly and securely by boiling in water and scrap- ing ; the hard border directed to the lip, and the flesh belonging to the soft palate, should be cut off and removed. Clean and parboil the palates thus dressed; boil them in an aromatised blanc for three or four hours until they are so tender that they can be easily cut with a fork or spoon. Then cut them in two along the median line, and in obloug squares to suit the dish, or to any size required by sub- sequent dressing. Covered with farce, rolled, and gratinated, they become caiielons. When a number of such cauelons, say six, are