WOODCOCK AND SNIPE AND THEIR TRAIL 505 be just introduced to the cook for her to show it the fire, and then send it up to table. We have above seen its use in the boned state as material for a galantine of pheasant; it also yields a delicious pur4e (but for this tough birds only should be used), on which larded partridge fillets may be placed. As salmis, woodcock is raised by truffles in taste; but its flavour always remains peculiar, and it does not agree with everybody’s digestion. Eietiuevers do not like the smell of it, and not rarely decline to bring it in. Elzear Blaze,* a noted French sportsman and cook ('1786-1848), was enthusiastic in his praise of the woodcock. Both woodcock and snipe are remarkable by the fact of the contents of their trail being eaten and considered a delicacy. Like the contents of the lobster’s stomach, the contents of the trail of these birds consist of digested animal matter, mostly paludal and terrestrial insects, worms, etc., and though a little sandy occasionally, taste, when properly spiced, like a fine farce. Some draw the trail before cooking the bird, some only when it is half cooked ; its contents are then mixed with the pounded liver and spice and mustard on a silver plate, and further treated. Either the woodcock, cut in four quarters, is placed upon this, and its roasting completed in the oven, or the mixture from the silver plate is spread over a light yellow fried croustade, and the bird is placed and sent to table on this. Woodcock is trussed for roasting by having its long thin beak run through both feet like a skewer. A sportsman's curiosity consists in roasting the bird entire, drawing it, isolating and spicing the contents of the trail, and rubbing them over the bird cut in four quarters. Each quarter, spitted on a fork, is then held over or into a flame of burning rum or spirit, and when fried handed to expectant diners. We Blaze wrote five works on the chase, one of them being a collection of sportsman’s anecdotes.