THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 126 from joints about to be boiled, as has been already shown above in the history of Proust’s extract of meat. In many kitchens it is usual to break the bones w'hich have been removed from any ‘ boned ’ joints, enclose them in a bag of netting, and boil them either by themselves or in the stock-pot; all skeletons of chickens, pheasants, par- tridges, hares, rabbits, whether obtained by boning in the kitchen or left from the table, are by all cookery-books made the basis of some sort of broth, gravy, or sauce (fuviet). Let it be well understood that such remains are only useful to the extent to which they consist of meat; as bones they are perfectly useless, and, in fact, mostly give rise to voluminous operations, the dilute results of which have to be concen- trated by hours of evaporation or boiling down, and even then would not be worth having if they were not strongly supported by the fried vegetables and their extracts which are always needed as well. No doubt gelatine can be slowly extracted from bones by boiling them with water, but the product is both costly and useless. Therefore we conclude our remarks with the observation that the traditional worship of bones is a mischievous superstition which should be eliminated from culinary literature and practice.* Fat of Meat, and its Proportions in Various Animals. The fat of animal bodies is contained in small sacs of collagenous tissue; some of these burst during the applica- tion of heat, and the fat is set free; others of stronger con- struction resist both boiling and roasting for some time, until the envelope is transformed into gelatine; then the * Voce ‘Worship of Bones.’ ‘ I remember,’says ‘ Wj-vern ’ (/oc. ci7., p. 27), ‘an article headed “Curry and liice’’ which once appeared in a London weekly periodical. Judging from the writer’s suggestions as to the cookery of a tin of beef with yams, and, worse still, the fabrication of soup from the fowl-bone^ you picked and left at luncheon, I should say that the periodical had picked up, not only an ignoramus, but an uncleanly igno- ramus, as a contributor.’