462 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY fragile, and eatable, tlie knuckle gelatinous and tender, the inner meat juicy and short, and the brown rump end vigorous and unscathed, must not be considered small. The aponeurotic outside in particular is mostly left as a tough membrane, which has to be cut off the served slices. If this has not been remedied during the roasting by dredging and basting, it can be improved by a thin dredging with dour just before removal from the fire, and the applica- tion of the salamander to the joint upon the carving dish, an operation which is termed frothing. The philosophy of the other various forms in which a leg of mutton can be prepared is too voluminous to be treated here in detail, even without the aid of special recipes; it may be larded, braised, honed, stuffed, and accompanied with various sauces and vegetable preparations. The Chine or Saddle of Mutton, the Haunch, and the Loin, the Shoulder, the Neck, are all amenable to the same treatment. Several of these joints may be so assimilated to venison that, given prime eight-toothed wether mutton, it may be so prepared by hanging, spicing, roasting, and the addition of the accompaniments necessary for the table, that a rational person may eat it with as much satisfaction as the best fallow deer. We ourselves have never found venison to be as good as the best mutton to be had daily, but we do not for that depreciate the taste or enthusiasm of those who from atavistic or other disposition delight in the proceeds of the exercise of the noble passion. Mutton Cdtelettes, or Cutlets, should be prepared from the so-called neck of mutton, i.c., the anterior part of the hack hearing ribs. Saw off the scrag end, that is to say, the bones of the spine, and as much of the ribs as may be neces- sary to shorten them down to three or four inches. In this process the thick part of the meat or fillet should not be injured. Some dexterous butchers and cooks divide the neck-bone into cutlets before beginning to trim. This is