THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 386 water, and various additions made subsequently to the boiling. Its character is that of a stiff soup. Thin or liquid porridge is called gruel. Porridge in German is Brei. The word is derived through middle English porree, through Old French, from Low Latin porrata, broth made with leek {porrum). The affix -idgc (says Chamb. Etym. Dict.) = a^e, arose through confusion with g^ottage. A small dish, from which porridge was eaten, was called a ptorringcr {porriger, with inserted n). Many English cookery-books do not mention porridge at all, yet it occupies an important place in the alimentary history of mankind. Eome, said Cato, was reared upon porridge gruel. The vegetarians have drawn it from literary oblivion. Porridge, also called stirahoiot, or in Italian p>olenta, can be produced with wheatmeal, oatmeal, maizemeal, and ground rice. It requires careful stirring during its preparation. It can be eaten with milk, treacle, butter, and sugar, preserved fruit or grated cheese. To open up the starch the porridge must be well boiled, or kept hot for some time in a water-bath, after having been boiled. Maizevieal requires steeping in water before being boiled, and removal of all light floating particles; it must be left in water for twelve hours or more, and then boiled, or, as it is called by an Americanism, creed, till it be sufficiently soft for digestion. Cold Porridge is a pudding-like preparation. When this dish is made sufficiently thick, or stiff, or concentrated, it becomes solid on cooling and standing, like the starch-jellies previously described. It may be eaten cold, with cold or warm sauce, or be fried, or immersed in milk. Plum Porridge, De la Givutd, or Sweet Porridge, is a historical dish, as it was made by the Lord of Addington as Coquits Begins or Grand Queux, and presented by him to the Sovereign at the coronation banquet. Before the coro- nation of George IV. (1820) the then Lord of Addington (Archbishop of Canterbury) claimed of the Court of Privileges