BOUILLON, OR MEAT-BROTH ir? the highest-class kitchens. The materials are gravy-beef, leg of beef, shoulder of beef, or gravy-piece, leg of (white) veal, and knuckle cff veal. The proportions of beef to veal are given by Francatelli as two parts leg of veal to two parts gravy-beef, to one part leg of beef and one part knuckle of veal. Of the leg of veal, all that part is removed which is called the nut [noix) or fricandecm ineces, and serves for removes or entrees. All the rest of the meat is cut off the bones, the beef is kept separate from the veal; but the bones, both of beef and veal, ai'e thrown into the stock-pot together with the beef, covered with three times their volume of cold water (a quantity which could only be guessed at), and hoilecl for seven hours. We pass over the skimming (removal of scum) and the garnishings, which latter, though added later, must become greatly deteriorated in effect by such long boiling. The knuckle of veal and a portion of the residual veal from the leg are to be boiled by themselves for veal-hroth; most of the veal not used for the entrees is to be used for frying in the preparation of the sauces; it therefore serves the purposes of broth or gravy, but is never brought into the actual shape or condition of it. Boiling Bones and Production of Gelatine. Now, whether the parts above taken as units for com- parison be practically pounds, stones, or half - hundred- weights, in any case at least one quarter of the weight of the joints would be hone; much would be ligaments and tendons, much fat, a little more than half would remain as actual meat, mostly beef; or the bones would weigh nearly as much as half the meat. And these hones, broken in pieces, are to he boiled for seven hours. We know exactly the result of boiling bones under such circumstances ; they lose nothing in weight, yield nothing to water, the result is nil; all the trouble, time, space, tire, etc., are absolutely wasted. So far, therefore, as the bare bones are concerned.