237 BROWN OR ESPAGNOLE SAUCE This evaporation to glace diminishes the flavours somewhat, but tones the strong ones down more than the others, and thus harmonizes the whole of them ; where needed, the flavour is re-established by secondary operations, tTccvails, and specific additions.* Brown Sauce, or Espagnole. We will now work out the details of the production of the standard sauces as examples and illustrations of principles, beginning with espagnole. The Meat Extract and Vegetable Glace.—Into a large stew- pan with buttered bottom lay about a pound of lean ham cut into slices, and above that an equal quantity of veal or beef in slices, and over that two or three wild rabbits chopped in pieces. Pour on a sufficient quantity of normal broth to reach the upper surface of the meat; add a carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen green onions, a blade of mace, and some cloves ; cover the pan, and let it boil briskly until the broth be nearly reduced to a glace ; then draw it on a moderately hot plate, and add about a pound of ready prei)ared glace or caramel of aspic described above. When the whole approaches the condition of glace, be careful not to let it be caught by the bottom fire, but stir and test it for its concentration. Test.—When the point of a table-knife, being immersed in it and withdrawn, retains a sufficient amount of the * We give some references to literary sources in support of the state- ments contained in the foregoing—Elementary Sauces, Koux, and Aspics : Salt-water, Eau de Sel, D.D., 100, ex Beauvilliers ; Poele, D.D., 1000; Mirepoix, Gouff^, 417 ; Braise, ibid., ex ‘ La Cuisini^re de la Ville et de la Campagne’; Gouffe, 497 ; White Po61e is also called Blanc, D.D. 1000 ; Roux, E., 238 ; Gouffe, 87 ; D.D., 986-1000. Stock Sauces : D.D., 983 ; F., 2 ; voce Bdchamel, ‘ Alinanach des Gourmands,’ vol. vii. Do. direct: D.D., 987 ; F., 92; voce Butter Sauce, F., 70 ; Sauce Blanche, Gouffe, 90 ; Sauce au Beurre, Gouffd, 436 ; voce Financibre ; Gouffe, 432, has three modihcations for fowl, game, and fish, which differ by the ‘ fumets,’ but these are unnecessary and of little value ; Sauce pi([uunte is to be coloured brown, by (sugar) caramel, Gouffb 96 ; voce Tomato Sauce, D.D., 992 ; Gouff4, 99 ; id., 432,