THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 598 formed on the surface under the influence of the oxygen of the air. To prevent boiling, the pan may be put into a water- bath ; if heated on the hearth, which takes several hours, the point at which the heat of the milk approaches the boiling temperature will be indicated by the rising of bubbles ; then the pan must be removed from the fire and placed in the dairy for twenty-four hours, after which the clotted cream may be taken off. It may be transformed into so-called Devonshire short butter by stirring. Yourt or yaourt, Greek (jiayourti, is a preparation of milk made by Levantine nations, and corresponds to the English curds and whey ; but while the latter is produced by means of rennet, yourt is produced by a ijeculiar ferment, the nature of which is not known. The first yourt may be produced by warming a basin of milk to blood-heat, im- mersing in it a portion of the inner or woolly part (the composite flowers) of the artichoke, and letting it stand in a warm place. After twelve hours the milk will be found transformed into a remarkable curd of excellent taste; if the milk was good no whey is separated, but if it be broken into and allowed to stand whey separates. To avoid the separation of whey, Greek cooks concentrate the milk before setting it for yourt. Now, if of this curd a little be placed in new warm milk, and if this be kept in a warm corner, it will transform this milk again into yourt, and thus you may produce and keep yourt throughout the season. The pro- duction of this curd by the inner flowers of the artichoke was known to the ancient Greeks, and we have produced the dish after a notice contained in the works of Aristotle. Curds and whey belongs to a more rustic mode of life, and is now little patronized by the urban populations. In order to separate the caseine and fat from milk for the production of cheese, an extract by warm water from the inner stomach of the calf {rennet) is added to the warm milk. (The name rennet is applied both to the dried membrane of the stomach