BISQUE-LIKE SOUPS 187 and begins to rise, and then only the original broth in which the crayfish were boiled is added. Some boil the crayfish in mere salt water, and throw this away, and liquefy the roasted crayfish butter with new stock. They now boil, and remove the coloured butter with a spoon during boiling, in order not to lose any in the carapace debris during strain- ing.* The soup, after passing the tammy, may be allowed to stand until it is clear and cold; the butter may be skimmed ofi", and the liquid decanted from the deposit. If the latter be now clarified with white of egg, clear bisque will result, and may be served, with the red butter restored to it, with the sliced tail-meat and fried bread immersed. It is the analogue of clear turtle, and a great deal more tasty than that, whereas the form above given, and to which we attri- bute the better quality, corresponds to thick turtle. How- ever, crayfish soup differs from turtle and most other technically accomplished soups in this, that whether it be clear or thick, it always contains the red or orange coloured crayfish butter, in which the greater part of its characteristic flavour is concentrated. To bind and emulge this butter by suspension in a starchy medium may be suitable in the case of the thick bisque, but for the clear the binding material, whether rice or fried bread, would have to be omitted. Compound Bisque is a bisque as above described, augmented by additions, particularly when the number of crayfish is by itself insufficient to afford material for the necessary volume. Mussels and quenelles of whiting blend very well with the crayfish tails. For potage h la bisque several recipesf exist, all of which begin with the production of a coulis d’dcrevisses, produced like the extract for the bisque, and subsequently expanded. Tails, as well as shells and claws, are to be pounded ; to * This has evidently been misunderstood by a writer who prescribes the coloured butter to be left out altogether. t Potaf/e a la hinque, recipe ol Durand; D.D., 854. Coulis d'6cre- visses, cf. La Chapelle, loc. cit., vol. i., p. io2. Three recipes.