48 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY fact of authors copying others, with which he severely re- proaches them, shows the practical value of the matters copied, multiplied and preserved. However well the author may have ‘ braised,’ he fails in describing either its theory or its practice ; he is quite unconscious of the current fallacy about bones and their value for the production of broth, but relies, as a good cook should, upon the assistance of a good many kilos of beef, veal, mutton, fowl and game. The author evidently has not yet adopted the teaching of his eminent countryman, Louis Proust, regarding the essence of meat. Of chartreuses he only gives one of fruit (p. 758), namely, apples, and one of partridges (p. 601), perhaps because he was an admirer of Careme, and, like him, dis- regarded his own teaching and all tradition, to the effect that a chartreuse to be such must not contain any meat, but only vegetables. But although ‘ most cookery-books are useless,’ the two chartreuses so called are only para- phrases of old recipes, one for chartretise de fommes, the other for a compound case of vegetables with partridge, called chartreuse de perdrea^ix. The gdteau Savarin, a mere modern anonymous plagiarism of the old French Batan cahe, is unwarily accepted, though happily, we might perhaps say necessarily, seeing that Gouffe is a practical man, the culte of Savarin is not paraded. Many of the author’s general observations, e.g., those against the absurd French names of dishes, are most excellent; but the illustrations of combinations, which, like the Bouisson de Coquillage, facing p. 696, might pass as showplates in a fishmonger’s shop- window, seem to us to be out of place in the book, as their incarnation would be on a dinner-table. The author has not numbered his recipes, perhaps in execution of the some- what mystic principle announced in his preface, that he had fait autre chose que ce qtie Von a fait jusqiVici. We have carefully scrutinized the recipes and general observations of Gouffe on bouillon, blond de veaiL and the several consoinmh