512 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY supply the cheapest animal food, as well in the fresh as in the salted, dried, tinned, or oil-immersed condition. Montesquieu attributed the populosity of coasts and river valleys to the frequent use of fish as one of the causes ; and there is no doubt that populations who make use of fish as a regular part of nutrition are better fed than those to whom it is inaccessible, although in other re- spects they may be subject to greater privations than the latter. The preparation of fish, and its preservation in such a form that an aesthetically educated or naturally disposed person may be able to eat it with enjoyment, is an invention of the cultured part of mankind, and is of relatively modern date. Thus, the preservation of herrings by salting, smoking, and drying is said to have been, at least systematically, in- troduced (if not invented) in the Netherlands by a Dutch- man of the name of Bucking, and it is related that the Emperor Charles V. visited the grave of that man as that of a benefactor of mankind. Preservation by mere salting was practised in antiquity, also the preserving in oil and aromatic mixtures ; the escabeached* fish of the Italians and Spaniards of our time is but a tradition of an ancient mode of preparation. There are very few special records of the manner in which the ancients prepared the various de- scriptions of fish which they ate ; but some are important, e.g., the recipe of Galen, prescribing that tunny should be salted before use, as in that state its flesh was less dense or hard. There are many anecdotal records of matters connected with fish, which show the appreciation given to it by wealthy persons, such as Lucullus, who had a lake near Naples put into communication with the sea in order to be able to preserve marine fish in it; on account of the cutting of au isthmus, Pompey termed him the Xerxes in the * To encabeach (cabeach) is a term now probably confined to the curing of anchoviei<. Hamilton and Smith have ‘sardines,’ which is misleading. Anchovies are never preserved in oil, sardines mostly. Moreover, they are different species of fish.