THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY 198 Chichen Purde Sou2)s, of which also a number of variations are quoted ; but these latter are of no general import. The compound soups of purde of fowl include mere additions, e.g., of purde of rice, the same with asparagus-heads added, the same with pearl barley and quenelles of fowl, the same with piirde of almonds. Names given to some of these compounds, such as Printaniere, Princesse, or Cdlestine, have no motive, and convey no meaning. A French soup belonging to this category is chiffonade, which in English we shall define as minced chichen soup. Chiffon means a rag, also a hunch, broken piece of bread. Possibly these meanings point to a connection between soup and name. In France the soup is called chiffonade simply, without the word ‘ potage ’ or ‘ soup ’ being employed in connection with it. This seems to indicate that the pre- paration was formerly more than a mere soup, probably a compound ragout, or one of those substantial soups which had to be eaten in two stages—the liquid part with a spoon, and the solid part from the same plate, with knife and fork. This soup is somewhat analogous to cock-a-leeky. Cock-a-leeky is a soup ragout of fowl, strongly flavoured with leek. The cock is not de riguetcr, but may be replaced by capon or fowl.* The fowls are boiled first and cut up in joints ; their broth is then worked up into savoury soup, with blond of veal, or coulis, or standard broth. In this the white parts of leeks, six to each fowl, previously par- boiled, to diminish their potency, are placed and boiled to point; lastly, the carved fowls are added, and the whole is just boiled up once more. Mulligatunny, or Indian Kari {or Gurry), Soup, also called Mulligataiony, Mtillagata^ony, Potage de Kari,^ is a spiced or curried soup of hashed chicken and rice. It was originally * F., 269, spells Cocky Lceky. Cord. Bleu omits cock and fowl, and confines the material to giblets, objects hardly worth cooking, not worth buying. t For derivation, cf. ‘ Wyvern,’ toe. cit., p. 310.