CHARLOTTES AND FLANS 427 jam to the amount of half their weight. Other charlottes are interesting parallels, c.g., that of apricots, or of apricots and apples mixed ; for that of peaches the fruit must be under-ripe, and if possible red-fleshed, so-called blood peaches. Thus, it is seen that there are not many varieties of fruit which can be placed appropriately into a hot charlotte. Careme put a pot of preserved stoned cherries, without the syrup, with the small rosy apples. This is a composition differing from the accepted addition of jams used as correctives—such as apricot jam for apples, plum or damson jam for pears. You may mix the apples with quinces, with currants or sultanas, or Malaga imiscatel raisins; in that case you diminish the sugar to be added to the apples by as much as corresponds to half the weight of the currants or raisins added. Charlottes may be filled vjith. pUinis, amongst them the German Zwetschen, which are well flavoured, not over- juicy, and preserve their shape; with mirahelles, the small yellow and golden plums ; and with greengages in an under- ripe state. The cases of hot charlottes do not admit of much varia- tion, and remain best when made with buttered bread ; but cold charlottes may receive cases of brioche, Compiegne cake, Bath buns. Savoy cake, etc., even Genoa cake; the products pass under the name of Charlottes of CrotUes, and may be ornamented with coloured icings. Flans are varieties of French cakes, resembling cheese cakes in construction when they are small; but when they are large they appear more like raised pies. In any case, the basis or covering is made of fresh paste, of flour, sugar, Vmtter, yolks, and salt. The fruit is carefully prepared, so as to have a thick syrupy sauce only, and is then enclosed in the paste; the whole is baked. A flan is thei’efore strictly analogous to a raised meat pie. All the fruit used with charlottes may be employed in connection with flans. Apples for flans are first parboiled in thick syrup; milk is