68 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY small pieces of meat well tied together in hot water, heat to ebullition, and then let the meat cook to the point at a heat below boiling. Large pieces of meat, on the contrary, should be put on with cold water, to allow the heat gradually to j)enetrate their substance, and then be kept simmering as will be found prescribed in the particular recipes relating to such joints. In this discussion it is assumed that the production of the best meat obtainable is the main object of the process, and that the production of broth be not a consideration to which the quality of the meat has to make any concession. The time during which meat ought to be boiled is generally estimated in the following manner : Do not reckon the time which elapses between the putting of the meat on the fire and its first coming to a boil; after the first ebullition has taken place allow twenty minutes for every pound of fresh, and rather more to every pound of salt meat, and confine the action of the cooking pot to simmering. Freshly-hilled meat will take much more time to become eatable by boiling than meat which has been kept hung till it is what butchers term ripe. On the treatment of fresh- killed beef, compare what will be found below in the chapter on ‘ Camp Cookery,’ regarding an ox which was killed at 11 a.m., and half eaten by 1 p.m. Meat will have to be boiled a little longer in cold than in weather, although the temperature of the air makes less difference in this process than in that of roasting. Frozen meat must be thawed before it is put on for either boiling or roasting, and in cold weather meat should be put in a warmer room or kitchen a few hours before being put to or over the fire. Meat, whether it be boiled or roasted, loses during cooking from one-fifth to one-third of its whole weight. 28 pieces of beef, weighing 280 lb., lost in boiling 73 lb. 14 oz., or 26| per cent. ; 19 pieces of beef, weighing 190 lb., lost in roasting 61 lb. 2 oz., or 32 per cent.; 9 pieces of beef.