485 PREPARATIONS OF CAPON garnish of hard-boiled hen’s or plover’s eggs, produce a very elegant dish. A Salad of Chicken is similarly prepared, but the chicken is minced, and receives additions of capers, anchovies, and gherkins in thin slices. The Pre]}arations of Capon are in most respects parallel to those of fowls. The plain-hoilcd capon is by French cooks called chapon Q,io gros sel, because they put a pinch of crystallized rough salt on the stomach of the animal when it is on the dish for being carved. This putting of rough salt upon plain-boiled meat of all kinds, particularly beef, was formerly very common, perhaps universal, in established kitchens ; as regards the boiled capon, it survives as an atavistic habit, and a sign to the eaters that the capon is plain-boiled, not stuffed, and to be eaten with concentrated broth of beef. A capon will take an hour to boil; to ascertain its complete coction, pinch the wing be- tween two fingers. Capon stciocd loith Bice and stuffed with Tnoffles, roasted, are favourite forms of preparation. Like fowl, it is also made into a galantine. Breasts or Fillets of Foiols are a subject regarding which many culinary writers become sentimental on behalf of their readers’ pockets, for dishes made with fillets are ex- pensive, the fillets alone costing about four shillings a pound. They then append to their regrets consoling considerations, to the effect that the parts of the fowls not withdrawn for fillets could be used in the preparation of other dishes. This shows that a good cook will reach the limits of the patience of even the largest purse, and more particularly by means of the fillets of fowls. No doubt that with un- limited fillets a chef may produce charming entrees, from the simplest rm supr&me to the most complicated poularde en bigarure after the receipt of Vincent de la Chapelle. Of this the many existing formulaj for supremes are evidence. But for the diner these dishes have the disadvantage that they spoil the liking of the palate for more vigox’ous food.