THE SPIRIT OF COOKER) 654 cooking for each gro^ip surrounding afire should he effected in four difi'erent kettles : in one the meat should he hoiled, in a second one the souj) should he made, in a third kettle the 'vegetables should he hoiled, and in a fourth water should he heated, to fill up the other vessels with, and rinse them after use. It follows from this that, as each man carries a cooking kettle, four men ought always to unite their cooking rations, and cook them together over one fire. If each attends to his kettle under the leadership of one, or of the sergeant, an excellent result can be attained; when vegetables and icereals are boiled by themselves, they can be stirred, and their catching can be almost entirely prevented. A kettle in which meat and vegetables boil simultaneously cannot be stirred; on the other hand, preparations of cereals, rice, grits, barley, or leguminous seeds, umst be stirred to prevent adhesion to the bottom and burning. If soup be made independently of the meat, the latter need not be boiled any longer for the production of soup, but may be grilled or roasted. Grilling small pieces of meat, or roasting larger ones, yields a tasty and digestible meal in a much shorter time than boiling, and enables the soldiers to obtain variety. Boasting on the sjnt, even an extemporized one made of wood, and turned on two forks fixed in the ground before the camp fire, can be very successfully employed for the cooking of beef, mutton, and veal. Pieces of veal or mutton of from four to six pounds in weight should have been killed at least forty-eight hours before. Larger pieces of beef should have been kept from three to four days, according to the temperature of the air and the season ; if they be used too soon after slaughtering, they will be neither tender nor tasty. Pork, however, can be roasted on the spit immediately after having been killed. Roasts are particular conveniences to troops who remain stationary for longer periods—e.g., during sieges,