DRYING AND ROASTING OF BEEF 433 salting, when the meat is not immersed in pickle, but yields some of its water to fuse the salt and form brine, there is a loss of from 1 lb. to 1^ lb. in 16 lb., or from upwards of 6 to more than 9 per cent. The drying of fresh beef for the purpose of preserving it was apparently first practised in the di'y climate of Perv, and Chili, then in the G-uaranis, later in Buenos Ayres; the product was called yarkee by the Peruvians, which was altered by the French to charqui and tcharki, and by the English to jerked beef. Villaris, a pharmacist of Bordeaux, made many experiments on it, with the aid of an oven : 1 lb. of meat becomes 4 oz. of dry material, which can be powdered, but not very finely. Eouelle and D’Arcis re- ported of Villaris’s product that the bouillon and bouilli were equal to that fronf fresh meat. But further experience showed that meat thus dried in air at a temperature not exceeding 100° Fahr., or in the open air as yarkee, does not keep unaltered for any great length of time; all yarkee we have ever tasted is rancid or tainted ; all beef-powder, even the best, we found to become tainted in smell and taste after a few weeks’ most careful preservation in a tin in a dry place removed from all contamination. The use of dry beef-powder is, therefore, impracticable, apart from other objections. The principles of roasting as applicable to beef have been so fully developed in the general chapter, that we must not attempt to apply them in detail even to the Boast Sirloin of Beef. Allow the rays of the fire to strike the beef during a quarter of an hour for every pound of weight which it shows; thus, a sirloin of 15 lb. requires roasting during fifteen quarters of an hour, or three hours and three- quarters of an hour, and in winter four hours. If the same weight of joint be boned and rolled, it becomes more compact and thicker, though losing in weight at least one quarter, or perhaps 4 lb.; yet this lighter mass of meat will require 28