687 DICTIONARY OF CULINARY TERMS Topinambur; original Brazilian name of Helicuithus iubctvsHS. Was, like its namesake, called girasol, and, from the taste of its tuber, artichoke. This was barbarized into Jerusalem artichoke. All classical cooks term it ‘topinambur’ {e.g. ‘Donsde Comus,’ vol. ii., p. 444). Teaser: English, sautapan, often used in ‘Eaton’s Dictionar}-.’ Tourte; French, from Latin torta; signifies in modern French a flake dough case, in which different ragouts are served for entrees. According to a reported observation of Taillevant, the master- cook of tiie French King Charles V., tourte signified at one time a household loaf of bread in a round form, and the name was onl}' later given to pastr}' with meaty contents. It is not impos- sible that the French tourte might be derived from tourette, English turret, a little tower, to the shape of which the French loaf of Taillevant would correspond. The modern French diminutive of tour is, however, tourelle. Trifle: a sweet dish composed of .sponge-cake, soaked in wine or liqueurs, inacroons, fruit jams, custard, and whipped cream ; a second course dish. Tripe: the prepared and boiled stomach and alinientar}- canal of oxen and other animals. Truffer : French, to communicate to aii}- dish the flavour of truffles; also applied to maraschino so flavoured. TruflSles: peculiar pale and dark round fungi, growing underground in the South of France and in Africa, great idols of French cooks and gastronomers. Turbans : ornamental drum-shaped cases, containing entrde.s, made of forcemeat, and fillets of either game, poultr}', or fish, .similar to mazarines. Turn-broche, or turnspit: Formerly joints while being roasted were turned by 3'oung personk or trained dogs; now tliey are turned by clockwork previousl}- wound up. Uxelles. vSee D’Uxelles. U V Viands, vivers : ancient expressions for victuals. Vol-au-vent: a metaphoric expression applied to a case of puff paste of the lightest kind, baked in an emptj- state (blind pasty), to be filled with a light ragout or fricassee. W Wafer: a thin leaf of cooked starch paste for sealing letters; the thin round cake of the Eucharist; 111 Old French zvaufre, hence gaufre a.\u\ muffrc, German Waffel, English zuaffle; derived from German iVabe, honeycomb. Hence a waffle-iron, for baking waffles in, is called honeycomb cockle, a name which it bears in common with the iron-cake-shell (-fish). This fact supports the ^ derivation from Wabe, as much as the shape of the waffle. Walnut ketchup: the eoncentrated and .spiced expressed juice of half-gioivn jet tender walnut.s, .such as are used for pickling;