THE SPIRIl OF COOKERY 592 should be toasted on one side only, with or without butter, only just of a yellow colour, never brown, which would make it bitter. You may flavour the toast, if desired, very cautiously with a few drops of vinegar, or some anchovy essence, or anchovy butter, or fillets of anchovies. Poached eggs have many opportunities in cookery ; they are canonical as accompaniments to fried streaky bacon, or ham, for breakfast; they are suitable for a small snatch-meal -which a person may have to get at short notice, and agreeable garnishes to several entremets, such as boiled spinach with butter. Fried eggs are, like their boiled brethren, a dish easily made and easily spoiled; in -particular, to make them a little coloured while preventing them from becoming hard and tough is difficult. They are generally fried in a flat pan, which causes them to spread excessively; but there are special pans now obtainable which have a little well or excavation for each egg, so that the whites are kept together, and prevented from thinning out and frizzing up. In this apparatus eggs can also easily be baked in the oven. Fried eggs may be eaten with a little browned butter, and are much improved in taste by the addition, as mere zests, of acidulated gravies. Some discountenance the hroioning of the fried eggs, and we are inclined to endorse that view, * (Ru/s pochus were nuide by the ‘ Cuisinier Imperial de 1808 ’ and the ‘ Cuisinier Royal de 1839,' one of many opportunities', ‘pour se donner par ecrit un faux air de magnificence.’ To make a little sauce for fifteen poached eggs you were to have ready cooked ‘green,’ or a little under- done, twelve roaal ducks ; you were to score them down to the bone, collect the juice, and pour it over the eggs. This reminds of Brillat-Savarin’s Varietes, ii., ‘ Phys. d. Goilt,’ p. 317, containing an anecdote entitled ‘ Les (Eufs au Jus.’ While on a journey, trying to obtain a breakfast at an inn, he got the gravy out of a leg of mutton, which was being roasted for other travellers, by ‘ giving to the forbidden leg a dozen deep stabs with a travelling knife,’ and, getting the cook to steal the gravy, had liis poached eggs flavoured with it. ‘ While we were regaling ourselves we Laughed like fools, because in substance we devoured the leg of mutton, leaving to our friends the English the trouble of chewing the residue.’