674 THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY Garum: Latin, a sauce celebrated amongst the Romans, made of fish, to be eaten with fish. Tlie descriirtions of garum which have been preseiu^ed are ve^’ imperfect, so that if we had to adopt their usual interpretation, the sauce woidd be rather the reverse of a delicac}-. Rumohr (^loc. cit., p. 4) thought garum a relative of soj'a (Indian or Japanese soy), a mistake probably transferred from an annotation of Lister to Apicius, and repeated Jjy Brillat-Savarin (see supra, p. 5:9 et seq.). Gateau: French, essentially a butter-dough cake Rf. La Chapelle, loc. cit., ii. 176). GaufEre: French, waffle English, from Old French, waiifrc, wafrc, ivafer; from German, JVaie, houeycomb; a light, thin sort of cake arranged in cells, fried in an iron mould consisting of two opposed plates worked by handles. Gibelotte : French, stewed rabbit exclusively. Giblets: English, irom. gibier, French from Gothic gibla, a wing, meaning the trimmings and inside of a goose; applied to parts of other birds also. Giblet pie: a pasty of inside and trimmings of goose; extended to pies containing offal of other birds. Gimblettes: French, pastr}* of the kind called .small, or, in French, de petit four (cf. Croquignoles and Croquembouches). Glace, also spelt glaze and glaize: a concentrated sauce which, when poured over cooked meat, will adhere to it, give it a shiny appearance, and will also keep it moist. Such sauces were produced by cooks b}' evaporating so-called stock—i.c., broth containing much gelatine — and letting it set; it was added largely to soups and sauces. It is less e.ssential since the dis- covery of Proust’s extract of meat. Glace must be browned, and in the browned state was also called caramel: ‘Caramel ce que Ton appelle glace ’ (La Chapelle, ii. 94). Glaced ; applied to anything iced, or, figurativel}’, anything having a smooth, glo.ssy surface from the application of glace, or of .sugar, or of gelatine in vaidous forms. Godiveau: French, a kind of mincemeat or farce, of which balls are formed, with which the interior of hot pates and vol-au-vents are garnished. There are several varieties; origin of naine not stated (D.D., 609). The terminal veaii suggests a connection with veal, its main ingredient. Gooseberry: from Old French groisele, Scotch grosart. Old German Kriis, crisp, or curled, from the hairs with which the common varieties are covered. Another derivation is from parse, the .spiny Ulex europceus, furze or whin (Jeaffre.son. Iqc. at., ii. 214); but this is improbable {cf. Groseille il maquereau, infra). Gooseberry fool is gooseberrv pur^e mi.xed with cream. The word fool is an abbreviation of the French fonle, pre.ssed or crushed; the admixture to the fruit pur^e may also be milk. It is curious that, although many such mixtures of fruit purde with cream arc used, the name fool should onE’ be applied—at least, commonly —to the preparation of goo.seberry {cf. Codied Cream, I'oce Codlin). Gratins: P'rench, .soiqis and .sauces consolidated by dry heat rouiul spongy objects—e.g., crusts of bread, or game, poultry, fi.sh.