THE SPIRIT OF COOKERY II2 with the true mode of producing portable dry bouillon as taught in the recipe recorded by La Chapelle. Discovery of the Extract of Meat by Louis Proust. The researches of Proust* published in 1821 f on the sapid or savoury principles of meat were made in the course of an investigation into the nutritive value of certain tablets for the production of bouillon which had been imported from South America. Thouvenel had made known as the result of his meditation and experiment that meat-broth owes its quality to a peculiar principle to be found in meat only. Of all the tissues of the animal body, flesh alone gives this principle as a tasty broth, which excites the appetite ; the other tissues (the brain alone excepted) give only insipid extracts and solutions of glue or gelatine. No plants, and no parts of plants, some fungi excepted, possess the savour of animal broth. The sapid principle of meat may be described loithout exaggeration as the guintessence of the art of cookery. Ten pounds of beef without bones fully extracted with boiling water gave a tasty broth which, after it had been evaporated and dried as far as could be, left ten half-ounces of solid extract of meat. This Proust terms the model of all that could be prepared in the line of materials for making bouillon, and argues further that, as 10 lb. of beef did not give less than 10 lb. of tasty and rich broth, we might by adding to J oz. of the solid meat-extract 1 lb. of water and the usual salt and spices, produce a bouillon as good as it can be made by any other method. On the other hand, Proust extracted 20 lb. of fat beef containing 5 lb. of bones, and obtained by evaporation of * Louis Proust was a French chemist who lived at the end of the last and the beginning of the present century. During the Terror period of the French llevolution he left Paris, and lived at Madrid until the Restoration. f ‘Sur les tablettes de bouillon,’ ‘Atm. d. Chiin. et Phys.’ 18 (1821), 170; also 'Journ. d. Pharin.’ viii. 80.