623 LIQUEURS AND SHERBETS keepers of pricing a thimbleful of any fine liqueur at a shilling. In private houses several of them, e.g., cherry brandy, Danish or Kentish cherry liqueur (kerse beer), are still cherished; in some, curagoa is made according to the rules of the art; many patronize maraschino. Here and there one meets yet with that exquisite liqueur parfait (Vamour, but the march of intellect will soon banish it to darkest Africa. The South of Europe will continue to enjoy that exquisite flavour of anisette which gives such a recon- ciling warmth and aroma to cold water on a hot summer’s day. Angelica will flavour the rye spirit of the Scandina- vians up to the North Cape, no less than the trois-six of the South French Carthusians and the Goldwasser of the Dantzicers. A cook has many opportunities for applying to his dishes some well-flavoured and seasoned liqueur ; but it should be used for flavouring only, and the alcohol should be restricted to such quantity only as is necessary to carry the flavour. Sherbets in the East are made of many varieties of fruit, fresh, preserved, and inspissated. In England effervescent sherbets, including lemonade, are now much more in use than formerly ; for both healthy and sick they form pleasant beverages. Lemonade and orangeade are sufficiently well known; compound lemonades are not much used, e.g., lemonade and whey. Bhubarh sherbet, made from the ex- tract of stalk, with sugar, requires a zest to flavour it. Other sherbets may be made with fruit syrups, fruit jellies, and fruit jams : raspberries, currants, xohite, red and black ; cherries—the sweet ones, require acid additions, the mo- rellas and Kentish pie cherries, not; barberries, apricots, apples, quinces, mangoes, cranberries, grapes, even in the unripe state as verffoice; gooseberries also in the unripe, half-grown condition. Strawberries are less suitable. Plums are least suitable, as their juices are not easily separated from the flesh, and form better jams and cheese. Sherbets