6o4 THE S PIE IT OF COOKERY Such peptonized milk will probably prove useful in many culinary operations in which there is a risk of curdling ordinary milk. But the exact conditions of such usefulness will have to be ascertained by further inquiry. In the posset and in the (Devonshire) junket, to be described below, the milk is curdled expressly by loine, or acid, or rennet; but in the several varieties of sillabub to be de- scribed lower down, the curdling of the milk in whole or part seems to be rather tolerated than intended or desirable. In these preparations the substitution of peptonized for unprepared milk may prove a decided advantage ; this sub- stitution will be much easier than it is at present at a future time, when peptonized milk may perhaps be sold almost at the same price as fresh. Junkets and sillabtibs are mixtures of milk variously modified with alcoholic and spicy additions. The deriva- tions of the names can be seen in the Explanation of Culimry Terms. A junket is made by adding to a pint of new, if possible yet warm, milk some watery extract of rennet, two ounces of pounded sugar, a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a glassful of brandy ; as soon as the mixture begins to stifi'en, cover its surface with clotted cream, and strew powdered sugar over it; from this latter addition it receives the surname of Devonshire junket. The preparation is to be eaten cold. Sillabubs are made by the addition to milk (or colostrum, the first milk which a cow gives after calving), of wine, e.cj., sherry or madeira, port, cider, or brandy, spices, such as nutmeg and cinnamon, and sugar. Some collectors of i-ecipes distinguish London, Siajj'ordshire, and Somersetshire sillabub, but the localiza- tions are not characterized by any specificity. There is also a lemon sillabub, made of a pint of cream and the zest of two, the juice of five lemons, lialf a pint of sweet toine and sugar, the mixture to be whipped for half an hour and put into glasses; to stand for at least twelve hours