COEEECTED (?) OE "UP-TO-DATE" TABLET. THE STOMACH. Lies nearly vertically in the left h//pocJiondriac and ep/(/asfn'r* regions, its upper enlarged extremity rising some three inches above and to the left of the cardia, while its lower extremity, the pyloric opening, is close to the median plane.t Upper Extremity, or Great Cul-de-sac - Enlarged, and projecting upwards as stated above ; in contact with left cupola of diaphragm, which, with the left lobe of the liver, separates it from the heart and the left lung ; partly capped by the upper and inner extremity of the spleen. Lesser or Pyloric End - In a plane some six or seven inches inferior, but only slightly anterior to that of the fundus; presents a double bend backwards, giving an appearance of a double constriction, the distal bend, which is marked by a real constriction, corresponding to the pylorus; the intermediate bulging is the lesser cul-de-sac, or antrum pylori. Greater Curvature - Running along the left border; Lesser Curvature - Running along the right border, - both connected as described on opposite page. Posterior Surface - Resting from before backwards on the following parts :— 1. Transverse colon and mesocolon, the latter continued on to the prominent anterior border of the pancreas ; 2. Large concave upper surface of pancreas, the latter continued on to the 3. Upper part of the left kidney and suprarenal capsule, the surface of which latter organs are further continued on to the 4. Large inner concave surface (gastric surface) of the spleen, - the latter passing into the partial cap for the great cul-de-sac. (See Stomach-Chamber, p. 132u.) Anterior Surface-In contact with diaphragm, anterior wall of abdomen, and under surface of left lobe of liver. CEsophageal Opening - Relatively fixed ; lies behind inner part of seventh left costal cartilage, opposite tenth dorsal vertebra. Pyloric Opening - Very variable as to position and direction. (See pp. 132b to e.) Other points as on opposite page. For present views as to position of stomach in varying conditions of emptiness or distention, see p. 132b. The writing of other " up-to-date " Tablets has been pressed upon the Author. He has decided, however, not to bring out such Tablets for the i)resent, - simple reference to the Notes^ in regard to all the newer matter, being considered sufficient. It will be seen that the corrections (?) required to be embodied in such Tablets,- required according to certain views,-would consist mainly in the substitution of the data * See foot-note, page 132c. t See page 132b.