liver ^ets formed in there somehow. And the stomach's first Uke this, straig-ht, you see. Then it gets bent up in this way. Then it twists round, so. And that's how the foramen of Winslow comes about. That's the thing to tell 'em !" — M.R.C.S., &c.—"Well, thank you; it's very nice, indeed; all from the newest moi-phology book, I suppose ? But tell me, What have you really got in front of the foramen of Winslow? What have you got on your finger when you've put it in ?" — M.D., &c.—" Oh, I know nothing about that." — M.R.C.S., &c.—" What have j^ou got behind it ? " — M.D., &c.—"Oh, that's all damned nonsense." — M.R.C.S., &c.—" What have you got above it?" — M.D., (Sic—" Rubbish. Shut up ! shut up ! " The above is an authentic colloquy. It took place in the Author's dissecting room on March 26th, 1897. Prof. Struthers has "little faith " in the "lists of Class Honours," by which are meant, it is presumed, the pass-lists of the so-called higher examinations. No more has the Author. His experience is that prowess at some of the higher examinations is now little more than an index of a man's power to *' cram," and that passing these exammations now-a-days rather stamps a man as probably ignorant, though clever, than as really capable. To the Author's mind, men, taken all round, have more practical knowledge at the more ordinary, than at the Honours' examinations. They drop their practical work from the one to the other. Indeed, what they may remember of it is largely driven out of them by the kind of work they think they are expected to do. That they think wrongly goes without saying, as is explained elsewhere. But that the unfortunate belief is a reality, there can be no doubt. Nor can there be any doubt that it is generated and kept up by occasional unfortunate questions, - asked quite incidentally, it is true, and to which the Examiners attribute but little or no importance ; but which the candidate, if he fails to answer them, and to get through, takes as representing what the Examiners really wanted. Thus are spread erroneous views fatal to honest educational work. It is now-a-days by no means an unrecognised practice to take a few plates and a book, and to read all about, say, the liver, almost without looking at the organ itself, with the result of one's being able to talk learnedly about it, but without . . . well, one wouldhardly like to say without recognising ^/;e/u"er when one sees it . . . but, for the sharply characterised liver, substitute, say, the less defined pancreas or the parotid gland, and it is submitted that the interrupted sentence might be completed as suggested without much fear of contradiction. There are now described to the parotid gland by some anatomists lobes carotid, pterygoid, glenoid, &c. Are there not a good many who could correctly recite the received description of the above lobes, who, on seeing a portion of the parotid gland exposed, as in ligaturing the external carotid, would be quite likely to take it, as the Author has seen done, for subcutaneous or inter-muscular fat? The Author would here repeat, and he trusts he may repeat it till the view is again current, that the only kind of knowledge of the human body that is of any use to the medical man is that acquired from the " subject " by dissecting ; and in this con- nection he would submit that the only kind of statement on the part of the teacher which can lead to the acquisition of such kind of knowledge on the part of the student,