98 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE—1st Tablet. i« a broad triangular depression Situated at upper, inner, & front part of thigh; Bounded by Poupart's ligament, sartorius <& adductor longUB; C<mtinued d<rivn-jjards &^ inwards into a superficial furrow, -which marks position of femoral art-trj m Hunter's canaL Its floor is formed from without inwards by iliacus, psoas, pectineus, & smaU part of adductor b^e^i5. It contains femoral vessels & anterior crural nerve, and the PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA — These paruare:- SEIN — Thin, freely movable, more or less studded with hairs at upper & inner part SUPERFICIAL FASCIA — Divided into two layers by superfcial vessels & nerves & ingxiinal lymphatic glands. Superficial Later - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous ^vith subcutaneous tissue of surrounding regions; is rather thinner 6c less loaded ■with fat towards lower part of triangle. Deep Later - Thin & membranous. Adherent superiorly to Poupart's ligament. Stretches over saphenous opening imder the name of " cribrifonn fascia" which fascia is per- forated by internal saphenous vein cv: by numerous smaller blood & IjTuphatic vessel^ and is attached firmly to outer margin of the opening, slightly to the inner margin. Superficial Vessels & Nerves and Lymphatic Glands - Are the: Internal saphenous vein ; Superjicial epigastric, superficial circum_ftex iliac, superficial tjctemalpudic arteries with the corresponding veins, which latter open mto internal saphenous near its termination; Ilio-inguinal, crural branch of genitc^-crural, cr' external cutaneous nerves. Lymphatic glands - Form two groups. Those of the Superior or abdcminalgroup - Are the smaller, and are placed transversely near Poupart's ligament; - they receive lymphatics of penis, scrotum, perinaeum, lower part of abdomen 6>: buttock - those of the Inferior or fevwral group - Are the larger, and are vertically disposed round upper part of saphenous vein; - they receive the lymphatics of lower limb, DEEP FASCIA or FASCIA LATA — Dense, fibrous. Presents the saphenous opening, for easier description of which it is usually divided into two portions, the iliac & the pubic. Iliac Portion - The thicker. Attached to crest of ilium, Poupart's ligament & spine of pubea. Is reflected do'miwards &. outwards from this latter point, first bounding the superior angle, or superior comu of the opening, then forming its outer marginT This . :cr margin is the falciform process of Burns: its upper part is often called Ner's fr. ligament. Superiorly this margin overlies the sheath of the femoral vessels. Ii ;er- idrly it becomes continuous with pubic portion of the fascia lata by a well defined ciu^ed border, which forms the inferior angle, or inferior corjiu of the opening. PCBic Portion - Much thinner. Is attached to pubic arch at upper and inner part of thigh, and is continuous -nith Uiac portion opposite lower comu of saphenous opening. From this point it is prolonged upwards <t outwards behind femoral sheath A- in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to ilio-pectineal Line. Saphenous Opening - is formed therefore by the slitting of the fascia lata & by the folding of the tuo sides of the sht one over the other. It is oval in shape, "broad below, narrow above, \h inches Ions, h an inch Aride Its Outer Bocxdart & its Superior Angle or Corntt, - Which are promiheut« well dc-reJ. are formed by ihac portion of the fascia lata (falciform process >v: fer ral ligament), which portion, as already stated, passes upwards x inwards in front of the femoral sheath, and becomes attached to Poupart's ligament tt spine of pubes. - Its Inner Boundart - Depressed & less clearly defined, is formed by the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which portion, as akeady stated, passes upwards & outwards belund femoral sheath .k in front of pectineus, and becomes attached to the Uio-pectineal line. - Its Inferior Axgis or Corntj - Is formed by the jtmction of the iliac i pubic portions of th« fascia lata just below opening of internal saphenons vein into the femoral FEMORAL SHEATH - Vide next Tabi»t.