132qq Umbilicus.—Lies opposite the third lumbar vertebra. A little belo7v and to the left of the umbilicus—that is just above the bifurcation of the artery —is the best place at which to compress the abdominal aorta. Here the artery has emerged from beneath the duodenum and pancreas, there is but the- small intestine in front of it, and the renal vessels are well out of the way. Spine of the PubeS.—Can easily be felt by pushing up the skin of the scrotum, or, to some extent, that of the labium, and thus getting the finger beneath the subcutaneous fat. Should there be a difficulty in finding it in the female, the tendon of the addtictor longus, when tensed, will lead up to it. The external abdominal ring and inguinal hernia lie above and internal, and the femoral ring and hernia below and external to it. External Abdominal Ring.—Triangular, and oblique downwards and inwards; about an inch long and half an inch wide in the male, but rather smaller in the female. Can easily be felt by invaginating the skin as above. In the normal condition it will admit the tip of the little finger. The spermatic cord can be felt emerging from it in the male. The external abdominal ring is bounded externally by its outer or inferior pillar, which is attached to the spine of the pubes; internally by its inner or superior pillar, which decussates with its fellow in front of the symphysis pubis ; below by the crest of the pubes; above by the intercolumnar fibres. From these latter there is continued downwards the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia, w^hicli is closely adherent to the margins of the ring, and is prolonged inferiorly into a tubular process round the cord and testis. Internal Abdominal Ring.—Lies about half an inch above Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes. The deep epigastric artery runs upwards and inwards along its lower and inner boundaries. The internal abdominal ring is a tubular opening in the fascia trans- versalis formed by the prolongation of that fascia round the cord and testis (infundibuliform fascia, fascia propria). It is oval, with long diameter directed downwards and outwards. It is bounded above and externally by the lower arched fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis, below and internally by the deep epigastric vessels.