51 MUSCLES of UPPEB LIMB—6th Tablet. MUSCLES of BACK of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Extensor Communis Digitorum - External condyle of humerus by the common tendon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of the four fingers. - S. by posterior in- terosseous nerve. Extensor Minimi Digiti - External condyle of humerus by the common tendon; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - External condyle of humerus by the common tendon; middle third of posterior border of shaft of ulna; deep fascia ; septum between it & foregoing muscle. Usually it simply covers, but sometimes it arises from, narrow portion of posterior surface of shaft of ulna internal to the vertical ridge. Base of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. by posterior interosseous n. Anconeus - Back of outer condyle of humerus; deep fascia. Rough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. DEEP LAYER. Supinator BreviS - External condyle of humerus; external lateral ligament of elbow-joint; orbicular ligament of radius; triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Inner, anterior, and outer aspects of radius above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of pronator radii teres. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface of shaft of ulna below insertion of anconeus; posterior surface of interosseous membrane; middle third of posterior surface of shaft of radius. Base of first metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior intei'osseous nerve. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of radius below fore, going muscle; interosseous membrane. Base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior sur. face of shaft of ulna; posterior surface of interosseous membrane. Base of terminal phalanx of thumb. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. Extensor Indicis - Posterior surface of shaft of ulna below foregoing muscle; interosseous membrane. Joins corresponding tendon of extensor communis. The common tendon thus formed is inserted into bases of 2nd & 3rd phalanges of index finger. - S. by posterior interosseous nerve. POSTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. Triceps: Long Head - Rough triangular depression below glenoid cavity of scapula, and slightly from capsule of shoulder-joint. Outer Head - Posterior surface of shaft of humerus above musculo-spiral groove; outer border of humerus; external intermuscular septum. Inner Head-Posterior surface of shaft of humerus below musculo-spiral groove; inner border of humerus; internal intermuscular septum. By a strong tendon into back part of upper surface of olecyanon procea. of ulna. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. Rnhfl-nconeuS - Posterior surface of humerus above olecranon fossa. Posterior ligament of elbow joint. - S. by musculo-spiral nerva.