34 THE MAMMA. iiuduiieuiai y iu tho uiale, suiull iu the female before pulierty; increases in S'Z ' duiM . pregnancy & alter delivery. - Pre^eutS; POSTERIOR SURFACE, or BASE — Somewhat concave; nearly circular, but slieflitly elon<?ated from below upwards & outwards. Rests upon pectoraUs major & fascia covering it, and extends from 3rd rib to the 6th or 7th, and from side of sternum to axilla. ANTERIOR SURFACE — Presents, a little below its middle, the nipple surrounded by the areola, Nipple - Cylindrical or conical; presents at its apex tho openings of the lactiferous ductF. Its surface is of a pink or brownish hue, wiinkled, provided with paj^illae, and, near its base, with some sebaceous glands. It is susceptible of a sort of erection dae mainly to the contraction of its muscular fibrea. Areola - Rosy in the virgin; larger & darker in colour after the second month of pregnancy & during lactation (when its Febaceous glands enlarge e inside-. ably), and also somewhat so during the remainder of lila CUTANEOUS NERVES. Ctlpeificial Descending - Several larj-e branches from 3rd & 4th. Dcj>cend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Steknal - Cross origin of sterno-uiastoid to integument of front of chest far as middle I Clavicular - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cu neous branches of the superior intercostal ner Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integument' outer & back part of shoul Iiat^ral Cutaneous-Pierce iuten ostals & serratus magnus midway between verte & sternum, and divide into lor Offset — Forwards to integument of side o chest & mamma, and to upper- digitatious of external oijUqoB, Fosterior Offset - Backwards to integument over latissimus dorai & scap ;la The posterior offset of the lateral cutaneous bianch of the intercostal nerve, is called the intercosto-humeral nerve. It crosses axilla, joins with lesser internal cutaneous nerve or nerve of Wrisl & with internal cutaneous branch of musculo.sp ral, and pierces d fascia to integument of upper inner & back pare of arm j its size va inversely with that of the nerve of Wrisberg. Ti.eie is Ir.quentl second intercosto-humeral nerve derived from the 3rd intercostal Anterior Cutaneous-The termination of intercostal trunk. Pierce internal in costals & pectoralis major by side of sternum, and turn outwards to inte; meut of mamma & front of chest. The second joins with the clavicala branches of the superficial cervical p oxa;