II. Either (a) from adhesions of previously free peritoneal surfaces thus brought into contact with each other (Hertwig, His), or else (b) from "the growth of the peritoneum not keeping pace with that of the structures it covers, so that, through the increasing demands upon this membrane of the more rapidly growing viscera, these come, after a time, to be clothed at the expense of those of slower growth." (Treves, in Morris' Anatomy.) I -The position of the stomach undergoes the following changes: [a] It turns over to the right, - the pylorus being raised somewhat, so that the lesser curvature becomes all but horizontal* (Figs. 322aa & bb). [6] The greater curvature pivots forward so as to become a lower or anterior, instead of a posterior, border, - the mesogastrium correspondingly elongating. The right, now posterior, surface of the stomach thus comes to rest on the portion of the mesogastrium containing the spleen and pancreas, this portion of the mesogastrium forming the posterior boundary, while the remainder of the mesogastrium forms the lower and left boundaries of the uow developing lesser or omental sac of the peritoneum further referred to later on. The colon, after lengthening somewhat, undergoes a corresponding displacement (Figs. 322aa & bb). Its commencement moves to the right, to a point just below the liver, - Figs. 322aa & bb.—diagrams of tue development of the human alimentary canal and its mesentery : A, earlier; B, later condition. g.o., greater omentum, which is developed from the mesogastrium—the arrow indicates the entrance to the omental sac; du., duodenum; mes., mesentery; s.i., small intestine; l.i., large intes- tine; red., rectum; v.d., vitelline duct; c, caecum; ap.v., appendix vemiiformis. carrying, of course, its mesentery with it, - this mesentery elongating, as in the case of the The stomach carries the duodenum with it. Fig. 7. Fig. 8. rect. " The right and left pneumogastric nerves thus coine to supply, the former the posterior surface of the stomach, and the latter the anterior surface.