Central Genital Gland: - Testicle or Ovary. Is evolved in the situation of the pronephros: - The cells of the intermediate cell mass supply the mesoblastic elements ; the cells of the germinal ridge supply the hypoblastic elements, and become the spermatoblasts or the ova. The tubuli seminiferi are at iirst solid. They hollow out, lengthen and branch, and open into the vas deferens by means of the rete, vasa efferentia, and coni vasculosi. Genital Cord. The genital cord is the common bundle formed by the approximation of the Wolffian and Miillerian ducts a little above their entrance into the uro-genital sinus. The Miillerian ducts lie between and behind the Wolffian ducts : they unite into one canal before they open into the sinus. In the female, the common canal thus formed becomes the vagina, cervix, and greater part of the body of the uterus. The portions of the Miillerian ducts immediately above this become the cornua of the xiterus. The remainder of the Miillerian ducts become the Fallopian tubes, which are joined on to the ovaries. The thickening of the walls of the uterus begins at the os, and progresses from below upwards : for some time after birth the cervix is larger and thicker than the body. Incomplete union of the Miillerian ducts gives rise to the uterus bicomis or horned uterus, common to many mammals; their imperfect union may give rise to a double uterus, and even, occasionally, to a similarly partitioned vagina. The Miillerian ducts being formed by an involution of the peritoneum, the female passages and their mucous membrane are continuous with the peritoneal cavity and its epithelial lining. In the male, the united portions of the Miillerian ducts become the sinus pocularis or vesicula prostatica. The Wolffian ducts open into the uro-genital sinus, as already stated, on either side of and below the Miillerian ducts. In the male they become the canal of the epididymis, vas deferens, and ejaculatory duct, diverticula from their walls forming the vesiculse seminales. The prostate in the male results from the thickening of the lower part of the genital cord. It will be seen that the excretory ducts of the male and female organs are evolved, - those of the male from the Wolffian duct, and those of the female from the Miillerian duct, - the non-evolving duct disappearing more or less completely in either sex. The non-evolving or imperfectly evolving Wolffian body similarly disappears more or less completely in both sexes. Residual Genito-Urinary Organs of both Sexes. Residual genito-urinary organs result in both sexes from certain remains of the Wolffian body, - and further, in the male, from certain remains of the Miillerian duct, and, in the female, from certain remains of the Wolffian duct. The remains of the Wolffian body are, in the male, the Vas aberrans and the Organ of Giraldes, and, in the female, the Parovarium or Organ of Kosenmiiller. The remains of the Miillerian duct a,ve the sinus poculai^is and the hydadid of Morgagni in the male. The remains of the Wolffian duct form the Canal of Gartner in the female.