152e an inch above the base of the prostate. Below this level it is separated from the levatores ani by superitoneal tissue, which usually bears much fat in its meshes and ensheathes the vesical vessels and nerves ; and it is crossed by the vas deferens, and at the point of peritoneal reflexion by the obliterated hypogastric artery. The ureter pierces the junction of the posterior and lateral surfaces about two inches above the prostate, the vas running between it and the vesical wall. External to these structures the lateral wall is in relation to the levator ani and obturator internus. The posterior surface may be divided into two portions, an upper covered by the peritoneum of the recto-vesical or utero-vesical pouch, a lower in direct contact with the anterior wall of the rectum, and the lower part of the vasa deferentia and vesiculte seminales. The distance of the recto- vesical cul-de-sac of peritonevim from the prostate is very variable, but usually ranges between half an inch and one inch, and may be increased to two inches by distension of the bladder. It is, however, very small in the child. The ureters, where they lie at the outer limits of this surface, are near to, though not in contact with, the rectum, and a calculus in the lower end of the urinary tube might be felt by an exploration from within the bowel. In the lower portion of the posterior wall in the male is a triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the diverging vasa deferentia, the base by the line of reflexion of the recto-vesical poiich of peritoneum, and the apex by the meeting of the ejaculatory ducts at the summit of the prostate. It was formerly selected as the position for the introduction of a trocar through the rectum into the bladder in case of retention of urine, fn the female the posterior surface is adherent below to the cervix uteri and upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina, but is separated from the body of the uterus by a shallow utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum. The superior surface is entirely covered by peritoneum. It looks almost directly upwards into the abdominal cavity, and lies in contact with the small intestines, and sometimes with a portion of the sigmoid flexure behind these." (W. Anderson, in Morris' Anatomy.) "Sacral and Coccygeal Aortae." On reaching the intervertebral disc between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae the Aorta gives off the two common iliacs, and, suddenly diminishing in size, is continued, under the above name, along the middle line of the sacrum and coccyx. The vessel terminates by piercing the floor of the pelvis to end in the coccygeal glomerulus, or Lushka's gland. This is a convoluted mass of small arteries with varicose dilata- tions, representing the termination of the aorta with the last of its metameric branches, which latter, as the tail disappeared, have become degenerated and functionless. (Macalister.) The internal iliac artery is the root, and the superior vesical artery is the middle part, of the umbilical, or allantoic, artery of the foetus, which, beyond the bladder, becomes reduced to a mere fibrous cord. Together the following arteries, namely, common iliac, upper part of internal iliac, superior vesical, and obliterated hypogastric, represent the allantoic or umbilical artery of the foetus. The allantoic or umbilical arteries, which were given olf from the two dorsal aortte before their fusion, give off to the lower limbs, when these are formed, two large lateral branches, which become the external iliacs. Further on they give off