65 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. The largest branch of lumbar plexus. — Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerves, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2nd« Descends through substance of psoas, and emerges from lower part of its outer border. Passes down between psoas & iliacus, giving off small branches to iliacus & femoral artery. Enters thigh beneath Poupart's ligament half an inch to outer side of femoral artery, and divides into anterior & posterior divisions. ANTERIOR DIVISION - Gives off: Middle Cutaneous Nerve - Pierces fascia lata & generally sartorius also (which muscle it then supplies ) about t^ree or four inches below Poupart's ligament^ and divides into two branches to integument of front of thigh as low as knee. - Joins with crural branch of genito-crural, internal cutaneous & internal saphenous. Internal Cutaneous Nerve - Crosses upper part of sheath of femoral vessels giving off a few cutaneous filaments, and divides into: Anterioe or External Branch -- Pierces fascia lata about lower third of thigh^ and divides into branches to integument of inner & outer sides of knee; joins with middle cutaneous & long saphenous. Inner or Posterior Branch - Along posterior border of sartorius, joining in a plexiform network beneath fascia with long saphenous & obturator. Pierces fascia lata a little above inner side of knee; supplies integument of inner sides of thigh & upper part of leg, joining with int. saphenous. Long or Internal Saphenous Nerve - The largest branch of anterior division (arises sometimes from posterior division). Along whole length of outer side of femoral artery, lying first at a slight dis- tance from it, and then close to it. Pierces fibrous band which extends from vastus internus to tendons- of adduc- tors longus & magnus and forms anterior wall of Hunter's canal. Pierces deep fascia between tendons of sartorius gracilis^ and joins with internal cutaneous. Passes with internal saphenous vein along inner side of leg & divides into two branches; one terminates at inner ankle, the other passes in front of ankle to integument of inner side of foot. Joins in plexiform network above mentioned with internal cutaneous & obtura- tor nerves; - gives off to integument of front of knee a large branch, nervus cutaneus patellee, which, joining with external, middle & internal cutaneous nerves & other branches of long saphenous, forms plexua patell39 in front of knee \ - gives off numerous branches to integument of front & inner side of leg. POSTERIOR DIVISION - Gives off. Muscular Branches To all the muscles of front of thigh except tensor vaginse femoris supplied by superior gluteal n., and Sartorius supplied by filaments from middle or sometimes from internal cutaneous nerve, [pectineus is partly supplied by obturator nerve] Articular Branches Two; - one from nerve to vastus externus, long & slender & distributed to front of capsule J one from nerve to vastus internus, accompanies deep branch of anastomotioa magna to inner side of capsuJit