I52d THE VAGINA. Curves downwards & forwards, following at first axis of pelvic cavity, then axis of its outlet. - Four inches lonj? along anterior wall, five or six along posterior wall, which latter is attached to cervix uteri higher up than the anterior. Dilated at its uterine extremity, constricted at vulva. Its anterior wall supports urethra & base of bladder. Vis posterior wall is covered in its upper fourth by peritoneum of recto-vaginal pouch, and rests in its lower three-fourths upon anterior wall of rectum. Its sides give attachment superiorly to broad ligan ents, inferiorly to levatores ani & recto. vesical layer of pelvic fascia. \ STRUCTURE — Three coats, from without inwards: - Muscular - Consists of external longitudinal & deep circular fibres, partly con- tinuous superiorly with superficial fibres of uterus, partly attached to recto- vesical layer of pelvic fascia. Erectile - Most developed inferiorly. Mucous - Covered with squamous epithelium; elevated into two prominent ridges, one in front, one behind, the columns of the vagina, which are most prominent inferiorly, and from which smaller transverse ridges pass outwards on either side. BULBUS VESTIBULI, & GLANDS OP BARTHOLIN. The former are two oblong masses of erectile tissue corresponding to the two halves of the bulb in the male; they are about an inch long, rounded below & in behind, where they lie on either side of the opening of the vagina, narrow above & in front, where they are connected to the crura clitoridis & to the rami of the pubes. - Just in front of each is another smaller mass of erectile tissue, continuous both with the bulbus vestibuli & with the clitoris, and re. garded as corresponding to the part of the male corpus spongiosum, which lies in frout of the bulb ; it is termed t\ie, pars intermedia (Kobelt). The glands of Bartholin He on either side of the opening of the vagina behind the posterior extremity of the foregoing ; they are oblong, of a reddish colour, and of the size of a small bean; their ducts open on the inner side of the nymphse externally to the hymen. They corre.-poud to Cowper's glands in the male.