132ff IV. QUOTATIONS FEOM STANDAED AUTHOES. " 111 its simplest form, the peritoneum differs in no essential respect from the pleura, the pericar- dium the tunica vaginalis Imagine the pleural cavity from which the lung has vanished. The membrane would appear as a simple serous sac. Now conceive the lung gradually budding out into this .sac. When the lung had attained to nearly the dimensions of the cavity, .... it would still remain (Outside it Imagine the viscera to have vanished from the abdominal cavity, &c " "Imao-ine all the viscera of the abdomen in their proper positions, but uninvested by peritoneum. On the top of them is placed a large closed sac, .... and wherever there is a cleft, .... a part (of the •closed sac) .... is tucked in, &c." "If the upper part of the abdomen be occupied by a cuboidal mass divided into two hy a cut passing from its upper left edge to its lower right one, the position and shape of the liver will be represented by the upper and right half of the mass." Is it not plain that the aim of the new school is largely to " explain/' and to get men, as the phrase goes, to '■ Hinder standanatomy? In so doing, as already stated, the new school often explains away what is useful, and, for facts, substitutes abstract and one-sided conceptions. It is again submitted that in the anatomy for medical men, seeing ■and doing are understanding, and that nothing else is. V. THE FOEAMEN OF WIN SLOW; Being a Confab, between Candidates eoe the E.-Ship.* PERSONiE : Trvo Candidates for the Fellowship,-one a M.D., Lond., \st Class Honours, Gold Medallist, ^c, from leading Metropolitan School;—the other a M.R.C.S. in General Practice in the Country. — M.D., Lond., 1st Class Honours, Gold Medallist.—" Do you understand, old chappie, about the foramen of Winslow ? " — M.R.C.S., in gen. pract.—" Well, I think so. It was shown us, dissected, the other daj^; I put my finger in." — M.D., Lond., 1st Class Hons., Gld. Med.—"That's not what's wanted. How's it formed? " — M.R.C.S., &c.—"How it's formed? Well, in front you've got the hepatic artery, bile-duct, port . . . ." — M.D., &c. (intermpting)—"Oh, that's nothing to do with it. How's it formed? How did it oome about?" — M.R.C.S.—" I don't know what you mean." — M.D., &c.—" Come on, old fellow, I'll put you up to it. Look here ; here's a towel." — M.R.C S., &c.—"Well?" — M.D., &c. (manipulating the towel).—" See how I fold it. Now that'sthe stomach. You see it's attached to the anterior wall of the abdomen by that bit there ; that's the anterior mesentery. Well, the * It is hoped that a little serious badinage will once more be pardoned.