60b First Dorsal, or First Thoracic Nerve. It is only a portion, though by far the larger portion, of the anterior division of the first dorsal nerve that enters into the composition of the brachial plexus. This nerve, after emerging from the intervertebral foramen between the first and second thoracic vertebrse, gives off an intercostal branch, the first intercostal nerve, which is a very small one, however. It then crosses the inner border and the upper surface of the first rib to join the eighth cervical nerve and form part of the brachial plexus. The outer and inner primary cords of the brachial plexus are frequently joined, the former by a twig from, the fourth cervical nerve, the latter by a twig from the second thoracic. Dorsal Digital Nerves to the Fingers and Toes. It has long been made out, and the arrangement was represented in Hirschfeld's plates, that the adjacent sides of the big and second toes are supplied by the bifurcation of a short common trunk formed by the union of two twigs derived, one from the anterior tibial nerve, and the other from the inner branch of the musculo-cutaneous. Through the investigations of Dr. H. St, John Brooks, as reported in the treatise on Anatomy edited by Mr, Henry Morris, it would appear that similar arrangements pertain in respect of the dorsal digital nerves both to the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, and to the adjacent sides of the third and fourth fingers. In respect of the Dorsal Digital nerves to the fingers, considerable further interest attaches to the above- mentioned investigations. It is shown by Dr. St. John Brooks that the radial and ulnar nerves not only do not supply the Avhole extent of the dorsal aspect of the several fingers, but further do not supply the dorsal aspect of the several fingers equally. Thus, while the dorsal aspect of the thumb and little fingqai are supplied by the corresponding branches of the radial and ulnar nerves down to the matrix of the nail, the index and ring fingers are supplied by the corresponding nerves down to the distal interdigital jomt only, and the middle finger not further than the proximal interdigital joint. The portions of the dorsal aspect of the several fingers left unsupplied by the dorsal digital nerves are supplied by twigs from the palmar digital branches of the median and ulnar nerves. As the radial and ulnar nerves overlap in their distribution on the dorsum of the hand, a considerable part of the central portion of the dorsum of the hand is supplied conjointly by both these nerves. The nerve-supply to the palmar, or plantar, aspect of the adjacent sides of the middle and ring fingers, and of the third and fourth toes, is similarly divided between the median and ulnar nerves, and the internal and external plantar nerves, respectively. Capsule of the Shoulder-Joint. The capsule of the shoulder-joint is strengthened by three supplementary bands, of which two lie on its outer, and one on its inner aspect. On the oiiter aspect there is an inner band (Flood's ligament), which runs along the lower border of the subscapularis extending from the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tuberosity of the