140 COVERINGS of the TESTICLE. Are the: - Scrotum. - Consists of two layers t Integument - Thin & brownish j presents a few sebaoeons follicles & thinly scattered cripp hairs, and is divided into two lateral halves by a median raph6, which raph6 is continued forwards on nnder surface of penis and backwards along middle line of perinasum to anus. Is closely applied to the testes and is corru- gated transversely when the dartos is contracted, that is to say, usually in the young & robust, and in all under the influence of cold, and is elongated & flaccid when the dartos is relaxed, that is to say, usually in the debilitated & aged, and in all under the influence of warmth. Dabtos - Is a thick stratum of loose reddish tissue, a modification of the superficial fascia of the surrounding regions, consisting of areolar tissue with numerous superadded muscular fibres and without any fat; it sends inwards between the two testicles a septum, the septum scroti, which divides its cavity into two. - It is contractile, but its contractility is slow in its action, and especially excited by cold, not by electricity. Intercolumnar or External Spermatic Fascia - Thin cellular layer derived from the margins of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testis, and continuous above with the intercolumnar fibres, which bound that ring superiorly. Cremasteric Fascia - Consists of the scatterea bundles of fibres of the cremaster & internal oblique muscles united by a little areolar tissue. Fascia Propria - Relatively thick layer, the continuation of the infundibuliform process of the fascia transversalis, which layer supports both the cremasteric fascia & the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Tunica Vaginalis - is derived from the peritoneum, of wiiich it is at first a continuation, but from which it is subsequently cut ofi'by the closure of that part of the peritoneal pouch, which extends from the internal abdominal ring to a short distance from the testicle. - Is divided into: ViscEBAL Portion or Tunica Vaginalis Propria - Surrounds the testicle, and covers both the upper or outer surface of the epididymis and also the under surface of its central part or body, penetrating, along its outer border, between it & the testicle, and thus forming the digital fossa. Parietal Portion, or Tunica Vaginalis Reflexa - Is reflected from the posterior bor. der of the testicle upon the inner surface of the fascia propria, extending, however^ a short distance up the cord upon its anterior & inner aspects 1 I