150 BRANCHES of the INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY—2nd T. PUDIC ARTERY. The smaller of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery. Descends in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying to the inner side & a little in front of sciatic artery. With pudic nerve through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis on inner side of sciatic nerves & sciatic artery. Winds round spine of ischium and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa below pudic nerve, being covered by obturator fascia, and lying at first IJ inches above lower extremity of tuber ischii, but approaching surface as it progresses. Pierces deep layer of deep perinseal fascia, and ascends along pubic arch between the two layers of that fascia to near symphysis pubis. Pierces superficial layer of deep perinseal fascia, and divides into artery of corpus cavernosumj and dorsal artery of penis. ] BRANCHES: Inferior Hsemorrhoidal - Two or three, small. - Arise in ischio-rectal fossa, which they cross to lower part of rectum & anus. Superficial Perinseal - Arises near transversus periusei muscle, which it crosses superficially. Between accelerator urinse & erector penis to skin of scrotum & dartos, or of labium. Transverse Perinseal - Small, arises frequently from superficial perinseal. Inwards below transversus pei-ingei to structures between bulb and anus. Artery of the Bulb - Large and surgically important. Inwards to bulb & Cowper's glands between the two layers of deep perinseal fascia. May be small or even absent, or may be double. May arise earlier and ' cross perinseum further back than usual, and would then be very liable to be divided in lateral lithotomy. May arise from an accessory pudic, and then lie more forward and be altogether out of danger. Artery of the Corpus Cavernosum - Pierces cms penis, and runs forwards in corpus cavernosum by side of septum pectiniforme. Dorsal Artery of the Penis - Between cms and symphysis. Through suspensory ligament and forwards beneath skin on dorsum of penis to glans & prepuce. ACCESSORY PUDIC ARTERY — Exceptional branch of internal iliac, which exists when pudic artery, being smaller than usual, fails to give ofi" its two terminal branches & sometimes even the artery of the bulb. Arises from near origin of pudic, passes forwards along base of bladder & upper part of prostate, pierces triangular ligament, and takes the place of terminal por* tion of normal artery.