96c Anterior Annular Ligament of the Tarsus. The anterior annular ligament of the tarsus consists of two portions, an upper and a lower. The itjyper portion is a strong band of transverse fibres extending from the lower part of the anterior border of tibia to the anterior border of the subcutaneous surface above the external malleolus ; it binds down the vertical portion of the extensor tendons as they pass down to the foot. It is only the tendon of the tibialis anticus - the one nearest to its insertion - that has a synovial sheath under this part of the ligament. The lower portion of the ligament, considerably thinner, starts from the npper part of the greater process of the os calcis in two bands, superficial and deep. These bands pass inwards separately, forming a loop (the fundiform ligament of Retzius) enclosing the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroueus tertins, both surrounded by, and enclosed in, a common synovial sheath. From the inner extremity of this loop some of the fibres are continued into upper and lower branches, which are, however, less regular in their arrangement: the stronger and more constant upper branch passes to the internal malleolus, crossing over the tendon of the extensor hallucis and then on the deep surface of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, only a few fibres passing superficially to the latter; the lower weaker branch, after crossing both these tendons, is inserted into the plantar fascia on the inner side of the foot. The tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis have each their synovial sheath.* (Quain, Morris.) Internal Annular Ligament of the Tarsus. The internal annular ligament of the tarsus crosses the space between the in- ternal malleolus and the heel, through which run the tendons of the fiexor muscles. Its upper border is continuous with the deep fascia of the leg (more especially with the deep or intermuscular layer of fascia), and is somewhat imperfectly defined. Its lower border gives origin to some of the fibres of the abductor hallucis, and is scarcely more distinct. Its anterior extremity is attached to the internal malleolus ; its posterior extremity to the back part of the os calcis. Between these points the ligament arches over three osseous grooves, and gives rise to three canals. The first canal (nearest to the malleolus) contains the tendon of the tibialis posticus; the second, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum ; the third, the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, - each tendon having its own synovial sheath. Between the two last-named tendons is a considerable interval for the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. External Annular Ligament of the Tarsus. This extends from the apex of the external malleolus to the outer side of the OS calcis. It keeps in place, behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the perouei longus and brevis, placed close together, the latter being anterior. These tendons are surrounded by a common synovial sheath. Morphology of the Arteries of the Limbs. The arteries of the upper limb reach this limb in one set; those of the lower limb reach the latter in two sets. This is accounted for by the greater ventral fixity of the lower limb, which sunders the vessels and nerves of the root of this limb into anterior and posterior series, and somewhat ocscures the relations of the coirerponding vessels and nerves to each other. * Most of this complicated description is suppressed bj^ Cunningham, and very sensibly, the Author thinks.