108c sole of the foot (the transversus pedis excepted;, the gastrocnemius and soleus, the above-named ligaments, and the tendo Achillis. This wide contimiity will be gathered, Avith reference to the distal part of the muscular plane in question, from the dissection of the foot of the seal. The same will appear, in reference to the proximal part of the plane, from the examination of the foetal foot of either man, horse, or deer. Up to the sixtli month, in the human foetal foot, a saggittal section through the tendo Achillis, the os calcis and the cuboid will show the tendo Achillis and the above-mentioned ligaments forming one continuous band, the attachment of which to the back part of the os calcis is of the loosest kind. It is only after the seventh mouth that the gradual extension of the OS calcis backwards segments the plane at the level of the tuberosities of that bone. Tlie case of the horse and the deer differ from that of man merely in the evident forecasting of the adult form, in which the blended ligaments pass from tlie back part of the os calcis to the cuboid and the rudimentary external metatarsal bone. The degenerated abductor ossis metatarsi quintl is well known as a stout fibrous band extending from the outer tuberosity of the os calcis to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is said to be present as a muscle in man, in one " subject " out of two. It is constant in many of the quadruraana. Interosseous Membrane of the Leg Is the representative of the peroiieo-tibial muscle of sphenodon, chameleon, gecko, and the like, and of the wombat, which muscle is made up of more or less horizontal fibres extending from the tibia to the fibula. The popliteus of man and the rotator fibulce of the gibbon are probably but less degenerated remnants of the same. The anterior interosseous arteries and nerves are tunnelled over by thin scattered fibres through the degeneration of the muscle they once supplied. The interosseous membrane of the forearm has probably a similar origin. The posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments in man represent the extensores coccygis of the anthopomorpliffi, or the extensor of the caudal vertebra; in other vertebrates. In man, the place of these ligaments is sometimes occupied by muscle. Albinus, in his "Historiae Musculorum,'' notes three instances of the Curvatores Coccygis muscles in man extending from the front of the fourth and fifth sacral vertebra; to the front of the coccyx. The Coraco-brachialis Muscle. Morphologically, this muscle consists of three separate portions, - superior, middle, and inferior, - the relative development of which varies a great deal both in mammals generally and in man. The superior portion, - coraco-brachialis superior, - is inserted into a fibrous loop extending from the coracoid process to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. It may develop into a distinct muscle, the rotator humeri. The middle portion, - coraco-brachialis medius or proprius, - is the coraco- brachialis of ordinary human anatomy It is this portion that is traversed by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The inferior por^zo/i, - coraco-brachialis longus, - usually degenerates into the fibrous band, which we commonly call the internal intermuscular septum. It may,