132o when surgical reasons present, in the living patient, but based uj)on the examination of these organs as hardened in the dead body previously to their being got at. The reader will at once see the point if he will compare Figs. 304 and 30G (Tablets pp. 115a & 118a), on the one hand, with Figs. ?>22j, ic, and l, on the other. The former figures represent the soft or natural pancreas as exposed by the simple removal of surrounding structures. The latter figures represent the organ as pressed upon by these surrounding structures, and hardened while so pressed upon. SUPERIOR LAYER Of TRANSVERSE MESO-COLUM Fig.'322k.—the pancrkah and surrounding structdrks seen from the front. (Morris.) The stomach is, of the several org-ans of the abdomen, the one which presents the most marked transitions from flaccid emptiness to, at meal times, sudden distention and bulky weight. Of the several neighbouring structures, it is doubtless the soft pancreas, which lies immediately behind the stomach (immediately beneath it in the dorsal recumbent position), that is most affected, in regard to outward shape, by its periodically overcharged and overweighted neighbour. It is clear that it is this mechanical action of the full stomach which, through simple bulkiness, (1) hollows out the anterior or upper surface of the greater part of the body of the pancreas, and (2) drives up a portion of the body and of neighbouring part of the neck behind the lesser omentum, into a region of less disturbance and pressure, - thus forming the omental tuberosity. Then what wonder that a portion of the gland, which, we are told, " tends to overflow its boundary," be driven behind the vena portso? * (Fig-. 322ii.) It is this small portion, thus driven behind the portal vein, that advanced anatomists call the "head;" while che remainder of the dissectional head, they call the "neck." The question of the relation of the portal vein thus becomes a mere question of grammar. Dissectionally, the portal vein begins and lies behind the upper part of the head of the pancreas, the term "head" being used in its plain dissectional sense.f * See previous reference to the prominent anterior border of the pancreas, page 132n. t The modern use of the term " head " is not even consistent: The neck is said to pass upwards and to the left from " the front part of the head." Now it will be clear that the " head" here referred to is not the small portion of the gland buried behind the portal vein, but the large anterior portion, - continuous with the neck,-shown in Fig. 322k, whinh portion is distinctly seen to lie in front of the superior mesenteric vessels, and consequently in front of the portal vein at its commencement.