60a NOTES ON THE NEWER MATTEE. Insertion of the Peetoralis Major. The teudou of the peetoralis major consists of anterior and posterior laminae continuous with each other inferiorly. The anterior and thicker lamina receives from above downwards the clavicular and the upper half of the sternal fibres. The posterior and thinner lamina receives inferiorly the lower half of the sternal fibres, and superiorly the fibres from the abdominal aponeurosis and the costal cartilages; this lamina reaches higher up on the humerus than the anterior one ; it may be considered to give off the expansion which covers in the bicipital groove. Insertion of the Deltoid. The coarseness of the deltoid is due in a measure to the special arrangement of its central fibres. It is only a portion of these that are directly attached either to the scapula or to the humerus. In the substance of the central portion of the muscle are some seven or more alternating septa or tendinous intersections, four of which, as a rule, are attached to the acromion, and the rest to the humerus. The greater part of the more central fibres are directly attached to these in a more or less bipenniform fashion. Flexor Brevis, & Adductor Obliquus Pollicis. Pursuant to investigations by Prof. Cunningham on the Muscles of the Manus and Pes, a new description is now given of the above. What has hitherto been called the " Inner head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis " is now by some termed the •'Adductor Pollicis Obliquus," and an additional inner head is found for the "Flexor Brevis" in the shape of a small slip arising from the inner side of the base of the first metacarpal bone. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis is still therefore a two-headed muscle. Its outer head is correctly given in the older descriptions, and likewise is its insertion. Its inner head is a small slip arising from the inner side of the base of the first metacarpal bone. Its nerve- supply remains the same as formerly, - the outer head being supplied by the outer division of the median nerve, and the inner head by the deep division of the ulnar. "Adductor Obliquus Pollicis " is simply a new name therefore for the " Inner head of the Flexor Brevis."