152^ PUDIC NERVE. From lower part of sacral plexus. With pudic artery through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Winds round spine of ischium, and re-enters pelvis through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen, where it gives off inferior has norrhoidal nerve. Forwards along outer wall of ischio-rectal fossa above pudic artery, both nerve & artery being covered by obturator fascia, and divides into perineal nerve & dorsal nerve of the penis. PERINjEAL NERVE —The larger. Accompanies superficial perinseal artery, and divides into branches: - Cutaneous or Superficial Perinseal - Two in number: Posterior or Internal - G-ives filaments to skin in front of anus (and to the ' spl.incter ani. Gray), and communicates with the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve. It then passes forwards to the scrotum or labium on the inner side of the following nerve with which it communicates anteriorly. Anterior or External - Forwards on outer side of foregoing to scrotum & integu- ment of penis, or labium. Communicates with foregoing, and with inferior pudendal, and gives a few twigs to levator ani. IVTuscular - G-enerallv arise by a common trunk, which passes forwards and inwards under cover of transversus perinasi, and supplies anterior extremity of sphincter ani, transversus perinasi, erector penis, accelerator urinae & com- pressor urethrae; a twig is given to the bulb of the urethra. DORSAL NERVE OF THE PENIS — The smaller. With pudic artery along rami of iscliiurn & pubes between the two layers of deep perinaa il fascia, and through suspensory ligament and along dorsum of penis to glans. Supplies skin of dorsum & sides of penis, and gives a large branch to corpus cavernosum. - Dorsal nerve oj clitoris in female is smaller, but similarly distributed. Inferior Hsemorrhoidal Nerve - May be derived directly from sacral plexus. Crosses ischio-rectal fossa towards lower end of rectum, and gives off num- erous branches to spincter ani & integument round anus; communicates withjsuperficial perinaeal & inferior pudendal.