lOSd however, take the shape of a well-marked muscular belly extending from the coracoid process to the inner condyle of the humerus. II. - Migration of Muscles. Muscles may change their position by shifting eicher their origin or their insertion, or both. As a rule the origin is more subject to variation than the insertion. The extensor hrevis digitorum originally belonged to the peroneal group, and arose from the fibula. This is its condition in monotremata. But as we ascend the scale of mammalian forms, we see the muscle passing down tendon by tendon until it reaches the still imperfect condition presented in the human foot: The peroneus tertius in man is but the outer tendon of the extensor brevis, which has failed to migrate with its companions. In many mammals a slightly lower condition is present: there are two tendons, instead of one, that arise from the fibula, and they gain the dorsum of the foot by passing behind the external malleolus. The abductor hallucis, again alluded to further on, is also an emigrant, it having descended from the tibia to its present position on the os calcis. In the early embryo the dorsal inferossei muscles are plantar in position, and possess but one head ; and the metatarsals are in contact with each other. Gradually the metatarsals separate, and the interossei make their way between them, and, becoming bipenniform, eventually appear on the dorsum of the foot. As muscles migrate, they often leave some part of their structure behind them, transformed into ligament. Up to the fourth month of foetal life the adductor magnus Avas inserted into the head of the tibia. Later, migration occurs, the muscle proper becoming attached to the condyle of the femur, whilst the distal tendinous portion becomes the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The external lateral ligament of the knee-joint is the tendon the peroneus longus. which has gradually separated from the fleshy belly of the muscle, and has formed a new attachment to the head of the fibula : in the gibbon the tendon of the peroneus longus arises from the external condyle of the femur, and replaces the ligament. Even in man the muscular fibres of the peroneus longus often have an extensive origin from the ligament. There is reason to believe that the internal and external lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint have arisen in a similar manner. The round ligament of the hip-joint has long been an anatomical puzzle. There is no ligament that can boast of such an extensive literature, or uf having exercised so much the ingenuity of physiologists and surgeons. It is best regarded as the divorced tendon of a muscle, - in all probability of the pectineus, - from which it has become separated in consequence of skeletal modifications. The ambiens muscle of the thigh of birds, the representative of the human pectineus, is distinctly seen in the ostrich chick to be continuous with the ligamentum teres. In sphenodon, the muscle which corresponds to the ambiens of birds and to the human pectineus, has two heads, of which one lies