132d corresponds to the tenth and eleventh dorsal vertebrae, and to the cardiac depression on the posterior surface of the liver. It is situated posteriorly to and to the left of the aorta, and lies some four or five inches behind the interval between the ensiform process and the inner end of the seventh costal cartilage. (Professor Cunningham places the opening a little further outwards, posteriorlj^ to the seventh costal cartilage an inch from the sternum.) The pylorus lies about four and a half inches below the lower end of the gladiolus, half an inch above the subcostal plane (Cunningham). Its position laterally, its displacements, and its varying inclinations have been referred to. The tendency to sacculation near the pylorus (depressions with intervening prominences, sometimes two or three in number) is explained by the bending backwards described. Such markings disappear on dis- tention, and are not to be confounded with the constrictions due to local contractions of the muscular fibres, which constrictions are more or less permanent; these may divide the stomach into two parts (hour- glass shape). A small portion of the stomach just behind the eardia is uncovered by peritoneum, and lies in direct contact with the diaphragm, occasionally with the suprarenal capsule. The reflections of the peri- toneum at the boundaries of this area constitute the so-called gastro-phrenic ligament. Fluid injected through the oesophagus, - if the stomach be once distended, - does not return, though the oesophagus be unobstructed. The cardia would thus seem to be the seat of a kind of valvular action : After piercing the diaphragm, the oesophagus bends abruptly backwards and to the left to reacli the cardia, and it would seem probable that, in distention, this bend may be increased to a kink. II.—DUODENUM. « The duodenum is largely influenced by the condition of distention, or otherwise, of the stomach. When the stomach is empty, the commencement of the duodenum, - the movable pylorus, - shifted (relatively) to the left, - lies only a little above and to the right of the fixed duodeno-jejunal flexure; the duodenum then describes an almost complete circle. When, on the stomach being distended, the pylorus is again carried to the stomach lies in the left hypochondriac, epigastric, and part of the right hypochondriac regions"? When distended, - and even when not distended (Birmingham), - the stomach does lie, in part, in the right hypochondriac region, according to the very showing of the scientists; the stomach is therefore not nearly so vertical as is generally made out. The question of the delimitation of the several abdominal regions is an old and vexed one. But, if arbitrary divisions are necessary, the division which was largely brought to the front by the labours of Professor Cunningham, is probably the best. It is by means of two vertical mid-Poupart planes, and two horizontal planes passing, one through the most dependent part of the tenth costal arch, - subcostal plane, - and the other through the highest part of the iliac crest, - intertuhercular plane, - there being here a distinctly perceptible tubercle which juts out from the outer lip of the crest about two inches behind the anterior superior iliac spine. This settlement of a long-disputed question is worth noting.