132r The renal mrface (R, Fig. 322n) is long, narrow, and concave. It looks downwards and inwards, being moulded on the outer part of the left kidney. Quite superiorly it touches the suprarenal capsule, and may be slightly indented by it. The gastric surface, G, is deeply excavated, and the largest. It looks forwards and inwards. Posteriorly, and a little in front of the reno-gastric border (see below), is the hilum, a long vertical fissure, or series of foramina, for the entrance and exit of the- vessels and nerves. The poncreatico-colic surface, P.C., is more variable than the others, for the reason that is moulded upon those soft and varying structures, the pancreas and the colon, - on the- former internally, and on the latter externally, - and on the phreno-colic ligament. The apical borders radiate from the apex towards the three ba?al angles, or angles of the phrenic or basal surface, and separate the above-mentioned apical surfaces. They may be termed respectively reno-gastric, reno-pancreatic, and gastro-pancreatico-colic. The reno-gastric border is the longest ; it passes upwards and backwards to the highest and innermost part of the spleen, or svperior basal angle. It separates the renal and gastric surfaces. The reno-pancreatic border is quite short; it passes downwards and backwards to the posterior basal angle. It separates the renal and pancreatico-colic surfaces. The third apical border, the gastro-pancreatico-colic, is of intermediate length ; it passes downwards and forwards to the anterior basal angle. It separates the gastric and pancreatico-colic surfaces. The three basal borders, which bound the phrenic or basal surface, may be termed phreno-gastric, phreno-renal, and phreno-pancreatico-colic. The jAreno-gastric border, P.G., formerly called anterior border, is the longest;, it is a sharp border, usually notched in one or two places. The phreno-rejud border, P.R., formerly called the posterior border, is thick and rounded. The phreno-pancreatico-colic border, P.P.C., is variable, as is the corresponding pancreatico-colic surface.* * The foregoing description of the spleen, - practically, as stated, Prof. Cunningham's, - is not accepted by all anatomists, as will be gathered from Morris's^figure below given. It will be seen that INNER SURFACE Fig. 322o.—antkro-internal, or visckral, aspect of the spleen. (Morris.)/