96d The brachial artery corresponds, not to the femoral, but to the profunda femoris. Corresponding to the superficial femoral and popliteal, in the loAver limb, we have, in the upper limb, the vas aberrans. This is normally but a small branch of the brachial, Avhich passes in front of the median nerve, and inferiorly joins with the radial or some- times with the ulnar. This branch may be. greatly enlarged so as to take the place of the brachial artery, which then passes in front of the median nerve. In the forearm and leg, the ulnar and posterior tibial arteries are homologous; Avhile to the anterior tibial and peroneal there correspond respectively, in the upper limb, the posterior and anterior interosseous. The external plantar artery corresponds to the deep branch of the ulnar and the deep palmar arch,-its continuation with the anterior tibial, the dorsalis pedis, corresponding to the radial on the dorsum on the hand. The radial artery is not otherwise represented in the lower limb. The superficial palmar arch is, as a rule unrepresented in the lower limb, though there exists sometimes a small branch of communication between the two plantar arteries. At the root of the limbs, the subscapular artery corresponds with the gluteal, and the posterior circumflex Avith the sciatic. Morphology of the Nerves ol the Limbs. The nerves of the limbs are the greatly hyp )trophied muscular and latera cutaneous branches of the ventral stem of the metameric nerve trunks. The typical distribution of the spinal nerves obtains in the thoraco-abdomina region. It may be described as follows : - Each metamere receives a pair of nerves, of which the main trunk divides into dorsal and ventral stems. The latter runs in the somatopleure to mid-ventral line, and gives off in succession (1) a muscular branch to the dorsal end of the somatopleure musculature, (2) a cutaneous bran<^h to the skin over the postero-lateral aspect of the trunk, (3) a muscular branch to the ventral end of the somatopleure musculature, and (4) a cutaneous brancli to the skin on the antero-lateral aspect of the trunk. The above typical arrangement is preserved to some extent in the limbs. Here the two first of the branches of the ventral stem, or the lateral muscular and cutaneous branches, become the large trunks which form the root-plexuses. This is shown by an examination of the distribution of the first dorsal nerve, interpreted in the light of the evident homology of the scaleui and intercostal muscles. The first dorsal u-erve divides into a small inferior branch, which is the representative of an ordinary intercostal nerve, and a large superior branch, - a representative of the lateral muscular and cutaneous branches above referred to,-which contributes to form the brachial plexus. The cervical roots of the brachial plexus are similarly to be looked upon as the combined lateral cutaneous and muscular branches above referred to, enormously hypertrophied, - the stem of the intercostal nerves being represented by the small muscular branches supplied to the scaleni. The dorsal stem of the metameric nerves passes backwards to supply the muscle- plates and the skin covering them, and divides mto external and internal branches, Avhich separate the three divisions of the erector spina;. The evolution of the nerves of the limbs corresponds to that of the limb metameres :-The metameres are constricted and fused together at the root of each limb ; the nerves blend to form the root-plexuses. The metameres segment into flexor and extensor masses: the primary nerve-trunks break up beyond the root-plexuses into primary flexor and extensor divisions. As the primary muscle masses segment into