132f The duodenum is divided into four portions (Symington, Quain), or into three portions only (Cunningham), The First Portion is very variable, - its length, direction, and position depending on the condition of the stomach and consequent position of the pylorus. With the empty stomach, and the pylorus over to the left, the first portion of the duodenum is about two inches long, and angular in direction. It first passes to the right, under the quadrate lobe of the liver, continuing the direction of the pyloric portion of the stomach. It then curves backwards beneath the neck of the gall-bladder, where it bends sharply Fig. 322d.—view of the duodenum from before. (Quain, after Lushka.) p, placed on the first portion of the duodenum, points to the pyloric opening seen from the side next the stomach ; d, on the second portion, indicates the termination of the common bile and pancreatic ducts ; d', third and fourth portions ; j, commencement of the jejunum ; m, superior mesenteric artery. (The pylorus and the first portion of the duodenum are seen in the position they occupy when the stomach is distended.) a,a, abdominal aorta ; v, v, inferior vena cava. downwards to join the second portion. "With the distended stomach, and the pylorus more or less over to the right, the direction of the first portion of the duodenum is backwards almost from the first, and its length is reduced to an inch or less. Below, and to the right of, the first portion of the duodenum, are the neck of the pancreas, and the gastro-duodenal artery; directly behind it are the hepatic artery, bile-duct, and portal vein; above and in front are the liver and the gall-bladder. (See p. 132n.) The Second Portion is fixed, and about three inches long. Beginning opposite the neck of the gall-bladder, on the right side of the first lumbar vertebra, it passes down the right side of the spine to the level of the third or fourth lumbar vertebra, where it turns more or less sharply upwards and to the left to join the third portion. Posteriorly