60c! humerus ; and an inferior band (Schlemm's ligament), extending from the under part of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the neck of the humerus. The third band, or gleno-humeral ligament, is attached to the upper part of the glenoid cavity at the root of the coracoid process, just internal to the tendon of the long head of the biceps; it descends at an acute angle to the tendon, forming a groove for the same, and is attached iuferiorly to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. It is a thin ribbon-like band, of which the upper surface is attached to the capsule, while the other is free and projects into the joint, forming a groove for the tendon of the biceps. In the foetus it is often, and in the adult occasionally, quite free from the capsule, and may be as thick as the tendon of the biceps (H. Morris). (See also p. 108g.) Transverse Humeral Ligament. Mr. Gordon Brodie describes under the above name the band of fibrous tissue w^hich covers in the bicipital groove, and transforms it into an osteo-aponeurotic canal. This band is supposed to correspond to a process of bone which joins the greater and lesser tuberosities of the humerus in the musk ox. It is strengthened by an expansion from the deep lamina of the tendon of the pectoralis major. Costo-coracoid Membrane. The costo-coracoid membrane is thick and dense where it is stretched between the clavicle, the coracoid process, the inner extremity of the first rib, and the upper border of the pectoralis minor. It is here perforated by the cephalic vein, the acromio- and superior thoracic vessels and the anterior thoracic nerves. The portion extending from the first rib to the coracoid process is specially dense, and is often called the costo-coracoid ligament. Superiorly, the costo-coracoid membrane may be said to enclose the subclavius muscle, and to become continuous with the deep cervical fascia. Inferlorly it may be said to enclose the pectoralis minor, and to be joined to the axillary fascia. But these extensions are cellular rather than aponeurotic. See also notes on— The Coraco-Brachialis, p. I08c. The Epitrochleo-Anconeus, p. 108a. The Rotator Humeri, p. I08c. The Internal Intermuscular Septum of Arm, p. 108J. The Palmar Fascia, p. I08e. The Deep Fascia of the Limbs, p. I08a.