XXV i plates. Here again, after spending much time in vain efforts, the student once more finds himself stopped in his work. It suffices, I have always found, to put him on the trunk of the facial nerve, as already explained, showing him how its radiating branches cross the trunk of the carotid and its later branches, so that the nerves can be traced out in the parotid gland without injuring the arteries, to start the dissector once more " on his way rejoicing." §2. Double appUcation of the'•^ De fil en aiguille''''principle/^—There is no better proof of the soundness of a principle than to find its indications correct and practical, when brought to bear on new ground. Some twenty years' dissecting did it take to lead up to the De fil en aiguille'''' principle, and some four or five more to work it out in regard to the more prominent parts of the body generally,f - i.e., as to what eveij man should most certainly dissect, - and to justify the motto, in regard at least to this part of the work, " Dissect well and quickly; dissecting should be a fascinating pursuit." It has barely taken a month, under favourable circumstances, to bring within the conquered area those deeper dissections of the cranial nerves and their ganglia, which few men now ^^enture to undertake. Two favourite pupils from Cambridge had been working throughout the summer of 1895 in the Author's dissecting room, and they had dissected the whole body, as generally understood. There remained a month before return to the University was imperative. The thought occurred, Could not these deserving young fellows be at least shown the less recondite of the structures just referred to? Would not the ''De fil en aiguille''' principle prove itself here the same time-saving and work-improving instrument it has shown itself elsewhere } Work was begun in earnest. Methods of dissect- in the superficial structures, and consequently these are always easy to clean. It is the deeper structures which, in certain regions, are felted. Here it is that the untrained dissector breal^s down. Can dissecting be made easy ? and how ? Some will say to the dissector, Cut away the superficial structures when you have seen them, and thus mate the deep ones superficial. The plan is sanctioned by custom. I rebel against it, nevertheless. It deprives the student of what should be pre-eminently his own - the accumulated products of his past labour. It is now lawful to keep " parts " from one end of the session Added October, 189s. t See " Dissection-Guides."