1081 ligament to form the anterior and posterior walls of the femoral sheath. Siich statements are clinical, or at most auatomico-cliuical, not simply and purely anatomical. As above explained, current statements in reference to the more particularly snrgical regions are correct, or at least fairly correct. Taken in any other sense they are incorrect, and one might almost say absurd. Beyond such limits as are above defined, the description of fasciie bi/ continvity is, it is submitted, wrong in principle, incorrect, and misleading. The only absolutely correct basis of description of the several fascijE in particular is one which should elicit and explain their structural and physical characters, a? observable in the several regions of the body. It is only within narrow limits that such descriptions are possible. The fascia covering the body generally, or deep fascia, is, where exposed to pressure and friction, relatively thick and dense. Where pressure and friction are greatest, the condition is most marked - fascia lata on outer side of thigh. Where pressure and frifctiori are less, the reverse condition presents - fascia on inner side of thigh; - strength and density increasing, however, pari passu with j)ressure and friction, as one approaches the knee, and still further so as one passes to the inner side of the leg, Avhere the fascia does not differ very greatly from that on the outer side. What applies to the lower limb applies also to the upper limb, to the front and back of the trunk, to the front and back of the neck. All careful dissectors are aware of the great density of the fascia over the trapezius at its insertion into the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The same applies to the deeper or intermuscxilar layers of fascia. As above stated, there is a strong, tongh, though relatively thin and translucent layer of fascia between the superficial and deeji muscles of the back of the leg. "SATiy is this layer of fascia so much stronger than the corres^jonding layer of fascia in the upper limb, - that is than the layer of fascia between the superficial and deep muscles of the front of the forearm? Because, in the lower limb, there is an independent action of the superficial muscles to which there is nothing to correspond in the upper limb. In walking, standing on tip toe, &c.. we contract the superficial muscles of the back of the leg irrespectiA-ely, or nearly so, of the deep muscles. There is no frequent action of the upper limb, in which Ave similarly use, - that is. u?e alone and forcibly, - the superficial muscles of the fi'ont of the forearm. In the neck, again, the same thing is found. Beneath the middle part of the sterno-mastoid there is a strong layer of fascia, tough, laminated, somewhat translucent, smooth and even (^through its being tensed by the omo-hyoids), - very similar in character to the fascia beneath the gastrocnemius and soleus. Both higher up and loA^ er doAAn the fascia becomes less distinctly laminated and more fatty, - the reason being that superiorly the sterno-mastoid rests upon a thick pad of muscles, complexus, splenius, levator anguli scapuhie. &.C., Avhile, inferiorly, on the other hand, it is drawn away from subjacent structures by its attachment to the clavicle. Again, in the abdomen, the fascia transversalis is thickest at the lower part of the anterior wall of the abdomen, because it is there that the weight and lateral pressure of the superjacent viscera is greatest; and the fascia iliaca is thicker than the fascia transversalis on account of the iliacus muscle forming a nearly horizontal plane bearing