152k The Urinary Bladder Is formed from the intra-foetal portion of the allantois. It is at first an elongated fnsiform sac opening, on the one hand, into the cavity of the allantois, and, on the other, into the cloaca, or common outlet of the digestive, urinary, and reproductive tracts. It contracts superiorly into a fibrous cord, the urachus, by which it remains permanently connected to the umbilicus. Inferiorly it becomes separated from the intestinal canal by a transverse septum, the perineum. It then forms part of the uro-genital sinus, which sinus forms the female urethra, and the membranous and prostatic portions of the male. The External Genito-Urinary Organs. Appear a little after the internal, and are identical at first in both sexes. They consist at first of a rounded eminence, the genital tubercle, on which appears a median depression or groove, the genital furrow. This furrow deepens, and opens into the cloaca, or common outlet, as aforesaid, of the intestinal canal and of the internal genito-urinary organs. A transverse septum, the perinseum, now separates the rectum from the uro-genital sinus, and the anus from the external genitals. Fig. 357g.—development of the external sex0al organs in the male and female from THE indifferent TYPE. (ECKER.) A., the external sexual organs in an^embryo of about nine weeks, in which the external sexual distinction is not yet established, and the cloaca still exists ; B., the same in an embryo somewhat more advanced, and in which, without marked sexual distinction, the anus is now separated from the uro-genital aperture ; C, the same in an embryo of about]ten weeks, showing the female type ; D., the same in a male embryo somewhat more advanced. Throughout the figures the following indications are employed:— p.c, sexual eminence [penis or clitoris]; to the right of these letters in A., the umbilical cord ; p., penis ; c. clitoris ; cL, cloaca ; iig., urogenital opening ; a., anus ; l.s., cutaneous elevation which becomes labium or scrotum ; 1, labium ; s., scrotum ; co., caudal or coccygeal elevation. The uro-genital sinus is the lowest and contracted part of the intra-fcetal portion of the allantois. It communicates superiorly with the urinary bladder. Into it open, A. n.