I SACBAL PLEXUS. Formed by lumbo^sacral cord & anterior divisions of the three first sacral nerves, and part o( that of the fourth. Triangular in shape, - its constituent nerve-fibres converging to form one broad flat oord, which leaves pelvis through lower part of great sacro-sciatio foramen below pyriformis, and immediately divides into Small sciatic, Great sciatic & Pudio. Rests upon pyriformis, and is covered by the pelvic fascia & by the two terminal branches (sciatic & pudic) of anterior division of internal iliac artery, BRANCHES : Superior Gluteal - From back of lumbo-sacral cw-d. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great sacro-sciatio foramen abote! pyriformis, and dividea into; Superior Branch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei medius & minimus. Inferior Branch - Directly forwards between glutei medius & minimus, which it alsoj supplies, and terminates in tensor vaginae femoris. Muscular - To pyriformis, obturator interntis, gemelli & quadratus femoris. - The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through; lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. - The! gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a commonj branch, which runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemelli, and gives off an articular filament to the joint. Small Sciatic - From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatio foramen below pyriformis. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg; communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: IwifERiOR Gluteal - Several, large; to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischii to skin of perinoeum and upper & inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous - Descending. To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigh, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending, Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integument over its surface Great Sciatic - Vide p. 78. Fudic - Vide pp. 107 & 293. 1