47 ULNAR, INT. CUTANEOUS, & LESSER INT. CUTAN- EOUS NERVES. ULNAR NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, internal cutane. ons & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. - Lies at first on inner side of 3rd part oi axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Pierces internal intermuscular septum with inferior profunda, and descends in groove between olecranon & internal condyle. Enters fore-arm between the two heads of flexor carpi ulnaris. Descends on flexor profundus, being covered in upper part of fore-arm by flexor carpi ulnaris, lying superficially in lower part between tendon of latter muscle & inner- most tendons of flexor sublimis digitorum. - Ulnar artery lies on outer side of nerve, and is distant from it in upper part of fore-arm. Crosses anterior annular ligament a little behind artery & on outer side of pisiform bone, and divides into two TERMINAL BRANCHES: Superficial - To palmaris brevis, integument & 1^ fingers on inner side of hand, joining \vith median. Deep-Between abductor & flexor brevis minimi digiti, and beneath flexor tendons with deep palmar arch. Supplies muscles of little finger, interossei, the two inner lumbricales, adductor pollicis & inner head of flexor brevis. LATERAL BRANCHES: None in upper-arm. In fore-arm: Articular to Elbow Joint - Several, small, arise behind elbow. Muscular - To flexor carpi ulnaris & inner half of flexor profundus. Palmar Cutaneous - Arises a little below middle of fore-arm. "With ulnar artery to integument of front of wrist & palm of hand, joining with palmar cuta- neous branch of median & frequently with internal cutaneous. Dorsal Cutaneous-l-arge, arises a little above wrist. Winds inwards beneath tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris, and supplies integument & IJ fingers on inner side of back of hand, joining with radiaL Articular to the Wrist. INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & lesser internal cutaneous nerves. Along inner side of brachial artery in front of lesser internal cutaneous, giving oS" a cuta- neous filament to integument over biceps. Pierces deep fascia with basilic vein, and divides into: Anterior Branch. - Tii front of, or sometimes behind, median basilic vein to in- tegument of front of inner side of fore-arm as low as wrist, frequently joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar. Posterior Branch - Over internal condyle to integument of back of inner side of fore-arm to near wrist, joining with lesser internal cutaneous & dorsal cutaneous branch of ulnar. LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS N. or N. of WRISBERG. ^ i From inner cord of brachial plexus in common with inner head of median, ulnar & internal cutaneous nerves. Along inner side of axillary vein & brachial artery & behind internal cutaneous nerve to integument of back of lower third of arm, joining with intercosto-humeral & posterior branch of internal cutaneous. Its size & communications vary considerably. Frequently intercosto-humeral nerve i3 large, and takes the place of nerve of Wrisberg, joining brachial plexus by a small filament only, or not at all.