152^ APPENDIX. STERNO-CLAVICULAE ARTICULATION Is an articulation by reciciprocal reception (Cruveilhier) between the clavicular facet of the sterniim & the inner t xtremity of the clavicle, or rather, as is remarked by Gosselin, between the clavicular facet of the sternum & the inner surface of the interarticul ar fibro-oartilage. Between these two latter a^rticular surfaces there is a most perfect recipi ocal adaptat'on: - the sternal articular surface is concave from above downwards & outwards and convex from before backwards ; the corresponding surface of the interarticular fibro-cartilage is concave from befoi e backwards and convex from above downwards & outwards. The interarticular fibro-cartilage divides the cavity of the articulation into two parts lined each of them by a separate synovial membrane. The synovial membrane between the sternum & the interarticular fioro-car.ila:^e is the largest; the other one is prolonged between the contiguous articular surfaces of the clavicle & of the first costal cartilage. - The interarticular fibro-cartilage is thickest at its circumference, especially above & behind; its inner surface, as aforesaid, is concave from before backwards & convex from above down- wards & outwards. Its outer surface is concave, and is a^ttached to the clavicle at its upper & back pa.t. Its circumference is attached to the capsular & to the anterior & pr)sterior ligaments, and, interiorly, to the cartilage of the first rib. - Occasionally the fibro-carnilage is perforated in the centre; the two synovial membranes then communicate. LIGAMENTS-Are: Capsular - Thin & ill-defined, from Circumference of inner extreniity of clavicle to /Margin of siernal articular Jacet. Ant. Sterno-Clavicular - Strong & broad oblique band from Front ot inner extremity of clavicle to Upper d?^ front part of first piece of sternmii. Post. Sterno-Clavicular - Thinner & narrower ; obliquely from Back 0/ inner extremity of clavicle to Upper <Sj^ back part of first piece of sternum. Interclavicular - Thick flat band, which passes in a curved direction from Upper part of inner extremity of one clavicle to Upper part of inner extremity of other, being closely connected with the upper margin of the steruum. Costo-Clavicular or Rhomboid - Short flat cord from Upper inner part of cartilage of first rib to Rhomboid i^npression on under surface of clavicle. This ligament belongs, properly speaking, not to the sterno-clavicular but to the costo-clavicular arLicu.ation. It is usually described here, however, as it contributes materially to retain the clavicle in its situation. - The costo-clavicular articulation is, in fact, a part of the sterno-clavicular, and the articulation of the inner extremity of the clavicle n ight well be called the sterno-costo-clavicular. MOVEMENTS —'I'l^e stemo-davicular or sterno-costo-clavicular articulation admits of move- ments in every direction, circumduction included, these movements are not extensive, however, being limited, by the connexion of the clavicle with the scapula & the upper limb. - The interarticular fibro-cartilage moves with the inner extremity of the clavicle, gliding freely on the articular surlace of the sternum.