103 THE ISCHIO-REOTAL REGION. Oorresponds to the portion of outlet of pelvis situated behind a line drawn ft*om front part of ono tuber ischii to that of the other. It is bounded in front by above mentioned line; its »pex is at point of coccyx; its sides are formed by tuberosities of ischium, great sacro-sciatio ligaments & great glutei muscles. It contains terminal portion of rectum surrounded by levatores ani and the internal & external sphincters, and on each side of which is the ischio-rectal fossa. It is triangular in form and depressed centrally towards anus, round which aperture the integu- ment is throwa into numerous folds, and becomes continuous with mucous membrane of intestine. The skin is dark, but thicker & less movable than on perinaaum proper, and contains a few hair-follicles. The subcutaneous areolar tissue or superficial fascia hardly exists in centre of region, or over sphincter ani, which muscle is closely adherent to integument; but it is alDundant laterally, where it is loaded with a large amount of fat, and where it dips into and filU the ischio-rectal fossa. ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA Is a large excavation which sinks deeply into pelvis on either side of rectum, and which is filled with a considerable amount of loose fatty areolar tissa*. It is wide & triangular at its Base - Which corresponds to integument, but it is flattened from side to side and ' diminished in size superiorly. - Its Inner Wall - is oblique downwards & inwards and formed by under surface of levator ani & by sphincter, which muscles are covered by anal fascia. Outer Wall - is vertical, and is formed by obturator internus covered by obturatq fascia j it presents the pudic vessels & nerve enclosed in a sheath of fascia. It is bounded: Above - By junction of anal & obturator fasciae. In Front - By junction of the same fasciae superiorly, and, inferiorly, by junctioa ot the superficial & deep perinasal fasciae behind transversus perineal. Behind - By sacro-sciatic ligaments, coccygeus & the gluteus maximus. The vessels & nerves it contains are the : Inferior kcpmorrhoidal, in the centre; Pudic, in the outer wall; Superficialperinceal, in front; , • • A branch of^^th sacral nerve, and branches of sciatic artery 6* small saattc mrve^ behind: the branches of the latter nerve winding round lower border of gluteus maximua. AboT© levator aui is the reoto-vesical layer of the pelvic fasoia (Vide Pelvic F.)