99 SCARPA'S TRIANGLE—2nd Tablet. FEMORAL SHEATH - is a tWn tube of fascia divided by two deUcate septa into three oompartments of winch compartments the outermost contains the femoral artery & the crural brajich of the genito-crui-al nerve, the middle one the femoral vein, and the innermost, which is called the feraoial Ti. • 1 J . , , canal, some fat & a lymnhatic "land It IS expanded superiorly where it is continuous beneath Poupart's ligament with the fascite of the abdomen, the fascia transversahs & the fascia iliaca passing down to form it, the former in front of. It ia narrow inferiorly, and blends about two inches below Poupart?UgamentlS\he Vo^^^ IrjS Anteriorly it is covered by the iliac portion of the fascia lata (falcifonn pS^s &\emom Poupart s Ugament, the deep crai-al arch, and, opposite the saphenous opening, by the cribriform Posteriorly it rests upon the pubic portion of the fascia lata & the pectineus muscle Its outer wall is vertical, Ues in immediate contact with the artery, and is perforated by theciniral branch Ti • n . 11- 1 , „ , , of the genito-crural nerve. Its inner wall is oblique downwards & outwards from base of Gimbernat's ligament to inner surface of femoral vein. It is pierced superiorly, where it ccirresponds to the femoral canal, by numerous lymphatic vessels, and, inferiorly, or below the femoral canal, by the internal saphenous vein. FEMORAL CANAL — Is the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath. Or rather it is the nar row interval comprised, at the upper part of the femoral sheath, between the inner wall of tlie sheath & the femoral vein; for it can hardly be said to exist as a distinct canal unless the wall of the sheath has been separated from the vein either by dissection or by the pressm-e of a hernia. - ... ^ , ^ ^ , . It contains a little fat & a lymphatic gland. It extends from the femoral ring to the upper part of saphenous opening, and measures from i to ^ , ^ „ „ ^ . an inch in length. It presents four walls & two openings. Anterior Wall - Formed by the fascia transversalis, and supported by Poupart's liga- ment, deep crural arch, & iliac portion of fascia lata (falciform process & femoral ligament); Posterior wall - Formed by the fascia iliaca; rests upon pubic portion of fascia lata & pectineus muscle; Inner wall - Formed by junction of fasciae transversalis & iliaca; Outer Wall - Formed by the thin septum on inner side of femoral vein; Superior Opening, or Femoral Eing - Vide below. Inferior, or Saphenous Opening - Vide foregoing Tablet. Femoral Hing - is the opening of the femoral canal into the abdomen. -Its boundaries are:- IN Front - Poupart's ligament and the deep criu-al arch; Behind - Pubes covered by pectineus muscle. & pubic portion of fascia lata; Internally - Gimbernat's Ligament ^vith the triangular ligament, the conjoined tendon, & the deep crural ai-ch Externally - Femoral vein & the thin septum between it & cruial canal. Its relations are as follows: Femoral vein, on outer side; Epigastric artery, crossing upper & outer angle; Spet'inatic cord or round ligajitent, &^ pubic branch of epioastric above & in front; Obturator artery, on inner side, in those rare cases in wnich the artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric artery, and of arising from that artery at some distance from its root;-the obturator artery then passes first inwards above the ring, and then downwards into the pelvis Dehind Gimbernat's ligament. It is nearly circular, about \ an inch wide in the male, a little wider in the female, and is closed by the SEPTUM CKUHALE (J. Cloquet) - A more or less condensed laj er of superitoneal areolar tissue adherent to margins of femoral ring, and perforated by numerous apertm-es for lymphatics. Its upper surface is concave, and separated from the peritoneum by a less condensed layer of the same tissue and sometimes by a lymphatic gland; its under surface is convex & turned towards the femoral canal. The femoral canal & both its openings are constricted by extension & eversion, and relaxed by flexion & inversion of the thigh. COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA - Are:- From within outwards : - Peritoneuin, subperitoneal areolar tissue (a portion of which, tldckened & caused to assume a membranous appearance by the pressure of the hernia, was described by Sir A. Cooper under the name of fascia propria), septum crurale, crural sheath, cribfifortn fascia, superficial fascia, skin. From without INWAKDS : - Skin, superficial fascia, cribriform fascia, crural sheath, septum crurale, subperitoneal areolar tissue, peritoneum. The deep seated stricture is to be divided upwards & inwaids, in which direction no important vessel is likely to be met with.