THE HIP JOINT 93 Is /^typical eiiarthrodial articulation. ARTICULAR SURFACES: Acetabulum - Deep, hemispnerioal, further deepened in the fresh condition by the cotyloid & trnnsvet se liy:arnents. LooVs dnwnwarria, outwards & forwards. Is divided into : Incomplete Articulae Ring - Broadest ai)ove & behind, and deficient below & in front. Central Non-Abticular Depression - Continuous v\itb cotyloid notch; lodges a mass of fat, which forms a bed for the round ligament. Head of Femur - Forms nearly two-thirds of a sphere, and, in the normal position of the limb, looks upwards, inwards & forwards. It presents a little below & behind its centre a small circular depression for attachment of lifra nenturn teres; near ihis depression the cartilage is thicker than elsewhere. LIGAMENTS — Are: - Capsular - Short & thick, especially above & in front; thinner & looser below & behind; some- times perforated beneath nsoas. - It extends from Outer lip of margin ofacetabuMm xvithin two or three lines of the cotyloid ligament, and, opposite the cotyloid notch, from transverse ligament 6<» edge of obturator fo atnen to Anterior intertrochanteric line in front; bise of neck offemur, above; and, behind, to back of neck of femur, within about half an inch from lesser trochanter ^ posterior intertrochanteric line, Ilio-Femoral or Accessory - A thickened band closely connected with front of capsule, ■ r . * which extends obliquely from Anterior inferior spine of ilium to ^ J Lower part of anterior intertrochanteric line. There are al.-o several other accessory bands, viz., one on the outer side of tho ilio-femoral termed the Ilio-trochanteric, one on the inner side of the ilio-femoral termed the Pubo-femoral; also a transverse band at the back of the joint. Round Ligament or Ligamentum Teres - Interarcicular band about an inch long and ol vpiy variable strength & thickness, attached, on the one hand, tc Depression a little below dr» behind centre of head offemur^ and on the other hand, dividing into two fasciculi, to Margins of cotyloid notch % the two fasciculi blendinof with the transverse ligament. It conveys a lew vessels to head of femur. Cotyloid - Incomplete fibro-L-artilaginous ring triangular oa section, presenting a base attached to margin of acetabulum, and a sharp free edge which closely en)braces head of femur. It is thickest above & behind, and deficient Qpposite the cotyloid notch, where it is con. tinned into the transverse ligament. It consists of closely interlaced oblique fibres arising irom the diflferent points of the rim of the bone. Transverse - strong flattened band, a continuation of the foregoing, which extends from one side of the cotyloid notch to the other, transforming it into a complete foramen. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE — Invests whole of anterior surface & greater part of posterior sur- face of neck of femur, cotyloid ligament, mass o! fat at bottom of acetabulum, & ligamentum teres. - It communicates sometimes through a small opening in the capsule with the bursa Leneath psoas & iliacus. VASCULAR & NERVE SUPPLY — "Sxom obturator, sciatic & internal circumflex arteries, and from great sciatic, obturator & accessory obturator nerves> MOVEMENTS — Are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, rotation & circumduction. - Flexion is freer then extension: the thiah can be brought forwards till it touches the ab- domen, !)ut it cannot be cai ried backwards to anything like the same extent. Flexion, in fact, is scarcely interfered with by the posterior part of the capsule, which is thin & loose; exten- sion, on the contary, is soon arrested by the ilio-femoral ligament and by the anterior pare of the capsule, which is short & thick. — Of the two lateral movements abduction is the freest; it is check d by the action of tho pubo-femoral band. Adduction is checked mainly by the two limi:s coming in c mtaot, but also partly by the action of the ilio-trochanteric baud. When however flexion & adduotiou ai e combined, so that one limb passes in front of the other, the double movement may be carried veiy far; it is at last arrested, by the action of the round ligament. The round liga ment is also tensed when flexion & abduction are combined and curried to a considerabl* extent, and when the limb is rotated outwards Rotation inwards is freer than rotation outwards (rotation being measure 1 from the inter- mediate position which the foot normally occupies in standing); this is partly due to the greater laxity of the capsule behind than in front, and partly also to the direction forwards both oi the iiead ol the lemur & of the acetribulum. Rotation takes place round an imaginary line extending from the head of the femur to the centre of the ku^e-joint. - Circumduction, as all other movements generally, is much less free in the hip than in the sholder-joint. The weight of the limb at the hip-joint is normally supported by atmospheric pressure : - In consequence of the complete exclusion of air from the joint through the accurate adapta- tion of the cotyloid & transverse ligaments to the head of the femur, the latter is firmly re- tained in the acetabuluai oven after ill the soft parts around the joint have been divided; if wr be allowed to peuetraie into the joint through a perforation of the ..c. tahulum irwm withiDi tie limb will immediately drop.