152h n. - Miiller's Dact, or Pronephrotic Duct, to whicli is snbsequentlT added in many lower animals, but not in man. the Pronephros:— In the Female : Pallopian Tube, Uterus, Yagina. In the Male : Sinus pocularis : Hjdadid of Morgagni. III. - Metanephrotic Dact, and Metanephros :— In both Sexes : Ureter and Permanent Kidaev. The above structures are derived from the intermediate cell mass or common reproductive cell mass, so called because it is comprised between the protovertebrre and the point of division of the mesoblast into somatopienre and splanchnopleure, and because it is the common source from which there are developed, as far as mesoblastic elements are concerned, the central genito-urinary organs of both male and female. Mesonephros, or WolflB.aii Body, and Duet. The duct is the part first formed. It appears as a solid cord in the upper part of the intermediate cell mass inst below the epiblast, sinks downwards towards the pleuro- peritoneal cavity, becomes hollow, and opens into the uro-genital sinus. The secreting tubules join its inner aspect. They take a wavy course upwards and inwards, and end in dilated extremities, which soon contain vascular tufts or glomeruli similar to those of the future kidney. The Wolffian Body degenerates in both sexes. In the female it forms the parovarium or org-au of Rosenmtiller. In the male it forms the rete testis, vasa efferentia, and coni vasculosa, - and also the vas aberrans and organ of GLraldes. The Wolffian duct becomes, as above stated, in. the male, the epididymis, vas deferens, and ejaculatory duct, -from which latter the vesicala seminahs is given off as an evaginating pouch, - and, in the female, the duct of Giiartner. Fi&. 357e.—DIAGRAM OP THE FEJCALE TYPE OF SEXUAL 0RGA5S. (Allen Thomson, Quain.) 0., left ovary; p.o., parovarium [epoophoron of WaldeyerJ : TT., scattered remains of Wolffian rubes near it [paroophoron of Waldeyer]; d.G., remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gartner represented by dotted lines ; that of the right side is marked W. ; /., the abdominal opening of the left Fallopian tube ; w., uterus ; the FaUopian tube of the right side is marked m.; g., round ligament corresponding to the gubemaculum; i., lower part of the intestine; c.a., vagina ; A., situation of the hymen : C, gland of Bartholin [Co-wpers gland], and itmnediately above it the tirethra ; c.c, corpus cavemosum clitoridis; s.c, vascular bulb or corpus spongiosum; n., nympha; L, labium; f. vulva.