118 THE LARGE INTESTINE, ^gee NoUs, pp. I32g to k. About 5 feet long, sacculated. Dimiuishes in size till just above anus, where it is considerably enlarged. Consists cceciitn, ascending, transvej'se, descending colon, sigmoid flexure & rechiin. CiECUM or CAPUT CiECUM COLI — The cul.de-sac situated below entrance of small intestine into the large; is the most dilated part of colon. Lies in right iliac fossa, where it is retained by the peritoneum which covers its front & sides, and sometimes surrounds it entirely in a distinct fold, the meso-caecum. Presents: Appendix Vermiformis - A tubular proloKgation from 2 to 6 inches long & of about the diameter of a goose-quill connected with lower & back part of caecum; usually directed upwards & inwards behind it, and retained by a fold of peri- toneum. Ilio-Csecal or Ilio-Colic Valve, or Valve of Bauhin - Situated at entrance of small intestine into the large at upper inner & back part of caecum. Formed by two crescentic folds of the mucous & submucous coats & circular mug. cular fibres of the gut, which folds are separated by a narrow antero-posterior aperture. The upper fold is nearly horizontal, and is the smallest. The lower fold is oblique, and is the largest. At their points of coalescence they are continued upon wall of gut into two pro. minent folds, the frcsna. Their surface turned towards the small intestine is covered with villi, the other surface has no villi, and is quite smooth. ASCENDING COLON ~ . . . I Upwards to under surface of liver on right side of gall-bladder, where it curves to th«| left, forming hepatic flexurei Bound down against quadratus lumborum & right kidney by peritoneum which covers itm front & sides, and sometimes encloses it in a distinct fold, the ascending meso-c.olon.j TRANSVERSE COLON or ARCH of the COLON - Curves forwards & to the left between confines of umbilical & epigastric regions to left hypochondrium, where it bends downwards, forming splenic flexure. Is very movable, being comprised between the two ascending layers of great omentum, which layers join again behind it to form transverse meso-colon. Its relations are: Above - Liver, gall-bladder, great curvature of stomach, lower end of spleen; In Front - Great omentum, anterior wall of abdomen ; Behind - Transverse meso-colon, 3rd portion of duodenum. DESCENDING COLON - Downwards in front of left crus of diaphragm, left kidney & quadratus lumborum to left iliac fossa, where it ends in sigmoid flexure. Covered by peritoneum in front & at sides, sometimes entirely surrounded by a distinct fold, the descending meso-colon. SIGMOID FLEXURE - Commences at crest of ilium, ascends to right or left, descends, and ends in rectum opposite left sacro-iliac synchondrosis. Freely movable, being retained by only A loose fold of peritoneum, the sigmoid meso-colon.