Define its relations to the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle and in Hunter's canal. "Where is the femoral vein in Hunter's canal ? What nerve accompanies the artery, and where does it lie ? 46. Put your finger on the saphenous opening. Explain its mode of formation, and the coverings of femoral hernia. 47. Point out situation of the femoral ring. What are its boundaries ? Hefer especially to the abnormal obturator artery. 48. Point out the great trochanter, and apply Nekton's and Bryant's tests as to shortening of the lower limb. Compare the two limbs as to length. 49. Peel, or indicate the position of, the inguinal & femoral lymphatic glands. 50. Trace the course of the internal saphenous vein. 51. Show where the gluteal & sciatic arteries emerge from the pelvis. 52. Draw the line of the great sciatic nerve. How would you expose it ? 53. Indicate the position of the bursa patellae. What serious accident may occur in removing a hypertrophied bursa ? 54. Mark the outline of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and examine the knee for fluid in the joint. 55. Point out the adductor tubercle. 56. Mark out the boundaries of the popliteal space, and identify the tendons of the biceps, semitendinosus & semimembranosus, gracilis, and the ilio-tibial band. 57. Draw the line of the popliteal artery. What are its relations to the popliteal vein and to the internal popliteal nerve ? Mark the position of the external popliteal nerve. 58. Indicate the bursas at the back of the knee-joint. Which bursge communicate, or may communicate, with the knee-joint ? 59. Indicate the level at which the popliteal artery divides into anterior & posterior tibial, and the level at which the peroneal artery is given off from the latter, 60. Draw the line of the anterior tibial artery, and mention the muscles between which it lies in the upper, middle, and lower parts of its course. Where can you feel its pulsations ? What is the relation of the anterior tibial nerve to the artery ? 61. Draw the line of the posterior tibial artery. Feel its pulsations behind the internal malleolus. What are its relations to neighbouring struc- tures in this situation ?