XXXI tissues, so that distinctions of structure previously quite plain are effaced.* Parts should be dissected while fresh, if good work is to be done. Dissection is twice as easy then as it is later on. The Author would mention approximately, as per following list, the time he finds amply suflicient for a man of average ability, - hut properly instructed as to how he should set about his work, - to dissect thoroughly the several parts of the human body :— Arm - 24 to 36 hours. Leg - 48 to 60 hours. Thorax (thoracic duct & vense azygos included) - 12 hours. Abdomen & Back : - Muscles, 12 hours; viscera, &c., down to the crura of the diaphragm, 24 hours. Pelvis - 16 hours. Triangles of Neck - 16 hours. Pterygo-maxillary Region - 12 hours. Submaxillary Region & Tongue - 6 hours. Orbit (superficial, middle and deep dissections, preceded by the dissection of the Gasserian ganglion) - 16 hours. Orbit from outside, with lenticular ganglion - 8 hours. Muscles of Pharynx (dissected under water and spirit) - 16 hours. Muscles of Soft Palate - 8 hours. Larynx - 6 hours. Sub-occipital Region - 16 hours. Meckel's Ganglion - 12 hours, otic Ganglion - 6 hours. Muscles of Face - 16 hours. Inguinal & Femoral Ilernise - 16 hours. Perinseum - 24 hours, t The above list may perhaps have the honour of being somewhat closely scanned. What," writes already a prominent anatomical teacher, a late member of the Board, now a member of the Court, of Examiners, "no more time given to the thoracic viscera, mediastina, &e., than to the muscles of the abdominal wall?" The reply is that it is the time required for actually dissecting that has been coi^iputed in the above * The remark applies very specially to the infra-hyoid muscles. t The Author ventures to assert that, under the following conditions, namely, the parts being carefully studied beforehand and correct methods of dissecting being adhered to. and with the reservations mentioned, some 300 hours of actual dissecting, - (three hours a day for 100 days, say four months), - is sufficient for a man of average ability to clean every muscle, clean and trace out the stem and named branches of every artery, every venous trunk, every nerve (cutaneous branches sufficiently for their distribution to be clearly made out), and to clean every viscus, &c., of the medically and surgically more important parts of the human body ; and that barely half as much again (say six months in all) would allow the list of parts fairly amenable to dissecting-room work to be practically exhausted. The Author would submit, should the above statement surprise the reader coming across it, that he has verified the above computation on many occasions in connection with the men (selected, it is true, as hard workers, and taken in hand but few at a time) whom he has trained from time to time to act as his prosectors. But taking it (which he cannot admit - if sufficient care is given to the practical guidance of the men) that even twice the time named be a more correct average, he would yet press the question, on teachers and men alike. Does it pay. Is it anything like sound policy, to deal with the all-important subject of Anatomy otherwise than by individual dissection, and is any teaching conducted on sound principles, which tends to develop anything but practical work in Anatomy ? Personally, the Author finds no difficulty in getting his men - the men above described - to dissect the whole body three or four