75 OLUTEAL ARTERY. The largest branch of internal iliac, and the continuation of its posterior division. Through great sacro-sciatio foramen above pyriformis, and then between latter mnsclo and gluteus raedius, and divides into: Superficial Branch - Gives off numorons branches to gluteus maximus & in. tegument over sacrum; Deep Branch - Forwards between glutei medius & minimus, aud divides into: Superior Bivision - Along upper border of gluteus minimus towards an- terior superior spine of ilium, and joins with circumflex iliac. Inferior Division - Crosses gluteus minimus towards great trochanter, and joins with ascending branch of external circumflex. SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE. From back of lumbo-sacral cord. With gluteal vessels through upper part of great sacro-sciatic foramen abovo pyriformis, and divides into : Superior Branch - Along middle curved line on dorsum ilii with superior division of deep branch of gluteal artery. Supplies glutei medius & minimus Inperioe Branch - Directly forwards between glutei medius & minimus, which it also supplies, and terminates in tensor vagina3 femoris. SCIATIC ARTERY. The larger of the two terminal branches of anterior division of internal iliac artery, and the largest branch of the artery after plutoal. Downwards in front of pyriformis & sacral plexus, lying a little behind & to outer side of internal pudic. Through great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriformis and between great sciatic nerve & pudic vessels & nerve. With small sciatic nerve over gemelli, obturator internus & quadratus femoris and in front of gluteus maximus. Gives off branches: Muscular, Articular to hip.joint; Coccygeal, Inperior Gluteal; Comes Nervi Ischiadici - Long, slender; with, and subsequently within sheath of, great sciatic nerve to lower part of thigh. SMALL SCIATIC NERVE. From lower & back part of sacral plexus. With sciatic vessels through lower part of great sacro-sciatic foramen below pyriforrnia. Descends beneath gluteus maximus on inner side of great sciatic nerve. Along back of thigh beneath fascia lata to lower part of popliteal space. Perforates deep fascia, and accompanies external saphenous vein to skin of back of leg} communicates with external saphenous nerve. Gives off branches: Inferior Gluteal - Several, large; to under surface of gluteus maximus. Inferior Pudendal - Forwards below tuber ischii to skin of periua3um and upper & inner part of thigh, and to scrotum or labium. Cutaneous - Descending. To skin of inner & outer sides of back of thigli, popliteal space and back of leg. Ascending. Wind round lower border of gluteus maximus to integu- ment over its surface. MUSCULAR BRS. OF SACRAL PLEXUS. To pyriformis, obturator internus, gemelli & quadratus femoris. The nerve to obturator internus passes behind spine of ischium and through lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to inner surface of the muscle. The gemellus inferior and the quadratus femoris are supplied by a common branch, which runs between capsule of hip-joint and the obturator internus & gemellii and gives off an articular filament to ihe joint.