BRACHIAL ARTERY Commences at lower border of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi. Down inner & anterior aspects of arm in groove along inner border of coraco-brachialis A biceps, lying at first on inner side, and then in front of, humerus,- its more precise direction being marked by a line drawn from outer side of axilla to midway between condyles of humerus Divides into radial & ulnar half an inch below bend of elbow, or opposite neck of radius. ABLATIONS: ALONG THE ARM: In front - Skin and fascia, inner border of coraco-brachialis & biceps; median nerve, Behind - Long and inner heads of triceps, superior profunda artery & musculo- spiral nerve; coraco-brachialis, brachialis antious, On Inner Side - Skin & fascia, internal cutaneous nerve, basilic vein ; ulnar nerve in upper part, median nerve in lower part On Outer Side - Coraco-brachialis & biceps, humerus in upper part. AT BEND OF ELBOW: In front - Skin, superficial fascia, median basilic vein, branches of anter division of internal cutaneous nerve; bicipital or semilunar fi Behind - Brachialis anticus & elbow joint. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, median nerve. On Outer Side - Tendon of biceps, supinator longus, musculo-cutaneous & culo-spiral nei BRANCHES: Muscular — irregular, to coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus. Nutritious — From near middle of artery. Enters nutrient canal near inse of coraco-brachialis, and descends towards lower extremity of the h Sup. Profunda — From upper part of artery. With musculo-spiral nerve i groove of same name between inner & outer heads of triceps, and then betwee supinator longus & brachialis anticus, where joins with radial recurreDl Gives ofi" muscular branches, and an articular branch to back of elbow join which joins with interosseous & posterior ulnar recurrent, and with inferii profunda or anastomotica ma; Inf. Profunda — Small, from near middle of artery. With ulnar nerve thro internal intermuscular septum, and then between inner condyle & olecranoi anastomoses with posterior ulnar recurrent & anastomotica magD Anastomotica Magna — From lower part. Through internal intermusculj septum, and roimd back of humerus forming an arch above olecranon fosj with articular branch of superior profunda. Joins with anterior & posteri ulnar recurrent & with inferior profund