XXVll ing were thought out, - the correct dissection-methods, it is submitted, - as had been done in the case of ihe pterygo-maxillary region, the orbit, &c. Within a week the two young Cambridge workers had seen, and within a fortnight more one of them had himself dissected, quite alone, the otic and Meckel's ganglia and their communications (including the petrosal nerves), and the chorda tympani within the petrous bone. Here is the explanation presented in a few words. As there are iivo tails to the thread in the needle's eye, either of which would lead to the needle, so in those harder dissections, - e.g., those of the cranial ganglia - there is a possible double application of the De fil en aiguille " principle open to the dissector, whose advantages are extremely marked. Though some diligent students still expose, perhaps, the submaxillary & lenticular ganglia and the chorda tympani outside the cranium, to most men, - to many teachers, it is believed, - the otic and Meckel's ganglia, the petrosal nerves, and the chorda tympani within the petrous bone, are things to be read about, and looked at in plates, not things to be sought for on the " subject." The double application of the " De fil eii aiguille " principle renders these structures as easy of dissection as, say, the ansa hypoglossi. This is how. Having before one the superior maxillary nerve, on the one hand, and the great palatine nerve, on the other, who can fail to come upon Meckel's ganglion, or, afterwards, to trace back from it the stout Vidian trunk? Having thoroughly bared the inferior maxillary nerve, - and turned it out of its foramen (opened up by the removal of the outer part of the bone), - who can fail to see the dense and firm otic ganglion on its inner surface ? Having this before one, and on the other hand, the first facial bend, who can fail to make out their connecting link, the small petrosal ? Between the facial bend to the other (six months) ; they should be kept the full time, undamaged, and be studied over and over again. I never sanction the division of any muscle in the upper limb, except the peetorales major and minor, and sometimes the deltoid ; and I require that the outer head of the flexor subiimis digitorum be left undetached. In the lower limb, I only allow the division of the glutei maximus and; medius, gastrocnemius, and soleus ; and I preserve the arch of the latter. Nevertheless, we dissect down to the bones and ligaments. The plan of removing the sujierficial structures takes away the dissector's interest in his " part." The intellectual interest to be taken in dissecting lies in so planning the superficial work as to get at the deeper structures to advantage. To be a good dissector, one must be somewhat of a strategist. Practical anatomy is a question of unravelling the feltwork of the human body. The feltwork must not be cut. It is he who understands the mesh, who will dissect both well and quickly. Dissecting should be a fascinating pursuit.