96o tibial nerve on its outer side. It can be felt half an inch behind and external to the internal malleolus. On Inner Side of Foot.—Is the prominent projection of the tubercle of the scaphoid, which, as regards the skin incisions, is the guide to Chopart's, or the medio-tarsal, amputation. It lies an inch in front of the internal malleolus, and between and a little behind the two bony processes is the lesser process of the os calcis, or sustentaculum tali. An inch and a half in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid is the line of Lisfranc's, or the tarso- metatarsal, amputation. On Outer Side of Foot.—is the prominent projection of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, which lies about two inches in front of the external malleolus, and is the best guide to Lisfranc's amputation. Midway between it and the external malleolus is the line of the medio-tarsal, or Chopart's, amputation, the precise position of which is indicated by the projection of the OS calcis, termed the tubercle of Chopart* Dorsalis Pedis Artery.—Extends from midway between the malleoli to back part of first interosseous space, lying on bones of tarsus between tendon of extensor proprius hallucis and innermost tendon of extensor brevis digitorum, which latter crosses it near its termination. It has the anterior tibial nerve on its outer side. Internal Plantar Artery.—Runs between flexor brevis digitorum and abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, from inner side of os calcis towards middle of big toe. External Plantar Artery.—Runs beneath flexor brevis digitorum from same point to base of fifth metatarsal bone, and then deeply across sole of foot to back of first interosseous space, where it joins with communicating branch of dorsalis pedis. {See practical questions at end of hook.) * N.B.—In Lisfranc's amputation, one and the same guide, the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, serves both for the skin incisions and for the disarticulation. In Chopart's amputation, there is one guide for the skin incisions, the tubercle of scaphoid, and another for the disarticulation, the tubercle of the os calcis or tubercle of Chopart. As these latter tubercles are opposite each other, it may be wondered why the description of the operation is complicated by two guides being given instead of one. The reason is that, while the tubercle of Chopart stands up in front of the cuboid in such a way that the knife placed against it is bound to enter the joint at once, and thus the tubercle is the best possible guide for opening the joint, it is, on the other hand, not nearly so prominent, before the skin is divided, as is the tubercle of the scaphoid, and is therefore not so good a guide for the skin incisions. The tubercle of the scaphoid, on the other hand, though a better guide for the skin incisions, s not so good a guide to the articulation, which is here a curved line more difficult to find than the straight line of the calcaneo-euboid joint.