152; THE APPENDAGES of the UTERUS. Are the round ligament, the Fallopian tube, and the ovary & its ligament, which lie, in the above-mentioned order from before backwards, in the broad ligament of the uterus, the Fallopian tube occupying the free margin of that ligament. Between the ovary & the Fallopian tube is also the organ of Rosenmiiller. Round Ligament - Commences at superior angle of uterus, passes outwards & forwards between folds of broad ligament below & in front of Fallopian tube, traverses inguinal canal, and becomes lost in corresponding labium major. It contains a few muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, & a few twigs from the ovarian arteries. In the foetus a tubular process of peritoneum, the canal of Nuck, accompanies it in the inguinal canal; but this process is generally obliterated in the adalt.1| Fallopian Tube, or Oviduct - Commences at superior angle of uterus by a very minute opening, the ostuim iniermwi, and its canal remains very narrow along inner half of the tube. Passing outwards in free margin of broad ligament, and then curving downwards & backwards towards ovary, it gradually expands into a wide trumpet-shaped extremity (fimbriated extremity or morsus diaboli)^ surrounded by a series of fringe-like processes, the fimbria^ one of which is attached to the outer end of the ovary; the opening ot which extremity, termed the ostinni abdominale, is, however, somewhat contracted. - In structure it presents: Serous Coat. Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular fibn derived from the uterus.' Mucous Coat - Covered with columnar ciliated epithelium, and thrown int numerous longitudinal folds, which folds are thick & broad in the outer & "Wider part of the tube, and narrower & broken up into delicate ar borescent processes in the inner & narrow part. This coat is continuous | externally with the peritoiieum..ij Ovary - Oval, flattened from above downwards. Lies in posterior part of broad ligament, below | & behind the Fallopian tube; and is attached internally to the uterus by the^ ligament of the ovary, and externally to one of the fimbriae of the morsus diaboli| (.see p. 152f/). It is whitish in colour, and its surface is smooth in the child,' uneven ^ puckered in the adult. Ligament of the Ovary - Rounded bundle of fibrous tissue & muscular fibres, the latter derived from the uterus, extending from superior angle of latter organ toj inner extremity of ovary, Organ of Rosenmiiller or Parovarium - a group of dosed tubules lined with epi. thelium, scattered transversely in broad ligament of uterus between Fallopiaa' tube & ovary, and connected together internally by a larger vertical tube, which descends for some distance along side of uterus. Is probably a rem- nant ot the Wolffian body,