91 MUSCULAR ATTACHTS. of BS. of LOWER LIMB—2nd T The muscules attached to the FEMUR — Are twenty.four in number, and are attached as follow3: - Vastus Extermts - Anierlor border of j^feat trochanter & horizontal rid^e on ita outer sur. face; rough line from ijreat trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outer\ip of linea aspera and line from linea aspora to oafer condvle. Vastus luternus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle ; innor surface. Cmreus - Anterior & outer surfaces from anterior intertrochanteric Hue to within a few- inches of condyles. Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, and doRcribing t!ie Qiia'iriceps extensor femoris as a Triceps, we may say that the "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from: - line from inner side of neok of femur to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle j nearly whole of innery anterior and outer surfaces of shaft of femur. Subcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface c Psoas Magnus - Lesser troclianter. Iliacus - Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera in front of pectineus. /V<r/mi?«j-- Upper part of line from trochanter minor to linea aspera, & into the bo!ie b^^- hind trochanter minor. Adductor Longus - Middle third of inner lip of linea aspera between vastus internus & ad- ductor magnus. Adductor Brevis -TJp'pev part of linea aspera & lower part of line from it to lesser tro- chanter below & behind pectin"ns. Adductor Magnus - Lower part of line from great trochanter to linea aspera, whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from it to inn-r condyle; by a strong tendon into tubercle at upper & back part of inner condyle. Biceps (Short Head) - Whole length of outer lip of linea aspera between adductor ma-uus & vastus externus, and from inferior external division of linea aspera to within two inches of outer condyle. Gluteus Maximus - Rough line from great trochanter to linea aspera. Gluteus Medius - Oblique line on outer surface of great trochanter. Gluteus Minimus - Anterior border of great trochanter. Pyrifonnis - Postei ior part of upper border of great trochanter. Obturator Internus - Upper border of great trochanter in front of pyriformis. Gemellus Superior. ") indirectly, by joining tendon of foregoing. Gemellus Injerior. ) Quadratus Femoris - Upper part of linea quadrati on back of g'-eat trochanter. Obturator Externus - Digital fossa. {7aj;;w;z^ww --depressions at upper and back part of condyles, iind lower pnrt of the two inferior divisions of linea aspera. Plantaris - Lower part of outer division of linea aspera. - Anterior & deepest part of groove on outer side of outer condyle of femur below tubercle for external lateral ligament of knee-joint. Semimembranosus - Posterior & upper part of outer condyle.