132u PSOr. BIEMINGHAM'S EESEAECHES. Prof. Birmingham's researches, supported, as thej are, by a most interesting cast roughly sketched on the next page, throw considerable light on various details of the reconstructed " abdomen. The relations of the pancreas with the kidney, spleen, and transverse mesocolon - as forming part of the stomach-bed and stomach-chamber - are particularly interesting. So is also the Spigelian recess of the diaphragm. The following is a synopsis of these researches :— The " Stomach-Bed " and " Stomach-Chamber^ The body of the pancreas presents an extensive upper (not anterior) surface, on which the stomach rests. As the pancreas crosses the kidney, it is so moulded on that organ, that the adjacent upper part of the kidney forms, so to speak, an extension backwards of the upper surface of the pancreas, and of the stomach-bed. The pancreas comes in contact with the spleen, and with the suprarenal capsule, in a very similar manner : the plane of its upper surface is continued, with but slight interruption, on to the concave gastric surface of the spleen, and on to that of the suprarenal capsule. These latter organs complete the bed posteriorly. Further back, the spleen, curving upwards, forms a partial cap for the great end of the stomach. In front, the transverse mesocolon, passing forwards from the prominent anterior laorder of the pancreas, forms an anterior prolongation of the stomach-bed, supported inferiorly by convolutions of the small intestine. The stomach-chamber is roofed, in by the diaphragm and the under surface of the left lobe of the liver. The abdominal wall closes it in anteriorly. The Body of the Pancreas. His's model (Fig, 322k), and the description pi-eviously given, present the pancreas as flattened against the posterior abdominal wall, and as having anterior and posterior surfaces of considerable extent, and a narrow inferior surface. The pancreas has no true anterior surface, - His's "anterior surface" forming part of the stomach- bed as above described, and looking almost directly upwards. The inferior surface of the pancreas is practically as large as the superior. The body of the pancreas projects very markedly into the cavity of the abdomen, and is distinctly prismatic with three nearly equal surfaces. Its anterior border, which gives attachment to the transverse mesocolon,* is specially sharp and prominent. The upper surface of the pancreas is referred to with the stomach-bed. Its under surface rests, to the left on the transverse colon, to the right on duodeno- jejunal flexure, and between the two on the coils of the jejunum. * See foot-note, p. 132n.