108b The posterior laijer of the lumbar fascia results from the regression of the lower fibres of the latissimus dorsi: in many animals this layer is replaced by fleshy fibres continuous with the main muscular sheet. The middle layer of the lumbar fascia is particularly interesting. This layer contains, and is perhaps entirely made up by, the degenerate remains of the lower representatives of the levatores costarum : if in a fresh subject the structures of the loin be removed down to the quadratus lumborum muscle, these remains will be seen as fan-shaped arrangements of fine fasciculi arising from ihe tips of the upper lumbar transverse processes, passing downwards and outwards, and recalling in appearance the nacreous fibres of origin of the serratus posticus superior (See plate 50 in Morris's Anatomy). The lowest of these fibrous thickenings form the lumbo-sacral and lumbo-iliac ligaments. The anterior layer of the posterior abdominal aponeurosis results from the regression of the posterior portion of the transversalis muscle. In bodies presenting a lumbar rib the fan-shaped ligiment starting from the twelfth dorsal vertebra is often replaced hj a functional niuscle. Palmar Fascia. The palmer fascia results from the regression of the distal end of the palmaris longus muscle, and there is good reason to believe that the abductors pollicis and minimi digiti, and the palmaris brevis, are but less degenerated portions of the same muscular j)lane. The palmaris longus was at one time quite an extensive structure, and still is so in the armadillo and the aard vark. It is here Heshy throughout, sends slips to all the digits, and is one of the chief agents in flexing the same. Portions of the original muscld not imfrequentiy reassert their former character even in man. This is especially the case with the strips to the thumb. As all degenerating structures, the palmaris longus varies much. It has occasionally two bellies with an intervening tendon ; it may end in the fascia of the forearm ; it may be wholly represented by a ligament; it is f.aind altogether absent in about one case in ten. Plantar Fascia. The plantar fascia results from the regresi^ion of the plantaris muscle ; and some of the short muscles of the first layer of the sole of the foot, (the abductor hallucis excepted, Avhich is a migratory m- scle, to be considered later on) are but detached and less degenerated portions of the muscular plane referred to. The remarks on the palmaris longus again apply here. In the armadillo the plantaris is larger than the gastrocnemius, its fleshy belly extending over the whole of the calf; at the heel it forms a tendon ^vhich glides in a well marked groove cn the back of the os calcis ; in the sole of the foot it spreads out into the fascia in question, and sends slips to the toes, as far as their terminal phalanges. In man the plantaris is but a vestigial structure. Its vagaries alone would indicate its high origin : it may join the plantar fascia, the internal annular ligament, the deep fascia, or may be entirely wanting. Calcaneo-cuboid Ligaments. The long and short plantar, or calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, result from the regression of a wide deej) plane as extensive as, if not more extensive than, the su])erficial plane above referred to wbifiii deep plane includes the muscles of the third layer of the