XXlll the posterior tibial, and then be traced down from the leg to the foot. Then we should show him how to find the digital nerves by cutting down upon the plantar fascia and exposing the slips to the toes. This is done by first cutting down upon the back part of the under surface of the os calcis, to which the fascia is attached, and which marks the level at which the fascia is found. The dissector can now, in a few strokes, clean the whole of the fascia forwards till, in the vicinity of the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, it is seen to split up into the above-mentioned slips to the toes. Between these slips, and corresponding to the intervals between the toes, the fat changes character. From being dense, hard, and granular, it suddenly becomes quite soft; and, from being previously bound down by the pressure of the undissected fascia, it comes, as soon as this is removed, to project in, so to speak, four soft pads or cushions. It is beneath these latter that the dividing trunks of the digital nerves are found, which, with the digital But for repeated dissections to be possible in the present congested state of the medical curriculum, the student must learn to dissect both efficiently and without loss,- i.e., unnecessary expenditure, of time ; - he must learn to dissect well and quickly. The Author's endeavour is to teach him to do this. What is it that makes certain dissections more difficult than others ? All will agree, for example, that a leg is harder to dissect than an arm ; but why is this ? What is it, speaking generally, that makes a dissection difficult ? Is it the small size of the structures prevalent in certain parts of the body? ^o. Parts-the limbs especially, and more particularly the nerves of the limbs-are as easy, or easier, to dissect in the foetus than in the adult. Is it the large number of structures crowded together in a small space? No. Average dissections of the head and neck come well up to the standard of the extremities. Is it a question of muscles being easier to dissect than arteries, arteries than veins, veins than nerves, &c. ? No. The dissector who has just had a leg given him, does he not usually dissect with great minuteness the small upper branches of the femoral artery and internal saphenous vein, the lymphatics and glands, and even do his best to find the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve* - while he often neglects, later on, the larger branches of the same trunks and of the profunda? Is it that he specially cares for the " parts concerned in inguinal and femoral herni.-xi " ? No ; it is exceptional for these to be dissected at all satisfactorily. It i8 submitted that it is the more or less complex felting of the structures that constitutes the difference between the several parts of the body from the dissector's point of view. ^ A correction is necessary in 1897 :—This, and various other exemplars, illustrate what was frequent but a few years ago, but not now ! The dissector here depicted has almost disappeared from among us.