12] THE EXTERNAL BILE DUCTS. Hepatic Duct - Formed in transverse fissure by junction of tne two 1arjr« excretory ducts from riofht & left lobes Downwards & to the right between the two layers of lesser or gastro-hcpatio omentum & behind first portion of duodenum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portae behind, and joins with cystic duct to form ductus com- munis choledochus. Is about an inch & a half long, and is intermediate in size between cystic duct & ductus communis choledochus. GALL-BLADDER — Pear-shaped, three or four inches long, an inch wide at largest part; holds from 8 to 12 drachms. Obliquely directed downwards, forwards, & to the right, & lies in a fissure or fossa on under surface of liver between lobus quadratus & right lobe proper. Presents: Undfr Surface - Covered by peritoneum, which in most cases merely passes over it; in relation with hepatic flexure of colon & first part of duodenum ; some- times with pyloric end of stomach. - Occasionally the peritoneum entirely surrounds the gall-bladder, which latter is then connected to the liver by a small mesentery. Upper Surface - Connected to the liver by firm areolar tissue & vessels ; sometimes by a small mesenteiy. Anterior Enlarged Extremity, or Fundus - Covered by peritoneum; touches ab- dominal parietes opposite tip of 10th costal cartilage. Posterior Constricted Extremity, oe Neck - Forms two turns upon itself like an italic/, and is continued into the cystic duct. Cystic Duct - Downwards & to the left between the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum and behind ascending portion of duodenum, having the cystic artery on the left & the vena portae behind, and joins with hepatic duct to form ductus communis choledochus. Is about an inch long, and is rather narrower than the hepatic duct. Ductus Communis Choledochus - Downwards & slightly to the left bet\vecn the two layers & along the right border of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum, having hepatic artery on the left & vena portae behind. Between head of pancreas & descending portion of duodenum on right side of pancreatic duct, and with pancreatico-duodenal arteries which lie slightly in front. Perforates muscular coat of intestina in common with the latter duct. Both ducts thett run together for about three-quarters of an inch between coats of intestine, and, becoming slightly constricted, open by a common & promi= nent orifice situated on inner wall of descending portion of duodenum a little below its middle, about three or four inches from pylorus. - The common bilu duct is about three inches long.