132nn it forms a loose bag with quite a wide opening. This is the condition first observable in the hnman fcetus. Here Ave have, to begin with, but a shallow and wide-monthed bag, such as might result from the pressure of the finger on the right (aftenvards posterior) aspect of the mesogastrium. Bv degrees the bag becomes larger and more pendulous till it hangs, like a kind of apron, in front of the colon and small intestine." (Treves in Morris' Anatomy, - somewhat condensed.) It is patent, however, that some adhesions do take place between the layers of the sreat omentum. Thus it is admitted that of the lines of attachment of the peritoneum to the posterior wall of the abdomen, as shown in Prof. Cunningham's diagram, only one at all closely approaches to the original attachment of the primitive mesial mesentery; this is the line which, commencing at the falciform ligament of the liver, passes behind the liver and oesophagus, through the gastro-splenic omentum, and behind the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and rectum. " All other lines of peritoneal reflexion must be regarded as secondary." (Treves.) Development of the Liver. The liver is formed in the superior ventral mesentery from two ramifying offshoots of the alimentary canal below the stomach, which embrace the left or persistent omphalo-mesenteric vein. The two lobes resulting from these ramifications are at first separated from one another, but they are subsequently joined together by the formation of a third or posterior lobe, which becomes the lobus Spigelii and lobus caudatus. The later history of the development of the liver is closely connected with that of the evolu- tion of the portal vein (See p. 256q). The liver develops very early (2nd month) and very rapidly, and soon occupies the gi-eater part of the abdominal cavity ; it diminishes in relative size during the later part of fatal life, and during childhood. Development of the Pancreas. The pancreas is developed from primary and secondary offshoots from the posterior aspect of the alimentary canal opposite the liver, - the secondary offshoot forming the small portion of the hsad, which has sometimes a separate duct. These off- shoots ramify in the mesogastrium, where they at first form a free and movable glandular mass elongated vertically. This shares in the displacement of the stomach, and thus comes to lie transversely. Through the elongation of the mesogastrium, the pancreas comes to be embedded in the upper part of the posterior double fold of the great omentum (Fig. 322dd), and with it becomes fixed to the posterior wall of the abdomen behind the omental sac (Fig. 322ee). Fossa Duodeno-jejunalis. This is a pouch or pocket open above, and sometimes large enough to receive the terminal phalanx of the thumb, which Mr. Treves has found more or less marked on the left side of the fourth portion of the duodenum in nearly half the bodies examined, and which is occasionally the seat of a retro-peritoneal hernia. The pouch is bounded posteriorly by the parietal peritoneum to the left of the fourth portion of the duodenum, and anteriorly by a loose fold of the peritoneum extending from the abdominal wall in the