37 BRANCHES of the AXILLARY ARTERY Vary considerably in mode of origin, size & number. Are still usually described after Hallar as being given oflf as follows, from FIRST PART: Sup. Thoracic — Small, inwards along upper border of pectoralis minor, and thRii between latter muscle & pectoralis major; anastomoses with intercostales <k internal mammary. Acromio-thoracic — Short, thick, from fore part of artery. Forwards to upper border of pectoralis minor, and divides into branches: Acromial - Join with suprascapular & with both circumflex. Thoracic - Two or three. To pectorales & serratus magnus, and join with intercostales & internal mammary. Humeral - One, rather large. Downwards with cephalic vein between pec- toralis major & deltoid. SECOND PART: Long Thoracic or Ext. Mammary — Large branch. Along lower border of pectoralis minor to mamma, pectorales & serratus, and to axillary gland? & subscapularis. Joins with the other thoracic & with subscapular. Alar Thoracic — Small & often wanting. To axillary glands & cellular tissue. THIRD PART: Subscapular — The largest; branch. Along jlower border of subscapularis to lower angle of scapula, where joins with posterior scapular. Gives oflf twigs to surrounding muscles, and Dobsalis Scapula - Arises an inch & a half from origin of subscapular. Rounrl outer border of scapula between teres major, teres minor & long head of triceps, and then between teres minor & the bone. Gives off ! Branches to subscapular fossa between subscapularis & bone; join with posterior- & suprascapular. Descending br. between teres major & minor. Branches to infraspinous fossa; join with posterior- «fe suprascapular. Ant. Circumflex — The smaller. Outwards beneath coraco-brachialis, short head of biceps & deltoid, giving oflf twig to shoulder joint; joins with following & with acromial branch of acromio-thoracic. Post. Circumflex — The larger. Through quadrangular space between teres major, teres minor, long head of triceps & humerus, and round neck of humerus beneath deltoid. Gives twigs to shoulder joint, and joins with preceding't with acromial branch of acromio-thoracic.