96b Between the ilio- and ischio-femoral bands there is incorporated with the capsule the reflected tendon of the rectus, and a^so a triangular band of fibres, the ilio-trochanteric band, which runs downwards to be attached by a narrow insertion to the ridge on the front border of the great trochanter near the gluteus minimus. (H. Morris.) Fascia Iliaca. The fascia which lines the posterior wall of the abdomen is, like the fascia transversalis, thin above and relatively thick below. It is divided above into Psoas and Iliac portions, which portions are united inferiorly. l^soAS PouTiON. - Attached superiorhj to the ligamentum arcuraentum internum ; externally and ahove, to the anterior layer of the posterior abdominal aponeurosis, oi fascia lumborum ; externally and below, to the inner border of the iliac portion ; internally and ahove, to the intervertebral discs and the prominent margins of the bodies of the vertebrte, - intervals being left opposite the constricted part of the bodies, which transmit the lumbar arteries and filaments of the sympathetic nerve ; internally and beloic, to the brim of the pelvis. Iliac Portion. - Attached externally and above to the whole of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium ; internally to the outer border of the psoas portion. Below the above points, the two portions of the fascia are united. This conjoined portion must be considered externally and internally to, and opposite, the femoral, or more correctly, external iliac vessels. [1] Externally to these vessels, the conjoined portion is attached to the fascia transversalis and to Poupart's ligament, the line of attachment forming a well marked linear thickening, the icMte line of fusion (Macalister). [2] Internally to the vessels, the conjoint portion is attached to the ilio-pectineal Hue, where it may be said to become continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. [3] Opposite the vessels, the conjoined portion passes down into the thigh behind the femoral vessels to form the posterior wall of the femoral sheath, - this femoral prolongation (which is of course continuous with the white line of fusion) sending a process between the pectineus and the psoas, which becomes attached to the ilio-pectineal eminence and to the capsule of the hip-joint. (See also the Author's views on the surgical fascite, p. 108j.) The nerves of the lumbar plexus lie behind the fascia iliaca, while the large vessels of the brim of the pelvis may be considered to lie in front of it, though in a sheath of their own as thick almost as the fascia itself. Psoas abscess, destroying fibres of the muscle, dissects out, so to speak, the nerves, which come to lie freely exposed in the cavity of the abscess ; but the abscess leaves the vessels untouched. The thigh being removed, the iliac fascia, if examined from below, will be seen to divide the space between the anterior border of the innominate bone and Poupart's ligament into two portions, the "lacuna musculosa '' externally, and the '■^lacuna vasculosa^^ internally (Macalister): - the former^ bounded by the white line of fusion, both above, and, internally, as it dips down on the inner side of the psoas to become attached to the ilio-pectineal eminence ; the latter boun led above by Poupart's ligament & the fascia transversalis, behind by the iliac fascia and pubic portion of the fascia lata, internally by Gimbernat's ligament, and externally by the prolongation of the white line of fusion above referred to. - The lacuna vasculosa is occupied by the femoral vessels their sheath and the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the lacuna musculosa by the conjoined psoas and iliacus muscles with the anterior crural nerve and the external cutaneous branch of the lumbar plexus.