71 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY Anterior & smaller branch of bifurcation of popliteal opposite lowe? border of popliteni muscle. Forwards between tlie two heads of tibialis posticus, and between tibia & fibula through opening in upper part of interosseous ligament. Downwards in front of interosseous ligament, shaft of tibia & ankle joint (where becomes dorsalis pedis), passing between tibialis anticus & extensor lorigus digitorum, between tibialis anticus & extensor proprius pollicis, between tendon of extensor pro. prius pollicis, which crosses it, and innermost tendon of extensor longus digitorum ; - lying in a line from inner side of head of fibula to midway between malleoli, and being deeply situated, above, between muscles on either side & beneath tendon cf extensor proprius pollicis, and superficially, below, beneath skin, anterior annular ligament & fascia. Has two venae comites. Anterior tibial nerve is first external, then anterior, then again external to it. BRANCHES: Recurrent tibial — Arises in upper part of leg. Upwards through tibialis anticua to front of knee, and anastomoses with inf. articular branches of popliteal. Muscular — Numerous small branches to muscles on either side. Malleolar — Two; rather variable in size. Arise near ankle, and pass, the Internal,-To inner ankle beneath tendons of extensor proprius pollicis & tibia- lis anticiai, External, - To outer ankle beneath extensor longus di| isiorum, and anastomose respectively with posterior tibial & internal plantar, and with tarsal & peroneal. DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY From bend of ankle to back of first interosseous space, resting upon bones of tarsus be- tween tendon of extensor proprius pollicis & innermost tendon of extensor brevis digitorum, which crosses it near termination, and having anterior tibial nerve on its outer side. BRANCHES: Tarsal — Arches outwards beneath extensor brevis digitorum, and anastomoses with metatarsal, external malleolar & external plantar. Metatarsal — More or less obliquely forwards in front of preceding. Gives off the Three outer Dorsal Interosseous Arteries - Along corresponding interosseous spaces. Are joined by anterior & posterior perforating branches, and supply dorsal digital branches to 3i toes on outer side of foot. Dorsal Art. of Great Toe - is the first dorsal interosseous artery, and supplies dorsal digital branches to H toes on inner side oi ioot. Communicating - Between the two heads of first dorsal interosseous muscle, and inosculates with external plantar, completing plantar arch. Gives offl plantar digital branches to IJ toes on inner side of foo-t,