112 PERITONEUM.—2nd Tablet. The two Sacs traced together in Vertical Direction. From transverse fissure of liver: - To lesser curvature of stomach, forming lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum ; Separate to surround stomach ; Descend iu front of intestine, forming the two anterior layers of great omentum ; Ascend to transverse colon, forming the two posterior layers of great omentum ; Separate to surround transverse colon; Backwards to spine, forming transverse meso-colon; Separate: One descends and forms in succession the mesentery, meso-rectum, recto-vesical pouch (or recto-vaginal & utero-vesical poaches), etc. The other ascends in front of pancreas and passes over back part of under surface of liver to foramen of Winslow. (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and even, though very rarely, in the adult, the two posterior layers of the great omentum ascend in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, and then pass backwards together to the spine above the transverse meso-colon. Here they separate: - One layer descends, and forms in succession the transverse meso-colon, the mesentery, meso-rectum, &c.; the other layer ascends, as above stated, over the pancreas & liver. The pouch between the transverse meso- colon & the great omentum subsequently disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, being estab- lished between the two walls of the pouch before adult age is reached. Greater Sac traced Horizontally below Level of Umbilicus. From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - To right iliac fossa, where it forms meso-ccecum & lower part of ascendino meso-colon ; Along lateral & posterior walls of abdomen to spine, where it meets superior mesenteric To left iliac fossa, where it forms sigmoid meso-colon ; mesentery; Along lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line. The two sacs traced together Horizontally above Level of Umbilicus or through Foramen of Winslow. From median line of anterior wall of abdomen : - Over anterior & lateral walls of abdomen & over right kidney j Through foramen of Winslow; ; Over front of pancreas 5 To spleen & then to back of stomach, forming posterior layer of gastro-splenic omentum ; Over posterior surface of stomach ; Back to foramen of Winslow, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum ; Reflected outwards in front of bile duct, hepatic artery & portal vein, forming anterior Over front of stomach ; of lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum : Round spleen & to under surface of diaphragm, forming anterior layer of gastro-splenic \ Over left kidney ; omentmn suspensory ligament of spleen , [ Over lateral & anterior walls of abdomen to median line. j