132ee^ seated structure is, in fact, much like that of the legendary explorer lost in a dark cave, whose only means of reaching daylight is his fil conducteur ; it is much like the position of everyone of us in this London of ours when overtaken by a thick fog while crossing a square, and within perhaps a few yards of our own door, in which case we are guided home by a familiar tree or lamp-i3ost." " The position taken up by Professor involves quite truly the view that it is the relations of the undisturbed—i.e., undissected—YiSLrts, not of the dissected or disturbed parts, that the surgeon should study; and involves further the view that anatomy can only be studied to advantage by processes, such as freezing, which do not disturb the relations of the parts. 'The study of frozen sections is the only way to learn relations.' It is but some twenty years ago that frozen sections were first heard of. Were anatomical relations but imperfectly understood by Callender, Fergusson, Wood—to name only British surgeons who are no longer with us ? I fear it is fact that Professor is wrong as to his premises, and therefore wrong also as to his conclusions." " To refer, for the purpose named, to the modus operandi, with which, as above stated, I am familiar—that of tying the subclavian artery blindfolded, I would put the thing briefly as follows:—(It will be seen that one is guided throughout by what I have called the de fil en aiguille principle, as applied to the sense of touch.) Feel for the clavicle, and for the hollow above it: the boundaries of this hollow will give you the position of the sterno-mastoid, on the one hand, and of the trapezius, on the other ; make your incision between these limits. How deep should your incision be? Think for a moment, and you will soon answer the question yourself. The sense of touch, which has guided you as to the position of the incision, will guide you as to its depth—that is, of course, if you are a practical, and not merely a theoretical anatomist. Cut till you find you have reached loose soft tissue. This direction is the rendering, in practical terms—in terms of finger-sensation—of the direction. Divide the platysma and the deep fascia. You have now divided the skin, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia; and you find yourself, as above stated, in the loose, soft, connective tissue of the posterior triangle of the neck. Now work your way downwards and inwards, feeling for the scalenus anticus. This muscle will present itself to you in the shape of a somewhat tense and elastic cord about the size of the outer edge of yovir little finger. It is a structure you cannot miss if you are digitally familiar with the part. Having found the scalenus anticus, get your finger on its poterior aspect, and run your finger down till you are in the angle—an angle of some sixty degrees—between the scalenus anticus and the first rib; there, rolling under your finger on the hard surface of the rib, you will find the artery, quite plain, and easy to ' pick up."' If your finger is properly educated, you cannot possibly take a nerve instead." In the foregoing manuel operatoire I have laid stress upon tactile sensations. I cannot here dilate upon the view submitted ; but I would like to put it tersely that the surgeon should have an eye at the tip of his finger. He is of no good as an operator if he has not. In all operations on the deeper parts the digital eye is the more important of the two. "I should like to remark before leaving the subject that Professor does not quote me fully enough to be what I should call quite fair. He admits that I am right as to the first part of the statement which he criticises. But he does not give the second part of my sentence. My sentence, as a whole, read : ' The tnodels (His's models) do not correspond with what we see either in the dissected subject or in the living patient when, for surgical purposes, the visceral cavities are opened and the organs exposed.' Will Professor deny that I am right as to my second point also ? As soon as the abdomen is opened the parts are, ipso facto, disturbed. If Professor does not deny this—as, in fact, he cannot—what becomes, from a practical point of view, of his fundamental contention that the organs must be studied in the undisturbed condition ? The fact is that there is no such thing as an undisturbed condition of the visceral organs. They are soft yielding structures whose smooth peritoneal covering is intended to allow of their incessant displacement one upon another, and of their constant adaptation in shape one to the other. The varying conditions of stomach, bladder, intestine, and spleen, each acting upon every neighbouring viscus, have only to be referred to in condemnation of the view of an undisturbed, or, in other terms, fixed, condition of the viscera." " Professor admits that less attention is now given to dissecting than formerly. What does this mean but that a kind of anatomy less useful than what we formerly had has come to the front pari passu with embryology and morphology ? These sciences do not help men to learn the technique upon which practice rests One must found one's anatomy either on the facts of the dissecting room, or on embryology and morphology—on what is visible and tangible--or on \\hat is not so. In the former case one gets a practical knowledge of anatomy—the anatomy familiar to the eye and finger; in the latter case one gets anatomy as a mental conception. In the former case one gets the anatomy of the surgeon ; in the latter case one gets the anatomy of the scientist. The two things are absolutely distinct." I am, Sirs, yours truly, " THOMAS COOKE." {These letters luere not i-eplied to.)