68 OBTURATOE NERVE. Arises mainly from 3rd & 4th lumbar nerves, but receives also a fasciculus from the 2nt; (Sappey, Hirschfeldt, & Qaain's diagram of lumbar plexus). Descends through inner fibres of psoas, and emerges from inner border of that musola opposite brim of pelvis,; Along outer wall of pelvis above obturator vessels to upper part of obturator foramen;- enters thigh, and divides into: Anterior Brancll •- The smaller. Descends in front of adductor brevis, and behind peo- tineus & adductor longus, to femoral artery, upon which it is distributed below the latter muscle. Gives oflE" branches; - Articular - To hip-joint j arises near obturator foramen. Muscular - To gracilis & adductor longus, and sometimes to pectineus & adduotoi brevis I Anastomotic to Internal Cutaneous & Internal Saphenous Nerves - Arises opposite lower border of adductor longus, and forms with the foregoinfi nerves a plexiform network beneath deep fascia of thigh; Sometimes this anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and its communicating offset to the internal cutaneous & internal saphenous nerves, are large] than usual. The latter then give? off cutaneous filaments to the skin o the lower & inner part of the thigh, and descends along the posterior bor der of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee-joint; here it pierces th deep fascia, communicates again with the internal saphenous nerve (whicl is then smaller than usual), and supplies the skin of the inner side of th I leg as low as its middl( Posterior Branch - The larger. Pierces upper fibres of obturator externus, and des cends behind adductor brevis in front of adductor magnus; gives o branches:; Muscular - To obturator externus & adductor magnus (and to adductor brevi!.'! when the latter is not supplied by the anterior branch of the nerve r Articular - Through opening in lower part of adductor magnus, and upon the poi^ liteal artery to back of knee-joinij: ACCESSORY OBTURATOR NERVE j Arises (when it exists) either directly from obturator nerve, or, by separaj filaments, from the 2nd, 3rd, & 4th lumbflj Descends along inner side of psoas, crosses front of pubes, gets behind pectineuji and divides into branches to pectineus & hip-joint. Communicates wiijji anterior branch of obturator nerve; the communicating branch is 8om|3 times large, and is then prolonged as a cutaneous nerve to the thif|| & leg {Qna