152c colon are directly attached to the surface by subperitoneal tissue ; but the two non- peritoneal areas vary considerably in their relative proportions, not only in different subjects, but in the same subject under different conditions of distension of the duodenum s S St Fig. 357b.—anterior relations of the kidneys. (Morris.) In both kidneys : S, suprarenal capsule ; C, colon ; JI, jejuno-iliuma. In right kidney : L, liver D, duodenum. In left kidney: St, stomach ; Sp, spleen ; P, pancreas. and colon. The second stage of the duodeum duodenum is also more or less in relation with the right renal vessels. The left kidney lies behind the stomach, the pancreas, the splenic vessels, the descending colon, and the colic vessels. Its anterior surface may be divided into three portions: an upper or gastric area, separated from the stomach by the peritoneum of the lesser sac ; a middle or pancreatic area, attached to the pancreas by subperitoneal connective tissue, and crossed also by the splenic vein where this vessel lies behind the upper border of the gland, and by the splenic artery, which runs in a serpentine course immediately above the vein; and an inferior or colic area, the outer portion of which is covered by the splenic flexure and the upper part of the descending colon ; the inner by the peritoneum of the greater sac and the colic vessels." " The outer harder of the kidney reaches a point about three-and-a-half or four inches external to the lumbar spinous process. On the right side it is in contact with the liver in its upper half or two-thirds ; on the left its upper third or half rests against the renal groove in the posterior portion of the visceral surface of the spleen." "The inner border of the right kidney lies close to the vena cava, especially above; that of the left is divided from the aorta by an interval of an inch or more." (W. Anderson, in Morris' Anatomy.) The Bladder. " The form of the empty bladder is still doubtful, as the appearances in the dead subject do not necessarily coincide with the condition existing during life. In