152d mesial sagittal section it usually appears somewhat cup-shaped, its upper wall presenting a rounded or pyramidal hollow to the intestine, while its cavity is represented by a T or Y-shaped fissure. It is possible that this " diastolic " form, as it has been termed, is the normal result of the relaxation preliminary to refilling; but it appears more probable that it is due to the loss of vital elasticity of the muscular wall, and that the healthy living bladder always maintains a rounded or ovoid form." " The three terms, ' apex ' or ' superior fundus,' ' inferior fundus,' and 'neck,' are commonly applied to parts of the bladder: the first to the point of attachment of the superior ligament or urachus, which connects it with the umbilicus ; the second to the lower part of the organ, and the third to the point at which the vesical cavity becomes continuous with the urethra; but the expressions are more or less objectionable, and serve no useful purpose. Under ordinary distention the so-called apex is as much rounded as the rest of the viscus; the anatomical limits of the ' inferior fundus' are still undefined; and the only ' neck ' that can be assigned to the bladder is represented by the prostate and prostatic urethra." "The bladder, when moderately filled, may be said to present for description five aspects or surfaces; antero-inferior or pubic, posterior or rectal, superior or intestinal, and two lateral or obturator surfaces. The anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces meet above at the urachus, and converge below towards the base of the prostate - the posterior wall sometimes approaching the urethral orifice almost in a vertical direction, or curving first downwards and then forwards ; and in old subjects this curve may be so exaggerated that a kind of pouch is formed behind the internal meatus. The antero-inferior surface looks downwards and forwards towards the symphysis. It is uncovered by the peritoneum, but has a strong investment of recto-vesical fascia, and is separated from the pubic bones and anterior attachments of the obturatores interni and levatores ani by a space known as the Cavum Retzii, which contains a variable quantity Fig. 357c.—the shape of the bladder, as made out by recent investigation. (Symington, Quain.) The heavylblack line represents the cavity, and the thin black line the boundaries of the empty VISCUS, which is thus seen to present an upper concave surface, and two limbs, A & B. The dotted lines represent the shape of the organ in its various degrees of distention. of loose fat continuous with the pelvic and abdominal subperitoneal tissue. Each latersil surface is covered by peritoneum down to the level of the line extending from the urachus backwards to a point below the summit of the vesicula seminalis, about