9Gn The base of the fifth metatarsal bone lies about two inches in front of external malleolus. Midway between the two bony processes is the line of Chopart's medio-tarsal amputation, the exact position of which is marked by the projection of the os calcis, termed the tubercle of Chopart. Internal Malleolus.—Broader and situated further foi'it'ard than, but not so loiv as, the external. The line of the ankle-joint lies about half an inch above its lower extremity. The internal saphenous vein and nerve lie in front of it. The posterior tibial artery can be felt beating about half an inch behind it and to its outer side. About an inch in front of it is the tubei'cle of the scaphoid; and a little below and behind the two bony processes is the lesser process of the os calcis, or sustentaculum tali. Structures behind the Malleoli.—Behind the internal malleolus there comes first the tendon of the tibialis posticus nearest the surface, then the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, then in succession the posterior tibial artery with a vein on either side, the posterior tibial nerve, and, finally, the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. Behind the extei-nal malleolus are the two peronei muscles, the brevis being in front of the longus. The sheaths of all the above tendons extend about an inch and a half above the malleoli. To keep clear of them in tenotomy, it is about two inches above the malleoli that the tendons should be cut. Anterior Tibial Artery.—Somewhat smaller than the posterior. Euns along a line drawn from a point a little internal to head of fibula to midivay between the two malleoli, Ijiiig in succession between tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, between tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis, between tendon of extensor longus hallucis, which crosses it, and extensor longus digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve is first on its outer side, then in front of it, then again to its outer side. It is deep above, and superficial below, where it can be felt beating upon the tibia midway between the two malleoli. Posterior Tibial Artery.—Somewhat larger than the anterior. Lies at first an inch external to inner border of tibia. It is here covered by inner head of gastrocnemius and soleus, the latter muscle having a glistening layer of fascia on its anterior surface. Further down, it lies beneath skin and fascia only between tendo Achillis and inner border of tibia. In both situations it rests upon deep muscles of back of leg, and has the posterior