1081i of the coracoid bar, and corresponds therefore to the prolonged condition of the coracoid in frogs, birds, and monotremes. It often presents a few chondral particles at or near its inner extremity; Rhomboid or Costo-clavieular Ligament, Subclavins Muscle, Conoid and Trapezoid Ligaments, Gleno-humeral Ligament, or Ligamentum Teres of the Shoulder-joint. - All the above are derivatives of, and collectively represent, the subclavins muscle of lower animals. The rhomboid or costo-clavicular ligament represents the innermost extremity of this sti'ucture; the gleno-humeral ligament, its outermost extremity; the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, the portion immediately internal to the latter ligament; and finally, the subclavius mu.scle of man, its central and largest portion. But little objection can be raised to the first part of the above statement. Being placed in a position of disadvantage in reference to action, the muscular fibres named would very naturally degenerate into a ligament. With reference to the derivation of the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, it may be well to notice the abnormalities of the subclavius muscle in man. It may be inserted ])artly into the coracoid process and partly into the clavicle, or wholly into the coracoid process; it sometimes joins the fibres of the coraco-clavicular ligaments. Under these circumstances, it seems reasonable to infer that these latter ligaments result from the regression of some of the fibres of the muscle. Seeing that the gleno-humeral ligament is closely connected with rlie coraco- clavicular ligaments at the base of the coracoid process, the inference with reference to the former may well be extended to the latter. This view is further supported by a most interesting case reported by Mr. Walsham in St, Bartholomew's Hospital Eeports, in which the human muscle presented a partial insertion into the coracoid process, combined with a v\^ell-marked expansion into the head of the humerus. Interclavicular Ligament. - This is a T-shaped band, Avhich both unites the clavicles across the median line, and sends down a vertical slip to be attached to the top of the sternum. In the pectoral arch of Ornithorhyncus, the clavicles are supported at their inner extremities by a T-shaped bone of membranous origin, the interclavicle. The ligament is derived from this bony element. Coraco-acromial Ligament, and Transverse Ligament of the Scapula. - These are representatives of bony processes which are found in sloths, and elsewhere. In the scapula of the sloth the acromion sends a long hook-like piece of bone to meet the coracoid. In many birds, also, the scapula, in the formaton of the foramen triosseum, joins the coracoid above as Avell as below. In the foetus of many mammals a tract of cartilage may be detected in the situation named. The supra-scapular foramen is entirely osseous also in the young ant-eater; its upper boundary is here formed partly by a prolongation from the body of the scapula, and partly by a prolongation from the coracoid process, - an interesting example, in the limbs, of the passage of a nerve between two centres of ossification which is so constant in the skull. The occasional ossification of the transverse ligament in maij is to be viewed as a reversion to a former condition. Views such as those above presented (See also the remarks on the round ligament of the hip-joint at the bottom of page 108d) set one dreaming. A fanciful or allegorical trilogy will be pardoned. The authoritative speaker is no less than Mr. Sutton himself, whose remarks, headed "J. B. S.," which run down the left side