48 MUSCLES of PALM of HAND. MUSCLES of the THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of the THUMB Abductor Pollicis or Trapezo-phalangeal - 'Ridge on anterior surface of trapo zinm & anterior annular ligament of wrist. Outer side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by median nerve. Opponens Pollicis or Trapezo-metacarpal - Front of trapezium below the ndgei & annular ligament. i Whole length of outer border of metacarpal bone of thumb. - S. by median n Plexor Brevis Pollicis or Trapezocarpo-phalangeal. Outer or Superficial Head - Lower part of trapezium & anterior annular ligament Inner or Deep Head - Trapezoides, os magnum, base of 2nd & 3rd metacarpal bones Either side of base of first phalanx of thumb, a sesamoid bone being deve loped in each tendon. - S. by median nerve, & deep branch of ulnar. Adductor Pollicis or Metacarpo-phalangeal - Lower two-thirds of anterior smj face of 3rd metacarpal bone. Inner side of base of first phalanx of thumb. - S. by deep branch of ulnar ni j MS. of HYPO-THENAR EMINENCE or MS. of LITTLE FINGER Palmaris Brevis - Annular ligament & inner edge of central palmar fascia. Skin over inner border of hand. - S. by superficial branch of ulnar nerveli Abductor Minimi Digiti, or Pisi-phalangeal - Pisiform bone, and slightly froni; tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris. Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch ojt ulnar nerve. j Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, or Unci-phalangeal - Unciform process o | unciform bone & annular ligament. i Inner side of base of first phalanx of little finger. - S. by deep branch o ulnar nerve. Opponens or Adductor Minimi Digiti, or Unci-metacarpal* - Unoifom process of unciform bone & annular ligament. Whole length of inner border of metacarpal bone of little finger. - S. b] deep branch of ulnar nerve. *These names, expressive of the origin & insertion of the corres ponding muscles, are due to Cruveilhiei MUSCLES of the CENTRAL PALMAR REGION. Lumbricales - First, and sometimes Second, from outer side of corresponding dee^ flexor tendon. - Third and Fourth, from adjoining sides of 2nd & 3rd and & 4th deep flexor tendons respectively. Outer side of expansion of corresponding extensor tendon on back e first phalanges. - S., the two outer by median nerve j the two inner by de^ branch of ulnar nerve. Palmar Interossei - Three. - They arise from palmar half of one side of the meta carpal bone of one finger, and are inserted into the same side of the base of tj first phalanx of the same finger & into the expansion of the extensor ten(J which covers it. - They are situated respectively on the inner side of the S| metacarpal bone & index finger, and on the outer side of the 4th & 5th met carpal bones and corresponding ring & little fingers. They adduct these finge towards an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger. - Th) are supplied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve. Dorsal InteroSSei - Four - They arise by two heads from the adjacent sides of metacarpal bones, but more extensively from the side of that metacarpal bo^ which corresponds to the finger into which the muscle is inserted. They f inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the o< responding finger & into the expansion of the corresponding extensor tendon They are situated lespectively on the outer side of the 2nd metacarpal i>on9 index finger, on both sides of the 3rd metacarpal bone & middle finger, on I inner side of the 4th metacarpal bone & ring finger. The 1st dorsal interossec muscle is larger than the others, and is sometimes called the abductor indio the radial artery passes between its two heads. - They abduct the fingers frc an imaginary line drawn through the long or middle finger, — They are sappll by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve.