46 MEDIAN & MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NEBVES. MEDIAN NERVE. From inner & outer cords of brachial plexus by two roots which surround 3rd part of axillary artery. - Lies at first on outer side (more or less so, but never quite in front) of 3rd part of axillary & upper part of brachial arteries. Crosses brachial artery usually in front, and lies on its inner side at bend of elbow. Between the two heads of pronator radii teres, and down middle of front of forearm, lying deeply at first between flexor sublimis & flexor profundus digitorum, and then supe4 ficially between tendon of flexor carpi radialis & outermost tendons of flexor sublimis.* Beneath anterior annular ligament to palm of hand, where lies in front of flexor tendons, and becomes enlarged and flattened, and divides into twi TERMINAL BRANCHES: External - Supplies abductor, opponens & outer head of flexor brevis pollicis, and giv« palmar digital branches to thumb & outer side of index fing( Internal - Supplies the two outer lumbricales, and gives palmar digital branches contiguous sides of index, middle and ring fingers.-The digital nerves a superficial to the digital arterii LATERAL BRANCHES: ITone in upper-arm. In fore-armi Muscular - Arise near elbow j to all the superficial muscles of front of fore-arm exce^' flexor carpi ulnaril. Ant. Interosseous - With anterior interosseous artery between flexor longus pollio & flexor profundus digitorum, supplying the former & the outer half of ii latter, and ends in pronator quadratH Palmar Cutaneous ^ From lower part. Pierces deep fascia a little above anterioi annular ligament and supplies integument of palm of hand & ball of thum joining with palmar cutaneous branch of ulnar, and with radial or anterii branch of external cutaneoi MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS or EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE. From outer cord of brachial plexus in common with outer head of median. Through coraco-brachialis, and between biceps & brachialis anticus to a little above extei condyle, where perforates deep fascia, and divides, behind median cephalic 11 Anterior Branch. - Along front of radial side of fore-arm as low as wrist, where in front of radial artery, and joins with radial nerve. Sends filaments ball of thumb, and accompanies radial artery to back of ca: Posterior Branch - Along back of radial side of fore-arm, joining with radial with external cutaneous branch of musculo-spi Supplies coraco-brachialis, biceps & brachialis anticus, and sends twigs to humerus & elbow-joil ■"Wheu paimaris iongus is present, the nerve lies between it & fl.;xoi carpi ra.llalis.