XXll getting out the facial nerve and its branches as they traverse the parotid gland. Not feeling satisfied to proceed without each time cleaning the facial nerve, nor caring to be so long over this preliminary part of the work, I set about looking for a quicker way. I soon found that I could cut down upon the trunk of the facial nerve without much difficulty where it crosses the root of the styloid process, a little above and in front of the prominent transverse process of the atlas, and that, when once on the trunk of the nerve, I could trace out the branches to the face and neck in a very short time. It is in this way that I have dissected the facial nerve ever since, and many are the anatomists that I have surprised by the rapidity and completeness of detail with which the dissection is conducted. Here the transverse process of the atlas leads me to the styloid process, the styloid process leads me to the trunk of the facial nerve, and the trunk leads me to the branches.—" De fil en aiguilkr I would direct attention to the sole of the foot. Have we not all seen, with a kindly pity for him, a poor unfortunate dissector first remove the skin of the sole of the foot as scrupulously as one might remove that over the perinaeum or the parts concerned in inguinal or femoral hernia, and then look, in the dense, granular fat, for the plantar cutaneous nerve, and, after failing to find it - as he almost necessarily would - spend some hours more looking, also fruitlessly perhaps, for the digital nerves ? * How can we best help the deserving fellow ? First, we should tell him that the plantar cutaneous nerve should be looked for where it leaves the trunk of anatomy, to, in physiology, the "Handbook." They combine two things, - descriptions of the structures exposed, and rtiles for exposing them, - the latter being necessarily brief, and more or less overshadowed by the more voluminous descriptive element. The immediate object of the present opuscule is to dissociate the two elements hitherto combined, with a view to giving the dissector that help which he requires in the dissecting-room more fully than has hitherto been done, - as fully, indeed, it is hoped, as may be consistent with individual effort on the part of the learner. The kind of anatomy aimed at in these pages, - and, indeed, though less visibly so, in the Author's other publications, - is that thorough practical acquaintance with the human body, which is comparable to everyone's knowledge of the locality in which he lives, - comparable, indeed, to the young gutter urchin's knowledge of the yards, alleys, lamp- posts, door-steps, knockers, and key-holes of the narrow precincts in which his lot is cast, - to whom the very paving stones are familiar, which he treads with his naked feet. Knowledge of this kind is only to be obtained by careful and repeated dissections. * See foot-note on page 3.