132n The Xeck passes upwards, forwards, and to the left from the upper and front part of the head. It is about an inch long. It gets in front of the portal vein and of the termination of the superior mesenteric. In front and above it is grooved by the first portion of the duodenum. Directly to its right are the gastro-duodenal and superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries; to its left is the pylorus, when the stomach is distended. The Body turns backwards after crossing the spine and the aorta. It is prismatic, with surfaces - anterior, posterior, and inferior. The anterior surface is large, convex, and prominent to the right, where it presents the omental tuberosity corresponding, as does the omental tuberosity of the liver, to the lesser or gastro-hepatic omentum. Further to the left it is concave, and has the stomach resting upon it.* The inferior surface is narrow.'^ and rests, to the right, on the duodeno-jejunal flexure : to the left, on the coils of the jejunum and the transverse colon. The posterior surface crosses the aorta, the crura of the diaphragm, the superior mesenteric artery, the left kidney and its vessels, and left suprarenal capsule. The splenic A-ein courses along its upper part, there receiving the inferior mesenteric vein. Traced backwards, the two layers of the transverse mesocolon separate at the prominent anterior border of the pancreas, the anterior or upper layer passing over the anterior surface of the organ, and the under or the posterior layer over the under surface, t The posterior surface is of course uncovered by peritoneum. The upper border is in relation with the coeliac axis. The Tail of the pancreas turns upwards and backwards, and comes in contact with the lower part of the inner aspect of the spleen. VI.—PORTAL VEIN. The portal vein is said by recent writers to lie in front of the head of the pancreas. The new way of putting it is simply the expression of views based, not upon the examination of the abdominal organs as seen in the dissecting room, or as exposed, - See Professor Birmingham's description (page 132u), which recognises an upper, not an anterior surface, and an inferior as broad as the upper surface. t rhe attachment of the transverse mesocolon to the prominent anterior border of the pancreas is a circumstance throwing a flood of light, to the Authors mind, on the genesis of the surfaces, borders, kc, of the soft visceral structures. We have here the stomach pressing upon the pancreas from above ; the colon, jejunal flexure, <5cc., pressing on it from below. Given the soft, yielding consistence of the pancreas, what must be the simplj- mechanical result? Clearly that the gland come to project forwards between the two areae of compression, - that the pancreas become, in sagittal section, prismatic, ■«ith upper and lower surfaces more or less inclined, and a prominent anterior border. What must be the relation of this border to the transverse mesocolon? Clearly that the transverse mesocolon be attached to it. The border results from the projection forwards of the gland-substance in the inter^-al between the two areas of compression, - i.e., immediately below the stomach, and immediately above the colon, jejunal flexure, &c., i.e., in the line of attachment, between these, of their thin parting plane, the transverse mesocolon. It ^vill be seen that the %-iew suppoits Professor Bii-mingham's description of the pancreas, rather than the one above given.