152f to the pelvic viscera two large branches, which become the lower part of the internal iliacs. Further on they contract into the two superior vesical arteries. Further on still they become entirely closed, and form the obliterated hypogastric arteries. The arteries of the several metameres originally divided into branches mesial, lateral, and parietal. The mesial branches supplied the alimentary canal, and became the superior and inferior mesenteric, and the smaller oesophageal branches of the aorta and coeliac axis. The lateral 6m«cAe.s supplied the intermediate cell mass, and became the phrenic, supra-renal, renal, and spermatic or ovarian ; the original arrangement of these arteries has become alm^ost lost, and in many cases a single artery, e.g., the renal, represents several originally distinct vessels sometimes imperfectly fused into one. The parietal branches supplied the walls of the body cavity, and became the intercostal and lumbar arteries, in which the metameric arrangement is still distinct. These arteries divided into ventral and dorsal branches which need not be specially referred to here, except in connection with their longitudinal anastomoses. Their ventral or terminal longitudinal anastomoses gave rise to the internal mammary, and superior and deep epigastric arteries. Their dorsal longitudinal anastomoses gave rise to the arteries that run own the front and back of the spinal cord. Hectal and Urogenital Triangles, and the Abdominal & Perinseal Fasciae. The appropriate terms, Rectal and Urogenital triangles, are applied by Professor Cunningham to the posterior and anterior halves respectively of the peringeal space. By the same authority the designations, ^^ascm of Camper and fascia of Scarpa, are applied to the superficial and deep layers of the superficial fascia of the abdomen; and the revived designation, fascia of Colles, to the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perinseum, or superficial perinasal fascia. Carnper's fascia is a fatty layer directly continuous with the superficial fascia of the surrounding regions. Scarpa's fascia is a membranous layer without fat, and containing a good deal of elastic tissue ; in the lower part of the abdomen, this tissue is collected into a distinct band over the lower part of the linea alba. If the whole thickness of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, - that is, both its layers, or Camper's and Scarpa's fasciie,-be divided down to the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in the lower part of the abdomen, it will be found that the fingers can be passed down towards the thigh beneath these layers, - that is, between Scarpa's fascia and the aponeurosis of the external oblique, - to a little below Poupart's ligament only. Here Scarpa's fascia blends with the fascia lata of the thigh. Towards the pubes, however, the finger can be passed behind Scarpa's fascia and the spermatic cord into the perinseum, where Scarpa's fascia becomes continuous with Colles' fascia. (Cunningham.) A method is devised by Professor Cunningham for inflating the superficial perineal space, or the pouch comprised between Colles' fascia and the superficial layer of the deep perinseal fascia or triangular ligament: A longitudinal incision being made into the back part of Colles' fascia a little to one side of the middle line, and the bellows being introduced, inflation is first limited to the corresponding side of the pouch; but, on reaching the scrotum, where the median septum is incomplete, the air forces its way across the middle line, and inflates the pouch of the opposite side. Of course the air cannot pass either into the rectal triangle or down the thighs, on account of the attach-