152a NOTES ON THE NEWEE MATTER. Omega Loop of the Colon, and Rectum. Some well-known anatomists, and among these Mr. Treves, who has paid special attention to the anatomy of abdomen, would limit the appellation " rectum " to the two lower portions of the structure as usually described, and would join the first portion of the canal to the lower part of the sigmoid flexure to form the " Omega loop of the colon." According to the view above referred to the descending colon would pass down, not simply to the crest of the ilium, but to the left iliac fossa just external to the psoas; here would begin the Omega loop, which would extend as far as the middle of the third piece of the sacrum. The rectum would begin at the latter point, - and not at the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis, - and would thus be reduced to the portion of the gut which is free from peritoneal investment, except quite at its upper part. This harmonises wiih the developmental processes already referred to. After crossing the psoas, the Omega loop either traverses the cavity of the pelvis obliquely, or else descends along its left wall, sometimes reaching its floor, and then passes horizontally to the right; on reaching the right wall of the pelvis, it again inclines to the left to end, as above stated, opposite the middle of the third piece of the sacrum. If the reader Avill take the trouble to look at the arrangement of the parts on the dead body, he will see that the shifting figure of the large intestine in this situation is more that of a S than an w. Nevertheless, there is some advantage, from a surgical point of view, in restricting the term " Rectum " to such part of the gut as is free from peritoneal investment. The new description should involve a remodelling of the description of the pelvic peritoneum, - the terms " recio-vesical " and " rec^o-vaginal " iossve no longer applying correctly. (See further limitation of the rectum by the description of the Anal canal, p. 132k.) Relations of the Kidney. " The posterior surface, with the corresponding portion of the fatty capsule, rests against the posterior abdominal wall in front of the eleventh and twelfth ribs, and the transverse processes of the first and second lumbar vertebrje; the left kidney usually reaching as high as the upper border of the eleventh rib, the right only to its lower border. The only visceral relation posteriorly is on the left side, where the spleen slightly overlaps the kidney, opposite the upper half of its outer border. The parietal relations on both sides are as follows: - [1] the diaphragm: [2] the anterior lamella of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis (separating the organ from the quadratus lumborum); [3] the psoas; [4] the three fasciai - diaphragmatic, transversalis, and iliac - which line these muscles respectively ; and [5] the last thoracic, the ilio- hypogastric, and the ilio-inguinal nerves, and the anterior division of the first and second