13211 much larger U-shaped loop, which develops into the remaining portion of the alimentary canal, the terminal portion of the rectum excepted. Fig. 322z.—diagram of the mesentery, stomach, and intestine of the human embryo of six WEEKS. (Toldt.) St., stomach; g.c, greater curvature; I.e., smaller curvature; mg., mesogastrium ; xpl., spleen; p., pancreas; cce., ceecum ; r., rectum; me., mesentery; ao., aorta; cZ., coeliac axis; s.mes.a., i.mes.a., superior and inferior mesenteric arteries. This U-shaped loop is drawn downwards and forwards towards the umbilicus, where the canal of the intestine passes into the omphalo-mesenteric or vitelline duct. The antero-superior limb of the U-shaped loop, and the neighbouring portion of the postero-inferior limb, become the jejunum and ileum, - the situation of the bend being marked for a time, sometimes throughout life, - bj a pouch, Meckel's diverticulum, the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric duct. The upper or vertebral portion of its postero- inferior limb becomes the large intestine, - all but the terminal portion or rectum, which never presents any mesentery. The differentiation of the large intestine begins by the evagination of the coecal pouch, a tapering diverticulum, of which, after birth, the conical end contracts into the appendix vermiformis (Figs. 132aa and bb). The small intestine lengthens out into complex coils, and, with the corresponding frills of its mesentery, comes to fill the space within the horse-shoe of the colon referred to further on. The mesentery does not long remain the simple mesial septum above described. Its rapidly increasing complications, which result in the intricacies of the adult peritoneum, have, for many years past, formed a field for earnest enquiry in reference to which scientists have ranged themselves into two schools, that of His and Hertwig in Germany, and that of Bland Sutton and Treves in this country. The evolution of the peritoneum results from :— I. The displacement, as described below, of the stomach, duodenum and large intestine ; and