in PERITONEUM —1st Tablet. The peritoneum is by far the most extensive & complex serous membrane of the body. To aescribo it completely it is necessary to trace: 1. - The two sacs separately in the vertical direction & in the middle line; 2. - The two sacs together in the vertical direction; 3. - The greater sac horizontally below the level of the umbilicus; 4. -The two sacs together horizontally above the level of the umbilicus, or throui^h the foramen of Wiiislow; 5. - The ligaments formed by the peritoneum, and the omenta & mesenteries. Along the colon & upper part of the rectum the peritoneum is thrown into numerous peudu- lous processes filled with adipose tissue and termed the appendices epiploicae. THE TWO SACS SEPARATELY. THE GREATER SAC. Starting from umbilicus the peritoneum passes: - Over anterior wall of abdomen & diaphragm; Over upper surface of liver, forming suspensory or falciform ligs^ment 6y» upper laytr of Over under surface of liver to transverse fissure; coronary ligament; To lesser curvature of stomach & first portion of duodenum, forming anterior layet Over anterior surface of stomach ; ^ 'f^'''^S^'tro-hepatic omentum . Downwards in front of intestine, forming anterior layer of great omentum ; Upwards to transverse colon, forming posterior layer of great omentum ; Over under surface of transverse colon ; To spine, forming inferior layer of transverse meso-colon & covering under surface of transverse portion of duodenum ; (In the foetus, also occasionally in the child, and even, though very rarely in the adult, the layer of peritoneum which continues the posterior layer of the great omentum ascends in front of the transverse colon without adhering to it, or adhering to it but slightly, and then passes backwards to the spine above the transverse meso-colon. The transverse meso-colon is then formed by the peritoneum again passing forzvards frotn the spine to the transverse colon, snr- rounding the latter, and for the second time passing backwards to the spine. Tlie pouch between the transverse meso-colon & the posterior layer of the great omentum subsequeiitly disappears by degrees, adhesions amounting finally to complete fusion of the two layers into one, beiug established between the two walls of the pouch before admit age is reached). Along superior mesenteric artery, round small intestine and back to spine, forming Downwards in front of spine & Aorta; mesentery, Over upper part of rectum, forming nieso-rectum ; Forwards: In Male : - To bladder, ^ovx(\vsx% posterior false ligaments of bladder (5r» recto- vesical pouch i In Female : - To vagina & uterus, forming posterior ligaments of uterus & recto- vaginal pouch', and then over uterus & from uterus to bladder, forming anterior ligaments of uterus & utero-vesical pouch ; Over bladder and from bladder to anterior wall of abdomen; Up to umbilicus, covering urachus «fc obliterated hypogastric arteries. THE LESSER SAC, or SAC of the OMENTUM. Begins at the foramen of Winslow. Foramen of Winslow - is a constriction of the peritoneum bounded by: In Front - Lesser omentum containing first part of duodenum, hepatio artery, bile duct & portal vein} Behind - Right crus of diaphragm & inferior vena cavaj Above - Lobus Spigelii of liver (or rather lobus caudatus) } Below - Hepatic artery as it passes forwards from Aorta. Prom this point the peritoneum passes: - Downwards to lesser curvature of stomach, forming posterior layer of lesser or gastr>- _ , . /. /. . 1. hepatic omentum. Over posterior surface of stomach; Downwards in front of intestine and then upwards, forming the two internal layers <^ ^ „ „, , great omentum; Over upper surface of transverse colon ; ** To spine, forming tipper layer of transverse meso-colon ; Over pancreas; To under surface of liver, forming inferiot layer of coronary ligament^ and over posterior part of iMider surface ot liver to for&niett o*" Wiiislov.