44 RADIAL ARTERY The smaller branch of bifurcation of brachial half an inch below bend of elbow or opposlt* ■ neck of radiua* Down front of outer side of forearm to a little to inner side of styloid process of radius. Bound outer side of carpus beneath extensor tendons of thumb. Through upper part of first interosseous space between the two heads of abductor indicis. Over bases of metacarpal bones & interossei, and beneath flexor tendons, lumbricales & nerves to base of 5th metacarpal bone, where inosculates with communicating branch of ulnar, forming deep palmar arch. Lies a finger's breadth above level of superficial palmar . arch. RELATIONS in FOREARM: In Front - Skin, superficial fascia, deep fascia, supinator longua. Behind - Tendon of biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimift digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratns, lower end of radius. On Outer Side - Supinator longus, radial nerve in middle third. On Inner Side - Pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis. BRANCHES: IN FOREARM Hadial recurrent — From upper part. Between brachialis antions & supinator loni gus, and anastomoses with interosseous recurrent & sapcrior profnnda. Muscular — Numerous, to muscles on either side. Ant. carpal — From lower part. Joins with anterior carpal branch of ulnar beneath deep flexor tendons j gives twigs to articulations of carpua* Superficialis VoIsB — From termination of artery in forearm. Small, and ends in mascles of thumb j or of more considerable size, and joins with & com« pletes superficial palmar arcMi ON BACK OP WRIST : » Post, carpal — Over back of carpus beneath extensor tendons. Joins with posterior | carpal branch of ulnar to form posterior carpal arch, which anastomosea | with termination of anterior interosseous artery of forearm, and gives ofl": I Dorsal Interosseous Arteries op Third & Fourth Spaces - Anastomose at upper part of interosseous spaces with perforating branches of de©] palmar arch. - Are usually exhausted in sheaths of tendons, interosse & integument over back of first phalanges, but are sometimes large than usual, and are then prolonged upon dorsum of fingers in the shap of dorsal digital branches similar to those of thumb & outer side d index, and of toei Metacarpal, or Dorsal Interosseous Art. of Second Space — Arises b« neath extensor tendons of thumb, sometimes in common with posterior cai pal, and is similar to, but larger than, the foregoing interosseous arteries IT ■ ") Correspond together to a first dorsal interosseous arter DorsaleS pollicis / The former supplies dorsal digital branches to both sides of bac Ti««r,«i;« 1 of thumb, the latter forms the dorsal digital branch of outer sid Dorsahs mdlClS ) of back of index. « IN PALM OP HAND : . Correspond together to a first palmar interosseous arterj Jt'rinceps pollicis t The former supplies palmar digital branches to both sides licis / Licis j ■r»«ji«ii« i front of thumb, the latter forms the palmar digital branch Radiahs mdlClS \ o^^ter side of front of index. Perforating — Three. Through upper part of three inner interosseous spaces, ai anastomose with corresponding dorsal interosseous arteriei Deep palmar interosseous — Usually three or four, but very variable in size number. Descend in front of interosseous spaces, join with superficial pal mar interosseous branches from superficial palmar arch, and then bifurcati to form palmar digital branches to 3^ fingers on inner side of hand J.