96 f ASCI-Sl & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the TARSUS. FASCI.^ — Are rather ligaments than fascige proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament - Consists of two portions connected by a thin inu t - vening layer of fascia. Superior or Vertical Portion - Of considerable breadth & continuous super- iorly with deep fascia of leg. It extends from lower part of anterior border of tibia to lower part of anterior border of fibula. Inferior or Horizontal Portion. - Narrower and continuous anteriorly with deep fascia over dorsum of foot. It extends from upper surface of os calcis, in front of groove for interosseous calcaneo-astra.raloid ligament, to internal malleolus & inner border of plantar fascia. Beneath anterior annular ligament pass from within outwards : - J. - Tendon of tibialis anticus contained throughout in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of extensor proprius pollicis contained in a synovial sheath beneath the inferior or horizontal portion of the ligament only. 3. - Anterior tibial vessels dr* nenie. 4. - Tendons of extensor longus digitorum dr» peroneus tertius enclosed throughout in one synovial sheath. Internal Annular Ligament - Strong fibrous band continuous superioi-ly with deep fascia of leg, and u'l^'ug origin inferiorly to innermost fibres of abductor pollicis. It extends obliquely from internal malleolus to inner surface of oa calcis. Ben ath it pass from before backwards & outwards /. - Tendon of the tibialis posticus contained in a synovial sheath. 2. - Tendon of the flexor longus digitorum contained in another synovial! sheath.f 3. - Posterior tibial vessels nerve. 4. - Tendon of the flexor longus pollicis also contained in a synovial shenth,! and situated at a considerable depth in a groove on posteriorj surface of astragalus.| External Annular Ligament-Narrower & thinner band extending from exter. nal malleolus to outer surface of os calcis, and beneath which paas Tendons of peronei both enclosed in one synovial sheath. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular - Six: - /. - Synovial membrane of posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation. 2. - Synovial membrane common to the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid 6* astragalo-scaphoid articulations. - Synovial membrane of calcaneo-cuboid articulation. 4. - General synovial membrane of the tarsus comprised between the scaphoid & the three cuneiform bones, between the three cunei- form bones, between the external cuneiform bone & the cuboid, between the middle & external cuneiform bones on the one hand and the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones on the other, between the bases of the 2nd & 3rd metatarsal bones. - Sometimes there is a separate synovial membrane between the scaphoid & the cuboid. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the cuboid and the 4th &* jth metatarsal bones. 6. - Synofvial jneinbrane of the articulation between the first cuneiform bone ^ the first metatarsal. Tendinous - Vide Annular Ligaments. \ 1