96k Femoral Ring.—May be defined by feeling for the pulsation of the femoral artery on the pubes, and allowing half an inch on the inner side of the artery for the femoral vein; the ring is just internal to the vein. It lies about half an inch higher than the saphenous opening, immediately under the inner part of Poupart's ligament. It is bounded internally by the sharp, cutting edge of Grimbernat's ligament; behind by the pubes, covered by the pectineus muscle ; externally by the femoral vein; and above by Poupart's ligament, with the deep crural arch, and in the male the spermatic cord. On its inner side there may be an abnormal obturator artery; this occurs when the obturator artery presents the double abnormality of arising from the epigastric, and of arising from the epigastric at some distance from the origin of the latter from the external iliac. In this case the trunk common to the two arteries passes inwards above the femoral ring, and then the obturator artery descends into the pelvis on the inner side of the ring, behind Gimbernat's ligament. Anterior Superior Spine of Ilium.—The most convenient point from which to measure the relative length of the two lower limbs in suspected fracture, dislocation, or hip-joint disease. G-reat Trochanter.—Lies in a line drawn from anterior superior spine of ilium to most prominent part of tuberosity of ischium {Nelaton!s line). It is more convenient, however, as a test of dislocation or fracture, to compare on the two sides the vertical distance between the great trochanter and the anterior superior spine of the ilium {B7yanfs test). The upper part of the great trochanter is nearly on a level with the spine of the pubes. Sartorius Muscle.—Easily defined on the living by instructing peatint to raise his leg over thigh of opposite side. Porms outer border of Scarpa's triangle, at apex of which it cresses femoral artery three or four inches below Pouparfs ligament. Further down, over Hunter's canal, the muscle becomes somewhat internal to the artery. Femoral Artery.—Along upper two-third': of a line drawn from midway between anterior superior spine of ilium and sy?nphysis pubis to inner side of inner condyle of femur. Grives off the profunda from one and a half to two inches below Poupart's ligament. Is crossed by the sartorius at apex of Scarpa's triangle, three or four inches below same ligament. In middle of thigh, it lies in Hunter's canal, beneath outer border of sartorius. Can