PREFACE TO THE ELEVENTH EDITION. (SOFT PARTS.) The whole of the Tablets have now been revised by the Authors in the light of modern views. They further appear in pictorial garb, through the generosity of numerous friends, among whom, Mr. Pickering Pick, editor of Gray's Anatomy, Professors Christopher Heath, Thane, Schafer, Bymington, Ellis, Alexander Macalister, Cunningham, Birming- ham, Windle, Reid, Mr. Luther Holden, Mr. Henry Morris, Mr. Bland Sutton, Mr. William Anderson, Mr. Davies-Colley, Mr. Frederick Treves, Mr. Walsham, Mr. Makins, Mr. Shattock, Mr. Parsons, and, abroad. Professors Gegenbaur, Schwalbe, Heitzmann, Sappey, Testut, and others, v/ho, as well as the respective publishers, have all kindly permitted the use of already existing plates. In regard to the illustrations, though they be rough, perhaps, there are here brought together for the first time both the inimitable sketches of the arteries and veins which we owe jointly to Henry Gray and to Dr. Vandyke Carter, and those brilliant pictures of the nervous system by which Hirschfeld & Leveille "placed their country," says Mr. William Anderson, " beyond rivalry in anatomical illustration." The tabulated character of the work threw considerable difficulties in the way of its being illustrated. The figures could not be placed in the midst of the text. They have had to be grouped on separate pages, of such sizes, and in such positions, as could be made to fit in with available space. As far as possible, the illustrations have been placed either opposite the corre- sponding text, or in such positions that, by raislmj the intervening pages, text and illustration can be seen at the same time. The description of the figures is of the briefest. Where fuller descriptions seemed needed they have been given at the end of the section. The illustrations may be thought by some to be over-numerous. None, have been introduced, except on the score of showing certain things left out in others. At the end of each section a Summary of Practical Points" has been introduced, taken from the senior Author's " Aphorisms in Applied Anatomy & Operative Surgery." Corresponding questions are set at the end of each of the two last volumes.