60 PASCI-aa & SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES of the HAND <S WRIST, PASCIuffij — Are rather ligaments than fasciae proper, and are therefore described here. Anterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Continuons above with deep fascia o, forearm, and below with palmar fascia; extends froir Pisiform bone cSr* unciform process of unciform to Tubercle of scaphoid, d}'ridge on anterior surface of trapezium. It is pierced by tendon of flexor carpi radialis. Beneath it pass the flexores sublimis & profundus di^itorum enclosed in one synovia) sheath, the flexor longus pollicis enclosed in another sheath, and the median n Into its anterior surface & upper border are inserted a few fibres of the palmarii longus & flexor carpi ulnaris From its lower border arise in part the abductor, opponens & outer head of flexoi brevis pollicis, and the flexor brevis & opponens minimi digiti Posterior Annular Ligament of the Wrist - Thinner than foregoing, from Cuneiform df pisiporm bones, and lower part of ulna to Styloid process ^ ridges ojt posterior aspect of radius. Presents six divisions or compartments lined each of them with a separate synovia membrane, and which, from without inwards, correspond to the following osseoui grooves, and transmit the following muscles t-i 1. - Corresponds to shallow groove on outer side of styloid process of radius. — Trans mits extensores ossis metacarpi primi internodii pollicii 2. — Corresponds to broad <Sr» shallow groove on posterior aspect of styloid process. ■ Transmits extensores carpi radiates longior <Sr» breviot\ 3. - Corresponds to narrow &' deep groove on back of lower extre7nity of radius. Transmits extensor secundi internodii pollicu 4. - Corresponds to broad 6^ shallow groove on back of lower extremity of radius. Transmits extensores indicis comtnunis digitorum jr. - Corresponds to groove at point of articulation of radius ulna. — Transmii extensor minimi digiti 6. - Corresponds to groove on back of head of ulna. - Transmits extensor car} ulnari Palmar Fascia — Consists of Two Lateral Portions - Thin. Cover muscles of thumb & little finger, and send prci cesses between then' Central Portion - Thick, strong, triangular; firmly adherent to integument; cover; superficial palmar arch, flexor tendons, & median & ulnar nerves, and gives origiji internally to palmaris brevis. It is narrow above, where it receives expands tendon of palmaris longus, and is attached to anterior annular ligament; an broad below, where it divides into four slips bound together by transverse fibreii Each slip subdivides into two processes, which processes embrace the flexc| tendons, and become attached to bases of first phalanges & glenoid ligamentil Between the slips are seen the palmar interosseous & digital arteries, the termini | branches of the median & ulnar nerves, & the tendons of the lumbrioalei SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES — Are articular & tendinous. Articular ~ Five: -- /. - Membrana Sacciformis of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. 2. - Synovial membrane of the radio-carpal articulation, comprised between tl 1 first row of carpal bones & the under surface of the radius & trial; gular fibro-cartilag 3. - General synovial membrane of the carpus, comprised between bones of fiP row, between bones of second row, between the two rows of bone between the second row of carpal bones & the four inner metacarpji bones, and finally between the four inner metacarpal bontl! 4. - Synovial membrane of the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb. J. - Synovial membrane of the articulation between the cuneiform <Sr» pisiform. 1 Tendinous - Yicle Anterior & Posterior Annular Ligaments,