94 KNEE-J0INT-3rd Tablet. LIGAMENTS — Aretha,. Anterior Ligament or Ligamentum Patellse - Strong flat band about three inches long, a continuation of tendon of rectus femoris, which extends from Apex of patella rough depression below its articular surface to Lower part of tubercle oftidia, bein^ sep&ra,ted from upper part of the tubercle by a small bursa. - It is separated from the synovial membrane of the knee- joint by a considerable mass of adipose tissue. Posterior Ligament - Consists of three portions (Oraveilhier, Gray) : - Central Portion or Ligamentum Posticum Winslowii (The only portion described either by Winslow, or by Heath, Quain, & many modern Authors) - Broad flat band partly derived from tendon of semimembranosus, and which extends obliquely from J?ac^ part of inner tuberosity of tibia to Upper 6^ back part of outer condyle of femur. Two Lateral Portions (Capsule Fibreuse des Condyles, Cruveilhier) - Closely connec- ted with tendons of gastrocnemius, popliteus, plantaris, and formed chiefly of vertical fibres extending from Condyles just above their articular surfaces to Back of head of tibia. - These lateral portions are looked upon by many anatomists as a part of the capsular ligament. Internal Lateral Ligament - Broad flat band from Back part of inner tuberosity of femur to Inner tuberosity Supper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia. - Covers anterior portion of tendon of semimembranosus & inferior internal articular vessels, and is covered by tendons of sartoi'ius, gracilis & semitendinosus, a bursa being interposed. External Lateral Ligament-Consists of two portions :- Long External Lateral Ligament - Strong rounded cord from Back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Outer part of head of fibula. - It is embraced by the two fasciculi into which the ten. don of the biceps divides, and beneath it pass tendon of popliteus & inferior external articular vessels. Short External Lateral Ligament-Accessory & somewhat variable bundle of fibres intimately blended with capsule, lying behind foregoing & on outer side of tendon of popliteus, and extending from Lower back part of outer tuberosity of femur to Apex of styloid process of fibula. Capsular Ligament - Lies in contact with the synovial membrane, and beneath the other ligaments, which it binds together. It is strengthened by expansions from the fascia lata and from the vasti, biceps, sartorius & semimembranosus; the ex-1 pansions from the fascia lata & the vasti forming, on either side of the patella, the so-called lateral patellar ligaments. It is attached to Femur fust above the articular surfaces. Upper border dr» sides of patella, Margins of head of tibia dr* semilunar ftbro-cartilages. Crucial Ligaments-Two, project into the interior of the joint from behind, and cross each other obliquely like the bars of anX. Anterior Crucial Ligament -T1 e most oblique & somewhat the smaller, from Inner part of rough triangtdar depression in front of spine of tibia between points of attach' ment of anterior extremities of both semilunar fibro-cartilages, and partly also from anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage itself to Inner back paj-t of outer condyle of femur. Posterior Crucial Ligament - The thickest & strongest. Nearly vertically from Back part of rough depression behind spine of tibia, behind points of attachment of posterior extremities of both semilunar fibi-o-cartilages, and partly from posterior extremity of external semilunar fibro-cartilage itself^ Anterior dr* outer part of inner condyle of femur <Sr» front of intercondvloid notch. i j Transverse & Coronary Ligaments - Ligamentiun Mucosum & Ligamenta Alaria -