xxiv arteries, which lie a little deeper, can now be traced to the toes without hindrance. Here the os calcis has led to the plantar fascia, which, had it been attempted to cut down upon it directly, would probably have been cut through. The undivided part of the fascia has led to the slips to the toes; these have led to the four soft pads or cushions, which, in their turn, have led to the digital nerves and arteries.—" De fil en aiguilleP Again, let us glance at the popliteal space. What a crowd of superficial structures stand here in the way of the deeper ones ! Small sciatic nerve and external or short saphenous vein, with the two branches of origin of the external saphenous nerve ; then, beneath the fascia, the sural arteries and veins, and the nerves to the heads of the gastrocnemius and plantaris ; how they impede the dissection of trunk-artery, vein, and nerves ! Can we wonder at the dissector missing the articular arteries ? Is there a way of rendering the dissection, at least relatively, easy ? Dissect wide of the space itself, clean and lift up the inner head of the gastrocnemius on the one hand, and the outer head on the other. Beneath them you will find the inferior internal articular artery running downwards and inwards upon the tibia, and the inferior external articular passing horizontally outwards above the head of the fibula. Deal similarly with the muscles bounding the popliteal space superiorly, the biceps on the one hand, the semi-tendinosus and membranosus on the other; and the superior internal and superior external articular arteries, if they are not seen at once, can at least be felt upon the femur in the midst of the bed of fat in which they lie. Now the trunk-artery, vein, and nerves can be reached from beneath, and cleaned between finger and forceps. Here again, " de fil en aiguille r Examples could be multiplied almost ad infinitum. The " De fil en aiguille" principle is the best guide to the dissector looking for the smaller structures. It is the best guide for the demonstrator when helping the student out of his difficulties with his " part." Towards the middle and greater part of the limbs, the structures run more or less parallel to each other, there is no felting to speak of, and the dissection is relatively easy.