XXIX lies at the base of all true knowledge. The other dissector, on the contrary, is blindly bungling through his work, laboriously cleaning, perhaps, a muscular artery because it chances to be large, and removing a ganglion with its roots because, being small, it fails to catch his untrained eye. When he sets to read, he finds that many things of interest have been cut away from his part, and that he has himself greatly restricted his opportunity of learning. 2. A point to which the dissector should pay great attention from the very first refers to the cleaning of all arteries, veins, and nerves. These " long organs " (as, in fact, all the organs of the body) lie in a sheath of connective tissue, which is but slightly adherent to them. Why this is, will be easily understood. It is a general rule that, wherever there is pressure or friction, there the cellular tissue becomes laminated and free from fat-/.<?., aponeurotic or semi-aponeurotic. It is this condensed layer (more or less condensed according to circumstances) that constitutes the sheath of either vein, nerve, or artery. Let the dissector get his knife within the sheath, and he will find that it will easily peel off. By getting, and keeping within the sheath, the dissector will clean things efficiently, neatly, and quickly. The only necessary precaution is to keep the knife/;w// the side of the "long organ," from which any important branch is given off. Much the same thing may be said of muscles. We do not generally speak of the sheath of a muscle. A muscle is surrounded, nevertheless, by a closely fitting covering of connective tissue, or fascia. If the dissector knows how to set about his work, he can peel this covering off with the greatest ease,* thoroughly baring the contractile fibres. No more important advice can be given to the dissector than that of thoroughly cleaning all muscles as soon as they present in the course of dissection. Muscles should be cleaned from origin to insertion, - and not in front only, but all round, except, of course, where their nerve, or a large artery, enters their substance. Nothing can do more to further good dissections than the habit of cleaning all muscles early and well. Nothing can hamper the dissector more than the neglect of this part ot his work. This leads one on to 3. 3. When an artery, vein, or nerve is to be sought in an intermuscular space, this space should first be opened up as widely as possible, by dissecting close to, and carefully cleaning, the whole length of the boundary muscles. This preliminary part of the work will bring the dissector upon the long organs " to the greatest advantage. Opportunities for the useful application of this rule are to be found everywhere. It is one of the very widest application. Where an intermuscular space is susceptible of being opened both from the front and from the back, it is well to delay completing the dissection till the space can be so opened : ■ Except as 1-egan^s the cutaneous surface of a very few musdes, such as deltoid, gluteus iiiiiximus, the upper part of the trapezius, the fir^t layer of muscles of the sole of the foot,