108j II.-SURGICAL FASCIJE.-MR. COOKE'S VIEWS. We have got into the habit of late of tracing the varioiis fascite continuously, very much as one traces the folds of the peritoneum. And elaborate descriptions are now given of the course of fascia in front of, and behind, the several muscles, vessels, &c. It is submitted that the practice is based upon wrong principles. The description of the peritoneum bv continuity, or by tracing its course, rests on the patent fact that the membrane is practically the same throughout. Not so with the fascire. These are thick, dense, and fibrous in one place, - outer side of the thigh ; thin and translucent, but still dense and strong in another, - between the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg ; thin and cellular and of little consistence in another, - between the superficial and deep muscles of the front of the forearm, and so forth, The accepted descriptions of even the more important fascijE, - as in the parts concerned in Inguinal and Femoral Hernioe and in the perinaium and the ischio-rectal 'vhicli "centre problems of such transcendental morphological interest," is the divorced tendon of the Pectineus muscle. The Gleno-humeral Ligament occupies a similar position in the upper limb : it is the divorced tendon of the subclavius muscle, of which the Rhomboid ligament is the primitive tendon of origin. There are manj' such remains of degenerated or migrated muscles. The principal ligaments of the body result, in fact, from the regression either of muscles or of osseous or cartilaginous structures. There is sometimes found a Fourth Adductor, or Adductor Minimus, which is usually absent, however. The Transverse Ligament of the shoulder-joint has recently been referred to its true ancestor : it is the homologue of the process of bone which connects the humeral tuberosities in the musk ox (G. Brodie). Many of the fascine noM' described are as complete myths as can well be imagined ; see p. 108j. Since we have been endowed with what is now called "scientific" or "advanced " Anatomy, a correlated term has become necessary to designate the kind of Anatomy which is not in favour with the progressists. As a term distinctly uncomplimentary could scarcely be considered admissible, the colourless term "common garden Anatomy" (whatever this term may mean) seems to have gained pretty general acceptance. That a synonym for " Anatomy" should be needed is evidence, it is submitted, of a coming schism between practical and abstract work. All the above tit-bits of Anatomy have a living, stirring, responsive interest for Mr. J. B. Sutton. The "little beggars"—the cssific centres and others, as they are so frequently and so /o?id?7/surnamed —answer playfully to the call of this master of primeval structure, and really lend an inexpressible charm to the demonstrations in advanced Anatomy at the Middlesex Hospital. For thoughtful and inquiring- Anatomists, there are no more delightful entertainments than these demonstrations. All who are privileged to attend them, as the Author was for a whole winter session, must come away with the rapt belief that there is much truth in what the Master says. What differentiates Mr. Sutton's work from other similar attempts, and renders it congenial to the most conservative mind, is that it is constructi^ e from the very first—not tirst destructive, and then, as far as may be convenient (and this being left to chance)—reconstructive afterwards. The edifice of human descriptive Anatomy, reared at such enormous cost in time and labour, is safe in Mr. Sutton's hands. A surgeon, as well as a scientific Anatomist— one might perhaps say, notwithstanding hi^ eminence as a morphologist, a surgeon first, and a scientific anatomist afterwards—Mr. Sutton knows the value to medical men of Anatomy as learnt by dissections. He is one who puts practical work in the dissecting-room well to the front, and abstract science, however prominently, yet in the background, instead of reversing i,he order, as is the fashion now-a-days. The Author heartily believes in "Scientific Anatomy" as taught by Mr. Sutton—that is, when everything is shown to the class. But he still thinks that even this most legitimate instruction should be given apart from the teaching of human descriptive Anatomy, and that this branch of knowledge should be the subject of separate examinations for the higher qualifications only.