THE UTERUS. Pear-shaped & flattened from before backward?. Lies between bladder & rectum, projects inferiorly into upper end of vagina, and is re- tained in position by its broad & round ligaments. Presents: - Fundus - broad & rounded, directed upwards & forwards, covered with peritoneum; lies a little below level of brim of pelvis. Sody - Narrows gradually from fundus to neck, and presents: Anterior Surface - Flattened, covered by peritoneum in its upper three-fourths, adherent to bladder in its lower fourth. Posterior Surface - Convex, entirely covered by peritoneum, and separated from rectum by convolutions of small intestine. Lateral Margins - Rounded from before backwards, concave from above down- wards. Give attachment superiorly to the Fallopian tube, and below that tube, to the round ligament in front, & the ligament of the ovary behind. Cervix, or Neck - Constricted. Gives attachment to upper end of vagina, which canal extends a greater distance upwards behind than in front. Vaginal Extremity - Free. Presents the OS uteri bounded by a thick anterior, and a long & narrow posterior lip. Cavity - Very small in compari on with size of organ, and flattened from before backwards; triangular in body, fusiform in neck, the two parts of the cavity being separated, by a constriction, the os intermwiy somewhat narrower than the os externum. - The cavity of the body is pi'olonged at each superior angle into an infundihuli- form process, at the apex of which is the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. The cavity of the cervix presents on each wall a prominent median raphe, the stem, from which small oblique rugae, the branches of the arbor vitcs, proceed up. wards & outwards. The so-called ovulce Nabothi, closed & distended follicles at one time mistaken for ova, are frequently seen among the above ruga9. LIGAMENTS OF THE UTERUS — Eight in number of which six, the anterior, poster- ior, & transverse, are formed by the peritoneum. Round Ligaments - V. next Tablet but one. Anterior Ligaments - The rnargins of the utero-vesical pouch of the peritoneum. rosTp:RioR Ligaments - The margins of recto-vesical pouch. Transverse Ligaments ~ Formed by the peritoneum extending from side of uterus to side of pelvis; their free margin contains from before backwards the round ligament, Fallopian tube, & ovary.