58 RADIOULNAR ARTICULATIONS. Three in number, superior, middle, & inferior, the middle one consisting merely of two ligamen ts, the interosseous & the oblique or round. SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION - Lateral glnglymus or diarthrosia rotatorius between circumference of head of radius, on the one hand, and lesser sig. moid cavity & inner surface of orbicular ligainent of radius, on the other, the lesser sigmoid cavity corresponding to the broad inner part, and the orbicular ligament to the narrow outer part of the radial articular surface. - The only ligament is the Orbicular Ligament - strong flat band, the four-fifths of a ring, which extends, round head & upper part of neck of radius, fromj Anterior extremity to Posterior extremity of lesser sigmoid cavity of ulna. \ The circumference of its lower border is narrower than that of its upper border, so that the head of the radius is maintained by it both against the! ulna & against the capitellum of the humerus. Its inner surface is lined by, the synovial membrane, and forms part of the articular surfaces of the joints Its outer surface gives attachment to external lateral ligament of elbow-joiat and to supinator brevis musclOi MIDDLE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. Interosseous Ligament - strong aponeurotic plane of fibres which pass obliquelj downwards & inwards betweei Contiguous borders ofi'adius ulna.- It is broadest towards middle, perforate! inferiorly for anterior interosseous vessels, and deficient above from abou an inch below tubercle of radius, thus leaving for posterior interosseoti vessels an opening bounded superiorly by tb Oblique or Rpund Ligament - N'arrow fasciculus oblique downwards & oull wards froil Coronoidprocess to nl Radius half an inch below bicipital tuberosity. II INFERIOR RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATON — Lateral ginglymus or diarthJI rotatorius between head of ulna & sigmoid cavity of radius, to which is addl an arthrodia between under surface of head of ulna & the triangular fibro-cartilaH of the articulation. - The ligaments arl Ant. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from '« Anterior extretnity ofsigtnoid cavity to jl Front of head of ulna. jk A Post. Radio-Ulnar - Narrow band from M Posterior extremity of sigmoid cavity to f^l Back of head of ulna. Triangular Fibro-Cartilage - The principal band of union, triangular, from ti Lower ?}ia7gin of sigmoid cavity of radius to Depression at root of styloid process of ulna. Its upper & under surfaces are lined respectively with the synovial mf.«/1 branes ot the inferior radio-ulnar & radio-carpal articulations, and i'S'- i come in contact, the one with the head of the ulna, the other with the cu i« form bone. Its margins are blended with the surrounding ligaments, tt is thinnest in the centre, and sometimes perforated; the two synovial rai» branes above mentioned are then continuous with each otT. Synovial Membrane - la very loose, and is termed the membrana saccifoiis- It extends between the triangular fibro-cartilage & the head of the ulna, »d becomes continuous, when the former is perforated, with the synovial nn*, brane of the wriet-jiiti