Dissectional and modern scientific anatomy are distinctly at variance in regard to the position of the Fallopian tube and ovary. The description given in the Tablets corresponds to what the dissector will meet with in the dissecting room. Though no agreement seems probable, in this apparently simple matter, between the views of Kolliker, on the one hand, and Waldeyer, on the other, - the former Fig. S57i'.—female rELVic organs seen from above. (V. Bardeleben & Haeckel; (^uain.) U, uterus ; B, bladder. making out that the ovary lies nearly horizontally, or is slightly tilted up, and the latter that it hangs all but vertically downwards, - His, and a somewhat wide consensus of modern scientists, would have the arrangement as given in the following terms in Quain's Anatomy:— "Adopting- the account of Hi.s as representing the usual position of the ovary, we may describe it as presenting mesial and lateral surfaces, anterior and posterior borders and up2Jer and lower extremities." " The mesial surface is free and covered to a variable extent by the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube and the adjacent portion of the meso-salpinx. Some convolutions of the jejuno-ileum are often found on the inner side of the right ovary, and the sigmoid loop may have a similar relation to the left ovary." ^ '' The lateral surface lies against a more or less distinct peritoneal depression on the side wall of the pelvis termed the fossa ovarii. This depression is generally situated a little below the level of the external iliac vessels, and is often bounded below and behind by the ureter." " The posterior border is free, convex, and turned somewhat inwards towards the rectum. Like the mesial surface, it is covered partially by the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube." " The anterior border is straighter than the posterior, it gives attachment to the broad ligament, between the two layers of which is the hilum. The Fallopian tube ascends in front of this border." " To its upper extremity is attached the ovarian fimbria of the t\allopian tube, and aiso a peritoneal fold, termed the ligamentuno suspensoriu'in ovari, or Uffanientum infundibulo-peloicum, which passes downwards from the brim of the pelvis and contains the ovarian vessels and nerves. The Fallopian tube bends backwards at the upper end of the ovary." " The lower end of the ovary is generally narrower than the upper, and is attached to the uterus by the ligament of the ovary. This extremity does not normally reach the floor of the pelvis, so that the ovary is suspended by it against the side wall of the pelvis."