ohtuined through the study of tlie ^' reconstructed'' forms - as necessarily conducted by the specicd anatomist - ior those obtainable through the ordinary processes of dissection ojjen to every student. This would be taking the true study of anatomy - the basis on which all Medicine and Surgery rest - out of the hands cf those who are to apply the science : It will be noted that i^ot one of the points in which the new Tablet given above differs from the older one, can be verified by the dissector, or be learnt by him otherwise than as an abstract statement embodied at best in models and diagrams. The question is discussed more fully, pp. 132cc to lo2hh. The Tablets as first written jjresent to-day as correct a statement of what may be seen on the dissected body in the dissecting room, as they ever did : Dissectional anatomy docs not change. There can be no question, therefore, of the Tablets being corrected in the usual sense of the term. Descriptions from one point of view may be replaced by descriptions from another point of view ; just as a bird's-eye view of London taken from the top of St. Paul's may be replaced in any particular frame by a bird's-eye vicAV taken from the top of the Monument ; but this is all. The change in regard to the Tablets has not been thought necessary. Except in the case of the stomach, where some confusion was feared, the older descriptions given in the Tablets have been left standing side by side with the newer ones given in the Notes. The spleen as seen in the dissecting room, not unfrequently presents on its inner aspect a more or less marked vertical ridge situated just behind the hilum,'which ridge demarcates the recently described renal and gastric surfaces. This is about the only point of the neio descriptions that can be verified on healthy parts in the dissecting room. The cirrhotic and hardened liver may sometimes present a fairly distinct omental tuberosity, and perhaps a definable posterior surface with one or two of the new fossse. But the pancreas and the kidney, as seen in dissecting room, never present any of the new features now attributed to them. There is one somewhat prominent point, - the relations of the portal vein to the head of the pancreas, - as to which the new descriptions directly contradict the older ones. Say the older descriptions, The portal vein lies behind the head of the pancreas. Say the new descriptions. It lies in front. The discrepancy will be found explained, p. 132n. The ccecum, as precisely limited to the cul-de-sac below the entrance of the small intestine, is usually covered all round by peritoneum. The posterior attachment of the transverse mesocolon is to the prominent anterior border of the "reconstructed" pancreas. {See foot-note, p. 132n.) Below this, the layer of peritoneum of the greater sac which is in continuation with the inferior layer of the transverse mesocolon, covers the anterior aspect of the portion of the duodenum which projects below that fold.