XXV I have always noticed that there are certain stages in the dissection of almost every part of the body, at which the average dissector is stopped by difficulties which he is unable to overcome, unless a little help be given him. The deep dissection of Scarpa's triangle is a case in point. The dissector has got out fairly the femoral artery and vein and the anterior crural nerve, with the beginnings, but little more than the beginnings, of their principal branches. But now he is uncertain how to proceed. He does not know how to follow out the branches. He tries one, and finds he cannot get on far with it because there is something in the way. He tries another, with the same result. After doing his best for a time, he gives up the effort, and leaves the part unfinished. I am sure that everyone who has spent, if only a few weeks, in a dissecting room, will be familiar with the case here depicted. To give this dissector a fresh start, all that I have usually found necessary is to show him that he must first free and lift up the branches of the anterior crural nerve, in order to get fairly at the external circumflex artery; and then separate the adductor muscles, so as to get upon the profunda artery with its internal circumflex and perforating branches, and upon the obturator nerve and vessels. The dissection of the upper part of the anterior triangle of the neck (parotid region) is another similar instance. Where the carotid artery and its later, branches dip into the parotid gland, the student finds the deeper dissection hampered by the great auricular nerve and external jugular vein, which, with us at least, he is taught to preserve ; by Steno's duct, - to him a something sm gene n's which he has a difficulty in identifying; and by the branches of the facial nerve, so beautifully, but so perplexingly depicted in We have much the same thing towards the middle of the anterior triangle of the neck, where, however, the leading structures (principal arteries and veins) may more appropriately be said to radiate somewhat from a centre. But the arrangement is essentially different towards the root of the limbs (axilla, Scarpa's triangle, gluteal region) ; towards the extremities (palm of the hand, sole of the foot, dorsum of the foot) ; towards the upper part of the anterior triangle (parotid region) ; and towards the lower part (root of the neck). Here complex felting prevails ; and here it is that the dissection is less easy, or, rather, more iurpeded. Why is it that " parts" nicely begun, and promising well at first, are, after many delays, so often left unfinished ? Is it simply that the dissector tires of his work ? There is a deeper reason than that. It is a question of felting. There is necessarily no feltiug