NOTES ON THE NEWEE MATTER. Figures 357a aud b show the pudendum as seen when the lower limbs are abducted, the only position of the person in which the pudendum can be seen at all, and when the labia are more or less parted. There is then no such thing as a uro-genital space or vulval cleft, - these resulting from the parts being pressed tof^ether in the adducted position of the thighs. The remarks apply to the female organs, which were made on pp. 152c to e in regard to the bladder and rectum in the male sex, The walls of the female urethra are approximated from before backwards. The canal is extremely dilatable: it will admit of the steady and gradual introduction of the index finger without this causing any permanent incontinence- Sectional anatomy (sections of frozen or otherwise hardened structures) seems to show that the vagina is shorter (2| and 3^ inches along its anterior and posterior walls, respectively), less inclined, aud less curved than is generally believed. It is nearly straight, and approximately parallel in direction to the plane of the pelvic inlet, and nearly at right angles to the usual direction of the cervix uteri. The distended bladder resting on the passage renders it more horizontal ; the distended rectum raises it somewhat. The passage is flattened from before backwards in the greater part of its extent, rounded superiorly to receive the neck of the uterus; inferiorly it is H-shaped on transverse section. The true position of the uterus has long been a warmly contested point. It is apparently established that the usual direction of the cervix is nearly at right angles to the vagina, as above stated. Though shorter, and projecting less into the vagina, the anterior lip of the os thus lies on a lower level than the posterior lip. The uterus appears to be, normally, both anteverted and anteflexed. Its exact position depends largely, how- ever, on the conditions of emptiness or distention of the bladder and the rectum. The uterus is pushed backwards by the distended bladder, forwards by the distended rectum. With both a distended bladder and an empty rectum, the direction of the uterus may be almost parallel to that of the vagina,