i:32dd Also, the ordinary student can learn nothing of them bj his own personal work and observation. Tims the medical practitioner can know nothing of them in the true and useful sense of knowing. We, the anatomists (surgical anatomists), - and even the Examiners, - can generally know nothing of them, beyond what a few scientists, - whom one might almost count on the lingers of one hand, - tell us in books, and show (?) in pictures and models. On rieifti rcsjxcthKj these forms there is based a conception of operative surgery ultoijether at niriance with recognised surrjical practice. The po^iltion here taken up is a serious one. It is one the correctness, or otherwise, of which it is a matter so important to settle, that the Author will doubtless be allowed to quote from correspondence in the Lancet witli a well-known and universally respected authority. "The Teaching of Anatomy—Its Aims and Methods." (Extracts from letters to the Lancet for November 4th and 25th, 1893.) "Sirs," "Wliile honoured by the criticism, by no means unkindly, of perhaps the greatest of British Anatomists, I feci bound, at tlie present serious juncture in educational matters, to at least call attention to what I consider some errors of doctrine of our leading anatomical scientist." " I will compress in syllogistic form the teaching which more specially appears to nie to be wrong. Says Professor : (1) 'Anatomy should enable the surgeon, without hesitation, to put his finger upon, or a needle in^o, any structure of the body ; (_) the relations of the undisturbed parts are the essence of surgical anatomy ; (3) the study of frozen sections is the only way of learning relations.' These views hold so closely together that, if the first be correct, all three must be ; and they are, moreo\ er, so plausible that, even if stated by one of less authority, they would carry conviction to most minds almost witliout investigation." "The conception put forth by Professor is not new. It is substantially the same—popular errors are long lived—as that with which I was familiar as a student in Paris—that, to the surgeon, the body (to use the metaphor of the day) should be, so to speak, like glass, ransparent, and that the surgeon should see his way through its various structures much as the somnambulist sees his way in what most people call darkness. 'The skin,'says Professor , 'should oppose no obstacle to the precision of this localisation;' and, by way of illustration, the example is referred to of a celebrated anatomist who used blindfolded, to cut down upon and tie the femoral artery. Though without experience as to tying this particular artery blindfolded, I have this day repeated the procedure quite easily in the space of three minutes." " This is to me but a single instance. But what is no single instance to me is the ligature, under similar conditions, of the subcla\ ian artery, which most surgeons would consider a more ditficult artery to tie than the femoral. This artery 1 l\ave tied a score of times, blindfolded, and would undertake to tie at any tune without in any way seeing the subject." "I submit my experieuee, nut with a view to any personal boasting, but as a tirst step towards showing that Professor s \ iew s witli regard to surgical anatomy are incorrect and exploded." "Professor admits that 'the power of visualising things and places is not given to all men.' I would venture to submit tiiat such power is given to no man." " It is by a process altogether different that the surgeon seeks and finds the femoral artery, or the subclavian artery, or any other artery or structure whats()e\ er. The surgeon by no means makes directly for any deep-seated structure. It is by means of suei essi\ e guide- or rallyiug-points, or yrtZo«.9, as they were first called by the French anatomists (surgical anatuuiists), that the surgeon finds his way through the body to this structure or that. If there is one thing of all others that the teacher of operative surgery distinctly impresses upon the young operator, it is that he should not be in my hurry, or at all anxious, to come upon the structure, artery, nerve, or \\hat it may be that he is seeking ; that, he should be careful of, and fix his mind on one thing only—namely, finding and making quite sure of the several successive guide- or rallying-points on his way. The position of th.e operator looking for a deep-