132 k an imperfect peritoneal covering?, and lie close to the anterior abdominal wall a little internal to the antero-superior iliac spine. The remainder, which has a long mesocolon, is very movable. It may hang down into the pelvis, or be pushed up into the abdomen sometimes as high as the umbilicus or the liver; it may join the first portion of the rectum to form the omega loop (Treves). This portion may properly be termed the sigmoid loop (Quain.) The Rectum proper extends from the sigmoid loop to the anal canal, and is divided into two portions, neither of which requires any further description than has already been given. (See p, 137.) The Akal Canal (the new designation of the former third part of the rectum) begins where the gut turns backwards below and behind the prostate, in which situation it may present a blind recess reaching forwards in the male to near the urethra. It passes downwards and backwards to the anus, and is about an inch in length. It is flattened from side to side (Fig. 322h), while the rectum proper is flattened from before backwards. Its mucous membrane is thrown into four or five longitudinal folds, the columns of Morgagni, which contain some longitudinal muscular fibres. At the anus the epidermis is continued for a short distance into the canal, but by degrees it becomes thinner, and is gradually replaced by the columnar cells of the mucous membrane. The anus is surrounded by a ring of large sudoriparous or circumanal glands. Transverse Folds of the Mucous Membrane op the Rectum, or so-called Folds of Houston and Kohlrausch. Without pretending to be a high authority on the rectum, the Author ventures to say that he has examined probably as many recta as most men, and that, to his mind, the genesis of these transverse folds, when present, - present to the surgeon's finger,-is simple in the extreme. They proceed from chronic constipation, and its natural mechanical consequences. In support of the view, the Author would remark that the folds are only found in dyspeptic persons given to the use of purgatives and enemata, and that they occur, - when they do occur, - in the several concavities natural to the rectum especially when distended, that is at points where, after the use of the remedies mentioned, the hardened scibala would impinge with more or less force on the intestinal wall, and drag down the mucous membrane. The rectum, or omega-loop, as it is first directed downwards and to the right, more or less passes the median plane, and, in regaining it, forms a first concavity to the left: here is the highest and largest fold, the so-called fold of Kohlrausch. A second concavity may be present a little lower down on the left side: here is the second fold. A third concavity occurs where the gut bends backwards opposite the prostate : here occurs the third and last fold. With so simple an explanation of all the facts of the case, where can be the reason for further and meaningless additions to the anatomy of the rectum, which student and practitioner can see nothing of, and can but cram up from books - for what Patteson very properly calls " exasperating details " .P Writes R. G. Patteson, Surgeon to Meath Hospital:— " Anatomy is not taught as the handmaid of Surgery, but as a separate science bristling with technicalities and overloaded with trivial and exasperating details. Hence it is unwillingly learnt, and readily forgotten. And the vast majority of facts, which are all-important in surgery, are soon engulfed in the wreckage which follows the emancipation of an over-burdened memory when the examination is passed."