1521 first the "Wolffian ducts, and then the ureters ana the Miilleriau ducts. It subsequently contracts to form the female urethra, and the prostatic and membranous portions of the male urethra. The growth of the uterus and vagina separates, in the female, the genital canal from the urinary. Sexual differentiations now appear externally :— Two elongated and obliquely disposed eminences are formed on either side and in front of the uro-genital opening. They converge anteriorly to form, in the male, the corpora spongiosum and cavernosa, in the female, the clitoris and the labia minora; a slit or groove remaining for a time on the under surface of the former. In the male, the corpora cavernosa and spongiosum extend upwards. The lower margins of the latter soon join, closing the median groove inferiorly, and forming the spongy portion of the urethra In the female, the clitoris tends to bend downwards. Two cutaneous appendages appear on either side. In the female, they remain separate as the labia majora. In the male, they join from behind forwards to form the scrotum, into Avhich the testicle descends at birth. EXPLAXATION OF FIGURES NOT FULLY EXPLAINED IN THE TEXT. (PELVIS.) Fig. r.31.—sagittal section through male pelvis. (Sappey.) 1, 2, 3, 4, upper, middle, and lower portions of rectum ; 5, 6, 8, body, apex, and base of bladder ; 10, recto-vesical cul-de-sac : 11, opening of ureter ; 12, vesicula seminalis, with vas deferens on its inner side ; 13,14, prostate behind and in front of urethra ; 16, 17, membranous and spongj- portions of urethra ; 18, corpus spongiosum ; 19, septum scroti. Fig. 346.—the viscera of the male pelvis seen from the right side. (Wilson.) 3, bladder; 5, base of bladder; 6, ureter ; 8, pelvic fascia; 9, prostate gland; 10, membranous portion of urethra ; 11, triangular ligament; 12, Cowper's gland ; 13, bulb ; 14, corpus spongiosum ; 15, crus penis ; 16, sigmoid flexure and upper part of rectmn; 17, recto-vesical fold of peritoneum; 18, second portion of rectvun ; 19, vesicula seminalis ; 20, vas deferens ; 21, pelvic fascia covering lower part of rectum 22, levator ani muscle, di\'ided ; 23, sphincter ani.