60h line drawn from junction of the anterior and middle thirds of axilla to a point midway between the condyles of the humerus; which line also indicates, lower down, the position of the brachial artery. Folds of Axilla.—Anterior fold corresponds to fifth rib : posterior fold descends a little lower. Highest digitation of serratus magntis usually visible in axilla corresponds to sixth rib. Paracentesis thoracis may conveniently be performed between the fifth and sixth ribs, or between the sixth and seventh, a little above and in front of the lower angle of the scapula. Boundaries of the Axilla, with their Vessels and Nerves :— Anterior Wall.—Eormed by pectoralis major, behind w^hich are the costo-coracoid membrane and the pectoralis minor. The costo- coracoid membrane is perforated by the cephalic vein, the anterior thoracic nerves, and numerous branches of the acromio-thoracic vessels. Posterior Wall.—Formed by the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi. Presents the subscapular vessels and nerves, and the circumflex vessels and nerve. Inner Wall.—Formed by the serratus magnus, four first ribs, and intercostal muscles. Presents the long thoracic or external mammary artery, with the thoracic branches of the acromio- thoracic and the superior thoracic; also the long thoracic or external respiratory nerve of Sir Charles Bell; also numerous lymphatic glands lying in the course of the lymphatic vessels from the chest wall and breast. Oicter Wall.—Narrow ; formed by the biceps and coraco-brachialis, and the humerus. Presents the axillary artery and vein, and the cords of the brachial plexus. Apex.—Corresponds to the interval between the clavicle, the first rib, and the upper border of the scapula. Base.—Formed by the strong deep fascia extending from the pectoralis major to the teres major and latissimus dorsi. It is tensed in the abducted position of the arm, and relaxed in the adducted position, in which latter position the arm should always be placed for the exploration of the axilla.