Fig. 322i.—the anterior surface of the liver. 1321 IV.—LIVER. To the liver there are now described anterior and right surfaces, in addition to the upper, under, and posterior surfaces referred to in a previous edition. {See further description of the Liver, p. 132x.) The anterior surface of the liver is triangular. It is separated from the under surface by a sharp margin-margo acutus (formerly termed the anterior border)-but is continued into the upper and right surfaces over borders effaced and rounded. It is crossed a little to the left by the attachment of the suspensory or falciform ligament passing up from the umbilical notch. Inferiorly and to the right, it is slightly notched for the fundus of the gall-bladder. The right surface is more quadrilateral. It is distinctly convex from before back- wards, and slightly so from above downwards ; it is separated by rounded borders from the upper and anterior surfaces, and separated from the under surface by the margo acutus. It must be confessed that the description of anterior and right surfaces to the liver is by no means displeasing. On simplj' removing the abdominal wall, anterior and right aspects are clearly discernible. The objection to their being treated as surfaces is that they are not separated from each other, or from the upper surface, by anything like definite borders. If, however, the anatomist likes to stretch formerly accepted canonsof description, it is open to him to do so. We are here on ground of common observation. And the anatomist is describing what he sees, and anyone can see after him. This is legitimate. Of a completely different character, however, is the description of new surfaces and facets to the organs whose description follows. These are not to be seen, except by the few who can provide them- selves with the luxury of hardening the internal organs before they are got at. It is, to the Author's mind, this basing anatomical descriptions on what only the few can see, that is at the root of present evils to medical and surgical education. What is needed in medical practice is the anatomy that every man can himself see and handle, and that every yuan, if he is true to his profession, will see and handle throughout. But of what use can that be for the guidance of all, with which only the few can be familiar, and others can learn about at best by mere reading ?