67 DEEP FEMOBAL ARTERY From onter & back part of femoral one or two inches below Poupart*8 ligament, and nearly equals superficial femoral in. size. Passes: - Do-vmwards & outwards in front of iliacus, on outer side of femoral artery; Downwards & inwards behind femoral vessels & profunda vein, and in front of pectineufl: Backwards between pecfeineus & adductor longns ; Downwards behind adductor lonarus, in front of adductors brevis & magnus; - and ends in a small branch, which perforates lower part of adductor magnus to mus- cles of back of thigh, and anastomoses with inferior perforating «k with branches of popIiteaL BRANCHES: EXTERNAL CIRCOTTFLEX — The larger. From outer side of arterv cloe« to its origin. Outwards between branches of anterior crural nerve and beneath sarto. rius & rectus, and divides into branches: AsocyDixo - Beneath tensor vaginaa femoris, and anastomose with gluteal <k circumflex iliac Descexdixg - Usuallv three or four & of considerable size. - Beneath rectus muscle to vasti, principally the external. One large branch descends with nerve to vastus extemtis as low as knee, and anastomoses with articular branches of popliteal, TuAXSTEESE — Smaller. Wind round femur below trochanter major in substance of vasruB externus, and anastomose with internal circumflex, sciatic & superior perforating. INTERNAL CIRCTJMFLEX i— The smaller. From inner & back part close to origin. Backwards between pectineus & psoas, and winds round inner side of neck of femur to interval between quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, and anastomoses with external circumflex, sciatic & supe- rior perforating. Gives off branches : AscEXDiNG - To adductor mnsclesj gracilis & obturator externus; anastomoses with obturator. Dbscbnt)IXG - Between adductors brevis & magnns, which it supplies. Abticttlab - Into acetabulum through notch beneath transverse ligament; supplies adipose tissue, and sends twigs along round ligament to head of femur. PERFORATING' —Ustially three & of good size. - Arise behind adductor longus, above, in front of, and below, adductor brevis, and pass xo back of thigh, the SUPEEIOE, — Perforatiag the adductor msignus above the brevis ( some- perforating adductor brevis also) j MIDDLE, — Perforating both these adductors; DsFEEIOE, — Perforating the adductor magnus below the brevis ; and supply hamstring muscles & anastomose with each other, sciatic, internal circmSex & termination of profunda, the middle •a0, the largest, giving off ascending <t descending branches, and nutrient artery of femur.