131 LATERAL BRANCHES of the LUMBAR PLEXUS. ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC ~ From 1st lumbar. Emerges from jipper part of outer border of Psoas. Crosses qnadratus lumborum. n Perforates transversalis, and diyides between it & internal obliqne into branches : - Iliac - Pjerces internal & external oblique just above crest of ilium, ond snpplies Pkin of gluteal region behind lateral cutaneous branch of twelfth dorsal nervo. Hypogastric - Forwards between internal oblique & transversalis, communicating with ilio.inguinal. Pierces internal oblique & aponeurosis of external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, and supplies skin of hypo-^'as- trie region. ILIO-INGUINAL — From 1st lumbar; smaller than foregoing. Pierces psoas, and crosses quadratug lumborum immedintely beJoiv ilio-hypogastric. Pierces transversalis, and communicates with hypogastric branch of ilio-hypogastric between that muscle and the internal oblique, which it pierces a little further on. Through inguinal canal in front of spermatic cord; and supplies skin of upper & inner part of thigh and of scrotum & penis, or of labium pudendi. Is sometimes small, and then ends by joining the ilio-hypogastric near crest of ilium; in that case a branch of the ilio-hypogastric takes the place of the i'io-inguinal. GENITO-CRURAL — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and by a few filaments from the Ist. Descends obliquely though substance, and afterwards on antc7-ior surface of psoas^ and divides into branches : - Genital - Over external iliac artery, and through inguinal canal behind spermatic cord, to cremaster muscle & scrotum; - in female behind round ligament to lal/ium. Crukal - Beneath Poupart's ligament on inner side of psoas. Pierces fascia lata on outer side of femoral artery, and supplies skin of upper and front pan of thigh; communicates with middle cutaneous. EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS — From 2nd lumbar nerve, and, by a few filaments, from the 3rd. Pierces psoas muscle tankards its middle and crosses iliacus. Passes beneath Poupart's ligament thro'igh notch below anterior superior spine of ilium, and divides into branches: — Anterior - Pierces fascia lataabont four inches below Poupart's ligament, and supplici skin of anterior & outer aspects of thigh as low as knee. PosTEBiOE - Supplies skin of outer & posterior aspect of thigh.