104 THE MALE PEBINiEUM. Consists of the structures which close outlet of pelvis anteriorly to line drawn from front part of one tuber ischii to that of the other. It is triangular in form, and is bounded laterally by rami of pubes & ischia and posteriorly by above men- tioned line. The width of its base (rather the smallest side of the triangle) is usually about 2f inches in the male adult, but it is sometimes considerably reduced; the operation of lateral lithotomy is then greatly impeded. The part is convex in middle line & slightly depressed laterally, and presents the following layers: Skin - Thin, dark, freely movable, marked by a prominent median raphS, studded with thin crisp hairs, and provided with numerous sebaceous follicles. Superficial Fascia - Divided into two layers. SUPEKPICIAL Later - Thick, areolar, contains a large amount of fat, and is continuous with sub- cutaneous tissue of surrounding regions. Deep layer - Thin & aponeurotic ; lies in close contact with the muscles. On either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia externally to crura penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinseum; and is prolonged beneath sphincter ani, becoming continuous behind transversus perina3i & in fronfc of rectum with inferior layer of deep perinajal fascia; In front it is unattached, & contisiuous with dartos ; Superiorly it gives off a median septum, which is rather deficient in front but pretty well marked behind. It binds down the superficial structures, and bounds inf eriorly, and also, through its attach- ments, laterally & behind, a space, in which if urine be effused, this fluid will be directed forwards towards the scrotum, and the lower part of abdomen, and prevented from passing backwards towards anus, or outwards towards thighs. This layer is sometimes called the superficialperiftcealfascia. Superficial Genito-Urinary Muscles - Are the: Erector Penis - Covering the crus; Accelerator TJrin.^! or Ejaculator Seminis - Spreading out upon bulb of urethra; Transversus Perin^i - Separating perineeum proper from ischio-rectal region. These muscles bound a triangular area, wliich is crossed superficially by the superficial perineal vessels & nerve, behind which area passes transversely inwards the transverse perinseal artery, and through wlijch area can be seen deeply the superficial layer of the deep perinaeal fascia. In lateral lithotomy the knife is carried backwards & outwards through inner & back part of this area on left side. Inferior Layer of Deep Perinaeal Fascia, or Triangular Ligament of ITrethra - Vide below. Membranous Portion of Urethra, Compressor Urethrge, & Deep Transversus Perinsei, PucUc Vessels & N., Vessels «& N, of Bulb, Cowper's Glands & their Ducts - Vide these part*. Superior Layer of Deep Perinseal Fascia - The deep perinaeal fascia is a complex structure triangular in form, which supports the urethra, and closes anterior part of outlet of pelvis. Ott either side it is attached to rami of pubes & ischia internally to crura penis ; Behind it is connected to central tendinous point of perinaeum, and is continuous both with thin fascia on under surface of levator ani, and, behind transversus perinaei, with deep layer of superficial fascia of perinaeum; In front it is attached to pubic arch & sub-pubic ligament. It consists of two aponeurotic layers which are separated in the centre, but united laterally & behind; of these two layers the Anterior, Inferior, or Superficial Later - The thickest, is continued downwards & forwards upon anterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and is lost upon the bulb. This layer is perforated by the urethra about an inch below symphysis pubis, by dorsal vein of penis in front of urethra, & by pudic vessels nerve on either side of the vein : it is the only layer that can properly be called the triangular ligament of the urethra, though the term is sometimes applied to both layers taken together. Posterior, Superior, or Deep Layer - Thinner. Is continued upwards & backwards round posterior part of membranous portion of urethra, and becomes continuous with pelvic fascia. Between these two layers are comprised the parts above mentioned, viz,, tnembranous por- tion of urethra with compressor urethrce deep transversus perincei tnuscles, pudic vessels nerve with vessels 6f nerve of bulb, Cowper^s glands <Sr» their ducts. Above these parts are found in centre of perinaeum the , Prostate Gland & Neck of Bladder, - and laterally the* -.^^ * Anterior Part of Levator Ani & of Pelvic Fascia - The latter fascia is continued posteriorly upon posterior part of levator ani, upon rectum & between it & bladder, and belongs as much to ischio-rectal region as t« the perin»aL