146 THE MALE URETHRA. Is about 8^ inches long, and extends from neck of bladder to end of penis, 11 It presents beneath the pubes a fixed curve concave superiorly, and in front of the pubes Urn the flaccid state of the penis, a second flexible curve concave inferiorly^ It is divided into: - | PROSTATIC PORTION — The widest & most dilatable part, spindle-shaped, 1| inches! long J passes through the prostate from base to apex, lying nearer its upper than ita lower surface. Its transverse section is of a horse-shoe shape concave inferiorly. On its floor are the followiTir? parts: - Ueethral Crest, Verumontanum or Caput Gallinaginis - Longitudinal elevation 8 or 9 lines in length and 1^ lines high at its central & highest part, consisting, accord, ing to Kobelt, of muscular fibres & erectile tissue. On either side of the crest is the Prostatic Sintjs - A longitudinal groove into which open the ducts of the lateral lobe of the prostate. On the front part of the crest is the Utricle, Sinus Pocularis or Vesicula Prostatica - An expanding cul-de-sac, which passes backwards into the substance of the middle lobe of the prostate for about : a quarter of an inch, and upon or within the margins of which are the slit-like I openings of the ejaculatory ducta. MEIMBIIANOUS PORTION —The shortest, and, excepting the meatus, the narrowest part of the canal. It extends from apex of prostate to bulb of corpus spongiosum, and is situated between the two layers of the deep perinseal fascia, which layers are pro. longed around it, the one downwards & forwards, the other upwards & backwards.' Its upper surface is concave superiorly, f of an inch long, and situatsd about an inch below & behind the pubic arch, from which arch it is separated by the anterior fibres ' of the compressor urethrse muscle & by the dorsal vessels & nerves of the penis. Its under surface is convex inferiorly, only J inch long (in consequence of the bulb pro- jecting backwards beneath the urethra), and separated from the rectum by a triangu- lar space, broad below, narrow above, the perinaeum. SPONGY PORTION — Commences within the bulb below & behind the symphysis pubis, ascends a short distance in front of the symphysis within the corpus spongiosum, curves downwards with the latter in the flaccid state of the penis, and ends at the meatus nrinarius. It is about six inches long. In the greatest part of its course it is uniform in size, and intermediate between the prostatic & membranous portions; it is dilated, however, within the bulb & within the glans penis (in which latter situation the dila- tation forms the fossa navicularis), and is greatly constricted at the meatus. Ita transverse section is elongated from side to side except within the glans penis, where it is elongated vertically. On its walls, and more particularly on its floor, are the open- ings of numerous mucous glands, the glands of Littre, which openings are directed for- wards, and are sometimes large enough to intercept the passage of small catheters;, this is especially the case with one of them, which is situated on the upper wall of the fossa navicularis, and which constitutes the lacuna magna. On the floor of its pos- terior dilated portion comprised within the bulb, and sometimes termed the bulbous portion, are the openings of the ducts of Cowper's glands. I- STRUCTURE — Three coats: - ] Mucous Coat - Thin, pale in the prostatic portion, rosy in the membranous & spongj! portions, in which it is thrown into longitudinal folds (except when the canal distended with urine). Covered with columnar epithelium except in the fossa navicularis, where the epithelium is squamous. Presents the glands of Littwi above described, which glands are most abundant in the spongy portion, and presents also, near the meatus, a few papillaSi Muscular Coat - Consists of external longitudinal & internal circular unstriped mu«. cular fibres, both most abundant in the prostatic portion. Erectile Coat - Thick in the spongy portion, where it forms the corpus spongiosum (Vide Structure of the Penis). From this a thin layer of erectile tissue is pro- longed upwards round the membranous & prostatic portions as far asthenecdc of the bladder, forming in the prostatio portion, according to Kobelt, the vern. nontAnum or caput galli&agiQiff. I