601 position of a joint, at a distance from the corresponding knuckle (or projection of the proximal bone behind) equal to thickness from before backwards of the distal extremity of the proximal bone.* The position of the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thunib is indicated by the above-mentioned projection of the metacarpal bone at the bottom of the " anatomical snuff-box.'"' B/adial Artery.—Runs along a line drawn from midtvay between condyles of hiunerus to a point just lnte?-nal to the styloid process of the radhis. In the upper third of its course it is covered by the supinator lo?igus. Lower down it lies in the groove between the tendon of that muscle and that of the flexor carpi radialis. The 7'adial nerve lies close to the outer side of the artery in the middle third of the forearm, but is distant from it both above and below. At the wrist the radial artery gives off the superficialis voice, which crosses the thenar eminence, and sometimes pulsates distinctly. Ulnar Artery.—Runs deeply at first from the bend of the elbow to near the middle of the inner border of the forearm. It then descends more superficially between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the flexor sublimis digitoimm. Here it runs along a line drawn from the inner condyle, or a point a little external to it. to a point a little external to the pisiform bone. The ulnar nerve lies close to the inner side of the artery in the lower two-thirds of its course. Superficial Palmar Arch.—Crosses palm of hand about junction of middle and upper thirds, opposite lower border of abducted thumb. Deep palmar arch lies half an inch higher up. The superficial palmar interosseous (or digital) arteries run towards the clefts between the fingers, and lie, therefore, betwzen the shafts of the metacarpal bones. Incisions in the palm below^ the line of the thumb should be made towards the fingers—that is to say, over the metacarpal bones. Upon the fingers, the digital arteries run along the sides of the sheaths behind the corresponding nerves. Incisions to open thecal abscesses should be made over the middle line of the finger. * This faot will prove, it is believed, the surest guide to the situation of the joints of the fingers. The flexion lines on the palmar aspect of the fingers are all wrong as guides to the joints, except the second one from the tip of the finger. The first one from the tip is much above, and the third one much below, the corresponding joint.