108e entirely within capsule of the joint. In the horse the ligamentum teres consists of two portions; one is hidden within the joint; the other passes out of the joint cavity, and gives attachment to the fibres of the pectin ens. The interarticular fihro-cartilages and crucial lic/aments of the knee-joint are metamorphosed tendons which were drawn in between the opposed surfaces of the tibia and femur when aquatic life was exchanged for the terrestrial. In the tailed batrachians, such as menobranchus and ceratodus, the hind limbs, used as paddles, are mainly kept extended, the muscles of the pes arise almost exclusively from the femur, and there are in the knee-joint neither crucial ligaments nor interarticular fibro-cartilages. Already in the semi-terrestrial frog the bending of the limb at acute angle involves a more complex knee-joint. Here we find an internal interarticular fibro-cartilage continuous Avith the muscular mass corresponding to the semi-membranosus. As we nscend the scale, we find, on the one hand, the higher type evolved, and, on the other, the muscles destined for the pes taking their origin no longer, in the main, from the femur, but almost exclusively from the tibia and fibula. As, in flexion, the upper part of the tibia is brought into contact with the tendons of origin of the muscles destined for the pes, these are drawn by degrees into the joint, and become the crucial ligaments and the semi-lunar fibro-cartilages. A general survey of the segmentation of the muscles of the lower limb may perhaps be introduced here with advantage. In the primitive forms, like lepidosiren, the muscular layers pass from the trunk to invest the lower limb, both limbs in fact, without any transverse segmentation occurring. In frogs, lizards, and crocodiles, a gap occurs at the knee in the muscular sheet, the proximal segments attaching themselves to the tibia and fibula, while the distal segments come to arise from the lower end of the femur. The qua'lriceps extensor, sartorius, gracilis, the hamstring group, and the adductor magnus thus become inserted into the bones of the leg, while the extensors and flexors of the digits, the peroneal group, the gastrocnemius and plantaris, and both tibiales arise from the femur. But, on the one hand, many of the proximal musics, e.g., the adductor magnus. have since formed new attachments to the femur ; and, on the other hand, many of the distal muscles have abandoned their first origin and have migrated to the tibia and fibula, e.g., the peroneus longus. It is unfortunately not quite clear to which muscles the crucial ligaments owe their origin. The possible muscles are, however, but some three or foiir—namely, the flexor longus and the extensor longus digitornm, the tibialis posticus, and the peroneo-iibial. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint presents four component parts. These are the synovial membranes of the two femoro-tibial condyloid articulations, that of the femoro-patellar arthrodia, and the synovial bursa between the femur and the quadriceps extensor femoris, which latter, in the fcetus, communicates by a small opening