108i of the page, are in part quoted, and in part slightly paraphrased, from the Introduction to " Ligaments ; their Nature and Morphology." The Author but points to the more moderate conclusion of the Jester. A little banter may convince some better than solid argument:— J. B. S.—" As Mother Earth devours the dust alike of Kings, philosophers, and peasants, so our nature " Dreamer.—" With scalpel and forceps we have turned down the flaps of our own poor skin, and are plunging our self- slimed fingers in our writhing muscles beneath! " buries " " in the midst of our own gore which we are handling," *' structures of historical rank ! " . . . " But this is the life comedy of our very entrails, and we, . . . playing at Dr. Hyde with our inmost selves! . . . are looking on from the dress-circle, and enjoying the sport!" " King Teres, of realms which Avere once within us, raises with jEsthetic grace the pure nacreous train of his fair femoral bride. His aged Pectineal Father advances to embrace the courtly pair. There circle around, bending the knee, his Grace the Addxxctor Minimus sen Quartus returned for the royal wedding, with, behind him, bis more homely Longus, Brevis, and Magnus Brethren, and knights errant—migrated muscles and divorced tendons—without number, all marshalled by the Koyal Princes, Rhomboid, Subclavius, the portly Gleno-hximeral, and the recently ennobled Transversus. Freshly enrolled fascife guard the select party, and keep away the 'common garden' people. . . . Oh, the Elysian music of Dreamland ! " " But alack ! We are Mr. Jekyll again ! " " In the immediate neighbourhood of this single band of fibrous tissue (the Liganientum Teres), around which centre problems of such transcendental morphological interest, there abound structures q/'functional value, but of no interest TO THE MORPHOLOGIST ! " Jester.—" Structures of functional value of NO INTEREST to the Morphologist! Is that so ? . . . Bat then, to the practical mind. Mor- phology is but a dazzling dream—a lovable form of fantasy, which, alas ! distorts the vision and warps the judgment—a fairy tale, which blinds us to the more important facts of everyday life ! " " Dream on, dream on awhile. Morphology fair! Whisper sweet enchantment in our ear ! " " No ! We will flee for our lives ! We will shun thee like the deadly upas tree, or the enslaving opium pipe ! " To such as are past masters in all that can be learnt in the dissecting-room, such pure science may convey the delights of learning and culture, and may do little or no harm. But the tyro should keep clear of all such fascinating seductions.* * Explanatory Legend for those who are not yet read in the mysteries of Morphology /—The Ligamentum Teres, inserted into the cartilag^e-surrounded pit on the head of the femur, and around