96m Synovial Membrane of Knee-Joint. -liises, in the extended position, about two inches above the upper border o£ patella, or even a little higher, especially on tl^e inner side; in inflexion it does not rise quite so high. Inferiorly, it descends as low as the upper part of the head of the fibula. It not unfrequently communicates with the synovial membrane of the superior tibio-fibular articulation. Popliteal Space. — Broad above, where it is bounded externally by the strong tendon of biceps passing down to the head of the fibula, and internally by the thin prominent tendon of the semitendinosus, internally to which is the thick rounded tendon of semimembranosus. Narrow below, where it is bounded on either side by the two heads of the gastrocnemius, the outer head having the plantaris beneath it. BurSSe in Popliteal Space.—Externally, one beneath outer head of gastrocnemius, which sometimes, and one beneath tendon of popliteus, which almost always, communicates with knee-joint. Internally, one beneath inner head of gastrocnemius (between it and semimembranosus and posterior ligament of knee-joint); also one beneath tendon of semi- membranosus. From Holden's dissections, it seems to be the former, and not the latter, which is frequently enlarged, and sometimes communicates with the knee-joint. Popliteal Artery.—First obliquely downwards and outwards from opening in lower part of adductor magnus, then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus, where it divides, an inch below the tubercle of the tibia, into anterior and posterior tibial. In the greater part of its course it has the vein posterior and external and close to it, and the internal popliteal nerve posterior and external to, and at a distance from, both vessels. Quite at the lower part of the popliteal space, both the vein and the nerve become internal to the artery. The external popliteal nerve lies in the outer part of popliteal space, close to the tendon of the biceps. Fibula.—Head, prominent at lower, outer, and back part of knee-joint, about an inch delow line of articulation. Its upper extremity marks the lower boundary of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Shaft, oblique downwards and backwards; sub-cutaneous in lower third. External malleolus, pointed; situated lower down and further back than the internal; marks outer extremity of incisions for Syme's and Pirigoff's amputations. The external saphenous vein and nerve lie behind it.