52 MUSCULO-SPIRAL & CIRCUMFLEX NERVES. MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE The largest branch of brachial plexus. Arises from posterior cord iu commoa wit circumflex, and lies at first behind 3rd part of axillary artery & upp( part of brachia Downwards & outwards in front of tendons of teres major & latissimus dorsi, and spiral groove with superior profunda arter Between brachialis antious & supinator longus to front of external condyle, where divides into radial & posterior interosseous nerves. Its branches are Muscular - To triceps, anconeus, brachialis anticus, supinator longus, e: tensor carpi radialis longio Cutaneous - Three, small, one internal, two external; to integument inner & posterior, and of outer & anterior aspects of arm, and outer aspect of fore-arc RADIAL NERVE - The smaller. Down front of outer side of fore-arm beneath supinator longus, lying on out( side of radial artery, which artery is distant from it in upper third & cloi to it in middle third. Winds outwards & backwards beneath tendon supinator longus about three inches above wrist, pierces deep fascia, ai divides into branchei ExTEENAL - The smaller. To outer side & ball of thumb j joins wi posterior branch of external cutaneon Inteknal - The larger. To integument, & remainder of 3J fingers outer side of hand j joins with external cutaneous & with dors cutaneous branch of ulnar. - Adjoining sides of middle & rii fingers may be supplied by same nerve, which may be either t radial or the uln: POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE — The larger. Through substance of supinator brevis to back of fore-arm. Between superficial & deep muscles of posterior aspect of fore-arm, supplyir them all except anconeus, supinator longus, & extensor carpi radialis longu Beneath extensores secundi internodii pollicis & communis digitorum to back > carpus, where it becomes ganglionic and supplies articulations of wrii,. CIRCUMFLEX NERVE From posterior cord of brachial plexus in common with musoulo-spiral. Downwards & outwards behind axillary artery in front of subsoapularis. Backwards, with posterior circumfiex vessels, through quadrilateral space bouad( by teres major, teres minor, long heal of triceps, & humen, Gives off a small twig to shoalder-joint, and divides iafri Superior Branch. - The larger. Round neck of humerus as far as aates ior border of deltoidj supplies deltoid, and gives off cutaneoi filaments which perforate the muscle to integament over low part of shouldt Inferior Branch. - The smalle^. Supplies teres minor, back ,« of deltoid, & integument over back of shoulder; has freqaeat a gangliform enlargement on branch to teres mi»