62 MUSCLES of LOWER LIMB-lst Tablet, ILIAC REGION. Psoas Magnus - Bases of transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae, and by five slips from sides of bodies of lumbar & last dorsal vertebrae & from corres. ponding intervertebral substances; the slips being connected by tendinoua arches which extend across the constricted part of the bodies of the vertebrae. Lesser trochanter of femur. - S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. Psoas Parvus - sides of bodies of last dorsal & first lumbar vertebrae & corresponding intervertebral substance. Ilio.pectineal eminence. ' S. by anterior branches of lumbar nerves. - Is frequently absent. IliaCUS - Iliac fossa & inner lip of crest of iliumj ilio-lumbar ligament; base ot sacrum; anterior superior & anterior inferior spines of ilium & notch between them J capsule of hip-joint. Outer side of tendon of psoas, and upper part of line from lesser tro. chanter to linea aspera in front of pectineus. - S. by anterior crural nerve. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. Tensor Vaginge Pemoris - Anterior superior spinous process and anterior part o outer lip of crest of ilium. Fascia lata about ^ down outer side of thigh. - S. by superior gluteal nerve Sartorius - Anterior superior spinous process of ilium & upper half of notch below it. Upper part of inner surface of shaft of tibia covering tendons of gracilii & semitendinosus. - S. by middle or internal cutaneous branch of anterior crura nerve. Rectus Femoris - Anterior inferior spinous process of ilium (straight tendon) j groov above brim of acetabulum (reflected tendon). Upper border of patella in common with vasti & crureus. - S. by anterio crural nerve. Vastus ExternuS - Anterior border of great trochanter & horizontal ridge on its oute i surface; rough lino from great trochanter to linea aspera; whole length of outeJ lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to outer condyle j external inteii muscnlar septum. I Outer border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anteriol crural nerve. >| Vastus Internus - Line from inner side of neck of femur to linea aspera; whole lengt ' of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspera to inner condyle j inner sui face of femur; internal intermuscular septum. Inner border of patella & slightly into head of tibia. - S. by anterici crural nerve. ! Crureus - Anterior & outer surfaces of femur reaching from anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of condyles. j. Upper border of patella in common with rectus & vasti. - S. by anterici crural nerve. I Taking the vastus internus & the crureus as forming but one muscle, an J describing the Quadriceps extensor femoris as a Triceps, we may say that tlM "VASTUS INTERNUS" arises from.- - line from inner side of neck of femii| to linea aspera; whole length of inner lip of linea aspera & line from linea aspeit to inner condyle; nearly whole of inner^ anterior and outer surfaces of shaft); femur; internal intermuscular septum; - and that it is inserted into tendon'i rectus & borders of patella, and slightly into head of tibia. Subcrureus - Lower part of anterior surface of femur. Upper part of synovial membrane of knee-joint, - S. by anterior crori; nerve.