132hn is that in which the teacher describes to the student what he and student can both see and handle and can see and handle equally ivell, as far as the outward equation is concerned. Anj statement of teacher or text-book going beyond this is an invitation to the student to learn his anatomy by rote or by cram, and as paper anatomy as opposed to dissectional anatomy. If it is a desirable part of the student's curriculum that he should study the internal organs as hardened previously to removal, then he should have the means given him of so hardening the same, and it should be seen that he does this kind of Avork in an honest and efficient manner. If, on the other hand, the cost of such kind of work, in material, time, aud money, is out of proportion, as is submitted that it is, with the benefits it may lead to, then the subject should be dropped, at least as far as text-book teaching, and examining, are concerned. The view embodied in the phrase "■paper anato7ny" will be found developed in Vol. III., pp. 152t to 152w. DEVELOPMENT OF THE ABDOMINAL DIGESTIVE TRACT AND PERITONEUM. The differentiation of the several parts of the abdominal digestive tract, and of the corresponding portion of the ccelom, or general pleuro-peritoneal cavity, begins with the differentiation of the stomach and mesentery. The stomach is at first but the upper part of the primitively straight alimentary tube. It soon presents convex posterior, and concave anterior, borders (Fig. 322z). The former border, or future greater curvature, is attached to the posterior abdominal wall by the upper part of the dorsal mesentery or mesogastrium, in Avhich are the rudiments of the spleen and pancreas. The latter border, or future lesser curvature, is attached to the anterior abdominal wall by a similar antero-median septum, the superior ventral mesentery (Macalister), in which are the rudiments of the liver. The posterior mesentery, the mesentery proper, or more simply the mesentery, as it will henceforth be termed, results from the thinning out of the mesoblastic tissue between the alimentary canal and the vertebral column. It first constitutes a narrow antero-posterior septum along the posterior aspect of the whole of the alimentary tube. It contains the aorta and its branches to the viscera. The short portion of the alimentary tube which follows the stomach,-the future duodenum, - is tilted away superiorly from the vertebral column by the incurvation of the stomach, but inclines backwards inferiorly towards the spine ; it presents a small mesentery, the mesoduodenum. The duodenal loop is followed - tracing the intestinal tube caudalwards - by a