1521 Pronephros, and Miiller's Duct. The peritoneum covering the intermediate cell mass becomes thickened and columnar in two situations, - on the inner side, where the thickening gives rise to the germinal ridge, and on its outer side, where, by a process of involution, the Miillerian duct is formed. This duct develops from before backwards, and opens into the uro-genital sinus between and above the Wolffian ducts. The corresponding glandular structure, or pronephros, develops in many of the lower animals, but not in man. Miiller's dhct forms in the female the Fallopian tube, uterus and vagina, and, in the male, the sinus pocularis and the hydadid of Morgagni. It is not the pronephros, as fonnerly believed, but the Wolffian Body, as above stated, which in the male becomes the rete testes, vasa efFerentia, and coni vasculosa, and thus connects in the male the central genital gland, or testicle, to the vas deferens. Fig. 357f.—diagram of the male type of sexual orgaxs. (Allen Thomson, Quam.) t., testicle in the place of its original formation ; e., caput epididymis ; v.d., vas deferens ; W., scattered remains of the Wolffian body, constituting the organ of Giraldes, or the paradidjTiiis of Waldeyer ; v.h., vas aberrans ; m., Miillerian duct, the upper part of Mhich remains as the hj-datid of Morgagni, the lower part, represented by a dotted line descending to the prostatic vesicle, constitutes the occasionally existing cornu and tube of the uterus masculinus; g., the gubernaculum ; v.s., the vesicula seminalis ; pr., the prostate gland; C, Cowper's gland of one side ; c.j)., corpora cavernosa penis cut short; s.p., corpus spongiosum urethrse ; s., scrotum ; t'., together with the dotted lines above, indicate the direction in which the testicle and epididymis descend from the abdomen into the scrotum. Metanephros and Ureter. The first structure to appear is a diverticulum from the lower and back part of the Wolffian duct. This is the ureter. Smaller tubes converge towards the ureter from the intermediate cell mass, become convoluted, and form the tubuli uriniferi. whose dilated extremities soon contain the Malpighian tufts or glomeruli.