132cc III. " DISSECTIONAL," "EECONSTEUCTED," AND "LIVING" EOEMS. Discussion must now be permitted. Short designations facilitate clear statement. No objection will be raised to the above terms as applied to the configuration of the internal - more particularly the abdominal- organs, as studied [1] in the natural or non-hardened condition, as in the dissecting room, [2] as hardened in situ prior to removal, and [3] as supposed to exist in the living body, of course out of reach and out of sight except when a surgical operation is required. The " living " forms are modified from hour to hour. This goes without saying in regard to the hollow viscera ; and is shown, in regard to the solid viscera (so-called solid viscera; they are really soft and yielding masses) by the examination of the "reconstructed" forms as taken under varying conditions; so much so that, writes Professor Cunningham, "/i is impossible to state the average condition of the various organs and viscera.'''' Quite irrespectively, indeed, of pathological conditions, or of such conditions as may result from tight lacing or the like, casts of either pancreas, spleen, or liver are seen to differ about as much, - and, inferentially, successive casts (hypothetical) of the same identical viscus, - as, if one may so put it, any two apples on a tree, or any two dogs in a dog show.* (Compare Prof. Cunningham's Figures 100, 101, 103, 104, 123, 127.) As for the hollow viscera, Braune's sections show that they have no more settled shape of their own than a pocket-handkerchief crumpled up in the pocket. Further, even presuming the living " forms to be definable in the abstract, they are, ex hypothesi, modified as soon as the organs are exposed, as in a surgical operation. They are modified by the very fact of the incision into the abdominal wall, let alone the introduction of the surgeon's hand. * The comparisons are apt and congruous, and will therefore be excused. The Author has made just a few hai-denings, and believes that even the relative uniformity generally obtained is largely due to what has always appeared to him exaggerated care as to the similarity of the conditions under which the subjects are hardened. The Author has before him a monograph on visceral hardening by a leading anatomist, in which several pages are devoted to the question of the attitude (sitting, or dorsal, ventral, or lateral decubitus) in which the subject should be placed when operated on - in order that the correct (?) result be obtained. The foot-note, page 132n, would go a long way to show that the shape of at least the softer organs is so directly governed by the conditions pertaining to the hollow viscera as to be a predictable result of the mechanical conditions which exist. Under like conditions as to position, meals, &c., forms closely corresponding must thus develop as a matter of course. But what does the thing really come to ? What character attaches to a colic impression on the liver or kidney, to a gastric or renal impression on the spleen, or to a costal or arcuate furrow on the kidney, - to make these a part of the describable anatomy of the corresponding organs, - which does not pertain to the mutual palmar impressions due to the grasp of two friendly hands ? All are equally the result of similar action and reaction, contingent and transitory, and therefore, in a true sense, accidental. " It is impossible to state the average condition of the viscera." Quite so ; that is precisely what is contended for. It is as impossible, - and were it possible, it would be as useless, - to describe the exact shape of an organ at a given time, as to describe the exact shape of the palm of the hand when grasped as above. Can one freeze or in some other way permanise the mark of friendship, so as to record and measure exactly the extent and depth of the same? (Would that this could sometimes be done in another sense ! )