13211 spleen in its upper part, continues the peritoneum on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach. The posterior double fold, in which the pancreas is contained superiorly, Figs. 322dd & ee.—diagrams illustrating the development of the great omentum. (Hertwig.) A, earlier stage ; B, later stage. St., stomach; s.o., small omentum; s'.o'., omental sac; o'., mesogastrium, springing from the posterior wall of the abdomen, near which in Fig. 322dd it encloses the pancreas; o2, attachment of mesogastrium to greater curvature of stomach ; o3, fold of mesogastrium or great omentum growing- over coils of small intestine ; me., mesentery ; m.c, transverse mesocolon. is first attached to the posterior wall of the abdomen behind the stomach and a little below the diaphragm (Fig. 322i>d). But adhesions becoming established (a) with the parietal peritoneum on the posterior abdominal wall, (b) with the upper layer of the transverse mesocolon, and finally (c) with the transverse colon itself, the arrangement is reached which is usual in the adult, by Avhich [1] the pancreas comes to lie behind the peritoneum of the lesser sac, and [2] the posterior double fold of the great omentum appears first to embrace the transverse colon, and then to pass backwards to the spine, forming the transverse mesocolon (Fig. 322ee). (B.) - Counter statement by Mr. Treves (in Morris' Anatomy), or Displacement Theory, agreeing with the views set forth by Mr. Bland Sutton in his classes of advanced anatomy. The peritoneum, an extremely mobile but somewhat inextensible membrane, does not grow at the same rate as the viscera it serves to cover, and becomes less extensive, relatively to the viscera, as these increase in size. This leads to various re-adjustments, - the more rapidly growing organs robbing the less rapidly growing ones. The expanding stomach and liver, and the elongating intestine, obtain their peritoneal investment to a great extent at the expense (a) of the second and third portions of the duodenum, which completely lose their mesentery, and become attached directly to the posterior wall of the abdomen ; (b) of the ascending and descending portions of the colon, whose mesentery is either narrowed or suppressed ; and also somewhat (c) at the expense of the tranverse colon. This view seems to be supported by comparative Anatomy (vide below).