108m the full weight of the superjacent viscera, while the fascia transversalis bears little more than the side pressure of the same. Fascia is everywhere fashioned by local mechanical conditions. If the reader doubts this, let him verify two anatomical facts. Let him examine the strong layer of fascia that covers the superficial muscles of the perinaum in the foetus, - just where the heels have pressed more and more montli by month through the cramped position enforced within the uterus. And let him contrast the thick aponeurotic layer that covers the anterior part of the gluteus medius with the thin and insignificant layer of connective tissue that covers the posterior part of the same muscle: - the anterior part of the gluteus medius is uncovered by muscle, and receives the full outside pressure; the posterior part of the muscle is covered by the gluteus maximus, and protected. It is submitted that the views above set forth present the necessary counterpart of the morpliological views of Mr. Sutton, but without clashing with the same. It is submifted that Mr. Sutton's interesting generalisations present buf part of the truth, the other part being practically as above. In connection with the above, and as an example of what Anatomy should not be, the Author ventures to give here, - condemning almost every word of the same, - an abstract of new views on the cervical fascia now extensively circulated:— " The deep cervical fascia may be studied above the hyoid bone, and below it. It is of gi-eatest importance in the latter situation. Above the Hyoid Bone, - Two chief layers may here be recognised, the supei-ficial and the deep. The ■•<uperncial lo-ijer, traced vipwards from the hyoid bone, encloses the sub-maxillarj- gland, passing over the mylo-hyoid; gives off the masseteric and parotid fasciae ; and becomes attached to the lower border of the zj-goma. The deep layer forms the stylo-maxillary ligament. Below the Hyoid Bone. - Fom- layers may here be recognised, - supei-ficial or sub-cutaneous, sterno-clavicular, tracheal, and prevertebral; these layei-s should be traced both hoiizontally, and from above downwards. TRACixa THE FOUR LAYERS HORizoxTALLY. - [1] The Siqjerficial or sui-mta-neoui layer starts from the ligamentum nuchfe, surrounds the trapezius, and fomis the roof of the posterior triangle (where it is perforated by the external jugular vein and b}' the superficial branches of the ceivical plexus). It then encloses the sterno-mastoid, passes over the anterior triangle of the neck, and meets its feUow in the middle line. This layer is thin behind, but thick in front, where it is joined to the sterno- clavicular layer. The anterior juyular veins lie behind the thickened conjoined laj'ers above referred to. [2] The Sterno-daricuhrr layer is most marked below. In the middle line it meets its fellow, and blends, as above stated, \\ ith the superficial or sub-cutaneous layer. Passing outwards, it surrounds the depressors of the hyoid bone, and, at the posterior border of the stemo-mastoid, blends -nith the superficial or sub-cutaneous layer. [3] The Tracheal layer lies under the depressors of the hyoid bone, eo\ ers the trachea, and surrounds the thyroid gland. Further outwards it fomis the caiotid sheath. Further outwards still, over the scalenus anticus, it blends with the prevertebral fascia, and is joined both to the sterno-clavicular layer and to the supei-ficial or sub-cutaneous layer. [4] The Prevertebral layer covers the lon.gus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major. Laterally it becomes continuous with the three superficial layers. The four foregoing layers shotild now be traced verticallj- dow^twards with special reference to their relations in two situations, namely, at tlie top of the sternum and opposite the clavicle. (A) At the top of the Sternum. - [1] The Superficial layer passes over that bone. [2] The Sterno-clavicular layer descends in front of the depressors of the hyoid bone, and divides into two lasers