POPLITEAL ARTERY. Oommenoes at opening in lower part of adductor magnns. Downwards & outwards to back of knee-joint, and then vertically downwards to lower border of popliteus muscle, wljere divides into anterior & posterior tibial. EELATIONS In Feont - Inner & posterior surfaces of femnr, posterior ligament of knee-joint, popliteus muscle. Beiiikd - Skin & fascia j quantity of fat & lymphatic glands j semimembranosus; gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus; popliteal vein, internal popliteal nerve. On Inner Side - Semimembranosus; inner condyle; inner head of gastrocnemius. On Outer Side - Biceps; outer condyle; outer head of gastrocnemius, plantaris. Popliteal vein lies close to artery, and is superficial & external to it except at lower part, where it crosses to inner side; it is frequently double at lower part. - Internal popliteal nerve is more superficial & exter- nal above, and is superficial & internal below. BRANCHES MUSCULAR; Superior — Two or three, small, to hamstring muscles & vasti. Anasto. mose with perforating & articular arteries. Inferior or Sural ~- Two, large, to heads of gastrocnemius & plantaris. I CUTANEOUS; — A few, slender j arise separately or with sural. Over gastroc- nemius to integument of back of log, ARTICULAR-Five: Superior - Two. Wind round femur above condyles to front of knee, pas- sing, the Internal, - Beneath tendon ©f adductor magnus; External, - Beneath tendon of biceps; and both dividing into Superficial & deep brs. - to vasti, femur & joint, and anastomosing with each other, and with inferior articular arteries, anas« tomotica magna & descending branch of external cir- cumflex. AzygOS - Arises behind posterior ligament of knee-joint, which it pierces tc^ supply interarticular ligaments & synovial membrane, Inferior - Two. Arise beneath gastrocnemius, and wind round head of tibis beneath internal & external lateral ligaments, the external artery passing above head of fibula & beneath tendon of biceps. Divide; into numerous branches to front of knee, and anastomose with eacl other, and with superior s^rticular & the recurrent branch of tibial;