55 MUSCULAR ATTACHTS. of BS. of UPPER LIMB-3rd T. The muscles attached to the KADIUS — Are nine in number, and ar« attached as followa; - Biceps - Back part of bicipital tuberosity. Supinator Brevis - Inner, anterior & outer aspects of the bone above bicipital tuberosity & oblique line as low down as insertion of p' onator radii terea. Flexor Suhlimis Digitoinim ( Outer Head) - Oblique line. Pronator Radii Teres - Rough irapressioa on middle of outer surface of shaft. Flexor Longus Pollicis - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft. Pronator Quadrattis - Lower fourth of anterior surface & outer border. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Middle third of posterior surface of shaft. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis - Posterior surface of shaft below foregoing. Supinator Longus - Outer side of base of styloid process. ULNA — Are thirteen in number, and are attached as follows: - Supinator Brevis - Triangular depression below lesser sigmoid cavity & ridge behind the depression. Brachialis Anticus - Under surface of coronoid process. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum (Middle Head) - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process above pronator radii teres. Pronator Radii Teres (Outer Head) - Ridge on inner surface of coronoid process below flexor sublimis. Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner surface of coronoid process, upper two- thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, upper two-thirds of posterior border. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris (Posterior Head) - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosip which is common to it & to flexor profundus, upper two-thirds of posterior border. Triceps -Back part of upper surface of olecranon. Anconeus — Rough triangular surface on outer side of olecranon & upper third of shaft. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface «& inner border. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris - Middle third of posterior border. Usually it simply covei 3. but sometimes it arises from, narrow portion of posterior surface internal to the vertical ridge. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis - Outer half of posterior surface below insertion of anconeus. Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis - Middle of outer half of posterior surface. Extensor Indicts - Poste'ior surface below foregoing. I I