96a NOTES ON THE NEWER MATTER. Adductor Obliquus Hallucis. - Adductor Transversus Hallucis. These are simply new names for the "Adductor Pollicis Pedis" and the "Transversus Pedis." A new muscle of the little toe is described by Prof. Macalister, the " Opponens Minimi Digiti." It lies beneath and internal to the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. It arises from the sheath of the peroneus longus and from the ligaments beneath the heads of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and is inserted into the anterior half of the under surface of the fifth metatarsal bone. Its nerve-supply is the same as that of the Flexor Brevis. By Prof. Thane this new muscle is considered as merely a portion of the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, the deeper fibres of which end, in most cases, on the distal half of the shaft of the fifth metatarsal bone." The Adductor Hallucis has frequently an additional origin from the tubercle of the scaphoid and from the base of the first metatarsal bone. (Macalister.) Capsular Ligament of the Hip-joiut - Cervical Eeflection; Retinacula. On opening the capsule of the hip-joint, some of the deeper longitudinal fibres are seen reflected upwards along the neck, so as to be attached higher up than would at first appear. These form the cervical reflection (Gray) or the retinacula (H. Morris). One of these reflected bands corresponds to the upper part, and another to the lower part, of the line of the capsular attachment; and a third band is seen at the upper and back part of the neck (H. Morris). Ilio-Pemoral, or Accessory Ligament of the Hip-joint, or Y-shaped Ligament of Bigelow. This ligament often bifurcates inferiorly, forming two bands, of which one is attached to the lower part, and the other to the upper part, of the anterior intertrochanteric line (Gray's Anatomy, 12th Edition). This arrangement is regarded as the more usual one, hence the name of Y-shaped ligament which this structure has now pretty generally received. The highest or outermost fibres of this ligament are coarse, almost straight, and shorter than the rest; the innermost fibres are also thick and strong, but oblique. This varying obliquity of the fibres, and their accumulation at the borders, explains why this band has been described as the Y-shaped ligament (H. Morris). Ischio-Femoral Band. This is formed of strong fibres attached all along the groove for the external obturator, and to the ischial margin of the acetabulum above the groove. (H. Morris.) Pectineo-Femoral Band. This is a distinct but narrow set of fibres which are fixed above to the anterior border of the pectineal eminence, reaching as far down as the lower end of the cotyloid notch. Below, these fibres reach the neck of the femur, and are fixed above and behind the lowermost fibres of the ilio-femoral band. (H. Morris.)