96e individual muscles, nerves to supply the same are split of from the parent trunk. As secondary displacements and fusions occur here and there between the muscle elements,- a muscular element passing from the flexor to the extensor side of the limb, or vice versa, and carrying its nerve supply with it, - so do certain muscles obtain a double nerve supply : e.g., brachialis anticus in the upper limb, adductor magnus in the lower limb. The splitting of the three primary cords of the brachial plexus into anterior and posterior divisions represents the primary division of the plexus into flexor and extensor nerves:-From the junction of the three posterior divisions there results the posterior cord, which gives off the three subscapular, musculo-spiral, and circumflex nerves, all of which supply extensor muscles and the skin covering them. From the junction of the anterior divisions there proceed the inner and outer cords, from which are derived the anterior thoracic, musculo-cutaneous, median, ulnar, and internal ciitaueous nerves, which supply flexor muscles and the corresponding skin. Like the arteries, the nerves of the upper arm enter the limb in one set: those of the lower limb in two sets. - these not representing, however, a definite division into flexor and extensor nerves. While on the front of the thigh we have a pure extensor nerve, the anterior crural, we find at the back the flexor and extensor elements fused, yet easily separable from each other, in a mixed nerve, the great sciatic The homologies of the nerves of the limbs are as follows : - Extensor Nerves Upper Extremity: Lower Extremity : Subscapular. Inferior gluteal. Circumflex. Superior gluteal. Suprascapular and musculo-spiral. Anterior crural. Brs. of muse.-spiral in forearm, i.e., post. Peroneal division of great sciatic, with interosseous and radial. anterior tibial and musculo-cutaneous. Flexor Nerves: - Upper Extremity : Lower Extremity : } Obturator. Ext. and int. ant. thoracic, br. from musc- cutaneous to coraco-brachia'lis. Brs. of muse.-cutaneous to biceps and > Bra. of popliteal division of great sciatic brachialis amicus. f to hamstrings. , 1 . ^ ( Popliteal division of great sciatic and Median and ulnar in forearm. -J ^ posterior tibial Median in hand. Internal plantar in foot. Ulnar in hand. External plantar in foot. Pseudo-Ganglia. The so-called gangliform enlargements on the branch of the circumflex nerve to the teres minor, on the branch of the musculo-spiral nerve to the anconeus, on the branch of the anterior tibial nerve to the extensor brevis digitorum, on the posterior interosseous nerve at the back of the wrist, are pseudo-ganglia, which do not contain any nerve cells They indicate that some structure, which the nerve originally supplied, has degenerated : the nerve which supplied such structure having become suppressed, the trunk from which the suppressed nerve was derived has become shortened and thickened.