132q <1) a broad base, the phrenic or basal surface, formerly called the outer surface,-and (2) a more or less distinct apex lying on the antero-internal, or visceral, aspect (formerly called the inner surface), from which apex there start three apical surfaces (so-called from their radiating from, or converging towards, the apex), - these surfaces being the renal, gastric, and pancreatico-colic, and being separated from each other by three apical borders, and separated from the phrenic or basal surface by three basal borders and three basal angles.* ThepAren^c or basal surface (Fig. 322m) is large and triangular, and bounded by the three basal borders and angles again referred to below. It is convex, being pressed against and moulded into the concavity of the diaphragm. In the greater part of its extent it looks upwards, backwards, and to the left; quite internally and superiorly, it looks upwards and inwards (Symington), since here it rests upon the portion of the diaphragm surmounting the left crus, - that is on the inner wall of the left arch or cupola. The phrenic surface is obliquely crossed by the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs, - the peritoneum and diaphragm intervening, and also, behind these, at the upper part, the left lung and pleura. The apex lies at the lower and back part of the visceral aspect (Fig. 322n). {This apex evidently results from the relative absence of pressure at the point of meeting Fig. 322n.—inner aspect of the spleen in an infant five days old. (Symington, Quain.) G, R, B, the three surfaces, gastric, renal, and pancreatico-colic (the latter Professor Cunningham's hasal surface); the prominent apex is seen at the point of meeting of these surfaces, and from this are seen to radiate the three apical borders. A, P, I, the three basal borders, phreno-gastric, phreno-renal, and phreno-pancreatico-colic, sometimes termed anterior, posterior, and inferior. of the surrounding solid - or intermittently distended - structures, the kidney, pancreas, stomach, and colon.) As stated, the apical surfaces, or surfaces radiating from, or converging towards the apex, are the renal, gastric, and pancreatico-colic. * The description here given will be found to tally with Prof. Cunningham's, except that it is the phrenic surface that is taken as the base of the tetrahedron, its apex then being Prof. Cunningham's internal basal angle. This modification has involved a slightly altered designation of certain other parts.