PRACTICAL QUESTIONS ON PART II. UPPER LIMB. 1. reel the coracoid process, and demarcate the coraco-acromial ligament. 2. Peel, or indicate the position of, the greater & lesser tuberosities of the humerus, and the bicipital groove. 3. Explore the axilla, feeling specially for enlarged glands; name the muscles which form the folds of the axilla. What are the levels of the boundaries of the axilla ? 4. Draw the line of the axillary artery, feel its pulsations, and compress it in the axilla. Compress it with Esmarch's india-rubber tubing, having first rendered the arm bloodless. 5. Draw the line of the circumflex nerve. Show where, and explain how, it emerges from a well-known space at the back of the axilla. 6. Draw the line of the musculo-spiral nerve. 7. Apply a tourniquet to the brachial artery in the middle of the arm. How would you tie the artery in this situation ? 8. Trace the course of the cephalic & basilic veins, and map out the cutaneous veins at the bend of the elbow. Grive the relations of the median basilic vein; what serious accident may occur in bleeding from this vein ? 9. Map out the triangular space at the bend of the elbow with the tendon of the biceps & the bicipital fascia, the median nerve and the brachial artery. Feel the pulsations of the brachial artery in the situation named. Stop the circulation in the artery by forcible flexion of the elbow. 10. Name the arterial anastomoses round the elbow. Point out the nerves round the elbow, other than the median. 11. Examine an elbow-joint for supposed disease or injury. Point out the relations of the internal & external condyles, and of the head of the radius ; also those of the olecranon in the several positions of the joint. 12. How would you perform excision of the elbow-joint ? How, in that operation, would you guard against injury of the ulnar nerve ? 13. Point out the position of the supra-condylar lymphatic gland. 14. Draw the lines of the radial artery and radial nerve. Show in what part of the forearm the nerve accompanies the artery. How would you tie the radial artery in the several parts of its course ?