108f only with the general synovial cavity. In the Ijeaver there is a distinct synovial pouch for the joatella and the patellar surface of the femur, and the synovial membranes of the femoro-tibial joints are completely separated from each other by the crucial ligaments and a septum of connective tissue. This septum represents the ligamenta mucosum and alaria of man. Man's knee-joint has therefore been the theatre of [1] Retrogression and migration of muscles, providing it with ligaments; [2] Metamorphosis of tendons, providing it with interarticular fibro-cartilages ; [3J Annexation of bursas, exiending its synovial territory. III. - Ligaments arising from the Retrogression of Osseous and Cartilaginous Structures; Bones arising from the ossification of ligaments. In Ornithodelphia and Didelphia the inner pillar of the external abdominal ring is ossified to form the marsupial bone. In many carnivora the tentorium cerebelli is replaced by a plate of bone. In some turtles the temporal fascia is also osseous. There are numerous cases on record in which the first rib in man was merely a fibrous band extending to the sternum ; the fibula also may be replaced by ligament. Supra-condyloid Foramen. In carnivora, rodents, and others, their exists above the inner condyle of the humerus a bony tunnel known as the supra-condyloid foramen, which transmits, as a rule, the brachial artery and the median nerve. In the young lion at birth, as also in the foetal cat, this foramen is formed in part by a downgrowth from the diaphysis, and in part by an ujigrovvth from the epiphysis. In man the most frequent condition of this foramen, when it exists, is that the upper part of the ring is formed as above, and the lower part by a band of fibrous tissue descending from the same to the condyle. In the mole, the upper end of the tendon of the biceps plays in a very perfect osrcous tunnel; in man it plays in a groove arched over by dense fibrous tissue. Lester Sacro-sciatic Ligament. In armadilloes and other edentata, the ischial spine comes in contact with the lateral portions of the pseudo-sacral vertebra, and completes the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Regression of this large ischial spine would explain one mode of origin of the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. There is, however, reason to believe that, in man, this ligament is derived from the coccygeus muscle. Great Sacro-sciatic Ligament. This is the expansion of the tendon of origin of the hamstring muscles, and more particularly of the biceps and semi-teudinosus. A little dissection will show the continuity of these structures. The tendon is tensed by pulling on the niufcles. The coccyx may even be moved by pulling upon the biceps.