43 MUSCLES of FRONT of FOREARM. SUPERFICIAL LAYER. Pronator Radii Teres. Large or Superficial Head - Inner condyle & inner »oraer oi numerns im. mediately above it, deep fascia of forearm, intermiiScular septum between it & flexor carpi i-adialis. Small or Deep Head - Eidge on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna below flexor sublimis digitorum. Rough impression on middle of outer surface of shaft of radius. - S. by median nerve. Plexor Carpi Radialis - Inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia - in termuscular septa on either side. ' Front of base of 2nd metacarpal bone, & slightly into that of 3rd. - S. by median nerve. Palmaris LongUS - inner condyle by common tendon; deep fascia; inter, muscular septa on either side. ' Anterior annular ligament t»C carpus and palmar fascia. - S. by median nerve. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Anterior or Inner Head - Inner con(iy»er oy common tendon ; deep fascia* intermuscular septum between it & palmaris longus. * Posterior or Outer Head - Inner border of olecranon, and by an aponeurosis which is common to it & to the flexor profundus, from upper tvvo-thirda of posterior border of shaft of ulna. Pisiform bone and slightly into annular ligament & base of 5t metacarpal bone. - S. by ulnar nerve. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Inner Head - Inner condyle by common tendon, and internal lateral liga- ment of elbow-joint. ° Middle Head - Tubercle on inner surface of coronoid process of ulna above pronator radii teres. Outer Head - Oblique line on front of radius. Sides of second phalanges. - S. by median nerve. DEEP LAYER: Flexor Profundus Digitorum - Depression on inner side of coronoid process of ulna, upper two-thirds of anterior & inner surfaces, and, by an apon- eurosis which is common to it & to flexor carpi ulnaris, from upper two- thirds of posterior border of shaft of ulna; inner half of interosseous membrane. Bases of third phalanges. - S. partly by ulnar nerve, partly by an- terior interosseous branch of median nerve. Flexor Longus PolliciS - Upper two-thirds of anterior surface of shaft of radius; outer half of interosseous membrane; occasionally by a small slip from inner side of coronoid process. Base of last phalanx of thumb. -S. by anterior interosseous ])raDch of median nerve. Pronator Quadratus - Lower fourth of anterior surface & inner ?30?Jar A ulna; aponeurosis which covers inner third of the muscle. i^wer fourth of anterior surface & outer border of radius. - S. bv anterior interosseous branch of median nerve MUSCLES of OUTER SIDE of FOREARM. Supinator Longus - Upper two-thirds of external condyloid ridge of humerus, ex- ternal intermuscular septum. Outer side of base of styloid process of radius. - S. by musculo-spiral n. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior-Lower third of external condyloid ridge of humerus, external intermuscular septum. Back of base of second metacarpal bone. - S. by musculo-spiral nerve. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior - External condyle of humerus by a tendon common to it & to superficial muscles of back of forearm ; external lateral liga^ ment of elbow-joint; deep fascia; intermuscular septa on either side. Back of base of third metacarpal bone. - S. by posterior interosseous a.