I52t 15. Draw the lines of the ulnar nerve and ulnar arter}^ in the forearm, showing where they meet. Where and how would you tie the ulnar artery ? 16. Show in action the flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi ulnaris ; and mark the position of the median nerve above the wrist. 17. Feel the head of the ulna and its styloid process. Feel the lower extremity of the radius and its styloid process. Which styloid process lies lowest ? Name, and show in action, the tendons which groove the above. 18. Show the hollow of the " anatomical snuff-box." Draw the line of the radial artery in that situation. What superficial vein crosses it ? Feel the joint of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. 19. Examine the wrist for supposed Colles's fracture. Demonstrate the relative positions of the two styloid processes (by grasping the wrist from side to side between thumb & index, with finger-nails turned towards patient). 20. Feel the tubercle of the scaphoid and the ridge of the trapezium ; also the pisiform bone, and the unciform process of the unciform. Feel the cuneiform bone at the back of the wrist. 21. Show the position of the medio-carpal & radio-carpal joints, and the upper border of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. # 22. Point out in the palm of the hand the furrow which is of some use as a landmark, and state its significance. 23. Draw the line of the superficial palmar arch, and those of its superficial palmar interosseous or digital branches. Show the position of the deep palmar arch. What incisions can you safely make in the palm of the hand? 24. Mark out the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons at the wrist and in the palm of the hand. Mark out the sheaths of the extensor tendons. 25. Draw the lines of the digital joints. LOWER LIMB. 44. Feel the pulsations of the femoral artery on the brim of the pelvis and trace the course of the artery. Show in what places you can compress it. Compress it with Esmarch's india-rubber tubing, having first rendered Ihe limb bloodless. Show the position of the femoral vein & anterior crural nerve. 45. So place the patient as to make evident the sartorius muscle.