132z belonging to the under surface),* which rests on the omental tuberosity of the pancreas, the lesser omentum intervening. On the right side of the lohns Spigelii there are seen first the (jroove for the inferior vena cava (v.c.i.), and then a broad and convex strip of the rigid lobe uncovered by peritoneum {x), and adherent to the diaphragm by firm areolar tissue, which was formerly described as belonging to the posterior border. This strip slightly overlaps the inferior vena cava, and presents below and internally a slight depression, the impressio supra-renalis (i.s.r.), corresponding to the supra-renal capsule. The posterior surface of the liver is concave from side to side ; it embraces the bodies of the vertebree a little to the left of its middle. Under Surface of the Liver. Now comprises only :— 1 - As regards the right lobe, that portion of what used to be called the under surface of that lobe which is anterior to the transverse fissure. This portion of the organ is divided in two by the fissure or fossa of the gall-bladder (g bl.). On the right side of the gall-bladder is seen in front the impressio colica (i.e.) for the hepatic flexure of the colon, and behind this the impressio renalis (i.r.) for the right kidney, internally to which latter, and close to the neck of the gall-bladder, is the small impressio duodenalis (i.d.) corresponding to the junction of the first and second portions of the duodenum. On the left side of the gall-bladder is the quadrate lobe {L.Q.'), quadrangular in shape, and broadest from before backwards, which overlies the pyloric end of the stomach and the commencement of the duodenum, and is concave, through the pressure of these parts (the latter being distended). 2 - As regards the left lobe, little more than the left half, and the anterior marginal portion of the right half, of what has hitherto been described as the under surface of this lobe, - these parts being markedly concave, and moulded, the former on the cardiac end of the stomach (distended) (impressio gastrica, i.g.), and the latter on that part of the anterior surface of the stomach which lies nearest to the lesser curvature. N.B. - The lower part of the lobus Spigelii, the lobus caudatus, and the omental tuberosity might still be described, even on the plaster of Paris models, as belonging to the under surface of the organ. The following illustrations of His's models may be referred to as conformable, in the main, with the records obtained through the " reconstruction method," and there- fore still substantially up to date. * Usuallj' nothing of all this can be seen on the liver as remo\'ed from the anatomical subject in the ordinary course of dissection. To follow the above description, the student should have His's plaster of Paris models before him.