105 MUSCLES of the MALE PERINEUM. ANAL GROUP. Sphincter Ani - Tip & back of coccyx and superficial fascia in front of it. Central tendinous point of perinseum blending with accelerator urinat, transversus perinaei & levator ani. — S. by inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of pudiOj & by anterior division of 4th sacral nerve. Levator Ani - Back of pubes close to symphysis, spine of ischium, and, between these two points, from a white band or thickening of the pelvic fascia which marks point of division of the latter fascia into obturator & recto-vesical layers. Side & apex of coccyx, median raph6 between coccyx and anus, side ot lower part of rectum blending with sphincter ani, and decussates with its fellow in front of rectum and below & behind the prostate forming the so-called levator prostatas, which latter fasciculus is sometimes separated from the remainder of the muscle by a little areolar tissue. - S. by anterior division of 4th sacral n. CoCCygeuS - Spine of ischium & lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Side of coccyx and of lower piece of the sacrum. - S. by anterior divi- sions of 4th & 5th sacral nerves. Internal Sphincter - is a thickened circular band of the unstriped muscular fibres of the intestine. GENITO-URINARY GROUP. Accelerator UrinsG, Ejaculator Seminis, or Bulbo-cavernous - f^entral ten- dinous point of pei iuseam & median raphe in front of it. Its posterior fibres are inserted ijito the triangular lij;-ament; its middle fibres decussate above the bulb & corpus spongiosum which they encircle; its anterior fibres are partly inserted into the corpus cavernosum, and partly joined above it in a tendinous expansion which covers dorsal vessels & nerves of penis. - S. by superficial perinseal nerve. Erector Penis, or Ischio-CavernoUS - inner aspect of tuberosity of ischium behind crus penia and pubic arch on either side, back part of under surface of the crus. By a tendinous expansion into fore part of under & outer surfaces of crus penis. - S. by superficial perinseal nerve. Transversus Perinsei - inner & fore part of tuberosity of isohji^p^. Central tendinous point of perinseum blouding with its fellow, the accel- erator urinse, & sphincter ani. - S. by superficial perinaeal nerve. Compressor, or Constrictor UrethrSB - Upper part of pubic arch on either side of symphysis. Its fibres surround membranous portion of the urethra, decussating above & below it. - S. by pudio nerve. Deep Transversus PerinSBi - is a thin fasciculus which may or may not be separated from posterior fibres of foregoing muscle. It decussates with its lelluvv behind the bulb, and covers Cowper's gland.