showing its division into superficial and deep branches ; 1, the plantar cutaneous nerve. 961i F G. 240.- POSTERIOR NERVES OF THE TUIGH & UIP : SUPERFICIAL DISSECTION. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Small sciatic nerve, exposed by the removal of a portion of the gluteus maximus ; 2, its inferior gluteal branch ; 3, its ascending cutaneous branches, supplying integument over gluteus maximus; 4, its inferior pudendal branch ; 5, trunk of the nerve as it descends beneath the fascia at the back of the thigh, giving off cutaneous branches external and internal; 10, posterior division of the external cvitaneous nerve. Fig. 241.—posterior nerves of the thigh & hip : deep dissection. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Superior gluteal nerve, with the accompanying gluteal artery, dividing into superior & inferior branches. Doth exposed by the partial removal of the gluteus medius ; (2) small sciatic nerve at its origin ; 3, its muscular branches to the gluteus maximus (inferior gluteal); 4, 6, trunk of the nerve lower down the thigh ; 5, its inferior pudendal branch; 8, pudic nerve, and, 9, nerve to the obturator internus, winding round spine of ischium beneath the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; (10, 10) great sciatic nerve, giving off muscular branches to long head of biceps, short head of biceps, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, adductor magnus ; (17) internal popliteal nerve, giving off muscular branches to the gemelli and to the soleus, 17 and 18 ; (19) communicans tibialis, or inner root of external aphenous nerve ; (20)external popliteal nerve ; (21) communicans fibularis, or outer root of the external or short saphenous. Fig. 242.—popliteal vessels and nerves. (Hirschfeld.) The semi-tendinosus and -membranosus, the long head of the biceps, and the central part of the gastrocnemius have been removed. (1) Great sciatic nerve; (2) external popliteal nerve, giving off the communicans fibularis (3), which joins with the communicans tibialis, 6; (5) internal popliteal nerve, giving off the communicans tibialis, 6, 6, and muscular branches to the heads of the gastrocnemius, 7, 7, the plantaris, 8, the popliteus, 9, the soleus, 10. A, popliteal vein, receiving the short saphenous, B, B ; C, popliteal artery. a, short head of the biceps ; &, long head, divided ; d, divided tendon of semi-membranosus ; e, tendon of adductor magnus, with, /, the opening for the popliteus vessels ; h, plantaris hooked out of che way. Fig. 248.—deep nerves of back of leg. (Hirschfeld.) (1) External popliteal nerve, winding round the neck of the fibula in the substance of the peroneus longus ; (2) internal popliteal nerve, passing beneath the arch of the soleus, and becoming posterior tibial nerve (3); which htter gives off branches to tibialis posticus, 5, flexor proprius poUicis, 6, flexor longus digitorum, 7 ; 4, its inferior internal articular branch ; 8, its plantar cutaneous branch ; 9, its division into internal and external plantar. /, tendon of tibialis posticus behind internal malleolus ; D, posterior tibial artery dividing at E into internal and external plantar. Figs. 256, 257, «& 258.—the nerves of the sole of the foot. (Hirschfeld.) Figs. 256 and 257 show the plantar fascia and the muscles of the two first layers, - the mtiscles of the first layer being partly cut away in Fig. 257. It will be best to examine Fig. 257 in the light of Fig. 258, and Fig. 256 in the light of both of the oUowing figures. In Fig. 257: 1, internal plantar nerve, presenting an inner division, 3, which supplies the abductor and flexor brevis pollicis, and becomes the internal plantar digital nerve to the big toe ; and an outer division, 6, supplying the two inner lumbricales, and the plantar digital nerves to the remainder of 3^^ toes on the inner side of the foot; 8, external plantar nerve, supplying the flexor accessories and the abductor minimi digiti, and dividing a superficial branch, 12, and a deep branch, 11; the superficial branch suppljing the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the interossei of the fourth space, and giving off the remaining plantar digital nerves ; and the deep branch, which is better shown in Fig. 258, supplying the adductor pollicis and transversus pedis and the remaining interossei; 7, junction of the internal and external plantar nerves. In Fig. 256 : 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 11, the several plantar digital nerves ; 7, the external plantar nerve, just