108k region, - are iii a sense incorrect and misleading. It is misleading, - misleading, that is, to one not practically informed, - to put it that the fascia transversalis is continued beneath Poupart's ligament to form the anterior wall of the femoral sheath; that the fascia iliaca is continued beneath the Poupart's ligament to forn\ the posterior wall of the same sheath, &c. What, in effect, do the statements imply ? They imply, if Avords are to have anything like a precise meaning, that the anterior wall of the femoral sheath has the same, or something like the same, structure and characters as the fascia transversalis ; that the posterior wall of the femoral sheath has the same, or something like the same, structure and characters as the fascia iliaca. Anyone who has dissected the parts knows very well that this is in no way the case. What is then the t7'ue meaning, and what is the real drift, of the above current statements? What is it which not only justifies the same, but which has made the descriptions of the Inguinal and Femoral Hernise and perinosum, as given by the great French surgeons of the beginning of the century, descriptions that will stand to the end of time, and with which the names of Velpeau, Malgaigne, Richet, and others will ever be honourably associated ? The reply is this: - Practical considerations, and practical considerations alone. It is in the light of practical considerations, that the descriptions referred to must be read, if the facts are to be at all correctly understood. Hernia breaks forth along the course of the spermatic cord, - or just to the inner side of the large vessels of the thigh. Why is this? Urine extravasated through rupture of the membranous portion of the urethra infiltrates the scrotum, and then the superficial fascia of the abdomen, but does not pass down to the front of the thigh. Why is this? Why does a hernial protrusion sometimes shoAV itself at or near the umbilicus, or at the ohturator foramen, or above the crest of the ilium between the external oblique and latissimus d* rsi muscles ? Surgical anatomy was created, mainly by the surgeons above named, with a view to answering such questions; and, taking things all round, surgical anatomy has admirably fulfilled the practical purposes aimed at. But why, the reader may ask, was not simple and plain language used that everyone could understand? Why did not the surgeons who made surgical anatomy write in such a way that even the most dull-minded could not misapprehend their meaning ? The reply is that language alone, and apart from such practical work as may interpret its mcMniug, is inadequate to convey the precise information desired to be con- veyed. There are things that cannot be made plain by mere words. It is practical work - i.e., dissecting - that can alone give the key to the true meaning of the statements made in surgical anatomy, or indeed in any kind of anatomy, or indeed in any applied or practical science whatever. Opposite the weak points of the abdominal wall, in the perinaeal septum, &c., there are minor processes of fascia sufficiently continuous with the more extensive and more marked fasciae transversalis, iliaca, &c., - that is to say, which maintain in prolongation of the above, and for short distances, or over small areas, sufficiently uniform characters, - to give, at the points named, and within narrow limits, a certain direction to intestine, urine, or pus. For the convenience of description, it has been considered allowable and expedient to stretch the correct statement to the point of extending to such minor process the original designation of the larger and more extensive fascial, of which they are thus taken to form a part. It is in this sense, and in this sense only, that we can say that the fascia? transversalis and iliaca pass beneath Poupart's