96g EXPLANATION OF FIGUEES NOT FULLY EXPLAINED IN THE TEXT. (Lower Limb.) Fig. 223.—cuTANEOi-s nerves of front & inner side of thigh. (Hirschfeld.) (1,1) Middle cutaneous nerve, first at its orig-in, and then piercing the sartorius and deep fascia ; it joins with, 2, the external cutaneous branch of the lumbar plexus ; (3, 3) external branch of internal cutaneous nerve, piercing the fascia at lower third of thigh, and giving off a small branch, 4, to the sartorius ; (5) its internal branch, piercing the fascia a little above the knee, at 6, and giving off a deep branch, 7, which is seen in the next plate to join with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve ; 8, cutaneous offset from nerve to pectineus ; 9, patellar branch of internal saphenous nerve ; 10, its continuation along inner side of leg. A, internal saphenous vein ; B, femoral vein, receiving in this case the superficial epigastric vein, which usually opens into the internal saphenous; D, femoral artery. Fig. 224.—deep nerves of front & inner side of thigh. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Anterior crural nerve, arising from 3rd, 4th, & 5th lumbar nerves ; 2 & 3, its branches to psoas & iliacus ; 4, middle cutaneous, and greater part of internal cutaneous nerves, divided ; 8, internal branch of the latter, joining with obturator nerve ; 5, nerve to the pectineus, with, 7, the cutaneous filament it gives off; 9,10,11, nerves to rectus, vastus externus, &^'astus internus ; (12) internal saphenous nerve in, and leaving, Hunter's canal; 13, its patellar branch ; 14, its continuation to the inner side of the leg ; (15) obturator nerve, arising from 3rd, 4th, & 5th lumbar nerves : at the upper and inner part of the thigh it is seen piercing the obturator externus, and dividing into its anterior & posterior divisions, the latter, 19, deeplj' shaded, and seen behind the divided adductor brevis ; the anterior division gives off branches to adductor longus, adductor brevis, and to the gracilis ; (20) lumbo-sacral cord, formed by anterior divisions of 5th lumbar & 1st sacral nerves ; 21, sacral plexus ; 22, sacral ganglia of the sympathetic ; (23) external cutaneous nerve of lumbar plexus. Fig. 232.—distribution of external popliteal nerve: superficial dissection. (Hirschfeld.) (1) External popliteal nerve, winding round neck of fibula in substance of peroneus longus ; 2, its cutaneous branches, of which one, the communicas fibularis, (3) is seen to join with (4) the communicans tibialis from the internal popliteal nerve, thus forming the external saphenous nerve (5); (9) musculo-cutaneous nerve, first issuing from between the peronei muscles and the extfensor longus digitorum, and then piercing the deep fascia, and dividing into its two terminal branches, 10, 10; (13) anterior tibial nerve, getting between the tibialis antijus and the extensor longus digitorum ; 14, its internal terminal branch, which accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, and, joining with the musculo- cutaneous, supplies the adjoining sides of the great & second toes Fig. 233.—distribution of the external popliteal nerve : deep dissection. (Hirschfeld.) (1) External popliteal nerve ; 2, its recurrent branch to the knee-joint; (3) musculo-cutaneous nerve, giving branches to the peronei longus & brevis, 4 & 5 ; 6, its two terminal branches, somewhat separated by the dissection ; 7, its internal branch ; 8, its external branch, joining with the external saphenous nerve, 9; (10) anterior tibial nerve, giving branches to extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius pollicis, tibialis anticus pollicis ; passing at 14 beneath the tendon of extensor proprius pollicis, 13, its division into its two terminal branches. The internal branch, 16, is seen joining with the musculo- cutaneous nerve, and siipplying the sides of the big and second toes; the external branch, 17, is seen to pass out beneath the partly removed extensor brevis digitorum, which it supplies ; it presents a small pseudo-ganglion. Figs. 239 & 354.—sacral plexus. (Hirschfeld.) (7) Lumbo-sacral cord; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, the five sacral nerves ; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; 8, 8, sacral g-anglia of the sympathetic, with their communications with the foregoing and with each other ; 9, sacral plexus; 10, its visceral branches, divided ; 11 & 12, its muscular branches to the levator ani and the obturator internus ; 13, inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve ; (14) pudic nerve, dividing into the dorsal nerve of the penis (15) and the periuceal nerve, 16 ; 17, 18,19, the three branches of the latter, posterior or internal, anterior or external, & muscular ; (20) superior gfluteal nerve, leaving the pelvis through the upper part of the great sacro-sciatic notch ; (22) small sciatic nerve, with its inferior pudendal branch, 21 ; (23 obturator nerve, e, levator ani, divided.