MUSCLES of SOLE of FOOT. FIKST LAYER. Flexor Brevis Digitorum - Greater tuberosity of OS calcig; central part of plantar fascia j intermuscular septa on either side. Sides of second phalanges of four outer toes. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Pollicis - Grreater tuberosity of os calcis; internal annular liga- ment ; intermuscular septum between it and flexor brevis digitorum. Inner side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by int. plantar n. Abductor Minimi Digiti - Lesser tuberosity of os calcis, greater tuberosity in front of flexor brevis, and slightly from under surface of os calcis in front of tuberosities; plantar fascia; intermuscular septum between it & flexor brevis. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by trunk of ex- ternal plantar nerve before its bifurcation. SECOND LAYER. Flexor Longus Digitorum. Flexor Accessorius - inner & under surfaces of OS calcis by two heads which embrace the long plantar ligament. Outer border and upper & under surfaces of tendon of flexor longus digitorum. - S. by trunk of external plantar nerve before its bifurcation. Lumbricales - Tendons of flexor longus digitorum, the innermost from one, the others from two tendons. Inner side of extensor tendons & inner side of bases of first phalan- J ges of four outer toes. - S., the two inner ones by internal plantar nerve, the two outer ones by deep branch of external plantar. ^ Flexor Longus Pollicis. % THIRD LAYER. Flexor Brevis Pollicis - By a tendinous process from adjoining borders of cuboid & external cuneiform, & from expansion of tendon of tibialis posticus. Inner & outer sides of base of first phalanx of great toe, a sesamoid bone being developed in each tendon of insertion. - S. by int. plantar n. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti - Base of 5th metatarsal bone & sheath of peroueus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of little toe. - S. by superficial branch of external plantar nerve. Adductor Pollicis - Bases of 2nd, 3rd, & 4th metatarsal bones & sheath of peroneus longus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. Transversus Pedis - Head of 5th metatarsal bone & transverse ligament of the metatarsus. Outer side of base of first phalanx of great toe. - S. by deep branch of external plantar nerve. FOURTH LAYER. Plantar Interossei - Three. Arise from lower or plantar half of inner side of shaft of 3rd, 4th, & 5th metatarsal bones, and are inserted into inner side of base of first phalanx of corresponding toes, & into the expansion of the corresponding long extensor tendon. - They adduct the toes toward? the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. Dorsal Interossei - Four. Arise from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones, as follows: - from the whole extent of the side of the metatarsal bone which corresponds to the toe into which the muscle is inserted in. feriorly, from the upper or dorsal half only of the side of the other. They are inserted into the corresponding side of the base of the first phalanx of the toe to which they belong. - They are found on both sides of the 2nti toe and on the outer side of the 3rd & 4th toes. - They abduct therefore the three middle toes from an imaginary line drawn through the second toe. - S. by external plantar nerve. .11