60i Deltoid.—Can be raised from the shoulder when the arm is abducted, so as to allow, to some extent, of the formation of a deltoid flap by transfixion. Over its insertion is a slight depression, which was formerly selected as a convenient seat for setons and issues. Brachial Artery.—Runs along a l ine dra^^"n from jiDiction of antcriof and middle thtj'ds of axilla to midway betiveen condyles of humerus. It lies just beneath inner border of the biceps, and is crossed from without inwards by median nerve. It may be compressed backwards and outw ard.s on shaft of humerus along whole of its course. Cutaneous Veins.—On the inner side of the artery, in its lower half, is the basilic vein, accompanied by the internal cutaneous nerve. The cephalic vein runs in the groove on the outer side of the biceps, then between the pectoralis major and the deltoid, and finally opens into the axillary above the coracoid process. Musculo-Spiral Nerve and Superior Profunda Artery.— Wind obliquely round back of humerus a little above its middle. Below this, for three or four inches above the condyles, there is nothing to interfere with operations on the bone. Bend of the Elbow.—in a muscular limb it forms a triangular depression, bounded internally by the pronator radii teres, externally by the supinator longus, and above by the projection of the brachialis anticus and biceps. The tendon of the biceps can here be felt, with the brachial artery on its inner side ; more internally is the median nerve. In front of the artery, separated from it by the bicipital or semilunar fascia, is the median basilic vein, running upwards and inwards, and accompanied by the anterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. Externally is the median cephalic vein, somewhat smaller, running upwards and outwards, accompanied by the anterior branches of the musculo-cutaneous or external cutaneous nerve. The inusculo-spiral ne7've is deeply situated behind the musculo-cutaneous, between the brachialis anticus and the supinator longus. At the apex of the triangle is the termination of the median vein.