60f Fig. 203.—musculo-spiral & circUiMflbx nerves. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Musculo-spiral nerve, in groove of same name, giving off branches, 2, to outer head of triceps, 3, to anconeus, 4, to inner head of triceps, 5, to long head of triceps ; 6, external cutaneous branch ; (7) circumflex nerve, emerging from quadrilateral space, winding rovind neck of humerus, and dividing into upper & lower branches ; the origin of the nerve to the teres minor is just visilile. Fig. 204.—musculo-spiral, radial, & posterior interosseous nerves. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Musculo-spiral nerve above bend of elbow, giving off muscular branches, 2, to supinator longus, 3, to extensor carpi radialis longior ; (4) trunk of the posterior interosseous nerve, giving off its branch to the extensor carpi radialis brevior, piercing the supinator brevis, of which a small portion is removed, and appearing, greatly diminished in size, between the superficial «Si; deep muscles of the back of the forearm, where it gives off branches to, 6, extensor communis digitorum, 7, extensor minimi digiti, 8, extensor carpi ulnaris 9 extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis & primi internodii pollicis, 10, secundo internodii pollicis & indicis ; (12, 12) radial nerve ; 13, external cutaneous nerve, joining with the foregoing ; 14 to 16, dorsal digital branches to three and a half fingers on outer side of hand ; 17, branch joining with the ulnar nerve. a, b, c, lower poi-tions of the divided supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, and extensor carpi radialis brevior ; the tendons of the two latter muscles are very distinct as they emerge from beneath the posterior annular ligament at the back of the wrist. Fig. 205.—musculo-spiral, posterior interosseous, & ulnar nerves. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Musculo-spiral nerve, with its branches to anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior ; (2) posterior interosseous nerve emerging from supinator brevis, and giving off 3, 3, branches to superficial muscles of back of forearm, and 4, branches to the deep muscles, namely, to, 5, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, 6, extensor primi internodii pollicis, 7, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, 8, extensor indicis; 9, terminal portion, gi'eatly diminished, of the posterior interosseous nerve passing beneath the extensores secundi internodii pollicis & indicis, and showing its pseudo-ganlion, 10 ; (11) ulnar nerve, first entering the forearm between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and then shown lower down through the partial removal of this muscle. Fig. 217e.—deep dissection of the palm of the hand, (Ellis.) A, B, C, C, D, abductor, opponens, outer head of flexor brevis, adductor obliquus, and adductor iransversus pollicis ; E, F, G, abductor, flexor brevis, and adductor or opponens minimi digiti.