123 UNDER SURFACE of the LIVER. See Notes, p. I32z. Concave uneven, looks downwards & backwardf?, and covers stotnach, duodenum, hepatic flexure of colon, right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. Presents four fissures, one of which is divided into two, and two primary lobes, of which the right one, or right lobe proper, presents three sub-lobesor lobules. FISSURES — Are the: Longitudinal Fissure - Separates right & left lobes, and extends from deep notch on antei'ior border as far backwards as posterior border. It is divid* | into: Umbilical Fissure - Its anterior & deepest two-thirds, situated ii? front of trans- verse fissure; contains umbilical vein in the foetus, and its obliterated remains in the adult. Is often bridged over posteriorly by a band of liver substance, the pons hepaticus. Fissure for the Ductus Venosus - Its posterior & shallowest third • contains the duc- tus venosus in the foetus, & its obliterated remains in the adult. Transverse Fissure •- Extends transversely to the right from longitudinal fissure for about two inches, lying nearer to posterior than to anterior border. - It transmits hepatic artery, bile duct, portal vein, lymphatics & nerves, the hepatic artery lying to the left & in front, the bile duct to the right & in front, and the portal vein behind. Fissure or Fossa of the Gall-Bladder - Shallow, broadest in front, nearly parallel to longitudinal fissure on right side of which it is situated, and extends from an- terior border to near right extremity of transverse fissure. Fissure for the Inf. Vena Cava - Extends from behind lobus caudatus to poster. ior border of liver, where it joins with fissure for ductus venosus. Is often trans- formed into a complete foramen, by a prolongation of the lobus Spigelii. It gives exit to the hepatic veins which here open into the inferior cava. LOBES — Are the: night Lobe - The largest. Presents the three last named fissures, and also, further to the right, the tmpressio colica for hepatic flexure of colon, behind which is the im- pressio renalis for right kidney & right suprarenal capsule. - It also presents the three following sub-lobes: Lobus Quadratus - Situated in front of transverse fissure, between fissure for tho gall-bladder & umbilical fissure; quadrilateral & broadest from before backwards. Lobus Spigelii - Situated behind transverse fissure, between fissure for ductus venosus, & fissure for inferior vena cava; more prominent than former, but less regular in shape. Projects into lesser sac of peritoneum. Lobus Caudatus - A prominent ridge extending from front part of lobus Spigelii to under surface of right lobe proper; forms anterior boundary of fissure for inferior vena cava & upper boundary of foramen of Winslow. Left Lobe - is smaller than the right. Its under surface rests upon the stomach, and sometimes extends as far as upper border of spleen.