108g The Typical Shoulder Girdle. Consists of (1) a dorsal segment, the scapula; (2) a ventral bar of cartilage, the coracoid, forming with the scapula a socket for the reception of the head of the humerus ; and f3) another rod or bar of cartilage situ'ited anteriorly to the coracoid, and named the precora^oid. These two latter segments agree in the circumstance that they meet tlie sternum anteriorly and the scapula posteriorly ; the precoracoid is usually excluded, however, from the glenoid cavity. There is frecpiently another bar of cartilage, tlie epicoracoid, which unites the ventral ends of the coracoid and precoracoid. By the two processes of addition and suppression, - the suppressed parts remaining represented by fibrous tissue, - it is easy to derive any form, from chelonian to man, from the above original type. Mail's pectoral girdle differs from tlie above type mainly in the absence of continuity of the coracoid and precoracoid bars. The suppressed continuity of the precoracoid is due to the intrusion, in the centre of the same, of the clavicle, as a secondary e'ement of ossification. The central extremity of the j^i'ecoracoid then becomes the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the stenio-clavicular articulation, - in which there is sometimes found a little hyaline cartilage or even occasionally an osseous nodule (epistevnal bone of Bre^chet). The scapular remnant of the same similarly finds a representative in the interarticular cartilage sometimes met with in the acromio-clavicular articulation. The discontinuity of ihi coracoid bar must also be attributed to a process of partial suj^pression. Its well-known prolongation in frogs, birds, and monotremes is merely represented in man by the long costo-coracoid ligament Avhich runs along the free border of the membrane of that name, and which often presents a few chondral nodules at its sternal attachment. The coracoid in man is but a stunted process, which fuses early with the scapnla. Interarticular Eibro-cartilage of the Sterno-clavieular Articula- tion - is, as above explained, the remains of the anterior or ventral end of the precoracoid bar. Interarticular Fibro-eartilage of the Aeromio-elavicular Articulation [when present] - is the remains of the outer end of the same. The ossification of the clavicle commences extremely early (fifth Aveek) before the completion of the precoracoid bar, so that the bone is primarily a membrane bone. The ossification sitbsequently invades all the middle part of the precoracoid bar, and sometimes its outer extremity as well, - there being then no interarticular fibro-cartilage in the. acromio-clavicular articulation. The clavicle is, therefore, a composite bone. This mode of development of the clavicle explains the occasional inclusion witliin the anatomical bone of the some of superficial descending branches of tlie cervical plexus, and even at times, it is said, of the cephalo-jugular vein. These structures passed in behind the precoracoid bar, between it and the primary clavicular ossification. Costo-coracoid Ligament. - This ligament, thougli less distinct in man than in many of the quudrumana, is frecpifrntly well marked. It runs along the lower border of the costo-coracoid membrane, and extends frcm the tip of the coracoid process to the cartilage of the first rib, and thence to ^th(i sternum. As above stated, it has an interesting ancestry. It results from retrogressive changes in the inner and greater part