PLEXUS. formed as follows by anterioi* divisions of 5th, 6hh, 7tli, & 8th cer vienl and 1st dorsal ns.: Ft/ik (5r» Sixik Cervical unite between anterior & middle scaleni, and form the OUTER PRIMARY CORD. Eighth &^ First Dorsal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the inneii Seventh forms alone the middle primary coed, [primary cord. All three primary cords divide into anterior posterior divisions. Anterior divisions of outer middle primary cords form tlie outer Cord. Anterior division of inner primary cord forms the inner cord. .Posterior divisions of all three primary cords form the postekior cord. Broad between anterior & middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves lie above 2nd part of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where innei- & outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian artery & of 1st part of axillary; again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie on inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break up into the large nerves of upper limb. Communicates with the cervical plexus through loop between 4th & 5th nerves & through branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of symputheLio. BRANCHES Are ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - From 5th & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of sea- lenus medius. Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachial plexus as far as lowest digitation of sei-ratus magnus. Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th & 6th, Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapulai foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspiua- tus & the bone. Round spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infra- spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapula. Muscular - To rhomboidei & frequently to levator anguli scapulae (from 5th nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequently with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th k 8th.) Communicating - From 5th cervical to phrenic on anterior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cords as follows, from : Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mus- culo-cutaneous or external cutaneous. Inner Cord - Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulnar, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisberg. Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral & circumflex Anterior Thoracic Nerves - Two, connected together by a loop on innei side of axillary artery External ok Superficial - The largest. Crosses both axillary artery & vein to under surface of pectoralis major. Internal or Deep-The smallest. Between artery & vein, and gives twigs to under surface of both pectorales. Subscapular Nerves - Three: Upper - The smallest; to upper part of subscapularis. Lower-To lower border of subscapularis & to teres major; the latter muscle having sometimes a sepai ate nerve Long - The largest. Alonsr lower border of subscapularis to latissimui? dorsi