132bb p., pancreas; d., duodenum ; d.j., its junction with the jejunum ; above the duodenum, and between it and the head of the pancreas, are seen the bile duct, portal vein, and hepatic artery; a8c. col, desc. col ascending- and descending colon; spl., spleen; r.k., l.k., right and left kidney; s.r., s.r'., right and left suprarenal capsules; p.t., peritoneum at the back of the abdominal cavity ; m., line of reflection of the mesentery ; the line of reflection of the transverse mesocolon is seen along the lower edge of the pancreas and crossing the duodenum. Meckel's Diverticulum. Is a blind ponch occasionally found on the free margin of the small intestine from one to three feet above the termination of the ileum. It is the remains of the omphalo-mesenteric duct (See page 132ii). Pyloric Vein. Under the above name Mr. Vi'^alsham describes what is practically a second gastric vein. It is a small vein running from left to right along a small portion of the lesser curvature of the stomach near the pylorus, and opening into the trunk of the portal vein. Eemarks (1894):— His's models represent the condition of the internal organs, as seen in a supposeci typical case - that of a healthy young man, who died an accidental death shortly after a full. meal. The models are casts of the viscera as examined in situ, in the frozen- condition, in this particular case. On examination of these models, three things strike one : - (1) the extremely distended condition of all the hollow viscera, - the stomach, for example, is of the shape of an inflated bagpipe; (2) the extent to which these distended viscera, stomach, duodenum, &c. (the distention being explained by the full meal), have pressed upon and indented the surrounding soft structures; and (3) the extent to which the several other viscera (physiologically congested?) have pressed upon and indented each other. The models, though no doubt accurate representations of what was found in the particular instance above referred to, cannot be considered to represent the condition of things which usually pertains. They certainly do not represent the conditions observ- able either in the anatomical subject or in the living patient, when, for surgical purposes, the visceral cavities have to be opened and their contents exposed. Thus,, when gastrostomy is called for, as in oesophagal cancer, the stomach is found collapsed and retracted beneath the lower ribs, - not distended. Though these models may serve to slightly correct certain statements as to levels, &c., it is a fatal mistake, to the Author's thinking, to attempt to re-describe the internal organs in accordance with, and to invite students to learn their anatomy from, them. The old familiar descrip- tions, - descriptions of what is actually seen and handled in the anatomical " subject," - which is incomparably the nearest approach to the living body, - cannot be upset by such unrealities. In the Tablets, the old descriptions are left standing, with just a few minor corrections. The above notes on the new descriptions, referred to in so fan as they differ from the old ones, are simply added as a kind of appendix.