152b lumbar vessels, all running^obliquely downwards and outwards in front of the quadratus lumborum. Owing to the higher level of the left kidney, its diaphragmatic area of contact is larger than that of the right organ. This area, moreover, may be increased on t>UTtiNE OF lata Ria Line indicating outer border of qtmdratus lumborum. Fig. 357a.—posterior relations of the kidney. (Anderson, Morris.) either side when the arcuate ligaments, which give origin to a large portion of the posterior fibres of the diaphragm, are attached to the tip of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebrie instead of that of the first." " The pleura has an indirect but important relation to the kidney. The inferior limit of the pleural sac extends almost horizontally outwai'ds from the lower border of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, crossing the last rib near its neck, and the eleventh rib about two inches farther outwards. As a rule, the incision in renal operations may be carried safely to the lower border of the last rib ; but should this bone be absent or very short, the eleventh rib may be mistaken for it, and the serous membrane would then be in danger. It is probable, too, that the pleura reaches to a lower point in those cases where the arcuate ligaments are attached to the second lumbar transverse process. The presence of a thirteenth rib would involve a contraction of the space available for surgical exploration of the organ." " The upper extremity of each kidney is crowned by the supra-renal body, which encroaches also upon its anterior surface and inner border, and is fixed to it by connective tissue derived from the subperitoneal fascia." "The anterior or visceral surface is differently related on the two sides. The right kidney is in contact in about its upper half with the renal impression on the liver, and below with the ascending colon and duodenum, - the hepatic area being covered with peritoneum, while the second stage of the duodenum and more externally the ascending