XXVlll and the Vidian trunk, who can fail to make out the large petrosal nerve, or even to discover the filaments of Jacobson's nerve to either ? What is the bearing of the above? Said the late representative of Scotland on the General Medical Council : " There can be communicated more sound practical instruction in midwifery in one case of labour than the student would pick up haphazard in his attendance on twenty." Venturing to follow suit, though in a different subject, with the eminent Scotch representative, the Author makes bold to assert that, by the methods submitted, - methods by no means artificial, but based simply on a careful examination of the work that all should do, - there can be taught to any earnest man more sound practical Anatomy in six months than, by generally accepted methods, even diligent men usually learn in their two customary winter sessions. It is a mere question of looking systematically for either or, in the harder dissections, both tails of the thread passing through the needle's eye. Assuredly there is here a fecund principle, which, when once understood and adopted, as understood and adopted it must be sooner or later, will bear fruit to the enlightenment of the profession everywhere, and as long as the plain Anatomy of Man is the basis of the Surgeon's craft. §3- Every art has its more or less precise rules, which, if excellence is to be attained, must be carefully applied from the very first. I would lay down four cardinal rules for the dissector:— I. The dissector should most carefully study his part BEFORE BEGINNING TO DISSECT IT He should study it on plates; he should study it in the museums he has access to, - on the model dissections always left out for study in our anatomical school; he should study it on the dissections of others. The contrast cannot be too strongly accentuated between the dissector who earnestly studies his part first and dissects it afterwards, and he who dissects it first and reads about it afterwards. The former, while he is dissecting, knows what to look for; where things are, what they look like, how they run; where he is on safe ground and can cut freely, where he may do damage and must be cautious. He is planning his operations so as to make the most of his opportunity. He is doing work both enjoyable and of the highest possible order. The best descriptions are but imperfect embodiments of scientific truth : our worthy friend is critically examining and checking such as his teachers have placed before him, and he is laying the foundation of that individual acquaintance with things which