XXX e.g., dissection of the dorsalis scapulae artery and circumflex vessels & nerve in the triangular & quadrilateral spaces at the back of the shoulder; of the anterior tibial artery as it pierces the upper part, and of the anterior peroneal artery as it pierces the lower part, of the interosseous membrane of the leg; of the radial artery as it passes from the dorsum to the palm of the hand, first between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseus muscle or abductor indicis, and then between the adductor pollicis and the inner head of the flexor brevis.* 4. All superficial structu7'es should be thoroughly cleaned from end to end, so as to be got well out of the way (but not removed) before the deeper ones are taken. The dissector should dissect in broad even planes, or strata. The dissection should not be deepened over any small area, and left superficial elsewhere. This rule should be more particularly observed in such parts as Scarpa's triangle, the triangles of the neck, the popliteal space, the bend of the elbow. ยง4. It cannot be too strongly impressed upon the dissector that a dissection should be worked at steadily every day till it is completed. A dissection once completed, and of which all the structures are well cleaned, will keep nice for months. Not so with a part which is left unfinished. This spoils more rapidly than the inexperienced would easily believe, and it can never again be made attractive. All structures that are nea7iy bared should be cleaned thoroughly before work is left off for the day. While a thick layer of fat or fascia left over a structure will preserve it for a time from drying, and keep it fresh, a thin layer, especially of laminated cellular tissue not containing much fat, will, on the contrary, dry up with the structure, and become so thoroughly incor- porated with it, that it can never properly be removed. Even the plan of moistening the part will not help much in the case of small structures which have once been allowed to dry ; besides which, wetting a part washes out the colour of the muscles, and first whitens and then darkens the connective * A step further is open, in a few cases, to the thoughtful dissector. Thus in dissecting the pterygo- maxillary region, the inferior maxillary nerve may first be traced from within the cranium through the foramen ovale, and a probe passed through the foramen by the side of the nerve, the search for which will then be greatly facilitated in the later dissection. Similar cases present in the dissection of Meckel's & the otic ganglia The sheath of the large nerve-trunks, such as the cords of the brachial plexus, whether in the posterior triangle of the neck or in the axilla, is extremely dense and laminated, and must be peeled off in successive strata before the trunk is really bared ; the arrangements of the plexus cannot otherwise be made out.