132b Preparatory to more complete details, and to discussion, it maybe summarily stated that fresh parts and surfaces have recently been described to the abdominal organs as follows;— To the LiVEE, an anterior surface and a right surface, - in addition to the superior, inferior, and posterior surfaces already recognised by some ; To the Spleen, an apex and three new surfaces, - these parts lying on what has been known up till lately as the inner surface of the organ; To the Pancreas, a neck, and a ^^Jiead," which latter has the portal vein in front of itj - the portal vein now being said to lie behind the neck. And the anterior surface of the Kidney is said to be segmented into superior and inferior inclined planes, - these being facetted, on the left side, by colon, pancreas, and spleen, and, on the right side, by colon, liver, and duodenum.* And on the posterior surface of the organ there are described an inner district separated by a vertical ridge, which corresponds to the groove on the outer side of the psoas, from an external district, - which latter is further said to be mapped out into superior and inferior are£B by a furrow corresponding to the ligamentum arcnatum externum. And on these areae and planes there are said to be found occasionally a groove for the last rib, and dimples corresponding to the tips of the transverse processes of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrse. L DETAILS OF THE " EECONSTEUCTED" ABDOMEN. I.—STOMACH. In the empty condition, the stomach presents a main cardiac portion which is nearly vertical, - only slightly inclined downwards, forwards, and to the right, - and a smaller pyloric portion running nearly horizontally from left to right. The pylorus is situated in the median plane,! and looks directly to the right. The empty stomach lies at the back of the abdomen, some distance from the surface. On distention, the pyloric portion enlarges first, and moves to the right; then the whole organ becomes more oblique, and the division above referred to largely disappears. The fundus soon expands to the left of the cardia, fills the left cupola of the diaphragm, * The stomach and .the suprarenal capsule, though in anterior relation \v\\h the kidney, do not apparently indent or facet that organ : they are softer structures than the latter. t This is disputed by Prof. Birmingham, who shows in his cast, that the pylorus lies over two eentimetres to the right of the median plane, even when the stomach is empty. (See page 132u.)