108a I.—LIGAMENTS, FASCIA, fee—Mr. SUTTON'S VIEWS. The principal tendons, ligaments, and fascire result from the regression either of mnscles, migrated or otherwise, or of osseous or cartilaginous structures.* I. - Regression of Muscles. When muscle fails to act to advantage, it degenerates into tendon, ligament, or fascia. As a rule tendons are situated at the extremities of muscles, where contractile tissue would have little opportunity of exerting itself to advantage. When a tendon develops in the centre of a muscle, as in the case of the digastric, it is in a situation where contractile tissue would be of little avail. The following rules may be laid down in forming conclusions as to whether any particular band of fibrous tissue represents a degenerated muscle : - It should correspond to its presumed representative in origin and insertion. It should occasionally reappear as an anomaly in the human subject, or should at least assume a functional importance in other animals : Thus the band of fascia which arches over the ulnar nerve at the back of the elbow, - extending from the back of the inner condyle to the olecranon, - is undoubtedly the degenerated epitrochleo-anconeus, - a muscle frequent in mammals, and occasionally present in man. Deep Fascia of the Limbs- The ilio-tibial band which continues the tensor fascire femoris, is the representative of the lower fleshy portion of the muscle, which, in some animals, is prolonged as far as the knee. The strong fascia on the outer and back part of the thigh, below the fold of the buttock, is the degenerated lower part of the gluteus maximus. There are instances, conversely, in which the bicipital or semilunar fascia is replaced by a thin layer of muscle. Abdominal Aponeuroses. The anterior ahdominal aponeurosis results from the regression of the ventral portion of the external and internal obliques and transversalis: these large tendinous tracts are represented by well-marked muscular sheets in amphibians, ophidians and lizards. * It is hoped that the few following- pages, condensed, as far as human structures are primarily concerned, from Mr. Sutton's "Ligaments; their Nature and Morphology," may induce all who read them to study this most admirable little book as a whole. It isi a model, from every point of view, of what such an expose should be, - simple, unpretending, direct, and eloquent, and a masterly exposition of one of the broadest generalisations, after Darwin's and Gaskell's, which have marked the progress of modern Anatomy. The book should be read by every student of Anatomy.