142 STRUCTURE of the TESTICLE & EPIDIDYMIS. BTRUCTUEE of the TESTICLE — Presents for examination.- THREE IMMEDIATE COVERINGS : - Tunica Vaginalis - Vide Coverings of the testicle. Tunica Albuginea - Thick, dense, bluish-white, fibrous membrane, covered exter. nally by the tunica vaginalis propria except along the points of attach, ment of the epididymis & vas deferens, and reflected into the interior of the testicle along its posterior or upper border in the shape of aa incorn. plete vertical septum, the mediastinum testis or Corpus Highmoriauum. This latter body supports the vessels & nerves and the excretory ducts of the testicle in their passage to or from the gland, and gives off numerous trabeculae, which radiate towards the whole extent of the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, and inclose the numerous pyramidal spaces con- taining the lobules of the gland substance. Tunica VasCUlosa or Pia Mater Testis - Consists of a plexns of blood-vessels held together by delicate areolar tissue, and formed by the subdivisioa of the superficial set of brs. of the spermatic artery. Branches given off" by this plexiis, penetrate into the substance of the gland, supported by the trabeculaej PROPER SUBSTANCE or PARENCHYMA - Consists of numerous pyramidal lobules contained in the pyramidal spaces bounded by the trabeculae, and pre. sen ting a base directed towards the surface of the testicle and an apex directed towards the mediastinum. Of these lobules the central ones are the largest The degree to which the lobules are isolated by the trabeculae is somewhat van. able, hence the different estimates of their number, 250 (Berres), 400 (Krause), Each lohnle consists of from one to three or more tiibuli seminiferi, the numbei , & the length of which tubuli has also been variously estimated,- 300, sixteen feel in length (Monro), 840, two feet & a quarter in length (Lautii). - The diameter ol the tubuli is from to ■^\^ of an inch- They consist from without inwards of 8 , delicate fibre-areolar coat, a basement membrane, and sometimes a layer o! *granular nucleated epithelium. The epithelium is absent, however, when th( gland is particularly active ; the tubuli are then filled withR-cells of different sizet - without any regular arrangement. The tubuli seminiferi commence towards the surface of tiie testicle, sometiraei by free coecal or blind extremities, but more commonly by anastomatic loops. Thej are exceedingly convoluted in the peripheral part of the gland ; their convolutioni are of two orders, viz., a fine & regular undulation giving a granular appear! ance to the whole of their mass, and a more complicated folding of the undulatinc tube. Towards the apices of the lobules they become straighter, and they coalesc( into from twenty to thirty straight tubes the vasa recta, which are from -^^^ to J of an inch in diameter. The vasa recta enter the mediastinum, and passing upwards & backwards they form within that body a network of "anastomosing tubules, the rete testi or rete vasculosum testis. The rete testis is continued superiorly into from twelve to fifteen or twent; vasa efferentia Ttie vasa efferentia perforate the tunica albuginea at the upper & back pai of the testicle. In their extra-testicular course, which is about 6 or 8 inchl long, they are at first straight & relatively wide, but they soon become convolutq & slightly narrowed, and form a series of conical masses, the coni vasculosi, wM( i latter constitute together the globus major of the epididymis. They are linf with ciliated epithelium. ' The excretory ducts of the testicle open finally into the commencement' the canal of the epididymis at apparently narrow intervals, which intervj| however, are seen, when the canal of the epididymis is unravelled, to measure froi two to three inches in lengl^ • STRUCTURE of the EPIDIDYMIS —The epididymis consists ofa single tube aboi twenty feet long, by which the tubuli seminiferi open into the vas deferens. 1 is at first very thin & exceedingly convoluted, and of a diameter of about of a I inch. It diminishes a little in size for a short distance, but it soon increases conf siderably, the thickness of its walls increasing also, and its course becoming les J tortuous. A little fine areolar tissue binds its convolutions together, thicker septj being interposed between the larger masses of coils termed lobes, which latter atj mostly transverse in direction. The epithelium of the canal of the epididymis ij ciliated (Becker, Kolliker). - The Vas aberrans of Haller (Vide spermatic cord)il usually connected either with the oanal of the epididymis or with the commenoci t - ment of the vas deferenij