132g it rests on the inner part of the right kidney, the right renal vessels, and the inferior vena cava,* (The relations to the right kidney and renal vessels are very variable as to level, this being due to displacements principally of the kidney - Cunningham.) To the right is the hepatic flexure. In front is the transverse colon. To the left are the head of the pancreas, and the common bile and pancreatic ducts. The peritoneal covering is anterior only, and is variable and interesting-. The transverse meso- colon of course crosses over in front; but it usually leaves the smaller gut covered by peritoneum, except over a narrow area separating the two layers of the peritoneal fold. Sometimes this area widens out considerably, owing to the imperfect development of the mesocolon, - sufficiently indeed, when the mesocolon is quite short, for there to be scarcely any peritoneal covering at all; only connective tissue then separates the duodenum from the colon. The Third, Tkansverse, or, more PROPERLr, Oblique Portion inclines slightly upwards and to the left from the right side of the third or fourth lumbar vertebra to the left side of the aorta, where it joins the ascending or terminal portion. This third portion lies upon the aorta and the inferior vena cava. Above it is the head of the pancreas. Its anterior aspect is covered by peritoneum at its commencement, but near the median plane the anterior layer of the mesentery is separated from it by the superior mesenteric vessels which cross it. The Fourth or Ascending Portion passes up on the left side of the aorta till it reaches the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where it bends forwards to join the jejunum, forming the duodeno-jejunal flexure. It rests on the left psoas muscle, sometimes extending over the left renal vessels and the inner border of the left kidney. On its left side the peritoneum, which covers it but incompletely, often forms one or two small pouches, the duodeno-jejunal fossas. (See p. 132oo.) It will be seen that no precise boundary separates the third and fourth portions of the duodenum. Someoimes, indeed, the third portion crosses the spine so obliquely that it is almost in a line with the fourth portion (y-shaped duodenum). Hence these two portions being joined into one by some anatomists, - by Professor Cunningham, among others. The termination of the duodenum is said to be held in position by the musculus suspensorius duodeni, this being a "strong fibrous band" (Quain) containing plain muscular fibres arising from the left crus of the diaphragm (Professor Cunningham says from the right crus), and from the tissue around the cosliac axis.t III.—LARGE INTESTINE. The three bands of the large intestine meet at the root of the vermiform appendix, which, in the fcetus, continues the axis of the then conical caecum. C^cuM.—The fcetal type of csecum may persist in the adult. But as a rule the anterior and right portions of the csecal wall grow most rapidly. The free rounded * Professor Birmingham's cast shows that the second portion of the duodenum lies on the right side of the inferior vena cava, and not in front of it. t The author would much like to see the strong fibrous, or muscular, band in question. He has not yet come across it - nor has he knowingly met with the anatomist who has personally seen it in the dissecting room.