108n which descend one behind the sternum, the other in front of that bone, the latter layer blending with the sub-cutaneous layer. Between these layers is some fat and a small lymphatic gland. [3] The Tracheal layer passes down into the thorax (middle mediastinum) encasin'^ the left innominate vein. Inferiorly it blends with the pericardium. [4] The Prevertebral layer passes down behind the oesophagus to be lost in the loose cellular tissue of the posterior mediastinum. (B) Opposite the Clavicle. - Only the two more superficial of the four layers of fascia above mentioned are prolonged so far outwards as this. [1] The Superficial layer passes over the clavicle. [2] The SternO'Claoicalar layer passes behind the clavicle, blending with the sheath of the subelavius, and gives a covering to the subclavian vein." If there is any truth in the general principles above submitted, the above description, and all such, founded as they are on a superficial examination of frozen sections, must be considered as pure imaginings in a line of thought which has cleaved to mere appearances and specious fictions, and has divorced itself from patent fact. Ill a frozen section, fat and fascia are of the same consistence, and look very much alike. But only thaw the part, and see the difference. Or, better still, simply dissect it, and leave the freezing and section-cutting alone ; and then see what becomes of all the cellular layers, that look so beautiful in plaster of Paris and on paper ! The greatest evil, however, of such work as is now being pushed to the front is that the attention is thereby riveted to the page of the book and turned away from the page of Nature. Now-a-days it's all the book, the book, the book. Bookism is as a very ogre grawing out the brains of our young men. These have now so much reading to do, that they bave no time to think ! "The sub-pubic fascia (deep layer of the triangular ligament) . . . , ivhosf appearance and attachments can he made to vary by the scalpel of the dissector according to his precon- ceived notions," . . . (Macalister). The ab(;ve admission of a great Anatomist, the fact of having dissected perinaja and Inguinal and Femoral hernia) almost without number,* and the strength, to his mind, of the views above set forth, must be the Author's apology for questioning the accuracy of recent descriptions of the perinreum, &c., and the value of the methods or modes of statement upon which such descriptions are based. The Author owns himself to be entirely out of harmony with any attempt to merely explain, and to get men, as the phrase goes, to understand Anatomy, without their * This is possible in Paris. In Paris, "subjects" are buried promiscuously in accordance to their state of decomposition. The inspector makes his round once a week, and orders the removal of such "parts" as are green and odorous. These are thrown into a tub in the middle of the dissecting room, previous to burial. When a student, the Author would make " his round " a little before the inspector, and mark out in his mind what " parts," - should they be thrown into the tub, - would, - if successfully rescued - suit his purpose. After the official tour was over, he would then make his round again, fish out unobserved, the tit-bits from the tub, lop off the green and smelling outside, and reinstate the rem- nant, henceforth his property, on the dissecting room table. The authorities encouraged the little escapade rather than otherwise, and so regular and accepted did the practice become, that the then studious youth was, if he remembers rightly, not infrequently consulted as to whether a "part" should, for his service, be thrown into the tub or not! This was in the "fifties" and "sixties." Whether the same thing could be done now, the Author could scarcely say. But he would here gratefully put on record the fact that, for any special and useful purpose, the Paris authorities would always give "siibjects " wholesale, and free of charge. The Author received many such for the purpose of his "Thesis on Operative Anatomy."