SWEETS. U4 Puff Pastry (Plain).—i lb. flour, 4 oz. lard, 6 oz. butter, 1 tea- 3 a wineglass of sherry and £ a wineglass of brandy, add sugar and nutmeg to taste. Sufficient for eight jelly-glasses. General Remarks on making Pastry.—Pastry must be made in a cool place, and with a light hand. The oven must be very hot when the pastry is first put in. Short pastry is the most digestible kind, and will keep well for a week in a tin. Puff paste is much better eaten on the day or the day after it is made. Puff Pastry (Superior).—r lb. butter, i lb. very fine flour, a few drops of lemon juice, yolks of two eggs. Mix a pinch of salt with the flour, and make it into a paste not too stiff with the lemon juice and eggs and a little cold water. Use a knife to mix it with. Mix till quite smooth, and then set on ice or in a draught to get quite cold. The flour must be perfectly dry and put through a sieve. The butter should be squeezed in a cloth to extract every atom of moisture from it. Then flour the marble slab or the board on which you are going to make the pastry, and the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste lightly and neatly and only one way; then put the butter in the middle of the paste (if the butter is very hard knead it soft first) and fold the ends and sides over it so as entirely to cover it. Then roll out the paste again, and be careful to roll it straight and not to let the butter break through ; then fold over one third of the length, flatten this slightly with the rolling-pin, and fold the other third over the top and set it aside either on ice or in a draught of cool air. Keep it there for a quarter of an hour. Then again roll it out twice with the rough edges towards you each time, just as you did before. Again put the paste on ice or in a draught for a few minutes and repeat till the pastry has been rolled out seven times. Put it on ice for a few minutes, roll it out about a third of an inch thick and it is ready for use. Pastry must be baked in a quick oven or it will be entirely spoilt. If you have made more pastry than you want, roll it up and keep it till the next day in a cool dry place, and bake it, then it will be quite good.