SAUCES. 85 whole. Use the rest of the boiled chestnuts with half a pint of good stock, and rub through a wire sieve. Make the sauce hot without letting it boil, add seasoning and a glass of white wine. Serve with roast turkey. Custard Sauce.—3 eggs (yolks only), f pint milk, vanilla. Boil the milk in a double saucepan. Have ready the yolks of the eggs beaten up. Pour the boiling milk very gradually over them, stirring well all the time. Pour the mixture back into the double saucepan, and stir till the custard thickens. The saucepan must not be put back on the fire after the eggs have been added. The heat of the boiling water in the outer saucepan is quite sufficient, and custard made in this way will never curdle. A flavouring of brandy can be added when the custard is made. Dutch Sauce.—4 eggs, 2 oz. of butter, 1 tablespoon of chilli or Tarragon vinegar, 2 tablespoons of cream, a dust of pepper, salt, juice of half a lemon. Put the yolks of the eggs well beaten into a stew-pan with the cream, butter, vinegar, and season- ing. Set it over a gentle heat and stir all the time till it thickens ; if it is put over a hot fire it will curdle. Just before serving squeeze in the lemon juice. Half this quantity will be found sufficient for three people. Egg Sauce.—Boil four eggs for a quarter of an hour, put them for a few minutes in cold water, and then shell them. Chop them in small pieces. Have ready a pint and a quarter of white sauce, and add the chopped egg five minutes before the sauce has finished boiling, with a little extra salt and a dust of cayenne. German Foam Sauce.—J pint sherry or white wine, 2 eggs (yolks only), 1 tablespoon of castor sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs in a basin and stir in the sugar. Heat the wine slightly and pour over the eggs. Place the basin over a saucepan of boiling water, whisk well till frothy. On no account must the sauce boil. Glazing.—Soak J oz. of gelatine in 2 tablespoons of cold water and dissolve it in J of a pint of good strong stock. When