IOO SWEETS. it, and pour it on the eggs, which must be slightly beaten. Pour this mixture into the coated moulds and steam the pudding (after covering it with buttered paper) for half an hour. When turned out the caramel will form a delicious sauce round the dish. This pudding is equally good hot or cold. Castle Puddings.—3 eggs, rind of I a lemon grated; their weight in flour, butter, and castor sugar. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the other ingredients gradually. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately, and add the beaten whites last of all. A few drops of orange-flower water is an im- provement. Bake in little greased tins for about twenty minutes. Serve with wine sauce (page 90). Champion Pudding.—| lb. butter, i lb. sifted sugar, 3 eggs (leaving out the white of one), 3 oz. flour, | lb. raisins, lemon rind grated, and citron. Beat the butter to a cream and mix to it gradually the sugar. Beat the eggs well and add to the butter and sugar, then strew in the flour and stoned raisins. Butter a mould and stick it thickly with citron and a little lemon rind grated. Pour in the mixture and boil two hours. Serve with arrowroot sauce (page 84). Chancellor’s Pudding.—3 oz. dried cherries, I oz. candied peel, 4 sponge cakes, 4 ratafias, 1 oz. castor sugar, 2 macaroons, 4 eggs, 1 pint milk, vanilla flavouring. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered mould with some of the chemes and candied peel. Break up the cakes and biscuits and put them into the mould with the remaining cherries and candied peel. Put four yolks and two whites of eggs into a basin, add the sugar to them, and beat lightly together; stir in by degrees the milk and flavouring, and pour this mixture over the ingredients in the mould. Cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and steam for an hour and a half. Turn out and serve hot with wine sauce (page 90). Chocolate Pudding.—} lb. chocolate, i lb. butter, i lb. sugar, i lb. almonds pounded, 6 eggs. Beat the butter to a cream and stir in gradually the yolks of the eggs, then the sugar and