154 ODDS AND ENDS. sieve, and let it drain well, but without pressure. Pass the juice through a fine cloth or jelly-bag, first rinsed in boiling water, and then weigh the juice. Boil the juice fast for a quarter of an hour, and take the pan off the fire and add the loaf sugar, crushed to a powder in the proportion of half a pound of sugar to a pound of juice; stir it off the fire till the sugar is dissolved, and then boil the jelly again quickly for ten minutes. The scum must be carefully taken off during the boiling. Seville Orange Marmalade.—Rub the oranges with a clean cloth, do not peel them, but divide them into quarters, slice very thinly with a sharp knife, and take out the pips. To each pound of sliced fruit add one quart of water; let it stand twenty-four hours. Then boil it until the peel is tender; let it stand again till next day, then weigh fruit and water together, and to every pound add one and a quarter pounds of loaf sugar. Boil the whole until the sugar jellies and the peel is transparent, about three-quarters of an hour. To four dozen oranges add six lemons. Crab Apple Jelly.—Allow a pint of water to every pound and a half of crab apples, and boil gently till the apples are broken, but not fallen to a pulp. Pass through a jelly-bag, and when the juice is quite transparent weigh it and put it into a preserving pan ; boil quickly for a quarter of an hour, take it off the fire and add the sugar, three parts of a pound to every pound of juice; stir till it is dissolved, and then put it back on the fire and boil fast about twenty minutes. Strain very carefully, and pour into moulds. The crab apples should be rubbed clean, but not peeled or cored. Syrup of Currants or Blackberries.—Slightly warm the fruit and squeeze the juice from it with a wooden spoon, strain it, and set it aside in a basin, and let it stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours; then pass it gently through a fine hair sieve, using no pressure, and again put it through a jelly-bag rinsed out in hot water, or a cloth. Weigh the juice, and add an equal