79 VEGETABLES. To Boil New Potatoes.—Scrape or rub the skins off and throw the potatoes into cold water. Put them in a saucepan and cover with boiling water, sprinkle with a little salt and put a small sprig of fresh mint in the water ; put the lid on the saucepan and boil till tender, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. Pour off all the water, and lay a clean cloth over the potatoes, put the lid on again, and let the pan stand by the side of the fire till the potatoes are dry. Melt a little butter in a saucepan, and toss the potatoes in it. Serve very hot, and if liked sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them. To Bake Potatoes.—Wash the potatoes with their skins on, and cut a little bit off the end of each. Choose potatoes of an equal size. Bake in a moderate oven from one and a half to two and a half hours, according to their size and the heat of the oven. Serve on a hot dish in a napkin. To Mash Potatoes.—Boil or steam the potatoes, then put them through a potato masher, or mash with a fork till quite free from lumps. Melt half an ounce of butter in a saucepan with two tablespoons of milk, and pepper and salt to taste, mix with the mashed potatoes, let them get hot, and serve in a very hot dish. If they are wanted extra good, more butter can be used and a little cream, and they should be well whipped. To Brown Potatoes.—Wash and peel the potatoes, and partly boil them. When they are half cooked, take them up, drain them, and put them in the dripping-pan under the meat; let them remain till they are cooked through and equally browned all over. They will take about three quarters of an hour. If not convenient to put under the meat, they may be baked in a brisk oven till brown, being basted occasionally with dripping ; or placed in a tin before a hot fire. Potato Balls .—Yolks of 2 eggs, i tablespoon cream, parsley, i oz. butter. Boil or steam 2 lbs. potatoes, and mash them. When they are cold, put them into a mortar, and pound them with the butter, cream, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, a little