FISH. 24 to cut off the heads, split the herrings open, flour them, and fry. The roes should be fried separately. Kedgeree.—Boil 2 or 4 oz. of rice, according to the size of the dish required, as for curry. Pick the flesh of the fish from the bones, and break with a fork into flakes free from skin and bone; take equal quantities of fish and rice; melt a slice of butter in a saucepan, throw in the rice and fish, and stir all briskly together till the mixture is quite hot, seasoning it rather highly with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Have ready two slightly- beaten eggs, stir them into the kedgeree for a minute or two till the egg has set; serve very hot, piled on a dish. Kippers. -Put in boiling water for five minutes. Then drain well, put small pieces of butter on them, and place in a Dutch oven in front of a bright fire for ten minutes. To Boil Mackerel.—Cleanse the inside of the fish thoroughly, and lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, A lb. salt to each gallon of water, and two tablespoons of vinegar ; bring it gradually to the boil, skim it well and simmer gently till done, which will be when the tail splits and the eyes start out. After the water boils it takes about ten or fifteen minutes^ or more if the fish is very large. Fennel sauce is usually served with this fish. Broiled Mackerel.—Cleanse the fish thoroughly and dry in a cloth ; cut off the head and tail and split the body open ; take out the backbone ; rub well with butter, and sprinkle with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice. Broil in a frying-pan in which a small piece of butter has been melted. Put the white side of the fish next to the fire first, and when it is partly cooked turn it and let the other side brown. To Pickle Mackerel.—Clean and prepare the fish and wipe well in a cloth. Put the fish in a deep pie-dish with two bay- leaves, 3 doz. peppercorns, £ a teaspoonful of salt. Cover the fish with vinegar and water in the proportion of £ vinegar and £ water; put a plate over the top and stand in a slow oven an hour.