137 CAKES. A very good Soda Cake.—1 lb. flour, j- lb. currants, A lb. butter, 1 lemon rind (grated), i lb. sifted sugar, 3 eggs, i pint boiling milk, a little candied peel, 1 small teaspoon of carbonate of soda. Rub the butter lightly into the flour with the fingers, and when it looks like fine bread-crumbs mix well with the sugar. Then add the boiling milk, and next the eggs well beaten, and the candied peel and grated rind of the lemon and the currants. Beat the cake well and lightly with a silver fork till the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, and then strew in a very small teaspoon of carbonate of soda which has been rubbed through a sieve with a little of the sugar ; again beat the cake lightly for a few minutes and put it into a tin lined with buttered paper, and bake for an hour and a quarter. Spice Cake.—I lb. of flour, | lb. of butter, ^ lb. of currants, i lb. of sugar, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 1^ oz. candied peel, 3 oz. mixed spice, 3 eggs. Rub the butter into the flour, add the baking powder, sugar, and other ingredients, and stir in the eggs well beaten. Line a cake tin with buttered paper and bake in a moderate oven. This is only a cake for those who like spice. Sponge Cake (very good).—5 large eggs (quite new-laid), the weight of 4 in castor sugar and of nearly 3 in flour, the rind of one grated lemon or vanilla. Break the eggs and separate the whites from the yolks; beat the yolks in a bowl for ten minutes, strew in the sugar gradually, and beat well with the whisk. Beat the whites to a stiff froth (this is most easily done by putting the whites on a plate and whisking with the flat blade of a knife in a cool place), add when stiff to the yolks, and when well blended stir the flour gently to them, but do not beat it into the mixture; then add the flavouring. Brush over the cake tins with melted butter, and shake in powdered sugar till thickly coated. Tie a strip of oiled paper about six inches in depth outside the tin. Pour in the sponge cake mixture, and bake one hour in a mode- rate oven.