* 133 CAKES. Orange Cake.—The weight of 3 eggs in castor sugar, butter, and flour. Beat the sugar and butter to a light cream, add two eggs (whites and yolks beaten together), then half the flour, beating well; then add the grated rind of an orange and half the juice. Put in the rest of the flour and a small teaspoon of baking powder and the other egg. Line a cake tin with buttered paper and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven. This cake is very nice iced, and the icing should be flavoured and coloured with a little orange juice and ornamented with dried fruits or sweets. See general directions for icing cakes. Pretoria Cake.—i lb. butter, £ lb. castor sugar, i pint boiling milk, 1 lb. flour, 3 eggs, 8 oz. sultanas, 1 very small tea- spoon of carbonate of soda, flavouring. Work the butter and flour into small crumbs, and well mix with them the sugar, and then the boiling milk and well-whisked eggs, the flavouring, and sultanas or currants. Beat the whole well and lightly together and add the soda, which must be rubbed through a sieve with a little sugar. Beat for three or four, minutes and bake for one and a quarter hours. Queen’s Buns.—4 eggs, their weight in flour, butter, and in castor sugar, 12 drops of essence of almonds, | teaspoon baking powder, a few currants. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the eggs, add the sugar, and beat again; add the essence, and stir in the flour. Bake in fancy tins (previously brushed over with melted butter) about a quarter of an hour. Queen Cakes.—i lb. flour, \ lb. butter, 1 oz. sweet almonds, 1 lb. sugar, 1 teaspoon of baking powder, 2 eggs, a dessert-spoon of cream. Beat the butter to a cream, dredge in the flour, then the sugar and chopped almonds. Whisk the eggs and add them with the cream. Beat for ten minutes with a silver fork, stir in the baking powder, and bake in a quick oven in small buttered tins. They should be heart-shaped. Rice Cake.—i lb. each of flour, ground rice, butter, and sugar, 2 oz. candied peel, 2 eggs, i pint warm milk, 1 lemon rind grated,