ODDS AND ENDS. *57 half of boiling water, cover with a cloth, and let it stand till cold. Stir, strain, and use. Paste for Sticking.—2 even teaspoons of flour, 1 breakfast- cup of water, powdered alum sufficient to cover a threepenny- piece. Stir the flour into a smooth paste with a very little cold water and fill the cup up with boiling water, stirring all the time to prevent it getting lumpy. Then pour it into a saucepan and boil; stir constantly, and when it is just ready add the alum. Leave it to get cold, it is then fit to use. Pot Pourri.—\ oz. bottles of essence of bergamot, essence of cassia, oil of ambergris, 2 dozen cloves grated, 1 oz. bay salt broken into small pieces. Rose leaves well dried and mixed with all sorts of sweet-smelling leaves, such as lavender, scented geranium, and verbena. The roses must be picked from the trees and be quite dry, and the petals must be separated and dried in the sun on sheets of newspaper. Then they must be mixed with the spices. This quantity is enough to fill one large bowl or two or three small ones. Russian Toffee.—I cupful each of sugar, golden syrup, and cream or milk, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. grated unsweetened chocolate.. Put these ingredients into an enamelled saucepan and boil them together, stirring constantly for forty minutes. Then remove from the fire, and beat well until beginning to cool. Flavour with vanilla, and pour out on to a buttered dish to get cold. How to Clean Brass Trays.—-Wash with soap and water,, dry well, then rub the tray thoroughly with a lemon cut in half. Swill with cold water to remove all the lemon juice, polish with a. leather. Do not use any powder. How to Clean Silver.—The secret of keeping silver always, beautifully polished lies in the washing of it quite as much as in the polishing. It must be washed in hot water with ordinary yellow soap, and it must be dried at once. If all the silver is. washed first and dried afterwards, the silver will look smeared and dull, so it is best to wash a little and dry a little till all is done.