MEAT. 50 Pork Chops.—These are best fried in a frying-pan in their own fat. They take about twenty minutes, or twice as long as mutton chops to cook, and must be thoroughly done. Season with pepper and salt. Either tomato sauce, apple sauce, or piquante sauce may be served with them in addition to some brown gravy. Leg of Pork.—Roast in the usual way according to direc- tions given. Score the skin across in narrow strips, rub a little salad oil on the skin with a brush or feather; this will make it very crisp and brown, and prevent the skin from blistering. When done, sprinkle with chopped sage, and serve with sage and onion stuffing-balls round the dish and apple sauce in a tureen. Loin of Pork.—The same as leg of pork. To Boil Pickled Pork.—If the pork is very salt let it soak in cold water for a few hours. Then put it in a saucepan and cover with cold water and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim the liquid, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and let the meat simmer gently till it is done ; as a rule, it takes half an hour to the pound from the time the water boils. Rissoles (i).—Mince finely any sort of cold meat, and be most careful to free it from every bit of skin, gristle, or outside pieces. Add a thin slice of fat ham or bacon minced with the meat. To four tablespoons of minced meat allow one tablespoon of grated bread-crumbs, one tablespoon cooked potato, one tea- spoon chopped parsley, half a teaspoon thyme, a little chopped lemon rind, salt and pepper. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly with the meat and bind together with an egg, roll into balls, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in very hot fat. Rissoles (2).—Take 1 lb. of beef or mutton, mince twice through a machine. Mix the meat together with | lb. mashed potatoes, 1 teaspoon of finely chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, moisten with 3 tablespoons of stock or gravy, and 1 egg well beaten. Make the mixture into balls, cover with egg and bread-crumbs. Fry a nice brown and serve. To Boil a Tongue.—The tongue should be fresh from the