53 MEAT. Sweetbreads Baked and Larded (entree).—Prepare them exactly as in the foregoing recipe, but instead of egg and bread- crumbing them, lard them with bacon and bake them in the oven, and baste with bacon fat. Sprinkle with minced parsley and serve with white sauce. Rolled Breast of Veal. —Bone a breast of veal, lay it flat on a table, and spread over the inside a layer of veal forcemeat (see p. 54), and over that thin slices of ham ; roll the veal very tightly and bind it with tape. Put it into a stew-pan with a plate under it to keep it from sticking, barely cover it with stock or hot water, and simmer gently for about three hours. Put it between two dishes, lay a heavy weight on the top, and let it get cold. This is a good dish for supper, breakfast, or luncheon. To Curry Veal.—i| lbs. veal cutlet, I pint stock, 1 gill cream, | lb. butter, 2 onions, 1 apple, 1 lemon, 1 tablespoon curry powder, 1 tablespoon curry paste, a little salt. Cut the veal into little square pieces. Chop the onion and fry it in the butter, and add the apple chopped finely, and then the curry powder and the paste. Fry these together for five minutes, then add the stock and stir till it boils. When it boils, put in the meat. Simmer gently for two hours, then add the cream and lemon juice. Arrange the meat on a dish with the sauce and serve with boiled rice. Veal Cutlets.—i| lbs. veal cutlet, I egg, bread-crumbs, lemon, butter, parsley, salt and pepper, bacon. Cut the veal into neat little pieces, the size of the top of an egg-cup, and £ inch thick ; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs which have been seasoned with chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Fry them a delicate brown, and be careful not to burn them. They should be thoroughly cooked through, but not dry. Make a gravy in the frying-pan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut and a tea- spoon of flour. When this is brown pour a little boiling water over it, season with pepper and salt and a little lemon juice. Give one boil and pour round the cutlets. A few slices of bacon should be rolled up and cooked on a skewer, and used to garnish the dish.