FISH. 22 will also be in danger of doing if much flour is used. Arrange the fish cakes in the frying basket, being careful not to let them touch each other. As soon as a thin blue flame can be seen rising from the fat plunge the basket into it, and let it remain until the cakes are a light golden brown ; take them out and lay them on kitchen paper on a sieve to drain. Let the fat get hot again, and put some very dry sprigs of washed parsley into the basket, and plunge into the hot fat for two seconds. Lay them a moment on the paper to drain, and serve on a very hot dish with the fish cakes. Fish Pie.—Remains of cold boiled fish, three or four potatoes boiled and mashed, a cup of melted butter well seasoned with anchovy or other fish sauce, one teaspoon of minced parsley, pepper and salt. Pull the pieces of fish apart with a silver fork, carefully removing all the skin and bones ; put it in a pestle and mortar and pound it a little with the other ingredients. Put it in a pie-dish and cover with a layer of mashed potatoes well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a small piece of butter. Cover the dish and set in a moderate oven till it smokes and bubbles, then remove the cover, and brown before serving. If the fish pie is made of cod or haddock, pickled walnuts are a great improvement to this dish, and should be served with it. Fish Mould Steamed.—Take a couple of small fresh haddocks or a large whiting, skin and bone them, and pound them in a mortar with ^ of a pint of white sauce, add one tea- spoon of minced parsley, two hard-boiled eggs chopped into neat squares, pepper and salt to taste, a very small teacup of bread- crumbs, and another of a pint of white sauce. Mix thoroughly, add the beaten yolks of two eggs and the whites whisked sepa- rately to a stiff froth ; fill a well-greased mould with the fish, and steam for an hour and a quarter. Turn out carefully and serve with white sauce round the mould. The fish can be steamed in several small moulds instead of one big one.