149 ODDS AND ENDS. for each quart of soup. Cover them with good stock, and stew them gently for an hour, or until they break when touched with a fork. Drain, pound them smoothly, and rub them through a fine sieve; mix with them slowly the proper quantity of stock, add sufficient mace, cayenne, and salt to season the soup, stir often till it boils, i of a pint of cream will greatly improve the soup. Part of the stock in which the chestnuts were boiled can be used for the soup if the sweetness is not objected to. Chutnee.—3 dozen apples peeled and cored, cut into eight pieces, ^ lb. preserved ginger scraped, 1 oz. mustard seed picked and washed, 6 shalots, 5 Spanish onions cut in thin slices, i| oz. small bird’s-eye chillies, £ lb. salt, 2 lbs. coarse brown sugar, 3 quarts brown vinegar, 4 oz. sultana raisins. The sugar, vinegar, and salt dissolved together cold. Then the whole to be boiled till the apple is tender. This chutnee is greatly improved by being kept six months before being used. Tomato Chutnee (very good).—16 lbs. of tomatoes, 1 lb. brown sugar, lb. salt, 2 oz. white pepper, 1 oz. cayenne, {- oz. allspice, 1 oz. powdered cloves, 1 quart vinegar, 4 large onions. Cut the tomatoes in thick slices, sprinkle the salt over them, let them stand all night. The next morning boil the tomatoes, with the onions cut in slices, for two hours, strain through a coarse sieve, add the other ingredients. Boil again for two or three hours till quite thick, put into bottles well corked. Do not use for a month. Curry.—Large onion sliced, fry it in a piece of dripping or butter the size of an egg. Fry a good brown 5 oz. meat, three vegetables of any kind—cabbage, carrot, cauliflower, broccoli, for preference ; but not lettuce or spinach. Mix well together with a dessert-spoon of curry powder and salt. Add to the onions, and cook until all is a yellow colour. Add a teacup of gravy (water will do if fresh meat), 1 tablespoon vinegar. Simmer gently till meat is quite tender. Curry Powder.—Mix 8 oz. coriander seed, 4 oz. cunien seed,