82 VEGETABLES. for a quarter of an hour, or longer if it is large. Drain it on a hot colander and serve on toast. Pour white sauce over it. Spinach.—Pick the spinach leaf by leaf from the stems and wash it in several waters to thoroughly clear it from grit. Put it into a saucepan with only the water that adheres to the leaves, and sprinkle a little salt over it. Cook till quite tender, which will be in about ten minutes, stirring occasionally to avoid burning. Drain it and press the moisture from it. Rub through a wire sieve, put it into a clean saucepan with a little butter and pepper and salt. Fried sippets of bread should be served with this. Poached eggs can be served on the spinach. Baked Tomatoes.—This is a very simple but a very good way of cooking tomatoes when you want them as a vegetable. Cut off a very small piece from the stem end of the tomatoes and insert a dust of salt, cayenne, and a little bit of butter ; place the tomatoes in a dish and bake them in a moderate oven for an hour. Serve them in a vegetable dish very hot. To Boil Turnips .—Put them into boiling water salted and skimmed, and boil about twenty minutes, or longer if they are not very young. They must be pared and thrown into cold water before they are boiled. To mash them rub them through a wire sieve and put back in a saucepan to insure their being quite dry, then add some butter, salt, cayenne, and milk or cream, and continue to simmer and stir for five or six minutes till they have absorbed all the liquor. Serve very hot. To Boil Vegetable Marrow.—Peel the marrow, remove the seeds, cut it in quarters, and boil in boiling water previously salted and skimmed. Drain the pieces of marrow and serve on toast. Pour melted butter over. Stuffed Vegetable Marrow (entree).—Pound to a paste in a mortar equal parts of veal and ham or chicken; then pass them through a sieve, and return them to the mortar. Work into the paste thus obtained a fourth of its bulk of butter, and about the same quantity of bread-crumbs with the yolks of two eggs, add 5