SOUPS. }3 butter, g small turnip, i onion, i head of celery, i bunch sweet herbs, i bay-leaf, 4 cloves, 2 tablespoons of catsup, 12 peppercorns, 1 wineglass of port wine, 3 quarts water, salt and pepper to taste. Cut the ox tails in small pieces, dividing them at the joints; thoroughly wash them, wipe them dry, and fry in an earthenware stew-pot with the butter. Add the vegetables (which should be sliced into small pieces) and the herbs. The onion, a fair-sized one, should be stuck with the cloves, and not cut up. Put half a pint of cold water in the stew-pot, and stir over a sharp fire till the juices are extracted; then add the remainder of the cold water, skim well, and simmer very gently for four hours, or longer if the tails are not tender. Take the meat out; skim and strain the soup. Thicken the soup with one teaspoon of flour, season it with salt and pepper, the catsup, and port wine. Put back the' meat, simmer for five minutes, and serve. Pea Soup.—1 lb. good split peas, 2 quarts stock, a slice of lean ham or bacon, dried mint, seasoning. Wash the peas in two or three waters, and throw away all those that float; soak them for twelve hours, and then boil them in just sufficient of the water they were soaked in to allow them to mash easily. Put them with two quarts of stock and the bacon, and stew them gently in it for an hour; then rub the whole through a sieve, heat the soup again, clear it perfectly from scum, season with salt and pepper, and send it to table with a dish of crofltons of fried bread. A small dish of very finely crushed dried mint should be handed round with this soup. Green Pea Soup.—3 pints green shelled peas, a few sprigs of mint, 2 quarts of stock, a few spinach leaves, 1 lettuce, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. of flour. Put one quart of stock and all the vegetables, except half a pint of the peas, into the stew-pot, and simmer till quite tender, then press through a sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan, add the remainder of the stock, and season with pepper and salt; let it come to boiling-point, and just before serving, if the soup is not very thick, add the butter and flour,