SWEETS. 115 spoon of lemon juice, water. See that the flour is very dry; put it through a sieve. Rub in the lard with the tips of the fingers and mix it into a smooth paste with the water and lemon juice, using a knife, and taking care not to make it too wet. 1 urn it out on a floured pastry board, and roll it out till it is about half an inch thick; spread it with dabs of butter; sift over a little flour ; fold it up, roll out again, and spread more butter on it. Do this several times till all the butter is used up. It makes better pastry to put the paste on a baking sheet over ice or in a cool place for twenty minutes, and then to roll it again, but this is not necessary for ordinary plain pastry. Pastry for Meat Pies.—io oz. flour, 6 oz. lard, salt, i teaspoon baking powder, cold water. Rub the flour through a sieve. Mix in a basin with the baking powder and a pinch of salt. Rub in the lard lightly with the fingers, moisten with a little cold water, and mix with a knife. Roll out and use at once. Short Pastry.—i lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, and 4 oz. of lard, the yolk of an egg, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, 2 teaspoons of castor sugar, about 3 tablespoons of water, a pinch of salt. Mix the salt and sugar with the flour. Crumble the butter and lard into the flour with the tips of the fingers. Make a hole in the crumbs, and put in the yolk of an egg, a teaspoon of lemon juice, and the water. Mix lightly but thoroughly with a knife or the hands. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick, and use for fruit pies or tartlets. The pastry will be richer if 10 oz. of butter is used and no lard. To Boil or Steam Puddings.—Grease the basin or mould. Scald the cloth that is used to tie over it and flour it inside. Plunge the pudding into boiling water, and add more boiling water as it boils away. For jam rolls and suet rolls use no basin, but roll the pudding in a scalded and floured cloth and tie loosely at the ends and in the middle with string. A plate should be put at the bottom of the saucepan. To steam puddings without a steamer let the water come half-