CAKES. 131 three or four inches long by two broad. These can be cut in two and jam laid between (raspberry is best, or red currant jelly). The fingers should be iced with various coloured icings. The icing for these cakes can be made by putting half a pound of icing sugar into a bowl, dropping in some flavouring, and mixing smoothly with about a tablespoon of warm water. With the blade of a knife, previously dipped in boiling water, spread the top of six of the fingers with the icing, divide the remainder of the icing into two, and colour one half with cochineal, spinach syrup, or saffron, and to the other half stir in two tablespoons of grated chocolate. Ice the remainder of the cakes in the same way. These cakes can be cut into diamonds, rounds, or strips, and will make many variations of little cakes for tea. Little Cakes.—3 eggs, 6 oz. flour, I teacup sugar, oz. butter, 1 teacup milk, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 teacup currants, candied peel. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the yolks of the eggs, then the milk. Mix the baking powder with the flour and add; beat the whites of egg to a stiff froth, stir in lightly, and bake the cakes in small buttered patty-pans. Liverpool Cake.—This is a very delicious currant or seed cake. 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, { lb. pounded or castor sugar, 9 eggs (leaving out the whites of two), 2 or 3 oz. of currants, or 1 oz. carraway seeds. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and the eggs (well beaten) by degrees. Beat all together fifteen or twenty minutes, then stir the flour gently in and the fruit or carraway seeds. Bake in a hot oven for two hours. Milk Bread.—I lb. flour, I small teaspoon salt, 1 large tea- spoon baking powder. Mix it with | pint of cold milk, make into a loaf, and bake at once in a quick oven. Milk Roll.—Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into 1 lb. of flour, add salt and one heaped teaspoon of baking powder, then add enough milk to make into a nice dough, handle lightly, make into rolls, and bake at once. Macaroons.—lb. sweet almonds, ^ lb. sifted sugar, the