”3 SWEETS. 8 the mixture into a deep cake tin, and bake about half an hour. Serve in the tin, and pin a serviette round it. Serve foam sauce in a tureen. It must be served at once or it will fall. Foam Sauce.—i wineglass of sherry, yolk of i egg, grated rind of an orange, l oz. castor sugar. Beat these ingredients in a hot basin set over a saucepan of boiling water till they are frothy. Pancakes.—The batter for these should be made some hours before it is wanted for use. It should be quite smooth, and of the consistency of thick custard. The proportions are one tablespoon of flour, and a quarter of a pint of milk to each egg. The whites and yolks of the eggs should be whisked separately, then add them to the flour, and when it is quite smooth add the milk or cream. Have a clear fire, and a small, clean frying-pan with some boiling lard in it. Pour in enough of the batter to cover the pan thinly. The edges of the pancake should be kept free from the pan with a knife, and the pan must be shaken lightly to prevent sticking. When the batter is set and nicely brown, the pan should be taken hold of at the end of the handle and lightly jerked upwards so as to turn the pancake completely over; brown on the other side and serve with cut lemons. Pommes a la Dauphine.—Peel and take out the core from 2 lbs. of apples, taking care to keep them whole, put them into a stew-pan, buttered at the bottom, add a very little water, a piece of cinnamon, a tablespoon of brandy, and 2 oz. sugar; put the stew-pan on a gentle fire to keep the apples whole; when done take them off the fire and place them in a mould or deep dish, the contents should rise rather above the level of it; put into each apple a spoonful of apricot or any other jam, and a small piece of candied lemon. Powder three or four macaroons and sprinkle them on the apples, and pour whipped cream flavoured with vanilla over them. This sweet is particularly good when it is iced. Possets.—i pint cream, the grated rind and juice of i lemon. Whip the cream and lemon together till they thicken, then add