KISH. 19 To Clean Fish.—To clean fish properly requires scrupulous care, and it must never be so roughly handled as to bruise it. If fish is soaked too long in water it loses its flavour, so that care must be taken not to leave it longer than necessary in the water. The scales must be scraped off, and water poured over the fish to wash off all the loose scales; then empty the fish without opening it more than you can help; wash out the blood, and scrape it away from the backbone. The dark skin of the sole must be stripped off when it is fried, but left on for boiling. Whiting taste better with the skin left on, but usually have it taken off for frying. The gills of all fish must be removed. To know when Boiled Fish is Cooked.—When the flesh breaks away from the tail in a whole fish or from the bone in a portion of a fish, and the eyes loosen from the head, it is sufficiently cooked. Fat for frying Fish.—Fat for frying must be very good, whether it be butter, lard, or oil. Olive oil is the best ; lard is the most used, and is much better for this purpose than butter. Frying fat can be kept in a clean jar and used several times, but it should be strained each time it has been used. There must always be sufficient fat in the frying-pan to entirely cover the fish. The fat must be so hot that it has ceased to bubble, and be giving off a blue flame, before it is hot enough to put the fish into. A small piece of bread must be thrown into the fat to test the heat, and if it comes out golden brown it is ready for use. Burnt fat must not be used again. To keep Boiled Fish Hot for Table.—Never leave it in the water after it is done. Take out the fish and lay the fish- plate on a large dish, made very hot, and place this across the top of the fish-kettle; cover the fish with a clean cloth wrung out in boiling water, and over this put a tin cover. Just before the fish is wanted put the fish back in the fish-kettle of boiling water for an instant, and then drain it and serve immediately. Bloaters.—Cut off the heads and tails, open the bloaters at