SWEETS. I 12 \ oz. mace, | pint port wine, i pint brandy. Stone and chop the raisins and carefully pick over the currants, chop up the candied peel finely, pare, core, and mince the apples. Grate the lemon rind and strain the lemon juice. Chop the suet very fine indeed. Then mix all the ingredients very thoroughly together, stir vigorously, using a long wooden spoon; when all are well blended add the wine and brandy, and stir well again. Store the mince- meat in an earthenware jar, and cover tightly with paper. Stir well each time it is used. Monday Pudding.—The remains of a plum pudding cut in slices. Butter a mould and fill it with alternate layers of bread and butter and plum pudding, fill it up with a custard made of 2 eggs, steam for half an hour, and serve with wine sauce. Nancy Pudding.—2 oz. flour, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth, and gradually add the milk and sugar. Stir over the fire till the mix- ture thickens, but only let it boil gently. Pour into a basin, and when it is nearly cold add the eggs, which should have been well whisked. Bake in a pie-dish in a moderate oven for half an hour. Oatmeal Pudding.—2 oz. oatmeal, 1 pint water, sugar to taste. Boil the water and dredge in the oatmeal, stirring con- stantly with a knife ; when it is of the desired thickness put the lid on the saucepan and draw it a little aside to simmer, and the longer it can simmer the better, but if necessary it can be taken up after it has boiled for about twenty minutes. . It must be stirred from time to time to keep it from burning. A jug of cream should be served with this pudding. Orange Soufflee.—2 oz. flour, 2 eggs, I oz. butter, 1 orange, 3 pint milk, 1 oz. castor sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs and mix in the orange juice and the grated rind and sugar. Mix the milk, butter, and flour in a saucepan, and stir over the fire till thick ; when this is nearly cold add to it the other ingredients, and lastly add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Turn