39 MEAT. the joint in an earthenware pan with the mixture and turn it once in twenty-four hours. In twelve days the beef will be ready. It must then be washed but not left to soak, tie and skewer the joint into a good shape and put it into a stew-pan which is only just big enough to take it, and pour over it rather less than two pints of boiling water, a small onion, a carrot, a sprig of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, and a little bit of celery. Let it simmer slowly for three hours and skim occasionally, then take out the beef and put it in a deep dish. Press it, and when cold glaze it. To Salt Beef.—Take a piece of silver-side of the round weighing about 7 or 8 lbs. and cover it with brown sugar well rubbed in, and allow it to remain six hours; then powder half an ounce of saltpetre and press this equally on all sides to give it a colour; next cover it with common salt and let it stay till next day. Turn it and rub with the salt in the pan for five or six days, throwing the brine over it at the same time with a spoon. If salted in this way the meat will not become hard. Bubble-and-Squeak.—Boil some cabbage, drain it and press it, and cut small. Cut some thin slices of cold boiled beef, lean and fat together; fry gently in butter or dripping till they are hot through, and put them on a very hot dish. Then put the cabbage into the frying-pan to get thoroughly hot, and serve on the dish with the meat arranged round it. Potato Pie.—Cold meat minced, potato. To every pound of minced meat allow a quarter of a pound of mashed potatoes and a little minced parsley. Mix well, and put into a pie-dish with some gravy, a tablespoon of ketchup or Worcester sauce, a good seasoning of pepper and salt, and cover with mashed potatoes. Bake for an hour. Another way.—Cut the cold meat into slices and put alternate layers of meat and mashed potatoes or sliced tomatoes, and seasoning as before and gravy. Cover with mashed potato and bake. Crumb Pie.—Proceed as for potato pie, but use bread-crumbs instead of potatoes, and put little bits of butter on the top.