MEAT. 54 To Roast a Fillet of Veal.—Take out the bone and fill the space with forcemeat. Bind the veal into a round and fasten with skewers and tape. Roast in the usual way according to direc- tions, but half an hour before it is done dredge a little flour over it and baste well. The joint should be nicely browned. When done remove the tape and skewers and put in silver ones. Pour £ pint thin melted butter into the dripping-pan instead of water for making the gravy. Garnish with small rolls of broiled bacon. Veal Forcemeat.—The rind of a lemon grated, 2 oz. bread- crumbs, 2 oz. chopped suet, a dessert-spoon chopped parsley, a small teaspoon thyme, pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg. Fricandeau of Veal.—3! lbs. of the lean part of the best end of neck (boned), y lb. bacon, 3 carrots, y a turnip, 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves, bunch of sweet herbs, 1 bay-leaf, 12 pepper- corns, £ teaspoon grated lemon rind, about 1 pint water. The meat must be nicely trimmed and larded evenly with strips of fat bacon. Roll the meat and bind it with tape, with the larding outside. Cut up the vegetables into small pieces and put them into a stew-pan with some slices of bacon and the trimmings of the meat. Lay the meat on the top of the vegetables, and pour in as much cold water as will cover the vegetables without covering the meat (about one pint). Cover the stew-pan, and let its contents come slowly to the boil, and then stew very gently by the side of the fire till the meat is tender, basting it frequently with its own liquor. It should simmer about two hours. Twenty minutes before it is to be served take the veal out of the stew-pan and put it in a brisk oven to crisp the bacon. Strain the liquor in the stew-pan, skim off the fat, season it, boil quickly to glaze it, and baste the fricandeau with it till it looks glossy. Serve the meat with its own gravy or on a puree of spinach, or some other vegetable. To Boil a Knuckle of Veal.—Wash it and put into a stew- pan, cover with hot water, let it boil and then draw back and simmer gently, and skim frequently for from two to three hours