SOUPS. 14 which must have been well mixed together. Boil the half-pint of peas by themselves, put them in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Plain toast should be served with this soup. Potato Soup.—3 lbs. mealy potatoes, 3 pints of stock (white is best, but ordinary stock will do), 3 onions, i pint of milk, 1 tea- spoon of parsley chopped fine, cayenne and salt and pepper. Strain the stock and put it to heat over the fire in a double sauce- pan. Boil separately 3 lbs. of potatoes which have been peeled, and three onions ; season with pepper and salt and cayenne, and boil till tender. When cooked rub them through a sieve and add them to the boiling stock. Just before serving add half a pint of milk. This must be done gradually, and the soup must on no account be allowed to boil after this is added. Then stir in the chopped parsley and serve with a dish of croutons of fried bread. Rabbit Soup.—Cut a few slices of ham (about 3 oz.) and cover the bottom of your stock-pot with it. Cut up 2 rabbits and put in the pot, and add a bunch of parsley, a little bit of thyme, 3 small onions, a blade of mace, and about half a pint of cold water. Put the lid on the stock-pot and let it stew very gently for an hour. Then add as much stock as you want soup, and let it boil for an hour. Take out the rabbits and strip the meat from the bones; beat it in a mortar quite fine, put it in the soup with the crumbs of a penny roll, and let it boil again for an hour. Rub it through a sieve, add half a pint of cream that has been boiled, put into a double saucepan to get hot, and add seasoning to taste. If meat is liked in the soup, a few choice bits of rabbit may be saved to put in it. Rice Soup.—6 oz. Patna rice, 2 quarts white stock, Vpint cream or milk, mace, cayenne, salt. Boil the rice in the stock, and then rub half of it through a fine sieve; put the stock in a double saucepan, add all the rice, and simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Take the soup off the fire and add the cream gradually, which has been boiled separately; set the