37 MEAT. away from the hottest part of the stove and let it stew slowly till it is wanted. This ought never to be necessary for rumpsteak, but in the country it is not always possible to get this, and ordi- nary beefsteak is very tender cooked in this way. To make more gravy pour a little boiling water, pepper, salt, and Harvey or ketchup sauce into the frying-pan after the meat is taken out. Scotch Collops.—11 lbs. lean beefsteak, i onion, i oz. butter, a little flour, ^ pint of stock, pepper and salt. Mince the beef finely with a knife, cut off all the fat and skinny portions; chop up the onion and fry it in the butter till brown, then pour in the stock and dredge in a very little flour; let it boil for a few minutes. Season the minced beef with pepper and salt, and add it to the gravy in the stew-pan. Simmer it very gently from ten to twelve minutes, stirring with a fork all the time that it may not get lumpy. Add a little more boiling stock if it is too dry. Serve on a hot dish, and garnish with crofttons. To Stew Beefsteak.—Fry the meat in I oz. of butter in the stew-pan, dredge in a little flour, and when it is brown pour in by degrees enough hot water to cover the meat. When it comes to boiling-point draw the pan a little back, take off the scum, add salt, a sliced onion, carrot, a stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a dozen peppercorns. Simmer gently for three hours. A quarter of an hour before it is served mix in three teaspoons of arrowroot smoothly mixed with half a wine- glass of mushroom ketchup, a pinch of mace and cayenne. This will flavour and thicken the gravy. Button mushrooms are a great improvement, and if they are used they will take twenty minutes to stew in the gravy. To Stew Steak and Macaroni.—11 lbs. steak, | lb. maca- roni. Cut the beef in small pieces, roll them in flour, and fry slightly in 2 oz. of butter; put the meat into a stew-pan, just cover with hot water, and allow it to simmer for one and a half hours; then add the macaroni, and simmer again for three quarters of an hour.