57 MEAT. the lid on the saucepan and draw it to the side of the fire, add the wine, and let it stand there for rather more than a quarter of an hour. Wring the jelly-bag out in boiling water to make it hot, and pass the jelly through it three or four times. Rinse a mould first in hot and then in cold water, and pour in the jelly and leave till cold. Useful for garnishing and other purposes. Brawn.—A pig’s head, r onion, 2 blades of mace, 4 cloves, 12 peppercorns, 2 bay-leaves, 4 allspice, cayenne, salt. The cheeks of a pig’s head are cured separately, and must be cut out of the pig’s head before it is used for brawn. Cut off the ears. Wash the head and ears and then boil them for an hour and a half, drain off the water and boil them again in cold water until the meat can easily be taken off the bones. It must be skimmed often. Cut the meat off the head and ears into rather small pieces. Put the bones back in the saucepan with one quart stock, vegetables, and seasoning, boil it quickly till it is reduced to one pint, strain it and put it back in the saucepan and add the chopped meat, boil up once more, and then pour it into wet moulds. A hard-boiled egg in the centre of each mould is an improvement. Put a heavy weight on it and let it get cold, and then turn out. Rub the head with salt two days before using. Salmagundi.—-1 calf’s foot, 1 pig’s foot, 1 lb. lean beef cut into small pieces. Put them together in a stew-pot with three pints of cold water, some peppercorns, lemon rind, and parsley, and let them simmer till the liquid is reduced to a pint. Strain through a colander and leave till next day, the meat in one basin and the liquor in another. Then skim off all the fat, take the bones out of the meat, cut the meat up small, and put in a stew-pan with the liquor. Season to taste, and let it get quite hot and well mixed. Pour into a mould that has been rinsed in cold water and let it get quite cold, and then turn out and garnish with parsley. It should be rather highly seasoned. Kromeskies.—These can be made of cooked beef, mutton, veal, or any kind of poultry. Make some batter with four ounces