M HAT. 40 Curry. — Any meat will do, but raw meat is the best. In the latter case cut up i lb. rumpsteak into pieces the size of dice, and fry them in 2 oz. butter till the meat is nicely coloured and about half cooked. Now fry 2 or 3 moderate-sized onions and an apple finely sliced, till they are a rich red-brown colour, add to them, in the same pan, 2 tablespoons of curry powder and a little dust of cayenne and salt ; let this fry also ; then pour on to it a little boiling water or stock, about a third of a pint. Add the meat and stew gently till the sauce is thick and the meat tender. When using cooked meat it is unnecessary to fry the meat the first time, but otherwise proceed as in the recipe for raw meat. Serve with a dish of rice. Dry Curry.—Fry a minced onion in butter until lightly browned. Cut into pieces the size of dice, | lb. of cooked chicken, rabbit, or any white meat; mix this with the onion and stir them together over the fire until the meat is hot quite through: sprinkle over it 1 tablespoon of curry powder and salt to taste. Thoroughly mix the meat with the curry powder, pour over it 1 tablespoon of cream or milk, and stir over the fire till the moisture has dried. Serve with a dish of rice. To Boil Rice for Curry.—Wash as much Patna rice as is required in several waters, and leave it to soak a little. Then throw it into a large saucepan of very fast boiling water with a little salt, and keep it boiling twenty minutes, or less time if it is soft: The rice should be drained in a colander, and cold water poured over it. Dry the saucepan, put the rice back into it with the lid half off, and set it on the side of the range to get hot and dry. Shake occasionally to separate the grains; take care the rice does not get hard. Gravy for Joints.—After the joint is cooked strain the dripping into a basin, then put some boiling water in the dripping-pan with 1 teaspoon brown flour and pepper and salt, stir it about, and set it on the stove till it is quite boiling, then strain it over the meat.