3 HINTS ABOUT HOUSEKEEPING. up meat dishes and vegetables than in sweets. In households where people keep their own poultry and grow their own vege- tables this will make a great difference to their weekly books, and something must be deducted from the weekly allowance for the maintenance of the garden and poultry yard ; that is to say, the allowance per head must be less than the regulation io.y. a week. In first-class private schools, where the number to feed is anything over forty, a most excellent table of the kind required can be kept up at 6s. a head per week. This is partly because large quantities of provisions are cheaper than small quantities, and partly on account of the plainer food required, but it is the truest economy to buy the best of everything—-that is as regards quality ; I do not mean the most expensive things. In large institutions of other kinds the catering could be provided at still less a head and yet be very good, but it would be plainer than that required now- a-days in first-class preparatory schools. The aim of a good housekeeper should be to nourish those under her care in the best possible manner. It is not sufficient that the food should be “ nice,” though that is a sine qua non. She must observe quietly the particular kind of food that suits the constitution of the people she has to provide for. It is a pretty general rule that men dislike twice-cooked meat, and many do not care for sweets. The first difficulty can often be obviated by cutting off a small portion of the joint before it is cooked, and using it up in some of the ways given in this or in any other cookery book. If the man or men in your household do not care for sweets give them an extra course of something else,—one day a good savoury, another an entree, another a vegetable course, and always soup or fish. For yourself have a little pudding made. Nearly all the recipes for them can be halved or made in even less quantities. If you have only women to provide for you will probably find they much prefer dainty made-up dishes to joints, and would rather have poultry and game than meat, and they will certainly like sweets.