SOUPS. cS stewed down to a smooth pulp put in the seasoning. Stir well, and when it has simmered for five minutes pass it through a strainer. Pour it back into the saucepan, let it again simmer for five minutes, taking care to skim it well, and stir to it the cream or milk, which must be warmed before it is added. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. Beef Tea.—Beefsteak or shin of beef i lb., water x pint, salt, i small onion stuck with 2 cloves, 6 peppercorns. Ever)' bit of skin and fat must be cut away from beef that is used for beef tea. It must then be shredded quite fine with a sharp knife and mixed thoroughly with the water in an earthenware stew-pot. If the beef tea is for a very delicate invalid it is best to use no seasoning but a little salt, which is added after it is cooked, but other- wise it will be greatly improved by the addition of a small onion stuck with two cloves, and six peppei-corns. Then the lid is replaced and the stew-pot put on the side of the stove to heat very slowly. It must be stirred from time to time. It should stand thus two or three hours and not even be allowed to simmer; it should then be gently boiled for fifteen minutes. The salt is added when the boiling commences. The beef tea should be strained into a basin and left to get cold. Then the fat, should there be any, can easily be skimmed off, and the beef tea can be heated in a clean saucepan when it is wanted. Celery Soup, Thick Brown.—3 heads of celery, I onion, 1 carrot, a very small bit of turnip, 1 egg, xT pints of stock, pepper, salt, sugar, 1 oz. of butter. Cut up the celery into pieces about an inch long and boil in salt and water till tender. Cut up the other vegetables small and fry them lightly in the butter. Add the celery and moisten with a little stock. Season with pepper and salt and a pinch of sugar, and rub through a sieve. Put the puree back into the saucepan with the rest of the stock and make it boiling hot, take it off the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cold stock. Serve with crofitons of fried bread.