132 CAKES. whites of 3 eggs, wafer-paper. Blanch, skin, and dry the almonds, pound them well with a little orange-flower water or plain water; then add to them the sifted sugar and the whites of the eggs, which should be beaten to a stiff froth, and mix all the ingredients together. AVhen the paste looks soft drop it from a spoon on to sheets of wafer-paper on a baking tin, put a strip of almond on the top of each, strew some sugar over, and bake in a very slow oven for about fifteen minutes. Madeira Cake (i).—6 eggs, 9 oz. sugar, 9 oz. flour, 6 oz. butter, 1^ oz. candied peel, the grated rind of l a lemon, 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Break the eggs in a basin and whisk them for ten minutes, then stir in the sugar, flour, and the butter just warmed enough to whisk lightly ; add the peel and lemon rind, and when ready to place in the tin stir in the baking powder. Bake in a moderate oven. Madeira Cake (2).—£ lb. butter, £ lb. castor sugar, 1-3 lbs. flour, 6 eggs, 2 oz. candied peel, the grated rind of 1 lemon. Beat the butter to a cream and dredge in the flour, then the sugar and grated lemon peel, lastly the eggs well whisked. Beat all together lightly but thoroughly. Line a cake tin with buttered paper and pour in the mixture. Ornament the top of the cake with strips of candied peel. Bake in a hot oven for one and a half or two hours. Mafeking Cake.—3 eggs, i lb. flour, 4 oz. castor sugar, i lb. ground rice, 6 oz. butter, £ lb. currants, 1 oz. candied peel. Whisk the eggs, stir in the sugar, and beat well together. Beat the butter to a cream, stir into the butter the ground rice, currants, and lemon peel, then add the beaten eggs and sugar, mix in the flour very lightly. Line a tin with buttered paper and bake in a brisk oven. A Nursery Cake.—-3- lb. good beef dripping (clarified), 1% lbs. flour, ^ lb. sugar, } lb. raisins (stoned), 1 pint of milk, i oz. baking powder. Mix the baking powder with the flour, rub in the dripping, add the other ingredients,- and mix with the milk. Bake at once for one and a half hours.