SWEETS. IOI almonds. Put the chocolate in the oven in a basin till it is warm and soft. Mix this with the other ingredients, and last of all add the whites of the eggs which have been beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a mould and steam for one and a half hours. Turn out and serve hot with custard sauce (page 85). Coffee Mould.—I pint milk, | pint strong coffee, 2\ oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. gelatine, 4 eggs. Put into an enamel sauce- pan the milk, the coffee, and the yolks of two eggs ; mix them thoroughly together. Bring them to boiling-point, but do not let them boil, and stir occasionally. Pour into a basin, and stir con- tinuously till it is quite cold. Put into another basin the yolks of two eggs and the sugar, and beat with a silver fork for ten minutes. Add this to the mixture in the other basin, mix well, and add the whites of the eggs whipped to a stiff froth. Lastly add the gela- tine, which must have been dissolved in a little water; stir once more, and pour into a mould that has been rinsed in cold water. A hollow mould is best, and then when it is turned out the centre should be filled with whipped cream. Cold Cabinet Pudding.—A few sponge finger biscuits, 1 oz. ratafias, 2 oz. dry sponge or Madeira cake, ^ oz. gelatine, 4 eggs, a little citron, 2 oz. dry cherries, 1 pint milk, 1 gill cream, 1 oz. castor sugar, J gill sherry or white vine, angelica and vanilla essence. Butter a mould and ornament it with the cherries and angelica and citron. Cut the edges of the biscuits straight, and line the mould with them. Break up the ratafias and dry cake with the trimmings of the sponge biscuits, and put them into a basin. Beat up the yolks of four eggs and mix them with the milk, and stir them over the fire till they nearly but not quite reach the boiling-point; then take the saucepan off the fire and add the cream, vanilla, and wine, and pour the mixture over the cake and biscuits. Put the gelatine into a saucepan with two tablespoons of milk and water, stir it over the fire till quite dissolved, then strain over the other ingredients in the basin. Allow the mixture to cool, stirring frequently to prevent it from