56 MEAT. grated lemon rind. Cut the veal into thin strips. Dip each piece into the mixture on the plate and roll up. Set on end in a pie- dish and put some little pieces of ham and bacon in between. Boil four eggs hard, cut into rings and arrange also in the dish. Put a little cold water over the meat, line the edges of the dish with pastry, cover with paste, ornament according to fancy, make a hole for the steam to escape, and bake about two and a half hours. As soon as the crust is risen and set an oiled paper must be laid over it, and the pie put in the coolest part of the oven to cook the meat. Boil the veal bones for two hours in i£ pints slightly salted water, pour off the liquor, skim off the fat, and pour in through a funnel in the hole at the top of the pie just before serving. Rissoles of Veal.—£ lb. cooked veal, i lb. crumb of bread, 2 oz. suet, i pint milk, £ pint gravy, peel of half a lemon, 2 eggs, pepper and salt, mace. Scrape as fine as possible the veal, and salt and mix it with the crumb of bread (previously soaked in the milk), press the milk from the bread before mixing with the other ingredients, season with pepper, salt, mace, and lemon rind grated. Beat up the yolks of the eggs and mix with the mince to moisten it. Roll into balls, cover thickly with bread-crumbs, and fry a golden brown. Serve with gravy. Aspic Jelly.—I oz. gelatine, 1 pint stock, 1 onion, 1 carrot, a bit of celery, 2 cloves, 12 peppercorns, 1 gill sherry, rind and juice of half a lemon, white of 1 egg. The amount of gelatine to be used in making jelly varies a little according to the season ; in winter less is required than in the summer. The gelatine must be soaked in half a pint of cold stock for twenty minutes, and then half a pint of boiling stock should be added, and it must be stirred until all the gelatine is dissolved. When it is cold put it into a saucepan, with the vegetables cut up small, and the lemon juice and spices. Then beat up the white of an egg and add it, and also the shell (crushed). Put the saucepan on the fire, and whisk the mixture till it rises in the saucepan ; stop whisking, put /