117 SWEETS. the currants are well picked and the raisins chopped up a little as well as stoned, and the suet very finely chopped. When these things are well mixed stir in the well-beaten eggs and the brandy. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and boil for four or five hours. These ingredients can be increased when several pud- dings are to be made, and then they must be boiled longer if they are for keeping. Serve with brandy sauce (page 90) or sauce royale (page 89). Raspberry or Strawberry Cream.—1 quart of raspberries, 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of double cream, 1 oz. gelatine, | lb. castor sugar. Raspberries and strawberries are better not cooked. Bruise the fruit with a wooden spoon and sprinkle most of the sugar over it. Leave it to stand for twelve hours, then strain the fruit through a hair sieve. Soak the gelatine for half an hour in the milk, and boil it till clear and add the rest of the sugar. Stir the cream in gradually, and when it is cold add the puree of strawberries or raspberries and put the mixture into a mould that has been rinsed in cold water. Set in a cool place till next day. Raspberry Fool.—Same as Gooseberry Fool (page 106), only the raspberries must be rubbed through a finer sieve. Rice and Apple Pudding’.—4 oz. rice, apples. Boil the rice in boiling water till tender, then strain and dry in front of the fire. Butter a pudding basin and line with the rice, fill with sliced apple and a little sugar, one or two cloves, cover with rice, tie over the basin a cloth rinsed in boiling water, plunge into boiling water, and boil for about two hours. Turn out and serve hot. Rice Cheesecake.—11 pints milk, 4 eggs, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 3 oz. ground rice, 3 oz. currants. Boil one bay-leaf in one pint of milk. When it is well flavoured strain it, and add three ounces of ground rice mixed with the cold milk ; boil for a quarter of an hour, stirring all the time. Take off the fire, stir in the butter, sugar, and eggs, well beaten. Line some patty-pans with