9 sours. Celery Soup, Cream of.—2 heads of celery, 2 oz. of butter, 2 quarts chicken broth, 2 oz. flour, 1 pint boiling cream, cayenne pepper, salt, nutmeg. Wash the celery, and cut the stalks into pieces about an inch long and boil them in salt and water for ten minutes, then strain off the water and put back the celery into a saucepan with the butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; cover the saucepan and boil slowly till the celery is quite soft, then rub it through a sieve and mix it with the chicken broth, and thicken it with 4 oz. of flour cooked in the butter. Boil it for about ten minutes, stirring constantly ; skim it and pass through a fine sieve. Put it over the fire again, and add a pint of boiling cream and a very small piece of butter. The stock that a fowl has been boiled in is quite sufficiently good for this soup. Crofitons of fried bread should be served with it. Chicken Broth.—Half a fowl, 1 blade mace, 1 quart of water, a pinch of nutmeg, \ an onion, small bunch savoury herbs, salt and pepper, and 6 peppercorns. Skin the fowl and put it into the stew-pot with all the ingredients, and simmer gently for 2 hours, carefully skimming the broth. Then strain it and put it aside till it is cold; then take off every particle of fat. When it 's wanted, warm up as much as is required, and season to taste. Hare Soup.—I hare, 1 lb. gravy beef, 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, 1 sprig of parsley, 1 bay-leaf, 12 peppercorns, 1 blade of mace, 2 oz. butter, 3 quarts water, 1 glass port wine. Joint the hare and cut it and the beef into small pieces. Put the butter into the stew-pan and fry the hare and the meat in it for a few minutes till they are nicely browned, then put in the vegetables, also cut into small pieces, and fry them slightly. Add the water, cold, and the other ingredients except the wine, and simmer gently for five hours. Pour off the stock, and when it is cold remove the fat. It is best to make the soup the day before it is wanted, and to let it stand all night. After the fat has been carefully removed, strain the soup into a saucepan, then take out the bones, and rub as much of the meat as you can through a sieve, and add it to the stock in the