POULTRY. 63 covered it with a piece of buttered paper, place it in the larder till required for use. Then take of the panada and fresh butter half a pound of each, to these add 1 o oz. of prepared chicken or yany ’ other poultry. Cut the meat off a cooked chicken or turkey, chop it finely and rub it through a wire sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Pound the panada and the butter and chicken to- gether in a mortar; when well mixed add salt to taste, as much mace as will cover a sixpence, a little pepper, one egg, and a little white sauce. Pound the whole quickly, take the mixture out of the mortar, put it in a basin and keep on ice or in a cool place until wanted for use. Divide the forcemeat into small portions and roll into balls. Flour lightly and put them in a stew-pan half full of boiling water. Let them simmer for four minutes and serve with white sauce. To Roast a Duck.—Ducklings should not be stuffed, but ducks should have a stuffing of sage and onions. Put them to roast at a clear bright fire, and keep them constantly basted. A short time before they are done dredge them with flour, and baste well with butter. They will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour to cook, according to their age. The gravy must be made from the necks, gizzards, and livers, and boiled up again in the dripping-pan after all the dripping has been poured off. The stuffing is made with a quarter of a pound of onions, a teaspoon of powdered sage, three tablespoons of bread-crumbs, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and cayenne. Mix well and put inside the duck. Apple sauce (page 84) is served with ducks. Duck Stewed with Green Peas.—Half a pound of lean bacon cut into little pieces and fried in butter. Dredge in a teaspoon of flour and stir for three or four minutes, then add a pint of stock, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper. Fry the duck in a little butter or roast it before the fire for ten minutes to make it a good colour, then put it into the stew-pan with the gravy, and stew it slowly for about an hour and a half. Boil a quart of peas, and saute them with butter by shaking them