134 CAKES. i teaspoon baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour and rice, add the sugar and peel and lemon rind. Beat the eggs and mix with the other ingredients, using a silver fork to mix with; add the warm milk, beat all together a few moments, and lastly add the baking powder. Bake from two to three hours. Rice Cakes (i).—i lb. ground rice, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. butter, 1 egg. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the rice and sugar, and moisten with the egg, which should have been well beaten. Roll out the paste, cut with a round cutter, and bake in a very slow oven about twenty minutes. Rice Cakes (2).—I egg, I oz. of flour, 1^ oz. castor sugar, i| oz. ground rice, 2 oz. butter, ii oz. currants, a few thin slices of peel. Whisk the egg, stir in the sugar, and beat these ingredients well together. Beat the butter to a cream, stir in the ground rice, currants, and peel, and after adding the egg stir in the flour. Bake in small fancy tins, previously brushed over with melted butter, for about half an hour. A Rich Cake.—£ lb. butter, 7 eggs, 1^ lbs. flour, | pint of cream, f lb. sugar, 1 wineglass of brandy, 1 lb. raisins, flavouring. Beat the butter and sugar well together and add the well-beaten yolks of the seven eggs and the brandy ; then add the well-whisked whites of the eggs, stir in the flour gradually and the raisins chopped fine, and lastly the cream. Line the tin with buttered paper and bake. Richer Pound Cake.—1 lb. flour, 8 eggs, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. raisins or sultanas, 1 lb. castor sugar, 1 lb. currants, i lb. mixed peel, 2 oz. almonds (blanched). Beat the butter to a cream with a silver fork, stir in the sugar, then the eggs, each one sepa- rately, stirring lightly but thoroughly all the time, then by degrees stir in the flour, then the peel and chopped-up almonds, and lastly the fruit, and after that is added the mixture must be extremely lightly handled. Line a tin with buttered paper, put in the cake, and on the top put some of the almonds, and bake in a moderate oven three or four hours.