126 CAKES. has risen. Then pour in the remainder of the warm water and mix all together with a wooden spoon into a dough ; knead well till quite smooth and the dough leaves the hands and sides of the pan quite clean. Cover again with a thick cloth and leave on a chair before the fire to rise. This takes from ifto 2 hours. Then divide the dough and make into loaves. Place the loaves on a floured baking sheet to rise in front of the fire for fifteen minutes, and then bake in a quick oven. Twenty minutes after the bread is put in the oven open the door for a minute to let out the steam. A loaf weighing 4 lbs. will take two hours to bake. Bread Cake.—Take il lbs. of the dough of which the bread is made, after it has been kneaded, and add £ lb. of butter or good beef dripping, i lb. Demerara sugar, £ lb. currants, raisins, or sultanas, a little candied peel, and 1 egg. Beat all together and let it stand to rise in a cake tin near the fire. Bake in quick oven. Biscuits (Cockles).—2 oz. flour, 1 oz. sugar, 3 oz. arrowroot, 1 oz. butter, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, a little flavouring. Beat the butter to a cream, mix the baking powder with the dry ingredients, then add them to the butter, and lastly mix in the well-beaten egg and the flavouring. Butter some patty-pans and put in some of the mixture, only half filling the pans. Bake for about fifteen or twenty minutes. Hot Cross Buns.— if lbs. of flour, ^ oz. mixed spice, 1 oz. German yeast, 3 gills of milk, i lb. butter, i lb. currants or sul- tanas, v lb. castor sugar, 2 eggs. Put | lb. of flour into a basin, add ^ oz. mixed spice to it. In another small basin put 1 oz. yeast with one teaspoon of castor sugar, and stir with a wooden spoon, add 3 gills of lukewarm milk and mix well. Make a hole in the middle of the flour and strain into it gradually the yeast and milk, mixing them into the flour with a wooden spoon. When smoothly mixed cover the basin with a cloth and set near the fire for about an hour, or until the sponge is covered with bubbles. While the sponge is rising prepare the other ingredients