27 PISH. crumbs. Fry them in a fish-basket in a saucepan of boiling lard. Dry them before the fire on a sieve on which several layers of kitchen paper have been laid. Serve with plain melted butter. To Boil Soles.—Cleanse and wash the fish carefully, cut off the fins, but do not skin the fish. Lay them in a fish-kettle with enough cold water to cover them, and allow 4 oz. of salt to each gallon of water. Let the water come gradually to a boil, and keep it simmering from five to ten minutes according to size. Drain the fish well and serve with shrimp sauce, lobster sauce, plain melted butter, or anchovy sauce. Fried Filleted Soles. —After the soles are filleted they are prepared and cooked precisely the same as soles, but Dutch sauce can be served with them if preferred to melted butter. To Fry Soles .—Skin and wash the soles, cut off the fins, and wipe them very dry, and let them remain in the cloth until it is time to dress them. Have ready some fine bread-crumbs (browned are best) and beaten yolk of egg. Dredge the soles with a little flour, brush over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs. The soles must not be put into the frying-pan till the fat has ceased bubbling and is giving off a blue flame. There must always be sufficient fat (whether it be lard or olive oil) to entirely cover the fish. When the soles are cooked on one side turn them carefully and brown on the other. They take about ten minutes to fry, according to their size. When they are done remove care- fully from the pan and lay them on kitchen paper on a hot dish, so that all the fat drains away. Dish on a very hot dish, garnish with lemon and, when liked, fried parsley. Plain melted butter should be served with them. Soles with Mushrooms.—Fillet the soles and roll each fillet, keeping it in shape with a small skewer or tape. Put 1 pint of milk, 1 pint of water, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. salt, and 1 tea- spoon of lemon juice into the fish-kettle, lay in the fillets and bring them gradually to boiling-point. Then let them simmer very gently for ten minutes. Take out the fillets and