THE FERFECT WHEAT FOOD. DAINTY, NOURISHING. “ PAROL A is immeasurably superior to arrowroot, cornflour, sago, etc. With milk it forms exquisite puddings, and in the nursery it will prove a valuable variety which children will take with avidity.” Liverpool Medico- Chiritrgical Journal. “An ideal form of giving farinaceous food with milk.”—A London Physician. Awarded Gold Medals at the two important International Exhibitions hold in 1860—Edinburgh and Liverpool—two yearn before any imitations were in the market. FAROl A is a highly refined preparation of Wheat, which conserves all the nutritive elements and fine flavour naturally belonging to the purest part of the grain. All irritating and indigestible matter has been removed by careful treatment, mechanical means only being employed. FAROLA will satisfy a robust appetite, but it is specially suited for invalids and children. A gratis and post free Sample will be sent on receipt of Post Card. 3 lbs. and upwards, 7d. per lb. post free. JAMES MARSHALL (Glasgow), Ltd., 25, East Cumberland St., Glasgow. Ropal Rational Pension fund for Rurses President.—HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN. Chairman.—Eve hard A. Ha-MBRO, Esq. Deputy-Chairman — Sir Henry Bttrdett, K.C.B. PENSIONS - SIGN NESS - AGO ID ENT. Invested Funds Exceed £550,000 Sterling. WHEN SHOULD A NURSE COMMENCE TO PROVIDE FOR OLD AGE? At once! Because the premium is lowest, and she can assure most for the money; because the saving is easy now; because it will set the mind at ease; because she will uever afford it better; if she is not provident on a small incomo, she will not be on a larger one! Not to-morrow, or next birthday, but now ! No saving is effected by a Nurse waiting until just before her birthday to join, as the sooner the payments commence the sooner they cease. A proper provision for old age is not a matter which it is sufficient merely to think about, hut a duty which demands to be done. A dirty which every woman owes to herself. WHY SHOULD A NURSE INSURE? To provide against that rainy day which must sooner or later come. To make sure that m the struggle for existence she will be able to obtain the needed rest and peace when she can work no longer. Why? Because it is an advantageous investment; because it is an easy mode of saving; because it is a moral obligation; because the Royal National Pension Fund possesses advantages superior to those of any other provident institution, and is regulated on the soundest actuarial principles. Full particulars to be obtained from the Secretary, lloiral $,ational |3citsioit JFuttb for |htrses, 28, FINSBURY PAVEMENT, LONDON, E C.