30 MEAT. General Rules for cooking Meat.—The most important point to be considered in cooking meat is to cook it in such a way that it may retain all its nourishing properties. To do this the meat must be subjected to rather fierce heat for a few minutes to contract the pores of the surface of the meat; but, that being done, the temperature must immediately be lowered, in boiling by adding cold water to the boiling water, and in roasting by drawing the joint further from the fire, and then the more slowly the meat is cooked the more tender it will taste. See directions for boiling, roasting, etc. To Roast Joints, etc.—To roast a joint properly the cook must devote a good deal of attention to it. It is best to put the screen on which the joint is hung close to a clear bright fire for twenty minutes, and then draw it back a little, so that the rest of the cooking can be done quite slowly. A little dripping should be put into the pan to baste the meat with till there is sufficient of its own fat to use, and it must be basted continually all the time it is •cooking. About twenty minutes is the proper time to allow for every pound of meat, but this will vary with the seasons ; in the hot weather a little shorter time will be sufficient. To Bake Joints.—With the kitchen ranges now in vogue it is much more usual to bake meat than to roast it. For this pur- pose a very ingenious baking tin is sold, which cooks the meat without any attention on the part of the cook ; and as full instruc- tions about how to use it are sold with the baking tin, there is no need to repeat them here. To bake meat without the help of this new invention it is usual to have a hot-water tin on which the meat-stand is placed. In a corner of the tray there is a hole for the steam to escape. There must be enough water to come nearly up to the hole. The meat must be put on a stand, whether there is a hot-water tin or not, to keep it from getting sodden by the dripping. The oven must be made quite hot; if you