VEGETABLES. 81 blue flame is rising put the potatoes into a wire basket, and plunge them in the fat. Shake them to keep them from sticking together. Draw the saucepan to one side, and let them simmer for about five minutes till the potatoes are quite tender, then take the basket out and make the fat boil up again. Put the potatoes in the frying basket back into the saucepan of boiling fat, and again draw it aside. In about two minutes they will be ready to drain on paper and serve. Sprinkle them with salt. To Stew Potatoes.—Pare and cut into slices a quarter of an inch thick 2 lbs. potatoes, and throw into cold water for half an hour. Put them in a stew-pan with sufficient white stock to cover them. When tender, drain off most of the stock, and pour in a cupful of milk or cream. Boil about five minutes, stirring constantly. Add a lump of butter the size of an egg, rolled well in flour, a little salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. Boil up once, and serve very hot. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hdtel.—Boil 2 lbs. potatoes of a firm kind, and let them get cold ; cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and then into pieces of the same size with a round cutter. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a saucepan, stir to it a small dessert-spoon of flour, and shake the pan over the fire for two or three minutes; add slowly a small cup of boiling water or white stock, some pepper, salt, and a tablespoon of chopped parsley ; put in the potatoes and toss them gently over a clear fire until they are quite hot and the sauce adheres well to them. At the instant of serving add a dessert-spoon of lemon juice. Potato Salad.—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into fairly thin slices ; put them into a salad bowl with a teaspoon of chopped parsley, half a teaspoon of eschalots chopped very fine (these may be omitted), two tablespoons of oil, two of cream, and two of vinegar; season with a little pepper and salt, and toss all carefully together -without breaking the vegetables. Sea-kale.—Wash the sea-kale and tie it in bundles, put it in boiling water previously salted and skimmed, and keep it boiling 6