5 1 MEAT. pickle. Wash it well from the salt and trim off any unsightly parts. Put it in a saucepan and cover with cold water. Let it come very slowly to a boil, skim off the scum as it rises, and then simmer gently for about four hours. When done remove the skin and fasten the tongue down on a board with a couple of forks and a piece of string into the shape of a high-heeled slipper. When it is cold glaze and ornament it. To Boil a Calf’s Head. —Half a calf’s head, i pint melted butter with parsley, i lemon, pepper and salt. Soak the calf’s head in cold water for one and a half hours, and then for ten minutes in boiling water to blanch it. Remove the tongue and brains. Put the calf’s head into a saucepan with enough cold water for it to swim, and i dessert-spoon of salt, and let it boil gently. When the scum rises, skim well. After the head boils let it simmer gently an hour and a half. The tongue must be boiled with the head, and taken out just before the head is ready; skin and trim it. Take the brains and cut away the skin and fibre, and put them into a stew-pan with enough water to cover them, and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Skim carefully, and boil for a quarter of an hour. Just before the head is served chop the brains, put them into a saucepan with half a cup of the melted butter, a tablespoon of chopped parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice, pepper and salt, and bring them to the boil. Put the tongue on a very hot dish, and pour the brains round, and serve at the same time as the calfs head. The head should be dished up, and parsley sauce poured over it and garnished with lemon. Boiled bacon should be served on a separate dish. Calf’s-head Mould.—A good way of using up any remains of a boiled calfs head is to make it into a mould with some aspic jelly. The receipt for this jelly will be found on page 56. Cut the meat off the head into small pieces, and a little ham minced fine is an improvement. Boil two or three eggs hard, dip them in cold water, and cut them in rings. Soak a plain mould in cold water and put a little melted aspic jelly in it and let it set, then