MEAT. 45 of a stew-pan, then a layer of sliced onions, and then the meat, then pepper and salt, then the potatoes, etc., again till the stew- pan is full, taking care that the top layer is potatoes. Fill up with hot water and put on the lid. Stew very slowly, never letting it even nearly boil, for two or three hours. When it is done take out enough potatoes to lay round the dish, lay in the meat, and then mash roughly with a fork the rest of the potatoes in the gravy, so that it is quite thick, and pour over the meat. Leg of Mutton.—For a small household it is best not to cook the whole joint at once. It will make three separate hot dishes. Divide the leg, making the knuckle end the lesser half. Cut steaks off the fillet, but from the knuckle end of the fillet, as these are tenderer than the ones from the top end. The steaks can be fried or stewed according to the various recipes given, and will make one dish. The fillet, boned, stuffed, and roasted will make another. And the knuckle can either be boiled served with parsley or caper sauce or made into Scotch broth. To Boil Leg of Mutton. —Take the knuckle end of the leg and boil according to directions, in hot water. Add to it a few carrots and turnips cut into strips or fancy shapes, and two table- spoons of pearl barley or rice. When the mutton is cooked dish it up and pour over it some parsley or caper sauce, made with a little of the broth. Put the vegetables and rice in little heaps round the dish. Serve mashed turnips separately. To Boil a Knuckle of Mutton (Scotch Broth).—Another way of using the knuckle end of a leg of mutton is to cut it up into small pieces, put the meat into a saucepan with some cold water, some carrots and turnips and a parsnip cut up small, a cup of washed rice or pearl barley, and two onions. Bring to a boil and then leave it to simmer till tender. Put a little chopped parsley and pepper and salt in the saucepan about half an hour before it is ready. Serve in a soup tureen. Scotch Broth.—This is usually made of the scrag end of the