FISH. 28 remove the skewers, and set them upright in a dish. Pour over them a sauce made as follows :—i lb. button mushrooms, i pint milk, 1 pint cream, 2 oz. butter, 2 teaspoons lemon juice, cayenne, 2 oz. flour, a little mace and salt. Mix the butter and flour in an enamel saucepan, stir till thoroughly mixed and smooth, then add the milk and cream and other ingredients, stirring all the time. It will take about ten minutes to boil. To Boil a Turbot.—Clean it, and then rub salt lightly over the outside to remove the slime, and rinse it. On no account remove the fins of a turbot, as they are considered a delicacy. To prevent the skin of the white side from cracking make an incision down the back of the fish. Rub the white side with lemon. Lay the fish in a very clean fish-kettle with enough cold water to cover it, and add £ lb. of salt to each gallon of water, and two tablespoons of vinegar. Let it gradually come to a boil, and skim very carefully; keep it gently simmering, and on no account let it boil fast, or it will spoil the fish. When the meat separates easily from the bone it is sufficiently boiled. Take it out and let it drain well, and dish it up. Garnish with slices of lemon and parsley. Lobster spawn, rubbed through a sieve, is sometimes added. Lobster sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain melted butter should be sent to table with this fish. After the water boils turbot takes from fifteen to thirty minutes to cook, accord- ing to the size of the fish. To Boil Whiting.—Clean and dry the fish, lay them on a fish-plate, and put them into water at the point of boiling; throw in some salt, a bay-leaf, and plenty of well-washed parsley tied together; let the fish just simmer for from five to ten minutes, and watch them closely that they may not be overdone. Large fish take longer. Serve parsley and butter sauce with them. Filleted Whiting. —These are cooked precisely the same as the whole fish except that they are never skinned, and Piquant sauce is usually served with them. To Fry Whiting.—Whiting are generally skinned, but they