SWEET'S. 96 .stir the batter. I )ip the slices of apple into the batter and fry in butter. Sprinkle with sifted sugar and serve hot. Apples Stewed Whole.—Feel six apples, take out the cores, put them into a pie-dish with 6 oz. of loaf sugar, a pint of water, 3 cloves, and a few drops of cochineal. Put them into the oven until soft. Set the apples on a dish without breaking them ; put the syrup into a stew-pan with a dessert-spoon of lemon juice, and set it on the fire to reduce it. Four this over the apples, first taking out the cloves. The syrup should be perfectly clear. Just before sending to table put a teaspoon of red currant jelly in the hole at the top of each apple. Apple Tart.—Apples, Demerara sugar, pastry, 3 cloves or the grated rind of | a lemon. Make some pastry. Three quarters of a pound of flour is sufficient for a medium-sized tart. See directions for pastry (page 114). Peel, core, and slice the apples. Fill a pie-dish, and add the sugar, cloves, or lemon ; pour in a gill of water. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut some strips from it an inch in width. Wet the edges of the pie- dish, and lay the strips on it. Wet the strips of pastry on the pie- dish, place the remainder of the pastry over the pie, press down the edges lightly, and cut round evenly with a knife. Bake in a quick oven about three quarters of an hour. Apricot Cakes.—1 oz. sweet almonds, 1 oz. bitter almonds, 3 tablespoons of apricot jam, 2 pz. fine bread-crumbs, 2 eggs, 1 oz. butter. Blanch and pound the almonds, beat the butter to a cream, and add the almonds, bread-crumbs, and apricot jam. Beat the eggs, and mix them with the other things. Butter some little tins, and half fill them with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Serve with arrowroot wine sauce (page 90). Apricot Cream.—i pint of apricot puree, ^ pint double cream, f oz. gelatine, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 tablespoon white wine, or the juice of a lemon if preferred. This cream can be made of tinned apricots. They must first be rubbed through a