ODDS AND ENDS. 159 yolks of two eggs and the white of one well beaten into a buttered jar, add the stock and whisk together. Cover the jar with a sheet of buttered paper, and set it in a saucepan of boiling water about three inches deep ; the water must not come up to the top of the jar. Steam the custard very gently till it is set, which should be in about a quarter of an hour. Let it get cold, and then turn it out and cut it into thin slices, and shape into diamonds or circles, add them to the soup at the last moment. Sutherland Pudding.—-The weight of three eggs in flour, butter, and sugar. Beat the eggs well, then add the castor sugar and flour, and last the butter just warmed, flavour with vanilla or anything else you like, beat the mixture thoroughly with a silver fork, and just at the last add a little carbonate of soda, about as much as will cover a threepenny piece. Beat it once more, and then fill some buttered tins with the mixture, and bake at once in a hot oven. When cold scoop out some of the inside, fill with jam, and put on the top whipped cream sweetened and flavoured. Timbale.—| lb. macaroni, boil until soft, drain in a cloth, cut in pieces \ inch long; well butter a plain mould, place in it the macaroni endways, so as to give the appearance of honeycomb when turned out. Make a paste thus :—put a gill of water, a small piece of butter, and a little salt into a stew-pan to boil; when boiling throw into it a tablespoon of flour, leave it a few minutes, then stir in x egg; turn it on a plate till wanted. Take 1 lb. veal cutlet, remove the skin and bone, pound it in a mortar, and add to it half the quantity of the above paste and a quarter of the quantity of butter, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg to taste. Mix all together, add 1 whole egg and 3 yolks, pass it through a wire sieve, stir in a gill of white stock or milk, pour it into the mould, and steam for half an hour. Toast and Water.—Toast slowly and thoroughly a slice of stale bread till it is a light brown all over, but not burnt. Pour over it some boiling water, and let it stand covered till cold. If liked it may be flavoured with lemon rind, but it is generally made plain.