M EAT. 55 till the flesh will leave the bone. Parsley sauce should be served with it, or plain white sauce ; and bacon also may be served with it, either fried in rolls to garnish the dish, or boiled and served separately. Knuckle of Veal Stewed with Green Peas.—Melt a little butter in a stew-pan and put in two onions sliced and the knuckle. Turn the meat about till it is lightly and evenly browned. Then cover with boiling water, let it boil, and simmer gently for two hours or longer. Put in one pint green peas half an hour before the meat is cooked. Boiled bacon should be served with this dish. Minced Veal.—The remains of cold veal minced by hand, 3 tablespoons cream, x teaspoon lemon juice, 1 teaspoon grated lemon peel, a pinch of mace, pepper and salt, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter rolled in flour, a little white stock or water. The stock may be made of the bones and trimmings of the meat. When this is made put it in a stew-pan with a little piece of butter rolled in flour to thicken it, add the lemon juice and peel and seasoning and put in the mince, then add a little milk or cream, and just before it boils take it off the fire and serve on a very hot dish garnished with little rolls of fried bacon, sippets of toast, and quarter-slices of lemon. Chicken can be treated in the same way. Stewed Veal and Green Peas.—2 lbs. of the loin, neck, or breast of veal, 2 slices lean bacon, 1 blade mace, 1 bunch savoury herbs, pepper and salt to taste, 1 onion. Cut the veal into cutlets. Fry in a stew-pan in 2 oz. of butter till lightly browned on both sides. Add the bacon, one small onion stuck with two cloves, spices, herbs, and seasoning ; pour in 1 pint boiling water, and stew gently for two hours. When done skim off the fat and take out the herbs. Have ready 1 quart boiled peas, put a few through a sieve and add to the gravy to thicken it, add pepper and salt, the rest of the peas, and serve. Veal Pie.—About 2 lbs. veal, and a few slices ham or bacon (previously cooked, or it will spoil the colour of the veal). Mix on a plate 2 teaspoons salt, 1 teaspoon pepper, £ teaspoon