MEAT. 52 arrange the pieces of meat in it and a little chopped parsley and some of the rings of egg. Almost fill the mould, but leave spaces for the jelly to run between the layers of meat and egg. Fill up with jelly, and turn out when quite cold. Calf’s-foot Jelly.—2 calf’s feet, 2 quarts water, whites and shells of 3 eggs. Wash the calf’s feet very thoroughly and cut each one into four pieces, and cut away the fat round the claws. Put them into a stew-pan with rather more than two quarts of cold water and let it boil, then skim well and set it aside to simmer slowly for several hours till the liquid is reduced to one quart. Strain it through a hair sieve and let it get cold. Take off all the fat and put the stock into a stew-pan with the whites and shells of the eggs, stir well till it begins to get hot, then put on the lid of the stew-pan and let it stand on one side of the fire for about ten minutes. Dip your jelly-bag in boiling water and wring it dry, and put your jelly through it once or twice till it is clear. Calf S-head Ragout.—Boil a calf’s head according to direc- tions given. When it is cooked take it up, and cut it into as large slices as possible and about 1 inch thick, and dredge them on both sides with flour, salt, and a very little powdered mace; then fry them in about two ounces of butter till they are lightly browned, and put them in a stew-pan. When the meat is all fried, mix a tablespoon of flour very smoothly with the butter left in the pan, and add gradually half a pint of the liquor in which the head was boiled, and a wineglass of sherry. Season the sauce with a tea- spoon of lemon juice, and a little cayenne and salt. When it is quite smooth pour it over the meat, and let it all simmer together for ten minutes. Put the meat on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Garnish with the minced brains and tiny rolls of bacon. Calves’ Sweetbreads.—Soak them for an hour and a half in salt and cold water, then boil them ten minutes only, and again throw them into cold water. Trim them, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat in a frying basket.