119 SWEETS. water till wanted. Wash the rice thoroughly in several waters, and then boil it in one pint of milk with the sugar and flavouring. Boil till the rice is quite tender. Make a custard with the yolks of the eggs and the extra gill of milk, and add it to the rice when it is cold. Flavour the custard with anything you please. Whip the cream with the dissolved gelatine and a little sugar, and mix in the rice. Rinse out a mould in cold water and fill with the rice mixture, and set aside to get cold. Rice Soufflee.—2 oz. rice, 3 eggs, 1 pint milk, x oz. sugar, and flavouring. Wash the rice thoroughly, and then boil it in the milk till it is very tender—this will take more than half an hour,—add sugar and flavouring to taste. When the rice is boiled add the yolks of the eggs. Put the rice in a pie-dish, and spread roughly on the top the stiffly beaten whites ot the eggs. Set it in rather a cool oven till it is lightly coloured and hot through. Serve at once, or the meringue will fall. Roly-poly Pudding'.—Make a nice light suet crust, and roll it out to the thickness of about half an inch. Spread the jam equally over it; roll it up, after wetting the edges, and make in the shape of a bolster, press the edges together. Wring a pudding-cloth in boiling water, and flour it well inside. Roll the pudding in it, and tie the ends of the cloth securely. Plunge it into boiling water, and keep it boiling without ceasing for two hours, or it will be heavy. Put a plate under the pudding in the saucepan to prevent it sticking. Pour sweet sauce over it when it is dished up (page 90). Sago Pudding.—2 oz. sago, 1 pint of milk, piece of butter the size of a small nut. Wash the sago in several waters, and then drain it and put it in a pie-dish with the milk and leave it to soak several hours, add a little sugar and a small lump of butter, and grate nutmeg over the top. Bake it in a slow oven for about two hours. Semolina Pudding.—pints milk, 3 oz. semolina, 2 eggs, 1 oz. sugar. Boil the semolina and milk together in an enamel