SWEETS. I 10 nearly cold add the beaten yolks of three eggs ; then add the juice of the lemons, and lastly stir in the whites of five eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Butter a soufflee mould and fill it half full with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for thirty or forty minutes. Serve the soufflee immediately, or it will fall. Madeira Pudding'.—The weight of four eggs in flour, sugar, and butter, a little grated lemon rind. Beat the eggs and gradually dredge in the flour and sugar, then beat the butter to a cream and add the other ingredients to it and beat for a few minutes. Butter a mould, pour in the mixture, and bake in a quick oven about half an hour. Turn out, and serve hot with a sauce of fruit syrup made hot and put in a sauce-boat. Marmalade Bread and Butter Pudding.—2 eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. sugar, bread and butter, marmalade. Make a custard of the milk, sugar, and eggs by boiling the milk and sugar and pouring it over the well-beaten eggs, stirring all the time. Have ready some slices of thin bread and butter spread with marmalade, and lay them in a buttered pie-dish until it is half full. Make the custard very hot, but not boiling, and pour it over the bread and butter and marmalade. Put a plate on the top to prevent it rising, and let it soak half an hour. Take off the plate before baking. Bake in a quick oven and turn it out of the dish to serve. Boiled Marmalade Pudding.—2 eggs, their weight in flour, butter, and castor sugar, 1 tablespoon of marmalade, 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Rub the flour through a sieve with the baking powder and beat the eggs well, the yolks and whites separately. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the flour gradually, and then the marmalade. Stir in the yolks of the eggs, and lastly the stiffly beaten whites, and pour into a well-buttered mould and steam for an hour and a half. When it is turned out put some marmalade on the top of the pudding and serve arrow- root wine sauce (page 84) with it. Marmalade Custard Pudding.—i lb. of fine bread-