6 I POULTRY. drain off the stock and leave it to get cold, and skim off the grease. In another saucepan fry some button mushrooms, unless you use bottled ones, when it is not necessary. Melt two ounces of butter in the stew-pan, and mix one ounce and a half of flour very smoothly with it, a teaspoon of lemon juice and six pepper- corns, then add the stock the chicken was cooked in, and simmer till it is reduced to a pint. Strain the stock and put it back into the saucepan with the pieces of chicken and the mushrooms, add a gill of cream and a little cayenne, and let it get very hot, but it must not boil, as the cream would curdle. Pile the chicken in a silver dish and pour the sauce over it, and garnish with sippets of toast. A few truffles are an addition to the gravy. Rice, boiled as for curry, can be piled round this dish instead of having sippets of toast, and is sometimes very much liked. To Mince Chicken.—Cut the flesh off the bones of a cooked chicken. Free it from skin and sinew, and mince it finely by hand. Season with salt, pepper, a small pinch of mace, and half a teaspoon of grated lemon rind. Put it into a stew-pan with sufficient white sauce or cream to moisten it. Simmer gently without boiling till it is quite hot, stirring all the time. Garnish writh sippets of toast and little rolls of fried bacon. Chicken Pie.—If a young fowl is used it can simply be jointed and packed in the pie-dish ; but if an old one is used it must first be boiled. Have the fowl for the pie skinned, not plucked, then cut into small joints, taking out the bigger bones. Have ready two or three hard-boiled eggs and a seasoning of 2 tea- spoons of flour, 1 of pepper, and 1 of salt mixed together on a plate. Dip each piece of fowl into the mixture on the plate and place in the dish between each layer slices of hard-boiled egg, some strips of cooked bacon or ham, fill up to the top of the dish, having egg and bacon as the top layer. Make some gravy with the giblets and other parts of the fowl that are not needed for the pie, and pour some of this into the pie-dish. Cover the pie writh pastry ; brush it over with the yolk of an egg. Make a hole in the top of the pie. Bake