12 SOUPS. required ; return the puree to a saucepan, season with pepper and salt, stir in the butter, and boil a few minutes. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. Mutton Broth (for an Invalid).—i lb. scrag end neck of mutton (very lean), i onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, i pint water. Put the mutton into a stew-pan, pour over the water cold, and add the other ingredients. When it boils skim very carefully, cover the pan closely, and let it simmer very gently for an hour ; strain it, let it cool, take off all the fat from the surface, and warm up as much as may be required, adding, if the patient be allowed to take it, a teaspoon of minced parsley which has been previously scalded. Pearl barley or rice is a nice addition to mutton broth, and should be boiled as long as the other ingredients. When either of these is added the broth must not be strained, but merely thoroughly skimmed. Plain mutton broth without seasoning is made by merely boiling the mutton, water, and salt together, straining it, letting the broth cool, skimming all the fat off, and warming up as much as is required. Mulligatawny Soup.—i fowl or i rabbit or 2 lbs. veal can be used for this soup with 2 quarts stock, 1 onion, 2 apples, 1 tablespoon of curry powder, 2 oz. butter, i pint cream, and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Cut up the fowl or rabbit or meat into small pieces, chop the apples and onion. Mix the curry powder with the stock. Now heat the butter in the stew-pot, first fry the meat in it and then the apples and onion. Add the stock and let all simmer together about two hours, or until the meat drops off the bones. Strain the soup and put it into a saucepan. Cut up the meat into small pieces. Thicken the soup with flour ; add, just before serving, the boiling cream, lemon juice, and pieces of meat, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Boil some Patna rice as for curry, and let it be handed round with this soup instead of toast. Ox Tail Soup.—2 ox tails, 1 oz. lean ham, 1 carrot, r oz.