47 MEAT. mince it very.finely. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly together, and moisten with two beaten eggs. Butter some little moulds and fill with the mixture; bake in a moderate oven for half an hour, and insert a small sprig of parsley in the top of each when it is turned out of the mould. Pour brown gravy round them. Mince Cutlets.—? lb. minced cooked meat, I oz. minced ham, 3 or 4 tablespoons bread-crumbs, i oz. butter, i pint stock, i egg, i oz. flour, pepper, salt, and cayenne, i dessert-spoon hot sauce. Put the butter and flour into a saucepan and mix into a smooth paste. Add the stock, seasoning, and hot sauce, and let it boil, stirring all the time, pour it into a basin, add the bread- crumbs and minced meat, and mix well. Spread the mixture on a plate firmly and evenly, and put it aside to get cold and firm. With a floured knife cut the mixture on the plate into triangular- shaped pieces, starting from the centre of the plate. Flour a board and shape each piece like a cutlet, put 2 inches of straight macaroni into the narrow end of each cutlet to represent bone. Egg and bread-crumb and fry in very hot fat. Serve with a little brown gravy. Mutton Chops.—These are always best grilled. They should be cut from a loin, be about three quarters of an inch thick, and have about half an inch of fat left round them. They will take about ten minutes to cook. They should be turned four times (but on no account must a fork be stuck into them) and sprinkled with pepper and salt and a little piece of butter put on them. The chief point in broiling is to attend to the fire. Half an hour before you want to cook your chops stir up your fire and clear away the ashes, stir all dead cinders from the bottom, and by the time you are ready to cook the fire will be clear and bright. Mutton Chops and Green Peas.—ij lbs. best end neck of mutton, and 1 pint shelled peas. Trim the chops carefully, making them a good shape, and cutting away most of the fat, dredge them well with flour and lay them in a stew-pan with a sprig of mint and a very small onion, and just cover them with