CAKES. 136 and cut into circles. Put at once on a floured tin into the oven and bake quickly. Scones (3).—i lb. flour, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, 5 teaspoon of baking powder, ^ teacup of sour cream. Put the baking powder and a pinch of salt with the flour, rub in the butter till it looks like bread-crumbs, add the cream. Roll out about half an inch thick, cut with a round cutter, and bake at once for a quarter of an hour. These should not be at all crisp. When you take them out of the oven, half open them with a knife and put in a lump of butter. Send to table at once for breakfast or tea. If preferred they can be sent to table without being buttered. Seed Cake (1').—1 lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 6 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. candied peel, | pint milk, 3 eggs, 1 small teaspoon of carbo- nate of soda, | teaspoon of carraway seeds. Rub the butter into the flour until it is quite fine, add the carraway seeds, sugar, and peel (cut into thin slices); mix these well together and moisten with the eggs, which should be well whisked. Boil the milk, and add to it whilst boiling the carbonate of soda, which must be well stirred into it. Mix the other ingredients with the milk. Line a cake tin with buttered paper, pour in the mixture, and bake for an hour. Seed Cake (2).—i lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 1 tea- spoon of baking powder, £ teaspoon of carraway seeds, 1 oz. candied peel, 2 eggs, 1 wineglass of milk. Mix the baking powder with the flour, rub in the butter, add the sugar, peel, and carraway seeds, mix well, and bind together with the beaten eggs and milk. Bake in a moderate oven. Shrewsbury Cake.—1 lb. flour, i lb. brown sugar, 3 tea- spoons ground ginger, 1 egg, 3 oz. butter, 3 oz. lard, 2 teaspoons treacle, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Put the flour in a basin, mix in the baking powder, add the sugar, rub the butter, lard, and ginger into the flour, beat the egg and add it to the treacle. Then mix all the ingredients well together. Divide into small balls, put them on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven.