120 SWEETS. saucepan till the semolina swells, and it is quite tender; stir fre- quently to prevent it burning. When it is cool add the sugar and two well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish and pour in the mixture, and grate a little nutmeg over the top. Bake in a moderate oven about three quarters of an hour. Stewed Fruit.—Put the fruit properly prepared into an earthenware pot, add a little white sugar, and also a little water, about a quarter of a pint to two and a half pounds of fruit. Put the lid on the jar and set it on the stove or in the oven to simmer gently till it is soft. Pears must be peeled and cored and cut in quarters lengthways, or in halves, and put in the stew-jar with enough claret to cover them, a little sugar, and a few cloves; the lid must be put on, and they must be left to simmer for an hour or two until they are soft. If claret is not used, and water pre- ferred, a little cochineal must be added to colour them. Strawberry Cream.-—The strawberries must be picked free from their stalks and a little white sugar sprinkled over them, then rub them through a hair sieve without being cooked at all, and mix with whipped cream. Sago, Apple, and Custard.—Boil some sago in the pro- portion of one tablespoon of sago to half a pint of hot water. Stew some apples wdiich have been peeled, cored, and sliced in an earthenwrare jar. Mix the apple and sago well together in a shallow fancy dish, and leave till cold. Make a good custard and pour on the top of the sago and apple. Garnish with ground pistachio nut, almonds, and dried fruits. Suet Crust for Puddings.—i lb. flour, 6 oz. beef suet, -I pint cold water, pinch of salt. Strip the skin from the suet and chop very fine, mix lightly into the flour with a knife, and work to a smooth paste with the wrater. Roll it out before using. Baked Suet Pudding.—i lb. flour, 3 oz. suet, 1 oz. sugar, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 2 oz. currants, 1 egg well beaten, 1 oz. candied peel, i£ gills of milk. Mix all the dry ingredients together, then stir in the egg and milk. Pour the mixture into a