FISH. 25 \ Mackerel that have been boiled can be used for this dish, but will only require to be in the oven for half an hour. Scalloped Oysters.—Open and beard a dozen oysters, and scald them for a second in their own liquor. Make a white sauce, into which some oyster liquor is poured, a few grains of cayenne, a salt-spoonful of anchovy sauce, a pinch of mace, and a squeeze of lemon. Boil this till it is cooked. Put the oysters into scallop-shells, pour the sauce over them, and strew bread- crumbs on the top, and place some little bits of butter all over. Brown them in front of the fire. Filleted Plaice and Dutch Sauce.—Brush over the fillets with beaten yolk of egg, dip into fine bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat; serve with fried parsley and Dutch sauce. The fillets should be arranged in a ring in the dish, and the sauce poured into the middle. To Fry Parsley.—Wash the parsley, dry well in a clean cloth, set in the oven for five minutes and then plunge into hot fat for one minute. The parsley should look green and crisp. To Boil Pike.—Scale and clean the pike. Lay it in cold water, and when it boils throw in 4 oz. of salt to every gallon of water, and a tablespoonful of vinegar. A middling-sized pike will take about half an hour, a larger one longer. Drain well and serve on a dish which has been already garnished with alternate heaps of very finely chopped parsley, the whites of two hard- boiled eggs minced, and the yolks rubbed through a sieve. A little of each of these ingredients should be put on every plate of fish when it is carved. A sauce of oiled butter should be served with this fish. To Boil Salmon.—Scale and clean the salmon with great care, and be especially careful to cleanse all the blood from the inside. Put 4 oz. of salt into each gallon of water and put it on the fire to boil, as salmon, unlike other fish, is cooked in boiling water to preserve the colour and set the curd. When the water boils put in the fish, and if it be a small one let it boil rather