36 MEAT. moved from the bones with a sharp knife, then rolled and roasted. A small quantity of meat should be left on the bones, which can be grilled for luncheon or breakfast. To Roast Rolled Ribs of Beef.—One or two ribs. Bone the meat and roll the meat round, secure it with wooden skewers, and bind it with tape. Roast like a sirloin. When cooked remove the skewers and put a silver one in place of them, and cut off the tape. If you use the new “household ” self-basting baking- pan, and read the directions for using it, this will be a still simpler way of cooking this joint. To Roast a Fillet of Beef.—Lard the fillet through with fat bacon, baste it with butter, and send it very hot to table with brown gravy and forcemeat balls. Serve red currant jelly or a piquant sauce with it. To Broil Beefsteaks.—The steaks should be from half to three quarters of an inch thick, equally sliced and freshly cut from the middle of a well-kept, tender rump of beef. The fire must be strong and clear. The bars of the gridiron should be thin and not very close together. When they are thoroughly heated, without being sufficiently burning to scorch the meat, wipe and rub them with fresh mutton suet ; next pepper the steaks slightly, but never season them with salt before they are dressed; lay them on the gridiron, and when done on one side turn them on the other, being careful to catch, in the dish in which they are to be sent to table, any gravy which may drain from them. Ten to fifteen minutes is sufficient to broil steaks. Let them be served at once on a very hot dish. To Fry Beefsteaks.—Put some butter into a frying-pan, let it get quite hot, and if you are going to use onions slice them and fry them in the butter. Then put in the beefsteak and turn it frequently until it is done, which ought to be in about ten to fifteen minutes. Should the beefsteak be rather fresh it is well to beat it before it is cooked, and fry it an hour and a half before it is wanted, and then put a plate over the frying-pan and draw it