7 SOUPS. well; draw it to the side of the fire and let it settle until the whites of the eggs become separated. Strain it through a fine cloth that has been dipped in boiling water. Two eggs are suffi- cient for two quarts of soup. White Stock.—2-J- lbs. knuckle of veal, 2 oz. lean bacon or ham, 2 carrots, 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves, 1 stick of celery, 12 peppercorns, i blade of mace, a bunch of herbs, i oz. of butter, 2 quarts of water, any poultry trimmings. Rub an earthenware stew-pot with the butter, and put in it the veal cut up into small pieces and the bones and trimmings of poultry, the ham, and half a pint of water. Put the lid on the stew-pot and simmer till the gravy begins to flow ; then add all the other ingredients and about two quarts of cold water. Simmer for five hours, skimming it occasionally. When nearly ready add salt to taste and strain through a very fine hair sieve, and leave it to get cold. White Stock (Economical).—The liquor that fowls or mutton have been boiled in makes very good stock for many white soups, such as artichoke, rice, celery, etc. Asparagus Soup.—2 quarts of stock, 50 heads asparagus, 1 onion, 2 small lettuces, a sprig of mint, a few spinach leaves, 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, cayenne and salt. Put half the stock and 30 of the asparagus heads and all the other vegetables into the stew-pot, and simmer till quite tender; then rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and put the puree into a saucepan ; add the re- mainder of the stock and the pepper and salt, and let it come to boiling-point. Just before serving thicken it with the flour and butter, previously mixed together. Boil the remaining asparagus heads by themselves, put them in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. Artichoke Soup (White).—3 pints white stock, 3 lbs. Jerusa- lem artichokes, 5 pint milk or cream, 1 small onion, cayenne and salt. Strain the stock and put over the fire to heat in a sauce- pan. Add the artichokes, which have been previously washed and pared and boiled till quite soft. When these have gently