SWEETS. and 1 lb. of white sugar. Let them stew gently till quite soft. io6 castor sugar. Rind of a lemon grated. Beat the butter to a cream, mix in the eggs, first the yolks, then the sugar, flour, and beaten whites. Butter two very shallow tins and half fill with the mixture. Bake a light brown. When cold trim the edges, cut in fingers, and put jam between (raspberry or red currant jelly). Serve cold. Ginger Cream.—i pint of milk, | pint of cream, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. of gelatine, £ pint water, 3 eggs (yolks only), 3 oz. preserved ginger, 2 tablespoons of ginger syrup. Put the gelatine and water into a saucepan, and let it dissolve slowly. Boil the milk and sugar, and pour it on to the beaten yolks of the eggs, stir well all the time with a silver fork. Pour the eggs and milk back into the saucepan, and set it over a very gentle heat. Stir vigorously until the custard thickens, and on no account allow it to boil. Pour it again into the basin, and add the dissolved gelatine and the ginger syrup, set it on one side to cool, and stir it now and then. When the custard is nearly cold add the cream, and when it has just begun to set add the chopped ginger, and pour the mixture at once into a mould that has been rinsed in cold water. Set it in a cool place, and turn out when cold. Gateau de Prunes.—1 lb. prunes, 1 oz. gelatine, 1 lemon, a few almonds, ■§■ pint water, sugar to taste, and cochineal to colour. Stew the prunes still soft. Take the prunes out of the syrup, remove the stones, and take out the kernels. Melt the gelatine, strain into the syrup, and add the lemon juice. Blanch and skin the almonds and prune kernels. Put the prunes and kernels back into the syrup. Colour with the cochineal and put into a border mould. When quite cold dip the mould in warm water and turn out. Fill the centre with whipped cream and stick the sliced almonds into the mould like a porcupine’s quills. Gooseberry Fool.—Cut off the stalks and tops of 1 quart gooseberries, and put them in a stew-pot with a cup of cold water