MEAT. 42 and salt, just cover the meat with hot water. Have ready some potatoes, peeled and cut in half lengthways, put a layer of these on the top and put a little bit of butter on them, sprinkle with salt. Put on the lid of the dish and bake in an oven an hour and a half or longer. Take the cover off a short time before sending to table to brown the top layer of potatoes. This is a useful supper dish. Cooked meat could be used, but is not nearly so nice. Meat Patties.—£ lb. minced meat (cooked meat), 4 oz. minced ham, 1 gill cream, r oz. butter, 1 oz. flour, 1 gill stock. Melt the butter in the stew-pan and stir in very smoothly the flour, and afterwards the stock. When the sauce is thick add a little cream and season rather highly with cayenne and salt, mace, and a teaspoon of ketchup. Add the mince, stir well, together for one minute, and take off the fire at once. Turn out the mixture on to a plate to get cold, and cover over with another plate. Make some pastry and line some patty-pans with it, put in a tablespoon of meat, cover with pastry, moistening the edges with water to make them stick. Brush the patties over with yolk of egg, make a hole in the centre, and bake. Breast of Lamb and Mushrooms.—Cut out the bones from the lamb, melt a little butter in a stew-pan, put in the meat and turn it about till it is equally browned all over, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a teaspoon of chopped parsley, and the mush- rooms. Just cover the meat with water or stock and simmer very gently for an hour. Ten minutes before the meat is taken up add a few drops of lemon juice to the gravy. Put the lamb on a hot dish, place the mushrooms round it, and strain the gravy over it. The gravy should be thickened with a little flour and butter, and flavoured with white wine. To Stew a Breast of Lamb with Peas.—Breast of lamb, pepper and salt to taste, sufficient stock to cover it, thickening of flour and butter, i£ pints green peas. Skin the lamb and cut into pieces, and season with pepper and salt; lay these in a stew-pan