POULTRY. 65 gravy is quite hot, draw it to the side of the fire, and put in the slices of goose and let the hash simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Grouse.—Let the birds hang as long as possible. Pluck and draw the birds, and wipe them inside and out. Roast in a Dutch oven before a bright fire, basting well with butter. A little flour must be dredged on the breasts before they are quite done. They will take from twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. A piece of toast should be put under the birds a few minutes before they are ready. They should be served at once when they are cooked. Bread sauce, gravy, and fried bread-crumbs must be served with them, and they should be laid on the toast on the dish. Good gravy must be used, and a spoonful or two of sherry is an improvement to it. Guinea-fowl.—They are roasted in the same way as chickens except that a piece of fat bacon should be tied over their breasts, or they should be larded. Jugged Hare.—Prepare the hare for cooking; cut it into pieces, dredge them with flour, and fry in boiling butter. Drain them and put them into an earthenware stew-pot with a bunch of sweet herbs, 2 onions stuck with 3 cloves, 3 whole allspice, ^ tea- spoon pepper, a strip of lemon rind. Cover with hot water, and when it boils skim it. Let it simmer for about two hours, or longer if the hare is old. Take out the pieces of hare, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and two tablespoons of mushroom catsup and a wineglass of port wine ; let it boil about ten minutes, strain through a sieve, and pour over the hare. A few forcemeat balls should be fried or stewed in the gravy for about ten minutes. Serve red currant jelly with the hare. Forcemeat for Hare.—\ lb. beef suet, 2 oz. raw ham or bacon, 1 teaspoon chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon mixed herbs. Add grated rind of half a lemon, five ounces bread-crumbs, pepper, and salt. Bind the mixture with the yolks of two eggs. Roast Hare.—Roast or bake in the usual way, stuff with forcemeat, and sew it up with soft cotton. Truss it with the 5