SWEETS. 103 cool; then stir in the well-beaten egg, the sugar, and the lemon rind. Pour this mixture carefully over the jam in the pie-dish and grate nutmeg over the top ; bake the pudding for half an horn and serve it in the pie-dish. Cup Puddings.—j pint boiling milk, i pint fine bread- crumbs, 3 eggs well beaten, rind of 1 lemon grated, white sugar to taste. Pour f pint of boiling milk over half a pint of fine bread-crumbs, add to them 3 eggs well beaten, the rind of 1 lemon grated, and a little sugar. Butter some small cups or tins, and pour in the mixture ; bake until light brown, then turn them out on a dish and sprinkle white sugar over them. Serve sauce with them. Sauce.—£ dessert-spoon arrowroot, 1 dessert-spoon castor sugar, 5 wineglass white wine, juice of half a lemon, ^ pint of water. Mix the arrowroot very smoothly with a little cold water into a paste, add the other ingredients, and pour in gradually the boiling water. Stir it quickly over a clear fire till it boils. Boiled Custard.—4 eggs (yolks), 1 pint of boiling milk, 1 dessert-spoon of brandy, sugar. Boil the milk and sugar. Have ready in a basin the well-beaten yolks of the eggs, and pour gradually over them the boiling milk, stirring all the time ; pour the custard back in the saucepan and set it in another saucepan of boiling water (if you are using a double saucepan, if not put the custard in a jug and stand it in boiling water) and stir till it thickens, but do not put it on the fire again. When cooling add the brandy. Custard Pudding.—2 eggs, I pint milk, r dessert-spoon sugar. Beat the eggs and mix with the milk and sugar. Sprinkle with nutmeg, and bake in a very slow oven about half an hour. Farola Pudding.—2 oz. farola, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg. Make this exactly like the baked cornflour pudding. Fig Pudding.—1 lb. figs, 3 eggs, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 wine- glass brandy, i lb. suet, a little milk, 1 lemon. Shred the figs, and chop the suet very fine, grate the lemon rind, and mix with