I 16 SWEETS. way up the basin only, and keep it gently simmering all the time. No cloth need be used, but a piece of butter-paper should be tied over the top of the mould. Caramel puddings will curdle if the water boils. Plum Pudding without Eggs. —2 oz. each of raisins, currants, sugar, bread-crumbs, ground rice, flour, 3 oz. of finely chopped suet, a little candied peel and milk, l a teaspoon of mixed spice, and £ a teaspoon of carbonate of soda. Rub the bread-crumbs through a sieve, and stone the raisins. Stir all the dry ingredients together, and mix with a little milk in which the soda has been dissolved. Boil in a greased mould for three hours. Serve with brandy sauce (page 90). Plain Plum Pudding.—i lb. currants, i lb. suet, 3 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 oz. brown sugar, 2 oz. flour, £ pint milk, i lb. raisins, grated nutmeg, 2 eggs. Mix the dry ingredients, and bind together with the beaten eggs and a little milk. Butter a mould, and put in the pudding and boil for five hours. Serve with brandy sauce (page 90). Christmas Plum Puddings.—1 lb. bread-crumbs, 1 lb. flour, 2 lbs. suet, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. raisins, 1 lb. sugar, £ lb. candied peel, the rinds of 2 lemons, 1 nutmeg, \ oz. mixed spice, 16 eggs, 4 wineglasses of brandy, salt. Stone the raisins, mince the suet very fine, grate the lemons, and mix all the dry ingredients together. Beat the eggs, strain them, mix with the other ingre- dients, and add the brandy. Stir most thoroughly till everything is blended well together. Sufficient for four puddings. They must be boiled for at least six hours when made. These puddings should be made a few weeks before Christmas, and hung up in a dry place. They must be boiled again four hours before using. They should be served with sauce royale (p. 89) or brandy sauce (p. 90). Plum Pudding.—6 oz. raisins, 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 2 oz. flour, 4 oz. sugar, 6 oz. currants, 6 oz. suet, 5 eggs, 3 oz. citron, lemon, and orange peel, | nutmeg, i grated lemon rind, i wine- glass of brandy. Mix the dry ingredients together, taking care