64 POULTRY. in a saucepan with a little butter. Put the duck and the peas on a hot dish, thicken the gravy and strain it, pour over the duck and peas, and serve very hot. Wild Duck.—Pluck, draw, and truss the bird ; flour it well; roast it in front of a sharp, clear fire for twenty or thirty minutes, basting well with butter. It is an improvement to the flavour if the carver, after scoring the breast, squeezes a lemon dipped in cayenne over it. Only the breast is good to eat. Serve with gravy, adding half a glass of port wine, or with savoury orange sauce (page 88). To Roast a Goose.—Roast or bake in the usual way. The stuffing is made with % lb. of onions parboiled, 2 teaspoons powdered sage, 4 tablespoons bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Cut the onions very fine and mix with the other ingredients after parboiling them. Truss it and fill with sage and onion stuffing. The goose can simply be stuffed with small apples, not peeled or cored. Sew up the openings of the bird securely, baste well, and roast for about two hours according to size. For the gravy boil some of the giblets and pour the stock from them into the dripping- pan after the fat has all been poured off, with two teaspoons of flour, and boil up. Serve separately. When the goose is stuffed with sage and onions serve apple sauce (page 84) in a tureen. Gravy for Roast Goose.—Slice an onion, chop it small, and fry it in a little butter till lightly browned. Pour over it a pint and a quarter of stock made from the giblets, etc., add a bunch of parsley, six peppercorns, and a little salt. Mix a dessert-spoon of browned flour to a thick smooth paste with a little cold water and add to it, and stew the gravy gently for an hour or more; it should be as thick as cream. Strain and serve in a tureen. To Hash Goose.—Cut into neat slices the remains of a roast goose and dredge a little flour over them. Put into a stew-pan any gravy that may be left, *and a small quantity of the stuffing, and add a little pepper and salt. Shake the pan over the fire till the