HRKAKFAST DISHES AND SAVOURIES. 141 layer of bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Cheese Straws.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2{ oz. grated cheese, 1 egg, salt, and cayenne. Mix the flour with half a salt- spoon of salt and a quarter of a salt-spoon of cayenne. Rub the butter into the flour, and mix in the cheese (Parmesan is best, with a very little Cheddar). Mix it into a smooth paste with the yolk of an egg. Flour a board and rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to about an eighth of an inch in thickness. Flour a knife and cut the paste into strips about a quarter of an inch wide and five inches in length. Cut out a few rings of paste, place on a baking sheet, and bake in a quick oven for about five minutes. When cold put some of the straws within each ring. Serve hot. Dahl.—Boil one large breakfast-cup of lentils in as much water as will cover them until they are soft; this must be done the night before they are wanted. Fry a small piece of onion in % an oz. of butter with a dessert-spoon of curry powder, put in the lentils and fry well. Stir about and serve very hot in a silver dish with boiled rice round it. Devilled Drumsticks.—The legs of poultry or game. They should be prepared overnight if wanted for breakfast. With a sharp knife take off the skin and score the flesh twice crosswise on each side. Melt an ounce of butter and mix with it a tea- spoon of salt, half as much of pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoon of made mustard. Spread this mixture on the legs and get it in between the scores as much as possible. Put a cover over them and leave in a cool place till the morn- ing. About a quarter of an hour before they are wanted for breakfast lay them on a well-greased gridiron or in a frying-pan and put them over a gentle fire, turning them frequently. A little hot butter should be poured over them when they are dished up. They should be very crisp. Devilled Sardines.—Dip some sardines in boiling water to rid them of the oil. Spread them on both sides with made