[02 SWEETS. setting. When nearly cold pour it into the prepared mould, and leave till cold. College Puddings.—5 large tablespoons of bread-crumbs, 2 large tablespoons of suet chopped fine, 2 large tablespoons of castor sugar, 3 large tablespoons of currants, 3 large tablespoons of chopped raisins, 1 large tablespoon of brandy, 3 eggs, nutmeg, salt, candied peel. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin and mix with the eggs, which have been well whisked, and add the brandy. Butter some little tins, pour in the mixture, and bake till light brown. Serve with thin custard sauce hot. Custard Sauce.—\ pint of milk, 1 egg, a pinch of sugar, flavour- ing of vanilla and teaspoon of brandy. Put the milk into a double saucepan with the sugar when nearly but not quite boiling, stir in the well-beaten egg, stir for a few minutes, and add the brandy. Cornflour Pudding (baked).—2 oz. cornflour, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 egg. Mix the cornflour very smoothly with a very little cold milk and add the rest of the milk, and boil all together for about seven minutes; stir well all the time. After it has cooled stir in a well-beaten egg and the sugar and pour into a buttered pie-dish and bake slowly about half an hour. Cornflour Mould.—I oz. cornflour, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. sugar, flavouring. Mix the cornflour very smoothly with a little cold milk, and put the rest of the milk into an enamel saucepan to get hot, but not quite to boil. Pour it over the cornflour, stirring all the time, and put it back into the saucepan to thicken, stirring continually. Put in the flavouring at the last moment. Rinse out a mould in cold water, pour in the mixture, and let it get cold. Turn out and serve with stewed fruit or jam. Crumb Pudding.—3 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 pint milk, 1 egg, l oz. sugar, some jam, and a little grated lemon rind. Put the milk into a saucepan to get hot. Spread some jam—strawberry or apricot is the best, but any kind will do—at the bottom of a pie-dish 3 put the bread-crumbs in a basin, and when the milk is very hot, but not quite boiling, pour it over them and leave to get