59 MEAT. through a mincing machine, with a quarter-pound of lean ham. Mix all together with 2 oz. of butter, a salt-spoon of salt, one of pounded mace and one of pepper, and a dust of cayenne, and a little gravy if needed. Pound it all together in a mortar. Fill some small pots and cover with melted butter. Potato Cutlets.—Boil i| lbs. potatoes well, pass through a fine sieve, and mix in the yolks of two eggs. Season with pepper and salt. Take about a tablespoon of the mixture and make into balls, flatten out with a spoon, then take any kind of cold meat chopped finely, seasoned with pepper and salt • lay a little of the meat on the potato, then place another layer of potato on the top, press the sides together, flour, or dip them into egg and bread-crumb. Fry a light brown. Pork Pie (for one large pie).—2 lbs. of loin of pork, fat and lean mixed, cut in small pieces, and seasoned with teaspoons of white pepper and teaspoons salt. 2 lbs. of flour, 10 oz. of lard, 1 gill of milk, 1 gill of water, one small teaspoon of salt. Bones and rind for gravy. Warm the flour, rub into it 5 oz. of lard, boil up the other five ounces of lard with 1 gill of milk and 1 gill of water, make a hole in the flour in which the other lard has been mixed, pour in the boiling ingredients, mix first with a knife and then press into a ball with the hands, beat well with a rolling-pin till the paste is quite smooth. Cut off a piece for the lid of the pie. Form the rest of the paste into a high cone, and gradually work into a case for the meat with the hands. When finished the case should stand about five inches in height. Press the meat in well, put on the lid, make two holes in the top for the steam to escape. Bake two hours or longer in a moderate oven. The bones and rind of the pork should be put in a saucepan with three quarters of a pint of water and eighteen peppercorns and half a teaspoon of salt, and stewed for two hours. When the pie is baked pour into it gently through the holes at the top as much gravy as it will hold ; this should be repeated two or three times whilst the pie is cooling.