ODDS AND ENDS. 155 quantity of loaf sugar broken small; leave this to dissolve, and then turn the syrup into a preserving pan, and boil gently for five minutes. Skim carefully. Pour the syrup into a basin or jug to get cold, and twelve hours afterwards bottle and cork it. Take care that the bottles are absolutely dry. This syrup makes a good sauce for puddings either hot or cold. Green Gooseberry Paste.—This preserve is much nicer than jam for eating, but not so useful for cooking purposes, so that it is well to make the ordinary kind of gooseberry jam as well as this. Cut the stalks and tops off the fruit and bruise it slightly. Boil till the fruit is quite soft; then rub it through a hair sieve and weigh it, and put it back in the preserving pan with the sugar. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit pulp. Good loaf sugar must be used. Boil for about half an hour, stir- ring all the time to prevent it burning, and it must be well skimmed. The preserve should set when cold into rather a stiff paste. Rhubarb Jam.—Cut the rhubarb in pieces about an inch long, put it in an earthenware pan, and lay an equal weight of crushed loaf sugar over it, and let it stand twenty-four hours; then strain all the syrup from the fruit and boil it gently about twenty minutes. Add the pieces of rhubarb and boil until they look clear, and be careful not to boil it too much or it will candy. Green rhubarb looks the prettiest when done. Marrons Glaces.—4 dozen chestnuts, 1 lb. sugar, 1 pint water. Boil the chestnuts gently, take them from the fire, and peel them. Boil the sugar and water to a syrup. Keep stirring the whole time or the sugar will burn. Take off the scum as it rises, add the chestnuts, which must be whole. Boil gently in the syrup for about fifteen minutes, stirring them the wTole time (too fast boiling will break the chestnuts). Then remove from the fire and place them on a sieve until dry. They must be kept in a dry place. Meat Jelly for Invalids.—2 lbs. shin of beef, ii lbs. of veal.