142 BREAKFAST DISHES AND SAVOURIES. mustard and a dash of cayenne. Grill them and serve on hot buttered toast or fried bread. Buttered Eggs.—Allow one ounce of butter to three eggs. Beat the eggs in a basin, put the butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted put in the eggs, add pepper and salt, and stir vigorously till the egg is nicely set, when take off the fire and serve at once on buttered toast. Curried Eggs.—4 hard-boiled eggs, one onion, 1 tablespoon of curry powder, f pint stock, | pint cream, £ oz. butter. Fry a very small onion sliced in butter, and add the curry powder and fry that too, then add the stock, and let all stew gently together for about twenty minutes. Then mix in the cream and simmer for five minutes. Cut the eggs into halves, and cut off a little piece of the white at each end to make them stand. Strain the sauce, put it back into the saucepan and put in the eggs ; let them get thoroughly hot, but do not let the sauce boil. Serve on a hot dish with rice round it. Scrambled Eggs Curried.—3 eggs, 1 teaspoon of curry powder, 1 oz. butter, cayenne, salt, and a little milk. Break the eggs in a basin, and slightly beat them. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and add a very little milk and the curry powder and seasoning. Put in the eggs, and stir well with a fork till they are set. Serve at once on buttered toast. Scalloped Eggs.—Take 2 eggs, 2 tablespoons of fine bread- crumbs, 1 dessert-spoon milk, 1 dessert-spoon of gravy, a slice ■of bacon, some parsley, £ oz. butter, and pepper and salt. Moisten the bread-crumbs with the milk and gravy, which has been seasoned well, mince the bacon and parsley. Butter three scallop-shells, and put a third of the crumbs at the bottom, and over them the bacon and parsley. Cover the shells, and put in the oven to get hot. Beat the eggs to a froth, and add to them the butter melted, the milk, and some salt and cayenne. Pour them over the crumbs and bacon, and bake till the eggs are set. Baked Eggs and Cheese.—Cut some hard-boiled eggs in