33 MEAT. flour. Divide the steak into thin slices, about four inches long and three wide; brush over with egg; spread with a layer of veal forcemeat; roll up the pieces tightly and fasten with a small skewer. Put the stock in a stew-pan that will only just hold the olives; lay in the rolls of meat, cover them with the bacon, which remove before serving. Stew them very gently for two hours. Take them out, remove the skewers, thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and flavour with two tablespoons of port wine. Give one boil, pour over the meat, and serve very hot. Beef Olives (of cooked meat).—The remains of cold beef, forcemeat, thickening of flour and butter, mushroom ketchup. Cut some slices of beef rather thick; spread a little forcemeat on one side of each piece and roll it up tightly and secure with narrow tape. Have ready some gravy in a small stew-pan, put in the olives and stew gently about one and a half hours. Arrange the olives on a hot dish after cutting off the tape, and thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter and flavour with pepper and salt, and mushroom ketchup or wine. Pour round the olives and serve. Beef Cheek Pie.—Stew a beef cheek very tender, take out the bones, tie up the meat in a cloth, put a weight upon it, and let it stand till the next day; then make some forcemeat as for veal. Boil eight eggs hard, cut the cheek in slices, put one at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of forcemeat, another of egg, and so on till the dish is full. Then put in as much gravy as the dish will hold. Put on a puff paste and bake. Beefsteak Pie.—2 lbs. beefsteak and lb. beef kidney. Mix 1 tablespoon flour and 2 teaspoons of pepper and the same of salt on a plate. Cut the beefsteak into thin strips, dip each piece into the mixture and roll, set on edge in the pie- dish and pack to the top with layers of kidney between, and, if liked, hard-boiled egg. Fill half full with water and cover with pastry; make a hole at the top to let out the steam. Brush over 3