M EAT. 44 not be removed, but the meat should always be sprinkled with pepper and bread-crumbs before being put in the oven. Fillets of Mutton (entree).—Take out the fillet from a loin of mutton and pare away the fat. Cut it into little slices and lard each one. Cut into small pieces a carrot, onion, and small piece of turnip, lay them in a dripping-pan with a very little water. Place the fillets on the top, cover them with buttered paper, and cook in a brisk oven for twenty minutes; when they are cooked glaze them over and dish on a ring of mashed potatoes. In the centre of the ring pile up green peas or French beans. Pour some good brown sauce round the dish. Fillet of Mutton Roasted.—Cut out the bone, and fill in with forcemeat (made the same way as for veal). Tie the fillet round with tape, sprinkle the meat with pepper and flour, and roast in the ordinary way. When it is done cut off the tape and put in a silver skewer. Red currant jelly can be served with this joint. Haricot Mutton.—-3 lbs. best end neck of mutton, 3 carrots, 2 turnips, 2 onions, ketchup, salt, pepper, butter. Cut off some of the fat and divide the chops. Fry them lightly in 2 oz. butter till half cooked, cut the onions in slices and the carrots and turnips into fancy pieces, and fry them in the same butter in which the chops were done, but not enough to change their colour. Then put the mutton in the stew-pan with the vegetables on it and just cover with hot water, allow it to come to boiling- point, and then at once draw' it to the side of the fire to simmer till the chops are tender; season with pepper and salt and two- dessert-spoons mushroom ketchup. Set it to cool and take off the fat, then put it on the fire again to get hot, thicken the gravy with a little brown flour; serve very hot. Keep the stew-pan covered. Irish Stew.—The middle part of a neck of mutton, onions, potatoes. Cut the meat in chops and take off some of the fat. Put a layer of potatoes, peeled and sliced thickly, at the bottom