26 l-'ISM. fast, but if it is thick let it only boil gently. Be quite sure it is suffi- ciently cooked before you send it to table: 2 to 3 lbs. will take about half an hour to cook, 8 to 10 lbs. one hour and a quarter, small or thin fish less time. Cucumber should be served with salmon, and for sauce either oiled butter, lobster sauce, Tartar sauce, or plain melted butter and anchovy. Salmon Cutlets.—To every 6 oz. of cold boiled salmon add 2 oz. mashed potatoes, some white pepper, cayenne, salt and mace to taste, one egg, fine bread-crumbs, 1 oz. of butter. See that the fish is perfectly free from skin and bones, and pound it in a mortar; add the seasoning and potatoes, and the butter. Form the mixture into the shape of small cutlets, brush each one over with yolk of egg and bread-crumbs, and fry. Potted Salmon.—I lb. cold boiled salmon, 2 oz. clarified butter, white pepper, cayenne, salt, and mace. Pick the salmon from the bones with two silver forks, warm the butter, add the seasoning, and pound all together in a mortar till it is a smooth paste. Press into little pots, and, cover with clarified butter. Scallop-shells of Cooked Fish.—Remains of cold fish. For every half-pound allow 3 oz. of grated bread-crumbs seasoned with salt, cayenne and pepper, and grated nutmeg. Break the fish into small pieces with two forks, season it, and mix with it either some cold white sauce or one ounce of clarified butter; butter some scallop-shells, place a layer of seasoned crumbs at the bottom, lay in the fish, and sprinkle more crumbs on the top. Lay little pieces of butter on the top, and put the shells into a brisk oven. They will take about a quarter of an hour to do. Some people find it a very great improvement to sprinkle the top of the fish with Parmesan cheese instead of bread-crumbs. In any case butter must be put on the top. Smelts.—Draw them at the gills, as they must not be opened. Wash and thoroughly dry in a cloth. Dredge them with flour, dip into the beaten yolk of an egg, and then into finest bread-