M EAT. 48 cold water. Bring them slowly to boiling-point, but do not allow them quite to boil or the meat will be very hard. Then draw back the stew-pan from the fire and add the peas. Season with salt and pepper and a dust of cayenne. Simmer gently for half an hour, or longer if the peas are not soft. Dish up the chops and put the peas in the centre of the dish and pour the gravy round. Mutton Cutlets (i).—2 lbs. best end neck of mutton. Take off the cutlets, shape them and chop off the thick part of the chine bone, beat them flat with a chopper, cut off all the fat. Season with pepper and salt. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in lard. Place them on paper in front of the fire to drain off the fat. Serve with a puree of tomatoes or potato, etc. Mutton Cutlets (2).—2 lbs. loin chops, parsley, thyme, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, 2 oz. butter, 1 lemon, cayenne and salt. Trim the cutlets and lay in a stew-pan with the butter which has been melted, season them and let them stew for a short time, but without getting any colour. Mince the thyme and parsley, and bind with the yolk of an egg. When the cutlets are nearly cold spread the minced herbs over them, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and cayenne, broil them on a gridiron, and when they are brown squeeze lemon juice over them. Mutton Cutlets a la Rdforme (an entree).—From 1 carrot, 1 turnip, the hard-boiled white of 1 egg, 2 slices of lean ham, 2 green gherkins, 9 French beans, cut out narrow strips of about two inches in length, also a few star- and diamond-shaped pieces. Partly boil the carrot and turnip before cutting into shapes. Make a sauce of 1 oz. of butter browned with 1 oz. of flour, add f pint of good stock, 1 shred onion, 1 tablespoon spiced vinegar, 1 dessert-spoon red currant jelly, 6 cloves, stir and let it boil for five minutes, then strain it through a fine gravy strainer, return the sauce to the pan, and add a few of the cut vegetables, white of egg, pickles, ham, a dust of cayenne, 1 tablespoon sherry wine, and let it just boil up. Have seven cutlets ready