SOUPS. 11 in cold water. Drain them and boil for about i| hours in cold water slightly salted, or until they are very tender. Drain them again and rub through a sieve. Warm the stock and add the puree of beans, season with pepper and salt, and add one tea- spoon of chopped parsley. Boil up once more and serve. Croiltons of fried bread should be served with this soup. Julienne Soup.—2 quarts “stock for clear soup” (see page 6), 2 carrots, 2 turnips, 1 stalk celery. Scrape the carrots and cut the red part of them into straws an inch long. Scrape and cut up the turnips and celery also into straws an inch long. After the vegetables are cut up, boil the carrots in slightly salted boiling water for fifteen minutes, and the turnips and celery for ten minutes. Put the vegetables into the tureen and pour the clear soup, boiling, over them. Lettuce Soup, Cream of.—3 lettuces, 4 oz. rice, 1 small onion, 2 oz. of butter, ^ pint cream, 2 cloves, parsley, sweet herbs, mace, 2 quarts broth or white stock. Wash the lettuces well and drain them in a cloth, and then chop them rather fine, and put them in the stew-pot with 2 oz. of butter; cook for five minutes stirring slightly, and then add the stock, the rice (well washed), a bunch of parsley, a small onion stuck with two cloves, and about half a salt-spoon of powdered mace. Cover the stew-pot and cook for three quarters of an hour, then strain and pour into a saucepan. Just before it boils pour in the cream, season with salt and cayenne, let it nearly boil again, stirring all the time, and then serve. Crofitons of fried bread should be served with this soup. Lentil Soup.—1 pint lentils, 3 carrots, 2 oz. butter, 2 turnips, 1 Spanish onion or 1 head of celery, 1 sprig of parsley. After washing the lentils soak them all night in two quarts of water; then put them in the stew-pot with the water they were soaked in and set them on the fire. Add the other vegetables, which must be washed and cut up small, and a little salt. Boil till quite soft and rub through a sieve, adding boiling water as