143 , BREAKFAST DISHES AND SAVOURIES. slices, and lay them in a well-buttered dish with grated cheese, pepper, and salt, and sprinkle bread-crumbs over the top and little bits of butter. Put in the oven, and serve when brown. Eggs and Tomatoes.—4 large tomatoes, 4 eggs, 1 oz. butter, salt, cayenne. Peel the tomatoes, and place each one separately in a little fireproof ramekin case, previously well buttered. Put in a little lump of butter and a dust of salt and cayenne, and place the ramekin cases in the oven till the tomatoes boil. Then break an egg right into the centre of each case, and put them in the oven again just to set the eggs. Serve them in the ramekin cases. Eggs and Rice.—Boil about two ounces of rice as for curry, pour off the water, and drain in a colander. Put the rice back in the saucepan and stand the saucepan at the side of the stove, with the lid off, to get the rice quite hot and dry. Put the rice on one side of the saucepan, and place in it half an ounce of butter or a little more; when it is melted break in two eggs, stirring all the time ; when they are beginning to set stir in the rice, and keep stirring for two or three minutes till the egg is well mixed with the rice and looks like kedgeree. Season with salt and cayenne. Eggs and Cheese.—Allow one egg to each person. Put a piece of butter the size of a nut into as many china ramekin cases as you require. Mince some parsley and put a little into each case with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and cayenne. Break an egg carefully in the centre of each case, sprinkle a teaspoon of good Cheddar cheese grated, a few brown bread-crumbs, and a little mixed parsley on them. Put the cases in the oven and bake for not more than five minutes. If they are baked longer the eggs will be hard. Egg and Anchovy Sandwiches.—Boil 3 eggs hard, pound the yolks with \ oz. butter. Cut some slices of bread and butter, spread first with anchovy paste and then with pounded egg, and put a layer of chopped mustard and cress between the sand- wiches.