I 11 SWEETS. crumbs, ^ pint of milk, 2 eggs, i lb. marmalade, b an oz. of buttei, 1 tablespoon of sugar. Beat the butter and sugar together, add the yolks of the eggs (well beaten), the milk and bread- crumbs, and lastly the whites of the eggs stiffly beaten. 1 ut a layer of this in a well-buttered dish, then a layer of marma- lade, then of the other ingredients, and so on till the dish is full, taking care to have the custard mixture at the top. Bake in a moderate oven about three quarters of an hour. Marmalade Suet Pudding.—5 oz. bread-crumbs, i lb. castor sugar, 3 eggs, | pint milk, 3 oz. suet, marmalade. Chop the suet as fine as possible and stir it into the bread-crumbs ; add the sugar and the well-beaten eggs and the milk, and beat all well together for a quarter of an hour ; when ready to put into the oven stir it up quickly and put a layer in a well-buttered pie-dish, then a layer of marmalade, then of the mixture, and so on till the pie-dish is full, letting the bread be at the top ; place it in a moderate oven and bake nearly two hours. Turn out and serve. Meringues.—Whisk the whites of four very fresh eggs very stiffly, and stir in at the last moment J lb. of castor sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some strips of white paper about fourteen inches long and three in width, place them on a board which wall fit on a baking sheet, sprinkle the paper thickly with white sugar. Take a tablespoon of the mixture and place on the paper, leaving an inch between each spoonful; put the board in the oven, leaving the door slightly open so that they can be watched. When the meringues are a pale biscuit colour take them out of the oven, scoop out the inside, and put them back in the oven for a few minutes to dry and get crisp inside. The cases will keep some time in a tin. When wanted fill with whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Mincemeat.—2 lbs. suet, 2 lbs. currants, 2 lbs. raisins, i| lbs. sugar, f lb. candied peel mixed (lemon, citron, and orange), 2 lbs. apples, juice of 4 lemons, | oz. salt, rind of 2 lemons, b oz. ginger, b oz. allspice, § oz. ground cloves, b oz. ground nutmegs,