20 FISH. the back, take out the backbone, rub over with cold butter, and cook them in a Dutch oven before a bright fire, or fry them. To Boil a Brill.—A brill requires less cooking than a turbot, but is otherwise treated in the same way. Clean the brill, cut off the fins, rub with lemon juice. Lay it in the fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, and add i lb. salt to each gallon of water, and two tablespoons of vinegar. Bring it gradually to the boil, simmer very gently for ten to fifteen minutes, accord- ing to the size of the fish, and skim carefully. Serve very hot: garnish with slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Serve lobster, shrimp, or plain butter sauce with it. To Boil Cod.—Wash the fish and clean it very thoroughly, particularly the backbone. Lay it in the fish-kettle and cover with cold water mixed with salt in the proportion of 4 oz. to a gallon of water and two tablespoons of vinegar. Place over a moderate fire, clear off the scum, and only just keep it simmering. If the water boils away add a little by pouring it in at the side of the kettle. The fish will take from twenty to forty minutes, according to size. Drain it well and dish it up. Garnish with the liver and roe, parsley, and lemon. Oyster sauce, egg sauce, shrimp sauce, or plain butter sauce with anchovy can be served with this fish. To Boil Cods’ Sounds.—These should be well soaked in salt and water and thoroughly washed before dressing. They are considered a great delicacy, and may be either broiled, fried, or boiled. If they are boiled mix a little milk with the water. They take about a quarter of an hour to cook. Slices of Cod fried. —Cut the middle or tail end of the fish into slices nearly an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper or cayenne, flour them and dip into beaten yolk of egg and then into fine bread-crumbs, and fry in boiling fat till of a clear brown on both sides; drain well and serve. Garnish with fried parsley. Plain melted butter or anchovy sauce is served with this fish.