SAUCES. 90 boiled in a very little water, and the water is then strained and used to make the white sauce with instead of plain water. Sweet Sauce for Puddings.—i oz. butter, \ pint milk, i oz. flour, i oz. sugar. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and mix in gradually the flour. Cook the paste a minute, beating it with the back of a wooden spoon ; then add by slow degrees the cold milk and sugar, and let it boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Any flavouring can be used, or brandy. Sweet Wine Sauce for Puddings.—£ dessert-spoon of arrowroot, i tablespoon of castor sugar, | wineglass of white wine, i teaspoon of lemon juice, | pint of w'ater. Mix the arrowroot very smoothly with a little cold water, then pour half a pint of water, boiling, over it, stirring all the time. Add gradually the wine, sugar, and lemon juice. Make hot and serve. Tartar Sauce.—2 eggs (yolks only), I gill salad oil, 2 table- spoons of Tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoon of chopped parsley, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Put the yolks in a basin, and add the salad oil drop by drop, stirring with a whisk vigorously until quite thick; then add the vinegar, parsley, etc., and serve. Tomato Sauce.—6 large ripe tomatoes, 1 small onion, 2 oz. butter, | oz. flour, 2 cloves, 1 capsicum or a little cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon of castor sugar, salt. Cut the tomatoes in slices and put them with all the other ingredients, except one ounce of butter and the flour, into a stew-pot or enamel saucepan with one pint of cold water. Keep the lid on and let them simmer gently for about three quarters of an hour. Stir frequently to prevent burn- ing. Rub through a hair sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in the stew-pan and mix the flour smoothly with it, and stir wrell till it is cooked. Take the pan off the fire and add the tomato puree gradually and a quarter of a pint of hot water; put it over the fire again, make it thoroughly hot, and then serve. Tomato Sauce with Milk.—1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, 1 teacup milk, 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Mix the flour and butter in