1 53 ODDS AND ENDS. used. If the glasses or jars in which the jam is to be kept are not absolutely dry the jam will ferment, so they must be washed and dried some time before they are wanted. After the fruit is freed from stalks or stones, as the case may be, it must be weighed. Then put it in the preserving pan and let it boil; stir and skim it. After it has boiled a few minutes add the sugar. The quantity to use varies with the fruit; strawberries and rasp- berries and the sweeter kinds take less than the more acid fruits. As a general rule three quarters of a pound of sugar should be used to every pound of fruit; damsons require a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. After the sugar is added the jam should boil steadily, but not too rapidly, till it sets when a little is put on a plate ; this is generally from half to three-quarters of an hour. It is best to add the sugar when the preserving pan is off the fire, or the jam might burn. The jam must be allowed to get cold in the jars, and then they should have paper soaked in brandy laid inside the jars on the top of the jam, and parchment or paper soaked in milk must be fastened over the top of the jars to exclude the air. In the case of stone fruit the stones must be most carefully skimmed off; they rise to the top when the fruit is boiling. Cherry Jam.—This is made in the same way as other jams (see Directions for making Jam), but the cherries must first be stoned. This is easily and quickly done with a little instrument that is sold for this purpose. If you pull out the cherry stalk and then insert the instrument into the cherry at the end where the stalk has come out, you will extract the stone without losing any of the juice. The fruit must be weighed after it is stoned, and half a pound of sugar is the allowance for a pound of sweet cherries, and a pound of sugar for a pound of Morelia cherries. Red, Black, or White Currant Jelly, and Blackberry Jelly •—Pick the fruit free from stalks, and put it into a preserving pan, and stir gently over a clear fire till the juice is extracted. The fruit should cook slowly. Then turn the fruit into a hair