SOUPS. 15 saucepan again on the fire, and let it gradually heat, but not boil. Stir all the time, and season well. Sago Soup.—3 oz. sago, 2 quarts ordinary stock. Wash the sago in boiling water, and then by degrees add it to the boiling stock; simmer till the sago is dissolved. Scotch Mutton Broth.—3 lbs. scrag end neck of mutton, 4 pints water, 4 carrots and 3 turnips cut up into pieces, 3 onions, 2 tablespoons pearl barley, salt, pepper, 1 teaspoon of chopped parsley. Cut up the mutton, dividing the bones, and trim off most of the fat. Put into the stock-pot with 2 quarts of water; as soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer for an hour. Add the other ingredients and stew for three hours. About half an hour before sending to table add the minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Semolina Soup.—j lb. semolina, 2 quarts ordinary stock. Drop the semolina into the boiling soup and keep stirring. Sim- mer gently for half an hour and serve. Soupe & la Reine.—2 lbs. veal, 4 oz. ham, 1 fowl, 2 quarts water, 3 oz. bread, f pint cream, | oz. arrowroot, bunch of sweet herbs, 1 carrot, 1 onion stuck with 2 cloves, 1 blade mace, 10 peppercorns, salt, cayenne, pepper. Cut up the veal (scrag end of knuckle is best) and the ham or bacon, which must be very lean, and put into the stew-pot with the water and the vegetables, • herbs, mace, and peppercorns. Stew gently till the liquor is reduced to about three pints, then strain it and set it aside till it is cold, when the fat can easily be skimmed off. Skin the fowl and wash it, and take away the dark spongy substance that adheres to the insides. Put the fowl in the stew-pot and pour the veal <broth over it; put the lid on the stew-pot and boil it gently for an hour, then lift out the fowl, cut off all the white meat, and put back the rest of the fowl into the stock-pot, and stew gently for one and a half hours. Pound the white meat you have cut off to the finest paste, and leave till wanted in a cool place, covered over with a basin. Season the soup that is still simmer-