SWEETS. io8 cold, i egg, a few currants, and some sugar. Put the milk on to boil in an enamel saucepan. Whilst boiling whisk the egg in a basin and mix with it the flour, sugar, and cold milk very smoothly. Pour the boiling milk over it, stirring all the time, and put it back in the saucepan, and stir till it boils again ; strew in a few currants and serve. Claret Jelly.—§ pint claret, | pint water, 4 oz. sugar, 8 cloves, 2 stick of cinnamon, 1 oz. gelatine, ^ a small teacup of red currant jelly. Put the gelatine, water, sugar, and spice into a saucepan with the red currant jelly ; leave till they are melted, then add rather more than half a pint of claret and boil three minutes. Strain, and put in a mould that has been well rinsed in cold water. Cherry-Brandy Jelly.—2 oz. gelatine, £ pint boiling water, 1 bottle Morelia cherries beaten through a sieve and strained, £ lb. lump sugar melted with the gelatine, 1 teacup of brandy and cherry-brandy mixed. Pour the jelly into a mould rinsed first in cold water. How to Use Chivers’ Jellies.—Melt the packet of jelly in a little less than the amount of water specified, and make up the deficiency by using wine or the juice of oranges or lemons. For orange or lemon jelly grate the rind of an orange or the peel of a lemon in the water and boil it for ten minutes. Strain and melt the jelly in it, adding the wine or juice of the fruit. Junket.—Heat a quart of milk till it is lukewarm. Put into a cup half a teaspoon of powdered cinnamon, a tablespoon of castor sugar, and half a wineglass of brandy (this may be omitted). Stir till the sugar is dissolved. Add to the milk, put it into the dish in which it is to be served, and stir in a tablespoon of rennet. In three or four hours it will be firm and ready to serve. King’s Pudding.—1 pint claret, £ wineglass brandy, i lb. loaf sugar, juice of one lemon, 1 teacup damson jam, i oz. gela- tine. Soak the gelatine in the claret, brandy, and sugar, stir over the fire. When it boils add the jam and boil all together for five minutes. Dip a china mould with a hollow centre in cold water,