43 MEAT. with sufficient stock or gravy to cover them and | pint of peas, and stew gently for an hour and a half. Just before serving thicken the gravy with a little flour, give one boil and pour it over the meat. Have ready the rest of the peas boiled, and put with the gravy over the meat. Stewed mushrooms are also an addition to this dish, or they can be used instead of the peas. Lamb Cutlets.—Cut and trim 8 cutlets from the best end of the neck, flatten them, brush over with beaten egg, and dip them into a mixture of fine bread-crumbs, minced parsley, pepper and salt. Fry them a golden brown in boiling fat. Put them before the fire on a sieve to drain. Have ready a puree of spinach in an entree dish, and place the cutlets neatly round it. Serve with brown sauce. Brown Sauce.—Mix 4 oz. butter and 4 oz. of browned flour in a small saucepan. When quite smooth and hot add 1 a pint of good stock well seasoned. Serve in a sauce- boat. Lamb’s Fry.—Partly boil the sweetbreads; throw them into cold water, and wrhen cold trim them. Flour all the pieces and fry in the frying-pan in some bacon fat. When nicely browned pour a little water into the frying-pan and thicken with a little brown flour. Throw in some chopped parsley and season with pepper and salt. Serve fried bacon with this dish. Lamb (to Roast a Fore-quarter).—Roast in the usual way accord- ing to directions given. The meat must be thoroughly cooked. Mint sauce should be served with it. A cut lemon, a small piece of butter, and a little cayenne should be placed on the table, so that when the shoulder is cut off they can be put between the shoulder and breast. To Roast a Breast of Mutton.—4 or 5 lbs. breast of mutton. Boil gently for an hour, take out of the saucepan and remove the bones and skin with a sharp knife. Sprinkle with pepper and bread-crumbs on the outside, roll into shape and skewer firmly, place a few small pieces of dripping on the meat. Put the meat in a brisk oven and bake for f of an hour. The bones need