POULTRY. 7* turkey into neat slices and dredge a little flour over them. Put into a stew-pan any gravy that may be left, and add a little pepper, salt, and mace. Shake the pan over the fire till the gravy is quite hot. Draw it to the side of the fire and then put in the slices of turkey, and let the hash simmer gently for fifteen minutes. Cut the forcemeat balls into slices and warm these in the oven or before the fire. Arrange the hash on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and garnish with alternate slices of forcemeat, sippets of toast, and pickled walnuts or gherkins. For the gravy to warm up the meat in, supposing there is none left, put the skin, bones, and trimmings of the turkey into a saucepan with a pint of stock, a bunch of herbs and parsley, four cloves, and some sliced mush- rooms if you have any. Simmer the sauce gently for an hour, strain it, season with pepper, salt, and mace, and thicken with the pounded liver of the turkey and a little browned flour. Just before sending to table add a teaspoon of lemon juice or a table- spoon of wine. To Mince Turkey .—Cut the meat off the bones, free it from skin and sinew, and mince finely by hand, season with salt, pepper, and mace, and a little grated lemon rind, and put it into a stew-pan with sufficient white sauce (page 91) to moisten it. Let it simmer gently without boiling till it is hot, stirring all the time. Garnish with sippets of toast and little rolls of fried bacon. To Roast Turkey.—After it is trussed, stuff the crop of the turkey with veal forcemeat (page 54) and sew up. Tie a piece of buttered paper over the breast, baste well with butter. Just before it is done remove the paper and dredge with flour, and baste well to brown it. It will take, according to the size, from one hour and a half to two hours and a half to cook. The bird may be stuffed with sausage meat if preferred, or chestnut force- meat. To Re-dress Turkey.—The meat can be used for patties, mince, rissoles, or in any of the other ways given for re-cooking poultry or meat; or it can simply be cut into neat pieces and