SAUCES. 89 a tablespoon of flour and the stock with a little Lemco (about half a teaspoon), the pepper and salt, and stir over the fire for twenty minutes, then gradually mix in the other ingredients and serve hot. This is a good sauce for cutlets, etc. Sauce Royale for Plum Pudding-.—Beat two ounces of butter to a cream and add two ounces of castor sugar, then stir in very gradually about one tablespoon each of brandy and sherry. This sauce must look quite rocky and stiff, and be served cold in a little dish in a rocky heap. Salad Dressing (1).—Put the yolk of an egg into the salad bowl with pepper and salt and mustard, beat up with a fork and mix in a dessert-spoon each of salad oil and vinegar. Salad Dressing (2).—3 eggs (yolks only), 3 tablespoons of cream, 2 tablespoons of vinegar, 2 tablespoons of salad oil, castor sugar, mustard, salt, pepper, cayenne, Harvey or Worcester sauce, anchovy. Boil the eggs very hard. Rub the yolks through a sieve, and mix in according to taste all the ingredients except the oil, vinegar, and cream. Then stir in the salad oil, vinegar, and lastly the thick cream. This wall keep good several days. The oil may be omitted altogether and more cream used. Savoury Sauce.—Brown an ounce of flour with an ounce of butter in a stew-pan, add two ounces of lean ham chopped fine and pounded, a few sprigs of parsley, one onion sliced, one bay-leaf, a little thyme, and two cloves. Let all simmer together for ten minutes, then add three gills of good brown stock and the juice of a whole lemon, some cayenne and pepper and salt. Boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Pass through a gravy strainer into a clean saucepan and add one glass of port wine, one dessert-spoon of red currant jelly, and stir till the jelly dissolves and the sauce just comes to the boil. Shrimp Sauce.—Pick half a pint of shrimps. Make half a pint of white sauce (page 91), add a teaspoon of anchovy sauce, put in the shrimps, make hot and serve. The flavour is much improved if a few of the heads and skins of the shrimps are