135 CAKES. Superior Rock Cakes (very good).—1 lb. flour, l lb. castor sugar, ^ lb. butter, 2 eggs, 2 oz. sultanas, 1 oz. candied peel, 1 oz. Jordan almonds, 2 tablespoons of brandy, 2 tablespoons of sherry. Rub the butter very lightly into the flour until it is like bread- crumbs, have ready all the dry ingredients mixed well together, stir into the butter and flour, then add the well-whisked eggs and brandy and sherry. Drop in rocky lumps on to a baking sheet that has been spread with a piece of buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Rock Cakes (plain).—| lb. flour, 3 oz. butter or dripping, 2 oz. currants, 3 oz. sugar, 2 eggs, and a few drops of brandy if liked, 1 teaspoon of baking powder. Rub the butter into the flour, add the other dry ingredients, the eggs well beaten, and the brandy. Drop in rocky lumps and bake in a brisk oven. Scotch Shortbread.—f- lb. flour, f lb. ground rice, i lb. butter, | lb. castor sugar, 1 egg (yolk only), comfits. Take the butter in the lump and work into the butter the dry ingredients with the palms of your hands, and work well. Roll out and cut into six-inch squares of half an inch thick, put them on a flat tin covered with buttered paper, prick over the top with a fork, and put comfits on them. Bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Shortbread.—4 oz. flour, 1 oz. rice flour, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar. Mix the sugar and butter together, and then the flour. Knead together with the hand, roll out, and cut into squares. Scones (1).—1 lb. flour, buttermilk or sour cream, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon baking powder. Mix it rather soft, roll out once, and cut the size you want. Bake at once in a quick oven. Scones (2).—2 tablespoons of Paisley flour, 1 lb. ordinary flour, a small teaspoon of salt, about a breakfast-cup of milk. Mix the Paisley flour, ordinary flour, and salt in a basin. Make into a dough quickly with the milk. Do not knead more than is neces- sary. Roll out on a floured board till about half an inch thick,