38 MEAT. Season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and stew for ten minutes more. Serve on a very hot dish, the beef in the centre and the macaroni round, and garnish with gherkins, chillies, or pickled walnut. To Fry Fillets of Beef (i) (very good).—Undercut of beef, 2 oz. butter. Pepper, salt, parsley, flour, mustard, tomato sauce. Mix a teaspoon of pepper and the same of salt, i tablespoon each of chopped parsley and flour (more if there is much beef) on a plate. Cut the beef into small slices and cover with made mus- tard. Dip each piece into the plate, first one side and then the other, till it is well sprinkled with the ingredients. Fry in butter. Arrange on a very hot dish in a ring, the slices overlapping one another, and pour round hot tomato sauce. To Fry Fillets of Beef (2) .—Undercut of sirloin of beef, 1 lemon, 2 oz. butter, gravy. Cut the undercut into small slices; fry them for eight minutes in two ounces of butter. Warm some good gravy and add 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, seasoning it to your taste. Put a mould of mashed potatoes in the centre of a very hot dish. Stand the fillets or slices of beef round it, leaning them against the side of the potatoes. Pour the gravy round and serve. Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms.— 1 lb. button mush- rooms, undercut of beef. Proceed as in preceding recipe, but make a sauce of 1 oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour melted in a saucepan and smoothly mixed, add a little stock and the mush- rooms and a little lemon juice. Cook till the mushrooms are tender, and heap them on the dish instead of potatoes, lay the fillets in the dish and pour the sauce round. Serve very hot. Spiced Beef (pressed).—From 6 to 8 lbs. of the round, rump, or thick flank of beef; | teaspoon each of pepper, mace, nutmeg, and mustard, all in powder; 1 teaspoon of ground cloves and a little cayenne; 4 oz. brown sugar; 4 oz. salt. Mix all these in- gredients thoroughly together and rub the beef well with the mixture, taking care that every part of the joint is rubbed. Leave