ODDS AND ENDS. 151 To make Coffee.—To preserve the aroma of coffee the berries should be roasted at least once a week, ground just before using, and warmed before the fire. For making coffee use a fireproof china coffee-pot with a percolator. Make it hot with boiling water, pour this away, and put in the strainer one table- spoon of coffee for every cup required and one over, press the coffee down and put the upper part of the strainer on the pot. Pour about a third of a pint of fast-boiling water slowly through the top strainer, put on the lid, set the pot on the stove to keep hot, and add from time to time the remainder of the water you require quite boiling, and slowly. It will take about twenty minutes or half an hour to make coffee in this way. Before sending to table take out both strainers and put the lid on the lower half of the pot. Coffee made in this way will be strong, clear, fragrant, and hot. Cafe Noir.—Make the coffee in the same way as in the pre- vious recipe, but use one tablespoon of coffee to a quarter of a pint of water. Pickled Damsons.—Boil together 1 quart brown vinegar, 3 lbs. Demerara sugar, 1 oz. thick cinnamon, for ten minutes. Pour it over 3 lbs. damsons, which should have been previously pricked with a needle and placed in a basin. Cover with a plate and leave for three days, when drain off, boil ten minutes, and pour over the fruit again. Next day, boil plums and syrup together for five minutes, and then put into jars and cover down while hot. Damson Cheese.—Boil the fruit till tender, and rub it through a hair sieve till the fruit is like a paste; then add six ounces of loaf sugar to every pound of pulp, stir off the fire till it is dissolved, and then boil the preserve again, stirring con- tinuously till it leaves the pan quite dry and adheres to the spoon in a mass. Press it into little moulds, and when it is cold put a piece of paper soaked in brandy over the top, and fasten another piece of paper over the mould. A few of the damson stones should be cracked, the kernels taken out,