POULTRY. 6; Have ready on a plate 2 teaspoons each of pepper, salt, and flour. Dip each piece of pigeon and beefsteak into this mixture. Lay some pieces of pigeon at the bottom of the pie-dish and pack in little rolls of beefsteak round them, add a layer of slices of hard- boiled egg and a few little pieces of bacon or ham ; fill up to the top, making it higher in the middle, and having a layer of egg at the top and some pieces of fat bacon. Put the giblets of the birds and the heads skinned and the feet (reserving three feet to put in the hole at the top of the pie) into a saucepan with a little pepper, salt, mace, bacon rind, and water, and make into gravy. Pour some of this into the pie, and reserve some to add boiling through the hole at the top when the pie is baked. Cover the pie with pastry and brush over with yolk of egg, and bake at least two and a half hours, at first briskly and then slowly, to cook the meat, putting a greased paper over the crust. To Roast Pigeons.—Pluck, draw, and singe some young pigeons, and fill with either forcemeat or bread and butter, cut into dice. Tie thin slices of bacon over their breasts, dredge them with flour, and put them down to a clear fire; baste with bacon fat or a little butter. They will take from twenty-five to thirty minutes to roast. For the gravy, pour into the dripping- pan half a pint of boiling stock or water ; add a tablespoon of sherry and a teaspoon of the forcemeat; season with salt, cayenne, and mace, and thicken with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Send the gravy to table in a tureen, and bread sauce in another. Serve the birds on a piece of toast. For the forcemeat, if bread and butter is not considered sufficiently tasty, mince the livers finely and mix with them the same quantity of finely sliced suet and grated bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper, salt, and mace, and a heaped tablespoon of chopped parsley, a pinch of powdered thyme, and moisten the whole with the beaten yolk of an egg. To Stew Pigeons.—Pluck, singe, and draw as many as are required, and truss as if for boiling. Stuff them with slices of bread and butter, thickly sprinkled with pepper and salt, and cut