SWEETS. 3 oz. sweet almonds, 1 pint rich custard. Place the cake in the I 2 I buttered pie-dish, and bake for an hour. I urn it out of the pie- dish and sprinkle castor sugar over it. Boiled Suet Pudding-.—h lb. suet, i lb. flour, i teaspoon baking powder, cold, water. Free the suet from fibre and skin and chop very finely, or grate it. Mix it with the flour and baking powder and a pinch of salt, and mix into a smooth paste with a little cold water. Wring a cloth out in boiling water, flour it well, and put the paste in it in the shape of a bolster. Leave room for the pudding to swell, tie it securely at the ends, and plunge it into plenty of fast-boiling water. Boil for two or three hours. Serve it with treacle. Swiss Roll.—2 eggs, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. flour, 1 small teaspoon baking powder. Beat the eggs, yolks and whites separately. Mix the baking powder with the flour and sugar, then add the yolks of the eggs, and lastly the whites. Bake in a very shallow buttered tin. When done spread with jam and roll, and sift with sugar. Tapioca Pudding.-—2 oz. tapioca, I pint milk. Wash the tapioca in several waters, drain it, and put it into a buttered pie- dish and pour the milk over it, add a little sugar and some grated nutmeg, and leave it to soak several hours. Then bake in a moderate oven for about two hours. Tasty Turnovers.—2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 small tablespoon flour, 3 eggs, 1 lemon, pint milk. Beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar, and the yolks of the eggs (beaten) and juice of the lemon, and a little of the grated rind, and the milk. Mix well, and then add the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. It is best to use a silver fork for mixing. Butter five saucers, and pour some of the mixture into each one. Bake for about twenty minutes in a brisk oven. Turn the puddings out of the saucers and fold them in half; put jam between and serve hot. They should be sprinkled with castor sugar. Tipsy Cake.— I sponge cake (pyramid shape is best), 1 wine- glass of brandy, sherry sufficient to soak it, juice of half a lemon,