32 MEAT. nourishment is to be extracted from meat for soups, gravies, etc., the meat must be put into cold water ; but when the juices of the meat are to be retained, as they must be for joints that are to be sent to table, the meat must first be plunged into fast boiling water for a few minutes. Then as much cold water must be added as will reduce the whole to a moderate temperature. Part of the water should then be taken away, as meat should never be cooked in a larger quantity than is necessary to keep it entirely covered until it is ready to serve; for this reason it should always be boiled in a vessel nearly of its own size. Large joints should be neatly trimmed, skewered and bound firmly into good shape when they are of a nature to require it, brought to boil over a moderate fire, and simmered until they are done, the scum being cleared from the surface of the water as it rises. Pickled or salt meat requires longer boiling than the fresh, and that which is smoked and dried longer still. This last should be laid into cold water and slowly heated. The time allowed for boiling meat is about the same as for roasting, from twenty to twenty-five minutes for a pound. Beef a-la-mode.—2 lbs. rumpsteak (two inches thick), a few thin slices of fat bacon, 1 calfs foot or part of a cow’s heel, 2 tablespoons of brandy, one carrot, one onion, pepper and salt, | pint water. Lay the slices of bacon on the beefsteak and put it into an earthenware stew-pot, lay at the side the calf’s foot or cow’s heel, a few sweet herbs, one small carrot cut into little pieces, one onion cut in slices, the brandy, water, pepper and salt. Put the lid on the jar and place in a moderate oven. Stew for three hours or more, turning the jar round occasionally. When done skim off the fat and take away the bacon and calfs foot. Serve with the gravy and vegetables round. Beef Olives (fresh meat).—ii lbs. rumpsteak, 1 egg, 1 table- spoon minced parsley and lemon thyme, or a thin layer of force- meat, pepper and salt to taste, 1 pint of stock, two or three slices of bacon, 2 tablespoons of port wine, thickening of butter and