MEAT. 35 To Stew Rumpsteak.—2 oz. butter, if lbs. rumpsteak, 1 dozen oysters, 1 tablespoon flour, 4 pickled walnuts, 1 pint water, 1 onion. Cut up the steak into nice little pieces and fry in the butter until they are brown on both sides. Then in the same butter fry the onion chopped up and the pickled walnuts also cut into little bits. Put all into a saucepan with a pint of water and simmer gently for three hours, skim well and add 1 teaspoon of salt, half a teaspoon of pepper, 1 tablespoon of sherry, and thicken the liquor with the flour. Let it boil for a few minutes, and then take off" the fire and leave till it gets cold. Skim off the fat, and the following day warm up the steak and gravy and add the oysters with some of their liquor strained. To Pickle Beef.—-f teaspoon powdered mace, 1 teaspoon black pepper, 1 teaspoon cloves, f small nutmeg, a pinch of cayenne, 3I oz. brown sugar. Mix these ingredients together, and well rub 6 lbs. of flank or silver-side of beef with them, and let it lie three days. Then add f lb. fine salt, and rub and turn it over once in twenty-four hours for twelve days. To Roast Sirloin or Ribs of Beef.—Trim the joint and tie and skewer it into a good shape. Dredge it with flour and hang it on the spit. Place it near the fire for a few minutes, then draw it to a distance and let it remain so until the heat has penetrated through it; baste continually, first with a little dripping, after- wards with its own fat; let it be drawn nearer to the fire for the last half-hour or more of roasting, to brown it well. From twenty to thirty minutes a pound is required to cook joints. For the gravy empty the dripping-pan of all the dripping, pour in some boiling water slightly salted, stir it about and strain over the meat. A simpler plan is to bake the meat in one of the new “ household ” self-basting baking-pans. They answer well, and are no trouble at all. Sirloin of Beef. —A sirloin of beef can be divided by cutting out the undercut and cooking it in one of the different ways for which recipes are given. The thick part of the meat can be re-