129 CAKES. and continue mixing the ingredients in this order till all are used up, then grate in the rind of a lemon and add raisins and candied peel ; stir lightly, and pour into a tin lined with greased paper. Bake two hours in a brisk oven. Gin-gin Plum Cake.—1 lb. each of currants, flour, butter, raisins, and sugar, 10 eggs, 2 oz. blanched almonds, ^ a nutmeg, i oz. allspice, i oz. ground ginger, i pint brandy, candied peel to taste. First mix the butter, sugar, and spice together, break in the eggs gradually, and beat for twenty minutes. Stir in the brandy and then the flour; work it well, and add the fruit, split almonds, and candied peel. Bake in a moderate oven about three hours. Ginger Cake.—I lb. flour, 3 small teaspoons of ground ginger, * lb. treacle, 6 oz. moist sugar, i lb. butter, ^ a pint of milk, x small teaspoon carbonate of soda. Warm the butter and treacle in a saucepan, and stir in the sugar. Mix the ginger well with the flour, and add the melted butter and treacle and the warm milk, in which the soda has been dissolved. Then mix all well together. Well warm a tin and well grease it, half fill with the mixture, and bake hours in a cool oven. Gingerbread Nuts.—2 lbs. of flour, i| lbs. treacle, | lb. brown sugar, ^ lb. butter, f lb. candied peel, | teaspoon of mixed spice, 1 oz. ginger, ^ teaspoon of carbonate of soda. Mix the flour and soda together, add the sugar, peel, ginger, spice, and treacle. Add the butter, which has been previously beaten to a cream. Let the mixture stand for four hours before rolling out into nuts. Cut into rounds with a cutter. J3ake in a quick oven eight or ten minutes. Half this quantity will generally be found sufficient. Gingerbread Cake.—| lb. flour (partly rice flour), i lb. butter, i lb. Demerara sugar, | lb. black treacle, 2 eggs, 1 teaspoon each of ground ginger, cinnamon, and carbonate of soda, i teacup of milk. Put the flour and spices into a basin, the butter, sugar, treacle, and milk into a saucepan, and when nearly, but not quite boiling, pour over the eggs (previously well beaten). Mix well, 9