SAUCES. 87 take at least half an hour to make; to hurry is to spoil it, and it must be made in a cold place.' Melted Butter.—1 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, £ pint milk and £ pint water, r teaspoon of lemon juice, small pinch of salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan and mix in the flour, make it quite smooth with the back of a wooden spoon, and gradually add the milk, water, and salt, and let all boil together about a quarter of an hour, then stir in the lemon juice and serve. Mint Sauce.—Pick the leaves from the stalks, wash well and dry them in a cloth. Chop as finely as possible, and for every spoonful of mint allow half as much castor sugar. Mix the mint and sugar and leave it some time to bring out the flavour of the mint, then add twice as much vinegar as you have mint. Mustard Sauce.—2 oz. butter, £ oz. of browned flour, £ oz. dry mustard, cayenne, x teaspoon of lemon juice, salt. Mix these ingredients thoroughly, and then stir into them a quarter of a pint of boiling water and simmer for five minutes. Oiled Butter.—This is butter that is melted for sauce to serve with fish or asparagus, and poured off from the curd that settles at the bottom. It is slightly salted. The tureen in which it is served must be well heated before the oiled butter is put into it. Or the tureen can be made very hot and a slice of butter put into it, and it can be set in front of the fire or for a minute in the oven, and the butter will very readily melt. A teaspoon of lemon juice greatly improves this sauce when it is used for fish. Onion Sauce.—Take six good-sized onions, peel them and slice them, put them in a saucepan with plenty of cold water to cover them, and let them boil gently till quite tender. Take them up, drain them well, and rub through a sieve. Boil three quarters of a pint of milk. Mix a dessert-spoon of flour to a paste with a little cold water; add this to the milk, and stir till it boils. Put in the onions, add pepper and salt, and move the saucepan to the side of the fire to keep hot till it is wanted. Orange Sauce.—4 oz. lump sugar, 1 teaspoon of lemon