95 SWEETS. butter, sugar, i egg, bread-crumbs, cloves. Boil the apples to a pulp with two cloves and a little water, then add the butter, and sugar to taste, and take out the cloves. When the mixture is cold stir in the egg, previously well beaten. Butter a pie-dish thoroughly, and sprinkle it all over thickly with bread-crumbs. Put in the mixture of stewed apples, and strew more bread-crumbs over the top. Bake in a moderate oven, and turn out of the pie- dish. Strew white sugar over it. The egg can be omitted. Apple Charlotte (very good).—Butter a round cake tin and line it entirely with thin slices of the crumb of a stale loaf; the bread should be cut in fingers two inches in width and dipped in clarified butter, the edges overlapping one another so as to hold the fruit well. Have ready the filling, made as follows :—Weigh 3 lbs. of good cooking apples after they have been pared, cored, and quartered ; put them into a stew-pan with 6 oz. of butter, i lb. castor sugar, 1 of a teaspoon of powdered cinnamon, and the strained juice of a lemon ; let these stew gently over a slow fire till tender. Add a gill of white wine and 2 oz. of sultanas. When cool put this mixture into the mould that is lined ready, cover the top with more fingers of bread soaked in clarified butter, and bake in a brisk oven for about an hour till it is brown and crisp. Serve hot in the mould with a serviette pinned round it. Apple Dumplings.—Peel some large apples, and take out the core with a scoop. Make some pastry. Fill the centre of each apple with sugar. Cut the pastry into rounds large enough to cover the apples. Place an apple in the centre of each round, and shape the pastry round it. Bake in a quick oven on a greased tin for three quarters of an hour. The length of time will depend upon the kind of apples used. Apple Fritters.—3 apples, 4 oz. flour, 1 gill water, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoon salad oil (or oiled butter). Make a batter with the flour mixed with tepid water, the oil or butter, and yolks of two eggs. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and