62 POULTRY. two and a half hours, at first quickly and then slowly, with oiled paper over the crust to prevent it burning. Stewed Chicken with Tomatoes and Mushrooms. When the chicken is prepared for cooking, cut it into small joints. Melt 2 oz. of butter in a stew-pan and fry a small minced onion in it for a few minutes, then fry in the same butter the pieces of chicken, and season with salt and cayenne ; when these are fried a golden brown, pour over them 15 pints of white stock, four tomatoes peeled and cut in half, and half a pint or less of button mushrooms. Mix a small tablespoon of arrowroot to a smooth paste with a little cold water and stir to the stock till it boils, then draw it back and simmer gently for three quarters of an hour ; add a small pinch of powdered mace, a dessert-spoon of minced parsley, and simmer for a quarter of an hour. Pile the chicken on a dish and pour the sauce over, garnish with tomato, parsley, and sippets of toast. To Prepare a Chicken for an Invalid.—Take a good-sized but young chicken, and boil it for thirty minutes ; take off all the white meat and put on a plate; then take the remainder of the chicken with a little of the liquor in which it was boiled, and a small piece of mace and lemon rind, and let it simmer till the bones will come out quite clear, and strain it. Pound the white meat of the chicken in a mortar with some of the liquor added to make it the thickness of good cream. This may be taken either warm or cold. The feet of the chicken should be stewed with the bones. Quenelles.—Take the crumb of some new bread, steep it in tepid water for ten minutes, then put it in a clean cloth and wring it tightly. Put the crumb into a stew-pan with 2 oz. of butter, a little salt, and two tablespoons of white stock. Place on the fire, con- tinuing to stir the panada the whole time with a wooden spoon till it assumes the appearance of paste and no longer adheres to the bottom of the pan, add 3 yolks of eggs, turn it out on a plate, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, and having