SOUPS. IO saucepan. When the soup boils thicken with flour if necessary, and add a wineglass of port wine, and salt and cayenne to taste. Some forcemeat balls should be served in the soup. Hare Soup (2).—Very good soup can be made with the re- mains of a jugged hare. Put all that is over of the hare into a saucepan with 3 pints of stock, let it simmer for two hours, strain it and rub the meat through a sieve. Put the stock and the puree back into the saucepan, season with cayenne and salt, add a wine- glass of port wine, make it quite hot, and serve with forcemeat balls. It may be necessary to thicken the soup with a little browned flour. Imitation Hare Soup.—1^ lbs. gravy beef, r oz. butter, 1 slice lean bacon, 1 onion, 2 cloves, 1 small carrot, 1 oz. flour, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, 1 dessert-spoon of mushroom catsup, 1 teaspoon of Harvey’s sauce, 1 quart water or stock, 1 bay-leaf, 6 peppercorns, a small piece of turnip, a sprig of parsley, 1 large wineglass of port or claret. Cut the beef into small pieces and flour them. Put the butter in the stew-pot and set on the fire to get hot, and add the onion stuck with the cloves and the flour. Then put in the bits of beef, and let them get brown. Add the water or stock, the vegetables and peppercorns, and the small slice of bacon. Simmer gently for 1-5- hours, and strain. Set it aside to get cool, and when cold skim off all the fat. Half an hour before the soup is wanted for use put in a saucepan, and just before it boils add the wine and sauces, and salt and pepper to taste. Serve with forcemeat balls made in the following way : Forcemeat Balls.—-2 tablespoons of bread-crumbs, I tea- spoon of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoon of chopped suet, £ teaspoon of dried herbs, | teaspoon of grated lemon rind, 1 egg, a little powdered mace. Mix all together with the yolk of an egg, and make into balls. Drop them into the soup, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Haricot Bean Soup.—1 lb. of haricot beans, 2 quarts stock, parsley, pepper and salt. Soak the beans for at least twelve hours