145 BREAKFAST DISHES AND SAVOURIES. macaroni in slightly salted boiling water for about an hour till it is quite soft. Mince the ham finely. Drain the macaroni and fill a buttered cake tin with alternate layers of macaroni and ham, and flavour each layer with pepper and salt. Beat the eggs and mix them with a little milk. Melt an ounce and a half of butter and pour over the macaroni and ham, and lastly pour over the eggs and milk. Bake for half an hour in a moderate oven. Tie a napkin round the tin and serve very hot. Ham Toast.—To a quarter of a pound of minced lean ham put into a saucepan add a dessert-spoon of butter and the yolk of an egg, a dust of cayenne, and a teaspoon of cream or milk. Stir over the fire till it thickens, then spread on buttered toast cut into round or neat squares. Herring' Creams.—Flake some cooked bloater and rub it through a sieve. Whip it with cream and pile it on little rounds of fried bread. Season with cayenne. Kidneys a la Brochette.—Skin the kidneys and split them nearly through. Rub them well inside with butter and lay them back downwards on a gridiron rubbed with butter over a bright fire. Turn often while broiling. Have ready a stuffing made with bread-crumbs, parsley, and butter well seasoned. Put this inside each kidney -with a squeeze of lemon juice, close the two sides. Butter and pepper them, and serve very hot on squares of fried bread or plain toast. To Fry Kidneys .—Skin the kidneys and split lengthways. Roll them in flour. Have ready some butter in a frying-pan seasoned with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. When it begins to simmer lay the kidneys in and fry gently on both sides till they are cooked. If they are cooked too fast they become tough. Remove instantly when done and lay on a hot dish. Add to the gravy from the kidneys a little stock thickened with flour, boil up once, pour over the kidneys, and serve. Kidneys are also sometimes fried in the frying-pan in which bacon has been cooked, and the bacon fat does instead of butter, and 10