34 MEAT. with yolk of egg and bake two and a half hours, at first briskly and then slowly, with greased paper over the top. Beefsteak Pudding.—i| lbs. beefsteak and i 11). beef kidney. Cut the meat into rather thin small pieces, dip each into a mixture made of i tablespoon flour, 2 teaspoons salt, and 2 teaspoons pepper. Make some suet crust and line the sides only of a buttered pie-dish, fill with the meat, pour in some cold water, cover with some more suet crust. Tie up in a scalded and floured cloth and plunge into boiling water. Boil for about four hours and serve in the dish. This is much the nicest way of making this pudding. Collared Beef.—Mix 4 oz. of saltpetre with the same quantity of pepper, 4 oz. of bay salt, and 4 oz. of common salt; with these rub well from 6 to 7 lbs. of the thin flank, and in four days add 7 oz. of treacle ; turn the beef daily in the pickle for a week or ten days; then dip it into water to take off the pickle, bone it and skin the inside, roll and bind it up very tightly, lay it into cold water and simmer for three hours and a half. Beef dressed in this way is extremely good. The beef should be put between two dishes whilst it is hot, and a heavy weight placed on the top. Glaze it when cold. Croquettes of Beef.—£ lb. lean cooked beef, 1 onion, 1 oz. butter, a little flour, £ pint of stock, 2 eggs, bread-crumbs, pepper and salt. Mince the beef finely, cut off all outside pieces, chop up the onion and fry it in a stew-pan with the butter till quite brown, then pour in the stock (if you have no stock use Lemco mixed with water) and a very little flour ; let it boil for a few minutes; season the minced beef with pepper and salt and put it with the gravy in the stew-pan, then stir in quickly for two minutes the well-beaten yolk of one egg and pour it upon a dish to cool. When cold make the mince into balls, roll them in very fine bread-crumbs, then in the yolk of an egg, and then in bread- crumbs again. Fry them in a frying basket a light brown, and serve piled up on a dish with fried parsley for a garnish.