125 CAKES. bottom stand your cake on a small trivet. It is generally well to put a piece of buttered paper over the top of the paper that the tin is lined with. Shut the oven door slowly and gently. Almond Biscuits.—1 lb. sugar, 1 lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, 2 teaspoons of baking powder, 3 eggs, 30 drops essence of almonds, a few almonds. Melt the butter and beat in the eggs. Mix the baking powder and sugar with the flour, then add the butter and eggs and essence of almonds. A little of the sugar must be reserved to roll the biscuits in. The biscuits should be about the size of marbles. They must be put on a tin far apart, and a small piece of almond stuck in each one. Bake in a quick oven about ten minutes. Almond Icing.—The whites of 3 eggs, 1 lb. sweet almonds, I lb. castor sugar, a little rose-water. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff" froth, beat the almonds very fine in a mortar with the rose-water, mix the almonds lightly with the eggs, and the sugar by degrees. When the cake is sufficiently baked, take it out of the oven, lay the almond paste on, and put it back to brown. Arrowroot Buns.—1 lb. arrowroot, | lb. butter, | lb. castor sugar, | lb. currants, 2 eggs, wineglass of sherry or white wine.. Beat the butter to a cream, add the other ingredients by degrees. Butter some patty-pans and half fill with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven a pale brown. Bread.—This is quite easy to make, and if a little of Leconte’s extract of malt is added the bread is made very much more digestible and nourishing. The proportions are for 7 lbs., flour II oz. German yeast, 1 dessert-spoon malt, 1 tablespoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of Demerara sugar, about 3 pints lukewarm water. Put the flour into a deep earthenware pansion in front of the fire. Mix the salt with the flour. Break up the yeast into small pieces in a basin with the sugar. Put the malt into a cup and mix it with warm water, and then add it to the yeast. Make a hole in the middle of the flour and pour in the yeast. Cover the pansion with a cloth and leave for half an hour near the fire till the yeast