98 SWEETS. Batter Fruit Pudding.—Butter a pint-and-a-half basin, and nearly fill it with good boiling apples cut in slices. Pour over them a batter made with 3 tablespoons of flour, 3 eggs, and a pint of milk. Tie a buttered and floured cloth over the basin, which should be quite full. Boil for i| hours, turn it into a hot dish, and strew sugar thickly' over it. Any kind of fruit is good cooked in this way. Boiled Batter Pudding.—3 large tablespoons flour, 3 eggs, 1 pint milk, * teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons sugar; sprinkle the salt in the flour, mix the eggs and sugar with | pint of milk in the flour, beat till the mixture is smooth and free from lumps, then add the remainder of the milk very gradually, beating all the time. Butter a basin, pour in the batter, wring out a cloth in boiling water, flour it well, tie loosely over the basin, and place it in a saucepan of boiling water upside down, and turn the basin round several times to prevent the flour settling. Boil fast 1* hours. Baked Bread and Butter Pudding.—Butter a pie-dish and lay some rather thin slices of bread and butter at the bottom of it, sprinkle with currants and a ittle sugar. Fill the dish half full with layers of bread and butter, sprinkled with a few currants and a little sugar. Pour over then a custard made with a pint or a pint and a half of milk mixed with two beaten eggs. Grate a little lemon rind or nutmeg on the top, sprinkle over a few currants, and bake till brown. It is best to let this pudding stand a couple of hours before it is baked to soak the bread. If the oven is too hot the custard will curdle. Boiled Bread and Butter Pudding.—3 oz. raisins, bread and butter, 3 eggs, nutmeg, 1 pint milk, sugar. Butter a pudding basin, and line the inside with layers of stoned raisins. Nearly fill the basin with slices of bread and butter (with the crust cut off). Beat the eggs, add to them the milk, sugar, and a little grated nutmeg, mix all together, and pour on to the bread and butter in the basin till it is quite full. Let it stand half an hour,