SOUPS. i6 ing on the fire and strain it, and let it get cold, and skim off the fat. Steep the bread in a little of the stock when it is boiling, and when it has simmered a few minutes drain the moisture from it and add it to the flesh of fowl, and pound together till they are perfectly blended, then pour the stock to them very gradually, and mix smoothly together; pass the whole through a sieve, heat it in a clean saucepan, stir to it three quarters of a pint of boiling cream ; if necessary add a little more seasoning, and thicken with three quarters of an ounce of arrowroot mixed smoothly with a little cold milk. » Spinach Soup.—Wash thoroughly 2 quarts of spinach, pick the leaves from the stalks, put them in a saucepan with x gill of water, put the lid on and let them boil; remove the lid and stir well to prevent them burning, continue the boiling for twenty minutes, then rub them through a wire sieve. Put in a saucepan 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, stir over the fire till smooth, then add the puree and 3 pints stock ; boil until it thickens. Warm a gill of cream and add it to the soup; heat, but do not let it boil. Serve with fried croxltons of bread. Tomato Soup.—12 large or 18 small tomatoes, | pint water, 1 oz. butter, £ oz. flour, i pint cream or milk, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 teaspoon of sugar, i teaspoon of pepper. Put the tomatoes and water into a saucepan, allow them to cook slowly fifteen minutes, and pass through a sieve. Melt the butter in the sauce- pan, add the flour, and by degrees the liquor. Allow this to boil for three minutes to cook the flour, then add the sugar, salt, pepper, and cream or milk, or half of each. Heat, but do not let the soup boil after the milk is added, or it will curdle. Vegetable Soup.—1 head of celery, a few spinach leaves, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 parsnip, 1 lettuce, £ small cabbage, f pint shelled peas, bunch of sweet herbs, 3 small onions, \ pint cream or milk, 1 oz. rice or potato flour, 3 oz. of butter. Wash the vegetables and cut them up into small pieces and put them into the stew-pot with two ounces of butter, and let them stew till they