6 SOUPS. back, and keep it simmering slowly for five or six hours. Strain the liquor through a sieve and let it stand till cold. All the fat can then be easily taken off. When the soup is wanted put the stock (from which the fat has been taken off) into a saucepan, about half an hour before it is wanted, with seasoning of salt and pepper. One teaspoon of arrowroot mixed smoothly with one tablespoon of cold water can be added to thicken the soup, or sago, vermicelli, rice, etc., according to the recipes for the same given later on in the book. Stock made in this way is sufficiently good for all ordinary purposes, and one teaspoon of Lemco, added to it just before it is served, will greatly improve the flavour. The same bones do for two days, but the vegetables must be fresh every day. To make the stock very good use a cow-heel, or part of one, in addition to the bones. Stock for Clear Soup.—Ingredients : 4 lbs. shin of beef, 2 oz. lean bacon or ham, 1 oz. butter, 1 onion stuck with two cloves, ^ a small turnip, 1 lump of sugar, 2 carrots, 1 head of celery, 12 peppercorns, £ blade mace, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, salt to taste, 2 quarts of water, bones and trimmings of poultry or meat. Rub the butter on the bottom of the stew-pot, and put the meat and bacon cut into small pieces also into the stew- pot, with half a pint of cold water and all the other ingredients. Cover the stew-pot and place it on a sharp fire, stirring its contents from time to time. As soon as the bottom of the stew- pan gets covered with a pale jelly-like substance, add two quarts of cold water and simmer gently for five hours. It must never be allowed to boil quickly, and the scum must be removed whilst it is cooking. It can be cleared in the usual way. Strain it through a hair sieve, and when cold remove all fat. To clarify Stock.—The whites of two eggs, i pint of water. Whisk the eggs well, taking care there should be no particle of the yolk with the whites. Whisk them with the water, and still whisking add them gradually to the stock, which must be just warmed. Place the soup on the fire, and when boiling whisk it