77 VEGETABLES. Simmer very slowly, stirring carefully occasionally until the vege- tables are nearly cooked, then add two ounces of butter and a little brown flour to thicken the gravy. Cook until the vegetables are quite soft, but not broken. Season with salt and pepper. Lettuces.—These should be dipped in cold water, shaken dry in a soft cloth, and put in a colander to drain ; set in a cold place, but not cold enough to freeze. This treatment will make them very crisp, and they will keep twenty-four hours. Lettuces should not be cut with a knife, but torn into pieces with the fingers just before they are wanted for a salad. To Stew Lettuces.—Strip off the outer leaves and cut away the stalks, wash them and throw into salt water to soak. Throw into boiling water previously salted and boil till tender, which will be in about twenty-five minutes. Take them out and drain and press the water from them. Chop them a little and heat in a saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; then add a small cup of stock, boil them quickly till nearly dry, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Serve with fried sippets of bread. To Boil Leeks.—Trim off the coarser leaves, cut the leeks into equal lengths, tie them in small bunches, and boil them in plenty of boiling water which has been salted and skimmed. Serve on toast with melted butter (p. 87). Mushrooms as a Vegetable.—Stew them in milk and water, add a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and thicken the gravy with cream or a little butter rolled in flour. To Stew Mushrooms.—Pull out the stems and peel the mushrooms. Melt a slice of butter in a stew-pan, add a tea- spoon of salt, half as much pepper, and a pinch of powdered mace. Put in the mushrooms, the upper side downwards, and let them stew gently till they are tender ; they will take fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve on buttered or fried toast. To Stew Spanish Onions.—Put an ounce of butter in the stew-pan, remove the skin of the onions and put them in the stew-pan. When they are a little browned remove to the side of