107 SWEETS. Rub them through a coarse hair sieve. Let the pulp get cold, and then mix it gradually with J pint of whipped cream. Greusze.—Stew currants, raspberries, or blackberries, and rub the fruit through a coarse hair sieve. To the pulp and juice add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and to a pint of juice add three dessert-spoons of ground rice. Boil all together over the fire for ten minutes ; if too stiff add a little water. Remove and stir in a teacup of cream, pour into a mould rinsed first in cold water, and turn out when quite cold, serving cream or custard with it. Ground Rice Pudding (baked).—2 oz. ground rice, 2 eggs, 1 pint milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 oz. butter, flavouring. Heat the milk and flavour it with a bay-leaf, or rind of lemon or vanilla; then take out the flavouring and boil the milk. After mixing the ground rice very smoothly with a little cold milk, pour the boiling milk over it, stirring all the time. Put it back in the saucepan and boil till it thickens, then pour it into a basin, and when it is cool mix in the sugar and butter and the beaten eggs, and put the pudding into a buttered pie-dish and bake in a very slow oven. It is a great improvement to put a deep rim of pastry round the pie-dish before putting in the pudding. Ground Rice Mould.—2 oz. ground rice, 1 pint milk, i| oz. white sugar, flavouring. Mix the ground rice with a very little cold milk to a smooth paste. Put the remainder of the milk with the sugar and flavouring into a saucepan, and let it boil. When it boils stir in the ground rice that has been already mixed, then let it boil quickly till it leaves the saucepan and clings to the spoon. Rinse out a mould in cold water and pour in the mixture. Leave to set, and turn out. Hasty Pudding (1).—Put some milk into a saucepan to boil, and when it quite boils dredge in some flour, and keep stirring all the time to prevent it burning. When it is very thick turn it out and stir for another minute, adding a little butter, sugar, and currants. Hasty Pudding (2).—1 oz. flour, i pint hot milk and \ pint