SAUCES. 88 juice, 3 oranges (rind of 2, juice of 3), i pint water. Rub off the orange rind on the sugar. Then put the sugar and water into a small saucepan, strain the juice of the oranges into the saucepan, add the lemon juice, and set on the fire to boil fast. In about eight minutes the sauce will be syrupy and ready for use. Savoury Orange Sauce (for Wild Duck or Roast Ducklings). —Pare very thinly the outside rinds from three oranges and half a lemon ; put them in a small saucepan with a very little cold water, boil till tender, and drain. Brown in a small stew-pan one ounce of butter with the same of flour, add half a pint of brown stock; let it simmer for ten minutes, stirring it occasionally; then add the juice of the oranges and the water the rinds were boiled in, season with cayenne and salt, and let it get hot without quite boiling; strain and serve in a tureen. Oyster Sauce.—Put as many oysters as you want in a sauce- pan with the strained liquor out of the shells ; let them just come to boiling-point in order to scald them, then drain and remove the beards. Make i pint of white sauce, add a dash of cayenne, and put in the oysters cut in half; make hot and serve. Parsley Sauce.—Chop some parsley which has been washed and dried, and add 1 tablespoon to half a pint of white sauce when it is boiling. Boil again for ten minutes and serve. Raspberry Sauce (or any jam).—tablespoons of raspberry jam, 1 dessert-spoon of sugar, 1 teaspoon of lemon juice, ^ pint water. Put all together into a saucepan. Boil fast eight minutes, strain and serve. Any jam can be treated in this way, and will make a very nice sauce to be served in a tureen with milk puddings for children. Sauce Robert.—2 oz. butter, 2 onions, pint stock, 2 lemons (juice only) or x wineglass of vinegar, 1 oz. brown thickening, 1 dessert-spoon of mustard, 1 teaspoon of mushroom ketchup, 1 tea- spoon of anchovy essence, 1 tablespoon of port wine, pepper and salt. Fry the onions finely minced in the butter, add the thickening or