58 MEAT. of flour, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pint of lukewarm water. Stir into this about two tablespoons of salad oil, and at the last moment dash in the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. The meat or poultry must be freed from skin and bone, and finely minced and seasoned. Make a little white sauce with an ounce of butter put in a saucepan, and an ounce of flour stirred smoothly into it, and a quarter of a pint of cream. Let it boil, and then add a pinch of mace, salt, and cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and add the meat. Mix it well together, and as soon as it is smooth and stiff, turn it on to a plate to cool. Cut small slices of bacon as thin as wafers, and about three inches long and two inches broad. Spread a heaped-up teaspoon of the mince on each slice, and roll it up tightly in the bacon. Put each kromesky separately in a spoon, and dip it in the batter, and fry it in boiling fat with the batter that is in the spoon. The kromeskies will only, take about a minute to cook, and they must be drained on kitchen paper. Pile them on a dish and serve with tomato sauce. Liver and Bacon.—Cut the liver into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and dip each slice in flour, seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry some bacon gently in a frying-pan, and when it is cooked put it on a hot dish to keep warm before the fire. Lay the slices of liver in the hot fat, and fry them first on one side and then on the other, till they are very thoroughly cooked. They will take about a quarter of an hour. For the gravy, mix a dessert-spoon of brown flour smoothly with about a quarter of a pint of water. Pour this into the frying-pan, season it, and stir till it boils and thickens. Pour it through a strainer over the liver, but not over the bacon. Serve very hot. Potted Beef. —Procure i lb. of nice lean beef, free it from skin and gristle. Put it in a jar (if at hand one with a lid), with one tablespoon of water. Cover it closely and place in a saucepan of boiling water; let the water be about two inches from the top of the jar. Stew till tender, pass it three times