65 POKE, ETC. through to secure both. Pull the skiu over the neck, put a skewer through that, dredge the goose with flour, and then pro- ceed as directed in the receipt. If the goose be unplueked, pull out the feathers from loft to right, having the head towards the right hand. Chop off the pinions, singe off all the hairs by holding the goose over a flame of burning paper. 157. APPLE SAUCE. Peel, core, and quarter four or five good sized cook- ing apples. Put them into a saucepan with a table- spoonful of cold water and two small tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, and boil till the apples are in a pulp. If the apples are very juicy, it will be necessary to boil very fast, stirring all the time for five or six minutes, to reduce the liquid. Cost, 3\d. Note.—As apple sauce may be considered by some persons as an extravagance, the cost is given. With stuffing in which apples are used, the sauce is unnecessary. 158. GIBLET PUDDING. Clean and prepare the giblets as follows. Cut the gizzard slightly round the centre, open it and turn out the bag it contains, pull off the inner skin and cut the gizzard into six pieces, cut the heart in two ; carefully trim off the little green bag from the liver; cut the liver into four; dip the feet into boiling water, pull off the skin, and cut off the nails; cut the neck into three pieces ; cut off the beak, puli off the skin, and split the head down the middle; cut the pinions into four pieces. Wash them all in cold water, then season them with a saltspoonful of salt, rather less of pepper, half a cayenne-spoonful of powdered mace or grated nutmeg. Put them into a saucepan with three-quarters of a pint of cold water, and stew gently for an hour. Turn them into a dish to get cold. Make a paste with ten ounces of flour and five ounces of dripping, rub them well together, moisten with cold water, and knead till firm ; roll it out, line a basin that has been rubbed with dripping, press the sides all round to make the paste of an equal thickness. Take F