MEALS FOE THE MILLION. 80 flour. The potatoes must be full grown and quite sound. Wash the potatoes thoroughly, then grate them (the skin also) on a coarse tin grater, till in a pulp. Put this pulp into a glazed earthen pan with plenty of cold water. Stir it well, then strain it through a coarse sieve into another earthen pan ; pour water over the pulp till all the floury particles are extracted, which will be known by the water passing through clear. Leave it for an hour and a half to settle, then carefully pour away the water, and pour over the same quantity of fresh water. Stir it well, and strain it this time through a fine 'sieve. Let it settle as before; and, as before, pour off the water, and stir in fresh water, and this time strain it through flannel. Again let it settle, pour off the water and add fresh water, and for the last time strain it through muslin. Let it stand till settled, pour off the water. If the surface is not quite white, scrape it carefully. Put the starchy substance on a large tray, spread it out, and place it either in the sun or before the fire, at a distance, and let it dry sloivly. Stir it frequently while drying, and press the lumps to powder with a wooden spoon. To be kept in wood or tin. Note.—The foregoing receipt was worked out by a servant, who was ignorant on the subject, without a perceptible interference with the usual routine of her daily work. It occupied intervals between eight o’clock in the morning and six o’clock in the evening. This is mentioned in order to induce those who read the receipt not to pass it over as impracticable. The flour may be used in many instances as a substitute for Indian corn, arrowroot, or ground rice. It makes excellent thick milk, and light puddings for children, and it may be put to many other uses. It must be remembered that it must be first moistened with cold milk, and then set by, stirring boiling milk into it. 191. THE OVEN’S HEAT. The oven’s heat may be tested by placing a piece of crumb of bread in the centre and shutting the door for ten minutes. If it be quick, the bread will be dark coloured ; if moderate, it will be nicely browned ; and if slow, it will be scarcely coloured.