64 MEALS FOE TEE MILLION. 155. CUERIED BABBIT. Cut up the rabbit into small pieces, and put it into a saucepan by the side of the fire. Peel and slice two good sized onions, knead an ounce and a half of butter with two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder, and fry the onions with it; add while frying a teaspoonful of salt, and a small juicy apple, chopped ; when the onions are tender put them with the rabbit, dredge the whole with a dessertspoonful of dried flour, add enough of any kind of gravy, or water, just to moisten the rabbit, simmer, and stir frequently for an hour and a half. Serve with or without boiled rice placed round the dish ; if with rice, boil a teacupful in a pint and a half of water for half an hour, drain on a sieve before the fire, and stir it with a fork to separate the grains. 156. ROAST GOOSE. If the goose be trussed, proceed as directed in the note, and then as follows. Peel and chop three good sized onions and two juicy apples ; season them with a teaspoonful of sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and of dry sage, rubbed to powder. Put this stuffing into the body of the goose; pull the rump through the slit, put the hook through the back, hang it before a good fire, and roast at a distance of twenty inches from the bars for an hour, then put it three inches nearer, and roast till done, basting it frequently from the beginning. A Michaelmas or Christmas goose will require two hours. Place it on a hot dish, breast uppermost, pull out the skewers, pour off the fat, add a teacupful of boiling gravy or water to that which dripped from the goose, pom- it into the dish, and serve. Note.—Lay the goose upon its back, the head towards the left hand, cut a slit just above the rump, insert the fingers and draw out the whole of the inside very carefully, cut off the feet, cut off the pinions, push back the skin of the neck towards the body, and cut off the neck close to the body. Put the fingers into the breast and pull out the crop. Wipe the inside well with a clean wet cloth, and then with a dry one. Put the wings down the side, press the legs up towards them, put skewers