124 MEALS FOR THE MILLION. Sink : Don’t throw very greasy water down the sink, and always put boiling water down it after washing up dishes, &c. Be careful to keep the trap on, so that tea leaves, and other pieces may not get down, as that would stop up the drain and entail much trouble and expense. Don’t throw green vegetable water down the sink, or any other drain. Let it get cold, and then throw it on the earth. Burn all kind of refuse, vegetable matter, tea leaves, coffee grounds, dead flowers, fruit parings, and bones. Don’t throw anything except ashes, and broken earthenware into the dust-bin. Be careful not to throw human hair down any drain, burn it. Don’t leave anything valuable in sight of passers- by.-—Be careful not to let strangers into the house under the pretence of waiting to see the master, or under any other excuse. The boiler should be cleaned out every time the 1 chimney is swept. The water should never be used for tea, coffee, or cooking purposes, as it is not unfre- quent that beetles are found in the boiler; and even though it were clean, the constant boiling renders it j unfit for such purposes. The oven must not be neglected. It is easily j kept clean by wiping it out with a Avet cloth after each time using, or on the following morning. It is not a good habit to put Avood into the OA'en to dry, as it leaves a smell, and consequently a flavour is given to the next thing baked in it. Great cleanliness is an indispensable ingredient to all cooking, and nothing can be Avholesome Avithout it. The cleanliness, too, must be of the simplest kind; no soda, pearlash, or soap must be used in cleansing the utensils used in cooking, or for anything sent to table; every saucepan should be scrubbed AA-ith silver sand after each time of using, Avell rinsed Avith cold Avater, and dried; it is AATell to leave the lid off Avhen put away. Pudding-cloth, paste-board, rolling- pin, chopping-board, bread-pan, cheese-pan, until the lids, should be Avell washed Avith hot Avater, and rinsed