20 variety and magnitude also of the manufacturing and mining establishments in this city, and the vast plebeian population in the surrounding counties, engaged in similar employments, giving rise to accidents often of the most appalling descrip- tion, and requiring all the intrepidity and skill of the surgeon to decide upon, in my opinion, render this establishment, in many respects, superior to any which I have seen either at home or abroad.* But, besides these cases, which you have the opportunity of observing, and hearing commented on daily, either in the wards, or at the regular clinical lecture, there are others, of a no less interesting description, which make their appearance, in the waiting room, as you enter the house, for advice only. These, though often cursorily examined, and hurriedly prescribed for, are well worthy of your attention; and I know of no better sample room in the world, for an enlightened observer of human nature. There is one great advantage also attending the surgical practice of this infirmary, which I believe exists no where else, and that is, the election, from among the students, without fee,f of ten dressers each quarter, to assist the surgeon. It has been said that the duties attached to this very important situation do not resemble those of a similar office in the London hospitals, where the premium for its possession is so exorbitant; but, from my knowledge of both, I hesitate not to assert that the difference is a matter of moonshine. I appeal to all those who have acted as dressers in this house for sometime past, whether or not the duties and responsibility, attached to their situations, is of so meagre and trifling a nature as by many it is supposed, and, if somewhat inferior to metropolitan functionaries, let the comparative cost of each * Lest it be said that too much of the pupil's attention is taken tip with " accidents" in this infix-mary, I may mention as an instance of the great variety of surgical diseases, occasionally under treatment, that within these last eight months my colleague and me have admitted eleven cases of stone in the bladder. Nine of these we have operated upon, and with a success unparalleled in the history of this institution—not one single death having occurred. ■f I understand that this is not literally the case, 5s. being exacted from aH those who require a diploma as having served in the above capacity; but oven this is optional. Contrast the above with the .£52, 10s. premium of St. 13artholo- mew's Hospital.