14 and when a cautious and enlightened legislature will afford to the student that which at present is the desideratum of ;ill our medical schools. Meantime, as matters stand, 1 think the only plan to obviate, in part, the difficulties, which lie in your way to practice, is to make provision, in the manner the Directors of this institution have lately done, for your enjoying regular courses of lectures on clinical surgery and medicine. That it should have been made imperative upon you to attend these courses may, to some, appear arbitrary and extrajudicial; but, if investigated a little more attentively, I feel convinced those enactments will ultimately tend to your advantage, and prove, even if looked to in an economical point of view, a great saving. Permit me, for one moment, to take a glance of matters as they now stand. All the Royal Colleges, the Army and Navy Boards, and the Faculty of this city, have decreed that separate courses of both clinical surgery and medicine, with cor responding hospital attendance, are indispensable to the passing for a diploma.* Now, suppose that the Directors of this hospital had been so near-sighted as not to have, in part, anticipated these arrangements, what would have been at this moment your situation? Why, instead of having your two years' hospital ticket, including that for clinical surgery and medicine, for the small sum of six guineas,f you might have found yourselves under the necessity, as in Edinburgh, of paying three times that sum; and where lectures are delivered on clinical surgery by one,J who, though respected and esteemed, yet, strange anomaly! never is allowed the treatment of a case, nor the performance of an operation, but—still more ridiculous—is only permitted * There is a surgical diploma, which can he obtained from the University of Glasgow, of what has been called Chirurgise Magister, or C. M. without attend- ing either clinical medicine or surgery. f Of this sum £4>, 4s. is appropriated to the support of the Infirmary, and only 10s. 6d. goes into the pockets of each of the four medical and surgical lec- turers. { Though an old pupil of Professor Russell, and one of his staunchest admirers, I felt myself obliged to state my impression as to the above glaring defect in the constitution of my Alma Mater.