22 8iich a candour and ingenuousness, as that, cost what it may, truth shall be told, to make up for any deficiency under which I may labour. On your parts, I shall look for the same open and straight-forward conduct, whether as re- gards myself, or the patients placed under my charge. I am sorry to observe it so much the practice, in the present day, particularly at this school of medicine and surgery, for the student to rest satisfied with a smattering merely of his profession, acquired by book-reading, or lecture-attending; and the question, how short a time shall suffice to my passing? or what number of classes shall be just enough for my en- gaging in practice? is that, which too often occupies the mind of the student; and I do not judge too severely, when I declare, that many pupils of the present day, are contented to learn this most difficult of professions by intuition, and whose period of hospital attendance is trifled away, by literally walking the wards, unconscious of all that is going on around them. Is it for this purpose, think you, that your parents and guardians, have, at great expense, and it may be, at no small sacrifice, sent you thither? Is it in this manner, do you imagine, that hereafter, you will dare to treat those intrusted to your charge? or be suffered, for a moment, to sport with the lives of your fellow creatures? Depend upon it, in proportion to your diligence and close application now, so will, in future life be your comfort and success. You have already, I presume, attended lectures on the various branches of the healing art. These are all of them necessary, for the right understanding of what you are about to see and hear in this great practical school; but, be assured, these university attainments will avail you nothing, unless you now, tax all your powers of observation, and put forth all your talents, to obtain, that practical knowledge and experience, which cases are alone able to convey. During the last two years, it has been a most painful duty for me, I do assure you, whilst officiating at Surgeons' Hall, to reject many young men, who, in consequence of careless- ness alone, were unable to answer, even the most obvious and important questions in practical surgery. But what would