21 situation be considered. One thing I am certain of—the dressers in this hospital, having, as they do, alternately, the charge of the waiting room orders, do more execution, in their curious little sanctum sanctorum, on Sunday, (as to those minor surgical operations, formerly monopolized by the gardener, barber and blacksmith,) than their brethren in London, are called upon to perform in a month. Much might be said, as to the care with which the cases admitted into the hospital are recorded in the journals, and the daily reports taken at the bed side of the patient, often of themselves a good clinical lecture. These you not only have an opportunity of seeing in the hands of the clerk, who accom- panies me in my round, but from the hours of 11 to 12 a.m. and from 4 to 7 p. m.* they may be perused by you in the room, appropriated for your use, on the right hand as you enter the house. The operations and inspections you will find also most punctually advertised, in a conspicuous place, in the above mentioned room, the day before they occur; and, for the advantage of those of you, who are only birds of passage in the wards, and are satisfied with surface work, at the top of every bed, will be found, the patient's name, the date of his admission, his disease, his diet and treatment. And now, Gentlemen, let me in a very few words, explain what you are to expect from me, as your instructor, and what I look for, on your part, as pupils. In the situation which I hold, many attainments are necessary, besides a thorough knowledge of every branch of the healing art; and, on this account, conscious of my own inability and imperfection, I feel that I shall require much of your for- bearance. I shall however, by punctual attendance, by constant assiduity, and, in fine, by at all times maintaining * The visit hour is from 1 o'clock till 2 r. m. Sunday as well as Saturday • but, in consequence of the distance of the hospital from the university, and other medical schools, nearly twenty minutes of this valuable hour is lost to the pupil. Could not an arrangement be made, by which, two hours of hospital attendance might be obtained ? The student would then be enabled to observe every case of interest, and also be present at all the operations and inspections, which, as matters now stand, can rarely be accomplished by him, the business «t the hospital being seldom finished by me till 3 o'clock r. it.