15 to approve or condemn the practice of his hospital professional brethren. Let me again repeat, therefore, notwithstanding all the outcry which has been made here on this subject, that the Directors of this institution are gentlemen who have your interest sincerely at heart, and are determined to persevere in the good cause which they have so honourably commenced. They are not any of your crown-presented legislators, who can only allow of their own aggrandisement at the public expense. On the contrary, the managers of this hospital are, by its original charter—and a more liberal and valuable one does not exist—annually elected to their responsible situation by means the most open and honourable—that of the votes of their fellow citizens; and they, on all occasions, prove themselves worthy of the trust committed to them, by the personal sacrifices which they are ever ready to make on its behalf. I cannot therefore sufficiently reprobate the language, and hold up to scorn the attempt, last year, made, in a certain quarter, to prevent you entering this hospital; as if, by such sinister means, to mar its usefulness, and thus frighten the Directors into a change of regulations. I hold all such schemes, more particularly when emanating from those who had previously characterised the new enactments as judi- cious and commendable, to be the effect of nothing but halucination, and the persons who thus fulminate their denunciations as more to be pitied than despised. What their objections amounted to I could never properly learn; but why were all their observations made only to those who could not be proper judges? And at a time and place the most inappropriate? If any new light had broken in on their benighted understandings, why did they not manfully come forward before these very Directors, and state their reasons of dissent, and at the same time acknowledge from whence they were borrowed? But it lies not with me, or with any of those who proposed the change, to say one word more on the subject. The Directors have done their duty, and it now remains with us to do ours: heedless of the