THE NECK. 71 . As„the subcIavian artery leaves the scalene triangle, or while it is still within this space, it gives on ’ 5. The posterior scapular artery, which passes between the trunks of the brachial plexus and runs parallel to the transversalis colli (by which vessel it is occasionally replaced) beneath the bTanch* °r angUH SCaPUlaS’ WherC ^ Subdivides into an ^cending and a descending In ligating the subclavian artery as it passes over the first rib, the posterior scapular, the suprascapular, and the transversalis colli arteries must be carefully avoided. Special attention must also be paid to the external jugular vein, which should be divided between two ligatures to avoid the entrance of air emboli. The deeper we penetrate in this region, the more it behooves us to remember that the pleural sac projects above the superior aperture of the thorax (see page ioij. The internal jugular vein is external to the common carotid artery and, as in the carotid triangle, partly overlies this structure; behind the sternoclavicular articulation it unites with the subclavian vein to form the innominate vein. The lower more or less dilated portion of the in- ternal jugular vein is known as the inferior bulb oj the vein. The subclavian vein lies in front of XXXXX T'V 0f the Same name (in Fig- 27 the onter P°rtion of a* vein has been P "!‘g y.“pward!, the two vessels being separated by the insertion of the anterior scalene rt l ^ V7 ?TeS the external iUgUlar’ the anterior iugular (frequently a tributary of the external jugular), the acromiothoracic, the suprascapular, and the posterior scapular veins. noon > r Ce,mCa f lXUS' by the anterior divisions of ^ four upper cervical nerves, lies lÄp forming the floor of the lateral COTkal regka and is—1 *e The small anterior division of the first cervical nerve communicates particularly with the ^ —calg^d forms a loop with the second cervical nerve, from which the muscles the neck receive their branches. Muscular branches are also given off by the second cervical nerve (to the levator anguli scapute, for example). This nerve, and frequently the third cervical to form toT h fine,flamen‘S which Pass “frrioriy and unite with the descended hypoglossi o the ansa hypoglossi. The occipitalis minor (see page 68) usually arises from the loop the juTf . ?.SeC“" WIth the thlrd cerTlcaI nerve. The auricularis magnus (see page 68) and third w^X f to ^ PT 68) arC °ff fr°m the third or from the Io°P connecting the from the thfrd and f “T Iff "*"***" ™ off from the four* or o the third and fourth cervical nerves, while the phrenic (see page 104) usually originates exclusively from the fourth cervical. There is a communicating branch connecting thefourth portion fT 7 the “ pkXUS’ the larga -Md, may be seen in the ^ uponThe aXr“ s'16!'11“8 7°™ 7 Subclavian artel7- The P^enic nerve runs downward pon the anterior scalene muscle and enters the thoracic cavity by passing between the sub clavian artery and vein (see Plate 8). P g Derween me sub' mos, br“Cheis°' ‘he SUbC'™“ “*7 «“». »fr ft»» the structures themselves. Ed. P ’ °Wever’ when one considers the wide variations exhibited by