141 THE CONTENTS OF THE ABDOMEN. the quadratus lumborum muscle. Such perinephritic abscesses and similar ones behind the kidney may extend upward, affecting the pleura (pleurisy), or the abscess may gravitate to the iliac fossa and pursue one of a number of subperitoneal courses similar to those taken by a retro- cecal (perityphlitic) abscess (see page 137).' The method of reaching the kidney from behind may be discerned from a study of Fig. 69. An incision is made along the outer margin of the sacrolumbalis muscle (i. e., the outer portion of the iliocostalis of the erector spinse), extending from the last rib to the crest of the ilium. After dividing the skin, the superficial fascia, the latissimus dorsi muscle, and the posterior layer of the lumbar fascia, the edge of the sacrospinalis (erector spinae) muscle is displaced inward, ■ Latissimus dorsi muscle .Erector spin« muscle -Quadratus lumbo- rum muscle -Left kidney -Psoas muscle Cartilage between 2d and 3d lum- bar vertebras .Obliquus externus muscle •Descending colon -Small intestine Vertebral arch- Central canal of- vertebra Transversalis ab- dominis muscle ■Small intestine .Rectus abdominis muscle Right kidney — Vena cava inferior— Liver-,,: Ascending colon Aorta Inferior mesenteric artery Pancreas Portal vein Intestinal branches of superior mesen- teric artery Gall-bladder — Duodenum (de scending portion) -Peritoneal cavity Fig. 69.—A cross-section of the abdomen in the inferior renal region the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia is divided, and the quadratus lumborum muscle is exposed. The kidney is reached by dividing this muscle or by displacing its external border. The suprarenal bodies rest upon the superior poles of the kidneys. They are also in rela- tion with the crura of the diaphragm. The right suprarenal capsule, more frequently triangular in shape, borders upon the fiver [that is, upon the posterior surface of the right lobe.—Ed.] (im- pressio suprarenalis, page 131) and upon the inferior vena cava (Fig. 67); the left one is in relation with the cardia of the stomach. The abdominal portion of the ureter extends from the pelvis of the kidney to the iliopectineal fine of the pelvis and is situated behind the peritoneum. It runs downward and somewhat inward upon the psoas muscle, and crosses the common iliac vessels near their bifurcation. The ureter is placed in front of the vessels and may be easily exposed in this situation. The spermatic vessels are also behind the peritoneum and cross in front of the ureter at about the middle of the