TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. i6o and from the internal intermuscular septum; the crureus (vastus intermedius) arises from the intertrochanteric line, is covered by the rectus, and is adherent in a varying degree to the vastus externus and internus muscles. The quadriceps surrounds the shaft of the femur with the ex- ception of the linea aspera and of the planum popliteum. All four portions of this muscle ter- minate above the knee in a common tendon which, after enclosing the patella, is inserted as the ligamentum patellae into the tubercle of the tibia. The three flexor muscles are situated posteriorly and take origin from the tuberosity of the ischium. The biceps flexor cruris, in addition to its long head which arises in common with the semitendinosus from the tuberosity of the ischium, has a short head from the outer lip of the linea aspera; the muscle inserts into the head of the fibula. The semitendinosus muscle has a long tendon which imbeds itself in a broad furrow upon the posterior surface of the semi- membranosus and inserts into the tibia behind the gracilis and sartorius muscles with a broad tendon extending as far forward as the tibial crest. The semimembranosus muscle arises by a broad tendon from the ischial tuberosity and is inserted into the posterior surface of the internal tuberosity of the tibia. The adductors are interposed between the extensors and flexors of the thigh; they arise from the pelvis and run to the inner lip of the linea aspera and to the internal epicondyle of the femur. The common tendon contains several small orifices for the perforating arteries, which run from the anterior to the posterior surfaces of the thigh, and also the large slit (hiatus adductorius) for the passage of the femoral vessels into the popliteal space. The pectineus muscle commences at the crest of the os pubis, converges toward the iliopsoas, and runs posteriorly to the linea pectinea femoris. Since it runs posteriorly with the iliopsoas muscle, a fossa is formed below Poupart’s ligament, covered by the fascia lata (fossa iliopectinea), in which the large femoral vessels are situated (Fig. 79). It forms the deepest portion of Scarpa’s triangle (trigonum femor- ale), which is bounded internally by the inner margin of the adductor longus and externally by the inner margin of the sartorius. The adductor longus muscle takes origin from the pubis below the pubic spine and is attached to the inner lip of the linea aspera. The adductor brevis muscle passes from the inferior ramus of the pubis to the upper third of the inner lip of the linea aspera; the gracilis muscle runs from the inferior pubic ramus to the tibia below the internal tuberosity, extending as far forward as the tibial tubercle; the adductor magnus muscle, situated most posteriorly, arises from the inferior ramus of the pubis and of the ischium as well as from the ischial tuberosity and is inserted along the entire length of the inner lip of the linea aspera and also by a strong tendon into the internal epicondyle of the femur. The hiatus adductorius is situated above this tendon. At the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the femur an aponeurosis is stretched across from the tendon of the adductor magnus to the vastus internus; this aponeurosis forms the anterior and internal wall (Fig. 80) of a canal ending at the hiatus adductorius, the canalis adductorius or canal 0} Hunter. The posterior wall of this canal is formed by the asso- ciated tendons of the adductor longus and magnus muscles and it is bounded externally by the vastus internus and the femur. This canal gives passage to the femoral artery and vein. Femoral Artery.—The femoral artery (Figs. 79-82) passes beneath Poupart’s ligament midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis and enters the fossa iliopectinea. In this situation the artery may be compressed against the underlying ilio-