95 THE THORACIC WALL. third; (2) from the long thoracic branch of the axillary artery; (3) from the perforating branches of the upper intercostal arteries. The deep veins accompany the arteries; the subcutaneous veins form a large-meshed network and, in the female, may frequently be seen through the skin. They form the plexus venosus mammillae (circulus venosus Halleri) about the nipple and empty above into the external jugular vein; they also empty into the long thoracic, thoracico-epigastric, and internal mammary veins. The lymphatic vessels of the mamma are very numerous and form superficial and deep networks. The greater portion of the lymph drains into the axillary lymphatic glands.* These glands are involved in affections of the mammary gland of the same side, and they are consequently removed together with the breast. In rarer cases they also become involved in affections of the opposite mammary gland, since the lymphatic vessels of both breasts anastomose in the median line. A portion of the lymph passes internally to the intercostal lymphatic vessels and in this manner reaches the lymphatic glands of the thoracic space. The deep nerves of the gland accompany the larger lactiferous ducts and are much less numerous than the cutaneous nerves. The cutaneous nerves are furnished partly by the supra- clavicular branches of the cervical plexus, but chiefly by the anterior and' lateral cutaneous branches of the second to the sixth intercostal nerves. The connection between the second and third lateral cutaneous branch (intercosto-humeral nerve) and the lesser internal cutaneous nerve explains the occasional occurrence of pain radiating to the region of the elbow or still lower in diseases of the mammary gland (tumors, neuralgia of the mammary gland). In the extirpation of the mammary gland and the diseased axillary tissues the following structures should be par- ticularly avoided: the axillary artery and vein, the long thoracic artery, the subscapular artery, the long subscapular nerve (division produces paralysis of the latissimus dorsi muscle), and the long thoracic nerve (division is followed by paralysis of the serratus magnus muscle): The arteries of the lateral thoracic wall are external and internal. The external surface of the lateral thoracic wall is supplied chiefly by the branches of the axillary artery (Fig. 29). The following vessels should be noted: 1. The acromiothoracic artery, which lies beneath the infraclavicular fossa, where the vessel, together with its numerous branches, is endangered in the ligation of the first portion of the axillary. The vessel arises at the upper margin of the pectoralis minor and immediately divides into a number of branches. The pectoral branches ramify in the muscles of the chest; if such a branch arises from the axillary higher up (comparatively rare) it is known as the superior thoracic artery. The acromial branch runs transversely outward, perforates the deltoid muscle, and ends in the anastomosis over the acromion. The descending or humeral branch accom- panies the cephalic vein in the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles. 2. The long thoracic artery, which arises from the axillary beneath the pectoralis minor muscle. The artery leaves the outer border of this muscle and runs downward to the fifth or sixth intercostal space, somewhat posterior to the margin of the pectoralis major, upon the ser- * The lymphatic gland which is usually first involved in carcinoma is situated beneath the border of the pectoralis major muscle upon the third serration of the serratus magnus (third rib). The lymphatic glands extend upward beyond the axillary vein and beneath the clavicle, in which position their removal is necessarily difficult. Posteriorly, the glands accompany the subscapular artery and the nerves of the same name.