THE MEDIASTINUM. 107 extent of this area of cardiac dulness. The projection of the entire heart upon the anterior thoracic wall is also worthy of note. The projection of the heart upon the anterior thoracic wall is indicated by the following lines upon the external surface: x. The inferior cardiac line commences in the fifth left intercostal space midway between the mammary and parasternal lines (at the cardiac apex*), passes obliquely upward to the right, and ends at the lower border of the fifth right costal cartilage, two centimeters from the sternal margin. 2. The right cardiac line commences at the termination of the inferior cardiac line, runs directly upward at a distance of two centimeters from the sternal margin, and ends at the upper border of the third right rib. Arch of Sympathetic nerve Azygos minor Inferior lobe of lung Descending aorta Left vein Body of vertebra Opening of superior vena cava in right auricle lobe of right lung ■Right auricle -- Pectoralis major m. Internal mammary artery Internal mammary vein Left Superior lobe lung Left' ventricle Root of the Pericardium- magnus m. Superior lobe of right lung Pleural cavity Fig. 50.—A cross-section of the thorax at the level of the nipples. (The right lung is somewhat enlarged at the expense of the left one.) 3. The superior cardiac line (not indicating any sharp cardiac boundary) commences at the termination of the right cardiac line and runs to the middle of the second left intercostal space, where it ends at a point three centimeters distant from the sternal margin. 4. The left cardiac line commences at the termination of the superior cardiac line and runs downward to the cardiac apex. The transverse cardiac line should also be borne in mind; it commences where the inferior cardiac line crosses the lower border of the sixth right costal cartilage and ends at the point of * The cardiac apex, as well as the apex-beat, is higher in children, sometimes being situated in the fourth intercostal space; it is lower in the aged, where it may be found in the sixth intercostal space.