72 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. QUESTIONS. How may the external jugular vein be made distinctly visible in the neck of the living subject? Where may the pulsations of the common carotid and subclavian arteries be felt ? Where is the most favorable place for making compression upon the subclavian artery? What nerve is to be carefully avoided in the ligation of the subclavian artery ? What bone serves as a landmark in the exposure of the lingual artery in the neck? What relations exist between the face and the submaxillary lymphatic glands ? What situation is best adapted for opening the larynx? What situation is least adapted? Where may abscesses rupture which originate in the posterior laryngeal wall and extend poste- riorly ? Where is high tracheotomy performed? Where is low tracheotomy performed? Which opera- tion is more easily performed and why ? What anomaly of the thyroid gland may complicate the performance of high tracheotomy ? How may the esophagus be exposed in the neck and what nerve is thereby endangered? What organs may be compressed by enlargements of the thyroid gland ? What nerve may be injured in thyroidectomy and what will be the result ? Where are the important groups of the cervical lymphatic glands situated? Where should a stethoscope be placed to hear venous murmurs in the internal jugular vein? What artery may be ligated in this situation ? THE UPPER EXTREMITY. THE SHOULDER. The shoulder is bounded above by the clavicle, by the acromion, and by a line drawn from the acromion to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra. The lower boundary of this region is formed by the insertions of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi muscles. The clavicular portion of the pectoralis major arises from the sternal extremity of the clavicle, the sternal portion from the anterior surface of the sternum and of the six upper ribs, and the ab- dominal portion (inconstant) from the anterior layer of the sheath of the rectus abdominis; the tendon of the pectoralis major is inserted into the anterior bicipital ridge of the humerus. The latissimus dorsi arises from the spinous processes of the lower six dorsal and of all of the lumbar and sacral vertebras, from the crest of the ilium, from the posterior lamella of the lumbar fascia, and from the outer surfaces of the lower ribs; the tendon of the latissimus dorsi is inserted into the posterior bicipital ridge. The characteristic prominence of the shoulder is formed by the head of the humerus and by the overlying deltoid muscle, which arises from the acromial end of the clavicle, from the acromion, from the spine of the scapula, and from the infraspinous fascia and is inserted into the deltoid tubercle of the humerus. Through the deltoid muscle may be more or less distinctly felt the head of the humerus, with the greater and lesser tuberosities, and the inter- vening bicipital groove containing the long tendon of the biceps. The bicipital groove deter- mines the direction of Langenbeck’s incision for resection of the shoulder-joint. To the inner