9 LIST OF LITHOGRAPHIC PLATES. FACING PLATE PAGE 1. The base of the skull seen from within. The various bones are indicated by different colors. Upon the left side the places of exit of the cranial nerves are colored yellow, the places of entrance of the most important arteries red, and the foramina for the chief veins blue. Upon the right side the weak areas at the base are outlined in red 22 2. The external muscles, arteries, veins, and nerves of the face 26 3. The base of the brain with the twelve cranial nerves and the cerebral arteries .*. 36 4. A median sagittal section of the head. Frozen section 56 5. A cross-section of the neck at the level of the thyroid cartilage. Frozen section 62 6. A posterior view of the opened head, neck, and trunk of a man. The greater portion of the brain has been removed; the spinal cord and spinal nerves as well as the viscera and diaphragm may be seen in situ. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 96 7. A posterior view of a dissection of the thoracic, and of a portion of the cervical viscera. The relation of the bronchi, arteries, and veins at the hilus of the lungs. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 98 8. a. A dissection of the mediastinum seen from the left; almost the entire left half of the thorax has been removed and the left lung has been cut away at its root. 6, The mediastinum seen from the right. Formalin prepara- tions from a child 104 9. An anterior view of the heart. The parietal pericardium has been incised and reflected. Formalin prepara- tion 106 10. The vessels and nerves of the mediastinum and their relation to the cervical viscera. The first illustration repre- sents the structures as seen from the left, while the second shows them as seen from the right. Formalin prep- aration 112 11. The position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera of a boy. Anterior view. From an accurate Leipsic model made from an original dissection (His) 120 12. The position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera of a boy. Posterior view. From the model of Plate 11 120 13. The position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera of a boy, seen from the left and from the right. From the model of Plate 11 122 14. The position of the abdominal viscera of a boy. Anterior view. The lungs, the heart, and the anterior half of the diaphragm have been removed; the small intestine has been cut away at the root of the mesentery. From an accurate Leipsic model made from an original dissection (His) 128 15. The position of the kidneys, pancreas, spleen, duodenum, and colon as seen after the removal of the liver, stomach, and transverse colon. From the model of Plate 14 128 16. The position of the thymus gland, heart, liver, stomach, spleen, and intestines of a fifteen-year-old girl as seen from the left. The left lung has been removed. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 130 17. The position of the pylorus, cardia, large intestine and spleen of a fifteen-year-old girl. A deeper layer of the model of Plate 16 ^136 18. The position of the liver (a portion), duodenum, pancreas, left kidney, and cecum of a fifteen-year-'old girl. 'A deeper layer of the model of Plate 16 138 19. The male pelvic outlet as seen from without. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) with the vessels and nerves sketched in •. 144 20. The female pelvic outlet as seen from without. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 146 21. A median sagittal section of the male pelvic region. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 148 22. A median sagittal section of the female pelvic region. From a Leipsic model from nature (His) 151