THE FOOT. 169 Fig. 88.—A frontal section of the talocrural and talocalcaneal articulations. Fig. 89.—A diagrammatic representation of the joints of the foot. tar sea lateralis), passing beneath the extensor brevis digitorum and anastomosing with the next branch, the metatarsal artery (A. arcuata), which runs outward upon the bases of the metatarsal bones and gives off the dorsal metatarsal arteries for the second, third, and fourth metatarsal spaces and the corresponding sides of the toes. To the inner side, the dorsalis pedis gives off two or three insignificant vessels, the Aa. tarsece mediales. The nerves of the dorsum of the foot (Fig. 85) are: (1) The musculocutaneous, which divides at a higher level into an external and an internal branch (see page 167). They supply digital branches for all of the toes except the outer side of the little toe and the adjacent surfaces of the great and second toes. The latter is supplied by the anterior tibial; the outer margin of the dorsum of the foot and of the little toe is supplied by the short saphenous, which is known in this situation as the N. cutaneus dorsi pedis lateralis. All three nerves inosculate with each other. Sole of the Foot.—Beneath the tough skin of the sole of the foot there is a thick cushion of fat which is particularly well developed posteriorly. Beneath this fat is the strong plantar fascia, which, like the palmar fascia, gives off five processes for the sheaths of the flexor tendons and the skin and possesses transverse trabeculae. In the middle of the foot the fascia is con- siderably thicker than at the sides and covers the flexor brevis digitorum muscle, furnishing an origin for some of its fibers. The external plantar artery (see page 167 and Fig. 87) passes into the sole beneath the abductor hallucis and then runs outw'ard between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius; the vessel then curves to the inner side of the foot and forms the plantar arch by anastomosing with the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis. The plantar arch lies directly upon the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and upon the interosseous muscles. Anteriorly it gives off four digital branches (Aa. metatarsece plantares) for the interosseous spaces and the corresponding sides of the toes, while the outer and inner margins of the sole are supplied by separate branches from the arch. The smaller internal plantar artery runs anteriorly to the inner side of the abductor hallucis to the great toe, where it usually anastomoses with the first digital branch (A. metatar see plantaris I). Before entering the sole the posterior tibial nerve divides into the external and the internal plantar nerves. The external plantar nerve accompanies the external plantar artery and divides into a superficial and a deep branch (Fig. 87). The superficial branch supplies the muscles of the ball of the little toe and gives off three digital nerves to the sides of the little toe and to the outer side of the fourth toe. The deep branch follows the plantar arch into the depth of the sole and supplies the interosseous muscles and the adductor hallucis. The internal plantar nerve runs to the inner side of the flexor brevis digitorum, supplies the muscles of the ball of the great toe and the flexor brevis digitorum, and ends in seven digital nerves which supply both sides of the three inner toes and the inner side of the fourth toe. For the movements of the foot there are two joints which are worthy of particular atten- tion: 1. The ankle-joint, or talocrural articulation (Figs. 88 and 89), between the leg and the