TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 164 condylea, the linea intercondylea, and the facies patellaris; at the upper end of the tibia, the tuberosities with their articular surfaces, the eminentia intercondylea, the tuberculum intercon- dyleum anterius and posterius, and the fossa intercondylea anterior and posterior. The head of the fibula is connected to the tibia by an articulation which does not communicate with the knee-joint. The posterior surface of the patella is covered by hyaline cartilage and forms the immediate anterior boundary of the articular cavity; during flexion and extension of the joint it slides up and down upon the facies patellaris of the femur. The incongruity of the articular surfaces of the tibia and of the femur is partly compensated for by the interposition of the in- ternal and external semilunar cartilages (meniscus lateralis and medialis). The external meniscus is the more sharply curved and its ends are attached immediately in front of and behind the spine of the tibia (eminentia intercondylea tibiae). The internal meniscus is more semilunar in shape; it commences in front at the margin of the articular surface of the tibia and ends behind at the posterior intercondyloid fossa. The capsular ligament is in very intimate relation with muscle-insertions which help to strengthen it. Anteriorly the tendon of the quadriceps encloses the patella and ends in the patellar ligament running to the tubercle of the tibia. Posteriorly are the popliteus, the origins of the gastrocnemius, and the insertion of the semimembranosus, externally the biceps runs to the head of the fibula, and internally are the three tendons of the sartorius, semitendinosus, and gracilis, forming the “pes anserinus.” The capsular ligament passes from the posterior surface of the tendon of the quadriceps to the anterior surface of the end of the femur somewhat above its cartilaginous surface and excludes the epicondyles from the articular cavity. Posteriorly it is attached to the intercondyloid line. At the tibia the capsular ligament runs from the edge of the cartilaginous surface to the outer borders of the menisci, and to the inferior margin of the patella. At the upper and anterior portion of the articular cavity the large suprapatellar bursa is situated between the femur and the quadriceps tendon and communicates directly with the joint (Fig. 84). This bursa extends upward a distance of four to eight centimeters above the upper margin of the patella with the leg in the extended position. The ligaments consist of internal, lateral, and posterior bands of connective tissue. The internal ligaments are the ligamenta cruciata, and they check excessive pronation. The anterior crucial ligament passes from the inner surface of the external condyle of the femur to the anterior intercondyloid fossa of the tibia; the posterior crucial ligament runs from the outer surface of the internal condyle to the posterior intercondyloid fossa. Both ligaments are united to each other by connective tissue, project into the interior of the joint from the posterior portion of the capsular ligament, and are incompletely covered by the synovial membrane. The lateral liga- ments are the ligamentum collaterale fibulare (the long external lateral ligament), which runs from the external condyle of the femur to the head of the fibula as a comparatively independent structure, and the ligamentum collaterale tibiale (the internal lateral ligament), a broad fibrous radiation in the capsular ligament extending from the internal condyle of the femur to the margin of the cartilaginous surface of the tibia. Posteriorly there are two ligaments: (1) The liga- mentum popliteum obliquum, running from the external condyle of the femur obliquely down- ward and inward, where it becomes adherent to the tendon of insertion of the semimembranosus muscle; (2) the ligamentum popliteum arcuatum, a curved fibrous band radiating from the ex-