ii8 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. In carcinoma of the mammary gland, how would you explain the involvement of the lymphatic glands, not only of the same but also of the opposite side ? How would you explain pain in the upper arm in a case of mammary carcinoma ? What practical results may be deduced from the position of the intercostal arteries ? Why are diaphragmatic hernias more common upon the left side ? Where is the seat of predilec- tion for such a hernia ? Which large vessel may be injuriously affected, at its passage through the diaphragm, by a large pleuritic exudate ? How do you explain the rarity of injuries of the pleura without concomitant injuries of the lung ? Along. what path may inflammations in the neighborhood of the cervical viscera easily extend into the mediastinum? Why are injuries of the ventricles of the heart more common than injuries of the auricles ? What are the practical results of the relation of the esophagus to the pericardium? Where is the most favorable location for tapping the pericardial sac? What is the anatomic explanation of the influence of disease of the lungs and of the pleural cav- ities upon the extent of the cardiac dulness and upon the position of the heart? Into which cavity will a ruptured aneurysm of the ascending aorta usually empty ? What vessel to the right and what one to the left will be compressed by such an aneurysm? What structures may be affected by aneurysms of the aortic arch ? What is the explanation of the occurrence of a paralysis of the left vocal cord in aneurysm of the aortic arch ? Why do foreign bodies, which have gained access to the larynx, pass more readily into the right than into the left bronchus ? Where are the three narrow portions of the esophagus and how far are they from the incisor teeth ? What is the most probable cause of a fatal hemorrhage after swallowing a pointed instrument or in a case of esophageal carcinoma? In what manner may an affection of the esophagus lead to pneumothorax or pneumopericardium ? What practical facts must be remembered in reference to the very loose character of the submucous tissue of the esophagus? What vein may, under certain circumstances, transmit the blood from the lower half of the body to the heart when the circulation is disturbed in the trunk of the inferior vena cava ? What path does the blood take in such a case? THE ABDOMEN. THE ABDOMINAL WALL. The superior external boundary of the abdomen, the dividing-line between the abdomen and the thorax, is formed by the inferior aperture of the thorax (see page 92), which may be both seen and palpated. The inferior external boundary, the dividing-line between the abdomen and the pelvic and femoral regions, is furnished by the iliac crests, the groins (corresponding with Poupart’s ligament), and the symphysis pubis. The internal boundaries, or the lines of separation between the abdominal cavity and the thoracic and pelvic cavities, do not correspond with the external ones. The dome of the diaphragm extends far above the inferior aperture of