TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 42 The relation of the parotid gland to the retromandibular fossa furnishes sufficient explanation for the pain produced by mastication when the gland is inflamed and swollen. Since the parotid extends inward toward the pharynx it will be readily understood that large tumors proceeding from the parotid gland cause dysphagia from compression of the pharynx. The proximity of the external auditory meatus explains the occasional perforation of parotid abscesses into this canal. In operative procedures upon the parotid gland it is rather difficult to avoid dividing branches of the facial nerve, the resulting paralysis usually being of a temporary character. It should be remembered that the trunk of the facial nerve enters the parotid gland from above and behind, at a point on a level with the base of the lobule of the ear. In total extirpation of the gland it is scarcely possible to avoid injuring the trunk. In operations penetrating deeply into the retro-mandibular fossa, it is important to remember that the external carotid artery, as well as numerous veins (particularly the temporo-maxillary), are in close relation with, or imbedded in, the median surface of the gland. [The temporo-maxillary vein and the external carotid artery usually traverse the substance of the gland, the vein being superficial to the artery and deeper than the facial nerve.—Ed.] Still more deeply are found the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. THE ORBITAL CAVITY. The shape of the bony orbit may be compared to that of a four-sided hollow pyramid, the base being situated at the margin of the orbit and the apex at the optic foramen. [The inner walls are almost parallel; the outer walls if prolonged backward would meet in almost a right angle. The depth of the orbit is from i| to 2 inches.—Ed.] It should be carefully studied from a skull. The upper wall is formed by the very thin orbital plate of the frontal bone (see Figs. 1 and 16) and a small posterior portion by the lesser wing of the sphenoid. Externally beneath the zygo- matic (external angular) process is the lachrymal jossa, which lodges the lachrymal gland; internally is a small depression, the fovea trochlearis (occasionally also a spina trochlearis), for the attachment of the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. In the supraorbital margin toward the inner side [near the junction of the inner and middle thirds.—Ed.] is the supra- orbital notch or foramen for the passage of the nerve and artery of the same name. The inner wall is formed by the lachrymal bone, the os planum of the ethmoid, and poste- riorly by a portion of the lateral surface of the body of the sphenoid. Anteriorly is a depression for the lachrymal sac (and duct) (fossa saccilachrymalis), bounded by the inner extremity of the supraorbital margin (crista lachrymalis anterior of the superior maxilla) and by the lachrymal crest of the lachrymal bone (crista lachrymalis posterior); from this point a sound may easily be passed downward into the nasal duct which opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. Further posterior on the inner wall [between the os planum of the ethmoid and the orbital plate of the frontal.—Ed.] are situated the anterior ethmoidal foramen, communicating with the cranial cavity, and the posterior ethmoidal foramen, leading to-the posterior ethmoidal cells. The lower wall is formed by the orbital surface of the superior maxilla containing the in- fraorbital groove and canal, which terminates anteriorly beneath the lower margin of the orbit at the infraorbital foramen and transmits the artery and nerve of the same name (see Figs. 1 and 16).