THE REGION OF THE HIP. 155 Fig. 74.—A diagrammatic representation of an anterior view of the hip-joint. The attachment of the capsular ligament corresponds to the linea intertrochanterica (red). The weaker portions of the capsule are colored yellow. A detailed description will be found in the text. Fig. 75.—A diagrammatic representation of a posterior view of the hip-joint. The attachment of the capsular ligament (red line) is situated above the intertrochanteric crest. The weak areas in the posterior portion of the capsule are colored yellow. Fig. 76.—A diagrammatic representation' of the lacuna musculorum, of the lacuna vasorum, and of the femoral ring. What part of the uterus may be palpated through the anterior wall of the rectum ? Where may we palpate the ovaries? THE LOWER EXTREMITY* In accordance with the fact that the lower extremity is considerably larger than the upper one, we find that the vessels and the nerves of the leg are much larger than those of the arm, for which reason amputations and resections in the lower extremity are, in general, much more serious operations than the corresponding procedures in the upper extremity, and wounds of the lower extremity are also generally more dangerous than those of the upper extremity. The greater distance of the lower extremity from the heart is also in harmony with the fact that, as compared with the arm, there is a greater tendency to the development of ulcers, chronic skin diseases, edema, and dilatation of the veins from the unfavorable influence of gravitation. As the motions of the joints are more restricted than is the case in the upper extremity, we find that dislocations in this situation are of more infrequent occurrence. THE REGION OF THE HIP. The boundary between the lower extremity and the trunk is furnished anteriorly by the crease of the groin, which runs from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the region of the symphysis and corresponds in its direction to that of Poupart’s ligament. Posteriorly the boun- dary-line coincides with the iliac crest, since the gluteal region belongs to the lower extremity. The gluteal region terminates below at the well-marked gluteofemoral crease, at the inner ex- tremity of which may be felt the tuberosity 0} the ischium. Anteriorly the crease of the groin separates the inguinal region from the subinguinal region. Midway between the symphysis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium may be felt the pulsations of the femoral artery which passes beneath Poupart’s ligament. In spare individuals this artery may be seen pulsating. The lymphatic glands situated in the subinguinal region (Fig. 77) are palpable only when abnormally enlarged. Upon the outer side of the hip the great trochanter may be felt beneath the skin; below this point the femur is entirely surrounded by muscles. When the thigh is flexed to a right angle, the tip of the great trochanter lies beneath a line running over the buttock and connecting the anterior superior spine of the ilium with the tuberosity of the ischium (Roser- Nelaton's line). Changes in the position of the trochanter (in dislocations and diseases of the hip-joint) may be recognized with the aid of this line.