SAUNDERS’ BOOKS ON IO DocCosta/s Moderrv Surgery Modern Surgery—General and Operative. By John Chalmers DaCosta, M.D., Professor of the Principles of Surgery and of Clini- cal Surgery in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia ; Surgeon to Philadelphia Hospital and to St. Joseph’s Hospital, Philadelphia. Handsome octavo volume of 1099 pages, with 707 illustrations. Beautifully bound in Cloth, 21 s. net. FOURTH EDITION RECENTLY ISSUED Thoroughly Revised, Entirely Reset, and Greatly Enlarged The progress of surgery in every department is one of the most notable phenomena of the present day. So many improvements, discoveries, and observations have been made since the appearance of the last edition of this work that the author found it necessary to rewrite it entirely. In this new fourth edition the book has undergone a thorough and careful revision, and there has been added much new matter. There have also been added over two hundred excellent and practical illustrations, greatly increasing the value of the work. Because of the great amount of new matter it has been deemed advisable in this present edition to adopt a larger type page. This is a great improvement, rendering as it does the work less cumbersome. The book will be found to express the latest advances in the art and science of surgery. OPINIONS OF THE MEDICAL PRESS The Lancet, London “ We may congratulate Dr. DaCosta in the success of his attempt. . . . We can recommend the work as a text-book well suited to students.” The Medical Record, New York “The work throughout is notable for its conciseness. Redundance of language and padding have been scrupulously avoided, while at the same time it contains a sufficient amount of information to fulfil the object aimed at by its author—namely, a text-book for the use of the student and the busy practitioner.” American Journal of the Medical Sciences “The author has presented concisely and accurately the principles of modern surgery. The book is a valuable one, which can be recommended to students, and is of great value to the general practitioner.”