12 SAUNDERS' BOOKS ON GET I _J f THE NEW THE BEST UOrl^aa S STANDARD Illustrated Dictionary THIRD REVISED EDITION—RECENTLY ISSUED DorlaruTs Illustrated Medical Dictionary. A New and Com- plete Dictionary of the terms used in Medicine, Surgery, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Chemistry, and the kindred branches ; together with new and elaborate tables of Arteries, Muscles, Nerves, Veins, etc.; of Bacilli, Bacteria, Micrococci, etc.; Eponymic Tables of Diseases, Operations, Signs and Symptoms, Stains, Tests, Methods of Treat- ment, etc. By W. A. Newman Dorland, M.D. Large octavo, 798 pages. Flexible leather, igs. net; with thumb index, 21 s. net. THREE EDITIONS IN THREE YEARS—WITH 1500 NEW TERMS In this edition the book has been subjected to a thorough revision. The author has also added nearly fifteen hundred important new terms that have appeared in medical literature during the past few months. Howard A. Kelly, M.D., Professor of Gynecology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. “Dr. Dorland’s Dictionary is admirable. It is so well gotten up and of such convenient size. No errors have been found in my use of it.” Roswell Pa.rk, M.D., Professor of Principles and Practice of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery, University of Buffalo. “ I must acknowledge my astonishment at seeing how much he has condensed within relatively small space. I find nothing to criticise, very much to commend, and was interested in finding some of the new words which are not in other recent dictionaries.” Savinders’ Year-Book Saunders’ Year=Book of Medicine and Surgery. A yearly Digest of Scientific Progress and Authoritative Opinion in all branches of Medicine and Surgery, drawn from journals, monographs, and text- books of the leading English and foreign authors and investigators. Arranged, with critical editorial comments, by eminent specialists, under the editorial charge of George M. Gould, A.M., M.D. In two volumes: Vol. I—General Medicine, octavo, 715 pages, illus- trated; Vol. II—General Surgery, octavo, 684 pages, illustrated. Per volume : Beautifully bound in cloth, 13.L net. In these volumes the reader obtains not only a yearly digest, but also the invaluable annotations and criticisms of the editors. As usual, this issue of the Year-Book is amply illustrated. The Lancet, London “ It is much more than a mere compilation of abstracts, for, as each section is entrusted to experienced and able contributors, the reader has the advantage of certain critical commentaries and expositions . . . proceeding from writers fully qualified to perform these tasks.”