THE THORACIC WALL. 89 In what cases are the lymphatic glands of the axilla of particular interest to the surgeon and why? What muscle aids in the location of the axillary artery ? What is the most important anastomosis between the branches of the axillary and subclavian arteries ? What nerves are endangered in cleaning out the axillary cavity (in mammary carcinoma) ? What two bursae communicate with the shoulder-joint ? Where are the two weak places in the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint ? What bursa, when diseased, may be confused with an exudate in the shoulder-joint ? Where may the pulsations of the brachial artery be felt ? What nerve of the upper arm is involved first in affections of the humerus (by a fracture, for example) ? In what situations may the elbow-joint be most easily opened ? What is the normal relation of the olecranon to the epicondyles of the humerus ? Where may the ulnar nerve be palpated about the elbow ? What nerve is to be particularly avoided in resection of the elbow-joint ? What effect must hyperextension of the elbow with backward dislocation of both bones have upon the large vessels and nerves ? Between what tendons may the radial pulse be felt at the wrist, and why is the pulsation of the ulnar artery scarcely, if at all, perceptible in this situation ? What symptoms are characteristic of paralysis of the musculospiral, median, and ulnar nerves, and how are these symptoms explained by the distribution of the nerves ? Why do inflammations of the tendon-sheaths of certain fingers (which ones ?) extend into the fore- arm more readily than similar inflammations in other fingers? Why is tenosynovitis more common upon the palmar than upon the dorsal surface ? THE THORAX. THE THORACIC WALL. The external boundaries of the thorax are easily defined in the living subject. The upper boundary of the thorax is formed anteriorly in the median line by the upper margin of the sternum, laterally by the clavicles, and posteriorly by lines drawn from the acromion processes to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra (vertebra prominens). The lower boundary of the thorax is formed anteriorly in the median line by the xiphoid process of the sternum, laterally by the costal margins, and posteriorly by lines drawn from the lowest point of the costal margins (near the axillary lines) to the spinous process of the eleventh dorsal vertebra. The internal boundaries of the thorax, i. e., the planes separating the thoracic space* from * The space surrounded by the thoracic wall and situated above the diaphragm is improperly designated as the “thoracic cavity.” As a thoracic cavity (like an abdominal cavity) does not exist, it would be better to avoid this ex- pression altogether. The space surrounded by the thoracic wall—the thoracic space—contains three cavities: two pleural cavities and a pericardial cavity. The surgeon, and sometimes the anatomist, frequently speaks of an opening into the thoracic cavity (from an injury, for example), by which is meant an opening into the pleural and pericardial cavities or into one of these three cavities.