9 SURGER Y AND ANA TOMY Schultze and Stewart’s Topographic Anatomy Atlas and Text=Book of Topographic and Applied Anatomy. By Prof. Dr. O. Schultze, of Würzburg. Edited, with additions, by George D. Stewart, M.D., Professor of Anatomy and Clinical Sur- gery, University and Bellevue Hospital Medical College, N. Y. Large quarto of 189 pages, with 25 colored figures on 22 colored lithographic plates, and 89 text-cuts, 60 in colors. Cloth, 25s. net. JUST READY It was Professor Schultze’s special aim, in preparing this work, to produce a Text-Book and Atlas, not for the anatomist alone, but more particularly for the general practitioner. He has presented his own methods for the study of anatomy—methods proved to be correct and practical by many years of clinical study. The value of the knowledge of topographic anatomy in bedside diagnosis is emphasized throughout the book. The many colored lithographic plates are exceptionally excellent. The editorial additions of Dr. Stewart are in accordance with the high standing of the original German. Moynihan on Gall-stones Gall-stones and Their Surgical Treatment. By B. G. A. Moyni- han, M.S. (Lond.), F.R.C.S., Senior Assistant Surgeon, Leeds General Infirmary, England. Octavo of 366 pages, fully illustrated. Cloth, 17s. net. JUST ISSUED This work contains a full account of the origin and causation of gall-stones, and of the pathologic changes and clinical manifestations to which they give rise. Especial attention has been given to a detailed description of the early symptoms in cholelithiasis, so as to enable a diagnosis to be made in the stage in which surgical treatment can be most safely adopted. Every phase of gall-stone disease is dealt with, and is illustrated by a large number of clinical records. The ac- count of the operative treatment of all the forms and complications of gall-stone disease is full and accurate. The illustrations, a number of which are in color, are unusually clear and artistic, and form a special feature of the work.