143 THE PELVIC WALLS. What are the relations of the hernial orifices of the two main forms of inguinal hernia to the plica epigastrica ? What are the relations of the hernial orifices of inguinal and femoral hernia to Poupart’s ligament ? What practical conclusions may be deducted from the course of the root of the mesentery ? In what three places may the great omentum be opened in order to expose the pancreas ? In what situation is the stomach immediately exposed upon opening the abdominal cavity? How is it possible that after an injury to the stomach the gastric contents may escape into the left pleural cavity ? What is the explanation of fatal hematemesis in a case of gastric ulcer? How would you explain the expectoration of gastric contents in the same affection? What relation explains the possibility of the rupture of an hepatic abscess into the pericardium ? What is the normal relation of the inferior border of the liver to the costal margin ? Into what neighboring organs may gall-stones from the gall-bladder perforate? Why is it impossible to outline the upper margin of the spleen by percussion? What renders it impossible to locate the posterior margin by the same method? What is the explanation of splenic enlargements following upon venous congestion within the liver ? What organs may be perforated by an abscess of the spleen ? In what direction may ulcers upon the anterior and those upon the posterior wall of the superior portion of the duodenum rupture? Where does a perityphlitic abscess form and in what directions may it extend ? Why are the ascending and the descending colons adapted to the making of an artificial anus from behind ? In what locations may retroperitoneal hernias develop? Into what cavities may a renal abscess rupture when it points upward? What is the explanation of neuralgic pains in the thigh in tumors of the kidney ? Into what portions of the intestine may an abscess of the right kidney perforate ? Why is it more practicable to attack the pelvis of the kidney from behind than from in front ? THE PELVIS. THE PELVIC WALLS. The study of the pelvic region should be preceded by a review of the innominate bones and of the sacrum as well as by a consideration of the bony pelvis as a whole. The following designa- tions, referable to the entire pelvis, should be thoroughly understood by the reader: The false and true pelves (separated from each other by the iliopectineal line); the symphysis pubis; the sacroiliac articulation; the promontory; the acetabulum with its articular portion (facies lunata), non-articular portion (fossa acetabuli), and cotyloid notch (incisura acetabuli); the pubic angle (in the male); the pubic arch (in the female); the obturator foramen; and the following sagittal diameters of the pelvis (Fig. 70): 1. The anteroposterior diameter of the pelvic inlet from the promontory to the upper margin of the symphysis (conjugata vera), about 11.0 centimeters (4J- inches);