THE NECK. 6l What are the four ways of opening the maxillary sinus and which is the simplest in empyema of this cavity? What situations will tumors of the maxillary sinus reach when they grow inward, upward, forward, or backward, and what neighboring organs may be thereby affected ? Where should the frontal sinus be opened and what is the location of its opening into the nasal fossa ? What large vessel may be ruptured and produce a fatal hemorrhage from the nose and what is the route taken by the blood in such a case ? What mass of bone and what accessory cavities of the nose are encroached upon when tumors from the nasal fossas invade the orbit ? How may the pharyngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube be reached from the nostril and what should be noted in carrying out this procedure ? Where is the orifice of the parotid duct in the vestibulum oris and where is there a normal com- munication between the vestibule and the oral cavity, which may be utilized for feeding under certain circumstances ? Where may the submaxillary duct be easily opened in the living subject ? In what situation in the oral cavity may hemorrhage from the Ungual artery be controlled by suture ? In what situation in the oral cavity may the lingual nerve be exposed ? The inferior dental nerve ? What arteries may give rise to pronounced hemorrhage in tonsillotomy ? By what route may diseases of the pharyngeal tonsil extend into the middle ear ? Where do retropharyngeal abscesses arise and by what path may they gravitate into the chest and produce pleuritis and pericarditis ? Where may diseases of the cervical vertebras be diagnosticated from the mouth ? How do tumors and swellings of the parotid gland affect the external auditory meatus ? What relation is important for the anterior, and what one for the posterior wall of the bonv meatus ? By what route may suppuration in the middle ear lead to an abscess in the temporal lobe, and by what other route may a cerebellar abscess be produced ? In middle-ear disease, what nerve may give rise to symptoms of paralysis and why ? In what manner may a sudden fatal hemorrhage from the ear, nose, or mouth pccur in the course of middle-ear disease ? THE NECK. The neck may be regarded as a passageway for important organs on their way from the head to the trunk and from the trunk to the head, and contains, in a comparatively small space, an unusually large number of structures which are situated in the anterior and lateral cervical regions. It is consequently a portion of the body which claims particular attention from the physician. The neck is bounded above by the lower margin of the jaw, by the mastoid process, and by the superior curved line of the occiput. Its lower boundary is formed by the upper margin of the sternum (or sternal notch), by the sternoclavicular articulations, by the clavicles, by the acromial processes, and by a line drawn from the latter to the spinous process of the vertebra prominens (the seventh cervical). These boundaries should be seen and felt by the reader in his own neck and in the necks of others. The student should also observe the prominence caused by the sternocleidomastoid muscle (particularly when the head is turned to one side), the anterior