TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 162 the gluteofemoral crease does not correspond with the inferior margin of the gluteus maximus, but that it is situated from two to three fingerbreadths above this margin. In its further course the sciatic nerve passes beneath the muscles arising from the tuberosity of the ischium, disappear- ing beneath the biceps, and runs downward in the middle of the posterior surface of the thigh, covered by the long head of the biceps, to reach the popliteal space. Anteriorly the nerve rests upon the adductor magnus muscle. It is surrounded by very loose connective tissue in which gravitating abscesses leaving the pelvis through the sciatic foramina may extend downward along the nerve into the popliteal space. The nerve may divide high up into its two terminal branches, the internal and the external popliteal nerves; the point of division is usually situated just above the popliteal fossa (Fig. 83). The nerve supplies the long head of the biceps, the semimembranosus, and the semitendinosus from the portion which subsequently becomes the internal popliteal nerve, and the short head of the biceps from the portion which goes to form the external popliteal nerve. The sciatic nerve also gives filaments to the adductor magnus muscle. Obturator Nerve.—The obturator nerve (Figs. 71 and 73), the motor nerve of the adductors and the last branch of the lumbar plexus, runs into the true pelvis to the inner side of the psoas muscle, and, accompanied by the obturator artery, to the obturator canal, and divides, after its exit from the canal, into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch lies between the adductor brevis upon one side and the pectineus and the adductor longus upon the other; it supplies these muscles and the gracilis and ends in an unimportant cutaneous branch upon the inner side of the thigh (Fig. 79). The posterior branch lies beneath the adductor brevis and upon the adductor magnus and supplies the latter muscle. THE REGION OF THE KNEE. In the region of the knee may be easily seen and felt the movable patella, imbedded in the tendon of the quadriceps and covered only by the skin and bursas (see page 165), and the liga- mentum patellae, which passes from the apex of the bone to the tubercle of the tibia. To either side may be felt the condyles and the epicondyles of the femur. When the knee is flexed, the patella descends so that the upper portion of the intercondyloid fossa of the femur (the trochlea) is exposed to palpation. To the outer side of the extended knee a strong band may be distinctly felt passing upward from the external epicondyle; this structure is. the terminal portion of the iliotibial band of the fascia lata. To either side of the patellar tendon may be felt the articular space between the tibia and the femur, and, upon the outer side of the joint, the head of the fibula and the strong tendon of the biceps which passes upward from this structure. [On either side of the patella and above it are depressions; these, with the depressions on either side of the patellar ligament, disappear when there is fluid in the joint cavity. When fluid is present, the patella “floats”; which means that by pressure backward the patella may be forced in contact with the femur, but when the pressure is released it rebounds.—Ed.] When the knee is flexed, the biceps tendon may be followed upward upon the posterior surface of the thigh. It forms the outer boundary of the upper portion of the popliteal fossa, the inner boundary being furnished by the tendons of the semitendinosus, semimembranosus, and gracilis. The lower portion of the diamond-shaped popliteal fossa is bounded by the origins of the gastrocnemius muscle.