50 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. turbinate bone. This divides the upper portion of the antral opening into two parts, of which the posterior half is usually closed in by mucous membrane, while the anterior part presents the normal opening leading into the superior maxillary sinus. These openings lead from the antrum into the middle meatus.—Ed.] The skin oj the nose, though movable upon the underlying bones, is so firmly adherent to the nasal cartilages that cutaneous defects cannot be closed by approximating the edges of the wound, and the scars following such defects do not undergo very marked contraction. In the vicinity of the alae the skin is particularly rich in sebaceous glands, which through the retention of their secretion and the occasional appearance of the demodex folliculorum may lead to the formation of “black-heads” (comedones). At the nostril the skin with its hairs (vibrissae) and sebaceous glands is continued into the nasal cavity, the glands and hair gradually disappearing, but the epidermic character being maintained as far as the region of the anterior nares. This portion of the nasal cavity is known as the vestibulum nasi. The olfactory region is the only portion of the nasal mucous membrane containing olfactory cells; it covers the superior turbinated bone, occasionally a small region of the middle turbinated bone, and the opposite portion of the septum. The mucous membrane of the respiratory region is devoid of a submucous layer and adheres directly to the periosteum. It is predisposed to swellings on account of the cavernous tissue, which is especially developed upon the free borders of the inferior and middle turbinated bones. The mucous membrane also lines the accessory cavities, becoming much thinner and losing almost all of its glands as it passes in through their orifices. There are no large arteries of surgical importance within the nasal cavity. Marked hem- orrhages, usually of capillary or venous origin, are consequently controlled by plugging. The largest artery is the sphenopalatine, a branch of the internal maxillary, which passes from the spheno-maxillary fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen to the outer and inner walls of the nasal chamber. The other arteries are the small anterior and posterior ethmoidal (from the ophthalmic) and the anastomoses of the facial and of the palatine arteries in the region of the alae of the nose. The veins of the nasal cavity are particularly well developed; they form superficial and deep plexuses as well as the cavernous tissue upon the turbinated bones. The ethmoidal veins (accom- panying the arteries of the same name) empty into the superior longitudinal sinus. The veins of the nose are also connected with the veins of the cranial cavity through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid; the foramen caecum transmits an emissary vein in the child but not in the adult. The connection of the veins of the nasal cavity with those of the brain explains the relief afforded in a severe headache after bleeding from the nose. The nerves of the nasal cavity, disregarding those of special sense, the olfactory filaments (see page 21), are the sensory nerves supplying the mucous membrane and proceeding from the first and second divisions of the trifacial. The nasal nerve is given off from the ophthalmic or first division of the trifacial, passes through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, pursues a short subdural course in the cranial cavity, and runs through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid toward the vestibulum nasi; it gives off an external branch which reaches the skin of the nose below the lower border of the nasal bone. The main nervous filaments come from the spheno-palatine