THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 33 The nerves most apt to give rise to symptoms are the facial (paralysis of the muscles of expression) and the auditory in fracture or caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, the abducent and the oculomotor, and more rarely the trochlear, the trifacial, and the optic. Tumors situated at the base of the skull may press upon the nerves having a subdural or an intradural course and consequently lead to more or less severe pressure-symptoms dependent upon the particular nerve affected. Under certain circumstances olfactory or visual disturbances may point to the presence of a tumor in the anterior cranial fossa; symptoms of pressure upon the semilunar ganglion and disturbances of the muscles of the eye may likewise indicate a growth in the middle cranial fossa. If the trunk of the trifacial is pressed upon before it perforates the dura, and if the facial and hypoglossal nerves are compressed at the base of the skull, we are justified in locating the lesion in the posterior cranial fossa, while symptoms pointing to the pons or cerebellum would demand the same localization. Since the division of the fifth cranial nerve into its three branches takes place within the cranial cavity, any one of these branches may be affected by diseases of the inner surface of the base of the skull. The arachnoid membrane (the second of the brain membranes) (see Fig. 7) is separated from the dura by the subdural space. The. pia mater is separated from the arachnoid by the subarachnoid space which is filled with the cerebrospinal fluid. Numerous trabeculae pass across this subarachnoid space and form an intimate connection between the arachnoid and pia, par- ticularly at the convexities of the cerebral convolutions. While the non-vascular arachnoid bridges over the sulci between the convolutions, the pia mater carrying the ramifications of the blood-vessels dips into the sulci and is intimately attached to all portions of the surface of the brain. In several places, particularly at the base of the brain, there are comparatively large spaces between the arachnoid and the pia, and these are known as the cisternce sub- arachnoideales. There is no communication between the subdural and the subarachnoid space, but the subarachnoid space freely communicates with the ventricles of the brain [through an opening in the roof of the fourth ventricle, and also at the extremity of the descending horn of the lateral ventricle.—Ed.]. It consequently follows that the cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles may be drawn off after the subarachnoid space has been opened. The arachnoid membrane, particularly in the vicinity of the superior longitudinal sinus, possesses variously formed villi, groups of which may be seen projecting into the interior of the sinus or its lateral recesses when this venous channel has been laid open. They act as normal places of drainage for the cerebrospinal fluid. When they become hypertrophied they form the Pacchionian bodies, which are lodged in the Pacchionian depressions (see page 18). The larger branches of the cerebral vessels are found in the subarachnoid space. Effusions of blood in this space come either from the cerebral vessels or from the vessels of the dura, in which latter case, a rupture of the arachnoid must, of course, have taken place (see page 29). The relation of the arteries to definite portions of the base and to definite cranial nerves (see Plate 3) makes it clear that aneurysm of these arteries must produce definite localizing symptoms of cere- bral compression. The arterial supply of the brain is furnished by the vertebral and internal carotid arteries 3