43 THE ORBITAL CAVITY. [The bony roof of this canal is usually deficient behind.—Ed.] The external portion of the lower wall is formed anteriorly by the orbital process of the malar bone; the orbital process of the palate bone also aids in forming the most posterior portion of the floor. The outer wall consists anteriorly of the orbital process of the malar bone, posteriorly of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and above and anteriorly of the zygomatic (external angular) process of the frontal bone. This surface presents the small temporomalar canals for the temporal and malar branches of the orbital nerve. In addition to the optic foramen, which transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery, another communication between the bony orbit and the cranial cavity is furnished by the sphenoidal fissure (transmitting the oculomotor, the trochlear, the ophthalmic, and the abducent nerves and the ophthalmic vein). The spheno-maxillary fissure (for the infraorbital Orbital plate of frontal bone — Sphenomaxillary fissure Infraorbital canal Maxillary sinus Alveolar process Perpendicular plate of ethmoid bone Nasal Vomer Inferior turbinated bone Fig. 15.—A frontal section of the bony orbits of the nasal cavities and of the maxillary sinuses. vein) communicates in its anterior portion with the temporal fossa; the posterior portion is in connection with the spheno-maxillary fossa. [In this fissure are found the infraorbital artery as well as the vein, the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, the orbital branches of the same nerve, and twigs from Meckel’s ganglion.—Ed.] The external wall of the orbit is the strongest. The other walls are weaker and are conse- quently thereby predisposed to perforation. Since the floor of the orbit is the roof of the maxillary sinus and the os planum in the inner wall covers in the ethmoidal cells, it will be understood that when these walls are perforated, the air from these accessory cavities may enter the orbit and cause emphysema and exophthalmos. This may also be occasionally observed after perforation of the orbital roof, since the frontal sinus frequently extends into the upper wall of the orbit, in rare cases as far as the optic foramen (see Fig. 15). The relatively thin bony laminae separating the orbital cavities from the