Ill THE MEDIASTINUM. Not less important is the fact that a comparatively small area of the pericardium is in im- mediate contact anteriorly with the inner surface of the thoracic wall. This place is situated where the two anterior pleural limits diverge close to the left sternal border from the fifth to the seventh costal cartilage. In withdrawing fluid from the pericardial cavity it is best to make the puncture in the fifth intercostal space close to the sternal margin. If the puncture is made further to the left, there is danger of injuring the left pleural sac. A knowledge of the relation of the pericardium to the thoracic wall is also necessary when it is desired to open retrosternal abscesses or to remove tumors from behind the sternum by a partial resection of this bone, since the pleural and pericardial cavities should not be clumsily nor unnecessarily opened. Erector spinse muscle Trapezius muscle Internal mammary artery with vein Fig. 53.—A cross-section of the thorax at the level of the tracheal bifurcation (frozen' section). The left lung was diseased at its apex and diminished in size as a whole; the right lung was correspondingly enlarged. Spinal Pleural Subscapular_ vessels. lung —Lymphatic glands ..Pectoralis minor -Pectoralis major Bifurcation of trachea Azygos major vein- Right Superior vena Sinus transversus pericardii Ascending aorta Since the mediastinum is not a rigid partition between the two pleural cavities, but rather a movable and elastic septum, as is necessary for costal breathing, it is clear that when a pleural cavity is distended by abnormal contents (pyothorax, pneumothorax) or when one lung requires more space than normally belongs to it, the mediastinum together with the heart will be pushed toward the opposite side. This may be recognized by the physician by the displacement of the cardiac dulness. A left-sided pleural exudate, for example, may push the right border of the normal cardiac dulness far beyond the right margin of the sternum. If the lung becomes con- tracted, as in cirrhosis, and adherent to the mediastinal pleura, the mediastinum will be drawn toward the same side, and the opposite lung, when healthy, may undergo a compensatory enlarge-