123 THE ABDOMINAL WALL. it is in this manner that ascites is produced. In addition to ascites, there are three other symp- toms or signs of obstruction, dependent upon three other sets of veins aiding in the formation of the portal circulation, which are readily understood if we are acquainted with the normal anas- tomoses of these veins. 1. There is a stasis in the venous hemorrhoidal plexus, in the neighborhood of the rectum, from which the blood passes through the superior hemorrhoidal vein to the inferior mesenteric and thus reaches the portal vein. In this manner hemorrhoids are produced. From this same plexus the blood flows through the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal veins into the internal pudic vein and finally reaches the inferior vena cava. 2. There is passive congestion of the lesser curvature of the stomach and of the lower end of the esophagus due to stasis in the coronary vein of the stomach. This may lead to dilatation of the veins (esophageal varices) and even to rupture of these vessels with a consequent hema- temesis; it is possible, however, for the blood in the esophageal veins to flow into the vena azygos major. 3. As a result of passive congestion and dilatation of the parumbilical veins, the veins of the abdominal wall also become dilated; these veins are partly arranged in a radiating manner about the umbilicus, and the so-called caput Medusae is thus produced. [The Talma-Morrison opera- tion for the relief of cirrhosis, whereby the great omentum is caused to form adhesions and venous connections with the abdominal wall, is based on this venous anastomosis.—Ed.] The nerves of the abdominal wall are the terminal portions of the six lower intercostal nerves, which pass beyond the costal margin and reach the rectus abdominis between the flat abdominal muscles. In addition to these there are the ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-inguinal nerves from the lumbar plexus. All these nerves supply the muscles of the abdominal wall and give off lateral and anterior cutaneous branches. There are also a number of nerves from the lumbar plexus which are situated between the muscles of the posterior abdominal wall (iliopsoas, quad- ratus lumborum, transversalis) and the peritoneum. They are the external cutaneous, the genito- crural, and the anterior crural nerves. The external cutaneous nerve runs transversely across the iliacus muscle toward the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The genitocrural nerve sub- divides into a crural branch, to the skin of the subinguinal region, and a genital branch, passing through the inguinal canal to the cremaster muscle. The anterior crural nerve is easily found in the iliac fossa between the psoas and iliacus muscles and, with the exception of the sciatic, is the longest nerve of the lower extremity (see page 161). [Pleuritic pain, particularly when located low and near the diaphragm, is often referred to the abdominal wall along the terminations of the lower intercostal nerves, and is sometimes mistaken for abdominal disease.—Ed.] The topography of the inner surface 0} the anterior abdominal wall, under normal tension, is of great importance for the proper understanding of inguinal and femoral hernia (Figs. 56 to 58). The peritoneum is reflected over a number of underlying cords and thus forms folds which have received special names. In the middle line the plica umbilicalis media passes upward from the bladder to the navel; it is produced by the ligamentum umbilicale medium, the urachus of fetal life, which is situated beneath the peritoneum. To either side of the bladder, the obliterated remains of the hypogastric arteries, the ligamenta umbilicalia lateralia of adult life, form the plicae umbilicales laterales. Still more externally are the less pronounced plicae epigastricae, which