TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 90 the contents of the neck and abdomen, do not correspond with the external boundaries; they are more difficult to determine in the living subject. The upper boundary of the thoracic space in the erect position and during expiration lies in a horizontal plane which passes through a point four centimeters above the middle of the upper margin of the sternum. This plane passes through the intervertebral disc between the last cervical and the first dorsal vertebra. It is about two centimeters above the center of the clavicle, so that the physician may examine a portion of the thoracic contents above this bone. The lower boundary of the thoracic space is formed by the diaphragm, the arched dome of which, during expiration, is at the level of the fourth intercostal space in the right mammary line and a fingerbreadth lower in the left mammary line at the upper margin of the fifth rib. The physician, as well as the anatomist, needs certain definite vertical and horizontal lines for the purpose of defining the positions of the organs of the thoracic cavity in health and in disease. The vertical lines are: The mammary line, passing through the nipple [the position of the nipple is so variable that the mammary line should be abandoned in favor of the mid-clavicular line; the latter starts from a fixed and easily determined point, passes usually slightly internal to the nipple, and in normal subjects is continuous with the Poupart perpendicular drawn from the mid-point between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spinous process and used by many writers in delimiting the abdominal regions.—Ed.]; the sternal line, along the margin of the sternum; the parasternal line, midway between the mammary and sternal lines; and the axillary line, which passes downward from the highest point of the axillary fossa (also known as the middle axillary line). The anterior axillary line passes vertically downward from the point at which there appears the prominence caused by the lower margin of the pectoralis major as it leaves the thoracic wall; the posterior axillary line extends vertically downward from the correspond- ing point of the latissimus dorsi. The costoclavicular line is drawn from the sternoclavicular articulation to the end of the eleventh rib and is employed to determine the normal position of the spleen. The scapular line passes through the inferior angle of the scapula. These lines are supplemented by the anterior and posterior median lines. The horizontal lines are furnished by the intercostal spaces. At the upper portion of the sternum, the sternal angle (angle of Ludwig) may be seen and felt as a transverse elevation. It corresponds to the synchondrosis between the manubrium and the gladiolus and to the attach- ment of the second costal caTtilage. In this manner the second intercostal space may be easily located and the remaining intercostal spaces may be defined by firm palpation from above down- ward and backward. The importance of these localizing lines is clear; for example, the apex of the normal heart (apex-beat) is situated in the fifth intercostal space between the mammary and the parasternal lines. The third intercostal space is the broadest, then follow the first and the second; all of the other intercostal spaces are narrower, the last one being the narrowest. The intercostal spaces are broader anteriorly than posteriorly, for which reason penetrating injuries from behind (a gunshot wound, for example) are more frequently complicated with injuries to the ribs than are similar wounds from in front. [Anteriorly the thorax is divided into the following regions: Supraclavicular, that portion above the clavicle; infraclavicular, between the clavicle and the third rib; mammary, between