THE REGION OF THE ELBOW. 79 upon the humerus, it is endangered in fractures of this bone; it is also sometimes included in the callus of a uniting fracture and causes corresponding symptoms. In operative procedures upon the bone the nerve must be carefully avoided. Paralysis of the nerve is manifested by distur- bances of function of all of the extensor muscles of the upper extremity (inability to extend the hand and the fingers, wrist-drop) as well as by sensory disturbances of the extensor surfaces of the arm, of the forearm-, and of the radial half of the back of the hand. THE REGION OF THE ELBOW. - If the elbow is flexed in the living subject, there may be felt upon the flexor surface the strong tendon of the biceps, from which the sharply defined bicipital fascia radiates toward the ulnar side (see Fig. 33). The other landmarks which may be palpated are the external and internal epicon- dyles and, running upward from these points, the external and internal condyloid ridges. Poste- riorly is the olecranon, and, to either side, the depressions which are more or less distinctly marked when the arm is extended. These depressions at the margin of the olecranon mark the points at which the cavity of the elbow-joint may be most easily and directly reached from behind (by aspiration, for example). In effusions into the joint these depressions become less distinct or even replaced by prominences. When the forearm is extended, the tip of the olecranon is in a line connecting the two condyles; when the forearm is flexed, the tip of the olecranon is about one centimeter lower. It is important to observe this normal relation, since the tip of the olecranon passes above this fine in backward dislocations of the ulna and in fractures of the olecranon. Between the olecranon and the skin there is a subcutaneous bursa (see Fig. 34) which occasionally may lead to the development of a hygroma, particularly in individuals who support themselves upon their elbows while at work (miner’s elbow). Somewhat higher up, within the tendon of the triceps muscle, there is another bursa (bursa intratendinea olecrani). If the forearm is moved slightly, the articulation between the external condyle and the head of the humerus may be felt, as may also the head of the radius, which will be found to rotate during the movements of pronation and supination. To the inner side of the olecranon, and running in a groove upon the humerus, the ulnar nerve may be easily palpated. If it is pushed about under firm pressure for a short time, the effect will be experienced in the hand. Upon the flexor surface the cutaneous veins may be more or less distinctly seen. They are the cephalic vein upon the radial side, the basilic vein upon the ulnar side, and the median cubital vein, the vein of phlebotomy and transfusion, which runs in an oblique direction from the cephalic up to the basilic vein. If the median vein, running upward upon the flexor surface of the forearm, divides, we speak of a median cephalic and of a median basilic vein. The transverse furrow which becomes visible upon flexion of the forearm is situated at the level of the epicondyles and two centimeters higher than the joint. Beneath the thin skin of the flexor surface and lying upon the deep fascia, which is reinforced by the bicipital fascia, are two cutaneous nerves. Upon the ulnar side is the internal cutaneous nerve, which pierces the deep fascia at the hiatus basilicus (see page 78) and usually divides into two branches. The posterior branch reaches the extensor surface at the internal condyle; the anterior branch usually runs beneath the median cubital vein (or the median basilic vein) and passes downward upon the flexor surface as far as the wrist-joint. The musculocutaneous nerve