THE REGION OF THE KNEE. 163 Fig. 83.—The popliteal space. ’ Fig. 84.—The knee-joint after the injection of a blue mass into the articular cavity; the bursas communicating with the joint are also filled with the blue injection. The non-communicating bursas have been injected with a red mass. (From a Berlin model.) The superficial structures of the popliteal space are the short saphenous vein and nerve (Fig. 83). The short saphenous vein lies upon the deep fascia. It arises behind the external malleolus, runs upward upon the muscles of the calf in the furrow between the two heads of the gastrocnemius, perforates the deep fascia in the popliteal space, and empties into the popliteal vein. It usually gives off a branch which runs to a higher level and empties into the vena pro- funda femoris. To the outer side of the vein the short saphenous nerve runs downward as far as the external border of the foot. This nerve arises upon or beneath the deep fascia in the popliteal space or lower down by the union of the communicans poplitei (n. cutaneus surae medialis), from the internal popliteal nerve, with the communicans peronei (n. cutaneus surae lateralis), from the peroneal nerve. To the inner side of the knee is the internal (or long) saphenous vein, and somewhat posterior to this structure the long saphenous nerve makes its appearance be- neath the tendon of the sartorius muscle (see page 161). In the median line of the popliteal space the internal popliteal nerve may be felt, and even seen in spare individuals, when the knee is extended; it is the motor nerve of the flexor surface and gives off branches to the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle in this situation. Somewhat deeper and closely associated with the nerve upon its inner side is the popliteal vein, and still deeper and more internal is the popliteal artery. The popliteal artery makes its appearance at the opening in the adductor magnus and lies first upon the posterior surface of the vastus internus and then upon the planum popliteum, though it is separated from this bony surface by a small quantity of fat; lower down the vessel is inti- mately related with the capsular ligament of the joint, so that it will be readily understood that the artery and its accompanying vein must suffer compression in posterior dislocations at the knee, and that this relation must always be borne in mind in resections of the articulation. It is also clear that in supracondyloid fractures of the lower end of the femur in which the lower fragment is tilted backward by the gastrocnemius muscle disagreeable symptoms will be pro- duced by the laceration of the popliteal vessels and of the internal popliteal nerve. The artery finally runs upon the popliteus muscle, at the inferior margin of which it divides into its terminal branches, the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. In addition to the numerous branches to the muscles in this region, of which the large sural arteries to the heads of the gastrocnemius should be particularly emphasized, the popliteal gives off five articular arteries, which vary in size and aid in the formation of the rete articulare. There are two superior and two inferior articular arteries (an external and an internal of each), and an azygos articular (a. articularis genu media) which passes into the interior of the joint. The peroneal nerve (external popliteal) (Fig. 83) follows the inner border of the biceps muscle and gradually becomes more distant from the internal popliteal nerve; at the head of the fibula it enters the peroneus longus muscle and immediately divides into its two main branches, the musculocutaneous and the anterior tibial nerves. Knee-joint.—The study of the knee-joint (Fig. 84) should be preceded by a review of the following parts: At the lower end of the femur, the condyles, the epicondyles, the fossa inter-