THE NECK. 69 4. A considerable number of supraclavicular nerves run downward in the region of the supraclavicular fossa, some of them passing downward anteriorly and posteriorly over the sternum and the acromion; they supply the skin of the superior thoracic region and of the shoulder. The spinal accessory nerve, after perforating and supplying the sternocleidomastoid, leaves the posterior margin of this muscle and runs obliquely downward and outward in the space be- tween the splenius and the levator anguli scapulae to the trapezius muscle. [The spinal accessory nerve enters the deep surface of the sternocleidomastoid about one and a half inches or less below the tip of the mastoid process; perforating the muscle, it emerges at or a little below the middle of the posterior border. A line from midway between the angle of the jaw and the tip of the mastoid through the middle of the posterior border of the sternocleidomastoid continued across the posterior triangle to the anterior edge of the trapezius at the level of the seventh cervical spine sufficiently indicates its course.—Ed.] This muscle is also directly supplied by branches of the cervical plexus which may be found lower down in the posterior triangle. In the neighborhood of the supraclavicular fossa the posterior belly of the omohyoid muscle appears beneath the pos- terior margin of the sternocleidomastoid and runs downward and outward to disappear beneath the clavicle. Together with the clavicle and the posterior margin of the sternocleidomastoid, it bounds the small subclavian triangle (trigonum omoclaviculare). In lean individuals the omo- hyoid muscle may often be seen when the hyoid bone and larynx are elevated during the act of deglutition. In the depths of the lateral cervical region (see Fig. 27) above the clavicle, and forming, so to speak, the floor of this triangle, may be seen the scalene muscles. The anterior scalene muscle passes from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebras to the scalene tubercle of the first rib; the middle scalene muscle runs from the transverse processes of all of the cervical vertebras to the outer surface of the first rib. These two muscles form the typical scalene slit or scalene triangle, the apex of which is directed upward and the base down- ward. Behind these muscles is the posterior scalene muscle, which extends from the transverse processes of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebras to the outer surface of the second rib. Above the scalene muscles is the levator anguli scapulce, arising from the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebras and inserting into the superior angle of the scapula, and the splenius capitis et cervicis, which arises from the ligamentum nuchas and the spinous processes of the first to the sixth dorsal vertebras and is inserted into the mastoid process and the transverse processes of the first two or three upper cervical vertebras. The supraclavicular lymphatic glands are grouped above the clavicle; they receive the lymph from the back of the neck as high up as the ear and are frequently diseased, particularly in tuber- culosis. If the sternocleidomastoid muscle is removed, the previously concealed continuation of the vascular and nervous trunk is exposed as it passes downward toward the clavicle. A still better view is obtained if the clavicle, or at least its sternal half, is also removed. By this procedure we expose the first rib, and consequently the dividing-line between the neck and the thorax, since the dome of the pleura with the contained apex of the lung extends upward beyond the first rib. Passing downward upon the right side, we come to the innominate artery, which divides into the right common carotid and the right subclavian behind the upper margin of the sternum. [This