THE NASAL CAVITY. 53 toward the base of the brain. The relation of the sinus to the internal carotid artery, which may lead to fatal hemorrhage from the nose, has been already mentioned (see page 31). The opening of the sinus into the nasal cavity is in the so-called spheno-ethmoidal recess, behind and above the superior turbinated bone; the orifice of the sinus, as is the case in the antrum of Highmore, is situated near its roof (see Fig. 19). The air-cells of the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone, which occupy the upper portion of the outer wall of the nasal fossas (see Figs. 15, 16, and 17), have previously been described (see page 43), and it will readily be understood that this spongy partition between the orbital and nasal cavities may easily disappear as the result of the pressure of tumors growing into the orbit from the ethmoidal cells or from the nasal fossa. The openings leading to the ethmoidal cells are to be found upon the outer wall of the nasal fossa. In Fig. 19 the middle turbinated has been removed close to its attachment, so that the long slit-like infundibulum is exposed, pass- ing from below upward and forward. In the anterior portion may be seen a probe which has been introduced into the frontal sinus. The normal orifice of the maxillary sinus is situated further posteriorly in the depth of the infundibulum. The entrance to the. infundibulum is also designated as the hiatus semilunaris. [This is incorrect to call the entrance to the infundibulum the hiatus semilunaris. The hiatus semilunaris is a groove in the maxillary side of the middle meatus and runs from the naso-frontal duct above downward and backward; and since the anterior extremity of the middle meatus leads into the infundibulum, the hiatus semilunaris is simply a recess from the middle meatus beginning at the naso-frontal duct. The anterior ethmoidal cells, as well as the antral opening, open into the middle meatus via the hiatus semilunaris. Overhanging the hiatus semilunaris is a large ethmoidal cell called the bulla ethmoidalis. This cell or cells open into the middle meatus near the attached border of the middle tubinated bone at about its middle.—Ed.] The ethmoidal cells usually bulge out prominently above this hiatus, forming the bulla ethmoidalis, and above this is the orifice of the anterior ethmoidal cells. The middle and posterior ethmoidal cells, on the contrary, open into the superior meatus. Sometimes there is still a fourth turbinated bone at a higher level, in which case the middle ethmoidal cells may open into the superior meatus and the posterior ones between the third and fourth turbinated bones. In Fig. 19 a portion of the inferior turbinated bone has also been removed, exposing the orifice of the nasal duct. During life it is accessible from the nostril, but it may be probed from above to much better advantage. More worthy of note is the fact that access to the orifice of the Eustachian tube may be gained through the naso-pharynx (see Fig. 19 and Plate 4). It lies 0.5 centimeter behind the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinated bone, and is bounded poste- riorly by the torus tubarius (an enlargement produced by the underlying tube), which may be easily located with a probe. The orifice of the Eustachian tube is six or seven centimeters from the nostril; one centimeter behind the torus tubarius is the fossa of Rosenmüller (recessus infundi- buliformis), which may catch the end of the probe when an attempt is made to pass this instrument from the nostril into the tubal opening through the inferior meatus. A study of the illustrations of the outer wall of the nasal fossa (see Figs. 15 to 19, Plate 4) will show that a chronic catarrh may extend into the Eustachian tube, into the frontal and maxillary sinuses, and posteriorly into the pharynx. Tumors proceeding from the nasal fossa may grow