12 LIST OF FIGURES. The temporal bone with the exposed tympanum, tympanic antrum, and mastoid cells. The relations of the facial nerve, internal jugular vein, and internal carotid artery to the wall of the tympanum may be seen. The different areas have been colored yellow, blue, and red respectively jacing The anterior cervical region. (The hypoglossal nerve has been displaced slightly downward.) jacing The submaxillary and carotid triangles 1 jacing A median sagittal section of the neck (formalin preparation) jacing The supraclavicular region. The sternocleido-mastoid and the infrahyoid muscles have been removed... jacing The infraclavicular region jacing The axilla and the lateral thoracic wall jacing A posterior view of the shoulder with the quadrangular and triangular spaces jacing A model of the shoulder-joint and its bursas. The two bursas communicating with the articular cavity as well as the joint itself are colored blue. The non-communicating subdeltoid bursa is represented in red. From a Berlin model.. * jacing A cross-section through the middle of the arm. (Hardened in formalin.) jacing The region of the elbow. (The musculospiral nerve has been drawn up from the depths and made to assume a more superficial position.) : jacing A longitudinal section through the region of the elbow and the humero-ulnar articulation (frozen section) jacing The anterior aspect of the forearm above the wrist. The ulnar artery and nerve have been made visible by displacing the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris jacing A cross-section through the middle of the forearm jacing The muscles, nerves, vessels, and tendon-sheaths of the palm of the hand. The tendon-sheaths are colored blue. The carpal canal has been opened by dividing the anterior annular ligament jacing Diagrammatic representation of the joints of the hand Cervical ribs. The seventh cervical vertebra (indicated by the figure 7) articulates with a small cervical rib upon the left, and with a complete cervical rib upon the right which reaches to the sternum. The figures 1 and 2 indicate the first two thoracic vertebras A thorax deformed by lacing (after Merkel) A sternum with a foramen in the lower portion of the body of the bone The anterior thoracic wall seen from within. The pleura has been removed jacing The right intercostal region. In the upper of the three intercostal spaces represented the pleura is still intact; in the second it has been removed; in the third, the internal intercostal muscle as well as the pleura has been taken away jacing The diaphragm and the inferior half of the pericardium seen from above. Formalin preparation (child) A diagrammatic representation of the projections of the heart, of the pleural limits, and of the lungs upon the anterior thoracic wall. The lung is indicated by yellow, and the pleura by red, lines. The lungs are repre- sented in a state of moderate distention so that their borders correspond to a position midway between deepest expiration and deepest inspiration jacing A diagrammatic representation of the projections of the pleural limits, of the lungs, and of the bifurcation of the trachea upon the posterior thoracic wall. The lung is indicated by yellow, and the pleura by red, lines jacing The median surface of the right lung. ) The median surface of the left lung, f From plaster casts (His) jacing A view of the dorsal surface of a frontal section of the thorax A cross-section of the thorax at the level of the nipples. (The right lung is somewhat enlarged at the expense of the left one) The dorsal half of a frontal section of the pericardium with the large vessels. An opening has been made in the posterior wall of the pericardium so that the esophagus is exposed. Formalin preparation The anterior thoracic wall with the pericardium and the diaphragm seen from within. The dashed and dotted lines represent the anterior pleural limits; between them, at the level of the fifth left costal cartilage, is the site for aspiration of the pericardial cavity (formalin preparation) A cross-section of the thorax at the level of the tracheal bifurcation (frozen section). The left lung was dis- eased at its apex and diminished in size as a whole; the right lung was correspondingly enlarged The pharynx, esophagus, trachea, and aorta seen from behind jacing PAGE 60 64 66 68 70 70 74 76 78 78 80 82 84 84 86 86 91 92 93 94 94 98 100 100 102 i°5 107 109 no 114