104 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. PLATE 8. a, A dissection of the mediastinum seen from the left; almost the entire left half of the thorax has been removed and the left lung has been cut away at its root, b, The mediastinum seen from the right. Formalin preparations from a child. THE MEDIASTINUM. After the removal of the lateral thoracic walls and of the lungs, the mediastinum is exposed from both sides (see Plate 8). Upon the cut surfaces of the roots of the lungs may be seen the divided bronchi, pulmonary arteries, and pulmonary veins, which pass from the mediastinum into the lungs. The contents of the mediastinum are most numerous where the two pleural sacs are most widely separated in the median line. This is the case behind the sternum, where the heart is situated within the pericardium between the two layers of mediastinal pleura. If the anterior thoracic wall is also removed by dividing the sternal attachments of the mediastinum, and if the two layers of mediastinal pleura are slightly reflected backward, the pericardium may be easily exposed. If the pericardium be opened and the heart excised it will at once be appreciated that the two pleural cavities and the lungs, together with the pericardium and heart, occupy almost the entire thoracic space. In addition to the heart and the pericardium the contents of the mediastinum include: the remains of the thymus gland, a large portion of the trachea with its bifurcation, many large and small vessels and nerves, the esophagus, lymphatic vessels includ- ing the thoracic duct, and many important lymphatic glands. These structures are bound together by a loose connective tissue which becomes directly continuous with the loose connective tissue of the neck and furnishes a path along which inflammations (suppurations, abscesses) may easily extend from the neck into the mediastinum through the superior aperture of the thorax. The chief contents of the mediastinum may be seen through the mediastinal pleura after the removal of the lungs, if the membrane retains its normal transparency and has not become opaque and thickened by inflammation. The contents become still more distinct if the two mediastinal layers are removed. Upon the right side may be seen: portions of the heart through the pericardium (during childhood, at least), the superior vena cava, the phrenic nerve (upon the superior vena cava and running upon the pericardium to the diaphragm), the comes nervi phrenici, the vena azygos major and its termination in the superior vena cava, the right intercostal vessels, the esophagus, the vagus nerve, the right sympathetic and splanchnic nerves, and the lymphatic glands at the root of the lung. Upon the lejt side the visible structures are: the heart with the left phrenic nerve, the comes nervi phrenici, the descending aorta, the left subclavian artery, the left internal mammary artery, the left innominate vein* receiving the termination of the vena azygos minor,f the vagus nerve, the left sympathetic nerve, the left intercostal vessels, and numerous lymphatic glands. In children the thymus gland may be seen from either side; it is situated in front of and above the heart. * Erroneously designated as V. Cava sup. in the plate. f In Plate 8, a, the vena azygos minor (vena hemiazygos) joins a very large superior intercostal vein (see page 117).