125 THE PERITONEUM. plica umbilicalis lateralis and the plica umbilicalis media. The three foveas which have just been mentioned are above Poupart’s ligament and may be seen and felt upon the inner surface of the anterior abdominal wall. The femoral fossa (fovea femoralis) is below Poupart’s ligament, opposite to the fovea inguinalis medialis. In this situation the peritoneum covers the femoral ring (annulus femoralis), which is also called the internal femoral ring (see page 143 and Figs. 56, 58, and 76). With the aid of Fig. 56 the reader should firmly fix in his mind that inguinal hernias pass out above Poupart’s ligament, while the femoral variety makes its exit below this structure. The external inguinal fossa gives passage to the external oblique or indirect inguinal hernia; the internal inguinal fossa is the site of the internal or direct inguinal hernia. The very rare internal oblique inguinal hernia (hernia inguinalis obliqua medialis) passes out through the fovea supravesicalis. THE PERITONEUM. The peritoneum is attached to the inner surface of the abdominal wall by loose connective tissue and is consequently more or less movable. It is also very elastic, as may be seen after recovery from ascites, pregnancy, or tumors, where the previously distended peritoneum forms no persisting folds. The relation of the peritoneum to the viscera is similar to that of the pleura to the lungs, so that we differentiate a parietal layer, covering the inner surface of the abdominal wall, and a visceral layer, reflected over the abdominal organs. If we imagine that most of the viscera grow into the peritoneal cavity from behind, it will be apparent that they are connected to the posterior abdominal wall by reflections of the peritoneum. These peritoneal duplicatures are known in general as peritoneal ligaments; that of the intestine is called the mesentery, while that of the colon is the mesocolon. If the ligament is very long, the organ is naturally more mov- able (the mesentery of the intestine, for example); while if it is short and broad, the organ is more fixed (the coronary ligament of the liver). The organs are also connected with each other by similar peritoneal ligaments or duplicatures (liver and stomach, stomach and colon). If the viscera remain against the posterior abdominal wall so that only a small portion of their ventral surfaces possesses a peritoneal covering, we say that they are situated outside of the peritoneal cavity (the pancreas and the kidneys). This relation and the following ones will be made clearer by a study of Fig. 59. If we open the peritoneal cavity by an incision in the linea alba, we find behind the ligamentum duodenale* (passing from the inferior surface of the liver to the duodenum) a foramen which is called the foramen epiploicum, or foramen of Winslow. This leads us into a second space, sepa- rated from the general peritoneal cavity in its course of development, which is known as the bursa omentalis or lesser peritoneal cavity, and extends downward behind the stomach, originally as far as the free border of the great omentum. In rare cases viscera (intestines) have been found projecting through a dilated foramen of Winslow into the lesser peritoneal cavity (a variety of internal hernia), and in such cases symptoms of strangulation may be produced by the constric- tion at the foramen of Winslow. The great rarity of this hernia is due to the protected position of the foramen and to the overlying liver. Under normal conditions the abdominal viscera fill the abdominal cavity in such a manner * Better known to American and English readers as the right free edge of the gastro-hepatic omentum.