LIST OF FIGURES. 55. A diagrammatic representation of the communications between the superior and inferior vena cavse and the portal vein • : facing 56. The inferior half of the anterior abdominal wall as seen from within. The pelvis is.shown in frontal section. The greater portion of the peritoneum has been left intact, but portions of it have been removed upon the right from the internal abdominal ring, upon the left from the epigastric vessels, the lateral umbilical ligament, and the vas deferens, and in the middle line from the median line from the median umbilical ' ligament facing 57. In the left iliac fossa the layers of the abdominal wall are shown, the dissection exposing the sigmoid colon. The recti muscles are divided and the urinary bladder has been made visible above the symphysis without injuring the peritoneum. Upon the right side there is an internal inguinal hernia facing 58. The inferior half of the anterior abdominal wall with the hernial regions as seen from within and above. At the site of the femoral ring is the sac of a femoral hernia. The internal inguinal fossa is limited internally by a sharply bordered fold (falx inguinalis), which belongs to the transversalis abdominis muscle. (Frozen formalin preparation.) 59. First diagram for the representation of the peritoneum. The bursa omentalis is outlined in red, the remaining portion of the peritoneal cavity in blue.. facing 60. Second diagram for the representation of the peritoneum. As in Fig. 59, the bursa omentalis is outlined in red facing 61. The porta hepatis, the pancreas, the duodenum, the kidneys, the spleen, and the suprarenal bodies with their vessels. (Formalin preparation.) facing A cross-section of the trunk at the level of the xiphoid process of the sternum The liver, seen from below facing The position of the structures at the porta hepatis facing The left kidney seen from in front facing The right kidney seen from in front facing Anterior view of the relations of the right kidney facing Anterior view of the relations of the left kidney facing A cross-section of the abdomen in the inferior renal region A sagittal section of the female pelvis with the anteroposterior pelvic diameters The bladder, the ureters, and the seminal vesicles exposed from behind by a frontal section of the pelvis. Upon the left side there is an external inguinal hernia. Upon the right side the peritoneum has been al- most entirely removed facing 72. The relation of the ureter to the uterine artery and to the cervix and vagina. The left half of a specimen in which a median section of the female pelvic viscera has been made. The broad and round ligaments have been incised and the uterus displaced upward and backward..- facing 73. The lateral pelvic wall of the female. The posterior layer of the broad ligament has been incised at the side of the recto-uterine pouch. The uterus, with the tube and ovary has been displaced anteriorly and the rectum has been pushed posteriorly facing 74. A diagrammatic representation of an anterior view of the hip-joint. The attachment of the capsular ligament corresponds to the linea intertrochanterica (red). The weaker portions of the capsule are colored yellow. A detailed description will be found in the text facing 75. A diagrammatic representation of a posterior view of the hip-joint. The attachment of the capsular ligament (red line) is situated above the intertrochanteric crest. The weak areas in the posterior portion of the capsule are colored yellow facing 76. A diagrammatic representation of the lacuna musculorum, of the lacuna vasorum, and of the femoral ring facing 77. The subinguinal region with the vessels and lymphatic glands lying upon the deep fascia facing 78. The topography of the deep gluteal region facing 79. The anterior femoral region facing 80. The exposure of the femoral artery before its entrance into Hunter’s canal facing 81. The subperitoneal exposure of the external iliac artery. Below Poupart’s ligament the femoral vessels have also been exposed facing 82. A cross-section above the middle of the thigh facing 83. The popliteal space facing *3 PAGE 122 124 124 124 I2Ö I2Ö 132 I32 134 134 140 I40 140 140 141 144 148 IS3 IS3 155 I55 i5S IS7 157 159 159 IS9 161 163