5 SURGER Y AND ANA TOMY Irvterrvatiorval Text-Book of Surgery SECOND EDITION. THOROUGHLY REVISED AND ENLARGED The International Text=Book of Surgery. In two volumes. By British and American authors. Edited by A. Pearce Gould, M.S., F.R.C.S., of London, England; and J. Collins Warren, M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.S. (Hon.), Professor of Surgery, Harvard Medical School.— Vol. I. General and Operative Surgery. Royal octavo, 975 pages, 461 illustrations, 9 full-page colored plates.—Vol. II. Special or Regional Surgery. Royal octavo, 1122 pages, 499 illustrations, and 8 full-page colored plates. Per volume : Beautifully bound in cloth, 2is. net. ADOPTED BY THE U. S. ARMY In this new edition the entire book has been carefully revised, and special effort has been made to bring the work down to the present day. The chapters on Military and Naval Surgery have been very carefully revised and extensively rewritten in the light of the knowledge gained during the recent wars. The articles on the effect upon the human body of the various kinds of bullets, and the results of surgery in the field are based on the latest reports of the sur- geons in the field. The chapter on Diseases of the Lymphatic System has been completely rewritten and brought up to date; and of special interest is the chapter on the Spleen. The already numerous and beautiful illustrations have been greatly increased, constituting a valuable feature, especially so the seven- teen colored lithographic plates. OPINIONS OF THE MEDICAL PRESS AnnaJs of Surgery “ It is the most valuable work on the subject that has appeared in some years. The Clinician and the pathologist have joined hands in its production, and the result must be a satisfaction to the editors as it is a gratification to the conscientious reader.” Boston Medica.1 a.nd Surgica.1 Journa.1 “ The articles as a rule present the essentials of the subject treated in a clear, concise manner. They are systematically written. The illustrations are abundant, well chosen, and enhance grei tly the value of the work. The book is a thoroughly modern one.” The Medica.1 Record, New York “ The arrangement of subjects is excellent, and their treatment by the different authors is equally so. . . . The work is up to date in a very remarkable degree, many of the latest operations in the different regional parts of the body being given in full details. There is not a chapter in the work from which the reader may not learn something new. '