29 THE MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. an outer—endosteal—which forms the internal periosteum of the bones, and an inner which sends off the dural processes, falx cerebri, etc. Between the two layers the sinuses are placed.—Ed.] [The dura mater is continuous through the optic foramen with the periosteum of the orbit, through the foramen magnum with the dura of the cord, and through the various other foramina at the base of the skull where nerves enter or emerge it sends processes. These facts, together with its intimate attachment to the cranial bones, explain the frequency of dural involvement secondary to external infections.—Ed.] Although some of its blood-supply is derived from the anterior, posterior, and small menin- geal, and occasionally from a relatively large mastoid branch of the occipital, these are small and practically insignificant, and the most important artery of the dura mater is the middle meningeal (see Figs. 1,10), which comes from the internal maxillary, one of the terminal divisions of the external carotid. It enters the cranial cavity through the foramen spinosum, runs forward and upward along the great wing of the sphenoid near the squamosphenoidal suture, and, at a varying distance from its point of entrance, while still in the basal region, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch (see Fig. 1). The former ascends just behind the coronal suture to the posterior frontal region [accompanied sometimes by the sphenoparietal sinus, which may be wounded either by the accident which has compelled manipulations here or by the manipulations. —Ed.]; the latter runs in an arched course almost directly backward over the squamous portion of the temporal bone, giving off ascending branches which rest upon the internal surface of the parietal bone. The middle meningeal artery and its ramifications are lodged in furrows upon the inner surface of the cranial vault (see page 18). There is a rich anastomosis between the branches of the artery. The vessel also gives off perforating branches to the scalp. Injuries 0} the middle meningeal artery complicating fractures of the skull are justly feared. Not only may there be considerable external hemorrhage, but, what is much more likely, the blood may be poured out between the dura and the bone, into the subdural space, and, if the arachnoid is also injured, into the subarachnoid space. In this manner there is produced a large hematoma with pronounced symptoms of cerebral compression which demand operative interference,— trephining or chiseling open the skull, turning out the blood-clot, and ligation of the artery. As the trunk of the artery is situated at the base of the skull and is reached only with great difficulty, we are specially interested in the exposure of the regions supplied by the two branches, and particularly in the exposure of the anterior branch, the one most frequently involved. Both branches are found by means of the line of Krönlein (see page 37 and Fig. 13), which is drawn backward from the supraorbital margin parallel with the zygoma. The anterior trephine opening is then indicated by a point two fingerbreadths in front of the intersection of this line with a line drawn at right angles to it through the external auditory meatus; the posterior opening should be made two fingerbreadths behind the point of intersection. The posterior branch may also be exposed two centimeters directly above the external auditory meatus. The lateral anastomoses of the vessels make it necessary to apply a double ligature to the main branch affected. [The line of Krönlein referred to by the author is drawn horizontally backward from the supraorbital margin parallel to the line from the infraorbital margin through the external auditory meatus known to English readers as Reid’s base line. To expose the anterior branch of the middle men- ingeal the trephine may be applied on the line of Krönlein from to ij inches, depending on