120 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. PLATE 11. The position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera of a boy. Anterior view. From an accurate Leipzig model made from an original dissection. PLATE 12. The position of the thoracic and abdominal viscera of a boy. Posterior view. From the model of Plate n. points of the costal margins to the pubic spines subdivide the mesogastric region into a central umbilical region and two lateral abdominal regions; they also subdivide the hypogastric region into a central pubic region and two lateral or inguinal regions. The lumbar regions are in the posterior portion of the mesogastric region and extend from the spinal column to a line which represents the shortest distance between the costal margin and the crest of the ilium. [This manner of delimiting the abdominal regions differs from that adopetd by English writers and even from other German authors.—Ed.] The skin oj the abdomen is comparatively thin and movable, except at the navel; it is also very elastic, as is shown by the distention produced by tumors, ascites, or pregnancy. The so- called strice gravidarum are not an absolute indication of a preceding pregnancy, since they may be produced by any distention of the abdominal integument. The fat in the subcutaneous con- nective tissue is often so pronounced that it interferes with the palpation of the internal organs and is a disturbing factor in the performance of laparotomy. Muscles.—In contrast to the thoracic wall, the greater portion of the abdominal wall is composed of muscular tissue; the palpation of the abdomen is consequently of more importance than the palpation of the thorax. The abdominal muscles extend between the inferior aperture of the thorax, the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras, the iliac crest, the symphysis, and Poupart’s ligament. The rectus abdominis muscle arises from the outer surfaces of the fifth to the seventh costal cartilages and from the xiphoid process, and is inserted into and alongside of the anterior surface of the symphysis. It is surrounded by a fibrous sheath which is complete anteriorly, but on the posterior surface of the muscle it extends only two fingerbreadths below the navel (linea semicircularis Douglasi), so that the only structures beneath the muscle in this situation are the thin transversalis fascia and the.peritoneum. The aponeuroses of the three flat abdominal muscles are united in the median line to form the linea alba, which contains few blood-vessels and is consequently frequently chosen as the site of the incision for operative pro- cedures upon the abdomen. Above the umbilicus, it is broader and thinner; while below, it is narrower and thicker. [Below the navel, owing to the fact that the recti are more closely approximated,—in the lower fourth the aponeuroses all pass in front of the recti,—the linea alba is often scarcely apparent.—Ed.] The greater breadth above the navel is responsible for the fact that hernias of the linea alba are more frequent above than below this location. These hernias pass through the slit-like orifices which transmit the vessels from the underlying struc- tures to the skin. The external oblique muscle of the abdomen is situated beneath the super- ficial fascia; it arises from the outer surfaces of the seven or eight lower ribs and is inserted into the linea alba, the outer lip of the iliac crest,—anterior one-half,—and Poupart’s ligament. Under- lying this muscle is the internal oblique, which arises from the lumbar fascia, from the middle lip of the iliac crest [anterior two-thirds.—Ed.], and from Poupart’s ligament, and is inserted into the ends of the tenth to the twelfth ribs and into the linea alba. [By means of its aponeurosis