THE CRANIUM. 19 is not of great importance. In opening the skull with the chisel or in trephining no attempt is made to avoid them. At the thin places in the cranium, such as the squamous portion of the temporal bone, the • bottom of the posterior cranial fossa, etc., the diploe is absent and the two tables are in contact with each other. The diploe may also undergo more or less atrophy in the aged. In the frontal bone the two tables become widely separated on either side of the glabella enclosing the frontal sinuses, which, next to the maxillary sinuses, are the largest of the accessory air-cavities in communication with the nose (see Fig. 3). Between the inner table and the an- terior wall of the frontal sinus there is still a thin layer of diploic tissue, while the inner (posterior) wall, of the frontal sinus is formed by the inner table. The frontal sinuses are paired cavities and are separated by a bony septum which is not often situated exactly in the median line. Incomplete septa projecting inward very frequently make these sinuses multilocular, in which case they may attain an enormous size. The sinus opens into the middle nasal fossa (see Fig. 19), but the orifice can rarely be sounded from the anterior nares during life. In the dreaded catarrh of the frontal sinuses with subsequent empyema, it con- sequently follows that relief must be given by chiseling through the bone above the supraorbital margin, never forgetting that the anterior wall of the sinus is much thicker than the posterior one (see Fig. 4). After this has been done, an attempt may be made to re-establish the normal com- munication with the nasal cavity from above. The opening of the frontal sinus from without may lead to a subcutaneous emphysema of the frontal region, since the air from the nasal chambers gains access to the subcutaneous tissues of the forehead. Large frontal sinuses frequently extend posteriorly into the roof of the orbit. The severe pain attendant upon catarrhal'inflammation of the frontal sinus is explained by the rich supply of the lining mucous membrane from the nasal nerve. The fontanelles are membranous portions of the vertex of the fetus and of the newborn at the junction of several bone’s where ossification takes place at a comparatively late date. We dis- tinguish two single and two paired fontanelles (see Fig. 5). The single fontanelles are the most important: 1. The large or frontal fontanelle.—This is diamond-shaped, and in the new-born is situated between the still ununited halves of the frontal bone and the two parietal bones. Like the frontal Fig. 3.—The skull with the closed frontal sinuses exposed by chiseling away the outer table and the diploe.