51 THE NASAL CAVITY. ganglion in the spheno-maxillary fossa and pass through the spheno-palatine foramen as the superior nasal and naso-palatine nerves to the lateral and median walls of the nasal cavity. The naso-palatine nerve runs upon the septum as far as the foramen of Scarpa. When the surgeon operates in this deep region, he has other things to think about than this little nerve. The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore is the largest of the accessory cavities of the nose. It is separated from the orbit by the orbital plate of the superior maxilla and extends posteriorly, entirely filling the body of this bone. Upon the floor of the sinus the sockets of the molar teeth frequently produce elevations, or the apex of the tooth-socket opens directly into the antrum so that the tip of the root is covered only by the mucous membrane of the sinus. This is the situation Internal pterygoid plate of sphenoid bone Hamular process of sphenoid bone .. plate of frontal bone Pterygoid Tuber -Communication of maxillary sinus with nasal cavity First bicuspid Os planum of ethmoid bone Lachrymal bone Nasal process of superior maxilla Socket of second bicuspid Inner socket of first molar Zygoma.. Fig. 18.—A portion of the skull in which the outer wall of the maxillary sinus has been removed in order to show its communication with the nasal cavity and the relations of the dental alveoli to the floor of the sinus. The alveoli have been perforated from below. in which diseases of the roots of the back teeth occasionally lead to inflammations and purulent collections in the maxillary sinus. Since the orifice of the sinus is situated so high up (see Figs. 15 and 16) that it is inadequate for drainage, in such cases the sinus must be opened at its most dependent portion. A tooth is extracted and the floor of the sinus perforated through the al- veolus to allow of the evacuation of the contents of the sinus. Fig. 18 shows the relation of the sockets of the back teeth to the floor of the maxillary sinus, the outer wall of which has been removed by the chisel. It will be seen that the inner sockets of the first and second molar teeth are the ones most favorably situated for the performance of this operation.