TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 22 PLATE 1. The base of the skull seen from within. The various bones are indicated by different colors. Upon the left side the places of exit of the cranial nerves are colored yellow, the places of entrance of the most important arteries red, and the foramina for the chief veins blue. Upon the right side the weak areas at the base are outlined in red. cavity through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen (designated in the illustration by blue, 12). Our attention should also be directed to the emissary foramina (Santorini), which are aper- tures in the cranium giving passage to venous connections between the external veins of the head and the cerebral sinuses. The blood in the emissary veins passes from within outward, so that these veins relieve the cerebral sinuses, particularly when the intracranial blood-pressure is in- creased. This explains the Rationale of the withdrawal of blood from the scalp for the purpose of relieving intracranial congestion (for example, behind the ear in the region of the mastoid emissary). [Through them infection is sometimes carried from the surface—as in the case of erysipelas and other inflammatory diseases of the scalp—to the sinuses, causing thrombosis or meningitis.—Ed.] The emissary foramina are subject to very great variations. We dis- tinguish: (1) The parietal jor amen to either side of the sagittal suture in a line connecting the parietal eminences. It leads to the superior longitudinal sinus and may be absent upon one or both sides. (2) The mastoid foramen for the vein connecting the occipital veins with the lateral sinus (it also transmits a meningeal branch of the occipital artery to the dura mater). This foramen is above the base of the mastoid process, two finger-breadths behind the external auditory meatus, and is the largest and most constant of all the emissary foramina (see Plate 1, 14). When the jugular foramen, the normal point of exit for the venous blood, is narrowed (as in a rachitic closure of this foramen, for example) the mastoid foramen is so much enlarged that it is sufficient to allow the venous blood to escape from the cranial cavity. (3) The posterior condyloid foramen, in the condyloid portion of the occipital bone, connects the deep veins of the neck with the lateral sinus (see Plate 1, 13). (4) The occipital foramen in the external occipital protuberance. This is insignificant and frequently replaced by numerous small foramina which transmit connections between the occipital veins and the torcular Herophili. The practical study of the base of the skull with the foramina for the passage of the nerves and vessels is important not only on account of the neuralgia and paralyses following bone-disease, but also in the diagnosis of basal fractures, intracranial tumors, and the extension of disease of the middle ear to the cranial cavity. In view of the fact that the modern surgeon operates upon the base of the skull from within [as well as without.—Ed.] the cranial cavity, an exact knowledge of the topography of this region is most essential. Those portions of the base which are thin or relatively weak, on account of the presence of numerous foramina, are particularly predisposed to fractures and injuries in general. They are indicated in Plate 1 by dotted lines and are found in the following situations. In the anterior cranial fossa: The cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and the orbital plate of the frontal bone (a), particularly in the depressions which lodge the frontal convolutions. In the middle cranial fossa: The base of the great wing of the sphenoid with the foramina rotundum, ovale, and spinosum; over the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone (c); the tegmen tympani (d) or roof of the middle ear (see page 59) and (very important from a practical standpoint) the squamous por-