THE NECK. 67 additional reasons for the comparative infrequency of this operation are furnished by the numer- ous intercommunicating veins which pass downward from the thyroid gland, as the thyroid plexus, to empty into the middle thyroid vein, a tributary of the left innominate vein (see Fig. 24). The inferior thyroid veins take origin in numerous radicles from the isthmus and lateral lobes of the thyroid. Passing downward, the left empties into the left innominate vein, the right into the junction of right and left innominate veins. Frequent anastomoses between the veins of the two sides may result in a rather intricate plexus in front of the lower cervical portion of the trachea. Sometimes this anastomosis results in the formation of a single inferior thyroid vein, which usually empties into the left innominate vein, but may empty into the right. Ed.] The line of incision is also occasionally crossed by an anomalous thyroid ea ima artery from the arch of the aorta. The trachea begins at the lower border of the larynx, where the pharynx ends and the esoph- agus commences. This is at about the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. The trachea bifurcates into the two bronchi within the thorax (see page 114) opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra [or the upper border of the fifth. Ed.] ; a cervical portion and a thoracic portion of the trachea may there- fore be differentiated, the dividing-fine being situated at the first dorsal vertebra. The cervical portion of the trachea may be further subdivided into three parts—that beneath the thyroid gland, a short portion above the gland, and a longer portion below it. As the trachea passes backward as well as downward, it constantly becomes further removed from the skin of the neck, through which it may be reached with comparative ease above the thyroid isthmus. Below the isthmus the trachea is covered by the veins of the thyroid plexus and by a varying amount of fat in the jugular fossa. When the head is held erect, the trachea consequently does not pursue a vertical course, but one that is directed from above downward and slightly backward. In children the trachea is covered above the sternum by the thymus gland, which projects above the upper opening of the thorax to a greater or less extent. The esophagus is situated posterior to the trachea and commences opposite the cricoid cartilage about 15 centimeters from the incisor teeth [about six inches.—Ed.]. It deviates some- what to the left of the median fine, projecting slightly beyond the left side of the trachea; esophagotomy for the removal of foreign bodies is consequently best performed by making the' incision along the inner border of the left sternocleidomastoid muscle. The skin, platysma, and fascia are divided, the edge of the sternocleidomastoid is drawn to the outer, and the larynx trachea, and thyroid gland to the inner side. The inferior thyroid artery must sometimes be ligated; particular care should be taken to avoid the inferior laryngeal nerve, which runs in the groove between the trachea and the esophagus. The same incision will serve for the evacuation of those retropharyngeal abscesses which cannot be reached through the mouth, and also for the ligation of the inferior thyroid artery. The esophagus, like the pharynx, is fixed to the vertebral column by loose connective tissue (see Fig. 26) which offers no great resistance to the down- ward extension of retropharyngeal abscesses. Swellings and tumors of the lymphatic glands situated alongside of the esophagus may lead to esophageal stenosis; suppurations in these glands or in the thyroid gland may rupture into the esophagus. The narrowing of the esophageal lumen at the level of the cricoid cartilage is described upon page 115. The esophagus is only loosely attached to the trachea by connective tissue. Running upward to the