48 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. the sphenoidal fissure. The most superficial nerve, and the one first exposed beneath the perior- bita after chiseling open the orbit from the frontal cavity, is the frontal branch (upon the levator palpebrae superioris) of the ophthalmic nerve, which has already been mentioned in the section upon the scalp. The second branch of the ophthalmic nerve, the lachrymal (to the lachrymal gland), is also superficial, while the third branch, the nasal nerve, passes internally between the posterior portion of the superior rectus muscle and the optic nerve, gives off the long ciliary nerves to the eyeball, and divides into the infratrochlear, the anterior ethmoidal, and the posterior ethmoidal nerves. The trochlear nerve runs along the upper and inner portion of the orbit to the superior oblique muscle. The abducent nerve, situated to the outer side of the optic nerve in association with the nasal nerve, passes to the external rectus muscle. All of the remaining ocular muscles are supplied by the oculomotor nerve, which divides before it enters the orbit into a superior division, for the levator palpebrae superioris and the superior rectus, and into an inferior division, for the internal rectus, the inferior rectus, and the inferior oblique. The small ciliary ganglion is situated in the posterior portion of the orbit external to the optic nerve. Its roots and branches should be reviewed in a systematic anatomy. We also find within the orbit, but outside of the periorbita, two branches of the superior maxillary division of the trifacial, the small temporomalar nerve and the important infraorbital nerve. THE NASAL CAVITY. The nasal cavities are paired structures, the bony framework of which is open anteriorly at the apertura pyrijormis (anterior nares) and posteriorly at the choance (posterior nares). The apertura pyriformis is formed by the lower margin of the nasal bone and by the margin which separates the facial from the nasal surface of the superior maxilla. The choanae are bounded by the posterior edge of the vomer, by the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, and by the horizontal plate of the palate bone. The roof of the bony fossa is formed by the nasal bone, by the thin cribriform plate of the ethmoid transmitting the olfactory filaments, and posteriorly by the body of the sphenoid, whose anterior as well as inferior surfaces project into the nasal cavity, diminishing the vertical diameter of this cavity to the extent of the vertical diameter of the body of the sphenoid. The sphenoid body contains the two sphenoidal sinuses. A pointed instrument may be driven into the brain from the nasal cavity, through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, without using a great deal of force. The floor of the nasal fossa, when the individual looks straight ahead, slopes gently down- ward and backward and is slightly concave from side to side. It consists of the palatal process of the superior maxilla and of the horizontal plate of the palate bone, which are united in the transverse palatine suture. The inner wall, or the vertical septum separating the two nasal fossas, is usually deflected more or less to one side; this displacement is occasionally so marked that the affected nasal cavity is greatly narrowed or even obliterated. These deflections of the septum are due to dis- turbances of growth, and are to be differentiated from those occasionally produced by tumors, which grow into the nasal fossa from the base of the skull through the cribriform plate of the