SURGER Y AND ANA TOMY •S Beck's Surgical Asepsis A Manual of Surgical Asepsis. By Carl Beck, M.D., Professor of Sur- gery, New York Post-graduate Medical School and Hospital. 306 pages ; 65 text-illustrations and 12 full-page plates. Cloth, 5.?. net. “The book is well written. The data are clearly and concisely given. The facts are wel arranged.”—Boston Medical and Surgical Journal. Senrv’s Syllabus of Surgery \ Syllabus of Lectures on the Practice of Surgery. Arranged in con- formity with “A Text-Book of Surgery.” By Nicholas Senn, M.D., Ph.D., LL.D., Professor of Surgery, Rush Medical College, Chi. 6s. net. “ The author has evidently spared no pains in making his Syllabus thoroughly comprehensive, and has added new matter and alluded to the most recent authors and operations.”—British Medical Journal. Keen’s Addresses and Other Papers Just Ready Addresses and Other Papers. Delivered by William W. Keen, M. D., LL.D., F. R. C. S. (Hon.), Professor of the Principles of Surgery and of Clin- ical Surgery, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. Octavo volume of 550 pages, illustrated. Keen on the Surgery of Typhoid The Surgical Complications and Sequels of Typhoid Fever. By Wm. W. Keen, M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.S. (Hon.), Professor of the Principles ofSurgerj and of Clinical Surgery, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, etc. Octavo volume of 386 pages, illustrated. Cloth, 12s. 6d. net. “ Every surgical incident which can occur during or after typhoid fever is amply discussed and fully illustrated by cases. Will be useful to surgeon and physician.”—The Practitioner, Land. Moore's Orthopedic Surgery A Manual of Orthopedic Surgery. By James E. Moore, M.D., Professor of Clinical Surgery, University of Minnesota, College of Medicine and Surgery. Octavo of 356 pages, handsomely illustrated. Cloth, iol 6d. net. “ The book is eminently practical. It is a safe guide in the understanding and treatment of orthopedic cases. Should be owned by every surgeon and practitioner.”—Annals of Surgery. Nancrede's Principles of Surgery Lectures on the Principles of Surgery. By Chas. B. Nancrede, M.D., LL.D., Professor of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Octavo, 398 pages, illustrated. Cloth, ioj. 6d. net. “ We can strongly recommend this book to all students and those who would see something of the scientific foundation upon which the art of surgery is built.”—Quarterly Med. Jour., Eng. Barton and Wells’ Medical Thesaurus Recently issued A Thesaurus of Medical Words and Phrases. By Wilfred M. Barton, M. D., Assistant to Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics, and Lec- turer on Pharmacy, Georgetown University, Washington, D. C. ; and Walter A. Wells, M. D., Demonstrator of Laryngology, Georgetown University, Washington, D. C. i2mo of 534 pages. Flexible leather, 12s. net; with thumb index, 14s. net.