IOO TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. 45.—A diagrammatic representation of the projections of the heart, of the pleural limits, and of the lungs upon the anterior thoracic wall. The lung is indicated by yellow, and the pleura by red lines. The lungs are represented in a state of moderate distention,' so that their borders correspond to a position between deepest expiration and deepest inspiration. Fig. 46.—A diagrammatic representation of the projections of the pleural limits, of the lungs, and of the bifurcation of the trachea upon the posterior thoracic wall. The lung is indicated by yellow and the pleura by red lines. costal spaces is designated as the costal pleura, while that situated upon the upper surface of the diaphragm is known as the diaphragmatic pleura. The costal pleura forms the outer wall of the pleural cayity, while the diaphragmatic pleura forms its floor. The inner wall is known as the mediastinal pleura; it extends in a sagittal plane from the vertebral column toward the sternum, and in these situations becomes continuous with the costal pleura. The costo-medi- astinal sinus is situated anteriorly at the junction of the costal and the mediastinal pleurae. The costo-phrenic sinus (Fig. 49) is formed by the reflection of the costal pleura upon the diaphragm. The sinuses are complementary spaces for the accommodation of the margins of the lungs dur- ing inspiration. During respiration the lungs glide inaudibly upon the smooth inner surface of the pleura. If inflammatory exudates are deposited upon the pleura, however, the physician may hear friction sounds through the thoracic wall. Owing to the thinness of the thoracic wall, pathologic changes in the breathing space or in the lung-tissue or abnormal collections in the pleural sacs may be recognized by typical varia- tions from the normal pulmonary sounds. The pleural cavity may contain air, entering through an external wound, but more frequently through a bronchus after injury to the lung (pneumo- thorax), a serous transudate (hydrothorax), pus (empyema), or blood (hematothorax). The costal, diaphragmatic, and mediastinal pleurae together form the parietal pleura, in contradistinction to the visceral pleura, which is intimately adherent to the surface of the lung. The two layers are continuous with each other at the root of the lung. The mediastinal pleura is best studied by removing the lateral walls of the thorax, together with the costal pleura, and taking out the lungs by cutting through their roots (and also through the small and insignificant ligamentum latum pulmonis, which runs downward from the root of the lung to the diaphragm). It will then be seen that the two mediastinal pleurae form a par- tition between the two pleural cavities which is not exactly in the median line and which extends from the vertebral column to the sternum. This is the mediastinum.* It consists of the two layers of the mediastinal pleura and of the space enclosed between them. Superiorly, where the mediastinal pleura becomes continuous with the costal pleura above the superior aperture of the thorax, the mediastinal contents become continuous with the structures of the neck; in- teriorly, the mediastinum is fixed to the diaphragm. The dome of the pleura extends upward posteriorly to the level of the upper margin of the first thoracic vertebra, and slopes down anteriorly to the upper margin of the first costal carti- * Among the old anatomists the word “mediastinum” was equivalent to “partition”; for example, mediastinum auris-membrana tympani. As the diaphragm is a horizontal partition between the thorax and abdomen, so is the medias- tinum a vertical partition in the thorax. It is formed by the two layers of mediastinal pleura, which barely touch at any point, but which enclose a space completely filled by many organs. A “mediastinal cavity” consequently has no existence.