II9 THE ABDOMINAL WALL. the thorax and the upper limit of the abdominal cavity; the diaphragm consequently corre- sponds with the lower limit of the thoracic cavity. The abdominal cavity also extends down- ward below the external boundary, formed by the iliac crests, and, although there is really no sharp demarcation between the abdomen and pelvis, we designate the linea terminalis (pelvic brim), the dividing-line between the true and false pelvis, as the inferior boundary of the abdom- inal cavity. Inspection and Palpation.—Inspection and palpation reveal a number of superficial landmarks. The anterior median furrow of the thorax, passing into the scrobiculus cordis (see page 91), is continued downward in the direction of the linea alba, and in spare muscular individuals may be traced to the navel or even to the mons Veneris over the symphysis. To either side of this median furrow may be observed the prominences caused by the recti muscles, the external margins of which may be located by the presence of more or less distinct shallow grooves. [The linea semilunares are represented by slightly curved lines from the tip of the ninth costal carti- lages to the pubic spines.—Ed.] The furrows running transversely across the prominences of the recti muscles correspond to their tendinous intersections; the portions of muscle situated be- tween these tendinous intersections are occasionally so prominent that they may simulate tumors (lipomata). [Occasionally, particularly when there is tenderness beneath, they simulate intra- abdominal tumors.—Ed.] None of these landmarks are visible in the female, on account of the abundance of subcutaneous fat; during pregnancy the anterior median line of the abdomen is ren- dered visible by the formation of pigment in the skin over the linea alba. With the subject in the dorsal position, the vertebral column and the pulsations of the abdominal aorta may be pal- pated if the abdominal walls are relaxed and not too thick. Upon the dorsal surface the posterior median furrow is continued downward over the spin- ous processes to the sacrum and terminates in the shallow fossa which is designated as the sacral triangle. The posterior surface of the sacrum may be felt in this region and, lower down, the slightly movable coccyx. The palpating finger may be passed along the iliac crest to the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and from here along the groin, upon Poupart’s ligament, to the hori- zontal ramus of the pubis and the pubic symphysis. [The posterior superior spinous processes of the ilium are palpable, usually indicated by a depression, and are on the level of the spinous process of the second sacral vertebra.—Ed.] The following lines are employed to divide the external surface of the abdomen into regions: A horizontal line is drawn about the chest at the level of the root of the xiphoid process and serves as a dividing-line between the chest and abdomen. A second line is drawn anteriorly connecting the two lowest points of the costal margin and running posteriorly along the lower border of the ribs to the twelfth dorsal vertebra. The epigastric region is situated between these two lines. The central portion of the epigastric region, bounded laterally by the costal margins, is known as the epigastrium; the remainder of this region forms the two hypochondriac regions, which contain those abdominal organs which are situated beneath the costal margins. Below the epi- gastric region is the mesogastric region, which extends downward, anteriorly to a line connecting the two anterior superior spines, laterally and posteriorly to the iliac crests. The space bounded by the line connecting the anterior superior spines of the ilium, by the groins, and by the symphysis is known as the hypogastric region. Lines drawn downward from the lowest