TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 138 PLATE 18. The position of the liver (a portion), duodenum, pancreas, left kidney, and cecum of a fifteen-year-old girl. A deeper layer of the model of Plate 16. The relation to the duodenum has been described upon page 134. The long and broad transverse mesocolon should also be borne in mind, since it is responsible for the fact that the transverse colon is much more movable than the ascending or descending ones. The transverse colon is consequently in contact with the anterior abdominal wall, and, if its mesocolon is long enough, may form a loop the convexity of which is directed downward. [At either end the mesentery of the transverse colon becomes shorter, approaching the arrangement of the ascending and descending colons, which are usually without any mesentery.—Ed.] The descending colon (Plates 11-17) is longer than the ascending colon and commences at the left kidney. It runs downward upon the quadratus lumborum muscle, somewhat further from the median line than the ascending colon, reaches the left iliac fossa, and, after a short course toward the middle line, becomes continuous with the sigmoid colon (omega loop) at the external iliac vessels. The attachment to the posterior abdominal wall is similar to that of the ascending colon. Since the broad posterior surfaces of the ascending and descending portions of the large intestine are attached to the posterior abdominal wall by connective tissue, it is pos- sible to open these portions of the intestine from behind without entering the abdominal cavity. This is done in the operation of lumbar colotomy when an artificial anus is made in the descend- ing colon to the outer side of the quadratus lumborum muscle above the left iliac crest. (Find this location in Plate 16.) It should be noted, however, that these portions of the intestine may occasionally have a short mesocolon, the peritoneal reflection being almost complete, in which case the operation is very difficult to perform without opening the peritoneal cavity. The sig- moid colon is the most favorable, and the one generally preferred for the performance of this operation, in a case of rectal carcinoma, for example, where the intestine is occluded above the anus (Plates n and 14-18). It is situated in the right iliac region connecting the descending colon with the rectum, and is distinguished from the former by its long mesocolon. It is usually in contact with the anterior abdominal wall upon the left side above Poupart’s ligament, and can be exposed and opened in this situation. This operation is necessarily preceded by a lapar- otomy. In making an artificial anus the opening made in the intestine must be united with the edges of the abdominal incision so that none of the intestinal contents may find their way into the peritoneal cavity. In this operation the small intestine must not be mistaken for the colon. The characteristics of the colon are that its longitudinal muscular coat is arranged into three bands or taenia and that it has epiploic appendages containing fat. This region is depicted in Fig. 57. [Other distinguishing features of the large intestine are: its sacculation, more fixed position,—in the case of the more movable divisions, their continuity with the parts relatively fixed,—and, as a rule, larger calibre. In addition, the large intestine is more liable to contain hardened feces. It must not be forgotten that the longitudinal bands (taenia coli) above referred to spread out on the lower part of the sigmoid so as to make a covering com- plete except for a narrow strip along either side; that is, the three narrow bands have been reduced to two wider ones, an anterior and a posterior. In the rectum these bands practically disappear.—Ed.] In cutting from without inward the following structures are divided: skin,