44 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. i6.—A frontal section of the head through the orbital cavities and the maxillary sinuses (frozen section). anterior cranial fossa, the ethmoidal cells, the maxillary sinus, and the frontal sinus, furnish an explanation for the fact that tumors growing from these adjoining regions may invade the orbit, displace the eyeball, and endanger the orbital contents. The periosteum lining the orbit is known as the periorbita. The eyelids are formed from cutaneous folds which grow over the protruding eyeball during fetal life and become temporarily adherent along the line of the palpebral fissure. At this fissure the skin is continuous with the mucous membrane fining the inner surface of the fid (palpebral conjunctiva) which is reflected to the eyeball at the fornix to pass anteriorly to the corneal margin as the ocular conjunctiva. Foreign bodies gaining access to the conjunctival sac occasionally become firmly lodged in the conjunctival fornix. The orbicularis palpebrarum muscle lies immediately beneath the skin, which possesses no subcutaneous fat. This muscle extends over the orbital margin and consists of an orbicular portion, of a palpebral portion, and of a lachrymal portion [the tensor tarsi—Horner’s muscle.—Ed.], the latter being a small bundle of fibers passing behind the lachrymal sac. The eyelids receive a certain degree of solidity from the plates of connective tissue of the so-called tarsal cartilages, which, are better developed in the upper than in the lower fids. In the upper fid this cartilage contains thirty to forty, in the lower fid, twenty to thirty Meibomian glands, alveolar structures closely related to the sebaceous glands, which open at the anterior margin of the fid and consequently upon the external cutaneous surface. They oc- casionally lead to the formation of retention cysts and abscesses (stye, hordeolum). In front of the orifices of these glands, at the margin of the fids, the cilia are arranged in two or three rows. Their abnormal growth toward the eyeball leads to the disturbances of trichiasis and distichiasis. The tarsal ligament or orbital septum [palpebral ligaments of English authors, who apply the term “tarsal ligaments” to the bands which attach the inner and outer extremities of the tarsal cartilage to the superior maxilla and malar bone respectively.—Ed.] is a dense lamina of connective tissue extending in a frontal plane from the periosteum of the edge of the orbit to the ciliary margin of the tarsal cartilage. It serves to close off the orbital cavity from the eyelids and may offer a certain degree of resistance to the extension of inflam- mations from within outward or in the opposite direction. This orbital septum is pierced by the vessels and nerves passing from the orbit to the frontal region. When the fids are closed, the conjunctival sac is a slit-like space bounded by the palpebral conjunctiva, the orbital conjunctiva, and the anterior surface of the cornea. It is deepest at the middle of the eyelid, so that if the fine of the fornix were projected upon the eyelid it would form a circular fine the diameter of which would extend from the external to the internal canthus. The palpebral conjunctiva is more or less rich in leukocytes and small lymphatic nodules which occasionally furnish the starting-point for trachoma. It is so firmly adherent to the tarsal plate that there is no pathologic condition in which it is separated from this structure. This is in marked contrast to the ocular conjunctiva, which is so loosely attached to the eyeball that it may be pinched up into folds with the forceps; it is easily separated from the eyeball by inflammations and hemorrhages and occasionally overhangs the corneal margin. The lachrymal gland, situated in the lachrymal fossa of the frontal bone, consists of a larger