THE NECK. 63 toward the opposite side, and swellings of the visceral column soon lead to pressure symptoms from the adjacent vessels and nerves. The skin of the anterior cervical region is firmly adherent to the underlying platysma myoides muscle, the relation being similar to that existing between the skin of the scalp and the occipito- frontalis. The skin consequently follows all of the movements of the platysma and, correspond- ing to the direction of the muscular fibers, may be lifted up in large folds running particularly in the vertical direction. The movability of the-skin specially adapts it to the performance of plastic operations. The arrangement 0} the muscles in the anterior and lateral portions of the neck renders possible a regional subdivision which is of practical value in the living subject. The inner margins of the sternocleidomastoid muscles, which converge from the mastoid processes to the upper edge of the sternum, together with the border of the lower jaw, form the anterior cervical region (see Fig. 24). The outer margin of the sternocleidomastoid, the anterior margin of the trapezius, and the upper border of the clavicle bound the lateral cervical region. The anterior cervical' region is subdivided into a small suprahyoid, and into a larger infrahyoid region by the hyoid bone and the posterior belly of the digastric muscle (see Fig. 24); both of these regions may be further subdivided into a single median region and into a lateral paired region. The sub- mental region lies above the hyoid bone and is bounded upon either side by the anterior belly of the digastric muscle; to either side of the submental region is found the submaxillary region or triangle (containing the gland of the same name), formed by the lower border of the jaw and the two bellies of the digastric muscle. In the central portion of the infrahyoid region is a small diamond-shaped space between the hyoid bone and the upper margin of the sternum and bounded laterally by the inner margins of the sternohyoid and sternothyroid muscles; this important area is known as the median cervical region. The lateral portion of the infrahyoid region bears im- portant relations to the vessels and nerves of the neck and is called the carotid triangle; it is bounded by the posterior belly of the digastric, by the anterior margin of the sternocleidomastoid, and by the anterior belly of the omohyoid. The Carotid Triangle.—In the carotid triangle (see Figs. 24 and 25) the pulsations of the common carotid artery may be easily felt at the anterior margin of the sternocleidomastoid muscle at the level of the larynx. The carotid artery may be exposed in this situation by an incision made parallel to the anterior margin of the sternocleidomastoid and the vessel may be ligated through this incision (the point of election, according to Cooper). This most favorable situation corresponds to the level of the anterior tubercle upon the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (the carotid tubercle), which may be felt when the anterior margin of the sternocleidomas- toid muscle has been exposed; it also corresponds to the level of the middle cricothyroid ligament. [The anterior belly of the omohyoid crosses the vessel at the level of the cricoid cartilage.—Ed.] The common carotid artery ascends from the lower angle of the triangle, frequently concealed beneath the margin of the sternocleidomastoid muscle, and divides into the external and internal carotid at the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage [opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra.—Ed.]. The internal carotid artery is normally covered in the first part of its course by the external carotid. [Strictly speaking, the external carotid 4n the first part of its course is internal, that is, nearer the median line, and anterior to the internal carotid.—Ed.] To the outer side of