SAUNDERS' BOOKS ON Keen a^nd White’s Text-Book of Surgery A Text=Book of Surgery. Edited by William W. Keen, M.D., LL.D., F.R.C.S. (Hon.), Professor of the Principles of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in the Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia ; and J. William White, M.D., Ph.D., John Rhea Barton Professor of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania. Two handsome octavos, 1363 pages, with 551 text-cuts and 39 colored and half-tone plates. Beautifully bound in Cloth, 30s. net. FOURTH EDITION, REVISED AND ENLARGED—RECENTLY ISSUED Of the three former editions of this book there have been sold over 40,000 copies. In this present edition every chapter has been extensively modified, and many of them have been partially, and some entirely, rewritten. The most recent researches of Monks on the Intestines, Crile and Cushing on Shock and Blood Pressure, Matas on Neural Infiltration and Aneurysm, Edebohls on Renal Decortication, etc., have been included. The use of paraffine in nasal deformities, the methods of spinal and local anesthesia, and the newer anesthetics have also been described. Six entirely new chapters appear in this edition: Military Surgery, by Brigadier-General R. W. O’ Reilly, Surgeon-General, U. S. Army, and Major W. C. Borden, Surgeon, U. S. Army ; Naval Surgery, by Admiral P. M. Rixey, Surgeon-General, U. S. Navy ; Tropical Surgery, by Cap- tain Charles F. Kieffer, Assistant Surgeon, U. S. Army ; Examination of the Blood, by Dr. Richard C. Cabot; Immunity, by Dr. Arthur K. Stone ; and Surgery of the Pancreas. PERSONAL AND PRESS OPINIONS Edmund Owen, F.R..C.S., Member of the Board of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons, England “ Personally, I should not mind it being called The Text-Book (instead of A Text-Book), for I know of no single volume which contains so readable and complete an account of the science and art of surgery as this does.” The La.i\cet, London “ If this text-book is a fair reflex of the present position of American surgery, we must admit it is of a very high order of merit, and that English surgeons will have to look very carefully to theii laurels if they are to preserve a position in the van of surgical practice.” Boston Medica.1 a.nd Surgical Journal “This book marks an epoch in book-making. All in all, the book is distinctly the most satisfactory work on modern surgery with which we are familiar. It is thorough, complete, and condensed.”