7 PREFACE This book is not written for the anatomist, but for him who wishes to become a physician. It is the expression of my method of instruction in anatomy which, assisted by renewed clinical studies, I have proved to be most practical for medical students. No claim is made for anatomic completeness, and I am fully aware that many anatomic details that are of importance to the physician have been omitted. As it is my earnest wish to supply the practising physician with a foundation in anatomy without being too prolix, I shall be indebted to my colleagues for any sug- gestions they may have to offer in this respect; it is the natural wish of every author to have an opportunity of supplying the defects in his work. To the undergraduate, who holds the first place in my heart, I would say, “Think anatomic- ally if you wish to become a physician.”. In the first half of your medical studies at the university you learned to know the structure and development of your body. Guided by lower forms of life, you gained a correct conception of your own place in nature. You have been taught to ad- mire the worth of the body which will later be entrusted to your care when it has become diseased. As you go to the bed of suffering every moment will show you the value of your knowledge of anatomy, and you will see that its employment must form the foundation for accurate diagnosis. You should consequently strive to think anatomically if you wish to be a good physician. To the publishers I express my thanks for their constant aid and assistance. The artist, Mr. Schmitson, has proved his artistic sense in the production of the illustrations. A small number of the pictures has been admirably executed by the artist, Mr. Hajek. I am also in- debted to Professor Stöhr, who kindly placed the anatomic collection at my disposal. The greater portion of the dissections from which the illustrations have been made were of my own prepara- tion. The employment of His’s models was of the greatest value to me in those instances in which original dissections were wanting. O. SCHULTZE.