132 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. 61.—The porta hepatis, the pancreas, the duodenum, the kidneys, the spleen, and the suprarenal bodies with their vessels (formalin preparation). interest: (1) The falciform ligament, which is attached to the superior surface, does not lie in the median sagittal plane of the body, but somewhat to the right; it may hinder exploration of the superior surface of the right lobe through a median incision, and to secure better access to this surface it may be necessary to cut this ligament; correspond- ing as it does to the umbilical fissure, it serves as a guide to the latter and therefore to the gall-bladder, which lies, of course, further to the right. (2) Subphrenic abscesses between the diaphragm and right lobe, and abscesses of the right lobe itself, are frequently more Spinous process of* vertebra Spinal cord Body of vertebra Diaphragm Ascending aorta Inferior vena cava Pylorus Pleural cavity Liver Inferior lobe of right lung Falciform ligament of liver Cavity of pericar- dium Spleen Omental bursa Pleural cavity Teres major muscle Stomach Diaphragm Abdominal cavity Lower lobe of left lung Serratus anticus m. Pericardium Pleural cavity ■ Apex of the heart Fig. 62.—A cross-section of the trunk at the level of the xiphoid process of the sternum. easily and safely drained by removing a rib and crossing the pleural cavity—transpleural drain- age—than by the abdominal route. Particularly is this true when the abscess is pointing pos- teriorly and has not caused the liver to project far beneath the costal arch. (3) The gall-bladder is beneath the abdominal wall opposite the angle between the outer edge of the rectus and the ninth costal cartilage, where, when enlarged, it may be felt; its duct, the cystic, is tortuous, which, together with the arrangements of valves of mucous membrane in the calibre of the duct, prevents, as a rule, its exploration with a probe or sound. This duct joins in the portal fissure with the hepatic duct to make the common duct—ductus communis choledochus. The common duct in the first portion of its course lies in the right edge of the gastrohepatic omentum, the hepatic artery lying alongside and to the left, the portal vein behind and between the two. In the second part of its course it lies behind the first portion of the duodenum; in the third it is placed between