LIST OF FIGURES. FIG. 1. The skull with the three largest sensory nerves of the face and the middle meningeal artery facing 2. A cross-section of the calvarium 3. The skull with the closed frontal sinuses exposed by chiselling away the outer table and the diploe 4. The right frontal sinus opened from in front 5. The skull of the newborn seen from ’above and behind 6. A cross-section of the layers of the scalp and of the cranium 7. The layers of the scalp, the cranium, and the membranes of the brain facing 8. The sinuses of the dura mater. The calvarium has been removed with the exception of a central arch of bone so that the processes of the dura mater have been left intact ^. .facing 9. The base of the skull with the cranial nerves, as seen after the removal of the brain. Upon the left side the dura mater has been left in place and the tentorium cerebelli incised so that it is possible to look into the posterior cerebral fossa. Upon the right side the dura has been removed and the places of exit of the nerves are visible at the base of the skull facing 10. The Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semilunare) which has been exposed in the middle cerebral fossa by the removal of the dura mater facing 11. A frontal section in the region of the cavernous sinus facing 12. A frontal section through the posterior portion of the head (frozen section). Anterior view. The section strikes the falx cerebri, the falx cerebelli, and the tentorium cerebelli in such a way that the cranial cavity seems to contain four apparently separate compartments, in which may be seen the two cerebral and the two cerebellar hemispheres 13. Craniocerebral topography (after Krönlein and Froriep). Explanation in the text 14. The relations of the vessels and of the facial nerve within and beneath the parotid gland. The gland has been divided by a vertical incision facing 15. A frontal section of the bony orbits, of the nasal cavities, and of the maxillary sinuses 16. A frontal section of the head through the orbital cavities and the maxillary sinuses (frozen section) facing 17. A horizontal section of the head in the plane of the palpebral fissures (frozen section). The plane of section passes through the orbits in such a way as to show the entire length of the optic nerves as well as a portion of the optic chiasm. The cerebellum lies in the posterior cerebral fossa and is covered by the tentorium cerebelli, which has been left intact. In the incisura tentorii may be seen the cross-sections of the two cerebral peduncles; the entire cerebrum has been removed 18. A portion of the skull in which the outer wall of the maxillary sinus has been removed in order to show its communication with the nasal cavity and the relations of the dental alveoli to the floor of the sinus. The alveoli have been perforated from below 19. The lateral wall of the left nasal cavity. Almost the entire middle turbinated bone has been excised in order to expose the structures and orifices situated beneath it. A piece has been removed from the anterior portion of the inferior turbinated bone. The original borders of these turbinated bones are indicated by dotted lines. The superior turbinated bone is intact. The orifices of the left sphenoidal and frontal sinuses are shown by arrows facing 20. The sublingual region in a dissected median sagittal section. The tongue has been displaced downward after incision of the oral mucous membrane facing 20 A. View of adult mouth (modified from Spalteholz) 2r. The pharynx, opened longitudinally from behind, with the three anterior communications: with the nasal cavities, with the mouth, and with the larynx 22. A sagittal section through the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, and the glenoid fossa facing PAGE l8 18 19 20 21 25 28 28 32 34 34 36 37 40 43 44 47 Si 52 52 55 58 60