SURGER Y AND ANA TOMY 3 Sulta.iv a.rvd Coley’s Abdomirvöd Herrvia^s Atlas and Epitome of Abdominal Hernias. By Privatdocent Dr. Georg Sultan, of Göttingen. Edited, with additions, by Wil- liam B. Coley, M. D., Clinical Lecturer on Surgery, Columbia Univer- sity (College of Physicians and Surgeons). With 119 illustrations, 36 of them in colors, and 277 pages of text. Cloth, 13s. net. In Saunders' Hand-Atlas Series. During the last decade the operative side of this subject has been steadily growing in importance, until now it is absolutely essential to have a book treat- ing of its surgical aspect. This present atlas does this to an admirable degree. The illustrations are not only very numerous, but they portray most ^accurately the conditions represented. Robert H. M Dawba.rr\, M.D., Professor of Surgery and of Surgical Anatomy, New York Polyclinic. “ I have spent several interesting hours over it to-day, and shall willingly recommend it to my Classes at the Polyclinic College and elsewhere.” McClellan’s Art Anatomy Anatomy in Its Relation to Art. An Exposition of the Bones and Muscles of the Human Body, with Reference to their Influence upon its Actions and External Form. By George McClellan, M.D., Professor of Anatomy, Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Quarto, 9 by ii}4 inches. With 338 original drawings and photographs, and 260 pages of text. Dark Blue Vellum, 42s. net. Howard Pyle, in the Philadelphia Medical Journal “ The book is one of the best and the most thorough text-books of artistic anatomy which it has been the writer's fortune to fall upon and, as a text-book, it ought to make its way into the field for which it is intended.” McClellan’s Regional Anatomy Fourth Revised Edition Regional Anatomy in Its Relations to Medicine and Surgery. By George M.cClellan, M.D., Professor of Anatomy, Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. Two quartos, 884 pages of text ; 97 full-page Chromolithographie plates of original dissections. Cloth, 60s. net. British Medical Journal “ The illustrations are perfectly correct anatomical studies, and do not reproduce the inaccuracies which experience has taught us to look for in works of a similar kind. Some of the plates, especially those of the anatomy of the chest, are of great excellence.”