158 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. so-called inguinal glands (lymphoglandulae subinguinales). Two arteries, the superficial and deep external pudic, also pass inward with their accompanying veins. The lymphatic glands in this region lie mostly upon the fascia, but a few of them are situated beneath it; they collect the lymph not only from the lower extremity, but also from the external genitalia. This fact explains the frequent extension of diseases of the external genitalia to these lymphatic glands. [The inguinal lymphatic nodes are divided into a superficial and a deep set. The latter are grouped around the upper end of the femoral vein. The superficial are subdivided into two groups: an upper (oblique), below and parallel with Poupart’s ligament, and a lower, vertical, near the saphenous opening. The outermost nodes of the superior group receive tributaries from the buttock and lower part of the back, the innermost from the lower part of the anterior belly wall, from the urethra and penis (in the female, urethra, vulva, and lower third of the vagina), perineum, scrotum, lower and inner part of the buttocks, and the integument around the anus. The group around the saphenous opening receives the superficial tributaries from all of the lower extremity except a small area in the vicinity of the external saphenous vein, which drains into the popliteal nodes, thence to deep inguinal, and thence to external iliac, etc., without involving either of the superficial groups. Occasionally, however, the urethra, penis, vulva, lower third of vagina, scrotum, and perineum may communicate with the inferior group, and the lymphatics of the uterus, according to Gerrish, may communicate with the superior set. The practical facts in this connection are stated by Eisendrath as follows: the upper group drains the anal canal, perineum, lower portion of vagina, male and female external genitalia, and the skin of the lower portion of the anterior abdominal wall and the gluteal region. The lower set receives lymph from the entire lower extremity.—Ed.] Muscles.—The muscles of the hip are grouped about the external and internal surfaces of the pelvis and run to the trochanteric region of the femur. The iliopsoas muscle consists of the psoas major (arising from the sides of the twelfth dorsal and of the four upper lumbar ver- tebras), of the iliacus (arising from the inner surface of the ilium), and of the inconstant psoas minor; it is inserted into the lesser trochanter. Opposing this muscle, we have the large muscles of the buttocks passing to the great trochanter, and also the external rotators coming from the true pelvis. The muscles of the buttocks are the gluteus maximus, medius, and minimus (Fig. 78). The gluteus maximus arises from the posterior surface of the ilium behind the superior curved line (linea glutaea posterior), from the outer surface of the sacrum and of the coccyx, and from the great sacrosciatic ligament, and goes to the fascia lata and to the tuberositas, glutaea femoris (the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera). Between its tendon and the great trochanter is situated the large bursa trochanterica. The gluteus medius arises from the ilium between the superior and middle curved lines (linea glutaea posterior and anterior) and runs to the outer surface of the great trochanter. The gluteus minimus arises from the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines (linea glutaea anterior and linea glutaea inferior) and inserts into the anterior surface of the great trochanter. The external rotators are the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. The pyriformis, in relation with the inferior margin of the gluteus medius, passes from the anterior surface of the sacrum through the great sacrosciatic foramen to the trochanteric fossa (foramina suprapyriforme and infrapyriforme, see page 146). The obturator