TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 52 Fig. 19.—The lateral wall of the left nasal cavity. Almost the entire middle turbinated bone has been excised in order to expose the structures and orifices situated beneath it. A piece has been removed from the anterior portion of the inferior turbinated bone. The original borders of the turbinated bones are indicated by dotted lines. The superior turbinated bone is intact. The orifices of the left sphenoidal and frontal sinuses are shown by arrows. Fig. 20.—Sublingual region, shown on a median section. The mucous membrane has been divided and the tongue is turned downward. Another method of opening the sinus is to go through its inner wall, i. e., through the thin outer wall of the nasal fossas below the inferior turbinated bone (see Figs. 15 and 19). An in- cision may be made through the cheek and the anterior wall of the sinus chiseled open below the infraorbital foramen. The fourth method of attacking the sinus is to chisel through its anterior wall above the alveolus from the vestibulum oris [i. e., through the canine fossa external to the elevation caused by the canine tooth.—Ed.] (see Fig. 16). The orifice of the maxillary sinus is situated beneath the middle turbinated bone and cannot be distinctly seen until this structure has been removed. Attempts to reach this concealed orifice in the living are usually fruitless. [The normal opening into the maxillary sinus is usually found near the most dependent portion of the hiatus semilunaris and under cover of the middle turbinated bone.—Ed.] In addition to the main orifice, there is frequently an accessory opening at or beneath the margin of the middle turbinated bone (see Fig. 19). Since the inner wall of the maxillary sinus is formed by only a thin osseous lamina and partly by mucous membrane alone, it will be readily understood that tumors arising within the sinus (carcinomata, for example) grow inward into the nasal fossa. The roof is thin also and may be perforated by tumors originating in the sinus; these tumors may grow into the orbit and dislocate the eyeball. In such cases the infraorbital nerve running in the roof of the sinus may be affected and give rise to neuralgic symptoms. Such symptoms may also be pro- duced by a fracture of the superior maxilla, in which the air from the sinus may gain access to the subcutaneous tissues of the cheek or to the orbital cavity and cause emphysema. Tumors of the maxillary sinus may also displace the anterior wall of the cavity and grow toward the face. If they extend posteriorly, they reach the spheno-maxillary fossa, and from here they may, under certain circumstances, invade the pharynx or grow into the cranial cavity through the base of the skull. The frontal sinuses are also of importance to the physician. They have been previously described upon page 19. Fig. 4 shows the right frontal sinus, which has been opened from the forehead and in the depths of which the entrance into the nasal fossa may be seen. In catarrhal inflammations leading to a closure of the communication between the sinus and the nasal cavity (see page 19), the sinus may be opened in this manner and the contracted orifice dilated. In the nasal cavity this orifice is situated below the middle turbinated bone in the middle meatus at the highest portion of the slit-shaped infundibulum (see Fig. 19). During life it is usually impossible to probe this orifice from the nostril. [By removing the anterior end of the middle turbinated bone it is possible to pass a probe into the naso-frontal duct or infundibulum. By keeping the end of the probe pressing against the turbinated side we avoid the likelihood of entering into the anterior ethmoidal cells, which form Y-shaped diverticuli leading from the naso-frontal duct.—Ed.] The paired sphenoidal sinuses are situated in the most posterior portion of the roof of the nasal cavity and very close to the base of the skull. The superior wall, situated in the region of the sella turcica, is very thin, and tumors growing from the sinus may consequently easily extend