134 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. 63.—The liver, seen from below. Fig. 64.—The position of the structures at the porta hepatis. mentum phrenico-colicum, this fixation is not firm enough to hinder the occurrence of “floating spleen,” which is accompanied by a stretching of these ligaments. Like the fiver, the spleen may be displaced by tympanites, by ascites, or by abdominal tumors, which press the organ upward toward the pleural cavity, or by a left-sided pleural exudate which forces the spleen, together with the diaphragm, downward. An abscess of the spleen may perforate into the left pleural cavity, into the stomach, into the intestine, and even into the pelvis of the left kidney. The Pancreas.—The pancreas (Plates 15, 17, and 18, and Figs. 61 and 68) may be seen and felt through the gastrohepatic omentum in the posterior wall of the bursa omentafis. It may be exposed in three ways: (1) By dividing the gastrohepatic omentum and displacing the stomach downward; (2) by dividing the ligamentum gastrocolicum (see page 113) and displacing the stomach upward; and (3) by dividing the floor of the bursa omentafis, i. e., the transverse meso- colon, and reflecting upward the transverse colon and the stomach. The long flat organ is transversely situated at the level of the second lumbar vertebra; it is retroperitoneal, only the anterior portion of the viscus being covered by the peritoneum of the bursa omentafis. The “head” lies in the concavity of the duodenum (Fig. 61), but sufficient space .is left for the superior mesenteric vessels to pass beneath the inferior pancreatic margin and over the ascending portion of the duodenum to reach the root of the mesentery. The tail lies upon the anterior surface of the left kidney, sometimes higher, sometimes lower, and extends to the [basal surface of the —Ed.] spleen. The posterior surface is separated from the vertebral column by the crura of the diaphragm, by the inferior vena cava, and by the abdominal aorta (Fig. 69). There is a groove upon the dorsal surface of the head, which lodges the superior mesenteric artery and vein. The splenic vessels run along the upper border of the organ. Owing to the deep position of the pancreas it is difficult to make a positive diagnosis of its diseases, such as cysts, abscesses, or tumors. The extension of such diseases to the stomach is preceded by adhesions to the posterior gastric surface within the bursa omentafis. In spite of all this, clinicians have succeeded in palpating the head of the pancreas through the abdominal walls in spare individuals. It will be readily understood that the intimate relations with the transverse colon, with the duodenum, with the pylorus, and with the transverse fissure of the fiver add greatly to the difficulty of making a positive diagnosis of the diseases of the pancreas, par- ticularly of carcinoma of the head of the viscus. The Duodenum.—The duodenum (SwSsxdSdxruXov, because twelve inches long) extends from the pylorus to the duodenojejunal flexure and has a length of about thirty centimeters. The commencement of the pylorus is often made visible by a constriction, but it may be more surely determined by palpation of the thickening produced by the muscular tissue, which is plentiful in this situation (sphincter pylori). The pars superior, the shortest portion, lies to the right of the median fine at the level of the first lumbar vertebra and is attached to the transverse fissure of the fiver by the ligamentum hepatoduodenale [right edge of the gastrohepatic omentum.—Ed.]. This ligament forms the anterior boundary