91 THE THORACIC WALL. the third and sixth ribs; and in'framammary, below the sixth rib. Laterally the sixth rib divides the area into two regions, axillary above and infraaxillary below. Posteriorly the space above the spine of the scapula is'known as the suprascapular; that below as the infrascapular; that between the vertebral borders of the scapula as the interscapular.—Ed.] Supernumerary ribs occasionally occur. The supernumerary rib proceeding from the last cervical vertebra (Fig. 39) is of practical importance only when it extends to the first rib or to the sternum. In these cases the subclavian artery .is placed unusually high up, since it runs over this supernumerary rib (as it ordinarily does over the normal first rib) in a shallow groove. The pulsation of the artery may consequently be easily seen or felt above the clavicle. In from five to ten per cent, of such cases this anomaly produces symptoms (violent neuralgias and pares- thesias, or thrombosis and aneurysm) which demand operative interference. Fig. 39.—Cervical ribs. The seventh cervical vertebra (indicated by the figure 7) articulates with a small cervical rib upon the left, and with a complete cervical rib upon the right which reaches to the sternum. The figures 1 and 2 indicate the first two thoracic vertebrae. Inspection and Palpation of the Thorax.—In a male subject in whom the origins of the pectoralis major muscles are well developed, a broad shallow furrow may be seen over the sternum. At the upper end of the sternum this anterior median furrow passes into the suprasternal notch; at the lower end of the sternum it is continuous with the so-called scrobiculus cordis or pit of the stomach.* In the latter fossa, which may be quite deep, the xiphoid process may project anteriorly or may have an inward curve endangering the liver. The sternal angle, or the angle of Ludwig, as already stated, may be more or less prominent at the junction of the manubrium and the gladiolus; it corresponds to the attachment of the second rib and furnishes the starting- point for counting the intercostal spaces. In the female the anterior median furrow (the bosom) is produced by the presence of the mammary glands. The nipple is situated at the level of the * Both of these designations are bad, since neither the heart nor the stomach, but the liver, is situated beneath the abdominal wall in this location.