TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 15° tions are very favorable for an extension of the process internally along the urethra and an involvement of the entire genito-urinary apparatus. The Rectum.—The rectum lies behind the bladder and runs from the promontory to the anus in a double curve. The first or long curve corresponds to the hollow of the sacrum, and is known as the sacral curve (flexura sacralis). It extends to the tip of the coccyx and to the prostate, and the concavity of the curve is directed anteriorly. The second or short curve is in the perineum (flexura perinealis); it is convex anteriorly, only about three centimeters in length, and is surrounded by the external sphincter ani muscle. A knowledge of these curves is important for operative procedures and for the introduction of the rectal speculum. The rectum also deviates from the median line in some cases, but to so slight a degree that the variation is of no practical importance. The narrowest portion of the rectum is its termination, which is surrounded by the sphincters. Just above this is a dilatation, the ampulla recti, which is particularly developed posteriorly. The posterior wall of the rectum is attached to the sacrum by loose connective tissue in which are situated a number of lymphatic glands. These glands extend upward to the sacroiliac articulation; in cases of rectal carcinoma they become involved and must be removed. In this neighborhood there is also a large number of veins which anastomose with the venous hemorrhoidal plexus surrounding the anus. The perineal curve borders anteriorly upon the prostate gland. At this point rectal carcinoma may extend to the prostate, the prostate may be treated surgically through the anterior rectal wall, and prostatic hypertrophy and calculi situated in the fundus of the bladder may press upon the rectum and render defecation difficult. The sacral curve may be subdivided into two sections. The inferior one is situated below the rectovesical fold and is consequently not covered by peritoneum. It borders anteriorly upon the fundus of the bladder, the ampullas of the vasa deferentia, and the seminal vesicles; these parts may therefore be involved by the extension of a rectal carcinoma. In this situation the bladder may be entered from the rectum without opening the peritoneal cavity. Only the anterior surface of the lower end of the superior portion of the sacral curve is covered by peri- toneum ; higher up the lateral surfaces are also covered, while at the promontory, the peritoneum almost completely surrounds the rectum and fixes it to this point by a short mesorectum. In operating high up in the rectum it must be remembered that the danger of opening the peritoneal cavity increases as we ascend. The distance between the deepest point of the rectovesical fold and the anus, measured along the anterior rectal wall, is about six to eight centimeters. The situation in which the rectum possesses a lateral peritoneal reflection is from twelve to fourteen centimeters above the anus. From the relation of the rectum to the sacrum it will be seen that this portion of the intestine may also be attacked from behind after the resection of a portion of the sacrum. THE PELVIC CAVITY IN THE FEMALE. The essential difference between the relations of the pelvic viscera in the two sexes is due to the fact that the male genitalia take up less space and are situated almost entirely outside of the pelvis. In the female, however, the ovaries, the tubes, the uterus, and the vagina are pushed