:6 SAUNDERS' BOOKS ON SURGERY. Haynes’ Anatomy A Manual of Anatomy. By Irving S. Haynes, M.D., Professor of Prac- tical Anatomy, Cornell University Medical College. Octavo, 680 pages, with 42 diagrams and 134 full-page half-tones. Cloth, ioj. net. “ This book is the work of a practical instructor—one who knows by experience the require- ments of the average student, and is able to meet these requirements in a very satisfactory way.”— The Medical Record, New York. Borland's Pocket Dictionary Dorland’s Pocket Medical Dictionary. Edited by W. A. Newman Dorland, A.M..M.D., Assistant Obstetrician, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, etc. 566 pages. Full leather, limp, with gold edges, 5j. net; with patent thumb index, 6s. net. “ I am struck at once with admiration at the compact size and attractive exterior. I can recom- mend it to our students without reserve.”—James W. Holland, M.D., Professor of Medical Chemistry and Toxicology, and Dean. Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia. Beck’s Fractures Fractures. By Carl Beck, M.D., Professor of Surgery, New York Post- graduate Medical School and Hospital. With an Appendix on the Practical Use of the Röntgen Rays., 335 pages, 170 illustrations. Cloth, 155. net. “ The use of the rays with its technic is fully explained, and the practical points are brought out with a thoroughness that merits high praise.”—The Medical Record, New York. Macdonald’s Diagnosis and Treatment A Clinical Text=Book of Surgical Diagnosis and Treatment. ByJ. W. Macdonald, M.D. Edin., F.R.C.S. Edin., Professor Emeritus of the Prac- tice of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in Hamline University, Minneapolis, Minn. Octavo, 798 pages, illustrated. Cloth, 21 s. net. “ The most advanced and approved methods of clinical investigation in surgical practice are fully described.”—British Medical Journal. Stoney’s Surgical Technic Just Issued New (2d) Edition Bacteriology and Surgical Technic for Nurses. By Emily M. A. Stoney, Superintendent at the Carney Hospital, South Boston, Mass. Revised by Frederic R. Griffith, M. D., Surgeon, of New York. i2mo, 266 pages, illustrated. 6s. 6d. net. “ These subjects are treated most accurately and up to date, without the superfluous reading which is so often employed. . . . Nurses will find this book of the greatest value.”- Trained Nurse and Hospital Review. Grant on Face, Mouth, and Jaws A Text=Book of the Surgical Principles and Surgical Diseases of the Face, Mouth, and Jaws. For Dental Students. By H. Horace Grant, A.M., M.D., Professor of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery, Hospital College of Medicine. Octavo of 231 pages, with 68 illustrations. Cloth, iu. net. “ The language of the book is simple and clear. ... We recommend the work to those for whom it is intended.”—Philadelphia Medical Journal.