TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. II4 Fig. 54.—The pharynx, esophagus, trachea, and aorta seen from behind. important from an operative standpoint; these are the bronchial, the esophageal, the pericardiac, the mediastinal, and the diaphragmatic. Large aneurysms of the descending aorta occasionally erode the vertebras and adjacent ribs and appear in the back alongside of the vertebral column, where they may simulate abscesses. In such cases disagreeable symptoms are produced by pressure upon the intercostal nerves and upon the spinal cord. The Pulmonary Artery.—The pulmonary artery is united with the ascending aorta by connective tissue (seepage 108) and is situated almost ■ entirely within the pericardium. The ascending aorta is upon the right side of the vessel. The pulmonary artery extends from the sternal insertion of the third left costal cartilage to that of the second, and is consequently most easily reached through the second left intercostal space. The vessel, at its origin, is only two centimeters distant from the anterior thoracic wall; it runs backward, upward, and somewhat toward the left and, after a course of about five centimeters, divides outside of the pericardium into a right and a left branch. From the bifurcation, or from the commencement of the left branch, the ligamentum arteriosum passes to the concavity of the aortic arch. This structure is the remains of the fetal ductus Botalli, which may remain patulous in rare cases. The right branch of the pulmonary artery runs transversely behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava to the hilus of the right lung; the left branch is shorter and passes in front of the de- scending aorta to the left lung. The pulmonary veins (double on both sides) are designated as superior and inferior, the superior vein lying also more anteriorly and the inferior vein more posteriorly. The right superior pulmonary vein is situated behind the termination of the superior vena cava in the right auricle; behind this vein are the right pulmonary artery and the right bronchus. The right inferior pulmonary vein lies between the right bronchus and the termination of the inferior vena cava in the right auricle. The superior left pulmonary vein is found in front of the left bronchus and the inferior left pulmonary vein is below the left bronchus. The Trachea.—The portion of the trachea situated within the mediastinum—i. e., the thor- acic portion, in contradistinction to the cervical portion (see page 51)—corresponds to that part of the trachea which extends from the lower border of the last cervical vertebra to the fourth dorsal vertebra. In the latter situation the trachea divides into the right and left bronchus. The point of bifurcation, when projected upon the posterior thoracic wall, is situated in the line connecting the inner extremities of the scapular spines (interscapular line); this point corre- sponds to the level of the spinous processes of the third dorsal vertebra, in which situation we auscult respiratory murmurs originating within the trachea. Corresponding with the greater volume of the right lung, the right bronchus is larger than the left and runs more in the direction of the trachea; it is consequently more vertical than the left bronchus. For these reasons foreign bodies in the trachea pass more readily into the right than into the left bronchus. The aortic arch runs backward over the left bronchus (Plate 7); the vena azygos major passes from behind forward over the right bronchus to empty into the superior vena cava (Plates 7 and 8, b). The lower end of the trachea is behind the aortic arch; above the arch, the trachea is found in the