SURGER Y AND ANA TOMY Helfe rich and Bloodgood’s F ractures and Dislocations Atlas and Epitome of Traumatic Fractures and Dislocations. By Professor Dr. H. Helferich, Professor of Surgery at the Royal University, Greifswald, Prussia. Edited, with additions, by Joseph C. Bloodgood, M.D., Associate in Surgery, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. From the Fifth Revised and Enlarged German Edition. With 216 colored illustrations on 64 lithographic plates, 190 text-cuts, and 353 pages of text. Cloth, 135. net. In Saunders’ Atlas Series. A New Volume—Recently Issued A book accurately portraying the anatomic relations of the fractured parts, together with the diagnosis and treatment of the condition, has become an abso- lute necessity. This work is intended to meet all requirements. As complete a view as possible of each case has been presented, thus equipping the physician for the manifold appearances that he will meet with in practice. The illustra- tions are unrivaled for accuracy and clearness of portrayal of the conditions represented, showing the visible external deformity, the X-ray shadow, the ana- tomic preparation, and the method of treatment. Zuckerkandl and DaCosta’s Operative Svirgery ADOPTED BY THE U. S. AR.MY Atlas and Epitome of Operative Surgery. By Dr. O. Zucker- kandl, of Vienna. Edited, with additions, by J. Chalmers DaCosta, M.D., Professor of the Principles of Surgery and Clinical Surgery, Jef- ferson Medical College', Philadelphia. 40 colored plates, 278 text-cuts, and 410 pages of text. Cloth, 1$s, net. In Saunders' Atlas Series. SECOND EDITION, THOROUGHLY REVISED AND GREATLY ENLARGED In this new edition the work has been brought precisely down to date. A number of chapters have been practically rewritten, and of the newer operations, all those of special value have been described. Sixteen valuable lithographic plates in colors and sixty-one text figures have been added, thus greatly enhancing the value of the work. New York Medical Journal “ We know of no other work upon the subject in which the illustrations are as numerous or as generally satisfactory.”