168 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. nerve for all of the flexor muscles, supplies the heads of the gastrocnemius and also the soleus in the popliteal space (Fig. 83) and runs downward to the outer side of the posterior tibial artery beneath the deep layer of the crural fascia. At the internal malleolus (Fig. 87) the nerve is deeper than the artery and closer to the tendo Achillis. Before entering the sole of the foot it divides into the internal and external plantar nerves. THE FOOT. Upon the dorsal surface of the foot may be seen tne subcutaneous venous plexus, giving origin to the short saphenous vein (accompanied by the short saphenous nerve) behind the ex- ternal malleolus, and to the long saphenous vein (accompanied by the terminal ramifications of the long saphenous nerve) in front of the internal malleolus. These structures are situated in a loose connective tissue, the character of which favors the occurrence of edema. If the foot is strongly flexed dorsally, the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis, running to the great toe, springs into prominence. To the inner side of this structure may be felt the strong tendon of the tibialis anticus, on its way to the inner margin of the sole, the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum are also made prominent (Fig. 85). In dorsal flexion the tense extensor brevis digitorum is also pal- pable. In the middle of the dorsum of the foot to the outer side of the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis may be felt the pulsations of the superficial dorsalis pedis artery. The tendons of the peronei, though less prominent, may also be distinctly palpated beneath the external malleolus during dorsal flexion. In the sitting posture with the foot resting flat upon the floor, the tip of the finger may be placed in a depression upon the dorsum of the foot midway between the lower extremities of the malleoli, and in this depression the tendons may be made to glide beneath the finger. Just above this depression may be felt the lower end of the tibia and below it the astragalus; it consequently marks the highest level of the ankle-joint. In this situation swelling and fluctuation may occasionally be observed in inflammations of the articulation. At the inner margin of the sole the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone may be felt without difficulty, below and in front of the lower end of the internal malleolus; immediately behind this point, Chopart's articulation (see page 170) may be opened. At the outer margin of the sole, opposite to the scaphoid tubercle but somewhat in front of it, may be felt the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, which is just in front of Lisfranc's articulation (see page 170). Further anteriorly the metatarsal and phalangeal bones may be palpated upon both sides of the foot; the heads of the metatarsal bones indicate the location of the metatarsophalangeal articulations. In plantar flexion the heads of the phalanges may be felt upon the dorsal surface of the toes; they mark the situation of the inter phalangeal joints. The dorsalis pedis artery (Fig. 85), the continuation of the anterior tibial, passes from the anterior annular ligament along the dorsal surface of the foot in the first interosseous space. It runs anteriorly from a point midway between the two malleoli and divides at the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones into a larger branch, the plantar digital (ramus plantaris pro- fundus), passing between the first and second metatarsal bones to the plantar arch, and a smaller branch, the dorsalis hallucis (A. metatarsea dorsalis I), running forward to the web between the great and the second toes. To the outer side, the dorsalis pedis gives off the tarsal artery (A.