82 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. F.O. 34.-A longitudinal section throygh ,h. region of ,h. elbo, a„d .he h»„.„-ul»ar artel«™ (frozen section). flexor carpi radialis is visible. The “pulse” of the radial artery may usually be felt just to the outer side of this tendon. The pulsation of the ulnar artery is scarcely, if at all, perceptible since th. vessel is covered by the border of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle (lee Fig. 35). The^tendon efs^locld bC PalPated “d *he “ fM ™ the anatomT'Th7flhe ”USdeS °f ‘7 Sh°uId be revieWed ih detail from a systematic omy. The flexor group may be subdivided into a superficial and a deep layer, each consist mg o four muscles. All of the superficial flexors originate from the intend condyle SI pronator radii teres is inserted into the outer surface of the middle of the radius The flexor carpi radial,s is attached to the base of the second metacarpal bone. The palmaris longul radiates into the palmar fascia. The flexor carpi ulnaris, the ulnar origin of wSh ex3 downwartl 0 the lower third of the bone, is inserted into the pisiform bone, the unciform proems of the unciform bone, and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone hv Jhr Tl0Ur de‘fmuscles uP°n the surface. The flexor sublimis digitorum arises by two heads from the internal condyle of the humerus and from the anterior Lrface of the radius and is inserted by means of four tendons into the second phalanges of the fingers [This muscle arises by three heads, one from the inner condyle of J humerus, one from The toner r.gm, 0 6 coronold process of the ulna, and one from the radius—Ed.] The flexor pro undus digitorum arises from the upper two-thirds of the anterior surface of the ulna [also rom inner surface. Ed.] and from the interosseous membrane and is inserted by means of four tendons into the terminal phalanges of the fingers. The flexor longus pollicis Lses from “he “to" tbC ,radiU,S’. from the interosseous membrane, and by a small muscular slip rom the internal condyle and is inserted into the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The pronator in3h3r H ‘he 7‘St’ “SeS fTOm the anteri°r Surface °f the uIna and i^nserted into the anterior and outer surface of the radius. The extensor muscles are subdivided into a radial group and a dorsal group. The radial group consists of four muscles, which arise from the external condyle and from the umerus above this point. The supinator longus is inserted into the styloid process of the radius The extensor carpi radialis longior runs to the dorsal surface of the base of the second meta- arpal bone The extensor carpi radialis brevior goes to the dorsal surface of the base of the third etacarpal bone. The supinator brevis, originating also from a ridge upon the ulna, passes over the radius and is inserted above and below the tuberosity upon its anterior surface. . .The/°r^al S7UP of Zensor muscles, like the flexor group, may be divided into a super- ficial and a deep layer. The superficial layer consists of three muscles. The extensor carpi ulnaris arises from the external condyle, from the deep fascia of the forearm, and from the posterior border of the ulna, and is inserted into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The extensor com- mums digitorum arises from the external condyle and from the deep fascia of the forearm and is mser e y means of four tendons into the dorsal aponeuroses of the fingers. The extensor minimi digiti arises from the external condyle and furnishes a second tendon to the little finger The deep layer of the extensor muscles arises from the dorsal surfaces of the ulna, radius, and