TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 78 Fig. 32.—A cross-section through the middle of the arm (hardened in formalin). In the internal bicipital groove, about at the junction of the lower with the middle third of the arm, there is an opening in the deep fascia, which is known as the hiatus basilicus, for the passage of the basilic vein and the internal cutaneous nerve. In the external bicipital groove the cephalic vein runs upon the deep fascia (see page 73). The brachial artery runs beneath the deep fascia in the internal bicipital groove; it is ac- companied by two veins, the inner of which receives the basilic vein. Higher up, the veme comites unite to form a single vein, either before reaching the axilla or, more rarely, after entering into this region. Disregarding the muscular branches, of which the bicipital is particularly large the main branches of the brachial are: ’ 1. The superior profunda artery, which accompanies the musculospiral nerve about the posterior surface of the humerus, in the musculospiral groove, between the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle. It ends at the outer side of the humerus, where it is accompanied by a cutaneous branch of the musculospiral nerve, and descends behind the external intermuscular septum to reach the anastomotic arch above the olecranon (rete articulare cubiti). The poste- rior articular branch of this vessel runs downward in the posterior portion of the arm in the sub- stance of the inner head of the triceps muscle. 2. The inferior profunda artery, usually a long vessel, which accompanies the ulnar nerve to the olecranon, where it empties into the rete cubiti. 3. The anastomotica magna artery, which arises near the division of the brachial in the region of the elbow. It runs transversely inward across the brachialis anticus muscle and passes pos- teriorly to the rete cubiti. The median nerve is the. most superficial of the three chief nerves in the upper arm. At first the nerve lies to the outer side of the brachial artery, it then passes in front of the vessel, and, while still above the elbow, takes a position to the inner side of the artery. The nerve con- sequently crosses the artery, and is to be felt lying upon the vessel, if the panniculus adiposus is not too well marked. The nerve is often situated beneath the artery, particularly in those cases of so-called high division of the brachial in which the artery divides in the upper arm into two parallel branches, one of which usually runs over and the other under the nerve. If the artery first exposed is comparatively small, and if it lies upon the median nerve, a search should always be made for a second artery. The median nerve gives off no branches in the upper arm. The ulnar, the second great nerve of the arm, lies internal to the artery, but gradually becomes more distant from the vessel. It pierces the internal intermuscular septum at the lower third of the arm and reaches the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon. The ulnar nerve also gives off no branches in the upper arm. The musculospiral, the motor nerve of the extensor muscles, is at first behind the artery. It enters the musculospiral groove, running upon the surface of the humerus between the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle, and at the lower part of the arm passes into the region of the elbow between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus muscles. As the nerve lies directly