40 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. 14.—The relations of the vessels and of the facial nerve within and beneath the parotid gland. The gland has been divided by a vertical incision. separates it from the more superficial facial vein (Cunningham).—Ed.], and crosses the border of the jaw at the anterior margin of the masseter muscle. At this point the pulsations of the vessel may be felt and, in a given case, hemorrhage may be temporarily arrested by pressure against the jaw-bone. The artery then pursues a more or less sinuous course upon the buccinator and levator anguli oris muscles and reaches the side of the nose, where it anastomoses, as the angular artery, with the dorsalis nasi artery coming out of the orbit from the ophthalmic. It also forms variable anastomoses with the buccal and infraorbital branches of the internal maxillary. In the neck the vessel gives off the ascending palatine artery, frequently an independent branch of the external carotid, which ascends between the styloglossus and stylopharyngeus muscles to the muscles of the palate and pharynx, giving off a tonsillar branch (see page 57); the submental is another cervical branch which passes forward below (i. e., on the outer surface of) the mylo- hyoid muscle and is covered by the submaxillary gland. In the face the artery gives off the superior and inferior coronary arteries which supply the mucous membrane of upper and lower lips and anastomose in the median line with their fellows of the opposite side. The internal maxillary artery, one of the terminal branches of the external carotid, arises in the substance of the parotid gland behind the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw and passes to the spheno-maxillary fossa. The branches worthy of mention, in addition to those supplying the muscles of mastication, are the inferior dental (passing though the inferior dental canal in company with the nerve of the same name and escaping from the mental foramen), the middle meningeal (see page 29), the infraorbital (passing through the infraorbital canal with the nerve of the same name to make its exit at the infraorbital foramen), the superior alveolar to the teeth of the upper jaw, the posterior palatine and the pterygopalatine to the palate (naso-pharynx) (through the foramina of the same name), and the sphenopalatine, which passes through the sphenopalatine foramen to the nasal cavity. The chief vein of the face is the facial, which commences as the angular vein, formed by the union of frontal and supraorbital veins (see Plate 2). It is situated behind the facial artery and, though superficial to this vessel, passes beneath the zygomaticus major muscle to the angle of the jaw, where it unites with the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein to form a trunk which empties into the internal jugular. The temporo-maxillary vein is formed in the substance of the parotid gland by the union of the temporal with the internal maxillary, the latter vessel receiving blood from the pterygoid plexus in the spheno-maxillary fossa. [It divides at the lower part of the parotid gland into an anterior division, joined by the facial, and a posterior, which with pos- terior auricular makes up the external jugular vein.—Ed.] The ophthalmic veins are described upon page 46. The nerves of the face, in addition to those supplying the posterior portion of the cranial region (see page 27), are: Sensory: 1. The infraorbital nerve, the termination of the superior maxillary (second divi- sion of the fifth), making its exit from the infraorbital foramen. The superior maxillary nerve reaches the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure and runs forward as the infraorbital nerve