THE UPPER ARM. 77 Although almost the entire capsule is surrounded and strengthened by the insertions of muscles, this place is not covered by any muscle, and through it occurs the dislocation which is second in frequency, the subglenoid or axillary dislocation. A large bursa, which does not communicate with the joint, is also situated beneath the deltoid muscle (subdeltoid bursa) and may extend beneath the acromion. This bursa, when diseased, may be mistaken for an effusion into the shoulder-joint. The capsular ligament possesses but one important strengthening band, the coracohumeral ligament, which arises from the outer edge of the coracoid process and radiates in the capsule toward the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The joint is well protected above by the strong coracoacromial ligament, which extends from the acromion to the posterior surface of the coracoid process. It prevents the head of the bone from slipping upward, this displacement being possible only when a fracture of the overhanging acromion is present. THE UPPER ARM. Upon the anterior or flexor surface of the arm the prominence of the biceps muscle may be easily palpated; to either side of this prominence are the outer and inner bicipital grooves respec- tively [indicating the inner and outer edges of this muscle. The term “bicipital groove” is usually applied by English authors to the bony groove in the humerus which contains the long tendon of the biceps.—Ed.]. The pulsations of the brachial artery may be palpated at the inner margin of the muscle. The bicipital prominence becomes more pointed as it passes upward, and finally disappears beneath the edge of the pectoralis major muscle at the so-called anterior axillary fold. This portion corresponds to the short head of the biceps and to the coracobrachialis muscles. High up to its inner side may be seen, or at least felt, the pulsations of the axillary artery. This is the place of election for the ligation of this vessel (see page 73). In the upper portion of the internal bicipital groove the chief branches of the brachial plexus accompany the artery and may be palpated for a varying distance downward into the arm. The comparatively thin deep fascia of the arm sends off the external and internal inter- muscular septa, which are attached to the external and internal condyloid ridges respectively and extend downward as far as the epicondyles. They separate the biceps, brachialis anticus, and coracobrachialis muscles, which are situated anteriorly, from the posterior extensor mass of the triceps muscle. The biceps muscle arises by a long head from the supraglenoid tubercle within the shoulder-joint (see page 76), and by a short head from the apex of the coracoid process; it inserts into the tuberosity of the radius. The brachialis anticus muscle, situated beneath the biceps, arises from the anterior aspect \i. e., inner and outer surfaces.—Ed.] of the humerus, below the insertion of the deltoid muscle, and from the intermuscular septa, and is inserted into the coronoid process of the ulna. The origin of the coracobrachialis muscle is from the coracoid process in common with the short head of the biceps, and its insertion is at about the middle of the internal border of the humerus. The long head of the triceps arises from the infraglenoid tubercle of the scapula; the inner head arises from the posterior surface of the humerus below the musculospiral groove; the outer head commences above the musculospiral groove, which it bridges over, and arises from the outer surface of the bone and from the external intermuscular septum. These three heads are inserted into a common tendon which is attached to the olecranon.