THE NECK. 65 The Submaxillary Triangle.—The submaxillary triangle, which is reached by following the course of the hypoglossal nerve and the facial artery, is bounded by the lower margin of the jaw and by the two bellies of the digastric muscle. After the removal of the skin, platysma, and deep fascia we find that the largest structure in this region is the submaxillary gland (see Figs. 24 and 25), which may even be visible through the skin in markedly emaciated individuals. The fascia covering the gland is rather firm and offers a certain resistance to the spontaneous external rupture of glandular abscesses. The submaxillary lymphatic glands are situated along the lower margin of the jaw and the upper margin of the submaxillary salivary gland, some of them being partly imbedded in the latter structure. Since these glands, like those situated nearer the median line (the submental lymphatic glands), receive the lymphatics from the face, they may easily be affected in diseases of the face (such as labial carcinoma) and require extirpation. The sub- maxillary gland receives numerous branches from the facial artery, which runs from behind for- ward in this triangle. This vessel is imbedded in the substance of the submaxillary gland and leaves the cervical region at the anterior border of the masseter muscle, where it lies directly upon the margin of the jaw. The chief branch of the facial artery in this region is the submental, which is covered by the gland and runs toward the chin upon the mylohyoid muscle; it is accompanied by the small mylohyoid branch of the inferior maxillary nerve (motor). At the angle of the jaw the facial vein is joined by the anterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein (see Fig. 24). [This union, according to Cunningham, usually takes place a little below the angle of the jaw.—Ed.] If the submaxillary gland is lifted up, the submaxillary duct may be seen anteriorly in the depths of the triangle as it disappears beneath the mylohyoid muscle; still deeper and at a higher level the lingual nerve is in relation with the submaxillary gland and the small submaxillary ganglion. The comparatively small glossopharyngeal nerve is found near the pharynx, deeply situated between the styloglossus and stylopharyngeus muscles; it passes beneath the tonsil to end in the circumvallate papillas of the lingual mucous membrane. The median cervical region is situated beneath the hyoid bone and extends to the upper margin of the sternum. It is bounded above and to the outer side by the inner margins of the sterno- hyoid muscles, and below and to the outer side by the sternothyroid muscles, presenting a narrow triangular surface in this situation (see Fig. 24). The greatest breadth of this narrow region is about two centimeters and it is situated approximately midway between the hyoid bone and the sternum. In this important region the trachea is covered only by skin and fascia. Incised wounds of the trachea are consequently common in this region, particularly in cases of suicide, and the physician, under certain circumstances, must rapidly perform tracheotomy in this situation in order to save the life of his patient. The structures which may be palpated through the skin at this place (see page 62) are responsible for the subdivision into the following regions: the hyoid region (hyoid bone), the subhyoid region (the thyrohyoid membrane or ligament), the laryngeal region (the larynx), the thyroid region (the thyroid gland), and the suprasternal region (just above the sternum). In the subhyoid region the respiratory tract cannot be entered by simply dividing the middle thyrohyoid ligament (see Figs. 24 and 26). Behind the ligament there is a relatively thick mass of fat, which extends for about one centimeter in the sagittal plane and is limited posteriorly by the hyoepiglottic ligament, passing from the epiglottis to the hyoid bone, and by the attached end of S