86 TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. Fig. 37.—The muscles, nerves, vessels, and tendon-sheaths of the palm of the hand. The tendon-sheaths are colored blue. The carpal canal has been opened by dividing the anterior annular ligament. Fig. 38.—Diagrammatic representation of the joints of the hand. digitorum and of the extensor indicis; (5) for the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; and (6) for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The second and third compartments are frequently combined to form a single sheath. The anterior annular ligament connects the eminentia carpi radialis with the eminentia carpi ulnaris and forms the roof of the carpal canal. This canal transmits the flexor tendons of the fingers (flexor sublimis and profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis) and the median nerve, which pass into the palm of the hand. The median nerve lies upon the tendons immediately beneath the ligament. The ulnar nerve and artery, however, pass into the hand over the anterior annular ligament to the radial side of the pisiform bone. At the lower end of the radius, distal to the insertion of the supinator longus, the radial artery passes from the flexor to the extensor side, between the styloid process of the radius and the scaphoid bone. It passes beneath the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor brevis pollicis into the tabatiere or “snuff-box” (see page 85), and then runs beneath the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis to reach the space between the first two metacarpal bones. The vessel then leaves the back of the hand and passes into the palm between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. During this course the radial artery, in addition to branches to the rete carpi dorsale and volare [that is, the vascular network on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the wrist.—Ed.], gives off two vessels which vary considerably in size: 1. The superficialis voice, which is often absent, though frequently as large as the continuation of the radial. It leaves the radial at the styloid process of the radius and passes over the origins of the short muscles of the thumb to unite with the ulnar artery and form the superficial palmar arch. This branch is covered only by the skin and a thin fascia (and sometimes also by a few slips from the muscles of the thumb), and, when well developed, is a dangerous vessel on account of its exposed position. In some individuals its pulsations may be seen through the skin. 2. The princeps pollicis, which passes between the muscles of the ball of the thumb to the palmar surface and gives off three digital branches to supply both sides of the -thumb and the radial side of the index-finger. The terminal portion of the radial artery anastomoses with the deep branch of the ulnar and forms the deep palmar arch, which is situated upon the bases of the metacarpal bones. This arch gives off the palmar interosseous arteries, which are usually small in size and pass distally between the bases of the first phalanges to empty into the digital branches of the superficial arch. If the superficial arch and some or all of its digital branches are poorly developed, the palmar inter- osseous arteries are larger and furnish the digital arteries for the fingers. The ulnar artery, in contrast to the radial, always remains upon the flexor side of the forearm. After giving off the anterior and posterior carpal branches, it passes over the anterior annular ligament to the radial side of the pisiform bone. In the palm of the hand it gives off a deep branch and then unites with the superficialis volas from the radial to form the superficial palmar arch, which is situated immediately beneath the palmar fascia. From the superficial palmar arch