TOPOGRAPHIC AND APPLIED ANATOMY. 76 Fig. 30.—A posterior view of the shoulder with the quadrangular and triangular spaces. spinatus muscle, partly covered by the deltoid, passes from the infraspinous fossa to the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The teres minor, in relation with the lower border of the preceding muscle, runs from the axillary margin of the scapula to the greater tuberosity of the humerus; its lower border is approximately parallel to the upper border of the teres major muscle. Since both of these muscles are crossed by the long tendon of the triceps (which lies behind the teres major, but in front of the teres minor), as shown in Fig. 30, it will be seen that two spaces are formed, a quadrangular space and a triangular space. 1. The quadrangular space is bounded by the neck of the humerus, by the teres minor, by the teres major, and by the long head of the triceps (see Fig. 30). Within this space, the axillary artery may be exposed from behind; the posterior circumflex artery and the circumflex nerve may also be seen as they pass into the substance of the deltoid from the inner surface of the muscle (see page 75). 2. The triangular space is bounded by the long head of the triceps and by the teres major and minor muscles. In this space may be seen one of the two terminal divisions of the sub- scapular artery, the dorsalis scapulae (see page 74). This vessel turns around the axillary border of the scapula to its posterior surface, where it is covered by the infraspinatus muscle, and runs upward to anastomose with the suprascapular artery below the root of the acromion (see page 74). This anastomosis forms an important collateral path after occlusion of the axillary artery. If the axillary artery is followed downward along the inner side of the humerus, it will be seen to emerge as the brachial artery below the united tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. In the triangular slit between the humerus, the long tendon of the triceps, and the external head of the triceps, the brachial artery gives off the superior profunda, which runs posteriorly and accompanies the musculospiral nerve. Shoulder-joint (Fig. 31).—This joint has the widest range of motion of any joint in the body. The articulation is formed by the head of the humerus and the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The humeral head is covered by cartilage and the articular surface of the glenoid cavity is enlarged (deepened) by the glenoid ligament. As a consequence of the incongruity between the two articular surfaces, the head of the humerus projects far beyond the edge of the glenoid cavity. The lax capsular ligament passes down from the circumference of the glenoid cavity and is attached, anteriorly, to the anatomic neck of the humerus (i. e., the groove bounding the articular cartilage); posteriorly, to the bone somewhat below the anatomic neck. It bridges over the bicipital groove (sulcus intertubercularis) which lodges the long tendon of the biceps. This structure is enclosed in a tubular reflection of the synovial membrane, the vagina mucosa inter- tubercularis, which is the deepest portion of the joint when the body is held erect and which is often markedly distended by exudate when the shoulder-joint is inflamed. The greater and lesser tuberosities are outside of the joint. The synovial membrane is also reflected beneath the in- sertion of the subscapularis muscle, forming the bursa mucosa subscapularis. This is the weakest portion of the capsular ligament; it is the place where the head of the bone leaves the capsule in the common subcoracoid dislocation. A second weak place is to be found in the deepest part of the joint between the margins of the subscapularis and the teres minor muscles (see Fig. 30)..