THE SCALP. 25 the one hand, and the laxity of the subepicranial tissues upon the other, are responsible for the fact that cutaneous wounds, in which the aponeurosis is not divided, do not gape, in contradis- tinction to cutaneous wounds in other regions. Gaping occurs only when the aponeurosis, and consequently the entire thickness of the scalp, has been divided. Wounds at right angles to the direction of the fibers of the occipitofrontalis gape more than those made in a sagittal direction. Owing to. the dense connective tissue intimately uniting the skin and galea aponeurotica, and the consequent loss of elasticity, large cutaneous defects cannot be covered, since it is impossible to bring the edges of the wound together. In contrast to effusions of blood in the loose subepi- cranial tissue, ecchymoses in the dense subcutaneous tissue are not very extensive, but give rise to circumscribed swellings. Fig. 6.—A cross-section of the layers of the scalp and of the cranium. The same condition of affairs is noted in purulent inflammations, since suppuration in the scalp does not become diffuse, while suppuration beneath the scalp may continue to extend until its progress is arrested at the supraorbital margins, the zygoma, and the superior curved line of the occiput. In such cases an early and deep incision is necessary, since spontaneous perforation through the firm and dense scalp is not to be expected. The scalp is more liberally supplied with blood than any other cutaneous area. In this situation, in contrast to the usual relation, large vessels are found in the subcutaneous connective tissue. These arteries are so firmly imbedded in this dense tissue that it is quite difficult to pick them up with a hemostat after division, and the hemorrhage must frequently be arrested by suture. The arterial anastomoses are so numerous that they form a large-meshed network of arteries which is spread out upon the galea aponeurotica (see Plate 2). Every portion of the Internal plate Dura mater Sebaceous glands Corium Hair-follicle Galea a Subepicranial tissu Pericraniur External Subcutaneous fatty tissue