, a ZT ounccT of chocolaté eut “MlgX^e the chocolaté in the the 3 tune in - ■ uS gb bybthro'vin"e a ap^onf^loto ^d wa^.^» m3 lnt° Tt^lhU3 hasd>beeol'thorou,nly but jopious'y ohed, and out ou. the -rame swdth î«e before they Iyoiî V.ve been accused °[iichMsou|;<Ud gometbine like but were and » you tnouaua «“"."^Yffêrent: Forinstai.ee, ut something e,lUry , a,„ keepina disease Malanron would sav — • Coffee Biscuits.—One pound oi flour, (lie yüff one egg, uiilk. Mix the ilour and the yolk of t eg,< with suflicient milk to make the whole into very thick paste, beat it wcll.and knead it until il perfectly smooth. Boll the paste out very thi ivith a round cutter 6hape it into 6mall biscui and balte them a nice brown in a slow oven from to 13 minutes. 3. llice Biscuits.-To every ha pound of rice-flour allow a quarter of a pound pounded lump sugar, quarter of a pou of butter, and two eggs. Beat the bi ter to a oream, stir in the rice-flour ai pounded sugar, and moisten the whole w the ei'gs, wliich should be previously well-beat. Boll out the paste, shape it with a round pas cutter into small cakes, and bake from 1- to ! minutes in a very slow oven. 4. Soda Biscuits One oound of flour. half a pound of pounded 1 su ®a?, a quarter of a pound fresh butter, two eg one small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 1 the flour (which should be perfectly dry) mtc basin, rub in the butter, add the sugar, and i these ingrédients well togethor. '' hlsk «J» eg stir them into the mixture, and beat it well u everything is incorporated. Quickly stir in soda, roll the paste out until it is about half inch thick, eut it into small round cakes, and b, like the others. After the soda is added great pedition is neeessary in rolhng and cutting paste and in putting the biscuits numodjateiy the oven, or they will be heavy. 5. hataflas. 1 a pound of swect almonds, quarter of a pound bitter ones, three quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, the whites of four eggs. B anen, skin, drv the almonds, and pound them ni a mortar v the white of an egg ; stir in the sugar, and gradu add the remaining whites of eggs, taking care ( they are very thoroughly mixed. Drop the n ture through a sma’l biscuit syr.nge on c ridge paper, and bake the cakes from 10 t minutes in rather a quick oven. .