R.C.P. EDINBURGH LIBRARY R53660Y0236Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 \ https://archive.Org/details/b21980202_0003A S Y S T E M V OF SURGERY: B Y BENJAMIN BELL, MEMBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF SURGEONS OF IRELAND AND EDINBURGH, ONE OF THE SURGEONS TO THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, AND FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH. ILLUSTR’ATED WITH COPPERPLATES. , VOLUME III. THE SIXTH EDITION, CORRECTED AND ENLARGED. EDINBURGH: Printed for bell & bradfute AND G. G. &J. ROBINSON, AND MURRA.Y & HIGHLEY, LONDON,CHAP- CONTENTS .CHAPTER VI. Of Sutures, - - 17 Sedl. I. General Ohfervations on Sn- turesy _ - - ib. Se£t. II, Of the Interrupted Suture^ 19 Sed. Ill, Of the filled Suture^ 25 Se6t. IV. Of the Glovers Suture^ 27 Sed. V, Of the T^wijled Suture^ ^29CONTENTS. Page CHAPTER VII. Of the 'Ligature of Arteries and other Means employed by Art for put- ting a flop Hemorrhagies, 40 CHAPTER VIII. 0/Blood-letting, - - 76 Sed. I. Of Blood-letting in getteraly ib. Se£l. II. Of a I'hrombus, or Ecchymofis^ 104 Sed. III. Of Wounds of the Arteriesj 108 Sed. IV. OfVioiinds or Pricks in the Nerves and Pendons, - 116 Sed. V. Of Blood-letting in the Arm^ 141 sed. VI.V CONTENTS. CHAP- Page Sed. VI. Of Blood-letting in the Ju- gular Veiuj - - 147 Sed. VII. Of Blood-letting in the An- kles and Feety - - 150 Sed. VIII^ Of Arteriotomy^ ;t53 Sed. IX. Of Tropical Blood-letting^ 158 CHAPTER IX, CyAneurisms, « - 169 Sed. I. General Remarks on Aneu- riJmSf . - - ib. Sed. II. Of the treatment of Aneu- rifms^ - - 212vi CONTENTS. Sed. V. Pase CHAPTER X. (yAFFECTiONs^jf^^^ Brain from Ex- ternal Violence, - - 238 Sed. I. General Remarks on Affec- tions of the Brain from External Violence^ - - ib. Sed. II. AnatomicalDefcription of the Brain and furrounding Parts, 245 Sed. III. Of CompreJJion of the Brain from External Violence, - 261 Of Co7npreffion of the Brain, from Erasures attended with Depreffion of the Skull, - 265 § 2. 0/ Compreffion of the Brain from Extravafation, 338 Sed. IV, Of Conciffion or Commotion of the Brainp^ - - 355C O N.T ENTS. vii Page Sed. V. Of Inflammation of the Mem* branes of the Brain from External Violence^ ^ - - 369 §1.0/ Contufion of the Head^ 377 §2. Of Fijfiirc:^ or SimpleFraElures of the Skull^ - ' - 408 Sect. VI. ConcluJioUy - 423 ARRANGE-ARRANGEMENT of the PLATES, All the Plates are placed at the end of their re/peSUve Volumes, In VoL. III. Plates I. Plates VII. II. VIII. III. IX. IV. X. V. XL VI. j In VoL. IV. Plates XII. Plates XXVII. XIII. XXVIII. XIV. ’ XXIX. XV. XXX. XVI. XXXI. XVII. XXXII. XVIII. XXXIII. XIX. XXXIV. XX. XXXV. XXI. XXXVI. XXII. XXXVII. XXIII. XXXVIII. XXIV. XXXIX. XXV. XL. XXVI. InVoE. III. B long A TREATISE \ O N T H E THEORY AND PRACTICE CHAPTER VI. Of Sutures. SECTION I. General'Obfervations on Sutures. • \ S futures are often neceflary, not on- ly in the treatment of wounds, but in almofl: every chirurgical operation, the fubjed obvioufly merits particular atten-. A variety of futures have been pradli- fed by furgeons, each of which has from O F S U R G E R Y. tion.^Qf Sutures. Qiap. VL long experience been applied to a parti- cular purpofe, viz. The interrupted fu- ture; the quilled future; the glover’s, and the twilled future. Many others are enu- merated* by authors ; but thefe four are the only futures at prefent in ordinary ufe^ and even of thefe, fome might with pro- priety be laid alide. The intention of every future, is to u~ nite parts, which either by accident or delign have been divided. Another mode of elfeding this, is through the interven- tion of adhelive plafters :• and this by fur- geons has been termed the falfe or dry- future, in oppolition tb the others per- formed by the needle, which are deno- minated the true or bloody future.—But as the method of uniting divided parts, with the allillance of plafters, has al- ready been taken notice of in Chapter II. when treating of wounds, it will not be neceflary to enter upon the fubjed; here. SEC--Of Sutures, 19 Sedl. II. SECTION II. Of the Interrupted Suture^ IN deep wdunds, when a re-union of the divided parts is intended, we, for the moft part, have recourfe to the inter- rupted future; but from what has already been fully explained, when treating of wounds, and from what will prefently far- ther appear, it does not feem t6 be fo well adapted to this purpqfe as the twilled fu^ ture. When it is determined, however, to make trial of the interrupted future, the following is the ealiell mode of per- forming it. In every wound where futures are ne- celTary, it has commonly been conlider- ed as good pra6lice, to carry the needle and ligature to the bottom of the fore, fo as to give as little room as poflible for matter colledling underneath; and the ufual method -of elFedling this, is by introducing the needle from without B 2 inwards, 1/Chap. VI. 20 Of Sutures. inwards, and again from the bottom of the wound to the fame diftance on the oppolite fide. But this future, it may be remarked, is much more neatly, and at the fame time more eafily performed, by palling both ends of the thread from with- in outwards; as may be readily done by ufing two needles upon each thread, in- ftead of one. A needle being put upon each end of the fame thread, and each needle being inferred at the bottom of the fore, and pulhed outwardly, fo as to pafs out at a proper diftance from the edge of the wound, the needles are then to be taken off, and the threads allowed to re- tnain till all the ligatures are palled which the extent of the fore feems to require. The number of ligatures necellary for any wound, muft in a great meafure de- pend upon the extent of the divided parts. By authors, in general, it has been laid down as an eftablifhed rule, that one fu- ture is fufficient for every inch of wound. It will frequently, indeed, happen, that this number is fufficient \ but in fome in- llances.of Sutures. Sea. II. 21 fiances, particularly where mufcular parts are deeply cut tranfverfely, and where confequently a great degree of retraaion occurs, more flitches are neceflary : Whenever a number of angles, too, oc- cur in wounds, more ligatures are requi- red than in ftraight wounds of the fame extent ^ for, at every angle, however in- confiderable it may be, there ought to be a future. In pafling the ligatures, great care is necefiary to pierce the fkin at a fulEcient diftance from the edge of the wound: for if they do not comprehend a thicknefs of parts in fome meafure proportioned to the depth of the wound, and to the extent of retradlion to be expedled, they will be apt to cut through the parts entirely.—By fome, we are diredled to enter the liga- tures, at a diftance from the edges of the fore nearly equal to the depth of the wound. This rule, however, will not al- ways anfwer in practice. Thus, in very deep wounds 3 fuch, for inftance, as are three inches or upwards in depth, there B 3 ; can23 Of Sutures, Chap. VI. can no necellity for carrying the liga- tures three inches from the edges of the fore y and again, in very fuperficial cuts, it fometimes happens that the ligatures ought to be pafled out at a diftance from the edges of the wound greater than its breadth. It ought not, in almoft any cafe, to be lefs than half an inch from the edge of the fore; and it will feldom happen, even in the largeft wounds, that the di- ftance of an inch is not found to be fuf- ficient. It will be readily underftood, that the flrength of the ligatures and fize of the iieedles ought always to be proportioned to the depth of the fores and retradion of parts. The feyeral fizes of needles reprefented in Plate III. are fuch as are found to anfwer bell; and the ligatures to be ufed along with them ought to be fuch as nearly, though not entirely, fill the-eyes of the needles. In order to make the ligatures pafs with more eafe, to ren- der them more durable, and at the fame rime to make them more fufceptible of a flattenedOf Sutures. 23 Sed. II. flattened form, which does not fo readily- cut through the contained parts as a round one, they ought all to be well waxed. As foon as the threads are all pafled, the lips of the wound fhould be prefled together and fupported by an affifliant till all the ligatures are firmly tied 3 begin- ning either in the middle of the wound, or at one end, as the operator inclines. In tying the knots, it is ufual to pafs the ends of the threads twice through the firfl: noofe, in order to prevent their yield- ing ; and when this is done, it is alleged by fome that there is no necefiity for more than one knot upon each ligature ^ but as two knots are very eafily made, and as e- very chancfe of their yielding is thereby prevented, this precaution Ihould not be omitted. It is a pradlice with fome fiir- geons to infert a piece of lint between the. firfl: and fecond knots, or between the firfl: knot and the Ikin below, in order to fave the parts underneath from the preflhre of the knots 3 but as in reality all fuch means :of protedion afford no advantage of im- B4 portance 5of Sutures, Chap. VI. 24 SEC^ portance, and as they prevent the knots from being made with exadnefs, they ought therefore to be laid afide. By fome, we are defired not to bring the knots of the ligatures immediately upon the edges of the wound, but rather to car- ry them to one fide upon the found tegu- ments : but whoever has tried both me*^ thods, will at once be fenfible, that this is by no means an improvement; for in no way can both fides of the fore be fo equally fupported, as when the knots are pafled immediately above the lips of the divided parts.25 Sea. III. of Sutures^ SECTION III. Of the filled Suture. AS the quilled future is ftill employed by fome praaitioners, I fliall here mention the mode of performing it. In deep wounds, attended with much retraaion, it is always a neceffary pre- caution, to affift the operation of the li- gatures, by means of bandages fo applied as to afford as much fupport as poffible to the divided parts: But, even with every afEftance of this nature, it fometimes happens, that the divided parts cannot be kept together; retraaion occurs to a great- er or lefler degree, and the ligatures cut aflimder the parts that they were at firft made to furround. With a view to prevent the teguments and other parts from receding, it was long ago propofed to add to the interrup- , ted future what was fuppofed would af- ford an additional fupport; viz. quills, 2 or26 Of Sutures. Chap. VI. or pieces of plafter rolled up into the form of quills; one of which being placed on each fide of the wound, the doubling of the ligature Is made to in- clude the one, and the knot to prefs dl- redly upon the other, inftead of being made immediately on the edges of the fore as was directed for interrupted fu- tures. It is at once evident, however, that the ligatures mufl: here make the fame de- , gree of prefliire on the parts through which they pafs, as they do in the inter- rupted future ; and this being the cafe,, it is equally obvious, that the interpofition of thefe fiibllances cannot be of any ufe. This future is accordingly now very rare- ly pradifed, and it is probable that it will be foon laid entirely afide. S ,E C-Sea. IV. Of Sutures. I SECTION IV. Of the Glover’' s Suture. HIS future receives its name from being that which glovers common- ly ufe. As it is exceedingly Ample, and very univerfally known, it does not here require a particular defcription: I fh^ll therefore juft Ihortly obferve, that it con- fifts in a feries of ftitches all conneded with each other, and continued in 'an oblique fpij^l diredion along the courfe of the divided parts intended to be kept together. This future has hitherto been univer- fally employed for reuniting fuch parts of the inteftines as have been divided by wounds: but, when treating of in- juries of this kind, I ftiall endeavour to fliow, that the fame end may be more perfedly attained, and probably with lefs danger.28 Chap. VI. ' of Sutures. SEC^ danger, by means of the interrupted fu- ture; fo that as this future has almoft never been applied to any other purpofe,^ ' it will likewife in all probability fooa fall into difufe.29 of Sutures. Sea. V. SECTION V. Of the T^wijled Suture. By the term Twifted Suture is meant. that kind of ligature, by which parts, either naturally or artificially fe- parated, are united together, by means of ftrong threads properly twifted round pins or needles puflied through the edges of the divided parts. This future is commonly employed for uniting the parts in the operation for the hare-lip ^ and this indeed is almoft the only ufe to which it has been hitherto applied : But I may here remark, that it may with much advantage be put in pradice in other cafes, particularly in all artificial or accidental divificiis of the lips or cheeks ; and, in every wound in other parts that does not run deep and in which futures are neceflary, this future is preferable, tb the interrupted or any o- ther. In30 Of Suturesr Chap. Vi= In very deep wounds, for inftance in all that extend to a greater depth than - an inch and half, the interrupted future is' the only one that is admiffible 3 for, in all deep cuts, the pins necelTary in the twilled future cannot with propriety be employed, as they cannot be introduced to fuch a depthy and afterwards fo twill- ed with ligatures a& to reunite the di- vided parts, without great pain to the pa- tient. In fuch wounds, therefore, we mull of necelfity employ the interrupted future. But it may be here remarked, that wounds of this depth requiring the aid of futures, are feldom met with ; fo that, in by much the greatell proportion of wounds where futures are advifable, the twilled future will be found pradica- ble ; and whenever it is fo, it ought cer- tainly to be preferred, as being obvioully better calculated, even than the inter- rupted future, for the retention of di- vided parts. The pins made ufe of for twdlling the threads upon, Ihbuld be of a flat form, fo as not to cut the parts through . , whichStd. V. 3^‘ of Sutures» from which they pafs fo readily as the liga- tures employed in the interrupted fu- ture : And thus we obviate one great ob- jedtion to the latter; for, every pradti- tioner mull be fenfible of this being the chief inconvenience of the interrupted future, that when mufcular parts are di- vided, fo as to produce much retradlion, the ligatures employed for retaining them, almoft conftantly cut them through before a reunion is accomplilhed ; where- as, the flatnefs of the pins ufed in the twilled future, and upon which, it may be remarked, the whole prellure pro- duced by the ligatures is made to reft, proves in general an effedtual preventa- tive againft this occurrence. The pins ufed in this'operation have commonly been made of lilver ^ and, in order to make them pafs with more eafe^ fteel points have been added to them. As gold pins, however, are capable of receiving a fufficient degree of fharpnefs, which renders fteel points unneceflary i and as gold is more cleanly than ftlver,Of Sutures^ Chap. VI. 32 from its not acquiring fo readily that kind of cruft which immerfion in fluids is apt to produce upon the other, pins of this metal are therefore preferable. The form and fize of pins reprefented in Plate IV. are by experience found to be the moft ufeful for every ordinary purpofe 3 but for particular cafes, ftho fize muft no doubt be fubjedl to varia-* tions. The manner of performing this opera- ' tion is as follows : The divided parts In- tended to be reunited, muft by the hands of an afliftant be brought nearly into, conta(£l; leaving juft as much fpace be- tween the edges of the wound, as to allow the furgeon to fee that the pins are car- ried to a proper depth. This being done, one of the pins muft be introduced through both fides of the wound, by en- tering it on one fide externally, puflilng it forwards and inwards to within a lit- tle of th^ bottom of the wound, and af- terwards carrying it outwards through the oppofice fide, to the lame diftance, fromSeA. V. 33 Of Sutures* from the edge of the fore that it Was made to enter at on the other. The diftance at which the needle ought to enter from the edge of the fore^ muft' be determined by the depth of the wound, and by the degree of retraction produced in the divided parts; but whatever the deepnefs of the wound may be, the pins ought to pafs within a very little of its bottom; otherwife the parts which lie deep will run a riik of not being uni- ted; a circumftance which will frequent- ly give rife to fores or colledions of mat- ter. In pafiing the pins through the fides of the wound, if the ikin and other tegu- ments are not more firm than ordinary, it may commonly be done with the fin- gers alone, and particularly if the pins are made with fmall heads or knobs for the fingers to prefs upon ; but when firm- nefs of parts and other circumftances ren- der the entrance of the pins difficult, the inftrument, termed by the French Porte- aiguille, very effedlually removes this in- VoL. IIL C convenience.Of Sutures. Chap. VL 34 convenience.—In Plate IV. fig. i. is re- prefented the moft convenient form of this inflrument that has yet been invent- ed. ^ The firfl pin being pafled in this man- ner near to one end of the fore, and the parts being Hill fupported by an affillant^ the furgeon, by means of a firm waxed ligature pafTed three or four times round and acrofs the pin, fo as nearly to de- fcribe the figure of 8, is to draw the parts through which it has palTedinto clofe con« ta<S> and the thread being now fecured with a loofe knot, another pin muft be in- troduced in the fame manner at a proper diftance from the former; ahd the thread with which the other was fixed, being loofened, and in the fame manner carried round this pin, others muft be introduced at proper diftances along the whole courfe of the wound, and the fame ligature fliould be of a fufficient length for fecuring the wl\ole. The number of pins to be ufed, mufi: depend upon the extent of the wound. ButSea. V. Of Sutures. 35 But whether the wound is large or of fmall extent, a pin ought to be introdu- ced near to each end of it, otherwife the extremities of the cut are apt to feparate fo as not to be afterwards eafily reunited. In large wounds, if the pins are introdu- ced at the diftance of three quarters of an inch from each other,^ it will in gene- ral be fi,ifEcient ^ but, in wounds of fmal* ler extent, a greater number of pins be- come neceffary in proportion to their di- menfions. ^ Thus, in a wound of an inch and half in length, three pins are requilite 3 one near to each end, and another in the mid- dle : Whereas, five pins will be found fully fufficient for a wound of three inches and a half long, allowing one to be within a quarter of an inch of each end of the wound, and the .others along the courfe of it^ at the diftance of three quar- ters of an inch from each other. The pins being all introduced and fe- cured in the manner I have diredled, no- thing remains to be done^ but to apply a C 2 piece36 of Sutures. Chap. VL piece of lint, wet with mucilage,^ or fpread with any emollient ointment, along the whole courfe of the wound, in order to exclude the external air as much as pof- fible. In order to prevent the ends of the pins from preffing upon and hqrting the ikin,below, it is ufual to apply a fmall bol- fter of dint under each of them^ but as this always does tnifchief,, by tending to prefs the pins againfl the parts through which they have pafled,. it ought certain- iy to be omitted. When, hpwever, the patient complains of being hurt by the ends of the pins, this may be eafily pre- vented by introducing between thefn and the Ikin beneath pieces of thin linen^ ipread with adhelive plaller.v With a view of giving every chance of fuccefs to this operation, it has been com- monly advifed, immediately after the pins are feeured, to apply the uniting bandage over the whole, fo as to afford as much fupport as pofiible to the contiguous parts. The leaft refledlon, however, renders itv I evident^V. Of Sutures. 37 evident, that every degree of prellure made in this manner muft do haring for, the ban- dage being made to reft immediately upon the pins, a confiderable degree of.pain and inflammation miift of courfe enflie from it: And in fa6l this is fo much the cafe, that, in every inftance in which I have known it employed, it either did harm, by prefling upon the pins} or, if this did not happen, no advantage was derived from it, from its not being applied with fuch tightnefs as to afford any fupport to the p^rts below. In fome inftances, indeed, I have employed adhefive plafters, 'jvith obvious benefit, along with the twill- ed future : , By applying a portion of plafter, fpread upon leather, immediate- ly behind each extremity of the pins, we are enabled to draw the parts very for- cibly together with pieces of thread or finall tape previoufly attached to each portion of the leather, and where the retradion of the 'divided mufcles is con- fiderable, this precaution fliould never be omitted: I have had recourfe to it with G 3 muchs8 Of Sutures. Chap. VL much advantage in the operation for the hare-lip. The next point to be determined, is^ the time we fhould allow the pins to remain. When they remain long, they generally do harm, by the irritation and confequent retradtion of parts, which they are apt to produce; and again, if not long enough continued, that degree of adhefion is not formed between the divided parts that is neceflary for their retention, fo that the effecS of the operation is in a great mea- fure, if not entirely, loft, , In wounds of no great depth, I have, by experience, found, that firm adhefion takes place in the fpace of five days; and fix, or at moft feven days, will be found fufficient for wounds of thegreateft depth. But, in fpeaking of this point, it muft always be underftood, that the patient’s ftate of health will have much influence on the time neceffary for producing ad- hefion between divided parts. In fpeci- fying the time required for this purpofe, the operation is fuppofed to be done inOf Sutures. 39 Sea. V. a healthy ftate of body. WJito the pa- tient labours under difeafe It is impoffible to afcertain this circumftance with preci- fion: Infuch cafes we muft be determined by the age of the patient and ftate of his conftitution at the time. As foon as the pins are withdrawn, the uniting bandage may be applied with much advantage as a fupport to the parts newly united but, as flips of adhefive plafter, when applied, as I have advifed above, to each fide of the cicatrix, may be made to anfwer the purpofe in a more exacft man- ner, this mode of fupportlng the parts ought of courfe to be preferred. As the twifted future, when properly performed, is a very neat operation 3 as its confequences are in general of import- ance 3 and as it may, with much advan- tage, be made to fuperfede the ufe of ah moft every other future, a few rnftances only excepted, I have here judged it pro- per to confider it with more attention than has hitherto been commonly beftow" ;ed on it. ■ C4 C H A P ^Of the Ligature Chap. VII. 40 CHAPTER VII. Of Ligature of Arteries and other Means employed by Art for putting a flop to Hemorrhagies. IN every wound, whether produced by accident, or by furgeons in perform- ing operations, the firft circumftance re- quiring attention, is the hemorrhage ^ which may proceed either from one or more large arteries, or it may be produ- ced by a general oozing from the fmaller veJTels/over the furface of the fore. A fiirgeon being called to a perfon lo- fihg much blood from any of the larger veffels, the firft ftep to be taken, is, to put a temporary ftop to the difcharge, by means' 41 of Arteries,^ &c. Chap. VII. means of preflure, till by the application of ligatures a more effedual remedy is obtained. In the head, as well as in the trunk of the body, the eafieft way of ef- feding this is to prefs doflils of foft lint or dry fponge upon the mouths of the bleeding veflels, either by the hands of an affiftant, or by the proper application of a bandage : Or, when prefliire can be effedually applied to the fuperior part of the artery, it ought to be preferred ; as it not only fecures the velTel equally well, but more readily admits of a ligature being afterwards applied to it. When, again, h«morrhagIes take place in any of the extremities, and where pref- fdre can be made with eafe on the fupe- rior parts of arteries, for fuch cafes we are in pofleffion of a remedy, which, when Ikilfully applied, never fails to put an immediate flop to all farther lofs of blood, viz, the Tourniquet. Till the invention of this inflrument, and it was not known till the lafl: cen- tury, Surgery remained extremely defec- tiveOf the Ligature Chap. VIL 42 tive indeed. No operation of importance could be undertaken on any of the extre- mities, but with much hazard to the pa- tient > fo that large wounds mufh frequent- ly have proved fatal from the want of it, which ptherwife would not have been in any degree hazardous. As the invention of the Tourniquet is claimed by different perfons, and even by different nations, I fhall not here pretend to fay from whence it originally came : but whoever had the merit of it, the firft inftrument of this kind with which the world was made acquainted, was exceed- ingly Ample; infomuch, that it now ap- pears very furprifing that the difcovery fliould have been left to fuch a late pe- riod. A fmall cufhion being placed up- on the courfe of the principal artery of a limb, a circular rope or bandage was made to pafs twice round it; and a fmall wooden handle being then introduced between one of the folds of the bandage, for the pur- pofe of twilling it, the cufhion by thefe meaps was preffed with fo much force up- onof Arteries^ &c. Chap. VII. 43 on the artery, as to put an efFeitual flop to the circulation in all the under part of the limb. Mr Petit, an eminent furgeon of Paris, was the firfl: who propoftd a confiderable improvement on this inftrument: He con- nedted the circular bandage with a fcrew, which was fo contrived as to produce the prefliire chiefly on the principal arteries, without materially afFedling the reft of the limb. It had alfo this advantage over the other inftrument, that the operator him- felf could manage it, without being un- der the neceflity of employing an af- fiftant; but it was liable to one great In- convenience from the very circumftance which, by the inventor, was confidered as an improvement. This inftrument of Mr Petit being made to ad upon the prin- cipal arteries only, the fmaller veflels com- municating with thefe, not being proper- ly comprefled, difcharge blood freely from the inftant they are cut^ and as this proves a very troublefome circumftance in the cpurfe of operations, different improve- ments44 Of the Ligature Chap. VIL Toents have of late been made upon it. Fig. I. plate 5. reprefents the befl: that has yet been invented. By means of this inftrument in its now improved ftate, the blood is very ealily and effedually commanded ; and as it grafps the whole member equally, all the collateral branches, as well as the prin- cipal arteries, are equally comprcfled by it. It has this material advantage, too., over every other inftrument of this kind, that, when properly applied, a fingle tu;rn, or even half a turn of the fcrew, is fuf- ficient either for allowing a flow of blood, or for putting a total flop to iu “The manner of ufing it is this. Let a cufliion, three inches in length, by one inch and half in diameter, be formed of a linen roller, tolerably firm> but yet not fo hard as to render the pref- fure produced by it painful: This being placed upon the courfe of the principal artery of the limb, let it be firmly fecu- red by one or two turns of a circular roll- er.€liap. VIL ' of Arteries^ &c. 45 er, of the fame breadth vrlth the cufliion itfel£ The inflrument A, with the ftrap con- neded with it, being now placed upon the limb, with the handle of the fcrew B on the fide of the member oppofite to the • Guftiion upon the artety, the ftrap C is to be carried round the lirnb diredly over the cufliion, and to be firmly conneded on the other fide to the buckle D. In thus conneding the ffrap and buckle to- gether, particular attention is neceflary in doing it with firmnefs, fo that the fcrew may afterwards operate with as much ad~ vantage as poflible, in producing a fuffi- '(^lent degree of prefliire. When proper attention is given to this, a fingle turn of the fcrew proves fufficient, as I have ob- ferved above, for putting a flop to the circulation of blood in the limb : but when the ftrap has not been made tight at firft, feveral turns of the fcrew become necef- fary ^ a circumftance which proves trouble- fome in the courfe of an operation,, and whicli^.46 of the Ligature Chap. VII. ■which ought therefore to be guarded a- gainft. When it is therefore determined, that any further lofs of blood from a divided artery is to be prevented, prelTure on the fiiperior part of the velTel fliould be im- mediately applied by the hands of an af- fiftant, or by a proper bandage, when the cut is on the head or trunk of the body ; and by the tourniquet, when any of the extremities are wounded. The patient being in this manner fecu- red from immediate danger, the pradi- tioner muft endeavour to prevent a re- turn of the hemorrhagy, on the tourni- quet being removed.- The ancients, as I have obferved a- bove, were ignorant of the ufe and appli^ cation of the tourniquet, and they were equally deficient in the employment of means for giving a permanent fecurity a- gainft the flow of blood , from divided veflels. It will therefore readily occur to praditioners of the prefent day, that in this im^erfed ftate of Chirurgical know- ledge.Chap. VII. of Arteries, . 47 ledge, they muft in all important opera- tions have incurred much rilk of doing harm : To the fmaller veflels they ap- plied doffils of linen covered with aftrin- gent powders or tindlures ^ and for divi- lions of the larger arteries, fearing with hot irons was their only refource. On this laft remedy, however, although it commands a temporary ftoppage of the blood in every cafe of hemorrhagy, we ought by no means to place any depen- dence 5 for, if not carried to a great depth, the pulfation of the larger arte- ries very foon overcomes all the refiftance produced by the efchar obtained from the cautery. In ancient times, however, when this was the moft effedtual remedy with which the world was acquainted, praditioners were under the neceffity of employing it; and, at that period, it is not furprifing to find them exercifing their genius in in- venting a variety of ftyptic applications: But fince furgery became enriched with that material improvement of fecuring the larger arteries with ligatures, a prac- 2 ' tice48 Chap. Vir. Of the Ligature tice eafily efFedled, and with very little pain to the patient, it is furprifing to find that remedies of this clafs are flill fearch- ed after. If the life of ligatures were in itfelf attended with difficulty 3 if, by ex- perience, it had been found to be produc- tive of many bad confequences \ or, if it had been frequently known to fail in an- fwering as a full fecurity againfl; the he- morrhagies of the larger arteries 3 in any -of thefe events, it ought to be the bufi-- nefs of praditioners to endeavour to pro- cure a more effedual remedy. But, as the ligature of arteries is very fimple in its nature ^ as the pain arifing from it is trifling; as few inftances occur of any thing bad being produced by it; and ef- pecially as, when properly performed, it never fails of proving a fiire preventative againfl: all lofs of blood from the larger arteries; there can be no good reafon for anxioufly feeking after other reme- dies. Agaric, common fponge, and other fun- gous fubftances have been much extolled forChap. VII. of Arteriesf 49 for their ftyptic powers; and chalybeate and vitriolic folutions, as well as all the variety of mineral acids, have in differ- ent forms been held forth to the public as effedual remedies of this nature^ not only as noftrums by thofe of, lefs liberal principles, but, what is more furprifing, in fome inftances by praditioners of cha- rader. _ With the former clafs of men this hap- pens as a common occurrence in the courfe of their profeffioii, and is therefore to be expedled ^ but a perfeverance in quefl: of new ftyptics on the part of Surgeons of reputation, who are well acquainted with the beneficial effeds of ligatures, muft proceed from a degree of nicety and re- finement, which may create much trou- ble to themfelves, and which in all pro- bability can never be produdive of any advantage to their patients. I may therefore venture to fay, that it fliould be confidered as an eftabliflied maxim in furgery. That in, hemorrhagies from the larger arteries, no ftyptic what- VoL. III. D .ever50. Of the Ligature Chap. VII^ ever ought to be trufted, and that we fhould place dependence only upon a pro- per application of ligatures: I lhall now therefore proceed to conlider the ealieft and moft effe'dlual method of putting this remedy in pradlice. Various methods have been propofed for fecuring arteries with ligatures. The pradlice now in common ufe, is, by means of a curved needle, to pafs a ligature of {iifficient ftrength round the mouth of the bleeding veffel, including a quarter of an inch all round of the contiguous parts and afterwards to form a knot of a proper tightnefs upon the veffel and other parts comprehended in the noofe. One material objedion, however, to this pradice, is, that the nerves accompany- ing the bload-veffels, together with a con- fiderable portion of the mufcular fub- ftance through which they pafs, muft al- ways be furrounded with ligatures form- ed in this manner. From this circum-- llance much unneceflary pain is produ- ced, * Sharp's Surgery—On Amputation.Chap. VII. of Arteries, &c. D 2 Thus, ced, by the nerves and cohtlguous parts being at the fame time compreiTed with the arteries; and, in fome inftances, vio- lent convulfive aflecSions have arifen from this, not only of the part chiefly affedied, but of the whole fyftem. Spafmodic twitches frequently take place after the amputation of limbs, and are often the fource of much diftrefs. In fome inftances., this fymptom is no doubt the efFe£l of other caufes; but in various ca- fes it has happened, that the cleareft proof has been obtained of its arifing from the ligatures of arteries applied in an Impro- per manner. When convulfive affedlons occur after amputations, and the ufual means of preventing them are found to fail, effedual relief may be frequently obtained by undoing the ligatures, fo as to remove the compreflion upon the nerves i care being taken at the fame time to re- new the ligatures upon the arteries alone, without comprehending any of the con- tiguous parts.of the Ligature Chap. VII. 52 Thus, is is not to the mere application of ligatures to blood-veffels, but to the im- proper manner in which the operation is performed, namely, the including nerves and other parts, inftead of tying the ar- teries alone, that the bad fymptoms in fuch cafes are to be attributed. Praftitioners have commonly been a- fraid of tying arteries by themfelves, with- out the intervention of fome of the fur- rounding parts: This has happened from an idea that has prevailed, that the coats ■of blood-velTels are not fufEciently firm to bear a degree of compreflion neceffary for the prevention of hemorrhagy. This, however, proceeds upon the fup- pofition, of the coats of arteries not be-^ ing fo ftrong as they really are \ and that a great degree of force is neceffary for comprefling their fides into contad. But it is now well known, that even very fmall arteries are pofleffed of much firmnefs ^ and it is alfo certain, even in the largeft arteries of the arm and thigh, that a very flight degree of compreflion isof Arteries^ & c. 53 Chap. VII. is fufficlent, not only for reftraining hemor- rhagy, but for fecuring the ligature on the very fpot to which it is firfl: applied : In fmall veflels, the force necelTary for this purpofe is trifling indeed ^ being far lefs than is commonly employed. It has alfo been objeded to this mode of fecuring blood-veflels by themfelves, that the ligatures are more apt to flip than when fome of the furrounding parts are comprehended along with them 3 and, in fome inftances, it is faid that arteries te- trad fo far, that they cannot in any other way be laid hold of, than with the^crook- ed needle in the ordinary method. Long and repeated experience, however, of a few individuals, in regard to this mode of taking up arteries by themfelves, has put the fad beyond a doubt, that it is as fecure as any other yet invented — Fatal hemorrhagies, after capital opera- tions, either from inattention, or fome other caufe, fometimes indeed happen in D 3 the * See an elTay upon this fubjeft, by the ingenious Aitken, furgeon in Warrington.Of the Ligature Chap. VII, 54 the hands of the moft expert furgeoni, but we meet with them as frequently when the curved needle has been employed, as when the blood-veflels are fecured by themfelyes, without any pf the contiguous parrs being included. From the refult of my own experience, indeed, I fliould be induced, even in this point of view, to draWva conclufion in favour of the pradtice I recommend. For both among hofpital patients, and in pri- vate, I have known different deaths oc- cur from the bleeding of flumps after the amputation of members; and whether this proceeded from the ligatures having flip- ped from feme of the arteries; or, that fome of the veflels which did not appear during the operation, had been of courfe pafTed over, and had afterwards bur ft out, I fhall not pretend to determine; but in all of theft, the crooked needle only had been ufed during the operation; and it has fo happened, that I never met with a fingle inftance of a fimilar occurrence where the arteries were fecured by themfelyes withChap.VIL of Arteries, &LC. 55 with the tenaculum; an inftrument to be hereafter mentioned. In-a few inftances it may happen, that a bleeding veflel, by lying at the bottom of a deep wound^ caniiot be laid hold of in any other manner than by palling a curved needle and ligature round it. Such occurrences, however, are fo rare, that I have met with few inftances in which hemorrhagy could not be as effedlually re- ftrained with the tenaculum, as by the ufe of the crooked needle. In all operations whatever, to fave un- neceffary pain, is a very important point. The obje£l in view ought no doubt to be attained in the moft complete manner; but that mode of operating, which is e- qtially eiEFedual with any other, at the fame time that it is the leaft painful to the patient, ought in every inftance to be preferred. Now, with refped to the point in queftion, as I have already made it ap- pear, that arteries may be tied with as much fafety by themfelves as when edn- neded with any of the neighbouring parts^ D 4 the56 of the Ligature Chap. VII. the difference of pain produced by the two modes of operating, ought at once to give the preference to the former. When any of the contiguous parts, par- ticularly when the nerves, which gene- rally accompany blood-vellels, are inclu- ded in the fame ligature with an artery, a circuitiftance fcarcely to be avoided when the curved needle is employed, a very fevere degree of pain is often exci- ted by tying the knot. I have known va- rious inftances. of patients, bearing the amputation of limbs, and of cancerous breads, without ilirinking, but who com- plained feverely of the pain excited by tying the arteries with the crooked needle : While, on the contrary, the pain attend- ing the practice with the tenaculum, is fo trifling, that, when properly done, even the mofl: timid patients feldom complain of it. For fome time after I firfl ufed the te- naculum, curiofity induced me, in dif- ferent inftances, to put the point in que- ftion to the tefl; of experiment: And to renderChap. VII. of Arteries, isfc. 57 render the trial as fair and decilive as pollible, it was always made upon the fame fubjedt, under the fame operation. Differ- ent veffels were fecured in the ordinary manner with the crooked needle; whilft others were laid hold of with the tena- culum : But fo great was the difference, that the one feldom gave much uneafinefs ; while the patient commonly complained of the other, as the moft painful part of the whole operation. Among other advantages attending the tying of arteries with the tenaculum, there is one which I have not mentioned : It often happens, after the amputation of limbs, as, well as in other operations, that the ligatures do not come eafily away, from their being made to run fo deep as with the curv^ed needle is commonly ne- ceffary. In fome inflances, much. pain and trouble has occurred from this, the ligature remaining immoveable for a great many weeks: And after all, I have known it neceffary to cut it out with a fcalpel. But when the tenaculum is ufed, every rifk58 Of the Ligature Chap. VII. riik of this is avoided, as the ligatures generally drop of their own accord, in the courfe of the third or fourth drelGng of the fore. I fliall, therefore, confider it as a prac- tice that fliould be eftablilhed, that inform- ing the ligature of arteries, the nerves and other contiguous parts ought to be a- voided. For the purpofe of performing this with eafe and fafety, various kinds of Forceps have been invented, with which the di- vided arteries are laid hold of and pulled out, fo as to admit of the application of ligatures. For the larger blood-veilels, forceps have been found to anfwer exceedingly well; but, for fmaller arteries, they are by no means fo ufeful as the Tenaculum, reprefented in Plate III. fig. i. and 8. And as a hookof this form anfwers equally well m the larger arteries alfo, the ufe of for- ceps may therefore b^ laid afide. The piaFxner of ufing the tenaculum is this. In59 Chap. VII. of Arteriesy &c. In order to dlfcover the arteries to be, tied, the tourniquet with which they are fecured, mufl: be flackened by a turn or two of the fcrew3 and the moment the largeft artery of the fore Is dlfcovered, the furgeon fliould fix his eye upon It, and immediately reftrain the blood with the tourniquet. A noofe having been previ- oufly formed on the ligature, and pafled upon the tenaculum, the operator Ihould now pufli the point of the inflrument through the artery^ and at the fame time, fliould pull it out to the extent of an eighth part of an inch or thereby: The noofe fliould now be pulled over the point of the tenaculijm by an afliftant^ and being preflbd fufficlently up upon the artery, a knot fliould be formed with it of fnch a tightnefs as may be necelTary: In forming this ligature, the furgeon’s knot, as it is termed, fliould be preferred : It confifls in pafling the vthread tv/ice through the firfl: noofe, and as fome additional fecu- rity is obtained by forming a fecond knot above the firfl, this precaution fliould ne- yer6o ' Of the Ligature Chap. VII. ver be omitted. It is eafily done3 and on fecurity in this point, the patient’s life may in a great meafure depend. The ftrength of the ligature fhould al- ways be proportioned to the fize of the artery; but this is a circumftance to be at all times determined by the judgment of the praditioner, as mull alfo the force to be employed in forming the knots. To what was already faid upon this point I lhall juft add, that a very trifling force is fufficient for fecuring even the largeft ar- teries: and that, after fuch a force has been applied, as evidently reftrains the flow of blood, no farther compreflion fhould be applied. The principal artery being in this man- ner fecured, all the arteries of the part muft be taken up in a fimilar manner, by firft loofening the tourniquet in order to difcover them, and afterwards applying a ligature upon each of them. It often happens, however, that the lofs of blood the patient has fuftained^ a ten- dency to deliquium which may take place forChap. VII. Arteries, &c. 6i for the time j the fear he labours under ; and the degree of cold to which the fore is expofed, have altogether fdch an effed: upon the fmaller arteries, as to prevent them for the time from difcharging their contents; and as arteries left in fuch a ftate, without being fecured, generally burft out afterwards, a circumftance which always occafions much trouble to the praditioner, as well as pain and rilk to the patient, nothing fhould be omit- ted that can have any tendency to prevent it. The tourniquet fliould be made perfed^ ly loofe; any coagulated blood on the for- face of the fore fliould be carefully wafli- ed off with k fponge and warm water; and the patient, if faintifli, fliould take a glafs of wine, or fome other cordial; and af- ter all, the furgeon ought to examine, with the mofl: minute attention, the courfe which the veflels of the part ufually take. This being done, every arter'y that cam be diftinguiflied, fliould be fecured with a ligature: For fuch as appear to be very inconfiderable,Of the Ligature Ghap. VIL 62 inconfiderable, while the part Is yet ex-* pofed to the air, will be capable of dif- charging large quantities of blood after the patient becomes warm in bed, when the folids are thereby relaxed and the flu- ids expanded; and, as little or no injury can be done by the proper application of ligatures to every artery that may appear, the greatefl attention ought at all times to be paid to this circumftance. When the principal arteries of a flump have been taken up, and blood conti- nues to be difeharged, but which appears to come from a few fmall vefTels only, the furgeon^ uniefs he is much accuflomed to this kind of bufinefs, is apt to think, from their trifling appearance, that he need not be at the trouble of tying them, as the preillire of the necelTary bandages will in all probability put a flop to the difcharge: In a general oozing of a fmall quantity of blood from the whole furface of a wound, and when no particular veffel can be diflinguilhed, there is a neceflity for trufling .to this remedy; but, whenever anChap. VII^ of Arteries^ &c. 63 an artery can be difcov^ered, of whatever fize it may be, it ought unqueftionably to be fecured with a ligature. I have infill- ed the more upon this, from having often obferved much diftrefs induced, by want of attention to this part of an operation, and from fome late publications, having very improperly endeavoured to fhew, that there is little or no rilk in leaving all the fmall arteries untied that are cut in ope^ rations, a pra6lice fraught with much per- plexity to praditioners, aiid with the ut- mod: hazard to patients. When, from the deepnefs of a wound, or from any other caufe, fome particular artery cannot be properly fecured with the teiiaculum^ w’e are under the neceflity of ufing the crooked needle, and the follow- ing is the mode of employing it. The operator fliould be provided with needles of various fizes, and of different forms. The needles in ordinary ufe, are for many purpofes too much crooked; for, in general, they are more eafily managed when their cufvatures are lefs. 2 The64 Of the Ligature Qiap. VIL The needles pointed out for the inter- rupted future, reprefented in Plate III. anfwer equally well for the ligature of arteries. Thofe in common ufe are made with three edges, one on each fide, atid a third ori the concave part of the needle. There is no neceffity, however, for more than two : Indeed the needle enters more eafi- ly with two than with three edges; and as the third edge on the concave fide, renders them liable to injure arteries and other parts in the courfe of their intro- duction, it ought to be omitted. A needle of this fliape, armed with a ligature of a fize proportioned to itfelf and to the velTel to be taken up, is to be introduced at the diftance of a fixth or eighth part of an inch from the artery ; and being carried at lead: one half round the artery, at a depth fufficient for re- taining it, it miift now be drawn out; and being again pufiied forward, till it has completely encircled the artery, it is a- gain to be pulled out, atid a knot tied ofChap. VII. of Arteries, &c. 65 a fiafHcient firmnefs, as I have already di» i*ecled iti ufing the tenaculum; 111 this manner, either by the ufe of the crooked needle^ or the tenaculum, e- very hemorrhagy depending upon a divi*- fioii of one or more arteries, may in ge- neral be reftramed; but it frequently happens^ that confiderable quantities of blood are difcharged, not from any par- ticular veifel, but from all the fmall ar- teries over the furface of a wound: Iii wounds of great extent, particularly af- ter the extirpation of cancerous breafts, and in other operations where extenfive fores are left, this kind of hemorrhagy often proves troublefome, from being ve- l:y difficult to fupprefs. Bleedings^ of this kind feem evidently to proceed from two very different and oppofite caufes ^ a circumftance which, in the method of cure, requires particular attention. First, They fometimes take place in very robuft confti tut ions, and evi- dently proceed, either from too great a / VoL. III. E ' quantityOf the Ligature Chap. VII. 56 quantity of blood contained in the vef- fels, or from an excefs of tone in the vef- fels themfelyes 3 or, perhaps, from a com- bination of both of thefe caufes. But, Se- condly,. they undoubtedly happen mofl frequently in eonftitutions quite the re- verfe of this, vh. in fuch as are re- laxed and debilitated; either from a pu- trid dilTolved ftate of the blood, from want of tone in the veffels, or in fome in- ftances from a concurrence of both. In eonftitutions perfedlly healthy, when the fluids are not tainted with putrefeen- cy, and the folids are polTeired of their natural tone, as foon as the large arteries of a wound are fecured, the fmaller vef- fels for the moft part recede confiderably within the furface of th? fur rounding parts : This they do in confequence of that contradlile power with which, in a. ftate of health, they are endowed, and from the ftimulus of the external air to which they are now expofed. This of i,t- felf would, often prove fufficient for re-: ftraining hemorrhagies from the fmaller arteries >Chap, VII. of Arteries^ &c. 67 arteries 3 but in the found ftate of confix tutidn, of which we are now fpeaking, another yery powerful agent is provided by nature for producing tile fame effed:. From the extremities of the divided vef- fels which at firfl: difcharged red blood only, there now, in their contraded date, oozes out a vifcid fluid, containing a cer- tain proportion of the coagulable part of the blood ; and this on fpreading ovel* the furface of the wound, has, by its balfa- mic agglutinating powers, no inconfider- able influence in reftraining the hemor- rhagy.. ^ Where the conftitution is found, and where neither of the ftates of difeafe we have mentioned preponderates over the other, it is obferved, as foon as the larger arteries of wounds are fecured, that na- ture, in the manner I have defcribed, ge- nerally puts a flop to all farther difcharge. So that, whenever the contrary happe s^ and when a tedious oozing continues from the fiarface of a fore, we ought to pay parti- E culax68 Of the Ligature Chap. VIL cular attention to the habit of body with which it Is conneded. When this takes place in a young vi- gorous patient, and where the tone of the mufcular fibres is confiderable, the moil effectual means of putting a flop to the dlfcharge, is to relax the vafcular fy- ^ Hem, either by opening a vein in fome other part, or by untying the ligature on one of the principal arteries that have been injured, fo as to allow it to bleed ^ freely: Thofe violent fpafmodic twitch- ings too, fo frequent after the opera- tion of amputation, when they do not depend on a nerve being included in the ligature with the artery, are in this man-* ner more efieflually relieved than by any other means. By the fame means, the patient, from being in a febrile heat and much confufed, foon becomes very tranquil: The violent pulfation of the heart and larger arteries abates, and the blood not being propelled with fuch impetuofity, the fmaller veffels of the part arc therel'jy left at more liberty 2 toChap, VII. of Arteries^ &c. 69 to retracS; and as in this ftate they do not pour forth red blood fo freely, they are the more readily covered with that vif- cid glutinous fluid which we have already fliown to be one of the moil important means provided by nature for the cure of hemorrhagies, At the fame time that we thus endea- vour to allay the commotion produced in \he fyftem, the patient fhould be kept ex- ceedingly cool; wine and other cordials Ihould be avoided y cold water, acidula-, ted either with the mineral or vegetable acids, lliould be his only drink ^ motion of every kind ihould be guarded againft; and the wound being gently covered with foft lint, moderate prefliire ihould be ap- plied over the whole furface of the fore with a proper bandage. In every exteniive wound, attended with this kind of hemorrhagy, and particularly when violent fpafmodic affedions of the mufclesfupervene, together with the means we have mentioned., large dofes of opi- ates often prove ufeful ^ by allaying irri- E 3 / ration70 Of the Ligature Chap, VIL tation and pain, they often prove more beneficial than any other remedy. As foon, therefore, as a fufficient quan- tity of blood has been difcharged, and the wound is dreffed and the patient laid to reft,^ a dofe of opium proportioned to the violence of the fymptoms fhould be exhibited. It mufl, however, be remark- ed, that, in all fuch clrcumftances, much larger dofes of the remedy are neceffary, than in ordinary cafes requiring the ufe of opiates. Small dofes, inftead of an- fwering any good purpofe, feem frequent- ly rather to aggravate every fymptom 3 fo that, whenever opium is employed, it ought always to be in fuch quantities as may be fufficient for the Intended effed:. Although this kind of hemorrhagy fometimes occurs in firm conflltutions, yet it is certainly more frequent in re- laxed enfeebled habits, where the folids have loft part of their natural firmnefs, and the fluids have acquired fome degree of putrefcency. As the veflels in this fi- tuation are fiipppfed to be deprived of thatChap. VII, of ArterieSy &c. ,71 that degree of tone of which we wifh them to be polTelled, inftead of reftrain- ing the patient from cordials, as is ufual- ly done in every cafe of hemorrhagy, a moderate ufe of generous wine Ihould be prefcribed ^ for nothing, it may be obfer- ved, tends fo much in fuch circumftances to reftrain hemorrhagies, as a welhdire£t- ed ufe of cordials. By tending to invi- gorate and brace the folids, they enable the arterial fyftem to give a due refin- ance to the contained fluids, while the fame caufe has no inconfiderable influence in reftoring to the fluids that vifcidity of which in all fuch inftances we fuppofe them to be deprived. When, therefore, tedious hemorrhagies occur in relaxed debilitated habits, a free ufe of Port, Madeira, or any other wine equally good, lliould be allowed 3 a nou- rtfliing diet alfo becomes proper; the pa- tient Ihould be kept cool; and the mineral acids, from their known utility in every kind of hemorrhagy, ought alfo to be prefcribed. Refl: of body is likewife pro- E 4 ' per, ,72 . of the Ligature Chap. VII. per, and opiates, when indicated either by pain or fpafmodic afFec3:iGns of the xnufcles ought never to be omitted. Together with thefe remedies adapted to the general fyftem, particular dreilings, appropriated to the ftate of the injured parts, ought to be applied. We have al- ready remarked, that in firm healthy con- ftitutions, as foon as the difcharge of blood which naturally occurs in large v/ounds is over, the parts come foon to be covered with a vifcid coagulable effufion from the mouths of the now retraded ar- teries ; but in conftitutions of an oppo- fite nature, where the folids are much re- laxed, the blood in general is in fuch a diflblved ftate as to afford no fecretion of this nature. In order to fupply as much as poflible the deficiency of this natural balfam, dif- ferent artificial applications have been employed. Covering the parts with ftarch or wheat-flour has fometimes proved ufe- ful p and I have known gum arabic, myrrh,Ghap. VII. of Arteries, &c. 73 myrrh, and galbanum In fine powder, prove fuccefsful when thefe have failed. Applications of this kind, indeed, have' been ufed with fuccefs in all fiich hemor- rhagies, wkh whatever habit of body they are connected ^ but they have al- ways proved more particularly ufeful in relaxed co'nflitutions, attended with a dif- folved flate of the blood, and an enfee- bled mufcular fyftem. We may here al- To ufe with freedont a remedy which in fuch circumltances generally proves fer- viceable; but which, in conftitutions of an oppofite nature, ought never to be em-. ployed. The remedy I allude to is alco- hol, or any other ardent fpirit, impregna- ted with as great a quantity as it can diflblye, of myrrh, or any other of the heating vifcid gums. The balfamum trau- maticum of the fliops, a remedy of this nature, has long been famed for its influ- ence in fiich cafes: but the indifcriminate ufe of this and fimilar applications which has long prevailed with fome practition- ers, I am confident has dene much harm; for,74 Of the Ligature Chap. VII* for, as they are ail poflefled of very fti- mulating powers, they of courfe tend to aggravate every fymptom in wounds con- nected with a tenfe ftate of fibres, when much pain, and efpecially when fpafmo- dic mufcular aifeCtions prevaiL But, in conftitutions of an oppofite nature, where the blood appears to be in a difiblved ftate, and the arterial fyftem feems evi- dently to require a ftimulus, remedies of this clafs prove highly ufeful: Infomuch that where the hemorrhagies in fiich con- ftitutions prove troubiefome, no applica- tion is found to anfwer better than lint immerfed in a fpirltuous balfam of this nature. By a due perfeverance in one or other of the modes of treatment here pointed out, hemorrhagies of this nature will for the moft part be foon reftrained : But when this does not happen ; and when, notwith* ftandlng of thefe, a difcharge of blood ftill continues; together v/ith the means we have advifed, an equal moderate pref- fiire fliould be applied over the. whole furfaceChap. VII. of Arteries^ &c^ 75 furface of the fore, and continued as long as the necellity of the cafe may indicate. In finiftiing the dreffings of wounds of this clafs, after the lint and compreiles have been applied, a bandage fliould be adapted to the part in fuch a manner as to produce an equal prefliire over the whole furface of the fore. But it forne- times happens, that no bandage what- ever can be fo applied as to produce the defined eflFed : In fuch cafes, the hand of an aififtant is our beft refource. A per-- fon’s hand being firmly applied over the dreffings, fo as to produce an equal pref- fure, will commonly fucceed when no o- ther remedy is found to have any effect. Having thus endeavoured to point out the moft effectual means of putting a flop to hemorrhagies, we ffiall now proceed to confider the different modes employed by art, for effedlng a difcharge of blood when Indicated by the exiftence of fome difeafe in the qonllitution. CHAP-Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. 76 CHAPTER VIII. Of Blood-lettikg. SECTION L Of Blood-letting in General. BLooD-letting, whether we confider it as to its influence on the fyftem, or with refpedl to the nicety with which it ought to be performed, is perhaps one of the molt important operations in fur- gery. From being fo frequently pra6H- fed, and every pretender to knowledge in the healing art being able to perform it, the public have been induced to confider it as trivial with refpedt to its execution3 butOf Blood-letting. 11 Sea. I. but every praditioner of charader will acknowledge, that, in order to perform it properly, the great^ft nicety, fteadinefs, and exadnefs, are required. Every o~ ther operation in furgery I have frequent- ly feen well performed i, but I have fel- dom feen blood-letting with the lancet corredly done. When properly perform- ed, it is a neat operation 3 but when not dpne with exadnefs, it is the very re- verfe. I do not here mean to confider the vari- ous caufes which in different circumftan- ces point out the propriety of abftrading blood from the fyftem ^ nor do I intend to enter upon a particular difcufGon of the different effeds of general and topi- cal blood-letting: Thefe confiderations, as being highly important, would of them- felves extend to a great length, fo that they will not be looked for in a fyftem of furgery. All that is here intended, is to defcribe as clearly as poflible the various modes of performing the operation of blood-letting. la78 Of Blood-letting, Chap. VIII. In all inflammatory alFedions produ- cing difeafe of the fyftem, the method of taking away blood as eftablilhed by immemorial pradlige, is, by fuch means as difcharge the quantity to be taken, at an opening made with a lancet, either in an artery or a vein. Whether there is any real difference in the effeds produ- ced by thefe two modes of difcharging blood, it may be difficult, with precifion, to determine ^ but there is reafon to think, that, independent of the quantity taken, the difference is of lefs importance than is commonly imagined. The latter of thefe termed Phlebotomy, and the for- mer Arteriotomy, are the means employed for what we term general blood-letting ; the particular confideration of which we fhall prefently enter upon. . . But it often happens, in local inflam- mation, that general blood-letting has n6 great influence, while confiderable advan- tage is obtained from what we term Topi- cal or Local blood-letting, in which blood isdifcharged from the part immediately af- feded.Se6l. L Of Blood4etting. 79 fedted, by dividing a number of the fmall velTels which fupply it. The means em- ployed for this, (hall be afterwards point- ' ed out, while, in the mean time, we now return to the particular confideration of phlebotomy. Wherever a vein can be reached with fafety, an opening for the difcharge of blood may be made in it with a lancet; but the following are the parts from whence blood is ufually taken in this manner; the veins of the arm at the flexure of the cubitus ^ the jugular veins; and the veins of the ankles and feet. In particular inftances, blood is alfo advifed to be taken from the veins of the hand, of the tongue, and of the eyes and penis, &c. Some general obfervations relate equal- ly to this operation, in whatever part of the body it is pradlifed ; thefe I lhall in the firft place point out, and fhail after- wards proceed to treat particularly of blood-letting in the arm and other parts.^ I, In 38o Of BloQd4etting. Chap- VIII. I. In this as in every operation, thefi- tuation of the patient, as well as of the o- perator, fliould be precifely fixed. As the fituation of a patient during the operation of blood-letting, has a confider- able influence on the effedls produced by the evacuation upon the fyftem, it there- fore merits particular attention. In fon>e difeafes, it is the object of this remedy, to difcharge a confiderable quantity of blood without inducing fainting : When this is the cafe, and when from former experience it is known that the patient is liable to faint during the evacuation, a horizontal poftiire, either upon a bed or on a couch, ftiould be advifed 3 for every pradlitioner knows that fainting does not fo readily take place in a horizontal po- Iture, as when the patient is ere6l. It fometimes, however, happens, that one material advantage expected from blood-letting, is its inducing a ftate of deliquium 3 as in ftrangulated hernia, where a general relaxation of the fyftem is fometimes defirable. In all fuch cir^ cumftances,VoL. III. p placed Sed. I. Of'Blood-letting. Si cumftances, inftead of a horizontal po~ llure, the more ered the patient is kept, the more readily will fainting be induced: So that the particular objed in view from the operation, muft at all times deter- mine this matter. While we thus attend to the pofture of the body, the particular polition of the limb or part to be operated upon, muft not be negleded. In every operation, it is a point of importance, to have the pa- tient feated in a proper light, but in nope is it more material than in blood-letting. The beft general rule that can be given for it, is, that the patient ihould be fo placed, that the principal light of the a- partment fliall fall diredly upon the part to be operated upon, fo that the vein to be opened may be made as apparent as poft fible. When clear day-light can be obtain- ed, it ought to be preferred ^ but when this cannot be procured, one or more candles Ihould be ufed. But, whatever may be the pofition of the part itfelf, and whether the patient isOf Blood-letting, Chap. VIII*> 82 placed on a bed or a chair, the furgeon fhduld always be feated. The "operation may, no doubt, be done while the fur- geon is Handing; and it is perhaps moft frequently performed in this manner: but it can never be dpne either with fuch fteadinefs or neatnefs, as when the opera- tor is firmly feated. II. From the coats of veins being more flaccid than thofe of arteries, and from the flow circulation which takes place in them, an opening made in a vein will not difcharge freely, if the vein be not cut entirely acrofs, and which would fome- times be produdUve of difagreeable con- fequences, unlefs the blood is prevented^ from returning to the heart, by means of a ligature placed between the heart and that part of the vein in which the open- ing is made. The patient being properly feated, our next ftep therefore is, by means of a pro- per bandage, fo to comprefs the tcin in-' tended to be opened, as to prevent the blood from returning to the heart; and forSe6l. I. ' Of Blood-letting, 83 for the fame reafon, an^ equal degree of preflure, it is obvious, Ihould be appli- ed to all the other veins of the part; for, were this to be negledled, the com- munication preferved by the collateral branches would render the preilure upon any particular vein of little importance. But, befides producing a more free dif- charge of blood tha,n could be otherwife obtained, this preilure upon the veins, by caufing an accumulation of their contents,' tends to bring them more obvioully into view, and confequently renders it ealier for the furgeon to make a proper opening than might otherwife be m his power. Although cpmpreffion, however, to a certain extent, is necelTary for the pur- pofe of accumulating blood in the vein§, and for afterwards difcharging it at an o- pening made by the lancet, it is at the fame time obvious that any confiderabie degree of preilure, inflead of forwarding thefe purpofes,;would obftru61 them en- tirely 3 for, if the prefliire meant to\be ' applied to the veins only, ihould be car- F 2 riedOf Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. 84 rled fo far as to affed: the arteries, all farther accefs of blood to the veins would i be cut off, fo that no evacuation of im- portance could take place at any ppening to be made In them. Whenever we mean, therefore, to difcharge blood in this man- ner, prefllire upon the veins fliould be made with caution : It lliould always be carried fo far as effedually to comprefs the veins, but never to fuch a length as to obftrud the circulation in the corre- Iponding arteries. When we fee that the prefllire raifes the veins more confpicu- oufly Into view, and if at the fame time the pulfatlon of the artery is diftindly felt in the inferior part of the limb, we may then be certain that it is applied to a very proper degree, and that it fhould not be carried farther : For by the fuel- ling of the veins, we are fure that they are fufficiently comprefTed^ and by the arteries continuing to beat, it is evident that a continued flow of blood paffes into them. III. TheSea. I. of Blood-letting. 85 III. The reflux of blood to the heart being in this manner prevented, the next point to be determined, is the befl: me- thod of making an opening into the vein. Different inftruments have been invented for this purpofe, but two only have been retained in ufe. Thefe are, the Lancet and Phleme. This iaft, on being pla- ced immediately on the part to be cut, is, by means of a fpring, ftruck fuddenly into the vein, and forms an opening of the exaa fize of the inftrument. The phleme, in various parts of Ger- many, has acquired fome reputation, par- ticularly in taking blood from the jugiir lar veins : But, various objedions occur to it, which will probably prevent it from ever coming into general ufe : We are ob- liged, from the nature of the inftrument, to regulate the deepnefs to which it is to go, before making ufe of it: Now, we know well that this is a circumftance which cannot be afcertained ; for we fre- quently find it neceflary, after the intro- dudion of a lancet, to go much deeper F 3 _ thanOf Blood-letting, - Chap. VIII. 86 than was at fir ft expeded; fo that when a phleme is ufed, unlefs we employ one in every Inftance, o/ a length w^hich can- not be frequently required, difappoint- ments muft often occur. But the moft material objedion to this inftrument is, that where arteries or tendons lie beneath the veins, and in any danger of being hurt in the opera- tion, the rifk is much greater with the phleme than with the lancet: For when the lancet is ufed, after the vein is open- ed, the orifice may be enlarged at plea- fure, without any additional rifk, merely by carrying the inftrument forward along the courfe of the vein, at the fame depth to which it was at firft introduced; where- as the phleme, after entering the vein, muft pais diredly down to its full depths a circumftance which adds greatly to the rifl^ of wounding the parts underneath. Befides, w^hen the lancet is employed, we have it more in our power to' com- mand an orifice of a determined fize, than with the phleme : So that, without hefi- tation,Sedl. I. Of Blood-letting. 87 tation, we may venture to pronounce the phleme to be an inftruinent in no degree neceflary ; but, for fuch as incline to ufe Jt, the moft convenient form of one is re- prefented in Plate VI. fig. 4. The manner of ufing the phleme is this. The bandage for producing the turgefcem xy of the veitis being applied in the man- ner already direded, the point of the in- ftrument with the fpring properly bent, muft be fo placed upon the part of the vein to be opened, that an orifice of an oblique direction may be made in it on the fpring 5 being let loofe. The fubfequent ma- nagement is the fame here as when the lan- cet is ufed, and will be prefently pointed out. , In ufing the lancet, the form of the in- ftrument is a point of the firft import- ance: Although it feldom meets with that attention which it merits: The form of lancet in ordinary ufe' reprefented in Plate VI. fig. 3. fliould never be ufed for blood-letting : It is well calculated for opening abfcefles; but it- ought never to F 4 be^88 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. be employed In the nice operation we are defcribing. The moft obvious objection to this form of lancet, is, that the broadnefs of its flioulders makes a wound in the exter- nal teguments, perhaps three times the fize of the opening made in the vein^ a circumftance which adds no advantage to the operation; while it gives much un- neceffary pain in the firfl inftance, at the fame time that it often renders it diffi- cult to flop the flow of blood : I may al- fo mention, that the wounds made by it are fo extenfive, that they are apt to ter- minate in partial fuppurations, which al- ways proves both difagr^eable and pain- ful to the patient. The fpear-pointed lancet, reprefented in Plate VI. fig. i. and 2. is an inftrument well calculated for, the purpofe of venae- fedion. From the acutenefs of its point, it enters; the vein eafiiy, a circumftance of lio fmall importance with many : It makes the opening in the vein nearly equal to the orifice in the teguments; and the difcharge89 Of Blood-letting. Sea. L difcharge of blood at an opening made with one of thefe lancets, is commonly flopped with eafe, immediately on the li- gature being removed. For thefe reafons, the fpear-pointed lan- cet fhould be preferred; and although, with timid praflitioners, the acute point of this inftrument may appear to render more dexterity neceffary in ufing it than the broad-fhouldered lancet \ yet the dif- ference in this rcfpect is fo inconlidera- ble, that all w;ho give it a fair trial will foon be able to ufe it with equal free- dom. Indeed no furgeon ought to be trufled in letting blood with the one, whofe fleadinefs and dexterity would in any degree be doubted with the other. IV. The form of lancet being thus fix-- ,edupon, we come now to fpeak of the method of ufing it. The furgeon and pa- tient being both properly feated, and the ligature applied, that vein fhould be made choice of, which, while it appears fufii-* ciently confpicuous, is not fo loqfe as to roll, on being prefTed upon : Some veins, althoughX)f Blood-letting. Chap. VIIL although they rife fufficiently, yet roll fo much, that they are more difficult to open than others which lie at a greater depth. That vein, therefore, is to be preferred, which not only rifes, fo as to become ob- vious, but which appears to be connedled with fome degree of firmnefs to the con- tiguous parts. It is fcarcely neceffary to obferve, when a vein appears to be fo im- mediately connedled with a contiguous ar- tery or tendon, that there muft be fome rilk of injuring thefe parts in the opera- tion, if another vein not liable to fuch hazard can be procured, it ought undoubt- edly to be preferred. Veins may lie diredly aboVe both ar- teries and tendons, and yet no manner of rifk be incurred in opening them, provided the operator Is Tufficiently fteady and at- tentive ; but it muft be admitted, that in fome inftances veins are fo nearly and in- timately conneded with thefe parts, as to render it hazardous even for the moft dexterous furgeon to attempt this ope- ration. . TheSed. I. Of Blood-letting. 91 The vein being at lafl: made choice of, the furgeon, if he is to ufe hls right-hand in the Operation, muft take a firm hold of the member from whence the blood is to be drawn, with his left, and, with the thumb of the fame hand, he muft now make fuch a degree of prefliire upon the vein, an inch and half or two inches be- low the ligature, as not only to render the fkin and teguments terife, but at the fame time to interrupt all communication be- tween the under part of the vein, and that portion of it lying between the li- gature and thumb placed as thus direded. The lancet being bent to fomewhat more than a right angle, the operator muft now take it between the finger and thumb of his right-hand 3 and, leaving at leaft one-half of the blade uncovered, muft reft his hand on the middle finger, ring finger, and lit- tle finger, all placed as eafily as poflible near to the vein from whence the blood is to be taken ^ and having puftied the point of the inftrument freely through the fkin and teguments into the vein, he muft now§2 Of Blood-letting* Chap. VIII. now carry it forward in an oblique di- rection, till the orifice is of a proper fize; taking care, during the time of pufh- ing on the lancet, that the point of it be kept in as ftraight a diredlion as poflible, to prevent It from injuring the parts be- low. The Inflrument is now tobe withdrawn^ and the furgeon removing the thumb of his left hand, the vein muft be allowed to empty itfelf freely Into' cups provided for the purpofe. It is here of importance to obferve, that the limb fliould be kept fteadily in the fame pofture during the whole time the blood is difcharging: Otherwife, the ori- fice in the fkin is. apt to flip over the o- penlng in the vein; a circumllance which always proves inconvenient, and in fome inftances exceedingly troublefome, by the blood from the vein palling into the fur- rounding cellular fubftance. In taking hold of the lancet, I have dl- reited the fcales to form rather an acute angle with the blade of the inflrument. It willSed. I. Of Blood-letting. 93 will even anfwer when they are more widely feparated y but a farther repara- tion proves always troublefome, by throw- ing the fcales too much back upon the hand of the operator. The length of inftrument that ought to projed before the finger and thumb, is another circumftance requiring attention; for unlefs a fufficient quantity is left un- covered, the furgeon cannot ad with free- dom. In lancets of an ordinary length, one half of the blade, as I have mention- ed abovC;^ Ihould always be left out. The entry of the lancet into the vein Is the next circumftance deferving notice. It is readily difcovered, for as foon as the point has entered the vein, the re- fiftance to its farther progrefs is imme- diately diminiflied, and as foon as the o- pening is in any degree enlarged, the blood begins to rufli put, and thus gives the cleareft proof of the operation being fo far complete. On being thus render- ed fiire that the lancet has got into the vein, I have alfo defired that it may be 3 carriedOf Blood-letting-, Chap< VIII.' H carried forward in an oblique direction, taking care to keep the point of it in the fame elevation from the inftant it has paffed fairly through the coats of the vein; and to this part of the operation the moft particular attention is required. To the want of caution in this impor- tant point, much of the rilk attending this operation may be affigned. The propriety of an oblique direction for the courfe of the orifice is obvious : For, when quite'longitudinal, the fides of the wound are apt to clofe, fo as not to admit of a free difcharge ; while, on the other hand, when the vein is cut entire- ly acrofs, troublefome confequences com- monly enfue from the wound being diffi- cult to heal: An orifice fomewhat obiiqufe with refpe£l to the courfe of the vein, is therefore preferable to either. But the material circumflance to be kept in view is the diredion of the point of the lancet after it has got fairly into the vein. By almofl every author who has written up- on blood-letting, as foon as the lancet has got95 Sje(S. L Of Blood letting, got into the veln^ in o^der to extend the orifice to a fiifficient length^^ we [are dh- reeled, very properly, to carry the in- ftrument forward : But in what manner are we defired to do fo ? By railing the heel of the lancet, as it is termed, at the fame time that the point and edge of it is in fome degree pufhed forward, fo as to make the point of the iriftrument the centre of motion. The reafon of this lafl: diredion is, that the internal orifice of the vein may not be farther extended upwards than the external wound in the fkin and other integuments ^ ecchymofes, or effufions of blood into the cellular fubftance, being the frequent effed of a different manage- ment when broad fhouldered lancets are ufed : But when the fpear-pointed lancet is ufed, this may be always avoided j as, from the narrow point of the inftrument, k may with fafety be carried on in the cavity of the vein as far as is neceffary. When the operation is properly done, the orifice in the vein miift be nearly of-Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. 96 of the fame extent as the wound in the Ikln: And by the fame management we avoid that important rifk which miifl: al- ways occur from an implicit obedience to the direction I have mentioned : for one certain effed: of railing the heel, or back part of the lancet, is, that the point mull in the fame proportion be deprelTed; and the confequence of lowering the point, already perhaps Hiding along the under fide of the vein, mull in all fuch circum- ftances prove extremely hazardous: For if, in this fituation, the point of the in- ftrument is deprefled, which mull un- doubtedly happen when the heel is eleva- ted, it, mull for certain pafs through the back part of the vein ^ fo that if either an artery, nerve, or tendon, lie contigu- ous, they mult of necefiity be wounded > and I am perfectly convinced, that this caufe alone has often been the origin both of wounds in the arteries, and of pricks in the nerves and tendons. This praflice, therefore, as being highly dangerous, ought in every inllance to be laid afide. In97 Sea. L Of Blood-letting. The fize of the orifice in bloodletting fhould at all times be determined by the nature of the difeafe for which the eva- cuation is preforibed. When it is meant to difcharge a large quantity of blood fuddenly, either with a view to excite fainting, or for any other reafon, the ori- fice muft neceflarily be large 5 but in ordinary praaice, no neceflity occurs for this. In ufing a fpear-pointed lancet, an ori- fice of an eighth part of an inch in length will in general anfwer every purpofe; but when a broad-fhouldered lancet is ufed, an opening of twice that fize becomes ne- celTary, for with this inltrument the ori- fice in the vein will feldom be more than half the extent of that in the fkin. After withdrawing the lancet, I have defired that the thumb of the left-hand fliould be removed from the fpot on which it was placed : It may perhaps appear that fome circumftances are here pointed out, with unneceflary minuteiiefs, and this a- mong others may poJflibly be confidered VoL. III. G as9? Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIIL as one : But it mufl be remembered, that the whole of this work is chiefly meant for beginners, to whom fevery circum-* fiance in operations of importance ought to be explained: Now, one material ufe of the thumb placed below the point where the lancet enters, is, to keep the parts firm, fo as to preyent the vein from roll- ing. But another advantage derived from it is, that by making a fufficient degree of preffure upon the vein, it prevents any blood from efcaping between the time of removing the lancet, and the application of a cup for receiving the blood. During this period a gopd deal of blood is often difcharged, to the great annoyance both of the patient, the operator, and byftand- ers; a circumflance which, with due at- tention, may very commonly be prevent- ed. V. When the vein is prdperly cut, and the orifice made fufficiently large, there is feldom any difficulty in procuring all the blood that is wanted. But we are in fome cafes difappointed in this^ either fromSe<3:. I. Of Blood-letting. 99 from the orifice of the fkin having re^ ceded from the opening in the vein, or from the patient having become faintifh^ circumftances always unfavourable to a free difcharge of blood. When it hap- pens from fainting, a flream of frefh air fhould be admitted to. the apartment, wine or fome other cordial fhould be j^dmini- flered, and the patient fhould be placed in a horizontal poflure. By thefe means he will in general foon recover 5 but if ftill the blood fhould not flow freely, the member fhould be placed in every varie- ty of poflure that may tend to bring the opening in the fkin to correfpond with that of the vein, which will foon be known to have happened by the blood beginning to flow. Throwing the mufcles of the part into conftant adlion, by giving the patient a cane or any other firm fubftance, to turn frequently round in his hand when the operation is done in the arm, will often excite a conftant flow of blood from a vein, when all other means have failed : And laftly, when the pulfe G 2 inOf Blood-lettings Chap. VIIL 100 in the inferior part of the member is feeble, and cannot be eafily diftiriguilhed, we may judge that the ligature is too tight, and may have it in our power to excite an immediate flow of blood, by re- moving or leflening the compreflion thus improperly made up^n the arteries. VI. A quantity of blood proportioned to the circumftances of the cafe, being thus difcharged, the prelTure upon the fu- perior part of the vein fliould be remo- ved ; and this being done, if the fpear- pointed lancet has been ufed, all farther dilcharge of blood will in general flop. It fometimes, however, happens, that the blood continues to flow freely even after the ligature is removed. When this is the cafe, the operator fliould comprefs the vein both above and below the orifice with the finger and thumb of one hand, fo as to prevent any farther lofs of blood : This being done, the limb fliould be waflied, und entirely cleared of blood : The ori- fice muft alio be cleared of every particle of blood, and the fides of it being laid exadljSed:. t. Of Bloodfetting. tot G 3 of exadly together, a piece of coiirt-plafter, or any other that is fufficiently adhefive, fhould be fo applied as to retain them. This will in many inftances render a ban- dage nnneceflary ^ but when the blood has illued with much violence during the operation, and has been difficult to flop after the removal of the ligature, in fuch inftances it will be prudent to apply a fmall comprefs of linen over the plafter^ and to fecure the whole with a roller properly applied round the limb. Before applying the plafter, I have di» reded the orifice to be cleared of every particle of bloody and this, it maybe obferved, is a circumftance of more im- portance than is commonly imagined: By inattention to this point, and want of exadnefs in doling the orifice, painful fwellings and confequent fuppurations are often induced, which with eafe might be prevented. When the operation is pro- perly done,.the wound heals by what fur«" geons call the Firft Intention, that is, by the parts adhering without the formation102 Of Blood4etting. Chap. VIIL of matter; but this can feldom happen, If the lips of the fore have not been neatly laid together after all the blood has been cleared away- There is ftlll another Important argu- ment for neatnefs in this matter. Among other troublefome confequences ariling from blood-letting, Inflammation fome- tlmes occurs in the cavity of the vein ^ and as nothing tends more to produce this than the admlflion of air, this clr- cumftance of itfelf ftrongly points out the propriety of attention to the point in queftion. ' For although Inflammation in the internal furfaces of veins is not fre- quent,^ yet in various inftances it is met with; and as the confequences arifing from it, if fuppuratlon enfues, muft com- monly prove fatal, they ought in every inftance to be ftricSly guarded againft. VII. We come now to treat more particularly of fome troublefome confe- queilces that occafionally proceed from blood-letting, and which every operator ought to be as much as poffible prepared to 2S^d. I. of Blood-letting. 103 to obviate. The mofl: material of thefe are, tumors produced by blood eifufed from the orifice of the vein into the furround- ing cellular fubftance ^ wounds of the ar- tery lying contiguous to the vein ; pricks of the nerves and tendons ; and laflly, inflammation, Induced in the internal ca- vity of the vein, as has juft been men- tioned. Thefe we ftiall, under feparate heads, proceed to confider G4 SJEC- ^ Among other reafons which I have given for pre* ferring a fpear-pointed lancet, it was obferved, that with it the operation is done with much lefs pain than with the broad-lhouldered lancet: And the prevention of pain is of fuch importance, that nothing fliould be omit- ted that can in an j degree tend to infure it. In every operation our inftruments fhould be in the tnoft complete order; but in none is this of more import- ance than in blood-letting. Well-tempered lancets will anfwer tolerably well after being frequently ufed; info- much that I have heard even well-employed furgeons aflert, that they have ufed one or two lancets only du- ring the courfe of many years practice, without their ever being in the hands of a cutler. But it is certain* that104 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII SECTION II. Of a "thrombus, or Ecchymojis^ IHave already delired, that in blood- letting, the member fhouid be retain- ed in the fame pofture, till the whole quan- tity of blood intended to be taken is dif- charged. When this is negleded, a fmall tumor is apt to form immediately above the orifice in the vein, by the blood infi- nuating into the cellular fubftance' of the neighbouring parts.. This kind of tunior^ when round and fmall, is termed a Throm- bus y that every time a lancet is ufed, it mult be more or lefs injured; and as the prevention of pain is with moft pa- tients a point of no fmall importance, I think it ought to be laid down as a rule not to be departed from, never to ufe the fame lancet twice, without putting it into the hands of a cutler. This I have long been in the pradice of doing, not only with, lancets, but with every cutting inftrument; and the trouble and expence attending it is inconliderable, when compared with the advantage de- rived from it.Sedl. II. Of Blood-letting. 105 bus y and when more diffufed, an Ecchy- mofis,. Immediately on the appearance of thefe fwelllngs, the ligature fhould be removed ^ and the member being put into that pof- ture in which it was held when the lan- cet was introduced, the ligature may be again renewed. A free return of blood will probably in this manner be induced y by which, if the tumor be not entirely re- moved, it will at lead; be prevented from becoming larger. It fometimes, however, happens, that thefe fwellings come at once to fueh a fize,. as entirely to preclude every poffibility of finiflilng the operation at the orifice firfl: made in the Vein. Even here, however, the ligature fiiould be immediately remo- ved as the mofl: effeilual rnethod of pre- venting an increafe of the tumor. By con- tinuing the bandage on the vein, as is often done, the blood ftill continues to be for- ced into the furrounding cellular fub- fiance y by which, fuch degrees of dwel- ling are induced as are apt to create a good deal106 Of Blood-letting. Chap VlII. deal of trouble, and which, with due at- tention, might, in every inftance, be pre- vented. In this fituation, it would be vain to ex- pedl: any conhderable quantity of blood from the orifice firft made. The only way in which the operation can be completed^ is by making another opening, not in the fame vein, which in fuch circumftances vrould feldom bleed freely, but in any other that lies moft convenient. When thefe tumors do not become large, they are for the moft part eafily difperfed: In this ftate, indeed, they feldom require attention ^ but when they become larger than ufual, an immediate application of difcutients fliould be advifed. Aflringents are to be more depended on than any other remedy,,and of this clafs brandy and other ardent fpirits are perhaps as ufeful as any. Comprefles, wet in a folution of crude fal ammoniac in vinegar, and applied with a moderate preflure, have likewife proved effedual. Infiauces,Sedt. II. Of Blood-letting. 107 Inftances, however, fometimes happen, although not frequently, of the colledtion of blood being in too great quantities to admit of being all abforbed : In fuch ca- fes, as no fuppuration can happen, from no- thing but red blood being contained in the tumor, and which cannot be converted in- to purulent matter, it ought to be immedi- ately laid open as foon as there is reafon to fuppofe that no farther diminution of fize will probably occur from abforption. This being done, and the coagulated blood evacuated, the fore falls to be treated like any ordinary wound. But thefe tumors are in general of little importance when compared with other accidents which fometimes proceed from blood-letting. The firfl; of thefe we are to treat of are wounds of arteries. SEC-of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. ■5o8 SECTION III. Of Wounds of the Arteries^ IN aU the fmallerarteries, openings may be made with little or no rilk ;_but we know from experience, that wounds in the larger arteries often prove hazardous, and feldom heal eafily. When, in blood-letting, we have rea^ fon to fafped: that an artery has been wounded, by the lancet having pafled through the vein, and that blood is dif- charging at the fame orifice, both from the artery and vein, it becomes a matter of importance for an operator to know with precifion whether it is fo or not. There is only one way in which complete certainty can be obtained on this point; and it is this : When the blood comes from the vein only, if a degree of prefTure is applied both immediately above and below the orificeSe(St. III. Of Blood-letting. leg orifice fufliclent for compreffing the fides of the vein, all farther evacuation of blood fhould inftantly flop, even when the prefluve is not fo confiderable as to affed the artery below ^ but if part of the blood comes from a wound in the artery, this prefliire upon the vein, inftead of put- ting a flop to the difeharge, will rather tend to increafe it. When at the fame time the blood is difeharged per faltum^ this will no doubt ferve as a farther proof, but this teil of itfelf, I may remark, is not fo decilive as is commonly imagined 3 for, a vein lying immediately contiguous to a large artery, receives the influence of the arterial pulfation to fuch a degree, that any orifice made in it difeharges blood very nearly in the fame manner as if the ar- tery itfelf was cut. No other proof, how- ever, is neceflTary of the artery being wounded, than the one I have mentioned; for, if after the veins are thoroughly coqaprefled, both above and below the 6- rifice, blood fhould ftill flow with force, no doubt could remain of the artery be- ingOf Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. I ID ing wounded. In all fuch trials, it is fcarcely neceflary to obferve, that in com- prefling the veins, care fliould be taken not to affed: the artery. In fuch circumftances, it is the com- mon pradice to tie up the part with as much firmnefs as poflible, in the firfl: , place with different comprefTes placed o- ver the orifice of the vein; and leaft thefe fliQuld not be fufficient, a piece of money or other hard fubftance is commonly add- ed, and the whole fecured with a roller very tightly applied. But what effed are we to exped from much prefliire applied in this manner ? It will not be faid, that it fliould be fo confiderable, as to comprefs the artery itfelf; for, in that cafe, a flop would be put to the circulation in the whole limb : While, on the contrary, if the force is in fuch a degree as to com- prefs the fides of the veins only, one cer- tain effed of this muft be, to occafion a confiderable refiftance to the flow of blood from the artery : and the blood being thus obflruded in its natural courfe, will ne-r ceffarilyIll Sedl. IIL Of Blood-letting. qeflarily be much more readily effiifed at the opening in the artery, than if the veins had been all left free and pervious to receive and tranfmit it. In all fuch cafes, therefore, inftead of applying much prefliire, fuch means fhould be advifed as will with moft certainty tend to relax the veins ^ and in order to command the blood, the lips of the wound Ihould be laid together, and retained by ftraps of adhefive plafter, without any bandage. And as there is not a more ef- fedtual method of relaxing the fyftem at large, and the vafcular fyftem in particu-^ lar, than by difcharging large quantities of blood quickly, as foon as it is known that an artery is injured, as much blood fhould be difcharged by the orifice newly made, as the patient can eafily bear. In this manner, and by enjoining ftricl at- tention to reft of body, in order to pre- vent as much as poilible the undue adion of the arterial fyftem, and by keeping the body cool, with the ufe of gentle purga- tives;, a low diec^ and farther blood-iet- tipgs112 Of Blood-lettings Chap. VIII. tings when neceflary, there may always be fome chance of fuch wounds in arteries being brought to heal: 'Whereas, when much prellure is made upon the veins, the blood being thereby prevented from flowing through them, muil necelTarily be forced out at the newly formed orifice in the artery ^ and which muft therefore, in the mofl; certain manner, prevent it from healing : In this manner there is rea- fon to thinly that many aneurifmal fwel- lings have been produced, which, under the mode of treatment I have advifed, might eafily have been prevented. In wourids of arteries, however, it fre- quently happens that no treatment what- ever wiilfucceed ^ the orifice in the ar- tery will not reunite, and blood in con- fiderable quantities is effufed into the con- tiguous parts. Even in this ftate of the injury, ftrong prefTure is often advifed, with a view to diflipate the tumor : But unlefs the fwelling is foft, and the blood contained in it ftill remains fluid, no pref- fiire whatever will difcufs it 3 for,/when- ever 3Of Blood-letting, 113 Sea. III. ever the accumulated blood has become firm;, we cannot fuppofe that preflure will drive it back by the paflage from whence it came. Nor does it appear, that in fuch circumftances, preflhre tends to forward the abforptlon of extravafated blood. From theory alone we might be induced to draw this conclufion; and in faft I have not met with an inftance of prefliire in fuch cafes affording any advantage. There is indeed a variety, of aneurifin, formed by an artery being wounded by a lancet after paffing through a vein, in which moderate prefiiire proves ufeful. When an artery wounded in this manner, lies quite contiguous to the correfponding vein, the opening between the vein and artery, in fome inftances, remains pervi» ous after the external orifice in the vein is doled, f6 as to produce a diredl com- munication between the one and the o- ther; and the vein in this manner re- ceiving the full force of the arterial pul- fation, while its coats are not pofiefled of firmnefs fufficient to refift it, a fwelling VoL. 111. H ofTI4 of Blood-letting. Chap. Vllf. of the vein of neceffity takes place. In all fuch inftances, we may readily fup- pofe that moderate prefliire will prove ferviceable., by tending to fupport the diftended vein, and thus preventing any farther increafe of it« bulk ^ but in no other fwelling arifing from blood effufed from an artery, can preffure prove ufefulf while, on the contrary, for the reafons I have enumerated, there is much caufe to- fufpedl that it has often done harm. When we are certain that an artery has: been opened^ and that the tumor produ- ced by it, arifes from blood collefted in the cellular membrane around it, if keep- ing the limb in an eafy relaxed pofture, and the veins free from preflure, together with the other means formerly pointed out, do not prove effedlua.!, no other mode of treatment with which we are acquaint- ed will have much influence. The tumor ftill continuing, by th^ com- munication between it and the artery be- ing kept up, and none of the means em- ploySe6t. III.' Of Blood-letting. 115 ployed for difperfing it, prpving effectual, the difeafe in this ftate is to be confidered as an aneurifin, a variety of tumor, of which a more particular defcription will be given in Chapter IX. H 2 S E C»of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. SECTION IV. Of Wounds or Pricks in the Nerves andl'endonr. HE afFecSIon we have juft been con- fidering, viz. wounds of the arte- ries, as well as wounds of tendons, ought never to happen in the hands of a furgeon of fteadinefs and experience 5 for, as ar- teries and tendons may both be diftin- guiftied by the finger, and their fituation afcertained withexa6lnefs, it muft always be the fault of the furgeon, if the point of his lancet is not fo direded as to avoid them. One principal caufe of thefe acci- dents in blood-letting, is, as I have en- deavoured to fhow, the ordinary pradice of depreiling the point of the lancet, af- ter it has entered the cavity of the vein. This, however, I have fhown to be al- ways unneceflary, and in many inftances highly dangerous. But although, by pro- per attention to this part of the operation, we may always with certainty avoid the artenesSed. IV. Of Blood-letting. ' 117 arteries and tendons 3 yet It may be faid^ that the nerves, which are fo fmall as not to be previoufly diftinguiflied, run at all times a great rilk of being injured ^ and we know that when wounded, the moft a- larming fymptoms take place, that ever lucceed to the operation of blood-letting. But although the nerves cannot previ- oufly be diftinguiflied, yet, if a proper di- redion is given to the lancet, fo as to pre- vent the point of it from palling through the back part of the vein, the fame means which tend to fecure the arteries and ten- dons, will, with almoft equal certainty, prove a fafeguard to the nerves : For, if the operator enters his lancet, as he ought; always to do, on the fuperior part of the vein, and if he does not cut the vein en- tirely acrofs, by pulhing it -through the oppofite fide of it, he will feldom or ne- ver injure the contiguous nerves : for thefe, though they run near to the veins, yet they either lie immediately below them, or fo far down upon their fides as to be out of all rilk of being wounded, if H 3 theOf Blood-letting, Chap. VIII, Il8 the orifice is made in the upper part of the vein only. I may venture to affert, that the nerves are never injured by a lancet entering the anterior part of a vein; It is always on the oppofite fide of the vein that any mifchief of this kind is pro- duced, when the lancet, as I have al^ ready obferved, is pufliedentirely through; which it ought never to be, and which every furgeon ought to have Ileadinefs e- nough to prevent. But although a very ordinary degree of caution would eafily prevent all fuch occurrences, and although I have Ihown, when they do happen, that the furgeon is almofl: in every inftance to blame; yet ex- perience has evinced that, either from want of attention, or from want of fteadi- nefs on the part of the operator, however eafily fuch inconvenieneies might be pre- vented, yet ftill they frequently occur. Nerves, and even tendons, are fometimes pricked, when the dreadful train of fymp- toms which fuch accidents commonly produce, is almofl; inevitable. ItIT9 Sea. IV. Of Blood-letting. It fometimes happens, that the patient complains of an exquifite degree of pain, immediately on the lancet being intro- duced; and this we may always coniider as a certain mark of a nerve or tendon being wounded. With proper manage- ment, the violence of pain will often a- .bate, and at lall ceafe entirely, and no danger will enfue; but in fome inftances the pain, inftead of abating, gradually becomes v/orfe'; the lips of the fore be- come hard and inflamed; and in the courfe of a day or two from the operation, a thin watery ferum begins to ooze from the orifice. If relief is not foon obtained, thefe iymptoms generally continue in nearly the fame ftate for two or three days'longer. At this time the pain becomes ffill more diftrefsful; but inftead of being fharp and acute, itls now attended with the fenfa- tlon of a burning heat. The fullnefs in ;the lips of the wound becomes more con- fiderable, and the fwelling in the neigh- bouring parts extends over the whole H 4 member;120 Of Blood-letting, Chap VIIL member; from the foot upwards over the thigh, when the operation has been done in the lower extremity; and from the el- bow down the fore-arm, and upwards a^ long the humerus over to the peftoral muf- cle and other contiguous parts, when at the ufual place of blood-letting in the arm. The parts at laft become tenfe and hard; an eryfipelatous inflammatory colour fre- quently appears over the whole member; the pulfe by this time has generally be^ come hard and quick ; the pain is now intenfe ; the patient reftlefs; twitchings of the tendons occur; in fome a locked jaw fupervenes; and, all thefe fymptoms continuing to increafe, it moft frequent- ly happens that the mifery of the unforr tunate patient is only terminated by death* Blood-letting, from being fo frequent- ly pradtifed, may by many be confldered as an operation neither fo difficult in exer cut ion, or fo dreadful in its confequen- ces, as is here reprefented. Such inftan- ces indeed are not frequent; but they happenSed. IV. Of Blood-letting. 12V happen often enough to convince us of the importance of this operation. In the courfe of my experience I have known many inftances of the confequences of blood- letting proving fatal, and the dreadful train of fymptoms I have enumerated, oc- curred in all of them. Different opinions have prevailed re- fpeding the caufe of thefe fymptoms : By fome they have been imputed to wounds of the tendons; while by others the ten- dons are fuppofed to be deftitute of fen- libility, and the painful fymptoms which fometimes fucceed to blood-letting, they attribute entirely to wounds of the nerves. By Mr John Hunter of London, thefe fymptoms are fuppofed more frequently to proceed from an Inflamed ftate of the in- ternal furface of the vein, than from any other caufe. Such a ftate of the vein he has often traced in horfes that have died of fuch fymptoms from venaefedion, where the internal coat of the vein was always found much inflamed, not only in the neighbourhood of the part where the ori- fice122 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIIL lice was made 3 but in fome inftances a- long the whole courfe of the vein, even, to the heart itfelf. Some inftances too have occurred, of the fame appearances in the human body, where the veins af- ter death were found highly inflamed. And on other occafions, inflammation having in this manner been once excited, ftippuration has atlaft enfued from it \ and the matter thus produced, being in the courfe of circulation carried to the heart, Mr Hunter fuppofes that in fuch cafes death may have been induced by that caufe alone. There can be no reafon to doubt the fad: held forth by Mr Hunter, that in luch inftances the vein in which the ori- fice has been made, has fometimes after death been found inflamed: But however ingenious his arguments may be, for con- cluding th^t this ftate of the vein is the original caufe of all the bad fymptoms 5 and although we muft allow that inflam- mation of a vein muft tend to aggra- vate all the fymptoms previoufly induced by other caufes, yet I think we may con- clude.Sed. IV. Of Blood-lettings 123 elude, that it could not in any inllance account in a fatisfadory manner for their firfl; produdion. In all theinftances of this dreadful ma- lady which I have met with, the patient at the very inftant of the operation felt a very unufual degree of pain. In fome cafes, the violence of the pain was al- moff infupportable. Now, this we can never fuppofe to have been produced by the mere pundure of a vein^ for although the coats of veins are not perhaps entirely deftitute of feeling, yet we know that they are not endowed with much fenfibility. This inflamed date of the veins therefore,^ which in fome cafes has been obferved af- ter death, mufl: be confidered rather as the effed, than the caufe of fuch affec- tions ; and that they Ihould frequently excite inflammation in the contiguous veins, is highly probable. In the courfe of a fhort time from the operation, when the febrile fymptoms commence, fuch a degree of hardnefs and inflammation is induced over all the contiguous parts, that itOf Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. 124 it would be furprifing indeed if the vein, which is thus perhaps fiirrounded with inflamed parts, ihould not be inflamed likewife. We may therefore confider this infla- med ftate of the veins as a confequence, rather than the caufe of fuch ailments ^ and of courfe we revert to the opinion of all the bad fymptoms found in feme in- ftances to fucceed to venaefedion, pro- ceeding either from the wound of a nerve or tendon. Some have indeed attempted to fliow, as I have already remarked, that tendons are almofl: totally deftitute of fenfibility; and therefore, that wounds of tendons can never account for the various fymp- toms which fometimes enfue from blood- letting. There is reafon, however^ to think, that in different inftances the fame train of fymptoms have been induced by each of thefe caufes ; that in one inflance a wounded nerve, and in others pricks of the tendons, have given rife to them. BeingSed, IV, Of Blood-letting. 12 s Being decidedly of this opinion rnyfelf, I think every perfon mufl: be fo, who has attentively confidered the fubjed; but as the fame method of treatment proves equally applicable, whether the difeafehas originated from the wound of a nerve or tendon, I do not think it neceflary to enter upon a more minute difcuffion of the queftion. Having in a former fedion fhown how fuch accidents may be almofl: always avoided, we lhaU now proceed to confider the means beft calculated for preventing the fymptoms coming to an a- larming height when it is difcovered that either from inadvertence or any other caufe, the ipifchief has adually hap- pened. Whenever a patient, at the time of the operation, complains of an exquifite de- gree of pain, we may conclude that fome parts have been wounded which ought not to have been touched. When this unfor- tunately happens, if proper attention is immediately given, much may be done to obviate126 Of Blood4etting. Chap. Vllt obviate the acce/iion of thofe fymptom^ which fuch a caufe will otherwife induce. In order to prevent as much as poffible the confequent inflammation and other fymptoms which ufually enfue, a confide- rable quantity of blood fhould be imme- diately difcharged at the orifice jufl: made 3 the limb, for feveral days, fhould be kept in a ftate of perfect reft; care fhould be taken that the mufcles of the part are pre- ferved in as relaxed a ftate as poffible ^ , the patient fhould be kept cool 3 on a low diet^ and, if neceffary^ gentle lax- atives fhould be adminiftered. By this management alone, the fatal fymptoms I have enumerated, may fre- quently be prevented 3 and when they take place where thefe precautions have been omitted, we may often conclude that they proceed more from negligence in the fubfequent treatment, than from any thing peculiarly bad in the nature of the original accident. If, notwithftanding however of the means already pointed outj the fymptoms, infteadSefl:. IV* Of Blood4etting,^ 1:2.7 inftead of dim ini filing, rather locreafe, if the lips of the orifice turn hard and more inflamed, if the pain becomes more con- fiderable, and efpecially if the fwelling begins to fpread, other remedies muft be employed: In this fituation, leeches ap- plied upon the lips of the wound, frequent- ly give relief I and when the pulfe is full and quick, it even becomes neceffary to evacuate large quantities of blood, by o- pening a vein in fome other part. The external remedies ufually employed here,are,.fomentations and warm poultices, and in inflammatory affedtions of other parts, no remedies prove more fiiccefsfuL But from all the experience which I have had in the treatment of inflammation arl- fingfrom blood-letting, I am nowperfedly convinced that little or no advantage is to be expeded from remedies of this clafs. On the idea of being able to induce a free and kindly fuppuration in the wound, and having reafon to think, from its effeds in fimilar complaints arifing from other caufes^that all the fymptoms wonid there- by128 of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. by be fubdiied, I muft own that in various inftances I adopted the pradice in the greatefl: poffible degree. Unfortunately, however, the advantages refulting from it never anfweredmy expedation^ fo that at lafl: I was induced to make trial of very , different remedies. Although, on firil entering on the free j ufe of warm emollients, I did not parti- ..j cularly advert to the caufe of their fai- | lure, yet I now think that it may be eafi- f ly explained. The parts principally con- cerned here being almofl entirely mem- branous, and being therefore, as I have V elfewhere Ihown incapable of yielding purulent matter, a continued courfe of warm emollients, inftead of producing the wifhed for effed, muft probably render all the fymptoms more fevere ^ for when remedies of this clafs do not induce a free fuppuration, they tend, by the heat which they convey, to ad as a fti- mulus, and hence increafe the inflamma- tion : And in fad we find, that all thefe ' applications, ' Vidv Chapter I,Se(S. IV. Of Blood-letting. 129 applications, Inftead of proving ufeful, rather do harm. The heat of the part is here one of the moft diftrefsfui fymp- toms 3 fo that Inftead of affording relief, any additional warmth rather tends to augment this very tornienting fource of uneafinefs. The lips of the wound, not being capable of yielding good matter, are^ by the additional heat which thefe applications convey to them, rendered ftill more hard, fwelled, and of courfe more painful, and the fwelling of the contiguous parts alfo becomes more diffu- fed over the reft of the member. By Ambrofe Pare, Dionis, Heifter, and others, inftead of emollients, oil of tur- pentine, tinfture of myrrh, and other heating applications, are recommended. That thefe would not prove effedual, I cannot from experience pretend to fay ; for, fufpe6Hng that they might prove too powerfully irritating to parts rendered already exquifitely fenfible by difeafe, I have never ventured to ufe them: But I can from repeated experience aflert, that VoL. III. I coolingT30 of Elood-lctting. Chap. VIII.^ 3 cooling aftringent applications afford much more eafe, and prove much more effectual, than warm emollients ; and of this clafs, the moft effedual I have ever employed are the faturnine remedies : The parts afledled being alternately co- vered with cloths wet with a folution of faccharum faturni, and pledgits fpread with Goulard’s cerate^ are kept more CO oland eafy than by any other remedy I have ufed. In all fuch cafes, therefore^ as foon as a fufficient number of leeches have been applied, and have difcharged freely, the fwelling IhouM j3€ covered with pieces of foft linen wet in a faturnine folution and thefe being kept conftantly moift for the fpace of a few hours, fliould be fuc- eeeded by Goulard’^s cerate; and thus e- very part in any degree affedted, fhould be alternately covered with one or other* nf thefe applications, as long as any de- gree of fwelling remains. The febrile fymptoms muft at the fame time meet with attention: The patient fliouldSedi. IV. Of Blood-letting. 131 fhould be kept cool, and on a low diet: his Ikin flipuld be kept moift with Do- vaf’s powder : gentle laxatives fliould be given when neceflary, and if the pulfe becomes full, hard, or quick, farther quan- tities of blood fliould be evacuated. In violent degrees of pain opiates fliould be freely giyen, and when twitchings of the tendons and other convulfive fymp- toms fupervene, they become ftill more neceflary. In order, however, to have milc^ influence in this ftate of the coin- plaint, they require to be given in full do» fes ^ otherwife, inftead of proving ufeful, they conilantly aggravate the fymptbms, not only by increafing the heat and refl;- Jeflhefs, but by rendering the fyftem more jirritable, and therefore more fufceptible than it was before of the pain produced by the wound: Whenever opiates, there- fore, are in fuch circumftances employ- ed, thp dofes fliould always be conlide- rable. It often happens, however, in this very alarming fltuati(ni> either fro^ feeing ne- I sa gledtedof Bloodletting. [^Chap. VllTo' 132 gledted altogether at firft, as is too fre- quently the cafe, or from an^ improper fubfequent treatment with warm emolli^ ents, that opiates and all the other reme- dies I have mentioned are afterwards ufed in vain: The fever, pain^ and fwelling of the parts, continuing, convulfive affec- tions of the mufcles at laft fupervene, all tending to indicate the moft imminent danger. In this fituation, if we do not immediately employ the moft effedlual remedy, the patient muft foon fall a vic- tim to the difeafe 3 and the only remedy from which any real advantage is to be expedled, is‘a free and extenfive divifion of the parts in which the orifice produ- cing the mifchief was at firft made. From the repeated experience of ages, we know, that much more pain and di- ftrefs is excited by the partial divifion either of a nerve or tendon, than fronj their being cut entirely acrofs. Now the intention of this operation is to complete the divifion of the nerve or tendon we. fuppofe to have been wounded by the point:Sed. IV. Of Blood-letting. 133 point of the lancet, and which I am in- duced in all fuch cafes to coniider as the chief caufe of the fubfequent diftrefs. As the operation however is attended with much pain, and being put in pradice for the removal of fymptoms from which it is perhaps difficult to perfuade the pa- tient that any danger is to be dreaded, all the remedies I hav*e mentioned Ihould firfl be made ufe of before it is propofed: But, ^t the fame time, care fhould be ta- ken, that the fymptoms be not allowed to advance too far before we advife it: for when the patient i-s much weakened by the feverifli fymptoms having continued long violent,^ neither this nor any other remedy with which we are acquainted, has much influence. As foon, therefore, as the remedies I have advifed have been fairly tried, and are found to be inade- quate, we fhould immediately propofe a free divifion of the parts chiefly affedted^ and the manner of doing it is this. As all the contiguous parts are now.fup- pofed to be much fwelled and inflamed, I 3 it134 Q/* Blood-letting* Chap. VIIL it is impoflible to get clear accefseithet to the nerve or tendon, but by means of a large and extenfive incifion; and as this cannot be accompliflied but with the rifk of opening the contiguous arteries, the firft ftep to be taken, is tp guard againft fuch an occurrence by the application of the tourniquet on the upper part of the limb. This becomes neceflary^ not only for pre- venting the lofs of blood which would enfue from a divifion of any of the large arteries, but for preventing that interrup- tion which would otherwife happen from a conftant difcharge of blood from the fmaller veflels during the operation. The tourniquet indeed is more particularly requiiite for this purpofe^ than for any o- ther; for although it is proper by means of it to guard againft the danger of wound- ing any of the large arteries, yet with proper caution this may for the moft part be avoided. The tourtiiquet, then, being properly applied, a tranfverfe incifion lliould be made with a common fcalpel, in the parts chieflySed. IV. Of Blood-letting. J3S I 4 At chiefly afFeded, and it-fliould run in a di~ redion exadly acrofs the original orifice in the vein. In no operation Is it more necelTary than in this, to a(3: with freedom in laying the parts fufficiently open by a free incl- fion. A fmall incifion excites nearly the fame pain with a larger cut 3 and it has this material difadvantage, of preventing the furgeon from proceeding in the fu- ture fteps of the operation with that eafe and expedition which the nature of the cafe very commonly requires. , The Ikin and other teguments being thus freely divided, the operator muft make one flight incifion after another, taking care, 'if poflible, to avoid the lar- ger arteries and veins ^ and he is to go on in this way, to endeavour to difeover the wounded nerve ; or if there is no poflibility of doing fo, he muft flill con- tinue to proceed in this gradual manner, till he has divided every part between the Ikin and periofteum ^ the tendons, lar- ger arteries, and veins excepted.136 of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. At this time the tourniquet fliould be loofened; when In all probability the patient will exprefs much fatlsfadllon at what has been, done : For, If the part Is thus divided which was originally prick- ed by the lancet, Immediate relief will be obtained ; while, on the contrary, If the pain remains violent, we may be thereby convinced that the mlfchlef lies In one or other of the tendons. An accurate exa- mination, therefore, Ihould now be made, by clearing the parts with a fponge ^ and that tendon lying moft contiguous to the vein In which the orifice was made, will in all probability either be found prick- ed, or In an evident ftate of Inflamma- tion 3 but at all events, whether any fiich appearances are dlfcovered or not, there fliould be no hefitatlon In dividing that tendon which lies mofl: contiguous to the vein 3 or If two or even three tendinous extremities fliould lie In the way, and be all therefore equally liable to fufpiclon, they ought all to be cut acrofs: This being eife£ted, relief will for the mofl; part be immediately137 Sed. IV. Of Blood-letting. immediately obtained : and at any rate, this being done, eveii’y attempt will have been made from which there could be reafon to expect any advantage. The parts being thus freely divided, the tourniquet fliould now be undone, and fuch arteries as have been wounded, fliould be fecured with ligatures The parts are then to be covered with eafy dreflings, and afterwards treated in the lame man- ner as a wound from any other caufe. The remedy I have pointed out, if eve- ry circumftance be not duely weighed, may probably be conlidered as fevere ^ for an incilion in thefe<«parts ,carried to fuch a depth, muft no doubt be. attended with muchpain,while thedivilionof oneormore tendons will produce a partial lamenefs of the whole member: But if we confider for a moment the importance of the objedl in view, all fuch fears muft immediately fall to the ground : It is not a trifling advan- tage we are in purfuit of, nor fhould iuch a painful operation be ever recommend- ed but in the mofl urgent circumftances. In138 of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. In the prefent inftance, however, the pa- tient’s life is obvioufly to depend on the event of this operation ; fo that the moft timid operator, if capable of refledlon, muft admit the propriety of putting it in pradice; and from the event of every cafe that has once advanced to the length for which I have advifed this operation, it may witli certainty be pronounced, that every patient in fuch circumftances is in the utmoft hazard of his life; fo that in fuch a defperate fituation, no re- medy that affords any tolerable chance of a recovery, however painful it may be, can with propriety be condemned. From reafoning alone, we might con- clude, that in fuch circumffances no o- ther remedy would prove fo fuccefsful; but when the propriety of the meafure is enforced by the fucceisful iffiie of repeat- ed trials, no argument adduced againft it can meet with much attention. In vari- ous inftances of lefs importance, I have known much advantage derived from this pradice; and in one inftance, from bleed-Seft. IV. Of Blood-lettings 139 ing In the mediaii cephalic vein of the arm, the fymptoms had got to fuch a height, and had fc Gbftinately refifted e- very other remedy, that there was much caufe to dread that death mufl: have en- filed, had it not been for the effeds of A free and very deep incifion made into the parts affeded. The patient, from being in exquifite pain, and in imminent danger, experienced almofl: inftantaneous relief; and the fwelling, which haU previoufly continued obftinate, began foon to abate, and a perfed recovery was obtained in much left time than could have been ex- peded. There is not therefore a point in fiar- gery of which’ I am more convinced, than of the propriety of this operation in all fuch defperate cafes as the one of which we have been treating; but to fuch as have not met with occurrences of this nature, the remedy propofed will not on- ly appear to be too violent for the dif- eafe, but they will alfo be induced to con- iider the length of difcuffion t have gone intoac40 of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. Into as more prolix than neceffary : A lingle inftance, however, of the dreadful fymptoms induced by this kind of acci- dent, will be fufficient to convince any one, of the fubjed now under confidera- tion being perhaps one of the moft impor- tant in the department of furgery. All that I have hitherto faid on blood- letting, relates to the operation in gene- ral : I fliall now proceed to confider the operation as it is done in particular parts j and firfl: of blood-letting in the arm. S E3?4'.i S'ecl. V. Of Blood-letting. S E C T I O N V. Of Blood-letting in the Arm. HIS operation is more frequently pradtifed on the fore-part of the arm at the joint of the elbow, than in any o- ther part of the body. The veins are in general more confpicuous in this places but no other reafon can be afligned for it. On the contrary, the near contiguity of nerves, tendons, and large arteries to thefe veins, makes it more hazardous here than In other parts. From this, I have often been induced to confider our fixing on this part for the ordinary ope- ration of blood-letting as a very import- ant error 3 efpecially as blood may be drawn from veins in other parts with the fame eafe as from thofe of the arm, and with lefs danger ^ particularly from the veins of the neck, ankles, and feet. Blood-letting in the lower extremities has chiefly been confined indeed to a par- ticular143 of Blood-letting. Chap, VIIL ticular fet of difeafes, efpecially to thofe of females: But no good reafon can be afligned for this J for it is now known, that, in general blood-letting, the place from whence the blood is drawn, is of little importance, and that the effeds of the operation depend almoft entirely upon the .quantity difcharged in a longer or fhorter time. Blood-letting at the arm may be fafely performed by a furgeon of fteadinefs and attention, as in the hands of fuch a man there is little or no rilk of the lancet go- ing deeper than the vein, and in this cafe nothing bad can enfue: But, for ordinary pradlce, k would be better to fix upon fome other part. It may almoft always he done with eafe in the feet and ankles > and if the operation Is properly perform- ed, the fame quantity of blood may be drawn from the veins of thefe parts, as from thofe of an equal fize in any other part of the body. But whether this Idea fliould ever be generally adopted or not, it is at leaft cer- tain,*43 of Blood-letting. Sea. V. In tain, if the cautions I hare pointed out are proper in other parts, they are much more fo in the arm, where the veins lie fo very contiguous to parts which cannot be wounded but with the rilk of pro» ducing fymptoms of the mpfl: alarming tendency. Having already conlidered the various fteps of the operation of blood-letting, fo far as they relate to it in a general view. In order to avoid repetitions nothing will be mentioned now but what is particular- ly required in taking blood from the arm. In applying the ligature for compref- fing the veins, at fhould be placed an inch or an inch and half above the joint of the elbow ^ and, in order to prevent the ends of it from coming In the way of the lan- cet, the knot fliould be made on the out- fide of the arm. In general, one knot might anfwer ^ but a flip-knot being made above the firft, renders it more fecure, and it Is very,eafily done.Chap. VIIL Of Blood-letting. U4 In making cholceof a vein from whence' blood is to be taken, the general rules we have laid down upon this point, in the firft fedion of this chapter, muft be kept in view. That vein which appears moll. confpicuous, at the fame time that it rolls leall under the Ikin, Ihould in general be fixed upon ; but when an artery is found to lie immediately below, and quite con- tiguous to fuch a vein, the operator, it not perfectly fatisfied with his own fteadi- nefs, ought rather to prefer another. For the moll part, however, the artery lies fo low in this place, that the median bafilic vein, under which it commonly runs, may be opened with fafety 3 and as this vein is ufually more confpicuous than the o- thers, it is for this reafon in general to be rnade choice of. Befides,^ we prefer the median bafilic, from its being lefs deeply covered with cellular fubftance than the cephalic or median cephalic, and by lying towards the inner part of the’ arm, it is more thinly covered with the tendinous expanfion of the biceps mufcle, than ISe(S. V. Of Blood-letting. ^45 than either of the others. From thefe cir- cumftances the operation is alfo attended with lefs pain in this than in the other veins; a confideration which in every ope- ration merits our regard'. In blood-letting at this part of the arm, although the operation may be done with the right hand, either upon the right or left arm of the patient; yet. we do it more neatly with the right hand upon the right arm, and with the left hand upon the left arm of the patient 5 and whoever attempts the contrary, mufl; find that it cannot be done but in an aukward man-- ner, as the operator cannot in any other way apply his hand properly to that part of the arm on \vhich it ought to reft. In corpulent people, the veins fome- times lie fo (Ijpep as not to be difcovered by the eye; but when they, are fenfibly felt by the fingers, even although they cannot be feen, they may be opened with freedom. In a few inftances, however, they can neither be diftingulfhed by the eye, nor with the finger: In this cafe, the VoL.II. K ligature146 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. SEC - ligature Ihould be removed from the up- per part of the arm, and applied about half-way between the elbow and wrift, by which the veins below will be brought in- to view 3 and wherever a vein can be evi- dently obferved, there can be no danger in performing the operation. This I have often found necelTary, nor has any incon- venience ever arifen from it.Sed. VI. Of Blood-letting. the K 2 SECTION VI. Of Blood-letting in the Jugular. Vein. Inflammation of the throat and of the eyes, as well as other affedllons of the head, frequently require blood to be taken from the contiguous parts ^ par- ticularly from the external jugular veins: The manner of opening thefe veins is this : There Is only one ramification of the ju- gular vein, viz. the principal poflerior branch, that can eafily be brought fo much into view, as to be with propriety opened ^ and even this lies deeply covered, not only with the fbin and cellular fubftance, but with the platifma myoldes mufcle, fo that a good deal of preflure is required to raife it. With a view to produce this, the thumb of the operator is commonly pla- ced upon the vein, fo as to comprefs it a- bout an inch or inch and half below whereof Blood-letting, Chap. VIII, 148 the opening is to be made. This, however, is' fddom fufiicient, as the blood, oh being flopped in its progrefs through this branch, finds an eafy pafiage to the other veins; fo that unlefs the principal vein on the other fide of the neck is alfo comprefled, the vein to be opened can never be fully diflended. In order to dillend it fuffi^ ciently, a firm comprefs of linen Ihould be applied on the largefl vein on the op- pofite fide of the neck; and a garter, or any other ligature, being laid over it, a firm knot fhould be tied below the op- pofite arm-pit; taking care to make fuch a degree of prefliire, as may put an entire flop to the circulation in the vein, which in this way is eafily done, without obftrud- ing refpiration. This being done, and the patient-s head properly fupported, the operator, with the thumb of his left hand, mull make fuffi- <pient preflure upon the vein to be opened, and with the lancet in his right-hand, fliould penetrate at once into the vein; and, before withdrawing the inflrument, fliouldSe6t. VI. Of Blood-letting, 149 K3 SEC- fhould make an orifice fufEcIently large for the Intended evacuation. It may be proper to obferve, that a larger opening is neceflary in the neck than In the* arm, otherwife the quantity of blood Is procu- red with difficulty : And befides, there is not here the fame neceffity for caution on this point that there is, in the arm: for in the neck, we meet with no diffi- culty in putting a flop to the blood ; after removing the ligature, all that is com- monly. neceflary, even when the orifice is extenfive, is to clofe it with a flip of adhelive plafter. In order to bring the vein more clear- ly into view, fo as afterwards to be able to open it with more exadnefs, foine have direded, that the fkin, cellular fub- ftance, and mufcular fibres, covering the vein, fhould be prevloufly divided with a fcalpel. This, however, is uniieceflary ^ and it renders the operation both more painful and more tedious than when done wdth the lancet at once.Of Blood-letting, Chap. VIII. 150 SECTION VII. Of Blood-letting in the Ankles and Feet^- WHAT has already been faid on the operation of blood-letting, ren- ders. it unnecefTary in this place to be mi- nute. When blood is to be taken from the veins of thefe parts, it will be rea- dily underftood, that our firfl: objedt fhould be to comprefs the veins, fo as to produce an accumulation of their contents. The ligature being applied lufEciently tight a little above the ankle-joint, all the bran- ches of the vena faphena, both in the in- lide and outfide of the foot, come at once into view^ and as this vein is. every where fuperficial, being in general covered with Ikin only, wherever it appears confpicu- oufly, it may with fafety be opened. With a view to encourage the difcharge of blood, it has been a condant pradice inSe6l. VII. Of Blood-letting, - ' tsi K 4 be in opening thefe veins, to immerfe the feet in warm water immediately on the . orifice being made. But this is a very inaccurate method, as the quantity of blood taken in this manner can never be afcertained, from being all mixed with the water : Neither is the afliftance of warm water necelTary; for when all the veins are fufiiciently comprefied, and the orifice of a proper fize, I never find more difficulty in obtaining a full difcharge of blood from thefe veins, than from thofe in other parts of the body. On removing the ligature, the blood, however, flops eafily^ fo that a piece of adhefive plafler applied over the orifice, anfwers all the purpofes of a bandage. Thefe are the feveral parts from whence blood is ufually taken by vensefedion; but in fome inflances, where the contiguous parts have been particularly affeded, it has been judged advifable to open the veins of other parts,,as thofe of the tongue, of the penis, the eye, and the external hemorrhoidal veins. When blood is toOf Bloodletting. Chap. VIII. 1-5:2 SEC- be difcharged in this manner from the pe- nis, the veins can be eafily brought into view by prefliire with a ligature : But, in the tongue^ in the hemorrhoidal veins a- bout the anus, and other parts where com- prellibn cannot be applied, all that the furgeon can do, is, to make an orifice of a proper fize in the mofl: confpicuous part of the vein3 and if a fufficient difcharge cannot in this manner be obtained, it may be neceflary in fiich circumftances to put the parts in warm water; and for fome time, to keep them immerfed in it. Having thus confidered the various modes of difcharging blood by venaefec- tion, we now proceed to arteriotomy*753 Sed. VIII. Of Blood-lettings SECTION VIII. Of Arteriotomy. Whatever particular advantages may in theory have been expedl- ed from Arteriotomy, and however keen- ly fome may in their clofets have given it their (upport, not only as being in many inftances preferable to venaefedtion, but as an operation perfedtly fafe even in vef- fels of magnitude^ yet the moll ftrenuous friends to the pradice^, have Ihrunk from attempting it on the larger arteries. In- ftances, indeed,, have occurred of large arteries being opened without doing harm; but they are fo exceedingly rare, that no praditioner of experience will be indu- ced by them, deliberately, or from choice, to adopt the pradice. The fmaller bran- ches of arteries may indeed be opened with fafety when not deeply covered, and efpecially^54 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. efpecially when they He contiguous to bones, for in fuch fituations, as foon as the quantity intended to be taken is dif- charged, all farther lofs of blood may be prevented by compreffion ; but the open- ing of any of the larger arteries mufi: be always attended with fo much hazard, and the advantages to .be expedted from it in preference to venaefedlion are appa- rently fo trifling, as mull probably pre- vent it from ever becoming general. We know of few arteries, therefore, which with propriety can be opened \ the different branches of the temporal are thofe indeed from whence blood in ordinary pradtice is ever taken : but, if a fanciful pradlitioner fhould at any time incline to take blood in this manner from a different part, it may be done wdthfafety frt m one of the arteries running on each fide of the fingers. About the middle of the laft phalanx^ this artery is fufficiently large for difcharging a confiderable quantity of bloody in moft cafes it lies fuperficial, and in this fituatlbn there can feldom be muchSe£l. VIII. Of Blood-letting. 155 much difficulty in putting a flop to the evacuation. In performing this opera- tion on any of the temporal branches, if the artery is fuperficial, it may be done with one pufh of the lancet, in the farne manner as in vensefedlion ^ but, when the artery is deeply covered, it fhould be pre- vioufly broi^ght into view, before ma- king the orifice with the lancet: For when the fmaller arteries are cut entirely acrofs, they never bleed freely, from their re- trading more or lefs within the furround* ing parts. Some nicety is therefore neceflary in making the opening into the artery : It ffiould neither be quite acrofs, nor dired- ly longitudinal > for it never bleeds fo freely, either in an artery or vein, when quite longitudinal, as when fomewhat ob- lique. When the opening is properly made, and the artery of a moderate fize, it will at once difcharge freely, without being camprelTed ; but the difcharge may be in- creafed at pleafure, by comprefling the ar- ' - terjOf Blood-ktting. Chap. VIIL 156 tery immediately above the orifice, be- tween it and the correfponding veins. The quantity of blood being thus dlfcharged, a very flight eompreflion on thefe fmaller arteries will fuffice for putting a flop to the evacuation : For the moft part, any preflure that is neceffary may be applied here as in vensefedllon, by means of a li- nen comprefs and roller; the orifice be- ing firfl entirely cleared of blood, and properly covered with adhefive plafler. If this fliould not prove fufficient, a com- prefs of linen fliould be applied over it, and the whole fecured with a roller. In fome inflances even this does not fucceed, and the orifice continues to burfl: out from time to time, fo as to produce much inconvenience and diflrefs^ In this fituation we have different me- thods of putting a flop to the difcharge. ly?. If the artery is fmall, as all the branch- es of the temporal arteries commonly are, cutting , it entirely acrofs, exadly at the orifice made with the lancet, by allow- ing It to retrad: within the furrounding parts>Sedl. VIII. Of Blood-letting, 157 SEC- parts, for the moft part proves effedual. zdy When the patient does not confent to this, we have it always in our power to fecure the bleeding vefTel with a ligature, as would bedone with an artery accident- ally divided in any part q£ the body. And, laftly, when the patient will not confent to either of thefe, we may, by regular continued preflure, obliterate the catity of the artery at the point where the open- ing was made, and thus produce an accre-r tion of its fides. Different bandages have been contrived for comprefllng the tem- poral artery ^ but none of them anfwer the purpofe fo well as the one reprefented in Plate'V. fig. 2. As fome tim’e, however, is required to obliterate the cavity of an artery, this method is accordingly more tedious : but with timid patients It proves more accept- able than either of the other two. Having thus confidered the various means employed for evacuating blood from the larger arteries and veins, we now proceed to the confideration of topi- pal blood-letting.158 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII. SECTION IX. Of Topical Bloodletting. WHEN, either from the feverity of local inflammation, or from any other caufe, we wifli to take blood di- rectly from the velTels of the part af- fected, the following are the different methods we employ for it. The appli- cation of leeches; fcarifications with a lancet, or fome other fliarp inftrument ; and, laftly, by means of an inftrument termed a Scarific^ator, containing from one to twenty lancets, or 'more : In this inftrument, Plate VII. fig. i. the lancets are fixed in fuch a manner, that when ap- plied to the part affedled, the whole num- ber are driven fuddenly into it, by means of a fpring, and to a greater or lefler depth, at pleafure. This being done, as it is the fmaller blood-veffels only that by this operation are ever meant to be cut; and as thefe feldom bleed freely, dif- ferentSe6l. IX. Of Blood-letting. 159 ferent means afe employed for promoting the evacuation. Various methods have been propofed for this. Glafles fitted to the form of the parts, with a fraall hole in the bottom of each, were long ago contrived 3 and thefe being placed upon the fcarified parts, a degree of fudlion was produced by a per- fon’s mouth, fufficient for nearly'exhaufl- ing the air contained in them This ac- cordingly was a very certain method of increafing the evacuation of blood, but as it was attended with a good deal of trou- ble, while it did not always prove fufE- ciently powerful, an exhaufting fyringe was at laft adapted to the glafs, which ferved indeed to extradl the air contained in it, but being troublefome in the ap- plication, and practitioners finding it dif- ficult to preferve the fyringe always air- tight, this part of the operation has for a confiderable time been chiefly done by applying heat in fuch a manner to the glafles, as to rarify the air which they contain ^ Celfus,' lib. 2. cap. ij, '160 Of Blood^ttting. Chap. VIII. contain In a degree fufEcIent for produ*« cing a confiderable fudion. And as the inftrument in this fimple form anfwers .the purpofe in view, the ufe of the fyringe will probably be laid altogether afide. The glalTes for this purpofe, it is evident, mufl be entire^ for if the leaft communi- cation is allowed between their cavities and the furrounding atmofphere, no effed will refult from them. Different methods are employed for thus applying heat to the cavity of the glafs. By fupporting the mouth of it for a few feconds above the flame of a taper, the air may be fufficiently rarified 3 but if the flame is not kept exadly in the mid- dle, and is allowed to touch either the fides or bottom of the glafs, it is apt to crack and fly in pieces,. A more certain, as well as an eafier method of applying the heat, is to dip a piece of foft bibulous paper in fpirit of wine, and having fet it on fire, to place it in the bottom of the glafs, and, on the flame being nearly extinguifhed, to apply the mouthSedL IX. Of Blood-letting. i6i inouth of the inftrument upon the fcari- fied part. This degree of heat, which may be regulated by the fize of the pa- per, and which ought to be always in pro- portion to that of the glafs, if long enough applied, proves fufficient for rarifying the air, and at the fame time, if done with caution, never injures either the glafs' or the patient. If the fcarifications have been proper- ly made, they inftantly begin to difcharge freely on the glafs being applied : On being nearly full of blood, it fliould be taken away, by railing one fide of It, or by undoing a fcrew fitted to a fmall open- ing in the bottom, fo as to give accefs to the external ain When more blood is to be taken, the parts Ihould be bathed with warm water y and, being made perfedly dry, another glafs exadly of the fize of the former, ihould be ififlantly applied in the fame maimer ^ and thus, if the fca- rlficator has been made to penetrate to a llifficient depth, fo as to have cut all the cutaneous velTds of the part, almofl: any VoL. IlL L necellaryOf Blood-letting. Chap. VHL i62 neceffary quantity of blood may be ob- tained. It fometimes happens, however,, that a fuffieient quantity cannot be got at. one place : In this cafe, we apply the fca- rificator as near as poffible to the parts: affecSed; and this being done, the appli- eatidn of the glafles muft alfo be renewed,, as before. When we wilh to dlfcharge the quan- tity of blood quickly, two or more glafles may be applied at once on contiguous parts previoufly fcarified 3 and the quan- tity of blood is more quickly obtained when the cupplng-glafles are firfl applied for a few feconds upon the parts to be af- terwards fcarified. The fudion thus pro- duced by the glafles, feems to have fome influeirce in bringing the more deep-feat- ed vefTels into nearer contad with the fl^in, fo that more of them ai^ cut by the fcarificator. A fufficient quantity of blood being^pra^ cured, the wounds made by the lancets fliould be all cleared of blood ^ and a bit of foft lint dipped in a little milk or creaip,, .Seft. IX. Of Blood-letting. 163 cream, or fpread with wax-ointment, ap- plied over the whole, is the only dreiling that is neceffary: Bry lint is fometimes applied, but it not .only creates more Un- eafinefs, but renders the wounds more apt to fefter than when previoufly covered with an emollient. Although this operation is by no means difficult in the execution, yet a good deal of pradfice is neceffary to perform it in a neat and , fuccefsful manner > but with proper attention, any operator may fooh do it fo expertly as to be able in this way to dffcharge any neceffary quantity of blood. In fome cafes of local pains, and in o- thers with a view to promote fuppuration, an operation termed dry-cupping has been propofed, and in fome inftances pradifed with advantage : It confifts in the appli- cation of the cupping-glaiTes without the ufe of the fcarificator. In this manner, a tumor is produced upon the part; and where any advantage is to be obtained L 2 from164 Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIIL from a determination of blood to a par- ticular fpot, it will not fail to anfwer. In Plate ViL is reprefented a fcarlfi- cator, together with different fizes and figures of cupping-glafles, with which every operator fhould be amply fupplied, fo as to be able to adapt a glafs to every part from whence it may be proper to difcharge blodd. When the part froili which blood is to be difcharged is fo fituated that afcarifica- tor and cupping-glaffes can be applied, this method of taking it is preferable to eve- ry other ; but it fometimes happens, that parts are fo fituated as not ,to admit of their application: Thus, in inflamma- tory afiedions of the eye, of the nofe^ and other parts of the face, the fcarifica- tor cannot be applied diredly to the parts affeded. In fuch inftances, leeches are commonly employed, as they may with fafety be placed upon any fpot from which blood can be taken. In the application of leeches, the mofl effedual method of making them fix upon % aSeci, IX. Of Blood-letting. ^ ^65 a particular fpot, is to confine them with a fmall wine-glafs. Allowing them to creep upon a dry cloth, or upon a dry board, for a few minutes before applica- tion, makes them fix more readily; and moiftening the parts on which they are intended to fix, either with milk, cream, or blood, tends alfo to caufe them adhere more fpeedily than they otherwife would do. As foon as the leeches have come away, the ordinary method of promoting the difcharge of blood, is to cover the parts with linen cloths wet with warm wa- ter, or even with dry >yarm cloths : In fome fituations, this is perhaps the beft method we can employ; but wherever the cupping-glalles can be applied over the wounds, they anfwer the purpofe much more elFedually. When the fituation and figure of the part will therefore admit of their application, they ought always to be employed. Among other methods of performing, local bloodletting, I mentioned fcarifica- L 3 tions,Of Blood-letting. Chap. VIII, i66 tions made with a lancet, or fome other fliarp inftrument, as one. It proves particu- larly ufeful in ophthalrnia, and often gives immediate relief where general blood- letting has previoufly been tried in vain. By fcarifying the turgid veffels of the eye, fo as to evacuate perhaps only a fevr drops of blood, more advantage is often obtain- ed than from the difcharge of a great quantity either from the jugular veins or temporal arteries : The mere divifion of the vellels has in fuch cafes indeed been fuppofed to prove ufeful; but I have conftantly obferved that the advantage derived from this operation, has been nearly in proportion to the quantity of blood difcharged by it. Different methods have been propofed for performing it. Jt may be done with the Ihoulder of a common lancet, but more neatly and more eafily by inftru- ment s that I fliall hereafter point out in Chapter XI. when fpeaking more particu- larly of difeafes of the eye. AmongSed. IXe Of Blood-letting. 167 Among other methods that have been propofed for fcarifying the blood-veffels of the eye, doing it with the beards of rough barley was at one period much ex- tolled, and by fome the pradice is ftill continued. By drawing the beards over the furface of the eye, in a diredlon con- trary to the fliarp fpiculae with which they are furnilhed, a conliderable dif- charge of blood k produced. But the pain attending it is exquifite 5 and as it does not poflefs any liiperior advantage to the method of dividing the blood-vcf- fels with a lancet, it is now defervedly falling into difufe. I have thus finiflied the confideration of the various means employed in fur- gery for difcharging blood from the fy- flem; and as the difeafe termed Aneu- rifm, is mod frequently the effed of an unguarded manner of performing one of the operations we have jufl; been defcri- bing, the farther confideration of the L 4 - fubjedi68 Of Blood-letting. Chap. 'Vltl. fubjedl cannot, perhaps, be any -where more properly introduced than in this place, where one of the principal caufes tending to produce It h^^ been fo lately treated of. CHAP- %Of Aneurifms, 169 5ea. I. CHAPTER IX. Of Aneurisms. r SECTION I. •General Remarks an Aneurisms* By the term Aneurifm, was originally meant, a tumor formed by the dila- tation of an artery^ but modern pradli- tioners make the term apply not only to tumors formed in this manner, but to fuch as proceed from blood efiufed from arteries into the contiguous parts 5 a cir- cumftanceOf Aneurifms. Chap. IX. cumftance which may take place either from the pundlure or rupture of an ar- tery. A tumor, produced by the dilatation of the coats of axi artery, is denominated a True Aneurifin ^ ^nd we term it a Falfe Aneurifm, where, t>y the pundlure or rup- ture of an artery, blood is effufed into the furrounding parts. As the introdudlion of new appella- tions frecjuently leads to confufion, ne- ceility alone can juftify the attempt in the prefent work, therefore it will feldomi be done ^ but as the treatment of Aneu- rifm will be rendered more clear and di- ftinft, by a change of terms, applied to the different varieties of the difeafe, it would be culpable in an author not to pro- pofe it. Where aneurifm is produced by the di- latation of an artery, as the tumor is cir- cumfcribed, and contained within coats peculiar to itfelf, it may with propriety be termed an Encyfted Aneurifm 3 while the other, arifing from blood fpreading a- mohgof Aneurifms. 171 Sea. I. mong the neighbouring parts, may with equal propriety be termed the DiiFufed Aneurifm. As thefe two varieties of Aneurifm are in many circumftances different from each other, it will be proper to confider them feparately. In the true or encyfted aneurifm, the tumor, when firft obferved, is commonly fmall and circumfcribed ; the fkin retains its natural appearance; when prefled with the fingers, a pulfation correfponding with that of the artery below is diftinguiflied; and by compreflion, the contents of the fwelling, while they are yet foft and fluauating, may be eafily made to difap- pear. When means properly calculated for the removal of the difeafe, are itot foon put in praaice the fwelling begins to in- creafe, it becomes more prominent, and proceeds in a gradual manner to acquire a larger fize. The fkin and teguments, for a confiderable time, retain their natural appearance; the patient does not com^ plain172 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. plain of pain; th^ tumor continues of an equal foftnefs; and its contents >are ftill compreffible, yielding confiderably, and in fome inftances difappearing entirely on the application of preflure. At laft, how- ever, when it becomes large, the Ikin lo- fes its ordinary colour, becomes pale, and, In the more advanced ftages of the dif- eafe, even ce^em^.tous : The pulfation ftill continues; but the tumor, although foft in fome parts, yet in others is firm, and cannot be made to yield much to preft fure, part of the contained blood having in this ftage of the difeafe become hard by coagulation. * The fwelling continuing to increafe, it at laft becomes painful; the fldn turns livid, apparently verging to a ftate of mor- tification; an oozing of bloody ferum ifiiies from the teguments; and if gangrene^ dbes not take place, the fl^in crackjs in different parts; and now the force of the artery not meeting with much refiftanee, if the veffel is large, a period is foon put to the patient’s exiftence, by the blood burftlneSed. I* Of Arieurifms. burfting out with fuch violence as to produce almoft inftantaneous death ; at leaft in the larger arteries of the trunk of the body, this is the ordinary event of aneurifms. In the extremities, how- ever, the arteries are not fo large as by their rupture to be capable of producing effecSs fo immediately fatal; and beiides, we can here, by means of the tourniquet^ effedually guard againft this fudden ter- mination of the difeafe. In aneurifms of the larger arteries, the efFe6ls produced upon the neighbouring parts, by the conftant pulfatmn and gra- dual augmentation of the tumor, are of- ten furprifing. The fofterparts we might, a priori, expedl to yield to a great extent; but the hardefl parts of the body, proba- bly from their not being capable of yield- ing, evidently fuffer more from the elFeds of this kind of preflure, than either mem- branes, mufcles, or ligaments. Eveii the bones frequently undergo a great degree of derangement, by the pulfation and difteniionof contiguous aneurifms: Some- . .timesi^4 Aneiirifms. Chap. IXs times they are feparated entirely from each other at the different joints : In fome inftances they are elevated out of their natural fituations ; and not unfrequently we find them entirely diflolved. Thefe effeds of aneurifm, however, ^rt not common in any of the extremities: It is the flrong pulfation of the aorta only, or of, fome of the larger arteries at no great diftance from the heart, that we can ever fuppofe to be productive of fuch important confequences. Sometimes, however, fimilar effeCts of an aneurifm have been obferved in the thigh, and upper part of the arm ; even the bones of thefe parts have been deflroyed by aneurifms of the neighbouring arteries. Thefe in general are the appearances and termination of the encyfted aneurifm, to which, however, one exception occurs in a variety of the difeafe, to be here- after defcribed. Various caufes may tend to produce encyfted aneurifms. i. From daily ob- fervation we know, tha^ partial debility frequently -§ed. L tn Of Aneurifms^ frequently occurs in diiferent parts of the fyftem: Thus, there is nothing more fre- quent than cedematous fwellings of the extremities, even in conftitutions pther- wife healthy 3 and thefe fwellings we juft- ly fuppofe mofl: frequently to depend ob local weaknefs of the parts in which they occur. Now, why may not debi- lity of a fimilar kind fall upon part of the arterial fyftem I and, if this Ihould hap- pen, it is eafy to fee how in almoft every inftance it muft terminate in aneurifm: For the fprce of the heart continuing the fame, if any particular part of an artery has loft its tone, as it is thereby rendered unable to refill the pnlfations of the heart,, dilatation of its coats, muft at thefe weak- ened parts neceffarily enfue ^ and as foon as a morbid enlargement of the cavity af an artery is thus commenced, as its power of refinance will be proportionally left, while the vis a tergo continues the fame, the farther increafe of the fwelling is a confequence that of courfe muft take place^ This176 Of Aneurifms,, Chap. IX. This may be confidered as the moft frequent caufe of aneurlfm not depending upon external violence* Aneurifms of the aorta, feem in almofl: every inftance to arife from this caufe; as well as all others that do not obvioufly proceed from ex- ternal violence. 2. The external coats of an artery be- ing deftrayed by a wound, a partial weak- nefs of the part will thus be produced ; and this muft render it liable to be adled upon by the heart and other parts of the arterial fyftem, In the fame manner as if prevoufly debilitated by difeafe. In dilatations of an artery produced by this caufe, the progrefs of the tumor is fuch as I have defcribed : The blood, from being ftill confined within the coats of the artery, continues to form a circum- fcribed tumor. At firft the fwelling dif- appears upon prefliire ; but on advancing farther, part of its contents become fo firm by coagulation, as to render it im- poffible by compreffion to difperfe it. This variety of aneurifm may fometimes arife fromSe6l. !• Of Aneurifms. - 177 from other caufes, but we meet with it moft frequently from blood-letting in the arm; by the lancet, after paffing through the the vein, going fo deep as to divide the external coats of the artery. 3. This variety of aneurifm has alfo been produced by the matter of fores and abfceffes proving fo corrolive as to defhroy the external coverings of the contiguous arteries: When this takes place, the fame train of fymptoms muft occur, as if the outer coats of the artery had been de- ftroyed by a lharp inftrument. 4. The bones, mufcles, and ligaments give all foine degree of hipport to the ar- teries which they furround ; fo that the deftrudlion of any of thefe parts muft evi- dently tend to the produdlion of aneurifm: Indeed, the firmnefs and ftability of parts naturally connedled together, depends fo much upon a found ftate of the whole, that any one of them becoming weak and difeafed,generally terminates in a difeafed ftate of the others. In the thigh of a pa- tient, where part of the mufcles and o- VoL, IIL M ther178 Of- Aneurifms.' Chap. ther foft parts were deftroyed by an exteiv live mortification, different aneurifmal fwellings oecurred in the. courfe of the fe- moral artery which had thus loft part of its fupport ^ and no other caufe ap]3eared to be concerned .in their produclion. 5. I have already remarked, that in blood-letting at the ufual place in the arm, arteries are fometimes wonndeS, by the lancet pafling through the vein into the artery below 3 and when the artery lies in dired; contad with the vein, the blood difcharged from the orifice in the artery, by palling diredly into the vein, ferves to keep up a communication be^ tween them. A communication being in this manner produced between the artery and vein, and the coats of the vein not being able to refift the impulfe of the artery, a prer ternatural dilatationof the vein muft neceft farily enfue: A tumor is accordingly foon produced, which at fir ft is fmall and cir- ciimfcribed,butatlaft it gradually extends both above and below-the orifice; not on^ IvSeft. I. Of Aneun/m. 179 ly along the courfe of the vein originally wounded, but in fome inftances over all the contiguous veins. This variety of the dlfeafe was firfl: ac- curately defctibedby our celebrated coun- tryman Dodor William Hunter; and may with great propriety be termed the Vari- cofe Aneurlfm. Since that period it has been frequently obferved by others; fo that its nature is now very generally tin- derftood. Although the coats of the artery are here completely divided, yet, as the blood is contained within the cavity of the veins, this fpecies of the difeafe is obvioully a variety of the encyfted aneurlfm 3 and as the method of cure coincides, in fome clr^ Gumftances, with that of other encyfted a- neurifms, the fanher confideration of the fubjed could not any where be more pro- perly introduced. In the varicofe aneurifm, the fwelling is confined entirely to the veins. Soon ^ after the injury by which it is produced, the vein communicating Immediately with, the artery begins to fwell: In a gradual M 2 manner,18b Of Aneiirif7ns. Chap. IX- maimer, the tumor becomes more remark- able, and the anaftomofing branches of the contiguous veins alfo become enlarged.. This fwelling of the veins may, by pref- fure, be made to difappear, the blood con- tained In them being in part pufhed for- ward In its coiirfe towards the heart, while part of it is fometimes forced into the ar- tery itfelf j and, when the tumor Is large, the blood, when thus forced out of it, is heard to make a lingular hilling kind of noife. This may be always conlidered as a very charafterlftic fymptom. of the dif- eafe y but as it is not met with in every cafe, it becomes necelTary to point out fuch circumftances as more certainly ferve as means of diftinftion. In the varicofe aneurlfm there is a tre-^ mulous kind of motion difcovered in the dilated vein, attended with a particular kind of noife, as if air was palling into it through a fmall aperture. If a ligature is applied upon the under part of the limb^ immediately below the fwelling, and tied fo tight, as even to Hop theSed. I. Of' Aneurifms. M 3 tumor the pulfe in the under part of the member^ the fwelling in the veins, on being re- moved by prefliire, returns inftantaneoufly on this being taken off, and does not ap- pear to be affedled by the ligature below ; which it undoubtedly would be, were it not for this direil communication between the trunk of the artery and correfponding vein. If the fwelUng is removed by preiling the blood forward to the heart, and a flight prefliire is made with the point of the finger on the orifice in the artery, the veins remain perfedly flaccid; nor does any fwelling take place, till the prefliire is removed from the orifice, when it in- ftantly becomes equally large as it was before 3 and this even happens, although the prefliire on the artery is not fo firm as to flop the circulation in the under part of the limb. In like manner, if the trunk of the ar- tery is comprefled above the orifice, fo as to flop the circulation effedually, that tremulous motion and hifling noife in thei82 Of Aneurijms, Chap. IX.' tumor ceafes inftantly'; and, if the veins are now emptied by preflure, they will certainly remain flaccid till the compref- fion upon the aruery is removed. In fome inflances too, if two ligatures be applied, one an inch or two above, and the other as much below the fwelling, and are made fo tight, as to flop entirely .the circula- tion of the blood in the tumor lying be- tween them 3 if the fwelling is now corn- prefled, all the blood contained in it is made to pafs into the opening in the ar- tery, from whence it inftantly returns a- gain, on the preflure being removed. This, however, does not always happen; but its not doing fo, is no proof of the vari- cofe aneurifm not adually exifting; for if all or feveral of the other leading cir- cumftances of the difeafe which I have enumerated, ever take place, the nature of the tumor is thereby rendered evident. In addition to the other charaderiftic fymptoms of the varicofe aneurifm, I may remark, that when the tumor has been of flich duration as to excite much dilatation ofSe6l. I. ' Of Aneurifms. ^183 of the veins, the trunk of the artery above the orifice generally becomes preternatu- rally large, while the branches below be- come proportionally fmall; and of confe- quence, the pulfe in the under part of the member is always more feeble than in the found limb of the pppofite fide. Having thus enumerated the ordinary appearances of all the varieties of encyfted aneurifm, together with the various caufes which tend to produce them, I lliall now proceed to defcribe the fymptoms and caufes of the diffufed aneurifm, and fliall conclude with confidering the method of cure. The Diffufed, or what is commonly termed the Falfe Aneurifm, confifts in a wound or rupture of an artery, producing, by the blood thrown out from it, a dif- fufed fwelling in the contiguous parts. Some of the largefl; internal arteries are occafionally ruptured by fevere bodily exertion 3 part;icularly thofe of the lungs. This probably happens fronl the arteries m this organ being furrounded with foft M 4 contiguous184 of Anenrifms. Chap. IX. contiguous parts, which do not afford them much fupport 3 for in the external parts of the body, where the arteries are more firmly fupported, accidents of this kind arc feldom met with, Eut it is chiefly in that variety of aneurifin^ produced by wounds of the itiore fiiperflcial arteries, that furgery ever affords relief. Among other confequences of blood- letting in the veins of the arm, I had oc- caflon to mention wounds in the contigu- ous artery as pno : In a few inftances, by the treatment then pointed out, the bad ef- feds which otherwife would refuit front it, will be prevented by the wound in the artery being fpeedily cured. Such happy terminations, however, of thefe injuries, are fo rare, that they pan never with any kind of certainty be looked for. When the pundure of an artery does not heal fpeedily, it wdll neceffarily ter- minate in a fwelling of the aneurifmal kind^ and the following is the ufual pro^? grefs which it makes, ' ASea. I. iSs Of Aneurifms. A fmall tumor, of about the fize of a horfe bean, generally rifes juft at the ori- fice in the artery, foon after the difcharge of blood has been ftopt by compreflion : The tumor is at fir ft fbft, and has a ftrong pulfation. It yields to preflure, but ne.- ver in fuch a degree as the fwelling of an encyfted aueurifin: For, except in the more advanced ftages of the latter, the blood remains fluid, and circulates through the whole cyft 3 whereas, in the diffiifed aneurifm, the blood forming the tumor is at once extravafated; and in this ftate it foon coagulates, and becomes firm. In this ftate of aneurifm, if the fwell- ing is not improperly treated by the ap- plicajtlon of preflure, it generally remains nearly of the fame fize for feveral weeks, and then begins gradually to increafe; and if feated at the ufual place of bloods letting in the arm, it now proceeds far- ther up than the orifice, and extends ra- ther more inwardly than towards the outer part of the arm, probably from the expanfion of the biceps mufcle not being ini86 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX, in this place fo firm and compadl as in the external and under part of the arm. This enlargement of the tumor proceeds/ too, more quickly In fome than in others, and in fome the fwelling is much more diffufed.and extended than in others^ Both thefe circumflances depend pro- bably upon the fame caufe. If the blood poured out by an artery, is thrown into a very lax cellular fubftance, we can eaflly fuppofe, that its increafe will not only be more rapid, but that the diffufion of the tumor will for the fame reafon be mudi more confiderable, than when the artery is immediately enveloped with firm mem- branous or ligamentous parts, which do not fo readily yield to the impulfe of the blood. From this circumftance alone, indeed, there is fuch a difference in the progrefs of aneurifm, that in fome in- flances the tumor is many months, nay even years. In arriving at any confider- able fize; while in others the blood is fo [ quickly poured out from the artery, as to beSe6l. I. Of Aneurifms. 187 be diffufed over the whole member in the fpace of a few hours from the operation. An uniifual degree of laxity in the cel- lular fubftance, has undoubtedly much influence in promoting this rapid difiiir fion of the extravafated bloody but the pradice of applying tight preflure in wounds of arteries has, I am convinced, in all fuch cafes,, a very htirtful effed. In addition to what was faid upon this in the chapter on Blood-letting, I fhall here obferve, that if it was poflible to make moderate preflure upon the orifice in the artery alone, fome advantage might per- haps be derived from it ^ but in applying preflure to the artery of a limb, the cor- refponding 's^eins muft be all fo much comprefTed, as to give much obflrudion to the return of blood from the artery. And whatever tends to obftrud the re- fluent blood, muft in the fame proportion diftend the wounded artery, and increafe the quantity of blood that efcapes by the orifice. Many machines have indeed been contrived for making a partial com- preflion <188 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. preflion upon the artery without affed;- ing the reft of the limb: But however mi^ch thefe may have been extolled by their inventors, none hitherto difcover- ed has anfwered the purpole of com- preffing the artery, without at the fame time obftruding the circulation in the veins; infomuch that much mifchief has in different inftances been produced by all of them. Whoever inclines to employ thefe in-* ftruments, will find various forms of them in Heifter’s Syftem of Surgery, and in the works of Dionis and Platner. Mr Dionis, an eminent French pradi- tioner, although he recommends the ap- plication of preflure to wounds in arte- ries, yet relates a cafe which happened to a furgeon of his acquaintance, in which the bad effeds produced by it were fo ftrongly marked, as muft convince all who read it of the general impropriety of this remedy. A furgeon having in blood-letting open- ed an .artery, the uftial method of apply^ ineOf Aneurifms. 189 Se£t. L ing tight compreffion was immediately employed. By this the external difcharge. of blood was foon flopped: But blood con-' tinning to efcape from the orifice in the artery, it pafTed up towards the fuperior part of the arm', which it filled to fnch a degree, that on the operation for the aneurifm, which was foon found necef fary, being performed, upwards of four pounds of coagulated blood was difchar- ged from it3 and for this purpofe it be- came necefiary to lay the parts open a - long the whole courfe of the arm When, again, compreffion has not been applied, unlefs an unufual degree of laxi- ty prevails in the furrounding parts, the fwelling proceeds to increafe in a more gradual manner: In becoming larger, it does not, like the true aneurifm, become much more prominent, but rather fpreads and diffiifes itfelf into the fiirroundiiig parts: By degrees it acquires a firm con- fiflence; and the puifation, which was at firfl confiderable, becomes always lefs in proportion ♦ Vid. Dionis’s Courfe of Chirurgical Operations^190 Chap. IX. Of Aneiirifms, proportion to this difFerence of confift- encCj and to the increafe which the tu- mor receives in fize^ infomuch, that in large aneurlfmal fwellings of this kind, the pulfatidn of the artery is fcarcely to be perceived. In the firfl: ftages of aneurifm, if the blood thrown out from the artery lies deep, the fkin preferves its natural ap- pearance, and does not change its colour till the tumor is much advanced. It fre- quently happens, however^ that the blood Is at firft thrown out with fo much vio- lence, as to get into immediate contadl with the Ikin ^ in which cafe the parts become inftantly livid, as if tending to a flare of mortification. A real fphacelus, indeed, has in fome inflances been indu- ced where the extravafatlon of blood was confiderable, and where the means beft fuited for its removal have either failed or been negleded. It muft; however, be confidered as very culpable negligence, to allow a patient;^ from this caiife, to incur the rilk which alwaysSea. L Of Aneurifnts. always attends mortification ^ for the ha- zard arifing from the operation of the aneurifm, is inconfiderable, when com- pared with the danger of an extenfive gangrene. As the tumor proceeds to increafe, the patient, who at firfl did not complain of much uneafinefs, is now much diftreffed not only with fevere pain, but with ftiff- nefs, want of feeling, and immobility of the whole limb : And thefe fymptoms Gontimuing to augment, if the tumor is not opened, the teguments at laft burft; and if the artery is of any confiderable fize, and if effedlual means be not imme- diately employed for preventing it, death will necellarily enfae, in confequence of the profufe hemorrhage which mufl: thus be produced. Various caufes were enumerated above, as being frequently produdlive, under certain circumftances, of the encyfted aneurifm : We alfo meet with fome va- riety in the caufes of the diffufed aneur rifm..^ I. Violent;of Aneuri/nfs^ Chap. IX. 192 I. Violent bodily exertion may be con- fidered, as I have obferved above, as the moil frequent caufe of the rupture of ar- teries feated internally; but as thefe do not properly belong to a work of furgery, we fliall not here confider them farther.^ II. The corrofive matter of fores and abfcelles, by entirely deftroying the coats of contiguous arteries, may in this man- ner produce the dilFufed aneurifm. III. The lharp fpiculae of a fractured bone being puftied into a neighbouring artery, have in different infliances produ- ced aneurifm. IV. Violent blows have been known to produce this kind of aneurifm. This, however, can fcarcely happen anywhere but on the head, where the arteries He more expofed than in other parts to the effects of fuch injuries, from being here very thinly covered, and from a blow in this liruation falling on the artery lying almoft in clofe contad with a firm hard body, the cranium. V. IfSeft. L Of Aneuri/ms. 193 V, If the arterial covering of an en-i cyfted aneurlfin, fliould ever burft before the external teguments of the tumor, the blood contained In it would diffufe itfelf into the contiguous parts 3 in which cafe, a real diffufed aneurifm would be formed* There is reafon however, to think that5 this happens very feldom-: So far as I have obferved, the internal coverings of aneurifm^l fwellings nevet burft firft. The tumor proceeds to increafe in a gradual manner3 and the teguments at laft become fo tenfe and overftretched, that they lofe their tone entirely ^ the Ikin becomes foft and oedoniatous 5 in fome inftances, it becomes gangrenous ; and in others, al- though it retains its natural colour, yet its ufual powers are as evidently deftroy- ed as they ufually are in the laft ftage of mortification. In this ftate, it generally remains for a longer or ihorter period, ac- cording to the ftrength of the arterial pul- fatlon below. At laft, however, the Ikln begins to crack, and a thin ferum oozes out \ the edges of this fmall fifllire in the Voj.. Illrf N tegumentsOf Aneurifms* Chap IX. 194 teguments gradually feparate ^ and the contents of the tumor having loft a confi- derable part of their fupport, the force .with which they are impelled, by degrees becomes too powerful for the remaining coverings, which accordingly foon burft, fo as to difcharge their contents external- ly, without any: effufion into the neigh- bouring parts*. I ftiould therefore ftifpedl, that authors> in writing on this point, have been mif- taken : The Ericyfted, or True Aneurifm, as it is termed, has been commonly fup- pofed in its laft ftages to burft internally, and thus to produce the diffufed or falfe aneurifm y from what fl have laid,, how- ever, there is caufe to prefume, that this is at leaft a rare occurrence. The progrefs and termination of the encyfted aneu- rifm, in every cafe that I have feen of it, has been nearly as I have juft defcribed it to> be; not by the arterial fac firft burfting, buf by a rupture of the external tegu- ments after being much over-ftretched; the blood being foon thereafter difchar- gecbSe£l. I. Of Aneurifms, ig^ ged outwardly, and not efFufed into the furrounding parts. As it has been alle- ged, however, by very refpedable au- thors, that the reverfe of this has fome- times happened, I could not here avoid to conlider it as one of the caufes of dif- fufed aneurifm. VI. The moft frequent caufe, how- ever, of this fpecies of aneurifm, are punctures with fliarp inftruments, fuch as fwords, cutlailes, and the lancet 3 which laft may be confidered as the moft fre- quent of any. Under one or other of thefe heads, al- moft every circumftance may be compre- hended, that can ever tend to produce aneurifmal tumors. It has unfortunately fometimes happen- ed, that tumors of the aneurifmal kind have been miftaken for abfcefles and o- ther colledions of matter, and their con- tents of courfe have been laid open by incifion. Th^ confequences of this may be more readily conceived than defcri- bed. With a view to prevent fuch a N 2 dreadfuligS Of Arieurifms* Chap. IX^ dreadful occurrence^ it would be ^ point of the higheft importance in pra6liee to have fuch a fet of diagnoftic fymptoms of aneurifm fet forth, as would with certainty determine the queftion. In the commence- ment of the difeafe, it may, for the moft part, be eafily afcertained: At this time,^^ the pulfation in the tumor is commonly fo ftrong, and other concomitant circum- fiances tend fo obvioufly to point out the nature of the, difeafe, that little or no doubt refpedfcing it can ever occur: But, in the more advanced ftages of the dif- eafe, when the tumor has become large, and has entirely loft its pulfation, no- thing but a very minute attention to the previous hlftory of the cafe can enable us to form a judgment of its nature. Thofe fwellings, with which aneurifms are moft likely to-be confounded, are, foft encyfted tumors, fcrophulous fwellings, and abfcefles containing either purulent or other matter, fituated either immedi- ately above, or fo nearly in contadl witlr an artery, as ter receive the influence ofSe&^L Of Aneurifms. tgy N 3 fed Its pulfatlon : When a tumor of this de- fcrlptioh is nearly connedled with a large artery, the pulfation which it receives from it is frequently fo flrong and di- flindl:, as to render it impofliblej from this circumftance alone, to form any juft idea of its contents. But there is one fymptom, which, when connected with a ftrong pulfation in the tumor, may always lead us to determine with certainty, that the fwelling is aneu- rifmal, and it is this; the contents of the tumor being made ealily to difappear upon prellure, at the fame time that they return inftantaneoufly on the prellure be- ing remove^ But although the prefence of this circumllance, when conneded with other charaderiflic fymptoms of the difeafe, may lead us to conclude, that a tu- mor is of the aneurifmal kind, yet the want of it ought not to convince us that it is not an aneurifm; for it frequently happens, particularly in the advanced ft ages of aneu« rifm, that the contents of the tumor be- come fo firm and compad, that no ef-ipS Of Anetirifnu. Chap. IX* fe6l is produced upon them by prellure. Upon the whole, therefore, as in many inftances of aneurifm, no certainty can be obtained of its real nature, in all fuch cafes, pra6litioners Ihould lay it down as an eftabliflied rule, to proceed as if the tumor was in reality of the aneurifmal kind. By adhering to^this, they may per- haps in a few inftances be deterred from opening tumors, which it may afterwards appear might have been laid open with fafety; but any lefler inconvenience which this may occafion,will be much more than compenfated, if, even in a Angle inftance, a ftirgeon is faved from thofe difagree- able feelings which he muft experience if he fliould ever have the misfojtune to open an aneurifm inftead of a collection of matter. But it is in the trunk of the body on- ly, it muft be pbferved, or in the neck, axilla, upper part of the thigh, or groin, that fo much caution in the treatment of tumors of this doubtful nature can ever be neceilury. For in almoft every part of th^Of Aneurifms. 199 ^ed. I. the extremities, and even in all acceflible parts of the head, when a tumor of this defcription-has become large, the opera- tion for the aneurifm fliould always be advifed^ for we are in all thefe parts pof- fefled of a very certain method of pre- venting danger, namely, the application of the tourniquet in the extremities, and of preflure with the fingers on the head. In forming a prognofis in cafes of a- neurifm, three important circumftanc’es chiefly require attention. The manner in which the difeafe appears to have been produced: The part of the body in which it is fituated: And laftly, the age, and Iiabit of body,^ of the patient. If an aneurifm has come forward in a gradual manner, without any apparent injury being done to the part, and with- out having fucceeded to any violent bo- dily exertion, there will then be reafori to fuppofe, that the difeafe depends upon fome debility either of the veflTel itlelf, .or perhaps of the whole arterial fyflem : N 4‘ InChap. IX. ' !XOO Of Aneurijms* In which cafe, no great fuccefs is to be expected from any means to be attempted for the patient’s relief, as the operation for the aneurifm being performed near to the part aifedled, there would be reafon to think that the fame caufe which ori- ginally produced it here Ihould haVe the effect of producing limilar dilatations in other parts of the artery : Whereas, there is much caufe to hope, if the tumor has been produced by a bruife, pundure, or other external accident, that the opera- tion fliould be more luccefsful, provided the circulation of the part be not altoge- ther deftroyed by the ligature to be put upon the artery. In the Varicofe Aneurifm, we tnay in general venture on a favourable prognofis. In different inflanceS;> it has been found, that the tumor does not here proceed fo rapidly as in other cafes; that as foon as it gets to a certain length, it does not afterwards acquire much additional bulk, and that any inconvenience produced byI. Of Aneurifms. 20i it maiy be born with eafe¥br'a%reat num- ber of years. It is in this circumftance alone, I may obferve, that we derive any advantage in the treatment of aneurifm from Dr Hun- ter’s difcovery of this variety of the dif- eafe : And a Very important difcovery it is; for by means of it a patient may be laved, not only from a very painful ope- ration, but from the rifk whieh muft al- ways attend the deftrudion of the prin- cipal artery of a limb. When a varicdfe aneurifin becomes fo large as to excite much diftrefs, the operation fliould no doubt be advifed ; but as long as the in- convenience arifing from it can be eafily born, the hazard which very commonly attends the operation, and which nothing but neceflity ought to indicate, ftiould certainly be avoided The ^ In Volume II. Art. XXXVI. of the London Medi- cal Obfervations, two cafes are related of th? vai cofe aneurifm, by Dr Hunter. One of them at thai tioie was of fourteen years ilanding, and ^he other had fubliiled for fiveOf Aneurifms. Chap. IX. 202 The fite of the tumor is the next point of importance requiring our attention. When £ve years, and no operation had been found neceflaryu And in Vol. III. of the fame work, ArtXIIL a fimilar cafe of five years duration is related by Dr Cleghorn. As it has been alleged by fome that no advantage is derived from the difcovery of this fpecies of aneurifm, from their fuppofing that the ufual operation is as necef- fary in it as in any other variety of the difeafe ; and as in diflerent inftances the operation has been put in prac- tice even in the incipient ftages of the varicofe aneurifm, where no real neceffity, I think, could occur for it; it therefore becomes a matter of fuch importance as to me- rit a very attentive examination *, and it is with much fa- tisfadion that I communicate the following fa6ls, as they tend to eftablifh with certainty, that in the varicofe aneu- rifm, the ufual operation of obliterating the cavity of the artery, is feldom, if ever, neceffary. In a letter which I received from Dr Hunter, he fays, ‘‘ The Lady in whom I firft obferved the varicofe aneu- rifm is now living at Bath in good healthy and the arm is in no fenfe worfe, although it is now thirty-five years iince flie received the injury.*' And the Dodor farther obferves, that he never heard of the operation being per- formed for the varicofe aneurifm, that was known to be fuch. In a letter from Dr William Cleghorn of Dublin, he fayy, that the cafe of varicofe aneurifria above mentioned, MS203 Of Aneurifms. Sed. I, When aji aneurifm is fo fituated, that no ligature or" efFedual compreffion can be applied for putting a flop to ,^the circu- lation, if the artery is large, there would be the utmoft hazard in opening it; as the as related in the 3d Volume of the London Medical Ob- fervations, remains nearly in the fame ftate as at the time that account of it was made out, which was at leaft twen- ty years ago; only that the veins are rather more enlar- ged, The patient recovered, and the limb became nearly as flrong and ferviceable as the other. The man has all along continued his bufinefs as flioemaker, and has lately recovered from a fprain in the affefted arm, which he re- ceived in lifting a heavy burden. In a letter from Mr Pott, whofe opportunities for ob- fervation were great, he fays, “ That he has met with three different inftahces of this fpecies of aneurifm, and that^the operation never became necelfary in any of them. Among other inftances of varicofe aneurifm which have appeared here, a young man from Paifley, who had the misfortune to meet with it feveral years ago, was examined by different furgeons of this place. The dif- eafe was clearly marked, and no operation was advifed. In a letter from Mr Hamilton, Profeffor of Anatomy in Glafgow, I am informed, that this man was lately ferving in the Navy, where he undergoes great fatigue without any inconvenience from the aneurifm, although it was fhen of thirteen years continuance.204 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. the patletit might probably lofe more blood than his ftrength could bear, be- fore it. could be fecured. In aneurifms, therefore, that are fo fituated, particular- ly on any part of the trunk of the body. Oil the neck, axilla, or groin, there can never be a good foundation fi3r a favour- able ptognolis. 'On the contrary, indeed, the greateft danger is in fuch fituations always to be apprehended : For the force of the arterial pulfation would at laft be apt to deftroy the coats with which the tumor Is furrounded; and in fuch an event, the moll fatal confequences might probably enfiie. The fuccefs of this operation mull alfo prove doubtful in the fuperior parts of the extremities: But in the inferior parts, both of the aims and legs, it may be per- formed with a very fair profpe6t of fuc- cefs, even on the principal arteries; for after the great artery of a limb has crept along the upper part of it, a number of fmall branches are always fent out, which by a- naftomofing not only with fimilar branches below,Sed, I. Of Anmrifms. 205 Below, but by their means with the un-^ der part of the large artery itfelf, thefe, in the event of the common trunk from whence they fprung being dellroyed, come to dilate to fuch an extent as to carry on the circulation in the inferif>r part of the limb much more completely than could a priori be expeded. We would not na- turally fuppofe, after the principal artery of a part has been obliterated, that the circulation would there be afterwards carried on with much force > and yet numberlefs inftances have occurred, of the large brachial artery being completely dellroyed by ligature, without being pro- dudive of much inconvenience to the parts below ^ and the fame circumftance has alfo happened, where the operation for the aneurifm has been performed on the trunk of the great feinoral artery From ^ In one cafe, the operation for the aneurifm was per-^ formed with the moft complete fuccefs, on the trunk of the femoral artery, about two hand-breadths from the gjoin, by the late Mr Thomas Hamilton, ProfelTor of A- natom^Chap. IX. Of Aneurifms. 2q6 From what has been fald, therefore, it mufl: appear, that when an anenrifm is fo fituated, natomy in Glafgow. And what rendered this cafe more remarkable, was, that after the trunk of the large artery was fecured with ligatures, it was neceffary to perform the operation again upon a fmall branch of an artery which had been wounded, even farther up than the prin- cipal trunk. For fome time after the operation, the limb remained colder than the other, and it was upwards of a week be- fore any pulfation could be felt in the artery at the ankle. In two months from the operation, the wound was com- pletely [healed, and the circulation and heat returned; and in a fhort time thereafter, the patient had fo far re- covered the ufe of his limb, as to be able to take very violent exercife. Thefe particulars I thought it right to communicate, as the cafe of this patient is one of a few well authenticated inftances, of this operation having been attempted on the femoral artery fo near to its origin •, and the fuccefs at- tending it furely points out the propriety of the meafure, in every aneurifm, even of thefe parts, not evidently arifing from general debility of the coats of the artery. In Vol. HI, Article XII. of the London Medical Ob- fervations, another inftance is related of the operation for the aneurifm having been performed on the trunk of the femoral artery, by Mr Burchal, furgeon in Manchefter ^ the patient recovered, and the limb became nearly as flrong and as ferviceable as the other.Sed:. I. Of Aneurifms. 20f fituated, that compreflion cannot be ap- plied fo as to fecure the patient from the lofs of much blood when the artery is laid open, the operation fliould not be at- tempted ^ and in fuch cafes the prognofis ought certainly ta be very unfavour- able. While, on the contrary, whenever an aneurifm, produced by external via- lence, is feated on any of the extremities,^ where we are fure of comnianding the circulation, the operation fliould: always be advifed, as foon as there is caufe to fil- led:, that the tumor, if left to itfelf,. might burft, fo as to endanger the life of the patient. The fuGcefs of this operation, depend- ing in a great degree upon the circulation afterwards going on in the under part of the member, our prognofls ought, ceteris paribus^ to be mote or lefs favourable, ac- cording as the tumor is feated high or low bn the limb. For the riik of the circula- tion being hurt, is always in proportion to the height of the tumor 3 according it2o8 of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. « it is high or low, this rifk is always in- creafed or diminifhed. But laftly, whether an aneurifm has been produced by an external injury, or by internal difeafe, and whatever may be its fituation, the habit of body and age of the patient ought to have no fmall influ- ence in determining the opinion of prac- titioners on the efFeds to be expefted from an operation. In no operation, indeed, are the advantages derived from health and youth more confpicuous than in this y for in the earlier periods of life, all the fofter parts accommodate themfelvesmuch more readily to every important change, than they ever do in the more advanced ftages of life: In old age, all the animal fibres have acquired fo much firmnefs and folidity, as to be rendered almoft inca- pable of diftention : This,is particularly the cafe with the arterial fyftem, fome parts of which often proceed to a ft ate of oflification: So that at this period of life, we may readily fuppofe that the fmaller arteries are rendered incapable of that de- / ' gree209 $e£l. II. Of Aneurifms. gree of dlftention neceflkry for fupplying the want of the principal artery of a part> and which in the more early periods of life they might with eafe have done. This operation having been performed with various fuccefs, even where the tm mors were apparently fimilar, both in tuation and other circumftances, various reafons have been fuggefted to account for vit. With fome the operation has fuc- ceeded, even under circumftances appa- rently more unfavourable, than with o- thers where it failed. Thus it has proved fuccefsful, as I have lately remarked, in the trunk of the femoral artery, while in others, it has failed when done in the ham: That is,, in the former the circulation in the under part of the leg was ftill pre- ferved, and the patients recovered^ while, in the latter, where fuccefs might more ' readily have been looked for, the limbs remained cold after the operation, no re- turn of circulation took place, mortifica- tion at laft was induced, and the patients died;210 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX From this variety of fuccefs attending' it, we find very contradictory opinions held forth refpeCting this operation. While one condemns it, as feldom proving fuccefsful, except in the very extreme parts of a member 3 others afifert, that it may be done even in the largefl: artery of a limb, and with great probability of fuccefsv Thi^ contrariety of opinion, however, may, I think, be explained, by what I hdve faid concerning the age and habit of body of thofe on whom the operation is performed; for, to the' different powers of diflention with which the arterial fyftem rs endowed at different periods of life, the good or bad fuccefs attending it may with fufficient reafon- be often af- figned. So that, although it may fail in an old infirm perfon, even in the under part of the leg or arm, this fh ould not deter us from advifing it, even in much higher fi- tuations, where the patient is young and healthy. ItSedl. i* Of AneurifmSi 211 It may alfo be proper to obferve, that in the ham the operation is feldom done fo well as in the thigh : The artery lies fo deep in the ham^, that it is taken up with more difficulty; by which a confi- derlable quantity of blood is often loft; the flrengthof the patient is in this man- ner exhaufted; and hence he often fickens and dies, when otherwife he might pro- bably have recovered* Having thus confidered the ufual ap- pearances and jcaufes of aneurifm, toge- ther with the grounds upon which a juft progndfis is to be formed, we fliall now proceed to the method of cure.212 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. SECTION ir. Of the ^treatment of Aneurifmu Pressure has heen indifcrimtnatery advifed in Aneurifm, not only in the beginning of the difeafe, but in its more advanced ftages. In a farmer chap- ter on Blood-letting, as well as in fome parts of this, this fubjeft has already been noticed: To thefe we muft now refers and fliall at prefent advert to fuch points only as were, not before entered upon. In the diffufed or felfe aneurifm pref- fure has been advifed, not only with view to diflipate the fwelling, but in or- der tO' produce a reunion of the wound in the artery: I have already made it appear, however, as prefliire in fuch ca- fes cannot be applied to the artery alone„ without at the fame time affedting the veins ^ and as thisj by increafing the re- fiftance to the arterial pulfations," raufl: forceSed. II. , Of Aneurifms. 213 force an addltioHal quantity of blood to the orifice in the art>ery,.that in this way it mufl: often do harm. But although prefiure fiiould never be advifed in any ftage of the difFufed a- neurifm, yet in fome periods of the en- <:yfted aneurifm, it may often be applied with advantage. Jn the early ftages of eiicyfted aneu- rifm, while the blood can be yet prefled entirely out of the fac into the artery, a bandage of foft and fotnewhat elaftic ma- terials, properly fitted to the part, will often prevent an increafe of the tumor ^ and in fome few inftances, by the conti- nued fupport thus given to the weakened artery, complete cures have been obtain- ed. In all fuch cafes, therefore, parti- cularly in the varic.ofe aneurifm, which I have already endeavoured to Ihew can feldo.m require the ufual operation, much advantage may be expeded from mode- rate preflure. But although preflhre to a certain de- gree has frequently proved ufeful in en- O 3 cyfted214 of Aneurifms. Chap. IX, cyfted aneurifm, it ought never to be carried far^ for tight bandages, by exci- ting readlion in the parts to which they are applied, inftead of anfwering the pur- pofe for which they were intended, have often the contrary elieft. Moderate pref- fure, therefore, is more eligible than a great degree of it; nor ought it ever to be employed, but merely to ferve as an eafy fupport to the weakened parts. While we thus, however, advife com- preffion, other means ought not to be o- mitted : The patient fliould be kept up- on low diet; if the pulfe is full, blood fhould be evacuated ; the bowels fliould be kept lax; and all violent exercife, par- ticularly of the injured part, fliould be carefully guarded againil. In the latter llages of aneurifm, when much tenflon and pain are induced, op:cites prove ufe- fid; and often indeed are the only reme-- dies from which we obtain relief. This courfe of treatment applies to every aneurifm for which the operation is not to be performed; whether this may proceedSe£t. II. Of Aneurifms. 215 proceed from the feat of the difeafe ren- dering it inadmillible, or from any other caufe: In fuch circumftances, indeed, an eafy fupport by means of gentle compref- lion, a low diet in order to prevent a ple- thoric Hate of the veflels 3 repeated blood- lettings when plethora adually exifts ^ a total abftinence from exercife ^ and the ufe of opiates when indicated by pain ^ are the only remedies from which much benefit is to be expeded. Having thus pointed out the different remedies to be employed where the ope- ration is not to be performed, I fhall now proceed to defcribe the operation itfelf, a meafure that becomes neceflary when the means recommended for the previous treatment of the difeafe have failed, or when the tumor has made much progrefs before proper afliftance is procured. Our firft flep in this operation is, to ob- tain a full command of the circulation in the under part of the limb, by means of the tourniquet applied above. 04 Thisof Aneurijms^ Chap. IX. 2i6 This being accomplifhed, the patient Ihould be fo placed, that the difeafed limb, on being ftretched on a table, may be of a proper height for the furgeon, who ought to be feated during the whole courfe of the operation. The limb being in this fituation properly fecured by affiftants, the furgeon fliould now make an incifion with a fcalpel through the fl^in and cellular fubftance, along the whole courfe of the tumor; and in order to enfure fufficient freedom for the re- maining parts of the operation, this ex- ternal incifion fhould be carried at leaft half an inch pafi; each end of the tumor. No mifchief can enfue from the firfl: Im cifion being free and extenfive; and I have feen different inftances of the fur- geon being much embarraffed in the fub- fequent fteps of the operation, by timidi- ty or ill-judged lenity in this part of it. This being done, the ufual method is, to proceed in a flow, cautious manner^ dif- fedting away, one layer of the membrane afterSed. II. Of Aneurifms. 217 after another, till the artery itfelf is laid bare. In this manner the operation is always tedious, for the thicknefs of parts with which the artery is covered, is of- ten very confiderable, by one layer of a membranous fubftance having formed af- ter another, from the coagulable lymph ,;Of the blood contained in the tumor. There is no caufe, however, for this de- gree of caution, as the operation may be equally well performed, in a much lliorter fpace of time, and with much lefs pain to the patient. As foon as the external incilionhas been made in the manner directed above, fo as to divide the Ikin and cellular fubftance,' a lancet fhould<be pufhed into the fac, fo as to make an opening fufficiently large, for admitting one of the fingers: This being done, the fore-finger of the left hand fliould be introduced at the opening, when the fac fhould be cut from one end to the other,' by running a probe-pointed biftoury along the finger from below up- wardsOf Aneurifms. 2i8 Chap. IX. wards^ and afterwards from above down- wards, fo as to lay the whole cavity o- pen. The cavity of the tumor being thus laid open, all the coagulated blood is now to be taken out: For which purpofe, a vari- ety of fcoops and other inftruments have been invented, but no inftrument anfwers this intention fo well, and with fo much eafe to the patient, as the fingers of the operator. The coagulated blood being removed, together with the membranous filaments iifuaily found in aneurifmal tumors, the cavity of the fac mufl now be dried with a fmall fponge, when the tourniquet fliould be made perfectly flack, in order to dif- cover not only the artery itfelf, but the opening into.it from whence the blood collected in the tumor has all along iflu- ed. This being done, we are next to em- ploy proper means for preventing any far- ther elfufion of blood into the fac. Vari- ous means have been propofed for this > butSe£t. II. Of Aneunfms* 219 but they are all comprehended in the fol- lowing: I. Ligatures upon large arteries, having in fome inftances deftroyed the circula- tion in the under part of a limb, it was long ago propofed, on laying open the fac, to endeavour to accomplilh a cure, by applying a piece of agaric or dry fponge to the orifice in the artery 3 arid in fome inftances, vitriol and other aftringents, were ufed for the fame purpofe. II. Upon the fame principle with the above, that of ft ill preiervirig the circu- lation in the whole courfe of the arte- ry, it was fome time ago propofed by Mr Lambert, an eminent furgeon of New- caftle, to fecrire the orifice in the ar- tery with the twifted future A final! needle being puftied through the edges of the wound, they are then to be drawn together by a thread properly twifted round the needle, in the manner I have advifed when treating of futures f. .Thefe * Vide London Medical Obfervadons, Vol. II. Ar- ticle XXX.' t \'ide Chap. vi. fed. v.azo of Aneunfms. Chap. IX* Thefe methods, however, are both li- able to objedions: In the firfl: place, nei- ther fponge, agaric, nor any aftringent application with which we are acquaint- ed, is poiTelTed of fuch -powers as to de- ferve much confidence; for, although^ in a few inftances they have put a tem- porary flop to hemorrhagies, they have feldom produced any permanent advan- tage. In almoft every inftance in which they have been ufed, the homorrhagy has recurred from time to time, fo as to prove highly diftrefsful, not only to the patient, but to the pradlitioner; fo that from this want of fuccefs, little or no attention is now given to remedies of this clafs* With regard to Mr Lambert’s method of ftitching the orifice in the artery, it is certainly an ingenious propofal, and would probably, in mod: inftances, give an effedual ftop to all farther difcharge of blood 3 but as it has hitherto been very feldom pradlifed, farther experience of its efifeds muft be obtained, before we can wfith propriety either receive or re- jedSedi. IL Of Aneunfms. 221 jedl it. But if in a matter of fuch moment, reafoning may be admitted^ I would beg leave to obferve, that two material objedions occur to it. Ond is, that in almofl; every inftance of aneU’- rifin, the artery lies at the back part of the tumor y fo that when all the col» leded blood is removed, there is fuch a depth of wound, that it muft be always difficult, and in many inftances impof- lible, to perform this nice operation upon the artery, with that attention and exad- nefs, which, in order to infure fuecefs, it certainly requires. It has fometimes, indeed, happened, that the artery has been found on the anterior part of the tu- mor, in which cafe, the orifice would no doubt prove fufficiently acceffible. This, however, is a rare occurrence, as in almofl: every inftance of diffufed aneu- rifm the artery lies at the bottom of the tumor, the blood being colleded between it and the common teguments ^ and ac» cordingly I have feen feveral inftances,. in which, after the tumor was laid free- Ij222 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX* ly open, the artery was found to lie fo deep as to render it impoflible to perform this operation. But there is another very important objedion to this practice recommended by Mr Lambert. By introducing a needle through the fides of the orifice, and drawing thefe together with a liga- ture, the cavity of the artery muft un- doubtedly be at that point much leflened. Mr Lambert, indeed, in his account of the only cafe in which he performed this operation, acknowledges that the diameter of the artery was thereby diminifhed. Now, the pafiTage^ of the blood being thus contradled at one point, the impulfe up- on that particular part muft be very con- fiderable: So that the very remedy em- ployed for the cure of one variety of a- neurifm, muft in all probability prove a powerful agent in inducing another ^ for the blood being thus obftruded in its u- fual courfe, there will be nluch hazard of a dilatation being produced immediately above this preternatural ftri(fture. IOf Aneurifms. 225 Scd. II. I muft fairly acknowledge, however, that all I have advanced, proceeds from reafon- ing alone, and that as yet it is not fupported by experience. But, if farther trials of this operation lhall tend to fliow that the objedlions now ftated againft it are not well founded, no one will be more ready than I lhall be to adopt it 3 for, if fhefe objedtions were removed, I Ihould confi-- der this operation as deferving to be ranked among the moll important im» provements which in modern times fur- gery has acquired. In the treatment of aneurifm by the common operation, if the principal artery of a limb is concern- ed, fome rilk is always incurred, not on* ly of injuring the parts below in a moll material manner, but even of dellroying them entirely, by depriving them of the quantity of blood necelTary for their fup- port. Now, by Mr Lambert’s improve- ment, an effedtual Hop is put to the far ther evacuation of blood, while at the fame time the circulation in the difeafed artery is preferved 3 fo that if farther ex- perience224 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX- perience of its efFeds fliall evince, that the obje6lions which I have ftated agalnft it are not well founded, it will deferved- ly be admitted as an important improve- ment in the cure of aneurifm^. III. Neither of thefe methods being to be trufted, I fliall now proceed to defcribe the ufual method of performing this o- peration;and it confifts in obliterating the arterial cavity entirely with ligatures. The artery being laid ba!re in the man- ner I have diredled, and the coagulated blood carefully removed from the cavity of the tumor, on the tourniquet being made flack fo as to bring the orifice in the artery into view, a fmall probe fliould be introduced at the opening, with a view to raife the artery from the contiguous parts, fo that the furgeon may be enabled with * Since the firft editions of this Work were printed, this operation has been <>nce performed in the Infirmary here; but although done with fufficient accuracy and attention, it did not fucceed ; and before a cure could be obtained, it was judged neceffary to perform the operation in the ufual way.Of Aneurifms» 225 Sea. II. with certainty to pafs a ligature round it without comprehending the contiguous nerves, which in ^general run near to the large blood-veflels of the limb. By this precaution, the nerves may be always a- voided; and by doing fo, much mifchief may be prevented, which otherwife would probably fupervene. In anCurifms feated in the ham, or in the ufual place of blood- letting in the arm, bending the joint of the knee or elbow, by relaxing the artery, renders this part of the operation more eafily effeaed, than when the limb is kept fully ftretched out. The artery being thus feparated from the contiguous parts, a firm, waxed li- gature muft be pafled round it, about the eighth part of an inch above the orifice, and another at the fame diflance below. More than this is commonly advifed, but much harm has arifen from the ligatures being pafTed fo far from the orifice as is commonly done; for the rifk of lo-- ling the benefit of anaftomofing branches will be always in proportion to the ex- VoL.III, P tent226 Of Atieurijms. Chap. IX, tent of artery included between the liga- tures. The ealiefl; method of introducing the ligatures, is by means of a blunt curved needle, of the form reprefcnted in PL V. fig. 3. A common fliarp needle is ufually employed for this purpofe; but it does not anfwer the intention fo well. Being fharp in the point and fides, it is apt to in- jure the contiguous parts; and when the common crooked needle is ufed with a fiiarp edge on its concave fide, there muft even be fome rifk of w^ounding the under part of the artery, as the needle cannot in this fituation be introduced without being in cpnta£l with the coats of the artery. The blunt needle is not liable to either of thefe qbjedions; and befides, when of the form here reprefented, it is more eafily introduced than any of the needles commonly ufed in this operation. Of late a new inftrument has been recom- mended for this operation : A curved fil- yer tube.being pafled beneath the artery, a probe, fitted to the tube, and previoufly V armedSeil. H. Of Aneurijmsp 2 27 armed with a ligature, is then pulhed through it, and the ligature drawn along with it: It proves to be, however, a much Inore complex method of anfwering the lame purpofe with the needle, and will never therefore be employed by thofe who have ufed the other. The ligatures being both pafled, the upper one is now to be tied fufficiently firm for compreiling the fides of the ar- tery. By fome, a fmall bolfter of linen is ordered to be inferted between the ar- tery and the knot, in order to prevent the artery from being cut. This, how- ever, can anfwer no good purpofe ; for if the whole artery is not furrounded with the bolfler, it will be juil as liable to be cut by the ligature, as if this precaution had not been adopted : And befides, as I have elfewhere had occafion to remark, the ligature on arteries need never be fo tight, as to incur the rifk of dividing them; much lefs prefliire than is com- monly applied, being fufEcient. P 2 The2ZS ^ Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. The upper ligature being thus finilhed, before the knot is pafTed upon the other below the orifice, the tourniquet fliould be untwifted, in order to fee whether any blood is difcharged by the wound in the artery or not. If blood flows freely, it will aflfbrd a pleafant profpeft of the fiic- cefs of the operation, as it wull fliew, that the anaftomofing branches are fufficient for carrying on the circulation in the un- der part of the limb. But although blood fliould not be difcharged at this time by the orifice, we are not, from this circum- ftance alone, to defpair of fuccefs; for it frequently happens, that the operation proves fuccefsful, although^ no blood is difcharged on the trial I have mention- ed. But whether any blood fliould ,be dif- charged by this trial or not, we fliould not reft fatisfied with one ligature ^ for unlefs the ligature below themri|ice is al- fo tied, hemorrhagies may probably take place on the return of circulation to the under part of the artery; This precau- tion,^29 Seft. II. Of Aneurifms. don, therefore, fhould never be omit- ted; it is eafily done, and it renders the patient fecure againft all farther lofs of blood. After the knots are tied, the li- gatures fliould be cut of fuch a length aa to admit of their ends lying over the wound, fo that when neceflary they may be more -eafily withdrawn.. As a farther fecurity, it has been ad-^ vifed to infert other two llgafures quite contiguous to thefe, and to leave them untied, fo that if either of the others fhould happen to fail, its place may be / immediately fupplled. There is not, however, any caufe for this, precaution, for, if the firfl: ligatures are properly applied, they will not fail to anfwer the purpofe ; and in the event of one or both of them giving way, they can be eafily renewed; In the mean time, too, the patient is rendered fafe againft any hidden difcharge of blood by leaving the tourniquet loofe upon the upper part of the. member, which it ought always P 3 ^ to230 Of Aneurijms. Chap. IX^ to be for feveral days after the operation^^ fo that, in the event of blooAburftlng from the wound, it may at once be fecured* The ligatures being completed^ the tour- niquet fliould be made loofe; and if no blood is^ difcharged' at the orifice in the artery, we may conclude that the opera- tion is properly performed. The wound Ihould now be lightly co- vered with a pledget of any emollient ointment 3 and a comprefs of foft lint be- ing applied over the drellings, the whole fliould be feeured with two*or three turns of a roller above, and as many below the centre of the wound. The patient being now laid in bed, the member fliould be placed in a relaxed pofture upon a pillow, fo as to create the lead: poflible uneafinefs from the po- llure in which it is placed.- As thi^ operation is always tedious, and excites much pain and irritation, a full dofe of laudanum fliould be given imme- diately after it is finilhed. With a view to diminifli fenfibility in chirurgical ope- rations.^Sed. IL Of Anmrifms^ 231 rations, I have in different inftances given opiates about an hour before: Withfome, this has'evidently proved ufeful, but with others it has appeared to do harm; par- ticularly in weak, nervous conftitutions, in which With any dofes I ever ventured to give, the patients appeared to be ren- dered more irritable and more fufcepti- ble of pain, than if no opiate had been taken. Immediately after every opera- tion of importance, however, an opiate fliould be exhibited, and repeated occa- fionally, according to the degrees of pain and reftleflhefs. In feme few cafes of aneurifm, it hap- pens, that the pulfe in the under part of the limb is perceptible immediately after the operation. This, however, is not fre-* quent; for . aneurifm being more com* monly met with at the joint of the elbow^, as a confequence of blood-letting, than in any other fituation, and as it rarely hap- pens that the brachial artery divides till it pafles an inch or two below the joint, the trunk of this artery u therefore moft P 4 frequently2^2 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. frequently wounded; and, as the liga- tures in this operation muft obftruft the paffage of almoft the whole blood going to the under part of the arm, there can be no reafon to exped any pulfation at the wrift, till the anaftomofing branches of the artery have gradually become fo much enlarged, as to tranfmit fuch a quantity of blood to the under part of the limb, as may be fufEcient for acting as a ftimulus to the larger branches of the artery. Immediately after the operation, the patient complains of numbnefs or want of feeling In the whole member; and as it commonly becomes cold, it ought to be kept properly covered. In ten or twelve hours from the operation, although the numbnefs may continue, the heat of the parts generally begins to return; and, in the courfe of a few hours more, all the under part of the member is even apt to become preternaturally warm. Although phyfiological dlfcuflions are not immediately connected with our fub-^ jed, and although I fhall not therefore often233 Sea. II. of Aneurifm^. often enter upon them, yet I cannot here avoid to remark the clear proof which we derive from this operation, of the great dependence that one part of the human frame has upon another. The nerves we know to be the inftruments of fenfe and motion^ but on being deprived of their ufual fu^portfrom the fanguiferous fyftem, their influence is inftantly leflTened. Immediately after this operation, the want of feeling in the parts affeaed, is commonly great; and in proportion as the circulation takes place in the under part of the limb, the degree of feeling is alfo augmented. If we could fuppofe the nerves of the parts below to be always in- cluded in theTigature with the artery, that numbnefs which fucceeds to the ope- ration might be eafily explained; butIhave known it happen when it was obvious that nothing but the artery was fecured with the ligature : And befides, although the knot upon the nerves would account for the immediate lofs of fenfibility which fucceeds to the operation, it would not ferve*^34 Of Aneurifms. Chap. ferve to explain the return of feeling, on the circulation being reftored; for the nerve being deftroyed by the ligature, if the want of feeling originated entirely from this, it could not be alFeded by the return of blood to the part. In the mean time, the regimen and fi- tuation of the patient are points requiring particular attention: He fliould be allow- ed cordials and nourifhing diet when low and reduced, and confined to a low diet, if his conftitution is plethoric : The limb fliould be kept in a relaxed pofture, and towards the end of the fourth or fifth day, fometimes I have known it fooner, a weak feeble pulfe is difcovered in the under part of the limb^ and as this becomes ftronger, the patient in the fame propor- tion recovers the ufe and feeling of th^ parts. As foon as matter has formed about the fore, and this feldom happens before the fifth or fixth day, an emollient poultice fliould be applied over it for a few hours, in order to foften the dreflings, which fliould iSe(ft. li. Of Aneurifms. ^S5 fliould tken be removed. At this timc^ too, the ligatures might be taken away ; but as their continuance for a few days longer can do no harm, it is better to al- low them to remain till the fecond or third dreffingy when they either drop off of themfelves, or may be taken away with fafety. The dreflings, which fliould always be of the fofteft materials, being renewed every fecond or third day according to the quantity of matter, the fore for the moft part heals eafily ^ and although the pa- tient may for a eonfiderable time com- plain of numbnefs and want of ftrength in the difeafed limb, yet in moft inftan- ces a very free ufe of it is obtained at laft. It will be readily fiippofed, that this termination is the moft favourable that can poffibly happen. In fome inftances, our fuccefs is far from being fo complete: Inftead of a return of circulation, and of the feeling and ufe of the parts, they re- main cold and infenfible, and no marks of returning life are perceived. From a mere336 Of Aneurifms. Chap. IX. the mere want of blood, therefore, mortifi- cation at laft lakes place ; and as nature is here deprived of one of her principal agents for the removal or reparation of gangrenous parts, I mean the efiforts of the fanguiferous fyilem, the difeafe for the xnoft part terminates fatally. Whenever mortification, therefore, en- fiies, as a confequence of this operation, if the patient furvives till a reparation takes place between the healthy and dif- eafed parts, amputation of the limb is then our only refource. That this operation, when performed upon the principal artery of a limb fome- times terminates in this manner, no prac- titioner will deny ^ but its doing fo in fome inftances, does not warrant our re- jecting it in all. The event of every ca- pital operation is very uncertain \ and in this, as in every other of equal impor- tance, as we cannot in any cafe fay with precifion how it ^yill fucceed, fo we are never to advife it where means of a lefs hazardous nature will anfwer: While, onSed:. !!• Of Aneurifms 237 the contrai*y, when thefe are found to faiJ^ and the patient-s life appears to be in danger, it ought without hefitaLiOxi to be performed. CHAP-23^ AffeElims of the Brain Chap. X. CHAPTER X. {jf Affe6iions of the Brain from External Violence. S E C T I O N L General Remarhs on AffeElione of the Brain from External Violence. Affections of the Brain from ex- ternal violence, often induce a very complicated fet of fymptomsj are attend- ed with imminent danger, and give much embarralTment to praditioners : Accord- ingly,Sed:. I. from external Violence. 239 ingly, both with refped to the hazard with which they are attended, and the difh- qulty that we meet with in the cure, there is perhaps no clafs of difeafes to be com- pared with them. Wounds and bruifes of the head, which at firfl: exhibit no marks of danger, often induce a train of fymp- toms which elude the Ikill of the mofl: ex- perienced praditioner ^ and, without ad- mitting of any mitigation, proceed to a fatal period, ending only with the death of the patient. The very intricate nature of thefe af- fedions has excited the attention of prac- titioners from the time of Hippocrates downwards; but although this branch of pradice has received fome important im- provements, from the induftry and obfer- yation of modern furgeons, yet it mull be admitted, that much ftill remains to be done in it. Authors of the lafl: and pre- ceding centuries have propofed modes of tteatment in affedions of the head, which modern praditioners do not admit, whilft in various points of importance furgeons of240 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. the of our own times differ materially from one another. This uncertainty which prevails with refped to the nature and treatment of thefe affedlions, proceeds from different caufes, the principal of which appear to be the following. I. The neceflity of a found and entire flate of the brain for the purpofes of life and health, together with the peculiar delicacy of its flrudlure, make injuries which in other parts of the body would induce no danger, when inflided on this organ produdive of the mofl alarming confequences. II. The brain being furrounded with a firm covering of bone, it is always diffi- cult, and in many cafes impoflible, to ob- tain an exadl knowledge of the nature of the affection, and of the parts more im- mediately injured: Infomuch, that while the attending fymptoms often lead us to prefume that the brain has fuffered, if no external marks of injury appear, we, are ^ frequently at a lofs to determine whereSe6l. I. from external Violence., 241 the inftruments neceflary for the relief of the patient fliould be applied: For this rea- fon, we have not, perhaps in any in^ance, fo much caufe to regret our very limited acquaintance with difeafes, as in affedtions of the brain; in which, difcoveries are often made upon diflecSion after death, a knowledge of which, if obtained a day or two fooner, might have put it in our power to fave fome valuable lives. III. The moft material impediment to our fuccefsful treatment of difeafes of this clafs, is the impoflibility of obtaining an eafy and free accefs to the injured parts, even when we know with certainty where they are feated. For, the brain being on all lides fui^rounded with bone, we can rarely accomplifh fo extenfive an expo- fure of the parts affeded as the proper treatment of them requires. IV. The manner in which difeafes of the head from external violejnce haver been commonly defcribed, has had fome influence in rendering this part of prac- tice perplexed and intricate. Till of VoL. III. late242 AffeBions of the Brain Chap* X# late years, authors have attended more to the confideration of the caufes which induce difeafes of the head,^ than to the real nature and treatment of the afFedions themfelves: Occupied almoft entirely in defcribing the farmer, they have very univerfally paffed over the latter with too much remillhefs Thus, the various contufions and wounds to which the head is expofed, have been particularly defcribed ^ and every varie- ty of fradure which can happen has been mentioned with a minute accuracy. The mofl: trifling differences that can occur^ have been diftinguilhed by particular ap- pellations, and much ingenuity has been cxercifed in defcribing the extent with refped to length and breadth, and^ every other circumflance relative to the figure of * The French authors upon this ful^*e6l, were the firli: among the moderns who wrote upon it with any kind of precifiort. And among thefe, that judicious pra6iitionejfV 'Monlieur Le Dran ftands particularly eminent: T need fcarcely obferve too, that the public are much indebted to our countryman the late Mr Pott, for his valuable work upon this fubje6l.Se<ft, from external Violence. ^43^ of a fradlure : Points of vei^y little Mi- portance; and ^^hich, when fo ihuch infifted Upon, tend to perplex not on- ly tl>e younger, but even the more ex- perienced part of the profefliom Nothing indeed can fet the impropriety of fuch di- ftindions in a ftronger point of view, than our obferving daily that no advan- tage enfues from them. It is the ef- fed which fradures of the Ikull and o- ther injuries produce upon the brain, which we ought to confider, and hot their external appearances. If indeed the effeds produced upon the brain by a fradure of the Ikull could be determined by the fize and figure of the fradure, it might be proper to pay atten- tion to the defcription of it: But every praditioner knows that this is not the cafe. Fradures of the fmalleft fize will in fome inftances be attended with the moft dangerous fymptoms, whiifl in others thofe of the greatefl extent excite no ar- larming appearance. As long as it was imagined that the danger induced by 2 thefeAffeEliom of the’Brain- Chap. X- thefe accidents was in proportion to the lize and figure of a frafture, we need not be furprifed at the attention with which- thefe circumftances were treated^ but now that we know that no advantage can be derived from diftindtions of this kind, I fhall not confider it as neceffary to dwell particularly upon them. Thefe are the circumftances which ren- der the management of affedlions of the brain from external violence uncertain.. Imthe fiibfequent part of this chapter I ftiall endeavour to point out the means, beft calculated’ to extricate this part of pradiice from fuch uncertainty : But be-' fore proceeding to: do fo, it will not be confidered as inaproper our giving a con- cife anatomical defcription of the parts moft apt to fuffer from injuries done to- the head ; as by this the fubjed will be rendered more clear and intelligible.. SE &Se£t. II. from external Violence. 245 the 0.3 SECTION IL Anatomical Defcription of the Brain and fur^ rounding Parts, HE bfain and cerebellum, with their membranes the dura and pia mater, have for their protection, a covering of bone, the Cranium. > The cranium confills of eight bones, forming an oblong vault or box, flattened on the fides by the fuperior firmnefs of the lower part of the temporal bones, and by the conftant action of the temporal mufcles: It is more capacious on the back part than before, the lobes of the brain being here more extenfive. The bones of the cranium or Ikull, are, the frontal bone, the two parietal bones, the two temporal, the occipital, the fphe- noid, and ethmoid. The firfl: fix of thefe are faid to be proper to the fkull, the two laft being confidered as common to it and34^ AffeStions of the Brain Chap. X. The the face. The os frontis forms all the anterior or fore part of ^he cranium, the oITa parietalia the middle and upper part, and thiq os occipitis the pofterior part of it: The oITa temporum forni the lower part of the fides of the cranium ; and the fphenoid and ethmoid bones forna the centre, or what is commonly termed the bafis of the fkiill ^ but as thefe two laft mentioned bones lie fo deep, as to be en- tirely out of the reach of any chirurgi- eal operation, any injury to which they may be expofed, mufl: in alrnofl:,every in-, ftance prove fatal. The other fix bones are connedled to- gether by joints or indentations, termed Sutures, which are five in nunaber, the coronal, fagittal, lambdoid, and two fqua- mous. The coronal future extends over the head, from within a fliort fpace of the external canthus of one eye, to with- in an equal dillance of the other on the oppofite fide of the head^ and in itscourfe, it ferves to unite the frontal bone to the anterior edge of the two parietal bones.—^Seft. II. from external Violence. 247 *The fagittal future unites the parietal bones on the fuperior part of the Ikull, by running almoft in a diredl line from the middle of the frontal bone to the middle of the os occipitis : In fome in- fiances this future proceeds along the whole extent of the os frontis, and ter- minates Immediately above the nofe, by which that bone is divided into two equal parts ; and it has been faid that inftances have been met with, of the occipital bone being divided in a fimilar manner. This, however, is confefledly a rare oc- <:urrence. The lambdoid future, fo called from its refemblance to the Greek letter begins, where the’fagittal future, terminates, at the middle of the fuperior edge of the oc- cipital bone; and, its two crura or legs ftretching down to the bafis of the Ikull, ferve to unite this bone to the poflerior edge of the two parietal and temporal bones. It is in the courfe of this future, namely, the lambdoid, that thefe fmall irregular ollifications, termed olTa trique- 0.4248 AffeBions of the Brain Chap, X. tra, are mofl commonly met with. In fome inftances they penetrate the whole thicknefs of the bone3 but in others, they are chiefly confined to the external lamel- la of the fkull, being fcarcely perceptible inwardly. , The laft futures we have to mention, are the two fquamous, which ferve to u- nite the fuperior part of the temporal' bones to the under and correfponding parts of the ofTa parietalia. In young people, thefe five futures are almofl; univerfally met with, au^ it is ne- cefTary that practitioners fhould be well acquainted with their direction^ but it is proper to obferve, that in older fubjects, fome of them are often wanting, Inftan- ces are even recorded, in which all the futures were completely Obliterated ; but this I believe to be a very rare, occur- rence. The fagittal and coronal ftitures, are thofe that are moft frequently want- ing. Various advantages are derived froin the formation of the fitull by feparat.e bones ^Seft. II. from external Violence. 249 bones ^ but what particularly relates to our fubjedl to mention, is, that at the fu- tures, a more dired: communication, by means of blood-veflels, takes place be- tween the ipembranes of the brain and the teguments of the Ikull, than could otherwife have been admitted^ and by means of thefe futures too, it is fuppo- fed that fradures will not fpread fo ex- tenfively as if the whole cranium was formed of one bone only. There is reafon indeed to think, that fome advantage is in this manner derived from the fkull being formed of different bones, as in the early ftages of life, while the bones are not firmly conneded toge- ther, fradufes do not fo readily pafs acrofs the futures, as they afterwards do : But nature muft furely have had fome other intention in this mechanifra, otherwife the more perfed adult would not probably be deprived of an advantage which the ear- lieft period of childhood enjoys in greater perfedion; and although I have faid; that tfie futures have evidently fome influ- ence250 Affections of the Brain Chap. X. ence in young people, of flopping the pro- grefs of fracflures, their effed in this refped is very inconfiderable^ for daily obferva- tion evinces, that fradures pafs from one bone of the Ikull to another, even while the futures remain in every refped em tire: A circumflance which every young praditioner efpecially ftiould be aware of 3 for from many bbfervations to be met with in fome of our older writers, we might be led to imagine, that frac- tures rarely if ever traverfe the futures, which however we frequently, find them do. The bones of the Ikull are for the mofl part compofed of two lamellae or tables, feparated from one another by a kind of bony net-work, or cancelli, commonly »termed the Diploe. The external table is every where confiderably thicker than the internal, which Is firm, compad, and more brittle than the^ others a circum- ftance which readily accounts for what we fometimes meet with, a fradure and even a deprefiion of the internal table of thoSed. II. from external Violence^ 251 the Ikull, while the external furface of the bone remains entire : But it unfortu- nately happens, that the difcovery of this is feldom or never made, till it is too late to reap any advantage from it; I mean not till after the death of the pa-» tient. In the diredions given by authors for the application of the trepan, we are com- monly deiired to proceed with much cau-' tion in carrying the inftrument through the inner table of the (kull, while we are told that no danger can enfue from pro- ceeding quickly in the firft part of the operation till the outer table and'diploe are fairly penetrated. This however pro- ceeds upon the fuppofition of the two ta- bles of the Ikull, with the intermediate diploe, being at all times diftind and ob- yioufly marked. Now we knpw, that this is not the cafe 3 for the diploe be- comes lefs with age, and in many inftan- ces it has been fo completely obliterated as to take away entirely the appearance pftwo tables af the Ikull over all the upper2^2 JffeStions of the Brain Chap. X, Tipper part of the head: And befides, in fome parts of the fkull the diploe is na- turally v/anting, particularly in different parts of the os occipitis, owing perhaps to the preffiire produced upon this bone by the mufcles with which it is covered. It is alfo wanting at the under part of the os fronds, where the two lamellae of this bone feparate immediately above the eye-brotvs, in order to..form the two ca- vities of the frontal finufes 3 whilft in ge- neral it is more diftindly obferved over all the fuperior part of the frontal bone, and through the whole extent of the ofla parietalia, than in any other part of the fkull. The external furface of all the bones of the upper part of the cranium is in ge- neral fmooth and equal, and this is alfo the cafe with the internal furface of the fame parts of thefe bones, excepting the temporal bones and fome part of the ofla parietalia, in which there are feverai deep furrows produced by the pulfation of the arteries of the dura mater. But although 3SecS, II. from external Violence. . 253 although the upper part of the fkull is commonly fmooth^, almoft the vfhole un- der part of it is rugged and unequal. This inequality on the outfide feems to be calculated for the better attachment of the different mufcles which move the head y and an the iiifide it ferves the pur- pofe of fupporting the different parts of the brain and cerebellum. Almofl the whole of the occipital bone is very unequal both in its external and internal fiirfaces ; this is likewife the cafe with all the inferior part of the temporal bones, and with the under part of the os frontis 3 and therefore it is obvious^ that none of thefe fituations are fo proper for the application of the trepan, as the more fmooth and,equal parts of the fl^ull. The fkull is externally covered with the common teguments of the body, the Ikin^, and cellular fubflance ; with the frontal,, occipital, and temporal mufcles:, and an aponeurotic expanfion formed by a com- bination of the tendinous fibres of all thefe ; and more immediately by the pe- ricanium.254 AffeBicns of the Brain Chap. X. ticamum, a very ftrong membrane which adheres firrnly to every part of it, but particularly at the futures. It has by many been fuppofed, that the cavity formed by the bones of the Ikull, is not naturally completely filled. This, however, is now known to be an opinion void of foundation 3 for every part of thi^ cavity is occupied by the brain and cerebellum, with their invefting mem- branes the dura and pia mater. The dura mater, which is a ftrong ine- laftic membrane, adheres every where to the internal furface of the fkull by an infinite number of finall vafcular fila-^ inents, as is evident by thofe innumerable points of blood which appear over the furface of this membrane and through the whole internal furface of the Ikull, on the cranium and dura mater being forcibly feparated from each other.—^ This adhefion, however, of the dura ma-^ ter to the cranium is much more firm at the futures than in any other part, owing to the blcod*vefleis which pafs outjSe(^. II. from external Violence^ 25^5 out here being not only more numerous, but of greater magnitude thai;i in the reft of the fkulL In other parts of the head, any veffels which pafs from the, dura mater to the Ikull feem to be chiefly in- tended to fupply the internal table, and the diploe with blood ^ but at the futures an evident communication takes place by means of blood-veflels between the exter- nal coverings of the Ikuli and the mem- branes of the brain, a clrcumftance which practitioners Ihould be a^are of, as It not only ferves to exj51aln many of the phenomena attending injuries done to the head, but likewife points out the moft probable means of guarding againft them. By bur knowledge of this part of the anatomy of the head we learn, that the futures are not the moft eligible parts for the application of the trepan \ and, on the contrary, that this operation fliould never be performed in the courfe of a fu- ture, if the fame intention can be an- fwered by applying the inftrument on a- ny other part ; and that by the firm ad- heflonAffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. hefion of the dura mater to the ikull at the futures, matter or blood colleded on the furface of that membrane on one fide of a future, will not be evacuated by a perforation made on the oppofite fide of it. The dura mater, the firmnefs of which renders it particularly proper to fupport the brain by its different productions, is of too hard a texture to be immediately connected with that very delicate organ. It is therefore every where lined with a- nother foft membranous expanfion, the pia mater, which is immediately applied over the whole furface of the brain and its convolutions. The great quantity of blood fent to the brain and its coverings is fupplied by the carotid and vertebral arteries, and is a- gain returned by the jugular veins 3 but before reaching thefe veins, it is emptied into a nuniber of finufes or refervoirs, formed by produ6lions or duplicatures of the dura mater : Thefe finufes all com- municate with each other .: They are nu- merousIL front external Violence 257 merous on the back p^rt of the head, but the moil material for furgeons to be acquainted with, are, the longitudinal, which runs along the middle and upper part of the head, diredly in the courfe of, and firmly attached to, the fagittal future ^ and the two great lateral finufes, in which the longitudinal finus termi- nates at the middle and upper part of the cerebellum, at which part thefe twa finufes commence, the one going to the right and the other to the left, and paf- fing down to the bafis of the flmll, they there terminate in the jugular veins. This general account of the anatomy of thefe parts will ferve to render the con- fideration of the injuries to which they are liable more clear and intelligible^ while a more minute defcription of them Would not only be incompatible with the nature of* this work, but would not be in any refpedt neceflary for our fiibjed: ^ for the rnoft exad: defcription that can be given of the different parts of the brain would be of no advantage to prac- VoL. ILL R titioners25 § AffecVions of the Brain Chape-X-^ titioners m the treatment of thofe affec- tions to which it is liable. We may, in general, obferve upon this point, that the brain is an organ eiTentfally neceflary for life; and, that its parts cannot be deran- ged, either by wounds, contufions, or compreffion, but with the utmofl hazard: For although We fometimes meet with in- flances of the brain being miich injured, and even of parts of it being evacuated at wounds, without any important com \ fequences enfuing; yet thefe are rare oc- currences, and are by no means fufEcient to invalidate this general obfervation,. that a found and entire ftate of this organ is highly neceffary for the purpofes of life. I lhall now proceed to treat more par- ticularly of the nature of thofe injuries to w^hich the parts that have juft been defcribed are liable; and in doing fo, in- ftead of enumerating in feparate fedlions, as has commonly been done, the various caufes of affedions of the head, and the fymptoms produced by each of thefe, L mean to confider the general effeds which ftich^Seft. Ilrf frQtu external Violence. ^59 fach caufes produce upon the brain, and to point out the manner in which they ap- pear to operate, together with the means which from experience have been found moft effedual in preventing a fatal termi- nation of them. All the fymptoms of affeftions of the brain from external violence feem evi- dently to originate from one of the fol- lowing circumftances; namely, from com- prelGon of the brain, from commotion or concuflion^ and from inflammation. Thefe I lhall proceed to confider in feparate fedlions, in the order they are here men- tioned^ and as far as the intricate nature of the fubjedl will admit, I fhall treat of them as diftlnd and unconne6led with each other: For although we are not to expedt that the fymptoms arifing from the circumftances I have enumerated, are always diftindl and precifely marked, and without connexion with each others yet it frequently happens that they are fo, and it is In their feparate uncombined ftate only that any defcription can be given R 2 of26o AffeEHous of the Brain Chap. of them. Praditioners of experience muft' indeed know, that eaufes frequently oc- cur, by which all the affedions of the brain that I have mentioned are induced at the fame time in the fame patient: And in fuch inftances, the fymptoms which they produce are no doubt fo very confufed as to be with difBculty diftinguiflied : Thus, a ftroke upon the head, attended with fymptoms of concuflion, is frequently accompanied with thofe which proceed^ from compreflion; and thefe again are in fome inftances fucceeded by all the fymp- . toms of inflammation. The appearances induced by the various combinations of thefe can be learned on- ly from pradice and obfervation y but an accurate knowledge of them as they oc- cur in a feparate and unconneded ftate, will prove highly ufeful in the cure, un- der whatever form they may occur. SEC-. "Se6l, III* from external Violence. 26^1 SECTION III. Coniprejfion of the Brain from external Violence. A Great variety of fymproms are enumerated by authors, as indica- ting a comprefled ftate of the brain from external injuries; but the moft frequent, as well as the moft remarkable, are the following: Giddinefs; dimnefs of fight ; ftupefacftion ^ lofs of voluntary motion ; vomiting; an apopledlic ftertor in the breathing; convulfive tremors in differ- ent rnufcles ; a dilated ftate of the pupils, even when the eyes are .expofed to a clear light; paralyfis of different parts, efpe- cially pf the fide of the body oppofite to the injured part of the head; involun- tary evacuation of the urine and feces; an oppreffed,. and in many cafes an irre^ R 3 gular.262 AffeEliom of the Brain Chap. X.. gular, pulfe; and when the violence done to the head has been confiderable, it is commonly attended with a difcharge of blood from the nofe, eyes, and ears. Some of the milder of thefe fymptoms, fuch as vertigo, ftupefadion, and a tem- porary lofs of fenfibility, are frequently induced by flight blows upon the head: And as they often appear to be more the confequence of a fliock or concuflion gi^ ven to the brain, than of compreflion in- duced upon it 3 fo they commonly foon difappear, either by the influence of reft alone, or of the other means to be here- after pointed out. But when any of the other fymptoms take place, fuch as con- vuifive tremors-TT-dilatation of the pupils— involuntary paflage of the urine and fae- ces —and efpecially when much blood is difcharged from the nofe, eyes, or ears, we may always conclude with a good deal of certainty that much violence has been done to the brain, and that compreflion |n one part or anothef is induced upon it. InSedt. III. from external Violence. 263 In the anatomical defcriptionof the cra- nium and brain, I had occalion to remark, that the cavity of the fkull In a ftate of health. Is completely filled by the brain, no vacuity whatever being left between them: It thereforeneceffarilyfollows, that compreffion of the brain will be produced by whatever tends to leflen the cavity of the fkull. A diminution of the cavity of the fkull may happen in various ways 3 by fradlures attended with depreflion of any part of the bones of which it is compofed^ by the forcible introdudlion of any extraneous body through both tables of the bone \ and by the effufion of blood, ferum, pus, or any other matter. The fame effedl may be likewife produced by the thickening of the bones of the head, as fometimes happens in lues venera, and by water colledted in the ventricles of the brain in cafes of hydrocephalus internus. Thefe two lafl mentioned caufbs, how- ever, proceed from, and are connedled with, difeafes which it is not our bufinefs R 4 in t3^4 ^Affections of the Brain Chap, X. in this place to confider. The efFufioii of pus or any other matter not evidently ei- ther blood or ferum, muft always be the confequence of inflammation, and will fall to be confidered in a different fec- tion. And as the introdudtion of extra- neous bodies into the brain rnufl always be attended with a fradure, and common- ly with depreflion of fome part of the fkull, the confideration of the one is ne- ceflfarily conneded with that of the o- ther. I fhall now therefore proceed to fpeak more particularly of fradures at- tended with depreflion, and lhall after- wards confider the other general caufe of compreflion of the birain, effiifion of bloqd or fervim. §1. OfSeft. IIL from external Violence* 265 ^ 1, Of Compreffion of the Brain from Frac* tures attended with Depreffion of the Skull. Fractures of the fkull, as I have al- ready obferved, have been diftinguifhed by a variety of appellations according to their figure, extent, &c. But to retain thefe diftindions could anfwer no good purpofe^ and as it might embarrafs the younger part of the profefiion, I do not mean to introduce them. The only general diftindion of frac- tures neceflTary for us to retain, is, thofc which are attended with depreffion, and thofe which are not. All the variety of the latter I mean to comprehend under the denomination of Fiffiires 5 but the confideration of thefe will be more pro- perly introduced in a difiTerent fedion. Fradures of the Ikull may be produced in various ways : By falls from a height ; by blows with fliarp or blunt inftruments ; and£66 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. and by miflile weapons, fuch as ftones, balls, &c, thrown from a diftance. Authors, who have entered minutely into this part of the fubjecl, obferve, that in the treatment of fradlures, much ad- vantage may be derived, from a know- ledge of thefe circumftances; and that we may even afcertain with fome preci- lion, the degree of violence that has been done to the brain, from being acquainted with the caufe by which it was produced. But although it is proper to enquire in*- to the nature of the caufe by which a fradure is produced, yet we are not to imagine that any material advantage is to be derived from it: we know indeed, that a fradure of the Ikull, produced by a blow with an obtufe or blunt inftrument, or by a fall from a conliderable^ height, is frequently attended with more alarming fymptoms than a fradure of the fame ex- tent with a lharp inftrument. This, how- ever, is not univerfally the cafe 3 and as it is impoflible to afcertain the extent of any injury done to the brain by this cir- cumftanccSe£t. III. from external Violence^ 267 In cumftance alone, little or no dependence fhould be placed upon it. In the management of fradlures of the fkull attended with depreflion, the indi- cations are, 1. To difcover as exactly as poflibie the fite, the courfe, and the full extent of the fradlure. 2. To obviate the efiedls of the injury done to the brain, by elevating.or remo- ving all the deprefled parts of the bone. 3. To endeavour to complete the cure by the application of proper dreflings, and attention to the after-treatment. Thefe are the objefts which we ought to have in view. In many inftances, in- deed, we are prevented by the fituation of the fradture and other circumftances from effeding them ^ but in others, when thefe indications can be accompliflied, we are frequently able to afford more effec- tual relief to patients, than it is ever in our power to do in the treatment of any other malady.268 Affections of the Brain ChapvXo In fractures of the fkull, the teguments correfponding to the injury done to the bone, are frequently cut, lacerated, or even altogether torn away. When this is the cafe, the ftate of the bone is at once ren- dered evident; the fradure is immedi- ately difcovered, and the lurgeon is left at liberty to employ the mofl; proper means for. obviating the ejffeds of it: But.when the Ikin and other teguments are entire, it often happens, even when from a con- currence of circumftances we are tole- rably certain of the exiftence of a frac- ture, that we meet with much difficulty in afcertaining it^ When any external mark of injury is met with, particularly when a tumor is perceived on any part of the head, ac- companied with appearances of a recent contufion, the fymptoms will in all pro- bability be found to originate from a frac- ture diredly underneath; and on the bone being laid bare, in the manner to be hereafter mentioned, the courfe of the fradure will in general be difcovered. ButSe6l. HI. fnofn external Violence. 269 fiut every practitioner knows, that in- juries done to the head frequently produce affections of the brain, and even fractures of the fkull, without leaving either tumor ©^r any other external mark by which they can be difcovered. In this fituation, the whole head fhould be fhaved, when it will fometimes happen, that an inflammatory rednefs of a particular fpot, which could not be obferved till the hair was removed,, will lead to a difcovery of the part affect- ed. Ent when no tumor, inflammation, or any other mark of injury is difcovered,, We may in fome inftances be directed to the feat of the accident, by prefling firmly over the wh9le head ; and if we find upon ' repeated trials, that preflure produces more, pain in a particular part than in others,, a circumflance of which we may be con- vinced if the patient moans much upon preflure being applied to it; and if he puts, up his hand or draws away his head on, this trial being repeated, we may conclude with much probability that this is the feat of the injury. I In270 AffeSlions of the Brain Chap. In circumftances, fuch as we are now confidering, fo fraught with danger to the patient, and fo perplexing as they frequent- ly are to praditioners, nothing that can throw light upon the nature of the cafe ftiould be overlooked. If the patient raifes his hand, and applies it frequently upon or near to the fame part of the head, even this will merit attention; for in this man- ner the fite of a fradure has, in fome in- ftances, been difcovered. When therefore the fymptoms of a com- prefled brain are evidently marked, we ought, without hefitation, to proceed ta examine the ftate of the cranium where- ever appearances clearly point out, or even where they- lead us only to conjedure where a fradure is. We do \his by lay- ing the bone bare by making an incifion with a fcalpel through all the external co- verings of the Ikull. In performing this operation, when the bone is previoufly found to be much in- jured, which in fome inftances is the cafe even where the Ikin diredly above it is notSed. IIL from external Violertce. 271 not lacerated, the incifipn through the integuments fhould be made with much caution 3 otherwife tlie brain may be hurt, either by the knife preffing in fome por- tion of detached bone upon it, or even by the point of it palling in between two of the feparated pieces. But when the bone upon which the incifion is made, is not either broken Into different pieces or when the edges of the fradured pieces have not receded from one another, and do not in any degree yield to preffiire, the divilion of the fkin and other teguments may be' then performed with freedom, by cutting through the whole of them down to the bone, with one ftroke of the fcalpel. The foie intention of this operation Is to bring thefe parts of the bone which have been injured clearly into view 3 but al- though the means of effeding this ftiould be extremely limple, a very painful and fevere method of doing it has been coim monly recommended. — It has been in general fuppofed, that in fradures of the Ikull^ the parts aifeded cannot be fufE-^ ciently27^ AffeBions of the Brain Chap. Xi clently expofed, either for the purpofe of tracing the courfe of the fradure, or for applying the trepan, unlefs a portion of th^ fkin and other teguments is altogether re- moved : And \vith> this view, fome have advifed a crucial incifion to be firft made, and the corners to be cut off. Others have recommended an incifion of the form of the letter T 3 while by many we are di- redled to remove a circular or oval piece of the teguments at once. Various ebjedllons, however, occur to all of thefe.—They not only produce a painful wound, which is commonly diffi- cult to heal; but by expofing a confider- able part of the fkull, tedious exfoliations fometimes take place, which might have been prevented ; and the covering w^hich nature afterwards provides Tor the denu- ded bone never anfw^ers the purpofe fa completely as the teguments that were removed. Even all of thefe objections, however, to the practice I am fpeaking of ftiould be confidered as trifling, and fhould not be regarded, if we could not bySed. III. from external Violence. 273 l)y more fimple means difcover the ex- tent of fradures, and if we could not llkewife by the fame means apply the tre- pan, or any other remedy. But as both of thefe objec^ts can perhaps in every In- ftance be accomplifhed in a more eafy :manner, the other ought to be laid afide. Upon a hmple incifion being made in the manner I have directed, the teguments always retrad foconfiderably as to admit of the bone being freely examined 3 and if a fradure is difcovered, the courfe of it may be always traced with as much certainty by extending this incifion along that part of the bone in which it is found to run, as if a confiderable portion of the teguments was removed : And this re- tradion of the divided parts alfo admits of the application of the trepan. On the teguments being in this manner divided, if the IkuU is found to be fradured and depreflred,the nature of the cafe is thus rendered obvious ^ and the means to be hereafter pointed out for the treatment of fradures attended with depreflion, fliould Vou III. S be274 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. be immediately employed. But even where no outward appearance of a frac- ture is met with, and where no tumor, difcoloration, or other external mark of injury is difcovered, if the patient con- tinues to labour under fymptoms of a eompreiled brairi ; if the pericranium has been feparated from the bone ; and efpe- cially if this membrane has loft its na- tural appearance, and has acquired a pale white or dufky yellow hue; the trepan Ihould be applied without helitation at the place where thefe appearances mark the exiftence gf an injury.—I fhall after- wards endeavour to ftiow, that, in this manner alone, blood or ferum, which may have been efFufed, and by which the com- preftionmay be induced, can be removed: For it would be highly improper in fuch oirdumftances, to truft to the a.bforption of the extravafated fluids, as by fome we are advifed to do 3 the chance of a cure from this being extremely doubtful. Again, although no mark either of frac- ture, or any difeafe underneath, fhould appearSed. III. from external Violence. 275 appear on the external table of the bone, flill it is poffible that the internal table may be both fradured and deprefled. This is not indeed a common occurrence, but various inftances of it are upon re- cord : I have met with it in different ca- fes 3 and other praditioners, on whofe ac- counts we may place the moft perfed con- fidence, likewife mention it. I formerly obferved that the internal table of the flcull is thinner and more brittle than the external : how far thefe circumftances will explain the fad we have juft been confidering, I will not pretend to fay; but this is certain, that the injury done to the brain by the depreflion o^ the internal table of the fkuH, may be as great, and may prove as cer- tainly dangerous a^ if the whole thick- nefs of the bone had been beat in upon it: This is therefore another motive for the application of the trepan in all cafes ac- companied with fymptoms of comprefled brain, even where no external mark of de- prefllon is difcovered. S 2 It276 AffeSions of the Brain Chap. X. It will often indeed happen, that no re- lief will be obtained from the application of the trepan, even where the fymptoms are fuch as proceed from a comprelTedftate; of the brain, induced either by a depref- fed portion of bone, or by extravafation of blood or ferum. This want of fuccefs from the operation, may proceed from a concurrence of caufes that we fliall af- terwards have occafion to mention : but the mofl: fatal of all of them, is that which we term a contra-fiflure, and the French a contre-coup ^—in which the Ikull is fradured, and fometimes depref- fed, and blood or ferum perhaps effufed on the furface of the brain, at a part ve- ry diftant from that which received the blow, and where alone there is any appa- rent or external mark of mifchief. Many have doubted the reality of fuch an occurrence 3 for, as it cannot be ealily accounted for, fo it is alledged that it has rarely or perhaps never been met with.-— As it is not the intention of this work, to enter upon iiuhute theoretical difcullions, ISeft. III. from external Violence. 277 I fhall not atteitipt to explain the manner in which contra-Hflures of the cranium may be produced : I fhall juft fhortly ob- ferve, that doubts concerning their exift- ence, can Have been entertained by fpe- culative writers only ^ for every practi- tioner of experience muft have met with opportunities to afcertain the reality of the fact. I will not pretend to fay that a blow received on one fide of the head, will ne- cefTarily and certainly produce a fracture or other mark of injury on the oppofite fide; neither does it appear that the part exactly oppofite to the place where the blow has been received, will fiiffer more readily than other parts of the head, at the diftance of only two or three Inches. All I wifh to eftabllfli is, that the flmll may be fractured in parts not immediate- ly contiguous to thofe upon which blows are given; and that this fometimes hap- pens when no external mark can be difco- vered upon the teguments correfpondiiig to Jthe fracture, and while the bone re- S 3 mains278 JffeBions of the Brain Chap. mains perhaps entire on the part which more immediately received the injury. We {hall therefore confider it as mat- ter of fa<S, that the fkull may be fractu- red in parts at fome diftanee from thofe which have more direCUy received an in- jury ^ and fome advantage I think may be derived from this being kept in view. —'In common praClice, if no benefit is reaped from the application; of the trepan; if no fraClure is difcoveredof the internal table of the Ikull, or no extravafatlon on that part of the brain newly denuded by a removabof a piece of the bone ; and if blood-letting,^ laxatives, and the other means ufually employed, do not remove the fymptoriis of compreflion ; it is in ge- neral concluded, that they depend either upon a eoncuffion of the brain, or on ex- travafation in fome of the internal parts of it, where the effeCls of an operation cannot reach; and accordingly, the patient is left to his fate, without any attempt being made for his relief InSedt. III. from external Violence. 279 In this, however, I think we are liable to much juft ceiifure and blartie : For al- though a patient in fuch circumftances is undoubtedly in great danger, and although the chance of his recovering by any means we "can employ, is inconliderable, yet ftill he ftiould receive this chance : No at- tempt we can make will add to his hazard, fp that nothing ftiould be omitted from which there is the moft diftant chance of relief being derived. The head ftiould be again examined with attention; and by prefting firmly, ftowly, and deliberately, over every .part of it, if even the fmalleft degree of fenfi- bility remains, the patient will complain, either by moans, or figns with his hands, when prefliire is applied to any part that is fradtured. I have feen diiferent inftances of fradtures being difcovered in this man- ner, which, in the ordinary way of fearch- Ing for them, would have efcaped notice. In whatever part of the head the patient complains on preflure being applied to it, the Ikull ftiould be laid bare by an inci- S 4 fion,28o AffeBions of the Brain Chap. fion, in the manner I have mentioned. —If both tables of the Ikull "are fradured and de^>refred, the caufe of the mifchief will thus be difcovered : But even al- though no fuch depreilion or fradure fliould be met with in the external lamel- la of the bone y as there is at lead: fome chance of mifchief being met with un- derneath, either from a fradure of the internal table, or from extravafation, and as nothing can poflibly fave the patient but the removal of this, the trepan fhould be immediately applied 3 and wherever there is the leaft caufe to fufped, either from pain being induced by preflure ap- plied in the maimer I have direded, or from any other circumftance, that mif- chief may be concealed, as long as relief is not obtained from what was previoufly done, the operation fliould flill be repeat- ed, as the only means from whence any advantage can be derived. ‘ This> however, leads to a point that merits more extenfive difeuflion f I mean,, the effeds produced upon 'the brain by theIII. from external Violence, 2Sl the removal of a portion of the fkull with the trepan. By many of our older writers on this fubjed it is faid, that much hazard is at all times to be dreaded from this opera- tion, and In fopport of their opinlon,^ they not only adduce a variety of fads^ but employ much Ingenious reafoning on the probable Influence of the air finding accefs to the furface of the brain, an or- gan which nature has taken particular pains to protedl from It. Praditloners of modern times, how- - ever, have adopted a different opinion upon this point: They even aflert, that no danger can ever accrue from the ope- ration of the’trepan confldered abftradted- ly; that It never proves hazardous of it- felf; and that It only apparently proves fo from being often employed for the re- moval of fymptoms for which this as well as every other remedy Is Inadequate. In confequence of this, the trepan, in all injuries done to the head, is applied with freedom: In moft inflances, probably with282 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X* with much propriety ; but In others, I am convinced, with very dangerous con- fequences. In pradice, we fhould endeavour to avoid both extremes^. For, although I am clearly of opinion, that the trepan fhould be applied with freedom where- ever it is indicated by fymptoms of a comprefled brain, and where thefe fymp- tonis mufl in all probability prove fatal If the caufe which produced them is not foon removed ; yet I am equally fatisfied, that it is the prefence of fuch fymptoms oply which can warrant this operation; and that it fhould never be employed, as it too frequently has been, merely with a view to prevent them. In the one cafe, no additional rilk can be incurred by the trepan; and as the patient will in all probability fuffer if it is not employed, we fhould not hefitate to advife it: But, as I am perfedly con- vinced, from attentive obfervation of the effeds of this operation upon the brain, that it is by no means an innocent reme- dy.Se(3:^ III. from external Violence. 285 dy, and on the contrary, Indeed, that h is frequently the caufe of dangerous fymp» toms which othcrwife would not have ap- peared, I would never think of advifing it but for the removal of fymptoms al- ready inducedthat are evidently of a dangerous: tendency ^ and that cannot be obviated in any other manner. In a fubfequent part of this chapter, when treating of fiflures, we lhall again find it necelTary to enter on the con- fideratlon of this fubjecS. In the mean time, before defcribing the operation of the trepan, I thought it proper in this manner, to mention the opinion I had formed of it. Having thus eonfidered the firft gene- ral indication to be kept in view in the treatment of fractures attended with de- predion of the Ikull, we now proceed to the confideration of the fecond, which comprehends the means beft adapted for the removal or elevation of a deprefied portion of bone. We have already feen, that284 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap, that there is fome variety in fractures at- tended with depreffion; and the means employed for removing them, are like- wife various. It often happens, that the correfpond- ing teguments are either altogether re- moved by the caufe which produced the fradure, or they are fo much lacerated as to admit of the bone being freely exami- ned 3 but when they are either not divi- ded in any part, or not fufficiently laid open, the firft objed of the furgeon, as I have already obferved, fliould be, to get the head fhaved, and then to divide the fkin and other teguments with a fcalpel through their whole extent, and diredly upon the courfe of the injury. If a frac- ture is met with, and is found to proceed in a ftraight line, the incifion fliould have the fame diredion ; Or if it takes an angular courfe, the incifion fliould likewife do fo 3 for the foie objed of the one is to bring the other as completely as poflible into view. In making this incifion one or more arteries are apt to be cut, and they fome- timesSecS. III. from external Violence. 285 times continue for feveral hours to dif- charge freely ; thefe, we are commonly diredled, before proceeding farther, to fecure withJigatures. If the patient is weak, or if a fufEcient quantity of blood has been already dif- charged, this ought no doubt to be done: But as the membranes of the brain are commonly much injured by the depreiled bone, and as nothing in fuch circum- ftances tends with fuch certainty to pre- vent inflammation, as a plentiful dif- charge of blood from the contiguous parts ; the arteries which have been divi- ded by the incifion fliould be always al- lowed to bleed in proportion to the flrength of the patient, when they will commonly retrad, and give no farther trouble. V The haemorrhagy from the larger ar- teries being fl:opt, we are commonly di- rected to delay the remaining fteps of the operation, either for a few hours, or perhaps till the fallowing day, in order 'to have all the oozing from the fn aver veflels286 jiffeciions of the Brain Chap. X. vefTels removed alfo : But as foon as the principal vefTels have been fecured, any difcharge from the reft of the wound fhould not be regarded; and as it may always be eafily commanded by the edges of the incilion being covered with dry lint, and moderately comprefled by an afliftant, and as the prelliire on the brain fhould always be removed as quickly as poflible, the operation fhould therefore be immediately finiftied. The extent of the fradure being afcer- tained as far as it can be done, and the blood from the incifion ftopt, we are next to endeavour to elevate the deprefled portion of bone : The propriety of this meafure is lufficiently evident: It has im deed been admitted by praditioners of e- very age} but they have differed much in the mode of effeding it. The praditipners of the laft and pre- ceding centuries were in general timid in every operation of importance, efpeciah ly in fuch as were performed upon the head : And being commonly averfe, as I haveSe6t. III. from external Violence. 287 have already remarked, to expofe any confiderable part of the brain, they en- deavoured to elevate deprellions of the cranium, either without penetrating the bone at all, or by means of very fmall perforations only. For the purpofe of perforating the Ikull, a kind of circular faw, commonly termed a Trepan, and of which I fliall give a de- lineation, was always employed \ but the opening formed by it was fo fmall, that it was neceflary to apply it often, even in ordinary cafes, to accomplifh the views of the operator: Many inconveniences enfued from this 3 to remedy which, va- rious improvements upon this inftrument were fuggefted, and figure i. Plate VIII. reprefents the refult of all of them. Thus improved, it removes a much larger piece of bone at once3 and being entirely cy- lii^drical, it penetrates the Ikull more ea- fily than a conical faw, which till of late was the only form in ufe. In one circumftance, however, modern furgeons have not made any improve- ment288 AffeBions of the Bmln Chap. X, ment of this inftrument: They have ra- ther Indeed hurt it materially by form- ing it fo as to render the operation of perforating the fkull with it both more difficult and more tedious than is necef- fary. The inftrument delineated in Plate VIII, cuts the bone not only more quickly, but with equal fafety. The timi- dity of fome operators however has made them imagine, that this inftrument cannot be ufed but with the hazard of pafling too fuddenly through the bone at the end of the operation, by which the brain would be unavoidably injured : They have ac- cordingly invented another, which di- vides the bone very flowly, and which they therefore fuppofe will perform the operation with more fafety. This Inftru- ment is termed a Trephine, and is deli- neated in Plate IX. fig. i. It is not however, pqfiefied of any advantage over the other, not even that of being more fafe for perforating the bone : For the fame degree of force muft be applied by the operator with each of them; and it has this very material defeft, that it re- quires. Sed. Hi. from external Violence. 289 quires more than double the time to per- form the fame operation that is neceflary with the trepan. It has long, however^ been almofl: the only inftrument employ- ed for this purpofe in many parts of Eu- rope, efpecially in Britain ; fo that pre- judice may probably continue ‘ it in ufe : but whoever will attend to the principles on which the trepan and It are formed, will foon fee that the former Ihould be preferred. When it was neceflary to perforate the Ikull, the trepan, in its then unimproved ftate, was formerly the Inftrument chief- ly employed. Others indeed were ufed for the purpofe of forming openings in the bones : But they were fo extremely rude and unmanageable, that it is not ne- ceflTary to defcribe them 3 arid this efpe- cially as delineations of all of them may be feen in the writings of almofl; every chirurgical author of the laft and prece- ding centuries But, in many fradures VoL. IIL, T and ^ Vide the works of Hildanus, Scultetus, and Dionis.2 go AffeBions of the Brain Chap. and depreflions of the fkull, it was for- merly imagined that the trepan was un- neceffary, as it was fuppofed that in mofl inftances the depreflion might be removed by more Ample means t By fome we are advifed to pafs a fcrew in a flow and gra-^ dual manner nearly through both tables of the deprefled bone, and then to raife it into the place that it formerly occupied, by pulling the fcrew flowly and firmly upwards: And again in- children, in whom the bones are more foft as well as more yielding, and Inwhomfiflures are fuppofed to occur frequently without fradures, we are advifed to cover all the teguments correfponding to the deprefifed portion of bone, with leather fpread with adhefive plafter, and then by means of firings or cords fixed to the back part of the leather to elevate the depreflion. Whether a depreflion ever occurs, how- ever, even in early periods of life, with- out a correfponding fradure of at leafl: one of the tables of the fkull, is much tn be doubted. I rather think that it does notSed. III. from external Violence. 291 not, at leafl: I never met with it; and I have feen different inftances which pre- vioufly were fuppofed to be fuch, but which, after death, were all except one found to be attended with complete frac- tures; and in this the offeous fibres of the internal table of the bone were crack- ed or ruptured, while thofe of the outer table remained nearly entire. But whe- ther this kind of deprefiion ever occurs, or not, is not material: The means to be prefently pointed out for elevating frac- tures and depreflions of the fkull will prove equally ufeful here; while I may freely Venture to fay, that no dependence fliould be placed upon adhefive plafters, as they are’ evidently inadequate to the effedl. The powers of a fcrew in raifing de- preffed portions of the Ikull would often be fufficient, but as it could neither re- move any lharp points of bone which might be beat in upon the brain, "nor ferve to dlfcharge any diffufed blood which frequently accompanies fradures T 2 attended292 AffeElions of the Brain ' Chap. X. attended with depreffion, this means of removing deprefled portions of bone will never probably be adopted. It has com- monly too been objeded to this inftru- ment, that it cannot be introduced but with the hazard of forcing the deprefled piece of bone upon which it is applied farther in upon the brain ^ and therefore that much mifchief may thus be induced by it.—In many inflances, however, the fcrew might be employed without hurt- ing the brain; for the force neceffiiry to pafs forward a fcrew is inconfiderable; fo that unlefs where a portion of bone is en- tirely detached from the refl: of the era- nium, a fcrew might frequently be inferr- ed into the deprefled piece with little or no hazard of forcing it in upon the brain.- —If therefore the other objedions that I have adduced to it were not material, the latter would not be of much impor- tance. And as fome praditioners may in- cline to have it in their power in parti- cular inftances to ufe it, I have thus thought it right to give an account of it. • ISed. III. from external Violence. 293 I fhall now proceed to defcribe the pradice of modern furgeons in fradures attended with depreffion of the fkull, to- gether with fuch improvetnents as the pradice may appear to admit of. The fradured part of the bone being brought into view by the divifion of the teguments in the manner I have dired- €d, and the flow of blood being likewife flopped, the exad fituation of the depref- fed portion of the cranium next requires attention. The deprefled portion of bone is in fome inflances altogether feparated from the refl of the Ikull : In others, it adheres at one or two points: Whilft in fome, a fiflure or rent is difcovered with one fide of the bone beat down below the plane or level of the other. When a portion of the flmll is broken into feveral pieces, as they would not probably unite, either with one another, or with the furrounding bones, ,we are in general defired to remove them: But when only one piece of bone is deprefled, and efpecially if this adheres at a [point T 3 or294 AffeElions of the Brain Chap, X, or two to the contiguous bones, pradi- tioners often attempt to replace it, in or- der, as they fay, to avoid that expofure of the brain which the removal of a large portion of the fkull mufl; always occafion; and they allege as a reafon for the prac- tice, that in fome inftances it fucceeds, by the fractured and deprefled piece uni- ting firmly with the contiguous bone. It is not, however, the unexpedled fuc- cefs -attending the particular treatment of a few cafes by which we are to be diredt- ed : It is the refult of general obfervation only by which our pradice fliould be de- termined. Whatever may have happen- ed with a few, in their attempts to pre- ferve detached portions of the fkull, prac- titioners of obfervation' will allow that more advantage is in general to be deri- ved from removing.them at once. It univerfally happens, when one or more pieces of the fkull are either entire- ly or nearly feparated from the reft, that blood in a greater or fmaller quantity is effiafed upon the furface of the brain, orSeft.'III. from external Violence. 295 upon the dura mater, through the whole extent of the injury, fo that, when a loofe portion of bone is allowed to remain, nei- ther this extravafated blood, nor the mat- ter which afterwards forms, can find a free vent; while the piece that has thus been detached and replaced feldom or ne- ver unites to the furrounding bone : By the early removal of the detached por- tions of bone every inconvenience arifing from this is prevented 3 a free vent is thus given to any blood that may be pre- fently effufed, or to the 'matter which may form in future ^ the ftate of the du- ra mater, and even of the brain itfelf, may be freely examined; while inflam- mation and gangrene alfo, to which thefe parts are liable from fractures of the Ikull, are thus more effedlually guarded againfl: than they could be by any other means. When the depreflion is formed by dif- ferent fmall portions of bone, the whole of them may for the mofl: part be eafily taken out with the common forceps^ and by removing thofe portions firft, that ap- T 4 pear2^6 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. pear to be moft detached, the reft will thus be loofened, and therefore more ea- fily taken away. But it fometimes hap- pens even when feveral portions of bone ar^beat in, and very commonly when the depreffion is formed either of one piece entirely feparated,-or of a portion of the Ikull forced in upon the brain without a- ny of it being altogether detached, that the deprefled pieces cannot be either re- moved, or even raifed into a level with the reft of the fkull, in any other man- ner than by making one or more perfo- rations in the contiguous found bone, for the purpofe of introducing an inftrument termed a Levator, with a view to elevate the depreffion. It is for this purpofe chiefly that the trepan is employed: Hence it is evident, that this operation can never be neceffary, when the deprelTed pieces of bone can be removed in the manner I have mem tinned ^ for the foie intention of it is thus accompliflied in a more Ample nianner. But when the deprelTed portions of bone are.Se(S. III. from external Violence. 297 are fo firmly attached to each other that they cannot be elevated but with the rifk of wounding the brain or its membranes, a circumftance by no means uncommon, the trepan fhould without helitation be employed, and the following is the me« thod of doing it. In books of furgery, thofe parts of the fkull are commonly pointed out on which this operation may with fafety be per- formed 3 and much pains has been taken to afcertain thofe that we ought to avoid. In pradice, however, limitations of this kind' :an feldom be adopted, as we muft ahvays perform the operation near to the deprefled portion of bone, fo that a choice of’fituatlon is rarely in our power: But, as it appears from the ana- tomical defcription I have given of the different parts that may be concerned in this operation, that it may not only be performed with more fafety in fome parts than in others, but with more pro- fped of advantage, praclitioners fhould be fo far direded by this, as to avoid, as far298 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X, far as can be done eonfiftently with the advantage of the patient, all thofe parts from whence much rifk might enfue from a perforation being made in them. The parts which with this view we fhould avoid, are, almoft all the under part of the tem- poral and parietal bones 3 all the under part of the occipital bone 3 the inferior part of the frontal bone ; and the whole courfe of the longitudinal finus.—The internal furface of the greater part of the two firfl: of thefe bones are furrowed with the large arteries of the dura mater > a confiderable part of the occipital bone is not only very unequal, but various finufes lie immediately under it 3 the frontal fi- nufes lie in the inferior part of the frontal bone^ and although we know that wounds of the longitudinal finus do not always prove fatal, yet as it tranfmits a large quantity of blood, we Ihould at all times endeavour to avoid it : But when the de- prefled pieces of bone are fo fituated as to render it impoffible to raife them with- out applying the trepan over thefe parts, asSe6l. III. from external Violence, 299 as the patient would in all probability die, if the depreffion was not removed, the trepan ftiould be employed without delay. We are not wantonly and unne- ceflarily to perforate the Ikull where parts are fituated which it might prove hazard- ous to wound y but when the life of a pa- tient depends upon this operation, no praditioner, it is hoped, will ever decline it when it is poffible to perform it. Of all the fituations I have mentioned, the moft inconvenient for the application of the trepan, is, the back part of the head upon the occipital bone, and the frontal finufes immediately above the orbits. Beneath the former, feveral large finufes are difperfed, and both the exter- nal and internal furfaces of this bone are very unequal. And again, the two la- mellae of the frontal bone are feparated fo far from each other by the frontal fi- nufes ^ and the internal furface of the bone at this part is fo very unequal, that no praditioner would make choice of it for forming a perforation in. But cafes fometimes300 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. Ibmetimes occur, in which it is neceffary to apply the trepan in ^both of them. Wherever a fracture or any other caufe of comprelTed brain is fo fituated that relief cannot be otherwife obtained, and where the patient muft otherwife die^ no difficulty Ihould deter us.—The mufcles of the occiput may be differed off from the part where the trepan fliould be ap- plied : And, with caution and attention, a perforation may be made even through the frontal linufes. The inhruments in common ufe for this operation are the following: A Ra- fpatory for removing the periofteum, re- prefented In Plate VIII. fig. 3. A Per- forator, Plate X. fig. 5. The Trephine itfelf, Plate IX. fig. i. An inftrument termed a Lenticular, Plate VIII. fig. 2. Forceps, Plate IX. fig. 2. and an Eleva- tor reprefented in Plate XI. figures i, 2, 3, and 4. In proceeding to the operation, the pa- tient Ihould be laid upon a table of a con- venient height, with his head firmly fe- curedSe6l. III. from external Violence. 301 cured by afliftants : This being done, it is the common practice to lay a confider- able portion of the fkull bare round the part intended to be perforated. But this ought by no means to be followed 3 for although it is neeelTary to remove as much of the pericranium as may admit of the head of the inftrument being applied as frequently as it can be needed, yet more fliould never be removed : tedious exfo- liations of the denuded bone are apt to enfue from it 3 by which the cure is not only retarded but more hazard indu- ced. We are, therefore, either with afcalpel, or the rafpatory, Plate VIII. fig. 3. to fe- parate and remove juft as much of the pe- ricranium as will admit of the trepan being freely applied 3 and the part at which this fliould be done, ought to be exacftly at that point where the greateft refiftance feems to be to the elevation of the deprefled piece of bone 3 and in order to receive every poilible advantage from the perforation,;it fliould be fo formed as302 AffeSiions of the Brain Chap. X.r to include not only the fradure or fiflurej, but if pojflible a fmall portion of the de- preiled piece. The weight and preffure of the inflrument during the operation, ought no doubt to reft chiefly on the found undeprefTed bone, as much injury might be done to the brain, by making it prefs much upon the deprelTed portion of bone : but it very commonly happens, that a fmall fegment of the opening may be made with perfecft fafety upon the de- prefled bone ; and as the advantages that refult from this in the fubfequent fteps of the operation, are confiderable, it ought in perhaps every inftance to be attempted. The pericranium being removed, a fmall hole fliould be made in the undeprefTed bone, with the perforator, Plate X. fig. 5. care being taken to have it fo hear to the frafture, that the head of the tre- pan may include a portion of the de- prefled piece. As foon as the ho-e is fufficiently large for receiving the point of the pin in the centre of the circu- lar faw, it ought to be inferred into it, by which, the faw is firmly prcferved ' inSeft. III. from external Violence. 303 in one place, till feveral turns being made (with it, an impreffion of a fufEcient depth is formed in the bone for retaining it, when the pin fhould be removed ; fqr, by projedling paft the edge of the faw, it might injure the membranes of the brain before the perforation is finiflied ; and as the foie purpofe of the pin is t6 fix the inftrument during the firfl: part of the o- peration, it becomes unnecefTary, as foon as a cut is formed in the bone fufiicient for retaining it. The fiirgeon fliould now proceed to fi- nifh the perforation by prelling upon the inftrument with a moderate and equal firmnefs : For, if more preflure is applied to one fide than to another, the divifion of the bone will be completed at unequal periods, a circumftance to be guarded a- gainft with all manner of attention. If the trephine is employed, all the force ne- ceflary for turning the inftrument Is ap- plied by one hand of the operator ^ the faw Is made to cut by forming only a half circle, or fcarcely fo much ^ and the per- foration304 AffeEiions of the Brain Chap. X. foration Is finiihed'^by moving the faw backward and forward, till the whole thicknefs of the bone is divided : But in ufing the trepan, the furgeon applies the preilure upon the head of the inftrument with one hand, while he turns the handle of it with the other. Some operators In- deed make the prefliire with their fore- head or chin; but it is both more eafily and more equally applied with one hand than in any other manner. With the tre- pan the faw is made to move always in the fame direction, by which It cuts more eafily, and performs the operation in a third part of the time required with the trephine. When one perforation is fufE- cient, this is not indeed an objedl of much importance; but as it often happens that feveral perforations are required, and as the operation becomes thereby dillrefs- ful both to the operator and patient, that method of operating ought certainly to be preferred which renders the means of cure more eafy, provided it is at the fame time equally fafe. Now, for the reafons I 3Se£l. III. from external Violence, , 3d5 I have mentioned, it is obvious that the trepan is wrought with more eafe than the trephine ^ and whoever has feen the ope- ration, done with both iiiflruments, will confefs that it likewife does it with equal fafety : For in the liands of thofe ^ac- cuftomed to ufe it, there is no more rifk of wounding the brain,-by paffingtoo fud- denly in upon it with this inftrument, than with the trephine. If the furgeon is cau- tious, there is no hazard of this with ei- ther of thenl^ while. If not fulFiciently at- tentive, the trephine will be produflivb of as much mifchief ^s the other. Be- fides, when the trephine is employed, the head is frequratly much jolted by the rnir equal motion of the inftrument, by which much uneafinefs is produced in the mean time, while it alfo ferves ta promote that tendency to inflammation iii the mem- branes of the brain, thai i$ apt in every inftahce to occur from a portion of the Ikull being forced in upon them. - Some pracftitioners, very fenfible of thefe advantages of the trepan, but dreading the VoL. III. U rifk3 o6 AffeEtions of the Brain Cliap. X. Hfk of its paffing too fuddenly in upon the brain, commence the operation with this inftrument, and finiih it with the trephine * : This is far preferable to the ufual method of performing the opera- tion entirely with the trephine ^ but thofe who have fully experienced the advan- tages of , the trepan,, will employ it for the whole operation. But whichever of thefe Inftruments are employed, the operator Ihould proceed with great fteadinefs, and with as equal a degree of prellure as poffible, till the perforation is completed. For this pur- pofe, the inftrument fhould be frequently taken out, and the depth of the cut exa- mined by introducing the point of a probe or fliarp-pointed quill In the form of a tooth-pick: If the perforation has to go deeper in one part than in others, care fhould be taken to alter the preflure fo as to carry * This, I believe, was firfl; fuggefled by our prefent celebrated Profeflbr of Anatomy, Dodor Monro, to whofe ingenuity furgery in many points of- importanc© is much indebted.Se6t. Ill* froni external Violence^ 307 carry on the ciit of an equal depth to the laft. At each removal of the inftrument, while the furgeon endeavours to difcover the depth- of the cut, and to clear it of blood and particles of bone, an affiftant Ihould have the charge of cleanfing the faw with a fmall brulh; or, there may be two inftruments with the faws exadUy of the fame fize, fo that while one is em- ployed by the furgeon, an affiftant may be cleaning the other# When the inftrument has reached the diploe, attention to the frequent clean- fing of the faw becomes more efpecially neceflary, as t.he blood difcharged from this part of the bone, and from the fpongy cancelli of which it is made, if not often removed, tend confiderably to obftrud the operation : But we fhould not expedt always to meet with the diploe; for it is, wanting in fome parts of the Ikull, and becomes lefs in every inftance by age. The general ditedlion, therefore, given U 2 for3o8 Affections of the Brain Chap. X* for performing the firft part of this ope- ration freely and fpeedlly till the diploe is met withy cannot with fafety be ad- mitted : Every ftep of it ftiould be done, as I have faid, with fteadinefs, but with fuch caution, as to prevent every chance of the brain or Its membranes being inju- red by the inllrument being pufhed for- cibly in upon them. But if caution is neceffary in the firft part of the operation, It afterwards be- comes much more fo: So that in propor- tion to the progrefs of the faw, it fnould be more frequently removed ; and* as foon as the point of a probe, or fharp quill, can pafs entirely through at any part of the cut, the preflure fliould be removed from this point, and equally applied over the remaining uncut part of the hope. By proceeding in this cautious manner, the bone foon becomes loofe in different points; and on this being*dlfcovered, it may either be taken out with the forceps reprefented in Plate IX. fig, i.. or the points of two levator«6 being infinuafed intoSe£l. HI. from external Violence, 309 into-the bottom of the cut formed by the faw, one on each fide of the plete to be removed, it may in this manner be eafily and fafely taken away. I here think it neceflary to remark, that praditioners are apt to be too an- xious about the total feparation of the piece of bone with the faw, before any attempt is made to remove it, from, a fear of injuring the dura mater if any fplinter is left: That this may be avoid- ed, they proceed with the faw till the bone is entirely feparated 3 and in order to bring it out with the lafi: application of the inflrument, the head of the faw till lately has always been of a conical form, by which the piece of bone is very commonly taken out along with it. But, however plaufible thefe reafons may appear, the pradice ought not to be adopted; for it rarely or never happens, that the piece of bone taken out by the trepan is of an equal thicknefs in every part 5 fo that if the faw is made to divide U 3 oiiQ310 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. one fide of it long after the other is cut through, the dura mater immediately un- der the point firfl divided, mufl: very pro- bably be injured by the teeth of the in- ftrument, notwithftanding all the caution that can be eroployed: Of this I hkve feen fiich a number of inftances, even in the hands of expert furgeons, that I have no hefitation in advifing the pradice to be avoided. In various cafes, indeed, where the operation has been fuppofed to be very properly performed, the mark of the faw has after death been evidently dlfcovered on the dura mater over the whole circle of the perforation. Inflead of proceeding with the faw, therefore, till the piece of bone is entirely fepara- ted, it will always be fafer to force it out in the manner I have mentioned, as foon as it is difcovered to be loofe at different points; and even where fome fmall frag- ments or fplinters of bone are left, no difadvantage enfues, as they are eafily removedSecSi:. III. from eocternal Violence. 311 removed with the common forceps, with- out hurting the dura mater , In addition to what I have faid of the % form of the faw, I may remark, that the cylindrical fliape is in every refped pre- ferable to the conical, which in fome parts of Europe is ft ill retained. I have already obferved, that it is not by the form of the infirument that the dura ma- ter and brain are‘to be avoided, but by proceeding through every ftep of the .^@peration with due caution 3 and while tJ 4 the * As the pra£tice of taking cmt the circular piece of the ikuU entirely with the trepan, always apj>eared to me to be hazardous, I decidedly faid fo in the firft editions of this work. The fame remark has probably occurred to others, and Dr Monro, I find, has long taken notice of it in his qlafs. With a view to prevent the brain from being injured, after the trepan has pafled through one part of the Ikull, while the operator is employed in cutting the reft, it has been propofed by Dr Douglas, a phyfician of emi- nence in Kelfo, to have one of the heads of the trepan exadlly the fize of the others, but with teeth only on one fide, by which the operation may certainly be finiftied with more fafety than in the manner in which it is ufual* ly done»312 AffeElions of the Brain Chap> X. the conical faw is not neceffary for re- moving the piece of bone newly divided^ it does not penetrate the bone with the fame eafe as a cylindrical faw, neither is the piece of bone which it takes out fo large, unlefs the fize of the inftrument is confiderably larger than any that has yet been employed. This circumftance, of the fize of the opening made by the Inftrument, is an pbjedl of milch importance, and there- fore merits particular attention. For, as the intention of perforating the Ikull, is to relieve the brain from a ftate of com- prellion, produced either by depreflion of the Ikull, or extravafation of blood or fome other fluid ; as this is rnuch more effedlually done by a large than a fmall opening; and as the pain, and hazard of the operation are the fame in both, a large op^iing fhoiild always be preferred. The perforation made by the trepan fliould ne- ver in an adult be lefs than an inch in di- ameter. TheSe6l. III. from'external Violence. 313 The piece of bone being removed, if any fplinters or points are found to re-, main, they may llkewife be taken out with the forceps^ or with the lenticular, but the latter is feldom necelTary: This being accompliflied, we proceed to the main ob- jedl of the operation, and endeavour to raife the deprelTed portion of bone. If the elevation of the deprefled bone has been prevented, merely by being firm- ly wedged at one point; and if the tre- pan has been made to include this point, as it ought always to do, the whole piece, as it is thus entirely or nearly feparated from the reft of" the fkull, may be now eafily removed with the forceps ^ or if it ftill adheres »firmly at other parts, the trepan fhould be again applied at each of thefe before any attempt fhould be made to remove it. But when the de- preffed portion of bone is not fo much fe- parated from the reft as to render it pro- per to remove it, our next objecft is to raife or elevate this into a level with the reft of the IkulL- .The point of a Le- vator314 Affe£lions of the Brain Chap. X« vator fliould be introduced at tiie open- ing newly made, and being puilied in be- low the edge of the deprefled bone, by preffing down the other end of the in- llrument, a very confiderable force may thus be applied ^ and if the depreffion is not firmly wedged in, it commonly proves fufficient for raifing it: But when the de- prefled piece is either of confiderable ex- tent, or gives much refiftance at one or more points, before any attempt is made with the levator, the trepan fliould be ap- plied again wherever it may appear to be neceflary; and by a proper ufe of the le- vator at thefe difirerent openings, the de- prefled piece ftiould be ralfed. The levator in common ufe, however, is not the inftrument I wifh to recom- mend: For being made to refl upon the oppofite fide of the perforation, all the prefliire employed for elevating the de- preflion falls upon the contiguous parts of the Ikull, by which much violence is often done to it ; and as the fame intention may be accompliflied in an eafier manner, theSeft. III. from external Violence. 315 the other fhould be avoided.—By fixing the levator upon a pin, fupported by a fmall frame upon two feet, and this frame being placed at a proper diftance from the wound, the preflure made in this manner falls upon a found part of the Ikull: Not being confined to one point, no inconve- nience enfues from it; neither is it any difficulty to apply it; for it is perfedl- ly fimple In its conftrudion, and eafily moved from one part of the head to ano- ther. The inflrument to which I allude is nearly the fame with the levator of the celebrated Mr Petit of Paris, and it is re- prefented in Plate XL fig. 2. As the great objed of this operation Is to remove the deprefled portion of Ikull, together with every other caufe of com- preffion, I have taken different opportu- nities of pointing out the neceflity of keeping this always in view. For if any portion of bone is overlooked, and fliould be allowed to continue to prefs upon the brain, little or no advantage would be derived from the reft of the operation; the iji5 AffeBions of the B?'ain Chap. X. or the patient would continue in nearly the feme degree of hazard 3 and after death, the operator would be highly mortified to find, that with farther attention, the life of his patient might probably have been feved. At the feme time that care is thus taken to elevate the deprefied pieces of bone, the removal of any blood or ferum from the fiirface of the dura mater, is equally neceffary 3 and if any iliarp-pointed in- ftrument, pieces of ftone, or other extra- neous bodies, have been any where for- ced in upon the brain, I need fcarcely ob- ferve that thefe mufl likewife be remo- ved ^ and this being accompliflied, the forefhould be immediately drelfed, and the patient laid to reft. We meet with much variety in the di- rections gi^n both by ancient and mo- dern practitioners for the management of fores after this operation. With a view to preferve the dura mater and brain from mortification, various antifeptic applica- tions have been recommended, and dollilsSed:* III. from external Violence. 317 or fyndons covered with ointments are de- fired to be introduced; not merely into the perforation formed by the faw, but to be prefled as far as poflible in between the flmll and dura mater. The improprie- ty, however, of this, mufl: at once appear obvious from the llightefl: attention to the effedls of it. The foie objedr qf the ope- ration is to remove compreflion from the brain; now the dreflings I have mention- ed, namely, doflils of lint crammed into the different perforations, mufl: evidently count^racfl this, not only by the prefliire which they produce, but by ferving to prevent that free difcharge of matter af- ter the oper^-tion upon which the fafety of the patient at all times depends. In- flead of this, the dreflings fhould be of the mildeft nature, and as loofely applied as poflible.—Dry lint is commonly em- ployed ; but it excites lefs irritation, and is more eafily removed, when thinly fpread with a Ample liniment of wax and oil; and no detriment enfues, as fome have imagined, from the application of un6tu- O-US-318 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X# or ous fubftances to the brain. No teot or doffil, as I have juft obferved, Ihould be inferred into the perforation; all that is iiecelfary is to apply as lightly as poffible over the fore, a pledgit of fofc lint fpread with an ointment fuch as I have men- tioned; and this being covered with a comprefs of foft old linen, the whole Ihould be retained with a common night- cap, made fo as to tie below the chin, to be either pinned or tiod of a pro- per tightnefs, on the fore or back part of the head.—This fupports the dreilings v/ith fufficient firmnefs; and it neither keeps the head too tight, nor prevents a free flow of matter from the fore, an in- convenience very apt to occur from the ufe of thofe bandages commonly employ- ed after this operation. l"he patient, on being removed to bed, Ihould haVe his head placed in fuch a man- ner as to prevent the fore from being hurt; at the fame time his polition ihould be fuch as will moft effedually tend to difcharge any matter that the fore itfelf may affordj,Sedt. III. from external Violence. 319 or any blood or ferum that may ooze from the furface of the dura mater. When the fymptoms under which the patient has laboured have proceeded en- tirely from a depr^fled portion of the ftull, and when this cjepreflion has been completely removed, it commonly happens that fome evident advantage is immedi- ately derived from the operationr From being perfedtly torpid, with a deep labo- rious breathing, and a confiderable dila- tation of the pupils, the patient becomes lefs ftupid and l^ethargic. He begins to tofs about in bed—to raife his eye-lids — and to make fome feeble attempts to Ipeak: His breathing becomes lefs opprelled, and the pupils cohtraffc when expofed to a ftrong light.—But although all thefe fa- vourable circihnftances do not appear im- mediately after the operation, we are not to defpair of its fuccefs 3 for when the brain has been long compreffed, we may readily fuppofe that it will not be able in- ftantly to perform its various fundtions^ even when the caufe of the compreffioii has320 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. has been completely removed: And, be- fides, it often happens, that together with a fradlnre and deprellion of the Ikull, the brain has received a violent fliock or com cuffion,^ in which cafe, as the fymptoms do not depend entirely on the' comprefled ftate of the brain, fo we are not to expert them to be entirely removed on the caufe by which this compreflion is produced, be- ing taken oif. But by a due attention to the treatment of thefe fymptoms, in the manner to he hereafter pointed out, they will frequently difappear in a flow and gradual manner, although no material al- teration may be obferved in them for a confiderable time after the operaifion. A furgeon ought not therefore to ima- gine that all his bufinefs is over when the operation is finifljed^ for this may be done in the mofl: complete manner, and yet the patient will certainly die unlefs other means are employed for his relief: When the fymptoms for which the trepan was applied, become lefs violent, on the depreflion of the Ikull being removed, and 3Sed, III. frofn external Violence. ^21 aiid if the patient in the courfe of a few hours becomes ftill more relieved, there will be much caufe to ho]i^ that he will recover without any other remedy being employed; and that quietnefs, keeping an open belly, and avoiding every caufe of inflammation, will at laft prove fufficieht for the cure: But when the reverie of this takes place, when the fymptoms re- main equally formidable after the opera- tion as before, and efpecially if they do not become more moderate in the courfe of a few hours after the patient is laid to reft; remedies of a different kind become neceflary. As the fymptoms which in fuch circum- fiances are moll to be dreaded originate from two different caufes, and as the choice i of remedies to be employed for removing them fliould depend entirely on the na- ture of the caufe, much attention is re- quired to afeertain it. The caufes to which I allude, arc, in- flammation of the membranes of the brain, and concuflion of the brain itfdf. VoL. Ill, X In3 2 2 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X* In general, the fymptoms which pre- vail here are all fufpe£led ta proceed from the fame caufp: they are fuppofed to be entirely of the fame nature, and the fame fet of remedies are therefore common- ly employed. The impropriety of this,, however, is obvious: For although it of- ten happens, that the attendant fymptoms^ are of a mixed nature, and depend fo much upon a concurrence of both the caufes I have mentioned, that they can- not be rightly diftinguillied, yet in vari- ous inflances k is otherwife; and when an evident diftin<Sion is perceived, much ad- vantage will accrue to the patient, from pradlitioners diredting their attention to- wards k. After all the evident caufes of com- preflion are removed,, if the pulfe is flow and foft, if the patient remains torpid, and efpecially if the pupils do not con? tradt on expofure to a flrong light,, there will be much caufe to fufpedl that thefe fymptoms depend in a great meafure, on commotion or concufllon of the fubftance ofSe<3:. III. from external Violence. 323 of the brain: For although they are all fuch as are commonly induced by a com- prefled ftate of the brain; yet we know that they are likewife the frequent confe- quraces of concuflion: So that, when all the deprefled bone and other obvious cau- fes of compreflion are removed, we con- clude with much probability, that any fymptnms which remain, when they are fuch as I have mentioned, depend more upon conCuflion than on any other caufe. But when, inftead of thefe fymptoms, there is, along with fome return of fenfi- bility, as is indicated by the patient’s be- coming unmanageable, and often moving from one part of the bed to another; if the pulfe is firm, full, and quick; if the eye is found to be Inflamed, and efpeci- ally if the pupil is obferved to contrad: more than ufual, and the patient to with^ draw his head on the eye being ex- pofed to much light ; there will be much caufe to fufped that inflammation of the membranes of the brain has taken place. Indeed the dura mater, like every other membrane, is fo fufceptible of in- X 2 flammatiori,324 Affections oj the Brahi Chap;,Xo- flammation, that it Is difficult to imagine how any part of the fkull can be beat in upon it, without irritating and infla- ming it in a remarkable degree; and if once inflammmation is induced uporn part of this membrane, we. know from experience that it readily and quickly ex-^ tends over the whole of it ^ a circum- ftance that eafily accounts for the high degree of inflammation, which in this fi- tuation is often obferved in the eyes, as likewife for the contradlion of the pupils,, and fevere pain always produced by the expofure of the eyes to much light- When the fymptoms are produced by inflammation alone, the pulfe, as I have obferved above, differs materially from the pulfe of a perfon fuffering merely from con- cuflion of the braiui In a ftate of con- cuflion, the pulfe is full, flow, and foft 4 but when inflammation takes place, the. pulfe, although frequently full, has firmer ftfoke, and is commonly quick : And in, this cafe the breathing, although not.Se(S. Ill, from external Violence^ 325 not opprefled and laborious as It frequent- ly is when the brain is comprefied, is al- ways more frequent thap natural} a cir- cumftance not commonly obferved in pa- tients labouring under the effe6ls of con- cuflion. Although for the reafons I have men tinned, it may often be difficult or even impoffible to mark the exiftence of thcfe different fets of fymptoms, yet an atten- tive obferver will frequently be able to diftinguifli them; and whenever it can be done, much advantage I think may be derived from it, Praditioners of every age have recom- mended in injuries done to the head, to difcharge a g6od deal of blood; and there is reafon to think that no general rule had ever a better foundation: But from at- tentive obfervation of the effeds-of blood- letting, I have caufe to imagine that fur- igeons of modern times frequently carry it too far. Where the membranes of the brain are really inflamed, the propriety of .dlfcharging much blood Is obvious, X 3 and3^5 AffeSiions of the Brain Chap. X. and will not be difputed; but whenever there is reafon from the nature of the fymptQms to imagine that they proceed from concuffion, blood-letting, if recom- mended at all, ihquld be pracSifed with much caution. Although the general ftru^ure of the brain with refpedl to its figure, fize, and other circumftances, has long been well hnown; yet it muft be confeffed, that our anatomical knowledge of this organ is ftill very deficient, nor have we the moft diftant idea of the manner in which it performs its various fundllons. Indeed pur knowled.ge of this part of anatomy is fo extremely lame, that we are frequently perfectly unable to difcover by the moft minute diftecftion any difference between the brain in the foundeft ftate, and that ftate pf it in a perfon evidently killed by a fall or blow upon the head, and in whom all the fymptoms induced by the accident were fuch as indicated an affec- tion of the brain alone. This is par- ticularly the Cjafe in tliofe who die from whatSed. Ill- from external Violence. 327 what is termed Concuflion or Commotion of the brain. In iiich inftances the brain we fiippofe to be fomehow or other de- ranged ; but it moft frequently happens, that the moft accurate diftedion cannot difcover the nature of this derangement. From this it is obvious, that the effed of concuflion of the brain is not an ex- citement of inflammation; for every ftage of inflammation becomes obvious to dif- fedion, and can fcarcely indeed efcape notice. Now, as it often happens inthofe whom we fuppofe to have died from com cuflion, that no appearance of inflamma- tion in any part of the brain is difcover- ed, it is not unfair to conclude, that the effeds of thefe two caufes, inflammation and concuflion, are diftind, and perhaps very oppofite in their nature and ef- feds.' From the circumftances I have men- tioned of the effeds obferved upon dilTec- tion to arife from thefe caufes, and of the fymptoms induced by the one be- ing different from thofe which arife from X 4 the328 Jffe5iions of the Brain Chap. X. the other, the conclufion I have formed with refped; to their difference,might even upon thefe grounds be fuppofed to be well founded : But it is not upon fpeculation alone, that I wifli to reft either this or any other opinion of pradical impor- tance. The idea was firft fuggefted by the different effeds which I had'obferved to proceed from blood-letting in affec- tions of the brain from external injuries. In many, great and evident advantages enfued from it, while no benefit was pro- cured from any other remedy : But in o- thers, inftead of advantage being derived from it, the patients became ebvioufly worfe after every repetition of the ope- ration. The pulfe, from being full, gra- dually became weaker^ and the ftrength of the patient coiPxmonly finking , in the fame proportion, he feldom recovered from the efieds of blood-letting when pradifed to any confiderable extent. From thefe circumftances I have been led to think, that concuflion of the brain operates upon the general fy ftem, in nearly theSe(S. IIL from external Violence. 329 the fame manner as fyncope induced by fear, inanition, or any fimilar caufe, in the treatment of which, blood-letting is known to prove hurtful. In what manner a blow upon the head or a fall from a height, in a full habit of body, and in a perfon otherwife in perfed: health, who only a few minutes before could have fupported the lofs of much blood, Ihould be able inftantly to induce fuch a ftate of the fyftem as cannot admit of this evacuation, I will not pretend to fay : But that it frequently happens, I am now from repeated obfervation entirely convinced ^ and whoever pays due atten- tion to this branch of pradice, will find that it is fo.. He will find indeed, that all fuch fymptoins as arife from inflam- mation, are more effedually relieved by blood-letting than any other remedy : But he will for certain obferve, that all thofe which do not depend upon this caufe, and which arife folely from conculGon, in- {lead of being relieved by this remedy, will be uniformly rendered more violent and33^ AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. and more alarrnmg, In proportion to the quantity of blood that is taken away. So far, however, as my experience goes, the evacuation produced by purgatives never proves fo debilitating as to render them improper: And as they have fre~ quently an influence in relieving the head, they fliould never be omitted, and fliould always be prefcribed in fuch dofes, and thefe as frequently repeated, as the ftrength of the patient will permit ^ but they fliould never be carried fo far as to run any rilk of inducing debility and languor. In the following feflions, I lhall have occafion to enter on a more particular confideration of the fymptoms induced by inflammation of the membranes of the brain, and by concuflion of the brain it- felfy but thefe general remarks upon the fubjeO: were necelTary in this place, with a view to explain the nature of our prac- tice in the treatment of thofe fymptoms which proceed from either of thefe caufes when conneded with a comprefied ftate ofSed. IIL from external Violence. . 331 of the brain, and when accordingly the operation of the trepan is not found to afford fuch effedual relief as it otherwife would do. Poftponing therefore a parti- cular detail of the remedies to be ufed in cafes of inflammation and concuflion of the bruin, I fhall now fhortly remark, that whenever the operation of the trepan fails in relieving the fymptpms for which it was employed, as this gives much caufe to fufped: the exiftence of one or other of thefe affedions, much attention is requi- red to dlfcrimlnate between them. When inflammation is found to take place, blood-letting, both general and local, be- comes requifite, together with fmart pur- gatives, mild fudoriflcs, and a ftrid at- tention to an antiphlogiftic regimen: But when the fymptoms appear to arife from poncullion, the only evacuation that can with propriety be advifed is gentle pur- ging ^ for in this cafe, as I have already remarked, and as I fhall afterwards en- deavour more particularly to fliow, blood- letting.332 Affeciiom of the Brain Chap. i iettmg, inftead of proving ufeful, very conftant]^ does harm. In both fituations, as well as In every affedlon requiring the trepan, the pa- tient fliould be kept perfedly quiet— little or no light fliould be admitted to his apartment—any food he Is able to take fliould be of the mlldeft kind, and plenty of whey or any other diluent drink fliould be allowed. In the mean time, the ftate of the wound requires particular attention; for after the operation of the trepan, the membranes* of the brain are particularly liable not only to Inflammation but gan- grene. In wounds of other parts of the bo- dy, we know that nothing fo certainly prevents inflammation and gangrene, as a free fuppuratlon being induced upon the injured parts; and whoever will at- tempt a fimilar pradice in wounds of the head will find, that although, from the nature of the parts in which the af- fedion is feated. It may not prove equal- ly fuccefsful, that it will prove more fo thanSe6!. III. from external Violence. 333 than any other mode of treatment that has yet been employed. , With this view, warm emollient poul- tices and fomentations fliould be applied over the dreffings; and by renewing them every two or three hours, a plentiful flow of matter commonly takes place from the perforations in the Ikull, by which the tenflon is foon removed, at the fame time that the other fymptoms are rendered lefs violent. At each drefling, the matter refting in the perforations fhould be removed with a piece of foft fponge or lint, and this being done, the fore fliould be covered as quickly as poflible with a pledgit of any mild ointment. When the cure goes properly on, gra- nulations foon appear upon the dura rna- ter as well as upon the reft of the wound; and thefe continuing to advance, the dif- ferent openings made by the trepan are at laft completely filled up, and the whole being brought to a level with the reft of the teguments, a cicatrix is in general obtained j334 Affeciions of the Brain Chap. obtained |by the fame means that prove fuccefsful in other parts of the body, and of which I have treated already Thefe granulations, however, which in general arife from the dura mater only, and not from the brain Itfelf as has com- monly been fuppofed, inftead of merely filling up the openings in the bone, in fome cafes pulh out beyond the furface of the teguments, fo as to form diftind pen- dulous tumors. Thefe tumors or excrefcences, when they become large, prove fometimes troublefome, and various means have been propofed for preventing or removing them. 5eing commonly confidered as produdionstof the brain itfelf, much cau- tion, and even timidity, has prevailed iii the treatment of them. Compreflion is the means moft frequently employed. They are fometimes kept down by efchar rotics, and even with ftrong cauftic. Some have propofed to remove them by ligatures, and others by excifion. Of * Vide Chapter IVcSe£t. III. from external Violence. 335 Of all thefe, the mode by compreffion is moft to be dreaded, and ought certain- ly to be ei^ploded: For whether the tu- mors arife from the brain or dura mater, preflure cannot be applied to them with- out alFefting the brainy and we common*- ly find, that even the flightefi: degree of it induces head-ach, ficknefs, and in fome inftances convulfions. It ought not there- fore to be employed in any cafe» Thefe tumors are of various degrees of fenfibility. In fome, they are painful, and cannot bear to be touched ^ whilft in others they are almofl; infenfible. In this laft cafe^ the moft efFedtual treatment is to touch them daily with lunar cauftic, or calcined alum, and when the tumor hangs by a fmall neck, it may with fafe-' ty be removed with a ligature. We feldom,. however, find it neceflary to employ either thefe or any other means, for in general the tumors begin to dimi- nifti as foon as the foft granulations in the perforations of the Ikull J^egin to ac- quire a firmer confiftence, and by the time33® of the Brain Chap. X. time the oflifying procefs of this fubftance is completed, they commonly drop off folely by the preflure thus produced upon them. We ftiould not, therefore, in any cafe, proceed quickly to remove them ^ but when they do not fall off on the dif- ferent perforations being filled with bone, as the connedHon between them and the brain is then in a great meafure cut off, they may accordingly be removed with more fafety, either by excifion, cauflic, or ligatures. The cure being thus far complete, if the method I advifed was adopted, of fa- ying all the ikin and other teguments, a narrow cicatrix only will remain, and the parts will be nearly as firm as they were before : But when much of the fkin and mufcles have been deflroyed, as thefe parts are never renewed, the bone will be left covered by a thin cuticle only, with per- haps a very fmall proportion of interme- diate cellular fubftance^ in which cafe a piece of tin or lead, lined with flannel, fhould be fitted to the part, with a view CO t-Sedli ill. from external Violence, 337 to protect it from the effeds of cold and external injuries. When the fymptom^ arifing from Inju- ties done to the head, proceed entirely from a deprefled portion of bone ading as a caufe of compreffion upon the brainy if this can^ be removed, a due perfeve- tance in the plan of management I have pointed out will in general prove fuccefs- fuL It muft, however, be admitted, that they do not end in this favourable way fo frequently as we could wilh : For, a- long with the depreffion of the Ikull, we often meet with fymptoms^ as I have ob- ferved abov^, either ariling from concuf- flion, inflammation, or gangrene ; cir- Cumflances at all times attended with un- certainty, and commonly with much ha- zard. We now proceed to confider the other general caufe of compreffion of the brain,, namely, extravafation. VOL.III. . Y §2. 0/338 AffcEtions of the Brain Chap^ X. § 2. 0/' Comprejfion of the Brain from Extra^ V a/at ion. By whatever caufe the brain may be compreffed, the fymptoms that enfue are nearly the fame; and as thefe have al- ready been minutely corifidered, it will not be neceflary to enumerate them a- gain. I fliall only obferve, that all the fymptoms ariling from a comprefled date of the brain, are. induced with as much certainty, and attended with as much hazard, from effufions of blood, ferum, or pus, as from the mofl extenfive de- preffions of bone. In general, indeed, fymptoms induced by extravafatlon are more to be dreaded even than depreflions; of great extent; for when a deprefled portion of bone is large, the feat of the injury is at once pointed out, and by proper means may often be removed ; but whfere extravafation takes place, our means of afeertainingthe feat of the injury more uncertain, fo that the effeds of ourSecft. III. from external Violence^ 339 Our remedies' are lefs to be trufted. \Yheil indeed the brain is compreffed by a com- plication of thefe two caufes, a deptelTed portion of bone, and extravafation of blood or ferum, the feat of the one is rea- dily difcoVered by that of the other; but when compreilion is formed by extrava-^ fation alone, it is always difficult, and often iriipoliible, to difcorer the feat of it. A complication of thefe two caufes is by no means uncommon 3 for it often happens that extravafation of blood or fefum is an obvious effeft of fradures or depreffion> but we likewife meet with iii- ftances of both being effufed on the fur- face of the brain, without any injury be- ing done to the bone^ In compreifion arifing from extravafa- tion, the fame indications are applicable that have been pointed out already for the treatment of compreilion arifing from a depreflTed portion of bone : After en- deavouring^ to afcertain the feat of the injury, we are to make one or more per- Y 2 foratioiis,340 j4ffe£lions of the Brain Chap. X. forations, in order to difchar^e the ex« travafated fluid, and this being done, we are to guard againfl any effeds which the accident might produce upon the brain and its membranes. It fometimes happens, that the part in which the colledion is feated, is pointed out by the mark of a blow or bruife; and and on the bone being laid bare, a fif- fure will in fome inftances be found in it, while in others no other injury is difco*- vered, farther than a reparation of the pericranium from the fiirface of the bone. When any of thefe circumftances how- ever take place, we fhould confld'er the feat of the injury to be fo far afcertained as to have no: hefitation in fixing upon this fpot for applying the trepan^ but it often happens,., that no external mark is to be met with to lead to this difcovery> even after the whole head is fliaved, and minutely examined,' the fl^in will in va- rious inftances be found perfedly founds without any appearance either of tumor or difcoloration. Hitherto^'Sed. III. from external Violence. 341 Hitherto it has been held as an eftablifh- ed maxim, never to apply the trepan in compreffion of the brain from external violence where there is no external mark torpoint out the feat of the injury, the re- fult of the operation being in fuch cafes always, uncertain : But as compreffion of the brain, if not removed, mull foon ter- minate in death, and as it cannot be re- moved in any other way than by perfo- rating the Ikull, in fuch circumftances, to leave any thing undone which would give even the fmallefl: chance of faving the pa- tient, fhows a degree of indifference not in any other inftance met with* in the fur- gery of modern times. It is with truth indeed faid, v/hen no external injury ap- pears, that there is always much uncer- tainty of any perforation we can make being to fall upon the fpot where the caufe of compreffion takes places that as the fymptoms induced by concuffion, are often highly iimilar to thofe arifing from compreffion, much dubiety muft oc- cur from our not being able to fay with Y 3 precifioi:!,V 342 of the Brain Chap. Xy p?*ecifion, whether the fymptoms depend ppon one caufe or the other ; and it muft be confeffed, even where the fymptoms have previoufly been fufpefted to depend npon compreffion, that in many inftances noyeftigehas been met with on difledion, either of depreilion of the fkull, or of ef- fulion of blood or ferum. All this I fhall admit; but to what does it amount? Why, to no more than this: That where a patmnt is evidently in much danger, and is to die if means are not employed for his relief, wherever there is much uncertainty in the effeds of thefe means, that it will be better not to ad- vife them, but rather to leave the patient to his fate ! As long as the lituation of a patient can afford even the flighteft caufe to hope that he may recover by other means, it would no doubt be improper to employ the trepan 5 or if rnuch additional rifk was to be incurred by the operation, no praditioner of charader would advife it with fo fmall a probability of any ad- vantage being to arife from it. ^ ^ , But "VSefl:. Ill* external Violence. 343 ,But as a patient labouring under the fymptoms I have defcribed, cannot be re- lieved by any other means, and in fuch defperate circumftances as no additional hazard can be incurred from an operation, *we ought certainly, in juftice to the pa- tient, to his friends, and to our own re- putation, to advife it. The chance re- fulting from it, will not indeed be great : But being the only means from whence fafety can be expedled, by employing it, lives may be faved which ptherwife would be loft; and if a prognofis fufficiently guarded is given, no juft blame could fall either upon the operator, or on the art. If the friends of the patient fhould be told of the hazard he is in^ that there is an operation by which he may have fome chance of recovering, but that this chance is inconfiderable ^ evenunder fuch a prog- nofis, the operation would in moft inftan- ces be agreed to 3 and however unfiiccefs- ful it might prove, and although no ex- travafation, or other caufe of a compref- fed brain, Ihould be met with, a progno- Y 4 fis344 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X. fis of this kind would in every inflance fcreen the operator from blame ; and having thus done all that could afford any chance of a recovery, the friends of the patient, as well as the furgeon himfelf, would furely have more caufe to be fatis- fied than if no fuch attempt had been made. I fhall therefore fuppofe that the trepan is to be applied for the removal of fymp- toms arifing from a compreffed ftate of the brain; but where no external mark indicates the particular feat of the injury, it may be allied in what manner are we^ to proceed ? As the caufe of compreffion may exift juft as readily in one part as a- nother, it may feem to be a matter of lit- tle importance in what part of the head the firft perforation is made. This, how- ever, is far from being the cafe : For, as we are fuppofmg the compreffion to be in- duced by blood or ferum, a;rd as thefe, while in a fluid ftate, are always paffing as much towards the bafis of the brain, as the intimate connedion between the dura materSedl. III. from external Violence. 345 mater and th^ internal furface of the (kull will permit y it will be proper to form the firfl: perforation in the moft inferior part of the cranium in which it can with any propriety be made, and to proceed to per- forate every acceflible part of the Ikull, till the caufe of compreffion is difcovered. For this purpofe there is no neceffity, as I have already obferved, to remove any part of the integuments: Wherever we mean to perforate the bone, if an incifion is made through the fkin, mufcles, and pericranium, they will retradl fufficiently for admitting the inftrument; and this be- ing all that is necelTary, more Ihould not be defired. If we are at laft fo fortunate as to rneet either with blood or ferum, much care ftiould be taken to difcharge it^ for which purpofe, as blood, when coagulated, frequently adheres to the du- ra mater, inftead of one perforation, two, three, or more fliould be advifed, fo as to admit of all the extravafated blood be- ing removed e34^ AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. But in fuch circumllances the operator fliould likewife recoiled that the blood, inftead of being effufed on the furface of the dura mater, may be colleded within the cavity of that membrane ; or it may even be contained within the ~pia mater, in immediate contad with the brain. For which reafon the ft ate of the dura mater fliould be examined with attention, after every perforation. If it is found to be of its natural colour, and not more tenfe than it ought to be, nothing farther will be required; but if very tenfe and elaftic, and efpecially if it has that dark or livid appearance which indicates the probability of blood being colleded be- neath, it ought undoubtedly to be opened, in order to difcharge it. The beft and eafieft mode of effeding this, is to fcratch a fmall hole by repeated ftrokes with a lancet^ and this being done, and the point of a pair of curved fciflars being intro- duced beneath the dura mater, the open- ing may thus be enlarged to the full ex- tent of the perforation in the bone 3 or if oneSeft. III. from external Violence. ' 347 one cut acrofs the perforation is not fufficient for difcharging the blood be- neath, a crucial incifion may be made, and, if necellary, the corners thus produ- ced may be cut off. Although I would not recommend the divifion of the dura mater, where not ne- ceflary for the fafety of the patient; yet, in every inftance where the operation of the trepan is advifable, if, on perforating the bone, there is reafon to fufped that a fluid is colledted either between this mem- brane and the pia mater, or even below the pia mater itfelf, as the intention of the operation would not otherwife be ful- filled, the colledion, of whatever it may confift, ought’immediately to be difchar- ged : In fuch circumfliances, unlefs we go this length, we in fad: do nothing ^ for the dura mater is fo thick and llrong, that any blood or matter colleded beneath would more readily fpre'ad inwards upon the brain, than burfl: out through the dif- |erent layers of this membrane.34^ AffeEltons of the Brain Chap. X. It has been objected to this pradice, that few recover where it is advifed 3 that there is a rifk of fatal hemorrhagies being induced by it^ and that the brain is apt to protrude at the perforation in the bone, after it has loft the fupport of its furround- ing membranes. That few have recovered by this means, I will allow: But this does not proceed fo much from the opening made in the dura mater, or from its being particularly hazardous of itfelf| but, from the caufe for which it is employed being produftive of fuch danger as puts it ooit of the power of art, either by this or any other'means, to obviate the fatal effeits of it. Withrefpect to hemorrhagies being apt to enftie from this pradtice ^ although I have feen the dura mater opened in feve- ral inftances by others, and have diffe- rent times done it myfelf, I never knew ail inftance of any danger arifing from it, nbt even when any of the ftnufes have by accident been laid open; and although the brain will no doubt protrude more readily , whenSe&, III. from external Violence. 349 when the dura mater h divided, than it otherwife might do, yet this we know is a frequent occurrence In every wound where much of the cranium is removed, and that confiderable portions of the brain have been even difcharged by wounds, without any inconvenience being indu- ced by it. The refult therefore of all that can be faid upon this point, is, that where the intention of the operation is fully anfwer- ed by perforating the cranium; w^here any portion of bone that has-been depref- fed is thus completely removed; or where any prelfiire produced upon the brain is found to proceed from blood or ferum on the furface of’ the dura mater; as in any of thefe cafes the caufe of danger can be removed without penetrating this mem- brane, it ought not by any means to be done r But whenever the bad fymptoms which have prevailed are not relieved by the perforation of the bone; or by thcs removal of any effufed fluid that may be met with on the dura mater; and when from350 AffeBions of the Brain Chap, X<» from the appearance of this membrane there is reafon to fufpeft that a fluid is colleded beneath ^ it ought undoubtedly to be opened. Even although the incon- veniences refulting from it were greater than they have ever proved to be, when the life of a patient appears to depend on it, fomething ought to be hazarded: But we have feen that the rilk attending this part of the operation is inconfiderable, fo that whenever it appears to be necelTary, I would confider any pradtitioner as cul- pable who fhould omit it. In this fituation our views fhould be ex- adly fuch as would dired us in the treat- ment of abfcefles in other parts of the body. When a patient is fuffering with matter colleded in a particular part, no furgeon of experience will be deterred from going to the full depth of the col- ledion merely from findingthat it is more thickly covered than he had reafon to ex- ped before the fkin and cellular fubftanc^ were divided. He will proceed more flowly and with much caution; but he willSedl. III. from external Violence. 351 will at laft reach the feat of the matter with as much certahity as if it had been much more fuperficial. In like manner, when there is reafon to imagine that matter is colleded be- neath the membranes of the brain, an in- cilion fhould for certain be made through them. No additional rifk can be incur- red from it: Some few patients may be faved by it 3 and at any rate, it muft al- ways afford fatisfa<Sion, not only to the friends of the patient, but to the pradi- tioner himfelf, to know that nothing has been omitted from whence any advantage could be derived. It will often indeed happen, that nei- ther this, nor any other effort of art, will obviate the danger of the patient. But when the principles upon which an ope- ration is founded are evidently juft, and when it appears, upon mature delibera- tion, that a patient may be faved by it, and that he cannot efcape by any other means, it is not the frequency of its fuc- cefs alone by which we are to be diredt- « ed r35^ ^ffe^ions of the Brain Chap. Xi ed : The danger induced by the caufe for which it is employed is the nbjed to be kept in view; and every practitioner who ads folely for the good of his patient^ will at all times employ fuch means as are beft calculated for the removal of this danger, without paying attention to any other confideration. If it were the ob- jed of fargeons to operate only where certain fuccefs would enfue, many lives would be loft that otherwife are faved > and in that cafe the pradice I have re- commended, of applying the trepan iii injuries done to the brain, where no ex- ternal mark of diredion exifts, would ndi doubt be inadmiflible: But as the fafety of thofe intruded to us ought to be our firft and great objed, and profeflional fame only a fecondary confideration, whenever we are certain that death muft enfue, if not prevented by the timely application of a proper remedy, although there may be no great certainty of this remedy pro- ving fuccefsful, yet if it is the only means from whence there is a chance of fafety, 3'Se6l. III. from external Violence. 353 it ought undoubtedly to be employed. It is on this principle Tolely that 1 have ad- vifed the pradice of perforating the Ikull in different places when in a comprefled ftate of brain the part chiefly affeded is not pointed out by fome external mark of injury: And although the opinion I have thus ventured to give is not agreeable to general pradice, yet as this pradice has ancient cuftom only for its fupport, be- ing in every other refped apparently ill founded, the advantages which may ac- crue from a different mode of treatment, will only require to be thus fully pointed out, in order to procure it a favourable reception. Prejudice arifing from ancient authori- ties, will here, as in moft cafes, have the effed of preventing a new propofal from meeting with attention; but I think it probable, that no great length of time will be required to place it in a very fa- vourable point of view. Having already pointed out the plan of management to be adopted in the after^ VoL. III. Z treatmentAffsBims of the Brain Chap. X. 354 treatment of thofe cafes in which the tre- pan has been applied for the removal of a deprefled portion of the fkull, it will not be neceflary to enter upon the fubjecSt a- gain; for whatever the caufe may be for which the operation is pradtifed, the cure of the remaining fore fhould be condudtf- ed in the fame manner. Having thus adverted to all the caufes by which compreilion of the brain may be induced, I fliall now proceed to the confideration of commotion or concuf- fon. S E C-Sed* I V# from eternal Violence* 355 SECTION IV. t)f ’ConcuJJion or Commotion of the Brahu Every affedion of the head Attended with ftupefadion, when it appears as the immediate confequence of exter- nal yiolence, and Vv^hen no naark of inju- ry is difcovered, is in general foppofed to proceed from copimntion or concuffio.n of the brain 5 by w’hich is meant fuch a de- ragement of this organ as obUruds its natural and ufiial fandions, but which does not produce fuch obvious effedts up-^ on the brain as to render it capable of ha- ving its real nature afcertained by dfflec- tion. Almoft all the fymptoms commonly produced by a comprefled date of the brain, as enumerated in the laft fedion, are in fome indances met with from com cuflion: but thofe which mod frequent- ly arife from it are, Stupefadion f torpor Z 2 to35AffeBions of the Brain Ghap. X. to a greater or lefler degree; a flow, foft pulfe; and a dilated fl:ate of the pupils, even on the eyes being expofed to light. As it is not always eafy, however, to determine from the fymptoms, what par- ticular affedlion of the head may have taken place, I fhall endeavour to mark, as far as may be done, a diflindion be- tween concufli on and inflammation, and between concuflion and comprefllon, of the brain.- It is an objed of much im- portance, and therefore requires bur moft ferious attention. It is feldom difEcult, as we have feen in the lafl: fedion, to diflinguifli between the fymptoms which proceed from in- flammation, and thofe that arife from concuflion.—Such as proceed from con- cuffion alone, commence immediately on the injury being inflided; in violent de- grees of them, the patient remains total- ly infenfible; the pupils are much dila- ted, and do not contrad even when the eyes are expofed to the ftrongefl light; and the pnlfe, although fometimes full.Sed:.MV. frmi external Violence. 357 ' is not hard nor ftrong, and it always be- comes weaker on blood being taken a- way.. Thofe fymptoms again which originate from inflammation, feldom appear till fe-- veral days after the accident: By the de- fcription to be more particularly given of them in the following fedion, it will ap- pear, that they are materially different from thofe arifing either from a compref fed date of the brain or from concuflioh. The pupils are not dilated ; nay the eyes, excepting in the more advanced ftages of the difeafe, are very fenfible to the int- preflipn of light ^ and the pulfe is firm and. hard from the firfl, and does not be- come weakef on moderate evacuations of blood. By thefe marks of dillindion, as well as others which an attentive praditioner will commonly notice, little uncertainty can prevail in determining whether fymp- toms proceed from concuflion or inflam- mation; fo that with refped to this point we may foon determine on the pradice to Z3 be35® Aff'eeiions of the Brain Cliap. X-- be purfued. And again, we can eafily diftinguilh betweeiiifymptoms arifingfrotn flight degrees of concuflion, and thofe produced by compreflion. Thus, wherb a perfon is knocted; do\¥n by a blow up- on the heady and quickly recovers from the more alarming e^d:>s of it,, but re- mains for a confiderable time giddy ^ with flight pains in difierent parts of his head >- with tinnitus aurium, weaknefs of light ^ lome degree of imbccillity, aiid lofs of memory; if no other lymptoms occur,, and efpecially if the patient is able to walk about; as, frequently happens even in- high degrees of thefe fyrnptoms; we con- clude from experience in flmilar cafes, that they all proceed from commotion or concuflion, and not from compreflion of the brain ; for the fyrnptoms which pro- ceed from compreflion are of a more per- manent nature, and uniformly continue tilb the caufe which produced them is remo- ved. ^ But where the fymptoms are important? from the beginning, and efpecially when^ the559 IV. from external Violence. the patient is altogether infenlible, if no external liiark of injury takes place it is always difficult to determine whe- ther they depend upon concuffion or de- preffion. Indeed inftances often occur, in which fymptoms fuppofed to originate from concuffion, have after death been found to proceed from extravafation, or perhaps from a fradture attended with de- preffion of the ffiull which had not been previoufly difcovered. And again, fymp- toms have often been fufpedted to arife froni extravafation, when oil diiledfion, no veftige either of this or any other morbid appearance could be difcovered. So far as my obfervation goes, the moft material difference between the fymptoms ariling froni thefe two caufes, concuffion and compreffion of the brain, is niet with in the pulfe and breathing. In a com- preffed ftate of the brain, the breathing is commonly deep and oppreffed, fimilar to what we meet with in apoplexy; where- as, in patients labouring under concuffion, the breathing is in genei;al free and eafy, Z 4 ' and,360 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X* and the patient lies as if he was in a found and natural deep. The pulfe is common- ly foft and equal, and hot irregular and flow, as it ufually is when the brain is comprefled. In a compreiTed date of the brain, too, although little or per- haps no relief may be obtained from blood- letting, yet no harm is obferved to enfue from ity^ fo that in moderate quantities, it does hot reduce either the frequency or ftrength of the pulfe: Whereas in con^ cuffiori of the brain, the, pulfe, as I have' already remarked, will frequently fink, and become much more feeble on the lofs of only eight or ten ounces of blood. In doubtful cafes, therefore, a quantity of blood Ihould be immediately difchar- ged: If the pulfe, upon fix or eight oun- ces being taken away, is found to be ftronger and fuller than before 5 if the blood appears to be fizy; and efpecially if the patient becomes more fcnfible ; we may concmde^ with much probabi- lity, that the fymptoms depend either uponSed. IV. from external Violence. 361 upon extravafation ^ upon fome part of the fkull being deprefled j or upon fome degree of inflammation: and as long as the pulfe remains firm, and any advanta- ges are gained by it, we may with fafety proceed to difcharge more blood. But when the pulfe, upon a few oun- ces of blood being taken, becomes fee- ble, and efpecially if the patient becomes weak and languid, as will almofl always be the cafe when the fymptoms proceed from concuflion, as the nature of the cafe is thus rendered in fome meafure certain, any farther difcharge fhould be immedi- ately prevented. I have already endeavoured to fhow, that concuflion of the brain appears to operate by inducing debility of the whole fyflem^ our remedies, therefore, inftead of tending to increafe this, as blood-let- ting very certainly does, fhould be fuch as give additional vigour. With this intention, in fimilar circum- ftances arifing from other caufes^ we would advife not only the internal ufe of cor- dials,362 JffeBions tif tht Brnin Cfhap. X- dials, but the outward application of fti- mulants; arid as fymptoms of debility in the cafe we are now confidering-,. are as ftrongly marked as in any difeafe what- ever, I am clearly of opinion, that cor^ dials, and even ftimulants, are equally ne-- ceflary in the method of cure. Many pradtitloners have acknowledged, that although they have by general cuftom been induced to bleed freely in all inju- ries done to the head, that in various in- ftances no evident advantage has been de- rived from it, and in feme that it has even done harm. Having met with many inftances of this, in which all eva^ cuations of blood funk the ftrengtl> of the patient in an alarming manner^ and finding indeed, unlefs where the fymp- toms arofe clearly from mfiammation, that few, if any, recovered, when the pfadtice of difeharging much bipod was carried far, I was induced in the firft place to fee what would refult from no eva- cuation of blood being advifed, and trufted chiefly to laxatives^ and: a gentle moifture beingSed.'I¥. from external Violence. 563 being kept upon the fkin. On finding diat na bad effeds eiifiied from it, and, on the contrary, that more patients re- covered than had commonly done from blood-letting, I was thereby induced to carry the pradlice farther* Upon this principle cordials were given internally ^ and ftimulants, particularly blifters, we/e applied externally, in thfe fame manner as is ixfually done, in debility proceeding from any other caufe^ and hi- therto the efFedls refulting from it have been fuch as fiifficiently warrant a con- tinuance of the pradiice. In every cafe, therefore, where concuf- fion of the brain appears to be the caufe of the fymptoms, the ^pradlice I would recommend is, to exhibit in a gradual manner fuch quantities of warm wine as would appear to be proper for the fame fymptoms of debility induced by any o- ther caufe : As patients in fuch circum- ftances are apt to become cold, they ings : A blifter fliould be applied over all fliould warm by proper cover- that364 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X. that part of the head in which the (kin has not been injured; finapifrns fhould be applied to the feet ; and although ftrong purgatives wpiild be improper, by tending to reduce the ftrength of the patient, yet gentle laxatives prove always ufeful, and Ihould be regularly given, when the ftate of the bowels requires them. As wine is a cordial upon which we can place more dependence than on any other with which we are acquainted, it ought in this, as in every cafe where cordials are required, to be preferred. But although with due pains, by opening the patient’s mouth, and putting it in with a fpoon, it may in almoft every cafe be exhibited ; yet occalionally we meet with inftances in which it cannot be fwallowed in fufE.cient quantity: In this qafe the volatile alkali, ardent fpirits, and other cordials of a more adive kind, ihould be given. In concuffions of the brain, Mr Brome- field has recommended the ufe of opiates^ a.circumfhance which tends much to corro- borate the opinion I have endeavoured.to ' ' eftabliilrSeft. IV. from external Vidlence. 365 eftaMifh of the nature of this affe£tion, for few medicines a6l with more certainty as eordials than ojDituli: When conjoined with antimonials, I have frequently found it prove ufeful ; but although I have upon filch refpe6lable authority employed opium by itfelf, I have not hitherto found it an- fwer fo wdl SLS wine. This, however, itiay proceed, either from my not having pufhed the ufe of it fo far as f ought to have done ^ or from the few cafes in which I have employed it having been fuch as would not have done well whatever re- medy might have been iifed. I mufl:, therefore have farther experience of its effedls before venturing to fpeak of it with more d’ecifion. Iflues are commonly advifed here ; but as more advantage I believe is to be de- rived from the ftimulating powers of bli- ilers, than from any difcharge which they produce, inftead of preferving a bliftered part open^ with ilTue-ointment, as is ufii- ally done, I would prefer a repeated and frequent renewal of blifters on different parts of the head and neck. In this man- ner,365 AffeStkns of the Brain Chap. X, npr, any advantage to be derived from drains will be equally certain as from iflues ; and by applying one blifter on the firfl: being nearly heal, almoft a conftant ftimulus will be kept up’. In the progrefs, of the cure, we Ibme- times derive advantage from a liberal ufe of bark and ft eel mineral waters. Gentle emetics have likewife proved ufeful ^ and when much languor, inadlivity, and lofs of memory, have continued more permanent than uftial, eledlricity has been employed with advantage. It miift be remembered, however, in recommending this pradlice, that it is ex- prefsly for the removal of fymptoms that arile from concuflion, and that do not de- pend either upon a comprefted ftate of the brain or on inflammation ; a circum- ftance Which may in general be fo far af- certained, as to render it obvious whe- ther fuch a courfe is proper or not, mere- ly by the eifedts obferved to refult from blood-letting. Attentive obfervation of other circumftances might in fome inftan- ce«sSeft. IV, from external Violence. 367 ces enable us to decide upon this point, without the neeeifity of having recourfe to this means of diftincftion ; but where there is fuch room for uncertainty as frequently prevails here, and where the life of a patient is to depend on the pradlice to be adopted, nothing fhould be omitted that can tend to eftablilh an accurate knowledge of his fituation. In lugh cir- cumftances, therefore, there is no room to hefiiate; fo that where much doubt and uncertainty takes place, as much blood fliould be difeharged as may tend to de- termine the nature of the cafe. This is the pradtice I would always ad- vife for the removal of fymptoms arifing folely from concuflion : And accordingly, I have not thought it necelTary to mention the ufe of the trepan ^ for although it is very univerfally advifed, yet unlefs where fymptoms take place of a comprefled ftate of the brain, no good reafon can be given for it. But in cafes of doubt and uncer- tainty, and efpecially where a patient re- mains comatofe and infenfible, the trepan ought by all means to be employed 5 for as368 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. as in thefe circumftances it could not probably increafe the danger; and as it affords the only chance of fafety in fymp- toms arlfing from compreffion, pradlition- ers would be highly blameable were they to omit it: And as the hazard of the pa- tient muft here be imminent, perforations fhoirld be made in every accellible part of the /hull, as long as the caufe remains un- difcovered; We now proceed to confider more par- ticularly the effeds of inflammation upon the brain. 2 SEC. \Seel. V. frdm external Violence^ 369 SECTION V. Of Inflammation of the Membranes of the Brain from external Violence, Infl ammation in every part of tli"" bo- dy demands particular attention, and more efpecially in organs of importance; for as its effedts are in general violent and rapid, if not quickly removed they com- monly end in more permanent diftrefs : — If this is the cafe in parts of lefs import- ance, it is more particularly fo in inflam- mation of the membr anes of the brain. Inflammation of the brain and of its membranes is attended with ail the fymp- toms that commonly occur in inflamma- tory affed ions of other parts, while at the fame time it is accompanied with fymptoms peculiar to itfelf. By what- ever caufe inflammation of the brain or of its membranes may be induced, the fymptoms do not appear immediately ^ fel- VoL. III. A a dom370 AffeElions of the Brain Chap* X. dom indeed till feveral days after the in- jury, and often not till two, three, or more weeks, have elapfed; a circumftance, I muft again obferve, that ferves with more certainty than any other to diftingnifh in- flammation of thefe parts from every other affedllon to which they are liable: For, while the fymptoms of inflammatian ap- proach by flow degrees, the elFeds of con- cuffion fucceed inftantly tO' the injury hy which they are produced 3 and this is alfo the cafe with thofe fymptoms that proceed from a deprefied portion of bone, or from extravafation of blood or fe- rum, . At fome uncertain Interval, of two or three days, of as many weeks, and in fome inftances of two or three months, from the date of the injury, the patient begins to feel an univerfal uneafinefs over his head, attended with liftleflhefs and fome degree of pain in the part that was hurt, but of which perhaps he has not till now had any caufe to complain. The37i Secx. V. from external Violence^ The llftleflhefs becomes more remark- able,-—the patient appears dull and ftu- pid,—and the pain becomes more fevere in the injured part ^ while the diftrefs other parts of the head gives a fenf^- tion of fullnefs, as if the brain was girded or comprefled: The patient com- plains of giddinefs, and of naufea whick fometimes ends in retching. He finds himielf hot and uneafy^his fleep is difi turbed,—and he is not refreflied either with what he enjoys naturally, or by what is procured with opiates. The pulfe is firm, or rather hard and quick, as it al- moft always is indeed in inflammatory af- fedlions of membranous parts: The face is commonly’flufhed,—the eyes are from the beginning fomewhat inflamed,—and expofure to light creates a good deal of paim Where the attending fymptoms ate ac- companied with a wound of any part of the head, this flufiiing of the face and in- flammation of the .eyes are apt to be at- tended with and feem to depend upon an A a 2 eryfipelatous372 AffeBions of the Brain £hap. X. eryfipelatous affedion proceeding from the fore : In which cafe the edges of the wpund firft become hard and fwelled; and the fwelling, which appears to originate i^ the aponeurotic expanfion of the muf- cles of the head, fpreads quickly over the whole of it, and efpecially towards the eye-lids; which often become fwelied to fuch a degree as to fliut the eyes entire-, ly. This fwelling is fomewhat foft.—It receives with cafe any preflare that is maJe upon it:—It is painful to the touch, -—and the fkin over the whole of it has an eryfipelatous appearance. ^ This diffiafed fwelling, however, al- though formidable- in appearance to thofe' not mugh verfant in this branch of prac- tice, is not in general of fuch a dange- rous tendency as that puffy circumfcribed tumor to v/hich the parts on which the blow was given are more efpecially liable^ for it frequently happens, that this ery- fipelatous fwelling, which extends over almoft the whole head, originates, not from any thing bad within the fkiill, but merelySe£l. V. from external Violence. 373 merely from the external wound in the tendons or mufcles: In which cafe ah the fymptoms that take place, are very com- monly eafily removed by thofe means which ufually prove moft effectual in ery- fipelas in other parts. In a few inftances, however, this fymptom appears to arife from an affed:ion of the dura mater; dii which cafe its tendency is* always of the moft dangerous nature, and therefore re- quires our moft ferious attention. In a fliort time after'the appearance of thefe, the part which received the blow begins to aflurne fome appearances of dif- eafe. If the bone was laid bare by the Injury, It is now obferved to lofe its natu- ral healthy complexion: Irbecomes pale, white, and dry, either over its whole fur- face, or in particular fpots, which by de- grees extend over the 'whole; and the edges of the fore, from the firft commence- ment of the fymptoms, become hard, dry, fwelled, and painful: But when the bone has not been denuded, and when none of the fofter parts have been divided, but A a 3 merely374 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. merely contiifed, they now begin to fwell, become puffy, fomewhat painful to the touch, and if the head is Ihaved, the fkin is obferYed to be of a more deep red than in the reft of the head: If the fwelled part is now laid open, the pericranium will in all probability be found detached from thelkull; a finall quantity of a thin, bloody, and fomewhat fetid ichor, will be found between this membrane and the bone; and the bone itfelf will be difcoloured in nearly the fame manner as if it had been laid bare from the beginning. With proper affiftance, all thefe fymp- toms are for the moft part foon carried off; but when either neglecfted from the beginning, or when not quickly removed, they very qouftantly become worfe. The pulfe ftill continues quick and hard; the patient becomes more and more reftlels ; and in fome inftances, delirium fakes place. H is Ikin is i|i general hqt, but at times he is feized with fliiverings, which gra- dually become not only more fevere, but more375 Se6l:. V. from external Violence. mare frequent, and at laft they are com- monly fucceeded by coma or ftupor. About this period all thefe fymptoms either become fo much milder as not to be diftihdiy obferved, or they are altoge- ther loft in thofe that enfue,—Paralyfis of one fide is not unfrequent 3 the pupils be- come dilated, and are fcarcely affeded by the impreflion of light ^ the urine and faeces are pafied involuntarily \ fubfultus tendinum and other convulfive fympto ns take places and, if the patient is not fpeedily relieved, death very quickly enfues. Thefe are the moft frequent fymptoms arifing from inflammation of the mem- branes of the brain. Others are met with in particular inftances ; but thofe I have narrated are the moft frequent, and they ferve to mark the prefence of the difeafe with fufficient precifion. Attentive obfervation will readily di- ftinguifli two fets of fymptoms in thofe I have enumerated, each of which is con- ^ neded with and clearly points out a par- Ae4 ticular370 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. ticular ftate or ftage of the difeafe. The one I would name the Inflammatory ftate, and the other the Suppurative or Purulent ftate. In the treatment of thefe afledions, it is of much importance to attend to this diftindion. It ought to ferve indeed as the bafis of oiir pradice, in fo far as the remedies to be ufed in the one ftage of the difeafe are improper or even inadmlf- ftble in the other. * During the prevalence of inflammation, we rely chiefly on the effeds. of blood- letting; but we ought to abftain from it, when the difeafe has advanced to fuppu- ' ration. In this ftate the application of the trepan can alone give relief; while in the inflammatory ftage, it is not only ufclefs, but might even prove hurtful. 1 fhail afterwards, however, have occafion to fpeak more particularly of this. External violence may induce inflam- mation of the brain and its membranes in thrde different ways; by deprelTed por- tions of the cranium irritating the dura ^ ^ mater;377 Sed:. V* from external Violence. mater; by eontufion; and by fimple fif- fures or fradures of the flcull not attend- ed with depreffion. The firft of thefe we have already confidered, and I fliali now proceed to treat feparately of the other two. §1.0/* Contufion of the Head. It is not thofe flight contufions which affed the teguments of the head only that we are now to confider: It is fuch only as in their confequences prove formidable by communicating inflammation to the mem- branes of the brain that are here to be noticed. A contufion of the head may be pro- duced in*the fame manner with contufions of other parts ; by falls, blows, and by ftones or other miflile weapons thrown from a diftance. It may be attended with wounds of the Ikin and other teguments ; or the fkin, as frequently happens, may be left entire. The37^ of the Brain Chap. X. The Immediate and moft frequent ef- fed of thofe blows upon the head that af- terwards end in danger, is to deprive the perfon of his fenfes, and to leave fome degree of giddinefs for a longer or fliort- er period according to the violence of the injury. In a gradual manner, however, the patient recovers fo as commonly to be perfedUy well after a night’s deep; and unlefs a wound has been produced a- ioiig with the contufion, he feldom or ne- ver complains of the part on which the injury fell, till feveral days after the ac- cident. Tljye time that intervenes between a blow being given and the commencement of the after-fymptoms is very uncertain : Thefe fymptoms all originate from inflam- mation, and this again will always make a flow or rapid progrefs according to the violence of the caufe, and habit of body of the patient. Hence, in fome cafes, the inflammatory fymptoms appear in the courfe of a day or two from the acci- dent j whilft, in others, the patient con- tinuesSed. V. from external Violence. 379 tlnues perfedly well for feveral weeks; and at laft is feized with pain and inflam- mation of the'part on which the injury was inflided, and from which alone all the train of bad fymptoms enfued that I have enumerated: Nay, inltances have occur- red of cafes of this kind ending fatally, in which no appearance of any thing mor- bid was obferved on the part that recei- ved the blow, and which afterwards in- flamed, till the eightieth, ninetieth, or even till the hundredth day front the ac- cident. Hence, it is evident, that much danger may arife from injuries tione to the head, that at firfl: exhibit no bad appearance : A circumftance that points out the pro- priety of paying the mofl: exad attention to every violence done to it. In the trea ment of contufions of the head, the indications to be kept in view are, I. To eitiploy the mofl: efFedual means for preventing inflammation. 2. When380 AffeElions of the Bt^ain Chap. X. 2. When thefe do not fucceed, we fhould endeavour to keep the fymptoms moderate, and to prevent the formation of matter. 3. Vfhen this proves to be impradli- cable, and when fuppuration has taken place, a free vent (hould be procured for the matter: And, 4. If the par^s affeded are attacked with gangrene, we fhould immediately employ the moft effedual means for re- moving it. With refped to the firft indication, I may remark, that in flight contufions of the head we feldom have it in our power to employ any prophyladic remedies or means of prevention. Patients common- ly recoveV fpeedily from the immediate effeds of contufions, and, till the af- ter fymptoms commence, they feldom complain of any thing but a flight fore- nefs on the part which received the blow. Praditioners are, feldom therefore in- formed of the accident till it is too late 3 and when they are, the patient will feldom fubmit to any courfe that couldSe(S. V. from external Violence. 381 could probably prove efFedlual. But whea this can be done, the means we fhould advife are, blood-letting, both general and local, to a confiderable extent;—the ufe of laxatives, to preferve an open ftate of the bowels 3—the application of a ftrong folution of faccharum faturni.to the part affedled;—a low diet, and total abftinence from every kind of fatigue. Saturnine and ot^her cold applications are Tometimes employed with advantage even wh^re the brain and its membranes appear to be affedled, but they prove chiefly ufeful, where the injury is con- fined to the external parts of the head* By thefe remedies the effects x^f many injuries done to the head might be pre- vented : But pradlltioners, as, I have re- marked above, are feldom called till the bad fyrnptoms have commenced 3 the par- ticular treatment of whiph we are now to confider. We fhould in every inftance endeavour as quickly as poflible to carry off the inflammation, the mofl: effeduai remedies for which are, blood-letting; a purgatives,,382 Affeflions of the Brain Chap. Xi purgatives, mild fudorifics, and opiates, along with a proper local treatment of the injured part. In common praftice, the blood is taken indifcriminately from any part of the bo- dy : But by many of the older writers, and even by fome of the moderns, we are told, that blood taken from the feet proves more effeftual than the fame quan- tity taken from any other part of the bo- dy- _ This, however, is an idea built upon the erroneous dodrine of derivation and revulfion, which is now very generally exploded. Inftead of which, we find that in all inflammatory afFeftions, any blood that we difcharge proves mofl: elfedual when taken from parts near to the feat of the injury. We particularly obferve, in accidents of the head, that much advan- tage is commonly derived from any blood that is difcharged from veflels divided in the operation of fcalping: A circum- fiance which ftvongly indicates the pro- prietySed. V. from external Violence. 385 priety of local blood-letting in all affec- tions of this kind. Upon this principle, when a fufHcient quantity of blood can be procured by the application of leeches, or by cupping and fcarifying as hear as poflible to the part affeded, this mode of difcharging it ftiould be preferred: But whto this can- not be done, it may be always accom- plifhed by fcarifi cat ions made iii the part affeded with a lancet or fcalpel: A prac- tice from whjch I have in different in- ftances derived much advantage, and which I therefore wiffi, in the ftrongefl manner, to recommend. When the Ikull is already laid bare by the accident gi- ving rife t6 the inflammation, or when the fcalp has been divided in order to difcharge any matter colleded beneath, there can be no neceflity for thefe fcari- fications; but when the teguments re- main entire, or are only flightly injured, and are attacked in a particular part w ith inflammation, fcarcely any remedy proves fc' effldual as fcarifications; which fliould not384 AffeElions of the Brain Chap* X. not be made merely through the Ikin, but with freedom into the parts beneath, with a view to divide the largeft arteries of the part* In this manner any necelTary quantity of blood may be taken away, and it proves always more certainly ufe- ful than any other, mode of difcharging it* When this operation however is not agreed to by the patient, or when ge- neral blood-letting may be judged more advifable, it proves moft effedtual to open the jugular vein or temporal ar- tery* With refpe£t to the quantity of blood to be difcharged, this muft al- ways depend on the violence of the fymptoms and ftrength of the patient: but in circumftances fuch as we are cqnfider- ing, as the patient’s recovery or death is probably to depend on what is done in a very Ihort fpace of time, blood-letting, as being the remedy on which our hopes are chiefly founded^ fliould be puflied immediately to as great a length as with fafety we can venture on. Infiead of taking eight or ten ounces, and repeating ' theSed. V. from external Violence. 38*5 the operation at the diftance of a few hours as is ufually done, I always think it right, as I have juft obferved, to be determined by the ftrength of the patient, and to draw off blood as long as the pulfe continues firm. As long as it does fo, no danger occurs from the evacuation^ and in all cafes of violent inflammation, it anfwers the purpofe more eflTedtually to take away perhaps twenty or twenty-five ounces of blood at once, than to abftradl even a larger quantity by repeated opera- tions. In the courfe of a few hours, a- gain, if the fymptoms ftill continue vio- lent, and if the pulfe remains fufiiciently full, it may be proper to difcharge an additional quantity; but this likewife fliould be determined by the effeds that refult from it. Together with a plentiful evacuation of blood, the bowels fliould be freely emp- tied, by brilk purgatives when thefe can be exhibited; or when they cannot be taken in fufficient quantities, ftimulating glyfters fliould be given inftead of them. VoL. III. . B b In3^6 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X. In all afFedlions of the head, It Is an ob- jed; of Importance to preferve a lax ftate of the bowels, and particularly where In- flammation has attacked the brain : It is not, however, an open ftate ,of the bowels merely that proves ufeful. In or- der to receive much advantage from the pradiOe, a fmart purging ftiould be kept up, with repeated dofes of calomel, jalap, fenna, or fome of the neutral falts. As it is found in the treatment of eve- ry cafe of inflammation, that advantage is derived from the fkin being kept foft, it ought always to be advifed in an in- flamed ftate of the brain. Perfpiration may, for the raoft part, be induced by warm fomentations applied to the feet and legs, and laying the patient in blankets inftead of linen; but when means of this more fimple kind do not prove fuccefsful, more powerful fudorifics muft be employ- ed. In a great proportion of cafes the com- mon eftervefeing draughts anfwer the pur- pofe, particularly, when a few drops of antimonialSe6t. V. from external Violence^ , 387 antimonial wine are added to each dofe : The calx antimonii nitrata^ which ap- pears to be the fame with Dr Janles’s C:e- lebrated powders^ is folnetimes ufed with advantage; but nothing adts with ' fuch certainty as a combination of opium and antimony, or opium and ipecacuanha, as we have it in the form of Dovar’s pow- der. This lafl: is highly recommended by a late celebrated pradlitioner of London, Mr Bromfield ^ ^ and I know from fre^ quent experience, that the ©ther proves often highly ufeful,. and that it is given with entire fafety. In fevere degrees of pain, large dofes of opium become neceffary. A general prejudice has till of late indeed prevailed againfl: the- ufe of opiates in all cafes of inflammation, and particularly in inflam- mation* of the brainy but this feems to have arifen more from an erroneous idea B b 2 of * Vide Chirurgical ObfervatlonS and Cafes by Wil- liam Bromfield, p. 12. vol. i.3^8 JffeBions of the Brain Chap,-X». of the proximate caufe of inflammation), and of the modus, operandi of opiates^ than from adual obfervation of the ef- fects which they produce. By exciting fome degree of heat, and in fome in- ftances increafing the fulnefs of pulfe, it has beem fuppofed that: they, muft always do harm in inflammation ; but I can from much experience of their effeds allert> that thefe fears are groundlefs, and even in inflammation of the brain that very important advantages often refult from them.. By leflening the pain, and remo- ving that refllefs date of anxiety that commonly prevails, they frequently prove more ufeful than any othen remedy. Thefe are the means on which we chief- ly rely y but feme attention is likewife necelTary to the local treatment of the part affeded, and more advantage I think maybe derivedfrorndt than is commonly imagined. Inftances are often met with of Inflam- mation in other parts of the body being relieved by drains or iflues) and on the fame principle I have long been in the habitSecS. V. from external Violence. 389 habit of advifing drains in inflammatory afFeftions of the head. With a view to-this, when the original accident is attended with a wound or di- vifion of the Ikin and other foft parts, as the lips of the fore commonly become hard, dry, and painful, fuch applications Ihould be advifed as prove moft effedual in inducing the formation of matter: The fore Ihould be covered with pledgits of lint fpread with any emollient oint- ment, and warm emollient poultices Ihould be laid over the whole. In this manner^ and particularly by a frequent renewal of poultices, a plentiful difcharge of matter is commonly induced, by which we leflen the pain, and remove- the hardnefs of the injured parts, and by which all the other fymptoms foon become moderate. Where again the teguments are not di- vided, as foon as there is caufe to fiifpecfl, from the parts that were 4injured beco- ming pained and fwelled at the diftance of feveral days perhaps from the acci- dent, that bad fymptoms may fnpervene, B b 3 the390 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. the tumor fliould be immediately laid o- pen, by dividing the ikin and tegilments down to the pericranium j and if that membrane i& found to be feparated and raifed from the bone, it ought alfo to be laid open : By this means any matter that is confined, and which otherwife might have done mifchief, will be difcharged, and by inducing a fuppuration upon the fore in the manner I have paentloned, all the fymptoms will be kept moderate. In the treatment of thefe tumors, they are feldom opened till a fluduation is di- ftindly perceived in them. In this, how- ever, I think we are wrongs for the mat- ter that tumors of this kind contains is cbiiftantly thin and acrid 3 fo that to con- fine it for any length of time in contad with the fkull, mufl: nqt only render the bone liable to become carious, but muft incur fome hazard of inducing and Spread- ing the inflamination upon the parts with^ in the fkull; For^ as an intimate connec- tion takes place between the veflels of the pericranium and dura mater 3 and as it is evidentSe6l. V. from external Violence. 391; evident in this kind of injury, where the external parts are firft affe6led, and that the dura mater becomes inflamed only in confequence of its connexion with thefe, I have long thought it probable, that the confinement of acrid matter beneath the pericranium, is to be confidered as the mofl: frequent caufe of the inflammation being communicated to the parts within the Ikull: I have accordingly been in the habit of difcharging it by a free incifion, as foon as the leafl: tumefaction on the part affe6led is perceived; and evidently with much advantage. In all injuries indeed done to the head, in which the fymptoms do not commence till feveral ’days after the accident, as the caufe of the inflammation does not ori- ginally attack either the brain or its membranes, for if it did fo its effeds would, be immediate, it is probable that it ads almofl: foiely by producing an ef- fufion between the pericranium and fkulJ : And as we know that membranous parts feldorn or never afford good pus, any ef- B b 4 fufion392 AffeStions of the Brain Chap. X. fufion which takes place muft commonly be of a nature that will Yiot readily be- come purulent, and will therefore be apt to acquire that kind of acrimony com- monly met with in every extravafated fluid that cannot be converted into pus. Where the effunon is confiderable, an evident tumefadtion takes place from the beginning : But it often happens, that it is fo fmall in quantity as fcarcely to pro- duce any perceptible fwelling at firfl; in which cafe, as there is little or no ten- flon, the patient feels little unealinefs till the effufed fluid begins to turn a- crid, which may happen fooner or later according to the violence of the injury, and habit of body of the patient, as well as other circumft^nces. But as foon as it becomes acrid, it excites pain, inflam- mation, and fwelling; and as the pericra- nium and aponeurotic expanfions of the mufcles are very firm and ftrong, if this acrid matter be not foon difcharged by an incifion, it gradually infinuates be- tween thofe parts of the pericranium and boneSed. V. ^ from e-xternal Violence. 393 bone beneath that were not at firft affedi- ed ; And as this extends the effedls of the injury, it not only tends to increafe the tumor of the integuments, but^ by means of the vafcular connexion I have mentioned between the pericranium and dura mater, the inflammation is at laft conveyed t6 the parts within the Ikull; and as foon as thefe are affedled, but ne- ver till then, the bad fymptoms arifing from Inflammation of the brain are fure to take place. It is therefore probable that the con- finement of this acrid matter bpneath the pericranium, muft have no fmall effedl in promoting the progrefs of the inflamma- tion^ and hence to difcharge it by an incifion is always advifable whenever there is caufe to fufpecfl, from the accef* fion of pain and fome degree of tumefac- tion as the confequences of external vio- lence, that matter is colleded even in the fmallefl: quantity between this mem- brane and the IkulL It394- AffeEtiom of the Brain Chap. X. It mull be remarked, however, that I do not wifti to recommend this pradlice in the treatment of tumors recently pro- duced by ^external violence* It often happens, that a tumor of a confiderable fize fucceeds inftantly to a blow on any part of the head: But in general this foon difappears by the application of mild a- flringents, fuch as folutions of crude fal ammoniac, white vitriol, or faccharum fatarni: Ardent fpirits makes alfo a good application for thefe tumors, and they feldom fail to remove them. It would therefore be improper in all fuch cafes to lay the parts affected open by an incifion : A pradlice, however, often adopted by thofe not much verfant In this branch of bufinefs 3 for, as this kind of tumor frequently affords, to manual exa- mination, a fenfation fimilar to what is experienced from a depreffion of the fkull, they are often laid open, in order to dif- cover the ftate of the parts beneath : But no praditioner of experience will ever be deceived with thefe appearances 3 nor willSe(S. ¥• from external Violence. 395 will he ever proceed to lay the fkull bare, unlefs there are more evident marks of its being injured, or of there being fome ex- travafation beneath the fkull itfelf. But whenever a tumor attended with pain, appears at a diftant period upon the fpot on which a blow or a bruife was received, as it feldom or never happens that fwel- lings of this kind are of a harmlefs nature, or that they can be difculTed by external applications, tliey Ihoiild in every in-s fiance be laid open as foon as they become perceptible. By doing fo, we can never do harm; while \ve al^Vays derive advan- tage from difcharging acrid matter,/ which in circumflances fuch as we ar6’ confidering, is almofl always colledled beneath the pericranium. An incifion made for difcharging mat- ter rnufl neceffarily go to the depth at which the matter is feated; otherwife the purpofe for which it is intended will not be anfwered: And as in the circumflances now under confideration, it is almofl in cranium,396 AffeBions of the Brain Chap. X. every Inftance colleded beneath the peri- cranium, this membrane fliould always be freely divided. But in making Scarifica- tions in the manner I have advifed above, for the purpofe of difcharging blood, as they are fuppofed to be neceflary before any tumor has appeared, and not intend- ed for the evacuation of matter, they need never be carried to fuch a depth. They fliould pafs indeed freely into the cellular membrane, otherwife the arteries of the part will not be fufficiently divided; but as no advantage could be derived in this fiate of the difeafe from dividing the pe- ricranium, and as the bone might be hurt by it, it ought never to be advifed. The wound produced by the incifion, fliould be dreffed with any emollient oint- ment ; and by the frequent renewal of warm poultices over the whole, a plentiful fuppu- ration will be induced, which, as I have already remarked, proves commonly very effedual, not only for preventing, but re- moving, all thofe bad fymptoms which inflammationS^ecl; V. frovi external Violence. 397 iiiflammation of thefe parts is fure to* in- duce, When, however, the inflammatory ftate of the brain does not yield to this treat- ment; when the fymptoms become more violent, and are fucceeded by paralyfis, irregular convulfive motions, involuntary pallage of the faeces and urine, dilatation of the pupils and infenfibility to the im- prellion of light, along with a flow and full pulfe; and more efpecially when thefe fymptoms have been preceded by fits of rigor or Ihivering; we conclude, that the fippurative flate of the difeafe has taken place ^ that matter is formed within the Ikull, and operates by comprefling the brain.—Shivering fits take place on the formation of large abfceflTes wherever they are feated; but in inflammatory afiedlions of the brain, they prove fo certainly cha- raileriftic of fuppuration, that no doubt can remain of matter having formed, whenever they are found to accompany the other fymptoms I have mentioned. ^ The398 AffeElions of the Brain Chap. X. The exiftence of matter within the cra- nium being afcertained, as we cannot de- pend on any other means for carrying it off, the trepan fhould be immediately adyi- fed ; and as the fafety of the patient is to reft entirely on a free difeharge being given to the mattei% it ftiould be applied with much freedom. In fuch circumftances, indeed, it would be very culpable timi- dity in any practitioner to hefitate in form- ing as many perforations as are neceffary for difeharging the matter. When, on perforating the Ikull, no mat- ter is met with, if the dura piater ap- pears to be more tenfe than ufual, as this will give caufe to fufpedt that the fymp- tonis of fuppuration have arifen from mat- ter colledted between this membrane and the pia mater, or perhaps upon the brain itfelf; we ought not to reft fatisfied with having merely perforated the bone: If in fuch circumftances we proceed no far- ther, the matter will ftill remain confi- ned ; the brain will be as much compreft fedSed. V. from external Violence*. 399 fed as before^ and of courfe tio adyan- tage will be derived from the operation. In this fituation, therefore, a pradi- tioner ihould not hefitate in dividing the membranes of the brain. But, for the method of effeding this, as well as for fome farther obfervations upon this point, I mull refer to the fecond fedlon of this chapter, where the fubjed has been fully confidered. When, again, it is found, on perfora- ting the Ikull, that the dura mater has become doughy, with fome tendency to gangrene, the utmoft danger is to be dreaded: If mor'tification has commen- ced, there will be much reafon to ima- gine that death will foon terminate the fcene; but different infcances have been met with of doughs forming upon the dura mater, and of cures being accom- plidied after thefe have feparated: All, however, that art fiiould in fuch cafes at- tempt, is to preferve the fores clean; to fee that any matter which may form lhall be freely difcharged; to take care that nothing400 AffeSiions of the Brain Chap. X.- nothing but light eafy dreffings fliall be employed; and that the internal ufe of Peruvian bark, conjoined with elixir of vitriol, fliall be immediately given in as great quantities as the ftomach will bear. If any tendency to inflammation ftill pre- vails, the diet fliould be low and cooling, with a plentiful allowance of whey and other diluents, and regular ftools fliould be procured: But, on the contrary, when the fyftem is low and the pulfe feeble, wine fliould be exhibited as the moil ef- fedlual cordial. In other refpeds, the pa« tient fliould be treated by fuch means as prove moft beneficial in fimilar affedions of other parts of the body; but as thefe have already been treated of in a forrnet publication, it is not necelTary to enter up- on them at prefent Before leaving this fubjed, it is proper to notice a pradice that has prevailed, the indiferiminate ufe of the trepan in the in- flammatory as well as in the purulent or fuppurative ftage of thefe affedions. It has been common, in all cafes of this kind., * Vide Treatife on Ulcers, chap. IV.Sedli V. from external Violence, 401 kind, in the firfl: plaee to ptefcribe large evacuations 3 and if thefe fail in procu- ring reliefj to apply the trepan immedi- ately, whatever may be the ftage of the difeafe* This practice is chiefly founded ilpon an idea that has prevailed with fome^ of the operation of the trepan being an innocent remedy, and of no harm be- ing ever produced by it. In fupport of this opinion, experiments are related of the operation having been performed in found animals with a view to determine the queftion. Whether expofure of the brain to the air is detrimental or not ? And as it has happened in feveral inflan- ees, that no evident bad effedts have en- fued, a general conclufion has been drawn in favour of the operation! But were we for a moment difpofed to admit the truth of this cOncltifion, yet one great objedion to the application of the trepan in an inflamed Bate of the brain, would arife from this^ that no be- nefit could poffibly be derived from it. The fole objed we fliould ever have in VoL. m. G c view402 Affections of the Brain Chap^. X. view from this operation, is to remove prefliire from the brain: But in an infla- med flate of this organ, as no prefTure is fuppofed to exift, the remedy is of courfe unneceflary. If pradlitioners would allow themfelves to be directed by the effedls of thofe re- medies that prove ufeful in fimilar affec- tions of other parts of the body, inflam- mation of the brain would never be treat- fed in this manner: We would not furely exped: to derive advantage from perfora- ting the chefl in the firfl: flage of an in- flammatory alfedion of the pleura; nor would any furgeon advife it till the for- mation of matter was fully indicated. Befides this, however, I am decidedly of opinion, that the, trepan cannot be ap- plied in Inflammation of the brain, but with manifefl: hazard : It tends always to increafe the fymptoms of inflammation; and in almoft every inftance in which I have known it eniployed during this ftate of the difeafe, the dura mater has been foupd, after death, either in a flate of mortification.Sedt. V* fro7n external Violence. 403 mbrtificatlon, or covered with purulent matter.—Thefe efFefts we may fuppofe to be in Ibme meafure the confequenCe of admiffion of air to the brain; and they m^y be partly owing to the violent fepa- ration of a portion of the cranium from the inflamed dura mater, to which it ad- heres firmly in almofl every point. Neither is this the only ground on which I would objecl: to the pradlice : Contrary to the received opinion, I think that the operation of the trepan is in It- felf dangerous even when performed in a found flate of the brain where no inflam- mation takes place.—Several years ago I made a variety of trials to determine this i point; and nearly one-fourth of the anl- mals that underwent the operation, ap- peared to die from the eflfecls of it. It is not, however, from the effefts of this operation on other animals alone that I wifh to draw any conclufion 5 but when coiifequences limilar to what I have Ha- ted, refult from it when performed on C c 2 the404 AffeElions of the Brain Chap.^^ X. the human body and when no immediate injury has been done to the head, they will be allowed to have much weight in efta- blilhing the opiniom I have advanced.— I have accidentally met with three cafes much in point, in none of which there was ,any appearance of inflammation of the brain previous to the operation ^ and yet, two of the patients died in a few days after the perforation of the fkull, evidently from inflammation induced up- on the dura mater. As cafes of this kind are rarely met with, and as the refult of thefe tends to eftablifh the validity of the opinion I have advanced, I fliall here give a fhort account of them. In cafes of inveterate epilepfy, where every other means of relief have failed-, It has been propofed, to fee what effects would refult from the preflure of the at- mofphere being freely applied to the brain by one or more .perforations made in the feull with the trepan. Any advantage to be expeded from this I muft acknowledge to be extremely doubtful | and the effeds ofSed:. V. from external Violence. 405 of it appear to me to be fo uncertain anc| even hazardous, that I fliould never, thinly of advifing it. But it has fo happened, that I have known two inftances of its being done by others: And in a third I had occafion to put it in pradlice myfelf, upon a gentleman who had laboured un- der epilepfy for upwards of twenty years. But in this cafe, as the fits appeared to be the confequence of an injury received in childhood upon the forehead^ as the external appearance of the part on which the injury was inflicted, gave caufe to fuf- pe6t that a fmall portion of the feull was depreffed at this place; as there was fome feafon, therefore, to fuppofe, that the fits depended upon this caufe, and as they were at this time^ become extremely vio- lent, it was the opinion of feveral pradi- tioners of this place, as well as the ear-* neft defire of the patient, that the trepan fhould be employed. This w^as accord- ingly done; the portion of the ikull which received the blow was taken out; and matters went on very favourably till the C c 3 end4o6 AffeElions of the Brain Chap, X. end of the fecond day from the opera-* tion, when fymptoms of inflammation oc- curred; and notwithftanding all the pains that could be employed, he died in little more than forty-eight hours from this pe- riod, On opening the head, a great quan- tity of pus was found, not only upon the dura mater, but on the pia mater, and even between this membrane and the brain; and as there was not till within twenty-four hours of his death any fymp- toms of a compreffed brain, there is much reafon to think that the matter was form- ed merely in confequence of inflamma- tion induced by the operation; and there- fore, that the means employed for the pa- tient’s relief had evidently hafl:ened his death. One of the others on whom the opera- tion was performed, recovered from the immediate efte6ts of it, but with no alte- ration or abatement of the fits for which it was employed. The other died on the feventh day from the operation : Symp- toms of inflammation appeared on the third ;Se£t. V, from external Violence. 407 : ^ and thefe were at lafl: fucceeded t evident marks of a comprefTed brain : A oofiderable quantity of matter was foiiiiu between the (^ura and pia mater, and even beneath this membrane, not merely on the parts contiguous to the wound, but over the whole furface of the brain. We have here two cafes, very diftindlly marked, of the hurtful effefts of this ope- ration, even in a found ftate of the brain, at leaft where no previous inflammation appeared to exift in it. The fymptoms of inflammation which fupervened in both inftances, were evidently the confequences of the perforations : Suppuration enfued in each of them3 and as both the patients' died in the fpace of a few days from this period, no doubt can be entertained of the caufe of their death. Upon the whole, therefore, the opera- tion of the trepan appears to be inexpe- dient, and even dangerous, in an inflamed ftate of the brain : But when fuppuration has taken place, and when matter formed C c 4 within408 AffeElions of the Brain Chap, X. within thefkull operates as a caufeof com- preflion, as this operation afFords the only chance of fafety, it Ihould be employed with freedom, and without hefitation, ac- cording to the particular circumftances of evefy cafe.—-We proceed now to the confideration of Fiflures or_limple Frac- tures of the SkulL § 2. OfFifureSyOr fimple FraElures of the SkulL The term FiiTure is here meant to im- ply a mere divifion or fimple fradlure of the Ikull not attended with deprelfion; and it may either penetrate the whole thicknefs of the bone, or be confined to one lamella of it only : A fifilire too may be either attended with a divifion pt wound of the correfponding teguments, or thefe may be left entire. I have already had occafion to remark, that injuries done to the head, prove ha- zardous, nearly in proportion to the vio- lence which the brain receives from them: So;Se(ft. V. from external Violence. 409 So that fiflures, in fo far as they affed; the fkull only, are not to he confidered as dangerous; but as they are frequently Gomblned with aifections of the brain from the beginning, and are on other occailons produdive of confequences from v/hich this organ is ultimately brought to fuffer, they of Gourfe require our moft ferious atr tention. It often indeed happens, that very extenfive fiflures heal without any bad fymptom taking place ; but as others of apparently a trivial nature frequently terminate in the moft fatal manner, we cannot .with propriety in any inflance treat them with negled. Fiflures of the fkull may prove dange- rous, either from being produdive of ef- fufions of .blood or ferum upon the brain, or by tending to excite inflammation of the dura and pia mater. When efiufions take place, as this mufl: be attended with fymptoms of compref- flon, thofe means fhould be advifed that are known to he beft fuited for its remo- yal^ but as thefe have been already fully treated410 AffeSlions of the Brain Cbap. X, treated of in the preceding fedlions, it is not neceilary to enter into a farther de- tail of them : I fhall juft fhortly obferve, that for the removal of thefe elfufions, a proper application of the trepan is alone to be depended on: The fiflures fhoiildbe traced through their whole extent; and a perforation being made in the moft de- pending part of each of them, if this does not prove fuccefsful, the operation fiiould be repeated along the courfe of the frac- tures, as long as any fymptoms continue of a comprefled ftate of the brain; care being always taken to include the fifliire in every perforation: For as the caufe of the mifchief will in general be found con- tiguous to the fra6lure, it vfould feldom anfwer any good purpofe to perforate the ftcull at any diftance. It is therefore fcarcely neceflary to ob- ferve, that care fliould be taken to trace the courfe of the fiflures with as much ex- aclnefs as poflible ; for which purpofe, as foon as the operation is determined on, if the whole extent of the fradure be not previouflySed:. V. from external Violence. 411 previoufly difcovered, it fliould now be done by making an incifion through the; fkin and other teguments down to the pe- ricranium ^ and by taking care to follow the diredion of the fillures, they may thus be brought freely in view. When fifllires are of fu'ch magnitude as to produce any obvious feparation of the two fides of a fradured bone, the nature of the cafe at once becomes obvious ^ but it often happens, that they are fo fmall as tp render the operator doubtful and un- certain. A little attention, however, to the real date of the patient, will at all times prevent any helitationrefpeding the means to be employed for his relief. The Only appearances- with which a fiffiire is in danger of being confounded, are, thofe indentations formed on the ex- ternal furface of fome parts of the fkull by the blood-velTels which run upon it ^ and the different futures which ferve to unite the bones of the fkull together. In doubtful cafes of fiflure, we may frequently be determined by the degree of412 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X. of adhefion that takes place between the pericranium and ikull. The pericranium, as we have feen, naturally adheres firmly to every part of the fkull, and particular- ly at the futures ^ and as one certain ef- fedl of a fiffiire is to deftroy this connec- tion entirely, when the pericranium ad- heres to the bone beneath, we may con- clude without hefitation, that no fiffiire' exifls; and, on the contrary, when this membrane is loofe and fomewhatfeparated from the bone, there will be much reafon to fuppofe that any rent or crack that ap- pears in it, is produced by a fracSure. It often happens, however, that we are deprived of this means of deteding fiflures, by the -pericranium and other teguments being feparated from the bone for a con- Cderable fpace. In this fituation, various means have been propofed for obtaining a certainty of-the nature of the cafe. By 'pouring ink over the furface of the denu- ded bone, the whole of it, we are told, may be wiped off, if the bone is not frac- tured \ but, wherever there is a crack or ^ fiffiire,Seft. V. from external Violence. 413 fiffure, that it will be impoffible even with the ajSiftance of water to remove it. By making' the patient keep a firm hold ^ith his teeth of one end of a hair, or of a piece of catgut, while the other extre- mity is fecured at fuch a diftance as to render it tenfe, if it is now llruck, the vi- brations thus produced will create, we are told, a very fenfible degree of uneafi- nefs in the part affedled, if it is fradured^ but will n,ot otherwife have any effed:. And again it is faid, if the patient is made to chew a bit of bread, or any other hard, fubllance, that fome pain will occur from it if the bone is fradured 3 but otherwife, that the part affeded will not fuffer. None ojf thefe teflis, however, are to be much depended on 3 neither of the two laft have any effed, n^defs the fiflxire is extenfive, and the fides of the fradured bone confiderably feparated from each other, when this n^eans of diftindion can never be necelTary3 and as ink penetrates the futures of the fltull, unlefs when they are firmly ollified, it can fcldom happen that414 Affections of the Brain Chap. X. that any trial to be made with it will be productive of any advantage. It commonly happens, in fifiures ex- tending through the whole fubftance of the Ikull, and even in fuch as penetrate only to the diploe, that blood continues to ooze from them for a long time after the acci- dent, and it conftantly returns again al- mofl; as foon as it is wiped off: This is one of the mofl; characteriftic marks of a fiffiire, and it points out with precifion the nature of the cafe. But there is no necellity, I may remark, for fo much an- xiety on this point as pradlitioners com- monly exprefs; for, unlefs when fymp- toms of an alarming nature take place, I fhall prefently endeavour to Ihow that no operation fhould be advifed : And again, whenever the fymjptoms indicate a com- prefled ftate of the brain, if any appear- ances of a finiire are dreaded in that part of the (kull which has recently received a blow 3 however equivocal they may be, y^et as, this is mofl probably the feat of the injury, no doubt ftiould be entertained ofSe£t. V. from external Violence, 415 of the propriety of applying the trepan at this place. If It fhould afterwards ap- pear that the trepan has been applied upon a future, as the furgeon under fuch uncer- tainty would proceed with much caiitloiiy no harm could enfue from It ^ and if It fliould prove to be a fradure, It would af- ford muchfatisfadlon to the operator, to find that the perforation had been made where alone It could prove ufeful. But although I have In this place, as well as In other parts of thefe obferva- tions, advifed the trepan as the only re- medy to be trufted for the removal of fymptoms of a comprefled brain; yet un- lefs where fymptoms of this kind take place, even the prefence of a fifliire ought not to indicate the operation : But as this is a point upon which I happen to differ from many of the profeflion; and as it is of much pradlical importance to have it duly confidered, I fhall advert to it with more minutenefs, than might be o- therwife neceffary. 3 Hitherto416 Jffeciions of the Brairi Chap. Xo Hitherto it has been a general rule, to conlider the application of the trepan as necelTary in every fiffure, whether any fymptoms of a comprefled brain have occurred or not. But^due attention to the real nature of a fi{Ture, and to the effedts moft likely to refult from perfora- ting the Aull, will fliow, that although fifliires may be frequently combined with fuch fymptoms as require the trepan, yet that they are not always or neceffarily fo; and unlefs when fuch fymptoms ac- tually exift, that this operation, inftead of affording relief, muft frequently do harm > for it is by no means calcula- ted for, or In any refpedl adequate to, the prevention of them ; and I have al- ready endeavoured to fliow, that laying the brain bare Is never to be confidered as harmlefs; and therefore that it fhould never be attempted but when it is pro- bable that fome advantage may be de- rived from it. When a fifllire is attended with a com- ^relied date of the brain, there can be no hefitatio%Se6l. V. from external Violence. 41^ hefitation, as I have obferved already, iii recommending an immediate application of the trepan : But in the cafe of a fiflure not accompanied with any fymptom of this kind, and while the patient complains of nothing but perhaps a flight degree of pain in the contufed part, an occurrence by no means unfrequent 3 what advam tages are we to expedl from perforating the Ikull ? In this fituation, we know, that no extravafation takes place; and that no part of the Ikull Is depreffed, b- therwife fymptems would occur of a com- preffed ftate of the brain : For what pur- pofe, therefore, fliould the trepan be ap- plied ? No fufficient reafon, I believe, can be adduced for it. In the cafe of a Ample fifliire, not at- tended with any bad fymptoms, the moft alarming occurrence that we have to dread is the acceflion of inflammation > for it frequently happens, that the mem- branes of the brain become afterwards inflamed, although the patient may have remained perfeefliy ^yell for fevcral days, VoL^ IIL D d ' nay418 Affections of the Brain Chap. X. nay even for weeks, after the injury pro- ducing the fracture was inflifted. Now, whoever attends to one of the immediate effe6ls of the trepan, namely, the vio- lence done by it to the dura mater, together with the admiffion of air to the parts within the Ikull, muft acknowledge, that this' tendency to inflammation, the circumftance which of all others we have moft caufe to dread, inftead of being lef- fened by this operation, muft in all pro- bability be increafed ^ fo , that as a pre- ventative of bad fymptoms it ought never to be ^dvifed.—It has indeed been keen- ly held forth by thofe who fupport a con- trary opinion, that, in fiiliires of the Ikull, no additional rilk can be incurred by thi^ operation; for it is faid, that air being already admitted to the brain by the fradlure itfelf, the trepan will not give it a more free accefs, while at the fame time, they obferye, that it is attended with the- very important advantage of' forming and preferving a free vent for a anySecS. Vi from external Violence* 419 any matter that may. form between the fkull and dura mater during the cure. This argument is fpecidus, but it will not on examination be found to merit at- tention. .For, when fiilures are fo exten- five as to produce any obvious feparation between the fides of the fradlured bone, a more fufEcient vent is thus procured for any matter that may form than could poflibly be obtained by an operation: And again, in fiffures ,of lefler extent, as they do not always terminate in the for- mation of matter beneath the Ikull, but, on the contrary, as they frequently do well without the occurrence of any bad fymptom, it cannot furely be confidered as prudent to advife a hazardous opera- tion, merely for the chance of its be- coming neceffary. And befides, inftances are often met with, in which filTures pe- netrate no deeper than the external table of the Ikull: A circumftance which can- not be previoufly known; and for which even the warmed: fupporters of the prac- tice in queftion would never furely re- D d 2 commend420 AfeElions of the Brain Chap. commend a perforation through the whole fubftance of the bone. The idea that has hitherto very uni- verfally prevailed^ of the harmlefs nature of this operation, has probably been the chief caufe of the opinion refpeding the propriety of performing it in every cafe of filTure : But if the opinion I have en- deavoured to inculcate is well founded, any utility probably to be derived from it, will be more than counterbalanced by the hazard with which we fuppofe it to be,at ail times attended. Whilfl: no bad fymptoms fupervene, a fiffiire of the Ikull fhould be treated, merely as a caufe that may give rife to inflammation. The patient fliould lofe blood once and again in proportion to his ilrength 5 his bowels fliould be kept lax ^ the fore fliould be treated with mild dref- fings 3 and as long as there is caufe to fufpedt that inflammation may occur, vio- lent exertion of every kind fliould be a- voided: For although, in fuch circum- fiances, I would not, for the reafons ISeel. V. from eKternql Violence. 421 I have mentioned, advife the common pradlice of perforating the ikull in every cafe of fiflure, I am perfedlly decided in this, that fifliires ihould always be treat- ed with attention, and fhould have the moft effedlual means employed for ob- viating thofe efFeds that arife' from them when inflammation takes place. By the means I have pointed out, a cure \Vill frequently be obtained, without putting the patient to the hazard arifing from the operation of the trepan 5 but when from the violence of the injury, or from any other caufe, they are found to fail, and that the inflammation terminates in fuppuration, as in fuch circumftances no- thing but a free difeharge to the matter can fave the patient, this operation will now with much propriety be employed: But for the reafons I have already advanced, I mufl: again fay, that till this ftage of the difeafe takes place^ the perforation of the Ikull ought never to be advifed. The ar- guments adduced in fupport of this opi- ^lion in different parts of this and the pre- D d 3 ' ceding422 . AffeEtions of the Brain Chap. X. ceding fecSions are perhaps of themfelves fatisfadory; but in a point of fuch im- portance, no perfon fliould fpeak deci- lively on any opinion not fupported by experience. When the refult of expe- rience, however, is fupported' by proba- bility, we more readily give our alTent to it than could ever be done to a mere pradical fad; and as all the obfervation I have been able to rnake refpeding the point we are fpeaking of, tends to fup- port the pradice I have advifed, it is without hefitation that I venture to pro- pofe ito SEC-Se£t, VI. from external Violence 423 SECTION VL Conclufion^ The Importance of the fubjedl that we have juft been confidering, to-^ gether with the intricacy In which it is involved, has led to a length oFdifcuf* fton which I did not at firft exped : If, however, in treating of* injuries done to the head, I have in any degi'ee contribu- ted to remove t e perplexity that has hi- therto obfcured the fubjed, arlling, as well from the complicated nature of the injuries themfelves, as from the manner in which authors have generally handled them; the time I have fpent, and the pains I have taken, will not be thought mifapplied. The length to which this chapter has extended, points out the prop riety of D d 4 bringing424 Affections of the. Brain Chap. X. bringing the more material parts of the jhbjed into one point of view': On this account, the following recapitulation is fubjoined. 1. It appears, that in a ftate of health the cavity formed by the bones of the Ikull is completely filled with the brain and its membranes. 2. That a dired communication takes place between the external coverings of the fkull and the parts contained within it, by means of blood-veflels pafling be- tween the dura mater and the pericrani- um, efpecially at the different futures. < 3. From this mechanifm, we may per- ceive, how the fmallefl: diminution of the cavity of the Ikull, however it is produ- ced, mufl: always occafion compreflion of the brain: And from it alfo we ac- count for the ready communication of in- flammation from the external teguments of the fkull to the dura mater. 4. The various fymptoms arifing from injuries dpne to the head, may be refer- redSed. VI. from external Violence. 425 red to three general efFeds; compref- fion, concuflion, and inflammation of the brain. 5. In a comprefTed ftate of the brain, the fafety of the patient depends folely upon the removal of the caufe by which the compreflion is produced. When a portion of bone is beat in, and is at the fame time fo loofe as to admit of its be- ing taken out with the fingers of the ope- rator, with common forceps, or perhaps a levator, .thefe only Ihould be employ- ed: But when the depreffed portion of bone is firmly fixed, or when the com- preflion is produced by the elFufion of blood, or formation of pus, , a proper ap- plication of the trepan can alone afford relief 3 and we ought not to hefitate in employing it. In fuch circumftances, the patient is in a very hazardous fituation ^ and perfora- ting the fkull with the trepan as frequent- ly as may be necelfary, may prove, as it often has done, a very effedual remedy. 6. We426 Affections of the Brain Chap. X, 6. We are by no means, however, to imagine, as many have done, that a fur- geon has accomplifhed all that is incum- bent on him, as foon as the operation Is finiflied. Indeed, little advantage will in general be 4erived from it, if other cir- cumftances are negleded. As the caijfe forming the compreffion, whatever it may be, muft injure the membranes of the brain, care fliould be taken, as far as it can be done, to obviate the effeds of it. No doffils, or fyndons as they are termed, fliould be crammed into the perforations made by the trepan, and every irritating application fliould be avoided. The whole furface of the fore fliould be lightly co- vered with foft lint fpread with any e- mollierxt ointment; and this, with a com- prefs of foft linen, fliould be retained by a common night-cap, as the eafieft and belt bandage that can be applied to the head* The patient fliould lofe blood in propor- tion to his ftrength; his bot^els fliould be kept lax ; Kis Ikin fliould be prefer- red foft and perfpirable; a low diet fliould be ‘Sed. VI. from external Violence, 4^7 be recommended ^ and he fliould be kept free from noife and every kind qf diftur-. bance. 7. When fymptoms arifing from ex- ternal violence done to the head, depend on concuflion or commotion of the brainy as this feems to operate chiefly by indm cing debility of the whole fyftem, the common pradice of difcharging much blood, and giving ftrong purgatives, fliould be avoided. Inftead of this, a moderate ufe of wine, a^ well as other cordials, fliould be ad- vifed, together with a nourhhing diet; whilfl blifters and other ftimulants fliould be applied to the head itfelf. In long continued alFedlions proceeding from this caufe, fuch as lofs of memory and imbe- cility, eled:ricity may be fafely employed. I have known fome inftances where it ap- peared to prove ufeful. 8. In the treatment of injuries done to the head, it fliould always be kept in view, that inflammation of the membranes of the brain428 ^ JiffeEiions of the Brain Chap. X. brain very feldom takes place immediate- ly, but is apt to fupervene at fome diflant period from the injury beipg received: In confequence of which, accidents which do not at firft appear to be of much im- portance, frequently terminate fatally at laft. Where inflammation has taken place, we depend chiefly on general and local blood-letting, carried as far as the ftrength of the patient will permit. Strong pur^ gatives Ihould be advifed: Sudorificsprove fometimes ferviceable ; and when the pa- tient is relllefs, and diftrefled with vio- lent pain, opiates frequently prove ufeful. When an inflamed ftate of the brain fucceeds to a contufed wound of the ex- ternal teguments, warm emollient^ poul- tices are the beft applications we can make to the fore. By inducing a dif- charge of matter from the neighbour- hood of the inflamed parts, they prove often highly ferviceable ^ and, when the fkin and other foft parts have not ' been,Se6l. VI, from external Violence* ' 429 been divided by the contufion, they fhould be laid open upon the firfl: appearance of a tumor, without expeding or waiting for a complete fuppuration. In recommending this treatment, I have departed from the common mode of prac- tice, which directs the immediate applica- tion of the trepan if blood-letting and Gather evacuations do not give fpeedy re- lief ^ and I have done fo for two rcafons. In the real inflammatory ftate of the membranes of the brain, eompreflion of that organ does not take place : It is not indicated by the fymptoms which take place, nor is it met with on difledlion in fuch patients as die in this ftage of the difeafe : Perforating the Ikull therefore in this fituation can do no good. And, far- ther, the operation of the trepan in itfelf, is not, at is generally imagined, innocent and harmlefs. By admitting a free accefs of air to the membranes of the brain, it tends evidently to excite and promote in- flammation in the parts beneath. Applied therefore in this cafe, the trepan may ag- gravate.430 AffeEtions of the Brain Chap, Xi gravate, but cannot relieve, the complaint for which it is ufed. 9. When, notwithftanding our endea- vours to prevent It, the formation of pus takes place either upon the furface of the dura mater or within this membrane, it falls In every refpedl to be treated as ef- fufion induced in any other way. In this fituatlon, the operation of the trepan is indifpenfably neceflary \ for by no other means can the matter be ^dlfcharged, or the fafety of the patient infured. In perfojming this operation, inftead of removing a confiderable portion of the Ikin and other teguments, as has com- monly been done, a fimple incilion upon the part in which the inftrument is to be applied is all that is neceflary ^ and no more of the pericranium fhould be remo- ved than is required for this purpofe. TO. During the progrefs of the cure af- ter the application ,of the trepan, fungous excrefcences are apt to flioot out from the different perforations in the bone. There is feldom, however, any reafonfor our at- temptingSed. VI. from external Violence* 431 tempting to remove them, as Is commonly, done, by cbmpreffion, cauftic, or ligature; I for in general they difappear foon after the oflifying procefs is completed in the feveral openings. But when this does not hap- pen, and when they ftill continue to prove troublefome after the reft of the cure is accompliflied, they may with fafety be taken away either with cauftic or the fcalpel. In various points of Importance treated of in this chapter, I have advanced opi- nions, and recommended modes of treatr- ment, different from thofe that hitherto have been adopted : But however diffident, I am in firft diflenting from an eftablifh- ed docftrine, if my own experience is found to juftify this diflent, the more re- fpedable the authority by which the con- trary opinion is fupported, the more I think it requires Inveftigation. But in propofing modes of praftice dif- ferent from what are fandioned by long cuftom, I have never been confcious of being aduated by a fpirit of innovation, or433 AffeBions of the-Brain^ &c. Chap. X. or ‘a defire of appearing fingular: And whenever I have ventured to difTent from men of knov/n abilities, I have always en- deavoured, with fairnefs and candour, to flate the reafons of my doing fo, and the grounds upon which my opinions are formed: At leafl this has been my inten- tion, and I hope it will appear to others that I have done fo. END OF VOLUME THIRD._ / i.I h , P ■ \: 1PIATE I . rio-.i. Fio;4,PL ATE n.TXATE nr. Rg. [ 2. Fig-\\, 4- ).l .ly.ni-s Si iilp-'TXATE W. IJ.l.jzars is'iPLATFi V.at.PLATE Lll .rx^vT^: ynr. DLizers'ScalpFig.l. Scaly.’PLATE X Fio'. L . o S^ulp’Plate Ee VoL. III. EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Plate I. A EL fhe figur(6s of this Plate rejjtje- fei^t the sedges of wounds, dya-yrn togejther %nd retained by adhefive pl^- fters in the manner pointed put Jn Vo- lume I. Chapter III. rSeflion 2. when treating of the cure of Ample incifed wounds.434 Explanation of the Plates^ Plate II. The figures in this Plate reprefent an apparatus for the cure of a rupture of the Tendo Achilles: An explanation is given of it in Volume I. Chapter III. Sedion VII. Plate III. Figs. le and 8. Two forms of a tena- culum, for the purpofe of pulling out bleeding veflels to be tied with liga- tures. Figs. 2. and 4. Two needles, fomewhat different in the curve from thofe in common life : The handles being nearly ftraight, they are thereby managed with more eafe than the others, particularly in deep wounds. Figs. 3.Explanation of the Plates. 435 PnATE E e 2 Figs. 3. and 5. Two needles of the u- fual form, but neither thefe nor the other two have an edge on their concave parts. They are fomewhat round like a lancet, both on their convex and concave fides ^ which adds to their ftrength, and makes them enter with more eafe than the thick round form of the others. Figs. 6. and 7. Two ftraight needles for futures of the inteftines, and other delicate parts. Many inftruments have been invented for holding needles, when employed in deep wounds: The porte-aiguille, repre- fented in Plate IV. fig. i. anfwers this purpofe as well as any other, but inftru- ments of this kind-are feldom needed. All thefe inftruments are reprefented of a proper fize for ufe.436 Explanation of the Plate Plate Plate IV* Fig. 1. A Porte-alguIIle, mentioned m the explanation of Plate III. Figs. 2. 3. and 4. Gold pins, ufed in the twifted future, defcribed in Volume III. Chapter VI. Sedtion V. Fig. 6. A gold pin, with a fleel point, alfo ufed for the twifted future. Fig. 7. A moveable point of fteel, fit- ted to the gold pin, fig. 8. Fig. 5. A flat needle, fometimes ufed in fecuring blood-vefTels contiguous to bones. All thefe inftruments are hem of a full fize for ufe.Explanation of the Plates^ 437 Plate V. Fig. A fcrew tourniquet, defcrlbed in Volume III. Chapter VII. Every part of this inftrument is reprefented of the full fize. It may either be made of brafs or fteel, and the Ilrap ihould be of ftrong unyielding materials, at leafl: an inch broad, and of a length fufficient to pafs eafily round the largeft circumference of any of the extremities. Fig. 2. A bandage for comprefling the temporal artery. It is made of a well- tempered fteel fprlng, covered with foft leather, and of the fame ftrength with what is ufed for the trufs of a hernia. It Ihould be three quarters of an inch broad, and fourteen or fifteen inches in length. I once had a fcrew, fitted with a button to this bandage, the button by means E e 3 of43S Explanation of the Plates. Plate of the fcrew being made to prefs upon the divided artery ; but a comprefs of linen anfwers better, and is eafier for the pa- tient. Bandages of linen, or other mate- rials of a yielding nature, do not anfwer fo well for this purpofe as thofe of fpring fleel, which remain with more certainty on the fpot on which they are firfl; placed. Fig. 3. A ftrong curved needle, with a round, though fomewhat fharp point. This inftrument anfwers the purpofe bet- ter than any other yet propofed for paf- fing ligatures below the artery in the operation for the aneurifm, and beneath the fpermatic cord in the operation of caftration. This inftrument, as well as fig. i* is reprefented of a full fize for ufe.439 Explanation of the Plates. Plate E e 4 Plate VI. Figs. I. and 2. The beft forms of lan- cets for the operation of blood-letting,' defcribed in Volume III. Chapter XIII. Sedlion I. Fig. 3. reprefents the broad-fhoulder- ed lancet in Common ufe, but which from its form is evidently ill-fuited for this nice operation. Fig. 4. A ’ fpring fleme, alfo defcribed in Chapter XIII. Sedlion I.44^ ^^i^plnhatUh df the PMtes. PlATE VII, Fig* I. A ftatiflc^tor with fixteen lan- cets i the different parts of which are fo generally well known, that it is not ne- ceflary to defcribe it. Fig. 2, A cupping clafs, fitted with an e^jchaufting fyringe^ for the purpofe of ex- trading blood frorn wounds made by the fcarificator, fig. i. Figs. 3. and 4. The different parts of fig 2. reprefented feparately. Plate VIIL Fig. !• This figure reprefents the in- ffrument, commonly named a trepan. As theExpldhation of the Plates, 441 the page does not admit of the full lize, every part of it is about one-third lefs than it ought to be. The upper part of the handle is of timber ^ the reft fliould all be poliihed fteel. For reafons that I have given in Chap^ ter X. Volume III. ^very Operator fliould be provided with this inftrument as well as with the trephine, Plate IX. fig. i. the fame heads being made to fit both in- ftruments. Fig. This inftrunletit Is commonly termed a lenticular. It is ufed by fome for* fcraping the edges of the opening in the bone formed by the trepan, when they are found to be rough and unequal: Fot this purpofe, it is (harp on one fide, and the button on the top is meant to proted: the brain, and to receive the pieces that fall from it. There is rarely, however, any caufe for ufing it: I have never found it neceflary, but I have given a view of it, I of442* Explanation of the Platen. as it forms part of the apparatus of every furgeon for the operation of the trepan. Fig. 3. A rafpatory for removing the pericranium, before applying the trepan. Care, however, Ihould always be taken not to denude more of the Ikull than is merely neceflary for this purpofe. Plate IX. Fig. I. A reprefentation of the trephine of a full fize for ufe. Fig. 2. Forceps for the purpofe of re- moving detached portions of a fradured ikull. They ar^ alfo ufed for taking out pieces of the Ikull that have been fepa- rated or cut out by the trephine, when they do not come away in the head of the inftrument. Fig. 3. Ahead of a trepbme with ger teeth than the inftrumeni. iii common ^ life,Explanation of the Plates, 443 ufe, and along the courfe of the faw, there are three vacuities in which the teeth are entirely wanting: By this it is fuppofed that a piece of bone may be cut out more quickly than with the common trephine, and that the inftrument need not be fo frequently removed for the purpofe of being cleared of the fmall fragments of bone produced by the faw : When the teeth of this faw are firm and ^properly fet, it cuts both quickly and fmoothly, but not better than the inftrument in com- mon ufe. , Plate X. The figures in this plate reprefent all the parts of the trephine feparately. Fig. I. The handle of the trephine, which ftiould be made of timber and of ^he form here reprefented. Fig. 2. The faw or head of the tre- phine : The upper part of it ihould fit 3 with444 Explanation of the Elates. with much exadnefs an opening in the litlder part of the handle, fo that when inferted into -it the hole B may be oppo- fite to the end of the fcrew when by turning the fcrew the two parts of the Infiruiiient may be firmly connected to- gether. C, The nut of a fcrew paffing through a flit in the handle of the head^ and fixed in the upper part of a moveable pin, D: In ufing this inflrument, the point of the pin D is made to projed pafl the teeth of the faw, till an impreflion is made upon the fl^ull, of a fufEcient depth for retain- ing it, when the pin Ihould be removed : This is eafily done by moving the nut G to the upper part of the flit, and fixing it there by turning the fcrew. All the parts of the trephine are here alfo repre- fented of a full fize for ufe : The diameter of the faw fliould not be lefs than an inch. Of this fize it is uied with the fame ^afe as faws of the fmallefl diame- ter.Explanation qf the Plates. 445 Plate ter, and the opening formed by it being larger, it anfwers the intention of the operator better. Fig. 3. A head of a (mall fize fach as is commonly ufed : The pin E is in this inftrument fixed by a fcrew into the bot- tom of the head, and is taken out by means of the key, fig. 4. but the method of moving the fcrew, as reprefented in fig. 2. is in every refpedl better. Fig. 5. A perforator for forming a fmall hole in the centre of the piece of bone on which the head of the trephine is to be applied, and into which the pins D, £, figs. 2. and 3. muft be inferred. The perforator Ihould be exadly adapted to the handle of the inftrumenty fig. i. to which it muft be fixed by the fcrew A in the manner direded for fixing the head to it.^446 Explanation of the Plates. Plate XI. Figs. I. and 2. reprefent the drfFerent parts of a levator nearly the fame with that of Mr Petit. Fig. i. a frame fup- ported by two feet with a pin and move- able ball on the upper part of it: This pin mufl; be of a fize correfponding to the holes in the levator, fig. 3. and the ball fliould move with freedom in every diredion, by which the point of the in- ftrument may be carried with eafe from one part to another, while the frame on which it is fixed is kept firm in its fitua- tion by an afiifiant. Fig. 2. The two parts of this inftru- ment joined together, and ready for ufe. Fig. 4. The levator in common ufe, but as this inftrument, while it elevates one part of the Ikull, mufl prefs with confiderable force upon another, it Ihould notExplanation of the Elates. 447 not be employed, and this can be the more eafily done, as the levator, fig. 3. anfwers with perfedl fafety every pur- pofe for which the other can be em- ployed.; , ■'. - ,• '* ■ •-'' ' ' orfj od i'.: > .^rijr baf^ ,■'OvoIit/i/o jo/;. ' *C *y.^ o; - ;b vIb;:o "/;oal -, ■ luq iao^’r ;,. -liio ori ai/O :^>-rijo oci- o-' ;// ,;;ol. j’;r-V[ ' < . ■ : ■ ,."■ ^ ■' :' '>•:■ - ■ \"' :> ■’' ■■' ■ '■ ■ ' ‘ ^ ' ■ '■ -c V '-m■i