/ r > f i \ %^Med [^8480 r tSAYOUEIES AND SWEETSFor particulars see advertisement {page 2) at end. SHOWELL’S ^housekeeper’s Jlccotmf ^ook FOR 18 86. For particulars see adveriise7nent (page i) at end. BREAKFAST DISHES FOR EVERY MORNING OF THREE MONTHS. ;By Miss M. L. ALLEN.;>AVOURIES AND SWEETS ’ SUITABLE FOB . L UNCHEONS AND DINNERS BY THE COMPILER OF i^r BREAKFAST DISHES ! I ! 1 \k LONDON J, S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, IVY LANE PATEKNOSTER ROWLONDON: FEINTED BY J, S. VIRTUE AND CO., LllIITED, CITY ROAD. WELLCOME iNsirrun \ LIBRARY 1 Coll. welMOmec Call No. GcrM. L. A. PEEFACE. —*— lEmboldened by the kindly reception given by the dblic to “Breakfast Dishes,” and the flattering iT'tice of the press, I have ventured to bring out SSavouries and Sweets,” trusting that it will be as vvourably received as its predecessor. The Jlrst iH of the book will be found to contain a large L’jnber of receipts for those piquant little dishes aat are now so universally served at dinners be- ■^een “the sweets” and “the dessert,” including ggreat many savoury omelettes and fondus. IThe second pa/rt consists of a varied collection of rceipts, both old and new, for puddings, tarts, fritters, iincakes, jeilies, custards, creams, souffles, syllabubs, nnkets, and sweet omelettes, which I can confldently [•■3ommend as delicious and easy of preparation. II must here express my indebtedness to E. J, B. rp her practical help, which has been of the greatest rrvice to me in the compilation of this little book.- 4CONTENTS. Paet I.—SAYOUEIES. Page Vongue Squares . 3 wed Parmesan Pyra- mids ... 3 i’dive and Caper I "I Toasts .... 3 ^Vestphalia Balls . 4 h/Mcken Creams. . 4 Herrings’ Eoe and Mushroom Ketchup on Toast . . 4 Cheese Eamequins . 5 .johster Creams. . 5 ’.^otted Cheese on Toasts ... 5 ii.Iacaroni Balls . . 6 Champignons enCaisse 6 Bengal Toasts . . 6 Vygrettes of Parmesan 7 half’s Brains on Toast 7 kviushroom Toasts . 7 Bhanklin Eggs . . 8 1 Petits Pots de Con- somme ... 8 Page Dressed Crab . . 8 Indian Sandwiches . 9 Zephyrs ... 9 Macaroni Cheese . 10 Gherkin Toasts. .10 Fried Eamequins .10 Viscount Sandwiches. 11 Creme de Eromage . 11 Anchovy Eggs . .12 Scotch Woodcock . 12 Savoury Trifles . .12 Anchovy Toast with Egg . . . 13 Cheese Fritters . .13 Savoury Eggs . .13 Sardines en Caisse .14 Anchovy Toast aux Tomatoes . .14 Lobster 4 la Creme . 14 Cauliflower au Gratin 15 Oysters a I’Indienne . 15 Eissotto 4 la Milanaise 15 Bombay Toast . .16viii CONTENTS. Potatoes au Gratin . Page 16 Shrimp Canapis. Pag] 27 Golden Eggs 16 Savoury Beetroot 28 Genoese Eggs . 17 Eggs in Pipkins 28 Gascony Butter. 17 Savoury Pudding 28 Eggs d I’Annecy 17 Macaroni with To- Potato Souffle . 18 mato Sauce . 29 Tomato Sandwiches . 18 Angels on Horseback 29 Canapis d la Windsor 18 Scalloped Salsify 29 Anchovies in Olives . 19 Kidneys Sautes. 30 Parmese Pice . 19 Sunshiny Eggs . , . 30 Kidney and Cheese Cheese Canapis. 30 Toast . 19 Hungarian Patties 31 OystersFriedinBatter 20 Cheese Biscuits with Anchovies . .20 Tricolour Toasts . 21 Tomato Omelet . .21 Tomatoes au Gratin . 21 Shrimp Toasts . . 22 Tomato Toast . . 22 Curried Eggs . .23 Canapis of Sardines . 23 Truffes a la Serviette 23 Oyster Toasts . . 24 Vegetable Marrow a I’Espagnole . 24 Imitation Foie Gras . 24 Marrow Toasts . . 25 Egg and Ham Toasts. 25 Boded or Stewed Cheese . .26 Ham Toasts . .26 Victoria Sandwiches . 26 Shrimps Scalloped . 27 Puffed Eggs . . 27 Eggs en Caisse . .31 French Pie . . 32 Savoury Tomatoes .. 32 Cheese Toast . . 33 Sardine Sandwiches . 33 Cheese Straws . .33 Canapis de Volaille . 34 Cheese Trifles . . 34 Anchovy Omelet . 34 Ham Omelet . .35 Asparagus Omelet . 35 Parmesan Puffs . 35 Cheese Omelet . .36 Spanish Pice . . 36 Welsh Pabbit . . 36 Buttered Eggs . .37 Kidney Omelet . .37 Cheese Fondu . . 37 Savoury Toast . .38 French Bean Omelet. 38 Anchovy and Whipped Cream . .38 Devilled Almonds . 39IX CONTENTS. Part II.— Puddings, &c. Page ikiristmas Pudding . 43 ilkewell ,, 43 ^imon Dumplings 44 iince Pies, Mince- imeat for 44 'rmon Snow Pudding 45 isstle Puddings 45 itieese Cakes . 46 eeringues 47 N'Onge Souffle . 48 rmond Pudding uunter’s ,, 48 49 randy ,, 49 )otato Fritters . 49 meapple. Apricot, or • Orange Fritters 50 weet Omelet . 50 ^ve Minutes Swiss IPoU 51 |[>ople Shape 52 lirrot Pudding. 53 [lice Fruit Pudding . 53 ich Custard ,, 54 tctoria Sandwiches . 54 Dtato Vanilla Souffle 54 ;oen Golden Tart 55 ■SWEETS. Page Blay Custard Pudding 55 Snow Pudding . . 56 Macaroon Basket . 56 Bread Fritters . .57 Fig Pudding . .57 Marmalade Pudding . 58 Swiss Poll . .58 Apple Meringue . 59 Manckester Pudding. 59 Eice Snowballs. .59 Batter for Fritters . 60 Cake Fritters . . 60 Canadian Floating Islands . . .60 Molasses Sauce Pud- ding . . .61 Potato Pudding . 61 Popovers . . .61 Hasty Pudding. .61 Boiled Custards. . 62 Guards’ Pudding . 62 Boiled Lemon Pud- ding . . .63 Bird’s Nest Puddings 63 Currant Shape . .63 Swiss Pancake . . 64 Apple Charlotte. . 64X CONTENTS. Page Page 1 Almond Souffle . 64 Chocolate Pudding . 81 Gingerbread Pudding 65 London ,, 8‘J Excellent German Lemon Honeycomb . 83 Pudding 65 Sponge Pudding 83 Sultana Pudding 65 Jtataha ^ j . 84 Unripe Emit Tarts . 66 Nun’s ,, 84 Canadian Cberry Pie 66 Croquettes de Piz a la Snowdon Pudding 67 Fleur d’Orange 84 French Pancakes 68 Vermicelli Pudding . 86 Boiled Cocoanut Pud- Prune Shape 87 ding 69 Spanish Custards 88 Tomato Pie 69 German Puffs . . . 88 Lemon Tart 70 Baked Gingerbread . 88 Vegetable Marrow Excellent Jam Pud- Pudding 70 . ding 89 Quince Tart 70 Baked Apple Tart . 89 Apricot Tart 71 Boiled Pice (suj)erior) 90 Superior Treacle Pud- Orange Cheese Cakes 90 ding 71 Stewed Pears . 91 ; Ginger Pudding 72 Chestnut Pudding 91 Strawberry Tart 72 Orange Tart 92 Bread and Butter Frit- Egg and Wine Cus- ters 73 tards 93' Brandy Custards 73 Apple Snowballs 93 Nougat Baskets 74 Cocoanut Cheese Apple Pings 75 Cakes . . . Stewed Quinces 75 Citron Pudding. 94, Petit Choux 76 Orange Sponge . 95 Buttered Orange Juice 76 Paspberry ,, 95 Cheese Cake Mixture Baked Plum Pudding 95 (for keeping) 77 Tipsy Cake 96 Orange Butter Pyra- An Excellent Trifle . 96 mids 78 Small Almond Pud- Sugar Cakes 78 dings 98 ■ Caramel Pudding 80 Wafer Pudding 99CONTENTS. XI l:fers filled with I'rreani . Ittermilk Curds liiniral Pudding ^.ss R'lcakes fried with- lit Butter or Lard in Pudding blond Hedgehog '^lidding slip Pudding ■'Wed Apples with Vpricot Jam Hied Quince Pud- ling il English Prune 1 Pudding nncakes . iked Lemon Pud- iding j,stle Baskets . Page 99 100 101 102 102 103 104 105 106 106 107 107 108 108 Creams, &c. ?blvet Cream . 45 iiocolate Cream 46 (eringues with (Cream . 47 [pricot Cream . 47 ir neapple Cream 51 DDOseberry Pool 52 rrawberry Cream 52 [pple Custard . 53 .acaroon Baskets : filled with Cream . 56 Page Canadian Bloating Islands 60 Boiled Custards with Cream . 62 Eice Cream 66 Apple Pool with Cream . 68 Cocoanut Cream 69 Strawberry Pool with Cream 73 Petit Choux filled with Cream 76 Yellow Lemon Cream . 77 Pistachio Cream 78 South Devon Junket with Cream . 79 Coffee Cream . 82 Cream Whips . 83 Lemon ,, . . 86 Blanc Mange 87 Spanish Custard 88 Trifle with Cream 96 Stone Cream 97 Wafers filled with Cream 99 Swiss Cream 100 Buttermilk Curds 100 Charlotte Eusse. 100 Velvet Cream . 101 Mosaic ,, 102 Brown Bread Ice Cream 103 Almond Hedgehog with Cream . 104CONTENTS. Xll Page Jellies, &c. Claret Jelly . .42 Apple Jelly Shape . 65 Orange Jelly . .67 Venetian Jelly . . 67 Fruit Jelly . .71 Lemon Sponge . .74 Eice Blanc Mange . 77 Jamange . . .85 Calf’s Foot Jelly . 86 Blanc Mange . .87 Dutch Jan Mange Port Wine Jelly Excellent Sherry Jelly Clear Lemon Jelly . Eiband Jelly Pag< 92 93 98 99 105 Syllabubs. Old English Syllabub 79 Staffordshire Syllabub 79 Whip Syllabub . . 96Part I. SAVOURIES.SAVOURIES. i, ’ _ Tongue Squares. ( .'’or Four Persons.—2 ozs. of grated tongue ; 6 squares of ..ad ; 1 oz. of grated Parmesan cheese ; cayenne and salt to tee. IFry some squares of bread, sprinkle grated Par- Esan cheese on them, season with cayenne and salt, ap each toast nice and high with grated tongue- •ve either hot or cold. Iced Parmesan Pyramids. OR Four Persons.—Cheese biscuits, as on page 46 ; 1 pint :;ream ; 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese; a pinch of white pepper; idnch of salt. Make some square cheese biscuits by receipt given • ■ cheese straws, page 33, and bake them. When nae allow them to get cold. Whip some cream to a tif froth, flavour highly with cayenne, white pepper, lid salt; add Parmesan cheese to taste. Ice, pile up each square of pastry, and serve. (This is excel- ii.t without being iced.) Olive and Caper Toasts. 'i''oR Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread the size of the top claret glass ; 6 anchovies ; 12 olives ; 1 teaspoonful of eers. “Spread some anchovies, previously passed through iieve, on small rounds of fried bread. Chop some4 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. olives and capers fine and sprinkle thickly on the top of the toasts. These can be eaten either hot or cold ; if hot, they must be put into the oven for ten minutes. Westphalia Balls. For Four Persons.—^ lb. of boiled potatoes ; 2 ozs. of grated bam; 1 oz. of butter; 2 eggs ; 1 gill of cream or milk ; cayenne and salt to taste ; some bread crumbs; fat for frjdng. Pass some boiled potatoes through a sieve, mix ^ with it two ounces of grated ham, a little butter, one egg well beaten, cayenne and salt; if not quite moist enough add some cream ; form into small balls, egg and teead crumb them and fry a nice gold in a frying basket plunged in a saucepan of boiling fat. Chicken Creams. For Six Persons.—J lb. of chicken ; 3 ozs. of ham ; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs; J pint of cream ; pepper (white); \ cayenne and salt to taste. Pound the chicken and ham, pass it through a sieve, add the butter melted, the eggs well beaten, • and lastly the cream, which must be whipped; season with pepper and salt. Mix all lightly together, put: into an oiled mould and steam half an hour. These can be made in small tins and steamed for fifteen minutes. Herrings’ Roe and Mushroom Ketchup on Toast. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of toast the size of the top of a tumbler ; the roes of three herrings ; 6 flap mushrooms ; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne ; salt.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 5 ' Make some rounds of buttered toast, season -well ith. pepper and cayenne on eacb toast, place balf e soft roe of a berring wbicb bas been ligbtly lied, and on tbe top of tbis one fried musbroom, Ibicb ought to cover tbe toast. Serve very bot. Cheese Ramequins. fl FoR Four Persons.—1 oz. of butter; ^ oz. of flour ; J pint new milk ; 3 eggs; 3 ozs. of grated cheese. First melt tbe butter, mix in tbe flour, add tbe iiiilk, stir and cook well. Tben beat in tbe yolks of jiwo eggs, sprinkle in tbe cbeese, add three whites Lbicb have been whisked to a froth, mix in ligbtly, md put into tbe cases. Bake a quarter of an hour. Lobster Creams. For Four Persons.—Half a lobster ; pint of cream ; aayenne and salt; ramequin cases ; parsley. Whip some cream till it is nice and stiff, season it uigbly with cayenne and salt; cut up some pieces of i.obster and mix with tbe cream. Put into cases with a ome coral on the top of eacb, and a sprig of pars- ley to garnish it with. Potted Cheese on Toasts. For Six or Eight Persons.—As many rounds of bread as required; j lb. Gloucester cbeese ; 2 ozs. of butter ; salt to aaste ; 1 tablespoonful of made mustard (Finch’s) ; 1 table- ■Bpoonful of port or sherry. Fry some rounds of bread and put tbe following mixture on them, and put them into tbe oven just to hbeat: grate quarter pound of rich cbeese, beat it to aa smooth paste with two ounces of butter, season withSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. r> salt, mace, a little made Finch’s mustard, one table- spoonful of port or sherry. This will keep for a week or more if it is put into a pot with melted butter on the top. Macaroni Balls. For Six Persons.—3 ozs. of macaroni; 2 eggs'; 1 oz. of grated Pai-mesan; a little crushed vermicelli ; butter for frying. Boil two ounces of macaroni, cut it into small pieces and drain, put into a saucepan with the yolk of one egg and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; season with pepjfer and salt,- cook for a few minutes, tlxen put on a plate to get cold. Form into halls, egg and vermicelli them, and fi-y a nice light colour. Champignons en Caisse. For Six Persons.—12 large mushrooms; 1 dessertspoonsful - of chopped parsley; 1 finely chopped eschalot; 1 oz. of hatter ; salt and pepper to taste. Peel some mushrooms and cut them up small; put them into paper or china cases, which should he well buttered. Add pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and a little eschalot if liked. Cook in a brisk oven and serve hot. Bengal Toasts. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread; 2 ozs. of ham ; 1 gill of cream ; cayenne ; 1 oz. of Bengal chutney ; 1 oz. of Parmesan cheese. Fry some small rounds of bread and put the following mixture on them : chop fine some lean7 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. cn, which make into a stiff paste with cream, lison with cayenne. Spread this on the toasts, then I liia3mr of Bengal chutney, and over that a little §rrmesan cheese. Bake till a light brown and serve t. Aigrettes of Parmesan. IFFor from Four to Six Persons.—| pint of water ; 2 ozs. rbutter; 2 ozs. of flour; 2 ozs. of Parmesan; 2 eggs ; ^='enne and salt to taste ; fat for frying. hTake quarter pint of water and two ounces of jatter, put into a small saucepan, let it boil, then .ake in two ounces of flour, stirring all the time ; it iiist be well cooked. Add cayenne and salt, two lances of grated Parmesan cheese, stir well, and iix in by degrees two eggs well beaten. Have kady" some boiling fat, and drop in about a dessert- oonful of the mixture at a time and fry a golden i’own, and serve very hot. The great secret in this • to make it at the last moment. Calf’s Brains on Toast. IFor Six Persons.—Half the brains of a calf; 1 oz. of ham ; ggill of cream ; 1 oz. of bread crumbs ; cayenne and salt to fste; butter for frying the crumbs. "Wash in salt and water and then boil a calf’s -’ains; when boiled chop them up with a little ham, lyenne, salt, and a little cream. Put on to fried •asts with fried bread crumbs on the top of each. Mushroom Toasts. For Four Persons.—6 rounds of bread; 10 large mush- t )oms ; ^ a gill of cream or stock ; pepper and salt to taste ; > oz. of Parmesan cheese.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 8 Fry some small rounds of bread nice and crisp, and 1 put the following mixture on them : mince the mushrooms fine, add pepper, salt, a little cream or stock, and stew till tender. When sufficiently cooked, heap the mushrooms nice and high on the toasts, sprinkle Parmesan cheese over each, and brown with a salamander. Serve very hot. Shanklin Eggs. For Six or Seven Persons —4 eggs; 8 olives ; 4 red chillies ; 8 pieces of fried bread ■; salt to taste. Hard boil the eggs, take out the yolks and pass them through a wire sieve, with the olives and red chillies; mix all together, adding a little salt, and put them back into the whites ; serve on fried bread. The eggs should be cut longways. This dish is best cold. ^ Petits Pots de Consomm^. For Six to Eight Persons.—^ pint of stock; 1 slice of ham, about 2 ozs. ; 1 bunch of sweet herbs ; 4 eggs ; white pepper and salt to taste. Take half a pint of good stock, put it into a sauce- ■ pan with a slice of ham and a bunch of sweet herbs, stey till the stock is well flavoured. Then strain, add the yolk of four eggs and the whites of two eggs well whisked, mix and strain again. Pour into little tins, stand them in a saucepan of hot water to steam for ten minutes, season with white pepper and a little salt. Dressed Crab. For Six Persons.—1 crab; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread ' crumbs; 2 tablespoonfuls of salad oil; 1 tablespoonful of vinegar ; pepper and salt to taste.[TPick all the meat from a fresh crab, miy it in a issm with one tablespoonful of finely grated bread limbs, two of salad oil, one of vinegar, pepper and li.fi Put it back into the shell, strew bread crumbs 1 it, and bake half an hour. Serve very hot. SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Indian Sandwiches. 9 IFFor Six Persons.—The breast of a cooked chicken ; 1 oz. I rham or tongue ; 4 boned anchovies ; 2 tablespoonfuls of luiite sauce ; 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder ; a squeeze iMemon; 12 squares of fried bread; 1 oz. of grated cheese ; pz. of butter; butter for frying bread. I' Cut into dice either chicken, veal, or game. Take Irme ham or tongue and four boned anchovies, also kt into dice ; next put two tablespoonfuls of white liuce and one dessertspoonful of curry powder or ^aste into a saucepan, boil a few minutes and add I'.e above ingredients and a squeeze of lemon. Have »ady double the number of fried rounds of bread, ud put the mixture between them; mix a little r..'ated cheese with butter and spread on the top of i'!,ch sandwich and place in the oven to get very hot For Six or Seven Persons.—^ pint of cream ; 1 good table- Loonful of dissolved gelatine; 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan M.eese ; ^ pint of milk; cayenne and salt to taste ; some kpic jelly. '' Take quarter of a pint of cream, one good table- fooonful of dissolved gelatine in milk, two of grated Varmesan cheese, cayenne and salt to taste. Warm he milk in which the gelatine is dissolved, add the Zephyrs.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. lO and add the whisked cream; pour into small moulc and let it set. When cold turn them out and gamis^ the dish with aspic cut into dice. Macaroni Cheese. For Four or Five Persons.—3 ozs. of macaroni; 1 oz. olmr flour; I pint of milk ; 1 oz. of butter ; 3 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan; cayenne and salt to taste. Boil the macaroni till tender with an onion and! some salt in the water, drain it well; make a thick] white sauce and add the grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne and salt to taste, butter a dish well, place a layer of macaroni on it, then one of sauce, and so on till you have sufficient. Sprinkle cheese on the top, and put into the oven to brown. Gherkin Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 squares of bread; 2 ozs. of Parme- san cheese ; 8 gherkins ; 2 eggs ; cayenne and salt to taste. some squares of bread, sprinkle Parmesan on each; chop some gherkins very fine, and Pry cheese cover half the toast with them, and the other half with the yolk of a hard-boiled egg passed through a sieve; season with salt and cayenne. Fried Ramequins. For Three Persons.—| lb. of Gloucester cheese; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 eggs ; cayenne and salt to taste. Grate quarter pound of cheese, melt one ounce of butter; when the butter is cool mix with it the whitesSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. II ' two eggs whisked to a froth, lay buttered papers iisf .a frying-pan, put shoes of bread on them and the ^ese on the top, fry them five minutes, and serve om very hot. Viscount Sandwiches. F^or Eight to Ten Persons.—A tin loaf; 6 ozs. of butter; rp. of anchovies; 4 eggs; 1 pint of consomme; a few igs of parsley for gamislung. 'ake a tin loaf of bread and cut some very thin ces, spread them with butter and anchovies luimded and passed through a sieve : stamp them [it with a small round cutter, place some fiUeted chovies upon them. Make a custard with the yolks Iffour eggs and a quarter of a pint of'good consomme, ‘ sam it in a plain mould. When cooked leave it till id, then turn out, cut into thin shces and stamp it |tt with the same cutter as used for the bread, and -ice a round of custard between the rounds of the ad and anchovies. Serve on a napkin and garnish Itth parsley. Cr^me de Fromage. FFor Four Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of Parmesan; 2 table- • onfuls of cream; cayenne and salt to taste; a little tbin 33F paste; 1 egg ; 1 oz. of vermicelli. l?Take two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and lit quite two of cream, a little cayenne and salt, fix into a smooth thick cream, and spread on some tin puff paste which has been cut with a round ttter, double it over, press the edges weU together, [.•g and vermicelli them, fry in boiling fat. Serve iry hot.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 12 Anchovy Eggs. For Six Persons.—3 eggs; 3 teaspoonfuls of anchovj sauce ; 1 oz. of butter ; cayenne and salt to taste; 6 rounds of fried bread. Boil the eggs hard, when cold shell them and cut in half lengthways, take out the yolks and, pass them through a sieve, and to every egg add one teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper, and a small piece of butter; beat all together and replace in the whites. These eggs can be eaten either hot or cold, and should be served on fried rounds of bread. Scotch Woodcock. For Four Persons.—2 slices of bread, J inch thick ; 2 ozs. of butter; 2 tablespoonfuls of anchovy sauce ; 2 eggs; 1 pint of new milk. Two slices of bread toasted and buttered on both" sides, cover one side thinly with anchovy paste or sauce, put the toasts on the top of each other and cut into four. Have ready the yolks of two eggs well beaten with a quarter of a pint of new milk, set over the fire to thicken, but not to boil; poui* it over the toast, and serve as hot as possible. Savoury Trifles. For Two Persons.—2 ozs. of game or chicken ; 12 pickled mushrooms ; a gill of cream ; cayenne, white pepper, salt to taste ; fried bread or ramequin cases. Mince fine any kind of game, chicken, or veal, with a few pickled mushrooms, a little cream, cayenne pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly in a saucepan, and serve either on fried bread or in small cases.13 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Anchovy Toast with Egg. I OR Four Persons.—6 anchovies; 6 rounds of fried bread; s. pound and pass througli a sieve six ancliovies, Read on rounds of fried bread ; boil bard two p;s and pass tbe yolks tbrougb a sieve, sprinkle pkly over tbe ancbovy toasts and serve very bot. Cheese Fritters. ''or Four Persons.—1 oz. of macaroni; 1 large table- conful of grated cheese ; 1 large tablespoonful of cream ; E.aaspoonful of Finch’s mustard ; salt and cayenne to taste; ; 1 oz. of vermicelli. One ounce of macaroni well boiled and cut very ball, one beaped-up tablespoonful of grated cbeese, lee beaped-up tablespoonful of cream ; mix all r^etber, season witb pepper and salt, also a little iistard if liked. Make some good puff paste and 111 it out tbin, cut into rounds and place some of tbe fixture on eacb round, double tbem over, egg and rrmicelli tbem, fry a light gold. Serve bot. Savoury Eggs. IFor Four Persons.—4 eggs; 1 oz. of ham ; 1 eschalot; ggill of cream; 2 sprigs of parsley ; cayenne and salt to itae ; as much chopped tarragon, chervil, and chives as will a teaspoon ; J pint of Mayonnaise sauce. ’Boil some eggs till quite bard; when cold shell eem, cut in half and take out tbe yolks, pass tbrougb f si eve and mix witb some finely chopped bam, pars- jy, a little eschalot, cream, cayenne pepper and lit • mix well together and replace in tbe whites. lat ’them on a small dish and pour round tbem aSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. good Mayonnaise sauce, in wMcli you should have a little chopped parsley, chervil, tarragon, and chives. Sardines en Caisse. For Four Personh.—5 ramequin cases; 5 sardines; a'j; dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce; 1 oz. of butter; 1 table-It spoonful of cream; 1 oz. of fried bread crumbs; cayenne;|;v black pepper and salt to taste. | Bone and pound some sardines, add a little cream, | anchovy sauce, cayenne, black pepper and salt, and f some melted butter ; mix all well together, place in|' the cases aud put into the oven to heat thoroughly, i Sprinkle bread crumbs on the top of each. i. Anchovy Toast aux Tomatoes. | For Four Persons.—6 anchovies; a tablespoonful offl tomato sauce ; cayenne ; 4 or 6 squares of fried bread. j Take six anchovies, bone and pass through a j sieve; mix with a little tomato sauce and cayenne, | spread thickly on fried squares of bread, and serve j very hot. | k Lobster ^ la Cr^me. For Six Persons.—1 lobster; ^ teaspoonful of salt; ^ teaspoouful of pepper; a little nutmeg; 2 teaspoonfuls of j] vinegar ; 1 tablespoonful of sherry ; 2 ozs. of butter; 1 oz. I of flour ; J pint of cream; a few sprigs of parsley. ty Pick the meat from a fresh lobster, mince it finely 1 and put it into a saucej)an with half a teaspoonful of 1 salt, the same quantity of pepper, a little nutmeg, j two teaspoonfuls of vinegar and one of sherry, j When quite hot, add two ounces of butter lightly | rolled in flour, and a quarter of a pint of cream; |I SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. !■ ner gently for ten minutes, stirring all the time, when thoroughly heated put the mixture into /shell of the lobster, place it on a napkin, and naish it with parsley. ' Cauliflower au Gratin. iPR Six Persons.—1 cauliflower; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 oz. /our; a teacupful of milk : 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan ; pane and salt to taste. ' oil a nice cauliflower till tender, drain well, and [11 put it on the dish you intend to serve it on. ^ss it together so that the sauce goes over it and \ not sink into it. Take one ounce of butter, one ce of flour, a teacupful of milk, two ounces grated ese ; melt the butter, mix in the flour, add the i£ and boil; sprinkle in the cheese, cayenne and to taste, pour over the cauliflower, adding a 3 cheese on the top, and put into the oven to Ipivn. Oysters ^ Tlndienne. 03R Six Persons.—1 doz. oysters; 1 dessertspoonful of yy powder; 1 dessertspoonful of flour; 1 pint of cream ; ;;iion; a slice of apple ; ^ teaspoonful of lemon juice; 58. of rice. Vake one dozen oysters, one dessertspoonful of r;y powder, one dessertspoonful of flour, quarter 11 pint of cream, a little onion, a slice of apple, f:‘ a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Make the curry ece, add the oysters, and serve with rice round in. Rissotto 1 la Milanaise. ttiR Four Persons.—2 ozs. of butter ; 1 onion; a cupful i .ce ; a pinch of saffron ; ^ pint of stock ; a cupful of ' ed cheese ; salt and cayenne to taste. ”ut a good-sized piece of butter into a stewpan add a small quantity of minced onion ; let it justSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. i6 colour, but not brown; take a cupful of rice and let it cook in the butter about five minutes, add a smallj pinch of saffron. Take sufiicient stock to cook the rice, fifteen or twenty minutes will cook it; wheni cooked add neaidy the same quantity of grated chees^ as rice, and cook three minutes more, stirring the cheese in well. Serve very hot. Bombay Toast. For Three Persons.—1 oz. of anchovies ; 1 oz. of butter; 2 eggs ; 4 squares of fried bread ; cayenne to taste. Take one ounce of anchovies, one ounce of butter, and pass through a sieve; melt it in a saucepan, and as it melts add the beaten yolks of two eggs. Stir tdl as thick as buttered eggs and serve on fried bread. Potatoes au Gratin. For Six Persons.—8 potatoes; 1 gill of milk; 1 table- spoonful of flour; 1 egg ; a teacupful of grated cheese ; salt and cayenne to taste ; 1 oz. of bread crumbs. Slice some boiled potatoes and put a layer in a pie dish, then spread a layer of thick white sauce with, the yolk of an egg and cheese in it over the potatoes, then another layer of potatoes tiU the dish is full. Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and cheese. Bake about twenty minutes. Golden Eggs. bOR Four Persons.—6 eggs; 1 oz. of bread crumbs; butter for frying; salt; cayenne ; J pint of rich white sauce ; a squeeze of lemon. Hard boil some eggs, shell them and sprinkle them with flour and salt; beat up a raw egg and dip theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 1/ 'd-boiled ones in it, roH them in bread crumbs and a good golden colour. Serve with white sauce. Genoese Eggs. 'or Four Persons.—3 eggs; 3 taWespoonfuls of rice • iis. of butter; 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley ; pepper 1. salt to taste; 1 onion ; some slices of buttered toast. Cwo or three hard-boiled eggs chopped very fine ; F thoroughly with three tablespoonfuls of rice well iiled, but each grain must be dry and separate. iT.t into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a httle ')pped parsley, pepper, salt, and a httle onion; Len quite hot serve on a shce of fried or buttered ist. Gascony Butter. i'oR Four Persons.—1 oz. of chopped parsley; 2 ozs. of ihovies; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne to taste. Hake equal quantities of parsley picked and par- iiled, of anchovies washed, boned, and pounded, wo fresh butter ; mix the ingredients weU together, (H cayenne, and pass all through a hair sieve; shape to httle baUs and garnish with parsley. Eggs ^ I’Annecy. il'oR Four Persons.—6 eggs; 1 oz. of butter ; 2 ozs. of it-pped mushrooms (if tinned mushrooms are used, 1 table- (■onful of mushroom ketchup must be added); 1 tablospoon- - of chopped parsley; half an onion ; 5 pieces of fried i^ad. IHard boil some eggs, put them into cold water, and Ben sheU, cut them in half and take out the yolks, lop them fine. Put a nice-sized piece of butter bto a saucepan with some chopped mushrooms, then cSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. add the yolks with some chopped parsley and a littleW' onion. Stir all well together and add one or two ra-^^ eggs, according to the quantity. Serve on fried®^ toast. II For Four Persons.—6 potatoes ; 1 gill of cream ; cayenne | and salt to taste; 2 eggs. I Eoast six large potatoes, cut off the top of each one | carefully, turn them into a basin and mash them till| quite smooth, add a little cream, cayenne, salt, and| the yolks of two eggs ; mix well and put them back] into the skins. Bake for twenty minutes, and serve| very hot. J For Four Persons.—8 slices of bread and butter ; 3 toma-j toes ; pepper and salt to taste ; 1 basket of mustard andl cress, or 1 lettuce. i Cut some slices of bread and butter, season well* with pepper and salt, put a slice of tomato on the' bread and another slice of bread on that. Cut into' oblong shapes, serve on a napkin with mustard and cress or lettuce in the centre. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of cbicken. or game; 1 oz. of, Parmesan cheese ; 3 anchovies; 3 rounds of fried bread ; a tablespoonful of fried bread crumbs ; 2 ozs. of butter; cayenne' to taste. I Take a httle chicken or game, a little ham, some Parmesan cheese, thi’ee anchovies washed and boned,1 a pat of butter, cayenne pepper and salt; pound all together and pass through a sieve. Have ready! some fried bread cut in rounds ; spread this mix- Potato Souffle. Tomato Sandwiches. Canapis ^ la Windsor.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 19 roe thick on each round, sprinkle fried bread crumbs them, and place in the oven for ten minutes, rrve very hot. Anchovies in Olives. FFor Two Persons.—3 anchovies; 9 French, olives ; J oz. ■llted butter; cayenne to taste; 3 small squares of tried f-ead. IPass through a sieve some boned anchovies and iix with some melted butter and cayenne pepper, egel some French olives and fill the inside with the )i)Ove mixture. Serve on fried rounds of bread, rree or four olives on each round. If liked, a httle the mixture may be spread on the rounds. - Parmese Rice. IFor Three Persons.—1 onion; pint of shelled shrimps :bits of lobster ; , 1 dessertspoonful of dry mustard (Finch’s) ; tieacupful of rice; 1 tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese ; salt :taste. ]Fry a sliced onion in butter with a few shelled ?.rimps or bits of lobster, stirring in a dessert- (oonful of dry mustard. When hot put in a cup- 11 of very dry well-boiled rice—each grain should !! separate—and a tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese ; iir and cook a few minutes. Serve very hot. Kidney and Cheese Toast. IFor Three Persons.—2 kidneys ; 1 teaspoonful of chopped rrsley; 1 eschalot; 2 ozs. of butter ; 1 teaspoonful of •'orcester sauce; 1 tablespoonful of fried bread crumbs; I'.essertspoonful of flour; 1 tablespoonful of Parmesan cheese; ipper and salt to taste. Split the kidneys and chop them up fine._ Put );ime chopped parsley and a httle eschalot into aSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 20 stewpan with some butter ; let all fry together lightly. When done add a little Worcester sauce and flour, and boil for a few minutes to cook the flour; add pepper and salt to taste. Butter lightly a slice of toast, cover with the mince, and above that put fried bread crumbs and a thick sprinkling of Parmesan cheese. Put into the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. ( Oysters fried in Batter. - For Three Persons.—3 tablespoonfuls of flour ; a tea- spoonful of oil ; 2 eggs ; salt and cayenne to taste ; 1 dozen oysters. Take three tablespoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and half a teaspoonful of oil; mix very lightly with tepid water. Whisk the whites of two eggs into a stiff froth and mix with the paste. Dip each oyster in the batter and fry a light brown. A little cayenne is a great improvement to the batter. Cheese Biscuits with Anchovies. For Four Persons.—8 cheese biscuits ; 3 anchovies ; 1 egg; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley; cayenne to taste. ^ Make some cheese biscuits by the same receipt as given for Cheese Straws (page 33), and when baked X>ut the following mixture between two: pass some boned anchovies through a sieve, add the yolk of a hard-boded egg, a small piece of butter, some choj)ped parsley and cayenne. Mix all together, and when between the biscuits put into the oven to heat.21 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Tricolour Toasts. I'Tor Four Persons.—5 squares of bread; 3 or 4 ancbovies; 9 gherkins or olives, or 20 capers. some |lFiy some squares of bread, and spread ■ cbovies wbicb bave been passed tbrougb a sieve on lob; boil tvro eggs bard. Pass tbe whites and kilks tbrougb a mre sieve separately. Cbop some [iderkins or olives or capers, whichever is most liked, .d arrange tbe toast with tbe whites, then tbe yolk, id lastly the gherkins or capers. In that way you get Irree colours, a band of each. These toasts are best bid. Tomato Omelet. IIFor Three Persons.—4 tomatoes ; 1 tablespoon ful of kur ; 1 gill of milk ; 4 eggs ; salt and pepper to taste ; 2 1.3. of butter for frying. ' Take four ripe tomatoes, peel them and cbop them mall; beat a tablespoonful of flour to a smooth uste with a bttle milk; add four well-beaten eggs, lllittle pepper and salt and tbe tomatoes. Pry tbe lelet in tbe usual way, and serve very hot. Tomatoes au Gratin. }For Foi^r Persons —4 tomatoes ; 6 mushrooms ; 1 onion; |eeggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs ; 2 teaspoonfuls of I opped parsley ; 2 teaspoonfuls of grated Parmesan ; salt ^dd pepper to taste. Cut off tbe bottom of tbe tomatoes and take tbe '.side out carefully; cbop up a few mushrooms, an 1 don, and some parsley tiU quite flue; season with ■It and pepj)er; fry the whole for a few minutes, lid tbe yolks of two eggs. Mix and All the tomatoes,22 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. sprinkle the top of each with equal quantities of cheese and bread crumbs and put into the oven to brown. Shrimp Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 rounds of bread; \ pint of shelled shrimps ; 2 ozs. of butter ; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs ; cayenne to taste. Fry some rounds of bread; take quarter of a pint of shelled shrimps and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle in a tablespoonful of flour, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, a little cream and cayenne pepper; mix well together and let it boil two minutes. Place on the rounds of bread with fried crumbs on the top of each. Tomato Toast. For Four Persons.—3 tomatoes ; 3 red chillies ; 1 onion; i oz. butter; 1 dessertspoonful of milk; 1 tablespoonful of crumbs ; 1 > salt and cayenne to taste. Take three large tomatoes, put them into boding water for two minutes, then peel them and chop very fine with three red chillies, salt, and a small onion. Put half an ounce of butter in a pan with a dessert- spoonful of milk, add the tomatoes and chillies, cook for a few minutes and mix a well beaten egg with it. Cook till the mixture is the thickness of buttered eggs, serve on slices of buttered toast, and sprinkle fried bread crumbs on the top.23 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Curried Eggs. 1 For Four Persons.—1 oz. butter ; 3 eggs; 1 tablespoonful cream ; 1 dessertspoonful of curry powder or paste ; salt taste. Take one ounce of butter, three eggs, one table- jpoonful of cream, one dessertspoonful of curry paste [ir powder. Put the butter into a pan to melt, add Jiae eggs, cream, and curry paste; salt to taste, stir t-U it gets thick and serve on buttered toast. Canapis of Sardines. For Four Persons.—5 pieces of fried bread; 5 sardines; eggs; 1 teaspoonful of Fincli’s mustard ; 1 teaspoonful of ■ legar ; 1 tablespoonful of mixed minced parsley, chives, and Tagon ; 5 pickled gherkins. Fry some pieces of bread the length and width of sardine ; take .some sardines and strip them from Ihe bone, lay one haK of them aside and pound the |it)ther half with the yolks of one or two hard-boiled yggs and some butter. Add mustard, pepper, chives, minced parsley, tarragon, and a teaspoonful of vine- f^ar. Mix all these ingredients thoroughly, spread the mixture on the toast, and lay a half sardine on ■i)ach. Place in the oven to get hot, and serve with a limall pickled gherkin on each. Truffes ^ la Serviette. For Six Persons.—10 truffles; 1 onion; 1 slice of bacon; 11 bunch of mixed herbs; pepper and a good deal of salt; 1 ns'ineglass of sherry ; 1 pint of stock. Take some good-sized fresh truffles, wash tho- r’oughly, put them in a saucepan with an onion, a Bslice of bacon, herbs, pepper and salt; boil them inSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 24 stock with a wineglass of sherry. Boil till tender, and serve on a napkin. Oyster Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 squares of fried bread; 1 dozen oysters; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; 1 teaspoonful of flour ; 1 gill of cream; pepper and salt to taste. Take some oysters and cut them into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little cream, a sprin- kle of flour, a few di*ops of anchovy sauce, cayenne pepper and salt. Heat thoroughly and serve on fried bread. ; ? « t Vegetable Marrow ^ I’EspagnoIe. | For Four Persons.—1 vegetable marrow; 2 large toma- i toes ; 1 oz. of butter; 1 onion ; J pint of stock ; pepper and ‘ salt to taste. ; Slice an onion and two large tomatoes, fry them in t a little butter. When they are cooked, put in the j marrow cut into nice square pieces, moisten with a • little hot stock, add pepper and salt; let the whole ; stew gently till the marrow is cooked. Serve hot. ; 1 Imitation Foie Gras. For Six Persons.—J lb. calf’s liver; J lb. bacon; 1 J carrot; 1 turnip ; 1 onion; 1 bouquet of herbs; cayenne | and salt to taste. Take half a pound of calf’s liver, quarter of a • pound of rather fat bacon, a carrot, turnip, onion, a . bouquet of herbs, pepper and salt. Cut up the i bacon, put it into a frying-pan and fry gently, cut J the liver up and put it in also; the vegetables must | be cut up and fried. Stir over the fixe till it isSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 25 j ooked; it must not be brown. Turn tbe contents into i; mortar, pound until tbe meat is fine, then rub I: irougb a bair sieve. Tbe vegetables are merely to ive tbe fiver a nice flavour, so need not be pounded r passed tbrougb a sieve. Marrow Toasts. ' For Four Persons.—2 marrow bones; 1 teaspoonful of iiuced parsley; a few drops of lemon juice; 5 squares of r.-ied bread or toast. Boil two marrow bones, and wben tbey are suffici- mtly cooked, take out tbe marrow and place on small iquares of bot buttered toast; sprinkle chopped )yarsley and a squeeze of lemon juice on eacb. Serve ^eery bot. Egg and Ham Toasts. For Four Persons.—5 rounds of fried bread; 2 ozs. of uiam; 1 gill of cream; 5 eggs; 1 spoonful of chopped warsley; 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice. Fry some rounds of bread sufficiently large to bold u poacbed egg. Before frying, mark tbem ligbtly nvitb a cutter about an incb from tbe edge all tbe way r.’ound. Tbe bread must be an incb in tbickness. VWben fried, run a knife round tbe mark and take D3ut tbe middle; care must be taken so as to leave aibout balf an incb tbickness at tbe bottom. Fill up L:be space witb finely chopped bam moistened with le.cream ; add chopped parsley, a little lemon juice and ciayenne. Place a poacbed egg on tbe top of tbe cmixture and serve very bot.26 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Boiled or Stewed Cheese. Foa Six Persons.—4 ozs. of Cheshire cheese ; 2 eggs ; 1 dessertspoonful of cream ; 1 oz. of butter ; a little salt. Scrape four ounces of CLesliire cheese, add the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a dessertspoonful of cream and a little butter ; put it into a saucepan and set it on the fire for ten minutes, stirring the whole time. Serve on a hot-water dish. Ham Toasts. For Four Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of cream ; 2 table- spoonfuls of ham; 1 tablespoonful of bread crumbs ; 1 tea- spnoriful of chopped parsley; 1 anchovy ; 1 tablespoonful of fried crumbs ; 5 pieces of toasted bread. Take of cooked ham finely minced two tahlespoon- fuls, one of bread crumbs, two of cream, a little chopped parsley, and a little pepper and dry mustard, one anchovy chopped fine; put all into a saucepan and heat thoroughly. Serve on squares of hot buttered toast, with fried bread crumbs on the top. Victoria Sandwiches. For Four Persons.—8 anchovies ; 8 slices of thin brown bread and butter; 2 eggs; 1 small bunch of mustard and cress; a little parsley for garnishing. AVash eight anchovies, bone them, and take out^ the backbones, divide them into halves. Cut an equal number of thin slices of brown bread and butter; put between two slices alternate layers of hard-boiled eggs, cut in thin slices, mustard and cress cut small, and the fillets of the anchovies; press the shoes closely together, and with a sharp knife cut them into small squares. Serve on a nap- kin and garnish with parsley.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 27 Shrimps Scalloped. Tor Four Persons.—J pint of shelled shrimps; 1 gill of : ;ik ; 1 dessertspoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter; 1 table- ; oonful of bread crumbs ; 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; i y’enne to taste. iButter some small scallop shells, and fill them with ;;rimps. Make a thick white sauce with a lump of ' itter in it and a little anchovy sauce, add cayenne : pper, pour over the shrimps, put bread crumbs on i: ch, and brown in the oven. Puffed Eggs. I j>FoR Sex Persons.—4 eggs; 1 pint of cream or new milk : ■oz. of butter; 1 red chilli; 3 olives; 6 capers; | pint I igood gravy. i Beat four eggs lightly, and mix with them about i pint of cream or new milk ; season with salt and j '-3pper. Butter some small moulds and pour in the i'..ixture, put the moulds into a saucepan with about 1 xvo inches of water at the bottom of it ; steam j wenty minutes, turn them out and serve with a I ■ dck brown gravy; chop two red chillies, three olives I md a few capers and add to the gravy. Shrimp Canapis. For Four Persons.—oz. of fresh butter; 6 rounds of r read fried ; J pint of shrimps ; 1 gill of milk ; 1 teaspoon- i.d of anchovy sauce; a little parsley for garnishing; 1 esssertspoonful of flour. Fry some rounds of bread and spread some shrimp aauce on them; ornament them by placing some iicked shrimps upon them, and place them in a circle in a dish overla2)ping each other. Garnish with K arsley in the centre.28 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Savoury Beetroot. Fok Four Persons.—1 slice of onion ; half a beetroot, or the whole of a small one ; ^ teaspoonful of salt; \ teaspoonful of diy Finch’s mustard; | teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; 3 tablespoonfuls of cream ; 3 tahlespoonfuls ot milk. Fry a slice of onion in butter, tben mix together half a teaspoonful of salt, half of dry mustard, half of anchovy sauce, one of flour, three of cream, and three of milk ; pour it over the onion in the saucepan and boil five minutes ; lastly, slice in a moderate- sized boiled beetroot. If you have no cream, use double quantity of milk and a little more flour. This is to be eaten cold. Eggs in Pipkins. For Four Persons.—4 eggs'; 4 tahlespoonfuls-of cream; 1 saltspoonful of salt; J saltspoonful of cayenne. Break a new-laid egg into each pipkin, add a tablespoonful of cream, cayenne, and salt; put into a hot oven for five minutes, and serve. Savoury Pudding. For Four to Six Persons.—f pint of bread crumbs; a small bunch of thyme and parsley; a teaspoonful of curry powder ; 2 eggs ; 6 slices of cheese ; 3 ozs. of fresh butter ; 1 pint of warm milk; salt and pepper to taste. Mix well together half a pint of bread crumbs, a little thyme and parsley, a teaspoonful of curry powder, two hard-boiled eggs chopped small,' a few slices of cheese crumbled up, two ounces of fresh butter dissolved in a pint of warm milk, and two raw eggs beaten well. Let this soak for haK an hour before baking. A shallow dish should be used, and a cool oven is necessary. The top should have a few29 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ts of butter spread over it, and be covered with a iate until half done, 'svben it must be removed for e j)udding to brown. Bake one hour and a half. Macaroni with Tomato Sauce. rFoB, Six Persons.—J lb. of macaroni; .mion ; 2|- ozs. of grated Grayere cheese ; urmesan ; lit to taste 1 oz. of butter ; ozs. of grated a suspicion of nutmeg ; teaspoonful of pepper; 6 tablespoonfuls of cream. 3 Boil half a pound of macaroni in water with a mp of butter, an onion, two cloves, and salt; when ?i)ne, drain tbe macaroni and place in a saucepan iitb two and a half ounces of grated Gruyere cbeese, nd two and a balf ounces of grated Parmesan leese, a little grated nutmeg, some coarse black epper, and six tablespoonfuls of cream. Toss and ir well until tbe cbeese becomes thick and stringy, isb up witb tomato sauce in tbe middle of tbe >sb. Angels on Horseback. •For Six Persons.—8 large oysters; 8 slices of fat bacon; i},yenne to taste; 8 small pieces of toast. Take some large cooking oysters, and put eacb in : piece of fat bacon, tying it up witb a bit of white 3)tton, and toast them before tbe fire over a piece of laast. Serve as soon as tbe bacon is cooked. Scalloped Salsify. For Two Persons.—4 roots of salsify ; ^ a lemon or 1 gill f" vinegar; ^ oz. of salt; J pint of milk; 1 tablespoonful f f flour ; 1 oz. of butter; 1 dessertspoonful of ancbovy sauce; tablespoonful of fried crumbs of bread; 2 scallop shells. Scrape some roots of salsify, cut them into short lengths, and throw them into cold water witb eitherSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 30 lemon juice or vinegar in it. Boil tliem till tender | in well-salted water; when cooked, drain and put i into a thick white sauce, to which you have added j a little anchovy sauce and cayenne pepper. Put them into scallop shells and sj)rinkle fried crumbs on them. Serve very hot. Kidneys Sautfes. Fob, Three Persons.—2 kidneys; 1 oz. of butter; 4 pieces of fried bread ; 1 teaspoonful of minced parsley ; cayenne and salt to taste. Slice and parboil two kidneys, then fry them in a frying-pan with a nice bit of butter ; toss them till done; add pepper, salt, a little minced parsley and lemon juice; season well with cayenne and salt. Serve on fried toasts. Sunshiny Eggs. For Three Persons.—1 oz. butter; 3 eggs ; pepper and salt to taste; 3 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce. Melt a little butter in an omelet pan, sprinkle salt upon it, break as many eggs as required, and fry these for about two minutes, care being taken that they do not spread too much. Put them on a hot dish, sprinkle well with pepper, and pour some thick tomato sauce over them. Cheese Canapis. Fob Three Persons.—4 rounds of fried bread ; ■ 1 tea- spoonful of dry mustard (Finch’s); 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan; cayenne and salt to taste ; 12 capers or nastur- tium seeds. Fry some small rounds of bread a nice colour, spread a little mustard on each round ; sprinkle over that a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, add cayenne and salt to taste. Put them in a quick ovenSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 31 I 1 I the cheese is dissolved. A few capers on each is a great improvement. Serve as hot as i.'sihle. Pickled nastui’tinms can he used instead [japers. j Hungarian Patties. ^OE, Four Persons.—| lb. of flour ; f lb. of lard ; 2 eggs; I ,taspoonful of lemon j nice; teaspoonful of baking powder; i-ss. of chicken; 6 musbrooms ; 1 anchovy ; 1 teaspoonful : t smon peel; i pint of milk; oz. of butter ; cayenne and ;to taste. ! lalf a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of lard, > yolk of one egg, half a teaspoonful of lemon I (ce, and half a teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix CO a paste lightly. Line some patty tins with it, II have ready the following mixture: mince some icken, add to it a few mushrooms, an anchovy, a lie lemon peel, cayenne pepper and salt; mince ■ together and mix with some nice white sauce, put the patty tins, cover with paste, brush them ;ir with an egg, and bake in a hot oven. Eggs en Caisse. I OR Four Persons.—4 ramequin cases; 1 oz. of butter; i i.blespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 4 teaspoonfuls of mixed poped parsley and chives ; cayenne and salt to taste; 4 PPrepare some small paper or china cases by butter- ;: them well; sprinkle the cases thickly with a scture of bread crumbs, chopped parsley, chives, ■ enne, and salt. Break an egg into each case, and 'k in the oven till the eggs are nicely set. Put ’.mbs on the top of each.32 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. French Pie. For Six or Eight PERSONfs.—IJ lbs. of calf’s liver; 1 eschalot; 1 teaspoonful of cayenne ; J teaspoonful of black pepper ; \ lb. of unsmoked fat bacon ; J lb. of veal or chicken ; a pint of good stock; ozs. of gelatine. Boil the calf’s liver; when cold, put it through a mincing machine twice, and pound it in a mortar with an eschalot, mace, nutmeg, cayenne, black pepper, and salt; season highly. Line a china mould with very thin slices of bacon (it must he fat), then put a layer of cooked veal, rabbit, poultry, or game, cut in thin slices ; next a thick layer of the pounded liver, and so on, until the mould is full. Pour in some good gravy or stock in which some gelatine has been melted, cover the top with bacon, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours. More gravy should be added when the mould comes out of the |i oven. Let it set till quite cold and tiu'n out. This is an excellent dish for luncheon. ! Savoury Tomatoes. For Five Persons.—3 tomatoes; 2 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs; 1 tablespoonful of grated cheese; 1 tablespoonful of cream; J teaspoonful of sugar; caj'enne and salt; 6 slices ' of imsmoked bacon; 6 rounds of buttered toast. Take three large tomatoes and cut them into halves, take out the insides and mix thoroughly with some i bread crumbs, a little grated cheese, a gill of cream, cayenne, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar; re- ' place in the halves, and on top of each half place a i thin shce of unsmoked bacon. Put into the oven to cook, and when the bacon is done the tomatoes will be cooked. Serve each half on a round piece of thin buttered toast.33 SAVOURIES AND SWEE2S. Cheese Toast. 1 .'?0R Two Persons.—2 ozs. of cheese; 1 egg ; 1 gill of I '■‘■k; pepper and salt to taste ; 4 slices of buttered toast. I (Grate some clieese, add pepper and salt, a well- i ; aten egg, and sufficient milk to make it like cream, i arm aU togetlier in a saucepan and pour over some j > ces of hot buttered toast. It must be very hot. I j Sardine Sandwiches. I FFor Twenty-pour Sandwiches.—24 slices of thin bread and ittter; 12 sardines; 2 eggs; 1 teaspoonful of chopped rrsley; 1 teaspoonful of cayenne and black pepper; 1 bunch watercress or one lettuce. ' < Cut some slices of thin bread and butter, and put i^e following mixture on each slice : bone and pass [Trough a sieve twelve sardines, the yolks of two j ird-boiled eggs, and a nice piece of butter; add ';me finely chopped parsley, and season highly with l;.ack pepper and cayenne, mix all well together. Cut i.e sandwiches into oblong shapes and serve with : tess or lettuce in the middle. Cheese Straws. Foe Six Persons.—2 ozs. of flour ; 2 ozs. of cheese (Par- eesan); 1 oz. of lard; 1 oz. of butter ; 1 gill of water ; i' yenne and salt. Take two ounces of flour, two ounces of cheese, one ■nmce lard, one ounce butter ; mix into a light paste iith a little water, cayenne, and salt, roll out the aaste very thin, cut into straws, and bake in a quick wen. D34 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. I Canapis de Volaille. Fob Four Persons.—8 slices of bread and butter; half a lettuce; 2 ozs. of chicken; 4 anchovies; cayenne; 1 bunch of watercress. • Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, spread on them some shred lettuce, and on the lettuce spread Mayonnaise sauce, and on that place some thin slices: of chicken and fillets of anchovies, then another slice of bread and butter. Cut into oblong shapes, and serve on a najDkin with cress or lettuce in the middle. Cheese Trifles. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of grated cheese; 1 egg; cayenne and salt to taste; 1 dessertspoonful of cream; enough puff paste to line four patty pans. Put some thin puff paste into patty tins ; mix one»i ounce of grated cheese, the yolk of one egg, a little* cayenne pepper, salt, and a dessertspoonful of cream. Whisk the white to a froth and stir it in lightly.;; Place in the patty tins and bake in a quick oven. Anchovy Omelet. For Four Persons.—6 fillets of anchovies; 6 pieces of friedl bread; 6 eggs ; pepper and salt to taste; 3 ozs. of butter fori frying. , Take six fillets of anchovy; fry some pieces o bread the same size as the anchovies, and place fillet on each piece of bread; beat up six eggs,, season with pepper and salt. AVith half the quantit make a thin flat omelet like a pancake. Do not turn but lay it on a hot dish, over its surface distribut the pieces of fried bread and anchovy; with th remainder of the omelet make another like the firsSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 35 |;nd lay it over the other. Set it a few minutes before ; le fire to make the two edges adhere, and serve j ery hot. Ham Omelet. For Three Persons.—1 oz. of ham : 4 eggs ; Jteaspoon- I’.il of pepper ; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Mince one ounce of ham very fine, and if uncooked •.y it for a minute or two in a little butter. Break our eggs into a basin, beat them well, and stir in lith them the minced ham and a quarter of a tea- L'DOonful of pepper. Put two ounces of butter into I l ie omelet pan, and when hot add the eggs and stir uuickly until the mixture sets. Fry a light brown tad serve very hot. Asparagus Omelet. i For Foor Persons.—25 heads of asparagus ; 4 eggs ; pepper tid salt to taste ; 2 ozs. of hutter; ^ pint of hrown gravy. Boil twenty-five heads of asparagus and when |i!nder cut the green ends into very small pieces; iix them with four well-beaten eggs and add a fttle pepper and salt. Melt a piece of butter, about ro ounces, in an omelet pan, pour in the mixture, Lir till it thickens, fold it over, and serve with a clear •'’own gravy. Parmesan Puffs. i i For Three Persons.—4J ozs. of bread crumbs ; 4 ozs. o-f sated Parmesan; 2 ozs. of fresh butter; ^ teaspoonful i cayenne and salt mixed; 2 eggs. Put four ounces of finely grated bread crumbs, uur ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ouncesSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 36 of fresh hutter, and a little salt and cayenne into a mortar and pound them thoroughly. Bind the mix- ture together with a well-beaten egg, and make it . into balls the size of a walnut; egg and bread I crumb them and fry a nice light colour. Drain them , and serve very hot piled on a napkin. Cheese Omelet. 1. Foe Three Persons.—4 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of Parme- san ; teaspoonful of parsley ; cayenne and salt to taste; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Break four eggs into a basin, add a little salt and ' pepper, two tablespoonfuls of Parmesan cheese. Beat all well, add a little finely chopped parsley; put two ' ounces of butter on omelet pan, pour it in. Brown ‘ nicely and serve. Spanish Rice. For Four Persons.—J lb, of rice ; | oz. of butter; 2 toma-, toes ; I tablespoonful of grated cheese ; pepper and salt to • taste. Boil half a pound of rice as for curry. Dry it;I well, and fry it with a slice of butter till it is lightly'! browned. Stir into it two large toasted tomatoes f and a tablespoonful of grated cheese. Season withj pepper and salt. Serve it piled high on a dish. Welsh Rabbit. For Two Persons.—3 slices of buttered toast; 3 slices of f cheese ; ^ teaspoonful of mustard and salt mixed. Make some slices of buttered toast, cover them “ with slices of cheese, spread a little mustard over the j ■ | cheese, and set in a Dutch oven before the fire to melt. Serve very hot. 'SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 37 Buttered Eggs- ■ For Three Persons.—2 eggs ; 1 oz. of butter; pepper and , . It to taste ; three slices of buttered toast. Take two eggs and one ounce of butter; melt :ie butter and add the eggs, stirring it the whole 1 une. As soon as it thickens su£B.ciently, put it : 'll slices of hot buttered toast, season with cayenne . iiid salt. Kidney Omelet. i 'For Two Persons.—3 eggs; 1 kidney ; 2 J ozs. of butter; I /yenne and salt to taste. 1 1 Take three eggs, one kidney, two and a half ounces I •! butter ; skin the kidney and cut it very small, fry i in some of the butter till cooked. Mix the in- I rredients for the omelet well, taking care to whisk i ue yolks and whites separately ; season with pepper [lid salt, add the kidney. Melt the butter in the iinelet pan and fry the omelet till nice and brown, i iim and serve. Cheese Fondu. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of flour; 1 oz. of butter: ■ pint of new milk ; cayenne and salt to taste ; 3 ozs. of i r;-ated Parmesan ; 3 eggs. j Melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan, mix 3 Qoothly with it one ounce of flour, a pinch of salt Did cayenne, and a quarter of a pint of new milk; immer the mixture gently over the fire, stirring it LJ the time, till it is as thick as melted butter ; stir iT.to it three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, mrn it into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of two ! ell-beaten eggs, whisk the whites of three to a stiff38 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. froth, and just before the fondue is baked add them. Pour the mixture into a well-oiled round tin, and bake twenty minutes. The tin ought only to be half full, as the fondue will rise a great deal. Savoury Toast. For Three Persons.—3 anchovies ; \ saltspoonful of Pinch's dry mustard; 1 oz. of butter; cayenne to taste; 1 egg; 1 tablespoonful of cream; 1 large slice of brown biead and butter toast. Bone three anchovies, beat them to a paste, add a pinch of dry mustard, a small piece of butter and cayenne ; put it into a saucepan with the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of cream, stir well over the fire, but do not let it boil. Make a slice of brown l)read toast, butter it well, and pour the above over it. French Bean Omelet. For Three Persons.—2 tablespoonfuls of boiled French beans; 4 eggs ; 2 table^poonfuls of grated Parmesan; 2 ozs. of butter for frying ; salt and pepper to taste. Cut up the French beans into small pieces, and stir them into the eggs, which have been well beaten; next add grated Parmesan cheese, salt, and pepper. When thoroughly mixed, put the whole into an omelet pan with two ounces of butter, fry a joale brown, and serve very hot. Anchovy and Whipped Cream. For Four Persons.—5 squares of toast buttered; 1 egg; 1 oz. of butter; 2 teaspoonfuls of anchovy paste; 1 tea- spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; 6 olives; pint of cream ; cayenne to taste; 8 fillets of anchovies.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 39 Make some toast, cut it into neat square pieces, utter it, then spread thickly upon it the following lixture : stir in a jam-pot (placed in a saucepan of ot water over the &e) the beaten yolk of one egg, a mall lump of butter, a little cayenne, some anchovy iauce or paste, a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, , few finely chopped ohves, and a gill of cream, intil the thickness of a rich custard (it must on mo account be allowed to boil). Whip some rich rream to a froth, let it drain awhile on a sieve, then iile it up on each piece of toast over the anchovy lustard. Pillet and bone some anchovies (if very alt they must be well soaked), cut the fillets into malves, lay four strips against the piled-up cream on :;ach square of toast (the ends meeting at the top). J^3erve cold. Devilled Almonds. For Six Persons.—lb. of sweet almonds; cayenne and >i:alt to taste; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Blanch some sweet almonds, sprinkle them with tcayenne pepper and a little salt, fry them in butter iimtil a rich golden colour, place them on brown ppaper to drain off the fat. Serve them cold.Part II. SWEETS.SWEETS. Rich Christmas Pudding. :0R Twelve Persons.—| lb. of flour; 1 lb. of suet; f )i)f currants; 1 lb. of raisins ; 2 ozs. of candied peel; | lb. rrated bread ; ^ lb. of sugar ; 1 lemon ; 1 teaspoonful of : e3 ; 8 eggs ; 1 wineglass of rum or brandy. ?lh.op the suet finely, well dry the currants, stone .. chop the raisins, grate the bread, pound the . ar, grate the lemon peel; mix all the dry ingre- lats together, then add the eggs (the whites and Iks beaten separately), and afterwards the rum or i:,ndy. Boil twenty-four hours in a well-buttered li:nd basin, serve with brandy butter, made as ows : half a pint of cream whisked to a froth, wineglassful of brandy, sugar to taste, quarter jiind of chopped blanched almonds. To be served ai tureen and eaten cold with the pudding. > I Bakewell Pudding. VoR Six Persons.—Enough puff paste to line a pie-dish; zzs. of candied peel; ^ lb. of blackberry jam; lb. of i' cot jam ; f lb. of strawberry jam ; 5 lb. of cheese cake :tture; j lb. of sugar; ^ lb. of butter; 4 eggs. Line a pie-dish with paste covered with chopped I'.died peel, place on it several layers of different coured jam, and then a layer of cheese cake mix-44 SA VOURIES AND SWEETS. ture (page 46). Clarify the butter and add the sugar to it, the yolks of four and the white of one egg, and the chopped almonds; pour on the top of the layers of preserve, and grate some fine sugar over it. Bake in a moderate oven an hour and a quarter. I Lemon Dumplings. I For Two Persons.—1 lemon ; 2 ozs. of sugar ; ^ lb. of| bread crumbs ; J lb. of suet; 2 eggs. [ Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the grated bread f crumbs, and add the grated rind of the lemon. Shred the suet very fine and put it with the rest of the ingredients, beat two eggs well and add them.; Make into small dumplings and boil three hours.; Serve with sugar dusted over them. 1 Mincemeat for Mince Pies. i To LAST FOR Several Months.—2J lbs. of raisins; 2J lbs.' of currants ; 2^ lbs. of suet:. 2j lbs. of apples ; 2 lbs. off sugar ; 1J lbs. of orange peel; 1 oz. of allspice : 2 sticks o£ cinnamon ; 1 bottle of sherry ; Ij pints of brandy. One lb.! weight of mincemeat will make 18 mince pies. Two and a half pounds of raisins, two and a half poimds of currants, two and a half pounds of bee:6 suet, the same quantity of apples, with two pounds of! sugar, one and a half pounds of orange peel, one» ounce of allspice, a very little cinnamon, a bottle of sherry, and a pint of brandy. Chop all the ingre- dients well except the currants ; mix thoroughly, pufi into a nice jar, and keep tightly tied down until wanted for use, and then add a little fresh brandy ta the mince used. Bake in small patty tins lined witbi puflt paste about three quarters of an hour in a quicla oven.SAVOURIES AND SIVEETS. 45 Lemon Snow Pudding. 1 For Four Persons.—J oz. of gelatine; ^ lb. of white sugar; Memons; 2 eggs. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine in water, add a pound of white sugar and the juice of four 3mons. Boil for ten minutes. Strain and let it :and till cold and it begins to thicken, then add the >hites of two eggs well beaten, and whisk all together util hght. Put into a glass dish and stand to ffet old. Velvet Cream. , For Ten Persons.—| oz. of isinglass; 1 teacupful of herry ; 1 lemon ; 2 ozs. of sugar ; 1 pint of cream. Dissolve three-quarters of an, ounce of isinglass in u small quantity of water, a teacupful of sherry, (with the juice and grated rind of a lemon. Sweeten ^;o taste. When dissolved strain through a muslin d stir it into a pint of cream. Pour into a mould ind allow to get cold. Castle Puddings. For Fwe Persons.—2 eggs; 2 ozs. of butter; 2 ozs. of ugar ; 2 ozs. of flour ; 1 lemon; ^ saltspoonful of vanilla; ttins or cups for baking in. Weigh two eggs in the shell, and take the same ■weight of butter, sugar, and flour; put the butter i into a basin before the Are till half melted, then beat ! it to a cream. Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs t together for ten minutes and mix them lightly with * the butter, add the sugar, then the flour, add some ; grated lemon peel and a few drops of vanilla. Bake ’ twenty minutes in a slow oven in cups.SAVOURIES AND SWEEST. 46 Claret Jelly. For Ten Persons.—1 oz. of isinglass ; \ bottle of claret half a lemon ; 1 cupful of raspberry j uice : 1 tablespoonful on brandy ; ^ lb. of loaf sugar ; ^ pint of cream ; ^ salt-j spoonful of vanilla. | Boil for a few minutes one ounce of Swinburn’sJI isinglass with. haK a bottle of claret, the juice and|| rind of half a lemon, a small teacupful of raspberryjl juice, a tablespoonful of brandy, half a pound ofj| loaf sugar. Pour into a china mould and put aside till the following day. When it is to be used, servejS with a garnish of whipped cream flavoured with vanilla. Chocolate Cream. For Ten Persons.— 1 oz. of gelatine ; 3 ozs. of chocolate; 2 ozs. of sugar; f pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; ^ pint of cream ; 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Cover one ounce of gelatine with water; pound three ounces of chocolate with castor sugar to taste, put it with three-quarters of a pint of milk into a saucepan, stir till it thickens ; do not allow it to boil, but when entirely dissolved take away from lire and stir in the yolks of three previously beaten eggs and add the gelatine, whisk in half a pint of creani. I When the mixture is nearly cool put into it a tea- spoonful of vanilla. Pour into a china mould and allow to stand in a cool place until the following day. Cheese Cakes. For Twelve Cheese Cakes.—4 eggs; J lb. of sugar; 2 lemons ; 2 ozs. of butter; suflEicient puff paste to fine the patty pans. Beat the yolks of four eggs tiU nearly white, add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar and the juiceI SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 47 H grated rind of two lemons. Line some patty ns with good puff paste, put some of the mixture ;o each with a tiny piece of butter on top, and bake a hot ovezi. Meringues. Eight Persons.—6 eggs ; 12 ozs. of castor sugar ; 1 isspoonful of vanilla ; ^ piut of cream. IFor meringues use equal weight of sugar and jgs. Put the castor sugar on a wire sieve and sift tthrough on to a paper; put some of the sugar too a copper stewpan and whip the whites of the igs used gently until quite firm with it; put in the s3t of the sugar with a dessert-spoon very lightly. Ihen firm enough to bear an egg laid on it take it tt of the copper stewpan with a table-spoon and aice it in rows on white writing paper. Cast sugar over. Place the paper on which the shapes are a baking tin. The oven must be rather hot and door must be kept open. Bake until firm and of I'oale colour. Take out, heat a knife in hot water d cut the meringues off the paper they are baked ; take out some of the soft inside and fill with lipped vanilla-flavoured cream properly sweetened, im two cases together, letting the cream bulge out tthe sides. Apricot Cream. F^or Ten Persons.—| oz. of isinglass ; mitter almonds ; 6 ozs. of apricot jam ; mt of cream ; 2 eggs ; 2 oz. of sugar. IDissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a stewpan tth three-quarters of a cupful of milk, simmer it ^ of a cup of milk ; pint of milk; 1SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 48 over a slow fire till dissolved, stirring occasionally: strain into a teacup through, a fine sieve. Mix foui pounded bitter almonds with six ounces of apricor jam rubbed through a sieve, put it into a saucepail with half a pint of milk, stir till it thickens, but dc not allow it to boil; take away from the fire and whisk in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Whisk to a stiff froth half a pint of cream sweetened, and sti| it lightly into the other ingredients, then add th<i isinglass not quite cold. Pour into a china mould and allow to set until next day. Sponge Soufflfe. For Four Persons.—Four penny sponge cakes ; J lb. straw* berry jam ; 1 glass of sherry ; 1 oz. castor sugar ; 3 eggs : \ a saltspoonful of vanilla. Use stale sponge cakes. Cut in halves and spread each haK with strawberry jam ; pour a glass and I half of sherry over the cakes, beat the whites oj| three eggs to a froth with a little white castor sugai and a few drops of vanilla. Place in lumps over thi cakes and set in an oven. Almond Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—J lb. of almonds ; lb. a bread crumbs ; J lb. of suet; 3 eggs ; ^ pot of apricot jamj Mix the pounded almonds with the finely grates bread crumbs, suet, the well-beaten eggs, and hal a pot of apricot jam. Put in a china mould an» boil three-quarters of an hour. Turn out befor' serving.49 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Hunter’s Pudding. I For Eight Persons.—§ lb. of castor sugar; | lb. of suet; I-- ^ lb. of flour ; lb. of currants ; J lb. of stoned raisins ; j a I’eemon ; 6 Jamaica peppers; 4 eggs : 1 glass of brandy ; 1 I'oint of milk ; ^ saltspoonful of salt. I Mix the castor sugar with the suet, flour, currants, KStoned raisins, the rind of half a lemon shred very minely, the peppers flnely powdered, four eggs, a ^glass of brandy, a little salt, and sufficient milk too make it of a proper consistence. Boil in a floured efloth for nine hours and serve with sweet sauce. For Six Peksons.—J lb. of dried cberries ; 2 French rolls ; i'f lb. of macaroons ; 1 glass of brandy ; 1 glass of sherry ; 5 5 eggs ; 1 pint of cream or milk ; J a lemon. of French roll, afterwards with macaroons. Bepeat ?bherries, roll, and macaroons until the mould is full; i|iprinkle a glass of brandy and one of sherry. Beat :hree eggs, yolks and whites, and add to a pint of milk u’ cream, hghtly sweetened, and the grated rind of aalf a lemon. Sink the hquid into the solid parts, iteam one hour. For Four Persons.—4 large potatoes ; 1 pint of milk; 1 lb. of macaroons ; J saltspoonful of vanilla; 3 eggs; 1 oz. 4f bread crumbs; 2 ozs. of lard for frying. Boil and mash four potatoes, stir them into a pint milk, warm for fifteen minutes; flavour with E Brandy Pudding. Line a mould with dried cherries, then thin slices Potato Fritters.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 50 pounded macaroons and a drop of vanilla ; boil anc add two yolks of eggs, stir witb a wooden spoor until a thick batter, pour into a dish; when cold rol into balls, egg and bread crumb them and fry ii boiling lard. Place on a brown paper in front of th< fire to drain; sprinkle with castor sugar. ! > Pineapple, Apricot, or Orange Fritters. ' For Four Persons.—2 oranges, or 4 slices of pine, or ( halves of apricots; 1 wineglassful of brandjr; 2 ozs. o sugar; 1 lemon. To make white hatter, or if preferred, as m page 31. 2 tablespooiifuls of flour ; 1 dessertspoonful of salac oil; 1 gill of water (more may be used if required) ; 1 egg (the white only to be used, and well beaten, put in just befor the batter is to be used). Cut the fruit into slices, halves, or quarters, seal in brandy with. some sugar and lemon peel for ai hour, drain, dip in batter and fry; drain once more and serve sjtrinkled with powdered sugar. Sweet Onnelet. j For Three Persons—3 eggs; ^ saltspoonful of salt; 11 teaspoonfuls of castor sugar ; 1 uz. of butter lor frying; ^ Ihtf of jam. [I Beat separately the yolks and whites of three eggsjJ adding a quarter of a saltspoonful of salt to th« whites, which must be whipped to a stiff froth. Beall the yolks to a cream, and add a tablespoonful o|l castor sugar to them ; mix lightly with the whites* Heat an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, anql when it is quite hot pour in the mixture. Stir ill quickly with a spoon till it begins to set. The pai|i| must be shaken to prevent the omelet sticking to itll AVarm some quince or apricot jam, and when thji5' SAVOURIES AND SIVEETS. omelet is of a nice yellow colour, take it out of the pan, spread the jam on one half, fold the other over, ;dust with castor sugar and serve. Pineapple Cream. For Four or Five Persons.—| pot of pineapple jam; I oz. of gelatine ; 2 ozs. of castor sugar ; ^ lemon; \ a pint lof cream. Eub half a pot of pineapple jam through a sieve 1 ^with a wooden spoon. Soak three-quarters of an ' lounce of best gelatine in three tablespoonfuls of ,1 'water, then put it in a saucepan on the fire and I <stir until quite melted; add two ounces of castor >sugar and the juice of half a lemon; pour through a ^strainer and mix with the jam. Whisk half a pint I of cream to a stiff froth; add this lightly to the other i ingredients and stir. Pour into a well-scalded mould Tthat has been rinsed out with cold water. Five Minutes Swiss Roll. For Three Persons.—1 tablespoonful of flour; 1 table- s spoonful of sugar ; 1 teaspoonful of baking powder; 1 egg; lb. of apricot jam; J oz. of castor sugar. Take one tablespoonful of flour, one of sugar, a t teaspoonful of baking powder, and one egg well 1 beaten; mix all together and pour into a small long (dripping tin that has been previously greased. It > should be from a quarter of an inch to half in thick- mess. Bake lightly for five minutes. Have ready ssome warmed apricot jam, spread it over the surface 1 of the pastry, roll up like a bolster. Dust over with (castor sugar and serve.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 52 Apple Shape. Fok Six or Seven Persons.—1 lb. of apples; 4 ozs. of sugax’; ^ pint of water ; 1 lemon ; 1 oz. of gelatine. I Cut a pound of apples into small pieces, having previously peeled and cored them. Stew them with four ounces of sugar and half a pint of water; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the apples and grate a little of the rind, hut only the outside. Cook the apples till quite tender, stirring every now and then. Dissolve some gelatine, about an ounce, with a quarter of a pint of water, and then stir it well while on the fire after it has swelled sufficiently; rub the apples through a sieve and stir in the gelatine. Scald a mould and then rinse it out in cold water, pour the mixture into it and stand it in a cool place. Gooseberry Fool. ^ For Ten Persons.—1 quart of gooseberries; 1 pint ofj water ; sugar to taste ; 1 quart of milk ; 2 eggs, i Put a quart of gooseberries into a pint of water in a stewpan ; when the fruit begins to swell drain the water from them and press them through a colander, sweeten to taste, and set to get cool. Beat in a quart of milk the yolks of two eggs, stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off and stir it gradually into the cool gooseberries. Serve when cold. Strawberry Cream without Cream. For Four or Five Persons.—J lb. of strawberry jam; f b. of sugar; 4 eggs. Pub some strawberry j am through a wire sieve mix a quarter of a poxmd of sugar well sifted. Beatl •nrI SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 53 these the -whites of four eggs for one hour, and [out in lumps in a glass dish. Carrot Pudding. For Three or Four Persons.—2 ozs. of carrots ; 2 penny '•sponge cakes ; 1 teacupful of milk ; 3 ozs. of milk ; 1 -wine- u-glassful of slierrj’'; wineglassful of brandy; IJ ozs. of .'Sugar ; 1 oz. of candied peel. . Eub three ounces of tenderly boiled carrots through ;ia hair sieve with a wooden spoon. Pour upon two )penny sponge cakes a teacupful of boiling milk ; vwhisk three eggs to a froth, and then beat the milk iiand cake smooth. Mix the carrots, eggs, and milk t together, with three ounces of butter, a wineglass- fful of sherry, half a wineglass of brandy, and enough vwhite sugar to sweeten it. Put it into a dish, gar- mish the top with candied peel cut in thin slices. 'Bake in a warm oven for twenty minutes. Rice Fruit Pudding. For Six Persons.—1 breakfast-cupful of rice ; J lb. of t fruit; 2 ozs. of castor sugar ; 2 eggs. Swell some rice with a little milk over the fire ; : mix fruit of any kind with it (raisins, quartered : apples, currants, or gooseberries), sweeten, break the ■ eggs into the rice to bind it, and boil well in a floured ■ cloth or mould. Apple C ustard. For Six Persons.—6 pippins ; | lb. of loaf sugar ; 6 cloves ; ^ pint of custard, as on page 68. Pare and slice six pippins, melt half a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water and six cloves, and54 SAVOURIES AND SIVEETS. skim ; put in the apples and stew till the liquor is. nearly gone. Lay them in a deep dish, take out the eloves ; when they are cold pour in a pint of custard and let it cook by setting the dish in boiling water.j Tt is delicious. Rich Custard Pudding. For Four Persons.—4 eggs ; 1 pint of milk ; 1 gill of cream ; J a lemon ; ^ saltspoonful of salt; 1 oz. of sugar. Whip four eggs and a pint of new milk, a gill of sweet cream, and the grated rind of half a lemon, a, little salt; sweeten to taste. Boil imtil just thick, and lay in a glass dish. Whip some cream and lay over the top. Victoria Sandwiches. For Eight or Ten Persons.—3 eggs; 6 ozs. of butter;, () ozs. of sugar ; 6 ozs. of flour ; 1 pot of apricot jam. Take three eggs, their weight in butter, sugar,, and flour; mix the butter and sugar first, then the Horn- and the eggs well beaten. Bake in a baking tin in a slow oven. When a pale brown, cut in’ lialves, spread one half with apricot jam and place tlie other half over it. Cut to any shape the sand- wiches are required. Serve cold. Potato Vanilla Souffle. For Five Persons.—4 potatoes ; 1 oz. of butter; | pint I of milk ; 1 oz. of sugar ; saltspoonful of vanilla. 4 Bake four good-sized potatoes for three-quarters of an hour; when soft scoop out all the inside of theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 55 .otatoes and rub it through a wire sieve. Boil an iimce of butter and quarter pint of milk; add sugar 0 taste and fifteen di-ops of vanilla, then the sifted I lotato smoothly. Add the yoUcs of three eggs one »y one, beating well together with a wooden spoon. I'leat the whites of four eggs and a pinch of salt, ind beat them separately in another basin to a stiff :roth. Mix all together carefully, and bake in a ^ veil-greased souffle tin in a hot oven, until it rises vvell and is of a pale brown colour. The tin should \>oe only half filled with the mixture. Open Golden Tart. For Four Persons.—Enough short paste to line a mould ; ?■ ozs. grated bread cmmhs ; 1 cupful of golden syrup. Line a plain fiat mould with short paste, rolled rather thin. Mix some golden syrup with some finely pgrated bread crumbs, cover the paste about half an linch in thickness. Add more golden syrup from ill time to time while baking if the eontents of the tart ijj seems too dry. Blay Custard Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—4 eggs ; 1 pint of milk ; tablespoonfuls of castor sugar ; j lb. of apricot jam ; 1 oz. bread crumbs ; j saltsjpoonful of vanilla. 2 of Beat the yolks of four eggs to a cream, add a pint of milk and two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, adding a pinch of salt. Place a thick layer of apricot or strawberry jam at the bottom of a neat-looking pie dish and spread over it a thin layer of fine &ead5 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. CTumbs. Lightly mix the yolks and whites together, and pour the mixture into the pie dish and hake until the custard is set. Whip the whites of two eggs to» a stiff froth, adding a drop or two of vanilla an ' some sugar; place on the top of the custard in the' pie dish and bake until of a fine brown colour. Serve cold. a 1 Snow Pudding. Fob. Six Pebsons.—J lb. of loaf sugar; 2 lemons ; 2 eggs ; ^ oz. of gelatine ; J pint of milk. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, and the whites of two eggs. Dissolve half an ounce'of Nelson’s gelatine in half a pint of cold water gently by the fire, not allowing it to boil, and stirring it occasionally; put all into a large basin and whisk for an hour, it wiU then tiu’n out like a thick white cream. Pour it into a china mould and stand to get cold. Make a custard of the yolks of two eggs, and when cold turn the shape out into a glass dish, and pour the custard round it. Macaroon Basket. Fob Eight Pebsons.—2 ozs. of butter ; | lb. of loaf sugar ; 2 doz. macaroons ; f lb. of crystallised cherries ; J pint of cream ; ^ saltspoonful of vanilla ; ^ lb. of loaf sugar for the handle. Use an ordinary cake baking tin, smear the sides ; and bottom well with butter. Dissolve three-quarters ’ of a pound of loaf sugar in half a pint of water, stir over the fire. Dip the macaroons separately into the syrup and cover the bottom and sides of the mould, letting each macaroon touch its neighbour. Commence from the bottom and work upwards. ,57 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ,llow each row of macaroons to be cold before adding ! aotber. AVben firmly set remove from the tin or- 1 '.ould, and fill with crystallised cherries and whipped •earn flavoured with a little vanilla and sweetened, fake a handle to the basket by boiling a quarter t a pound of loaf sugar with a little water over a .ear fire, with a little gum water to clear it. It will e sufficiently boiled when a little plunged into cold ;rater on a stick will break off brittle. Pour it on a ,'ightly oiled marble slab, puU it, cut into lengths, !iad twist two pieces together. Fasten, before it has •,:me to get cold, on to the sides of the macaroon lasket. Bread Fritters. : For Three Persons.—1 pint of bread; 1 pint of boiling Lilk ; 3 eggs ; 1 tablespoonful of brandy or sherry ; 1 table- ooonful of butter; oz. of salt; 2 ozs. of sugar; f a nrnon ; 2 ozs. of butter for frying. Break a pint of stale bread into very small pieces. ■ 'om' a pint of boiling milk over it, for fen minutes lOver up. When perfectly soaked beat till smooth, md add three well-beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of rrandy or sherry, one of butter, a little salt and sugar >) taste ; beat it light. Dissolve a piece of butter in nn omelet-pan, pour the butter into it and allow it to ■yy gently. When one side is brown turn the pan- lake over and fry on the other. Lay one over the t ther for serving, cut through in quarters, squeeze a ‘Dmon over the whole, and dust with castor sugar. Fig Pudding. For Six Persons.—j lb. of dried figs; 3 ozs. of suet; ozs. of bread crumbs ; 2 ozs. of fiour ; saltspoonful of autmeg ; 1 egg ; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 58 Finely chop a quarter of a pound of dried figs, three ounces of suet, two ounces of bread crumbs to be added after the suet is well rubbed into two ounces of flour, add to them the chopped figs, the sugar, and 'I a suspicion of nutmeg. Mix well together. Break one egg into a basin, and add two tablespoonfuls of milk ; stir this with the other ingredients. Cover with a greased paper and stand in a saucepan of boiling water half way up the sides of the basin. Steam six hours. Marmalade Pudding. For Four Persons.—3 ozs. of suet; 4 ozs. of bread crumbs; 3 tablespoonfuls of marmalade ; 1 egg ; 1 lemon ; ozs. oF candied peel. Mix three ounces of suet with four of bread crumbs. Put this in a basin with three tablespoonfuls of mar-, malade. Beat an egg and mix with the ingredients, also the grated rind of a lemon and an ounce and a half of candied peel as well as the lemon juice. Cover with a greased paper and steam four hours. Swiss Roll. For Three Persons.—1| ozs. of butter ; Ij ozs. of sugar; 1J ozs. of flour ; 2 eggs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of milk ; 1 tea- spoonful of baking powder ; J lb. of apricot jam. Beat the butter to a cream, add the same weight of sugar, put in three-quarters of an ounce of flour and a well-beaten egg, then add three-quarters of an ounce more flour and another egg; mix well together. Mix one teaspoonful of baking powder with two tablespoonfuls of milk and add to the ingredients. Bake ten minutes on a greased paper fitted into a59 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. aaking tin. Spread it when just browned with '.pricot jam, roll it up carefully, and sift castor sugar wer it. Apple Meringue. For Four or Five Persons.—4 apples; 2 ozs. of butter ; I ozs. of pounded sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of blackberry jam ; eggs. Cut into quarters four apples, take out the core, and ■vut in shces. Stew over a brisk fire for a quarter of un hour with two ounces of butter and two ounces of ' )ounded sugar. When cool add a tablespoonful of blackberry jam, or apricot, pile up in a dish and >iOver with the whites of two eggs whipped stiff, with three ounces of castor sugar. Sprinkle more sugar 3)ver and bake for ten minutes till of a pale brown :oolour. Manchester Pudding. For Four or Five Persons.—J lb. of bread crumbs; ^ ppint of milk ; J lb. of butter ; 2 ozs. of sugar ; 3 eggs ; II lemon ; J lb. of apricot jam. Boil a quarter of a pound of bread ten minutes in lhalf a pint of milk, pour it into a basin, add a qquarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sugar, t^ree eggs well beaten, and the grated rind of a Memon. Line a pie dish with apricot jam, pour in t the above mixture and bake an hour. Serve in the ipie dish in which it was baked. Rice Snowballs. For Six Persons.—1 teacupful of rice; 1 quart of milk ; ■- 2 ozs. of sugar ; 1 bay leaf; J saltspoonf ul of vanilla ; 2 ozs. t of butter.6o SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Simmer for five hours a teacupful of rice in a qua^H of milk, stirring it every little while. Flavour wit^ bay leaves, and after it has been removed from th* fire, a little vanilla. When nearly done stir in i piece of butter the size of an egg, and sugar to tast^ Put into cups and turn out when cold. Batter for Fritters. For Three Persons.—4 ozs. of flour ; pint of water; oz. of butter ; 1 egg ; 1 pinch, of salt; | oz. of sugar ; * ozs. of butter for frying. ; Mix four ounces of flour with a quarter pint o^ water into a smooth batter; dissolve one ounce oi butter over a slow fire and then stir into the flour' add the white of one egg beaten to a stiff froth anc stir lightly; put in salt and sugar to taste. Fry ii butter. ' Cake Fritters. For Four Persons.—5 small rounds of cake; J pint oil cream ; 4 dessertspoonfuls of apricot jam; IJ ozs. of buttei for frying. i' Cut a stale cake into pretty-looking shapes, eithe: round, oblong, or square, about an inch in thickness ii pour a little cream over each piece and fry in butte; a light brown; spread with apricot or strawberry j am Canadian Floating Islands. i For Six Persons.—1 egg ; 3 ozs. of currant jelly; 1 quar of cream. ! Take the white of an egg, beat to a froth, add a glass of currant jelly, beat them together until f spoon will stand up in it; drop a spoonful at a tim( into a bowl of sweet rich cream. 'fflCl SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Molasses Sauce Pudding. . For Four or Five Persons.—3 ozs. of butter ; 3 ozs. of our; ^ pint of milk ; 3 ozs. of sifted sugar ; 1 egg. ' Sauce.—3 ozs. of molasses ; 3 ozs. of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful ' flour. Take three ounces of butter and beat it to a cream; . noothly mix it with three ounces of flour, half a i;int of boiling milk, three ounces of flnely sifted lagar, and an egg well beaten ; pour into a buttered iiasin and bake for twenty minutes. Turn out to ^-erre, and poim round the pudding a sauce made of ;Qual parts of sugar and molasses boiled together i ith a little flour stirred in. Potato Pudding. I For Four Persons.—J lb. of potatoes ; J lb. of butter; j lb. sugar ; 2 eggs ; 1 lemon. Mash a quarter pound of potatoes, while hot rub II quarter poimd of butter, then add quarter pound f f sugar, then two eggs well beaten, and last of all • lie juice of one lemon. Popovers. ! For Four Persons.—3 eggs ; 3 cupfuls of flour; 3 cup- ilils of milk; 1 oz. of sugar; pint of fruit sauce. Beat three eggs very light, add three cups of milk, lugar to taste, then three cups of flour ; beat rapidly end smoothly. Half fill some cups with the mixture imd serve with fruit sauce. Hasty Pudding. For Three Persons.—1 cupful of Indian maize; 1 quart ' ■ milk ; 2 ozs. of butter ; 2 ozs. of sugar.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 62 Sprinkle and stir some Indian maize into boilirii milk till the consistence of cream ; boil three-quaj. ters of an hour. Serve in a silver dish; eat witr butter and sugar. Boiled Custards. Fob, Eight or Ten Persons.—1| pints of milk; 2 bi t leaves ; J saltspoonful of cinnamon ; 8 eggs; 2 ozs. of cast j sugar ; ^ pint of cream ; J lb. of sweet almonds. Put a pint and a half of milk in a clean saucepa; d with two bay leaves and a very little cinnamon, ovei slow fire till it boils. Grate twelve sweet almonds inj a basin, and break in four eggs and four more yolk Mix sufficient castor sugar to sweeten ; whisk ^ well together. When the milk boils take it off tBj fire and stir in half a pint of cream, then mix t|| - whisk well with it and strain it through a hair sielj - into another saucepan. Put it on a slow fire and s it till it begins to thicken (if it bods it wdl spoi | Pemove from the fire and stir tdl it is cool, or it w.^! curdle. As soon as it is cold pour into glasses, p some chopped almond on the top of each, and serv r Guards’ Pudding. Fob Six Persons.—3 ozs. of butter; 3 ozs. of bread; 1 ozs. of loaf sugar; 3 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls of strawber | jam; 1 saltspoonful of carbonate of soda; ^ pint of wiij sauce. ; Mix well three ounces of melted butter, thr< ounces of bread crumbs, three otmces of loaf suga three eggs wed beaten, three tablespoonfuls of strai berry jam, one saltspoon of carbonate of sod^ Steam two hours and serve with wine sauce.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Boiled Lemon Pudding. For Six Persons.—^ lb. of suet; 1 lemon; the crumb of .alf-a-quartern loaf; J lb. of loaf sugar ; 2 eggs ; ^ glass of : randy ; ^ a glass of sherry ; ^ oz. of citron peel; 12 lauched sweet almonds. A quarter of a pound of suet, half the peel and the r.aice of one lemon, the crumb of a half-quartern Itoaf, quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, two eggs, the irhites and yolks to be beaten separately, a little prandy, half a glass of sherry, some almonds cut in iihree pieces, a few slices of citron peel. To be boiled i:n hour. Bird’s Nest Puddings. For Six Persons.—6 apples; 6 eggs; 1 quart of milk ; bay leaves; saltspoonful of vanilla; J a lemon; 6 I'ioves; 1 wineglass of brandy ; 2 ozs. of chopj)ed almonds. Take six large apples, dig out the cores, make a uastard (six eggs to a quart of milk, two bay leaves, i.ud a few drops of vanilla); place a little finely cut i-emon peel inside each apple, and one clove. Lay the rruit in a dish, pour the custard over, and bake half !.n hour. A wineglassful of brandy may be added to lie custard if liked; also some blanched chopped blmonds, just before serving, can be scattered about vver the dish. To be served cold. Currant Shape. : For Six or Eight Persons.—J pot of black currant jelly ;• 1 ozs. of sugar ; 1 pint of water; 4 drops of vanilla; 7 ozs. ground rice. Boil half a pot of black currant jelly with a pint of rater, add two ounces of sugar and some drops of aanilla. When boiling, add seven ounces of ground64 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. rice. Boil for ten minutes, stirring all the timo it, pour into a mould well soaked in cold water. out when set and serve with cream. ' S . Swiss Pancake. For Three Persons.—2 pieces of bread; ^ pint of rnillfi^^ 2 tablespoonfuls of flour ; ozs. of butter for frying ; 5 of apricot jam ; ^ oz. of sifted sugar. i . : i ' Cut two pieces of bread half an inch thick ant three inches long, dip in milk and flour, fry a ligl| brown, spread apricot jam between the two, sift sug«| over and serve. Apple Charlotte. " For Eight Persons.—6 apples; 3 ozs. of bread crumby 3 ozs. of brown sugar ; 3 ozs. of butter ; 1 teacupful of wateji 4 slices of buttered bread ; J pint of cream to be serv( with it. Peel and core six large apples; arrange in a dee tart dish a layer of bread crumbs, over them a lay^ of apples sliced, over which strew brown sugar ai bits of butter. Th en cover with a layer of crumbs, theji another of apples, sugar and butter until the dish full; pour over all a teacup of water. Cover tl whole with a close layer of thin slices of buttered bread; press a plate firmly over the tart cbsh aa[ bake slowly. Serve with cream and sugar. Almond Souffle. For Three Persons.—1 oz. of butter ; 3 tablespoonfuls (| flour ; ^ pint of milk ; 1 tablespoonful of sugar; .4 eggs ; ozs. of blanched almonds. Mix one ounce of butter and three tablespoonful of flour, and, gradually, half a pint of milk. BoiltSA VOURIES AND SWEETS. 65 : thick paste, stirring all the time; add a tablespoon- ud of sugar, the beaten yolks of four eggs, some hopped almonds, the whites of the eggs beaten to a hft“ froth with a knife. Bake in a souffle dish. Gingerbread Pudding. ! For Eight Persons.—^ lb. of flour ; f lb. of suet; J lb. " bread crumbs; 5 lb. of sugar; 1 oz. of ground ginger. ! Mix all together with treacle and a little water, ■oil four hours. It can be boiled or baked ; if the rtter, mix thinner. Excellent German Pudding. IFor Eight Persons.—f lb. of pea-flour; 6 eggs ; j lb. : sugar; ^ oz. of sweet almonds ; 2 bitter almonds ; a imon. ' Half a pound of pea-flour mixed with the yolks of -\x eggs for half an hour, a quarter of a pound of .ugar, half an oimce of sweet almonds, one or two rtter almonds, the grated rind of half a lemon ; add, laally, the stiff snow of six eggs. Boil the -whole for 11 horn’ in a well-buttered tin. Sultana Pudding. IFor Eight Persons.—^ lb. of sultana raisins; J lb. of suet; nireakfast-cupful of bread crumbs ; 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; Utablespoonfuls of sugar; 2 well-beaten eggs; ^ pint of idk; 1 teaspoonful of ginger; § saltspoonful of nutmeg ; 1 Mespoonful of brandy. !Mix together half a pound of sultana raisins, half ; poimd of finely chopped suet, a large cupful ofSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 66 bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls of flour, two table- spoonfuls of sugar, two well-beaten eggs, half a pint of milk, a teaspoonful of ground ginger, a very little nutmeg, a tablespoonful of brandy. Boil in a buttered mould five bours, witb a floured cloth tied over the top. Green or Unripe Fruit Tarts. Fou Six Persons.—1 quart of fruit; | lb. of sugar; enough puff paste to cover a pie dish; 1 oz. of castor sugar. If green or unripe fruit is used for tarts, it should be flrst stewed with half its weight of sugar and a little water, and then poured with its syrup into a pie dish and covered with puff paste. Castor sugar should always be sifted over a fruit tart before send- ing it to table. Canadian Cherry Pie. For Five Persons.—1 quart of cherries; 1 handful of flour; f pint of molasses. Stone your cherries, lay some paste in a deep dish, add your fruit; fill the dish with molasses, over which sprinkle a handful of flour. Cover with a rich pufl paste and bake half an hour. Rice Cream. For Eight Persons.—J lb. of rice; 1 pint of new milk; 1 lemon ; 1 oz. of gelatine ; J pint of cream ; J lb. of sifted sugar. Let a quarter of a poimd of rice simmer in a pint of new milk till it is reduced to a smooth mash, flavour with lemon. Soak one ounce of gelatine inSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 67 11 basin -\vitb some warm water for about half an 1 .lour, add to the rice, and let it boil for a few minutes, istirring well. Turn into a basin to get cold. Whip liialf a pint of cream to a stiff froth, add quarter of a I qound of sifted sugar to it. When the rice is cold otir in the cream. Put into a mould and let it i'diffen. Orange Jelly. For Five Persons.—6 oranges ; f oz. of gelatine; ^ lb. :f»f sugar (about); 1 lemon. Take six oranges, grate the skins, mix the grated >jeel with the juice and pour through a sieve. Dissolve Ihree-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, and mix up ?2nough powdered sugar to sweeten the mixture. ?5queeze in the juice of a lemon. Let it boil, stirring tt well all the time. Pour into a china mould. Snowdon Pudding. For Five Persons.—j lb. of suet; j lb. of ground rice; lb. of castor sugar ; 2 eggs; 2 ozs. of orange marmalade. Mix well together a quarter of a pound of finel}^ Ihopped suet, the same weight of ground rice and aastor sugar, two ounces of orange marmalade. Beat wo eggs and mix all well together. Put the pudding nnto a buttered mould or basin, and boil two hours, ft lurn out and serve with arrowroot sauce flavoured iiflth sugared sherry. Venetian Jelly. For Ten Persons.—j lb. of candied peel; f pint of jelly S3 on page 98 ; 4 sponge cakes ; j lb. of ratafias ; 1 glass ff brandy or sherry ; | pint of custard as on page 68 ; J oz. ft gelatine.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 68 Garnisli a plain mould round with, candied peel cut into strips, lialf fill tlie mould with j elly ; while it is setting-, steep some sponge cakes and ratafias in sherry or brandy, and pour over some rich thick custard that has been made with some gelatine in it. Pill uj) the mould, let it set, and then turn out. Apple Fool. For Six Persons.—1 quart' of apples ; 1 pint of water ; J a lemon ; J lb. of sugar; 1 quart of milk ; 4 eggs ; J pint of cream. Put your apples into a stewpan with half their measiu’e of water. AVhen they are quite soft press them with the back of a spoon through a wire sieve; flavour with a little lemon juice and sweeten to taste. Put a quart of milk over the fire, with the yolks of four eggs beaten up in it; stir over the fire till it begins to simmer, then allow it to cool, and add half a pint of cream stirred giradually into the cold apples. Let it stand till cold and serve it in a glass dish. French Pancakes. For Two Persons.—1 egg; 1 oz. of butter; l oz. of sifted sugar ; 1 oz. of flour ; \ pint of milk ; J lb. of apricot jam. Break an egg into a basin and beat it well with one ounce of butter; stir in one ounce of sifted loaf sugar and one ounce of fl.our, and when well mixed a quarter of a pint of milk; beat for ten minutes, put on small buttered plates, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes. Heat some apricot or other jam, and spread on one half of each pancake, folding the other over. Serve in a silver dish on a napkin. :SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 69 Boiled Cocoanut Pudding. Fok Six Persons.—1 cocoanut; ^ lb. of sugar ; 1 cupful I of milk; 2 eggs; ^ cupful of bread crumbs ; 2 ozs. of butter; J a lemon ; 4 ozs. of candied cherries ; ^ oz. of sifted sugar. For serving with the above Pudding.—1 small cocoanut; 3 ozs. of castor sugar; ^ pint of water ; pint of cream; 1 egg- Grate finely tlie white nut, previously removing the brown outside; mix with a quarter of a pound of sugar, a cupful of new milk, and the milk contained in the nut, the whites and yolks of two eggs, half a cupful of bread crumbs, two ounces of butter beaten to a cream, the grated rind of half a lemon, four ounces of candied cherries. Boil three hours in a basin or china mould, covered with a well floured cloth; when done, turn out on to a silver dish, served with sugar sifted over the pudding, and if liked surrounded with cocoanut sauce, made as follows: Cocoanut Cream— Boil the finely grated white kernel of a small cocoa- nut with the same weight of castor sugar in half a pint of water, strain through a wire sieve, put the mixture on the fire again and add half a pint of cream, or as a substitute, three-quarters of a pint of new milk thickened with a little arrowroot. Let it boil; remove from the fire, and when a trifle cooler put in 1 the beaten yolk of an egg, after which allow it to simmer for a few minutes. Tomato Pie. For Six Persons.—1J lb. of tomatoes ; J saltspoonful of I Balt; 3 ozs. of sugar ; ^ a lemon ; 1 egg ; 5 pint of cream ; • enough paste to coyer a pie dish. Skin and slice rij)e tomatoes, and lay in a pie dish ; ! sprinkle over them a very little salt. For a pound70 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ! i of tomatoes, two ounces of sugar, tlie juice of half a ; lemon, one well-beaten egg mixed with half a cup of j cream is to be poured over the tomatoes when the pie ; disb is full. Cover with a rich paste, and bake in a | hot oven at first, gradually getting cooler, for some- : wbat over half an hour. Lemon Tart. Foe, Four Persons.—4 lemons; 1 tablespoonful of flour; ■ 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar ; 1 pint of water; enough paste to line and cover a pie dish. Slice four lemons very thin, lay in a rich paste, sprinkle over one tablespoonful of flour, one cupful ^ of sugar, fill the pie dish nearly full of water and j cover with paste. Bake an hour. | Vegetable Marrow Pudding. j For Six Persons.—1 marrow; 1 pint of milk ; J lb. of . sugar; 1 teaspoonful of ground ginger ; 1 egg; 1 cupful of flour ; enough puff paste to cover the pie dish. Stew the marrow, strain through a sieve; add a ; pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of sugar^ a tea- spoonful of ground ginger, an egg, and a teacupful of flour. Bake in a pie dish. Quince Tart. For Six or Seven Persons.—6 apples; 2 quinces ; half their weight of sugar; 1 gill of water ; enough puff paste to cover a pie dish. Peel six apples and two ripe quinces, stew and sweeten to taste; when quite tender, place in a pie dish, cover with rich paste, and bake half an hour.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 71 Apricot Tart. Fob. Six ok Seven Persons.—1 quart of green apricots; 11 cupful of water; half their weight of sugar; enough puff 'paste to cover a pie dish. Take sufficient green apricots to fill your pie dish, .and put them into a stewpanwith a cupful of water :and half tlieir weiglit in sugar; when thorouglily ?stewed put, together with the juice, into a pie dish, I cover with rich light paste, and bake in a hot oven. Fruit Jelly. For Eight Persons.—1 oz. of gelatine ; J Ih. of castor ■ sugar; § pint of water ; 3 eggs ; ^ a lemon ; 1 tumblerful of champagne; 1 quart of mixed fruit. Dissolve one ounce of gelatine and add it to half a pound of castor sugar and half a pint of water; whip to a froth the whites of three eggs and lightly stir into the other ingredients, also the juice of half a lemon; put in a saucepan, stir until it boils, and then pass twice through a j eUy bag. When cold, add a tumblerful of champagne. Stew some mixed fruit cut in slices (apples, pears, cherries, plums, apricots) in syrup, leave until cool; fill a mould with layers of fruit and jelly. When thoroughly set, turn out of the mould and serve. Superior Treacle Pudding. For Four Persons.—2 ozs. of suet; \ lb. of flour; 1 salt- spoonful of carbonate of soda; 1 teaspooifful of ground ginger; 1 egg ; 1 teacupful of treacle ; 4 tablespoonfuls of milk ; ^ oz. of butter. Chop two ounces of suet very fine, rub it into a quarter of a pound of flour, add a small saltspoonfulSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 72 of carbonate of soda, a pinch of salt, one teaspoonful ' of ground ginger. Beat up an egg, mix a teacupful, f of treacle and four tablespoonfuls of milk with it, and stir this into the other mixture. If the pudding' is not sufficiently moist add more milk. Grease a basin, put the pudding into it, cover with greased paper; stand the basin in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half way up the sides and steam for two hours. If liked, the pudding can then be turned out of the basin, some treacle poured over it, and stood on a baking tin in the oven to brown. Ginger Pudding. Fok Five Persons.—4 ozs. of cnimb of French roll; 4 ozs. of preserved ginger ; 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger syrup ; 4 ozs. of castor sugar; 4 eggs. Soak four ounces of crumb of French roll for two hours. Mix with it and beat well together for twenty minutes four ounces of preserved ginger cut fine, two teaspoonfuls of ginger syrup, four ounces of castor sugar, and four eggs with the white and yolks beaten separately. Put into a well-buttered mould and cover with buttered paper j steam three hours. Strawberry Tart. For Six Persons.—1 quart of strawberries ; their weight in sugar ; 1 gill of water; enough paste to line a shallow tart tin. Line a shallow tart mould with light paste. Boil some strawberries in their own weight of sugar and a little water. Bake the paste with a large piece of bread in it; when done, take out the bread, placeSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. t o Iiiie strawberries in its place, pass tbe syrup through • sieve and pour over the fruit. Serve either hot or old. Strawberry Fool. For Six Persons.—1 pot of strawberry jam ; IJ pint of .ilk; 1 egg. Press either fresh fruit or strawberry jam through 1 hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Siin- uer some milk with the yolk of an egg beaten up in ; add the cream when cooling and stir all the iigredients into the fruit. Serve cold. ! Bread and Butter Fritters. t For Three Persons.—2 pieces of bread and butter; 2 ozs. S'' jam; \ oz. of castor sugar; J pint of batter as on j jjge 66. I Take two pieces of bread and butter, spread with ria-awberry jam ; lay one on top of the other, cut into I |][uares, dip in a good batter and fry a nice brown. |]prinkle with white sugar and serve on a napkin. I Brandy Custards. I , For Six or Eight Persons.—1 pint of milk boiled ; 2 llrrge teaspoonfuls of cornflour; f of a teacup of cold milk ; Be eggs ; 2 wineglasses of brandy ; \ lb. of almonds. Put a pint of milk on to boil. Mix two heaped-up ;caspoonfuls of cornflour with three-quarters of a tea- ‘ up of cold milk, and gradually pour the boiled milk, ; ; hen nearly cold, to it; add the beaten yolks of four i -'?gs, and sugar to taste at the same time. Place it74 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. all together on the fire until it thickens, and then; add two wineglasses of brandy and some chopped] almonds. Lemon Sponge. Fob, Six Pebsons.—J oz. of isinglass ; 1 pint of water;; ^ lb. of pounded sugar ; 2 lemons ; 2 tablespoonfuls ofi brandy. Simmer half an ounce of isinglass in a pint of water three-quarters of an hour, and when cold add! half a pound of pounded sugar, the rind of one lemon grated and the juice of two, two tablespoonfuls of brandy and the white of one egg previously beaten to a froth. Whisk all the ingredients well together.’ Pour into a mould and do not turn out till next day. Nougat Baskets. Fob Six Pebsons.—J lb. of almonds ; J lb. of sifted sugar 2 2 ozs. of butter; | pint of cream; J saltspoonful ofi vanilla. Blanch half a pound of almonds and cut each] lengthways into narrow pieces, lay them on a dish in front of the fire to get dry. Melt in a pan a quartei* of a pound of sifted loaf sugar, and when it is a lighb brown mix in the almonds. You will have a soft paste which will harden when cold. Make somet small moulds very hot and butter them well inside, putl some of the mixture into them, and with the handlei of a teaspoon which has been well buttered spread iti round the mould as thinly as possible. When cold turn out and send to table with some sweetened whipped and vanilla-flavoured cream in each one. Make a handle to the baskets by twisting some off ISAVOURIES AND SWEETS. I I 75 I j :lie sugar mixture and bending it into shape across • Ihe top of each mould, or by using a little cut . iingelica. Apple Rings. A delicious dish, to he eaten cold. For Six Persons.—1 quart of apples ; the weight of the i[pplesin sugar; f pint of water; 1 lemon; a few drops of oochineal. Take equal weight of apples and loaf sugar; I '-leel and core the apples and cut them in rings not (00 thin. Put the sugar in a preserving pan with little water to prevent it from burning, and boil a [luarter of an hour. Take off the scum, lay the ij.pple rings carefully into the syrup with some lemon mice and peel added for flavouring, bring it to the v)oil once, and let it stand and simmer for five hours. \lemove the apple, place in a glass dish, colour the i i^yrup with a bttle cochineal, strain and pour over the I’.pples. Let it stand till cold and serve. Stewed Quinces. For Eight Persons.—8 quinces; the same weight of sugar ; pint of water. Take equal weight of fruit and loaf sugar. Boil i /'our quinces in water till rather tender ; take them out, peel, core, and quarter them. Boil the sugar Kvith a little water for a quarter of an hour, remove from the fire, put in the fruit, and allow to siminer, :out not boil, for from five to six hours. No colouring ^s required. Take out the quinces, lay them regu- larly in a dish, and pour the syrup over them. Serve “•iold.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 76 Petit Choux. For Eight or Ten Persons.—5 ozs. of flour ; 1 oz. of butter ; \ pint of water; 4 yolks of eggs; 3 whites of eggs; f pint of rich cream; 1 oz. of sugar; J saltspoonful of vanilla. ; For icing.—1 lb. of icing sugar to 2 whites of eggs. | Put the butter aud water on the fire in a small saucepan, when boiling dust in the flour and beat; over the fire for three minutes, take off and drop ini the eggs one by one. Mould into shapes with two^ dessertspoons and bake for one hour in a slow oven; cover with icing and fill with cream sweetened and, flavoured. To make the icing, mix in a basin onei pouhd of icing sugar with the white of two egg4 until a thick smooth paste ; do not previously beatl the whites; this wiU take a long wliile. Lay thej icing on with cold hands; allow to harden in a coolj oven. Buttered Orange Juice. | For Ten or Twelve Persons.—6 Seville oranges; 3 table4 spoonluls of rose water ; 6 yolks of eggs ; 3 whites of eggs ;j I lb. of castor sugar ; 1 oz. of butter. ; Mix the juice of six Seville oranges with threet tablespoonfuls of rose water, and add to the yolks ofi six and the whites of three eggs that have been well! beaten. Strain the liquor to half a pound of poundedl sugar ; put in a china-lined preserving pan and stir* over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken, then put in; a piece of butter the size of a walnut, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer. Pour into a flat dish i and eat cold.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 77 Cheese Cake Mixture (for keeping). For Two Dozen Cheese Cakes.—2 lemons; | lb. of suo-ar; ; yolks of eggs ; J lb. of butter. ° 11 Eub off the rind of two lemons on balf a pound of 1 oaf sugar, tbe juice of three squeezed on the sugar, j hae yolks of four eggs, a quarter of a pound of butter. Ilix all together, pour into a jar, stand in a saucepan 'if water, stir the whole time and boil till the cou- iisteucy of cream. Will keep a month, and can be i'.sed either for large open tarts or for smaller ones 'I'aked in patty pans. Rice Blanc Mange. For Eight or Ten Persons.—^ lb. of rice (ground) ; 1:1 b:.int of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 drops of wanilla ; | lb. of [{pricot jam. A quarter of a pound of ground rice mixed with a quarter of a pint of milk. Boil a pint of milk with liUgar to taste, pour while boiling into the rice, then ■)oil the whole twenty minutes, stirring all the time ; t,dd a few drops of vanilla. Pour into a mould, serve vith apricot jam. Yellow Lemon Cream (without cream). For Eight Persons.—4 lemons; 9 ozs. of sugar; q ?gg3- Eub a few lumps of sugar on four lemons before paring them; pare very thin and put the rind into iiaK a pint of water. Squeeze the juice on seven ounces of finely pounded sugar ; beat the yolks of oix eggs well; add the peel and juice, and beat t ;ogether some time. Strain through a fianijel into aSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 78 block tin saucepan, set over a gentle fire and stir onei way until pretty thick; it must not quite boil or iti will curdle. Pour into jelly glasses and serve cold. : f Pistachio Cream. i Fob. Six Pebsons.—4 ozs. of pistachio nuts; 1 gill of roseji water ; 1 pint of cream; sugar to taste. i t Blanch four ounces of pistachio nuts, beat them> fine with a little rose water, add the paste to a pintf of cream, sweeten to taste; let it just boil, and puti into jelly glasses. Orange Butter Pyramids. | Fob Eight ob Ten Pebsons.—6 eggs; 2 ozs. of sugar;! 3 ozs. of butter ; 2 ozs. of almonds; 1 gill of orange flowerjl water; 1 gill of orange juice. | Boil the eggs hard, beat them in a mortar with the! sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of1 blanched almonds beaten to a paste; moisten with i orange juice and a little orange flower water. Euh ' through a colander. Pile up lightly on sweet bis- cuits made as follows:— [ Sugar Cakes. Fob Eight Pebsons.—1 lb. of flour; J lb.,of loaf sugar; ^ lb. of butter ; 1 egg ; | oz. of lemon peel chopped. Poll out thin and cut with a cake cutter. Bake in a hot oven. When cold, pile up the orange butter i lightly upon them and serve. [79 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 11 '<] )l I Nj I i ;v Old English Syllabub. FFor Twenty Persons.—1 pint of port; 1 pint of sherry ; ijint of brandy; sugar to taste ; 1 bowl of milk ; J lb. of :>tted cream ; j of a nutmeg. iln a large china bowl put a pint of port and a int of sherry and half a pint of brandy, sugar to 'Ste; milk into the bowl. In twenty minutes cover Hugh with clotted cream ; grate a little nutmeg over Serve. i Staffordshire Syllabub. I IFor Two Dozen Persons.—1 pint of cider; 1 pint of claret; ?)int of brandy ; sugar lo taste ; 5 of a nutmeg ; 1 bowl of (ilk. ^Put a pint of cider, a pint of claret, half a pint of ‘-•andy, sugar to taste, and a httle nutmeg, into a owl. Milk the cow into the bowl till it be full, or ) )ur warm milk from a large teapot from a height tto it. (An old-fashioned receipt. Syllabubs used I rrmerly to be universal at haymaking parties. The 1 lid from the bowl was ladled into glass cups and rrved to the company.) South Devon Junket. For Eight or Ten Persons.—1 dessertspoonful of essence rennet; 4 teaspoonfuls of powdered sugar; 1 wineglass brandy ; 1 pint of new milk ; 5 lb. of Devonshire cream ; >;ialtspoonful of nutmeg. . Put in the bottom of a glass dish a dessertspoonful essence of rennet, the powdered sugar, and the •t’andy. Pour on this the warmed new milk (the aarmth of milk from the cow). Mix this up. Spread ’•'er the top a quarter of a pound of thick Devonshiret 8o SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. | cream ; scatter over it two teaspoonfuls of powdered white sugar. Grate a very little nutmeg over. Let it stand five hours, when it is ready for use. Caramel Pudding. For Six Persons.—3 ozs. of stale bread crumbs; 3 ozs. of lump sugar; 1 tablespoonful of water ; 2 eggs; 2 ozs. of crushed Savoy biscuits ; 1 tablespoonful of custor sugar ; \ pint of milk; 1 teaspoonful ,of essence of vanilla; some butter and sugar for the mould. Put the bread and biscuit crumbs into a howl. Put the lump sugar and tahlespoonful of water into a small saucepan, set on the fire ; the sugar will melt and become afterwards brown. Shake the pan gently, so that no part may become black. When the whole is a rich cofiee-colour pour into the milk, which will make the sugar form a hard porous mass, but will melt in a few minutes. When the mixture is quite melted, pour over the crumbs ; stir well, add the castor sugar; break the eggs, separate the whites and .yolks, add the yolks to the crumbs and beat well; whip the whites to a stiff froth on a plate; stir the froth lightly and thoroughly into the pudding. Add some vanilla essence (only a drop or two, as the flavour is very strong). Prepare a mould as follows : Smear thickly with butter (not very salt); put in a tablespoonful of castor sugar and shake about so that it coats every part of the mould. This gives the j)udding a glaze when turned out. Pom* in the mixtm'e, and cover the top with buttered paper. Steam by setting in a pan of boiling water for one hour. The water should not come to one inch from the top of the mould ; care must be taken not to let the water boH over the edges of the mould.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 8r Sauce for Caramel Pudding. 1 teaspoonful of arrowroot; J pint of milk ; 1 oz. of castor <uugar; 1 egg; a few di’ops of essence of vanilla. 1 Mix tlie arrowroot with a little of the cold milk, [put the rest of the milk on to boil. When boiling, I pour on to the mixed arrowroot; stir, and pour back i .nto the saucepan. Boil gently three minutes ; take lioff the fire, and add sugar, and pour the sauce on the ibDeaten yolk of an egg. Stir very thoroughly, add tthe vanilla, and pour round the pudding. For Six Persons. jL;;rumbs Chocolate Pudding. ^ lb. of chocolate ; lb. of sponge cake j lb. of butter ; J pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 3 ozs. uDf sifted sugar. Heat together the butter and milk. O When boiling dir in the grated chocolate and sifted cake crumbs. Continue stirring over the fire until it thickens and eaves the sides of the pan. Let it cool a little ; then uddthe sugar and vanilla; then one by one the well- b^eaten yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites very ■•stiffly and lightly; add them to the mixture. Place :,n a buttered mould ; cover with buttered paper, and snteam for two hours. Serve with German sauce. German Sauce. The yolks of 2 eggs ; J pint of sherry ; 1 tablespoonful of : :astor sugar. Beat up the eggs with the sugar, warm the wine ; mix with the eggs thoroughly, put it into a jar, and whisk well over the fire until it becomes a thick ;i:reamy froth. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling Rvater. GSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 82 London Puddi ng- For Four or Six Persons.—^ lb. of apricot jain; 8 sponge finger biscuits ; ^ tablespoonful of flour ; 1 oz. of butter; ^ pint of milk ; 1 lemon ; 2 yolks of eggs ; 2 whites of eggs. Line a pie dish mth pufP paste; then spread a thick layer of apricot jam, then a layer of sponge finger biscuits. Mix together half a tablespoonful of flour and one ounce of butter. Boil half a pint of milk, and pour it on the flour and butter. Add sugar to taste, the grated peel of a lemon. Stir over the fire till as thick as good cream ; let it cool a little; then add the beaten yolks of two eggs, and beat all the ingredients well together, and pour it on the cakes. Beat the whites to a firm froth; lay it on the pudding. Bake for at least half an hour in a moderate oven. Coffee Cream. For Eight or Nine Persons.—1 calf’s foot; 1 teacupful of coffee ; 1 pint of cream; 2 ozs. of finely pounded sugar; J oz. of isinglass. Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of jeUy; clear off sediment and fat. Make a teacup of very strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of cream. Sweeten to taste with finely pounded sugar. Give one boil up, and pour into a dish. It should be jelly, but not stiff, with the addition of a httle isinglass to the calf’s foot jelly. This creami; can be poured, when cool, into a china mould, and! turned out a firm shape.I I ! ! ' SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 83 I ■ Lemon Honeycomb. For Four Persons.—1 lemon; 1 egg; 1 pint of cream; oz. of sugar. Sweeten th.e juice of a lemon, and put it in the cdish that you wish to serve it in ; mix the beaten vwhite of an egg with a pint of rich cream and a little ■ ssugar ; whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the 1 lemon juice. Do it the day before it is to be used. Cream Whips. For Six or Eight Persons. —I pint of cream; 1 pint of 'water; j lb. of powdered sugar ; 3 lemons. Whisk to a strong froth a pint of cream and a pint (of water, a quarter of a pound of powdered sugar, sand the juice of three lemons. Take the froth oif as iit rises with a skimmer, and lay on a sieve to drain; ggo on skimming as long as any froth rises. Keep in aa cool place five houi’s before using, lying on a sieve. Sponge Puddings. For Four or Six Persons.—2 eggs; 4 ozs. of flour; ozs. of butter; 4 ozs. of sugar; 5 pint of sherry. Two eggs, the weight of them in flour, butter and .'■sugar. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, aand stir it well with the butter; whip the eggs and 1 put them in, also the flour; mix aU well together. IBake in little buttered moulds, and turn out when ddone. Serve hot with wine sauce poured round themSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ■^4 Ratafia Pudding. « For Eight Persons.—J lb. of candied cherries ; ^ lb. of candied peel; 5 lb. of ratifias; 1 French roll; 1 pint of milk ; 5 eggs ; 2^ ozs. of sugar ; 1 wineglassful of brandy. Butter a pudding mould and line it with candied cherries and pieces of candied peel; fill it three parts ; full of ratafias and the crumb of a French roll and i layers of cherries and peel. Make a custard with a j pint of milk and five eggs, leaving out the whites of two. Sweeten to taste. Pour over the whole a wine- glass of brandy; steam three-quarters of an hour. 1 If boiled, the water must not cover the pudding basin. Nun’s Pudding. For Four Persons.—2 eggs; 1 tablespoonful of powdered sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted flour; 1 pint of milk; ^ lb. of macaroons; 1 oz. of powdered sugar; 2 ozs. of grated cocoanut. Beat the eggs well; add to them the powdered sugar and sifted flour. Mix aU well together, and add by degrees nearly a pint of milk ; set it over a clear fire and stir till it thickens. Have ready a shallow dish with some macaroons in it, pour over the mixture, and cover the top with powdered sugar and grated cocoanut. Serve cold. Croquettes de Riz ^ la Fleur d’Orange- For Six or Eight Persons.—6 ozs. of rice ; f pint of milk . or cream ; 3 ozs. of fiesh butter ; 3 ozs. of pounded sugar ; 7 yolks of eggs; 1 gill of orange flower water; lb of bread crumbs; lard for frying; 1 pot of strawberry jam. Take six ounces of rice well picked and washed; put it on the fire with the milk or cream. When theSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. I soaked in cold water. 8S rice is well boiled, add the fresh butter, the sugar, and four yolks of eggs. Mix all well together, and put it on the fire to give consistency; add enough orange fiower water to give a flavour. When the ingredients are sufiiciently consolidated, take it off the fire and put it on a plate to cool. Have ready some crumbs of bread passed through a sieve, and three yolks of eggs broken and beaten up in a basin. Make up little balls of the rice preparation, dip each one again and again into beaten egg, then into the crumbs. EoU them well, and fry in boiling lard; drain before piling up in a hot dish, and sprinkle sugar over them. Heat some strawberry jam ; make a wall of it round the dish, and pile up the croquettes in the middle. Jamange. For Eight or Nine Persons.—1 oz. of isinglass : 1 quart of water; 2 lemons ; j lb. of sugar; J pint of white wine; 6 yolks of eggs. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a pint of water. Put in a saucepan the juice and peel of two lemons and a quarter of a pound of sugar in a pint of water; let it simmer gently for a few minutes, and stand by [the side of the fire for twenty minutes more. Add the dissolved isinglass, and stir gently into the I saucepan; then pour in half a pint of white wine. Strain the mixture into a mug; then add the well- beaten yolks of six eggs; place the mug in a sauce- : pan of boiling water ; stir continually, but do not let i it boil, until it thickens ; strain through muslin, and when cool pour into a china mould that has been85 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Lemon Whips. For Six Persons.—| lb. of sugar; 2 lemons; 1 pint of | cream ; 1 glass of sherry ; \ glass of brandy. Rub a quarter of a pound of sugar on the rind of two lemons; pound the sugar; mix with it the juice of the lemons, one pint of cream, a glass of sherry, and half a glass of brandy. Whip to a stiff froth. Serve on a glass dish, or in custard glasses. Vermicelli Pudding. For Four Persons.—1 oz. of vermicelli ; 1 pint of milk ; 2 ozs. of butter; 3 eggs; 1 gill of rose water ; 1^ ozs. of sugar. Boil one ounce of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till nearly dissolved; mix with it two ounces of butter, three eggs well beaten, a little rose water. Sngar to taste. Bake in a pie dish lined with puff paste. Calfs Foot Jelly. ' 1 calfs foot; 3 pints of water ; 3 cloves; ^ saltspoonful of ' cinnamon ; sugar to taste ; \ pint of sherry ; 1 tablespoon- j ful of brandy ; 1 lemon; 3 whites and shells of eggs. Boil a calf’s foot in three pints of water nntil reduced to a quart, with three cloves and a little cinnamon. Let it stand till quite cold; then carefully take off all the fat, and j3ut the clear jelly into a saucepan (observing to leave all the setthng behind); melt it over the fire, and sweeten to taste with loaf sugar. Half a pint of sherry, and a table- I spoonful of brandy, the jnice of a large lemon, the whites and shells of three eggs that have been pre-87 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ;viously beaten to a stiff froth, are to be added after tthe mixtiu-e has been removed from the fire and T nearly cold. Stir all 'well together, letting it simmer :five minutes. Hun it four or five times through a jelly bag t^ perfectly clear. Have in the bowl into -.which the jelly is strained a thinly cut piece of lemon jpeel, and let the mixture drop on to it. This improves tthe colour of the jelly. When nearly cool pour into ca mould that has been plunged in very cold water. TTurn out when stiff and serve. Blanc Mange. For Eight or Nine Persons.—ozs. of isinglass ; 11 j pints of milk ; 1 lemon ; J pint of cream; 2 laurel leaves; ^sugar to taste. Dissolve an ounce and a half of isinglass ; stir it iinto a pint and a half of boiling milk ; add the rind (of a lemon and half a pint of cream, two laurel Heaves, and sugar to taste. Pass through a flannel Ibag into a mould. Prune Shape. For Ten Persons.—1 lb. of prunes; ^ oz. of gelatine; ',j pint of cold -water; 4 ozs. of sugar; 1 saltspoonful of wochineal; 1 lb. of Devonshire clotted cream. Put one pound of prunes in a saucepan, cover vwith cold water; set them on the fire and boil for a minute or two. Drain them on a sieve, take out the sstones, and blanch the kernels. Dissolve half an tounce of gelatine in half a pint of cold water; put it i: n a saucepan with four ounces of sugar, and let it Iboil for five minutes. Colour -with cochineal; place tthe prunes and kernels in it; pour the whole into a88 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. mould that has a space left in the middle. Let it i stand in a cool place until set, then turn out. FiU' the space in the centre of the prunes with Devonshire clotted cream or with fresh cream sweetened and whipped. * Spanish Custard. For Six Persons.—5 pint of cream; J pint of milk ; 3 0Z8. of ground rice; 2 tablespoonfuls of orange flower water; 1 pint of cream for sauce. Boil half a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, three i ounces of ground rice, two tahlespoonfuls of orange flower water. Sweeten to taste. Boil the mixture until it becomes stiff, stirring all the time. Pour it j into a shape, and turn out when cold. Serve with i cream poured round it. ' 1 German Puffs. For Six Persons.—1 pint of milk; 1 tablespoonful of flour ; 1 egg ; ^ oz. of butter ; J oz. of white sugar; ^ pint of wine sauce. Make some milk thick by boiling some flour in it. Allow it to stand till cold ; then add one egg, a very^ small piece of butter, a little white sugar. Bake in little tin moulds buttered. Turn out and serve hot with fruit sauce. Baked Gingerbread Pudding. For Twelve Persons.— J lb. of treacle; f lb. of flour; 5 lb. of butter ; lb. of coarse sugar ; 1 oz. of ginger ; oz. of ground allspice; f teaspoonful of carbonate of soda; 3 eggs ; J pint of warm milk. Put the flour into a basin with the sugar, ginger, and allspice. Mix these well together; tuim the89 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ■ litter to a cream, and add the treacle to it, then the ither inpedients ; stir well. Dissolve the carbonate !f soda in the milk, which is to be made warm. Mix hie whole into a smooth dough with the eggs, which ; lould be previously well whisked. Pour the mixture ! ito a flat buttered tin, and bake half an hour in a : lood oven. An Excellent Jam Pudding quickly prepared. For Six Persons.—1 stale roll; lb. of blackberry jam ; "11b. of apricot jam ; 1 glass of sherry ; 1 glass of brandy ; lemon; 1 oz. of sugar; 1 oz. of sweet almonds; 1 pint of wstard. Take a stale roll, or ordinary household bread will CO, cut into slices half an inch thick. Out off all rrust; spread each slice thickly with blackberry and jpricot jam alternately, pile up one upon another, liny jam that one may have answers very well, ihe bread should be cut in nice pieces with a pastry nutter, either in oblongs or rounds. Take a glassful If sherry and one of brandy; mix with them the oiice of one lemon, and sugar to taste ; pour over the rread until every drop is absorbed. Take an ounce ff sweet almonds, blanch them, cut in four pieces ^sngthways; stick them thickly over the soaked bread md jam. Make a custard, as on page 68, pour over lie bread, and serve cold. Very Superior Baked Apple Tart. -For Six or Seven Persons.—^ lb. of apples ; Jib. of loaf ugar ; 6 ozs. of butter ; J pint of milk ; 2 lemons ; 2 ozs. chopped almonds; 1 oz. of citron peel; J oz. of orange J glass of brandy; 6 whites of eggs; enough putf iiste to line a pie dish.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 90 Grate the apples and mix with half a pound of ; lump sugar, well pounded. Melt six ounces of butter | in milk ; mix with it the juice of two lemons and the ; rind of one, a few chopped blanched almonds, some ^ finely shred citron and orange peel, half a glass of [ brandy, and the weU-whisked whites of six eggs. | Stir the whole of the ingredients together. Line a j pie dish or flat tart tin with rich puff paste ; lay the ' mixture on it, and bake half an hour in a quick oven. r Boiled Rice Pudding. I 1 For Six Persons.—I lb. of rice ; 1 pint of milk; 1 oz. of i butter ; 4 yolks of eggs ; 2 whites of eggs ; 4 ozs. of suet; { 4 ozs. of sugar ; 4 ozs. of currants ; 1 wineglassful of brandy ; 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg. Boil very well the whole rice in a pint of milk with a small piece of butter. When cool, add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, four ounces of suet, four ounces of sugar, four ounces of currants, a very little nutmeg, a wineglassful of brandy. Mix well together and boil two hours. Orange Cheese Cakes. For Twelve or Fourteen Tarts.—2 large oranges; ^ lb. of sugar; 6 yolks of eggs; fib. of fresh butter; f glass of brandy ; f glass of sherry; puflf paste for lining patty pans. Boil the peel of two large oranges in three waters to take off the bitter taste, and until it is tender. Pound in a mortar with a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, the yolk of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, half a glass of brandy, and the same of sherrj'.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 91 !. eat fine, pound, and mix all together. Lay a puff aaste round your patty pans, then half fill with the I hove mixture, and bake. Stewed Pears. For Eight Pbrsons.—6 pears ; 1 pint of water ; § lb. of K>af sugar; 2 cloves ; 1 lemon (rind of, and juice). Pare six large pears and divide them in quarters, nnd put into cold water as you peel them, to preserve lie colour. Put in a stewpan with sufficient water )-> cover them, which must be measured, and half a coimd of loaf sugar allowed to each pint, two cloves ind the rind of a lemon cut very thin. Stew gently wr twelve hours, cover them with the pear peeling, md on no account let them boil. They should be of very fine colour. Before taking the pears off the ire, add the juice of a lemon. Chestnut Pudding. For Eight or Ten Persons.—30 chestnuts ; 5 ozs. of uutter to every 8 ozs. of nuts ; 4 ozs. of loaf sugar ; 6 eggs ; 1 pint of milk ; 5 lb. of candied cherries. Boil the chestnuts in water until tender ; dry in an Aven, shell and skin them, then pound in a mortar. !’o every eight ounces add five of butter beaten to a rream, four ounces of loaf sugar, six fresh eggs, a 'uarter of a pint of milk. Butter a china mould; I over the top and sides with dried cherries, or any tther candied fruit. Put in the mixture, cover with n-uttered writing paper, and bake in a quick oven for ,m hour and a quarter, or steam for an hour and a i.alf.92 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Orange Tart. Foil Six Persons.—4 yolks of epgs ; 4 ozs. of fresh butter , 4 ozs. of loiif sugar ; lb. of candied orange peel; sufficient liuff paste to cover the bottom of a tart dish, I Take the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, with fou» ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of lump sugar; melt the butter and sugar together. When nearly cold add the eggs to it. Lay a puff crust in your pie* dish, cover the paste with small pieces of candied orange peel, pour the mixture over it, and bake in a quick oven for a little more than an hour. To Candy Orange Peel for the above. Cut the peel of an orange, or oranges, very thin,i longways. Put the rind into strong salt and water for six days, then boil in .plenty of water till tender. Take out and lay on a sieve to drain. Make a thin, syrup of fine loaf sugar, a pound to a quart of water; boil over a slow fire till the sugar begins to candy round the peel. Take out and grate fine sugar over,, drain and dry before the fire. Do not let the sauce- ■ pan be covered when boiling. i Dutch Jan Mange. 1 Steep an ounce and three-quarters of isinglass in? one pint of boiling water with the rind of half a lemon. Let it stand till cold, then put in half a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, the yolks of eight eggs (well beaten), the juice of two lemons, sugar to taste. 13oil for five minutes. Stir the whole time the mixture is on the fire. Strain through a piece of muslin into a basin, and afterwards stir for five minutes. Dip your mould in cold water before pour- ing the jan mange into it.SAVOURIES AXD SIVEETS. 93 Port Wine Jelly. Fok Eight Persons.—1|- ozs. of isinglass; 1 pint of port ,:'ine ; 3 ozs. of sugar candy ; f pint of whipped cream ; 4 jrops of vanilla ; 1 oz. of pounded sugar. Steep the isinglass in a pint of port wine all night. \7ext morning hoil it for half an hour with three iiunees of sugar candy. Dip a mould in cold water and pour the mixture into it through a jelly bag. Iiltand till cold ; turn out and serve with sweetened rrhipped cream all round the shape. Egg and Wine Custards. For Twelve Persons.—| saltspoonful of grated nutmeg; ] pint of water; 1 quart of white wine ; 6 yolks of eggs ; 2 zzs. of pounded loaf sugar, or more if required. Boil a very little nutmeg and mace in a quarter of i. pint of water, and add a quart of white wine. Mix I little of the wine cold with the eggs that have been rrell beaten. Make the spice and wine boil; then aake it away from the fire, and when cool add the ■( oiks of the eggs; stir it over the fire till it nearly K'Oils. Great care must be taken that the wine does A.ot boil after the eggs are put in, or it will curdle iirectly. Take the saucepan from the fire, sweeten CO taste, and whisk the contents to a stiff froth. Pour Dito jelly glasses. Apple Snowballs. For Eight Persons.—8 apples ; \ lb. of candied peel; 8 Moves ; j lb. of pounded loaf sugar ; 1 lemon ; 1 egg ; 1 iill of orange flower whaler ; ^ lb. of rice ; 2 tablespoonfuls of tderry ; ^ pint of milk ; 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot. Take some large apples, pare them, and cut outSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 94 the core. Fill with candied orange peel, a squeeze: of lemon juice, one clove, and some pounded sugar.' Wash some rice, and strew it on a cloth very thick. Wash the outsides of the apples with egg and orange flower water; roll them in the rice. Boil them in a cloth. When sent to table, pour arrowroot sauce,' flavoured with sherry and sweetened, over the snow- balls. Cocoanut Cheese Cakes. For Eight Persons.—1 cocoanut; 3 ozs. of loaf sugar ; | gill of sugar ; 3 yolks of eggs ; 1 wliite of egg; 1 oz. of blanched almonds ; enough puff paste to line 8 or 10 paity ' pans. ; i- Grate the white of a cocoanut. Dissolve three i ounces of white sugar in half a gill of water, then add the cocoanut, and boil seven or eight minutes. Take ofl the fire, and when nearly cold add the yolks i of three eggs, previously well beaten, and the white \ of one, as well as one ounce of finely chopped blanched almonds. Cover some patty pans with puff paste, lay some of the cocoanut mixture in each, and bake until the paste is done. Serve hot. Citron Pudding. For Four Persons.—| pint of milk ; 2 ozs. of loaf sugar; 1 oz. of grated citron ; J a lemon ; 4 or 5 little tin moulds. Mix together half a pint of milk, two ounces of loaf sugar, three eggs, and one tablespoonful of flour, one ounce of grated citron, the juice of half a lemon. Pour the mixture into buttered cups or mordds ; they must be only half full. Bake in an oven twenty minutes, and turn out of moulds before sending to table. Serve hot and quickly.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 95 Orange Sponge. For Eight or Ten Persons.—1 oz. of isinglass ; 1 pint of rvater; 6 large oranges ; 2 Tangerine oranges ; 7 ozs. of uugar. Dissolve the isinglass in one pint of water for two 1 .ours; then mix with it the juice of the large oranges iind that of the Tangerine, and the finely powdered mgar. 'WTiisk well together until it becomes a iponge. Put into a mould. Raspberry Sponge. For Eight or Ten Persons.—1 oz. of isinglass ; J pint ff water ; 1 pint of cream ; lb. of loaf sugar ; ^ the rind ff a lemon ; lb. pot of raspberry jam; pint of milk. Dissolve the isinglass in half a pint of water, and tfcrain it. Beat the cream with a quarter of a poimd if pounded loaf sugar, and half the grated rind of a P3mon. Beat a half-pound pot of raspberry jam or esUy in half a pint of milk. If jam is used run it iirough a sieve. Mix all the ingredients, and whisk intil a sponge. Baked Plum Pudding. For Eight Persons.—fib. of flour; J lb. of suet; f lb. currants; J lb. of sultanas ; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 eggs; | irnt of milk. Mix the flour, the suet, the currants, and the ultanas with a little sugar. When well mixed add lie well-beaten eggs and the milk. Bake an hour nd a half.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 96 Whip Syllabub. Fok Eight ok Tkn Pkksons.—pints of cream ; 3 wine- ■ glasses of brandy ; 1 lemon ; 6 glasses of sberry ; ^ pint of milk; 2 ozs. of sugar. To three half-pints of cream, three wineglasses of brandy with the juice of one lemon squeezed into' it, and six glasses of sherry ; let the mixture be well sweetened and whisked some time to be sohd, then add the milk. As the froth rises, lay it on a sieve to drain, then place it on the top of the mixture. To be served in jelly glasses. Tipsy Cake. For Ten ok Twelve Persons.—1 large sponge cake; 1 tumblerful of mixed sberry and brandy; 1 lemon ; 1 oz. of sugar; ozs. of almonds; pints of custard {see page 68.) ! Take a stale sponge cake that has been baked in a pretty mould. Pour as much mixed sherry and i brandy over it as it will absorb, taking the liquor ' that flows into the dish, and pouring it over the cake , again and again. Pour the juice of a lemon that has i been previously sweetened over the cake. Blanch some sweet almonds, cut in four j)ieces lengthways^ : stick all over the cake. Prepare a rich cream custard, j and when cold pour round the cake. {See page 68.) j Serve cold. An Excellent Trifle. For Ten or Twelve Persons.—6 penny sponge cakes; t lb. of ralalias ; J lb. of macaroons; 1 tumbler of mixed sberry and brandy ; J lb. of blanched almonds; J lb. of apricot jam; 1 lemon; oz. of sugar; 1 pint of rich cream ; 6 lumps of sugar ; 2 whites of eggs.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 97 I I Take six penny sponge cakes and lay tkem in a I urge glass dish.; cover them with ratafias and maca- j| oons; pour over the whole half a tumbler of brandy rnd sherry mixed, sufficient to moisten the cakes, :.ut not enough to run out. When the mixed winO ind brandy is quite absorbed, stick the cakes with Uanched almonds cut lengthways, cover between the ' llmonds with apricot jam put on thickly. Sweeten ue juice of one lemon, and pour over the jam. The aiy before it is required to be used, whip a pint of I'ood cream which has been warmed, having pre- iiously stirred into it a wineglassful of sherry and ; Tine of brandy, the juice of one lemon, and six lumps if sugar on which the rind of the lemon has been ■aibbed. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff r<:oth, and lightly mix it with a fork into the cream , iiixture. Whisk until the whole is frothed ; set it iin a sieve in a cool place until the next day. It will ; uke between one and two hours to whip the cream. !i.over the soaked cakes with the cream, piled as high S3 possible ; ornament with flowers. Stone Cream. For Eight Persons.—| lb. of apricot jam ; 2 glassfuls [orange wine; 1 quart of cream ; J oz. of isinglass; | oz. [■ almonds. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with apricot jam. ’•‘our some orange wine upon it. Take the cream, set on a slow five with the isinglass till it is dissolved, tjirring all the time. Strain it through a sieve, tflrring until it is cool enough to pour upon the rreserve. When firm, stick it with blanched pointed llmonds. H98 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Small Almond Pudding. For Six Persons.—^ lb. of sweet almonds ; 6 ozs. of bittea almonds; ^ lb. of butler ; 2 tablespoonfuls of cream; 3 ozs. of sugar ; 1 tablespoonful of cream ; 6 or 7 teacups. Pound half a pound of sweet almonds with five! ounces of bitter ones and a spoonful of water. Then, mix ^ lb. of butter, two tablespoonfuls of crearn (warmed with the butter), four eggs, a tablespoonfui of brandy, three ounces of sugar. Butter some cups, and fill. Bake and turn out. Excellent Sherry Jelly. For Ten Persons.—IJ ozs. of Nelson’s gelatine ; | pint of cold water; ^ pint of boiling water ; J pint of lemon juice ;l 3 or 4 lemons; 3 whites of eggs; 6 ozs. of loaf sugar. Steep one and a half ounces of Nelson’s opaque gelatine in a quarter of a pint of cold water ; when soft add to it half a pint of boiling water, which will dissolve it. Put it into a pan with a quarter of a pint of lemon jnice (three or four lemons) and the rind of one and a half, the whites of three eggs well beaten to a strong froth and the shells crushed, five ounces of loaf sugar. Stir gently until it boils, but not after. Let it boil gently for five minutes—no longer. When the mixture is taken oflt the five put in a wineglassful of cold water. Let it stand a few minutes near the fire, covered up. Pour it on to half a bottle of sherry and half a teacupful of brandy in a basin, then strain the whole through a flannel bag, ■ previously rinsed in boiling water once or twice.; Pour into a mould that has been plunged into cold j water and allow to stand until set. iSAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 99 Clear Lemon Jelly. For Eight Persons.—Ij ozs. of gelatine; J pint of cold '•water; ^ pint of boiling water; 2 lemon rinds; 1 gill of lemon juice; ^ lb. of loaf sugar ; 5 eggs (the whites and > shells). Steep the gelatine in water ; when soft add half a ;pint of boiling water, the rind of two lemons, and ;a gill of juice, half a pound of loaf sugar, and the '.vi^hites and shells of five eggs. Boil well together, ; and strain through a jelly bag. Wafer Pudding. For Five Persons—IJ teaspoonfuls of flour; 1 egg; 2 ttablespoonfulsof cream ; 1 tablespoonful of butter; 10 tea- < spoonfuls of milk ; 1 oz. of castor sugar. Beat together for ten minutes the fiour, the egg, ■the cream, the butter (warmed in the milk), and one t ounce of castor sugar. Bake in saucers a nice brown. Wafers Filled with Cream. For Six Persons.—2 ozs. of flour ; j lb. of loaf sugar; 2 t eggs; 1 oz. of wax; f pint of cream; 1 teaspoonful of c cochineal; saltspoonful of vanilla ; 1J oz. of sugar. Beat well together the flour, the loaf sugar, and • the eggs ; roll out. Bake on a sheet of tin or copper ■ which has been rubbed with wax. Bake in a quick < oven. Cut out six circles, and curl up when hot. Fill up with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla : and sweetened. Place in a circle on a dish, and : serve cold. The cream may be coloured pink with I cochineal.I 100 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Swiss Cream. Foe, Ten Peesons.—1 pint of thin cream or milk; lemons; 2 ozs. of sugar; 3 teaspoonfuls of flour; 12 sponge fingers; 6 macaroons; j lb. of candied cherries and peel mixed. One pint of good milk or tkin cream with. sul6B.cient sugar previously rubbed on lemon to sweeten tho- roughly. Boil the milk, and when nearly cold add the juice of one lemon and a half with three tea- spoonfuls of flour rubbed very smooth. Stir it until it tliickens on the fire, and then pour it into a dish in which sponge fingers and macaroons have been previously arranged. Add a whip ornamented with candied peel and preserved cherries. Buttermilk Curds. Foe Eight Peesons.—3 pints of milk; 1J pints of butter- milk ; 1 tablespoonful of flour; 3 yolks of eggs; 1 break- fast-cupful of cream; 2 ozs. of fine sugar. Put the rich new milk on the fire, and when it boils have ready the buttermilk, in which is mixed the fiour and the yolks of three eggs. Put this into the boiling milk; only stir it once when just again on the boil, take it off the fire and let it stand a quarter of an hour; then with a skimmer take out the curds and lay them on a sieve. When drained, mix the curd in a bowl with a breakfast-cup of cream and fine sugar. Lay in a dish, and eat cream, sugar, and sherry with it. Charlotte Russe. Foe Ten Peesons.—IJ ozs. of gelatine; 1 pint of milk; 3 yolks of eggs; J pint of cream; 1 glass of sberry ; 1 lemon; 8 large lumps of sugar; J saltspoonful of cocbine^ ; 24 Savoy cakes.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. lor Melt the gelatine in a pint of milk, stir in three }yolks of eggs, let it thicken a little. Take off the tfii’e, and when cold add the cream and sherry, the jpeel of a lemon, and eight large lumps of sugar, on which grate the peel. Then whip it twenty minutes, lor imtil it becomes thick. Plunge a mould in cold rwater, line the sides with Savoy cakes, cut off the eends, and make them stand. Pour in the whipped ccream, which you can either colour pink with cochi- ineal or leave white. Turn out when set and serve. Admiral Pudding. For Six or Eight Persons.—| lb. of potatoes; f lb. of coarrots ; lb. of flour; j lb. of suet; ^ lb. of sugar; J lb. oof currants; J lb. of candied peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, fifor sauce, in arrowroot. Pub to a paste some previously boiled potatoes aand the carrots; add, and well mix, the flour, the ssuet, the sugar, currants, and candied peel. Boil in aa basin for four hours. Serve with brandy sauce. Velvet Cream. For Six Persons.—| pint of cream; J oz. of gelatine; 1 coz. of sugar; 1 pot of apricot jam; 1 gill of lemon juice; 1 U'.easpo6nful of grated lemon peel; 2 tablespoonfuls of sherry. To a pint of cream use half an ounce of gelatine, land sugar to taste. Put on the fire and keep stirring luntil the gelatine is dissolved; take it off the fire, ^strain it, and keep stirring till almost cold. Have iready prepared in a glass dish a pot of apricot jam tmixed with a little lemon j nice and grated peel, two t tablespoonfuls of sherry. Pour the cream over it, aand let it stand until the following day. Serve in the ^lass dish.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ro2 Swiss Pudding. For Five Persons.—6 penny sponge cakes; 1 glassful of brandy; 3 whites of eggs ; 1 gill of lemon juice; 1^ ozs. of castor sugar; 1 pint of custard, as on page (»8. Soak some sponge cakes in wine, add a little brandy; wben well soaked cover them witb a custard. Then beat up the whites of three eggs with some castor sugar and lemon juice into a stiff froth. Put in the oven to set for a quarter of an hour. Mosaic Cream. For Eight Persons.—| pint of cream; 5 yolks of eggs; 1 oz. of isinglass ; J pint of water ; 3 penny sponge cakes; 1 wineglass of brandy; ^ lb. of apricots (candied)J lb. of greengages (candied) ; 2 ozs. of candied cherries or straw- berries. Make half a pint of cream into a custard with the yolks of five eggs ; stir into it half an ounce of isin- glass dissolved in half a pint of water. Soak three sponge cakes in brandy. Put into the bottom of a handsome mould some halved candied apricots and greengages, interspersed with candied cherries or strawberries. Pour in a little custard upon this to cover it, let it stand till quite cold, then add a layer of cakes, then some custard, cake, and candied fruit, until the mould is full. Let it stand to get tho- roughly cold. Dip the mould for one moment in boiling water before turning it out. Wine Pancakes fried without Butter or Lard. For Five Persons.—3 eggs; pint of cream; 2 ozs. of sugar ; of a glass of sherry ; 1 oz. of flour (about).103 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Beat three eggs very well; mix when strained with tthe cream, the sugar, the sherry, and as much flour ;as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake 1 batter, but not quite. Heat the frying pan tolerably ! hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, pour in the batter, : and make thin pancakes. Serve very hot. Muffin Pudding. For Eight Persons.—^ lb. of dried cberries; ^ lb. of candied angelica ; 3 mufl&ns; 4 eggs ; f pint of milk ; 2 ozs. of sugar; 2 drops of vanilla ; ^ pint of wine sauce. Put the mould you are going to use into a stewpan of water on the fire; see that the water comes very little more than half way up the sides of the mould. Take out your mould and well butter the inside; stick dried cherries and pieces of candied angelica, or any other pretty dried fruit that is liked; stick all over the mould. Pull to pieces some muffins, put in a good many dried cherries mixed up with the pieces of muffin, that should fill the mould about three parts. Whisk up four eggs, just to break the yolks, and pour upon them three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk. Sweeten it to taste. Whisk aU well together. When a trifle cooler put in a drop or two of vanilla. Pour into the mould, tie a cloth over it and put it into the boiling water in the stewpan. Boil an hour and a quarter. Serve very hot with wine sauce. Brown Bread Ice Cream. For Eight Persons.—1 loaf of brown bread; 1 pint of cream ; 2^ ozs. of sugar ; 4 lbs. of rice (rough). Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread ; soak it in cream for three hours, put it in a pewter ice-SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 304 pot and proceed as follows : Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to a powder, throw a large handful- and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in as cold a part of the house as possible. Put your pewter ice-pot into the bucket containing the broken-up ice, draw the ice round the pot so as to cover every possible part; keep turning it round briskly by 'means of the handle. Every five minutes open the pot, stir well, and remove the parts that ice round the edges. Close up and cover mth ice until it is as firm as butter. Put the ice into moulds, and place in fresh ice and salt, or serve in glasses. There should be holes in the bottom of the bucket to let the water escape. Almond Hedgehog. For Six Persons.—G H*®- almonds; 1 gill of orange flower water; 6 yolks of eggs ; 5 whites of eggs; J pint of cream ; 1 oz. of sugar ; lb. of fresh butter. Custard for Sauce.—2 yolks of eggs; oz. of sugar; I pint of cream; 3 drops of vanilla. Take a pound of blanched almonds, beat them well in a mortar with a little orange fiower watermake them into a stiff paste, then beat in the yolks of six eggs; put the whites of five into half a pint of rich cream, sweeten with sugar, mix with it a quarter of a pound of sweet butter melted. Set the whole on a slow fire and keep constantly stirring till it is stiff enough to be made in the form of a hedgehog. Then stick it fuU of blanched almonds cut lengthwise to resemble the bristles of a hedgehog; put it into a dish and pour round it a good custard made with half a pint of cream and the yolks of two eggs, sweetened to taste, and flavoured with a drop or two of vanilla.SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. 105 Cowslip Pudding. For Six or Seven Persons.—J peck of cowslipsJ lb. of Naples biscuits; ^ pint of cream; 1 pint of milk ; 3 eggs ; 1 tablespoonful of rose water ; 2^ ozs. of sugar. Take the flowers of half a peck of cowslips, cut and pound them small, with a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits grated, and a pint and half of cream, or a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Boil them a little, then take off the fire and beat up eight eggs with a little cream and rose water. Sweeten to taste, mix well together, butter a dish and put it in ; bake it, and when done dust fine sugar over it and serve. Riband Jelly. For Ten Persons.—2 calves’ feet; 5 quarts of water ; 3 ozs. of gelatine ; 6 whites of eggs ; 6 slieils ; 2 glasses of sherry ; 2f ozs. of sugar ; 4 drops of vanilla ; 1 saltspoon- ful of cochineal; 1 saltspoonful of spinach extract; ^ salt- spoonful of saffron; 1 tablespoonful of orange flower water ; 1 gill of cream. Take out the large bones of two calves’ feet, put the feet into a pot with five quarts of water and three ounces of gelatine, boil till it comes to one quart; strain it through a flannel bag, let it stand twenty-four hours, then scrape off all the fat from the top very clean, then slice it. Put to it the whites of five eggs beaten to a froth, and their crushed shells; boil it a httle, then put in wine and sugar to taste. Strain through a flannel bag into a mould that has been previously dipped in cold water, run in as much jelly as will cover the bottom of the mould half an inch deep, let it stand to get cold; colour a httle of the jeUy with cochineal and flavour with a drop or two of vanilla. When the flrst layer is perfectly cold runio6 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. ^ through, a jelly hag the red layer about half an inch i in thickness, and proceed as above with a green layer (coloured with spinach), a white one (made so with, thick cream), a yellow one (coloured with saffron), then ; another red one, and a layer of natural j eUy for the top. Each fresh layer must not be very warm, or the one below it wlH run; orange flower water may be added to the saffron layer if liked. Stewed Apples with Apricot Jam and Cream. For Eight Persons.—^ lb. of sugar; ^ pint of water; 8 pared apples ; ^ lb. of apricot jam ; J pint of cream ; oz. of castor sugar. Boil half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water, after the sugar is dissolved boil ten minutes. Have ready six or eight pared and cored apples, place them in the syrup and let them stand simmering for five hours until tender. Carefully take out the apples, fill with apricot jam, place in a glass dish; pour the syrup round and place a little sweetened whipped cream on the top of each apple. Baked Quince Pudding. For Eight Persons,—6 quinces ; ozs. of sugar; 1 tea- spoonful of ground ginger ; 3 yolks of eggs ; f pint of milk ; pint of cream; 3 whites of eggs. Scald your quinces very tender, pare six very thin, scrape off the soft part, mix it with sugar very sweet, put in a teaspoonful of ground ginger; beat the yolks of three eggs, and add half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Stir the mixture into the107 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. quinces till of a good thickness; butter a pie dish, put in the mixture, cover with sweetened whipped whites of the eggs, and bake. An Old English Prune Pudding. For Six Persons.—1 pint of milk; 3 yolks of eggs; whites of eggs; 2 spoonsful of flour; 1 spoonful of ground ginger ; ^ lb. of prunes ; 2 ozs. of sugar ; 1 oz. of butter or 5 pint of cream; 2 ozs. of almonds; J glass of brandy ; 4 drops of vanilla. Take a pint of milk, beat three eggs and half the whites with a gill of milk, and two spoonfuls of flour and one of ground ginger; then by degrees add all the milk, mix half a pound of prunes; tie up in a floured cloth and boil an hour. Clarify butter and pour over it before serving; or, which is much nicer, mix a little brandy with some sweetened cream and a few chopped blanched almonds, and pour over the pudding. Spanish Fritters. For Six Persons.—1 roll; 2 eggs; 1 pint of milk ; 5 lb. of sugar ; oil for frying; 1 oz. of coloured sugarplums. Take the inside of a roll and slice it in three, then soak the pieces in milk, pass it through a batter of eggs, fry them in oil; when almost done repass them in another batter, then let them fry till they are done, drain off the oil and lay on a dish. Cover each fritter with small coloured sugarplums, and pour clarifled sugar round them; serve very hot. Pancakes. For Four Persons.—1 cupful of flour ; 1 cupful of boiling milk ; 1 oz. of melted butter; 1 oz. of sugar ; 3 eggs ; butter for frying.io8 SAVOURIES AND SWEETS. Pour upon a cupful of flour a cupful of boiling milk; wlien cold add some melted butter, sugar to taste, and tbe well-beaten yolks and whites of three eggs; fry in butter till brown. Baked Lemon Pudding. Foe. Six Peesons.—2 lemons; J lb. of sugar; 2 whites of eggs; 3 yolks of eggs ; enough puff paste to line a pie dish. Put the juice of two lemons to half a pound of lump sugar, the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth. Mix the lemon juice and sugar and let the whole stand aside for half an hour, then add the rind of the lemons grated, and the yolks of three eggs ; line a flat dish with paste and bake in a slow oven. Castle Baskets. Foe Six Peesons.—6 castle puddings as on page 45 ; J lb. of red currant jelly ; J lb. of sugar; ^ lb. of apricot jam ; 1 gill of lemon juice ; f pint of cream ; 3 ozs. of angelica for handles. Make some castle puddings, as on page 45, and bake them ; let them stand till cold, then tui-n out of their moulds. CarefuUy scoop out the middles, cover the outside thickly with red currant jelly or apricot jam and roll in white or pink sugar; put a dessertspoonful of jam into each case; make a whip of cream, sugar, and a few drops of lemon juice (make it the day before it is wanted, and let it be put on a sieve to drain); fill each case with cream well piled up. Cut some angelica into suitable strips and form handles to the baskets; serve cold.I London ; J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Price 2s. SHOWELL’S [Housekeeper’s Account Book POP THE YEAR 1886. WITH ENTIRELY NEW INTRODUCTORY HINTS OUSEHOLD ECONOMY. ' By Miss M. L. ALLEN, Author of “Breakfast Dishes,” “Savouries and Sweets.” “ A useful household diary.”—Graphic. “The arrangement is so complete that few establishments will fail to find it adequate.”—The Queen.Fifth Edition, Is. Limp cloth, Is. 6d, BREAKFAST DISHES For every Morning of Three Months. By Miss M. L. ALLEN. “ The question ‘ What shall we have for breakfast ? ’ is here answered in a practical way.”—The Queen. “A housewife armed with this little manual need never be at a loss to know what to order for the first meal of the day.”— The Literary World. “ The writer gives an appetising breakfast bill of fare for every morning extending over a period of three months. To housekeepers this little book is invaluable.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “The book is a suggestive and useful one, and will no doubt prove acceptable to cooks and housewives anxious to break away from the existing stereotyped routine of the breakfast fare.”—Newcastle Weekly Chronicle. “ We have no hesitation in heartily commending this little book.”—Yorkshire Post. “A useful manual for young housekeepers and others.”— Bookseller. “ Supplies a long-felt want by housekeepers.”—Graphic. “ 1 he housekeeper must be hard to please who does not find something to suit both her taste and her purse.”—Dundee Advertiser. London-: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Orders received at all Booksellers.London: J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane, Royal i6mo, doth, 2s. (>d. , . art AS APPLIED TO DRESS, With special reference to Harmonious Colouring. INCLUDING CHAPTERS ON i autistic dressing of im- perfect FIGURES. ( COLOUR IN DYED FABRICS. COMBINATION OF COLOURS. COLOUR APPLIED TO DRESS. EFFECT OF COLOURS ON COMPLEXION. Etc., Etc. By Miss L. HIGGIN, Late of the Royal School of Art Needlework, South Kensington, “ We hail this prettily got-up little volume because its con- tents are at once practical and suggestive.”—The Queen. “ Treated in an exhaustive, but not tedious manner . . . worthy of careful study by every woman . . . exquisitely piinted.”—Lady's Pictorial. “ A great many excellent hints will be found, especially on the point of harmonious colouring, and the little work should be in every house.”—Society. “ A very useful and well got-up little book.”—The Lady. “ The book is written in a plain and unpretentious style, and would be in its place on every housewife’s work-table.”— The Graphic.4 London: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. Monthly, Is. Gd. THE ~~ ART JOURNAL Contains High Class Etchings and Line Engnravigs suitable for Framing. A large Lme Engraving or Etching every Month. “Artistic in tone from the first page to the last.”—The Times. ^ “ Raising its long-established eminence of artistic merit.”— Daily Telegraph. “ Exceptionally good engravings and etchings.”—Athenceum. Sold by all Booksellers.5 HOME ARTS.” For the Eequirements of the Amateur and the Handicraftsman. iDesign, Modelling, Woodcarving, Leather-iuork, Inlay ^ Brass-work, Reponssd, Stencilling, Papier-inachl Mosaic, Sr^c. lAn ILLUSTRATED Series of Papers on the above, By C. E. LELAND OF THE HOME ARTS ASSOCIATION, WILL APPEAR IN THE ART JOURNAL DURING 1886. MONTHLY, Is. 6d. Sold by all Booksellers. London: J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, Ivv Lane. I6 London': J. S. VIRTUE & Co., Limited, 26, La' Lane. Paper Boards, 3?. (id. MY WIFE’S RELATIONS; a Stofj) of ^tglanlt. By Mrs. HUXLEY. With 24 Illustrations by Miss N. Huxley IN TINTS. The tinted illustrations present piggy’s diversions in very humourous lights.”—Chronicle. “The productions are altogether to be Scotsman. “ The illustrations are extremely amusing, and the book is one likely to create a considerable sensation in the nursery.”— (literary IVorld. “A nicely got-up edition of a clever book from the pen of Mrs. Huxley, the wife of the Professor.”—The Queen.7 London ; J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. CATALOGUE OF BOOKS. Art Annual, 1884. The Life of Sir F. Leighton, P.R.A., 2S. 6d.; cloth gilt, 53. Art Annual, 1885. The Life and Work of Sir J. E. MILLAIS, Bart,, R.A. Three large Etchings or Engravings, and over 40 other Illustrations, 2s. 6d.; cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. The Life and Work of Sir F. Leighton, P.R.A., and The LIFE AND WORK OF SIR J. E. MILLAIS, Bart., R.A. Bound together in One Volume, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 7s. 6d. Children’s Pleasure-Book (The). A Treasury of Original Stories, Biographies, Poems, Sunday Readings, &c. By W. H. Kingston, Jeanie Bering, W. Burnett, the Author of “ Poems written for a Child,” the Author of “ Brave Lisette,” A. G. Forbes, Helen Zimmem,’and other Popular Authors of Children’s Books. 250 Illus- trations. Handsomely bound. Fcap. 4to, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. Children’s Sunday Pleasure-Book (The). Containing Gospel and other Stories told to Children. With numerous Illustra- tions. Fcap. 4to, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 5s. Christian Birthday Souvenir (The). Selected and ar- ranged by “ Delta.” Imperial i6mo, cloth gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Cutts’ (E. L.) Scenes and Characters of the Middle Ages. By the Rev. Edward L. Cutts, late Hon. Sec. of the Essex Archseolo- gical Society. 182 En^avings on Wood. 8vo, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d. Conienis,—The Monks of the Middle Ages ; The Hermits and Recluses of the Middle A ges; The Pilgrims of the Middle Ages ; The Secular Clergy of the Middle Ages; The Minstrels of the Middle Ages ; The Knights of the Middle Ages ; The Merchants of the Middle Ages. Dick Whittington (The Story of). By J. B. Marsh. With Six full-page Illustrations. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Faber’s Hymns. Fine Edition, crown 8vo, cloth gilt extra, 5s. Fables and Fancies (Beata Francis). With numerous Illustrations Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Fleetwood’s (Rev. John, D.D.) Life of Christ. Fifty- eight Steel Engravings. 4to, cloth gilt, gilt edges, £\ 15s. Foxe’s Book of Martyrs. Being a History of Christian Martyrdom from the Earliest Times. Carefully revised by the Rev. M. Crombie, M.A. With Eight full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Garrett’s (Edward) Occupations of a Retired Life. With Eight full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. Garrett’s (Edward) The Crust and the Cake. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 3s. 6d. Habits of Good Society (The). A Handbook of Etiquette for ladies and gentlemen. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Hack’s (Maria) Stories from English History during the , Revised by David Murray Smith, Author of ‘‘Tales Chivalry and Romance,” &c. With Eight full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d.8 London : J. S. VIRTUE & CO., Limited, 26, Ivy Lane. CATALOGUE OF BOOKS —continued. Italy; its Arts, its Cities, its Lakes, its Rivers. With nearly 170 Illustrations. Small Quarto, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 15s. Lamb’s Tales from Shakespeare. With Ten full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. Red lined Fine Paper Edition. With Eight Steel Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d. Marmion, and The Lady of the Lake. By Sir Walter Scott. Reprinted from the best edition. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 6s. Men who have Risen. A Book for Boys. Including the graphic stories of the rise of the Peel family, and the struggles of such men as Hugh Miller, Wilson the Ornithologist, Smeaton the Engineer, and Robert Stephenson. With Eight full-page Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Murray’s English Grammar (Abridgment). With co- pious explanatory observations, parsing exercises, sentences for correction, questions for examination, and an Appendix, containing rules for composition, punctuation, &c. By the Rev. John Davis. Cloth, IS. 6d.. Murray’s English Grammar (Abridgment). With an Appendix, designed for the younger classes of learners. By Bindley Murray. A New Edition. By the Rev. W. B. Smith, M.A., Head Master of the City of London Freemen’s Orphan School. Cloth, is. Riviera (The) ; both Eastern and Western. By Hugh Macmillan, D.D. 24 Page Illustrations, and nearly 150 in the Text, including descriptions and Illustrations of the following Towns, among many others :—Nice, Cannes, Mentone, San Remo, &c., &c. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 21s. Rooper’s (George) Flood, Field, and Forest, Author of “ Thames and Tweed,” “ Tales and Sketches,” &c. Illustrated by George Bowers and J. Carlisle. Cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d.; Pic- torial boards, 2S. 6d. Shelmerdine’s (W.) Psalms and other portions of Scrip- ture, marked for Chanting. Small 8vo, cloth cut flush, is. The p Prize ” Edition of Keightley’s Shakespeare. Handsomely printed with red lines, and 40 Outline Illustrations and Portrait. Imperial 8vo, Half-Roxburgh, gilt top, i6s. Stories on the Collects, for every Sunday and- Holy E)ay throughout the Year, with Questions and Answers on the Cpllects. By C. A. Jones and the Rev. S. G. Lines. Small 8vo, cloth. Vol. I.—Advent to Easter, 3s. 6d. Vol. 2.—Easter and Trinity. Vol. 3.— . Saints’ Days and Holy Days. Women of Worth. A Book for Boys and Girls. With full-page Illustrations by W. Dickes. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, gilt edges, 3s. 6d. Wood’s (Rev. J. G.) Nature’s Teachings, Human In- vention anticipated by Nature. By the Author of “ Homes without Hands,” &c., &c. With 300 Illustrations. New Edition. Demy 8vo, cloth gilt, I2S. Wood’s (Rev. J. G.) Man and Beast, Here and Here- after. Fifth Edition, 6s.>’»<.•1 \ ■ • . T‘ ;■ S.3H \