iTOOWT^Airemi^ AND GIVE22101727011Med K9744 \0<r. i' . SkT-'MENUS MADE EASY.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28048945MENUS MADE EASY; on, HOW TO ORDER DINNER AND GIVE THE DISHES THEIR FRENCH NAMES r,r NANCY LAKE. THE SEVENTH EDITION. LONDON AND NE# YORK: FREDERICK WARNE & CO. 1892.LONDON .* BRADBURY, AO NEW, & CO. LD., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. orTINTRODUCTION. This publication is a humble endeavour to afford some assistance to ladies in the daily difficulty oi what to order for dinner, and how to describe it. Cooks are not generally gifted with fertile imagi- nations, and are inclined to get into a routine which is a source of annoyance to those who desire a variety of dishes, if not for themselves, at least for their friends. Ladies often wish to be ready with suggestions of a change in the proposals of the cook, and even when in some measure provided with these, a second difficulty arises—what are these dishes to be called? What are the correct technical names for them ? The French of cookery is a language of itself, and those who are not learned in it are often entirely at a loss when suddenly called on to write out a correct French menu with no other assistance than that of a dictionary. In carrying out this idea, lists o'Introduction. VI various dishes have been given, arranged in courses, with the French names, as well as the English equivalent or description. It is not intended to give recipes, such as would be adequate for the preparation of the dishes in the kitchen; the dishes are only so far described as to enable the mistress to recognize them, giving a general idea of their ingredients and of their ap- pearance when sent to table. If the full recipes are desired for the cook’s use, they will he found in the well-known cookery books, so many of which are now published.CONTENTS —■*— PAOH INTRODUCTION . . V CHAPTER L Soups—Clear and thick I CHAPTER II. Fisn—Different modes of dressing Fish ; Shell-Fish . . 10 CHAPTER HE Entrees—Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb, Pork, Poultry, Game CHAPTER IV. REMOVES—Of Beef, Veal, Mutton, Lamb. Pork, Poultry, Game ,85 CHAPTER V. Roasts . . . mVlll Contents. CHAPTER YI. i aou Vegetables and Salads 114 CHAPTER YU. Eggs and Omelettes 133 CHAPTER Vlll. Entremets — Oakes and Pastry, Puddings, Fritters, Compotes of Fruit, Creams, Jellies . ,133 CHAPTER IX. Savoury Entremets . .ICG CHAPTER X. Ices . . - - , . 172 CHAPTER XI. Sauces and Garnishes . 175MENUS MADE EASY CHAPTER I. SOUPS OR POTAGES. In planning out a dinner the subject of Soups is the first thing to be considered. They may he divided into two classes:—1st. Thick soups, including purees of game, vegetables, &c. 2ndly. Clear, transparent soups, or consommes, of meat, game or poultry, varying according to the floating garnish added to them. At a large dinner, when there are two soups, one is thick and the other clear. Consomme d la Julienne has a floating grj- nish of vegetables cut in strips. a la Xavier has a garnish of threads of vegetables. —— a la Jardiniere is garnished with vege- tables cut in small fancy shapes. a la Brunoise has vegetables cut in small dice. This is sometimes called Potagt Faubonne.2 Menus Made Easy. Consomm6 a la Printanibre, or Potage prin- tanier, has early summer vegetables cut in small shapes, with green peas and asparagus heads. a la Kursel is Printaniero Soup with lettuces. a la Chiffonade has lettuces stamped ouf with a cutter, and peas. —— a la D’Esclignac has a garnish of turnips, and small squares of custard. a la Royale has small fancy shapes of cus- tard, which may be white, or coloured red and green. Printanier a la Royale has the vegetables as in “ a la Printaniere,” and the little pieces of custard as in “ a la Royale.0 aux quenelles has very small quenelles. aux petits navets cl bran has little pieces of turnip fried brown. aux profiterolles has little baked balls of a paste made of milk, butter, flour and eggs. sagou lie' has a thickening of sago. aux trois racines is garnished with carrots, turnips and celery. aux ceufs poches has poached eggs. aux pointes d'asperges et ceufs poches has asparagus heads in addition to the poached eggs. au macaroni has a garnish of macaroniSoups o Consomm6 au vermicelle has vermicelli. With this and with macaroni soup, grated Par. mesan must he served on a separate dish. cm tapioca has tapioca in it. —— aux pates cVItalic, sometimes called Potage aux lazagnes, has pieces of Italian paste. d la semoule and cm viz are respectively garnished with semolina and rice. a la Prince de Galles has little pieces of chicken enveloped in forcemeat, pieces of custard cut in the same shape, and aspa- ragus points. d la Colbert has a garnish of cos lettuce, celery, Jerusalem artichokes and button onions. aux haricots verts has French beans. d la Jerusalem has Jerusalem artichokes cut into very small balls. - — d la macedoine cle legumes is garnished with several kinds of vegetables. d la Nivernaise has vegetables cut in thin small shapes, Italian paste, and quenelles cut in slices. d la Duchesse is thickened with arrowroot, and garnished with thin strips of poultry or game. Potage Baraquine has tapioca, and strips of chicken and truffles. d la Gouffe is also made with tapioca, pieces of chicken, tongue and truffles.Menus Made Easy. 4 Potage crodtes au pot has toasted crusts. —— de riz an gras is Brunoise or Jardiniere soup ;vitli the addition of rice. Consomme aux Nouilles has poached strips of German paste, made of flour, eggs, butter, &c. The following soups can he either clear or thick :— Potage a la tortue. Turtle soup. —— & la fausse tortue. Mock Turtle. aux abatis d’oie. Giblet. aux queues de boeuf. Ox tail. Thick ox- tail soup is called queue? de boeuf d VAnglaise. tete de veau. Calf’s head. aux grouses. Grouse. aux perclreaux. Partridge. aux faisans. Pheasant. aux be'easses. Woodcock. aux levraut or d la lievre. flare. cl la venaison. Yenison. Of the thick soups there are also :— Potage queues de boeuf d VIndienne. A curry soup with pieces of ox-tail in it. Mulligatavmy. Curry soup. With this and all soups “a lTndienne,” rice is served on a separate dish. queues de veau. Calf s-tail soup.Soups. 5 .Potage queues de veaib d VIndienne is the same curried. aux pieds de veau. Calf’s feet. tete de veau d VIndienne. Calf’s-head soup, curried. aux queues d’agneau. Lamb’s tails. d Vanguille. Eels. de homard. Lobster. d la bisque d'ecrevisses. Crayfish. aux huitres. White oyster soup. aux raviolis. Game stock with small pieces of forcemeat wrapped in paste. d la Victoria. White soup with barley or rice. d la Reine. Chicken puree with cream, garnished with quenelles of chicken, or with dice of fried bread. d la chasseur. Game stock garnished with pieces of the game, young onions, pota- toes, &c. aux lierbes printccnieres. White soup with shred lettuces and other vegetables. d la Russe. Brown soup, with vegetables and round halls of sausage meat. • d VItalienne. Fowl stock with puree from vegetables, anchovies, &c., garnished with small pieces of the fowl. d la Provengale or Bouillabaisse is made with shred Portugal onions, and is gar- nished with fillets of several kinds of fish.6 Menus Made Easy. Potage d la Comtesse. While soup of veal stock and sweetbreads, with dice of fried bread. d la Chanoinesse. White soup with quenelles of fish, and mackerel roe cut in small square pieces. d la Bonne Femme. White soup with yolks of eggs and shreds of green vegetables. d la Jenny Lind. White soup with yolks of eggs and sago. —— Coclcie leekie is made of pheasant or chicken with leeks. an sagou. Sago soup. aux filets de soles. Yeal or fish stock with fillets of sole. d la Poissonniere. White soup with pieces of salmon and sole, oysters and mussels. aumoutov. Mutton broth served with the mutton in it. d VFcossaise. Scotch broth of mutton with barley, chopped parsley, and vegetables cut in dice. Pot-au-feu. Uncleared stock served with the vegetables in it. d la Colbert. Stock with yolks of eggs and cream, heads of endive, and poached eggs. Solferino. Stock with young vegetables, puree of tomatoes, chopped parsley, &c.Soups. 7 Potage vermicelle a la Hollandaise. White soup with vermicelli, cream and yolks of eggs. Pilau cle riz is rice boiled in stock. d la Grecque. Pea soup and Jardiniere soup, with pieces of braised mutton. d la Bagration. White fish soup with curry powder, crayfish tails, chopped sole and vegetables. Livonien. Puree of vegetables and rice, with cream and yolks of eggs. de riz d la Turque. Mutton broth, served with rice. Bisque au riz. Crayfish soup, with the addition of rice. Creme de Chicoree d la Colbert. White stock, cream and yolks of eggs, with chicory and poached eggs. - d la Nimoise. Pish stock with yolks of eggs. • d la Brisse. Chicken soup with small shapes of vegetable cream, made of a puree of the vegetable with eggs. Besides these there are the Purees :— Puree de gibier. Puree de volaille. Purge de lapereaux. Puree de grouses. Puree of game. Puree of fowl. Puree of rabbit. Puree of grouse.8 Menus Made Easy. And the Vegetable Purees:— Purtfe de pommes de terre. Potato puree. This is often called Potage Parmentier on account of Parmentier having introduced potatoes into France. de petits pois or pois verts. Puree of green peas. This can also be called Potage d la D’Artois. Served with whole peas in it, it is Potage d la St. Germain. Potage d la Palestine. PurM of Jerusalem chokes. arti- Potage a la Gre'cy. Puree d’asperges. Puree de celeris. Puree de marrons. Puree of carrots. Puree of asparagus. Puree of celery. Puree of chestnuts. Potage a la Bretonne. Puree of turnips. Puree de choux-fieurs. Puree of cauliflower. Puree de concombres. Puree of cucumbers. Puree of onions. Puree of spinach. Puree of tomatoes. Puree of vegetable marrow. Puree of red haricots. Puree of white haricots. Potage d la Chantilly. Puree of lentils. Potage d la Stamboul. Puree of rice and tomatoes. Puree of artichokes. Puree of sorrel. Puree of beans. Puree of dried peas. Potage d la Soubise. Puree d'epinards. Puree de tomates. Puree de potirons. Potage d la Conde. Potage d la Dustan. Puree d'artichauts. Puide d’oseille. Puree de feves. Puree de pois.Soups. 9 Puree de man'ons d la mancelle. Puree of chestnuts with puree of game. Potage.d la creme d’orge. Puree of barley. d la creme de riz. Puree of rice. d la creme de tapioca. Puree of tapioca. When chervil is added to a soup, d la peluche, or d la chiffonade, de cerfeuil may he appended to the name. If maigre soups are required, Potage Julienne, and many of the vegetable soups, maybe made without stock. The following are also suggested :— Potage au lait d’amandes is made of rice milk and almond milk. d la Savoyarde. Yegetable soup, poured over slices. of bread sprinkled with grated cheese. d la Monaco. Milk with yolks of eggs, poured over toast.CHAPTER II. FISH OR POISSONS. When fish is served plainly boiled, the French name for it is given on the Menu, with the name of the sauce served with it; as Turbot, sauce Hollan- daise, for boiled turbot served with Hollandaise sauce in a sauce-boat. BARBEL. Barbeau, or Barbillon, grille is broiled, and should be served with anchovy sauce. au Parmesan—pieces of barbel with Becha- mel sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. d Vetuvee is boiled in wine, and served in the sauce with flour and butter. -—— au court-bouillon is boiled in a bouillon of wine and onions, with cloves, herbs and lemon peel. BASS. Bar d Veau de sel is boiled. sauce au beurre—broiled, and served with butter sauce.Fish. 11 BREAM. Brdme grille is broiled, and served with brown caper sauce. au vin blanc is boiled in white wine sauce BRILL. Barbue aux cdpres is boiled and served with melted butter and capers. d la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce. sauce homard—served with lobster sauce. d la puree cle cdpres—served with a sauce of melted butter, puree of capers, gherkins and spinach. d let Provengale—soaked in oil, fried, and served with anchovy sauce. d la Ravigote—baked in paper, and served in mayonnaise sauce with capers, tarragon, chervil, spinach, &c. d la Conti—cooked in oil, stock, white wine and herbs. a la 8ainte- Me'nehould. Pieces of brill with white sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. Filets de barbv.e a la Juive. Fillets of brill cut in two or more pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Hollandaise sauce.12 Menus Made Easy. Filets de barbae en matelote. Fillets fried and dressed on a border of mashed potatoes, with matelote sauce. They are also dressed aw gratin, d la meuniere, and in many of the ways given for turbot. CARP. Carpefrite is split and fried. d la maitre d’hotel is grilled and served with Maitre d’hotel butter. d Vltalienne—stewed in Italian sauce. farcie aw four— stuffed and baked. It may be served with a brown sauce. d la biere—boiled in beer with bacon, onions, carrots, &e. d la Ghambord—larded, stuffed with force- meat, boiled in court - bouillon and browned. • d la Marinihre is saute with butter, bread- crumbs, chives, garlic, &c. aw bleu is pickled. Coquilles de laitances de carpe is carp roe scal- loped. Casserole de laitances—carp roe stewed in stock with wine and herbs. Served in the sauce with butter, flour and lemon-juice. CHAR. Ombre Chevalier en terrine is potted char.Fish. 13 COD. Cabillaud d la Hollandaise is served with Hollandaise sauce. —— a la Portugaise—slices dipped in flour and fried; served with a sauce of tomato sauce, mussel liquor, Harvey and anchovy. d rindienne is fried or grilled, and served with curry sauce. ■ d la creme—pieces of cod in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and browned. farci au four—stuffed and baked. ■——- grille d la Colbert—broiled, and served on maitre d’hotel butter, with maitre d’hotel sauce. recrepi, sauce aux huilres—crimped, and served with oyster sauce. Morue au beurre noir. Salt cod, boiled and served with black-butter sauce. au grcitin — pieces of salt cod, with a sauce of butter, flour and cream; sprinkled with breadcrumbs, grated cheese and melted butter, and browned. Brandade cle Morue—salt cod, in small pieces, with oil, melted butter, parsley and garlic; stirred to a cream. DABS Served as Limandes frites they are fried.Menus Made Easy. i4 EELS. Anguilles ecu soleil are cut up, stewed in wane and water witli vegetables, &c.; the pieces rolled in tlie sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. en ragoilt are stewed in tlie same way, and served in tlie sauce with the addition of wine. d la broche are larded and roasted. d la minute.—cut in pieces, boiled and served with maitre d’hotel sauce and potatoes. d la Poulette—cut in slices and stewed with broth, wine, butter, onions, mushrooms, &c. Served with yolks of eggs and lemon-juice added to the sauce. d VAnglaise—slices of eel wrapped in paste, or dipped in batter, and fried. Served with anchovy sauce. d la Tavtare—cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried ; served in Tartare sauce. en matelote—stewed eels served in matelote sauce. EEL-POUT. Lott63 en matelote are stewed in wiue with mushrooms and herbs, and served in the sauce.Fish. 15 Lottes d la Parisienne—cooked in mirepoix and served in white sauce with oysters. -— a Vltalienne—fried, and served with Italian sauce. a la Prussienne—boiled in a sauce of stock, oil, champagne, &e. FLOUNDERS. Carr elets/rite are fried. grilles—broiled. Souche de carrelets. A water souche of flounders boiled with strips of carrot and turnip, sprigs of parsley, &c. Tench and perch are dressed in this way. GUDGEON. Goujons frits are fried. GURNARD. Grondin farei au four is stuffed and baked. Filets de grondins en matelote. Fillets cut in halves, breadcrumbed and fried; served on a border, with matelote sauce. d Vltalienne are served with Italian sauce. d la ruaitre d’hdtel are served with maitre d’hotel sauce.16 Menus Made Easy. HADDOCK. Merluche grillee is broiled. d la Hollandaise—served with Hollandaise sauce. d la maitre d’hdtel—with maitre d’hote] sauce. sauce aux ceufs—with egg sauce. farcie—stuffed, baked, and served with browD gravy. HERRINGS. HarengS grilles, sauce moutarde, are broiled, and served with white sauce and mustard. — d la creme—boiled, and served with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon-juice. fumes d la Bruxelloise—smoked fillets broiled in a paper case with a layer of stuffing between them. Served with pieces of lemon. For Croquettes de harengs they are broiled, made into balls with mashed potatoes, and fried. JOHN DORY. Jean Dor6, or Saint Pierre, en ravigotc is served in Kavigote sauce.i7 Fish. Jean Dore d la cremierc is boiled in milk and watei’, and served -with a sauce of cream, butter and lemon-juice. • d la puree de crevettes—served in a puree ol prawns, with melted butter and Bechamel sauce. d la bateliere—served in white sauce with button onions, mushrooms and essence ol anchovy. en matelote mariniere—served in Matelote sauce with oysters. — au graiin is dressed in the same way as turbot. LAMPREY. Lamproie d Vltalienne is filleted, and stewed in wine with oil, onions, herbs and lemon- juice. au supreme is cut up, sautd, and served in a sauce of red wine with truffles. They are also dressed in many of the ways given for eels. MACKEREL. Maquereaux d Veau de set are boiled. d la maitre d’hotel—broiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Fillets are also dressed in this way. ci8 Menus Made Easy. Maquereaux a la Flamande—stuffed with chopped shallots and chives, butter, and lemon-juice; and broiled. grilles au beurre noir—grilled, and served with black-butter sauce. aux groseilles vertes—stuffed with green gooseberries, pieces of herring, &c.; boiled, and served in green gooseberry sauce. Filets de maquereaux d la Ve'nitienne — fillets served in brown sauce with tarragon, chervil, truffles and port wine. RED MULLET. RougetS en caisse are broiled in papers, sprinkled with chopped parsley and oil. en ‘papillotes are baked in papers and served with Italian sauce. d la Ravigote—baked in papers and served in Ravigote sauce. —— aux fines herbes—cooked with butter, wine, Harvey sauce and anchovy. Served in the sauce with chopped mushrooms, parsley, shallot, and lemon-juice. d la maitre d’hdtel—served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. They are dressed in this -way in fillets. Filets de rougets d la Montesquieu — fillets cut in halves, saute in butter with wine, lemon-19 Fish. juice, &c., and served with a sauce of melted butter and milk. GREY MULLET. Mulets an beurre fondu are broiled, and served with melted-butter sauce. • grilles an vert—broiled, and served with green sauce. PERCH. Perches are dressed in the same way as carp, tench and trout; and also in a water souche. PIKE. Brochet farci is stuffed and baked. sauce an beurre d'anchois—boiled, and served with anchovy sauce. an bleu—pickled. sauce rcdfort — served with horse-radish sauce. sauce aux cdpres—served with caper sauce. en matelote—stuffed and baked; served with Matelote sauce. PILCHARDS. Pelamides are dressed in the ways suggested for herrings.20 Menus Made Easy. PLAICE. Plie au gratin are baked in brown sauce, covered with breadcrumbs. They are dressed in the same way as soles. SALMON. Sauinon d la tartar e is grilled, and served with Tartare sauce. a I’Ecossaise is crimped and boiled. d Vlndienne—cut in pieces and stewed in curry sauce. cl la Hollandaise■—served with Hollandaise sauce. d la Beyrcnt — slices broiled in papers, and served in a sauce of onions, mush- rooms, &c. - - — d la crbrne d’anchois—slices served in a sauce of melted butter, anchovy, &c. a la Cardinal—a whole fish stuffed with fish forcemeat, braised, and served in Cardinal sauce. d la Regence—a small fish covered with forcemeat, to which chopped truffles are added ; served in Perigueux sauce. en matelote—served in Matelote sauce. Tranche, or Dame, cle saumon grillee—a grilled slice of salmon.21 Fish. Filets de saumon d VIndienne — fried fillets, served with curry sauce. d la Marechale— fillets saute, and served with Ravigote or Aurora sauce, garnished with shrimps or oysters. ■ d la Tartars — fried fillets, served with Tartare sauce. d la Ravigote—fillets saute, and served in Ravigote sauce. Mazarine de saumon is a steamed mould of salmon forcemeat. It may he garnished with prawns, or served with Cardinal sauce. Mayonnaise de saumon—pieces of cold salmon, with lettuce or other salad, and Mayonnaise sauce. SHAD. Alose a la Maitre d’kdtel is baked, and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. It is also dressed in fillets, saute. SKATE. Raie a la Maitre d’hdtel is served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. au beurre noir—crimped and boiled; served with black-butter sauce. frite—filleted and fried.22 Menus Made Easy. Retie d la noisette—filleted and boiled; served in butter sauce with the pounded liver of the skate, and Tarragon vinegar. aux fines herbes—cooked with milk, butter, flour, lemon, herbs, &c., and served with fine-herbs sauce. SMELTS. Uperlans d la Juive are bread-crumbed, fried, and served without sauce. Served with anchovy sauce in a sauce-boat they are called a VAnglaise. —— en ragoxit— stewed in white stock with herbs and wine. au gratin—baked with melted butter and dried herbs, covered with breadcrumbs and sprinkled with wine. Buisson d'eperlans—breadcrumbed and fried with their tails in their mouths. Melted butter should be served with them. SOLES. Soles frites a VAnglaise are breadcrumbed and fried. au gratin—covered with brown sauce and bread crumbs, and baked. d la Normancle—stewed with oysters, and baked with a rich brown sauce.Fish. 23 Soles d la creme d’ancliois—boiled and served in a sauce of white sauce and broth, with anchovy and whipped cream. d Vaurore—stuffed and baked; served in a white sauce, with grated Parmesan anc hard-boiled egg. ■ a la Cardinal—stuffed, baked, and served in Cardinal sauce. —■ a la Colbert—stuffed with Maitre d’hotel butter, and served with Maitre d’botel sauce. d la maitre d’hdtel—served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. The same dish may be made with fillets. d la Trouville—cut in two or three pieces, and cooked with butter, breadcrumbs, chopped onions, and cider. Filets de soles au gratin — fillets breadcrumbed and fried; covered with brown sauce and breadcrumbs, and baked. ■ d Vltalienne are saute, and served in white sauce, with wine, chopped shallots, &c. d la Hollandaise are saute, and served in Hollandaise sauce. en ravigote are saute, and served in Ravigote sauce. —— en matelote are cut in halves, bread- crumbed, and fried; dressed in a crown, with Matelote sauce in the centre.Menus Made Easy. 24 Filets de soles a la liouennaise are coated with whiting forcemeat coloured with lobster spawn, and served with white Matelote sauce. STURGEON. E3turgeon en fricandeau is cut in thick slices, larded, stewed with bacon and mushrooms, and browned. d la Eoyale—tied up in the form of a bolster, covered with forcemeat, and ornamented with pieces of truffle, tongue, &c. Dame d’esturgeon an four is a baked slice of sturgeon. • braise is larded and braised. —-— grille sauce piquante is broiled, and served with Piquante sauce. & la bourguignotte is served with Bourgui gnotte sauce. TENCH. Tanclie frite is fried. sur le gril is grilled. (in court-bouillon—boiled in court-bouillon, and served with caper sauce.Fish. 25 TROUT. Truites au bleu are turned blue with boiling vinegar, and boiled in it with wine and vegetables; served with oil and vinegar. /rites are fried in butter. d la Beyrout—served with Beyrout sauce. ■ d la maitre d’hStel—served with Maitre d’hotel sauce. • d la Chambord—cooked in marinade sauce, and garnished with crayfish, quenelles of fish, and sweetbreads. • d la hussarde—stuffed with butter and herbs; broiled, and served with Poivrade sauce. Filets de truites d la Mazarine are fillets served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs, lobster spawn, anchovy, &c. d VaUrore are covered with white sauce, grated Parmesan, and hard-boiled egg. d la Genevoise are served with Genevoise sauce.26 Menus Made Easy. TUNNY. Thon frit is cut in pieces and fried. It is served with Remold ade sauce. TURBOT. Turbot d la Hollandaise is served with Hollandaise sauce. sauce homard—served with lobster sauce. d la creme—served with a sauce of cream, yolks of eggs, and lemon juice. cl la crime d’anchois—served with a sauce of melted butter, anchovy butter, and cream, and sprinkled with chopped gher- kins and capers. • d la Mazarine—served in the same sauce as fillets of trout “a la Mazarine.” d la rtligieuse — served in Hollandaise sauce, sprinkled with chopped tarragon, and garnished with hard-boiled egg. grille d la Vatel—grilled; served with mussel sauce and crayfish. au gratin, or a la Bechamel—pieces of turbot in Bechamel sauce, covered with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned.2 7 Fish. Turbot cb la creme gratine— alternate layers of pieces of turbot and of a sauce of milk, butter, flour, yolks of eggs, parsley, &c., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, and browned. ecu gratin a la Provenqcde— alternate layers of pieces of turbot and Provengale sauce, breadcrumbed and browned. -—- a la Parisienne—stuffed and baked ; served with a white sauce. a la Normande—stuffed and baked ; served with white Matelote sauce. Petit Turbot d la Meuniere is a small fish crimped, grilled, and served in a sauce of melted butter, yolks of eggs, and lemon juice. WEAVERS. Vives au gratin are stewed, breadcrumbed, and baked. d la Normande—larded with pieces of eel and anchovy; cooked in wine with butter and vegetables, and served in the sauce. If served with Italian sauce they are called d la Bordelaise. ■ d la Maitre d'hdtel—broiled and served with Maitre d’hotel sauce.2 8 Menus Made Easy. WHITEBAIT. Blanchailles are fried. They should be served with lemon, cayenne, and slices of bread and butter. d la Diable are devilled. WHITING. Merlans au gratin are breadcrumbed and fried with their tails in their mouths. d la Frangaise—dipped in milk, floured and fried. Served with anchovy or any other sauce. Filets de merlans a la Hollandaise — fillets served with Hollandaise sauce. d Vltalienne are served with Italian sauce. d la Orly are floured, fried, and served with tomato sauce. WHITING POLLOCK. Colin frit is cut in slices, fried, and served with oil and lemon.29 Fish. SHELL FISH. CRAB. Coquille de crabe is scalloped crab, served in the shell. It can also be dressed in a salad in the same manner as lobster. CRAYFISH. Ecrevisses au court-bouillon are boiled in court- bouillon. If served in Bordelaise sauce they are called d la Bordelaise. Aspic d'ecrevisses — a mould of crayfish, meat jelly, and vegetables cut in shapes. Served with Mayonnaise sauce. Petits pate's aux ecrevisses—covered patties, filled ■with crayfish and quenelles of fish. Langouste d la broche. Sea crayfish roasted. LOBSTER. Homard au court-bouillon is boiled in court- bouillon and served with lobster sauce. d la Bordelaise—cut up and served in Bor- delaise sauce. au kari — curried ; served with boiled rice. m aspic—slices coated with white sauce, in a mould of aspic.Menus Made Easy. 30 Coteletles de homard are lobster cutlets. They may be served with Mayonnaise sauce. Miroton de homard d la Cardinal — slices of lobster, half of them dipped in white sauce, and half in the same sauce coloured with lobster butter. Dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce. Coquille de homard—scalloped lobster, served in the shell. Croquettes de homard are croquettes of lobster with the coral and spawn, white sauce, yolks of eggs, &c., breadcrumbed and fried. Rissoles de homard—the same preparation folded in a thin piece of paste, breadcrumbed onft friprl ^ paste patties filled with the croquette pre- paration of lobster. Bouchees de homard d la Bechamel are patties smaller than the vol-au-vents, filled with chopped lobster in Bechamel sauce. Petits pates de homard d la patissiere are little covered lobster patties. Mayonnaise de homard—the lobster cut up and served with lettuces and Mayonnaise sauce ; ornamented with anchovies, olives, and pieces of hard-boiled eggs. Petits homard are little puffFish. 3i Salacle de homard d VIndienne — cut in slices and served on a salad with Indian pickles and Mayonnaise sauce; garnished with hard-boiled egg. MUSSELS. Monies d la poulette are cooked in butter with chives and parsley, and served in tbe sauce with yolks of eggs. a la Villeroi are masked with Yilleroi sauce; breadcrumbed and fried. au gras—stewed with bacon, stock, flour, mushrooms, &c. Coquilles de monies—scalloped ; served in scallop- shells. OYSTERS. Huitres d la Villeroi—large oysters, each coated with Villeroi sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. au Parmesan—browned with breadcrumbs, grated Parmesan, chopped parsley, and wine. en papillotes—rolled in oval-shaped pieces of a paste made of mashed potatoes, flour and butter, and baked. d la Liable are devilled—broiled, seasoned with butter, lemon-juice and cayenne. Slices of brown bread and butter are served with them.32 Menus Made Easy. Ragout aux huitres — stewed with vegetables, butter, flour, &c. Served iu the sauce with yolks of eggs. Coquilles aux huitres—scalloped and served in scallop-shells. Bouchees aux huitres are small oyster patties. Petits pains aux huitres—oysters stewed with breadcrumbs and butter, and baked in very small rolls, from which the crumb has been scooped out. Kromeslcys aux huitres — oysters cut up and cooked with butter, flour, yolk of egg, &c. Small pieces are wrapped in thin slices c£ bacon, dipped in batter and fried. CrolXtes aux huitres— oysters pounded with cream and spread on small pieces of toast. Andouillettes aux huitres are small sausages of beef suet, breadcrumbs and oysters, with eggs, &c. Croquettes aux huitres are croquettes of oysters with oyster sauce, yolks of eggs, cayenne, and lemon-juice. Breadcrumbed and fried. Rissoles aux huitres are made of the same pre- paration wrapped in a thin coating of paste, breadcrumbed and fried. Oysters can also be curried, or fried in butter, or dressed in a vol-au-vent, or in an omelette.Fish. 33 SHRIMPS AND PRAWNS. Tliese are dressed in Rissoles or Petits pates in l lie same way as lobster. They are called Rissoles or Petits pdtes, cle crevettes—of shrimps, de chevrettes —of prawns. The preparations of shell fish are generally served as entrees. Lobster en aspic may be served in the second course instead of a dressed vegetable. DCHAPTER ill. ENTRIES. BEEF. The fillet, or undercut of tlie sirloin, is the part most used in the preparation of entrees. It is dressed as: Filet de bceuf d let Frangaise—cut in slices and broiled; served on Maitre d'hote! butter, -with fried potatoes. a la Chateaubriand, or Chateaubriand grille—thick slices broiled and served in Chateaubriand sauce, or in Perigueux sauce, with mushrooms. — d Vltalienne — thin, oval-shaped pieces, floured, fried, and served in Italian sauce. Escalopes de filet de bceuf d la Reforme — thin slices, each laid between two slices of bacon; breadcrumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, and fried. Served with Reform sauce. a la Nemours — thin slices covered with forcemeat and slices of ham, put togetherEntries of Beef. 35 in pairs, breadcrunibed and fried. Served with a white sauce. Escalopes cle filet cle bceuf a V Ostende are spread with a sauce of chopped onions, Ostend or other oysters, white sauce, &c.; put together in pairs, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with a brown sauce. piques aw chasseur are larded, soaked in marinade, and braised. Dressed in a crown, with brown sauce and currant jelly. Grenadine de filet de bceuf d la Financiere— cut in slices, larded, cooked in mirepoix, and served in the sauce with Financiere garnish. Tournedos d la sauce poivrade—slices of cooked fillet dressed in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread of the same size. Poivrade sauce in the centre. This may be served with olives, or French beans, instead of the Poivrade sauce; and would then be called Tour- nedos aux olives, or aux haricots verts. Slices of the fillet served with Piquantc, Ilollandaise, or other sauce, are called after the sauce with which they are served.36 Menus Made Easy. Mironton de bceuf are slices of cooked beef in a sauce of onions, butter, gravy, flour, &c.; covered with breadcrumbs and baked. Bceuf en saucissons — slices of beef spread with forcemeat, rolled to the shape of sausages, stewed, and served in the sauce. Bouilli en matelote — slices of boiled beef iu a sauce of stock, wine, onions, mush- rooms, &c. Entrc-coles de bceuf d la Bordelaise are thick slices of ribs of beef broiled and served in Bordelaise sauce, with pieces of beef marrow. Moelle de bceuf d la Orly—beef marrow cut in long pieces, dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce in a sauce-boat. Quenelles d la moelle are quenelles of beef marrow with breadcrumbs, eggs, &c. Bouchees d la moelle are small patties filled with marrow, and a savoury sauce of cream, shallot, chives, &c. Petites croustades d la moelle are made of the same preparation put into little cases of fried bread; breadcrumbs strewed on the top, and browned. Vol-au-vent d’amourettes d la creme is a vol- au-vent of beef tendons, with Bechamel sauce and mushrooms.37 Entries of Beef. Palais de bcenf d la Robert — ox palates cut in round or oval pieces, and served with Robert sauce. This dish may be served with other sauces instead of Roberty changing the name accordingly. d la Lyounaise—cut in pieces, and served in onion sauce. d la Ravigote — oval pieces, dipped in white sauce with shallot, parsley, &c., breadcrumbed and fried ; served with Ravigote sauce. d la Vivandiere are dressed in the same way, bnt served in a brown sauce with onions, butter, port wine, &c. —— en papillotes — oval pieces in white sauce with parsley and mushrooms, broiled in papers, and served with Italian sauce. For Croquettes de palais de boeuf, the palates are cut in pieces, and rolled, with forcemeat in the centre of each. Dipped in batter and fried. They are also dressed in a vol-au-vent, or, if preferred, in several small ones as Petits vol-au-vents de palais de boeuf Ox-tongue is served as: Langue de bcenf au Parmesan—slices cooked with stock, wine and grated Parmesan. en papillotes—slices wrapped in papers with slices of bacon, and broiled.38 Menus Made Easy. Turban de langue de bceuf d I’Ecarlate — oval slices cut from two tongues, one pickled red, the other fresh ; dressed in a crown alternately, with tomato sauce. d la Macedoine is dressed in the same manner, and served with a white Mace- doine garnish in the centre, and white sauce. Ox-tails are dressed as : Queue de bceuf en haricot, cut in joints, stewed, and served in the sauce with onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes. aux navets au brun—stewed, and served with turnips cut into small balls, and brown sauce. d la jardiniere—served with brown sauce, stewed button onions, and carrots and turnips cut in small shapes. en Icari—curried, and served with boiled rice. d la Marseillaise—the pieces mashed with a puree of onions, breadcrumbed and fried ; served in brown sauce with garlic. VEAL. Grenadins de veau arc oval slices cut from the “noix,” larded, braised and glazed. They are served aux petites racines withEntrdcs of Veal. 39 potatoes, carrots and turnips, and brown sauce; or with Poivrade, tomato or other sauce, and called after it. Poupiettes de veau are slices cut from the fillet, spread with forcemeat, rolled, and stewed with stock and wine. Crime de veau is made with part of the fillet. It is pounded with eggs, cream, &c.. steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds, and served with Perigueux sauce. Yeal Cutlets are served as: Cotelettes de veau d la Basse — fried, spread on one side with a preparation of horse-radish, and hreadcrumbed with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs ; served with thin tomato sauce. d la Mainienon — coated with a sauce ot mushrooms, ham, eggs, &c., and baked or grilled in papers. en papillotes—soaked in oil with mushrooms, lemon juice, &c.; wrapped in papers and cooked in the seasoned oil. ■ d la Drayton—thickly coated with a rich brown sauce, breadcrumbed and saute. d la sans fagon — breadcrumbed with chopped shallots and parsley mixed with the crumbs, broiled, and dressed round mashed potato40 Menus Made Easy. Cotelettes de veau a la Financiere—larded., braised and glazed ; served with Finan- ciere sauce. ctux champignons — larded, braised and glazed; served with a puree of mush- rooms. They are also served with tomato or Jardiniere sauce, or with dressed cucum- ber or asparagus, and named after the sauce or garnish with which they are served. a la Saint- Garat—larded with bacon and tongue, and braised. Set in aspic orna- mented with hard-boiled egg, truffles, &o., and cut out. Served cold. a la Princesse—braised in white stock, coated with Mayonnaise sauce, and served cold with salad and aspic jelly. For jEscalopes e'eossaises they are cut in thin slices, breadcrumbed and fried, arranged in a circle with alternate slices of fried bacon, and Piquante sauce. The Tendons, or gristly part of the breast, cut in pieces, are dressed as: Tendrons, or Amourettes, de veau ciux petits pois, stewed with butter, flour, stock, peas, &c. frits are soaked in vinegar and water, and fried41 Entries of Veal. Tendrons de veau a la Poulette—cooked in a wliite sauce with onions, mushi’ooms, &c. an blanc or Blanquette cle veau — cooked in a white sauce with onions and vinegar. a. la noble dame — small pieces coated with a white sauce, dipped in batter and fried. Dressed with fried watercress in the centre, and a sauce of cream and butter. aux epinards — oval pieces, braised and glazed ; served with dressed spinach, en Icari — curried; served with a slice of fried bacon between each piece, and with rice in the centre. en Mayonnaise—served cold in Mayonnaise sauce, with onions and gherkins. Calf’s Head for an entree is boned, boiled, and cut in pieces. It is dressed as : Tete de veau a la Sainte-Menehould—the pieces coated with a sauce of butter and flour, brcadcrumbed, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. en nioule — chopped, and baked in a mould in alternate layers with chopped ham. <i la Financiere—served with Financier garnish.42 Menus Made Easy. of eggs and mushrooms. Turban de tete de veau cl la Maitre cl’hotel— the pieces dressed in a crown, with white sauce and Maitre d’hotel butter. a la Hollandaise is served with Dutch sauce; a la poulette in white sauce with mushrooms, onions, and yolks of eggs. Calves’ Brains are dressed as : Cervelles de veau d la Provengcde—cooked in stock with wine, oil, parsley, garlic, &c., and served in the sauce. d la Ravigote—boiled, cut in slices and arranged in a circle, with Ravigote sauce. en caisse au gratin—small slices with a white sauce, baked in paper cases, with breadcrumbs on the top. Croquettes de cervelles — made into croquettes with breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed and fried. Marinade de cervelles — fritters made of pieces of the brains soaked in vinegar, dipped in batter, and fried. They are also served with Matelote, black-butter or other sauce, and take their name from it. Cal ves’ Ears dressed as : Oreilles de veau ciux champignons arc boiled and served in a brown sauce, with yolksEntrdes of Veal. 43 Oreilles de veau farcies—stuffed with force- meat, breadcrumbed and fried ; served with gravy. en marinade — cut in strips, steeped in vinegar, &c., dipped in batter and fried; served with tomato sauce. Calf’s Tongue as: Langue de veau sauce tomates is larded, stewed, cut in two and served in tomato sauce. cl la jardiniere — stewed in white stock, cut in oval slices, glazed, and served with a Jardiniere garnish. It is also served with Mushroom, Ravigote, or Piquante sauce. The Liver is dressed as : Foie de veau d Vltaliennc—slices cooked with oil, wine, bacon, mushrooms, &c., and served in the sauce. For Pain de foie de veau it is pounded and steamed in a mould with eggs, chopped ham, &c.; served with thin brown sauce. Calf’s Kidney is served as: Rognon de veau saute—minced, and saute with butter, wine, brown sauce, &c. en caisse — small round slices in brown sauce with chopped shallots, mushrooms,44 Menus Made Easy. &c., baked in small paper cases, the tops sprinkled with breadcrumbs. Calves’ Feet, after being boiled for jellies, are dressed as entrees, in tomato, poulctte, or other sauce; the dish is called: Pieds de veau aux tomates, or according to the sauce. a la bourgeoise are stewed with bacon, veal, carrots, onions, &c., and served in the sauce, with the vegetables and meats. For Pieds de veau enfriture or en mari- nade small pieces are steeped in vinegar and water, dipped in batter and fried. Calf’s Tail, cut in pieces and boiled, is served as : Queue de veau co la Ravigote—in Ravigote sauce; or d la poulelte—in white sauce with onions and mushrooms. Sweetbreads are dressed as : Ris-de-veau d la Villeroi—slices coated with Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a white sauce and any dressed vegetable. d la 'poulette — cooked with flour, butter, mushrooms, onions, &c. d VAnglaise — breadcrumbed and roasted ; served with gravy.45 Entries of Veal. Kis-de-veau frits—dipped in batter and fried ; served with, tomato sauce. — d la Provencale— braised in stock with bacon and garlic, and served in the sauce. . d V Espagnole — larded, braised in stock with veal, bacon, onions, &c., and served in the sauce. d la Toulouse are larded, braised, and served with a Toulouse garnish. en fricandeau — larded, braised and glazed; served on a puree of spinach or tomato. 'piques d la Turque—larded, braised and glazed. Cut in halves and dressed on a border of forcemeat, with rice in the centre, and supreme sauce over the rice. piques aux truffes—larded, braised, and served with truffle sauce. Jardiniere or Financiere sauce, dressed peas or cu- cumber, may be substituted for the truffle sauce, altering the name according to the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. en bigarrure—half of them larded, braised and glazed, and half breadcrumbed and roasted. Dressed alternately, and served with tomato sauce. d la Chinoise—small sweetbreads larded and braised, set in little moulds of aspic,Menus Made Easy. 46 ornamented with hard-boiled eggs, beet- root, &c. Served cold, with rice in the centre of the dish. Cutelettes de ris de veau are slices of sweetbread, breadcrumbed and fried; served with plain gravy or with a white sauce. Escalopes de vis de veau au supreme are oval slices, saute, and served with supreme sauce. d I’lndienne are breadcrumbed and fried; served with Indian sauce. en caisse are small round slices in brown sauce with chopped mushrooms, &c., baked in paper cases, sprinkled with bread- crumbs. Elanquette de ris de veau aux truffes are round slices cooked with slices of truffles in white sauce, with cream and yolks of eggs. Garnished with fried croutons of bread. Petites crousiades de ris de veau are little cases of paste filled with sweetbread cut in dice, and white sauce with chopped truffles or mushrooms. Andouillettes de Troyes grillees are broiled veal sausages, made with mushrooms, truffles, eggs, &c. Boudin de veau a la legumiere is a mould orna- mentally lined with vegetables and filled47 Entrdes of Mutton. with veal forcemeat. Steamed, and served with thin brown sauce. Boudin de veciu d la Richelieu is a mould lined with chopped truffles and filled with veal forcemeat. Steamed, and served with Perigueux sauce. These boudins are also steamed in several small moulds, lined in the same manner. Quenelles de veau d la puree de champignons are poached quenelles of veal forcemeat served with a puree of mushrooms. They are also served with brown or white sauce or with any dressed vegetable. Petits pates d la hourgeoise are small patties filled with Yeal forcemeat. MUTTON. Cotelettes do mouton sauce tomates are grilled, and served with tomato sauce. a la jardiniere are served with stewed vege- tables. a la Soubise are stewed with stock, &c. Served with the sauce round, and thick Soubise sauce in the centre. - ^ cl la Provengale are covered with a sauce of onions, garlic, butter, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed, with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and browned. Served with fried potatoes.Menus Made Easy. 4S Cdtelettes de mouton & la Vicomtesse are coated with a sauce of ham, mushrooms, yolks of eggs, stock, &c.; breadcrumbed and fried; served with paper frills round the bones. a la Bohemienne—soaked in marinade, breadcrumbed and broiled; served with a sauce of some of the marinade with tomato and brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. en robe de chambre—covered with force- meat of veal, breadcrumbed and browned. Served with gravy. d la finaneiere—braised, and served with Financiere garnish. braise'es aux navets—larded, braised, and dipped in aspic with Poivrade sauce; served cold with dressed turnips and broken aspic. d la Marquise — a slice of ham laid on each cutlet, and veal forcemeat spread on it in a mound. Sprinkled with bread crumbs and browned. Served in white sauce with chopped ham. d la Reforme—breadcrumbed, with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs, fried, and served with Reforme sauce. They may have a Reformc garnish in the centre.Entries of Mutton. 49 Cotelettes de rnouton cl la Marseillaise —covered with, an onion sauce, bread- crumbed and browned ; served with Soubise sauce. ct la Durcelle—put into long paper cases, three in each, and baked in brown sauce with Harvey sauce, chopped onions, mushrooms, &c. —— panees grille'es—breadcrumbed and broiled; and served with plain gravy. auxpointes d'asperges—served with a garnish in the centre of asparagus in white sauce with yolks of eggs, cream, &c. aux truffes—served in brown sauce, with truffles cut in slices. aux petites racines—on a mashed potato border with carrots and turnips cut in long shapes, and brown sauce. They are also served with any kind of dressed vegetable or puree of vegetable, or with Hollandaisc, Italienne, Lyonnaise, Maitre d’hotel or other sauce. They are named after the sauce or vegetable with which they are served. For Chaudfroid de cotelettes a Vaspic they arc spread with forcemeat in a mound; coated with brown sauce, and served cold on a border of the forcemeat, garnished with aspic. Turban de cdtelettes de mouton d la Fermiere50 Menus Made Easy. —they are dipped in Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold, dressed in a crown with a salad of beetroot, cucumber and lettuce in the centre. A la Palestine they are served with Jerusalem artichokes cut into little balls, and white sauce. Cotelettes d la Prince de Galles are pieces of stewed breast of mutton, breadcrumbed and fried; served with a puree of turnips, and gravy. Ragout de mouton d VIrlandaise is Irish stew. Haricot de mouton is haricot mutton. It is now often called Navarin de mouton. Filets de mouton au chevreuil—the fillet or under part of the loin, cut in four parts, larded, and soaked in vinegar with vege- tables, &c. Braised and served with Chev- reuil sauce and French beans. Dressed in this manner it is also served a la Macedoine, with a Macedoine garnish in the centre, and brown sauce. a la minute is cooked in stock with bacon, and served in the sauce. The chump end of the loin, cut in thin slices, is dressed as Escalopes de mouton aux fines herbes, cooked with butter, flour, stock, chopped mushrooms, &c. Served with a garnish of fried croutons, or sippits, of bread.Entries of Mutton. 51 Carbonade de mouton (see Removes) is dressed as an entree, cut in slices and served with Piquante, Poivrade or other sauce. The slices are also dipped in Maitre d’hotel sauce with cream, and served cold with a salad in the centre, as Carbonade de mouton d la Fermiere. Filets de mouton cl VIndienne are thick slices of roast mutton in a sauce of broth with chopped onion and curry paste; served with rice. Petits pates de mouton a la Windsor are small covered patties filled with minced mutton, brown sauce, chopped mushrooms, &c. Kidneys dressed as: Rognons de mouton d Vepicurienne are cut open, breadcrumbed and broiled. The hollows filled with Tartare sauce; and devil sauce round. d la brochette are dressed in the same way, the hollow of the kidneys filled with a lump of maitre d’hotel butter. - cl la Venitienne—cut in halves, fried in butter with chopped shallots, and dressed on a border. Brown sauce with anchovy butter, &c. aw vin de Champagne—thin slices served in a sauce of white stock, champagne52 Menus Made Easy. or other white wine, flour and mushrooms, &c. Rognons de mouton en rar/oiU—thin slices cooked in butter, with wine, flour, cliopped mushrooms, shallot, &c. Petits pates aux rognons—slices in white sauce put into little patties. Sheep’s Tongues are served as: Langues de mouton braise'cs—larded, braised and served in the sauce with capers. Cervelles de mouton en caisse are Sheep’s Brains cut in small pieces, with Bechamel sauce, baked in little souffle cases, the tops sprinkled with breadcrumbs. Queues de mouton an viz are braised Sheep’s Tails, coated with rice, bread- crumbed and fried. They are also served cm Parmesan, omitting the rice and mixing grated Parmesan with the bread crumbs. Sheep’s Trotters, though rarely seen at a gentle- man’s table in England, are much more often served in France. Boiled and cut in pieces, they are dressed as: pieds de mouton en marinade, soaked in marinade, dipped in batter and fried, and served with tomato sauce; ox a la Robert, served in Robert sauce.Entries of Lamb. 53 Piecls de mouton a la poulette are served witli poulette sauce in a baked shape of rice. LAMB. Lamb Cutlets are dressed in most of the ways which have been suggested for mutton cutlets. There are also: Cotelettes d’agneau d la Princesse—coated with Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with white sauce, and dressed asparagus in the centre. For the cold entree of this name the cutlets are saute and served in Mayonnaise sauce. a la Ducliesse—coated with Duxelles sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Dressed on a high vegetable border, with vegetables in the centre, and white sauce. a la boulangere—dipped in oil and then in flour ; broiled, and served with a sauce of cream, butter, &c. a la Robert—breadcrumbed, broiled and glazed ; served with Robert sauce. aux petits legumes—breadcrumbed and fried ; served with carrots and turnips, cut in long shapes, in the centre, and brown sauce.54 Menus Made Easy. Cotelettes d’agneau aw Parmesan—dipped in a white sauce with grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed and fried. d la Pompadour—coated with a mixture of chopped bacon, veal, truffles, &c., and served in papers. farcies aux truffes—larded, coated with a puree of truffles; breadcrumbed and fried. Served with brown sauce. They are also dressed in the same manner, using a puree of artichokes, asparagus, mushrooms, or turnips, in- stead of truffles; altering the name accordingly. en belle vue—larded with tongue, ham or truffles, and braised. Set in aspic and cut out. Served cold with Mayonnaise sauce, or a Jardiniere garnish. d Vaspic—cutlets from a larded and roasted neck of lamb; coated with Provencale sauce, and served cold with aspic. Pplgramme d’agneau d Vancienne is made of cutlets cut from a boned breast of lamb, an end of bone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried ; arranged alternately with saute neck cutlets. Served with small round slices of lamb in the centre, with mushrooms, and white sauce with cream, &c.55 Entrdes of Lamb. It is also served cmx concombres with a garnish in the centre of dressed cucum- ber, or with any other vegetable, naming it accordingly. Tendrons d’agneau aux pointes d’asperges — a braised breast of lamb cut up and arranged in a crown alternately with fried slices of bread, with dressed asparagus in the centre. Blanquette d'cigneau — small round slices of lamb and of ham or tongue, with white sauce, parsley, &c. It is served in a baked shape of rice; or in a croustade, or fried shape, of bread. Lamb is also dressed in Croquettes or Rissoles. Lambs’ feet are dressed en marinade and d la poulette, in the same manner as sheep’s feet. As Casserole de viz aux pieds d’agneau they are served in a casserole, or baked shape, of rice. Lambs’ tails are dressed in the same way. Pieds d'agneau farcis are stuffed; served in Hol- landaise sauce with chopped gherkins. Queues d’agneau d la crhniere are Lambs’ tails served in white sauce with whipped cream, &c. Lambs’ Brains as Cervelles d’agneau d I’innocent are cut in thin slices and put in paper cases with white sauce, chopped parsley, &c. Sprinkled with bread- crumbs and browned.<o 6 Menus Made Easy. Lambs’ Ears are stewed and served as : Oreilles d’agneau farcies, filled with a stuffing of veal forcemeat, &c., breadcrumbed and fried; served on a border, with Italian sauce, d la Iiavigote are served on a forcemeat border, with Iiavigote sauce. d la Marquise—served on a border with a peeled plover’s egg in each ear. White sauce with cream, cock’s combs, mush- rooms, &c., in the centre. Langues d’agneaii a la Persane are stewed lambs’ tongues, cut in halves and dressed in a circle, covered with a white sauce with wine, mushrooms, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. Served with white sauce. Lambs’ Sweetbreads are dressed as : Ris d’agneaii a la jardiniere, larded, braised and glazed. Served on a border with Jardiniere sauce in the centre. Dressed in this way they are served aux petits pois, aux concombres, aux pointes d’asperges, &c., with dressed peas, cucumber, asparagus or other vegetable in the centre, instead of Jardiniere sauce. Casserole de riz aux ris d’agneau — sweet- breads and cock’s combs with Allemande sauce, in a baked shape of rice.57 Entrees of Pork. They may also he dressed in many of the ways suggested for ris cle vean PORE". Pork Cutlets are saute, broiled, or breadcrumbed and fried. They are served with Robert, Tomato, Ravigote, Piquante, Indienne, or Remoulade sauce, and called CStelettes de -pore frciis sauce tovicdes, or a la Robert, according to the sauce with which they are served. Dressed a la Bolognaise, they are breadcrumbed with grated Parmesan mixed with the crumbs, and fried. Served with brown sauce, and a garnish in the centre of short pieces of macaroni, mushrooms and tongue, with tomato sauce and grated cheese. Small fillets from the under part of the loin, bread- crumbed and broiled, are called Filets de pore cl la Marechale. Filets de pore a la Hanoi-erienue are larded, braised and glazed; dressed in a crown with white pickled cabbage in the centre, and brown sauce. Dressed in this way they are served aux dpinards or aux pommes, with spinach or apple sauce in the centre instead of the cabbage. Escalopes de pore a la Lyonnaise are fillets cut in oval slices, breadcrumbed and fried.53 Menus Made Easy. Dressed in a border, covered with Soubise sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Escalopes de pore & la Robert are breadcrumbcd and fried, and served with Robert sauce. a I’Indienne—with Indian sauce. Pig’s Ears dressed as : Oreilles de pore d la Ste. Menehould are breadcrumbed and baked, and served with Remoulade sauce. braisees are braised and served in the stock, on dressed spinach. ■ d la Lyonnaise—cut in strips and cooked in stock with slices of onion, &c. Piers’ Feet are dressed en marinade in the same way as sheep’s feet; and as : Pieds de pore a la Ste. Menehould—pickled, breadcrumbed and fried. POULTRY. A. very large number of dishes can be made with chickens, and they are, perhaps, more useful than anything else in the preparation of entrees. Cut in joints they are dressed in the following ways:— Poulets d la tartare—breadcrumbed and broiled; served with tartare sauce and pickles.59 Entries of Poultry. Poulets a la bonne femme—stewed and served in white sauce. au chasseur—soaked in oil with onion, &c., hreadcrumbed and broiled; served in “Yin de Madere” sauce with chopped ham. a la Ghabert—cooked in oil with tomatoes, chopped parsley, garlic, &c. a la Marengo—cooked in oil, and served in Italian sauce with the oil in which it was cooked. en Jcari is curried, and served with rice. ; a la Orly—the joints are floured and fried, and served in tomato sauce with slices of onion, which are also floured and fried. a la Provengale—covered with a white sauce with slices of onion, garlic, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. en marinade—soaked in vinegar with herbs, &c., and fried in batter. saute—the joints are saute, and served in a sauce of stock, wine, chopped mushrooms, &c. saute aux truffes—saute, and served in brown sauce with truffles. Fricassee de jpoulet — cooked in a white sauce with mushrooms, cock’s combs, pieces of sweetbread, &c. d Vancienne.—cooked with flour, butter, milk, young onions, &c.6o Menus Made Easy. For Fritot cle poulet, the joints are soaked in oil with onions, &c., dipped in flour and fried. Served with tomato sauce. Fillets of fowl, or fat pullet, are dressed as : Filets de volaille, or poulardes, au su- preme, on a border, covered with Supremo sauce. aux champignons — covered with white sauce with cream aud mushrooms. If slices of truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish is called aux truffes instead of aux champignons. d la Duchcsse—half the fillets larded, braised and glazed, and half saute ; dressed alternately in a crown, with cock’s combs in the centre, and white sauce with cream, &c. a la Talma—the larger fillets larded, braised and glazed, the small under fillets stuck with pieces of French beans and saute. Arranged in a circle, with dressed spinach in the centre, and brown sauce. rl VAmbassadvice—cut in slices, and coated with forcemeat of fowl with chopped truffles. Breadcrumbed, half of them with chopped truffles, and half with chopped ham mixed with the crumbs;61 Entries of Poultry. saute, and arranged alternately. A puree of cucumbers with cream in the centre. Filets de volaille Cl la Dumas — each one divided in two, masked with a puree of cucumbers with white sauce, &c, bread- crumbed and fried ; served on a puree of cucumbers with cream. d la Nesselrode—masked with a white sauce with cream, &c., and served cold, dressed alternately with glazed slices of tongue on a border of hard-boiled eggs; a salad in the centre with Mayonnaise sauce. aux concombres are arranged in a circle alternately with stewed pieces of cucumber; served with a puree of cucumber. aux pointes d'asperges are coated with Supreme sauce, and dressed alternately with pieces of tongue of the same size; asparagus points in the centre. Supreme de volaille is the same dish served with Supreme sauce, and with truffles instead of asparagus in the centre. It may be served cold as Chaudfroid de filets de volaille an supreme. For Supreme de volaille d la Royale the fillets are dressed on an ornamental border of vegetables, with a macedoine garnish in the centre, and a small piece of truffle or tongue on each filletMorns Made Easy. 62 Saute de fdets de volaille a la Cardinal is com- posed of saute fillets arranged in a circle with alternate slices of truffle ; Cardinal sauce in the centre. Poulet d la Princesse is a cold entree prepared with fillets of chickens cut in oval slices, coated with a sauce of aspic and cream, set in aspic and cut out; served on an aspic border, with salad. Salade de filets de volaille a la Brunow—small round slices of fowl and slices of cucumber stewed with white sauce, aspic and peas. Cut in square pieces, and dressed on a salad border, with white tartare sauce. Blanc de volaille aux concombres — slices from the breast of a roast fowl, with pieces of cucumber, white sauce, cream, &c. Cotelcttes de volaille d la Dauphine are made with the legs of fowls from which the thigh-bone has been removed. They are dipped in Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with a dressed vegetable in the centre and white sauce. Legs of fowl are also boned, stuffed with forcemeat, and served as Cuisses de volaille, or poulardes, a la jardiniere, with a Jardiniere garnish; aux con- combrcs or aux petits pois, with dressed cucumber or peas.Entries of Poultry. 63 Cuisses de volaille au soleil are stuffed with - forcemeat, larded in rays, braised, and served on a pyramid of forcemeat, with mushroom sauce. a Vecaillere are stuffed with forcemeat and oysters, and dressed on a pyramid of forcemeat, with oyster sauce. ivujfees a la Perigord—the thigh-bone re- moved, they are stuffed with truffles and maitre d’hotel butter, and braised; served in a crown with paper frills round the bones, and with truffle sauce. a la Bayonnaise—the thigh-bone removed, they are cooked in oil with onions, and served in a white sauce, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. farcies ctux petits legumes are boned, stuffed and braised. Dressed on a border, with carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and brown sauce. Ghaudfroid de volaille — cooked fowls cut in pieces, coated with white sauce and white meat jelly. Served cold, dressed in a circle with alternate slices of tongue. en mayonnaise—the pieces are coated with Bechamel sauce and served cold on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, or with aspic whisked to a froth with Tarragon vinegar and oil.64 Menus Made Easy. Mayonnaise de volatile — pieces of fowl served on a salad, covered witli Mayonnaise sauce and garnished with olives, anchovies, &c. Chaudfroid de fricassee is a fowl cut up and coated with a white sauce. Served cold, garnished with aspic. Capolitade de volatile — pieces of fowls served in Italian sauce with capers, or in brown sauce with wine; garnished with croutons of fried bread. Chartreuse de volatile is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, with pieces of chicken in the centre. Grime de volatile—a puree of fowl with cream, steamed in a mould garnished with truffles, tongue, &c. Petits souffles de volatile are made of a puree of fowl and beaten eggs; baked in little souffle cases. Souffle glace de volatile—minced chicken soaked in oil, vinegar, &c.; put into a souffle dish in alternate layers with aspic whipped to a froth, and iced. Moule d'aspic d la Royale is prepared with small round slices of fowl, slices of truffle, mushrooms and cock's combs, with Becha- mel sauce and aspic. Cut into oval pieces and dressed in a mould of aspic, ornamented with hard-boiled white of egg and truffles.Entries of Poultry. 65 Small puff paste patties filled with minced chicken and white sauce, with tongue, mushrooms or truffles, are served as Petites bouchees, or Petits pates, d la Peine. Bordure de riz cl la Peine is a round wall of rice filled with minced, or puree of, fowl. It is sometimes garnished with plovers’ eggs round the edge. Minced chicken, with ham or tongue, can be made into croquettes, breadcrumbed and fried, or into rissoles, folded in thin paste and fried. The latter are sometimes coated with broken vermicelli. Croquettes de volaille aux truffes are made with chopped truffles instead of ham or tongue, and are served with truffle sauce. Dressed with tongue and served in a white sauce with chopped tongue they are called Croquettes de volaille a Vecarlate. Quenelles de volaille are quenelles of chicken forcemeat. They are poached and served with a dressed vegetable, or dipped in white sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. au Supreme are poached, and dressed in a circle with Supreme sauce, ana a vegetable in the centre. * en demi deuil are poached, and half of them rolled in chopped truffles. Dressed F ■466 Menus Made Easy. in a crown, with white sauce and chopped truffles. Quenelles de volaille d Vecarlate are dressed in a crown alternately with glazed slices of tongue of the same size, and served with Supreme sauce. If a Russian tongue is used they are called d la Russe instead of d Vecarlate. Boudins de volaille d la Lucullus are quenelles of chicken forcemeat with a piece of puree of truffles in the centre of each; served in a croustade, or shape of fried bread, with Allemande sauce. —. — d la Richelieu are oblong pieces of quenelle forcemeat, dressed in a crown with Peri- gueux sauce. Cigarettes d la Reine are made of chicken force- meat with white sauce and chopped truffles. Pieces the shape of cigars, breadcrumbed and fried. Rissolettes de volaille d la Pompadour are diamond-shaped sandwiches of the prepa- ration for chicken croquettes with truffles, between layers of chicken forcemeat. Dipped in batter and fried. Ravioles d la Napolitaine are little pieces of chicken or game forcemeat wrapped in paste. Arranged in a circle with alternateEntries of Poultry. 67 slices of Parmesan cheese; baked, and served with brown sauce. Timbale de Nouilles is a mould lined with paste, filled with German paste, minced chicken, grated cheese, &c. d la Champenoise is filled with minced chicken, anchovies, gherkins, truffles, &c., with white sauce and wine. Foie gras a I’aspic is a mould of aspic with pieces of foie gras in it. Foie gras can also be dressed with truffles in little patties, as Petits pdte's d la Mont- glas; or larded with pieces of truffle, braised, and served with truffle sauce as Foie gras d la PeHgueux. DUCKS. The fillets of roast ducks are served as : Filets de canetons aux petits pois — in a circle, with stewed peas in the centre; d la Macedoine, with a vegetable Macedoine in the centre ; or a la Bigarade, with Biga- rade sauce. farcis — a boned duck covered with force- meat of fowl, cut in pieces the shape of fillets, and dressed in a crown with a vege- table garnish in the centre.Menus Made Easy. 68 Caneton & la Didble is a roast duck cut up and devilled—served in a sauce of wine, catsup, mustard, cayenne, &c. The legs of roast ducks, in a sauce of stock and wine with shallots, &c., are served as Salmis de cuisses de canetons. GOOSE. The legs of a roast goose are cut in pieces, fried with slices of onion, and served with Piquante sauce as Quartiers, or cuisses, d’oie & la Lyon- naise. TURKEY. The pinions of a turkey as : Ailerons de dindon, or dinde, d la purde de celeris are honed, and served in a circle with a puree of celery in the centre. d la Ste. Menehould are boiled in stock with wine, &c., coated with the sauce, bread- crumbed and broiled. Escalopes de dinde en blanquette, or Blanquette de dinde, are slices cut from the breast of a roast turkey, served in white sauce with cream, &c. With the addition of slices of ham it is called aujambon.69 Entries of Poultry. Slices of the breast are also served as : Eminci de dinde d VItalienne, with slices of gherkins and Italian sauce. Abatis de dinde d la Ghvpolata are the giblets stewed and served with Chipolata garnish. PIGEONS. Fillets of pigeons are served as : Filets de pigeons d la Duxelle— coated with Duxelle sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Provencale sauce and mushrooms. Cdtelettes de pigeons au fumet de gibier —breadcrumbed and fried, and a small piece of bone stuck in each to imitate cutlet bones. Dressed in a crown with fumet of game sauce. —— d la Parisienne—stuffed with forcemeat, breadcrumbed and fried. Dressed in a crown with alternate fried croutons of bread, and a brown puree of cucumbers in the centre. This dish may be served a VItalienne with Italian sauce, or with any vegetable garnish, instead of the puree of cucumbers. Pigeons are also cut in halves and boned, with the exception of the leg bones. They are stuffed,Menus Made Easy. 70 breadcrumbed and broiled, and served as Cotelettes de 'pigeons d la Financiere, in a circle, with a Financiere garnish in the centre. GAME. VENISON. Hacliis de venaison is hashed venison. Yenison Cutlets, saut£ and dressed in a crown, are served as: Cotelettes de venaison aux olives, with a sauce of port wine, brown sauce, olives, &c. aux champignons—with brown sauce and mushrooms. au jus de groseilles—with Poivrade sauce and red currant jelly. Rouelles de cerf d la St. Hubert are slices of fillet of venison, larded and cooked in brown sauce with wine, slices of gherkins, &c. Civet de chevreuil is jugged roebuck. Cotelettes de chevreuil sautees are cutlets of roebuck cooked in butter with wine, stock, mushrooms, &c., and served in the sauce. —— sautees sauce Poivrade are saute, and served in Poivrade sauce with pickled mushrooms.71 Entries of Game. Cdtelettes de chevreuil d la Bohe'mienne are soaked in marinade, breadcrumbed and broiled. Served in brown sauce with some of the marinade, currant jelly, &c. Slices from any joint are served in Piquante sauce with currant jelly, &c., as I'Jmince de chevreuil. HARE. Civet de lidvre is jugged hare. LiSvre, or levraut, sauti—a hare cut in pieces, saute, and served in a sauce of broth and wine with mushrooms, &c. Filets de li5vre, or levraut, are fillets of hare fried and dressed in a circle with a brown sauce. They are also 'piques— larded and braised, and served with Poiv- rade sauce. Served with tomato sauce they are called piques sauce females. piques a la Bourguignotte—cut in halves, larded and braised. Dressed in a crown with a brown sauce, bacon cut in dice, young onions, &c. Cdtelettes de lievre d la JDauphine are slices cut from the fillets with a small piece of bone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried. Arranged in a crown with Piquante sauce and chopped olives.Menus Made Easy. 72 Turban de lievre & la Pe'ronne—fillets dressed in the same way, and arranged in a circle alternately with quenelles of forcemeat of hare. White sauce with vinegar, pickled onions, &c. Boudins de lievre—rolls of forcemeat of hare, breadcrumbed and browned. RABBITS. Cut in joints, Rabbits are served as : Lapereau, or Lapin, saute aux fines herbes— sautd, and served in fine-herbs sauce. saute aux trvffes■—with brown sauce and slices of truffles; or aux olives, substi- tuting olives for the truffles. a la Ve'nitienne—larded, braised in oil and wine with veal and garlic, and served with the sauce. en Icari—curried and served with rice. en gibelotte — stewed with onions, bacon, wine, &c.; served in the sauce with mushrooms. en papillote—boned, coated with a stuffing of bacon, mushrooms, &c., and broiled in papers. The backbone with the fillets, cut in sections, larded and braised, is served as Grenadins de lapin or lapereau, with brown sauce and spinach.Entries of Game. 73 Cdtelettes de lapereau d la Soubise are made with the legs cut in two, honed—hut a small piece of bone stuck in each piece. Spread with forcemeat and served with Soubise sauce. Filets de lapereaux aux concombres are fillets of roast rabbits in a white sauce with slices of cucumber. d la Valenciennes are cut in halves and dressed in a crown with white sauce, cream and mushrooms. Dressed in this way with alternate pieces of ham, they are called a Vicariate. They are also served d la Musulmane— larded and braised. Dressed in a crown with curry sauce, and rice in the centre. Turban de lapereau d la Douariere is composed of fillets cut in two, half of them larded and braised, and half sautd. Arranged alter- nately, with quenelles of forcemeat of rabbit in the centre, and brown sauce with wine, &a Lapereau en salade — fillets of roast rabbits soaked in oil and vinegar; served cold on a salad, garnished with hard-boiled egg, beet-root, &c. Escalopes de lapereau au fumet—fillets cut in oval slices, and arranged alternately with slices of truffle; covered with a white sauce made of rabbit, and baked. Aux pointes74 Menus Made Easy. d’asperges the slices are served in a white sauce with asparagus. For Fricassee de layereau the rabbit is cut up and cooked in a white sauce with wine, mushrooms, &c. Boudins de lapin are made of a poached roll of rabbit forcemeat. Served with mushrooms or truffles, in brown sauce. It is also cut in pieces and dressed on a border. —— a la Richelieu — a roll of forcemeat of fowl, truffles, &c., thickly covered with forcemeat of rabbit, breadcrumbed and broiled. Served with Perigueux sauce. Puree de lapereau hordure de riz is a puree of rabbits in a border of rice. Timbales de semoule au chasseur are small moulds of semolina, breadcrumbed and fried, filled with forcemeat of rabbit and puree of mushrooms. 4 Many of the ways in which chickens are dressed are also suitable for rabbits. PHEASANT. A roast pheasant, cut up, is served with Salmis sauce and mushrooms or truffles, as Salmis de faisan.75 Entries of Game. Paisan au veloute de gibier is served in a white game sauce; d la purtfe de gibier in a puree of game. d la bonne femme is cooked with square pieces of ham, slices of Portugal onions, &c. Fillets of pheasants are served as : Filets de faisans piques aux legumes—larded and braised. Dressed in a crown alter- nately with stewed pieces of cucumber of the same size. Jardiniere garnish in the centre. d la Comte de Brabant—larded and braised. Arranged alternately with slices of bacon round a pyramid of Brussels sprouts. F umet of game sauce. d la marquise—half of them larded and braised, and half breadcrumbed and fried. Arranged alternately, with white game sauce, and white cock’s combs in the centre. —— d la Maintenon—cut in halves and coated with a white sauce with chopped mush- rooms, &c.; broiled in papers, and served with gravy. Chaudfroid de filets de faisans is a cold entree of fillets of roast pheasants cut in halves, coated with a game sauce, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs.Menus Made Easy. 76 Galantine de faisan aux truffes is a pheasant boned, and stuffed with game forcemeat, rabbit, truffles, &c. Braised, and served cold with a garnish of aspic. Boudins de faisan d la Richelieu are oval- shaped pieces of forcemeat of pheasant, breadcrumbed and fried. Served with Richelieu sance. Quenelles of forcemeat of pheasant, dressed in a crown with game sauce and mushrooms or truffles, are called Turban de quenelles de faisan. PARTRIDGE. Boast partridges, cut up, are served as Salmis de chasseur in a sauce of oil, wine, lemon, &c. As Salmis chaudfroid de perdreaux, the joints are masked with Salmis sauce and aspic jelly. Served cold with a garnish of aspic. Fillets of roast birds, as Filets de perdreaux aux petits legumes, are dressed in a crown, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in shapes, and game sauce. Cotelettes de perdreaux d la Bacchante are fillets with a piece of bone stuck in each, breadcrumbed and fried. Served in a white game sauce with raisins, juice of grapes, &c. They are also served d laEntries of Game. 77 Douariere, with quenelles of forcemeat of partridge in the centre, and game sauce. fipigramme cle perdreaux aux champignons is composed of fillets, half of them saute, and half larded and braised. Arranged in a crown, and served with game sauce and mushrooms. For fipigramme de perdreaux d la Perigord the fillets are dressed alternately with quenelles of forcemeat of partridge. Served with chopped truffles in a game sauce. Escalopes (thin round or oval slices) cut from the fillets, are served as Per- dreaux en escalopes, or Saute de per- dreaux, in a white game sauce with mush- rooms, &c. If truffles are substituted for the mushrooms, the dish may be called Saute de perdreaux aux truffes. Chartreuse de perdreaux is an ornamental mould of vegetables filled with larded and braised partridges, pieces of sausage, dice of bacon, &c. Pain de perdreaux is a puree of partridge steamed in a mould; served with brown game sauce. Perdreaux en souffle or Omelette soufflee de per- dreaux, is made of a puree of roast par-Menus Made Easy. 78 tridges with eggs, &c., and is baked in a souffle dish or in small paper cases. GROUSE. Roast grouse, cut up, are dressed as : Grouse a la Ailsa — covered with fumet of game sauce with yolks of eggs, &c., sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. d la Commodore—the joints coated with forcemeat of grouse, and dressed in a pyramid with a rich game sauce. For Salmis de grouse aux trujfes they are served in fumet of game sauce with slices of truffles; garnished with croutons. Salade aux grouses — the joints masked with salmis sauce and aspic. Dressed on a salad with Mayonnaise sauce, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, &c. The fillets are served as Filets de grouse d la chanceliere, dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and game sauce. Black-game and Ptarmigan are dressed like grouse. WILD DUCK. Roast wild ducks, cut up, are served as : Canards, or Canetons, sauvages en salmis with a salmis sauce.Entries of Game. 79 Canards sauvages a la bigarade—with bigarade sauce. The fillets as— Filets de canetons sauvages au fumet de gibier are served in a crown with fumet of game sauce. d Vessence—served with a brown game sauce, port wine, shallots, &c. d la Syrienne — dressed alternately with slices of fried bread spread in a dome shape with the livers with butter, &c. Served with brown game sauce and olives. TEAL. Teal are dressed in the same way as wild ducks; also as: Sarcelles d la puree de champignons—cut in joints and arranged in a circle with a puree of mushrooms in the centre; served with a macedoine garnish they are called d la macedoine de legumes. Filets de sarcelles aux anchois are fillets of teal with stock and grated Parmesan, a fillet of anchovy laid on each, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and Parmesan, and browned. Turban de filets de sarcelles d la Toulouse fillets dressed in a crown, with fumet of game sauce, pickled mushrooms, &c.8o Menus Made Easy. Turban de fdets de sarcelles d la moderne—the fillets are spread with forcemeat of game, and served with a fumet of game sauce. WOODCOCKS. Salmis de becasses—the birds cut up and served in salmis, or fumet of game, sauce. au chasseur—served in a game sauce, with wine, mushrooms, &c. The insides are spread on croutons, and arranged round the dish. Turban de becasses aux champignons—the birds cut in halves and dressed in a crown, with game sauce and mushrooms. Chaudfroid de becasses—the joints masked with brown game sauce, and brown meat jelly; served cold. Filets de becasses d la Lucullus — fillets coated with forcemeat and served on a border of toasted bread, with a thick puree of woodcocks piled in the centre, and game sauce round. d la Talleyrand are dressed in a crown, with the insides spread on croutons of fried bread of the same size as the fillets. Fumet of game sauce with truffles. —— en canape are laid on slices of crust of bread. A stuffing of the trail withEntries of Game. 81 bacon, &c., piled on the top. Served with a game sauce. Croustade de becasses d la Comtesse is a low oval croustade, or shape of fried bread, filled with a puree of woodcocks; the fillets dressed on the top alternately with cock’s combs. SNIPES. Snipes are dressed in the same way as woodcocks, but are cut in halves where woodcocks are filleted. They are also served as: Becassines d la bonne bouche, filled with a forcemeat of foie gras and bacon ; dressed on a forcemeat border, covered with force- meat and baked. Served with truffle sauce. QUAILS. Cailles aux laitues are braised, and served with stewed lettuces. aux petits pois are served with peas cooked in white stock. aux truffes are stuffed with the livers, truffle, &c., and are served with Perigueux sauce. Turban de cailles d la Financiere—roast quails cut in halves and dressed on a border, with Q82 Menus Made Easy. Financiere garnish in the centre. It is also served aux concombres, with stewed pieces of cucumber, and a puree of cucumbers in the centre. For a compote de cailles they are cooked in wine and stock with slices of sweetbread, ham, truffles, &c. ; garnished - with crou- tons. They are also dressed in a vol-au- vent with Toulouse garnish, as Vol-au- vent de cailles. PLOVERS. Plovers can be dressed in any of the ways that are suggested for woodcocks. The fillets of roast birds are served as: Filets de pluviers aux champignons—in a circle alternately with croutons spread with the trail; game sauce with mushrooms. LARKS. A salmis of larks is called Mauviettes en salmis. Mauviettes grilHes are broiled; served on slices of fried bread. d la chipolata are cooked with Chipolata garnish. — en caisse are boned, stuffed with force- meat and baked in paper cases,83 Entries of Game. For a Turban de mauviettes d la Parisienne the larks are honed, stuffed with game forcemeat and truffles, and braised; dressed in a crown, with small quenelles of veal in the centre, and a game sauce. Dressed alternately with large quenelles of game forcemeat, they arc called aux quenelles. Mauviettes en cotclettes are boned, spread with forcemeat and served with brown sauce. They are also dressed as: Croustade de mauviettes — boned, stuffed, and baked in a croustade of fried bread with Perigueux sauce and mushrooms. Vol-au-vent de mauviettes — boned, stuffed, and served in vol-au-vcnt case with whit8 game sauce and mushrooms. ORTOLANS. Ortolans a la Perigourdine are served in truffles, of which the centres have been cut out. — — en caisse are baked in small paper cases with Perigueux sauce.8d Menus Made Easy. Creme de gibier is a puree of game, steamed in a mould, or in several small moulds. Petites bouchees de gibier are little patties of game. d la puree de gibier are little patties filled with puree of game. Petits pates au jus are little patties lined with forcemeat, and filled with gravy. Kromeskis d la Russe are made with pieces of any kind of forcemeat or croquette prepara- tion, wrapped in slices of bacon, dipped in batter and fried. Cassolettes de riz are patties of rice paste, bread- crumbed and fried ; filled with forcemeat or croquette preparation. Timbales d la Pahlen are small moulds lined with macaroni, filled with a white force- meat—veal or fowl—and a black forcemeat of truffles, &c., in the centre. Timbale d la Milanaise is Milanaise garnish in a shell of paste.CHAPTER IV. REMOVES OR RELEVflS. BEEF. A roast sirloin of beef is called Aloyau a la broche. For Aloyau de bceuf d la Provengale the sirloin is larded and spread with a stuffing of marrow, anchovies, garlic, &c.; roasted, and served with Piquante sauce. The upper part of the sirloin, boned and rolled, is served as: Aloyau braisd d la royale—larded and braised. d la Printaniere—braised and served with young vegetables. d la Portugaise—larded and braised ; served with stewed Portugal onions and brown sauce. d la Godard—braised, and served with slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, &c. The fillet, or undercut of the sirloin, is usually cut out and dressed as a separate dish.86 Menus Made Easy. It is roasted and served as Filet de bceuf rSti, and may have a vegetable garnish—Macedoine, Jar- diniere, or Printaniere—and he named accordingly. Au jus d'orange it has orange sauce. Filet de bceuf au macaroni is garnished with macaroni. a la Napolitaine—larded, soaked in oil with vegetables, &c., roasted, and served with Neapolitan sauce. au jus de groseilles—larded, soaked in marinade and roasted; served with a brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. pique aux legumes printaniers—larded, roasted and glazed; served with young vegetables and brown sauce. d la Milanaise—larded, roasted, and served in white sauce with macaroni, &c. d la Bohemienne — larded, soaked in marinade, and roasted or braised. Served with fried slices of potatoes and Poivrade sauce with pickled onions, pickled mush- rooms, and olives; or cold, with tomato sauce, currant jelly, &c. Braised, it is served as Filet de boeuf braise; d a sauce Madere it has Madeira sauce. A Round of beef is served as : Rouelle de hCBXLf—bouillie, boiled; au four, spiced, and baked in water with suet.87 Removes of Beef. The Brisket as : Piece de boeuf garnie a la Flamande is braised and garnished “ a la Flamande.” Noix de bceuf braisee is a braised chump of beef. Ribs of beef rolled and braised are served as : Cotes de boeuf braise'es d la puree de tomates, with a puree of tomatoes in the sauce ; or a, la Milanaise, with macaroni instead of the tomato puree. aux racines are larded and served with carrots; d la Portugaise, with Portugal onions. Piece de bceuf a la St. Florentin is a rolled loin served with Robert sauce. Beef or Rump Steak as: Bifteek a la Frangaise is broiled, and served with fried potatoes. —— en ragoilt is stewed. It is also boiled in stock, and served with a Flamande garnish as Piece de boeuf bouillie d la Flamande. Garnished with sausages, bacon and cabbages, it is garni de clioux. As Boeuf bouilli a la Macedoine de legumes it is served with a Macedoine garnish. Rosbif a VAnglaise is roast beef, served with horseradish and Yorkshire pudding. Boeuf braise aux haiicots verts is braised beef served with French beans.Mentis Made Easy. 88 Bceuf Iiollandaise is a piece of beef rubbed with treacle, &c., salted, smoked and boiled. It is eaten cold. Pate de bceuf aux pommes de terre is a pie of minced beef and mashed potatoes, with a crust of mashed potatoes. Pdtd cliaud d’escalopes de filet de bceuf is a hot pie of slices of fillet of beef, ham and potatoes, with brown sauce. Ox-tongue, or Langue de bceuf , boiled and glazed, is served d la prima donna with a border round it of quenelles of veal, and white sauce with Brussels sprouts. VEAL. A Fillet of veal is dressed as : Rouelle de veau aux petits pois — larded and roasted; served with peas in white sauce. d la Pontoise—stuffed, roasted, and served cold with Tartare sauce. cl la potagere—larded and roasted; served with carrots cut in shapes, onions, cauli- flower and brown sauce. cl la jardiniere—stuffed with a piece of bacon, roasted, and served with a Jardiniere garnish.89 Removes of Vedl. Rouelle de veau d la Princesse—stuffed with forcemeat, mushrooms, &c.; roasted, and served with slices of tongue and bacon, and white sauce with cream. —~ d la Versaillienne—stuffed with a tongue and forcemeat; roasted, and served with quenelles, slices of stewed cucumber and white sauce with cream, &c. —— cn thon—larded with fillets of anchovy, pickled, and cooked in oil. A Chump of veal larded and braised is served as: Noix de veau a Voseille, or aax epinards, on a puree of sorrel or spinach ; a la bour- geoise with brown sauce. d la potagere is braised white, and served in a white sauce with peas and pieces ol cauliflower. It is also served d la puree de champignons, on a puree of mushrooms ; or aux petits legumes, with stewed young carrots, turnips and onions, and brown sauce. For Veau en fricandeau, veal is larded on one side with thick strips of bacon, on the other side with fine ones, and braisod. The Loin as: Long© de veau is roasted. Served d la Stras- bourgienne, it has slices of Strasbourg or other bacon round it, and Poivrade sauce. It is served cold au jambon, with oval slices of ham an l croutons of aspic; or d la dame blancheMenus Made Easy. 90 with a sauce over it of Bechamel and aspic with Tarragcn vinegar, &c., garnished with Indian pickles. Larded and braised, it is served pique'e braisde; or a la macedoine de Ugumes, with a vegetable macedoine. A la Cambaceres, it has a border round it of small slices of tongue, truffles and cucumber; white sauce with wine, chopped mushrooms, &c. The under part of a loin is roasted and dressed as Filet de veau d la cremiere, with poached eggs, and Bechamel sauce with cream, &c. A Neck of veal dressed as : Carr6 de veau an naturel is stewed, and served in the sauce with chopped gher- kins and vinegar. A la Milanaise, it is braised, and served with a Milanaise garnish. Roasted, it is served a la puree de ce'leris, with stewed heads of celery and puree of celery sauce. A la St. Clair, with slices of fried ham and tomato sauce. A la Bruxcllaise, with Brussels sprouts and white sauce. A Breast of veal as: Poitrine de veau rotie is roasted, and served with brown sauce and melted butter; d la Soubise, with Soubise sauce. Boned, stuffed, rolled and braised, it is served a la printaniere with spring vegetables; or a la Chipo- lata, with Chipolata garnish. Galantine devexu is served cold, garnished with aspic.Removes of Mutton. 9r Calf’s head is served as: T&te de veau au naturel, stewed, and garnished with the tongue and brains. farcie is stuffed with forcemeat, &c., and stewed. en tortue—it is cut in pieces and boiled with vegetables and turtle herbs—basil, mar- joram, thyme, bay leaves, &c. Served in the sauce with wine and mushrooms. Yeal and ham pie is called Pate de veau au jambon. Timbale d la Fvangaise is a pie of layers of slices of larded veal, ham and forcemeat, in a shell of paste. Pate de pieds de veau d l fdcossaise—a pie of calf’s feet minced with suet and apples, with gravy and wine. Pate cliaud de godiveau is a hot pie of veal or fowl forcemeat. MUTTON. Hanche de mouton is a roast haunch of mutton. It may he served au jus de gro- seilles with brown sauce, currant jelly, &c. d la Bohemienne — soaked in marinade, roasted, and served in a brown sauce with pickled onions, olives, currant jelly, &c. A leg or neck of mutton is also dressed in this way.Menus Made Easy. 92 A fore-quarter of Southdown mutton is called Quartier de 'pre-sale; if served with haricot beans it is d la Bretonne. A Saddle of mutton as : Sell© de mouton d VAnglaise or en broche is roasted. au laver—served with laver and a brown sauce. rotie d la venaison—it is hung a fortnight roasted, and served in a brown sauce with wine, &c. d la Mirabeau—roasted, and served in Poiv rade sauce with chopped gherkins and beetroot. d la Polonaise—the meat of a roast saddle is cut out, minced, and put back again with brown sauce, &c., keeping the shape by a wall of mashed potatoes. It is sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and browned. Dressed in this way, with a puree of onions over the mince, and served with Soubise sauce, it is called d la Marseillaise. A Leg of mutton as : Gigot roti is roasted. d la Busse — roasted, and the cooking finished in burning brandy. Served with the gravy and brandy. d la Provengale—garlic inserted into the leg; roasted and served with Bretonne sauce. en chevreuil—larded, soaked in oil and roasted. Served with Poivrade sauce.93 Removes of Mutton. Gigot bouilli—boiled; served with carrots and mashed turnips. It is also served with caper sauce—sauce aux cdpres. Larded and braised it is served d la Jardiniere— with a Jardiniere garnish; a la Napoli- taine—with macaroni and Neapolitan sauce; d la Soubise—with Soubise sauce and potato croquettes. —— de sept heures is boned, and stewed for seven hours with onions, carrots, &c. farci is boned, stuffed and roasted. Served with tomato or Soubise sauce. braise—stuffed and braised. d la Bretonne is stuffed and braised, and served with Bretonne sauce and haricot beans. d la Polonaise is braised, cut in slices without severing them from the bone, and a stuffing put between each slice. A Neck of mutton as : Carre de mouton is roasted; bouilli, boiled and served with carrots and mashed turnips, and caper sauce in a sauce-boat. au riz—cooked with rice, slices of onion and dice of ham. d VIrlandaise is braised and' served with onions and potato croquettes. a la Jardiniere—with a Jardiniere garnish;Menus Made Easy. 94 or with any dressed vegetable or puree, naming it accordingly. Carre de mouton d la Provengale—spread with a puree of onions, breadcrumbed and browned. Served in brown sauce with garlic. d la Soubise—larded, braised, and served wdth Soubise sauce. au chevreuil—larded, soaked in marinade and braised. Served with Chevreuil sauce and potatoes cut in little balls. If stewed prunes are substituted for the potatoes it may be called d VAllemav.de. d VAlgerienne— larded, soaked in mari- nade and roasted. Served in brown sauce with some of the marinade and French plums. Carres de mouton d la legumiere are two necks roasted, put together like a saddle, and the space between filled up with mashed potato, garnished with other vegetables. A Loin of mutton may be dressed in many of tho ways suggested for necks. Also as: Carbonade de mouton—boned, larded, and rolled with forcemeat in the centre; braised and glazed. Served with a dressed vegetable, Soubise or Piquante sauce, or d la Nivcr- naise, with stewed carrots.95 Removes of Lamb. A shoulder of mutton boned, stuffed, and roasted or braised, is served with Piquante sauce as Epaide de moition farcie. En ballon, it is boned, larded, made into the shape of a balloon and braised. A mutton pie made with pototoes and onions, covered with potato paste, is called Pdte de mouton d Vlrlandaise. LAMB. Handle (Pagneau is a roast haunch of lamb. It is sometimes called Rosbif d’agneau d la broche. The Forequarter as: Quartier d’agneau d la broche, is roasted. d I’hdteliere—roasted and served in a sauce of maitre d’hotel butter with cream. farci—a stuffing put between the neck and shoulder; roasted and served with brown sauce. Cdtes d’agneau d la chanceliere is a roast fore- quarter, the shoulder cut out and the meat of it minced with ham, truffles, &c., and white sauce, put into the space the shoulder was cut from. Breadcrumbed, browned, and served with white sauce. Selle d’agneau rotle is a roast saddle of lamb. It is served d VIndienne, with Indian sauce and Indian pickles; and d la bonne fer- mikre, with lamb’s fry breadcrumbed and fried, and a sauce of broth with chopped mint.9^ Menus Made Easy. Selle d agneau braisee a V Allemande—boned, stuffed and braised ; served with Allemande sauce and any vegetable garnish. d la Villeroi is dressed in the same way, covered with Allemande sauce and sprinkled with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan. d la Menagere is dressed in the same way as saddle of mutton d la Polonaise, with a white instead of a brown sauce, and the meat cut in small square slices. A Leg of lamb is dressed in the same way as a leg of mutton. Also as: Gigot d’agneau bouilli aux epinards, boiled and served on spinach; or d la Palestine with a puree of Jerusalem artichokes. The Neck as: Carre d’agneau aux petits pois is roasted and served with green peas; or aux legumes printaniers with spring vegetables. d la Bruxellaise is braised and served on a puree of Brussels sprouts. The Shoulder, or— Epaule d’agneau, is roasted; served d la maitre d’hdtel, with maitre d’hotel sauce ; or aux pointes d’asperges, with asparagus heads and white sauce. Boned, larded, braised and glazed, it is served as glacee. >—- d la Montmorency—boned, stuffed with force- meat, larded and braised; served withRemoves of Pork. 97 Toulouse garnish. It is also dressed a la Polonaise in the same way as a saddle of mutton. Pate chaud d’agneau is a hot pie of lamb cutlets with potatoes, white sauce, &c. PORK. Selle de pore frais is a roast saddle of pork. A la Robert it has Robert sauce. A Leg of pork as— GigOt de pore bouilli is boiled with the carrots, turnips and parsnips with which it is served. d la Pie'montaise is roasted and served in a brown sauce with Indian pickles, olives, &c. d VAllemande is pickled, boiled, and served with stewed red cabbage and pickled cabbage, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. Dchinee de pore rotie is a roast chine of pork. Carre de pore a la Rdmoulade—a roast neck served in Remoulade sauce with chopped Indian pickles. Longe de pore rotie is a loin roasted. Pate d la Leicestershire is a pork pie in a crust made with hog’s lard instead of butter. a la Devonshire is a pie of layers of slices of pork, bacon and apples. Salt pork boiled with cabbages and other vege- tables, and served with them, is called Petit sale aux choux. H98 Menus Maae Easy. A sucking pig is plainly roasted ; or stuffed with, truffles, &c., as Cochon de lait d la Perigueux; or with chestnut and sausage-meat stuffing, and served with Chipolata garnish, as d la Chipolata. A la Savoycirde—stuffed with sausage-meat, rice, &c., and roasted; served with little sausages, and a white sauce with wine and mushrooms. Coclion de lait en galantine is a braised galantine of sucking pig. Pate froid de cochon de lait is a cold sucking pig pie. A Ham as: Jamboil cl la broche aux epinarcls is roasted, and served with spinach. If a York ham is used, the dish is called Jambon d’York d V Anglaise. d la Maillot is braised in wine; served with vegetables and Madeira sauce. glace a la Jardiniere is glazed, and garnished “ a la Jardiniere.” It is also served d la Macedoine, aux petits pois or aux hari- cots verts, with a garnish of Macedoine, green peas or French beans. Fromcige de cochon is brawn. A haunch of boar, or Guissot de sanglier, may be served cl la Eoyale, larded, and braised in wine and water with vegetables, &c., sprinkled with bread- crumbs and served with the sauce. Filet de sanglier au chasseur is a fillet of boar,Removes of Poultry. 99 soaked in oil, &c., and braised; served in the sauce with Poivrade sauce. Ilare de scinglier is a hoar’s head. POULTRY. A capon boiled in stock with bacon, onions, &c., is served in the sauce as Ghapon an gros sel. Stuffed with truffles, &c., and roasted, it is served cl la Peri- gueux, with Perigueux sauce; or cl la Piemontaise, with tomato sauce and raviolis. A fowl boiled and served with JBourgeoise sauce is called Poule an pot. A fat pullet, or poularde, is roasted and ser ved d la fincinciere with Financiere garnish ; or aux legumes printaniers with stewed young vegetables and brown sauce. A la Grimocl de la lieynierc it is filled with a stuffing of the liver with truffles, mushrooms, &c. Roasted in slices of bread and ham. A la Montmorency it is larded, stuffed with foie gras, bacon, &c. Braised and glazed. A la Guillaume Tell it is boned, stuffed and braised; set in a mould with the stock, garnished with truffles, and served cold. For Pilau de poularde it is cooked with spice, onions, rice, &c. Masked with the rice, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs. Poulets et langue are two boiled chickens with a tongue between them; white sauce with any vegetable garnish.ioo Menus Made Easy. Poulet au viz is a chicken boiled with rice. d la Chivvy is cooked in mirepoix with slices of bacon, and served in Ravigote sauce. a la Mona—cooked with wine, tomato sauce, Portugal onion and bacon. d la d’E'scars—larded, and braised in stock and wine with bacon, vegetables, &c. roti d la peau de goret has a crackly skin from melted lard having been dropped on it while roasting. d la Milanaise—stuffed, roasted, and served with Milanaise garnish. a la Hambourgeoise—stuffed -with butter, chopped parsley, &c., and roasted. a Vestragon—the stuffing is made of the liver, bacon, tarragon, &c. It is roasted, and served in a white sauce with chopped tarragon. d ritalienne—filled with a stuffing of the livers with bacon, mushrooms, &c. Roasted, and served in a white sauce with oil, wine, tarragon, &c. d la sauce tomates is stuffed, braised, and served with tomato sauce. Petits poulets a VIndienne are young chickens stuffed with rice, breadcrumbs, curry powder, &c. Braised, and served with rice and Indian sauce, garnished with Indian pickles.IOI Removes of Poultry. Petits poussins are very young chickens. They are larded and braised, and served cl la Venitienne in a white sauce with wine, cock’s combs, chopped mushrooms, &c.; or a la chevaliere, in white sauce with button onions, mushrooms, &c. Pate chaucl de volaille au janibon is a hot chicken and ham pie. froid de volaille aux truffes is a cold chicken pie, with forcemeat and truffles. DUCKS. Ducks are roasted and served au jus dlorange, with orange sauce ; or braised and served aux petits pois, or aux champignons, with stewed peas or mush- rooms. Canards, or canetons, au Pere Douillet are braised in wine and stock, and served in the sauce. d la St. Michel—braised in wine and broth, and served with mushrooms, &c., in the sauce a VEspagnole—braised with vegetables, oil, and garlic; served in a brown sauce with olives. d puree verte are stewed ducks, covered with a puree of green peas. They are also served aux ncivets, au ce'leri, or aux olives, with stewed turnips or celery, or with olives.102 Menus Made Easy. GOOSE. Oie rdtie is a roast goose, served with apple sauce in a sauce-boat. braisee a la Jardiniere is braised, and served with brown sauce and Jardiniere garnish. d la Chipolata — served with Chipolata sausages. rotie, farcie de marrons—stuffed with the liver, chestnuts, &c., and roasted. d la Portugaise—stuffed with slices of Por- tugal onions, wine, &c., roasted, and served with stewed Portugal onions and a brown sauce. d VArlesienne—stuffed with onions, truffles, chestnuts, &c., braised in mirepoix, and served in tomato sauce. en daube is stuffed, braised, and served cold covered with the sauce. Pate aux abatis d’oie is giblet pie TURKEY. Dinde rdtie is a turkey roasted, and garnished with sausages. rdtie parfaite is stuffed with sausage-meat, chestnuts and truffles, and roasted. cl la puree de eeleris — boiled, and served103 Removes of Poultry. with a puree of celery and slices of fried bacon. Dinde cl la Chipolata—stuffed with sausage-meat and chestnuts, roasted, and served with Chipolata garnish. truffee—stuffed with forcemeat and truffles; roasted, and served with gravy and chopped truffles. —— tl la Provencale—a stuffing of onions, bread- crumbs, &c.; roasted and served with truffle or tomato sauce. en claube—larded and stewed; served cold, covered with the sauce. d la Yorkshire—the legs are cut off, it is boned and stuffed with forcemeat and a tongue, and served with white sauce and vegetables. A young turkey, roasted, is served as JDindonneau d la duchesse, with a puree of cucumbers, quenelles, small pieces of tongue, and French beans. Galantine de dinde is a braised galantine of turkey ; it is served cold. de dinde aux foies gras has fat livers 0: fowls added to the forcemeat. PIGEONS. Pigeons stewed in stock with bacon, mushrooms, onions, &c., are served in the sauce as Pigeons en compote.io4 Menus Made Easy. Pigeons d la crapaudine are breadcrumbecl and broiled ; served with Piquante sauce. ~on vagolXt d’e'crevisses are stewed, and served in a white sauce with mushrooms and crayfish. aux petits pois are stuffed, and stewed with onions, green peas, &c. Pcite chaud de pigeons, or pigeonneaux, is a hot pigeon pie. de pigeons d VAnglaise is a pigeon pie with collops of beef steak. GAME. ♦ VENISON. The haunch of venison, or Hanche de venai- SOn, ranks first amongst removes. Dressed d la Corinthienne, it is larded, soaked in marinade and roasted ; served in a brown sauce with port wine, currants, currant jelly, &c. Quartier de venaison is a fore - quarter of venison. Gigot de cerf, or venaison, is a leg of venison. Filet de cerf, or venaison, is a fillet of venison. ifpaule de cerf, or venaison, is a shoulder of venison. Carre de cerf, or venaison, is a neck of venison.105 Removes of Game. The forequarter of a roebuck is served as Quartier de chevreuil; the leg, as Gigot de chevreuil. A venison pasty is called Pate de venaison. HARE. Lievre, or Levraut, sauce Poivrcide, is larded, roasted, and served with Poivrade sauce. au jus de groseilles—larded, roasted, and served in brown sauce with olives and currant jelly. rotie a la Finnoise—larded, roasted, and served in a sauce of stock, vinegar, sour cream, &c. liable de lievre roti is a baron of hare, larded and roasted. Lievre en daube is honed, and stewed in a jar with bacon, veal, game stock, &c. It is served cold, in the jar. Pdte de lievre d I’Fcossaise is a pie of stewed hare with wine, &c. Pain de lievre a la Yorkshire is a pie of layers of slices of hare, ham and hard-boiled eggs, with game jelly. It is served cold. RABBITS. As Lapereaux d VAnglaise they are stewed, and served with Soubise sauce.io6 Menus Made Easy. Lapereaux grilles are flattened and broiled; served with butter and chopped parsley. ccux petits pois are cooked in a white sauce with onions, green peas, &c. If mushrooms are substituted for the peas they are called a la Taverniere. d la Jardiniere are cooked in white sauce, with young onions, carrots and turnips cut in little balls, and peas. d la villageoise—stuffed, roasted, and served in melted butter sauce with shallots, &c. Galantine de lapins is made of rabbits boned without removing the heads. It is served cold, gar- nished with the sauce in which it is braised, in a jelly- Rabbit pie is served as Pate chaud de lapereaux. PHEASANTS. Faisans d la Soubise are braised pheasants covered with Soubise sauce; aux marrons, with chestnut sauce. — d la puree de gibier are larded, braised, and served with puree of game sauce. — d la Fontainebleau—the breasts are larded in a square. They are braised in white stock with lettuces, sausages, &c., and served with the lettuces and sausages, and brown sauce.Removes of Game. 107 Faisans d la Gitana—stewed with bacon, slices of Portugal onions, tomatoes, wine, &c. a la Flamancle—stewed with bacon, sausages, cabbages, &c.; served with the cabbages pressed and cut in shapes, carrots and turnips, and Poivrade sauce. d Vetouffade—larded and stewed; served with game sauce. aux foies gras—stuffed with foie gras, ham, truffle, &c., and roasted. truffe's d la Piemontaise — stuffed with truffle stuffing, roasted, and served with a sauce of aspic and wine with slices of truffles. d la Bohe'mienne— stuffed with foie gras, truffle, &c.; cooked in mirepoix, and served in the sauce with truffles and foie gras. d la Saint-Cloud—boned, filled with a stuffing of the livers with partridge, truffles, &c.; roasted, and served on toast with Italian sauce and truffles. Pate chaud de faisan aux truffes is a pie of pheasant with forcemeat and truffles. PARTRIDGES. Partridges braised in stock with bacon, cabbages, &c., are served as Perdreaux aux choux, with the cabbages and slices of bacon.Menus Made Easy. io8 Perdreaux braisdes are larded and braised. a Vetouffade—larded, and stewed in stock and wine with onions, &c. d La Parisienne—cooked in a brown sauce with wine, and served in the sauce. d V Anglaise—stuffed with the livers and butter, and roasted. A stuffing of shallots, breadcrumbs, &c., is inserted under each joint, and they are served in a sauce of stock and wine. trufes d la Perigord—stuffed with truffle stuffing and roasted ; served in a white sauce with truffles. d la Meclclenbourg—stuffed with chopped French plums, game forcemeat, &c.; cooked in stock and wine, and served in the sauce with tomato sauce and currant jelly. d la Victoria—the breast bones removed, stuffed with game forcemeat, larded and braised; served with brown sauce, wine, &c. Pdte de perdreaux an chasseur is a pie of part- ridges with veal and bacon, mushrooms, and onion sauce. GROUSE. Grouse are dressed like Pheasants d la Piemon-Removes of Gdme. 109 taise. A la Kinnaird they are stuffed, roasted, and served with Financiere garnish. Pate de grouse d V Rcossaise is a pie of grouse with beef steak, &c. BLACK GAME. As Coqs noirs, or Coqs de bruyere, d la royale, blackcocks are larded, braised, and served with a white sauce and little rissoles of game. A la Bob Boy they are stuffed, roasted with sprigs of heather and whiskey, and served with melted- butter sauce. Grouse are also dressed in this way. SNIPES. Snipes cut in halves, baked on layers cf bacon, with butter, are served cold as Be'cassines en terrine d VIrlandaise. Boudin de becassines d Vepicurienne is com- posed of snipes, mushrooms, truffles, &c., with wine, in suet crust. < Quai!s, Plovers, and Larks may be dressed in hot pies, and served as Pate chaud de cailles, pluviers, or mauviettes; or in cold pies, as Pates fvoids. Ar^ small birds may be used for these pies.I IO Menus Made Easy. Pate de mauviettes & la Melton Movobray is a lark pie with veal and hacon, mushrooms, truffles, &c. Larks or other small birds are dressed as Boudin a la Chipolata, with Chipolata garnish in suet crust. Pdte froid de gibier is a cold pie made of the meat of several kinds of game. d la Yorkshire is composed of goose, hare, grouse and snipes, with spices, sausage meat and slices of ham.CHAPTER Y. ROASTS, OR R6TS. Black Diver—Macreuse. Dressed au chocdat they are served covered with chocolate. Black Game—Cog's noirs, or Coqs de bruyere. A la Stockholm they are larded on one side, and barded with vine leaves on the other side. Bustard—Outarcle canepetiere. A la Russe they have a slice cut in the breast and a stuffing inserted, and arc served with brown sauce. Capon — Chapon. Served with watercress it is called au cresson. Chicken—Poidet. Served d la Forrester it is covered with watercress leaves, mustard and cress, &c. Bctrcle, it is barded—roasted with a slice of bacon over the breast, and served with the bacon on it. Roti d la Stael it has a white crust from being sprinkled with flour during the roasting. Spring Chickens—Petits Poulets. Young Chickens—Pewits Poussins Duck—Canard. Duckling—Caneton. Served with orange sauce it is called au jus d'orange or d la bigarccde.Menus Made Easy. I 12 Goose—Oie. Green Goose—Oison or Oisillon. Grouse—Grouse. A la bonnie lassie they are served on brown bread toast with melted-butter sauce. Guinea Fowl—Pintado or Gelinotte. Pique'e they are larded ; barde'e, bardcd. Hare—Lievre. Lap wings— Vanneaux. Larks—Mauviettes. Leveret—Levraut. Ortolans—Ortolans. Partridges—Perdrix or Perdreaux. “ Perdrix ” is usually applied to older birds. A brace of part- ridges is Accolade do •perdreaux. Peahen—Paonne. Pheasant—Faisan. Pigeons—Pigeons. Young Pigeons—Pigeonneaux. Barde's aux feuilles de vignes they are roasted with vine leaves and slices of bacon over the breasts. Pintail—Pilet. Plovers—Pluviers. Fat Pullet—Poularde. Quails—Cailles. They are bar dees aux feuilles de vignes in the same way as Pigeons. Rabbit—Lapin. Young Rabbit—Lapereau. A brace of young rabbits—Accolade de tapereaux. Shovellers—Rouges de riviere113 Roasts. Snipes—Becassin cs. Teal—Sarcelle. They are served au cresson with watercress; and a la Bigarade with Bigarade sauce. Turkey—Bindon (m.), or Binde (f.). Turkey Poult — BindonnG.au. They are pique', larded; barde, barded ; and farci, stuffed with force- meat and truffles. Widgeon—Canard siffleur. They are some- times called Macreuses. Wild Duck—Canard, or Caneton, sauvage. Woodcocks—Be'casses. Served d la PUmontaise thev have game sauce and slices of truffles. 1CHAPTER VI. VEGETABLES, OR LEGUMES, AND SALADS. ARTICHOKES. Artichokes plainly boiled are served with butter sauce in a sauce boat as Articliauts sauce au beurrc, or with Dutch sauce, sauce Hollandaise. Artichoke bottoms as: Articliauts d la bonne femme are boiled and served with white sauce. d la Bruxellaise are cut in quarters, cooked in white sauce, and arranged in a border with Brussels sprouts and Maitre d’hotel sauce in the centre. ctu veloute are dressed in the same way and served in the sauce with cream and yolks of eggs. a la Lyonnaise—cooked in butter and served in brown sauce with onions, &c. d Vltalienne—cooked in stock, wine, &c., and served in Italian sauce. farcis— stuffed, and cooked with oil and bacon, &c. d Vessence de jarnbon—stuffed, braised, and served covered with a pur^e of ham.Vegetables. 115 Articliauts a la barigoule — stuffed with chopped bacon, mushrooms, &c.; braised and served with Italian sauce. farcis a Vltalienne—the stuffing is made of onion, breadcrumbs and grated cheese. a la Hollandaise—stuffed with a pur<ie made from the leaves, and served with Hollandaise sauce. • en mayonnaise—served cold, coated with Mayonnaise sauce and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Crime cVarticliauts is a puree of artichokes with cream, steamed in a mould ; served with cream sauce. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Topinambours d Vltalienne are cut in fancy shapes, cooked with butter, stock, &c., and glazed; served with Italian sauce. They are also sauU in thin slices. A puree of Jerusalem artichokes with cream, sprinkled with grated Parmesan and browned, is called Topinambours an gratin. ASPARAGUS. Plainly boiled they are called Asperges en branches.116 Menus Made Easy. They are served a la sauce, with white sauce; au beurre, with butter sauce; a Vhuile, with oil and vinegar. Asperges a la creme are cut up and served in Bechamel sauce. a la Pompadour—cut up and served in a sauce of butter, yolks of eggs, &c. Cut up small, they are dressed en petits pois— stewed and served in a white sauce; as Pointes d' asperges au jus—stewed in stock ; or a la crime —served in a sauce of butter, cream, yolks of eggs, &c. FRENCH BEANS. Cut in strips and boiled, they are served as: Haricots verts d VAnglaise on a piece of butter, with chopped parsley. ——- d la maitre d'hotel—with Maitre d’hotel sauce. au beume noir—with black-butter sauce. aux fines herbes—with a sauce of butter, chopped parsley and shallots, &c. d la Poulette—in a white sauce with chopped parsley, &c. sautes are saute in butter with chopped parsley, &c. Haricots panache's d la Maitre dhotel are French beans and harieot beans with Maitre d’hotel sauce.Vegetables. 117 HARICOT BEANS. White haricot beans, boiled, are served as: Haricots blancs d la MaUre cVhotel, or cl la Bretonne—with Maitre d’hotel or Bretonne sauce; au beurre de piment— with capsicums pounded with butter; a la moelle—with beef marrow, &c. an jus are stewed in stock. They are also served en purge with stock; or as Purge de haricots cl la: creme—a puree with cream. Haricots rouges d la Bourguignonne are red haricot beans cooked in stock with onions, wine, &c. BROAD BEANS. Feves de marais cl VAnglaise are boiled and served with parsley and butter. d la creme are boiled in milk with chopped parsley; served in the sauce with cream, &c. Purge de feves is a puree of beans. BEETROOT. Cut in slices, beetroot is served as : Betteraves d la creme, boiled in white sauce. d la Poitevine—served in brown sauce with onion, spice, &c. d la Chartreuse—sandwiches of a slice ofii8 Menus Made Easy. onion between slices of yellow beetroot, dipped in batter and fried. Broccoli is dressed in the same way as cauliflower. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Choux de Bruxelles & la Motors d’hotd arc boiled, and served in Maitre d’hotel sauce. Sautes, they are saute in butter with lemon, &c. CABBAGE. Choux farcis—the heart is cut out, and a stuff- ing of sausage-meat, &c., put between each leaf. It is braised and served in the sauce. en surprise—the heart cut out, it is filled with sausage-meat and boiled chestnuts, and stewed. CARDOONS. Boiled cardoons are served au veloute in white sauce; a VEspagnole in brown sauce ; or au gratia covered with breadcrumbs, sprinkled with melted butter, and browned. If grated cheese is mixed with the breadcrumbs, they are called a I'ltalienne. Cardons au jus are stewed, and served in brown sauce with beef marrow. Garnished with pieces of toast spread with beef marrow, they are called a la Moelle.Vegetables. ”9 A puree of cardoons with cream, &c., garnished with croutons, is served as Puree de cardons aux croutons. CARROTS. Boiled and cut in shapes, carrots are served as : Carottes d la Bechamel, in Bechamel sauce, garnished with croutons; or d la poulette, glazed, and served in Poulette sauce. d la menagere are cut in slices and served in a white sauce with wine, herbs, &c. aux petits pois—cut in dice and served with peas in a white sauce. au sucre—mashed, and dressed with milk, sugar, eggs, &c., the top sprinkled with sugar. Young carrots stewed in white sauce are called Petites carottes, or Carottes nouvelles, a la sauce blanche. Stewed and glazed, they are glace'es; or d Valle- mande, served with Allemande or brown sauce. CAULIFLOWERS. Chouxfleurs au gratin are masked with a white sauce with grated Parmesan, breadcrumbed and browned. They may also be called au Parmesan. sauce au beurre are served with butter sauce.120 Menus Made Easy. Chouxfleurs d la sauce—served with white sauce. Pieces of cauliflower, masked with white sauce, dipped in hatter and fried, are called Marinade cle chouxfleurs. CELERY. Celeri aujus is stewed in stock. —— d la moelle is stewed and served on toast, with brown sauce and beef marrow. d la creme—stewed, and served in a white sauce with cream. d VEspcignole— stewed, and served in Espagnole sauce. d la Chetvjynd—stewed with onions, and served on toast with the onions, and Bechamel sauce with cream, &c. d la Villeroi — masked with Allemande sauce, breadcrumbed and fried. Celery roots are served with butter sauce as Celeri- rave d la sauce ciu heurre; stewed and served au jus; or glazed—d la clemi glace. They are also dressed as a Puree cle celeri-rave. CHESTNUTS. Though properly a fruit, a puree of chestnuts cooked with stock and wine may be served as a vegetable, and called Pure'e de marrons.Vegetables. I 2 I CUCUMBEK. Slices of cucumber cooked with cream, butter and flour are called Goncombres a la creme. Concombres d la poulette—cut in pieces, and cooked with butter and sugar; served in white sauce with cream, chopped parsley, &c. farcies a la crime—the centres scooped out, they are stuffed and stewed; served in Bechamel sauce with cream and sugar. a V Espagnole—cut in short lengths, stuffed, stewed, and served with brown sauce. d la moelle—the stuffing is made of bread- crumbs, beef marrow, &c.; they are served with a brown sauce. EGO- PLANT. Aubergines farcies are cut in halves, the centres chopped, and put back into the skins with oil, brown sauce, &c.; sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. ENDIVE. Chicoree ciu jus is stewed in stock. • d la creme is chopped, and dressed with cream, wThite sauce, &c.; garnished with croutons. If the cream is omitted, it should be called en puree.Menus Made Easy. 122 LEEKS. As Poireaux au jus they are stewed in stock. LENTILS. A pur^e of lentils with stock, garnished with crou- tons, is served as Puree de lentilles ciux croiltons. LETTUCE. Lettuce is served au jus, stewed; or as Laitues farcies, the centres cut out, filled with forcemeat and braised. MORELS. Morilles aux croutons are stewed and served with the sauce on buttered toast. a Vltalienne are served in Italian sauce. a VAndalouse are cooked with oil, wine, ham, &c., and served in the sauce. MUSHROOMS. For Croiites aux champignons they are broiled and served on toast.Vegetables. 123 Champignons & la sauce aie stewed, and served in white sauce. a la Bordelaise are soaked in oil, broiled, and served in the oil with chopped parsley, &c. farcis or ciu gratin are filled with stuffing, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. They are served with or without brown sauce. Cut in slices they are dressed en ragoiit, with broth, chopped parsley, &c.; or d la creme, with butter, cream, &c. For Puree de champignons they are chopped, and served with butter, gravy, &c., garnished with ci’outons. ONIONS. Stewed Portugal onions are served as Olgnons au jus. Stewed in a white sauce with puree of ham they are cn ragoAt. For Oignons farcis the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, and cooked with bacon, &c. Small onions served in Poulette sauce are a la poulette. Au sirop dore they are stewed with butter, sugar, &c., and are served in the sauce. A puree of onions with stock is called Puree124 Menus Made Easy. cVoignons d la Bretonne. It is garnished with croutons. PEAS. Petits pois cl I’Anglaise are boiled and served on a lump of butter. & la Francaise are stewed, and mixed with flour and butter. d la Parisienne—boiled with onions, butter, sugar, &c., and served with the sauce. au jus—stewed in stock. aux laitues—stewed with lettuces. d I’ancienne mode—stewed, and served with cream and yolk of egg. They are also served au larcl, stewed in stock with dice of bacon, &c.; or ecu jambon with dice of bam, young onions, &c. en cosses are boiled in their shells. POTATOES. Pommes de terre en chemise are boiled in their skins. Boiled and cut in slices they are served d I'anglaise, with butter; d la mccitre d’hdtel, in maitre d’hotel sauce ; or cl la creme cue gratin, with white sauce and grated Parmesan, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned.Vegetables. 125 o Pommes de terre d la Parisienne are cooked in butter and water with, onions, &c. au lard—cut in slices and cooked in a white sauce with dice of bacon, &c. d la creme — cut in slices, and served in white sauce. saute'es—cut in slices and fried. cl la Macaire—fried potato trimmings. ——- d la Lyonnaise—cut in slices and saute in butter with shallot, &c. If oil is used instead of butter they are called d la Provengale. souf/le'es—baked in their skins; the potatoes mixed with butter, grated Parmesan, eggs, &c., put back into the skins and browned. a Vltalienne are dressed in the same way, but the potato pulp is mixed with rice, grated Parmesan, &e. nouvelles a la creme are young potatoes boiled in cream with chopped parsley, &c. Croquettes de pommes de terre are potato cro- quettes, breadcrumbed and fried. This paste saute in small shapes, and dressed in a crown with white sauce, is called Pommes de terre a la Duchesse. It is also made into quenelles. Croquettes de pommes de terre d la Bechamel are potato croquettes with Bechamel sauce. A puree of potatoes as Purde de pommes de terreMenus Made Easy. 126 gratinee is sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. Mixed with white sauce it is called a la Maria. PURSLANE. The stalks of Purslane with cinnamon, &c., dipped in batter and fried, are called Pourpier en friture a la Milanaise. SALSIFIS. Salsifis a la creme is boiled and served in a white sauce. d la Bechamel is served in Bechamel sauce. a la moelle—stewed, and served with beef marrow spread on pieces of toast, and brown sauce. a la poulette—served in white sauce with cream, mushrooms, &c. ■ frits — soaked in oil, &c., breadcrumbea and fried. If the pieces are dipped in batter and fried they are called Beignets de salsifis. SEA-KALE. Boiled sea-kale served on toast with butter sauce is called Choux de mer d la sauce ; cl VEspagnole, it is served in Espagnole sauce,Vegetables. 12 7 SPINACH. Spinach is served a VAnglaise, with butter or cream ; a la Frangaise with butter, stock, &c. Epinards a VAllemande—dressed with butter, cream, breadcrumbs, &c. au veloute—with veloute sauce. a la creme—with cream and sugar. au jus is stewed, and served with gravy. au sucre—cooked in butter and mixed with sugar, &c. TOMATOES. Tomates farcies or au gratin—the centres are cut out, they are stuffed, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and baked. ■ d la Provencale — the centres are mixed with oil, chopped onions, &c., put back into the skins and baked. Souffle' de tomates is tomato pulp with eggs, baked in small souffle cases. TRUFFLES. Truffes d la serviette are cooked in wine and broth, and served on a napkin,Menus Made Easy. 128 Trufles sous la cendre—wrapped in slices of bacon and paper, and broiled in hot cinders. au vin de champagne—cooked with bacon, veal, mushrooms, champagne, &c.; and served in the sauce. d la Pie'montaise—cut in slices, fried in oil with garlic, &c., and served with Italian sauce on buttered crusts of rolls. dcmi Pie'montaise are dressed in the same way, substituting tomato sauce with wine and garlic for Italian sauce. d la Dino—truffles dressed “ au vin de champagne ” are used for this dish. The centres chopped with forcemeat, &c., put back into the shells, braised, and served with truffle sauce. For Croutes aux truffes they are cut in slices, cooked in brown sauce with wine, &c., and served on toast. TURNIPS. Navets au jus are stewed in stock and served in the sauce. au sucre are stewed with stock and sugar. glaces au jus—stewed and glazed in stock. glace's au sucre—cooked with butter, sugar and stock, and glazed. d la Poulette—cut in shapes and cooked in white sauce.Vegetables. 129 They are also served in a puree, garnished with crofitons, as Puree de navets. VEGETABLE MARROW. Potirons, or Giraumons, a la Hollandaise are cut in pieces, baked, and served in Hollandaise sauce. a la Provengale are cut in halves, fried, and filled with a stuffing of onions, bread- crumbs, oil, &c. * au gratin—a puree of vegetable marrow with cream, sprinkled with breadcrumbs and browned. YAMS or SWEET POTATOES. Patates au beurre are cooked, cut in slices and served with butter. (1 la Frangaise are cut in pieces, and served in a sauce of butter, flour, cream, &c. For Beignets de patates they are cut in pieces, soaked in brandy, dipped in batter and fried. Chartreuse de Ugumes is an ornamental mould of mixed vegetables, filled with chopped vegetables stewed in brown sauce. KMenus Made Easy. 130 Racines en menu droits are slices of onions, carrots and turnips, &c., with mustard and vinegar. SALADS. Salade d la Macedoine de legumes is composed of separate heaps of vegetables, with oil and vinegar. de jpommes de terre—slices of potatoes and beetroot, with chopped parsley, &c., oil and vinegar. de cresson aux jpommes de terre—watercress and slices of potatoes, with oil and vinegar. de tomates—slices of raw tomatoes with chopped shallots, &c., oil and vinegar. de choux rouges d la Russe—red cabbage, with sauce of sour cream, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, &c. aux concombres—slices of cucumber with oil and vinegar. aux betteraves — slices of beetroot, with chopped Portugal onions, oil and vinegar. de chicoree d la Frangaise—endive, with oil, vinegar and garlic. d la Frangaise—lettuce, or any one kind of salad only, with oil, vinegar, &c. dVAnglaise—lettuce, celery, beetroot, endive, &c., with oil and vinegar. d VAllemande—slices of potatoes, Brussel131 Salads. sprouts, cauliflower and celery, with oil, vinegar, &c. Salade d Vltalienne—several kinds of salad and vegetables, with meat or fish, anchovies, olives, &c., and Tartare sauce. d la Flamande—Dutch herrings, or any dried fish, pickled shrimps, apples, beet- root, potatoes, &c., with oil and vinegar. —— cl VEspagnole—a border of slices of tomatoes, and pickled onions with Mayonnaise sauce in the centre. d la Russe—carrots, parsnips and beetroot cut in shapes, pieces of fowl or game, an- chovies, olives, Russian caviare, &c., with oil, vinegar and mustard. Another way of serving it is a mould of vegetables with yolks of eggs, cream, puree of spinach, &c. —— d la Cazanova—dice of ham and fish, with celery, hard-boiled whites of eggs, &c. Mayonnaise sauce with powdered yolks of eggs. d la Tartare—lettuce, with pickled cucum- bers, onions, &c., herrings cut in dice, oil and vinegar. d la Demidoff—slices of potatoes and truffles, with oil and vinegar, young onions, &c. -— d Madame—lettuce, with sauce of oil, vinegar, yolk of egg, &c. K 2132 Menus Made Easy. Salade & la Jardiniere—fine strips of vege* tables, with oil, vinegar, &c. Cerises d la vinaigrette is composed of stoned cherries, fillets of anchovies, young onions, chopped bacon, &c., with oil, vinegar, mustard and spice.CHAPTER VII. EGGS AND OMELETTES. EGGS. Poached eggs, or CEufs poches, may be served au jus, with brown gravy, garnished with fillets of anchovy placed crosswise on each egg; or au jambon, on oval slices of fried ham, with Poivrade sauce. So-called “buttered” eggs—cooked with butter, &c.—are served as (Eufs brouilles. CEufs brouilles aux pointes d’asperges, aux champignons, aux truffes, or au jambon, are dressed in the same way, with the addition of asparagus cut up, chopped mushrooms, truffles, or ham. —— brouilles a VIndienne are cooked with butter, chopped onion, curry powder, &c. au beurre noir—fried, and served in black- butter sauce. a la Suisse are baked in a dish lined with slices of cheese, covered with cream and sprinkled with grated cheese.*34 Menus Made Easy. CEufs au Icari, or d VIndienne, are poached in a sauce of milk, butter, onions, curry powder, &c. au miroir are baked with butter, &c., in the dish in which they are served. aux pistaches—mixed with cream, pounded pistachio nuts, &c., and baked. a la bonne femme—baked with chopped onions and vinegar. au soleil—poached, dipped in a batter and fried. d la neige—spoonfuls of whipped whites poached in milk, &c.; served in the milk with yolks of eggs. en caisse—cooked in little souffle cases half filled with breadcrumbs. au bouillon—steamed with stock in little moulds; served with gravy. — d la Provengcde—cooked in small moulds with brown sauce, chopped onions, &c., and served with brown sauce. d la Bechamel arc hard-boiled, cut in halves, and served in Bechamel sauce. au veloute—hard-boiled, cut in slices and served in white sauce. cl la Tripe—slices of eggs with slices of onions, and Bechamel sauce with garlic, &c. au gratin—shoes in layers with white sauce, grated Parmesan, &c.; sprinkled with bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan, and baked.Omelettes. 135 CEllfs d Vaurore—shred hard-boiled whites of eggs in Aurora sauce, in layers with grated Parmesan and the yolks of the eggs powdered. cl la St. James—boiled hard in moulds, the yolks mixed with chopped truffles and put back into the whites; served in Mayon- naise sauce with chopped truffles. / —— en canapes—hard-boiled and cut in halves, the yolks mixed with chopped parsley, butter, &c., and put back into the whites. farcis <1 la creme are prepared in the same way, and served with Bechamel sauce. en aspic—slices of hard-boiled eggs set in a mould of aspic. Plovers’ or Lapwings’ eggs are set in a mould of aspic, or served with a border of aspic round them, as CEufs de pluviers, or vanneaux, en aspic, or d Vaspic. OMELETTES. A simple omelette is called Omelette au naturel. Omelette aux fines herbes is a savoury omelette —with chopped parsley and shallot. au Parmesan—with grated Parmesan; if Gruyere cheese is used instead of Par- mesan it is called au fromage.Menus Made Easy. 136 Omelette au jambon—with chopped ham. ■ au lard—with chopped fried bacon. ■ d la puree de volcdlle, or gibier, has some of the puree in the centre of the omelette. ■ aux truffes has slices of truffles in brown sauce in the centre of the omelette. aux champignons—with mushrooms in brown sauce in the centre. aux tomates—with dressed tomatoes in the centre of the omelette. aux olives—with olives and brown sauce in the centre. aux huitres—with oysters in white sauce in the centre. aux rognons—kidneys with fine herbs in the centre of a savoury omelette. aux anchois has fillets of anchovy on pieces of toast in the centre; it is served with gravy. cc la Jardiniere is made with chopped veget- ables mixed with the eggs. In addition to these there are the sweet omelettes— au sucre. Omelette aux confitures—a sweet omelette folded over jam. au rhum—a sweet omelette with rum, and a sauce of burning rum. cl la Celestine—a small omelette of sugar,137 Omelettes. flour, milk and eggs, with, apricot marma- lade and frangipane in the centre. An Omelette souffle'e is made with sugar, beaten yolks and beaten whites of eggs, and is baked. For Omelette sovjjlee & la creme, whipped cream is used instead of some of the whites of eggs.CHAPTER VIII. ENTREMETS. CAKES AND PASTRY. Gctteau Napolitaine is a cake composed of tain round pieces of a paste of pounded almonds, flour, butter, yolks of eggs, &c., spread with preserve and piled, one on the other. Garnished with pistachio nuts, or masked with the preserve, or glazed with sugar icing. It is sometimes called Gateau Na'politaine a la Chantilly. d la Compiegne is a cake of flour, butter, eggs, cream, &c.; cut in slices, spread with apricot marmalade, and put together again. d la Victoria—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, dried cherries, citron, cream, &c.; served with almond custard. d’amandes—a cake of ground almonds, eggs, sugar, &c. de pistaches is made in the same way with pistachio nuts instead of almonds.139 Cakes and Pastry. Gctteau Saint Louis — a cake of flour, butter, whites of eggs, almonds, &c., in a shell of paste; sprinkled with chopped almonds. Saint Charles is an almond cake baked in a mould lined with paste. de viz—rice cake. Served au caramel it has burnt sugar sauce. de viz a la bourgeoise—a rice cake baked in a mould lined with breadcrumbs; served with any fruit sauce. ——- de semoule—semolina cake. Served with cream it is called a la creme. Baba au rhum—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, sultana raisins, citron, &c., baked in a mould decreasing in stages, and served with a sauce of apricot syrup and rum. It is sometimes called Baba a la Polonaise. Brioche a la creme—a cake of flour, butter, eggs, whipped cream, &c. If served with stewed fruit it is called Brioche aux fruits. Gflteau de mille feuilles—a pile of thin round pieces of puff paste, spread alternately with apricot marmalade, orange marmalade and currant jelly. Masked with apricot marma- lade, and garnished with dried cherries. Genoise—little shapes or cakes made of a batter of pounded almonds, sugar, flour, eggs, whipped cream, &c., decorated with pink and white icing. The small shapes areMenus Made Easy. 140 sometimes called Gdnoises glacis & V Italienne. There are various other ways in which this is served. As Gdteau gdnoise aux abricots it is a cake cut in slices, spread with apricot marmalade, and put together again ; covered with the marmalade, and served with whipped cream. Genoises aux amancles are masked with merin- gue mixture, and sprinkled with chopped almonds, &c. Patisserie genoise is Genoese pastry made of flour, butter, sugar, eggs and brandy, cut into sandwiches with jam. A Genoese cake is served in this way as Biscuits cl la Ve'nitienne, coated with pink and white icing sugar. As Puits cVamour it is cut in shapes an inch thick, the centres cut out, and the space filled with whipped cream and preserve. The whole glazed with sugar icing. These are also made with pound cake instead of Genoese. Biscuit de Savoie is Savoy or sponge cake. Any cake cut in small shapes and glazed with chocolate is served as Chocolat glace. Sponge biscuits glazed with chocolate are called Biscuit glace au chocolat. Petits pains d la Parisienne are sandwiches of finger biscuits with preserve, maskedCakes and Pastry. 141 with alternate lines of meringue mixture and preserve. Petits gateaux aux amandes are small shapes of a paste of flour, sugar, eggs, almonds, &c., with chopped almonds strewn on the top ; they are served with whipped cream or preserve in the centre of the dish. d VIrlandaise—small cakes of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, &c. Gateaux d la reine—small shapes of a paste of pounded almonds, sugar and whites of eggs ; glazed with sugar icing. Petits gateaux a, la Victoria—little cakes of flour, butter, pounded almonds, maras- chino, &c., spread with orange marmalade, and glazed with yellow icing. Madeleines are little cakes of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, brandy, &c. Darioles—a batter of flour, sugar, eggs, cream, pounded almonds, &c., baked in dariole moulds lined with paste, with candied orange flowers on the top. Flavoured with vanilla or coffee they are called d la vanille, or au cafe, la Duchesse are Duchess cakes made of a batter of flour, eggs, citron, angelica, dried cherries, &c.; glazed with white sugar. d la putissifo'e are small cakes of sugar, flour, butter, cream, yolks of eggs, &c142 Menus Made Easy. Biscuits d Vltalienne are fancy shapes of a paste of flour, sugar, eggs, chopped almonds, &c., spread with jam, and put together in pairs. They are served in a crown with whipped cream in the centre. aux peches are round-topped biscuits spread with jam and put together in pairs in the shape of peaches; coated with white icing and a little red colouring. aux abricots are made in the same way, but of a smaller size. Apricot jam should be used, and yellow icing. Gateaux a la creme—pastry of cream, flour and butter, in fancy shapes. Gateau feuillete is puff paste cut in shapes. Puit de fruits aux blanches couronnes is formed of rings of puff paste spread with preserve, and put one on the other in a pile ; garnished with angelica, and a piping of whipped cream; the centre filled with stewed fruit. Gateaux a la Condd— thin oblong or fancy shapes of puff paste, the surface covered with chopped almonds, sugar, &c. This is sometimes called Patisseme d'amandcs d la Conde. Petits gateaux cl’abricots are square pieces of puff paste folded over apricot marmalade. , d la Polonaise arc little folded envelopes143 Cakes and Pastry. of puff paste, garnished with red currant jelly. fiventail aux cerises—strips of puff paste on a border of apple marmalade with stewed cherries in the centre. Petits vol-au-vents a la Chantilly are little vol-au-vents of puff paste filled with marmalade and cream “ a la Chantilly.” a la gelee mousseuse are covered with chopped sugar coloured red, and filled with Maraschino jelly whipped to a froth. As Petits puits aux pistaches they are covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar, and filled with whipped cream. Patisserie a la tartine—sandwiches of puff paste and jam. Gauffres d la Frangaise—a batter of flour, sugar, whipped cream, eggs, &c., baked in gauffre irons. d VAllemande, d la Flamande, and tie Carlsbad, are varieties of the French gauffres. aux amandes—a, batter of flour, sugar, almonds, eggs, &c., baked in thin pieces, coiled round and filled with whipped cream. Suedoises d la creme—a batter of flour, sugar, almonds, &c., baked in small balls, and served with whipped cream.144 Menus Made Easy. Petits chOUX are Spanish cakes made of a batter of flour, butter, eggs, sugar, &c., baked in small balls. They are served aux amandes, or d la creme, covered with chopped almonds and sugar, or filled with cream; au caramel they are dipped in boiled sugar and covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. cl VEspagnole are fried in the shape of small balls. A la comtesse they are baked in finger-shaped pieces and filled with cream; en gimblettes, deep rings of the paste are covered with chopped pistachio nuts and sugar. Petits pains de la Mecque, or Mecca loaves, are small oval cakes made of the same paste with the addition of whipped cream ; sprinkled with chopped sugar. Flavoured with lemon they are called Petits 'pains de la Mecque au citron. Soupirs de nonne, or Pets de nonne, are made of a paste of butter, sugar, flour, eggs, orange-flower water, &c., fried in small balls. This paste, in the shape of fingers, glazed with chocolate, is called Eclairs au chocolat. Proflterolles—small oval cakes of milk, butter, sugar, eggs, &c. j served with chocolate sauce.Cakes and Pastry. 145 Gateaux fourres aux confitures are jam turn- overs or puffs. fourres a la creme are turnovers or puffs filled with frangipane. fourres de pommes d la Parisienne are paste turnovers filled with stewed apples and apricot marmalade. d’Artois, or cl la Manon, are small covered puff-paste tarts or tartlets filled with any kind of preserve. Filled with apricot jam they may he called 2)’Artois aux cibricots. Mince pies are called Pates d’emined. Tartlets are filled with any kind of preserve, and take their name from it—as Tartelettes de f'raises, aux cerises, aux prunes, &c.; d la vanille they are filled with pounded almonds, vanilla sugar, whipped whites of eggs, &c. Tartelettes de creme d la Frangipane axe, filled with frangipane. cl la Moscdque are filled with preserve, and covered with a mosaic of paste. d la Pompadour are filled with a ball of brioche paste folded over apricot or other marmalade, and sprinkled with sugar. Dauphines are tartlets filled with preserve, with146 Menus Made Easy. custard over it, and Meringue mixture piled on the top. Fanchonettes are tartlets filled with custard, meringued over, and the tops ornamented with little miniature meringues. In Fanchonettes cl la vanille the custard is flavoured with vanilla. Mirlitons aux fieurs cV or anger are tartlets filled with a batter of eggs, sugar, butter, pounded macaroons, candied orange flowers, &c. They are flavoured in various ways— aux cimandes, with almonds instead of the orange flowers; or ctu chocolat, with chocolate. Aux confitures they are half filled with jam before the hatter is put in. Talmouses are cheese-cakes. au citron—lemon cheese-cakes. aux amctndes are made of pounded almonds with sugar, butter, ground rice and eggs. aux oranges—made of pounded almonds, orange-flower water, sugar, butter and eggs, with orange marmalade. Of the fruit tarts there are Tarte aux abricots— apricots; aux prunes —plums; aux prunes reinc- claude—greengages; de peches— peaches; de pommes—apples ; de pommes aux coings—apple with quince ; de poires—pears ; de framboises et groseilles—raspberries and currants; de groseilles, vertes or d maquereau—green gooseberries; de147 Cakes and Pastry. groseilles—currants; de cassis—black currants ; de raisins verts—green grapes; de cerises—cherries; de rhubarbe—rhubarb. Tourte d la creme d’amandes is an open tart filled with almond cream. d la frangipane is an open tart filled with Frangipane—a custard of flour, eggs, cream, butter or beef marrow, &c. d’cibricots d VAllemande—an open tart filled with apricots, and apricot marmalade oyer them. Flan de poires, de cerises, de fraises, &c., arc open fruit tarts. cVoranges is an open tart filled with stewed oranges. d’amandes a la d’Escars—an open tart filled with a custard of green almonds with candied orange flowers, yolks of eggs, cream, &c. This is also made with filberts. a la creme pralinee is filled with custard, and is sprinkled with sugar and glazed. d’abricots d la Metternich is filled with apricots and cherries, and the pounded kernels with cream on the top. Vommcs en croustade is a baked shape of paste filled with stewed apples, and garnished with dried cherries.Menus Made Easy. 148 Apple dumplings are called Dumplings aux pommes. PUDDINGS. Plum pouding—Plum pudding. Poudillg au riz—Rice pudding. au tapioca—Tapioca pudding. au sagou—Sago pudding. a la semoule—Semolina pudding. au macaroni—Macaroni pudding. —— au vermicelle—Vermicelli pudding. a la creme cle riz—Ground rice pudding. au pain — Bread-and-butter pudding. Another pudding “ au pain ” is made of breadcrumbs, milk, eggs, lemon peel, &c. au pain bis—Brown-bread pudding. aux abricots—breadcrumbs, cream, sugar, yolks of eggs and apricots, baked in a mould lined with paste. aux groseilles—a puree of gooseberries, with breadcrumbs, eggs, &c.; baked in a mould lined with paste. aux marrons—a mould of chestnut flour, butter, milk, eggs, &c. It is served with apricot syrup or jam. aux pommes—a baked pudding of alternate layers of breadcrumbs and apple sauce.Puddings. 149 Pouding aux figues—a boiled mould of pounded figs, suet, milk, eggs, breadcrumbs, &c. a Vananas — Pine-apple pudding. Whip sauce, with the pineapple syrup, is served with it. au gingembre—Ginger pudding. au citron—Lemon pudding. aux oranges is made in the same way as lemon pudding, with oranges instead of lemons. au chocolat—a steamed mould of sponge cake in crumbs, butter, sugar’, eggs, chocolate, &c. • au caramel—custard pudding in a mould with burnt sugar. It is usually served cold, with burnt-sugar sauce, or with burnt brandy and sugar. & la marmelade—a steamed mould of flour, brown sugar, milk, eggs, marmalade, &c.; served with marmalade sauce. souffle—a very light steamed pudding; it is served with wine or marmalade sauce, or with a syrup of fruit. de cabinet, or Cabinet pouding—Cabinet pudding. This is also iced and served as Pouding de cabinet glace. au biscuit de Savoie—a sponge cake with brandy, steamed in a mould with custard and dried cherries.150 Menus Made Easy. Ponding d la Snowdon—a steamed pudding of suet, breadcrumbs, brown sugar and marmalade. d la Cowley—a pudding of masbed potatoes, almonds, sugar, eggs, &c.; it is served covered with whip sauce. d la Mousseline—a steamed pudding of lemon, sugar, butter, eggs, &c.; served with a sweet sauce. d la Victoria—a pudding of flour, bread- crumbs, dried cherries, candied peel, cream, eggs, brandy, &c.; served with whip sauce. d VAllemande—a mould of bread cut in dice, almonds, raisins, sugar, custard, wine, &c.; served with whip sauce. Genoise—Genoese pastry spread with pre- serve and rolled. Nesselrode, or d la Nesselrode—Ice pudding. Croquettes de riz are rice croquettes. de creme de riz—Ground-rice croquettes. de semoule—Semolina croquettes. de vermicelle—Vermicelli croquettes. Croustade de riz is a fancy mould of rice, the centre filled with a cornflour custard. Riz meringue — rice, with milk, cream, sugar, whites of eggs, &c.; sprinkled with sugar and baked. Dumpling ferme—small balls of a paste of flour,I5i Fritters. water and currants ; served with wins, sauce. Quenelles a la creme are small quenelles of a paste of flour, cream, eggs, &c. They are also made a la semoule with semolina. Soupe dore'e, or Pain perdu—small shapes of bread, soaked in milk, &c., dipped in beaten eggs and fried. FRITTERS. Beignets d’abricots d la Chartres are apricot fritters. d’abricots d Veau de vie—sandwiches of bread dipped in brandy, and half apricots; fried in batter. —— de peches d la royale—peach fritters. de peches au vin du Rhin—half peaches soaked in Rhine wine, &c., and fried; served in a syrup of the wine with the kernels. de pommes d la d’ Orleans—apple fritters. de pommes d la Bavctrie—apples soaked in brandy, &c., floured and fried. de poires—pear fritters. de fraises d la JDauphine —- strawberry fritters. de groseilles d la Dauphine — curraut fritters. d’ananas—pine-apple fritters.Menus Made Easy. *5? BeignetS d’oranges—orange fritters. de fieurs de sureau—fritters of sprigs of elder flowers. d la creme are custard fritters. aux confitures—small sandwiches of cake and jam, dipped in hatter with wine, and fried. au riz—round or oval pieces of a paste of ground rice with milk, eggs, &c., bread- crumbed and fried. d la bonne femme—small fried halls of a paste of butter, sugar, eggs, &c. a la Chantilly are made of a hatter of flour, eggs, cream cheese, wine, &c. de Cintra—thin round slices of cake soaked in cream, &c., floured and fried. d VAllemande—small round sandwiches of brioche paste and preserve ; fried. d la Prussienne are the same made of puff paste, with apple marmalade. d VEspagnole—small pieces of crumb of French roll soaked in cream, &c., and fried. d la Portugaise—balls of a paste of rice, milk, sugar, eggs, &c., with marmalade in the centre ; breadcrumbed and fried. en surprise—apples with the stalks left on, soaked in brand)7, &c., filled with apricot jam, dipped in hatter and fried.153 Compotes, &c., of Fruit. EeignetS souffles d la vanille are small fried balls of a batter flavoured with vanilla. aux fleurs d' oranger are flavoured with orange-flower water. aux confitures are served with preserve. —-— au maizena are made with maizena. Crepes are pancakes. aux confitures are spread with preserve and rolled. an riz are made of rice with sugar- cream, eggs, &c. au maizena are made with maizena. cl la Frangaise—a batter of eggs, sugar, cream and flour, fried and folded over preserve. COMPOTES, &c., OF FRUIT. Compote d’abricots—apricots boiled in syrup. It is also made of green apricots. d’abricots d la Brcteuil — half apricots sprinkled with sugar and broiled; served with apricot and raspberry syrup, Abricots au riz are stewed apricots with rice. Served round a shape of rice, with apricot syrup, they are called d let Conde. Pain d’abricots is a mould of apricot cheese ; it is served with cream in the centre.Menus Made Easy. 54 Meringue d’abricots—apricot marmalade with custard over it, and Meringue mixture on the top. Croutes cmx abricots are fried slices of bread spread with preserved apricots, and served with a syrup of apricots. Compote de peches—peaches boiled in syrup. They are also dressed d la Conde, and as Pain de peches in the same way as apricots. Chartreuse de pech.es is a mould ornamentally lined with pieces of peaches, and filled with peacli marmalade. Gateau de Mirabelles is a mould of Mirabelle plum marmalade. Plums are also dressed as Meringue de prunes in the same way as apricots. de prunes a la creme is a mould of stewed prunes, currant jelly, &c.; served with whipped cream in the centre. Prunes au riz are stewed prunes with rice. Pain de prunes de damcis is a mould of damson cheese or marmalade. Compote de prunes reine-claude—greengages boiled in syrup. Cro'dtes aux reine-claude are little patties of fried bread filled with compote of green- gages, and tbe syrup poured round. Pommes au beurre are apples filled with butter and sugar, and baked.Compotes, &c., of Fruit. 155 Pommes aw riz are stewed apples with rice. aw riz en timbale—a shell of paste filled with rice, and stewed apples in the centre ; covered with apricot marmalade. aw riz meringwe are stewed, and served in a border of rice with custard over them, and the whole covered with Meringue mixture. —— meringwees are dressed in the same way without the rice. a la Conde are dressed the same as apricots. cl la Portwgaise are baked, and covered with apricot marmalade. Miroton de pommes—stewed apples with melted currant jelly and wine; garnished with dried cherries. Gateau de pommes is a mould of apple mar- malade ; served with a custard sauce. de pommes awx abricots—a mould of apple marmalade, covered with apricot marmalade. Pain de pommes d la Rwsse is a mould of apple marmalade -with whipped cream in the centre, and melted currant jelly round. Croquettes de pommes are pieces of apple mar- malade, breadcrumbed and fried. Meringue de pommes d la Portwgaise—a round shell of paste filled with apple marmalade, with half apples on the top, and a well of'56 Menus Made Easy. custard in tlie centre ; spread with orange marmalade, and covered with Meringue mixture. Chartreuse de pommes is a mould ornament- aHy lined with slices of apples, coloured pink and yellow, and filled with apple marmalade. Charlotte de pommes is Apple Charlotte. If apricot jam is mixed with the apple mar- malade it is called Charlotte cle pommes aux abricots. Pears are dressed an riz, as Charlotte de poires, and in many of the ways given for apples. Timbale de poires is stewed pears in a shell of paste, covered with apricot marmalade. Compote de poires an riz—a compote of pears stewed in syrup, served cold with a border of rice. de fruits a la Normande is a mould of pears stewed in cider. Slices of fried bread spread with this compote are called CroiUes a la Normande. They are dressed in a circle, with a syrup of the jam with wine in the centre. Croittes aux fraises d la Bellerive — strawberries spread on buttered buns. Pain de framboises et groseilles is a mould of raspberry and currant cheese; it is servedCompotes, Cfc., of Fruit. *57 with cream in the centre. Black currants are dressed in this way as Pain de cassis cl la creme. Compote cVoranges—oranges boiled in syrup. Pain d’ananas is a mould of pine-apple cheese. Oroides aux ananas are little patties of fried bread, filled with compote of pine-apples and served with the syrup. Compote de marrons—boiled chestnuts with syrup. Gateau de mcirrons is a steamed mould of pounded chestnuts with cream, eggs, &c. Balls of this preparation, breadcrumbed and fried, are served as Croquettes de marrons. Marrons Cl la creme are powdered chestnuts covered with whipped cream. Chataignes croquantes are small crystallized pieces of pounded chestnuts with sugar, eggs, &c. Chartreuse de fruits is an ornamental mould of fruit. Macedoine de fruits is composed of mixed fruits in syrup. Au citron it is flavoured with lemon. de fruits en gelee is a mould of alternate layers of the different fruits, and of jelly- Oroides aux fruits are fried slices of bread spreadMenus Made Easy. '5* with preserved fruit, and served with a syrup of the fruit. Petits nougats d la Chantilly are small shapes of nougat filled with Chantilly cream. Croquantes are small pieces of nougat. CUE A MS. Cr6me au chocolat is chocolate cream. These creams served in little cups, are called Petits pots de creme au chocolat, &c. ecu cafe' is coffee cream. de the is tea cream. de the vert is green tea cream. d la vanille is vanilla cream. • au ponche is flavoured with punch. au noyau is flavoured with noyau. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. aux abricots is apricot cream. de f raises is strawberry cream. de framboises is raspberry cream. — - d lfananas is pineapple cream. aux mille fruits is made with preserved strawberries, raspberries, apricots, plums and other fruits. d’oranges is orange cream. d’amandes is almond cream. -- — aux fleurs d’or anger is made of fresh orange flowers boiled in cream.Creams. 159 Creme brulee, or au caramel, is made of yolks of eggs, milk, burnt sugar, &c. cle velours is made of cream, sugar, wine, &c. au gele'e—a mould of whipped jelly and ' cream. vierge—small moulds of cream with pounded almonds, &c. a la Chantilly is made of whites of eggs and cream, with sugar, &c. a la Celestine—a mould lined with straw- berries and filled with any kind of cream. a VItalienne is made with cream, sugar, eggs, curacao, dried cherries, candied peel, &c. a la Flamande is made of cream, eggs, sugar, arrowroot, madeira, &c. d la Hollandaise is made of yolks of eggs and wine, with whipped cream, &c. d la Bccvaroise—a mould of whipped cream, with flavouring, &c. Bavarois ccux pommes is made of stewed apples, with whipped cream and noyau or maraschino. auxpoires is made in the same way with pears. aux fruits is Bavarian cream served with stewed fruit or a syrup of fruit. aux pistaches—pounded pistachio nuts and almonds, &c., with whipped cream, coloured with spinach juice; sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts.i6o Menus Made Easy. Bavarois au maizena is a cream of sugar, milk, maizena and yolks of eggs. glace is iced Bavarian cream. Creme toilettes de fraises, or Mousse aux fraises, is whipped strawberries and cream. aux framboises—whipped raspberries and cream. Blanc-manger au cafd is blanc-mange flavoured with coffee; d la vanille it is flavoured with vanilla. aux amandes is made with pounded almonds, and flavoured with orange-flower water. Creme frite d la patissiere is a custard cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. frite au chocolat—a chocolate cream cut in pieces, breadcrumbed and fried. Meringues a la creme are meringues filled with whipped cream. aux f raises are filled with whipped straw- berries and cream. -—- d la Chantilly are filled with Chantilly cream. Petites meringues aux pistaches are small meringues sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts, and filled with whipped cream. Meringue d la Parisienne—a pile of rings of meringue preparation, piped with currant jelly in stripes, the centre filled with cream and garnished with strawberries.Creams. 161 Charlotte Basse is a mould lined with tinge? biscuits, and tilled with whipped cream. Prussienne is a mould with half an inch of red jelly at the bottom, lined with finger biscuits, and the centre filled with Bavarian cream. aux fraises—a mould lined with strawberries, and filled with maraschino cream. Biscuits & la creme—a rich frothy cream, baked in small paper cases. Parfait au chocolat or ctu cafe is a tall conical mould of chocolate or coffee cream ice. Glaces au four are small pieces of ice, folded in paste and baked. Glace meringuee au four is a mould of any kind of cream ice, covered with a meringue pre- paration, and browned. G&teau glace a VEloise—a mould lined with whipped cream, and filled with custard and stewed cherries; iced, and served with custard over it. Cartouches de M. de Cupidon—Love’s car- tridges—vanilla cream ice in the shape of cartridges, filled with chocolate. Glace de Plombieres is an ice of pounded almonds, sugar, cream, eggs, &c. This ice is not put in a mould, and is served with apricot jam. Bombe glace'e—a cream of yolks of eggs with syrup, &c., iced in a round “ bombe ” mould. uMenus Made Easy. 162 Granito JRomaine is a liquid icc of coffee and syrup, served in little cups. JELLIES. Gelee de pommes—Apple jelly. de prunes—Plum jell)7. d'oranges—Orange jelly. de citron—Lemon jelly. de cassis—Black currant jelly. de cerises—Cherry jelly. de framboises—Raspberry jelly. de f'raises is jelly coloured red, with whole strawberries in it. If the jelly is flavoured with vanilla, it is called Gelee de fraises d la vanille. de mitres sauvages d la creme—a mould of blackberry jelly writh whipped cream in the centre. -—— d Vananas is pine-apple jelly, with pieces of pineapple in it. -—— aujus de grenades—Pomegranate jelly. d la macedoine de fruits—whole fruits in a jelly flavoured with maraschino. ait madere—Wine jelly. au rhum is flavoured with rum. au noyau is flavoured with noyau. au marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. a la Chartreuse is flavoured with Chartreuse.163 Jellies. Gelee cm cuvagclo is flavoured with curacao. cm ponche is flavoured with punch. —— cm Kirscli is flavoured with Kirschenwasser. cle Dantzic aux f'raises is flavoured with cherry brandy, and has whole strawberries in it. —— cle marccsquin aux abricots is flavoured with maraschino, and has pieces of apricots in it. cle noyau aux fruits is flavoured with noyau, and has pieces of apricots and strawberries, or other f?'uits, in it. aux violettes print anieres is made of an infusion of fresh violets in syrup. Jellies of fresh flowers are also made of roses, pinks, jonquils, &c. cl la Bacchante is made with the juice of green grapes and spinach, champagne, &c. a la Panachee—a mould of alternate layers of white and pink jelly. a la Russe—a mould of jelly whisked to a froth. mousseuse d Vcau cle vie — a mould of jelly whipped with brandy. mousseuse aux oranges—a mould of orange jelly whisked to a froth. fouettee aux fruits — whipped maraschino jelly, with pieces of apricots, cherries, strawberries, &c. Kiselle is a jelly made of flour with fruit syrup. m 2164 Menus Made Easy. SOUFFLES. These may be served in a souffle dish, or in small paper cases as Petits souffles. Souffle au cafe is flavoured with coffee. • au chocolat is flavoured with chocolate. au cafe vierge is flavoured with green coflee. -—— au citron is flavoured with lemon. — a la vanille is flavoured with vanilla. cm marasquin is flavoured with maraschino. ciux amand.es is flavoured with pounded almonds. — aux macarons is flavoured with macaroons. auxfleurs cVorange y is flavoured with candied orange flowers, or orange-flower water. — au gingembre is flavoured with preserved ginger. aux abricots is made with the addition of stewed apricots. Souffles are also made with other fruit. a la creme is made with whipped cream instead of some of the whites of eggs. Baked in small paper cases it is called Biscuits souffles a la creme. . au riz is a rice souffle flavoured with lemon or vanilla. (! la creme cle riz is made with ground rice. au tapioca is made with tapioca. d lafe'cule de pommes de terre is made with potato flour.165 SoujfUs. Souffle a la Paysanne—a puree of apples, with a puree of chestnuts with cream over it, and meringue mixture on the top. — glace au marasquin is an iced souffle flavoured with maraschino. Coffee or other flavouring may he substituted for maras- chino, and the souffle named accordingly. Iced in small paper cases it is called Biscuits glaces au marasquin, &c. glace aux fraises is an iced strawberry souffle. glace vanille et chocolat—an iced vanilla souffle, with chocolate on the top. glace au curagao—an iced souffle flavoured with curacao and covered with a meringue preparation. Iced in small paper cases this is called Biscuit mousseux glace en caisse.CHAPTER IX. SAVOURY ENTREMETS OF CIIEESE, ETC. Souffle au Parmesan is a cheese souffle. As Petits souffles it is served in small paper cases. Fondue au Parmesan is a cheese fondu, baked in a souffle dish or paper case, or steamed. • a la Na'politaine has the addition of short pieces of macaroni. au pate d’Italic has the addition of Italian paste. These may all be served in small paper cases as P elites fondues. Petites fondues en caisse au Stilton are made with the addition of small dice of Stilton cheese. Ramequins are made of milk, flour, eggs, grated Parmesan, &c., baked in small paper cases. d la Raymond are made with Gruyere cheese, and are baked in small lumps. d la Sefton, or au feuilletage, are small shapes of puff paste with grated Gruyere and Par- mesan cheese.167 Savoury Entremets. Ramequins a la Genevoise—grated cheese with cream, baked on slices of bread. Nudeln au Parmesan are poached quenelles of butter, flour, milk, eggs, grated Parmesan, &c. Kinskis au fromage a la creme are little poached rolls of a paste of cream cheese, butter, eggs, breadcrumbs, &c.; served with black- butter sauce. Canapes au fromage—dissolved Parmesan on round slices of fried bread. Crontes au fromage—grated cheese with 1/ iter, breadcrumbs, yolks of eggs, &c., spread on pieces of toast and browned. Brioches an fromage are small cakes of brioche paste with grated Parmesan and small dice of Gruyere. Grngere au fromage—butter, grated cheese, flour and eggs, baked with slices of cheese on the top, and glazed. Creme de fromage—a baked cream of grated cheese, eggs and milk. Petits pains de fromage are little cakes of flour, butter and grated cheese. Fromage cuit is toasted cheese. Tartelettes d la Sefton arc tartlets of a paste of grated Parmesan, flour, butter, &c., filled with a cheese custard. Pailles au Parmesan are cheese straws.Menus Made Easy. 68 Pailles a la Sefton are cheese straws of puff paste with grated Parmesan. Diablotins au Gruyere are little fried balls, the size of chocolate drops, of a paste of milk, butter, flour, eggs, grated cheese, &c. Biscuits au fromage are cheese biscuits. cl la Diable au fromage are biscuits spread with cheese, mustard, cayenne, &c., and grilled. a la Russe—biscuits spread with chopped parsley, hard-boiled egg and anchovies, and ornamented with the separate ingredients. Talmouses cl la Saint-Denys are biscuits of flour, cream curds, cheese, butter and eggs. Timbale cl la Diable is a mould of layers of rice with grated Parmesan, &c., with alternately slices of ham and of Gruyere cheese, between the layers of rice, baked and served with gravy. Croutes aujambon are ham toasts. d Vlndienne—butter, eggs, chopped capers, anchovy, &c., on small pieces of buttered toast. aux anchois are small pieces of fried bread spread with anchovy butter or paste. They are sometimes garnished with fillets ot anchovy. Canapes aux anchois are round slices of fried169 Savoury Entremets. bread with chopped anchovies, capers, yolk and white of egg arranged on thexa separately in quarters. Allumettes d’anchois are strips of anchovies wrapped in paste and fried. Ancllois farris—anchovies boned, stuffed, dipped in batter and fried. Ruties d la minime are fillets of anchovies or sardines on oblong pieces of fried bread ; served with a sauce of oil, vinegar, &c. Sardines au Parmesan are sardines on buttered strips of toast spread with grated Parmesan. en papillotes are boned, stuffed, and served in papers. Tartines de caviare—Russian caviare spread on small slices of buttered toast. Canapes cl la Prince de Galles — very small rolls filled with chopped ham, anchovies, gherkins and truffles, with oil, vinegar, &c. The top covered with aspic or Mayonnaise sauce. Macaroni au gratin—macaroni with grated cheese and white sauce. Sprinkled with breadcrumbs, Parmesan and melted butter, and baked. a la creme is macaroni in a sauce of grated cheese, butter and cream. Garnished with croutons.170 Menus Made Easy. Macaroni cl VItalienne—macaroni with grated Parmesan, gravy and melted butter. a la Napolitaine—with grated Parmesan, cream, &c. / aux tomates—with a puree of tomatoes; garnished with croutons. a la sauce tomates is dressed with cream, grated cheese, &c., and covered with tomato sauce. en timbale—dressed with butter and grated cheese in a shell of paste, with a paste cover. Timbale de macaroni a la Florentine is the same with the addition of cream, sugar and vanilla. Croquettes de macaroni au fromaeje are cro- quettes of macaroni with grated Parmesan, Bechamel sauce, &c.; breadcrumbed and fried. Riz d VIndienne is curried rice. • d la Turque is rice with melted butter. — cl la Milanaise—a mould of rice boiled in broth, with grated Parmesan, &c. ——- d VEs'pagnole is served with tomato sauce, grated cheese, &c. ; garnished with slices of ham. d la Florentine—with chopped onion, curry paste, grated Parmesan, and shrimps or prawns.171 Savoury Entremets. Riz d la Piemontaise— dry rice with potato pulp, grated Parmesan, &c. Garnished with fillets of anchovies. a la Polonaise—served with slices of fried onion, grated ham and cheese. d la Mustapha—with melted hutter and chopped truffles.CHAPTER X. ICES OR GLACES. At large dinners it is usually the custom to give the names of the ices—cream and water—on the menu; but they are often omitted from it, as they are served after the dessert has been put on the table, and therefore cannot he said to form part of the dinner. Creme de the—Tea cream ice. de the vert—Green tea cream ice. ■ de vanille—Yanilla cream ice. de ratafias—Ratafia cream ice. —— aux fleurs d’oranger—Cream ice with in- fusion of orange flowers. Bavaroise—Bavarian cream ice. The following can be cream or water ices : Crdrne, or eatl, de cafe'—Coffee cream or water ice. de chocolat—Chocolate cream or water ice. de noyau—Noyau erf am or water ice. d’abricots—Apricot cream or water ice.173 Ices. Creme or eau de pechcs—Peach cream or water ice. dc fraises — Strawberry cream or water ice. de framboises—Raspberry cream or water ice. de framboises et groseilles— Rasp- berry and currant cream or water ice. de groseilles—Currant cream or water ice. de cassis — Black currant cream or water ice. ■ de cerises—Cherry cream or water ice. —— de groseilles vertes—Green gooseberry cream or water ice. je raisins — Grape cream or water ice. tVananas—Pine- apple cream or water ice. de rhubarbe — Rhubarb cream or water ice. de canneberges—Cranberry cream or water ice. c[e citron—Lemon cream or water ice. (I oranges — Orange cream or water ice. d amancles —— Almond cream or water ice. de pistaches—Pistachio nut cream or water ice.Menus Made Easy. *74 Creme cr eau cle mcirrons—Chestnut cream or water ice. de gingembre — Ginger cream or water ice. In addition to these there are: Eau de ponche—Punch water icc. de melon—Melon water ice. —— de grenade—Pomegranate water ice. d’e'pine-vinette—Berberry water ice. ——- de mille fruits—Mixed fruit water ice. —— de canelle—Cinnamon water ice. If orange ice is made of Chinese oranges it is called de Chinois. For water ices fresh fruit is necessary, as preserved fruit can only be usod for cream ices.CHAPTER XI. SAUCES AND GARNISHES. SAUCES. The following are the principal sauces and gar- nishes which are used in cookery. Many of them have been mentioned in the course of these pages, and as the names frequently convey no idea of their ingredients, a slight description of them is given. The two chief sauces are Veloute—white, and Espagnole—brown Many other sauces are made from these. Allemande is a thicker form of veloute sauce. Anchois (Anchovy)—melted-buttcr sauce with anchovy. &c. AuT Dre—Allemande and tomato sauce, with Chili vinegar, &c. Bearnaise—yolks of eggs, butter, French vinegar, chopped parsley, &e. Bechamel—Veloute sauce with cream. This is also made without stock if a maigre sauce is required. Beurre—melted-butter sauce.76 • Menus Made Easy Beurre lioir—black-buttcr sauce of browned butter and vinegar. This sauce is usually- served with skate or grilled mackerel. Bigarade is made of oranges with brown sauce. Blonde—melted-butter sauce made with stock instead of water. Bordelaise—brown sauce with wine, chopped parsley, &c. Bourgeoi.se—stock with French mustard, tarra- gon, &c. Bonrguignotte — brown sauce with wine, onions, mushrooms and truffles. Bretonne—brown sauce with onions, &c. Capres (Caper)—brown or white sauce, with capers. Caramel—burnt sugar. It is sometimes made of burnt brandy and sugar. Cardinal—white sauce coloured with lobster or crayfish butter. Cazanova—Mayonnaise sauce with yolks of hard- boiled eggs, shred whites of eggs and truffles. Champignons (Mushroom)—brown or white sauce with puree of mushrooms. Chateaubriand—brown sauce with Maitre d’hotel sauce. Chevreuil—Pomade sauce with wine, Harvey, red currant jelly, &c. Court "bouillon—wine, or vinegar and water,177 Sauces. butter, vegetables, &c. This sauce is only used in cooking. Cr&me—melted-butter sauce with yolks of eggs and cream. Crevettes (Shrimp) — Cardinal sauce with anchovy, pickled shrimps, &c. Czarina—brown sauce with sultana raisins, gherkins, &c. Diable (Devil sauce)—brown gravy with Oude and Harvey sauce, vinegar, &c. Diplomate—Bechamel sauce flavoured with crayfish. D’Uxelles—white sauce with chopped ham, mushrooms, parsley, &c. Estragon (Tarragon)—white stock with Tarragon vinegar, tarragon, &c. Fenouil (Fennel)—melted-butter sauce with chopped fennel. Financiere—brown sauce with wine, mushroom catsup, &c. Fines-herbes—brown sauce with chopped mush- rooms, shallots and parsley. Fouettee—sweet whip sauce of yolks of eggs, sugar and wine. Fnmet de gibier—a brown game sauce with onions, wine, &c. Genevoise—hrowm sauce vdth wine, anchovy, chopped parsley, &c. This sauce is gener- ally used for freshwater fish. 3J1 Memcs Made Easy. GTOSeilles vertes—green gooseberries with butter, breadcrumbs, &c. For mackerel. Hollandaise—yolks of eggs and butter with vinegar, &c. Homard (Lobster)—melted-butter sauce, with lobster spawn and the flesh in small pieces. Huitres (Oyster) — oysters in white or brown sauce. Indienne—tomato sauce with curry paste, an- chovy, &c. Italienne—brown or white sauce with wine, chopped shallots, mushrooms, &c. Jambon (Ham)—brown sauce with shred ham, butter, chopped shallots, &c. Jolie fille (Fair maid’s)—white chicken sauce with hard-boiled yolks of eggs, bread- crumbs, &c. Kari—Curry sauce. Lyonnaise—Portugal onions with tomato sauce, &c. Maitre d’liotel—Bechamel sauce with chopped parsley, &c. It is also made without stock. Marinade—vinegar and water with onions carrots, &c. Marrons (Chestnut)—chestnut flour with brown stock. White chestnut sauce is made oi the flour with broth and milk. Matelote—brown stock with wine, young onions, mushrooms, &c. White matelote sauce isSauces. 179 made of broth and wine, with tarragon. &c. Mayonnaise —a cold sauce of yolks of eggs, oil and vinegar. Milanaise—grated Parmesan with cream sauce, or with brown sauce and mustard. Mirepoix—broth and wine with bacon, chopped vegetables, &c. Moules (Mussel)—a white sauce with anchovy and mussels. Mousquetaire—oil and Tarragon vinegar, with mustard, shallot, &c. Moutarde (Mustard) — melted-butter sauce with mustard, Chili vinegar, &c. For herrings. Napolitaine — brown sauce with Port wine, Harvey sauce, ham, horseradish, currant jelly, &c. CEufs (Egg)—melted-butter sauce with hard- boiled eggs cut in pieces. Served with haddock and salt cod. Pauvre homme — vinegar and water with shallots, &c. Percil (Parsley) — melted-butter sauce with chopped parsley. Perigueux—brown stock with wine and truffles. Piquante —brown sauce with vinegar, shallots, &c. Poivrade—brown sauce with vinegar, anchovy,Menus Made Easy. i So ham, onions, &c. White Poivrade sauce is made of white sauce with -vinegar, onions, Ac. Portugaise—butter, yolks of eggs and lemon- juice. Poulette — Allemande sauce with chopped parsley. This is also called Blanquette. Provengale—white wine with tomatoes, chopped capers and mushrooms, garlic, &c. Raifort (Horseradish)—cream, vinegar and horse- radish. Ravigote—Maitre d’hotel sauce with Chili vine- gar, Harvey and anchovy. Ravigote verte — white sauce with pounded tarragon, chervil, &c. Reforme—Poivrade sauce, Port wine, Harvey, p currant jelly, &c. RemOlllade—broth with mushrooms, chopped parsley, mustard, vinegar and garlic. Cold Remoulade sauce is made of oil with chopped parsley, capers, garlic, &c. Richelieu is a white game sauce with onions and wine. Robert—brown stock with chopped Portugal onions, mustard and vinegar. RUSSO—a white sauce with horseradish, vinegar, yolks of eggs and cream. Sainte-Meneliould — milk, butter and flour, with chopped parsley, mushrooms, &c. Salmis—a brown game sauce with wine, oil, &c.Garnishes, 18 T Sauge (Sage)—stock, vinegar, chopped sage, &c. Soubise—a puree of onions with cream. Supreme—a white chicken sauce with wine and cream. Tartare—Mayonnaise sauce, or oil and vinegar, with mustard, &c. Tomates (Tomato)—a puree of tomatoes with stock, &c. Truffles (Truffle)— brown sauce with wine and truffles. Verte—wine and stock with pounded herbs, yolks of eggs, &c. Villeroi—white sauce flavoured with mushrooms, &c. Vill de Madere—brown sauce with Madeira or other wine. It is also a sweet sauce of yolks of eggs, wine, &c. Vin d’Oporto —Port wine with shallots, Harvey, &c. This sauce is used for wild ducks. GARNISHES. Ckipolata—small round sausages, pieces of bacon, mushrooms, chestnuts, &c., with brown sauce. Financiere — cock’s combs, livers, quenelles, pieces of sweetbread, &c., with brown sauce and wine. Flaman.de—carrots, turnips, cabbages and other vegetables, with sausages.82 Mentis Made Easy. Godard — sweetbreads, quenelles and truffles, with brown sauce. Jardiniere—vegetables cut in shapes, in a light glaze. Macedoine — vegetables cut in shapes, with brown or white sauce. Milanaise—strips of macaroni, ham, chicken, truffles, &c., in white sauce with grated Parmesan. Reforme — shred ham, carrots, truffles and whites of eggs. Toulouse—Financierc garnish made with white instead of brown sauce. This is sometimes called a white Financierc garnish. THE END. BRADBURY, AG”DW, & CO. LD., rniNTEr.3, wiiitefriags.FREDERICK WARNE AND CO.’S PUBLICATIONS. Price 7s. 6d. THE STANDARD COOKERY BOOK. Inf cap. Mo, half-hound, marhled edges, 750 pages. WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY. Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management, and Receipts for Breakfast Dishes. Bread, Biscuits, &c. Fish and Soups. Sauces and Gravies. Beef, Mutton. Lamb, Venison. Veal, Pork. Poultry and Game. Made Dishes, and Entries. Meat and Fish Pies, &c. Vegetables. Potting and Collaring. Pastry and Puddings. Creams and Jellies. Custards, Ices, and Cakes, Preserves and Pickles. Souffles and Omelets. Wines, Drinks, and Ale. Desserts. Butter and Cheese. Relishes. Cookery for the Sick. Bills of Fare. Duties of Servants, &c. &c. Compiled and Edited by Mary Jewry. With 3,000 Receipts, numerous Woodcuts, and 24 pages of Original Illustrations, printed in Colours by Kronheim, embodying nearly Two Hundred distinct Subjects. “ No household should be without a copy of this book; it will be found invalu- able to the mistress and the kitchen. Care has been taken in every case to make the instructions thoroughly intelligible, and the great popularity of the former editions of this work will be ably maintained in this new and revised one,” Price 5s. THE POPULAR COOKERY BOOK.—60th Edition. In large crown 8vo, half-hound, 750 pages. WARNE'S MODEL COOKERY. Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management, and Receipts foi' Breakfast Dishes--Bread, Biscuits, &c.—Fish and Soups—Sauces and Gravies — Beef — Mutton—Lamb—Venison—Veal—Pork—Poultry and Game—Made Dishes and Entrees—Meat and Fish Pies, &c.—Vegetables— Potting and Collaring—Pastry and Puddings—Creams and Jellies—Cus-. tards, Ices and Cakes—Preserves and Pickles—Souffles and Omelets — Wines, Drinks and Ale—Desserts—Butter and Cheese—Relishes—Cookery for the Sick—Bills of Fare—Duties of Servants, &c. &c. Compiled and Edited by Mary Jewry. With 3,000 Receipts, numerous Woodcuts, and 12 pages of Original Illustrations, printed in Colours by Kronheim, embodying nearly Two Hundred distinct Subjects, 1 b JCookery Books, etc. Price 5s. NEW FAMILY COOKERY BOOK. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD COOKERY. By E. Duret, ex-Manager of St. James's Hall Restaurant. Containing over 800 Original Recipes. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. “This most valuable culinary work will occupy a place entirely distinct and superior to the ordinarily bulky collection of recipes usually placed in the hands of the public. The writer is a caterer of vast experience ; and the advantages and special features of the new work will be at once manifest to all who use it and try to approach perfection in this necessary art.”—Lady's Pictorial. Price 3s. 6d. In crown 8vo, half-bound, gilt, with additional Coloured Illustrations. Price 2s. 6d. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt extra. WARNE’S EVERYDAY COOKERY. With full details of all Requirements. Compiled and Edited by Mary Jewry. Containing nearly 2,000 Receipts and Coloured Illustrations by Kronheim. The Receipts in this volume are chiefly intended for persons of moderate income though amongst them will be found some few which are expensive and elaborate. The Cheapest Cookery Book Published. Price Is. (id. Price Is. Half-bound, cloth. In large crown 8w, cloth. WARNE’S MODEL COOKERY AND HOUSEKEEPING BOOK. Containing Complete Instructions in Household Management. 800 Receipts, and Coloured Illustrations of Fifty Dishes. “ This book is one of the best and handiest of all the cheap cookery books we have come across. The receipts given are all of the most useful description, and the full index at the end makes the work easy for reference.”—Caterer. Price 2d. Price Id. Cloth. Sewed. V/ARNE’S COOKERY BOOK FOR THE MILLION. With upwards of 200 Useful and Practical Receipts. In square 16mo, 61 Pages. DOMESTIC MANUALS. Price 2s. 6d. each. In crown 8vo, cloth gilt. THE HOUSEHOLD HANDY BOOK. A Gathering of Useful Information in Household Matters, Taste, Duties, Study, &c. With Practical Illustrations. Compiled and Edited by Mrs. Valentine. “ Useful advice or every possible subject is here given from the most homely needs of daily life to the mental culture so many desire and cannot easily obtain.” BEST OF EVERYTHING. By the Author of “Enquire Within.” 1,800 Useful Articles on how to obtain “ The Best of Everything,” with a - Special Calendar for the Cook and Gardener for each month. “ In the collection of the varied and useful matter contained in this work, the editor has been assisted by several writers, professional and amateur; and the receipts for medical remedies have been entirely written by a regularly qualified practitioner. The whole forms a volume.of the greatest value and utility.f I