30106 004065289 A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY. INCLUDING ITS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL RELATIONS. BY HARRISON ALLEN, M. D., ' — c/ PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OP PENNSYLVANIA, ETC., ETC. ILLUSTRATED WITH THREE HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIGURES ON ONE HUNDRED AND NINE PLATES, MANY OF WHICH ARE BEAUTIFULLY COLORED. THE DRAWINGS BY HERMANN FABER, FROM DISSECTIONS BY THE AUTHOR. ALSO, UPWARDS OF TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY WOODCUTS IN THE TEXT. Section n'.-^RTHRIES, VEINS and LYMPHATICS. PHILADELPHIA: H-ENRY C. LEAS SON & CO. 1883. Ij o j^^p O IsT HENRY KIMPTON, 82, HIGH HOLBORN, W.C. AND 13, LAMBETH PALACE ROAD, S.E.PROSPECTUS A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY, INCLUDING ITS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL RELATIONS. —BY— HARRISON ALLEN, M. D., PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSY'I.VAXIA, ETC., ETC. WITH A CHAPTER ON HISTOLOGY, —B Y— E. O. SHAKESPEARE, M. D., OPHTHALMOLOGIST TO THE PHILADELPHIA HOSPITAL. To be completed in Six Sections^ containing about pages of letter-press, illustrated with j8o figures on log plates, many of which are beautifully colored. The drawings by Hermann Faber, from dissections by the Author. Also, 2f,o woodcuts in the text. PRICE PER SECTION, $3.50. Section I. HISTOLOGY, - -- -- -- -- - with 12 plates containing 55 figures. " II. BONES AND JOINTS, - - - - - -. - with 30 plates containing 122 figures. " III. MUSCLES AND FASCI.^, -------- with 15 plates containing 43 figures. " IV. ARTERIES, VEINS AND LYMPHATICS, ----- with 21 plates containing 54 figures. " V. NERVOUS SYSTEM, --------- with 14 plates containing 35 figures. " VI. ORGANS OF SENSE, OF DIGESTION AND GENITO-URINARY ORGANS, with 17 plates containing 71 figures. The plan and scope of the work may be gathered from the following brief-extract from the introduction. "It is the design of this book to present the facts of human anatomy in the manner best suited to the requirements of the student and practitioner of medicine. The author believes that such a book is needed, inasmuch as no treatise, as far as he knows, contains, in addition to the text descriptive of the subject, a systematic presentation of such anatomical facts as can be applied to practice. A book which will be at once accurate in statement and concise in terms; which will be an acceptable expression of the present state of the science of anatomy; which will exclude nothing that can be made applicable to the medical art, and which will thus embrace all of surgical importance, while omitting nothing of value to clinical medicine,—would appear to have an excuse for existence in a country where most surgeons are general practitioners, and wliere there are few general practitioners who have no interest in surgery." As a brief introduction to the essential features of the volume, attention is invited to the kinds of knowledge of the human body which the physician demands. First. An exact acquaintance with the form and construction of the organs of the body. But, inasmuch as an anatomical fact is of little use unless the range of application of the fact is known, the due connection between the normal condition of the organs and their variations within the limits of health will receive proper attention, accordingly the typical description of each organ will be followed by a brief statement of such variations. Second. The physician demands a knowledge of the relations of the parts. This information it is necessary to po.ssess in performing operations and in explaining signs and symptoms. Third. The physician needs some account of the uses of the organs. This subject overlaps physiological anatomy. That much only will be succinctly given as may be said properly to illustrate the subject from an anatomical point of view, and at the same time be free from controversy. Fourth. The physician must have a true conception of the nature and general behavior of morbid processes, and of the manner in which such processes are modified by locality. His comprehension of the changes due to diseased action in a given place must be fairly proportional to his knowledge of the normal anatomy of that place. This subject, which will receive the name of localization^ oj diseased action, will be illustrated for the most part by concise statements of recorded cases, in which the essential feature of each case will be emphasized, and the bearing it has on the subject treated of clearly shown. In presenting anatomical features in explanation of given lesions, or of signs or symptoms, care has been taken to give the sources of the statements made. "Among other matters, the book will be found to contain an elaborate description of the tissues; an account of the normal development of the body; a section on the nature and varieties of monstrosities; a section on the method of conducting post-mortem examinations; and a section on the study of the superficies of the body taken as a guide to the position of the deeper structures. These will appear in their appropriate places, duly subordinated to the design of presenting a text essentially: anatomical." In the preparation of this elaborate work no pains have been spared. The illustrations of normal anatomy, with a few exceptions, are from original dissections, engraved on the stone, with the name of every part clearly drawn upon the figure after the manner of "Holden" and "Gray," and in every typographical detail it has been the effort of the publishers to render the volume worthy of the distinguished position anticipated for it. Each section will be enclosed in an individual portfolio, thus preserving all in a perfect condition in case it is subsequently desired to bind them as a volume. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA.ALLEN'S HUMAN ANATOMY. -ooofgooo- ARTERIES, VEINS AND LYMPHATICS.Entered according to the Act of Gongress, in the year 1883, by HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress. All rights reserved. U2 ■CONTENTS. THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. PAGE General Considerations ..... 335 Capillaries . . . . . . .335 Arteries ........ 336 Veins ........ 338 The Heart 338 Tlie Pericardium ...... 340 The Endocardium ...... 341 The External Form of the Heart . . . 341 Topographical Rules for the Position of the Heart 342 A Detailed Account of the Heart . . . 343 The Structure of the Heart .... 345 The Development of the Heart and the Great Vessels 346 Malformations of the Heart and Irregularities of the Great Vessels 347 Malformations of the Heart .... 347 Irregularities in the Aorta, Pulmonary Artery, and Subclavian Arteries .... 349 Pdlmonaky Artery and Veins .... 350 Tiie Pulmonary Artery ..... 350 The Pulmonary Veins . . . . . 351 The Systemic Arteries ..... 351 The Aorta 351 The Coronary Arteries ..... 355 The Innominate Artery ..... 355 The Common Carotid Arteries .... 356 The External Carotid Artery .... 357 Tiie Superior Tliyroid Arteiy . . . 358 The Lingual Artery 359 The Facial Artery 360 The Occipital Artery . . . .361 The Posterior Auricular Artery . . 362 \ The Temporal Artery . . . .362 PAGB The Internal Maxijlary Artery . . . 363 The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery . . 365 The Internal Carotid ..... 365 The Circle of Willis 371 The Subclavian Arteries . .... .371 The Vertebral Artery .... 374 The Basilar Artery ..... ,376 Tlie Thyroid Axis ...... 378 The Inferior Thyroid ..... 378 The Suprascapular ...... 379 Tlie Transversalis Colli ..... 379 The Internal Mammary Artery . . . 379 The Superior Interco.'^lal and Deep Cervical Arteries . . . . . . .380 Tlie Axillary Artery ..... 381 The Brachial Artery 383 Tlie Radial Artery 385 The Ulnar Artery ...... 388 The Descending Thoracic Aorta . . . 390 The Abdominal Aorta ..... 391 The Common Iliac Artery .... 396 The Internal Iliac Artery .... 397 The External Iliac Artery .... 400 The Femoral Artery 401 The Popliteal Artery ..... 405 The Posterior Tibial Artery .... 407 The Plantar Arteries 409 The Anterior Tibial Artery .... 409 The Dorsal Pedis 410 THE VEINS. The Systemic Veins . . . . . .411 Terms Used in Describing the Veins . .411 The Development of the Greater Veins . . 412 The Superior Vena Cava ..... 415 The Innominate Veins . . . . . 416 ( iii )] V CONTENTS. ^00§§<X><= Tlie Veins of the Head anil tlie Neck I. The Veins of tiie Head I. The External Veins II. Tiie Encranial Veins I. The Veins of the Pia Matei II. The Veins or Sinuses of the Dura Mater III. The Diploic and the Meningeal Veins IV. Veins Tributary to the Encranial Veins from Organs or Surfaces Outside tlie Brain-Case The Oplithalmic Veins II. The Veins of the Neck . Tlie Veins of the Upper Extremity The Axillary Vein The Subclavian Vein The Azygos Veins The Spinal Veins The Veins of the Inferior Extremity The Poj^liteal Vein . The Femoral Vein The External Iliac Vein The Common Iliac Vein The Internal Iliac Vein The Inferior Vena Cava Tlie Portal System of Veins The Cardiac Veins . PAGE 417 417 417 419 420 420 422 423 423 425 428 429 429 430 431 431 432 432 433 434 434 435 439 441 A Description of the Foetal Circulation as Observed at about tlie Seventh Month of Develo[)ment THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. General Considerations ..... A Clinical Table of the Lymph-Streams . A Classification of the Lymphatic Vessels I. The Lymphatics of the Head and Neck II. The Lympliatics of the Upfier Extremi- ties and the Tiioracic Wall III. The Lymphatics of the Inferior Extremi- ties and of the Pelvis .... IV. The Lymphatics of the Abdomen . V. The Lymphatics of the Thoracic Cavity THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. A Classification of the Ductles The Thyroid Body . The Intercarotic Body The Thymus Body . The Spleen The Suprarenal Capsule The Coccygeal Body Glands 442 444 445 441; 446 447 448 449 452 453 454 454 454 455 457 458( 335 ) THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. GENEEAL CONSIDERATIONS. The heart and bloodvessels compose the blood- vessel system. This system embraces all the organs, tubes, or channels through which the blood flows, as well as the various appendages to the bloodvesseLs. The heart is a hollow muscular organ pertaining to both the arterial and venous systems. It is a duplex pump, each half of which is a modified bloodvessel. The bloodvessels proper are divided into the arteries, veins, and capillaries; each of these groups forming in turn a separate system. The bloodvessels are otherwise divided into two systems: the pulmonic, or the system of vessels by which blood is carried to and from the lungs for the purposes of respiration; and the systemic, that by which blood is carried to and fro through the body. The term "circulation" is more frequently employed in this sense than "system." Thus we speak of the "pulmonic circulation," the "systemic circulation," and the " foetal circulation." Cajyillaries.—Capillaries are networks of minute vessels, in the meshes of which are arranged the ele- ments of the tissues. The capillary vessels in their simplest form are composed only of the lining mem- brane of the larger vessels. They are thin and cellu- lar, and here and there openings appear between the cells, which constitute the so-called stomata. A ten- dency exists for the white blood-corpuscles to escape through these openings into the extra-vascular tissue- interspaces. This act is called diapetlesis, and plays an important part in the nutritive processes. The transition from a capillary vessel to either a vein or an artery is gradual, the simple cellular tube taking on the several coats of the more complex structures. The capillaries of the face, the vault of the cranium. the tongue, the skin, the joints, the plantar and the palmar regions exhibit some structural peculiarities, and have been designated by M. Pean the arterio- venous system.' The arteries and veins do not always communicate by a capillary network. In some portions of the body, as in the fingers and toes, the elbow, the knee, and, in a less degree, in the skin of the face, at the lips, nose, eyelids, and ears, as well as in the mucous membrane of the nasal septum, the two sets of vessels join directly one with the other. Capillary vessels form loops or meshes of various shapes and sizes. They are rhomboidal in nerve-tissue and looped in cartilage as it joins the end of the long bones, etc. Bete MiraliJe.—The plan of a capillary network may be repeated on a large scale, so as to form a coarse network, or the separate arterial and venous stems may form a network of vessels. Such local expressions constitute the different forms of rete mirahile. Examples are seen in the pia mater, and the choroid plexuses of the brain. Erectile tissue is characterized by the possession of rete mirahile in which the blood-canals are varicose, and appended in great part to the venous system. In typical expressions of erectile tissue, as in the penis, the arteries are small, are supported by septae, and do not contribute to a capillary network. Under certain conditions of the nerves and muscles of the part, the venous spaces, ordinarily containing but little blood, hold relatively enormous quantities, and thus cause the organ to enlarge, or, to use the more common word in use, to become erected. Other ex- amples of erectile tissue are seen in the nipple and the mucous membrane covering the turbinated bones. 1 Sacquet, Bull, de I'Acad. Med. 1856, 144-THE HEAET AND T 336 HE BLOODVESSELS. Many if not all forms of nsevus and arterio-venous aneurism are defects in the disposition of the capil- lary system. They may occur in any part of the body, and may even be developed in the stump of an amputated limb. Mr. Adams^ has recorded an ex- ample of extraordinary enlargement of all the blood- vessels of the lower extremity. Death occurred from hemorrhage. Arteries.—Some degree of propulsion as well as the conduction of the blood is included in the functions of the arteries. Owing to the elastic character of the walls these vessels can be stretched without injury far beyond the position they assume when at rest. They also aid in protecting the lai'ger viscera, as well as in sustaining important organs in position. The heart is held in place by the aorta; the kidney, in part by the renal arteries and the aorta; and the jejunum and ileum, by the mesenteric vessels. Arteries frequently lie in large spaces between sets of muscles; i. e., between the flexors and the exten- sors, the extensors and the adductors, etc. They also often lie between the superficial and the deep muscles of the same set. These lines are proba- bly predetermined by nerve trunks, since even the recurrent arteries about the joints are apt to follow the track of a nerve in their ascent. Thus the radial recurrent artery runs back along the track of the musculo-spiral nerve, and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery, along that of the ulnar nerve. The main arteries of a limb lie in company with its main veins, and are inclosed in the same sheath. The size of a given artery is proportionate to the amount of work done in the part to which it is dis- tributed. The glands, with the exception of the testis, have very large bloodvessels as compared with the muscles and the bones. The brain is one of the most vascular of organs. The size of the renal and the mesenteric arteries as compared with the parts within which they are distributed is enormous. The bloodvessel-glands, such as the spleen and the thy- roid body, also receive relatively large volumes of blood. The ultimate arrangement of the bloodvessels varies according to the nature of the organ within which they lie. In the limbs the arteries are arbor- escent and form few large anastomoses. In the brain they are tortuous and the larger trunks anastomose freely, while many of the smaller terminal ones end in brush-like expansions without anastomosing. Such arteries are said to be penicillated. Again, two por- tions of the brain, as the cerebrum and the cerebellum, may differ in this regard. Arteries are tortuous in passing through mobile regions, such as the face; or toward the spleen, an organ subject to great changes in size. The arteries and veins of the skull often lie in spaces between ossific centres. Such spaces between imperfectly developed bones are apt to contain small bloodvessels in transit, which by their presence pre- vent the completion of the ossifying process. T. W. Nunn' believes that the arteries of the ex- tremities preserve a uniform arrangement, and that their irregularities or varieties of distribution are in definite relation with this general plan. He thus calls the profunda femoris a sefjmentary artery, since it is designed to nourish that segment of the limb lying between the hip and the knee. The superior and inferior profunda of the upper arm, the interosseous artery of the forearm, and the peroneal arterjr are in like manner segmentary arteries to their respec- tive regioTis of the extremities. It will be observed that all these vessels arise from the main vessel at a considerable angle, and rapidly divide into numerous branches. The term trans-seymentory he restricts to the main vessel traversing a segment of a limb, but giving few or no branches thereto. Such, for example, are the femoral, posterior tibial, radial, and ulnar arteries. Anastnniotic or covivi'iinicatiiig arteries are those which have no special direction, but form with the corresponding vessel or vessels acute or obtuse an- gles. They unite the segmentary arteries, the seg- mentary with the trans-segmentary, the traus-segmen- tary arteries, or the different parts of the same trunk. The anterior tibial is called a composite artery, since it combines the characteristics of a segmentary and of a trans-segmentary vessel, and at the same time furnishes an anastomotic branch. Applying the plan to the arte- ries of the foot, he believes the internal plantar artery to represent an abortive trans segmentary vessel, and the external plantar a segmentary trunk. The for- mer gives off" few branches, while the latter divides into numerous muscular branches, like those of the segmentary arteries elsewhere. In the same way he describes the external iliac artery as a main vessel of transit, hence resembling a trans-segmentary vessel from the trunk, while the internal iliac coming from it at a large angle is the artery of supply to the iliac re- gion and is hence analogous to a segmentary vessel of the lower extremity. He gives a hypothetical reason 1 Med. Times and Gazette, 1857, vol. xiv. 511. ' Jourii. de I'Aiiat. et de la Phys., 1874, 7.GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. ooo^oo<= 337 for the occasional union of the two profundaB arteries in a common trunk, viz., that it is an attempt to repeat in the upper extremity what is normal in the lower by giving the- nutrient or segmentary artery of the tipper arm the same plan as that usually seen in the lower. On the other hand, the femoral profunda artery may take upon itself the normal disposition of the brachial profunda. The variations in the bloodvessels are numerous, and arise either from irregular development of the parts of the body in which the variation occurs, or from imperfect absorption of foetal or other tem- porary structures. When an organ normally receiving blood through a given channel is seen in an exceptional instance to receive it from another, it is reasonable to assume that owing to some temporary retardation in its development, the organ demanded little or none of the blood arriving through the accustomed channel, and the vessel became rudimentary. The organ subsequently renewing its activity of growth would be compelled to rely upon the capillaries of an adjacent vessel for its supply, and through them gradually establish an aberrant trunk of sufficient size for its purpose.—Instances of retention of temporary structures explain irregularities in the great trunkal vessels with great exactness.' In a minor degree, variations of the great vessels of the thorax may be influenced both by habit and age, and by causes dependent upon defects in the curva- tures of the vertebral column and the respiratory movements.—Errors of observation in the relations of bloodvessels have occasionally arisen from study- ing the parts in a state of over-distension, either as a result of diseased action or the unskilful use of in- jecting material. While a thorough knowledge of the large blood- vessels is of the first importance, an acquaintance with the smallest twigs must not be ignored. By these apparently insignificant vessels the means are afforded by which a collateral circulation is established after the obliteration of the larger vessels, whether by ligation or by the pressure of morbid growths.—The smaller vessels also serve as guides in reaching the larger vessels. Thus the deep epigastric artery when traced up will lead the operator to the external iliac, the acromial artery to the axillary, and the small twigs in the intermuscular septum of the front of the leg to the anterior tibial artery.—A vessel usually small may * See sections on variations of tlie arch of the aorta and the veins of the trunk. 43 become abnormally enlarged and be mistaken for the main vessel of the part. The deep humeral artery has in this way been confounded with the brachial artery, the anastomotica magna with the femoral and the superficial volar with the radial artery.—A small vessel arising from the side of a large trunk, as, for example, a twig arising from the femoral artery, will bleed more freely than will another of the sam.e size arising from a small trunk. The amount of blood lost is out of all proportion to the size and the rela- tive importance of the vessel. The same remark is applicable to the terminal twigs of a short vessel arising from a large trunk. The ranine branch of the lingual artery is an example of such a vessel. The larger nerves and vessels of a limb are pro- tected by the joints, and invariably lie in the lines of their flexion. Thus the axillary artery and vein are lodged within the angle formed between the scapula and the humerus; the brachial artery and the median nerve, together with the more important superficial nerves, are situated in the angle (anterior surface) be- tween the humerus, the ulna, and the radius. Similar arrangements of parts are found in the lov/er ex- tremity. The following case is of great value as an illustration of the slight degree of force required to create alarming if not fatal disturbance resulting from a blow upon a large vessel in an unprotected situa- tion. A girl, twelve years of age, while standing erect, was struck over the groin with a stick, which was thrust up beneath the clothing by a companion. Death ensued on the third day. The femoral artery just below Poupart's ligament was found distended, and, upon dissection, showed rupture of the inner and middle coats. The walls of the femoral vein were injected, and its lumen blocked up with fibrinous deposit.' The volume of blood flowing through an artery can be controlled by the position of the joint. The least amount of resistance to the flow is offered in semi-flexion. Extreme extension retards, while ex- treme flexion retards if it does not arrest the flow. Hence forced flexion of a joint on the proximal side of a wound is often employed to arrest hemorrhage, and to cure aneurism. Localization of Diseased Action.—The frequency of aneurism at the bend of the knee, at or near the groin, at the arch of the aorta or the subclavian arteries, or at the flexure of the internal carotid, is suggestive when the relative infrequency of this condition in the artery running along the side of the > D. Stewart, Lancet, 1860, vol. 62.AND THE 338 BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET shaft of a bone, as in the linnbs, its rarity in the descending thoracic and abdominal aorta, and the almost absolute freedom from invasion seen in the common carotid are recalled. From the fact men- tioned in the preceding paragraph, that an artery can be temporarily occluded in forced flexion, it would appear that a vessel so placed would be liable to com- pression or tension from varying states of the joint near which it is placed. Under favorable conditions this might lead to diseased action.—The vessels near a joint are frequently lacerated in dislocation. Additional causes of diseased action are associated with undue constriction of the bloodvessels, or dimin- ished elasticity of their walls. Narrowing of the lumen of the aorta will induce disease of the parenchyma of the kidneydiminished elasticity of the walls leads to rupture and to the innumerable lesions arising from the escape of blood into the surrounding tissues. Veins.—The veins receive the blood after it passes through the capillaries and conduct it to the heart. To assist the blood in its ascent, their walls are fur- nished, as a rule, with great numbers of valves. These valves are arranged in pairs, and consist of crescentic folds of the tunica inlima (p. 73), so disposed as to present their free edges toward the larger or cardiac end of the vein. The valves are most numerous in the superficial veins of the extremities. They are absent in the smallest and the largest veins, in the sinuses, in all the veins in and about bones, the umbili- cal vein, the portal vein, the hepatic, renal, and uterine veins, and in the ovarian or spermatic vein. Dr. J. H. Brinton and Mr. Eivington, however, have de- monstrated the presence of a valve at the junction of the right spermatic and the renal veins. The veins are more numerous than the arteries. While the larger arteries, such as the carotid, the subclavian, the common iliac, the femoral, and the hypogastric, as well as the larger visceral trunks, have one accompanying vein, the majority of the arteries next in size have two veins connected by occasional transverse veins, the whole tending to form a coarse network whose longest segments are parallel with the artery. The superficial veins follow the course of the superficial nerves. In most instances where an artery and a vein are superimposed, the vein is the more superficial of the two. Hence-v^ins are apt to be, compressed by aneurismal tumors.—Veins exhibit- a ° tendency to the formation of plexuses; as afTout the foramen magnum, the intervertebral canals, and in or about the bloodvessel glands. 1 J. Zielonko, Vircliow's Archiv., 1874, Ixi. ii. 267. The mechanical value of veins, by which term is meant the use of the vessels when full of blood, in their relations to adjacent structures, is very great. A vis- cus or other structure surrounded by a venous plexus, as a pelvic organ, or the cerebrum, is protected as by a cushion from shock or injurious contact, at the same time that the temperature is maintained. The relation of venous trunks to neighboring parts is of value in studying their action after wounds or other lesions. The compression of the surrounding tissues by the escape of blood from a deep vein in the limb assists in arresting bleeding. Hence such venous hemorrhage is apt to be localized, and does not induce tension of the parts. Such compression would be less decided in the axilla and neck than in. the thigh and forearm, while in the visceral cavities it would probably be entirely absent. The surrounding tissues can, however, in no wise arrest arterial hem- orrhage. Thus if a large artery be wounded in its course through a limb, the collection of blood is large, and the general tumefaction great. Pollock^ proposes by this fact to distinguish venous from arterial rup- ture. The point where an artery divides or a vein re- ceives a tributary is of interest. In the case of an artery an aneurism is liable to be located at the point where a twig is given off, and an embolus is apt to project into the lumen of a vein at the point where a venule is received. Veins may be invaded by malignant disease. The internal jugular vein has become involved by a growth of soft cancer extending from the primary mass in the interior of the skull. In an instance recorded in connection with ligation of the common carotid, Lisfranc detected a tumor behind the angle of the jaw,^ which proved to be of this character. Analo- gous processes occurring in the venas cavae, the femoral, and even in the azygos vein have been recorded. THE HEAET. General Remarhs.—The heart is a complex muscu- lar apparatus designed for the propulsion of the blood. It is a symmetrical structure, and pi'esents on either side of a common septum a pair of communicating cav- ities or chambers. The cavity which first receives the blood and sends it to the second is called the auricle ; that which receives the blood from the auricle and sends it out of the heart is called the ventricle. The 1 St. George's Hospital Rep., 186(), 247. 2 Quoted by G. W. Norris, Am. Jourii. Nat. Sci., 1874, 14.339 THE HEAET opening of communication is called the auriculo- ventricular orifice.—The auricle and ventricle lying to the right of the septum receive venous blood from the body and send it by the pulmonary artery to the lungs; hence these portions are together termed the right or venous heart.—The auricle and ventricle to the left of the septum receive the oxygenized blood trom the lungs and send it to the body by the aorta (fig. 2, Plate LVIII.), and the two together are spoken of as the left or arterial heart. The circulation of blood from the right ventricle to the left auricle is carried on by means of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary capillaries, and the pulmonary veins, and is termed the lesser or jmhnonic circulation. The circulation from the left ventricle to the right auricle, bv means of the arteries and veins of the body, ex- cepting those of the lungs, is called the greater or systemic circulation. Each auricle is divided into its sinus or lody, and the auricular ajipendage; the latter is a hollow pro- jection of the wall forward, and is furnished with muscular fibres. Each ventricle is divided into a cavity and a conns, the latter being the narrowed portion of the interior of the cliamber placed between the semilunar valve and that segment of the auriculo-ventricular valve nearest the septum. The interior of the auricles is smooth, except within the auricular appendages, where raised muscular bands called miisculi pectinati are seen. The interior of the ventricle is much roughened by the raised fleshy bands called columnse carnese. The Action of the Auricles and Ventricles.—The two auricles are receptacles of blood, and it is their func- tion to send the fluid to the ventricles below. This requires but little force; in fact the blood/a^/s into the ventricle by the disastole of that chamber, the weak muscular walls of the auricles exerting only a secondary and supplemental force thereto. The ven- tricles, on the other hand, are compelled to force blood over large surfaces against gravity through vessels of progressively narrowing diameters, and may be compared to a pair of pumps acting synchro- nously. The Valves of the Heart and their Actions.—On each side of the heart the chambers are separated from one another by valves, as are the ventricles from the arteries passing from them. The former are called from their position the auriculo-ventricular valves, and the latter from their shape the semilunar. The semilunar valves are simple in construction. Each valve consists of three crescentic membranous festoons, or segments, whose free borders are di- rected to the centre of the vessel, and whose fixed semicircular base-lines are continuous with the wall. Each festoon forms with the vessel-wall a cup, the base of which is fixed, and which is open above. In the centre of each segment is a small nodule called the corpus Arantii.—The arterial orifice is opened by the systolic current. When the festoons are thrown back, and are in contact with the vessel-wall, the cups are obliterated. The orifice is closed by the three cups becoming filled with the blood (the tendency of which is to flow back into the ventricle after having been driven thence by the systole) and being forced towards one another. The auriculo-ventricular valves differ from the semilunar in having a continuous membranous ring or short tube surrounding the auriculo-ventricular orifice. From this ring a number of segments (two on the left, three to four in the right ventricle) hang vertically downward, which are controlled not only bj the current of blood as in the case of the semilunar valve, but by the delicate muscles derived from the ventricular wall. These muscles are called the Mus- culiPapillares, and the slender tendons extending from them to the segments, the chordae tendinew. Both the muscles and their tendons are of varying size, and some of the chordae appear to arise from the general muscular wall without union to any special muscular fasciculus or papilla. The manner of the opening and closing of the auri- culo-ventricular orifice by these valves differs from that of the semilunar valves, since the blood is not thrown into the ventricle as much as dropped in by the active downward withdrawal of the segments through the agency of the Musculi Papillares and their tendons. The closure of the orifice results, according to Onimus, from the vermicular contraction of the fibres of the ventricle moving up toward the base of the ventricle from the apex, and bringing in con- tact the down-drawn segments of the valve ; or, ac- cording to Chauvcau and Faivre, from the fact that the cone-like figure defined by the opposed sides of the valves is converted into a hollow piston or plunging cone, between the minute interstices of which the blood is finable to make a passage by which it may flow back into the auricle, and is consequently forced through the orifice of the pulmonary artery on the right side and of the aorta on the left.^ 1 This mpthod of describing the action of the auriculo-ventricular valves originated with Parchappe in 1824, and has been accepted by many responsible teachers. For an extended account see Kiiss' Physiology.E BLOODVESSELS. 340 THEHEAETANDT The theory concerning the action of the auriculo- ventricular valves as just given differs from the one ordinarily taught, which may in contradistinction from it be called the theory of Valentine. This theory is given by Quain as follows: "During the contraction of the ventricles, the segments of the valves are applied to the openings leading from the auricles and prevent the blood from rushing back into those cavities. Being retained by the diordx tendineee, the expanded flaps of the valves resist the pressure of the blood, which would otherwise force them back through the auricular orifice; the papil- lary muscles, shortening as the cavity of the ventricle itself is contracted during its systole, are supposed thus to prevent the valves from yielding too much toward the auricle, which might have been the case had the cliord'ce tendinew been longer, or fixed directly into the wall of the ventricle." The theory of Parchappe is sustained by vivisec- tion, while that of Valentine is based upon the analogy derived from the action of the semilunar valves. The study of the heart will include the following heads:— The Pericardium. The Endocardium. The Interior of the Heart. The External Form and Position of the Heart. The Structure of the Heart. Development of the Heart and Great Vessels. Malformations of the Heart and Irregularities of the Great Vessels. Remarks. THE PERICARDIUM. The pericardium is a closed fibrous sac of a bluish- white color and lodged between the pleural sacs. As the name expresses, the pericardium surrounds the heart and incloses in part the vessels that arise from its base. It answers in general outline to the shape of the heart, and is fixed above to the great vessels, and below to the Diaphragm, while it is covered by the mediastinal pleura at the sides. The pericardium exfends from the level of the base of the ensiform cartilage to the middle of the manubrium, but lacks about eight lines of reaching the epi-sternal notcli. Dr. J. B. Roberts' found the base to answer to a line drawn from a point just above the lower edge of the end of the sixth rib to the junction of the ensiform cartilage and the Paracentesis of the Pericardium, 1880, 42. gladiolus. Transversely, at the level of the fourth inter- costal space, it extends two inches and nine lines to the left of the median line, and to the right it extends two inches and three lines, and in consequence passes a shorter distance beyond tlie right margin of the sternum than the left. Sibson found the superficial surface or region of the pericardium to extend from the fourth to the sixth costal cartilage, and from the centre of the sternum to within one incli of the nipple. The anterior wall of the sac is somewhat higher than the jiosterior, and reaches to the anterior wall of the aortic arch. The posterior wall reaches to the place of division of the pulmonary artery. In front the pericardium is in contact with the anterior medi- astinum, behind with the structures within the pos- terior mediastinum. The pericardium lies in direct apposition with the tendinous centre of the Diaphragm and a portion of the fibres of the left leaflet. To the former it is firmly and to the latter moderately adherent. "When the Diaphragm descends, it stretches, lengthens, and widens the pericardium, according to Sibson, and thus lowers the heart, and, through the medium of the pericardium, exerts a direct strain upon the great vessels. Dr. W. Forbes^ entertains the opinion that the Diaphragm does not descend in contraction, owing to the attachment existing between it and the peri- cardium, an attachment which is strengthened by lateral bands of fibrous tissue passing along the sides of the pericardium to the apex of the chest and thence to the cervical fascia. The pleural sacs tend to cover the pericardium in front with the exception of a narrow slip extending along the left edge of the sternum. The pericardium is composed of two layers, an outer, the fibrous layer (fibrous pericardium), and an inner layer (serous pericardium). The outer layer is a stout, resisting membrane. It is continuous above with the fibrous layer of the aorta, the superior cava, the pulmonary veins, and the divisions of the pulmon- ary artery. It can be also traced, as above stated, to the middle layer of the deep cervical fascia, and, according to some authorities, to the first rib by an expansion (costo-pericardial ligament) originally de- signed for covering the thymus gland. These attach- ments are described by Mr. John AVood^ as constitu- ting means by which the descent of the Diaphragm is prevented from exerting undue strain on the arch of the aorta, and thus indirectly aiding the aortic arch in maintaining its position. 1 Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci., 1880, vol. 80, 88. 2 Jouni. of Aiiat. and Phys., iii. 8, 1868.341 THE HEART. • ^oo^cxx^ Teutleben,^ previous to tlie observations of Forbes, described bands of fibrous tissue passing from the cervical fascia to the pericardium as suspensory liga- ments of the last-named structure, which act in check- ing the descent of the tendinous centre of the Dia- phragm. The inner or serous layer of the pericardium is divided into a parietal and a visceral layer. The parietal layer lines the fibrous layer. It is not, how- ever, continuous upon the fibrous covering of the bloodvessels, but passes at a point about one to one and a half inch from the base of the heart into the visceral layer. The visceral layer holds somewhat the same relation to the heart that the pulmonic pleura does to the lungs. It is closely adapted to the out- line of the heart, and is so arranged over the great vessels as to embrace them in a common sheath. The pericardium contains from half a drachm to half an ounce of a clear straw-colored fluid. The arterial blood-supply is derived from the bronchial, the diaphragmatic, and the oesophageal arteries. The veins form three groups, two lateral, which join the superior diaphragmatic vein, and the middle, which is directed posteriorly to empty into the azygos vein. The nerves to the pericardium have been traced from the sympathetic and pneumogastric nerves. J. Marshall^ has described a fold of pericardium lying between the left pulmonary artery and the pulmonary vein, and extending thence to the left auricle, which contains a small vein {vestigial, vein) thought to be the remains of the left vena cava of the foetus. Remarks.—The fact that the pericardium extends further to the left than to the right of the sternum enables the physician to puncture the sac by thrust- ing a trocar or aspirating needle through the fourth or fifth intercostal space at its median end,—namely, at a point two and a quarter inches from the median line of the sternum; or, as suggested by Larrey, through the space between the ensiform cartilage and the seventh costal cartilage. The pericardium has been frequently wounded by knives and other implements. Intense acute pericar- ditis accompanied by paroxj^sms of dyspnoea is liable to ensue. For a case graphically described see A. Blaha.3 In distension of the pericardium the sac may reach ' Archiv. fiir Anat. uiid Physiol., 1877, 281, fig. 2 Phil. Trans., part i., 1850, 133. 3 Wien Med. Presse, July 1(J, 1877. a point as high as the first intercostal space, and as low as the epigastric region, where it may form a globular swelling visible beneath the integument. The lungs, especially the left division, will be dis- placed backward, and the liver and stomach down- ward. In extreme forms of distension the trachea at its bifurcation may even be pressed upon, and its lumen narrowed, while the heart is pushed upward. Friction sounds may be thus developed as high as the third, second, and even the first intercostal space.^ THE ENDOCARDIUM. The endocardium is a thin serous membrane lining the interior of thq heart. On the right side it is con- tinuous with the venae cavse and the pulmonary artery, and on the left with the pulmonary veins and the aorta. The endocardium intimately adheres to the heart, but has different degrees of thickness at its various parts. Thus it is thinner over the ventricles than over the auricles, and thinner over the right auricle than over the left. It is of extreme delicacy where it lies in contact with the Musculi Pectinati and the columnse carnese. The endocardium is composed of two layers, an endothelial and a fibro-elastic layer. The endothelial layer is composed of pavement endothelium. The fibro-elastic layer is irregularly developed. It is best seen where the endocardium covers the valves of the heart. Elsewhere it intimately adheres to the muscular substance of the heart. THE EXTERNAL FORM OF THE HEART. The heart, described by its external features (figs. 3, 4, Plate LVIII., and figs 1, 2, Plate LIX.), is seen to be an inverted cone, whose base is directed up- ward and backward in the median line of the body, and whose apex lies at a point to the left of the median line. Its long axis is therefore placed between these two points. This statement is not strictly accurate, except as to the ventricular portion, since the axis of the auricles lies nearly in the longitudinal axis of the body. The heart presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, a base, an apex, and an anterior and a posterior margin. The anterior surface is convex, and looks upward. It is marked above and to the right by the right auricular appendage and the anterior border of the right auricle. The greater part of the anterior sur- face is composed of the right ventricle. To the left 1 Sibson, Medical Anatomy.THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 342 o<=«^OOo border is seen a small portion only of the left ven- tricle. Between the right auricle and right ventricle is a transverse furrow, carrying the transverse portion of the coronary artery and vein and the lymphatic vessels; while between the right ventricle and the left ventricle is seen a longitudinal furrow carrying the longitudinal portion of the coronary artery and vein. The posterior surface is nearly flat, looks downward, and lies in part upon the Diaphragm. It is marked by a transverse groove between the auricle and the ventricle for the transverse portion of the coronary artery, vein, and lymphatics; and near its right side by a longitudinal groove between the ventricles for the longitudinal portion of the coronary arterj^, vein, and lymphatics. The anterior margin is thinner and longer than the posterior. It is composed entirely of the right ven- tricle and looks downward, forward, and to the right side. The posterior margin is thick and obtuse; it is com- posed entirely of the left ventricle and looks toward the left side. The base presents on either side the upper surfaces of the auricles. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are here seen, the former lying in front and to the left of the latter. The presence of the well-defined groove between tlie auricles and ventricles has led to the adoption by anatomical writers of the phrase transverse constriction, or the sulctis auriculo- ventriculorum. Lying between the ventricles in front and behind is a second groove which has received the name of the longitudinal groove or sulcus. These grooves, as ap- plied to the entire figure of the heart, are confusing ; for, while they are conspicuous features on tlie cardiac super- ficies, they bave no exact value in reference to the heart as a whole. The transverse groove, for example, is absent in front of the origin of the pulmonary artery, and the longi- tudinal groove is absent both at the apex and at the base of the heart. The heart should be considered as having its pi'imary or true axis parallel to the vente cava3, which is the position maintained in quadrupeds. The long axis is, therefore, in such relations, parallel to the axis of the body. In man the heart is deflected to the left, in consequence of the flat- tened sternum. The peculiar half-twist forward of the ven ■ tricular portion, by which the anterior surface is made to look upward and the posterior surface downward, is, perhaps, due to the sagging of the heavy left ventricle while the base of the heart is fixed. Size of heart.—The heart is five inches long, three and a half inches wide at its broadest part, and two and a half inches antero-posteriorly. The size of the heart has been commonly compared to that of the fist in the same individual. Its length is to its breadth as five is to four. Its weight is about eleven ounces. In the female the heart is about one-sixth less in weight and size than in the male. The relative size of the orifices of the heart is a matter of importance to the physician. In early life those of the pulmonary artery' and the aorta are of about the same size, but after the fortieth or fiftieth year the aortic orifice is the larger. Of the auriculo- veutricular orifices the right is somewhat the larger. TOPOGRAPHICAL RULES FOR THE POSITION OF THE HEART„ (Figs. 1, 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 2, 3, Plate LXI.) The heart lies in the middle mediastinum. Seen from in front it is directed obliquely downward and to the left. The auricles are nearly concealed in this view, since they lie more to the right side and behind. A¥hen seen from below, it is observed that the axis of both chambers is nearly vertical, that of the right Ijnng directly to the right of the median line, while that of the left is at the median line. Behind the heart are the oesophagus and the aorta. In front of it lies the sternum, at the sides are the lungs. The base lies opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, the apex at about a thumb's breadth to the median side of the left nipple, at the fifth intercostal space. The anterior surface of the heart is almost entirely derived from the right auricle and ventricle. A small portion of the left ventricle forms the left border of the surface, the anterior edge of the left auricular appendage appearing at the border above. Tlie apex is formed by the left ventricle in health, but in mitral regurgitation and pulmonary emphysema EXPLANATION Fig. 1. General plan of the right side of the heart. Fig. 2. General plan of the left side of the heart. Fig. 3. General view of the lieart and the great vessels arising from its base. OF PLATE LVIII. ' Fig. 4. The right side of the heart drawn in position—as seen in the supine body.PLATE LVIII313 THE HEAET. =.00^000 the right ventricle, according to Sibson, entirely covers the left. Viewing the heart in its relations to the sternum, it is seen that the right auricular appendage and a small portion of the right auricle lie to the right of the sternum. The right third or half of the right ventricle, the right auriculo-ventricular valve, the median fourth or fifth of the conus pulmonalis and the pulmonary artery, with the origin of the aorta, lie directly behind the sternum. The remaining por- tion of the right ventricle, conus pulmonalis, and pul- monary artery lie to the left of the sternum. The following rules, according to Sibson, mark the position of the several parts of the heart. The origins of the great vessels correspond to a line running across the sternum and along the lower edge of the second costal cartilage. In some subjects the vessels cor- respond with the line of the third cartilage. The right auriculo-ventricular junction crosses ob- liquely from the left of the sternum above, to the rioht of it below. The tricuspid valve is immediately to the left of the lower half of the sternum.—The semilunar valves lie on a line drawn through the centre of the third piece of the sternum, and passing midway between the third and the fourth costal cartilages, and thence behind to about the tip of the sixth dorsal spine.—The plane of the aortic orifice looks downward,/o?-u'a?-t/, and toward the left. The plane of the pulmonary orifice looks downward, backivard, and toward the left.^ The pulmonary valves usually lie behind the second intercostal space.—The heart is in contact with the walls of the chest from the fourth to the sixth costal cartilage of the left side. This space is usually three inches from side to side, and two inches from above downward. The superior surface of the heart in position is a small quadrilateral space, which measures three inches in diameter from right to left, and about two inches from above downward. It is bounded below by the Diaphragm, on the right and left by the lungs. The right side is flat, the left concave. The tongue- shaped lobe is pushed aside in systole, but returns in diastole. It is a noticeable fact that the axis of the right side of the heart, passing from the auricle to the ventricle, is nearly horizontal, while that of the pulmonary conus is vertical. On the other hand, the axis of the left ventricle is nearly vertical, while that of the conus aorticus is also nearly vertical. It follows I John Wood, .Toui-n. of Anat. and Phys., 18G9, iii. (i. that the current of blood in the right side leaves the ventricle at nearly a right angle to its line of entrance, while the blood of the left side leaves the ventricle at a very acute angle to its line of entrance. The posterior margin of the heart is partly lodged, with the intervention of the pericardium, in a depres- sion of the left lung. A Detailed Account or the Heart. The right auricle is the first chamber of the heart, since it receives the venous blood from the superior and inferior cavaj, and transmits it to the right ven- tricle. The exterior is of an irregular cuboid form, and pre- sents for examination four surfaces; an anterior, a posterior, a right or lateral (also called the external), and a left or median. The latter may be also named the septal surface, since it corresponds to the inter- auricular septum. The anterior surface of the auricle is convex, and, when the heart is in position, extends from the outer border of the sternvim, about on a level with the upper border of the third rib, to the junction of the seventh rib with the sternum. At its anterior median part is placed the auricular appendage. This is of a triangular form, the base being at the auricular wall, and the apex nearly reaching the pulmonary artery. It is concave be- hind to accommodate itself to the anterior surface of the aorta, but convex in front. The posterior surface is small and flat. The lateral surface is yet smaller than the posterior. It is limited by the space between the orifices of the venas cavre. The interior of the auricle (fig. 1, Plate LX.) is marked as follows: above is the orifice of the superior vena cava. This, the smaller of the two great venous orifices, being placed slightly in front of the jolane of the inferior cava, is directed downward and slightly forward and inward. Below is the orifice of the infe- rior cava, which is directed nearly horizontally for- ward and to the left. Between the two the auricular surface is slightly raised, and has received the name tulerctdum Loiueri. The anterior surface is marked with numerous vertical muscular ridges, arranged in the form of a coarse netAvork, which have received the name of the pectinate fibres [Musculi Pectinati). The base of the auricle presents the large oval auriculo-ventricular orifice, having a diameter of one and a fourth inch.—Extendincj from the inner mar- gin of the orifice of the inferior vena cava is a sickle- shaped fold of the lining membrane, containing a few muscular fasciculi, called the Eustachian vcdve.THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS OOO^OOC . Between the auriculo-ventricular opening and the orifice of the inferior vena cava, but separated from the latter bj the Eustachian valve, is a depression whicli receives the coronary vein. The depression is called the coronary sinus, and a valve at the orifice of the vein has received the name of the valve of The- hesius. Scattered over the auricle are depressions known as the foramina of Thebesius, several being- found in the coronary sinus and several elsewhere on the lateral and anterior surfaces. Some of these have no special significance; others are the openings of small veins (yense minimse cordis). The median (septal surface) is marked by a rounded flat depression, the fossa ovalls—the site of the em- bryonic foramen ovale—by means of which the blood entering the auricle by the inferior vena cava passed into the left auricle. The depression is guarded above and at the sides by a thickened fold, the annulus ovalis. The closure of the foramen ovale need not be so com- plete as to prevent the passage of blood from the right to the left auricle. Often, indeed, in hearts of individuals who have never been subject to the effects of such passage, small slit-like valvular openings have been detected after death in the upper part of the fossa ovalis. The ri'jht ventricle is convex anteriorly, flat poste- riorly, and slightly convex again Avithin, at the median or septal side. Its walls are much thinner than those of the left ventricle, measuring but two-twelfths to three-twelfths of an inch in thickness. The interior of the right ventricle (fig. 3, Plate LX.) is bounded behind and to the right by the tricuspid valve, and above and to the left by the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery. The walls, where they come in contact with the leaflets of the tricuspid valve, and thence forward, are much roughened by raised, and in part free, interlacing muscular bands, the columnse carnese or trabeculse, which unite to form a spongy cavernous network. Above, i. e., between the region of the tricuspid valve and that of the semi- lunar valves, the walls are smoother, especially upon the septal side. The space embraced by the column;-e carnese is the true ventricular cavity, as opposed to the narrowed ascending smooth portion, which is called the infundihulum or conus arteriosus. The tricuspid valve, as the name expresses, is com- posed of three segments, which have received the conventional names of the anterior, posterior (right), and septal (left). The anterior segment is of a semi- circular figure, the posterior of a sub-triangular figure, and the septal is triangular in form. The anterior and the posterior segments agree in possessing stout chords tendiyiese, which are attached, for the most part, to their free edges, a few chordae only passing to the mural surfaces. The septal segment is secured by delicate chordx, which, far from being confined to the margin of the segment, extend from the entire septal surface to the septum. A greater degree of motion is thus allowed to the anterior and posterior segments than to the septal.—The papillary muscles controlling the segments vary in size. The anterior segment has a large muscle attached to the anterior wall of the ventricle, while the septal segment has two small, in- conspicuous muscles. The posterior segment pos- sesses a stout muscle, upon the anterior wall of the ventricle (near to and often united with the muscle of the anterior segment), and a second Avell-developed muscle in the angle between the anterior and the septal walls. In addition, accessory segments are occasionally met with lying between the main divisions. Per- haps the most common of these is one lying between the posterior and septal segments. It partakes more of the character of the latter than of the former. Mr. T. W. King' describes in detail the right ventricle of man, mammals, and birds, witii the object in view of demonstrating a physiological arrangement of the tricuspid valve, which permits a distension of the ventricular cavity and regurgitation of blood to tlie auricle. He names the anterior and posterior walls of the ventricle the yielding walls, and the septal the fixed wall. Since the anterior and posterior segments of the valve secure attachment from the yielding walls, they are more mobile than the septal, and are more or less under the control of the mus- cular fibres in the yielding wall. They act efficiently in preventing regurgitation when the ventricle is moderately distended. When the ventricle is over-distended (as often occurs during transient states of pulmonic congestion), the segments are so dragged upon by the yielding walls as to prevent perfect closure of tlie auriculo-ventricular orifice. > Guy's Hospital Reports, 1837, 104. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LIX. Fig. 1. The heart, seen in position from in front. | Fig. 2. The heart, seen in position from behind.r. Sinclair &l Sijt.LiitL345 THE HEAET !X>0^00<^ In tlie same cormection Mr. King calls attention to a mus- cular band, which stretches across the cavity between the two walls. This band may have an average length of six to seven lines, and a circumference of three or four; it is de- signed to limit the degree of ventricular distension, and is named the moderator hand. It is especially well developed in the hearts of mammalian quadrupeds. An analogous structure of great strensrtli exists in the hearts of birds. The left auricle (fig. 4, Plate LX.) is of a cuboidal shape, and lies almost entirely at the posterior suj)e- rior portion of the heart, a part of the auricular ap- pendage alone being visible from in front. Its walls are slightly thicker than those of the right auricle, but its capacity is less than that of the right. Tlie upper border is inclined backward and the lower border forward. Its anterior surface thus looks somewhat upward, and its posterior downward. Its form is slightly impressed by the pulmonary artery as well as by the aorta. Its posterior surface lies in front of the descending aorta and oesophagus. The auricular appendage is slightly twisted, some- what constricted at the orifice, and emarginate at the sides. It rests against the pulmonary artery. The inter lor of the auricle is made up of the main chamber or sinus and the auricular appendage. The former is smooth, free from pectinate fibres, and presents near its upper border the orifices of the pul- monary veins. The orifices of these vessels are arranged in approximated pairs on either side, the lower one being, as a rule, the larger. The vessels of the left side may empty into a common depressicjn or orifice prior to opening upon the auricle. Near this point is the orifice of the auricular appendage. The septal wall exhibits a foint raised edge, the remains of the annnlus of the foramen ovale. The left ventricle is situated more to the back of the heart than is the right. It is slightly longer than the right, so that the apex of the heart entirely per- tains to the left side. While narrower tlian the right, the left ventricle is nearly three times as thick. Its general form is that of a pyramid. The base is directed upward and inward toward the median line of the body, the aorta actually arising a little to the right side of the septal line of the heart. In the interior the coluninse carnese (fig. 2, Plate LX.) are smaller but more numerous than in the right ventricle. The stout muscular papilljB are ar- ranged in two groups; one anterior, the other poste- rior. The left auriculo-ventricular valve is named bicuspid as distinguished from the tricuspid. It is, however, very generally called the mitral valve. The 44 two valves closely resemble each other, and closely conform to the type already seen in tlie anterior and posterior segments of the tricuspid valve. Tlie chordce tendineag are occasionally muscular, and may pass upward into the auriculo-ventricular vahe. Muscular fibres, however, may be rarely found in the valve entirely apart from the preceding source.' THE STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The heart exhibits an intricate arrangement of fibrous and muscular tissues. The fibrous tissue is found for the most part at the base of the organ. In the angle between the aortic and the two auriculo- ventricular openings is found a small fibrous mass. This may be fibro-cartilaginous, and in some animals is bony. From this region processes of fibrous tis- sue extend backward between the two auriculo-ven- tricular orifices beneatli the inter auricular septum. Others pass forward, one on each side of the opening of the aorta. The muscular tissue of the ventricles exists chiefly in the form of layers which are more or less perfectly defined, and are arranged in an exceedingly intricate manner. Following Pettigrew, the layers of the ven- tricle are seven in number. They are so arranged that the first three, counting from without inward, are oblique. The fourth is transverse, while the remain- ing three are again oblique, but pursue a course the opposite of that seen in the outer three. Pettigrew uses the following language with respect to the details of the above arrangement:— There is a gradational sequence in the direction of the fibres constituting the layers, whereby they are made gradu- ally to change their course from a nearly vertical direction to a horizontal or transverse one, and from the transverse direction back again to a nearly vertical one. Thus, in dissecting the ventricles from without inwards, the fibres of the first layer, which run in a spiral direction from left to ri^ht downward, are more vertical than those of tiie second layer, the second than those of the third, tlie third than those of the fourth—the fibres of tlie fourth layer having a transverse direction, and running at nearly right angles to those of the first layer. Passing tlie fourth layer, which occupies a central position in the ventricular walls, and forms the boundary between the external and internal layers, the order of arrangement is reversed, and the fibres of the remaining layers, viz., fifth, sixth, and seventn, gradually re- turn in an opposite direction, and in an inverse order, to the same relation to the vertical as that maintained by the fibres of the first external layer. Tiiis remarkable change in the direction of the fibres constituting the several external and 1 John W. Ogle, Trans. Path. Snc. of London, ix., 1858, 116. /316 THE HEART AND internal layers, wbicli is observed to occur in all parts of the ventricular walls, whether they be viewed anteriorly, pos- teriorly, or from tlie septal side, lias been partially figured by Senac,^ and imperfectly described by Reid,^ but has not hitherto been fully elucidated. It has not had that share of attention bestowed upon it which its importance demands. The two sets of fibres which constitute the superficial or first external layer of the left ventricle, and which enter the left apex in two separate portions or bundles, are for the most part continuous in the interior with the Masculi Papil- lares, to the free ends of which the chordte tendinea3 are attached. The Ifuscitli PapiUares, as w-ill be seen fi-om this account, bear an important relation to the segments of the mitral valve, to which they are directly connected by tendi- nous bands. They merit from this circumstance a more pai- ticular description than that given of the other fibres. On looking at the left auricnlo-ventricular opening, the fibres of the first layer are seen to arise from the fibrous ring surrounding the aorta, and from the auriculo-ventricu- lar tendinous ring in two divisions: the one division pro- ceeding /Vom the anterior portions of the rings, and winding in a spiral, nearly vertical, direction, from before backward, to converge and enter the apex posteriorly; the other set proceeding from the posterior portions of the rinys, and winding in a spiral direction from behind forward, to con- verge and enter the apex anteriorly. Having entered the apex, the two sets of external fibres are collected togetiier, and form the Musculi Papillares and columns carnese; the one set, viz., that which proceeded from tlie auriculo-ventri- cular orifice anteriorly and entered the 'd[)exposteriorly, curv- ing round in a spiral direction from right to left upward, and forming the anterior Muscidus Papillaris and the columnce carnecB next to it; the other set, which proceeded from the auriculo-ventricular orifice posteriorly, and entered tlie apex anteriorly, curving round in a corresponding spiral direction, and forming the posterior Musculiis Papillaris and adjoining columnce carnece. As the external fibres converge on near- ing the apex, so the internal continuations of these fibres radiate toward the base; and hence the conical shape of the Musculi Papillares. Particular attention is directed to the course and position of these structures, as they have always, though erroneously, been regarded as simply vertical columns, instead of more or less vertical spiral columns. It is worthy of remark that, while the left apex is closed by two sets of spiral fibres, the left auriculo- ' Traite de la Structure du Coeur, de son Action, etc. Paris, 1749. 2 Cyc. of Anat. and Phys., art. "Heart." London, 1839. HE BLOODVESSELS. ventricular orifice is occluded during the systole by the two spiral flaps or segments constituting the bicuspid valve. The bilateral arrangement, therefore, which obtains in all parts of the left ventricle and in the Musculi Papillares extends also to tlie segments of the bicuspid valve, and hence its name. What has been said of the arrangement of the fibres in the left ventricle applies with slight modifications to the fibres of the right one ; and many are of the opinion that the tricuspid valve is in reality bicuspid in its nature. The shape of the ventricular cavities of the heart of the mammal greatly influences the movements of the mitral and tricuspid valves, by monlding the blood into certain forms, and causing it to act in certain directions. A precise outline of the ventricular cavities is obtained by filling the ventricles with wax or plaster of Paris, these substances, when allowed to harden, furnishing an accurate cast of the parts. The Development of the Heart and the Great Vessels. The heart at the third week is tubuhir, bent upon itself, and the auricular or lower portion receiving the omphalo-mesenteric vein is placed above or behind and to the left of the ventricular part. Above the ventricular part is a cone-shaped chamber, continuous above with the vascular arches, which is called the truncus communis arteriosus or aortic bulb. In the sixth or seventh week the septum of the ventricle makes its appearance. In the eighth week the auricular septum is begun. At about the same time, three veins enter the auricle from behind. Of these, two correspond to the right superior cava and the inferior cava, and the third to the left superior cava of the adult. They are connected with what afterward becomes the coronary sinus. In the eleventh week the Eustachian valve forms, beginning from above, and advancing toward the base of the heart. In the seventh week the division of the bulb into aorta and pulmonary artery begins. This affects the inner and middle layers of the bulb only. The development of the valves is coincident in time with the appearance of the septa. A. C. Bernays' has elaborately described and figured the development, of the auriculo-ventricular valves. He found the 1 Morpliolog. Jalirbucher, 1876, Bd. ii. 478. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LX. Fig. ]. The view of the interior of the right auricle. Fig. 2. The view of the interior of tlie left venti'icle. Fio-. 3. The view of the interior of the right ventricle. Fig. 4. The view of the interior of the left auricle.T. ^mcl^- & 3oiL,Lnh-THE HEART. 347 c><><>^0<><:^ segments and the chordae tendinese of each valve to arise from the inner layer of the wall of the ventricle, and to contain muscular fibres in common with those of the papillary muscles to which they were attached. This description is in harmony with the account of the action of these valves given on p. 339, and ac- counts for the occasional presence in the adult of muscalar fibres in the segments of the valves.^ as well as for the anomaly of the direct insertion of Musculi Papillares upon the segments, instead of the normal indirect insertion through the medium of the chordae. —The semilunar valves appear to be developed from the endothelium. The development of the great vessels as they arise from the base of the heart occurs in a definite order, in the description of which the language of Prof. Turner, in his epitome of Eathlcs' researches on the subject, will be employed (fig. 4, Plate LXIL). "At an early period of embryonic life,"' says this writer, "the vascular system consists of the following parts: a short trunk, proceeding from the heart (trimcus communis arteriosus); of two longer trunks situated in the visceral chamber, under the vertebral column, which run parallel to each other, and subse- quently converge, so as to coalesce and form a single vessel [trunk of the aoria). Passing between the truncus communis and the trunk of the aorta, on each side is a series of arch-shaped vessels (vascular arches\ which are situated in the wall of the visceral chamber. These arches consist of five pairs, thougli it is very doubtful whether they all exist at the same time. It is by the junction of these dift'erent arches with each other, under the vertebral column, that the parallel vessels are formed which subsequently unite to form the trunk of the aorta. The trunk of the aorta is thus to be regarded as a secondary vessel, for which the parallel trunks serve as two special roots (jjrimi- tive aortic roots). The mode of development from this simpler typical arrangement into the condition met with in the fully formed animal is due to meta- morphoses taking place in these vessels in certain given directions. Some of the changes are progres- sive, and produce an increase in the size and impor- tance of certain of the vascular arches, and the trunks to and from which they proceed. Others, again, are retrogressive; the development and growth of the vessels is either not commensurate with the develop- ment and growth of the individual, or atrophy, to a greater or less extent, takes place, so that portions of them disappear." A scheme, such as is embraced in this account, will 1 See p. 345. be employed in the next section in describing the most striking irregularities of the large vessels. MALFORMATIONS OF THE HEART AND IRREGULARITIES OF THE GREAT VESSELS. The following epitome of this difficult subject is abridged mainly from the elaborate writings of Prof. Wm. Turner,! rjy ^ Peacock,^ and Dr. ISTorman Chevers.^ The language of the first-named author has been largely retained. For further information the student is referred to these memoirs. A. Sab- batier^ and W. Krause^ may also be consulted. MALFORMATIONS OF THE HEART. Fourteen types of malformation of the heart have been described. A brief account of these is here given, together with the analogues from the lower animals whicli most nearly approach them in character. Heart consistiny of a single auricle and veyitricle, together with the ductus communis arteriosus.—^\iq single vessel is mainly aortic, a pulmonary branch being evident. Two pulmonary veins empty into the descending vena cava or auricle. It is caused by arrest of development at a period prior to the appear- ance of septa. This type is the analogue of the piscine heart, from which it differs in the absence of multiple valves in the truncus. The vascular arches are in such cases appropriated in a normal manner, hence the return blood from the aerating organ cannot empty into the aorta as in the fish, but must enter the single auricle or the descending vena cava. Heart with ])ermanent foram.en ovale.—This mal- formation is caused by contraction or obliteration of the pulmonic orifice after the completion of the ven- tricular septum. The blood from the superior cava, not being transmitted through the right side of the heart, regurgitates into the right auricle, and is de- flected through the foramen ovale, which is thus pre- vented from closing. Analogue.—The heart of the seal, which, however, does not possess a contracted pulmonary artery. Heart having a patulous ductus arteriosus ivith im- perfect ventricular septum.—This deformity is the result of the contraction either of the pulmonary artery, or of the right auriculo-ventricular orifice, occurring at a period before the completion of the 1 Brit, and For. Merl.-Chir. Rev., 1862, 173. 461. 2 Malformations of the Heart, London, 2il ed. 1866. » London Med. Gaz., 1846-1848. Annal. des Sciences Nat., xix., 1874, 31. ^ Henle's Anatomie, iii., 1st ab. 203.THE HEAET AND T 348 HE BLOODVESSELS. ventricular septum. It may also be clue to a con- traction of the left auriculo-ventricular orifice, wbicli results in the blood being forced to the right of the imperfect septum, and thus tending to prevent closure of the septum and the ductus arteriosus. Analogues.—The heart of the turtle, which has no ventricular septum and a permanent ductus arteriosus. The heart of tlie serpent, which has an imjierfect ven- tricular septum and a permanent ductus. The contraction of the pulmonary artery at an early period of intra-uterine life may produce suffi- cient obstruction to ])revent the complete develop- ment of the ventricuhxr septum.^ The septum in such cases is present. Therefore, in a tricoelian heart (i. e., one possessing three chambers), the pulmonary artery is not apt to be obstructed. That the con- traction is not the sole cause of septal insufficiency is shown by numerous examples. Even in the normal adult heart, a small space measuring seven lines in width, which corresponds to the position of the inter-ventricular opening of foetal life, can be defined at the basal portion of the inter- ventricular septum, at which the two ventricles are separated only by the endocardium and fibrous tissue. It is probable that the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve protects this space, and guards the inter-ventri- cular opening when present. The space is closed at birth, though it may rarely open under the influence of disease.^ It may also form the base of a diverticu- lum directed within the left ventricle. When, with the permanence of the ductus arte- riosus an incomplete ventricular septum is associated, some serious impediment to the circulation, existing either before or after birth, and which ceased to ope- rate as age advanced, or remained undetected after death, may be inferred.^ Heart with a patulous ductus arteriosus and foramen ovale, wiih an imjjer/ectventricular septum.'—This is due to the same general causes as the foregoing; the con- traction occurring in the pulmonary artery beyond the origin of the ductus arteriosus, or the contrnction being located in the mitral valve. The blood in the latter instance is forced through the foramen ovale into the riglit auricle, and thence into the left auricle, pre- venting closure of the ventricular septum and the ductus. Heart with truncus commvnis imyterfecthj divided into aorta and pulmonary artery.—This is usually a more or less successful attempt at the formation of an auricular septum and of auricular appendages. Heart luith truncus communis completely divided, hut the vascular arch abnormally united thereto.—In these cases the fifth vascular arch meets the aortic (systemic) stem, and the fourth the pulmonary. The aorta arises, therefore, in such cases from the front of the right ventricle, while the pulmonary artery arises from the buck of the left ventricle. With this trans- position the ventricular septum-is often defective. Heart with incomplete ventricular septum inclined to the left, and the aorta communicating toiih both ventricles. —This malformation is due to obstruction in the flow of the blood in the right side of the heart, and its de- flection to the left side through an imperfect ventri- cular septum. According to Peacock,^ in some cases the retention of the aorta in connection with the right ventricle is an example of arrest of development by which the earlier position of the vessel is retained. Heart with an imperfectly defined ventricular septum, and tendency to separatio7i of the right ventricle from the infundibulum.—Etiology. Arrest of development of the ventricular septum, with exaggeration of the ven- tricular limit of the infundibulum. Peacock^ describes this malformation as an apparent reduplication of the right ventricle. Analogue.—Heart of turtle, in which the above conditions are constant. The foramen ovale prematurely closed, with the result of enormous enlargen-ient of the right and diminution of the left side of the heart. The ductus arteriosus premoiurely closed, witli the result of restricting the fioio of the blood of the right side of the heart to the lungs. The heart may rarely present a double apex. Etiology.—Eetraction of the line of the ventricular septum. Analogue.—Heart in the dugong. Heart wiJi the foramen ovale and ductus arteriosus both open. Heart with the foramen ovale open, but the ductus arteriosus closed.—This malformation is commonly associated with constriction.of the mouth of the aorta. A. T. Tliompson describes a case (Med.-Cliir. Trans. XXV. 247) in wliicli a septum existed between the infundi- bulum and the body of the right ventricle. " One of the divisions" of tiie tricuspid valve was employed in partially covering the communicating opening between the divisions of the right ventricle. Heart with ductus arteriosus arising from the right ventricle. The following is the probable solution of this malformation: Cleavage of the truncus com- munis in such wise that three instead of two trunks 1 N Chevers, London Med. Gaz., iii. N. S. 1846, 703. 2 Peacock, loc. cit. 29. » Chevers, loc. cit. 1087. ' Loc. cit. p. 43. 2 Loc. cit. p. 76.THE HEART. 349 ^>oogoo<, are seen ; one of these joins the fourth vascular arch and becomes aortic, a second joins the fifth and be- comes pulmonic, the third joins the fourth vascular arch and becomes the ductus arteriosus. Analogue.—Reptilian heart, in which the cleavage of the truncus communis into three parts is constant; two of these join the right and left aortic fourth vas- cular arches; the third joins the fifth.' The heart may retain its primitive position near the head. Thus it has been found united to the tongue between the ununited halves of the lower jaw. The high position of the heart is a piscine characteristic. The hearty in defective formation of the Diax)hragm^ may he lod<jed in the abdomen, where it rests upon the liver, in which position it recalls the normal rela- tion exhibited in reptiles. IRREGULARITIES IN" THE AORTA, PULMONARY ARTERY, AND SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The irregularities of the great vessels conform to the following types. They are fifteen in number, and may be briefly described as follows:— Persistence of the fourth pair of vascular arches, and of loth aortic roots (fig. 1, Plate LXII.).—Three or four cases of this malformation have been recorded. The aorta arches to both sides, the union of the right and left arches forming the descending aorta. In these cases the anterior of the two divisions is the true left aorta; for it is situated in front of the trachea and oesophagus, and from it the left carotid and sub- clavian arteries arise. Analogue.—Reptilian type, particularly the variety seen in turtles. Persistence of loth aortic roots, and of the fourth right vascular arch. Entire or partial atrophy of the fourth left arch.—In these varieties the left subclavian artery arises low down, and represents the left aortic root, and passes between the (^esophagus and the spine. Since the left ductus arteriosus is connected with the left fourth vascular arch, it is found that this canal is liable to be modified. It is either patulous, atrophied, or absent. The innominate artery is also absent. Such a fcetus would in all probability have a right ductus arteriosus extending between the fourth and fifth vascular arches. When the atrophy of the left arch is partial, a left innominate artery is present, the left subclavian of course arisino- from it. ' This case is reported hv Wrisborg (Gottingeiische Aiizeigen, 1778). It is rejected, by Tunier (loc. cit.) as being imperfectly recorded. Since its exi^laiiatiou coincides -with that of tlie rep- tilian heart it has been retained as above. Atrophy of the fourth left vascular arch letiueen the origins of the common carotid and subclavian arteries. Persistence of fifth left arch and aortic root (fig. 5, Plate LXIL).—In such rare instances the ascending and descending aortte are detached, while the left subclavian arises from the lower aortic trunk. The descending aorta receives its blood through the pul- monary artery and patulous ductus arteriosus. Atrophy of the fourth left vascular arch leyond the ori- gin of the left sulcldvian. Persistence of the fifth left arch and left aortic root (fig. 2, Plate LXIL).—The aorta ascends and turns to the left so as to form its arch, from which the right innominate, left carotid, and subcla- vian arteries arise. Below the origin of the left sub- clavian the aorta is contracted, the exact position of the contraction varying in different instances. The left aortic root thus forms a "pouch-like" projection from the aortic stem. The ductus arteriosus retains its fcetal proportions, or may contract to a fibrous cord. In the rare event of the left arch being entirely dis- associated with the descending aorta, the ductus arteriosus remains patulous, and supplies the preced- ing vessel from the pulmonary artery, as shown in the preceding section. Transference of the left suhclavian artery at its origin from the fourth to the fifth vascular arch,—The fourth vascular arch is here perfect, but the left subclavian docs not arise from it, but appears to be derived from the ductus arteriosus. The blood from the pulmonary artery and the ascending aorta enters the ductus arte- riosus, and passes thence to the left subclavian artery. Atrophy of the fourth right vascular arch, lut persist- ence of the right aortic root (fig. 3, Plate LXIL).—The right subclavian ordinarily arises from the junction of the transverse with the descending thoracic aorta. It passes obliquely upward and to the right, in front of the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebra?, and behind the trachea and oesophagus (very rarely between these tubes) to the root of the neck on the right side. The innominate is of course absent, the right carotid arising separately from the arch. Persistence of the fifth p>air of vascular arches.—-A single instance is recorded in which the pulmonary artery terminated in part in the right subclavian artery close to its origin from the innominate. Atrophy of the fifth pair of vascular arches.—Oblite- ration of the ductus arteriosus is often due to constric- tion of the pulmonary orifice. Persistence of the primitive aortic septum.—^The two primitive aortse may not entirely coalesce, leaving a longitudinal septum between the two halves. Rarely the aorta presents a septum dividing it350 THE HEART AND T E BLOODVESSELS. internally into two canals, without, however, any external evidences thereof. The presence of the aortic septum is not susceptible of a simple explanation. Its existence at the begin- ning of the aorta is indicative of imperfect division of the truncus communis, by which the formation of the second aorta of the chelonian type has been hinted at, but not accomplished. Its existence in the descending aorta is indicative of imperfect coalescence between the two primitive aortte. Approximcdion and coalescence of ilie innominate and left carotid arteries. Etiology.—Approximation and junction of these arteries are due to the vessel (third left ventral communicating) which connects the third and fourth left vascular arches. This vessel is ultimately developed into the left common carotid artery, which arises so near to the commencement of the fourth left arch that by a slight shortening of the arch it becomes continuous with the fourth right arch. Analogues.—In apes, many rodents, and carnivora. Ap2)roxi7nation and coalescence of the innominate., left carotid, and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—All the branches of the arch arise by a single trunk, which may be called the anterior aorta. No proper arch is formed by the aorta. Analogues.—The division of the aorta into two parts without the formation of a definite arch is the normal disposition in the horse and ruminants. Approxim.ation and coalescence of the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—We have seen that the absence or imperfect development of the fourth left vascular arch may lead to the union of the left subclavian and the left carotid arteries. It may also occur in persistence of both aortic arches. Analogues.—In bats, some of the cetacea, and birds. Separation of the innominate into the right carotid and subclavian arteries. Etiology.—Shortening of the fourth right arch, by means of which both the right carotid and subclavian are brought into contact with the fourth left vascular arch so as to arise from it. The origin of the right subclavian from the right aortic root has been explained above. Analogue.—This disposition is normal in the walrus. Sepjaration of the iymominate into the riyht carotid and subclavian; approximation, and coalescence of the right and left common carotid arteries. Etiology.—The shortening of the fourth vascular arteries at their com- mencement would lead to the coalescence of the two vessels. Analogue.—This disposition is normal in the ele- phant. Separation of the innominate into the right subclavian, and through atrophy of the right commoyi carotid, into the right external and. internal carotid ctrteries. Etiology.— Shortening or absence of the third ventral communi- cating artery. Analogue.—In some cetacea, as the dolphin, the internal and external carotids arise from the innomi- nate artery. The great importance of a knowledge of the meclianism of the heart, as studied in connection with the etiology and symptomatology of its diseases, has been so thoroughly appreci- ated by the profession that there would a[)pear to be no need of epitomizing so important and yet so difficult a subject in this connection. The reader is referred to any of the manu- als of the heart and its diseases, or to the cha[)ters on physi- cal diagnosis of the diseases of the heart in works on the practice of medicine. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. THE PULMOXABY ARTERY. The pulmonary artery (figs. 1 and 3, Plate LVIII.; figs. 1 and 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 3 and 4, Plate LX.; fig. 2, Plate LXI.) arises from the front part of the right ventricle, from which it is separated during the ventricular systole by the semilunar valves. The trunk passes upward and slightly to the left, in front of the origin of the aorta. Its length is from one and a half to two inches. Its circumference above the semilunar valves is two inches and eight and a half lines, and at the point of junction between the infundibulum and the semilunar valves three inches and two and a quarter lines.' The vessel lies at its origin behind the second inter- 1 N. Clievers, Lond. Med. Gaz., 1846, 191. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXL Fig. L The aorta and its branches. Fig. 2. The heart and great vessels, seen in position from tlie left side. Fig. 3. The heart and great vessels, seen in position from the right side.PLATE LXI• Archiv. Generales de Med., 2d serie, t. xii. 1836, 81. 2 London Med. Gaz., 184(), 834. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. c»00^00<i 351 costal space, directly to the left side of tlie sternum, the right margin of the vessel answering nearly to the left border of the bone. On either side of the origin of the vessel lie the two auricular appendages. The margin of the left lung is placed in front of the pulmonary artery. When this is retracted, as in pleurisy, the pulmonary artery lies against the chest-wall. About on a level with the second costal cartilage the vessel divides into two branches—the right and the left pulmonary branches. The right pulmonary branch is the longer and stouter of the two. It passes transversely to the right side, beneath the ascending portion of the aortic arch and superior vena cava, to the root of the lung, where it divides into three branches, which enter the lung substance. The left pulmonary branch is directed less hori- zontally than the right. It passes in front of the left bronchus, behind the ascending portion of the aortic arch, to the left lung, where it divides into two branches before entering the lung substance. The vessel adheres to the arch of the aorta at the point where remains of the ductus arteriosus are found, and passes in front of the descending aorta. The ductus arteriosus thus lies to the left side of the point of division of the pulmonary artery, and joins that artery and the under surface of the aorta. In fcetal life the ductus receives the greater volume of blood flowing through the pulmonary artery. The walls of the pulmonary artery collapse after death.—Both the main vessel and the branches are in relation with the visceral or serous layer of the pericardium.—Filaments of the sympathetic nerve pasvsing to join the coronary plexus lie upon the vessel. Remarks.—The pulmonary semilunar valves are rarely increased to four. The additional valve is generally smaller, though it may be as large as the others.^ Dr. Norman Chevers^ has described a speci- men preserved in the museum of Guy's Hospital, in which the additional valve was without a corpus Arantii, but presented a thin membranous bridle which extended upward from the usual position of the corpus Arantii to the wall of the artery above. This arrangement recalls the normal disposition of the parts as seen in the shark. The pulmonary artery may be double, and yet the heart be normal.—Rupture of the pulmonary artery 1 Dr. .Jenner, Trans. Path. Soc. London, iv. 1853, 102, also C. H. Carter, Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1873, 48. both above and beneath the line of the reflected peri- cardium has been recorded. The plane of the semilunar valves of the pulmonary artery is slightly above the plane of the analogous valves of the aorta. THE PULMONARY VEINS. The Pulmonary veins (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LVIII.; fig. 2, Plate LIX.; fig. 4, Plate LX.; figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXI.)are four in number, two on each side, and are somewhat larger than the corresponding pulmon- ary arteries. They convey arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle. Their course is transversely inward and slightly downward. Their terminal portions, as a rule, are covered in front with the serous layer of the pericar- dium. Those of the right side are longer than those of the left. The vessels on both sides enter the left auricle at the sides, near the summit. The veins may be said to lie behind the third costal cartilage. The radicles of the pulmonary veins within the lung substance lie behind both arteries and bronchi. At the root of the lung the veins lie in front of both artery and bronchus. The right veins pass below the pulmonary artery and behind the suj^erior vena cava, the right auricle, and the ascending aorta. The left veins pass in front of descending aorta. Variations—The pulmonary veins rarely unite to form a single trunk, but more frequently the vessels are increased in number. The pulmonary veins may be two or three instead of four or five in number. Tliey mny, in rare malformations, enter the venae cavii? or ventricles. In transposition of the two sides of the heart, tlie pulmonary veins open into tlie riglit auricle. In a case recorded by Ruval Chassinat,' a single pulmonary vein from the left lung entered the left auricle, while the single vessel from the right lung passed through the Diaphragm, and joined the ascending vena cava. . THE SYSTEMIC ARTERIES. THE AORTA. The Aorta (Plates LVIIL, LIX., LX., LXI.) is the largest vessel in the body. It arises from the sum- mit of the left ventricle, and passes upward and to the right as far as the second costal cartilage. It thence curves upward, backward, and to the left, and descends along the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae as far as a point opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in the two iliac arteries.THE HEAET BLOODVESSELS. 352 AND THE O-OO^OKX^ The aorta is divided by the Diaphragm into two portions, the thoracic and the abdominah The thoracic portion is composed of an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The first two, and the descending portion as far as the fourth or the fifth dorsal vertebra?, constitute the arch of the Aorta. The remainder of the descending portion to the Diaphragm is commonly called the "thoracic portion" proper, in contradistinction to the arch. The "arch of the aorta" and the ''thoracic aorta" will, therefore, be described separately. The arch of the aorta. — This is composed of the ascending^ the transverse, and the descending portions. The ascending portion arises from the base of the heart, a little to the right of the septum. It passes upward, forward, and toward the right border of the sternum at the junction of the second cartilage with the sternum. This portion of the vessel is at first in relation with the different parts of the base of the heart; the infundibulum of the right ventricle and the pulmo- nary artery lying in front.—The pericardium em- braces both it and the pulmonary artery, extending higher upon the former than upon the latter.—The aorta is soon disengaged from these surroundings. It ascends obliquely, and with a slight lateral curva- ture to the right, as far as the second costal carti- lage, as above stated. It lies immediately beneath the sternum, from which, however, it is separated by the anterior mediastinum and the pericardium. To its right is the descendin"' vena cava, and behind is the right branch of the pulmonary artery.—The right side of the ascending portion is often slightly dilated. The transverse portion of the arch lies between the second costal cartilage and the front of the trachea just above its bifurcation, and extends from the right second costal cartilage to the intervertebral substance between the fifth and the sixth dorsal vertebrae. The top of the arch answers to the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and occasionally to the third, and one inch to a half inch below the episternal notch in the adult. According to Sappey, it is nearer by four lines in the aged, and by seven lines in the in- fant. Among the relations of this portion of the aorta may be mentioned the following: Above lies the left innom- inate vein, with which it is connected by fibrous tissue. The innominate artery, the left carotid, and the left sub- clavian arteries arise from its upper surface. Below the transverse portion are seen the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the remains of the ductus arteriosus^ and the left inferior recurrent branch of the pneumo- gastric nerve, as it turns round to ascend the neck. The anterior surface toward its posterior portion is crossed by the left pneumogastric nerve and the phrenic nerves, and by some of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. It is in part covered by the left pleura. The posterior surface lies upon the trachea, as already mentioned, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct.—The arch is slightly depressed during full inspiration. The descending portion of the arch extends from above the tracheal bifurcation at the second dorsal vertebra to the lower border of the third dorsal vertebra. It is here crossed by the left bronchus, and is continuous with the "thoracic aorta." It is in relation on the right side with the cesophagus and the thoracic duct. To its left side is the pleura. Behind are the Longus Colli muscle and the vertebral column. This portion of the aorta is surrounded by a number of dark-colored lymphatic glands. The left bronchus determines both the end of the arch of tlie aorta and the alterations in the relations of the oesophagus.* ' One might, with propriety, speak of the supra-bronchial por- tion of both the aorta and the a3sophagus. EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Scheme of the mode of formation of a double arch of the aorta througii persistence of both fourth vascular arches (see p. 348). Fig. 2. Scheme of the mode of origin of a right aorta, and the origin of the left subclavian artery from a " pouch- like" trunk by the persistence of the left aortic root. Fig. 3. Scheme of the mode of origin of the right sub- clavian artery, as the last branch of the arch of the aorta, through atrophy of the fourth right arch and persistence of the right aortic root. OF PLATE LXn. Fio-. 4. Scheme of the normal mode of development of the arch and great vessels in the mammal (after Ranke). Fig. 5. Scheme of the mode of origin of the descending aorta and left subclavian artery from the ductus arteri- osus and pulmonary artery. Atrophy of the fourth left arch between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. Termination of the ascending aorta in the right sub- clavian and right and left carotid arteries.T SincTjiir i StynXnh.THE SYSTEMIC AETEEIES. * Hommel, Commerc. Litter., Norimb. 1737, 161. 3 Martin MuUer, Arcliiv, 1839, fasc. 3, p. 222. -;x^O^O-Cx= Tlie liability of the left bronchus to compression as com- pared with the right is worth noting. It is the weaker bron- chus ; for in an exact sense the trachea does not bifurcate, but continues both in volume and direction in tiie right bron- clius—the left bronchus being a twig-like growth from the main stem. Hence the smaller volume of the left lung, and, probably, its greater liability to disease. The parts contained witliin or beneath the arch of tlie aorta are:— (1) The right pulmonary artery. (2) The portion of tiie left auricle with wiiich the appendage is connected. (3) The left bronchus. (4) Tiie cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg. (5) The ligamentous remains of the ductus arteriosus. (6) The recurrent branches of the pneumogas- tric nerves. Opposite to tlie position of the semilunar valves, a sligiit constriction of the calibre of the aorta takes place. Directly above the plane of the insertion of the valves the aorta is slightly dilated, forming the sinuses of Valsalva. The aortic semilunar valves are on a level with the top of the body of the eighth dorsal vertebra, and the spine of the sixth dorsal vertebra. In front their position answers to the middle of the sternum, or they may be on a line with the junction of the sternum and the third costal cartilage. The average circumference of the adult aorta above the semilunar valve is two inches and eight and a half lines; and below the valves three inches and a fourth of a line.^ The semilunar valves are rarely two in number; either the right and the left may coalesce, or the pos- terior valve may be absent. Variations of the Aorta The following are among the most striking of the varieties of the arrangement of the aortic arch and its branches :— The right aortic arch present in common with the left. Tiiis is constant in many Batrachia. The arrangement is due to the retention of the fourth right bi'aciiial arch. The ascending aorta forming a ring, which gives off from its periphery tiie subclavian, external carotid and internal carotid arteries. The pulmonary artery passes backward through the ring.' The arch of the aorta crosses tlie trachea just above its bifurcation. The right subclavian and common carotid arteries arise from the posterior and tlie left common carotid, and the left subclavian from the front.' Tiie right aortic arch is persistent, the left is absent. Tliis arrangement is constant in the birds. The arch of the aorta passes behind the trachea. The innominate artery, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian arise from the ' N. Chevers, Loud. Med. Gaz., 1846, 191. 2 Malaoarne, Osservaz. in Chirurg., 1788, ii. 119. 45 begiiuiing of the arch of the aorta in front The left sub- clavian may arise from tlie ascending portion of the aortic arch, and pass to the left behind the trachea. It may also arise from tiie summit of the arch, and the ri^ht subclavian artery take its origin I'rom tlie junction of the arch with the descending [jortion, and pass to the right behind the trachea and oesophagus The right subclavian artery may arise from the descending portion of the aorta, and pass to the right side under the aortic arch The arch of the aorta may yield, in addition to its usual branches, the arteria tiiyroidea ima, and the vertebral artery Tlie innominate artery may be absent, and its place supplied by the right sub- clavian and right common carotid having distinct points of origin. The anterior aortic roots may unite into a single trunk—The left carotid may be united with the innominate. —The left carotid and subclavian may unite to form a left innominate. This is constant in birds The common caro- tids may unite, leaving the subclavians distinct The in- nominate may give origin to the subclavian and carotid arte- ries, leaving the left vertebral to arise separately. In the chests of persons deformed by rickets, the aorta may be so curved as to make its pulsations visible either to the right or left of the sternum, in this way simulating an aortic aneurism. Of tliis pecu- liarity, Barkow' has figured a number of examples, in one of the most remarkable of which the ascending aorta lay directly behind and in contact with the surface of the chest, from the second to the fourth ribs on the right side, and from the second and third ribs on the left. Balfour^ has discussed this subject from a clinical point of view. The aortic bulb may be imperfectly divided, so that a septum is seen within. The anterior roots of the primordial aorta may imperfectly unite, and persist as a septum within the ascending aorta. The division of the aortic bulb into tlie origin of the aorta and the pulmonary artery, while complete, may transpose the vessel in such wise that the pulmonary artery is posterior, and the aorta is anterior. In five cases collected by Albers,' tlie pulmonary artery sprang from the left, the aorta from tiie riglit ventricle; in all death ensued within a few months after birth. In two cases of Fane's, the pulmonary artery arose from both ventricles. " The proper aorta gave off the arteries of the head and of the upper extremities only, and united by a thin branch with the descending aorta, which was derived from the pulmonary artery, ieyond the point where the latter sent of!" its branch to the lung." The Relations of the Aorta sjjeciaUy considered in connection with aortic aneurism.—The portion of the aorta within the 'pericardium differs in some import- 1 Die Verkrummungen der Gefiisse, etc., Breslau, 1869. 2 Diseases of the Heart, etc., London, 1876, 320.THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 354 ant features from the rest of the vesseL It is im- bedded in the body of the heart, being surrounded by the various walls, cavities, and vessels. The right ven- tricle and the auricular appendage of the right auricle are in front of the aorta, the pulmonary artery is on its right side, the right auricle and the vena cava are on its right, and the left auricle and the right branch of the pulmonary artery are behind it. Its outer cover- ing is the inelastic, inextensile serous lining of the peri- cardium. Hence, when this portion of the aorta is the seat of aneurism, rupture occurs either into the peri- cardial sac, or into one of the chambers of the heart. Sibsou^ has concluded, from the study of many cases, that this aneurism ruptured in 80 per cent, of all cases; in 45 per cent, of this proportion the sac opened into the pericardium, in 13.5 per cent, into the pulmo- nary artery, in 8.5 per cent, into the right auricle, in 6 per cent, into the right ventricle, and in 6 per cent, into the left ventricle. The aorta beyond the limit of the pericardium is less liable to rupture under aneurismal distension. The vessel is relatively mobile through its ascending and transverse portions, and varies slightly in position in accordance with the movements of respiration. Thus, the descent of the aorta during inspiration "is much greater than that of the upper portion of the de- scending aorta. The play of the transverse is less than that of the ascending, and greater than that of the descending aorta. During inspiration the ascending aorta is somewhat straightened as well as lowered, and the curve of the arch is rendered more acute."* The explanation of these facts is simple. The aorta, as it approaches the vertebral column, becomes more fixed, and in the descending portion, from the arch downward, is held immobile by the intercostal arteries. For the same reasons the pain of an aneu- rism will be greater when the fixed portion of the aorta is affected. Implication of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves will excite cough and aphonia in thoracic aneurism, and epigastric or general abdominal pain if the lesion be seated in the abdominal region. Pressure over the spinal nerves as thev pass out through the intervertebral foramina Avill excite radi- ating pain, which will be limited by the distribution of the groups of nerves actually compressed. Thus, an aneurism at the beginning of the descending aorta will cause intercostal pain; one further down in the thorax, pain in the parietes of the abdomen; while in the lumbar region, the branches of the lumbar ' Medical Anatomy. 2 Sibson, loe. cit. plexus being compressed, pain will be complained of in the groin and inner part of the thigh. Aneurism of the ascending aorta is apt to be asso- ciated with disease of the heart (the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves being largely interested), and angina pectoris to prove a prominent symptom.— Aneurism of the arch^ and of the great vessels arising from it, would create aphonia and harsh breathing by pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerves.—Aneu- o-ism of the descending portion, in addition to the fixed pain already mentioned, would excite attacks of dyspnoea, palpitation, and angina by pressure on the branches of the spinal nerves going to the cardiac plexuses and to the Diaphragm. The termination of aortic aneurism by rupture of the sac leads to hemorrhage into the numerous ad- jacent structures. Thus, in the ascending aorta, Sib- son found in 57 instances that the sac opened into the pericardium 22 times, externally 8, descending vena cava 5, right lung 5, pulmonary artery 4, left pleura 4, right bronchus 3, left lung 2, right pleura 2, trachea 1, right auricle 1. The most common lo- calities of infiltration from rupture of the descending aorta are the following, named in the order of their frequency : pleura, left bronchus, right lung, left lung, abdomen, retro-peritoneal space, peritoneal cavity, mesentery, left pleura, duodenum, and right pleura. Pressure from an aneurismal tumor may involve any of the adjacent parts; thus, the pulmonary artery may be occluded as well as the oesophagus. The bodies of the vertebraa may be extensively eroded. In the abdomen, the kidneys may be displaced to the side or the front of the sac, or obstruction of the colon may occur. In a case of complete obliteration of the aorta at the ductus arteriosus, recorded by Sydney Jones,^ the collateral circulation was established by the internal mammary arteries anastomosing with the musculo- phrenics, and the branches accompanying the phrenic nerves, as well as with the deep epigastric arteries. The superior intercostal arteries anastomosed with the first aortic intercostal. The last-named vessel joined with a branch of the inferior thyroid artery, ■ and the posterior branch of the aortic intercostal Avith the transversalis colli. The aorta, when ruptured by injury from without, presents a free and unobstructed opening instead of the small one commonly seen in the bursting of an aneurism.^ ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., viii., 1857, 161. 2 Sibson, loc. cit., col. 53.THE SYSTEMIC AKTEKIES. 355 oo<;^C>oc I THE COROXAKY ARTERIES. The Coronary Arteries are two in number, tlie right and the left. They arise from the anterior aspect of the aorta, opposite the two anterior of tlie three sinuses of Valsalva. Both the arteries are very tortuous. The vessels pass downward and slightly outward on either side of the infandibulum.— The right coronary artery is the larger. It arises nearly behind the ini'undibulum, and passes along the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the posterior surface of the heart. Opposite the posterior inter- ventricular groove, it divides into two branches, one descending the groove to be lost toward the apex of the heart, the other passing transversely in the auri- culo-ventricular groove toward the left border of the heart. The branches of the right coronary artery are chiefly distributed to the right ventro-posterior wall of the left ventricle. Several smaller branches supply the left ventricle.—The left coronary artery passes obliquely downward to the left, between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendage. It lies for the most part in the anterior inter-ventri- cular groove. A transverse branch follows the direc- tion of the left auriculo-ventricular groove. The artery supplies the left auricle and the corresponding auricular appendage, and sends some small nutritive branches to the pulmonary artery and the aorta. Notwitlistanding the statement generally made to the contrary, the coronary arteries have a feeble commntiication with one anotiier. The trunks may be three or four in number. The coronary arteries are rarely the seat of aneu- rism, the right vessel being the one more frequently affected. They are peculiarly liable to atheromatous deposit. THE INXOMIXATE ARTERY. The Innominate artery (brachio-cephalic) (fig. 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 1, 2, Phate LXI.) arises from the beginning of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, passes obliquely iipward and backward toward the right, and is the most superficial of the branches of the arch. It measures from one to fifteen lines in length, terminating opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation in the right subclavian and right carotid arteries. Relations In front lie the sternimi, the Sterno-Tliyroid and Sterno-Hyoid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, the left innominate vein, the right inferior thyroid vein, and, in inspiration, the median edge of the right lung. The vessel crosses the trachea obliquely. To the right side, and a little in front of the artery, are tlie right innomi- nate vein and the pleura. The right pneumogastric nerve is seen between the right innominate vein and the artery, but on a lower plane. To the left is the left common carotid, separated by a small triangular interval, within which the trachea appears. To the front and the left on the same side the remains of the thymus may also be seen. In infants, and occasionally in adults, the innominate artery crosses the trachea at a point so near the level of the upper margin of the sternum as to be included within the contents of the base of the neck. A knowledge of this iiict is of great importance to the surgeon, both in the perform- ance and in the after-treatment of tracheotomy. Incautious use of the knife may open the vessel, while the pressure of the tracheal tube may induce ulceration and fatal hemor- rhage. The great vessels do not arise from the arch of the aorta as vertical stems, but are more or less obliquely placed to the arch, forming a cone-like figure whose base is upward. Tlie innominate artery is slightly inclined from the median line toward the right, while the left carotid and subcla- vian are inclined from the median line toward the left. The carotid is nearer to the innominate than to the sub- clavian. According to Richard Barwell,' " if the ascending aorta be severed from the rest, a little to the proximal side of the in- nominate, and we look along the tube of the transverse part, we do not see the orifices of the carotid and subclavian vessels foreshortened into an oval or mere slit, as would be the case if these vessels were given off straight and plumb from the parent stem, but they look nearly round. If a little hole be made in each carotid, just below its bifurcation, and a probe be passed along each common trunk, as far as it will go without the use offeree, and if, then, the front wall of the chest, etc. be removed, and the ascending aorta care- fully opened, the two probes will be found crossing within the vessel. The right one will be seen to pass through the aortic opening, not far from its left margin, and to lie well in the ventricle. The left one will be seen to strike the tendinous ring of the aortic orifice on the right side of the vessel. The probe is never in the axis of the ascending aorta, but strikes the wall at a considerable angle." This writer gives reasons for believing that a concretion detached from an aortic valve almost invariably passes into the left carotid (sometimes into the left subclavian, but into the right carotid only once in twenty-five times), ahd conceives that the current of blood issuing from the aortic orifice fol- lows a course the shortest line of which is in the position of the probe j)assing from the left common carotid to the right of the aortic orifice. The most potent rush of the stream would be, therefore, somewhat obliquely across the ascending aorta in the direction of the left carotid. The artery may lie in front of the trachea. In forced expiration the lung retires from in front of the innominate • Med.-Ciiir. Trans., Ixii. 396.THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 356 ooo^goox:. i artery, where it is possible for the position of the vessel to be detected by a dull percussion note heard over the sternum below the sterno-clavicular junction. THE COMMON CAEOTID ARTERIES. The R'ujlit Common Carotid artery (figs. 1 and 2, Plate LIX.; figs. 1 and 2, Plate LXI.; fig. 2, Plate LXIII.) arises from the innominate artery, while the left common carotid arises from the arch of the aorta. Within the region of the neck, both vessels ascend as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage or the third cervical vertebra, at which point they end, by division, in the internal and external carotid arteries. Relations Each vessel lies on a line midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the lower jaw. Lying deep at the base of the neck, it becomes more superficial on either side of the larynx. Superficially to it lie the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoid muscle, the Platysma-Myoides, the omo-hyoid branches of the superior thyroid vein, and the descendens noni nerve. The thyroid body may slightly overlap it. To the outer side lies the internal jugular vein. Since both the right and the left internal jugular veins terminate toward the right, the left vein tends to cross the carotid at its lower portion. To the inner side lies the trachea. Beneath, and in part to the outer side, is the pneumogastric nerve. The anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae are guides to the position of the vessel. The inferior laryngeal nerve lies behind the carotid. Variations The common carotid normally gives off no branches. Very infrequently the inferior thyroid arises from its lower part. The artery may give off the superior thyroid, and, when on a level with the hyoid bone, may divide into the external and internal carotid branches.^ The termination of the common trunk in the internal and external carotid may occur at a lower point than the one assigned in the text. The vessel may be absent, when both the arteries last named will arise separately from the aorta. The right artery arises from about the level of the second dorsal vertebra. As it lies within the thorax it is more superficial than the left, and is seen at its origin nearly in the median line, but inclines to the right, and' lies at the base of the neck behind the sterno-clavicular articulation. Over it is the right innominate vein. The subclavian vein lies to the outer side. The left artery is longer than the right, and is the more deeply seated. It ascends nearly vertically, and lies on the trachea and oesophagus. Behind it is the thoracic duct. It is crossed by the right inno- ' Jsessel, Archiv fur Anat. und Eiitwickelungsgesphichte, 1878. minate vein. On the outer side lie the pleura and the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves. Remarks—The suppurative processes about the cervical lymphatic glands following scarlet fever may expose and even ulcerate through the walls of the common carotid artery. Mr. Wm. Cayley' has recorded an instance occurring in a boy, aged eighteen, in whom suppuration about the glands at the angle of the right inferior maxilla had excited angina. On the tenth day of the pharyngeal complication a profuse hemorrhage occurred from the throat. Ligation of tlie com- mon carotid was in vain tried to save the life of the yjatient, who died five liours after the operation. At the autopsy the tonsils were enlarged, but not ulcerated. The posterior wall of the pharynx, above and to the left of the soft palate, was perforated by a small ragged opening leading to an irregular cavity two to three inches in diameter. Dii-ectly within this cavity was an opening in the left common carotid artery one- half inch below its point of entrance into tiie temporal bone In a case of cancer involving the pharynx, recorded by E. Desnos,^ death occurred from rupture of the common carotid artery into the pliarynx. The greater frequency with which the left internal carotid artery is plugged by emboli is due to the fact that the left common carotid arises directly from the aorta, while the right arises from the innominate.* When the oblique posi- tion of the innominate artery is recalled, it is evident that a clot thrown into this vessel will not of necessity enter tlie common carotid, and if it does so the fbice carrying it is already somewhat diminis'hed. Ligation of the Common Carotid above the Omo-Hyoid Muscle—An • incision three inches long should be made extending downward from the angle of the inferior maxilla to the cricoid cartilage. The fascia being divided the entire length of the wound, the sheath of the great vessels is ex- posed, the descendens noni nerve being usually seen passing downward upon it. The remaining steps of the operation are the same as in the operation below the Omo-Hyoid. It is well to remember that the communicans noni nerve some- times lies within the sheath. Ligation of the Common Carotid below the Omo-Hyoid Muscle An incision is made parallel to the inner border of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle extending downward three inches from the level of the cricoid cartilage. Tlie fascia is carefully opened at the lower end of the incision, so as to permit the entrance of a grooved director, and is divided the length of the first incision. It is necessary to carefully avoid the anterior jugular vein in this stage of the ope- ration. Retractors are then used to draw the Sterno-Cieido- Mastoid muscle outward and the integument inward. If tiie muscle be unusually well developed, it may be divided to a degree sufficient to secure a free exposure of the deeper 1 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1865, 85. 2 Bull, de la Soc. Anatom., 1878, t. 53, 395. 3 Duret, Archiv. de la Pliys., 1874.357 THE SYSTEMIC AETEKIES. =-OO^OOC parts. A second .ayer of fascia over the Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Tliyroid muscles is next divided, when the sheath of the vessels is exposed. Upon the sheath the descendens noni branch of the liypoglossal is ordinarily seen. Carefully avoiding this nerve, the sheath is opened by making a small puncture, and the ligating needle is passed from without in- ward. The internal jugular vein lying to the outside need not be seen. In some individuals it is seen expanding in inspiration, and collapsing in expiration. The pneumogastric nerve lies beneath the artery. The sympathetic nerve lies still deeper behind the sheath. The proximity of these im- portant structures should make the operator careful in tiie manipulation of the needle in encircling the artery. Collateral Circulation.—Dr. Valentine Mott,' in the dis- section of the head and neck of a man, three months and a half after ligation of the right common carotid artery, found the distribution of the collateral vessels as follows :— The riglit subclavian artery was enlarged to the size of the innominate. The thyroid axis gave oti' four branches—the inferior thyroid, the deep cervical, the transversalis colli, and the supra-scapular. The first two of these were greatly enlarged. The ascending cervical was i-emarkable for being three times its normal size. It formed numerous anasto- moses with the vertebral, and divided into many small branches at the upper part of the neck, and united with the descending cervical branch of the occipital artery. The left carotid was also greatly enlarged, as were all the branches arising therefrom—especially the facial and temporal vessels. Much of the blood from the left carotid passed over to sup- ply the tissues on the right side of the head and neck. Ligation of the common carotid artery is not infre- quently succeeded by hemiplegia. Lefort,'^ in analyzing 241 cases, found cerebral lesions to follow in 75. According to Duret,^ such consequences are due either to an embolus de- tached from a clot above the ligated point, or to complete absence of a collateral circulation. Both the anterior and posterior communicating arteries may be mere threads, or the vessels of one side may be in all their proportions smaller than those of the opposite side. If the trunk carrying the larger volume of blood be ligated, the otiier is not sufRciently capacious to nourish the brain. Extensive atheroma of the arteries of the base of the brain may induce the same lack of nutrition, but the more important source of cerebral anaemia lies in the absence of anastomosis between the arteries of the two sides, as well as between arteries of the same side. THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The External Carotid artery (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIII.) is the median of the two terminal branches of the common carotid artery. It arises opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, and ascends ' Medical and Surgical Register, 1818-20, 49, fig. * Bull, de la Soc. do Chir. iv. See also Gr. W. Norris's Contri- butions to Practical Surgery, p. 256. 3 Archiv. de la Pliys. 1874, 66. the neck between the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles as far as the neck of the lower jaw, where it ends in the internal maxillary and the temporal arteries. It supplies the larynx, the pharynx, the tongue, the facial region, the temples, the external and the middle ear, the occiput, and tlie dura mater. It consists of two portions, that below the parotid gland, or the superficial, and that within the parotid gland, or the deep-seated. Relations.—At its origin the su2icrjicial portion is covered by the skin, the Platysma Myoides, and the cervical fascia. It lies to the inner side of the internal carotid artery, while behind it lies the superior laryngeal nerve. A little higher up the same relations are maintained, with the addition that the Digastric and Stylo-Hyoid muscles are placed supei-jicialhj to the artery. The posterior belly of the Digastric tlius becomes the best guide to the artery. The deep portion of the artery is embraced by tiie cervical lobe of the parotid gland during the remainder of its course. The external carotid artery ordinarily possesses no accom- panying vein. When, however, the internal maxillary vein joins the deep instead of the superficial jugulars, the artery retains the vein in a superficial relation. Variations.— The tendency is for the branches of this artery to unite at or near their origin. The superior thyroid and the lingual may unite, or both of these may join witli the facial, or the facial and the lingual may form a common trunk, while the superior thyroid remains in its usual rela- tion or arises from the common carotid. These tendencies permit the origin of many branches to be sought witii suc- cess in the first or superficial portion of the artery, the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle being a guide to them all. The main trunk of the vessel arising from tiiis cluster of branches may pursue the rest of the course without any branches near its terminal ones. In other instances—indeed, those commonly given as the rule—the branches are given off' at somewhat regular inter- vals along its course. The artery may divide into two branches at the angle of the lower jaw, wliich branches reunite behind the neck of the same bone to form the tem- poral.^ Rarely the internal maxillary pierces the Internal Pterygoid muscle, and thence enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. It may pass between the Digastric and the Stylo- Ilyoid muscles. Ligation of the External Carotid Artery To ligate the vessel below the Digastric, an incision sliould be made along tlie neck midway between the angle of tlie inferior maxilla and tlie Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle to the thyroid cartilage. The Platysma Myoides muscle and the deep fascia must be next divided. The facial and tiie superior thyroid veins and an occasional lymphatic gland may then come into view. The artery is crossed by the posterior belly of tiie Diagstric, and by ' Jaessel, Archiv fiir Anat. und Entwickelungsgescliichte, 1878.358 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. the Stylo-Hyoiil muscle, which must be drawn upward and forward. It is well, when pi-acticable, to expose the vessel at its origin from the common carotid, to be sure of ligating the main trunk below the point of origin of the superior thyroid. The needle should be inserted from without in- ward. The internal carotid artery and possibly the internal jugular vein may be seen, as well as the hypoglossal nerve, which crosses the vessel near the posterior belly of the Digastric muscle. In ligating tiie vessel above the Digastric, the procedures are the same as those above given, witii the exception tiiat the relation with the parotid gland is to be noted, and that this structure should be drawn outward. The point usually selected for the application of the liga- ture is from four to six lines above the point of bifurcation of the common carotid into the external and the internal carotid trunks, and between the origin of the superior thyroid and that of the lingual arteries, a distance of about half an inch. L. R. Longworth' found it to be less than this in eight instances out of twenty-eiglit examinations. The collateral circulation after ligation of the external carotid is readily established through the free anastomosis existing between the branches of the ligated vessel and those of the external carotid of the opposite side. In a ligation of the vessel for an aneurism on the common carotid artery at the origin of tlie external carotid, recorded by Mr. A. Poland, the ligature at first failed to check the bruit.^ This was attributed to the free entrance of blood down the external carotid into the sac. The sac, however, gradually filled with coagula, and a cure resulted. The cervical branches of this artery are capable of form- ing a vascular growth which simulates aneurism of the com- mon carotid artei-y. A case of this kind has been recorded by Kerr.* A woman of thirty-seven was observed to have a small pulsating tumor behind the angle of the inferior maxilla. At the end of three years it began to extend down- ward, and at the age of sixty-seven it had reached the sternum. The common carotid artery was now tied. Nine months afterward the patient died of pneumonia. No aneu- rism was found, but a vascular tumor, as above described, was seen to be supplied by the external carotid artery. The following include the branches of the External Carotid artery :— 1 Arcliives for Scientific and Prac. Med., 1873, 403. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, 1868, 528, 3 Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ. Ixi. ■ cx^o^CXX- Directed inward (medianly). The Superior Thyroid. The Lingual. The Facial. Directed outward (laterally). The Occipital. The Posterior Auricular. Directed upward. The Temporal. The Internal Maxillary. The Ascending Pharyngeal. The branches of the external carotid mostly arise near one another below the parotid or deep portion of the vessel. THE SUPERIOR THYROID ARTERY. This artery arises from the external carotid, on a level with the hyoid bone. It passes forward and downward to supply the hyoid bone, the larynx, and the muscles depressing the hyoid apparatus, and ter- minates in the thyroid gland. As it crosses the interval between the great vessels and the larynx it is curved, with its concavity up- ward. It is covered anteriorly by the superior belly of the Omo-Hyoid muscle, by some small laryngeal veins, and by the Platysma and skin. Its branches are— (a) Hyoid. (b) Muscular. (c) Superior Laryngeal, {(1) Crico-Thyroid. (e) Terminal, (a) The hyoid hrancli passes beneath the Thyro- Hyoid muscle, and supplies the hyoid bone and ad- jacent parts. It is small, and not infrequently effects a direct anastomosis with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Dr. L. S. Pilcher^ reports (not, however, as having occurred in his practice) an interesting case in illustration of the im- portance of this small and apparently insignificant vessel. A child, nineteen months old, who had drawn during in- spiration a portion of a vertebra of a fish within the larynx, 1 Annals of Anat. and Surg., 1881, 160. • EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIII. Fig. Fig. L 2. A diagram of the fojtal circulation. The arteries of the side of the neck and face. Fig. 3. The external carotid artery and its branches.360 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. —■ ooo^ (d) The rcmine or terminal branch lies beneath the tip of the tongue. Its chief importance consists in the danger of excessive bleeding following a wound of the free end of the tongue. In attempts to divide the lingual frenum in so-called "tongue tie," the ranine artery has been wounded, and, the apparently slight hemorrhage being increased by the act of sucking, serious results have been known to ensue. These are avoided by incising the frenum with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and directing the blades down- ward before cutting, while the tip of the tongue is raised. The extraordinai'y independence of the nutrition of the two halyes of the tongue is in part explained by the fact that the right and left lingual arteries have fewer anastomoses than most other arteries. Variations—The lingual artery may lie on the Hyo- Glossus muscle, and be accompanied by the hypo-glossal nerve. It may arise from the internal maxillary artery. It may be absent on one side; the vessel of the opposite side taking its place.' The lingual artery may arise from a com- ■ mon trunk with the facial. It may givy off the facial and the internal maxillary and the ascending pharyngeal arte- ries.—The dorsal bi'anches may be multiple, or may be repre- sented as a union of two or more branches. The hyoid branch may interchange with the crico-thyroidean branch of the superior thyroid artery. Ligation of the Lingual Arte=."y An incision two and a half to three inches in length from the anterior edge of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle directed forward one-half inch below the inferior maxilla and parallel with it, is the best for this operation. The guides for its exposure are first the free end of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and afterward the hypo-glossal nerve as it crosses the sulcus between the region of the larynx and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. The nerve being found, the lingual artery is seen lying below it. For ligation of the artery as it lies under the Ilyo-Glossus muscle, it is necessary to prolong the incision to a point nearer the median line, the head being thrown upward and backward, and carefully maintained in tliis position in order to make the supra-hyoid space as large and as superficial as possible. Tiie guides for the position of the artery are tiie cornu of the liyoid bone and the hypoglossal nerve. The submaxillary salivary gland and its covering of deep cervical fascia being turned upward, the intermediate tendon of the Digastric muscle is seen, above which is the hy- poglossal nerve lying upon the Ilyo-Glossus muscle. The nerve being drawn U|)ward the muscle is divided upon a grooved director, leaving tlie artery exj)Osed beneath. Tiie artery needle is passed from above downward. Mr. Moore^ tied the lingual artery in a case of cancer of " E. Zuckerkan.il, Wien. Merl. Woohensclirift, No. 29, 833, 1881. 2 Proo. Med. and Chir. Soc, 1862. the tongue. The ulcer became paler after the operation, but neither sloughed nor healed, and in five weeks the whole tumor was perceptibly smaller than before the operation. From that time the tumor began to increase, the patient, liowever, having greater comfort than before. THE FACIAL ARTERY. The Facial artery arises from the external carotid above the lingual. The vessel passes upward and for- ward to gain the face, and, assuming a tortuous course, terminates at the side of the root of the nose. It is divided by the edge of the lower jaw into a cervical and a facial portion.—The cervical portion is less tortuous than the facial. It lies upon the Mylo- Hyoid muscle; and toward the lower jaw it is deeply imbedded in the submaxillary salivary gland. The facial j^ortion begins at the base of the lower jaw directly in front of the Masseter muscle. The artery passes upward and forward on the face, at first between the Masseter and Depressor Anguli Oris muscles, afterward beneath the Zygomatic muscles and the elevators of the upper lip. It becomes super- ficial at the side of the nose, where it receives the name of the lateral nasal artery. The branches of the Facial artery are as follows:— {a) The Inferior or Ascending Palatine. (h) The Tonsillar. (c) The Glandular. (d) The Submental. Cervical Branches Facial Branches (e) The Inferior Labial. (/) The Inferior Coronary. {(l) The Superior Coronary. [ (/i) The Angular. (a) The inferior or ascending palatine branch as- cends the neck to the outer side of the Stylo-Glossus muscle to the level of the soft palate. It sends a branch to this latter structure, to the oriticc of the Eustachian tube, and to the tonsil. (I)) The tonsillar branch is the chief source of nourishment of the tonsil. When absent, its place is taken by a branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. (c) The (jlandular branches are numerous. They pass in all directions from the trunk as it is enveloped by the submaxillary salivary gland. (d) The sulmental branch. This is the most im- portant of the cervical branches. It passes forward from the median aspect of the main vessel, to sup- ply the chin and the muscles in the supra-hyoid space. It anastomoses with the vessel of the opposite side. (e) The inferior labial branch is inconstant. It is distributed to the skin and muscles of the chin.THE OCCIPITAL'AETEEY. XSC-^OOC (/) The iv fertor coronary \yva.X].c\\ often arises in com- mon with the succeeding vessel. It supplies the lower lip, Ijiug between the plane of the Depressor Anguli Oris and Depressor Labii Inferioris muscles to the outer side and the mucous membrane to the inner. (ij) The superior coronary branch, somewhat larger than the inferior, supplies the upper lip, occasionally sending small brandies to the nose. Both the preceding vessels anastomose with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side of the face. Hence their name, coronary arteries. This an- astomosis, however, is not invariable. (li) The angular branch. This is the terminal por- tion of the facial. Properly speaking, it is not a branch, but is a continuation of the lateral nasal portion of the vessel. It is situated between the internal canthus and the nose. The vessel anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Tlie surgical bearings of tlie facial artery vary markedly in the cervical and facial portions of its course The cer- vical portion differs in no particular from tlie other cervical brandies of the external carotid. It is surrounded by loose connective tissue, and is protected by the Platysma Myoides and deep fascia If divided just beneath the inferior maxilla, as may readily occur in the operation for excision of tlie latter, the cardiac end of the vessel is apt to retract into the submaxil- lary space.—The position of the coronary arteries witli respect to tlie mucous membrane of the lip is important to remember. Slight wounds of the latter membrane may lacerate these vessels; Erichsen* mentions an instance where the hem- orrhage from a slight lesion of this cliaracter had passed unnoticed until the large amount of blood swallowed had been ejected, wlien the wounded vessel was sought for and se- cured—PortaP alludes to a case in which profuse hemor- rhage followed the opening of a submaxillary aliscess. The blood, it was thought, escaped from the submental artery. The Liyatlon of the Facial Artery Tlie facial artery can be exposed below the jaw by an incision similar to that for tiie lingual artery. Tiie submaxillary salivary gland is the best guide to the position of the vessel. By drawing the gland slightly upward and outward, the patient's head being at the same time thrown ujiward and backward, the vessel can be seen lying within the line of the lower jaw upon the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. The artery, as it passes upon the face, can be easily com- pressed against the lower jaw, and is readily exposed by an incision made directly in front of the anterior border of the Masseter muscle. Variations—The facial may interchange in part with the internal maxillary artery ; the labia! and submental branches 1 System of Surgery, Am. ed., p. 378. 2 Anatomie Meaicale, iii. 166. 46 may interchange among themselves, off the ascending pharyngeal. 361 Tlie vessel may give THE OCCII^ITAL ARTERY. The Occipital arterj^ arises from tlie external caro- tid above or about opposite to the facial. It passes upward and backward, covered by the posterior belly of the Digastric and by the Stylo-Hyoid muscle as far as the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It here runs along a groove behind the digastric groove. It lies beneath the muscles inserted into the mas- toid process, and above the Superior Oblique and Complexus muscles. Toward its termination it be- comes superficial, and reaches the occiput by passing through the Trapezius muscle. It is distributed to the scalp, anastomosing wdth its fellow of the opposite side and with the teinporal arteries. Branches.—The branches of the occipital artery are— (a) Muscular. (h) Auricular. (c) Descending Cervical. (c/) Mastoid. (a) The muscular branches supplv the posterior belly of the Digastric, the Stylo-Hyoid, and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscles. One of them may give origin to the stylo-mastoid artery. (!-■) Tlie auricular branch. This is an inconstant branch supplying tlie auricle and the muscles in- serted into the mastoid process. (c) The descendimj cervical branch (ramus cervicis princeps). This arises under the Splenius muscle. It passes down the neck to anastomose with the super- ficial and deep cervical arteries. {d) The mastoid branch enters the mastoid foramen to supply the diploe, and also sends branches to the walls of the lateral sinus and the dura mater of the occipital fossa. Variations The occipital artery may arise from a trunk in common with the facial. It may give off an accessory ])liaryngeal branch. It may interchange with the deep cer- vical branch of the subclavian, and anastomose at the occi- put with the vertebral artery. The Ligation of the Occipital Artery The occipital artery, as it passes from its origin to the occiput, is deeply situated beneath the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. An incision three inches in length, corresponding to the upper anterior margin of this muscle, will expose the artery as it crosses the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. The parotid gland and its fascia should be drawn well forward and upward. The Stylo-Hyoid and tiie poste-362 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS, . ooO^OC>o- . rior belly of the Digastric muscle will serve as guides to the position of the vessel at the bottom of the wound. Upon the occiput the artery can be reached by an incision two inches long, extending backward from tlie position of the mastoid process. Tlie artery becomes superficial along this line, and can be found lying beneath the aponeurotic fibi-es which extend from the insertion of tlie Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle. At a deeper point between the Splenius and tlie Complexus muscles the artery is more difficult to secure. In the absence of a more definite guide, its pulsation against the occipital bone will serve to indicate its position. THE POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. The Posterior Auricular artery arises from the external carotid, nearly opposite the apex of the styloid process. It at first rests upon the latter structure, and then, penetrating the parotid gland, it becomes superficial between the auricle and the mas- toid process. It ascends the side of the head between these structures, supplying the auricle, and anasto- mosing by its terminal branches with the temporal and occipital arteries. The branches of the artery are— (a) Stylo-mastoid. (h) Auricular. (a) The stylo-mastoid branch enters the foramen of the same name to reach the tympanum. It anas- tomoses with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and supplies the chamber of the tympanum and the tympanic membrane. Twigs supply the mastoid cells. (h) The auricular branches are commonly two in number, an anterior to supply the auricle, and a pos- terior to anastomose with the occipital and temporal arteries, and to give branches to the skin over the mastoid process. Variations The posterior auricular may give off the transverse facial, send a large branch to the occiput, and an encranial branch to the dura mater through the stylo- mastoid foramen. THE TEMPORAL ARTERY. The Temporal artery arises behind the neck of the inferior maxilla, or between it and the auricle. It ascends vertically in the retromaxillary space, is sur- rounded by the lobules of the deep portion of the parotid gland, and, passing over the zygomatic arch to the region of the temple, lies between the skin and the'superficial fascia. At a point about an inch above the zygoma it divides into two terminal branches, the anterior and posterior temporal arteries. The branches of the temporal are— {a) Glandular. (li) Muscular, (c) Auricular. {d) Transverse Facial, (e) Middle Temporal. (/) Anterior Temporal. {(j) Posterior Temporal. («) The glandular branches comprise several small twigs for the parotid gland. {h) The muscular branches are two or three small branches for the Masseter muscle. (c) The awicular hvauches supply the anterior por- tion of the auricle. ((/) The transverse facial branch passes directly forward within the substance of the parotid gland, over the parotid duct, or between it and the zygoma and Masseter muscle. It aids in supplying the super- ficies of the face (including the Orbicularis Palpebra- rum, Zygomatici, and Levator Anguli Oris muscles), and anastomoses with the facial, buccal, and infra- orbital branches of the internal maxillary arteries. (e) The middle temporal branch pierces the deep temporal fascia to give branches to the Temporal muscle. It often sends an anterior (orbital) branch to the Orbicularis Palpebrarum muscle. (/) The anterior teviporal branch, larger and more tortuous than the posterior, passes obliquely forward and upward over the deep temporal fascia, supplying branches to the anterior portion of the superficies of the temporal region. It anastomoses with the facial, frontal, and posterior temporal arteries. [g) The posterior iemjjoral, smaller and straighter than the anterior, passes upward toward the vertex of the skull. It anastomoses witli the occipital, the posterior auricular, and the anterior temporal. Variations The temporal artery in part interchanges with the internal maxillary. It sends an occasional small encranial branch to join tlie great meningeal artery. The transverse facial may infrequently be of increased size ; no- tably in connection with imperfect development of the facial. Under the name of the zygomatico-orhitalis, a branch lias been described which occasionally arises from the main trunk of the temporal immediately after it passes over the zygomatic arch. It passes forward toward the ui)per margin of the orbit, where it anastomoses with the lachrymal, frontal, and anterior temporal arteries.—The temporal artery is very tortuous in aged persons. Arteriotomy The jiractice of opening the temporal artery to relieve congested conditions in the temporal region and orbit is well sustained on anatomical grounds. It has been seen that the anastomoses with branches of the internal max- illary and ophthalmic artery are decided. The blood supply363 of the outer portion of the orbit is subject to much varitUion. Tlie laclirynial gland and the parts adjacent are apt to derive much of tiieir blood supply irom the terminal branches of the external carotid artery. Hence the " temporal pulse," or the pulsation of the anterior temporal artery, is of great importance in ascertain- ing the degree of vascular turgescence of the orbital con- tents. In both intra-ocular and peri-ocular pressure the pulse is tense and bounding. The practice of opening the artery has been superseded of late by leeching and deep scarifica- tion, and by the use of tlie artificial leech. Should it be deemed advisable to open the vessel, it is important to bear in mind that, while it is readily compressed over the zygomatic arch, it would be inadvisable to attempt its divi- sion at that place, since the retraction of the divided ends has been followed by hemorriiage and abscess. Mr. Har- rison narrates a case in wliich varicose aneurism followed such practice. The anterior branch should in all cases be selected. Ligation of the Temporal Artery A vertical incision one inch in length above the zygoma and near the ear will be in the line of the position of this arterj'. Division of the temporal aponeurosis is next necessary, with careful isola- tion of the vessel from the small twigs of temporal nerves. The temporal artery, as it lies imbedded in tlie parotid gland, becomes an important vessel in operations upon the gland. Owing to its deep position, and its varied and im- portant surroundings at this point, the vessel is never here exposed witli a view to its separate ligation. THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. This is the largest of the branches of the external carotid. It arises behind the parotid gland, and passes forward in a tortuous manner to supply, for the most part, the deeper structures of the facial region. It is, from this fact, often called the deep facial artery. It is customary to divide the artery for description into three portions:— 1st, that which lies behind the neck of the inferior maxilla. 2d, that which traverses the interval between the neck and the superior maxilla. 3d, that which lies within the region of the supe- rior maxilla. The branches of the artery are as follows:— 1st portion f [a) Tympanic, (branches passing J (i) Middle or Great Meningeal, through osseous | (c) Small Meningeal, openings). |^ [d) Inferior Dental. 2d portion f (e) Deep Temporal, (branches not pass- J (/) Pterygoid, ing through osse- | (<■/) Masseteric, ous openings). (li) Buccal. 3d portion (branches again passing through osseous openings). [i) Alveolar or Superior Max- illary branch. (/) Infra-Orbital, (/b) Descending or Superior Palatine. (Z) Vidian. (?n.) Pterygo-Palatine. [n) ISTasal or Spheno-Palatine. (a) The tympanic branch enters the chamber of the tympanum through the fissure of Glaser, and supplies the membrane of the tjnnpanurn. It sup- plies the Laxator Tympani, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch and with the Vidian arteries. (L) The middle^ or great menirKjeal branch, ascends obliquely to the base of the skull, through a loop of the auricalo-temporal nerve, enterin'g the spinous foramen of the sphenoid bone to be received in a groove upon the inner surface of the greater wing. From this point it ascends the lateral wall of the cranium in a series of divergent grooves which range chiefly upward and backward upon the inner surface of the parietal bone. The artery supplies the dura mater and the diploe. Minute branches pass to the lachrymal gland, to the ganglion of the fifth pair of nerves, and through the hiatus Fallopii, beyond which they anastomose with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. Before entering the skull the arteries send small branches to the Pterygoid muscles and adjacent parts. The great meningeal arter}' ™<'iy supply the lachrymal gland to the exclusion of the ophthalmic. In rare instances, where the latter artery is absent, the great meningeal sup- plies its place. Quain gives an example in which deficiency of the internal carotoid had resulted in two tortuous branches from the internal maxillary, which entered the skull by the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale to supply its place. Karely branches of the encranial portion of the artery, according to Hyrtl,^ will perforate the wall of the skull, and anastomose with the deep temporal branches of the main trunk. The grooves receiving the terminal portions of the artery are often at intervals converted into bony canals. In dis- eased conditions this tendency is exaggerated. The distri- bution of ostitis dependent u])on constitutional causes, sucii as syphilis and scrofula, is frequently determined in the skull by the course of this vessel witliin the sphenoid and parietal bones. The intimate relations existing between this vessel and the diploe afford an easy ex[)lanation of the occurrence of compression of the brain after tlie reception of blows upon the side of the head. According to Mr. Prescott Hewett,''' out of thirty-one cases of fracture of the skull, accompanied by extensive extravasation, the blood had proceeded from the ' Oesterr. Zeit. fur prakt. Heilkunde, 1859, Nos. 9, 30, 39. ^ Holmes's System of Surgery, ii. 106.THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 361 000^00= great meningeal in twenty-seven cases. In the language of the same writer, " The spot usually referred to in extra- vasation of blood fromi the middle meningeal artery is the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone; but extensive extravasations may occur from this vessel or some of its branches over pretty nearly the whole of the lateral surface of the skull. In fractures involving the middle fossa, the most common of all the iVactures of the base of the skull, this vessel may be torn across in any part of its course between the foramen si)inosum and tlie antero-inferior angle of the parietal. And in the middle fossa of the skull, it frequently happens that the middle meningeal artery divides into two large branches of equal size, one proceeding to the antei-o-iuferior edge of the parietal, and the other passing much more posteriorly, and sending large ramifications over the whole of the parietal and corresponding parts of the frontal and occipital bones. A fracture running across any of these large branches may give rise to an extensive extra- vasation of blood." Aneurismal tumors have rarely been found upon the artery as it lies within the groove of the parietal bone. (c) The small menhvjeal artery (tneningea parva) often arises from the preceding. It euters the cra- nium through the foramen ovale, and supplies the dura mater of the middle cerebral fossa and the gan- glion of the fifth cranial nerve. {(1) Hh.Q inferior dental branch arises from the main trunk opposite the middle meningeal. It passes obliquely downward and forward between the inter- nal lateral ligament and the neck of the lower jaw to the posterior dental foramen, through which it enters the inferior dental canal in compaiiy with the inferior dental nerve. At the position of the mental fora- men it divides into its terminal branches. One branch effects its exit at the foramen to supply the adjacent soft piarts, and to anastomose with the facial; the other continues within the cancelli of the lower jaw as far as the symphysis. The main trunk, while within the dental canal, gives off nume- rous minute branches for the supply of the bone and teeth ; the latter twigs penetrating the foramina at the tips of the roots of the teeth. Before entering the inferior dental canal the artery gives off the mylo-hyoid branch, which runs along the groove of the same name in company with the mylo- hyoid nerve. It supplies the Mylo-Hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth. (e) The deejj teviporal branches. These are two in number, the anterior and the posterior. The poste- rior ascends between the Pterygoid muscles to the lower part of the Temporal muscle, as it arises from the temporal fossa. The anterior deep temporal ascends in the anterior or sphenoid portion of the temporal fossa. It com- monly perforates the orbital se})tum to reach the lachrymal gland. Both deep temporal arteries supply chiefl}^ the Temporal muscle, occasionally aiding in nourishing the diploe. (/) The '[)tery(joid branches, as the name implies, go to the Pterygoid muscles. ((/) The masseteric branch passes outward through the sigmoid notch to reach the Masseter muscle. It anastomoses with the transverse facial artery. Velpeau^ asserts that this vessel is necessarily com- pressed and possibly ruptured in dislocation of the jaw. (A) The buccal branch passes forward to the tissues of the cheek in company with the buccal nerve. After supplying the Buccinator muscle and mucous membrane of the-cheek, it pierces the former to anas- tomose with the transverse facial. (/) The alveolar or superior maxillary hrav.ch.. This artery often arises in common with the infra-orbital. It descends upon the tuberosity of the superior max- illa, and enters special canals to reach the roots of the molar and bicuspid teeth. It also supplies the mu- cous membrane of the maxillary sinus, and the gum. ( /) The tn/ra-oj-bitalhraxich passes forward in com- pany with and above the infra-orbital nerve. It traverses the entire length of the infra-orbital canal, and terminates at the infra-orbital foramen by two small twigs, an ascending and a descending branch. The ascending branch supplies the lachrymal sac and adjacent structures, anastomosing with peripheral twigs of the facial and ophthalmic arteries. The de- scending branch lies upon the Levator Anguli Oris, and anastomoses with the facial artery. The artery in the canal sends important branches to the front teeth and lining membrane of the maxil- lary sinus. It also sends small branches upward to Gupply the Inferior Pectus and the Inferior Oblique muscles of the eye. (Jc) The descending jialatine branch descends in the posterior palatine canal to the hard palate. It passes horizontally forward along the lateral aspect of the hard palate, grooving the bone, to the incisive fora- men, in which it terminates by anastomosis with the nasal branch. It supplies the gum-tissue of the upper jaw, hard palate, and alveoli. Within the posterior palatine canal it commonly sends a small branch to the mucous lining of the nasal chamber. It anastomoses with the pharyngeal branch of the facial, or, in the absence of this branch, it sends a posterior division to the site of the pharynx, tonsil, and velum palati. This distribution is given as the normal one by most German authors. 1 Chir. Anat., i. 90.865 THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. (0 The Vidian branch enters the canal of the same name to supply the npper part of the pharynx, the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and tlie Levator Palati muscles. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyn- geal and stylo-mastoid arteries. (m) The pteryyo-ixdatine branch is often a brancb of the spheno-palatine. It enters the canal of the same name to supply the sphenoial cells and adjacent portion of the pharynx near the posterior nares. {n) The nasal or S2'>heno-palatine branch is the ter- minal branch of the internal maxillary artery. It enters the nasal chamber by the spheno-palatine fora- men. The main brandies supply the septum of the nose, the maxillary sinus, and the turbinated bones, and anastomose anteriorly with the terminal branches of the posterior palatine artery. Remarks Clieselden narrates a case of fatal liemor- rhage in excision of tlie tonsil, attributed to the division of a branch of the internal maxillary artery.' The artery was divided by Shuli'' in attempting a division of the fifth nerve for neuralgia. The accident necessitated the ligation of the internal carotid artery. Death fi'om septictemia ensued at the end of the fourth month. An aneurism of the artery may form a tumor in the region of the temple. A case is on record of this affection occurring in a young woman. A knife was thrust into the swelling by the medical attendant, mIio mistook it for an abscess.^— A. C. Castle^ has recorded an example of an aneurism of the descending jjalatine branch. Forming a conspicuous swelling on the hard palate, the tumor was incautiously opened, when a quantity of blood escaped sufficient to fill at once the moutli ami throat of the patient. After plugging the wound with cork, the hemorrhage was permanently controlled. Variations.—The brandies of the artery, viewed as a M'hole, interchange in part with the facial, the lingua!, the ophtlialmic, and the temporal arteries The encranial branches are often in excess, and may interchange with the internal carotid artery of the same side; partial parallelism exists between the varieties of the veins and arteries about the temi)oral bone. See an account of the connection be- tween the development of the brain and the disposition of the primitive venous trunks of the embryo under descriptions of the Veins. THE. ASCENDIXG PIIATIVNGEAL ARTERY. This small vessel arises from the external carotid near the origin of the internal carotid. It ascends toward the base of the skull between the internal surface of the Internal Pterygoid muscle and the 1 Portal, Anat. Med. ih'. 183. 2 Rosenthal's Aiiatomie, ii. 209. 3 Arcliives Ggiievalcs de M6decine, xvii. 593. * Lancet, 1850, vol. ii. 15. posterior wall of the-pharynx. After supplying these structures and the deep lympliatic glands it anasto moses with the descending cervical artery. It also yields small inconstant branches to the superior cer- vical sympathetic ganglion, and to the dura mater through the anterior condyloid foramen. Remarks W. M. Baker' records a case of a'f'emale who fell to the ground while holding a tobacco-pipe in her mouth. Some swelling of the tlu'oat followed. On the fourth day a hemorriiage occurred through the mouth, which recurred the following day, death taking jjlace the same evening. At the post-mortem examination a wound was found in the side of the oro-pharynx, and it was concluded that the bleeding had taken [dace from the opening made in the ascending phar- yngeal artery at tlie time of the fall. The internal carotid artery was uninjured. Tlie furious bleeding which sometimes occurs after the removal of an enlarged tonsil by the knife is sup[)0sed to arise from tiie terminal twigs of the ascending pharyngeal artery, or from a free arterio-veiious anastomosis of excep- tional cliaracter. Variations The ascending pharyngeal may interchange with branches from the facial, the lingual, and the occipital arteries. It may penetrate the base of the skull, and supply the walls of the cavernous sinus. THE INTERNAL CAROTID. The Internal Carotid Artery (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIIL; figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXIV.) is the axial con- tinuation of the common carotid. Together with its branches it supplies the brain, the orbit, the region of the forehead, and in part the nasal chamber and the external nose. It begins on the level of the upper border of the thyroid body, and ascends the neck nearly vertically, with a slight curve, to the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it enters the carotid canal. Directly after its entrance the artery is directed abruptly forward and inward, to become again vertical as it escapes from the inner end of the carotid canal over the tissue occupying the foramen lacerum medium. It is now received within the cavernous sinus, and lies in the groove on the outer side of the body of the sphenoid bone. For the third time it assumes a vertical position, and pierces the dura mater near the anterior clinoid process behind the optic foramen, there to divide into its branches. The arterv thus has five windings or curves. To these Portal adds a sixth, where the vessel lies over the foramen lacerum medium. Relations—The internal carotid artery fakes its origin at a point where the cervical relationships are becoming ' Si. Bartliolomew's Hosp. Rep. 1&7(3; 1G3.366 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. OOO^OOo . complicated by the proximity of the lower jaw, and the sub- maxillary region. It lies on the slips of origin of the Longus Colli muscle, and on the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrce. Behind it are the superior cervical ganglion, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogasti-ie nerve. Near its origin the artery is covered by the inner margin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle, the Flatysma- Myoides muscle, and fascia. These relations are the same as those of the common carotid. It is soon removed from the surface by important structures crossing it obliquely to or from tlie submaxillary region ; the occipital and the posterior auricular arteries passing outward, while the hypo-glossal and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, the Digastric, the Stylo- Hyoid, tiie Stylo-Glossus, and tiie Stylo-Pliaryngeus muscles pass inward. The artery lies near the lateral wall of the pharynx above the outer side of tlie tonsil. The ascending pharyngeal artery lies as a rule beneath it and to the inner side. The external carotid vessel is usually placed on its inner side with the Stylo-Glossus and tlie Stylo-Pharyngeus muscles, and with a portion of the parotid gland. The internal carotid artery is on a [)lane more superficial than the external, and it may be in front of the latter. Slight inward deflection of the internal carotid will place the trunks of these two vessels at an acute angle. In the course of opei'ations upon the neck the two trunks have been from this cause occasionally confounded. By separating the sus- pected vessel from its surroundings for a siiort distance, the many-branched external carotid will enable the operator easily to distinguish it from the branchless internal carotid. The internal carotid artery has on either side a filament of the sympathetic nerve derived from the superior cervical ganglion ; the two filaments unite with others ovei; the artery to constitute the carotid plexus which enters the carotid canal with the artery. Within the cavernous sinus the artery lies to the inner side, and is covered by a layer of the dura mater which passes a short distance within the cai'otid canal. Tiie third, fourth, and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve, lie to its outer side. Remarks.—The internal carotid artery in the 7ieck is occasionally tortuous just before entering the carotid canal, or, as the result of obstruction in the cerebral circulation at and after middle age, the in- ternal carotid artery may undergo dilatation. The dilated portion is usuall}' about three-fourths of an inch in length, and invariably involves the first part of the vessel, and sometimes the common carotid at tlie point of division, the remaining portion of the vessel having a normal appearance. Since it is not found in infancy, the dilatation may be assumed to be an acquired condition. The relations which exist between the degrees of tortuosity, or dilatation or division of the internal carotid in the neck, should alwaj^s be studied in con- nection with the bloodvessel supply of the thyroid body. Observers have generally been of the opinion that the thyroid body served as a diverticulum to the current of blood ascending the neck to the head. A connection could probably be established between the calibre of the vessel before entering the carotid canal and the condition of the thyroid bod}^, since anomalies of this body are often associated with ir- regularity of the common carotid and vertebral arteries. It has been estimated by Luschka that the sum of the transverse sections of the thyroid arteries equals the sectional area of the internal carotid artery of the same side, so that through the four arteries sup- plying the thyroid body nearly as much blood passes as goes to supply the brain through the vertebral and internal carotid arteries. The vessel may divide into two terminal branches within the cavernous sinus, but these rarely corre- spond to an equal number of openings in the dura mater. Some of the most important relations of the inter- nal carotid artery in the neck are with the pharynx. It has been seen that the vessel lies directly to the outer side of the tonsil. Incautious lancing of this body has been knoAvn to open the internal carotid, as is narrated by Beclard.^ Similar lesions have fol- lowed upon wounds from fragments of pipes, etc. Sloughing of the lymphatic gland beneath and be- hind the inferior maxilla has also been known to cause hemorrhage from the upper portion of the trunk. Mr. Jas. Nicholls^ met with this lesion in a girl fourteen years of age, convalescent from scarlet fever. Notwithstanding the depth at which the internal carotid artery lies, it may be exposed along its entire length by lacerated wounds of the upper part of the neck. This statement receives confirmation from a case recorded by Dr. A. Twitch ell.^ A young man, aged twenty, was wounded by the wadding of a pistol discharge. The wound involved the parotid gland, the Temporal, Masseter, and Pterygoid muscles, and, be- sides fracturing the superior maxilla, severed the ex- ternal carotid arterj'- and penetrated the larynx. The internal carotid artery Avas exposed from near the bifurcation of the common trunk to the point where it curved to enter the canal in the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The vessel ulcerated. The com- mon carotid was ligated and the patient recovered. The relations of the internal carotid artery in the head, and particularly at the base of the skull, as ' Blaiiiiin. Anatomie Topographique, 89. 2 St Cxeorge's Hosp. Rep., iv. 1869, 211. ' N. Y. Journ. Med. 1857, 13, paper by Jas. R. Wood.THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 367 OOO^CxZ'O the vessel enters it througli the carotid canal, are of great importance in studying aneurism of this vessel. The sac has been known to press the optic nerve downward and stretch its fibres, to absorb the body of the sphenoid bone, and to create a cavity within the anterior perforated space of the cerebrum of its own side, as Avell as to obliterate the adjoining roots of the corresponding olfactory nerve and the anterior part of the corpus striatum.^ In other instances the effects of the pressure have been most evident in the cavernous sinus, and upon the ganglion of the fifth nerve.^ The symptoms created by the above lines of pressure are as follows: Pressure on the optic nerve will induce blindness; on the cavernous sinus, venous stasis in the orbit, cedema of the eyelids, and optic neuritis. Pressure on the nerves passing through the cavernous sinus or in its outer wall will, if slight, affect the sixth only (since this of all the cranial nerves is the most exposed ), when the External Rectus muscle will be paralyzed and internal strabismus will follow. If the pressure prove excessive, the third and even the fourth nerves will suffer, Avith consequent paraly- sis of the remaining periocular muscles, together with dilatation of the pupil or sloughing of the cornea. It may be expected, therefore, as a result of aneur- ism of the terminal portion of the internal carotid artery, that the case will include one or more of the following symptoms: neuralgia, referable to the fifth nerve, corneal sloughing, ptosis, fixation of the eye- ball or converging strabismus, and amaurosis. Tumors, other than those of an aneurismal nature, may also compress the internal carotid at the base of the skull. Among these may be mentioned growths originating in the body of the sphenoid bone, in the pituitary body, and in the cavernous sinus.^ Pollock found the artery, in fracture of the skull in a male, ruptured nearly one-half of its circumference, at a point a little beyond the carotid groove of the sphe- noid bone. Under the head of the temporal bone, instances of fatal hemorrhage, excited by the laceration attending the removal of the necrosed bone, have been cited. When the relations of the temporal bone to the artery are considered, such a lesion would appear to be inevitable. The proximity of the trunk of the internal carotid artery to the ear has induced aurists to seek for the cause of one form of tinnitus aurium in the conduc- » Mr. Moore, Tr. Path. Soc. London, i. 243. 2 Jas. Adams, Lancet. Dec. 18G9, 76(1. M. H. Romberg Nervi Quinti specimen, Berlin, 1840, fig. 3 Virchow's Archiv, 1870. NeuraL tion of the pulsations of this vessel directly to the auditory nerve. The internal jugular vein, a small artery occasionally passing through the stapes, and even the posterior auricular branch of the external carotid, have been held by various observers to cause similar vascular murmurs; and, while no proof has been presented to show that such may be the case, it is highly probable that under abnormal conditions noises may be transmitted to the ear from the vessels in its neighborhood. Variations—The branches of tlie internal carotid artery in the neck may interciiange in part with the superior larj'n- geal, the ascending pharyngeal, the occipital, and tiie trans- verse facial branch of tiie temjioral. The encranial branches may interciiange among tiiemselves, and a separate encranial branch may anastomose witli a branch of the posterior auri- cular and the internal maxillary arteries. The branches of the internal carotid artery are— {n) The Tympanic. (/;) The Branches to the Dura Mater, (c) The Ophthalmic. {d) The Anterior Cerebral, (e) The Anterior Communicating. (/) The Middle Cerebral. (,'/) The Posterior Communicating. (//) The Choroid. (/) The Anterior .Choroid. («) The tympcmic arises from the carotid artery as it lies within the carotid canal. It is'a minute twig, which pierces the roof of the canal, and supplies the membrane of the tympanum. It anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid. Vidian, and tympanic branches of the internal maxillary artery. (l)) The Iranches to the dura mater. Within the cavernous sinus a small vessel supplies the dura mater defining the sinus. In addition it sends twigs to the dura mater about the pituitary fossa, the.pitui- tary body, and the ganglion of the fifth nerve. A twig passes to the tentorium, and anastomoses in the middle cerebral fossa with the great meningeal artery. J. Sapolini' pro[)Oses for the brandies of tlie twig supply- ing the region of the pituitary fossa the name of the rayed arteries (arteres rayonnees). One twig passes along the pathetic nerve, and one to the basilar process. Duret found the internal carotid furnishing minute branches to the optic chasm at its outer border. It may rarely send two twigs to the striated body, wliich it reaches through the anterior perforated space. ' L'Aire de la Selle Turcique, Brussels, 1880, 46, fig.868 THE HEA-ET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. Portal' asserts that a minute ai'tery pierces the internal auditory canal to reacli tlie tympanum ; a second enters the posterior orifice of tlie pterygoid canal to anastomose with the pterygoid* artery ; a third ascends to tiie cranium through the sphenoidal foramen after having given a branch which accompanies the branch of tiie nerve which unites the sympathetic with the pathetic, and after having furnished various branches to the din-a mater. Other twigs anastomose with the recurrent branches of the oplithalmic artery. The ascending pharyngeal and occipital arteries are occasionally given oft" from the internal carotid. (c) The ophthalmic artery. The ophthalmic artery arises from the internal carotid just before it divides into the anterior and the middle cerebral. It takes its origin from the last curve of the vessel directly after it has pierced the dura mater, on a level with the anterior clinoid process of the splienoid bone. It lies over the cavernous sinus at the base of the skull, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, beneath and to the outer side of the nerve, but within its sheath. Soon after entering the orbit it escapes from the sheath, and crosses the nerve obliquely to get to the inner wall of the orbit, along which it passes between the Internal Rectus and Superior Oblique muscles to the trochlear process where it terminates by division into the frontal and nasal branches. The ophthalmic artery gives off the following branches:— (1) Laclirymal. (2) Posterior ciliary. (8) Supra-orbital. (-1) Central retinal. (5) Posterior ethmoidal. (6) Anterior ethmoidal. (7) Palpebral. (8) Muscular. (9) Frontal. (10) Nasal. (1) The lachrymal artery^ the largest branch of the ophthalmic, passes along the outer wall of the orbit, above the External Rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland, to which it gives numerous branches, and ' Anatomie Medicate. escapes upon the upper eyelid to terminate in the external palpebral. The lachrymal, not far from its origin, sends a recurrent branch through the anterior lacerated foramen to the dura mater to anastomose with the middle meningeal artery. The malar fora- mina convey other branches to the temporal fossa and the face. The lachrymal artery also sends branches to the periosteum of the outer wall of the orbit, to the External and Superior Rectus, and to the Levator Palpebrte. (2) The posterior ciliary branches. These are divided into a short and a long set. The vessels of the short set, varying from four to ten in number, arise from the main artery as it crosses the optic nerve, and pursue a tortuous, somewhat spiral course forward through the fat surrounding the optic nerve to pierce the sclerotic coat about the point at which the nerve efiects its entrance. They are dis- tributed to the choroid coat. The vessels of the lona: set are two in number. They penetrate the sclerotic coat near the preceding on either side of the eyeball between the sclerotic and choroid coats as far as the ciliary ligament, where each divides into two branches, an upper and a lower. These branches, uniting with the corresponding twigs of the opposite side, consti- tute a circle from which the iris receives its blood. (3) The supra-orhitallranch passes forwai'd, between the roof of the orbit and the elevator of the lids, to the supra-orbital foramen, within which it sends a small branch to the diploe of the frontal bone. It then divides into a superior and a deep branch; the former, the larger of the two, goes to the Occipito- Frontalis muscle and to the integument; the latter to the periosteum of the frontal bone. (4) The central retinal artery. This minute vessel arises from the ophthalmic artery. It enters the optic nerve obliquely from beneath, and passes along the centre of the nerve to enter the eyeball. It supplies the retina and the hyaloid membrane. In the foetus the vessel is prolonged through the centre of the vitreous humor, and is lost upon the posterior cap- sule of the lens. (5) The posterior ethmoidal Iranch is of variable size. ' It passes to the inner wall of the orbit, and enters the EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIV. Fig. 1. A section of the cerebrum, showing the position of tlie choroid plexus. Fig. 2. The ophthalmic artery and its branches. Fig. 3. The circle of Willis. The anterior communicating artery has been represented many times too wide.PLATE LXIV. Fig ,3369 THE MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY. posterior ethmoidal foramen to supply tlie posterior ethmoidal cells and the dura mater. (6) The anterior etlimoidalhr and I is generally larger than the preceding. It enters the anterior ethmoidal foramen, and passes, in company with the nasal nerve, through the anterior foramen of the cribriform plate, to the nose. It supplies a branch to the superior and middle turbinated bones and a small twig to the roof of the nasal chamber and the septum, where it anas- tomoses with the spheno-palatine artery. (7) The palpebral arteries. These are the terminal twigs of the main trunk, and supply both upper and lower lids, the tarsal cartilages and glands. The external palpebral and internal palpebral twigs anas- tomose one with another. (8) Muscular branches. In addition to those already described as branches of the lachrymal, twigs arise from the main trunk which are distributed to the inner, superior, and inferior periocular muscles. (9) The frontal artery winds round the inner edge of the supra-orbital margin of the orbit, furnishes branches to the inner part of the upper lids, and divides into branches which are lost beneath the skin of the lid and the forehead. A few twigs are distributed to the nasal slip of the Occipito-Frontalis muscle. (10) The nasal branch pierces the Orbicularis Palpe- brarum over the internal palpebral ligament, and passes down alono- the root of the nose to anastomose with the terminal angular branch of the facial. Occasion- ally a vessel is seen crossing the bridge of the nose to join the vessel of the same name of the opposite side. Branches also go to the lachrymal sac and canal, to the lachrymal caruncle, and to the origin of the Orbicularis Palpebrarum. The ophtliahnic artery with its field of distribution has been compaied to a cone wliose general figure answers to tiiat of the orbit, and which retains the central retinal artery as an axis. In reviewing its branches, it is seen that distinct branches are reserved to the eyeball and its appendages. Important anastomoses are observed at the root of the nose, between branches of the external carotid, the facial and the nasal, the ethmoidal, and the spheno-palatine arteries. It appears never to anastomose with the anterior or the niidJIe cerebral artery. Nunneley^ lias described an example of aneurism affecting the encranial portion of the artery. The ophthalmic artery may effect an important anas- tomosis with the middle meningeal, and in a measure interchange with this vessel. In orbital aneurism it is probable, therefore, that branches of the middle meningeal would be found enlarged. 47 ' Trans. Path. Soc. 1860, xi. 8, fig. (</) The anterior cerebral artery. The anterior cere- bral artery arises from the carotid, nearly at a right angle to that vessel, and forms with the middle cere- bral an obtuse angle open forward and outward, and directed toward the rostrum of the corpus callosum. After curving forward round the anterior extremity of this body, near and parallel to the corresponding artery of the opposite side, it divides into three or four branches which supply the frontal lobe, the parietal lobe as it appears within the longitudinal fissure, and the corpus callosum. In addition to this distribution, the vessel supplies the optic nerve of the same side, the rostrum as well as the main portion of the corpus callosum, and the caudate nucleus. The su[)ply of the latter may, however, be derived from the middle cerebral artery. The terminal twigs may supply the pineal gland, and even reach the posterior cerebral commis- sure. Aneurism, at the basal portion of the artery, press- ing upon the seventh nerve, has been reported by Durand and J. W. Ogle.' (e) Tlie anterior communicating artery. The anterior communicating artery unites the two anterior cerebral arteries. It is situated beneath the rostrum of the corpus callo.um, a short distance in front of the optic chiasm. Sometimes there are two arteries in this position, one of normal size, the other smaller. The communicating arterv furnishes branches to the gray layer in connection with the optic chiasm, to the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and often one or two larger branches perforating the latter to the ante- rior pillars of the fornix, the anterior commissure, and the septal area. { f) Tlie middle cerebral artery. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, divides into four branches on the island of Reil. Commonly the first of these is detached from the others, and supplies the orbital region at its outer part and the inferior frontal convolution. The second branch supplies the middle frontal convolution poste- riorly, while the third passes by means of the fissure of Rolando to the upper part cf the ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions. The fourth is limited to the posterior division of the fissure of Sylvius, to both sides of which it gives branches, above to the inferior frontal and below to the superior splieno- temporal convolution. The artery, in addition, sends numerous minute twigs through the anterior perfo- rated space to supply the striated body and associated parts. ' M<-d.-Chir. Trans., xlii. 407.HE BLOODVESSELS. 370 THE HEART AND r —oo-o An embolus entering tlie internal carotid is nat- urally carried toward the middle cerebral, since this trunk is the larger of the two as well as a direct upward continuation of the carotid stem. A detailed Account of the Minute Branches of the Middle Cerebral Artery.—Tliese are among the most numerous of the arteries penetrating the brain sub- stance, and, by reason of grave braia-lesions being frequently associated with them, are of great impor- tance in the study of practical medicine. In common with other arteries of their kind they are isolated from one another even to the ultimate twigs of a single vessel. Thus the effects of their lesions will be often strictly limited. Immediately after the origin of the main trunk from the internal carotid a number of minute branches pass at right angles through the anterior perforated space to supply the basal ganglia, but more particu- larly the striated bodies. These vessels are arranged in three groups, as follows:—■ 1st. A group composed of those twigs which sujiply the ventricular aspect of the striated body through the caudate nucleus. They are called the internal lenticulo- striated or internal arteries. 2d. A group composed of branches passing upward into the outer portion of the lenticular nucleus, near the external capsule, the claustrum, and the island of Eeil. These traverse the base of the corona radiata, and end in the head of the caudate nucleus, and are called the lateral (external) arteries of the striated body, or the external lenticulo-striated arteries. 8d. A group of branches resembling the preceding in their general direction, but supplying the posterior part of the lenticular nucleus, the anterior part of the optic thalamus, and the contiguous internal capsule. These are named the lenticulo-optic branches. Hemorrhage from the first group will lacerate the caudate nucleus and the adjacent medullary substance of the anterior cerebral lobe. Perforation of the lateral ventricle may also occur. This occurrence is rare, a result in part due to the fact that the caudate nucleus has a variable blood-supply to which the an- terior cerebral often contributes.—Hemorrhage from the second group, as it lies to the outer side of the lenticular nucleus, will destroy the external capsule and the claustrum, and by pressure inward will lacerate the lenticular nucleus and internal cap- sule.—In hemorrhage above the lenticular nucleus in the corona, a large clot commonly forms in the medullary substance, while the caudate nucleus and the anterior portion of the optic thalamus are bulged forward till they encroach upon the space of the 5000—. lateral ventricle; or the clot may even protrude througli the caudate nucleus into the cavity of the ventricle.—Hemorrhage from the third group will involve the tail of the caudate nucleus, and the an- terior part of the optic thalamus, or the posterior part of the lenticular nucleus, in connection with the foregoing. The blood may flow thence downward within the substauce of the crus. The cerebral hemispheres above the basal ganglia are, according to the researches of Duret, supplied by both medullary and cortical vessels. The medullary vessels are fewer in number than the cortical, but are larger, and give off numerous collateral branches. Their terminal branches reach the cortex. The cortical vessels represent the final distribution of the bloodvessel supply of the pia mater. They supply the claustrum, forming delicate networks of capil- laries. Both sets are penicillated. The arterial supply to the cerebrum, especially at its anterior and lateral portions, as derived from the branches of the internal carotid, is without impor- tant or constant anastomosis; thus, the peripheral surfaces of the two hemispheres are isolated, and the different portions of the same hemispheres im- perfectly united. These facts are of great value in studying the results of hemorrhage or embolus in the ultimate distribution of the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. {'j) The posterior communicating artery. The poste- rior communicating artery lies to the outer side of the pituitary body, and completes the circle of Willis laterally by joining the posterior cerebral. To the inner side of this vessel is seen the posterior choroid which is distributed to the pineal gland and the choroid plexus. The artery may be so inconsiderable in size that it can have little influence in establishing free inosculation. In this way, according to Charcot,^ may be explained the instances of softening of an en- tire central hemisphere when the terminal portion of the internal carotid is obliterated by a clot. Minute branches are sent to the optic chiasm, the tuber cinereum, the mammillary bodies, and the optic thalamus. One of these, known as the anterior inter- nal artery of the optic thalamus, passes upward to the thalamus within the third ventricle through the tuber cinereum. A second branch, the posterior internal, is often a branch of the posterior cerebral. It enters the thalamus on the ventricular aspect through the posterior perforated space. ' Le(;oiis sur les Local, dans les Maladies du Cervean, 1876, 50.THE SUBCLAA^IAN ARTERY. 371 ■ cxjO^OOO Relations of the Posterior CommunicatiiKj Artery. Anterior perforated space. Optic tract. • Crus cerebri (anterior portion). Corpora albicantia. Sixth nerve. Tliird nerve. Anterior choroid artery. Sub-arachnoid lymph-space. Inner end of ridge of petrous portion of tlie temporal bone. It will at once be seen from the above plan that, if an aneurismal swelling upon the posterior communicat- ing artery extends outward, it will cause paralysis of the third nerve ; if it extends inward, paralysis of the sixth nerve; and if it extends upward, disturbance of vision with hemiplegia. In each of the three cases of this aneurism collected by Durand some of the above symptoms were present. The two vessels are frequently of unequal size, the right being commonly the larger, and in some speci- mens the vessel appears to be a large branch of the internal carotid equal in size to the anterior or middle cerebral. When the posterior communicating artery of one side is thus enlarged, the opposite vessel is correspondingly small. A female of eighteen years, who was suffering from paralysis of the third nerve, died suddenly on the twenty-third day. A small ovoid aneurism was found upon the left communicating cerebral artery, near the internal carotid.' (A) The choroid artery. This vessel is given off to the outer side of the preceding. It is a small vessel, which passes backward and outward along the optic tract. It sends branches to the crus cerebri, on its way to the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, which it enters at the transverse fissure, to supply the hippo- campus, corpus fimbriatum, and the choroid plexus.' (/) Tlte anterior choroid artery. The anterior cho- roid artery varies in origin, and is larger than the pos- terior communicating vessel. It is directed obliquely outward and backward between the crus and the spheno-temporal lobe of the cerebrum, along the outer side of the optic tract, and joins the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. It su])plies the optic tract, the upper and the outer aspect of the crus, and the unci- form convolution of the cerebrum. Cruveilhier describes a jwsterior choroid^ a branch of the posterior cerebral, which accompanies the choroid, but turns round the crus cerebri, and, passing up- ward to supply the corpora quadrigemina, terminates in the velum interpositum and the choroid plexus. • Hare, Tr. Path. Soc. London, ii. 1G9. THE CIRCLE OF WILLIS. The basilar artery, as it divides into the two pos- terior cerebral arteries, and the internal carotids, as they lie within the brain-case between the carotid canals and the cavernous sinuses, are the most im- portant agents in the formation of a peculiar anas- tomosis between the vessels of the encranial arterial supply. This anastomosis has received the name of the circle of Willi.s, and may be thus described:— The internal carotid artery, and the posterior cere- bral artery of one side are united by a small branch of the former—the posterior communicating ; so that there are two vessels of this name, one on either side of the base of the brain. The anterior cerebral arte- ries are united by a small vessel called the anterior communicating. The union of four large streams of blood in this circle must exert a poAverful influence over the rhyth- mical movements of each of its several parts, and thus are explained the alternate elevation and depression so conspicuous in the exposed brain in the living sub- ject. Tiie capacity of tlic basilar artery is less than the sum of both vertebrals. Hence it is subject to great strain, and is predisposed to aneurismal enlargements. Hypertrophy of the brain can effect pressure on the circle of Willis only through the basilar artery. Tliis in ifs turn would cause retardation of the flow of blood along the vertebrals, and an undue strain upon the internal carotids. Tiie posterior cerebellar artery may be displaced by an aneurism. THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The Subclavian Arteries are the arbitrarily limited beginnings of the arched vessels that are destined to supply the upper extremities. Each artery forms an irregular arch, which lies for the most part at the root of the neck. The median abutment of the arch is within the thorax, while the lateral abutment is at the proximal margin of the axilla. The arch is divided into three portions by the position of the Scalenus Anticus muscle. The first portion lies to the median border of the Scalenus Anticus. The second portion lies behind the Scalenus Anticus. The third portion lies beyond the lateral border of the Scalenus Anticus, and extends as far as the lower margin of the first rib.' 1 Authors are not agreed upon the inferior limitation of the third portion of the artery. Accortling to Kdcli (Langenbeck's Arcliiv fiir Klinische Chir., Bd. 10, Heft 1), the vessel extends to the lower border of tlie Pectoralis Minor. Cruveilhier and someAND THE BLOODVESSELS. 372 THE HEAET The right subclavian artery arises from the termi- nation of the innominate artery, opposite the right sterno-clavicular junction, at a point commonly answering in position to the interval between the two heads of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. It curves outward over the superior thoracic aperture and the apex of the lung, between the Scalenus Anti- cus and Scalenus Medius muscles, to terminate at the lower margin of the first rib. The left subclavian artery arises from the arch of the aorta, passing upward from a much deeper point than the right, but, from the position of the Scalenus Anticus muscle, it pursues a course to the left, similar to that which the right artery pursues to the right. It follows, from what has been said, that the second and third parts of both subclavian arteries are alike, while the first parts are different, and demand sepa- rate descriptions of their relations. The First Part of the Subclavian Artery: Relations of the First Part of the Right Sntjclavian Arteri/.—In front of this portion lie the sternal end of the clavicle, the upper portion of the sterno-clavicular articu- lation, the Platysma Myoides, the clavicular attachments of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle, with the Stylo-Hyoid and Stylo-Thyroid muscles, the deep cervical fascia, the termi- nations of the internal jugular and the vertebral veins, and the superior and middle cardiac nerves, as well as the pneu- mogastric and phrenic. Very rarely the pneumogastric nerve may etTect a plexiform arrangement of its filaments about the vessel. Beiiind lie the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Sometimes the phrenic nerve lies also beliind the vessel. To the lateral side is tiie mediastinal pleura,' wiiich sepa- rates it from tiie lung. The vessel is surrounded by cellular tissue, and by a great number of lymphatic glands, together with a few loops formed by the great sym[)athetic nerve. Sometimes the subclavian vein lies close beneath the clavicle. In the living subject the pulsation of the vessel can be detected a little above the clavicle, and to the outer side of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. Pressure downward and inward against the pulsating point will compress the vessel against the first rib. Ligation of the First Part of the Right Subclavian Artery.—An incision beginning just above the upper margin of the sternum is prolonged outward to the distance of three inches. It is met by a second, two inches in length, corre- sponding to the median margin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid clinical writers give the clavicle as the lateral limit of the vessel. The axillary artery in this interpretation would extend iipward as far as the clavicle. 1 Cases of aneurism of the subclavian artery have been reported in which there occurred fatal hemorrhage into tlie pleural cavity. Pleuritis is one of the dangers attending ligation of the first por- tion of the vessel. muscle. The latter structure being exposed,itisfreely divided in its sternal portion, and partially divided in the clavicular. The anterior jugular vein is now seen, and is carefully held to one side. The Sterno-Hyoid and Sterno-Thyroid mus- cles are next successively taken upon the grooved directors, and divided. By tearing through the connective tissue over the position of the sheath of the great vessels, the direction of the common carotid artery is ascertained, the sheath opened, the internal jugular vein held to the outer side, and, the ai'tery being used as a guide, the finger is carried along it to the origin of the vessel from the innominate ai'tery. The trunk of the subclavian is felt to the outer side of the carotid, and is carefully exposed. The immediate relations of pneu- mogastric and cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerves over the artery, the recurrent laryngeal passing behind it, the phrenic nerve passing downward obliquely over the Scalenus Anticus, must be borne in mind in passing the needle round the vessel from below upward. The pleura lies beneath and to the outer side of the artery, and is in direct contact therewith. Tiie formula of the collateral circtilation, after ligation of the subclavian artery at its first part, is as follows:— „, .T . /Transversalis ColliX i r, , , ThyroKl axis ) + Subscapular. or /Transversalis CoUi\ i \ Sui:)ra-scapular / ~1 Tliyroid axis ( Subscapular ( Intercostal. Relations of the First Part of the Left Subclavian Artery.—Tiie first part of the left subclavian is more deeply situated, and is longer, than the corresponding portion of the rio-ht. It lies upon the si('e of the vertebral column, from the third to the first dorsal vertebra. Upon reaching tiie base of the neck, it arches over the first rib to pass bcliind the Scalenus Anticus muscle, where it ends in the second portion of the artery. The relations diifer in the thoracic and cervical parts as follows :— Tiie Thoracic Portion Tlie vessel is nearly vertical, with a slight inclination outward. In front are the left inno- minate vein, a portion of the left lung, and, for a sliort distance, a part of the oesophagus. Behind lie the Longus Colli muscle, the inferior cervical ganglion of tlie sympa- thetic, and the beginning of the thoracic duct. To its outer side, and in direct contact with it, is tiie pleura. To the inner side and inclining to the front are the pneumogastric and phrenic nerves; to tlie inner side, still on a plane ante- rior to the artery, are the trachea and tlie left carotid artery ; to the inner side, and on the same plane as the artery, are the thoracic duct, tiie left cardiac nerve, and the (Esophagus. Tlie Cervical Portion.—At the base of the neck the artery is crossed obliquely by the phrenic nerve, and at an angle by the subclavian vein. The internal jugular vein lies in front. Behind is the thoracic duct. In tlie neck tlie left subclavian artery lies on a somewhat deeper plane than that of the right, and crosses the first rib somewliat i'urtlier from tiie sternal end.THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 373 cOOj^CXx: Remarks R. L. MacDonnelP describes a dissection of the parts involved'by cancer of the supra-clavicular portion of the left lung. The carotid artery was pressed outward, as was also the first part of the left subclavian artery, while the third jjortion was reduced to the size of the radial, and obliterated by a coagulum. In phthisis a fibrous deposit has been found by R. Quain to surround and obliterate the left subclavian and left verte- bral arteries.''—Embolus is of more frequent occurrence in the left subclavian artery than in the right.' Ligation of the left subclavian artery to the median side of the Scalenus Anticus is an operation of exceptional difficulty. The details do not appear to require repetition here, since it is not likely that tlie attem[)t would be made without careful preparation on the cadaver. The Second Part of (he Subclavian Artery lies in the triangular space between the Scalenus Anticus in front and ttie Scalenus Medius behind. It repre- sents the highest portion of the curve of the main trunk. Above, and in part behind, lies the brachial plexus. In front lie the Scalenus Anticus, the phrenic nerve, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus, the cer- vical fascia, the Platysrna Myoides, and the integu- ment. The under surface of the artery lies along the outer aspect of the cervical projection of the pleural sac. Ligation of the Second Part of the Subclavian Artery Since this portion of the artery lies beiiind tiie Scalenus Anticus muscle, and is in contact with the pleura, and near the internal jugular vein, its ligation is generally thought to be a more hazardous operation than the ligation of the first part. Moreover, it is nearer the origin of branches of unknown dis- position and number, since the thyroid axis, first intercostal, and the deep cervical arteries are variable, and may interfere with the formation of a clot in the artery on the distal side of the ligature. The operation for the ligation of the vessel in its third portion can be readily used as a method of general procedure for that of the second, by careful division of the Scalenus Anticus at its insertion, by strict avoidance of the phrenic nerve normally seen running thereon, and by so dis- posing of the point of the needle as to avoid injuring the pleura. The Third Part {outer 'part or third) of the Subcla- vian Artery extends from the outer border of the Sca- lenus Anticus muscle downAvard and outward to the lower border of the first rib. The vessel thus lies at first at tlie base of the neck, and is here in relation with the Omo-Hyoid muscle above, tiie Scalenus Anticus muscle to the median side, and the upper 1 N. Y. .lourn. of Medicine, ]850, 15,5. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1850, 51, 85. 3 Duret, Archiv. Physiol, 1874. border of the first rib below. To its lateral side lies the lower borderof the brachial plexus. In front, and between it and tiie integument, lie tlie deep cervical fascia, Platysrna Myoides, superficial fascia, and the skin. Beneath and at a variable distance to its median side lies the pleura After reaching the first rib the vessel lies upon the anterior surface of tliis bone obliquely fi-om above downward and i'rom within out- ward. In front lie the clavicle and the Subclavius muscle. Crossing it vertically in front is the anterior thoracic nerve. To the outer side is the brachial plexus. The first dorsal nerve rarely passes between the subclavian artery and the subclavian vein. The Scalenus Minimus muscle has been described by Zuckerkandl as jiassing between the subclavian artery and the brachial [)lexus. The subclavian vein lies well to the inner side of the artery, but the vessel may be surrounded hy a plexus of veins, or crossed by several large venous trunks, the com- panion vein of the transversalis colli artery, as well as by t!ie cephalic vein. On the Vertical Position of the Third Part of the Subcla- vian Artery in the Neck—A case of aneurism of the left subclavian artery in a woman aged 30 is recorded by J. M. Warren.' The vessel in question was found to pass nearly vertically upward, parallel to, and about an inch from, the lateral border of the Trapezius muscle. The first rib and part of the second were felt passing obliquely across the neck above the clavicle. The insertion of the Scalenus Anticus into the first rib was distinguished. The vessel was the subject of aneurism for the cure of which the recorder successfully ligated the artery in its third [lart In a case recorded by A. Poland^ the right subclavian artery emerged from be- tween the Scaleni muscles two inches above the clavicle. It then descended nearly vertically to the axilla and passed behind the clavicle a little to the inner side of the junction of the external third, with the internal two-thirds of that bone Quain, in his Commentaries on the Arteries, alludes to this arching of the subclavian artery in tlie neck, and gives the measurements of specimens coming under his notice. Dupuytren (Lemons Orales, t. iv. p. 528) also adverts to the superficial position of the third portion of the artery in tliose who are thin, and have long, slender necks, with lean and sloping shoulders The deviation of the artery is not of unusual occurrence, and may be due either to a congenital or to an acquired condition. In the " Guy's Hos- pital Reports," 18G9, p. 445, are recorded the descriptions of two specimens observed in the dissecting-room. The height to which the vessels rose in the neck was such as to render the direction of the third portion of the artery almost vertical; this occurred in one instance on the right side, and in the other on the left, the artery emerging from behind the Scalenus fully an inch and a half above the clavicle ' Surgical Observations, 1867, 429. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans, lii. 177. The remaining remarks in tlie text on the vertical position of the third part of the subclavian artery are taken from Poland's paper.374 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. ooo^OOo The artery lay in the above-named unusual course in a sub- ject used by the Royal College of Surgeons for the examina- tions for the fellowship. Tlie candidate failed to secure it by the ordinary operation. Tiiis failure occurred to a hospital surgeon in a case recorded by M. Dubrueil," where the axillary artery had to be secured in consequence of not finding the subclavian in its usual position—The acquired displacemeut of the artery is generally due to the pressure of tumors from below upward, or to an exostosis of the first rib, several cases of which are recorded by Mott,^ Gregg,^ and others. Ligation of the TJiird Part of the Subclavian Artery— An incision should extend from the outer fibres of the clavicular portion of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle outward, one-half inch above the upper border of the clavicle and following its curves, to terminate over the clavicular fibres of insertion of the Trapezius muscle. The superficial fascia, Platysma Myoides, and the deep fascia being divided along the entire length of the wound, and the anterior jugu- lar vein drawn to one side, the positions of the Omo-H}'oid muscle and the transvcrsalis colli or supra-scapular artery are made out. The fascia extending from the Omo-Hyoid to the clavicle is divided, and drawn upward out of the way. The shoulder must now be depressed as far as the parts per- mit, in order to render the wound as shallow as possible, and a search should be made with the finger for the Scale- nus Anticus. Using this muscle as a guide, the finger is carried downward until the line of the Scalenus joins that of the first rib. The artery will be found in most instances pulsating in the angle made by these two lines. Should the lower bundles of the brachial plexus be seen at the bottom of the wound, they may aid in securing the vessel, since the latter is known to lie between the plexus and the Anterior Scalene muscle. But the intimacy of this relation also serves to deceive the surgeon, and may, if he be off his guard, lead him to mistake one of the nerves of the plexus for the arteiy. A nerve trunk has been in this way ligated, or included within the ligature embracing the vessel. To avoid such a mischance the pulsation of any structure whatsoever in the wound should not be relied upon, since the beating of the artery against the lowermost branch of the plexus has been known to lead experienced operators into the error of mis- taking the nerve for the artery. On the other hand, the absence of pulsation is not conclusive in determining the nature of any particular texture, since, as a result of ex- posure, the artery itself may contract and its pulsation cease. The proximity of the pleura to this portion of the artery, while in health an indirect relation, can be converted into a direct relation by aneurismal dilatation of the artery. Prof. Agnew,^ in speaking of this fact, uses the Ibllowing language: " Dr. Warren, while isolating this vessel in a case of unusual perplexity, opened the chest, which accident was announced by a distinct whistling sound. The accident in 1 Gaz. Med. de Paris, 18:^7, p. 5G2. 2 Mott's edition of Velpeau's Surgery, ii. 38. 3 Dublin Journal, xxv. 211, 1858. < Principles and Practice of Surgery, 1878, 645. this case did not interfere with the patient's recovery. To avoid such complications the operator should place a finger between the tendon of the Anterior Scalenus muscle and the vessel, and with the point of the director cautiously tear away the existing cellular tissue from the artery, always keeping the instrument directed toward the rib, so that it may not go beyond the proper limitation." The needle should be passed from without inward. The subclavian vein is often not seen during this operation. At other times it swells up into the wound, and requires carefully sustained gentle downward pressure with a retractor to give the ope- rator room enough for his manipulations. The presence of anomalies, of course, modifies the perform- ance of this operation. The artery may be seen running in front instead of behind the Scalenus. The phrenic nerve may run across the third part of the subclavian artery. Lym- phatic glands may be enlarged and numerous. The clavicle may be fixed in an elevated position and demand division. Ashton Key' found, in dissecting a limb twelve years after ligation of the subclavian artery at its outer part, the follow- ing to be the plan of the collateral circulation. Subclavian. Axillary. Suprascapular ) , i„f,,,, i^^,. Posterior bcapular ^ i Internal Mammary_|_ j ( Short and Long ' < ( Tlioracic. ( Infrascapular. In addition to these, a set of unnamed vessels passing from the subclavian to the axillary immediately surrounded the site of ligation. The cervical rib (see p. 114), when two or more inches in length, always supports the subclavian artery, and is tliereibre a reliable guide to its position.'' The branches of the subclavian artery are— The Vertebral. The Thyroid Axis. The Internal Matninary. The Superior Litercostal and Deep Cervical. THE VEKTEBl^AL ARTERY. The Vertebral Artery is the largest branch of the subclavian. It arises from the upper surface of the first part of this vessel, passing through the fora- mina of the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebraa from the sixth upward, and ascends through- out the entire length of the neck, to escape thence above, where it winds round the atlas, to enter the cranium at the foramen magnum. The artery here passes obliquely forward and joins the vessel of the same name of the opposite side to form the basilar artery. 1 Ghiy's Hosp. Ro-p. 1836, 62. 2 I^udwig Stille, Virchow's Archiv, Bd xxxvi. 1866, 425, figs.; and A. Poland, Med.-Cliir. lii. 255. Literature.THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. c><>o^§<><>g-- 375 A detailed account of the Manner in ivhich the Verte- bral Artery jjasses from (he Neck to the Head.—In con- sequence of the great width of the atlas, the vessel, after passing through the transverse process of the axis, is directed obliquely upward and outward across the inferior articular process of this bone. It enters the corresponding foramen of the atlas, and appears on the upper surface of the posterior arch, where it lies nearly horizontal in a deep groove, and winds abruptly round the posterior edge of the superior articular process. Thence it enters the cavity of the cranium at the foramen magnum, by piercing the occipito-atloid ligament and dura mater. Within the cranium the vessel passes forward and upward to the inner side of the occipito-atloid articulation, at the side of the medulla oblongata, between the olivary body and the anterior pyramid. It soon passes be- neath the medulla to iucline toward the median line, where it joins the artery of the opposite side at the spheno-occipital junction to form the basilar. Relations For the better appreciation of tlie relations of the vertebral artery, it is well to divide its course into four parts. 1st. Tiiat part between its origin and its entrance into the vertebrtB. 2d. That part within the vertebrse. 3d. That part on the posterior arch of tlie atlas. 4th. Tiiat part within tlie skull. 1st. The vessel lies to the outer side of the common carotid artery, and a little to the inner side, but not infrequently directly behind tlie thyroid axis, and.on a plane deeper than tiiat of either of these structures. It lies within a triangular space of which the subclavian artery forms the base, the Anterior Scalenus muscle the lateral, and the Longus Colli the median border. The internal jugular vein is in front of the artery, and the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic behind it. This portion of the vertebral artery is without branches. 2d. Within the vertebra3 the artery is surrounded by fila- ments of the sympathetic nerve. The vertebral vein lies in front of the artery. Behind it are the nerves tributary to the cervical plexus on their way to the intervertebi-al fora- mina. As the artery passes I'rom one vertebra to another it lies between the Inter-Transverse muscles. At these points the artei-y gives off the lateral spinal and muscular branches. 3d. Upon the posterior arch of the atlas the artery occupies a triangle, of which the Inferior Oblique muscle forms the base ; the Superior Oblique, and the Rectus Posticus Major, the outer and inner sides respectively. Beneath it, on the groove of the atlas, is the first occipital nerve. At the trans- verse process, the Rectus Capitis Lateralis separates tlie vessel from the occipital artery. 4th. Within the cranium the vessel lies between the medulla oblongata and the occipito-atloid articulation. It passes before or through the filaments of the hypoglossal nerve, and lies to the inner side of the suboccipital nerve. It terminates at the posterior border of the pons Varolii. This portion of the artery yields the remaining branches. The branches of the vertebral artery are— Cervical Encranial > (a) Lateral S]iinal, (b) Muscular. (c) Posterior Meningeal, ((/) Posterior Spinal. (e) Anterior Spinal. (/) Posterior Inferior Cerebellar. (rt) The lateral spi'/ial branches, from four to six in number, enter the spinal canal through the inter- vertebral foramina, and are distributed to the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebraa and the perios- teum. Branches also supply the membranes of the spinal cord; a few delicate twigs pierce the mem- branes to supplv the nerve matter. The artery anas- tomoses with the anterior and posterior spinals. (b) The muscular branches supply the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the ascending and deep cervical arteries. (c) ^\iQ 'posterior meningeal branch enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and is distributed to the dura mater of the cerebellar fossa and the falx cerebri. ((/) The^Josto'/ors/y/riflZartery arises from the median side of the mam trunk, below the anterior spinal artery, and passes down the lateral groove of the spinal cord as far as the second lumbar vertebra, sending branches to the posterior roots of the spinal cord, and a delicate ascending braucli to the fourth ventricle. The vessel is smaller than the anterior spinal artery, and more tortuous. It anastomoses with branches of the lateral spinal, anterior spinal, and intercostal arteries. (e) The anterior spinal branch originates from the median side of the vertebral, a short distance from its termination in the basilar. It unites with its fellow of the opposite side, in front of the medulla oblongata, directly below the level of the foramen magnum. It thence passes as a single somewhat tortuous vessel along the anterior median fissure throughout the en- tire length of the spinal cord. The vessel gradually decreases in size as far as the cervical enlargement of the cord, from which point it presents a more variable calibre, and is irregularly tortuous near its termina- tion. The artery receives important accessions from the ascending cervical and pre-vertebral branches of the ascending pharyngeal artery in the neck, from the intercostals in the thorax, and from the ilio-376 THE HBAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS -^XXO^OOO- - lumbar and lateral sacral at its lower portion. It is covered by the pia mater, to which, as also to the spinal cord, it sends minute branches. The vertebral artery sends minute branches to sup- ply the sheaths of the nerves arising from the sides of the medulla oblongata. (/) The posterior inferior cerebellar branch passes between filaments of origin of the hypoglossal nerve, thence lies in front of the roots of the pneumogastric and the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and passes round the medulla behind the middle peduncle of the cere- bellum to the inferior surface of the cerebellum. It is the largest of the branches of the vertebral, and sends a branch to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle, and another longitudinal branch backward in the groove between the cerebellar hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, upon which it anas- tomoses with the vessel of the same name of the opposite side, to supply the inferior surface, and the borders of the hemisphere, and the upper portion of the spinal cord. Variations The anterior spinal artery may be formed by a branch of one vertebral only. The inferior posterior cere- bellar artery may arise from the basilar or be absent; or it may pursue an aberrant course, and give off the posterior spinal. The right vertebral may arise from the left subcla- vian and reach the right side of the cervical vertebras by passing behind the cesopiiagus. It may arise from the arch of the aorta between the left subclavian and the left com- mon carotid arteries. The vessel may be tortuous before entering the canal designed for its accommodation. It may enter the canal at any of the openings in the trans- verse processes. The vessel may thus be found to run in the pre-vertebral region of the neck for a variable distance parallel to tlie common carotid, for whicii trunk it might be readily mistaken. It may give origin to the infe- rior tliyroid, tlie first intercostal, and the deep cervical ar- teries. At tlie region where tlie artery terminates, a branch may be given off wiiich interchanges with the branches of the occipital artery. An island may form about the trunk of the - hypoglossal nerve, and another in front of the medulla oblongata. The upper as well as the lower portion of the trunk may be tortuous, a disposition which enables the motions of the head and the cervical portion of the vertebral column to take place without violence to this vessel. Remarks Ligation of the first portion of tlie vessel has been resorted to in deep-seated iiemorrbage following wounds of the neck—The incisions recommended for the ligation of the innominate should bere be used. The sheath of the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein are drawn to the median side, and the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra is sought for. The artery will be found lying just beneath this process The vertebral artery may be lacerated in fracture of the base of the skull Rarely, facial palsy has been found to be associated with aneurism of the vertebral artery as it lies in front of the medulla oblongata, a condition due to pressure upon the trunk of the seventh nerve. THE BASILAR ARTERY. The Basilar Artery is formed by the union of the two vertebrals. It passes upward and forward along the upper surface of the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, where it is protected by the arachnoid membrane. It is received above within the median groove of the pons Varolii, the entire length of which it traverses. The vessel divides at the anterior border of the pons into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Remarks According to Cruveilhier, the sectional area of the basilar artery is not equal to tlie sum of the sectional areas of the vertebrals. Hence the blood received from these vessels must pass with augmented pressure through the basilar. Tiie character of the basilar artery as essentially a median vessel, composed of two converging elements, is maintained by such observations as the following: Davy' found in a specimen of basilar artery a median septum. According to Quain, the artery has been found perforated by a small fora- men, which indicated an attempt at division of the vessel along the middle line. Hyrtl mentions a case in which the complete division of the basilar artery into two vessels was accomplished. Tiiese subsequently united to form an island, and the posterior cerebral arteries arose from the resultant trunk in the usual manner. From its position upon the basilar process, the vessel may be compressed by any force oi)erating from above. Brain-tumoi's, brain-hypertrophy, or any condition pro- ducing unusual encranial pressure, may thus impair its vitality. The vessel is found to be frequently the seat of diseased action.^ Aneurism of the basilar has been known to compress the eighth nerve, and cause deafness, as well as to occasion symptoms indicative of disturbed function in the ninth and tenth nerves. The origins of the sixth and seventh nerves may also be compressed. In hemorriiage from the rupture of the basilar artery, blood may be found lying over the entire base of the brain, as well as in the pons Varolii, from which it may escape to enter the fourth ventricle. Or it may pass around the medulla oblongata and flow into the spinal cord as far as the cauda equina.—A thrombus 1 Researches, i. 30 ; also Edinburgh Medical aud Surgical Journal, 1838. This arrangement is similar to the occas-ional union of the two anterior cerebrals into a single trunk. 2 In view of the fact that the basilar artery lies against an un- yielding bony surface, a comparison can be instituted between it and the femoral artery as it winds round the femur, or with it and the popliteal artery throughout its entire length. Diseased action is of common occurrence in all three vessels.' Trans. Path. Soc. London, x. p. 4. some of which pass inward to supply the superior THE POSTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY. ^x>^ooo 377 within the basilar artery will be arrested at the point of origin of the posterior cerebral arteries, since these vessels are small and pass nearly transversely outward. See in addition the account of tiie circle of Willis. The branches of the basilar artery are— (a) Transverse, (b) Auditory. (c) Anterior Inferior Cerebellar. (d) Superior Cerebellar. (e) Posterior Cerebral. (/) Branches to the Pons Varolii. (a) The transverse branches, from three to four in number on either side, supply the inferior surface of the pons Varolii. (b) The audilory branch arises from the basilar near its origin. It passes forward and outward, and enters the internal auditory meatus to supply the labyrinth. (c) The anterior inferior cerebellar branch arises from about the middle of the basilar artery, between the sixth and seventh nerves. It passes outward along the middle peduncle of the cerebellum to be dis- tributed to the under anterior surface of the hemi- sphere of its own side. This appears to be the middle cerebellar artery of some writers. The last-named vessel may be an enlarged transverse artery lying be- tween the inferior and anterior inferior cerebellar arteries. Remakks Aneurism of the anterior inferior cerebellar artery is apt to press on the third, seventh, and eighth nerves. Anosmia may be found to coexist with tliese symp- toms.—Abnormal arrangements of the inferior cerebellar arteries have definite relations to the localization of emboli. The artery may arise from the trunk of the basilar, or from a trunk in common with one of the transverse arteries. Tlie blood supply to this surface, instead of being derived from the vertebral, may come entirely from tlie basilar. Tlie branches of the transverse vessels may come from the superior cerebi^llar instead of from the basilar, so that ob- struction of the latter artery need not necessarily affect the nutrition of the basal portion of the hemisi)heres. (t/) The superior cerebellar branch arises at a right angle from the basilar artery, near its point of division, just behind the anterior border of the pons. Many authors regard it as a terminal branch of the basilar. The superior cerebellar passes outward, lying in the groove which separates the crus cerebri from the pons, winds around the crus parallel to the fourth nerve and tbe posterior cerebral artery, from which it is sepa- rated by the origin of the third nerve. It divides near the corpora qnadrigemina into numerous branches, 48 vermiform process and the valve of the fourth ventri- cle, while others pass outward to the superior surface of the cerebellum. A case of aneurism of this vessel has been noted b}' Ri is- towe.' {/) The posterior cerebral branch is one of the two terminal branches of the basilar artery. It passes out- ward from its origin, winds round the crus cerebri of its own side in front of the third nerve, and, following the course of the great transverse fissure between the occipital lobe of the cerebrum and the cerebellum, supplies by its terminal branches the cortex of the occipital and spheno-temporal lobes of its own side, and the parts lying within and bordering upon the third ventricle. The branches of the posterior cerebral artery arre— (1) Branches to the Cortical Portion of the Cerebrum. (2) Branches to the Optic Thalamus. (8) Branches to the Crus Cerebri. (4) Posterior Choroid. (5) Anastomotic. (1) The branches to the cortical portion of the cere- brum supply the occipital lobe, including the calca- rine fissure, the region of the hippocampu;- major, and the spheno-temporal lobe. A branch to the median surface of the occipital lob.e at the lingual lobule has received the specific name of the occipital branch. (2) The branches to the ojAic thalamus pierce the posterior perforated space. Two sets of minute branches are embraced under this head, one passing to the median portion of the thalamus (internal poste- rior arteries), and another passing to the lateral por- tion (external posterior arteries). (3.) The trawc/ifs to tlie cms cere/rrMnelude a number of minute twigs which enter the crus at its lateral surface. (4) The posterior choroid branch passes forward from the transverse fissure to supply the choroid plexus, the velum interpositum, the pineal gland, the corpora qnadrigemina, and the geniculate bodies. The two structures last named may, however, receive their blood supply by distinct twigs from the cortical branches. (5) The anastomotic branches include (1) the 2Jos- terior communicating artery, which joins the posterior cerebral with the internal carotid (see account of the circle of Willis), and (2) the junction between the terminal branches of the posterior cerebral and those of the middle cerebral and the cerebellar arteries.THE HEAKT 378 BLOODVESSELS. AND THE (/) The branches of the basilar to the pons Varolii are minute vertical twigs, which are distributed to tlie entire substance of the pons. Thev bear a close re- semblance to the branches of the anterior spinal artery. The middle cerebellar artery. Under this name Duret describes a branch of the basilar artery passing to the basal surface of the cerebellar hemisphere. It sends a few twigs to supply the seventh and eighth nerves at their apparent origins. A small transverse twig supplies the apparent origin of the sixth, and another larger arteriole passes to the apparent origin of the fifth nerve. Eemarks.— Aneurism of the posterior cerebral artery as it curves round the crus will exert pressure upon the spheno-temporal lobe, the corresponding crus. and the pons, as well as upon the second, third, fifth, and seventh nerves. Hemorrhage from the rupture of such an aneurism may raise the floor of the lateral ventricle, and involve the floor of the fourth ventricle (Durand). Hemorrhage from the branch to the median aspect of the optic thalamus (internal posterior) may create an isolated clot which is either confined to the thala- mus or projects into the third ventricle. Hemorrhage from the branch at the lateral aspect of the optic thalamus (external posterior) will cause laceration of the optic thalamus posteriorly, and the clot may be found extending thence within the crus cerebri as far as the pons Varolii. When the hemor- rhage is extensive, the walls of the cavity in the optic thalamus limiting it may rupture, and the blood escape into the third ventricle. Hemorrhage from the branch lying within the calcarine fissure creates a gross lesion in the occipital lobe, which sometimes perforates the calcar avis (hippocampus minor), when the blood-clot will be found lying within the lesser cornu of the late- ral ventricle. THE THYROID AXIS arises from the anterior surface of the subclavian artery in the first part of its course, at a point oppo- site the vertebral artery, atid to the median side of the Scalenus Anticus muscle. After ascending a few lines, it terminates by division as follows :— Inferior Thyroid. Suprascapular. Transversalis Colli. THE INFERIOR THYROID. The Inferior Thyroid artery appears to be the con- tinuation of the stem of the thyroid axis. It passes upward on the Longus Colli muscle as far as the fifth cervical vertebra, at which point it inclines inward to reach the thyroid body, where it freely anasto- moses with the artery of the opposite side and the superior thyroid artery. The vessels enter the base of the body at the sides and beneath. In broncliocele, the vessels supplying the thyroid body are greatly increased in volume. No matter to what size the growth may attain the vessels always preserve the usual relation to the under surface and basal borders of the thyroid body. This fact is of importance in extir[)ating tumors of this organ. W. W. Greene,' of Portland, Maine, advises that the base of the mass be reached as rapidly as possible in order to compress the source of arterial bleeding. Relations Tlie inferior thyroid of the left side lies upon the oesophagus and near tlie thoracic duct. These relations are of importance in oesophagotomy. As the artery ascends the neck it lies in front of the inferior laryngeal nerve. Variations., — The thyroid axis is sometimes absent, when the inferior thyroid secures origin from the sub- clavian. It may arise in common with the suprascapular, or from the aortic arch between the innominate and the left carotid artery. Jas. Blake^ has described an inferior thyroid artery of the size of a goosequill, which arose from the innominate artery, crossed the trachea three-fourths of an inch above the sternum, and returned to enter the thyroid body at its right side. It has occasionally been seen to arise from the common carotid. Very rarely, the artery, when of carotid origin, after supplying the side of the thyroid body nearest to it, sends another branch between the trachea and the oesophagus to the opposite side of the thyroid body. The branches of the inferior thyroid artery are— (a) Ascending cervicaL {b) Laryngeal. (c) Tracheal. (a) The ascending cervical branch passes upward along the inner side of the phrenic nerve between the Scalenus Anticus and the Eectus Capitis Anticus Major, which it supplies with blood. Branches enter the intervertebral foramina, and are distributed to the spinal cord and membranes. It anastomoses with the ascending pharyngeal. (Ij) The laryngeal branch arises uear the branches entering the thyroid body. It ascends behind the inferior angle of the thyroid cartilage, and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of the larynx. (c) The tracheal is one of the most, constant of the branches of the inferior thyroid. It arises oppo- site the transverse process of the seventh cervical ver- tebra, and descends behind the trachea as far as the bifurcation, giving branches to the oesophagus, trachea, ' Amer. Jonrn. Med. Sci., Jan. 1871, 80. ^ St. Louis Med. and Surg. .Tourn., .lune, 1848.379 BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. -OOO^OOO bronchial lymphatic glands, and to the thoracic por- tion of the Longus Colli muscle. It anastomoses with the superior intercostal and bronchial arteries. THE SUPRASCAPULAR. The Suprascapular artery (transverse scapular, transverse humeral) passes downward and outward behind the clavicle and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and Trapezius muscles, and upon the Scalenus Auti- cus. It reaches the neck of the scapula, -^^nd, winding around it, enters the infraspinous fossa, to anastomose with the subscapular artery. Its branches are— (a) Thoracic. (h) Acromial. (c) Supraspinatus. (d) Infraspinatus. (a) The thoracic branch supi.)lies the Subclavian muscle. (b) The acromial branch supplies the acromial attachment of the Trapezius muscle and the skin over the acromion. (c) The supraspinatus branch supplies the muscle of the same name. Many writers regard this branch as the termination of the axis of the main trunk. (d) The infraspinatus, in addition to supplying the Infraspinatus muscle, sends a small branch along the axillary margin of the scapula, which anastomoses with the posterior scapular branch of the transver- salis colli. Variations The suprascapular may arise from the sub- clavian artery either singly or in common with the trans- versalis cervicis. More rarely it arises in conjunction with the internal mammary artery. It may even arise from the axillary or the subscapular artery. THE TRANSVERSALIS COLLI. The Transversalis Colli artery is larger and more tortuous than the preceding. It passes directly out- ward beneath the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and Tra- pezius muscles, and in front of the Scaleni and the phrenic nerve. In the neighborhood of the superior angle of the scapula, it divides beneath the Levator Anguli Scapulae into two branches :— (rt) Superficial Cervical (Ascending). (l>) Posterior Scapular (Descending). (a) The superficial cervical branch passes upward in the posterior cervical region, and supplies the Tra- pezius, Levator Anguli Scapulae and Sjilenius muscles, and anastomoses with the descending branch of the occipital artery. (Ij) The posterior scapular branch j^asses downward along the whole of the vertebral border of the scapula. It supplies the Rhomboideus, Serratus Magnus, and Latissimus Dorsi muscles, as well as in part the Leva- tor Anguli Scapulae. It anastomoses with the infra- spinatus branch of the suprascapular artery. A small branch extending parallel with the main trunk aids the subscapular artery in supplying the Subscapularis muscle. Variations The transversalis colli artery may be absent, and its place taken by a deep cervical artery, having an ascending and a descending branch, and arising from the outer third of the subclavian artery. It may arise from tlie subclavian artery, and, except in passing through the brachial plexus, be found to answer to the above descri[>tion. THE IKTERKAL MAMMARY ARTERY arises opposite the inferior thyroid arter3^ It passes downward and sliglitly forward and inward, along with and parallel to the Scalenus Anticus muscle, to a point behind the sternal end of the clavicle, and there enters the thorax. Passing downward beneath the pleura, along the posterior surface and near the border of the sternum, the artery reaches the lower part of the body of this bone, at which point it lies beneath the Triangularis Sterni, and at the level of the sixth or seventh rib divides into its terminal branches. Relations.—In front is the descending vena cava, and, in the first part of its course, the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The phrenic nerve lies at first to its outer side, but afterward runs parallel to it. The branches of the internal mammary are— (a) Superior Phrenic. {h) Thymic. (c) Anterior Intercostal. (d) Anterior (Perforating). (e) Musculo-Phrenic. (/) Abdominal. (a) The superior p)hrenic artery passes between the pericardium and pleura to reach the Diaphragm. It anastomoses with the musculo-phrenic branch and the inferior phrenic artery from the aorta. {h) The thymic branches supply the thymus body, the lymphatic glands, and the fatty and connective tissue in the same locality. Pericardial branches may be given off near the thymic. (c) The anterior intercostal arteries answer to the intercostal spaces. They arise from the sides of the main artery, at the intercostal spaces, from the first to the sixth or seventh, two branches being given to each interval. One of these runs along the lower border, the other along the upper border of the space. At firstTHE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 380 lying between the pleura and the Internal Intercostal muscle, they run for the greater part of their course between the Internal and External Intercostals. (cZ) The anterior (^•perforatinKj) branches pierce the sternal portion of the intercostal spaces to supply the Pectoral muscles and the manimaj, in which tliey are assisted by branches from the anterior intercostal. They are greatly enlarged during lactation. (e) The musculo-phrenic is the outer main division of the artery. It supplies the Diaphragm, the lower Intercostal muscles, where they form twigs known as the anterior intercostals^ and the upper portion of the anterior abdominal wall. (/) The abdominal (superior ejyiyastric) branch passes downward behind the Rectus Abdominis. It supplies this in common with the other abdominal muscles, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric artery. It sends twigs to the Diaphragm and to the integument. Variations The internal mammary may arise from the thyroid axis or the scapular arteries, and rarely from the in- nominate artery or the aorta. Occasionally it is double on each side. THE SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL AND DEEP CERVICAL ARTERIES. It is convenient to treat of these arteries under one head, since they commonly arise from the sub- clavian by a single trunk. This vessel arises behind the Anterior Scalene muscle on the right side, and immediately at the inner side of the corresponding- muscle on the left side. It passes backward and slightly downward over the thoracic wall, and divides into two branches, as follows: — (o) Superior Intercostal (descending trunk). (b) Deep Cervical (ascending trunk). (a) The Superior Intercostal passes over the pleura at the apex of the lung, and enters the thorax in front of the neck of the tirst rib, to the outer side of the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic. The artery supplies the muscles of the first and in part those of the second intercostal space. It sends minute branches to the dorsal region, and a small twig to the spinal cord, through the neighboring intervertebral foramen. (b) The Deep Cervical artery (posterior cervical) ascends vertically, reaching the posterior cervical region between the transverse process of the last cer- vical vertebra and the first rib. It thence ascends vertically between the transverse and spinous pro- cesses of the cervical vertebrae, and lies beneath the Complexus muscle. It supplies the deep muscles of the neck, and anastomoses with branches of the ver- tebral and the descending branch of the occipital artery. General Remarks on the Branches of the Sub- clavian Artery The arrangement of the branches of the subclavian artery, above presented, is for tiie most part the one generally accepted by anatomists both in this country and in England. It is nevertheless but justice to Mr. Quain to say that, in his work on the anatomy of the arteries (the most authoritative in the English language"), he declares that the branches as frequently present irregular disposition as they do the arrangement called average in anatomical text- books. It need not excite comment, therefore, if departures from the descriptions above accepted are occasionally noted. ThusHenle describes the thyroid axis, under the name of the thyro-cervical trunk, as having lour branches, the inferior thyroid; the ascending cervical, whicli supplies the deep mus- cles of the neck, ascending as far as the atlas, where it anasto- moses with the ascending pharyngeal; the superficial cervical (transversalis colli); and the transverse scapidar (supra- scapular). The third portion of the vessel gives off" inde- pendently the transversalis colli (posterior scapular). J. B. Pervin* found in eleven subjects out of fifty the transversalis colli arising as described by Henle, and in fourteen to arise independently of the axis, from the second part of the subclavian artery. In another series of examina- tions he found the artery arising in nearly half the number of examples from the third part. It becomes, therefore, an important fact for the surgeon to remember, in ligating the subclavian artery in its third part, that in a large per- centage of cases an artery may be found, contrary to the statements of many observers, springing directly from it. ISTo explanation of the frequent variations in these branches has yet been given. Students of the sub- ject have neglected stating any related facts, such as the anatomy of the muscles and of the nerve trunks in the vicinity, or the departures which such branches exhibit from the arrangement of the corresponding vessels in the lower animals. Since the frequent use of the word " cervical" in the names of branches of the subclavian artery has led to some confusion, the following grouping of the three main "cervical" branches may prove of service. The superficial cervical branch supplies the upper por- tion of the Trapezius, the Levator Anguli Scapulas, the Rhomboideus, and the Serratus Posticus Superior. These muscles, with the exception of the last-named, are associated in nature (see Variations of these mus- cles, pp. 274-276), and might receive the name of the Cephalo humeral group.—The deep cervical branch ' Bi-it. and For. Med.-Chir. Rev., Ivii. 187(3, 186.381 THE AXILLAEY ARTEEY. supplies the Complexus and other deep muscles of the vertebral scries, and thus has no organic connection with the muscles inserted into the superior extremity. —The ascending cervical artery supplies the Scalene muscles, which may be said to constitute the superior Costo-Vertebral group of muscles. THE AXILLARY ARTERY. The Axillary Artery is the continuation of the subclavian. It begins at the lower (lateral) border of the first rib, and ends at the lower border of the ten- dons of the Latissimus Dorsi and Teres Minor muscles behind, and the lower border of the Pectoralis Major in front. It proceeds obliquely downward and backward across the arm-pit, changing its position slightly according to the position of the limb. When the superior extremity is at rest, the vessel describes a curve downward and inward, the convexity being directed toward the shoulder. The artery is situated more deeply above than below, where it is covered by the skin and fascia only. Belovf, it lies near the humerus, from which it is separated by the Coraco- Brachialis muscle. The axillary artery is divided for convenience into three portions. The first portion includes that part of the vessel lying above the tendon of the Pectoralis Minor muscle; tlie second portion lies behind the tendon; and the third lies below it. Relations.— The first portion of the axillary artery. In front it is covered by the skin, the Platysma Myoides, the cephalic vein, and tlie costo-coracoid membrane. Beneath, it rests against the external layer of the first Intercostal muscle and the Serratus Magnus, as well as against a prolongation of the deep cervical fascia, which forms, with the costo-coracoid membrane, a sheath inclosing the artery and vein. To the median side lies the axillary vein, and to the lateral side is the brachial plexus of nerves, the trunk formed by the union of the eiglith cervical and first dorsal nerves lying near and a little superficial to the artery. The second portion lies beneath the Pectoralis Minor, and is embraced by the trunks of the brachial plexus. A quantity of connective tissue lies between the vessel and the Siibscapularis muscle; to the lateral side is the insertion of tlie tendon of tiie Siibscapularis; and to the median side, the axillary vein. 27ie third portion—In front of the artery in this portion are the skin, fascia, and the median nerve which crosses the vessel obliquely from within outward. Beneath lie the lower part of the tendon of the Subscapularis, the tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi, and the Teres Minor muscle, as well as the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves. To tlie lateral side lie the Coraco-Brachialis muscle, the external cutaneous nerve, and the outer root of the median nerve. To the me- dian side lie the axillary vein, the ulnar, the internal cuta- neous and the lesser cutaneous nerves, together with the inner root of the median nerve. When the arm is forcibly abducted, the axillary artery at its third portion rests on the Subscapularis muscle. Ligation of the Axillary Artery—For the o[]eration of ligation of the artery near its origin, an incision three inches long is made, beginning one inch from the sternal end of the clavicle, and extending to the anterior edge of the Deltoid muscle. The Pectoralis Major is drawn downward, and tlie costo-coracoid membrane carefully divided upon a grooved director. The operator should then search for the acromial branch of the artery, which ordinarily lies in the loose con- nective tissue beneath the membrane. Using the acromio- thoracic artery as a guide, the artery is seen lying deep in tiie wound between the vein and the brachial plexus of nerves. If seen, the vein should be drawn to the median side, and the needle passed from within outward. Tliis ope- ration is rarely performed, the ligation of the outer third of the subclavian being easier and safer. For obvious reasons the ligation of the axillary at its second portion is rarely at- tempted. For ligation of the axillary artery at its lower portion, the elbow is flexed, the arm is abducted, and an incision three inches long made in the axillary space, a little nearer the median than the lateral side. Using the inner border of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle as a guide, a careful search for the artery is instituted in the loose connective tissue. The axillary vein is first exposed, and, on drawing this to the median side, tlie artery is disclosed lying to the median side of the median nerve. The needle is passed from within outwai'd. The collateral circulation varies according as the arteiy is ligated above or below tiie subscapular. the Above Subscapular Below Subscapular other arteries about scapula. Internal Mammaiy aud Deep Ejiigastrio. (Subscapular —[- Long Tlioracic—[— ( Posterior Circunitlex-|-Suprascapular and I Acromial-Thoracic. Subscapular —j-Superior Profunda. Mr. Skey reports^ an instance in which this artej-y was wounded by spicules of bone from a fractured humerus. A ditfused aneurism ensued, ending in death. The branches of the axillary artery are— {a) Superior Thoracic. {b) Acromial-Thoracic. (c) Long Tlioracic. {d) Thoracica Alaris. (e) Subscapular. ■ (/) Posterior Circumflex. {(j) Anterior Circumflex. {a) The superior thoracic arises from the first part of the vessel, as high up as the Subclavius muscle. It is often a branch of the acromial thoracic. Crossing ' Lancet, 1859, ii. 661.382 AND THE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET &<^0^00-: the first intercostal space, where it gives branches to the upper portion of the thoracic wall, it passes to the Pectoral muscles, between which it gives oS branches to supply more particularly the Pectoralis Minor. It also supplies the skin and the mammary gland, and anastomoses with the intercostal and inter- nal mammary arteries. (5) The acromial thoracic artery is larger than the preceding, and arises from the first portion of the axillary between the Pectoralis Minor and the costo- coracoid membrane. It at once divides into two branches, a descending and an acromial branch. The descending/ is lodged within the groove between the Deltoid muscle and the Pectoralis Major, where it is in company with the cephalic vein, and anastomoses with the anterior circumflex artery. Most of its branches pass to the Deltoid muscle. The acromial, the larger of the two branches, passes outward along the lower border of the clavicle, cross- ing the coracoid process and the coraco-acromial membrane to reach the acromion process, in the neigh- borhood of which its terminal branches are distri- buted to the Deltoid and Supra-Spinatus muscles and to the articular tissues in the region of the shoulder. It anastomoses with the transverse scapular artery. In addition to the above the artery sends branches to the Serratus Magnus and Subclavius muscles. In some subjects branches pass to the Pectoralis Major on its deep surface, and perforate the sternal margin of the muscle to supply the skin. (c) The lo7i(j thoracic artery arises from the first division of the axillary, directly below, though some- times behind, the Pectoralis Minor. It passes ob- liquely inward down the side of the chest between the Pectoralis Major and the anterior border of the Serratus Magnus muscle as far as the sixth inter- costal space. It supplies the Pectoralis Major, the Serratus Magnus, the corresponding Intercostal mus- cle, the mammary gland, and the skin. The poste- rior branches anastomose with the intercostal and subscapular arteries. (d) The thoracica alaris is a small inconstant vessel distributed to the lymphatic glands and fat of the axilla. It is often a branch of the acromial thoracic. (e) The subscapular artery answers in position nearly to the inferior border of the Subscapularis muscle. It is the largest of the branches of the axillary. It arises from the third portion of that vessel close to the lower edge of the Subscapularis muscle. Having .the musculo-spiral nerveon the median side, it descends toward the axillary border of the scapula, Avhere it divides into two branches, a descending and a dorsal or scapular branch. The descending branch is a con- tinuation of the arter}^ which passes along the axil- lary border of the scapula, in company with the sub- scapular nerve, between the Serratus Magnus and the Latissimus Dorsi, and is distributed chiefly to these muscles, and to the Subscapularis and the Teres Major, at the same time sending branches to the skin. It anastomoses with the terminal portion of the dorsal branch. The dorsal or scapular branch, as a rule larger than the preceding, arises from the main vessel at the upper portion of the axillary border of the space between the Teres muscles, where it forms a slight groove in the bone a short distance below the long head of the Triceps. As it lies be- neath the Teres Minor, on its waj'' to the dorsum of the scapula, it divides into branches for the Infra- spinatus and Teres Minor muscles. It anastomoses with the posterior and superior scapular arteries. (/) The 'posterior circumflex arises from the poste- rior surface of the trunk, opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis, and close to the preceding artery. It passes through the quadrangular space defined by the humerus within, the long head of the Triceps with- out, the Subscapularis and Teres Minor muscles above, and the Teres Major and Latissimus Dorsi below. It winds around the posterior aspect of the surgical neck of the humerus to reach the under surface of the Deltoid muscle, to which it sends numerous branches. Several small branches are given off to the shoulder- joint, the Latissimus Dorsi, and the Triceps before the artery reaches its destination. It anastomoses with the descending branch of the acromial-thoracic and subscapular arteries. ((7) The anterior circumflex, much smaller than the posterior, arises at about the same level with it on the anterior surface of the trunk. It passes outward and forward, and winds around the anterior surface of the region of the surgical neck of the humerus, beneath the Coraco-Brachialis muscle, and the short head of the Biceps, to reach the bicipital groove where it often terminates. It may cross this groove to reach the median border of the Deltoid, within which it is distributed to anastomose with the poste- rior circumflex artery. It sends a short descending branch to the periosteum of the bicipital groove, and a longer one which may ascend as high as the cap- sular ligament and the synovial membranes, to which, in this event, it sends branches, while the remainder of the artery, anastomosing with a branch of the acromial-thoracic, is lost in the head of the humerus. The artery supplies in addition the Subscapularis and those muscles arising from the coracoid process.383 THE BEACHIAL ARTERY. -XxC^Ooo Remarks A curious accident to these vessels, in con- nection witli tlie disciiarge of cannon, has been described.' The discharge was received by tlie hand, wiiicli was in part lacerated and destroyed, while the whole extremity, as far as the axilla, was carried backward by tlie explosion with a degree of violence sufficient to rupture tlie axillary ves- sels. In such cases tiie acromial ligaments may be rup- tured, while the shoulder-joint, the ribs, and the clavicle escape. Variations The variations of the axillary artery and its branches are included under two heads : (a) those parts embraced in the trunk, and [b) tliose included in the exserted portion of the limb. (a) The trunkal branches are best studied in connection with the nature of the muscular attachments of the shoulder. The fact that the branches of the subclavian, supplying the Trapezius, the Levator Anguli Scapulae, tlie Rhomboidei, and the Scaleni muscles, may in rare cases arise from the axil- lary artery is easily understood when tlie variations of these muscles (see p. 27G) are borne in mind. The variations, con- sisting of interchanges of the superior thoracic, the acromial thoracic, and the long thoracic, are in like manner under- stood if tlie pectoral significance of these branches be re- membered. Tlie superior thoracic and the acromial thoracic often arise from a common trunk which has received the name of the thoracic axis.—The subscapular is apt to domi- nate the other branches and some of the branches of the brachial. Thus the posterior circumflex and the superior profunda are seen arising from tlie subscapular; an arrange- ment suggesting the plan normally pursued in the tliigh, wliere the profunda femoris represents the subscapular. Or the posterior circumflex may dominate, when the anterior circumflex, the superior profunda, and the dorsal scapular artery will arise from it—The dorsalis scapulce may arise from the axillary artery. (b) Some of the most interesting variations of the axillary are comprised in what may be called tlic distal variations, i. e., those embraced in the arrangement of branches of the artery to the arm, the forearm, and the hand. In the preceding section the superior profunda is seen arising from the axillary, an arrangement which may be said to connect one group with the otlier. Rarely a complementary ulnar artery arises from tiie axillary or one of its branches, and has received tlie name of tlie coUateral ulnar Tlie artery may divide into the radial and the ulnar, or both of these vessels be present together with the interosseous artery. The branches of the brachial plexus of nerves may em- brace a branch of tiie artery instead of the main stem. In such an instance it may be assumed, according to Quain, tliat the main stem of the brachial artery lias been obliterated, " and that there has been developed in its place, as an appar- ent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of tiie limb, a vas aberrans, such as is sometimes seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting witli one of its brandies." » Br. Med. Jourii., Sept. 23, 1871, 342. THE BEACHIAL AETERT. The Brachial Arteiy is the continuation of the axillary. It begins at the lower margin of the Latis- simus Doi'si muscle, and passes downward and some- what obliquely outward, pursuing a straight course to terminate at the side of the coronoid process of the ulna, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. It lies in the groove between the flexor and extensor muscles of the arm. Relations—In front are the brachial fascia and the skin ; to the outer sid(3 are the Coraco-Brachialis and the median margin of the humerus ; to the median side are the fascia and the skin, from which tlie artery is separated by the tendon of the Coraco-Brachialis. Behind, the artery lies on the Triceps above, and the Brachialis Anticus below. The vessel is superficial till it reaches the elbow, when it sinks within a triangular area, bounded on the median side by the Pronator Radii Teres, on the lateral by the Supinator Longus, behind by the Bracliialis Anticus, and in front by the semi- lunar fascia from the tendon of the Biceps. Within this space, and to the inner side of the Supinator Longus, is the tendon of the Biceps, to the inner side of which in turn is the brachial artery. Tlie relations of the artery being complicated, the usual metliod of description will be departed from, and the rela- tions of tlie veins and nerves to the vessel separately given. The veins (vena; comites) are. generally two in number, one on either side of the vessel. Of these the larger is on the inner side. Here and there they are united by transverse veins either in front or behind the artery. The vente comites unite with tlie basilic veins by perforating the brachial fascia about the middle of the arm. Of the su[)er- ficial veins at the elbow, the median basilic passes over the aponeurotic slip from the tendon of the Biceps The nerves are branches of the brachial plexus, and are arranged as follows :— Tlie median nerve is inclosed in the same sheath with the artery and the veins. Above, it lies to the outer side, then upon the vessel, and finally, at the middle or lower third, crosses it, and near the elbow appears to the inner side. Above, the external and internal cutaneous nerves are also inclosed in the sheath.—The ulnar nerve lies to the inner side, inclosed in a separate sheath. At first it lies near the vessel, but, toward the elbow, passes far to the inner side of the arm The musculo-s[)iral nerve lies beliiud the artery at its origin, but soon winds around on the posterior surl'ace of the humerus The external cutaneous nerve lies to the outer side of the artery, se[)aratiiig it trom the Coraco- Brachialis muscle ; toward the middle of the arm, however, it pierces the last-named muscle, and enters into new rela- tions The internal cutaneous lies to the inner side, and separates the median from the ulnar nerve. The Biceps, when well developed, may project a little over the vessel.HE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET AND T Tlie position of tlie vessel is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between tlie folds of the axilla to a point midway between the epicondyle ajid the epitrochlea of the humerus. Variations The bracliial artery may be sliorter than usual, owing to the radial and ulnar arteries arising above the elbow, when the artery is said to undergo the " high division." In rare instances the vessel may be absent, when the axillary arteiy is said to terminate by division into the radial and ulnar arteries. In some forms of " high division," the interosseous artery may represent the main stem of the brachial artery, i. e., it may extend down the arm to the interosseous space, at the same time that tlie radial and the ulnar arteries occupy respectively the median and lateral borders of the arm. The artery may be of normal length, but may lie upon the deep fascia. Tlie pi'oximity of the elbow-joint and the presence of the slip from the tendon of the Biceps muscle to the fascia of the fore- arm frequently serve to determine the site of variations.—Tlie artery, as it lies just above the elbow, may thus, in aged per- sons, be curved or contorted. In subjects of all ages, the artery at this point may be forced from the straight line by the material employed to fill the bloodvessels—The artery and the median nerve pass through the rarely-present epi- trochlear foramen or under the epitrochlear process (see p. 175) The artery may divide either proximally to or be- neath the slip of the Biceps tendon.—It may divide at a point a little distally to the centre of the joint. Rarely an island-formation occui-s in the trunk.' The artery may be overlaid by an accessory head of the Biceps, by the Pronator Radii Teres muscle, by the Brachialis Anticus, or by the tendon of the Coraco-Brachialis. It may lie beneath the nerve, or between it and the Brachialis Anticus. The branches of the brachial artery are as fol- lows :—• (a) Si-iperior Profunda (profunda brachialis). (b) Inferior Profunda (collateralis ulnaris superior). (c) Nutrient Artery of the shaft. (rZ) Anastomotica (collateralis ulnaris inferior), (e) Muscular branches. (a) The siqyerior 2^rofunda arises from the posterior part of the vessel below the lower margin of the Teres Major muscle. It enters the groove between ' The term "island-formation" implies that the trunk of the vessel illustrating its use has divided into two branches, which, however, instead of remaining distinct, reunite a short distance beyond the point of division^ the inner and outer heads of the Triceps muscle, in company with the musculo-spiral nerve, to gain the ottter side of the arm, where, near the insertion of the Deltoid muscle, it divides into two branches, the ante- rior and the posterior.—The anterior branch pierces the external intermuscular septum, and lies between the Brachialis Anticus and Supinator Longus muscles. It gives branches to the Deltoid, Triceps, and Bra- chialis Anticus, and to the muscles arising from the outer condyloid ridge of the humerus. It anasto- moses with the anterior radial recurrent.—The post- erior (articular) branch descends vertically to supply the third head of the Triceps, and, reaching the elbow- joint, anastomoses with branches of the recurrent interosseous. The anterior branch will sometimes descend vertically along the outer side of the arm to a position behind the epicondyle. (/>) The inferior profunda^ smaller than the pre- ceding, arises opposite the insertion of the Coraco- Brachialis muscle, a little below the middle of the forearm. It passes downward and backward, piercing the intermuscular septum, to reach the Triceps mus- cle, on the anterior face of which it descends to the epitrochlea. (c) The nutrient artery of the shaft enters the humerus through a foramen upon the median side of the middle portion of the shaft. It is directed down- ward, and supplies the interior of the bone. It may perforate the Coraco-Brachialis. Harrison' describes a case of aneurism of tliis vessel, the result of fracture of the humerus, for which amputation of the arm became necessary. (cl) The anastomotica artery arises from the main trunk, about two inches above the bend of the elbow. It supplies the Brachialis Anticus, the third head of the Triceps, and the origins of the flexor muscles of the forearm, besides sending a branch across the pos- terior surface of the humerus above the olecranon fossa. The artery anastomoses with both ulnar re- current arteries. (e) The muscular branches supply chiefly the mus- cles on the front part of the arm, viz., the Biceps and the Brachialis Anticus. 1 Surg. Anat. of Arteries, 180. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXV. Fig. 1. The axillary and brachial arteries. | Fig. 2. The radial and ulnar arteries.385 THE RADIAL ARTERY. =.o«^oo<= • Ligation of the Brachial Artery—For the upper third of the arm, the limb is rotated outward and abducted. An incision is made two inches long, using the inner (ulnar) border of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle as a guide. The integument is thin, and the basilic vein is sometimes found lying beneath it upon the brachial fascia. After dividing the fascia, the artery and venag comites are exposed. The internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves lie to the inner side, and the median nerve to the outer side. For the middle third of the arm, the limb being held as before, an incision of the same length is made along the inner (ulnar) margin of the Biceps muscle. Tlie remaining steps of the operation are those above given. The median nerve is seen lying upon or crossing the artery. It may, however, lie beneatli it. Tlie nerve should be drawn inward, the muscle outward. The profunda artery, wlien enlarged, may be mistaken for the brachial. It is important to remember tliat the latter vessel lies nearer to the humerus than tlie former, and the operator should continually work toward rather than away from tlie shaft of the bone. This vessel was the subject of a traumatic aneurism in a mason wlio had received a severe blow over the region of the Deltoid muscle, tracturing the humerus. Tlie man died of hemorrhage due to the bursting of the aneurism.' At the lower third of the vessel tlie inner edge of tlie Biceps tendon serves as a guide. The artery is reached after dividing the bracliial ii[)oneurosis, tlie median nerve lying well to the inner side. Tiie relation which the artery here holds to the median basilic vein is important. The vein lies over the artery and parallel to it, and in tiie opei'ation of phlebotomy tiie artery has been frequently wounded. At tlie elbow the artery may be reached by an incision extending two inches and a half along the inner margin of the median basilic vein, about one inch above tlie epitro- chlear process, and thence downward and outward along the radial border of the Pronator Radii Teres. After dividing the ante-brachial fascia and tlie semilunar slip going to it from the Biceps muscle, the Biceps tendon is exposed. The artery is found lying to the inner side of the tendon. The median nerve lies to the inner side of the artery, but is more superficial. Tiie collateral circulation is established as ibllows :— Above the Superior Pro I'unda Below tlie Superioi' Profunda I Superior Profunda—[-Anterior Circumflex, f Recurrent branches of I o • T> <• 1 I the Radial, Ulnar, < Superior ProiundaH— i t j. ■ I ' I and Interosseous arte- I. ries. THE RADIAL ARTERY, The Radial Artery, althou.frh the smaller of the two branches arising at the termination of the brachial artery, is the direct continuation of that vessel. It is directed a little obliquely outward at the region of • Portal, Anatoniie Medical. 49 iii. 236. the neck of the radius, but soon becomes vertical, and descends along the anterior aspect of the forearm to the wrist, at which point it turns between the sty- loid process of the radius and the scaphoid bone to reach the back of the carpus. It thence passes through the first (occasionally tbe second) interosse- ous space to the palm, where it joins the ulnar artery in forming the deep palmar arch. On the forearm the vessel is superficial, save at its upper two-thirds, where it is slightly overlapped by the Supinator Longus muscle. The vessel rests upon the Supinator Brevis and the fibres of insertion of the Pronator Radii Teres, as well as upon the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the thin radial edge of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. To the inner (ulnar) side lie the middle third of the Pronator Radii Teres and tendon of the Flexor Carpi Radialis for the lower two-thirds of the forearm, and to its outer (radial) side lie the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and the Supinator Longus. At about the middle third of its course, it has the radial nerve to its outer (radial) side. At its distal third, the vessel lies superficially between the tendons of the Supi- nator Longus and Flexor Carpi Radialis muscles. At the wrist the artery winds around the outer border of the radius to reach the radial border of tlie forearm, where it descends vertically on the external lateral ligament to the oitter'side of the radial exten- sors and beneath the extensors of the thumb. It then becomes superficial, and is contained within a trian- gular space defined laterally by the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis, and mediauly by the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis. The radial artery is accompanied by venae comites. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia beneath the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the bade of the carpus. Ligation of tlie Radial Artery A line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to a point midway between the styloid process of the radius and tiie tendon of the Flexor Carpi Eadialis corresponds nearly to the position of the radial artery. The vessel can be secured by ligature at its upper and lower portions. The upper portion. An incision three inches in lengtli in the dire(^tion of tlie above line beginning one inch below the bend of tiie elbow. Branches of tiie median vein are to be avoided, the antebrachial fascia divided, and the Suiii- nator Longus and Pronator Radii Teres muscles drawn apart. The artery and nerve lie in the interspace. The nerve, however, lies toward tlie radial border, and need not be seen. The vence comites are carefully separated, and tiie needle passed from either side.386 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. The lower portion. The artery lies superficially between tlie tendons of the Supinator Longus and of the Flexor Carpi Radialis. The nerve lies to the lateral (outer) side. When the vessels are known to be enlarged, care should be taken not to confound the radial artery with the superficialis volae. The artery can be secured as it crosses the bottom of the space between the tendon of the Extensor Secundi Inter- nodii Pollicis and the sheath containing the tendons of the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis and the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis. An incision one inch and a half in length is made obliquely across this space. The artery is easily detected lying at the base. According to Butclier,' " In wounds of the radial artery on liie back of the forearm, the lower end retracts into the lax tissue lodged in the triangular space, tlie walls of which are formed on the one side by the Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollicis and the Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis, and on the other by tlie Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis. Tiie way this ditficulty is to be met, is by cutting down on the radial artery, just betbre it dips down to form the palmar arch. It must he remembered, however, that it is covered in by a very dense fascia, which will require to be freely slit on a director. A large vein and a considerable branch of tlie radial nerve run superficial to the artery in this part of its course, and must be avoided." Holden^ states that the line of the superficial palmar arch crosses the palm at about the junction of the upper with the lower two-thirds, that is, in the line of the base of the walls of the thumb separated widely from the fingers. The artery near the wrist, before it turns over the styloid process, may be separated from the bone by a bursa.' The vessel thus situated may become unduly prominent, and transmit its pulsation to the bursa and the surrounding parts. Sir Astley Cooper mentions an instance of ligation of the vessel by an incautious operator who mistook the misplaced artery for an aneurism. The branches of the radial artery are as follows :—■ r (a) Radial Recurrent. {b) Anterior Carpal. (c) Superficialis Vols',. (d) Muscular. f (e) Posterior Carpal. j (/) Metacarpal (first dorsal B. Behind the wrist. \ interosseous). 1 (//) Dorsal is Pollicis. y (h) Dorsalis Indicis. „ _ , , , ( (/■') Princeps Pollicis Arteria. C. In the hand. { ; i -n, t t t t • (j) Radians Indicis. 1 Surgery, 407. ^ Landmarks, 120. 3 Wm. Coulson, Loiidou Med. Journ., 18.51, 884. A. In the forearm. \ (a) The radial recurrent artery arises from the outer side of the main vessel at the bend of the elbow. It curves outward and upward with the convexity of the curve downward, to ascend along the groove be- tween the Supinator Longus and the Brachialis An- ticus. It rests upon the Supinator Brevis, and sends branches to that muscle as Avell as to the origins of the radial extensors and to the Extensor Communis Digitorum. It anastomoses with the superior profunda artery. (l) The anterior carpal artery is a slender, constant branch arising from the radial artery at the level of the lower edge of the Pronator Quadratus. It passes inward to form with the junction of the anterior carpal branch a transverse arch across the line of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation. It sends branches to the Pronator Quadratus, to the periosteum of the radius and ulna, and to the inferior radio-ulnar arti- culation. (c) The superficialis voice arises at the level of the styloid process of the radius. It descends vertically across the annular ligament to reach the ball of the thumb, to the muscles of which it is in the main dis- tributed. Its terminal branches lie beneath the palmar aponeurosis, and anastomose with the analo- gous branches of the superficial ulnar artery to form the superficial palmar arch. According to Sappey, this artery supplies the first two lumbrical muscles. {d) The muscular branches supply contiguous mus- cles of the forearm, and the nutrient branch. (e) The posterior carpal artery is larger than the preceding. It arises from the radial vessel near the inter-carpal articulation to the outer side of the Exten- sor Carpi Radialis Longior. It passes transversely across the first row of carpal bones beneath the tendon of the extensors of the thumb and finger, and forms with a branch of the ulnar an arch whose concavity is forward. Branches arise from the arch both above and below. Those above are slender and are distri- buted to the dorsum of the carpus, the radio-carpal articulation, and to the skin, and anastomose with the anterior interosseous. Those below the arch are larger, and perforate the Dorsal Interosseous muscles to join the deep palmar arch. (/) The metacarpal {^Yfit dorsal interosseous) arises to the outer side of the Extensor Secundi Internodii Pollicis above the first interosseous space. It lies upon the second interosseous space, anastomoses with the digital branches of the superficial palmar arch, and supplies branches to the index and middle finger. {(j) Tlie dorsalis piollicis frequently arises from the radial jnst prior to the vessel perforating the first387 interosseous space. It supplies the dorsum of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. (A) The dorsalis indicis 'is a small branch which supplies the dorsum of the index finger, and sends branches to the Abductor Pollicis. ({) The arteria "princA'ps pollicis lies between the First Dorsal Interosseous and the deep head of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis or the Adductor Pollicis. It passes thence along the ulnar border of the thumb to the insertion of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, where it anastomoses with the dorsalis pollicis, and is distrib- uted to the side, front, and back of the thumb. {j) The radialis indicis descends between the Ab- ductor Pollicis and the First Dorsal Interosseous mus- cle. It passes along the radial border of the index finger. Its terminal branches anastomose with the vessel on the ulnar border of the finger. The entire arterial supply of the thumb and tlie index finger is remarkable for the variety displayed in the arrange- ment of the vessels, which present for a common feature an origin from the radial artery immediately prior to its transit from the dorsum to the palm of the hand. The above description is the one followed essentially by the English, and by Luschka among the German writers. The last three arteries occasionally arise from a common trunk, according to French writers. Henle describes the arteria princeps pollicis and the l adialis indicis as one trunk. The deep palmar arch is the result of the union between the continuation of the radial artery in the palm and the communicating branch of the ulnar. The curve of the arch is convex distally, and rests upon the second, third, fourth, and fifth metacarpal bones, directly below their proximal extremities, aud itpon the Palmar Interosseous muscles. It is covered by the tendons of the flexor muscles, and in part by the muscles of the ball of the thumb and those of the fifth finger. It is in intimate relation with the Adductor Pollicis. The branches of the deep palmar arch are as fol- lows :— (a) Ascending (recurrent). {h) Palmar interosseous. (c) Perforating. (a) The small ascendiiKj branches are six in num- ber. Tliey pass upward from the concavitv of the arch to supply the anterior aspect of the carpus and inosculate with the terminal branches of the anterior carpal arteries. (/>) The palmar iytterosseons branches, usually three in number, pass downward from the convexity of the arch upon the corresponding muscles of the same name, and anastomose with the digital branches of the superficial arch, at the level of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulation. Tliey send small branches to the interosseous muscles, to the periosteum of the metacarpal bones, to the Adductor Pollicis and Lum- brical muscles, and to the web of the fingers. (c) The perforating arteries, generally three in number, pass between the pruxinuxl ends of the three median interosseous spaces, to reach the dorsum of the hand, where they anastomose with the dorsal interosseous arteries. Variations The radial artery, when of " high origin," may give off' the subscapular and other branches normally derived from the axillaiy and brachial arteries. At the elbow it is afiparently modified liy the position of the slip from the tendon of the Biceps muscle. It may be contorted near the slip, or may pierce it; or it may curve abrujitly forward as it passes from the level of the Supinatoi- Ihevis to that of the Pronator Radii Teres. It may send otf at the same place an aberrant muscular twig; or a superficial branch may pass distally on the deep fascia in com[)any with the median vein. It may yield the interosseous artery. When the radial is absent, or when it terminates at a point proximal to the wrist, its place may be supplied by the nor- mally constituted interosseous artery. The superficialis voliE may be rudimentary, and may not contribute to the formation of the superficial palmar arch. The radial may end in the integument at the wrist, the ulnar taking its place in forming the palmar arches. Perhaps the most important of the variations relate to the peculiarities of the radial pidse. The pulse is not of neces- sity absent when the radial artery is absent, tor the place of that vessel can be taken by an unusually well-developed superficialis volaj of " high origin." The radial artery may, soon after its origin, wind round the radius and descend the back of the foi-earm, when the superficialis vola; may yield '■'■the radial pulse." The abnormal vessel is always smaller than the normal one. It is evident that, should this anomaly be found in both forearms, and should the radial pulsation be relied upon, very erroneous impressions would be received by the observer as to the condition of the circu- lation. In the rare instances in which the normal radial artery is accompanied by the superficialis voIer, the anomaly of a double radial pidse is presented. Under the name of the median artery is described an aberrant branch of the radial artery that follows the course of the median nerve to the palm, where it may join the super- ficial palmar arch, or may terminate by direct anastomosis with the ulnar artery Instead of piercing the first, the radial artery may pierce the second inter-melacarpal space—The recurrent branch may be larger than usual, and its anasto- mosis with the superior profunda lie so marked ps to sug- gest the hypothesis that an obstiuction had existed in theTHE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 388 =OOg§OO.i — brachial artery for a sufficient length of time to establish a collateral circulation. THE ULNAE ARTERY. The Ulnar Artery, the larger of the two divisions of the brachial, is curved a little obliquely downward and outward toward the inner side of tbe forearm, through its upper third; it is then directed vertically- downward to terminate in the palmar arch. Tlie artery is divided for convenience into three portions: (1) As it lies in the forearm. (2) As it lies at the wrist. (3) As it lies in the band. (1) The ulnar artery in the forearm. The vessel at its origin is covered by the flexor muscles which arise from the epitrochlea, except the Elexor Carpi IJlnaris. It here lies beneath the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and upon the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, the tendons of the Brachialis Anticus and Biceps muscles, and is separated from the median nerve which lies to its radial side by the deep head of the Pronator Radii Teres. As it descends the forearm it is covered by the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris until it reaches the junction of the upper and middle thirds, Avhere it becomes superficial, and lies in a depression between the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris and the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Behind it lies the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The ulnar nerve, which lies far to the inner side above, gradually approaches the artery, and, frotn the mid- dle of the forearm, lies closely to its ulnar side and continues with it into the palm. (2) The ulnar artertj at the wrist. At the wrist the artery passes in front of the annular ligament, and lies to the radial side of the pisiform bone, which, in a measure, protects it. In front of the artery lies a thin layer of fibrous tissue, extending from the annular ligament inward to the palmar fascia. (3) Tlie ulnar artery in the palm. "Within the palm the ulnar artery divides into two branches: (a) the superficialis volse, the continuation of the main course of the artery, which passes outward between the Palmaris Brevis and the muscles of the little finger, and beneath the Palmaris Longus, to anasto- mose with the superficial volar of the radial artery; and (b) the communicating branch which reaches the deeper structures of the palm, to the radial side of the muscles of the little finger or between them. The branches of the ulnar artery include the fol- lowing :— (a) Anterior Ulnar Recurrent. (li) Posterior Ulnar Recurrent, j (c) Common Interosseous. {d) Muscular branches. A. In the forearm. -J B. At the wrist. C. In the hand. \ {e) Posterior Ulnar Carpal. (/) Anterior Ulnar Carpal. {y) Deep or Communicating. {a) The anterior ulnar recurrent artery arises from the ulnar at the upper part, passes obliquely down- ward and inward to reach the Brachialis Anticus muscle, upon which it ascends to reach the front of the epitrochlea, where it inosculates with the anas- tomotica of the brachial. It is at first covered by the Pronator Radii Tei'es, and later lies in the groove between this muscle and the Brachialis Anticus, and sends branches of supply to both muscles as well as to the Flexor Carpi Radialis and the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. {li) The posterior ulnar recurrent., larger than the preceding, and often found arising from the same trunk with it, passes inward on the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. It curves upward behind the epitrochlea, where it inosculates with the anastomotica and the inferior profunda. This vessel is at first covered by the flexor muscles arising from the epitrochlea, and at the median side of the elbow it passes between the two heads of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris, at which point it lies in front of the ulnar nerve, and sends twigs to the origin of the muscles arising from the epitrochlea, to the ulnar nerve, and to the skin. (c) The common ' interosseous artei'y, the largest of the ulnar branches, usually arises from the posterior surface of the main vessel about an inch below the tuberosity of the radius. It is exposed in dissection by separating the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum from the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The artery, with an accompanying vein, lies deep in the interosseous space. It descends for about an inch upon the inter- osseous membrane, and divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior iyiterosseous branch continues down the forearm upon the interosseous membrane, between the Flexor Profundus Digitorum and the Flexor Longus Pollicis, in order to reach the proximal border ■ of the Pronator Quadratus, behind which it passes, and then pierces the lower portion of the interos- seous membrane, to anastomose with the terminal branches of the posterior interosseous branch and to ^ supply the dorsum of the carpus. It here joins the descending branches of the posterior ulnar carpal branch. The most important branches of the ante- rior interosseous are \hQ j)erforating, which pierce the interosseous membrane to yield twigs to the deep- seated muscles of the back of the forearm; theTHE ULNAE AETERY, o-OO^OOO 389 artery for the median nerve, wtich accompanies the fibres of the median nerve as far as the palm; the muscular branches which supply the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, and the Pro- nator Quadratus; the nutrient arteries for the shafts of the ulna and occasionally the radius; and an anas- lomosiny branch that descends beneath the Pronator Quadratus, and, after supplying the parts in front of the carpus, anastomoses with the anterior carpal branches of both the radial and the ulnar arteries. The posterior interosseous artery, often the larger of the two branches of the common interosseous, passes backward betw^een the oblique ligament and the upper border of the interosseous ligament. As it enters the posterior aspect of the forearm, it is received between the lower border of the Supinator Brevis and the Ex- tensor Carpi Ulnaris. It descends below the super- ficial and the deep layer of muscles to the lower part of the forearm, where it joins the posterior division of the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior inter- osseous artery gives off an ascending branch, the in- terosseous recurrent, which lies upon the Supinator Brevis as far as the head of the radius, and after- ward upon the Anconeus to the epicondyle, where it anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery. It gives branches to the muscles in the neighborhood of the elbow-joint and to the skin. (cZ) Muscular branches. The muscular branches supply chiefly the muscles of the forepart of the fore- arm. The perforating branches, when not branches of the anterior interosseous, arise directly from the ulnar artery. (e) The iwsterior ulnar carpal arises from the ulnar artery, about an inch and a half above the pisiform bone, and winds backward between the ulna and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris to reach the back of the wrist, where it terminates in branches which anastomose with the posterior radial carpal artery to form the posterior carpal arcli.—The 'second and third interos- seous arteries, according to Quain, are derived from this arch. They descend upon the fourth and fifth interosseous spaces, and receive the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch. They also send minute branches along the fifth metacarpal bone. (/) The anterior ulnar carpal is a small twig which arises opposite the lower border of the Pronator Quadratus, and anastomoses with the branches of the anterior radial carpal artery. {(j) The deep or communicative branch, the terminal branch of the artery, passes between the pisiform bone and the unciform process of the unciform bone, and thence between the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti, and turns forward to join the radial artery. This union completes the deep) palmar arch. The Superficial Palmar Arch. The superficial pal- mar arch is the result of union between the continua- tion of the trunk of the ulnar artery across the palm, under the name of the superficial palmar artery, and the superficialis volte of the radial. It lies beneath the palmar aponeurosis and above the flexor tendons and the digital branches of the median nei've. The branches of the supei'ficial palmar arch are called the digital arteries. The diyital arteries are generally four in number; they arise from the convexity of the deep palmar arch. Each artery divides at the web of the 'finger to supply the lateral borders of the adjacent fingers, so that the digital artery toward the radial border of the hand supplies the ulnar border of the index and the radial border of the middle finger. The next in order supplies the ulnar border of the middle finger, and the radial border of the ring finger; while the next supplies the ulnar border of the ring, and the radial border of*the little finger. The digital artery on the ulnar border of the hand is an exception to this rule. It does not bifurcate, but terminates only on the ulnar border of the little fincrer. Sometimes this vessel is a branch of the ulnar at a higher point than the palmar arch. According to some autiioriiies, minute vessels arise from the concavity of the superficial palmar arcii, and are directed backward. The bifurcation of the digital artery ordinarily takes place at a point midway between each interdigital space and the more anterior of the two transverse p.almar folds. The Li(jaiion of the Ulnar Artery.—The ulnar artery can be reached at its upper portion by cutting across the super- ficial Hexor mass. By many surgeons it is deemed best to secure the brachial in case of any necessity for arresting hemori'hage at this portion of tiie ulnar artery. At its lower ])ortion tlie vessel is more accessible, and can be exposed by making an incision through the skin and fascice, one-and- a-half inch long, in the depression between tlie Flexor Sublimis Digitorum and the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscles, and by drawing the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris to the irmer side. The ulnar nerve lies to tiie ulnar side of the arterj'. Should the above-named intermuscular depression be obliterated by the swollen condition of the limb, tiie [losition of the pisiform bone will serve the purpose of guiding tlie operator to the vessel. Thus an incision, one-and-a-half inch in length, may be made extending upward along aline drawn from this bone. In order to make the ulnar artery in the forearm more superficial, Malgaigne' recommends that, before the first ' Revue Med.-Chir., torn. ii. 160.THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 890 incision is made, the fingers be forced markedly backward, and so retaine.d during the ditferent stei)s of the operation. Tills causes the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscle to retreat in- ward and backward, so that the artery, which in the normal position of the parts is partly concealed by the muscle, is transferred to a more anterior plane at the same time that the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, on which the artery lies, is greatly raised The artery at the wrist may be displaced anteriorly by an enlarged bursa. The collateral circulation, after ligation, is established thus:— T, , TTi L \ Recurrent Radial and Recurrent Inter- Recurrent Ulnar artery-[- ^^^^^^^^ j^^^^^..^^. p^.^f^„^^ Anastomotica. Vai'iations The ulnar artery may have a " high origin," when it may be one of the subdivisions of the brachial, or, in its absence, of the axillary; but its development as an aberrant branch, from the brachial or long thoracic, is a more common variation. When thus aberrant, it runs superficially to the forearm to supply the region of the nor- mally disposed vessel, and tends to follow the course of the superficial veins and nerves. It may thus run in a sheath with the basilic vein and the internal cutaneous nerve. Or it may lie behind the epitrochlea of the humerus in company with the ulnar nerve The most important variety of any branch of the ulnar occurs in the common interosseous artery. The common interosseous is never a branch of the ulnar when this vessel has a high origin, but is often the continuation of the brachial artery The brachial may end in three vessels instead of two, the third vessel in ail in- stances being the common interosseous.—The median artery may go to the palm .and take the place of the ulnar and the radial branches. It may unite these branches or aid in forming the superficial palmar arch. A number of five- fingered quadrupeds retain these manal terminations of this artery. The median artery may lie superficial to the me- dian nerve at the side of the tendon of the Palmaris Longus. —The recurrent branches are subject to many unimportant variations. For the most pai't these consist of slight devia- tions of the vessels as they—in association with the branclies of the inferior profunda and the anastomotica—form a coarse network behind and at the sides of the elbow-joint. Some writers apply the term rete to this kind of anastomo- sis.—A transverse branch may unite the ulnar with the radial artery at the lower third of the forearm The superficial palmar arch may be absent, or may be smaller than usual, or it may, by its size or du|)lication, measurably take the place of the deep arch. The digital arteries, while varying in origin from the palmai' arches and the arteries of the metacarpus, are singularly constant in their positions at the sides of the fingers. THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. The Thoracic Aorta is that portion of the aorta lying between the aortic arch and the Diaphragm. At first lying to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra, it soon inclines toward the front of the vertebral column, and, at the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm, lies directly in the median line. In front is the root of the left Inng, and at the upper portion is the oeso- phagus. Behind are the vertebral column and the small azygos vein. To the right side lie the oeso- phagus, the thoracic duct, and the great azygos vein. Towards its termination, the oesophagus, and the left pleura and corresponding lung, lie a little to the left side of the aorta. The aorta presents a curve answer- ing to that of the vertebral column, and is slightly convex to the right side. The branches of the descending thoracic aorta are— (a) Pericardial. {J)) Bronchial, (c) CEsophageal. {d) Mediastinal, (e) Intercostal. (a) The pericardial arteries are several minute branches which are distributed, as the name indi- cates, to the pericardium. (b) The Ironchial branches are the nutrient vessels of the lungs. They are from two to three in number, and arise from the anterior aspect of the aorta. The right bronchial artery may arise, not from the de- scending aorta, but from either the first intercostal, the internal mammary, or the inferior thyroid, or, some- times, by a common trunk with the upper left bron- chial artery. The left bronchial arteries are usually two in number, the upper arising from the beginning of the thoracic aorta. The arteries are directed to the posterior surface of the bronchial tubes, and accom- pany them to their terminal subdivisions. (c) The oesophageal arteries embrace from three to six minute vessels. They anastomose above with the inferior thyroid, and below with the ascending branches from the phrenic and gastric arteries. (cZ) The mediastinal branches arise from the front EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXVI. The abdominal aorta and its branches, the common iliac arteries, and the inferior vena cava.PLATE LXVI T. Sincl«rr & S<m,J-iili,vessels as cross the vertebral column supply, by minute 1 Trans. Path. Soc. Lonrion, viii. 1857. 162. THE ABDOMINAL AO ETA. OCO^OOC 391 of the aorta, and supply the connective tissue of the posterior mediastinum. (f) The aortic intercostal arteries, unlike the pre- ceding branches of the descending aorta, are not dis- tributed to the viscera, but to the walls of the chest; they are from nine to ten in number, the first and the second intercostal spaces being supplied by the first intercostal artery. They arise from the sides of the thoracic aorta, the right branches being longer than the left, since they must cross the dorsal vertebras to reach the intercostal spaces of the right side. The arteries for the upper spaces ascend somewhat obliquely outward; those for the middle and lower spaces are directed outward and slightly downward.. Each artery, as it passes to the angle of the rib, divides into two branches, an anterior or true inter- costal, and a posterior or dorsal. The anterior bi'anch gains its corresponding space about midway between the costal borders. It thence lies within the groove along the under border of the rib. At the point where this groove disappears, the artery regains its first position in the middle of the space, but soon terminates by anastomosing with the internal mammary artery. The vessel at first lies upon the Internal Intercostal muscle, and subse- quently between the two Intercostal muscles. Just at its entrance between the muscles it gives oft' the supracostal branch. This is a small vessel, which gains the upper border of the rib immediately below, along which it runs for a short distance, and is finally distributed to the periosteum and to the external surface of the thorax. It supplies the Inter- costal muscles, and sends minute branches to the Pec- toralis Major and Pectoralis Minor, the Serratus Magnus, the External Intercostal muscles, and to the digitations of the abdominal muscles. The posie^-io?-or dorsal branch passes to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and sends a branch through the intervertebral foramen in com- pany with the posterior branch of the corresponding spinal nerve. This supplies the spinal cord and the interior of the vertebral canal. A second branch passes backward, and is lost in the deep-seated mus- cles. A few twigs supply the integument. Remarks—English writers describe under this head an internal branch which is directed toward the spinous pro- cess, and an external branch which passes under the Lon- gissimus Dorsi muscle, and which becomes superficial between tliat muscle and the Sacro-Lumbalis. The above presents the general distribution of the aortic intercostal vessels. It may be remarked that such of these twigs, the bodies of the vertebrce and the intervertebral disks. The third intercostal artery anastomoses with the first inter- costal. The third vessel on the right side often supplies the corresponding bronchial artery. The lower intercostal arte- ries pass behind the pillars of the Diaphragm. They sup- ply the origins of the abdominal muscles and the costal origin of the Diaphragm. They anastomose with the terminal twigs of the internal mammary, with the epigastric, and with the phrenic arteries. In the female, branches of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal arteries go to the mammas. The seventh has been seen supplying the sixth as well as its own intercostal space. Tlie collateral circulation, after obliteration of the thoracic aorta by disease or malformation, may, according to Sydney Jones,* be sustained as follows:— First, the internal mammary artery anastomoses with the intercostal arteries, with the phrenic of the abdominal aorta by means of the musculo-phrenic and comes nervi phrenici, and lai'gely with the deep epigastric. Secondly, the supe- rior intercostal anastomoses anteriorly by means of a large branch with the first aortic intercostal, and posteriorly with the posterior branch of the same artery. Tliirdly, the infe- rior thyroid artery effects, by means of a brancli of about the size of an ordinary radial, a communication with the first aortic intercostal. Fourthly, the transversalis colli, by means of very large branches, joins the posterior branches of the intercostals. Fifthly, the branches of the subclavian and axillary arteries going to the side of the chest are large, and anastomose freely with the lateral branches of the inter- costals. Variations The aorta may lie on the riglit side of the vertebral column, give off tiie right subclavian artery, and send branches to the under surface of the right lung; it may contribute a branch to the right kidney. THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The Abdominal Aorta extends from the Diaphragm, opposite the last dorsal vertebra, to the fourth or the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it ends \>j dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The vessel is in direct continuity with the descending thoracic aorta, and lies on the left side of the ver- tebral column. The vena cava, the thoracic duct from its origin, and the azygos vein, lie to the right. In front lie the pancreas, the splenic vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. To make pressure upon the abdominal aorta, it is recommended to place the pad of the abdominal tour- niquet one to one-and-a-half inch below the umbilicus and slightly to the left, or from this point down to the level of the highest part of the crest of the ilium. This procedure may be an effective adjunct to theFig. 2. The arterial supply of the stomach, spleen, and the | greater curvature upward. 392 THE HE A ET AND operatioD of amputation at the hip. It is effected with relative ease in the voung and emaciated as compared with the aged or obese. In emaciated individuals the normal pulsations of the abdominal aorta are so easily detected in palpa- tion of the abdominal parietes as to lead the incau- tious to mistake them for the pulsations of an aortic aneurism. Ligation of the Abdominal Aorta.—This vessel can he reached best by the metiiod pursued by James.' . An incision six inches in length is made, extending from the end of the tenth rib of the left side to a point one inch to the median side of the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The abdominal muscles are taken up severally upon a grooved director and divided. Tiie transversalis fascia being reached and divided, the hand is passed between it and tlie perito- neum, and gently passed inward to the aorta. The sym- pathetic nerves about it must be carefully separated witii the tip of the finger, and the needle passed with a full knowledge of the position of the injei-ior vena cava to the right of the vessel. The aorla has been ligated eight times, and in every instance without success in saving life. Mon- teiro, in 1842, ligated the abdominal aorta, the patient sur- viving ten days; in the remaining cases the patients lived from twelve hours to one to two days. The collateral circulation is established, when this vessel is ligated in dogs, through the deep epigastric and internal mammary arteries. In Murray's' case of the ligation of the aorta in man, the patient died in twenty-three hours. An anastomosing vessel between the inferior mesenteric and the left internal iliac arteiy carried the injecting size which was thrown into the aorta above the ligated point. No otiier channel of communication between the trunk and the lower limbs was detected. The branches of the abdominal aorta are both sym- metrical and asymmetrical. The Symmetrical Branches include— (a) Inferior Phrenic. (h) Lumbar. (c) Eenal. {d) Supra-Renal. {e) Spermatic. (/) Ovarian. («) The inferior phrenic arteries, two in number, generally arise by a single trunk (although they I Med.-Chir. Trans., xvi. 1. 2 Lond. Med. Gaz., 1834 HE BLOODVESSELS. may arise separately) from the abdominal aorta, just below the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm. Each vessel passes upward, outward, and forward. The right inferior phrenic lies between the right cms of the Diaphragm, which is behind it, and the inferior vena cava, which is in front, wliile the left separates the left crns of the Diaphragm from the oesophagus. The vessel finally reaches the Diaphragm, to the under surface of which its branches are for the greater part confined. The two arteries anastomose behind the corcliform tendon. Each vessel divides into an ante- rior and an external branch. The anterior branch passes toward the front of the Diaphragm, where it anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the musculo-phrenic branch of the internal mam- mary artery. The external branch pa.sses outward, and anastomoses with the lower intercostal arteries. Branches are also disti'ibuted as follows: A descend- ing branch to the supra-renal capsule; an cesophayeal branch ; and a small twig which passes to the coronary ligament of the liver. Henle describes small brauciics which perforate the Dia- phragm to supply tlie pericardium. Small brandies also pass to the spleen, to the pancreas, and to the wall of the vena cava. (//) The lumbar arteries are from four to five in number, and are arranged after the manner of the intercostals. Each vessel arises from near the poste- rior surface of the abdominal aorta, passes outward across the lumbar vertebras, and divides into two branches, a posterior and an anterior. The piosterior branch represents the dorsal branch of an intercostal artery. Like this, it passes between a pair of transverse processes toward the back, and sends a branch through the intervertebral foramen to supply the spinal cord, the membranes, and the bony surfaces of the vertebral canal. The terminal twigs of the posterior branches are lost in the structures of the loins. The anterior branch corresponds to the artery of the same name in the intercostal series. The upper ves^ sels are crossed by the tendinous arches from which the Psoas muscle arises. Each vessel pierces the Quadratus Lumborum muscle, and is distributed to the abdominal muscles. It anastomoses with the EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXVII. Fig. \. The spleen, seen from its median surface. I adjacent parts. The stomach is represented with the; X Sinclair i So3x,Ljih_THE C(ELIAC AXIS. ■ ooO^OO-i 393 lower intercostal vessels, and sends one branch downward to the ilium, where it joins the circumflex iliac artery. The anterior branch anastomoses with the terminal branches of the deep epigastric and in- ternal mammary arteries. (c) The renal arleries are two in number. They arise from the sides of the aorta a little below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and pass almost transversely outward to the kidneys. The right vessel is longer than the left by reason of the necessity of crossing the vertebral column. The left passes slightly downward. Each vessel divides into from four to five branches at the hilurn of the kidney. On the right side the renal vein lies in front of the artery, but on the left it lies behind it. The number of the renal arteries may be increased to four. The renal arteries, together with the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery, were found by Ede^ much contracted in a case of fibroma of the retro-peritoneal space. (d) The svpra-reiial arteries are two small vessels (often branches of the renal) which pass outward to supply the supra-renal bodies and the surroimding fat. (e) The s/jeT-TOaizc a?-;:er?Vs are two in number. They arise from the anterior portion of the abdominal aorta, a little below the position of the renal arteries. The right vessel often arises from the corresponding renal artery. Each vessel passes downward, following at first the course of the ureter of the same side. Near the brim of the pelvis it crosses the ureter at an acute angle, to be directed forward along the course of the common iliac artery, and finally reaches the inguinal canal of its own side, which it enters in company with the vas deferens. It thence becomes tortuous, and is distributed to the testicle; one branch entering the epididymis, and the other the body of the testis. Each artery sends off minute twigs to the ureter, to the sub-peritoneal connective tissue, to the lumbar lymphatic glands, and, according to Henle, to the fat about the kidney. It anastomoses with the artery of the vas deferens. The right vessel lies in front of the vena cava and behind the sigmoid flexure. (/') The ovarian arteries are representatives in the female of the spermatic arteries, and have a similar origin. They are designed chiefly for the ovaries, although a small branch descends the Fallopian tube to the side of the uterus. Each artery passes outward and downward between the layers of the broad ligament, and enters the ovary ' Amer. .loiivn. Med. Soi., Jan. 1871, 92. at its attached border. A branch may be given off which descends with the round ligament to the groin. Twigs from the main vessel also supply the ureter and the subperitoneal connective tissue. The Asymmetrical Branches are— (a) Coeliac Axis. {h) Superior Mesenteric. (c) Inferior Mesenteric. {d) Middle Sacral. [a) The coeliac axis is a short but robust branch of the abdominal aorta, from one inch to one-and-one- half inch in length. It ari.ses from the vessel as it lies between the crura of the Diaphragm, and is directed forward and slightly to the left. It divides into three branches:— (1) Coronary. (2) Hepatic. (3) Splenic. (1) The coronary artery is the smallest branch of the coeliac axis. It arises from the middle part of the axis, and is at first inclined to the left, but, turn- ing abruptly to the right, it supplies the upper or lesser curvature of the stomach, sending branches upward around the oesophagus, and anastomoses with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. F. A. Bailey^ describes a case of aneurism in the coeliac axis in a man aged thirty-three. The tumor was of the size of a cocoanut, and lay midway between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus, and was appended to the aorta as a kind of pouch from which the branches of the axis arose. Aneurism of the coronary artery rarely occurs. The fact, however, that thirteen cases have been recorded^ should be borne in mind by practitioners, as the symptoms of the affection closely simulate those excited by gastric cancer or ulceration. (2) The hepatic arterv is directed behind the pylorus and toward the right side. It passes near the lobus Spigelii, and enters the gastro-hepatic omentum, soon to divide into two and sometimes into three branches which enter the transverse fissure of the liver in company with the portal vein. The artery lies between the portal vein and the bile-duct. The upper branch, or hepatic artery proper, commonly divides into a right and a left branch. From the right is derived the cystic branch which supplies the gall- bladder. The left trunk supplies the left lobe of the liver. The lower branch of the hepatic artery com- monly gives origin to the pyloric and gastro duodenal branches. 1 Mftd. Times and Gazette, 1862, ii. f;2(5. « M. Villard, Bull, de la Soc. Anatomique, t. xlv. 1870, 273. 5(13W THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. =00^00= The jjyloric branch is a small artery which joins the coronary. It supplies the upper border of the pylorus. It is sometimes a branch of the gastro- duodenal artery. The gastro-duodenal, about two inches in length, passes downward behind the pylorus at its lower border. It divides into two branches, the gastro- epiploica-dextra, and the pancreatico-duodenalis. The gastro-epiploica-dextra passes along the greater curvature of the stomach, and anastomoses Avith the gastro-epiploica-sinistra branch of the splenic. It sup- plies the walls of the stomach, and, by numerous short epiploic branches, the great omentum. A rare form of aneurism affecting this vessel has been described.' The payicreatico-duodenalis branch runs along the inner border of the second portion of the duodenum, and sends a branch to the head of the pancreas. It often joins the superior mesenteric by a small branch which runs between the lower margin of the pancreas and the third portion of the duodenum. TABLE OF THE BRANCHES OF THE HEPATIC AETERY. Upper (right) Division. Lower (left) Division. Branches entering tlie liver. Cystic. Pyloric. Gastro-Duodenalis. Gastro-Epiploica Dextra. Pancreatico-Duodenalis. (3) The splenic artery, the largest branch of the axis, is directed to the left. It runs along the entire length of the upper border of the body of the pan- creas, and reaches the spleen, to which its terminal branches are distributed. The vessel is wavy and sometimes tortuous, especially in engorgements of the spleen. The branches of the splenic artery are— (1) Pancreatic. (2) Gastro-Epiploica-Sinistra. (3) Gastric Branches (Vasa Brevia). (4) Terminal. (1) The pancreatic are numerous small branches which are lost in the substance of the pancreas. ' Virchow's Archiv, 1867, 384. (2) The gastro-epiphica-sinisira supplies the cardiac end of the stomach, where it anastomoses with ter- minal branches of the gastro-epiploica-dextra and those of the coronary. It also supplies the omentum. (3) The gastric (vasa brevia) are numerous small branches which supply the cardiac end of the stomach. (4) The terminal hranches are four or five in number, and are received in the spleen at the hilum. {l)) The superior mesenteric artery is slightlv larger than the coeliac axis, and arises below it from the front of the aorta. It supplies the lower part of the duodenum, the jejunum, the ileum, the caecum, the ascending and the transverse colon. It descends vertically between the pancreas in 'front and the third portion of the duodenum behind. It enters between the two layers of the peritoneum, which form the mesentery where that membrane joins tlie transverse mesocolon. It is engaged in the adherent borders of the mesentery at the lower border of the beginning of the jejunum, whence it proceeds obliquely downward and toward the left, to terminate in the ileo-colic artery in the neighborhood of the ileo- csecal valve. The artery is sligiitly curved, presenting its convexity toward the left side. The branches of the superior mesenteric are as follows:— Branches to the Small Intestine | (arise from the convexity of-< the vessel). ' Branches to the Large Intestine (arise from the concavity of - the vessel). Those for the small intestine comprise the duodenal (inferior pancreatico-duodenalis) and the jejunal and ileal (intestinal branches proper). The inferior pan- creatico-duodenalis artery runs along the inferior border of the pancreas to join ihe pancreatico-duo- denal branch of the hepatic artery. The jejunal and ileal branches vary in number from sixteen to eighteen. Each separate branch soon divides into two, which in their turn divide and inosculate with one another. Following this method of distribution, the Duodenalis. Jejunales et Ilese. Colica Dextra. Colica Media. Ileo-Colica. EXPL.\NATION OF PLATE LXVIII. Fig. 1. The stomach, liver, and pancreas, sliowing the coeliac axis and branches. The branches exhibit the following variations: The hepatic artery sends two branches instead of a single branch to the liver. The pyloric artery and the gastro-duodenalis arise sepa- rately from the main trunk of the hepatic artery. The coronary artery arises from the hepatic artery near the origin of this vessel, instead of arising from the cojliac axis. Fig. 2. A diagram showing the relations of the duodenum and the pancreas to the descending vena cava and the aorta. Fi<T. 3. The stomach and its arterial sup[>ly.X Suiclaar A Scm,Litli_IMIM4lMPIi;.a«li)'Wij»«i".i-lTHE INFEEIOE ^ branches subdivide into from four to five tiers of mesenteric brandies before arriving at the intes- tines. In addition' to the above, the intestinal branches give off to the peritoneum minute twigs, which have received tlie name of the superficial branches. The branches for the large intestine are (in addi- tion to the ileo-colic, which is the terminal branch of the main vessel, but conveniently here included) the colica dextra and colica media. The colica dextra passes directly outward toward the colon. It divides into two branches, the upper one of which inosculates with the colica media, and the lower with the ileo- colica. The colica media resembles the foregoing in its plan of distribution. It ascends vertically to the transverse colon, and inosculates with the colica sin- istra of the inferior mesenteric, and with the colica dextra. The ileo-colica inosculates with the colica dextra, and sends some branches to anastomose with the terminal branches given oft' from the convexity. An intermediate branch passes behind the cajcum and supplies that structure, the vermiform appendix, and the ileo-CiBcal valve. I The anastomotic loops of the colic branches of the superior mesenteric artery are much fewer and coarser than those of the jejunal and ileal arteries. Tlie net- work is most conspicuous at the hepatic flexure of the colon. The relations of tlie omphalo-mesenteric artery and the superior mesenteric artery may occasionally prove of great importance in determining the nature of intestinal obstruc- tion. This foetal vessel is a branch of the superio]- mesenteric artery, and is destined to furnish arterial blood to the um- bilical vesicle. Under exceptional conditions the omphalo- mesenteric artery persists after the vesicle has been absorbed, and is seen appended to the superior mesenteric artery in the form of a fibi'ous cord, which may be eitiier attached to the abdominal wall at a point near the umbilicus, or hang free in the abdomen. Or it may lie in the abdominal cavity as a vagrant vessel covered with peritoneum, crossing the abdomen to anastomose with the bloodvessels supjdying the fundus of the bladder; vessels which are themselves, doubt- less, survivors of the foetal hypogastric arteries. Both of the above groups of anomalies are sometimes associated with diverticuli of the small intestine. In a case of fatal intestinal obstruction, recorded by Mr. F. A. Mahomed,' a fibrous band, identified as the persistent obliterated omphalo-mesenteric artery, was found after death extending from the abdominal wall, midway between the pubis and the umbilicus, backward toward the right iliac fossa, carrying with it a triangular fold of peritoneum, and held firmly to a branch of the ileo-colic branch of the ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 181r<, 117. b:NTEEIC ARTERY. ^95 superior mesenteric artery. It closely embraced a loop of the intestine. In a case re[)orted by Drs. Wood and Hulke,' the vessel was found to be pervious as far as the fundus of the bladder. The superior mesenteric arterv has been found by Sabbo'to be plugged by an embolus, as a result of which the large intestine became ulcerated, and at a single point perforated. Such a lesion is the more remarkable when the free anastomoses of the branches of this artery with those of the neighboring arteries is recalled. The root of the vessel tends to present a fixed point for the lower end of the duodenum, and aids indi- rectly in retaining that viscus in position. It further assists in strengthening the mesentery. See the sec- tion upon the Duodenum for its agency in causing lesions of the small intestine. Aneurism of the superior mesentei'ic artery has been known to incline to the right side, raising the pancreas before it, and, by pressing upon the ductus communis cholcdochus, to induce jaundice.^ (c) The inferior mesenteric artery arises from the abdominal aorta, below the superior mesenteric and about an inch above the origin of the common iliacs. It supplies the descending colon, sigmoid flexure, and upper portion of the rectum. It is directed downward and to the right of the sacrum. Its branches are the colica sinistra sigmoid artery, and superior ha^mor- rhoidal. The colica sinistra inosculates with the colica media and the sigmoid arterv. From the loops derived from this union, branches of distribution are supplied to the descending colon. The sigmoid branches unite, in a manner similar to the above, with the colica sinistra and the superior hasmorrhoidal. As the name suggests, its branches of distribution supply the colon at the sigmoid flexure. The sigmoid artery may be a branch of the colica sinistra. The superior hsemorrhoidal descends to reach the posterior surface of the rectum, which structure it supplies. It anastomoses, with the middle and in- ferior haemorrhoidal arteries. According to Power,* it divides about four inches above the anus, giving one brancli to each side of the rectum. Thi^se again divide into numerous terminal branches whicdi are distributed around the inferior extremity of the intestine. ((/) The middle sacral artery is a small median branch placed at the point of bifurcation of the common iliacs. 1 Ibifl., 1873, 120. 2 BuU. de la Soc. Anatoniique, t. xlii., 18n7, 329. 3 .1. A. Wilson, Med.-Chir. Trans., vol. xxiv., 1842, 221. Surgical Anatomy of the Arteries.396 THE HEAET AND It descends in the median line upon tlie last lumbar vertebra and upon the anterior surface of the sacrum to the coccyx, where it anastomoses with the lateral sacral and hemorrhoidal arteries. It is crossed in front by the left iliac vein and covered by the pelvic viscera. The vessel supplies the coccygeal body and tlie periosteum of the sacrum. According to Quain, several small twigs enter the anterior sacral foramen. Virchow^ has invited attention to the connection between the anomalies of the aorta and its branches, in heart disease—especially in endcjcarditis of the puerperal state—and imperfect development of the organs of generation. In cases of undue narrowing of the aorta throughout its thoracic and abdominal portions (aortic hypoplasia), associated with irregu- larity of origin of the intercostal, lumbar, and mesen- teric branches, the genital organs retain in the adult of both sexes the appearances of youth, and the sec- ondary characters of puberty are absent or imper- fectly developed. With these structural peculiarities, chlorosis and a disposition to dilatation of the heart and endocarditis exist. The tunica intima of the aorta may be diseased. Virchow would thus define chloro- sis to be a ■systemic disease of congenital origin, oc- curring in both sexes, and based upon defective blood- supply from a preternatarally contracted or imper- fectly developed aorta. Ill subjects in which the abdominal and genital organs are known to be imperfectly developed, care- ful study of the size of the thoracic and abdominal portions of the aorta, and of the arrangement of the branches, should be made. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. The Common Iliac Artery extends from the termi- nation of the abdominal aorta downward and outward to a point directly above and in front of the sacro- iliac junction, where it divides into the external and the internal iliac artery. The vessel measures two inches in length. Eelations.—Tlie artery lies upon the lumbar ver- tebrae, along the median border of the Psoas Magnus ' Ueber die Chlorose unci die damit zusammenhangenden Anoma- lieii im Gefiissapparate, etc. Literature and tigures. Berlin, 1872. L'lIE BLOODVESSELS. muscle, and is covered by the peritoneum and intes- tine. The ureter crosses the artery at its origin. The relations existing between the two common iliac arteries and the corresponding veins differ. On the left side the artery lies to the lateral side of the common iliac vein. In front of it lie the sigmoid flexure and the lower part of the inferior mesenteric artery. On the right side the vein lies in the main behind the artery. Near its origin the artery lies to the inner side of the vein, then in front of it, and finally to the outer side. Behind it lie the sympathetic and the obturator nerves. According to Holden, the direction of the vessel answers to that of a line drawn from the umbilicus downward and outward to the middle of the groin. The vessel can be felt rather nearer the pubes than the ilium. The upper part of this line answers to the common iliac, the lower part to the external iliac vessel. The Ligation of the Common Iliac requires an incision similar to tliat for the external and internal iliacs (q. v.). An incision live inches in length may be made extending from just above the external abdominal ring, outward in a semicircular direction, one-halt' inch above Ponpart's liga- ment, until it terminates a little beyond the anterior supe- rior spinous process of the ilium. After division of the External Oblique muscle, the spermatic cord is used as a guide to the retro-peritoneal space. The circumflex iliac artery usually requires ligation. Or, an incision may be made two inches and three-quarters above the umbilicus, three inches from the median line, and passed thence six inches downward in a curvilinear direction. The line of the sacro-iliac junction is a guide to the artery. The collateral circulation alter this ligation is expressed by the following formuliB :— Ha?niorrlioldal brancli of tlie _iSuperior Hfemnrrlioidal brancii of Internal Iliac "T" the Inferior Mesenteric. Uterine-j—Ovarian arteries. Vesical of one side-[-Vesical of the opposite side. Lateral Sacral—[-Middle Sacral. Deep Ei)igastric—|—Internal Mammary. Inferior Intercostal-|—Lumbar. Ilio-Lumbar—|—Last Lumbar. In a specimen showing such collateral circulation, pre- served in the Wistar and Horner Museum, at the Uni- EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXIX. Fig. 1. The arterial supply of the intestines, showing espe- cially the superior mesenteric artery and its branches. Fig. 2. The arterial su|)ply of the intestines, showing espe^ cially the inferior mesenteric artery and its branches.}THE INTEENAL ILIAC ARTERY. 397 OOO^OOO ■ versity of Pennsylvania, the following junctions are con- spicuous :— Ilio-1 umbar —|— Lumbar. Obturator-]-Lumbar. Obturator and Pi'ofanda , jj;^ .^^^^^^^^ teinoris I Cases of symmetrical gangrene of the lower extremities have been recorded in which the lumina of the common iliac arteries were obliterated by clots.' THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The Internal Iliac Artery extends from the lateral aspect of the promontory of the sacrum toward the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. It is smaller than the external, measuring from one-and-a-half to two inches in length, and supplies the pelvic viscera, the external genitals in part, the anal walls, the buttock, and the origins of some of the muscles of the thigh. In the foetus the internal iliac gives off the hypo- gastric artery, which passes forward to the sides of the bladder, and thence ascends to the umbilicus. At this time the artery is larger than the external iliac. Some authorities have reserved to tlie internal iliac artery the name of hypogastric, even after the pla- cental formations have disappeared, and the remains of the hypogastric artery have assumed a ligament- ous form. It will be remembered that the vessel may be, though rarely, the seat of diseased action even in the adult. M. Fere records a case of aneurism of this vessel involving other branches of the internal iliac, and refers to two specimens. The tumors do not appear to induce special symptoms; at least it is noteworthy that in each instance recorded the speci- men was secured in an autopsy where other causes for death were assigned, and where no histories of symptoms referable to the aneurism existed. Relations—Tiie internal iliac artery is sligiitly curved, the concavity looking forward. Above it lies near the inner border of the Psoas Magnus muscle, and lower down it rests upon the Pyriformis muscle. Behind it lies tlie internal iliac vein. In front is the peritoneum witii the ureter. The pulsations of the iliac artery can, under favor- able circumstances, be felt by rectal palpation. Ligation of the Internal Iliac Ai-terij Holden tlnis de- scribes tlie metliod of ascertaining the position of tlie internal iliac: Draw a line from tlie outer side of tiie tuberosity of the ischium to tiie posterior superior spine of tlie ilium. The junction of the lower with the middle tliird of this line gives the position of the artery. The operation is essentially the same as that for the ex- ternal iliac. It may be necessary slightly to enlarge the primary incision, in order to obtain room enough for the ' Dupuy, BuH. de la Soe. Anatoniique, t. xlvii. 1872, 285. manipulations requisite in reaching the deeper-seated internal iliac. In view of this fact, the incision in the skin may be five inches long. The line of the first incision should extend from the umbilicus to a point midway between the spine of the pubis and the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium; this incision should begin at the outer edge of the Rectus muscle, and terminate about an inch above Poupart's ligament in order to avoid the spermatic cord. The remain- ing steps of the operation are the same as those for ligation of the external iliac. The vein lies behind and toward the outer side of the vessel on the riglit side, or in the angle be- tween the internal and external iliac arteries. The ureter need not interfere, since it is raised and pushed away with the peritoneum. The internal iliac artery divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The branches of these in turn may be arranged as foll<jws:— («) Vesical. ^ {L) Obturator. Anterior Branch. ^ (c) Internal pudic. {d) Uterine, (e) Vaginal. r (/) Sciatic. _ . -r, 1 ! (7) Gluteal (superior). Posterior Branch. \ )'[ . \ ' ' I (ft) ilio-lumbar. 1^ (/) Lateral sacral. Lnschka adds to the anterior branches an inferior gluteal. The hypogastric artery of the foetus arises from the anterior branch. Henle includes the arteries supplying the pelvic viscera as median branches. The obturator artery sometimes arises from the posterior branch. («) The vesical arteries are two in number, the supe- rior and the inferior. The superior vesical artery supplies the posterior wall and sides of the bladder. It is continuous with the remains of the hypogastric artery of the foetus. The inferior vesical artery accompanies the iireter to the base of the bladder, vesiculfe seminales, and vas deferens. It also supplies the prostate gland, and, in females, the lower part of the vagina. It anasto- moses with the spermatic artery. Variations The arteiy is often duplicated or is even multiple. {b) The obturator artery passes forward along the lateral wall of, and a short distance below, the brim of the true pelvis, between the nerve and vein of the same name. It lies between the obturator fascia and the peritoneum, and enters a special passage (obtu- rator canal) at the superior border of the obturator foramen by which it obliquely pierces the obturator membrane, and divides into its terminal branches, the internal and external obturator arteries. The internalTHE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 898 obturator passes around the inner margin of the fora- men, and, lying between the Adductor Longus and Adductor Brevis, and supplying these muscles, to- gether with the Gracilis and Pectineus, anastomoses with the internal circunjflex femoral. The external passes round the outer margin of the foramen, and sup- .plies the Quadratus Femoris and Obturator Externus muscles, and the origins of the flexors. It anastomoses with theexternal circumflex femoral and with theinter- nal branch. The artery sends in addition a small branch to the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, suppl^dng the lining membrane of the acetabulum, the round liga- ment, and the head of the femur. While within the pelvis the obturator artery yields small twigs for the Lnernal Iliac, Psoas, Levator Ani, and the Obturator Internus muscles, and, just before entering the obtura- tor canal, sends a small pubic branch to the connective tissue behind the symphj^sis pubis. These branches anastomose with corresponding twigs of the opposite side, and often with the deep epigastric artery of their own side. Viiriations Tlie obturator artery may arise from tlie posterior branch of tiie internal iliac. Some writers de- scribe liiis as tiie normal arrangement. Its terminal portion may take the place of the internal pudic, and supply the artery of the bulb or the dorsal artery of the penis, as well as the strictly pelvic branches, such as the vesical and tiie uterine. It is interesting, on the other liand, to remark its close relation to the external iliac artery and its branches —a class of variations more common in the female than the male. It rarely arises from the main trunk, but frequently (in about one-fourth of the subjects) it arises in common with the deep epigastric. It may even arise, althougli very rarely, from the external iliac at Poupart's ligament. In the latter instance, as well as in some instances of its origin from a common trunk with the deep epigastric, tlie obturator artery passes over the femoral vein, curves round to the inner side of the femoral canal, and would in tiiis position of course be wounded in operating for femoral hernia. Fortunately tliis variety is so rare that practically it does not often enter into the surgeon's calculations of tiie risks attending this operation. In a patient of Dupuytren's, aged 60, operated upon for femo- ral hernia, alter tlie urgent symptoms had ceased severe diar- rlnjea set in and death ensued. On dissection, a broad layer of effused blood was observed through the peritoneum, evi- dently {ilaced between that membrane and the transversalis fascia, extending from the lower part of the pelvis nearly to the umbilicus. Tlie hemorrhage had taken place from the obturator artery, which in this case had arisen from the ex- ternal iliac by a trunk common to it and the epigastric, and had nearly surrounded the neck of the sac, and vviiich during tiie ojieration liad been cut across." " John Reid, Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, 1836, xlvi. 66. The fact that the origin of the obturator artery from the epigastric is more common in the female than in the male is worthy of more than a passing notice, in view of the lact that femoral hernia is almost peculiar to the female. When the artery thus arises, it proceeds downward and inward, first passing along tlie outer side of tlie femoral canal, and then along its posterior margin to reach the upper portion of the obturator foramen. (c) The internal pudlc artery. This vessel is slightly larger than the obturator. It arises from the lower part/ of the anterior division, passes across the cavity of the pelvis between the rectum and the outer wall, and escapes at the lower part of the great sciatic foramen in company with the sciatic nerve. It thence turns round the spine of the ischium, enters the pelvis through the lesser sciatic foramen, is received within a groove defined by the falciform process of the great sacro-sciatic liganient and the bone, and passes thence upward and forward within the obturator fascia about one-and-a-half inch above the tuberosity to the subpubic arch, where it termi- nates between the layers of the deep perineal fascia in the deep artery of the penis and the dorsal artery of the penis. The internal pudic artery thus describes an irregu- lar course which consists of four stages. The first, Irom its origin to the great sciatic foramen; the second, as it winds round the spine of the ischium; the third, as it lies within the obturator fascia; and the fourth, as it lies between the layers of the deep perineal fascia. In the first stage it lies at first external to the sciatic nerve, and afterwards in front of it. Below, it lies at the lower border of the Pyriformis muscle. It is here accompanied by the pudic nerve and vein.—-In the second stage the artery and its accompanying nerve and vein are covered by the Gluteus Maximus muscle. It is concealed from view in operations upon the perineum. W. L. Atlee^ mentions a case of rupture of a branch of this artery during childbirth, resulting in a large hsematoma of the internal genitals. In the first stage the internal pudic gives origin to the middle hsemorrhoidal artery. It supplies the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and the portion of the rectum not covered by peritoneum. It anasto- moses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal.—• In the second, it gives off several small branches which supply the Gluteus Maximus, Pyriformis, and Obtu- rator muscles. ' Ovarian Tumors. .364.THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 399 OOO^OOo In the third stage the branches of the internal pudic are— (1) Inferior IlEemorrhoidah (2) Superficial Perineal. (8) Transverse Perineal. (1) The inferior hsemorrhoidal artery pierces the obturator fascia, and is directed across the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa to the lower part of the rectum. It supplies the Levator Ani and the skin about the anus. The vessel may be divided in lithotomy by a too free prolongation backward of the first incision. The artery is often duplicated. (2) The superfirJaVperineal artery pierces the obtu- rator fascia, and is directed forward toward the uro- genital portion of the perineum. It becomes super- ficial at the Transverse Perineal muscle, which it crosses to be received between the Ischio-Cavernosus and Bulbo-Cavernosus muscles. It supplies these muscles, and is finally lost on the posterior aspect of the scrotum. (3) The transverse perineal artery is a small vessel which pierces the obturator fascia, and passes directly inward along the posterior border of the muscle of the same name. It is necessarily divided in litho- tomy. In the fourth stage the branches are— (1) Artery of the bulb. (2) Deep artery of the penis. (3) Dorsal artery of the penis. (1) The artery of the lulb is a short but relatively stout branch, which enters between the two layers of the deep perineal fascia, near their posterior border, and is received within the bulb of the urethra. It sends a branch to Cowper's gland. (2) The deep artery of the penis. This passes between the Ischio-Cavernosus and the Bulbo-Cav- ernosus muscles, to enter the cavernous body to its inner side. (3) The dorsal artery of the penis pierces the sub- pubic fascia and the suspensory ligament of the penis, and passes along the dorsal groove of the penis, in com- pany with the artery of the opposite side. It anasto- moses at the glans penis with its fellow, and with the preceding vessel. It supplies the fibrous investment of the cavernous body, the skin, and the glans penis. Hyrtl has seen it arise from the external pudic. Variations—The internal pmlic artery may not liave an independent origin from the internal iliac, but may arise from a trunk in common with the obturator. The artery may be entirely pelvic, when it will send branches to the uro- genital portion of the perineum. The dorsal artery of the penis in this event will reach its destination by passing forward over the prostate body. The artery may remain pelvic, as far as the main distribution of the vessel is con- cerned, but may send the superficial perineal outward. This branch escapes through the great sciatic foramen as the main vessel normally does, but passes forward to supply the uro- genital region from the cutaneous aspect. It is apt to run midway between the anus and the tuberosity of the ischium, and is in danger of being divided in the lateral operation of lithotomy The artery may be almost entirely external, when it terminates in the bulbous portion of the spongy body In rare examples the vessel may be for the most part directed toward the posterior aspect of the thigh. In the two preced- ing variations, the perineal branches are commonly supplied by a branch separate from the internal pudic at the third stage, called by Quain the accessory pudic. The dorsal artery, the artery of the bulb, and the pelvic branches may come severally from the obturator artery. The vessels last named may, in rare instances, come from the femoral. In tiie female the internal pudic is .so far modified as to yield the superficial perineal to the labia majora, the artery of the bulb to the labia minora, and the dorsal artery of the penis to the clitoris. The latter vessel also supplies the lower part of the vagina. (d) The uterine arteries are exceedingly tortuous. Tliey are received between the folds of the broad ligament, and yield an ovarian branch, a branch to the Fallopian tube, and a third to the round ligament. These branches are exceeding tortuous, and anasto- mose with the ovarian artery of the abdominal aorta, which thus is less intimately associated with the ovary than the spermatic artery is with the testis. During pregnancy, and probably in morbid conditions, the distribution of the ovarian artery is enormously in- creased at the body and the fundus, while the uterine branch of the internal iliac is retained chiefly at the neck of the uterus. (e) The vayinal artery represents the inferior vesi- cal in the male. It sends a few twigs to the bladder and to the rectum. (/) The sciatic artery is situated in front of the Pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus. After send- ing some branches to the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa, it escapes at the lower border of the great sciatic foramen, and supplies the outward rotators of the thigh and the Gluteus Maxiinus ; it also sends a small artery {comes nervi ischiadici) along the sciatic nerve. The cocx^geal artery is the name given to a small branch wnich pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, and is distributed to the parts behind the coccyx. ((/) The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac. It passes backward, outward, and downward over the Pyriformis to the upperTHE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 400 ^<><>§^0<:x' ■ border of the great sciatic foramen. It divides into two branches, the deej:) and the superficial. The deep lies between the Gluteus Maximas and the Gluteus Medius; the superficial between the Gluteus Medius and the Gluteus Minimus. This artery gives off" a nutrient branch to the ilium. Holden' gives the following direction for finding the gluteal artery: Rotate the femur inward, and draw a line from the posterior superior spinous pro- cess of the ilium to the trochanter minor. The junc- tion of the upper with the middle third of this line lies over the artery as it emerges from the upper border of the great ischiatic notch. {h) The illo- lumbar artery. This artery passes outward and upward behind the Psoas Magnus mus- cle. It divides into two branches, an upper, which ascends to supply the Psoas Magnus and the Quad- ratus Lumborum, and a descending, which supplies the Iliacus Internus. This branch anastomoses with the circumflex ilii, and the lumbar branch with the last lumbar and the lowest intercostal arteries. A nutrient artery for the ilium may arise from this vessel. Another branch enters the spinal cord be- tween the last lumbar vertebra and the first sacral to supply the cauda equina. (i) The lateral sacral. This vessel gives off an upper and a lower branch, both of which are distributed to the sides of the sacrum. They anastomose with the median sacral. The outer branches of the artery enter the sacral foramina, and are lost upon the membranes of the spinal cord. Its lower twigs anas- tomose with the coccygeal branch of the sciatic. Hemorrhage from a wounded branch of the internal pudic can be checked (should the bleeding occur in advance of the great sciatic ligament) by pressure beneath the spine of the ischium. Harrison^ mentions an instance of sach pressure being successfully em- ployed by the patient himself. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The External Iliac Artery begins at the lateral border of the fifth lumbar vertebra, or at the sacro- iliac junction, and terminates at Poupart's ligament, where it is continuous with the femoi'al. Its direc- tion is downward and slightly outward between the Psoas muscle and the brim of the true pelvis. It measures from three-and-a-half to four inches in length. Relations.—Behind the artery lies the vein of the same name. It gradually secures a position to the inner side, ' Landmarks, 88. 2 Surg. Anat. of Arteries, 322. and at Poupart's ligament it is entirely to this side. Both the artery and tlie vein are surrounded by subperitoneal connective tissue. In front of the artery lies the peritoneum. For the upper four-fifths of the artery, this membrane is in contact with the artery ; but for the lower fifth, the mem- brane, as it passes from the abdominal M'all to the iliac fossa, does not toucii the vessel, wliich is here surrounded by fat and lymphatic glands.' RemaiuvS—R. J. Levis^ reports a case of fatal hemorrhage from the left external iliac artery following a perforating ulcer, tiie result of the pressure from a symmetrical chronic psoas abscess that had opened externally. The blood escap- ing from the opened vessel fdled the cavity of the abscess before escaping from the external orifice. Tlie branches of the external iliac artery are— [a) The deep epigastric. (h) The circumflex ilii. (a) The deej} epigastric arises from the inner aspect of the artery. It passes downward and slightly inward as far as the inguinal canal. It here describes a curve whose concavity is upward, and is crossed by the vas deferens. It thence ascends obliquely to reach the anterior abdominal wall, and passes upward to the outer border of the sheath of the Rectus, which it pierces, and lies upon the muscle posteriorly as far as the umbilicus, where it anastomoses with the in- ternal mammary and the lower intercostal arteries. Variations The most important variation is the origin of the obturator artery from the epigastric (see the descrip- tion of that vessel). An aberrant branch ascending the ante- rior abdominal wall has been wounded, according to Berard, in the performance of paracentesis. The vessel occasionally rises higher than usual, or it may take its origin from the femoral. The branches of the deep epigastric are— (1) Cremasteric. (2) Pubic. (3) Muscular. (1) The cremasteric^ entering the inguinal canal, supplies the Cremaster muscle, and the coverings of the spermatic cord. In the female the cremasteric artery supplies the fat of the mous veneris, the labia, and the round ligainent. (2) The pulic, ordinarily a small branch, is directed to the connective tissue behind the pubis, where it anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side and with the obtura,tor. (3) The m.uscular branches supj^ly the Rectus muscle and the skin of the abdomen. The deep epigastric artery is accompanied by two ' Lewinsky, OEater. Zeitsclirift fiir prakt. Heilkunde, Wien, 1863. 2 Phila. Med. Times, xi. 1881, 380. ITHE FEMORAL ARTERY. 4Ui 'jOO^C-Oo • veins, one on either side. These unite inferiorly in the single trunk lying to the inner side of the artery. {b) The circumflex ilii artery arises from the outer side of the external iliac. It passes outward between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum, above Poupart's ligament, to the crest of the ilium, along which it proceeds to about its middle, where it pierces the Transversalis; for the rest of its course it lies between this muscle and the Internal Oblique. Its terminal branches anastomose with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. The artery may arise a little higher than usual, or it may come oft" from the femoral. Liqation of the External Iliac Artery.— An incision is made one-half an inch above Poupart's ligament, extend- ing from above the anterior superior spinous process to a little above the inner margin of the external abdominal ring. The incision should- be curved downward toward Poupart's ligament. The abdominal muscles are succes- sively divided until the transversalis fascia is reached. The space between this fascia and the peritoneum is opened near the outer end of the wound, and the finger, reaching the iliac fossa, is guided by it to the position of the artery. The anterior crural nerve lies to the outer side of the artery, and the vein to the inner side. In Sir Astley Cooper's operation, the incision through the External Oblique muscle apparently opened the inguinal canal, and the deep epigastric artery was used as a guide to th'i position of the external iliac. The position of the deep epigastric is not to be forgotten in tlie latter procedure. Dupuytren lost a patient by wounding it; as did Beclard by tying the iliac immediately beneath its origin, so that in- sufficient space was left for the (brniation of a cnagulum.' In a dissection made ten weeks after the ligation of the external iliac artery, Astley Cooper'^ met with the following arrangement of the collateral circulation :— Internal IIiac-|—External Pudendal. r Epigastric. Lateral Sacral—j— \ Branch of Femoral. 1^ Obturator. Ilio-Lumbar—|—Circumflex Ilii. Branch of Internal Iliac-|-Profunda Femoris. Gluteal—[-External Circumtlex. In a second specimen described by the same authority, the following wns noticed :— Branch of Internal Iliac-U \ Ep'gastric. I I Obturator. Same—|—Internal Circumflex. Gluteal —[-Profunda Femoris. Internal Pudic—(—Obturator. > Power's Anat. of the Arteries, 1862, 325. « Med.-Chir. Trans., iv. 1813, 428, fig. THE FEMORAL ARTERY. The Femoral Artery is the continuation of the external iliac artery. It pursues a straight course from above down ward, starting at Poupart's ligament at'-Hi point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubis, and terminating at the beginning of the lower third of the thigh at the annular opening of the Ad- ductor Magnn.s. It passes nearly vertically down- ward, lying upon the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus muscles. In consequence of the oblique position of the shaft of the femur, the artery lies in front or to the inner side of the bone at the groin, but close to the inner side of the shaft below. The course of the artery is nearly parallel to a line drawn from the centre of Poupart's ligament to the inner margin of the patella. The artery can be felt about an inch below the spine of the pubis. Ligation of the Femoral Artery Ligation above the oi-igin of the profunda. The limb being flexed and abducted, ail incision two inches and a half in length is made, begin- ning at the lower border of Poupart's ligament, and extend- ing in a line drawn from the middle of the ligaiiKMit down- ward and inward to the inner femoral condyle. The skin being divided, the lymphatic glands and superficial veins are carefully avoided, the sartorial fascia opened, and the inner edge of the Saitorius muscle drawn outward. The sheath of the vessels is now carefully opened, and the nee- dle passed from without inward to avoid the vein which lies to the outer side of the artery. Troublesome bleeding may arise from neglecting some of the small arteries supplying the sheath. Porter, of Dublin, has recommended a transverse incision. This method might present advantages over the longitudi- nal in an attempt to secure the artery in the stump of an amputation of the thigh higli up. Ligation below the pro- funda includes two procedures—one in Scar[)a's triangle, and one in Hunter's canal. The ligation in Scarpa's triangle is performed by making a longitudinal incision three inches in length in the line above mentioned, and beginning three inches below Pou- part's ligament. LTsing the inner edge of the Sartorius muscle as a guide, the sheath of the vessels is readily found lying beneath its inner border. The sheath is opened to a small extent, and tlTe needle passed from within outward with great care, since the vein lies beneath the artery. Power recommends that a small blunt instrument, such as an eye-probe, should be used in separating the artery and the vein before introducing the needle. Small branches of the crural nerve usually lie to the outer side of the sheath. Frencli authors recommend drawing the Sartoi'ius muscle inward in searching for the arterv. 51THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 402 —^xxO^Ooo Ligation in Hunter's canal. This operation is rarely resorted to. It is performed by making an incision from the apex of Scarpa's triangle, downward for a distance of three-and-a-half inches. The internal saphenous vein and the long saphenous nerve are carefully avoided, the deep fascia over the Sartorius muscle divided, and the muscle drawn downward. The anterior wall of the canal is now exposed. This being carefully opened, the artery is ex- posed. Great care sliould be taken not to mistake an enlarged anastomotica magna for tlie main vessel. The collateral circulation after ligature of the femoral artery above the profunda femoris artery:— Gluteal Circumflex Iliac Obturator Sciatic ^ —j— External Circumflex. I -\- Internal Circumflex. Ilio-lumbar -|- External Circumflex. Comes Nervi Iscliiadici -j- Arteries in Popliteal Space Below tiie profunda femoris artery :— Internal Circumflex Branches of the Profunda Femoris External Circumflex Superior Articular. Recurrent bran ches of Tibial. Anastomotica Magna, f Recurrent branch ofAuteriorTibial. Grastrocnemial brauch of Pop- liteal. External Articular. Terminal Branches -|- Comes Nervi Ischiadica—|- | Superior Articular Arteries. J Muscular branches of Popliteal. Branches of Posterior Tibial. After ligation of the femoral above the origin of the pro- funda femoris for a popliteal aneurism. Sir A. Cooper^ found the collateral circulation to be established in tiie following manner: The profunda was enlarged. Several of its branches passed along the course of the sciatic nerve, anas- tomosing witli the inferior articular artery of the popliteal. Another branch anastomosed with the two superior articular branches of the popliteal. Another passed along the inner side of tiie Biceps muscle, to anastomose with a branch of the popliteal, supplying the Gastrocnemius muscle. The external circumflex artery was larger than usual, but effected no anastomosis. The obturator was not changed. In a specimen in which the circulation liad been estab- lished after a similar operation, John D. HilP found the anastomotica magna inosculating with the superior articular, and thence joining the anterior tibial recurrent artery on the inner side. The descending branch of the external cir- cumflex artery received the superior articular, and anasto- mosed with a branch of the anterior tibial recurrent. Then the latter artery represented a stem into which the blood from 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., ii. 1809, 249, figs. 2 Lancet, 1869, ii. 297, fig. both the anastomotica and the external circumflex flowed. This in its turn was continuous with the anterior tibial, the posterior tibial being joined to the latter vessel by a few intermediate vessels. The femoral artery may divide into two branches just below the origin of the profunda. These branches may remain distinct afterward, or may re-unite at the tendinous orifice in the Adductor Magnus muscle to form the popliteal. Sir Chas. Bell described' an anomaly of this description which was associated with popliteal aneurism. The recorder had tied one of the two femorals for the cure of the disease. The anomaly was not detected until the parts were dissected after death. Mr. Houston^ states that, in an example of a similar anomaly which had (!ome under his notice, the internal vessel supplied the Adductor muscles, while the external supplied the Vastus Internus, and gave origin to the anasto- motica magna. Remarks—Tiie artery bears a more intimate relation to the femur than the brachial bears to the humerus. In- stances of lesion, or of morbid action in the vessel, follow- ing injury or disease of the bone, are frequent. The vessel is more apt to be affected at its point of passage through the Adductor Magnus than elsewhere. In a case of vari- cose aneurism described by J. G. Perry,^ in a male aged forty-seven years, a communication between the femoral artery and vein occurred at the above locality. After death the external iliac was found to be very tortuous, and the fem- oral greatly dilated and attenuated, while an aneurismal distension was situated upon the popliteal artery. The in- extensile opening in the Adductor Magnus in this instance resisted the tendency of the vessel to dilate at this point, and determined the communication witii the femoral vein. H. Thompson* records a case of fatal hemorrhage in a boy aged nine years, from a superficial aberrant femoral artery, which wound round the shaft of the femur directly above the . internal condyle. The vessel had been ruptured by a spicule of the necrosed shaft of the bone. In a case of spon- taneous rupture of tlie femoral artery, occurring in a gouty subject, a male of seventy-three years, Leggett" found the Sartorius, Rectus Femoris, Vastus Internus, and Adductor muscles more or less infiltrated by extravasated blood. The femoral vessels were pushed inward, while the blood had passed upward along the crural canal, and had to some ex- tent infiltrated the Psoas and Iliacus muscles. Th. Z. Kneider^ has described a case of a small pulsat- ing tumor arising over the left portion of the pubis, conse- quent upon a violent blow received at that point, in a man aged forty-eight. On the seventh day after the injury, the collection emptied into the scrotal tissues. The recorder • Anderson's Quarterly Journal, Oct. 1826. 2 Dublin Hospital Reports, 1827, 313. « Med.-Chir. Trans., xx. 1837, 31. « Dublin Journ. of Med. Sci., iv. 1847, 251. 6 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., ix. 1858, 163. 6 Ohio Med. and Surg. Journ., i. 1848, 120.THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 403 z>0<>^000 opened flie scrotum, cleared out tlie clot, and tied a branch of the superficial epigastric artery. The patient recovered. The branches of the femoral artery are— (a) Superficial Epigastric. (b) Circumflex Iliac. (c) External Pudic. (J) Muscular Branches, (e) Profunda Femoris. (/) Anastomotica Magna. (a) The superficial qyir/astric artery is small, but constant. It arises from the front of the trunk, from half an inch to an inch below Poupart's ligament. It gives small branches to the inguinal glands, and passes directly upward, piercing the fascia lata, and ascending the abdominal walls in the superficial fascia as far as the umbilicus, where it divides into two branches, an internal and an external, both of which join branches of the internal mammary and deep epi- gastric arteries. (i) Tlie circumflex iliac, the smallest of the branches, arises from the outer part of the main trunk, passes outward and slightly upward across the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, to which it gives branches parallel to Poupart's ligament throughout its entire length. At the anterior superior spinous process it pierces the fascia lata, and divides into two branches. (c) The external jmdic avievles a.VQ two in number, a superficial and a deep. They arise from the upper and inner part of the main trunk, and, as the name expresses, supply the parts about the superficies of the external organs of generation. The superficial extends through the coarse cellular adipose tissue of the groin, obliquely upward and inward, crosses the external abdominal ring, and gives branches to the lymphatic glands, and reaching the pubis (in the male it cro.^se3 the spermatic cord) it sends a branch to the skin of the penis and scrotum of the male, and to the labium major of the female. The deep branch takes its origin a short distance below the superficial beneath the femoral aponeurosis. It lies between this structure and the Pectineus muscle, and crosses the femoral vein on its way inward to pierce the fascia lata on the inner side of the thigh, in front of the Adductor Longus muscle. It crosses the sper- matic cord and supplies the scrotum in the male and the labium major iu the female, and sends downward a perineal branch. The artery anastomoses with the obturator artery, with the superficial perineal of the internal pudic, and with the artery of the same name of the o|:)posite side. It is sometimes a branch of the profunda. {d) The muscular Iranches are small and inconstant; they supply the muscles about the femoral artery, particularly the Sartorius and Vastus Internus. (e) The profunda femoris (deep femoral artery), the largest branch of tbe femoral, is often of equal calibre with it. It is the main nutrient artery of the thigh, since the femoral is in the main an artery of transit to supply the leg and foot. The deep femoral artery arises from the outer side of, or directly be- hind, the femoral, halfway between the pubis and the lesser trochanter, about one-and-a-half to two inches below Poupart's ligament. At first the vessel is curved slightly outward in front of the Iliacus, thence passes over the Vastus Internus muscle and descends the limb, lying parallel with the femoral artery, but soon passes behind it and sinks between the Adductor Longus and Adductor Magnus muscles, and is lost in the muscles of the thigh. A. H. Young' describes an instance of absence of the profunda. Its function was performed by branches arising from the femoral after it had pierced the Ad- ductor Magnus. The deep femoral yields the following branches:— (1) The External Circumflex. (2) The Internal Circumflex. (3) The Perforating. (1) The external circumflex artery arises from the outer side of the curved portion of the femoral vessel, passes outward between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve in front of the Psoas muscle, to which it gives a small branch, thence between the Vastus Internus and Rectus muscles, and divides into three sets of branches, ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascendmg passes through the interval between the Iliacus and Gluteus Medius muscles to supply the Tensor Vaginte Femoris, Gluteus Medius, and Gluteus Minimus. It communicates with the circum- flex iliac artery. The transverse passes outward over the Crureus, pierces the Vastus Externus, and, wind- ing around the great trochanter, pierces the insertion of the Gluteus Maximus, to anastomose with the in- ternal circumflex and the superior perforating arteries, as well as with gluteal and sciatic branches of the in- ternal iliac. It gives a branch to the capsule of the hip-joint. The descending, the largest of the three branches, supplies the Quadriceps extensor muscle. It is directed downward between the Rectus and Cru- reus, and between the Vastus Externus and Crureus it divides into several branches which supply the Quadriceps muscle as far as the lower part of the Joiirn. Anat. and Phys., xiii. 1879, 154.404 THE HEART AND TPIE BLOODVESSELS. thigh, and unites with branches which supply the joint. This branch is often greatly enlarged in cases of pop- liteal aneurism, and in amputations of the thigh it often requires a ligature. (2) The internal circumflex^ larger than the external, arises from the inner side of the main trunk. It soon passes to the inner side of the tendon of the Psoas muscle, and winds between the Pectineus and the head of the femur to gain the space in front of the Obturator Externus muscle, where it divides into two branches, an ascending and a transverse branch. The ascending branch. Opposite the Obturator Internus it sends a branch upward which supplies that muscle, the Gracilis and the upper portion of the adductors. It anastomoses with the Obturator In- ternus. A twig ascends in front of the Quadratus Femoris muscle to reach the digital fossa, and sends branches to neighboring muscles. It anastomoses with the sciatic, gluteal, and external circumflex arteries. The articular. This is often a separate vessel, but may be a branch of the foregoing. It enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid foramen, and supplies the cushion of fat and the ligamentum teres. A twig from the obturator artery frequently takes the place of this branch, or the vessel nrny be the result of the union of twigs from both. The capsular branches joining the articular in addition supply the perios- teum of the neck of the femur, and, according to Sappey, extend along the synovial membrane to the head of the femur. The transverse branch pierces the adductor group at the space between the Adductor Magnus and Quadratus Femoris muscles, to gain the posterior aspect of the thigh, where its lower branches supply the upper portion of the Quadriceps, the Semi-Ten- dinosus, the Semi-Membranosus, and the lower part of the Gluteus Maximus, as well as the sciatic nerve. The periosteum of the great trochanter and the pos- terior surface of the neck of the femur also receive twigs from the same vessel. The vessel has a general course which recalls that of tlie posterior circumflex artery of the superior extremity. Cru veilliier asserts tliat it has been ruptured in upward disloca- tions of the hip. In intra-capsnlar fracture it is from the vessels wliich supply the synovial membrane of the hip-joint tiiut tlie detached head derives its nourishment. The vessel freely anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal, the sciatic, and the pudic, and with the transverse branches of the external circumflex and superior perforating arteries. These facts are of importance to remember in connection with establish- ing a collateral circulation after ligation of the in- ternal iliac or femoral arteries above the origin of the profunda femoris. (3) The perforating arteries are usually three in number. Each pierces the Adductor Magnus muscle near its tendinous attachment. These arteries supply the adductor and the posterior flexor muscles, and anastomose one with another. The second is remark- able for furnishing the nutrient artery of the femur. The fourth supplies the short head of the Biceps and other hamstring muscles, and communicates with branches of the popliteal artery; it is sometimes called the terminal arter}?- of the profunda. (/) The anasloviotica magna is a small branch which arises from the femoral just as that vessel pierces the Adductor Magnus to become popliteal. It is directed downward, resting upon the Adductor Magnus, and between it and the Vastus Internus, to the region of the internal condyle, where it divides into two branches, a superficial and a deep. The superficial passes along the tendinous cord of the Adductor Magnus in company with the long saphe- nous nerve, beneath the Sartorius, to the skin, and divides into two branches, one of which anastomoses in front of the patella with the superior articular artery; the other anastomoses with the articular branch of the recurrent tibial artery. The deep part of the vessel crosses the femur between the fibres of the Vastus Internus, gives branches to the knee-joint, and forms an arch above the articulating surface by union with the superior external articular artery. Scarpa^s triangle is a topographical region upon the anterior aspect of the thigh, and is of importance in connection with the position of the femoral artery. The base of the triangle corresponds to Poupart's liga- ment ; the median side of the triangle is formed by the Adductor Longus; and thelateral side by theSartorius. The floor of the space defined by the triangle is occu- pied by the conjoined tendon of the Psoas Magnus and the Iliacus Internus, the Adductor Brevis, the Adduc- tor Magnus, on either side of the foregoing, and the Adductor Longus. The floor is crossed in the middle from end to end by the femoral artery, the femoral vein, and the anterior crural nerve and V^ranches. The space is covered in by the fascia, the superficial and deep lymphatic glands of the thigh, and the skin. The relations of the femoral artery are naturally embraced in part with those of Scarpa's triangle, and are shown in the following plan. In the region lying between Poupart's ligament andTHE POPLITEAL ARTERY. s>O0^0&<T 405 a line uniting the trochanter major to the symphysis pubis, the artery is superficial, and lies upon the median portion of the conjoined tendon of the Psoas Magnus and the Iliacus Liternus. Laterally, lies the anterior crural nerve; medianly (and inclining to a plane deeper than that of the artery), lies the femoral vein. Tlie artery is covered by the deep and super- ficial fixscia and by some lymphatic glands. In the region extending from tlie above line to the middle of the thigh, the artery lies upon a quantity of connective tissue and fat occupying the interval between the Vastus Internus on the lateral, and the Adductor Brevis and Adductor Magnus muscles on the median, side. Laterally, lie the long saphenous nerve and a second branch of the anterior crural nerve, the Sartorius muscles, and indirectly the Vas- tus Internus muscle and the shaft of the femur. The profunda femoris branch here lies parallel to the vessel. In the region extending from the middle of the thigh to the lower fourth, the artery lies upon the glisten- ing tendon of the Adductor Longus, and nearly par- allel to the fibres of that muscle. At its termination, it lies upon the tendon of the Adductor Magnus. Late- rally, lie the femoral vein, the Vastus Internus mus- cle, and indirectly the shaft of the femur; medianly, lie a quantity of connective tissue fat and the skin. The vessel is covered by a layer of fibres extending from the Vastus Internus to the Adductor Longus and the Adductor Magnus (the canal of Hunter), by the Sartorius muscle, and indirectly by fascia and skin. Variations The femoral artery may be double. The second vessel then becomes one branch of an island-forma- tion, of which the normal vessel is the other branch. As a rule, it is a branch of the external iliac artery, and joins either the femoral or the popliteal artery. A vessel—the long saphenous artery—maybe seen accomiianying the long saphe- nous vein. When this vessel arises above the point of origin of the profunda femoris, it supplies the thigh alone ; but, when it arises below the point of origin of the profunda, it may pass to the leg and even reach the ankle. It is plain that the failure of an operation dependent on ligation of tlic femoral artery may be attributed, among other causes, to the presence of a second femoral or of an enlarged long saphe- nous artery—A small artery may arise from the femoral, and pass upward over the antero-median portion of the thigh, where it may as a consequence be divided in femoral herni- otomy. The femoral artery may be small and sui)ply only the upper and middle portions of the thigh. The ischiatic artery in such specimens is unusually large. The profunda femoris may arise near Foupart's ligament. It often arises from the median side of tiie femoral or behind it, but rarely from the anterior surface. The profunda, when found lying to the median side of the femoral, will be found to give otf the internal circumflex, and when lying to the lateral side, the external circumflex.* THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. The Popliteal Artery is the continuation of the femoral. It begins at the annular opening in the Adductor Magnus muscle, at the lower fourth of the posterior aspect of the thigh. It passes down- ward within the popliteal space, crosses the posterior surface of the capsular ligament of the knee-joint, and lies upon the Popliteus muscle, and at the upper border of the Soleus muscle, as it crosses the inter- osseous space, it terminates in the anterior and the posterior tibial arteries. It lies deep throughout, and is strictly popliteal in its relations, save where it passes beneath the Semimembranosus and the Gastro- cnemius. It divides at a point one inch and a quarter below the head of the fibula, and one inch below the head of the tibia. The branches of the popliteal artery are arranged as follows:— (rt) Muscular. (/>) Lateral Articular. (c) Median Articular, (a) Muscular branches are given off above the line of flexion of the knee-joint. They form two groups: the one, comprising the muscular branches proper, is composed of small twigs which supply the ham-string muscles; the other is composed of the two vessels known as the sural arteries^ A^•hich supply the Gastro- cnemius muscle. Each of these enters the head of the latter upon its own side, and extends along the muscle. {b) The lateral articular arteries at the side of the joint consist of two pairs, as follows :— (1) Superior Articular. (2) Inferior Articular. (1) The superior articular arteries arise above the line of flexion. They consist of an external and an internal artery. The external inferior articular artery passes upward and outward close to the femur to reach the Vastus Externus muscle to which and to the tendon of the Biceps its branches are distributed. The internal branch, also lying close to the bone, winds around to the inner side of the femoral con- dyle, and supplies tlie muscles inserted into the inner tibial tuberosity. Its terminal branches pass ante- riorly as far as the patella. (2) The inferior articular arteries also embrace ' Zaaijer, .Jonrn. of Anat. and Phys., i. 180.406 THE HEART AND T HE BLOODVESSELS. an external and an internal branch. Both vessels arise below the line of flexion of the knee-joint, and often pursue an oblique course downward and out- ward. The external inferior articular artery passes to the outside of the joint beneath the accessory exter- nal lateral ligament, and along the outer border of the external semilunar cartilage to the upper border of the Popliteus muscle. It here divides into twigs which supply the tendons of the Biceps, the Gastrocne- mius, and the Plan tar is muscles. The internal branch passes downward to the inner tibial tuberosity, around which it winds to yield small branches to the inner head of the Gastrocnemius and to the muscles inserted into the head of the tibia. (c) The median articular artery is often a branch of the superior external articular artery. It pierces the capsule above the oblique fasciculus and, dividing, into branches, supplies the crucial ligaments and the synovial folds. The popliteal space, or ham, is that lozenge-shaped space defined by the Biceps Femoris and Plantaris muscle to its outer side, by the Semimembranosis and the Semitendinosis, with the inner head of the Gastro- cnemius to the inner side. The upper or proximal end of the space corresponds to the beginning of the lower fourth of the femur; the lower or distal end corresponds, nearly, to a girdle drawn round the leg at the level of the tubercle of the tibia. The floor of the popliteal space above the knee-joint is the femur, at the knee, the posterior capsule of the joint, and below the knee-joint, the upper portion of the interosseous space. The more important contents of the popliteal space are the popliteal artery, the papliteal vein, the inter- nal and external popliteal nerves, and lymphatic glands. Relations.—As the artery lies on the femur, the vein lies close to its outer side, and tlie internal popliteal nerve passes well to its outer side, and more superficial to the plane of the artery. As the artery lies upon the capsule of the knee- joint, and on the space below the joint, the vein lies upon it. The internal popliteal nerve lies more superficially to its outer side. On the same plane with the nerve on either side of the artery are the nerves and vessels for the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. Remarks.—The popliteal artery suffers from the effects of diseased action and violence more fre- quently than any large artery of the limbs. The posi- tion of the vessel on the femur and the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint will produce symptoms referable to these structures, if an aneurism projects from the anterior aspect of the ves-sel. In such instances the femur may be eroded, the capsular ligament destroyed, and the knee-joint entered. When the aneurism lies upon the posterior aspect of the vessel, it is apt to incline toward the inner side, and may form, in addition to the fulness of the ham, a swell- ing of the thigh at its lower third. Since it is in the latter locality that the inflammatory swelling occurs, dependent upon femoral necrosis, the two con- ditions should be carefully distinguished from each other. The sequestrum of femoral necrosis may wound the popliteal artery, as shown in the follow- ing case as recorded by Mr. Porter, of Dublin: A youth of fifteen years suffered from necrosis at the inner side of the femur at its lower third, where a sequestrum formed. At the age of twenty-nine, a traumatic popliteal aneurism was developed from the irritation of the sequestrum. The sac ulcerated and hemorrhage ensued. The parts being examined after amputation, the artery was found lacerated a little below its origin. A similar lesion from the end of a fragment in a broken femur is described by Heath.^ The artery was found ruptured opposite the origin of the median articular branch. Neither the nerve nor the vein was injured. If the popliteal artery be torn across above the bend of the joint, the resultant tumefaction is extensive and superficial. If below the joint, beneath the heads of the Gastrocnemius, the blood will diffuse itself be- tween them, elevate the muscles of the calf, and cause uniform and general enlargement of the upper part of the leg, and thus aid in concealing the condition. The blood from such a lesion may pass down as far as the tendo Achillis, or become superficial at the lower part of the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus. According to Pollock.^ if the condition is chronic, and the contents of the tumor fluid, the muscles may become atrophied from pressure and fluctuation be present.—The author saw two instances, during the American civil war, of division of the popliteal artery by bullets. In both cases the parts distal to the division mortified and amputation was necessitated. The artery may be involved in the late stage of suppuration in the knee-joint. Ligation of the Popliteal Artery.—The vessel can be secured at its upper and lower portions. The middle por- tion, by reason of the character of its association with the posterior aspect of the capsule of the knee-joint and with the vein, is never ligated. Ligation of the upper portion. The patient being placed upon his abdomen, and the limb extended, an incision three 1 Lancet. Aug. 1868, 246. ^ «uy"s Hosp. Rep., 1866, 247.THE POSTERIOE TIBIAL ARTERY. 407 inches in length is made along the tendon of the Semi- membranosus muscle, as it forms the median boundary of the popliteal space. The superficial fascia being divided, the underlying Adductor Magnus is drawn inward. The pop- liteal nerve lies close to the m.uscle, and should be carefully isolated and drawn outward. The artery and vein are now exposed lying togetlier, the vein inclining to the- outer side of the artery. The needle should, therefore,, be passed from without inward. Ligation of the loiver portion. A longitudinal incision three inches in lengtli, beginning at the bend of the knee, is made in tlie middle line of the space between the heads of the Gastrocnemius muscle. The superficial fascia being divided, the short saphenous vein and nerve are seen and carefully drawn to one side. Separating the two heads of the Gastrocnemius with the handle of the scalpel, the vessels and nerve are seen lying at the bottom of the wound. The vein and nerve are either both drawn inward, or they are separated, the nerve being drawn inward and the vein outward. The vein lies nearly over the artery, inclining somewhat to the outer side. Tlie collateral circulation , after ligation of the popliteal artery, may be not unlike the plan observed by Gruber' in tlie body of an old man. The main vessel was obliterated in the popliteal space, its remains lying in the inner f)op- liteal sulcus. The volume of blood was carried by the gastrocnemial artery, which was enormously enlarged. The posterior tibial artery was derived from anastomosing branches from the preceding, and was efficient. Variations.—When the femoral artery is absent, or does not reach the ham, the popliteal^ artery is a continuation of the ischiatic. The artery in this event lies superficially to the vein. It may be shorter than usual, the division into the terminal branches taking place at the upper part of the Popliteus. Or the artery may be longer than usual, and divide at the middle of the leg. A stout branch (short saphenous) may accompany the short saphenous vein, and, winding round the external malleolus, reach the foot to anastomose with the tarsal arteries. An accessory slip of the Gastrocnemius muscle may pass between the popliteal artery and vein. THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The Posterior Tibial Artery is the larger of the two terminal branches of the popliteal artery. Be- ginning at the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, the artery descends the leg a little obliquely down- ward and outward, but soon becomes vertical, and lies at first upon the Tibialis Posticus, and afterward upon the Flexor Longus Digitorum. It passes behind the internal malleolus and terminates beneath the origin of the Abductor Pollicis, by dividing into two branches the internal and external plantar arteries. ' Virohow's Arcliiv, 1875, 262, figs. The vessel ends at the middle of a line drawn from the tip of the internal malleolus to the middle of the heel, an important fact to remember in shaping the flap in Syme's operation. The branches of the posterior tibial are— (a) Muscular. {!>) Peroneal. (fl) The muscular branches as a rule are small. They are distributed for the most part to the deep and superficial muscles. Those to the Soleus are larger than those to other parts, save at the lower portion of the artery. Just before the origin of the plantar arteries a small branch is given off to the internal malleolus, and another to the inside of the calcaneum, to anastomose with the posterior peroneal and internal malleolar arteries respectively. {h) The peroTzm? artery is the largest of the branches of the posterior tibial. It arises from the artery about one inch below the Popliteus tnuscle, at the origin of the Tibialis Posticus muscle, and about three inches below the level of the head of the fibula. It passes down- ward and slightly outward to reach the inner side of the fibula, along which it descends, either between the Flexor Longus Pollicis and the Tibialis Posticus, or within the substance of the former muscle. Toward the lower portion of the leg it passes beneath the pero- neal muscles, crosses the tibio-fibular articulation, and descends behind the outer malleolus and the tendo- Achillis to supply the outer surface of the calcaneum, the adjacent fat, and the origin of the Abductor Minimi Digiti and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. The peroneal arterj' below the origin of the anterior peroneal is described by some authors under the name of the posterior 'peroneal. The branches of th§ peroncf^l are—■ (1) Anterior Peroneal, (2) Transverse. (3) Nutrient, (4) Muscular. (1) The anterior peroneal is very variable in size. As a rule it arises about two inches above the ankle- joint under cover of the Peroneus Tertius. It pierces the interosseous membrane, supplies the ankle-joint, and anastomoses with the anterior tibial artery, and, in front, with the tarsal arteries. (2) The transverse artery is a small branch arising from the peroneal a short distance above the anterior peroneal. It passes across the interosseous membrane to anastomose with the posterior tibial. (3) The nutrient artery enters its appropriate fora- men upon the posterior aspect of the tibia below the408 THE HEAET AND HE BLOODVESSELS. oblique line, and supplies the interior of the bone. Before its entrance it gives a small twig to the peri- osteum, to the Tibialis Posticus, and to the Flexor Longus Digitorum muscle. The nutrient artery is relatively of large size, and may be a branch of the anterior tibial artery. (4) The muscular branches supply the Soleus, the Flexor Longus Pollicis, and the Tibialis Posticus.. Relations.—In the leg the posterior tibial artery is crossed at its origin by the tendinous arch extending between the upper slips of origin of the Soleiis muscle. Tlie artery lies at first upon the Tibialis Posticus and upon the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and to their outer side at the lower third of the leg. The vessel is covered in the leg by the posterior tibial aponeurosis and by the muscles of the calf lying between tiiis membrane and the skin. The vessel is accompanied by vence comites and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies chiefly to its outer side. At the ankle, the artery lies be- tween the sheatli inclosing the Tibialis Posticus and the Flexor Longus Digitorum, and that of the Flexor Longus Pollicis, the last-named muscle lying on the deeper plane. The artery is covered by the posterior tibial aponeurosis and by layers accessory to the annular ligament and the tendo- Achillis. At its termination the artery lies beneath the origin of the Abductor Pollicis, the skin, and the fascia. Remarks In an aneurism of tiie posterior tibial artery recorded by W. Adams,' the tumor was situated on the posterior aspect of the bones of the leg, and protruded ante- riorly between them. The fibula was bent perceptibly out- ward ; the tibia slightly inward. The deep layer of mus- cles was for the most part displaced. The Flexor Longus Pollicis was superficial, while the Tibialis Posticus appeared expanded equably around the tumor. Ribes attributes tlie powerful contraction of the arteries in amputation of the upper part of the leg to the position of the end of the pop- liteal artery on the upper part of the interosseous ligament, a fixed point against which the vessel contracts.^ The artery may be distended or torn in lateral dislocation of the astragalus.^ Ligation of the Posterior Tibial Artery This vessel may be ligated at its middle and lower portions. For the upper portion the limb is semiflexed and allowed to rest upon its outer side. An incision is made four inches 1 W. Adams, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1854, 11. 2 Doane's Blandin, 345. 3 Paul Broca, Memoires de la Soc. Chir. Paris, iii. 1853. in length parallel with the shaft of the tibia and a little to its outer side. Tiie superficial fascia being exposed should be carefully divided, avoiding the internal saphenous vein and nerve which lie in the line of incision. The margin of the Gastrocnemius is then drawn to the outer side, and the tibial origin of the Soleus is next raised upon a director and divided the entire length of the first incision. The plane of the vessel is now reached, and the Soleus being drawn to the outer side, the vessel is felt lying under another thin layer of fascia overlying the Tibialis Posticus muscle. Tiie vessel is carefully separated from its accompanying veins, and the needle passed from without inward. Tiie large posterior tibial nerve lies to the outer side, and need not be injured. By Guthrie's method the vessel is reached by an in- cision four or five inches in length, made the middle line of the fleshy part of the calf. The Gastrocnemius and the Soleus are freely divided until the plane of the vessel is reached. The remaining steps are as in the other operation. It is claimed for this procedure that it is less tedious and bloody, while the additional size of the wound, so far from being a disadvantage, favors drainage. In the first-named method an inexperienced operator is apt either to mistake the interspace between the Gastrocnemius and the Soleus for the plane of the artery, or to confound the tibial origin of the Tibialis Posticus ninscle with that of the Soleus, and thus to get beneath the sought-for plane. In whatever way performed, the ligation of this portion of the vessel is justly held to be one of the most difiicult of any required upon arteries of the lower extremity. For ligation of the lower portion, namely, as the vessel lies behind the internal malleolus, an incision three inches in length is made midway between the malleolus and the heel. After dividing the superficial fascia, the annular ligament, which here represents the deep fascia, is next divided, while yet a third layer of fascia requires division before the vessel is reached. It is i'ound with its accom- panying nerve lying between the sheath of the Tibialis Posticus and of the Flexor Longus Digitorum muscles to the inner side, and that of the Flexor Longus Pollicis to the outer side. The nerve lies to the outer side, and need not be seen. Before ligation the artery sliould be next care- fully isolated from the venie comites. Variations Tlie posterior tibial artery may arise from the popliteal artery in the popliteal space. It may inter- change with the peroneal, or unite with it by large trans- verse arteries, which may be held to be analogous to simi- larly placed vessels in the forearm, uniting the radial and EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXX. Fig. 1. The femoral artery and its branches. Fig. 2. The anterior tibial artery and its branches. Fig. 3. The posterior tibial frtery and its branches.X Sinclair & Son,LitH,THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. OOO^OOo 409 tlie ulnar arteries. Tlie nutrient branch may arise from the anterior tibial. The plantar arch may be absent. The peroneal artery is subject to relatively frequent variations. It may arise from the popliteal. It may inter- change with both the posterior and the anterior tibial arte- ries in whole or in part. When the peroneal artery is absent, the posterior tibial artery yields the tibial nutrient artery. It may yield no branches until near its termination. THE PLANTAR ARTERIES. The Plantar Arteries constitute the terminal branches of the posterior tibial. They are two in number, as follows—■ (a) Internal Plantar. (/)) External Plantar. (a) The internal plantar artery, the swialler of the two, extends along the inner side of the foot in the groove between the Abductor Pollicis and the Flexor Brevis Digitorum muscles. It is variable in its dis- position, but as a rule divides into two branches, one of which extends along the upper border of the Ab- ductor Pollicis, and is lost along the inner border of the great toe, where it joins the inner division of the first digital artery; Avhile the other branch passes for- ward to join the first digital artery at its junction with the first perforating branch frotn the dorsal artery of the fi^ot. The internal plantar artery sends minute branches to the muscles along the inner border of the foot and to the tarsal bones and ligaments, and several cutaneous branches to the sole of the foot, as well as anastomos- ing branches which join the internal malleolar and the tarsal arteries. [b) The external plantar artery arises from the pos- terior tibial, between the calcaneum and the Abductor Pollicis, under the annular ligament. It is directed outward and forward beneath the Flexor Brevis Digitorum and Accessorius to the septum between the former muscle and the Abductor Minimi Digiti. It here lies deep, and is deflected directly forward between these two muscles as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, where it is curved inward be- tween the flexors of the toes and the Lumbricales to enter into the plantar arch. The external plantar sends off small calcaneal branches which cross the calcaneum at its under sur- face to supply adjacent parts and the integument, and numerous stnall muscular branches to supply the muscles along the outer border of the foot. Some of these anastomose with the tarsal arteries. A digital branch passes beneath the Abductor Minimi Digiti to the outer border of the fifth metatarsal bone. 52 According to Power, the artery as it turns inward lies in a triangular space, bounded in front by the Transversalis Pedis, behind and to the inner side by the Abductor Minimi Digiti, and to the outer side by the Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. The interosseous muscles lie ab(jve it, and the common flexor tendons beneath it. The external plantar nerve crosses to the inner side of the vessel. plantar arch is formed by the junction of the continuation of the external plantar artery with the first interosseous branch of the dorsalis pedis. It increases slightly in size from without inward. It passes over the bases of the metatarsal bones and tendons of adjacent muscles. The plantar arch yields four digital arteries which occupy the inter- osseous spaces. Each of the three outer digital arteries, as it reaches the metatarso-phalangeal arti- culation, constantly divides into two branches which supply the opposed surfaces of the corresponding toes. The first digital artery is much larger than the re- maining three. It commonly divides into three branches: the one extends along the inner margin of the great toe, where it is often joined by the terminal twig of the internal plantar; the second supplies the outer margin of the great toe; while the third extends along; the inner margin of the second toe. In addition to the above, the plantar arch sends small branches backward, which supply the under surface of the tarsus and the associated ligaments; and three small branches upward, which perforate the interosseous spaces between the heads of the Dor- sal Interosseous muscles, and anastomose with the dorsal arteries. Remarks.—The fact mentioned on page 20i, that injuries of the median portion of the foot are, as a rule, of a graver nature than those of the lateral por- tion, can be explained in part by the small amount of blood which the median portion receives. THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The Anterior Tibial Artery constitutes the ante- rior terminal division of the popliteal artery. It passes between the two upper slips of origin of the Tibialis Posticus muscle, and pierces the inter- osseous space just above the interosseous membrane to gain the anterior tibial region. It descends the leg, passing downward and a little inward to lie in front of the ankle-joint beneath the annular liga- ment, at the lower border of which it terminates in the dorsalis pedis. The vessel is at first deep-seated, and rests upon the interosseous membrane with the Tibialis Anticus muscle to the inner side, and the410 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. <x>O^OOo— Extensor Longus Digitoram to the outer. It becomes superficial at its lower fourth, where it lies upon the tibia between the tendons of the Extensor Longus Digitorurn and of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. It is crossed at the ankle by the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle, and is here covered by the skin and fascia only. A straight line drawn from the middle of the space between the head of the fibula and the tubercle of the tibia to the middle point of the intermalleolar space represents its course. Hyrtl and Henle de- scribe the artery as passing in a fibro-muscular canal which is defined behind by the interosseous membrane, and in front by the fibres of origin of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. The artery, vein, and nerve are inclosed in a kind of short tubular compartment opposite the ankle-joint. The artery yields its larger branches at the upper and lower extremity of the leg. They are as fol- lows :— (a) Anterior Eecurrent. (.5) Muscular. (c) Internal Malleolar. (d) External Malleolar. (a) The anterior remrrent, always of considerable size, arises from the main vessel immediately after its appearance upon the front of the leg. It ascends obliquely upward and inward, through the substance of the Tibialis Anticus, to gain the internal tuberosity of the tibia, about which it is distributed after the fashion of a periosteal vessel. Its superior and larger branch runs along the outer border of the liyamentum jxttellas, anastomosing with the inferior external artery. The inferior branch anastomoses with the internal articular artery. Henle describes a superior filjular artery which winds around the head of the fibula under the origin of the Peroneus Longus. It supplies these muscles and gives branches to the knee and to the superior tibio-fibular articulation. The muscular branches are numerous, but small. They supply the muscles and skin of the anterior tibial region. A few twigs pierce the interosseous membrane to supply both it and the Tibialis Pos- ticus muscle. (c) The internal malleolar is given off at the front of, and a little above, the ankle, between the tibia and the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus, where it divides into two branches, a deep or articular, and a superficial, which supply the periosteum of the inner malleolus and the inner side of the tarsus, and anastomose with the internal tarsal branch of the internal plantar artery, as well as with terminal branches of the pero- neal artery. (f/) The external malleolar, somewhat larger, and placed a little lower than the preceding, is variable in its origin. As a rule it arises a short distance above the ankle-joint beneath the tendons of the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum and of the Peroneus Tertius muscles, passes downward and outward to supply the parts about the external malleolus and the outer as- pect of the calcaneum, and anastomoses with the an- terior peroneal, with the external tarsal, and with branches of the external plantar. Ligation of the Anterior Tibial Artery.—The anterior tibial artery is secured at its upper part by mniiing an incision parallel to the tibia in a line corresponding to the se[)tum between the Tibialis Anticus and the Ex- tensor Longus Digitorum muscles. This line can be defined by exciting contraction of the first-named muscle. Tiie incision should be i'ully three inches in length. The deep fascia being divided, the muscles should be separated toward the lower end of the wound. If any small branches of arteries be seen beneath the fascia, they will serve to guide the operator to tlie anterior tibial, wliich lies with its accom- panying veins upon the interosseous membrane, together with the nerve of the same name, the latter lying to the outer side of the vessel. At tlie lower portion of the leg, the artery lies between the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle and that of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Its relations are here essen- tially the same as at the upper part. The incision should be three inches in length along the outer margin of tlie Extensor Proprius Pollicis. Rkmarks The vessel may be injured by the fragment of the fractured tibia. M. Verneuil reports an instance in which the artery was obliterated by the upper fragment of the bone, in a man aged forty-eight, with resultant gangrene of the limb below the injured point. Amputation was resorted to, but death ensued from [)ya3mia. THE DORSALIS PEDIS. This artery is the continuation of the anterior tibial upon the dorsum of the foot. It begins at the lower border of the annular ligament, and passes directly forward, crossing the second cuneiform bone nearly parallel to the inner border; it terminates in the first interosseous metacarpal space at the first meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation, where it divides into (a) the tarsal, {h) the metatarsal, (c) the dorsalis hal- lucis, and {d) perforating branches. (a) The tarsal branch arises from the dorsalis pedis upon the scaphoid bone. It passes outward between the tarsal bones below and the Extensor Brevis Digi- torum above, supplying that muscle as well as theTRE SYSTE tarsal articulations. It anastomoses witli branches of the metatarsal, the external malleolar, the peroneal, and the external plantar arteries. (J) The metatarsal branch is not so large as the preceding. It curves outward at the base of the metatarsal bones, and sends three digital branches from the anterior portion of the curve, each of which divides a little beyond the base of the first phalanx into two branches which supply the opposed surfaces of the toes. The artery communicates with the plan- tar vessels by two minute perforating arteries to each interosseous space, which are termed respectively the anterior and the posterior perforating arteries. (c) The dorsalis hallucfs lies in the first inter- osseous space. It divides near the toe cleft into two branches. Of these the internal passes under the tendon of the Extensor Proprius PoUicis, and gives off small vessels to the dorsum of the great toe. According to Power, it may be directed beneath the first metatarsal bone to supply the inner border of the great toe, there to anastomose with the internal plantar artery, and thereby completing the ^;fo?ztar arch. (d) The perforatintj or communicating artery pene- trates the first dorsal interosseous space to join the terminal branch of the external plantar artery. Quain has described a plantar digital branch which crosses beneath the first metatarsal bone, and which IC VEINS. 411 runs along the inner side of the great toe upon its plantar surface. Ligation of the Dorsalis Pedis.—Upon the instep, the artery is found between the Extensor Proprius Pollicis and the inner border of the tendon of the Extensor Communis Digitorum. The artery lies upon the first interosseous space. The line of incision extends from a point at the middle of the anterior intermalleolar space to a point between the anterior extremities of the first two metatarsal bones. An incision one inch long in the course of the line, or along the outer border of the tendon of the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, should be made, and, upon cutting through the skin, the superficial fascia, and tiie deep fascia, the artery is secured, after separating the accompanying veins, by passing the ligature from witliout inward. Variations.—The artery may arise at a point in the pop- liteal space. It may pass with the cutaneous branch of tiie external popliteal nerve round the fibula, instead of piercing the interosseous spaces, and be parallel to the fibula, as far as the ankle, wliere it lies in front of the joint. In in- stances of absence of the posterior libial artery the popliteal may divide into the anterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. The anterior tibial may become superficial at the middle of the leg, and thence to its termination be covered only by the fascia and the skin. The artery may be absent, when its place is taken in the leg by muscular branches of the posterior tibial artery, and in the foot by branches of the peroneal artery. The dorsalis pedis and the plantar arteries and their branches may interchange with one another. THE VEINS. Tlie veins of the human body are of two kinds, the systemic and the pulmonary. The systemic veins are those which receive the blood from the capillaries (excepting those of the lungs), and convey it to the right auricle of the heart. The pulmonary veins are those which receive the blood from the capillaries of the lungs, and convey it to the left auricle of the heart. These have been already described (p. 351). THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. in collecting blood from the extremities, the head and the neck, tlie chest walls, and the pelvic organs. The second, commonly called the portal system, includes the veins conveying the blood from the ali- mentary canal and related abdominal appendages (organs of chylifaction) below the Diaphragm, as well as the spleen. Terms Used in Descpjbixg the Veixs. A Radicle. A small vein which forms the root or one of a number of peripheral branches to a main trunk.' The systemic veins are divided into two groups. The first of these groups embraces the veins employed ' The " root" of an artery is its cardiac end. The " root" of a vein is its peripheral end.THE HEAET 412 BLOODVESSELS. AND THE SX>0^0<X:— A Venule. A small vein. It may be either a radicle or an anastomotic branch. A Tributaky. Any vein received into another. A Sinus. Any dilatation of a large vein receiving tributaries. The best illustrations are the sinuses of the dura mater, and the coronary sinus of the heart. A Lacuna. A widened avenue of communication between an artery and a vein, which talves the place of a capillary network. Fig. 84. HEMIAZYGOS INFERIOR CAVA INTERNAL MAMMARY INTERCOSTAL SUPERIOR CAVA EPIGASTRIC DlAnRAMMATIC KEPRE3ENTATION OF THE VEIXS OF THE TRUNK. The Development of the Greater Veins. In order to explain the development of the larger veins and their disposition in the body, some account is necessary of the circulation of the blood in the embryo. When the foetus is in intimate relation with the yolk-sac, the circulation of the blood is said to be vitelline^ and to be composed of the omphalo-mesenteric arteries and veins with the intervening network. When the allantois is in contact with the uterine wall, the circulation is said to be placental^ and to con- sist of the hypogastric arteries, of the umbilical vein, and of the intervening capillaries or lacunte. (See ac- count of the Foetal Circulation.) When the lungs are functionally active, the circu- lation is said to be tfrreslrial^ or that of the adult, and to be carried on by the arteries and veins of the body as described without qualification. An actively developing organ requires numerous or large bloodvessels. Keduction in the size of the organ, or diminution in its activity, allows corre- sponding changes to take place in its bloodvessels. Should the organ disappear, the vessels will become obliterated. The manner in which the arterial sys- tem of the adult is evolved from the system of the cervical arches in the embryo has been described elsewhere (p. 316). It remains to show in what direction the venous system is changed during devel- opment. The disposition of the larger venous trunks is deter- mined by two active processes: one of these repre- sents the growth of the brain; the other, the growth of the nutritive appendages, by which term are meant the organs, temporary or permanent, which secure food-material to the develojDing organism. The brain of the young embryo is developed ante- riorly to a greater degree than it is posteriorly. The venous blood flowing from it tends to escape at a point in advance of the posterior jugular foramen of the adult; namely, from an opening in front of the temporal bone. Tlie trunk which is formed for its reception receives the name of the primitive jugular vein, and carries the greater portion of the venous blood from the brain-case until the development of the organ is completed, when its place is taken by' the internal jugular vein. The trunks of the internal maxillary and the external jugular vein of the adult are supposed to be survivals of the primitive jugular vein. The two primitive jugular veins descend the neck and enter the thorax, where they unite with the cardi- nal veins, the short horizontal trunk resulting from this union forming the ducts of Cuvier (canals of Cuvier), which empty into the single auricle of the heart. A small transverse vein (cross-branch) unites413 THE SYSTEMIC VEINS. Fig. 85. JUQULAR VEIN DUCT OF CUVIER VEN>£ HEP. REVEHENTES jcAROtNAL VEINS DUCTUS VENOSUS VEN/E HEP. ADVEHENTE8 — UMBILICAL VEIN PORTAL VEIN A Tlan of Principal Veins or the F(ETns of about Foce Wleks. the primitive jugular veins at about the point Avhere thej become thoracic. The cardinal veins (vertebral veins) are two in number, the right and the left, their presence being determined the activity of the Wolfian bodies. Accessions are received by the main vessels from the vertebral intercostal and lumbar veins. The cardinal veins ascend to join the primitive jugular veins, to form, with the assistance of the primitive jugular vein.s, the duels of Cuvier. The lines of continuity from the right and left primitive jugular veins constitute in the thorax the right and left /cetoZ vense cavse. Independently of the formation of the primitive jugular veins, the cardinal veins, and the ducts of Cuvier, blood is collected from the vitelline sac or its rudiments, and from the umbilical vesicle, to form the right and the left omphalo-mesenteric veins, which together form a short trunk to empty into the auricle of'the heart. In the formation of this trunk, the initial step is taken toward the separation of a distinct trunk for the conveyance of blood to the heart from its source outside of the trunk. After the disappearance of the umbilical vesicle, the right and left omphalo-mesenteric vessels, for the most part, disappear also, the proximal portion of the left trunk alone persisting to receive the blood collected The right and left veins now re- from the placenta. ceive the name of the umbilical veins, which unite in the trunk representing the remains of the om- phalo-mesenteric system to form the common om- phalo-mesenteric trunk. (See p. 395.) The liver is an organ of great activity from the time of the development of the vitelline circulation. The venous current from the source of nourishment, whether that be in the vitelline sac, in the placenta, or in the intestinal tract, passes through a capillary system in the liver, but is again collected by one or more trunks which pour the return venous blood into the heart. The manner by which the blood is received and transmitted through the liver is essen- tially the same from the period of the vitelline circulation to adult life. In the vitelline type, the branches of the omphalo-mesenteric vein, as it enters the liver, form two main trunks which are called the vends hepaticse advehentes^ while those which collect the blood from the hepatic capillaries are called the vense hepaticse revehentes. This arrange- ment is modified in the placental circulation by the common trunk of the omphalo-mesenteric vein receiv- Fig. 86. JUGULAR VEINS SUBCLAVIAN VEIN TnANSVERSe VElM AZYGOS VEIN DUCTS OF CUVIER DUCTUS VENOSUS CARDINAL VEIM UMBILICAL VEIN PORTAL VEIN lAO VEINS EXTER. ILIAC VEINS INTER. ILIAC VEINS Plan of the Principal Veins of the Fcetus at the time of the fik£T Establishment of the Placental Circulation. ing the blood from the umbilical vein, and in addi- tion from the portal vein, which is as yet a small trunk. Finally, when the placental circulation is414 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. well established, the vense hepaticee revehentes form a distinct trunk, which receives the name of the hepatic vein, and opens, not into the heart, but into the inferior vena cava; and a new trunk appears, the ductus venosus, which connects the hepatic with the ■umbilical vein. After birth the umbilical vein and the ductus venosus disappear, and the portal vein alone carries blood from the sources of nutrition to the heart by way of the hepatic capillaries, the hepatic vein, and the inferior cava. During the period in which the nutritive veins are being elaborated, the blood is returning from the de- veloping limbs, and in the end it materially modifies the arrangement of the cardinal veins and the primi- tive jugulars. The thoracic trunk of the right primi- tive jugular becomes the rii/ht invominate vein and the superior vena cava. The left thoracic portion of the primitive jugular disappears, the small transverse vein taking its place, and forming the left innominate vein, which joins the superior cava just before this vessel becomes continuous with the right duct of Cuvier. The thoracic portion of the left primitive jugular persists as a small vein, the vestigial vein (q. v.), which empties into the coronary sinus. The blood from the inferior extremity finds no trunk in the abdomen prepared to receive it save the pelvic radicles of the cardinal veins, which, by appro- priate enlargement, would be competent to return the blood to the duct of Cuvier. But the retrograde tendency of these veins attending the process of atro- phy of the Wolfian body is so pronounced, that they are unable to fulfil this new task. A new trunk appears for the purpose, namely, the inferior vena cava, a trunk which, at the same time that it conveys the blood from the extremities, also receives some of the detached radicles of the cardinal veins in the shape of the internal iliac veins. It also receives tributaries from the kidneys, the testes, the ovaries, the suprarenal bodies, and from the liver through the right hepatic vein. The persistent trunks of the cardinal veins are seen in the developed body as the azyyos vein, which repre- sents the right cardinal vein, and as the hemiazyyos, which represents the left cardinal vein, Eegarded in the light of the above facts, the veins of the body are of different degrees of significance. The external jugular represents the cervical por- tion of the primitive jugular vein. The main portion of the superior vena cava repre- sents the thoracic portion of the right primitive jugular. The vestigial vein represents the primitive right vena cava. The termination of the superior vena cava in the right auricle represents the right duct of Cuvier. The azygos vein and the hemiazygos vein, together with the internal iliac veins and their tributaries, represent the remains of the cardinal system of veins. Variations.—It is evident, from the statements already made, that the study of variations in the trunkal veins in- volves the entire life-history of the organism. The recorded malformations of tlie greater veins are capable of being grouped under nine distinct heads or types, as follows :— (1) The transverse vein is absent or much reduced in size. (2) Wiiile the transverse vein is normal, the left duct of Cuvier persists. (3) Anastomoses exist between the superior vena cava and the pulmonary veins, or a communication exists between the superior vena cava and the left auricle. (4) The inferior vena cava is absent. The common iliac vein opens either into the corresponding enlarged right, or into the left, (iardinal vein. (5) The lower portion of the left cardinal vein is enlarged between the renal and common iliac veins. (G) One of the cardinal veins supplants in part the cardi- nal vein of the opposite side of the body. (7) The omphalo-mesenteric vein persists. (8) The umbilical vein persists, wholly or in part. (9) The hepatic veins terminate in exceptional places.* That variations in the veins are correlated with defects in the visceral apparatus must be, from the preceding statements, a self-evident proposition. Eecorders of malformations or varieties have too often neglected to mention the related defects or peculiarities accompanying the arrangement of the venous trunks themselves. It is evident that a nar- row or enlarged internal jugular vein will be found associated with corresponding changes in the sinuses of the dura mater, and both of these again, most probably, with peculiarities of brain-structure, or retarded rates of brain-growth.^ It is well known that variations of the azygos vein in the thorax are apt to be associated with the presence of super- numerary lobes in the lungs. The kidney has been found absent in connection with some variations of the inferior vena cava, and the thymus gland dupli- cated in subjects presenting variations of the left innominate vein, etc. ■ See W. Krause, in Henle's Anatomy, iii. 379, for an exhaustive treatment of the subject, with copious references. 2 The disposition of the veins carrying blood from the hrain, especially those perforating the squamous portion of the temporal bone, has systemic signifloance in the mammalia.THE SUPERIOE VENA CAVA. —^ ooC^fCiO^ 415 Mauy minor variations of tlie veins of the limbs are due to the same general causes as those affecting the accompanying arteries. The regions of the joints, and the regions of junction of the limbs with the trunk, are favorite localities for venous as well as for arterial variations. Those veins which are early formed, and are not subject to change afterward, present comparatively few variations; such, for example, are the vertebral and intercostal veins. In those, on the other hand, such as the cervical veins, which depend upon the differing rates of development of the various parts of the brain and face; or in those in the abdomen where gross changes in visceral development are being effected, variations are of common occurrence. Owing to the free anastomosis between the minor vessels of the venous system, collateral circulations are established with relative ease in the veins, even after the occlusion of the larger trunks. The veins generally accompany the arteries of the same name. Each arterial twig is usually accom- panied by a single vein. The veins of muscles ex- hibit irregularities of calibre, which, however, abruptly disappear as the veins emerge from the muscle. In passing through fibrous rings or bands they enlarge below and become narrow above them. When veUc'B comites are present about an artery, it has been found, as a result of Verueuil's researches,' that the larger of the two veins is alone furnished with valves, and that the collateral vein joins the main vessel above the position of the valves by small transverse veins. Verneuil proposes to apply the term segment of security to the space between any two sets of valves; and he believes that the collateral and transverse veins are able to relieve a given seg- ment of security of excess of blood, and to carry it forward to the heart, or to pass it to the adjoining cardiac segment of security.^ THE SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The Superior or Descending Vena Cava extends from the termination of the two innominate veins to the right auricle. It is a large trunk measuring from two to three inches in length, and is directed down- ward, nearly vertically, or with a slight curvature to the left side. It lies behind the right border of the sternum, and extends from the first right costal cartilage to the middle of the second intercostal space, or to the third rib. It is embraced at its lower third by the pericardium, the serous lining of which is in ' TiuU. la Soo. Anatomique, t. xxxvi. 18(n, '268. 2 For aitditioiial I'l-inarks on Vi ius see p. 338. relation with its front and sides. It lies in front of the trachea and the root of the right lung, having the aorta to its left, and the right lung to its right side. The two innominates in rare instances pass directly down- ward to tlie right auricle. This is the normal an-angenient in some animals, as the monotremes, marsupials, bats, most rodents, and some insectivores. Under rare conditions the riglit [udmonic veins empty into tlie superior vena cava near its termination in tiie light auricle.' Relations In addition to the relations given above, the superior vena cava has liie right pleura and lung, and tlie right phrenic nerve to its right side, and the ascending por- tion of the aorta to its left. The right azygos vein, a por- tion of the trachea, tlie right pneumogastric nerve, and a few lymphatic glands lie behind. Tlie Variations of the superior vena cava are best ex- plained by reference to tlie retention of parts of the ducts of Cuvier.^ It lias been known to receive one of the pul- monary veins. In rare cases, where it has been doubled, the azygos vein commonly joins the rigiit vein, whicli is the true cava, the left being continued to tlie left auricle. Remarks.—Enlarged lymphatic glands may press upon the superior cava, but not with sufficient force to obliterate its lumen. Such pressure may so retard the downward flow of the blood as to render the face oedemat(ms, especially the eyelids, and to render the complexion livid. If the pressure is sufficiently great, the whole of the return bhxid is compelled to seek a new channel. The dilated right vena azygos in some degree supplies this, joining, as it does, the lumbo-vertebral plexus and the internal mammary and deep epigastric veins. The enlargement of the last-mentioned vessels is at times a conspicuous sign during life of pressure upon the superior cava. The right vena azygos and its tributaries may be found much enlarged, but the ter- minal portion of the vein may be impervious. The blood from the azygos vein may reach the right auricle by means of a vessel joining the superior cava at its upper part, and by another which may jiass downward through the aortic opening and unite with the inferior vena cava. T. Henry Green^ reports in detail the effects of constriction of the superior vena cava in a man forty-four years of age. The vessel was found to be completely impervious for about one-and-a-half inch from the auricle. Beyond this point its dia- meter was about one-sixth of an inch, and its walls were apparently thickened. A dense mass of adven- titious new growth embraced the vessel, and was > W. Gruber, Virchow's Arcliiv, Bd. 68, 284, fig. ^ See p. 412 ; also Kranse in Henle's Anat. s Trans. Patli. Sor. L(jiidon. 1876, 118.416 AND THE BLOODVESSELS. THE HEAET doubtless the cause of constriction. During life it was observed that the capillaries of the face had always been dilated, and the skin livid. The skin of the chest above the level of the Diaphragm was studded with clusters of dilated capillaries, the largest collection being over the cartilages of the left false ribs.—Aortic aneurism may rupture into the superior veua cava. The superior cava was found by Wharton' com- pletely torn off from the heart, in a woman who had been injured by a wagon passing over the trunk. In this case no bones were broken, nor was other serious lesion incurred.^ THE INNOMINATE VEINS. The Innominate Veins (brachio-cephalic veins) are two in number, the right and the left. They are not symmetrical, the left being the longer. Each vein is formed by the union of the internal jugular and the subclavian vein of the corresponding side, and ex- tends from the inner extremity of tlie clavicle down- ward to unite with its fellow at a point nearly opposite the first intercostal cartilage of the right side. It will be seen, therefore, that the right vein is nearly vertical, while the left inclines downward and toward the right. The right vein receives the right thoracic duct, and the left the main left or tho- racic duct. To the outer side and somewhat in front of the right innominate vein lies the right lung. To its inner side is the thoracic aorta; and in front, the carti- lage of the first rib, together with the slips of origin of the Sterno-Hyoid and the Sterno-Thyroid muscles. The left innominate vein crosses the innominate artery and the left carotid artery, as they arise from the arch of the aorta. It has an indirect relation with the left subclavian, and lies directly between the first- mentioned vessels and the manubrium of the sternum. The veins opening into the innominate are the same on both sides, viz.:— ^ Inferior Thyroid. From above I From below Vertebral. Deep Cervical. Superior Intercostal. Internal Mammary. Thymic. Bronchial. Mediastinal. Pericardiac. The inferior thyroid vein arises from the lower part of the thyroid plexus. The right vein inclines to the right side, while the left is nearly in the median line. The vertebral YQm accompanies the vertebral artery. It arises by tributaries about the foramen magnum, and anastomoses with the vertebral plexus. De- scending the canal for the vertebral artery, the vein escapes at the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. The vertebral vein may be received by the subclavian. The veins about the anterior condyloid foramen may open into the verte- bral vein, and others may join the posterior spinal plexus. Remarks.—Deep wounds of the neck may be ac- companied by venous bleeding of unexpected severity, if any of these directly communicating branches of the vertebral vein be divided. Pitha' records a fatal case due to inflammation following a wound in the neighborhood of the mastoid foramen, and thence involving the emissary veins. Luschka suggests that cupping and leeching at the back of the neck may relieve congestion of the pharynx. The deep cervical vein lies between the Multifidus Spinas anrl the Semispinalis muscles. It anastomoses with the occipital, and empties into the innominate vein to the outer side of the vertebral. Struthers^ describes this vein as furnished with a valve. It often unites with the vertebral near its termination. The stiperior intercostal vein collects blood from the upper intercostal spaces. Its relations with the azvgos veins (q. v.) are important. The interned mammary veins accompany the artery of the same name, as venae comites. They unite into a single trunk immediately prior to their termi- nation. The positions and functions of the remaining veins are expressed in the names they bear, and do not require separate description. Remarks.—The left innominate vein in young subjects is placed at a higher plane than in adults, and, like the innominate artery, may form one of the component parts of the pretracheal space. Mr. Whillie mentions a case of a practitioner who, in performing tracheotomy upon a man apparently drowned, unwittingly opened this vein. From the position of the innominate veins, with respect to the great vessels, it is evident that they may be compressed by aneurismal tumors. Dr. W. H. ' Dub. Quarterly Journ., xlix. 1870, 501. 2 For additional clinical literature see T. Tliurnam, Med. Cliir. Trans., xxiii. 1840, 344. 1 (Est. Zeit. fiir prackt. Heilkunde, i. 1859. 2 Edinburgh Mod. Journ., 1856, 418.THE VEINS OF THE HEAD. OOO^OOO 417 Van Buret!* describes an instance of aneurism of the descending aorta, in which the right innominate vein was obliterated. CEderaa of the right upper ex- tremity had been noticeable during the life of the patient. The left subclavian vein was greatly dilated. Owing to the intimate relations existing between the right innominate vein and the lung of the corre- sponding side, the products of inflammation in pneu- monia or in pleuritis may press against the vessel and interfere Avith the return of venous blood to the heart from the arm, the neck, and the head. Variations The superior vena cava may be absent, when the innominate veins open separately into the right auricle. The thyroid, intercostal, and mammary branches may join the superior vena cava. The lett innominate vein may pass through the thymus body. THE VEINS OF THE HEAD AND THE NECK. The veins of the Head and the Neck may be described separately, as follows:— I. The Veins of the Head. The Veins of the Head include— I. The External Veins. II. The Encranial Veins. I. The External Veins are— Facial. Temporal. Internal Maxillary. Temporo-Maxillary. Posterior Auricular. Occipital. Lingual. Pharyngeal. The Facial Vein (anterior facial) arises by the angular vein at the side of the root of the nose. Lying to the outer side of, or behind, the facial artery, though less tortuous than that vessel, it de- scends obliquely downward and outward to the lower jaw, which it crosses in front of the Masseter muscle, to appear upon the neck. It here terminates in the temporo-maxillary or common facial vein. Upon the face it is surrounded by subcutaneous fat, and lies beneath the Z3^gomaticus Major muscle; but on the neck it lies beneath the superficial fascia and the Platysma iMyoides muscle. The tributaries of the facial are the frontal, which 53 • New York Journ. of Med., 1849, 203. descends the forehead ; the sujyraorlntal, which passes inward along the upper eyelid and the brow; the in- ferior palpebral, the dorso-nasal, the vena alee nasi, the superior and inferior labial, the buccal, masseteric, pala- tine, ranine, and submental veins. The/)a?«^?'r2e derives blood from the soft palate and the tonsil; the ranine from the tip of the tongue. The submental vein answers in position to the submental artery, and derives blood from the submaxillary gland and the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. The facial vein anastomoses with the anterior branches of the infraorbital, with the pterygoid branches of the internal maxillary, and, through its anterior and transverse branches, with the temporal veins. Remarks.-—-It will be seen that the venous supply of the face differs in some important particulars from that of the trunk and limbs. In the last-named locali- ties, both deep and superficial currents flow in the same direction towards the heart. The facial trunk, however, is not formed by primal venules, as is commonly the case, but by branches communicat- ing with the frontal and supraorbital veins, and by a transverse branch found at the bridge of the nose. It is highly probable that much of the blood of the interor- bital space and of the locality about the inner canthus of the eye flows through the orbital conduits to the cavernous sinus. Further down the face, it is seen that the infraorbital artery alone of all the vessels of the face possesses venas comites. These promptly join the orbital set of veins, or aid in swelling the volume of the internal maxillary vein. The veins corresponding to the deep parts of the face, other than those mentioned, also seek an outlet in the same trunk, so that much of the superficial blood of the upper part and side of the face passes invjard to the brain- case and to the interior of the facial region, while the remaining portion flows downioard to join the exter- nal and the anterior jugixlar veins. It is of interest to note that in facial phlebitis the disease has a tendency to extend upward, except when the exciting cause lies at a point in or about the lower lip, in which case, as a rule, the inflammation extends downward. In a case reported by M. Bechez,' illus- trative of the fact just stated, a soldier, aged forty- two, was attacked with fever, followed by redness and slight swellins; of the forehead. This swelling soon became more pronounced along the course of the temporo-frontal veins, which were hard, prominent, and of a violet color. The eyelids were oedematous, 1 Gaz. Heb., 1863, 716.418 THE HEART AND. HE BLOODVESSELS. and the conjunctiva cbeinosed. The patient died about the seventh day. A somewhat similar case, recorded by Mr. T. H. Sylvester/ is interesting from the fact that the frontal veins deter^nined the extent of the inflamed tract. A puncture of the lip excited the phlebitis, which extended to a small vein at the outer side of the nose, thence to the inner canthus, and from that point along the frontal vein to the scalp, which became extensively infiltrated with pus. The case terminated fatally at the end of five weeks. The relations existing between the venous blood of the face and that of the brain-case are rendei'ed evident by the fact that the state of the circulation of the external nose is sometimes an index of the condition of the vessels of the brain. The Temporal Vein (posterior facial) originates in the region of the temple, by branches answering to the position of the anterior and the posterior temporal arteries; the anterior branch anastomosing with the frontal, and the posterior with the occipital and pos- terior auricular veins. The vein descends over the root of the zygoma and passes through the parotid gland, as far as the angle of the lower jaw, where it terminates in the external jugular vein. Just before its termination, it sends forward a large branch (the communicating branch) which joins the temporo- facial. Quain describes the main trunk as dividing, one branch going to the facial, the other to the ex- ternal jugular vein. The temporal vein receives the following tributa- ries: The middle temporal^ which originates in the Temporal muscle, and pierces the temporal fascia just above the zygoma, to reach the temporal vein ; sometimes the middle temporal joins the deep tem- poral veins, which are tributaries of the internal maxillary; the anterior auricular vein, from the external ear; the parotid branches from the parotid gland; and the transverse facial^ which accompanies the artery of the same name. The most important tributary, however, is the internal maxillary vein. Remarks.—Plexiform na^vus, formed by branches of the temporal vein in the parotid gland, is some- times recognized in the living subject. It is always 1 Med.-Chir. Trans., xxiv. 1841, 36, fig. a serious condition, not only because of the difficulties attending an operation for its removal, but because of the pressure often exerted upon the pharynx and associated parts. Mr. Gascoyon' records a case of this disease in which death by suffocation ensued. The minute vein found lying along the parotid duct is a good guide to that structure, since it is con- stantly seen in dissection. The temporo-facial vein lies near the angle of the jaw and thus is of import- ance in studying the relations of the cervical lobule of the parotid gland. The middle temporal vein is of relatively large calibre, and is in direct continuity with the supra- orbital vein. This circumstance, in connection with its method of termination through the temporal apon- eurosis, renders it liable in inflammation of the eye- lids, particularly of the upper lid, to become engorged. Hence the sensation of fulness about the brow in oph- thalmia, and the indication for local depletion at the temple in some phases of this disease. Billroth^ describes an example of a congenital plexiform " neurofibromatous" tumor of the "upper eyelid and temple." The patient, a young man about eighteen years old, occupation that of a waiter, ex- hibited an obtuse swelling of the left temple, which extended thence to the upper eyelid, completely clos- ing and distorting the palpebral fissure. When the lid was elevated by the hand, the vision was normal, and the motions of the ball were perfect. The swell- ing was not abruptly defined, but involved to a slight degree the fat of the orbit and of the temporal fossa. The morbid growth was associated with a small point of defective ossification in the left parietal bone. The tumor was successfully removed, and did not recur. Here, in a congenital growth extending along the course of the middle temporal vein (although this fact is not mentioned by the recorder), is an instance of an abnormal process depending for its interpreta- tion upon a knowledge of anatomy. The Internal Maxillary vein joins the main trunk of the temporal vein about midway between the zygo- matic arch and the angle of the jaw. This vessel re- > Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., xi. 1860, 267. 2 Laiigenbeck's Archiv fiir klinische Chirurgie, ]869, 232. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXL The external veins of the head and neck.PLATE LXXITHE EN CRANIAL VEINS. »oo^oo« 419 turns blood from the zygomatic and pterygoid regions, as well as from the deeper structures of the face and the interior of the brain-case. It corresponds in its general features to the internal maxillary artery, and receives branches in front from the infraorbital re- gion, the nasal chamber and upper teeth, the inferior dental canal and the lower teeth, as well as from the Buccinator, Masseter, and Pterygoid muscles. From behind it receives the deep tem'poral branches of the deep veins of the temporal fossa, the middle meningeal vein from the interior of the brain-case, and the deep auricular vein from the external meatus. The internal maxillary vein is remarkable for the formation of plexuses of small veins. One of these is situated at the anastomosis of the infraorbital with the facial vein ; another lies in the pterygoid region. A similar arrangement of parts is seen about the infe- rior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve, from its point of escape at the oval foramen to its division into the lingual and inferior dental branches. The plexus last named joins the cavernous sinus through the oval foramen. Variations The internal maxillary vein at timi's is re- ceived by tlie tempoi-o-maxillary vein. Tlie temporal and the internal maxillary veins may unite to form the temporo- maxillary vein, which is thus seen to be a different vessel from the temporo-maxillary as described by some English writers. The meningeal branch and the trunk of the internal max- illary vein is an instance of survival of the large primitive jugular vein of the embryo, and the homologue of that per- manent vessel in the lower animals, which is relied upon to convey the greater portion of the blood from the brain and its membranes to the veins of the neck. An explanation is tlius offered of the otherwise exceptional fact tliat a vein, the greater part of which is derived from the face, receives a tributary from cranial structures so remote from it. Remarks.—The lateral portion of the pterygoid plexus receives its blood from some tributaries of the internal maxillary artery, from the cheek, and from the veins about the neck of the inferior maxilla. The remaining portions receive branches from the deep temporal veins, as well as from the intracranial veins escaping from adjacent foramina. An extension of this plexus lies along the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and anastomoses with the veins of the pharyngeal plexus. E. ZuckerkandP believes that the pterygoid plexus of veins is capable of compress- ing the tube and considerably narrowing its lumen. The motion of the lower jaw, he believes, facilitates the act by which these veins become distended: It ^ Monatschrift f. Olirenheilkundie 49, 1876. is probable that in this arrangement of parts an ex- planation can be found for the fact that the dulness of hearing, often found in edentulous persons, is rem- edied by the insertion of sets of artificial teeth. The Temporal-Maxillary Vein (common facial) lies upon the neck, although for convenience it is retained among the veins of the head. It is formed by the union of the facial vein and the large communicating branch from the termination of the temporal. It extends downward and outward nearl}^ in the line of the facial vein, and empties into the internal jugular vein. The Posterior Auricular Vein arises behind the ear, where it anastomoses with the temporal vein in front and with the occipital vein behind. It joins the external jugular, and sometimes receives a communi- cating branch from the mastoid vein. The Occipital Vein, as its name implies, is situ- ated at the occiput. It descends obliquely outward and downward, accompanied by the occipital artery, to terminate in the internal jugular vein. Occasion- ally it ends in the external jugular. It anastomoses freely with the posterior auricular and temporal veins and with the vein of the opposite side. The Lingual Vein arises from the side and base of the tongue. It often joins the facial, and through that vessel its blood reaches the internal jugular. As already mentioned, it may join with the pharyngeal, or with the external jugular vein. The tributaries of the lingual vein, seen in the living subject when the mouth is open and the tip of the tongue is elevated, are called tlie sublingual veins. The Pharyngeal Vein derives its blood from the pharynx. It may open into the superior thyroid or lingual. The pharyngeal vein, carrying the return blood from the soft palate, lies along the course of the ascending pharyngeal artery. It receives some tribu- taries from the venules passing through the spinous and oval foramina, and empties into the external jug- ular at the lower end of the parotid gland. II. The Encranial Veins. The Encranial Veins include the following:— I. Those of the Pia Mater. IT. Those of the Dura Mater (Sinuses). III. Diploic and Meningeal Veins. IV. Veins tributary to the Encranial Veins from Organs or Surfaces outside the Brain-Case.BLOODVESSELS. AND THE THE HEART 420 =>00^0<x=— I. THE VEINS OF THE PIA MATER. The Veins of the Pia Mater. These constitute the first grouping of the trunks conveying the return blood from the brain. AVhile the radicles are arranged in systems of coarse networks, the main vessels tend to accompany the cerebral arteries. They are divided into four groups. The firat group is composed of the veins lying upon the upper and median surfaces of the cerebrum. They occupy the sulci for the most part, and are directed slightly forward toward their termination, where they join the great longitudinal sinus by seven or eight distinct trunks. The second ^jroup is made up of veins derived from the interior of the brain. These collect blood from the choroid plexus and fornix, as well as from the walls of the lateral ventricle, and convey it to the velum interpositum, where the main vessels, called the venae Galeni, or the internal cerebral veins, escape from the brain at the transverse fissure and empty into the straight sinus. As these vessels pass from the brain, they are inclosed in a tubular prolongation of the arachnoid, known as the foramen of Bichat. According to Luschka this foramen is best seen in the young. The veins from the crura cerebri enter the veins of Galen, each by a distinct trunk. The third group includes the veins emptying into the sinuses at the base of the brain. These vessels are four in number. First, the anterior cere- hral vein. This vessel collects blood from the supra- orbital convolutions, and joins the cavernous sinus. Second, the middle cerebral vein, which corresponds in position to the course of the middle cerebral artery, and is received into the cavernous sinus. Third, tlie posterior cerebral vein, which follows the course of the posterior cerebral artery, and empties into the lateral sinus. Fourth, the anastomotic vein. This consists of two branches, both passing forward from the pos- terior cerebral vein : one follows the course of the posterior cerebral artery; the other the external border of the spheno-temporal lobe, to join the middle cerebral vein in the Sylvian fissure. Duret describes them as emptying independently into the superior petrosal sinus. When the anastomotic veins empty independently of the middle cerebral, they constitute the inferior cerebral veins, Avhich are specially described by Luschka. Two small veins from the spheno-temporal and occipital lobes empty into the superior petrosal sinus. The fourth group comprises the cerebellar veins. Tlie superior cerebellar veins, from two to four in number, extend along the upper surface of the supe- rior vermiform process, and enter either the lateral sinus or the veins of Galen. The inferior cerebellar veins, smaller than the preceding, terminate in the same manner.' II. THE VEINS OR SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The Veins of the D ura Mater. These include the system of trunks lying betwen the layers of the dura mater. They connect the veins of the brain with those of the neck. The Sinuses of the Dura Mater (fig. 2, Plate LXXIL; also F'g. 87) are sixteen in number:— The Unpaired Sinuses. Superior Longitudinal, Inferior Longitudinal. Straight. Circular. Anterior Occipital. Posterior Occipital. The Paired Sinuses. Cavernous. Spheno-Parietal. Superior Petrosal. Inferior Petrosal. Lateral. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus extends from the foramen csecum in the frontal bone to the internal occipital protuberance, where it ends in the torcular Herophili. It is narrow in front, wide behind, and of a triangular form. It at first lies upon the frontal crest, but afterward occupies the deepening groove upon the parietal and occipital bones. The interior of the sinus is traversed by numerous cords or trabecular. The superior and median cerebral veins join the sinus by branches which are directed forward, excepting a few at the anterior portion of the sinus, which, according to Cruveilhier, are directed from before backward. Out of thirty subjects, P. Trolard^ found in all but five a vein extending along the fissure of Sylvius between the superior longitudinal sinus and the superior petrosal sinus, or cavernous sinus. He designates this vessel as the great anastomotic vein. The Inferior Longitudinal Sinus is lodged in the free inferior border of the falx, and collects blood from that membrane. It is small, of cylindrical form, 1 For special studies of the veins of the pia mater, see P. Troland, Recherch. sur I'Anatomie du Systeme veineux de rEncephale et du Crane, 1868; also Archives Generales de Medecine, 1870, 257 ; also Qh. Labbe. Archives de Pliysiol. Norm, et Path., 2 s^rie, t. vi. 1879, 135, fig. 2 Archives Generales de Med., March, 1870, 257.THE VEINS OE SINUSES OF THE DUEA MATER. 421 and enters the beginning of the straight sinus above the veins of Galen. Unlike the superior sinus, it receives few or no collateral veins. The Straight Sinus (sinus tentorii) is the continua- tion backward of the union of the inferior longitu- dinal sinus and the veins of Galen. It lies in the median line upon the upper portion or roof of the tentorium. The straight and superior longitudinal sinuses unite in front of the internal occipital protuberance in the tormlar Herophili (wine-press of Herophilus, confluens sinuum). This is a lacuna! widening which communi- cates on either side with the lateral sinuses. Not infrequently the main current of blood is deflected either to the left or to the right of the median line, when the groove for the lateral sinus on the occipital bone corresponding to the line of greater deflection will be larger than the groove of the opposite side. The Circular Sinus extends around the pituitary body and unites the two cavernous sinuses. It is often incomplete posteriorly, ^vhen the anterior con- necting portion is called the transverse sinus. The Anterior Occipital Sinus lies in front of the foramen magnum, and unites the two inferior petrosal sinuses. It is very irregular, and, as a rule, small. A tendency to the exaggeration of the veins has led Virchow to include the sinuses in this position under the name of the basilar plexus. It represents upon the basilar process of the occipital bone the posterior vertebral veins of the vertebral column. These veins are apt to become enlarged in the aged. The Posterior Occipital Sinus is formed by a small vein running around the posterior arch of the fora- men magnum, and extending upward along the cerebellar falx. It anastomoses with the posterior spinal plexus. It also ascends along the cerebellab falx near its hinder border, and terminates at the torcular Herophili. The branch around the border of the foramen is sometimes mentioned as the circular sinus of tlie foramen ynaynuvi. Under the name of the anterior confluent condyl- oid vein, Trolard' describes a vessel situated in front ' Loc. fit. Fig. 87. LONGITUDINAL SINUS POSTEniO^ OCCIPITAL SINUS LATERAL SINUS TORCULAR HEROPHILI LONGITUDINAL SINUS The Sinuses of the Dura Mateu seen in Horizontal Section of the Skull.422 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. of the anterior occipital condyle outside of the skull. As above remarked, this writer asserts that it re- ceives from in front the inferior petrosal and the petro-occipital sinuses, as well as several small veins from the sides and from behind. The Cavernous Sinuses are symmetrical structures lodged between the side of the body and the base of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. Each sinus presents an irregular outline, slightly tapering in front, where it receives the ophthalmic vein. It ends abruptly behind, where it joins tlie superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. It unites on its inner side with the circular sinus. Among its minor points of limitation may be mentioned its extension a slight distance witiiin the carotid canal at the side of the artery. This lias received from Trolard the name of the carotid sinus. Each cavernous sinus and the spheno-parietal sinus also receives one of the great meningeal veins of its own side. A small branch uniting the sinus with the pterygoid plexus passes through the oval foramen of the sphenoid bone. The interior of the cavernous sinus is traversed by fibrous bands, from which fact the sinus receives its name. Extending apparently through it, but separated from the venous blood by the delicate lining membrane, are the internal carotid artery and its plexus of filaments of the sympathetic nerve. The third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth pair run within the outer bound- ary of the sinus. A little to its outer side is the sixth pair of nerves. The Spheno-Parietal Sinuses. These lie along the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone. They communicate with the median meningeal vein with the anterior temporal and diploic, occasionally also with a small vein known as the ophthalmo- meningeal, and empty into the cavernous sinus. The Superior Petrosal Sinuses are small, and extend on each side along the petrous bone on the ridge be- tween the anterior and posterior surfaces. They lie between the layers of the lateral margin of the tento- rium, and join the cavernous sinus to its inner, and the lateral sinus to its outer, side. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus extends downward along the line of junction between the petrous and occipital bones. It joins the cavernous sinus in front and the lateral sinus behind. According to Trolard, he. cit., the inferior petrosal sinus does not join the lateral, but the anterior condyloid vein. A small associated sinus is sometimes found lying below the preceding. It extends through the fibro- cartilage of the middle lacerated foramen. The petro-occipital sinus of Trolard extends from the anterior to the posterior lacerated foramen, and ends in the anterior occipital sinus. The Lateral Sinuses extend between the torcular Herojjhili and the posterior lacerated foramen, where each sinus ends in the beginning of the internal jugular vein. Each lateral sinus is capacious, and lies in the transverse groove of the occipital bone, and in the deep sigmoid depression upon the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. The main current of blood within the lateral sinuses is carried directly to the internal jugular vein. They receive the blood from the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, and very frequently from the cerebellar veins. Small poste- rior condyloid veins often empty into the lateral sinuses. The right lateral sinus is commonly larger than the left. "When the sinuses are sj'mrnetrical, the straight sinus commonly opens by two or three apertures on the anterior wall of the torcular Hero- phili. III. THE DIPLOIC AND THE MENINGEAL VEINS. The Diploic and Meningeal Veins are for the most part tributaries to the sinuses. The veins of the diploe (fig. 1, Plate LXXII.) are received within bony canals, which traverse the diploe in an arborescent manner, and are directed from above downward. They are arranged, according to Breschet, in a frontal, a temporal, and an occipital set. They empty by piercing the inner plate of the skull and joining the sinuses of the dura mater, as is occa- sionally seen in the temporal set, which joins the sinus of the lesser sphenoidal wing. Those of the forehead join the ophthalmic vein. Those of the occiput terminate in the transverse or the occipital sinus. Tlie diploic veins exist in great number as tortuous venous tracts of varying calibre, lined with pavement epithelium. Beginning without tnembran- ous walls, but gradually becoming better defined, they pass downward toward the lower limit of the vault of the skull. When the veins flow outward, they pierce the outer plate, and unite with the nearest vein of the scalp. The meningeal veins proper, as distinguished from those already described, are the vena3 comites of the corresponding arteries. The largest are the pair of veins of the great meningeal artery. One of these terminates in the cavernous sinus; the other escapes through the spinous or oval foramen, and joins the pterygoid plexus of the internal maxillary vein. Occa-THE OPHTHALMIC VEINS. z>oO^OOo 423 sionally a branch of the great meningeal vein empties into the cavernous sinus. IV. VEINS TRIBUTARY TO THE ENCRANIAL VEINS FROM ORGANS OR SURFACES OUTSIDE THE BRAIN-CASE. Tliey embrace— Tlie Ophthalmic Veins. The Venge Emissarite. Numerous small veins not included in the above. THE OPHTHALMIC VEINS. The ophthalmic veins are two in number—■ Superior Ophthalmic. Inferior Ophthalmic. The Superior Ophthalmic vein, or the ophthalmic vein distinctively so called, is an important trunk lying in the orbit. It receives tributaries from the frontal and facial veins, and within the orbit, from the eyeball and its muscles, from the ethmoidal cells and the lachrymal duct, as well as from the inferior ophthalmic vein. The main trunk answers in posi- tion to the ophthalmic artery, and, entering the brain- case at the median extremity of the anterior lacerated foramen, terminates in the cavernous sinus. The Inferior Ophthalmic Vein lies at the base of the orbit, between the Rectus Inferior and the Rectus Externus muscles. After receiving tributaries from the facial vein and from the venules perforating the malar bone, it is joined by an anastomotic branch from the superior ophthalmic vein, and passes through the spheno-maxillary fissure, being theii received by the pterygoid plexus. Occasionally it may empty with the superior ophthalmic vein into a common trunk which joins the cavernous sinus. Remarks.—The superior ophthalmic vein is of spe- cial interest to the physician. It is the largest channel found in the adult by means of which blood from the head and face can enter the system of encranial sinuses. Inflammation of any of the veins of the face can thus involve by continuity the ophthalmic vein and the cavernous sinus (see Facial Vein, p. 417). For- merly the angular trunk of the facial was opened to relieve cerebral congestions. During facial contor- tions, the blood from the frontal and facial veins, being prevented from having free communication with the ophthalmic veins, is retained or conducted away by the anastomotic branches of these vessels with the superficial veins. The superior ophthalmic vein, from its serving as a channel for the return of the blood from the eyeball, is to be carefully considered as a factor in man}^ clinical intraocular conditions. Pressure in any part of the sys- tem of encranial sinuses, but more especially in pres- sure exerted at the anterior basal portion of the skull, creates turgescence in the retinal venules, conspicuous at the point of entrance of the optic nerve. Long-con- tinued impact of swollen and indurated veins against the yielding fibres of the nerve is liable to impair their vitahty, even after the venous blood returns to its accustomed channel and the turgescence disappears. The vein has been ruptured by severe blows, and the cellular interstices of the orbit found after death oc- cupied by clot. The differential diagnosis between the varieties of venous hemorrhage, as occurring either from a ruptured ophthalmic vein following a blow without fracture of the base of the skull, or from a blow with fracture of the base of the skull, is difficult to establish. While subconjunctival ecchy- mosis is present in both forms of the lesion, cerebral congestion, inflammation, and coma are absent in the first named, but likely to be present in the last. The inferior ophthalmic vein pursues a course that might have been anticipated, Avhen the fact is re- called that in the lower animals the orbit, temporal, and zygomatic fossae are not separated from one an- other. In studying the course of this vein it is shown that a communication with the encranial blood is pos- sible by means of the pterygoid plexus, which receives meningeal veins as tributaries. Such connections, however, are not known to have practical import. Ven.e Emissari^.—A number of small veins termed the venae emissarite, and not enumerated among the diploic veins, reach the sinuses either from outside the skull or from the middle and the inner ear. Among those which enter the sinuses from without may be mentioned the mastoid vein, which reaches the lateral sinus through the mastoid foramen. This is ordinarily small, but may attain the diameter of a goose-quill. F. Bustard' narrates a case in wliicli, after suppuration of the mastoid cells, tlie pus escaped from the cells through the mastoid foramen. The ve'ns passing from the ear are unimportant. They may be enumerated as follows: The tympanic vein, which runs through the junction of the petrous bone with the squama, and joins the superior petrosal sinus. The vein from the vestibule, which escapes through the aquseductus vestibuU, and joins the same sinus. The internal auditory veins, which escape from the internal auditory meatus, and unite with the inferior petrosal sinus. The posterior condyloid vein 1 Br. Med. Journ., 1871, 89.424 THEHEARTAND HE BLOODVESSELS. wliicli joins the lateral sinus. The relation which these veins bear to those about the foramen magnum is worthy of mention. Luschka has pointed out that it is possible for the veins surrounding the anterior condyloid foramen to press upon the hypoglossal nerve. Remarks on the Excranial Veins.—The veins of the brain and its membranes have varying rela- tions to the arteries. With the exception of the larger veins of the pia mater, no set of veins accom- panying the arteries can be said to exist. The tendency is for all the encranial venous blood to be collected at the base of the brain, and thence to flow backward and escape from the head at the poste- rior lacerated foramen at the commencements of the internal jugular veins. Many less important points of exit exist, such as the foramen magnum, where the basilar vein and the circlet of veins about the foramen magnum join the vertebral or the posterior pharyngeal veins; the spinous foramen; the various small foramina at the base of the skull, without dis- tinctive names; and numerous irregular openings at the side of the skull about the squama, or near the lines of union of the squama with the adjacent bones. In addition to these, it is seen that the blood from some of the radicles of the ophthalmic vein is con- ducted away from the orbit by means of the veins accompanying the internal maxillary artery. The blood of the anterior and middle portions of the skull contents tends to empty into the cavernous sinuses; that of the posterior portion—including the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, the cerebellum, and the cerebral peduncles—into the lateral sinuses. Free anastomoses occur between the two great sets. Luschka describes the opening defined by the ante- rior border of the tentorium and the base of the skull as the incisura teniorii or the superior occipital foramen, and suggests that it may, under some con- ditions, exert pressure upon the return flow of blood from the middle of the cerebrum, and thereby induce dropsical effusion in the ventricles in the same man- ner that pressure on the portal vein may induce ascites. In the aged the sinuses tend to enlarge, and the spaces about the Pacchionian bodies to widen, as they contribute to form the meningeal veins or the branches which join the superior longitudinal sinus. At the base of the skull, the lateral sinuses, and the internal jugular veins at their origins in the same class of subjects, are apt to be dilated, and the entire system of veins around the basilar process of the occi- pital bone and atlo-occipital articulation to be in like manner enlarged. Relief from encranial venous pressure may be effected by the blood finding exit from the skull as follows : In the occipital region, through the internal jugular vein and the mastoid vein ; in the frontal region, through the ophthalmic vein, and the vein in the foramen ovale; at the basal region, through the petrosal sinuses and the posterior condyloid vein; and at the vertex, through the diploic vein and the minute veins penetrating the outer table of the skull to join those of the scalp. The anastomotic branches between the two inter- nal carotid arteries and the branches of the basilar artery having been noted, it is of interest to detect an anastomotic trunk uniting the middle cerebral with the posterior cerebral vein, which thus permits the passage of venous blood by means of the anterior basilar vein into the sinuses about the foi'amen mag- num. From the above statements it is evident that it is possible for the venous blood to escape from the brain by other channel^ than the internal jugular veins. It the occlusion of these main channels were slowly affected, the veins at the back of the pharynx and the beginning of the vertebral canal, together with the internal maxillary veins, could relieve the contents of the orbit, together with the anterior portion of the cerebrum, of much of their superfluous blood. The cavernous sinus may be secondarily involved by extension of inflammation along the line of the ophthalmic vein. Such involvement is of grave im- port, since it is soon followed by stasis in the ante- rior and middle cerebral veins emptying into the sinus. If the communication of the middle cerebral vein with the petrosal sinuses, or the anastomosis of the middle cerebral with the posterior cerebral vein, be not suffi- cient to deflect the cerebral venous blood to the internal jugular vein, the cerebral stasis soon ends in inflamma- EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIL Fig. L Veins of diploe. Fif. 2. Sinuses of tlie dura macer seen in a sagittal section of the skull.i Suiclair Sr. ^cm T.Tt>>,THE VEINS OF THE NECK. 425 ^>OC'^Cx>-: tion, and death ensues. Erysipelas of the face, facial carbuncle, necrosis of the superior maxilla,' syphilitic ozoena,^ and traumatic lesions of the face, orbit and nasal chambers may thus prove fatal. Basic pressure of an}'- kind may induce stasis in the cavernous sinus, one of the most noticeable of the effects of which is venous congestion of the orbital contents. The ophthalmoscope under such conditions detects congestion of the retina and infiltrations in and about the point of entrance of the optic nerve (optic disk). The condition of the cavernous sinus and of the cerebral membranes can in this way be determined during life. A clot in the cavernous sinus will of course be apt to press against the nerves passing through or in the walls of the sinus, and paralysis of the parts supplied bv one or more of them may ensue. It is stated, on the authority of Seseman' that compression of the cavernous sinus is not followed by any considerable venous stasis of the retina as long as the anastomosis of the facial with the ophthalmic vein remains per- meable. The infer/or j^etrosal siiws may he looked upon as an important anastomotic sinus between the posterior and the anterior tract of the venous return. The longitudinal sinus may be the seat of inflam- mation* and embolus.* From the fact that the depres- sions in the skull corresponding to the sites of the Pac- chionian bodies may be in intimate relation with the walls of the sinus, great care is enjoined upon surgeons to avoid the median line in all operations upon the skull-cap. A case* came under the observation of Dr. Wm. Hunt, of Philadelphia, in which, consequent upon fracture of the vertex of the skull, a spicule of bone had perforated the longitudinal sinus. Upon elevat- ing the fragment of skull from which the spicule pro- jected, an enormous quantity of venous blood welled from the wound. The hemorrhage after some diffi- culty was checked by suturing the edges of the dura mater on either side of the wound, and by the careful adjustment of compresses. The patient lived a fort- night, when he died of the general effects of fracture of the skull. The lateral sinuses, receiving as they do important tributaries from the longitudinal and inferior petrosal sinuses, are capable, when diseased, of involving the entire encephalic circulation. The most direct flow 1 A. Poland, Med. Times and Gaz., 18G9, 383. 2 H. Weber, Med.-Chir. Trans., xliii. 177. ' Arcliiv fiir Ophthal., xii. * Hammond, Diseases of the Nervous System, s Delafield's Pathological Anatomy, 44. 54 into them is that of the blood derived from the poste- rior lobes of the cerebrum and from the cerebellum. Inflammation of this sinus is of more frequent occur- rence than in any of the sinuses of the dura mater. Its most frequent cause is inflammation and necrosis of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone (q. v.) in children. Fracture of the base of the skull may extend into the lateral sinus — the blood escaping outward into the chamber of the tymxpanum, and thence by rupture of the tympanic membrane into the external meatus, or inward by the Eustachian tube to the pharynx. According to Prescott Hewett,' the latter event may take place even when there is a rup- ture of the tympanic membrane. In connection with this, Mr. Hewett uses the following language: " A discoloration of the integument of the lateral parts of the neck appearing subsequent to an injury of the head may serve as a guide to the diagnosis of a fracture of the base. The blood oozing from the fractured skull gradu- ally infiltrates the cellular tissue of the neck, and thus ultimately reaches the skin, which becomes discolored, as if bruised. And a sudden puffiness in the occipital region, with discoloration of the skin, some hours after a severe injury of tins part of the head, mav also be of use in the diagnosis of fracture at the base. The large venous sinuses connected with the occipital bone may be torn across in such a lesion, and thus give rise to an extravasation of blood, which, gradu- ally oozing through the line of fracture, may ulti- mately show itself in the superficial parts, and thus reveal the nature of the injury." Hemorrhage may occur from both the petrosal and lateral sinuses, as a result of caries of the temporal bone. Cases of rupture of the lateral sinus unac- companied by fracture have been reported.^ As much as ten ounces of blood may escape through a lesion of this character. Fracture of the skull accompanied by depression over the region of the lateral sinuses has been known to end fatally by hemorrhage consequent upon at- tempts to raise the fragments into position. II. The A'eixs of the Neck. The Veins of the Neck are— External Jugular, Anterior Jugular. Internal Jagular. Vertebral.^ ^ Unrecorded. 1 Holmes's Syst. of Surg., vol. ii. 129. ed. 1861. 2 Surgery, Sir Chas. Bell. See also Lond. Med. Gaz. 1847, 31. ' Described on p. 415. iv. N. S.,426 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. The External Jugular Vein arises from the tem- poral vein at the lower part of the parotid region, and at once receives an important accession from the posterior auricular vein. The vein passes perpen- dicularly down the neck, crossing the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoideus muscle, pierces the deep fascia at the base of the neck to the outer side of the muscle, and ends in the subclavian vein, a short distance from the internal jugular. Sometimes it joins the latter vessel, or it may enter at the point of junction of the two vessels. AVhen the external jugular is duplicate the more deeply seated trunk receives the name of the posterior external jugular vein.^ A valve is usually found at the mouth of the main vein. Two inconstant veins join the outer side of the external jugular near its mouth, namely, the trans- versalis colli and the suprascapular veins. In foetal life the blood escapes from the brain-case between the tympanic bone and the squama in front. This arrangement persists in some quadrupeds, such as the dog and some ruminants. According to Luschka,^ there is found at times in the adult a dis- tinct vein passing out through the petroso squamosal suture. Remarks.—The external jugular vein was formerly selected for phlebotomy in cervical and facial con- gestions. Hoffman^ reports a case of fatal concealed hemorrhage arising from the external jugular vein in a child of five years who after scarlet fever suffered from a cervical abscess. Variations The intimate relation existing between the anterior extremity and the structures of the neck, so often suggested by the arrangements of the muscles, nerves, and arteries of the shoulder, is further sustained by occasional peculiar dispositions of the external jugular vein. This ves- sel may receive tlie cephaHc veins either above or below the clavicle ; or the external jugular vein may pass over the cla- vicle and empty into tlie subclavian vein. It may receive a branch passing upward from the skin over the Pectoralis Major. As already noted, the mastoid vein sometimes joins the external jugular, and at other limes it joins the occipital vein. The Anterior Jugular Vein is very inconstant. As a rule it is formed by radicles from the supra-liyoid space, and by anastomotic branches from the facial and external jugular veins. It passes down the neck in front of the larynx and trachea a little to the outer side of the median line. It lies parallel to the vein of the same name on the opposite side of the ' W. Graber, Virchow's Archiv, Bd. 54, 1872, 188. * Zeit. fiir rationale Medeciu, 1859. 3 Lond. and Edin. Month. Jouru. Med. Sci., 1844, b32. neck, being connected with it by a transverse vein^ (transverse branch, great transverse vein); hence the name anterior jugular plexus sometimes given to the pre-laryngeal and pre-tracheal veins. Passing out- ward at the base of the neck, behind the Sterno- Cleido-Mastoideus muscle, the anterior jugular vein empties either into the external jugular or into the subclavian vein. When the transver.«alis colH and the suprascapular veins do not join the external jugular, they are, as a rule, tributary to the anterior jugular vein. The communication of the anterior jugular with the facial veins is rare in man, but is the rule in mammals. Rathke shows that the facial vein re- ceives the lingual in mammals.^ The normal junction, in man, of the ranine vein with the facial, is sugges- tive of the close relations which exist between the facial and the lingual veins. In the region of those veins usually uniting to form the anterior jugular, is occasionally found extending deep in the median line a superficial median jugular vein. Above, it receives the superior thyroid veins at the upper border of the isthmivi, taking the place of tlie usual small trunk; and below, the inferior thyroid veins; finally, it empties into the transverse vein. It is not of necessity a compensative trunk for the superficial anterior jugular vein; for the two may be present together.^ The remaining veins of the neck lie beneath the deep fascia. The variations of the anterior jugular vein are numerous. The two veins may not unite at any point below the hyoid bone; they may unite at the base of the neck in a single trunk. They may be represented by a single vein extend- ing along the median line. The two veins may be united at the base of the neck by a transverse vein. The trunks, while normally disposed, may not lie in front of the larynx and trachea so much as at the side, and may, indeed, lie within the depression in advance of the Sterno - Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The vein may be formed by the union of the facial and temporal veins, the trunk subsequently dividing into two branches over the clavicle, the one empty- ing into the subclavian vein, and the other into the external scapular.* 1 This transverse vein should not be confounded with the trans- verse vein uniting the primitive jugular veins in the embryo (see p. 412). To distinguish between them the latter might be called the fcetal transverse vein. The older English writers sometimes call the subclavian veins the transverse veins. 2 For an admirable representation of the veins of the neck in the rabbit see Paul Schneider, Topog. Anat. des Vorderhals beim Kaninchen, etc. Berlin, 1868, Taf. 1. 3 Dr. L. S. Pitcher, Annals of Anat. and Surgery, 1881, 158. * W. Gruber, Virchow's Archiv, Bd. 54, 1872, 188.THE VEINS OF THE NECK. 427 =>.OC^^<X>-: The superior thyroid vein is in association with the artery of the same name. Below it is placed a smaller vein called the middle thyroid. The great vas- cularity of the thyroid body determines a number of venous trunks in and about it, which tend to follow the course of the arteries of the same region. The veins, passing upward from the thyroid body may be considered as tributaries to the superior thyroid vein, and those passing downward as tributaries to the in- ferior thyroid. The superior thyroid veins proper are two in number, one on each side of the superior thy- roid artery. Answering to the anastomosis of the superior thyroid arteries, at the upper border of the isthmus of the thyroid body, is a transverse ve.n which connects the two superior thyroid veins. Lying in the pretracheal space, extending thence to the left innominate vein, and in a sense parallel to the inferior thyroid artery, is the inferior thyroid vein. This vein is often independent of a second inferior thyroid vein which joins the internal jugular at or near the level of the inferior border of the thyroid body. Eemarks.—For the entrance of air into veins, see Internal Jugular Vein. An incision across the inferior thyroid vein, whose walls, being imbedded in inflamed tissue, could not collapse, has caused sudden death by the entrance of air. Parise,' in attempting to seize the divided in- ferior thyroid vein during tracheotomy, lifted the superficial wall only, tlius permitting air to enter the vein with a fatal result. In connection with this it may be said that inci- sions in the neighborhood of the large veins of the neck should always be made upon the director, and, before dividing a large vein, two ligatures should be applied, the division being made between them.—All the superficial veins of the neck become distended in prolonged expiration, or when breathing is suspended. In the acts of singing and coughing they are especially prominent. The Internal Jugular Vein. This important ves- sel extends from the jugular foramen to the base of the neck, where it joins the subclavian vein, the two uniting to form tlie innominate vein. As the largest vein of the neck, it receives by far the greater portion of the venous blood of the head. It inclines slightly forward and downward toward the median line, and, as it descends, becomes more sujDcr- ficial. The vein is abruptly swollen at its origin to constitute the hulh or yulf, and remains about the • Archives Gen^rales de MMeciue, 1880, 571. same size until it reaches a point opposite the larynx, when it attains its greatest width after the reception of the veins from the face and the pharynx. It is slightly contracted just before it empties into the innominate vein, and is provided at this point, as a rule, with a double valve, Avhich is situated upon its outer wall. The relations of the vein are as follows: At its upper part, it lies to the outer side of the Eectus Capitis Lateralis muscle, behind or close to the outer side of the internal carotid artery. Along the com- mon carotid artery, the vein lies to the outer side, the pneumogastric nerve lying between them. Behind the vessel, at the base of the neck, lies the thyroid axis. The vein receives the pharyngeal, the common facial, the superior thyroid, the occipital, and often the lingual veins. \ariations The internal jugular vein receives some inconstant branches at its origin. Thus tiie inferior petrosal sinus sometimes ends in this vessel instead of in the lateral sinus. The premature closure of tlie suture between tlie occipital and temporal bones may determine tiie absence of the internal jugular vein of that side. C. "Weigert' dis- sected a subject which presented the above-named anomaly. Remakes.—For clinical purposes the internal jugu- lar vein is conveniently divided into two portions: the one, extending from the base of the skull to the level of the larynx ; the other, extending from the level of the larynx to the termination of the vein.— The fact that all large veins are of diminished calibre during inspiration, and of increased calibre during expiration, is worthy of more than a passing notice in connection with the internal jugular, since this is the largest of the superficial veins of the body. During expiration the vessel may be said to overlap the com- mon carotid artery, and is conspicuously seen m the course of the more important operations upon the neck. But during inspiration, the walls of the vessel recede from the surface, and are in less danger of being lacerated or cut. In marked effusion into the pleural sac, the veins of the neck on the corresponding side are, according to Sibson,^ swollen even during inspiration. Tlie danger of sudden death from a wound of the vessel is imminent, since air may be drawn within the vein and carried to the heart, and, by means of the ])ulinonary artery, to the lungs. A wound at the basal third of the neck is more danger- ous than one at any other point, from the fact that the lips tend tu remain apart during inspiration.—The • Virchow's Arcliiv, Bd. 84, 184; also Mr. Chieii, Journ. of Anat. and Phys., ii. 222. 2 Medical Anatomy, col. 12.TI-IE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. 428 ooo^oo« . internal jugular vein, notwithstanding its size, is rarely wounded. It has been opened during the extirpation of a bronchocele, but without fatal issue and in one instance it has been punctured by a fragment of frac- tured clavicle.^—It has frequently suffered from the effects of ulceration in its coats. When suppuration has followed a high grade of cellulitis near swollen lymphatic glands, such as are so common in scarlet fever, the danger of ulceration of the walls of the internal jugular vein is universally conceded.^ Cervical sinuses resulting upon degeneration of the lymphatic glands will, in rare instances, involve the coats of the vein. In a case of this character, reported by Dr. D. W. Cheever,^ the repeated escape of blood of a cranberrjr hue, from a sinus, led the ob- server to conclude that the common carotid artery was ulcerated. The vessel was tied, but the hemor- rhage recurred and proved fatal. At the autopsy, the walls of the vein were found ulcerated through, while those of the artery were intact. The vein may be occluded by pressure from with- out, as by an enlarged lymphatic gland,* or by an encephaloid tumor of the thyroid body, which may compel the blood from the corresponding side of the head to pass by a transverse vein to the internal jugular of the opposite side.^ Various other cancer- ous growths of the neck may impinge upon the vessel, or the vein may be impervious without apparent cause. L. S. Pilcher^ found the right internal jugular vein impervious from the base of the skull to within a short distance of the innominate vein. Tlie median veins were abnormally large. The internal jugular vein may be inflamed from its escape at the base of the skull to the orifice of the inferior thyroid veins, and be occupied by black de- tritus of clot. It may also be secondarily involved by malignant disease.* The Veins of the Upper Extremity. The veins of the upper extremity are of two sets: the superficial and the deep. The superficial veins are subcutaneous. Thej'' are numerous and inconstant about the hand, but are fewer in number and more regular in distribution in > W. W. Greeue, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1871, 80. 2 J. W. Ogle, Br. Med. Journ., 1873, 83. 3 S. W. Gross, Amer. Journ. Med. Sci., 1871, 337. Literature. 4 Archives of Clinical Surgery, ii. 1877, 127. 6 J. F. Metcalfe, N. Y. Journ. of Medicine, 1850, 37. « Burns's Surg. Anat. of the Neck, 236. ' Annals of Anatomy and Surgery, 1881, 159. 8 See p. 338. the forearm and the arm. The veins are bet-ter de- veloped upon the back of the fingers and hand than on the palm ; and better upon the front of the fore- arm than on the back. The veins on the back of the hand are collected chiefly from the sides of the fingers, where they lie behind the digital arteries. The vein on the ulnar margin of the little finger passes upward along the corresponding border of the fifth metacarpal bone. The other veins seen upon the dorsum answer in position to the second, third, and fourth interosse- ous spaces. The external vein of the index finger, and the two marginal veins of the thumb, unite to form a small trunk called the main vein of ilie thumb. It communicates with the veins of the palm through the opening for the radial artery in the fii'st inter- osseous space. The radial vein extends along the ulnar margin of the Supinator Longus to the elbow, and terminates in the cephalic vein, which continues its upward course to the outer side of the Biceps muscle to gain the groove between the Deltoid muscle and the Pectoralis Major. The vein, after piercing the coraco-brachial fascia, terminates in the axillary vein. A branch of the ve'n may pass in front of the clavicle. The ulnar vein extends upward parallel to the ulnar border of the forearm to the elbow ; a branch, often called the posterior ulnar, ascends upon the poste- rior surface of the forearm near the ulnar border to join the main trunk near the elbow. It is continuous above with the basilic vein, which is larger than its fellow, the cephalic, but ends at a much lower point, viz., about midway along the inner border of the Biceps, where it passes through a slit-like opening to join one of the vense comites of the brachial artery. The basilic vein is more constant in position than the cephalic, and lies in front of the brachial artery. The median vein, the least constant of the veins of the upper extremity, is placed in the forearm between the radial and ulnar, and lies upon the Palmaris Longus. It terminates, as a rule, below the bend of the elbow by dividing into two small veins which diverge : the inner (lying over the fibrous prolonga- tion of the tendon of the Biceps) goes to join the basilic vein ; the outer the cephalic. These are culled the median basilic and m.edian cephalic veins respec- tively. Filaments of the cutaneous nerves are seen in relation with these two trunks: the anterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve passes either behind or in front of the median basilic. At the point of division into these trunks, the median vein sends a deep branch to join one of the venas comites of the ulnar or radial arteries.429 THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. Variations.—Sometimes the median vein will consist of three branches. The vente comites may unite to form a sinjrle vessel which passes between the two roots of the median nerve to join the axillary vein. The veins on the back of the forearm are constant for the most part, and increase the volume of the ulnar vein. A central trunk, more constant than the others, is called the interosseous vein. The radial may carry most of its blood to the basilar by a large radio-basilar vein, which also receives the greater part of the blood from the median. The deep veins consist for the most part of the venae comites of the main arteries of the limb ; they possess more valves, and are less variable, than those of the superficial set. The superficial contribute to the volume of the deep veins, especially in the neighbor- hood of joints. The deep veins terminate through the venfe comites of the brachial artery, emptying into the axillary veins at ths lower margin of the Subscapularis mus- cle. According to Cruveilhier, the circumflex vein does not join the axillary directly, but runs for some distance parallel to its course. Eemarks.—The median basilic vein is the one usually selected for phlebotomy. For the effects of phlebitis, see Axillary Vein. THE AXILLARY VEIN. The Axillary Vein extends from the tendon of the Latissimus Dorsi muscle to the upper border of the Pectoralis Minor at the lower edge of the first rib. It terminates in the subclavian, with which it is continuous. It lies to the inner side of the axillary artery, the ulnar nerve and the inner head of the median nerve alone intervening. In front of its upper portion is the Pectoralis Minor muscle. The vessel receives veinsaccompanying the branches of the axillary artery, as well as the basilic and cephalic veins. In rare instances it is double. Not uncommonly the trunk is single and well defined in the parts answering to the first and second portions of the artery of the same name; while opposite the third portion of the axillary arter}^ its place is taken by two trunks, the outer of these receiving blood from the vente comites of the brachial, and the inner from the skin of the inner side of the arm and the chest wall. Remarks.—The axillary vein is sometimes ruptured by the fragments of a broken humerus. This oc- curred in an instance reported by Eraser,' in a boy thirteen years old. Ligation was ])erformed, and the patient recovered.—B. Cooper^ details the serious effects of air entering this vein during an amputation at the shoulder-joint. The patient, after a protracted illness, recovered. The axillary vein is the point at which the changes peculiar to phlebitis of the superior extremity are arrested. This arrest is in harmony with the fact that an inflammatory process in one vein is not liable to be continued into the trunk into which it em[)lies, provided that the trunk is of much greater lumen than its tributary. Any of the radicles of the veins of the hand, the forearm, and the arm, readily trans- mit the effects of inflammation, since their calibres are nearly equal; but inflamed venous tracks, as they join the axillary vein, have but little disposition to involve that vein. As far as the writer knows, the effects of plilebitis of the superior extremity are rarely transmitted to the subclavian ve'n, and never thence either to the internal jugular vein or the in- nominate vein. This limitation to the spread of in- flammation of the veins in the upper extremity is in marked contrast to the tendency of femoral phlebiti.s, which frequently involves the iliac vessels, and may even invade the inferior vena cava. The position of the axillary vein, being as it is in a region of com- parative security and rest as compared with that of the femoral vein, may explain this contrast.—Phlebitis of the axillary vein, and inflammation of the axillary lymphatic glands and vessels, when of high grade, are apt to involve the upper intercostal spaces and the parietal layer of the pleura. In this way a fatal pleurisy may supervene upon a phlebitis and an angeioleucitis. THE SUBCLAVIAN VEIN. The Subclavian Vein is less arched than the artery which it accompanies, and extends from the lower margin of the first rib to the sterno-clavicular articu- lation. It rests upon the first rib, which it crosses obliquely from below upward and inward to reach the inner side of the subclavian artery, from Avhich it is separated hy the Scalenus Anticus muscle. As its name implies, it lies beneath the clavicle, as well as beneath the costo-coracoid fascia, the Subclavius muscle, and the clavicular fibres of the Pectoralis Major muscle. Toward its termination it may be > Lancet, 1849, 205. s Med. Chir. Trans., xxvii., 1844, 41.430 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. =00§§00<5 apparent just above the line of the sterno-davicular articulation, when it will be covered bj the origin of the Sterno Cleido-Mastoid ranscle. The subclavian receives veins answering to the branches of the subclavian artery, the most constant of these being the transverse scapular vein. The variations of the subclavian vein present some unusual features. Thus, very rarely, the vein and artery are interchanged in position, the vein passing behind the Scalenus Anticus, wiiile the artery lies in front of it. Or the vein lies with the artery behind the muscle. An equally rare occurrence is for the vein to be double. Luschka describes a specimen in which there was a single vein which divided at the Scalenus Anticus muscle, embraced that structure, and reunited to its median side. Eemarks.—Toward its termination the anterior wall of the vein is fixed by the superficial fascia. Beneath the clavicle, in the angle which is formed between the Subclavius muscle and the first rib, the vein is in intimate association with the fascia of this muscle. It follows that in movements of the clavicle, a corresponding motion is transmitted to the anterior wall of the vein. In elevation of the clavicle, as in forced inhalation, the return flow of blood from the upper extremities is in this way facilitated. Ilenle lays especial stress upon the above arrangement in reference to operative procedures about the shoulder, since elevation of the clavicle may lead to entrance of air into the sub- clavian vein.—The vein may be obstructed at the junction with the internal jugular vein. The orifices of the thoracic ducts are as a consequence compressed. For compression of the subclavian vein by the clavi- cle, see p. 169. THE AZYGOS VEINS. The Azygos Veins (figs. 2 and 3, Plate LXI.) are representations of the cardinal veins of the fcetus. They are two in number, the right or great azygos, and the left or hemiazygos. The Right Azygos Vein (vena azygos major) is the larger of the two. Arising from the radicles of the lumbar and at times of the renal veins, it may receive a branch from the inferior vena cava. It ascends vertically, passing into the thoracic cavity through an interval between the fibres of the right crus, or through the aortic opening of the Diaphragm. It is received within the posterior mediastinum, and lies to the right side of the thoracic duct, behind the root of the right lung, above which it turns forward over the right bronchus to empty into the superior vena cava from behind, just above the pericardium. The vein receives directly the right intercostal veins, excepting the first and second, which unite before joining the third intercostal vein. The vein conveying blood from the seven upper intercostal spaces of the left side (left superior intercostal vein) joins the right vein opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. It is noteworthy that the intercos- tal veins of both sides have free communication with the innominate veins. The right azygos vein also receives blood from the trachea, bronchial tubes, oesophagus, posterior medi- astinum, and from the thoracic walls at the fifth and sixth left intercostal spaces. It sometimes anasto- moses with the inferior vena cava, at times with the right primitive iliac vein, or with the lumbar as well as with the two innominate veins. Its valves are but few. The Left Azygos Vein (hemiazygos, vena azygos minor) may be considered as a tributary to the right or main vein. It collects blood from the left lumbar and renal veins, and commonly receives a branch from the left iliac. After entering the thorax either through the aortic opening or the left crus of the Diaphragm, the vein crosses the vertebral column ob- liquely at the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, be- hind the aorta, and joins the right vein at an acute angle. While the hemiazygos vein commonly joins the azygos at the level of the ninth or the tenth dorsal vertebra, it may have a range from the sixth to the eleventh. The variations of the azygos veins are numerous. Thus the right may open into the vena cava higher than as above described, and may even be received within the right innominate vein. In rare cases the vein may join the cava within the pericardium, or enter the right auricle of the heart. At times the left vein unites with the superior vena cava instead of with the right vein, or it may join the left superior intercostal trunk of its own side. The latter vein may not empty into the right veins, but may pas§ directly into the left innominate vein. The left azygos may send an accessory vein downward over the front of the left kidney and the Psoas Magnus muscle of the same side, to join the left common iliac. For further discussion of the azygos veins, see " Remarks" under Inferior Vena Cava. J. Chienne' describes a case of anomalous distribu- tion of the azygos vein which Avas associated with the presence of a supernumerary lobe of the right lung. 1 Journ. of Anat. and Pliys., iv. 89, 1870.THE VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. 431 THE SPINAL VEINS. The Spinal Veins are arranged in lliree groups: one upon the posterior surface of the vertebral col- umn, the others within the vertebral canal. The first group consists of the dorso-sjnnal veins or dorsal plexus ; the second group, of the anterior and posterior longitudinal spinal veins and the veins of the spinal cord. The spinal veins are remarkable for their plexi- forni arrangement, for their intimate association, and for the absence of valves. They anastomose freely with the cranial, occipital, vertebral, lumbar, and intercostal veins, the last-mentioned of which, in great part, receive the outflow of the venous blood from the vertebral canal. The dorso-spinal veins lie on the vertebral arches and about the spinous and transverse processes. They receive branches from the deep muscles of the back, and anastomose above with the deep cervical veins, and below with the intercostal and lumbar veins, as well as with the posterior longitudinal spinal veins, through the spaces between the arches. The anterior longitudinal sjnnal veins form two groups of markedly plexiform arrangement which lie upon either side of the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrse. Toward the upper portion of the canal, they are continuous Avith the basilar plexus and the occipital sinus (where the veins composing the plexus are better defined), and anastomose freely with the occipital, intercostal, lumbar, and dorso-spinal veins, as also with the posterior longitudinal spinal, and with one another by transverse veins passing beneath the vertebral ligaments. At this last point they receive the diploic or the basi-vertebral vein— or veins, for they are at times double—from the bodies of the vertebrae, and, toward the outer border, minute vessels from the front of the bodies. These may be, however, entirely tributary to the intercostals. The jJosterior longitudinal sjnnal veins are smaller and less compact than the anterior. They are better developed below than above, and form anas- tomoses with the anterior longitudinal spinal, and the lumbar, intercostal, and dorso-spinal veins. The veins of the sjnnal cord are two in number, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior occupies the anterior median groove; the posterior, the posterior median groove. The latter effects a junction above with the inferior cerebellar vein and the inferior petrosal sinus. (See the Bloodvessels of the Spinal Cord.) THE VEINS OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The Veins of the Inferior Extremity are super- ficial and deep; they all possess valves, those of the veins of the leg being the more numerous. The deej) veins of the foot and leg are arranged as venae comites to the arteries. They converge to form the popliteal vein, which becomes continuous with the femoral vein, and this in turn with the external iliac vein. Remarks.—All deep veins of the limbs, immedi ately after leaving muscle-tissue, are apt to undergo an abrupt increase of calibre. Those Avhich pass through a fibrous band or ring are apt to be dilated as they pass from its proximal orifice.—The place at which superficial veins end in the deeper veins, near the line of flexion of joints, is often the place at which some of the deeper veins pass out from muscle-tissue. Owing to this circumstance, the deeper veins are often large near the joints. The region best illustrating the above conditions is that which lies at the upper part of the leg posteriorly. Here the large veins from the Soleus pass from that muscle beneath the fibrous arch extending across the interosseous space, where the popliteal artery ends and the posterior tibial and anterior tibial arteries begin. Congeries of dilated veins thus form about these vessels, and serve as a determining cause for the localization of diseased action in the leg. — In the dissecting-room the writer has often observed these dilated veins pressing against the arteries in subjects in which the injecting fluid had failed to penetrate the anterior and posterior tibial arteries; and in one aged subject, in which the leg and foot were both infiltrated with the products of inflammation, the veins were plugged with clot, and had doubtless exerted pressure against the arteries during life. In connection with this the following case will prove instructive. Mr. Cock^ observed marked dilatation of one of the posterior tibial veins in a female aged twenty-eight. The condition had been confounded with abscess, and the collection was opened, when its character was deter- mined. The blood was dift'used through the popli- teal space and thence into the thigh, necessitating amputation of the limb. Examination of the parts showed that the clot had extended half way down the leg.—Verneuil- ascribes the tardy recovery so ' Med.-Chir. Trans., xxxiv. 328. 2 Ai-fliiv. Gen. de Sledecine, Feb. 1877.432 THE HEAET AND THE BLOODVESSELS. frequently remarked in cases of injury of the leg, to the presence of old blood-clots the results of the rup- ture of veins lying in the calf.—In the study of senile gangrene of the foot and leg, the condition of the deep veins should be carefully considered. Subsequent research may connect the exciting cause of this, and of many of the numerous examples of malnutrition and inflammation of the leg and the foot, with the pressure exerted against the tibial arteries by their varicose accompanying veins. The proximal limita- tion of the effects of chronic ostitis of the tibia is sometimes found to correspond exactly to the position of the oblique line. While conceding that this may be due to muscular strain of the Soleus (see p. 105), it is not improbable that it may arise from interfer- ence with the free entrance of blood into the nutrient canal, the orifice of which is a short distance below the oblique line.—In searching for pygemic abscesses, the interior of the Soleus and the site of the veins escaping from it should ^be carefully examined, since many instances of abscess in these regions have been recorded. It is evident that an embolus, moving proximally from a dilated vein of the Soleus, would obstruct the narrowed portion of the vein which lies free at the border of origin of the muscle. THE POPIJTEAL VEIISr. The Popliteal Vein lies behind, that is, superficial to the artery of the same name. In addition to the veins already mentioned, it receives the short saphe- nous as well as those veins associated with the artic- ular and muscular arteries. The popliteal vein at first lies to the inner side, but subsequently crosses to the outer side of the popliteal artery and termi- nates in the femoral vein. Variation The popliteal vein is sometimes double. Eemarks. — Both the popliteal artery and vein have been torn through in fracture of the femur above the condyles. Hemorrhage need not follow such an accident, owing to the occlusion of the vessels by the pressure of the end of the proximal fragment. Gangrene of the limb below the point of injury is imminen^ though it may not occur; a collateral circulation being established, as in ligation of the popliteal artery for aneurism.^—A. Bruce^ records an instance of a popliteal aneurism compress ing the popliteal vein, which was incorporated with the outer wall of the sac. In consequence of this pressure, both the superficial and the deep veins of the leg were enormously distended and partially occluded by coagula. The deep tibial veins in this case were so large and tortuous as completely to conceal the artery, which was found, however, on dissection to be occluded by a thrombus throughout its entire extent. THE FEMORAL VEIN. After reaching the opening in the tendon of the Adductor Magnus muscle, the popliteal becomes the Femoral Vein. In company with the femoral artery, the femoral vein passes through this opening, the Hunterian canal, at first lying behind the artery, but soon reaching its inner side, and extends proximally as far as Poupart's ligament, where it terminates in the external iliac. It receives the long saphenous vein, the superficial epigastric, the external piidic, and the small muscular vein which joins it from behind. Langer^ describes two or three small collateral veins which sooner or later terminate in the main trunk. Variation.—The femoral vein is sometimes double. Eemarks.—Violent dislodgment of a clot which had formed in the femoral vein during an attack of phlebitis was observed by F. C. Skey* to be followed by death. During the course of an attack of phlebitis of the femoral vein,^ according to Sibson, the super- ficial veins over the anterior abdominal wall may become enlarged, as well as those over the buttock and the sacrum. The iliac veins may also be involved. In an extraordinary case of obstruction of the femoral vein in a male aged sixty-eight, Murchison® found the 1 Veriieuil, Ball, de la Soc. Anatomique, t. xliv., 1869, 241. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., 1867, 83. 3 Wien. Med. Wochensclirift, 1867, No. 22. < Lancet, Aug. 1870, 247. 5 Med. Times and Gazette, 1867, 334. 6 Traus. Path. Soc. Lond., xiv. 1865, 137. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIIL Fig. 1. Spinal veins seen in a sagittal section of the verte- Fig. 3. The portal system of veins. The portal vein is bral column. that portion above the point of reception of the splenic Fig. 2. Spinal veins seen in a horizontal section of the ver- vein—the portion below the junction being the superior tebral column. mesenteric vein.PLATE LXXIIITUE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. 433 cause in a sacculus of the urinary bladder, wliicli liad extended laterally as far as the ilium. According to Braune, the femoral vein lying under Poupart's ligament sucks in the blood from the dis- tal parts at each outward turn of the upper part of the thigh, and empties into the iliac veins at each inward turn, or on flexion. THE EXTERNAL ILIAC VEIJT. The External Iliac Vein, the continuation of the femoral, lies within the pelvis. It is a short but large trunk, and receives the circumflex ilii and the deep ejjiyaatric ve'.ns. The right vein lies behind the external iliac artery, while the left remains to the inner side of its accouipanying artery. The siiperfcial veins of the lower extremity are the long scq'jhenous and the short saphenous. The long saphenous vein begins with the veins upon the dor- sum of the foot, which form a wide-meshed network; from the inner side of this network, in conjunction with the veins of the plantar region and great toe, the vein ascends behind the inner malleolus. It soon crosses the leg obliquely to reach the inner border of the calf and the knee ; it thence gains the thigh to terminate in the femoral vein, through the saphenous opening of the deep fascia, about one inch below Poupart's ligament. The long saphenous vein re- ceives the exlernal pudic, the superficial epif/asfric, and the superficial circumflex iliac {inguinal) veins. Variations Sometimes the long ;^aphenous receives the short saphenous vein ; in other instances it divides, again to unite to form a single trunk, or it may be double throughout its entire length. The short sapheiious vein arises from the outer border of the foot, ascends behind the outer malleolus, gains the outer border of the tendo Achillis, and thence passes to the posterior surface of the calf of the leg, to terminate between the heads of the Gastro- cnemius muscle in the popliteal vein. It is accom- panied by the external saphenous nerve, which lies to its outer side. Variations.—The short saphenous vein may join the long saphenous by piercing either the Biceps or the Adductor Magnus muscle. Eemarks.—-Snperficial veins are apt to terminate either before reaching the lines of flexion of a joint, or after passing this line, as is seen in the short saphenous vein at the knee, the long saphenous at the groin, and the basilic vein near the axilla. Arte- ries likewise are apt todivide or give off large branches after passing this line, as is seen in the brachial, femoral, and popliteal arteries. J. Gay' believes that the superficial and deep veins of the limbs do not communicate, save at the points of termination of the former. Jno. Hutchinson^ has, however, described a general enlargement of the superficial veins in a male aged thirty-six, following, as was supposed by the observer, obliteration of the deeper trunks from rheumatic fever.—In the course of an operation for removing a fibroid tumor from the thigh, the long saphenous vein was found by McClellan^ to be enormously enlarged. The same vein, as it lies at the lower third of the thigh, was found by the writer* to be inflamed in a number of inflammatory conditions of the lower ex- tremity. The following comments maybe found use- ful in connection with this subject. A slight amount of inflammation, with thickening, is apt to occur in the connective tissue about an inflamed vein. In subcutaneous phlebitis the brawny red line in the skin is indicative of this—the cord- like induration of the vein alone being expressive of the phlebitis proper. At certain points the periphle- bitis may become circumscribed and pass on to sup- : puration, but more commonly it retains its diffuse character, and may extend up along the tract of the i vessel beyond the limit of the involved vein itself. Tills latter tendency the writer has noticed in a stump of the right foot—the patient dying of pycsmia following amputation through the tarsus. The tissues at the inner side of the ankle were infiltrated with I serum, but the veins lying along the internal plantar ! artery and between the abductor of the great toe and the short flexor were conspicuously swollen and I inflamed. The tract of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve was infiltrated with serum, the tissues being matted together. When the veins are deeply situated, as in the j intermuscular spaces, they are more liable to serve I as conductors of inflammation than are the suj^erficial veins, which, being -held more firmly in position by the deep fascia of the limb, are obedient to the gene- ; ral rule, that the nearer the parts lie to the surface, I the more compact is their connective tissue. The comparative rarity of subcutaneous phlebitis, when the vast number of lesions capable of producing it is considered, is remarkable, and affords an instructive contrast to the frequency of this complication after ' Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., 1879, 323. 2 Br. Med. .Journ., 1871, 118. — * Surgery, p. 194. ♦ Phila. Med. Times, i. 1871, *433.HE BLOODVESSELS. 434 THEHEARTAND ' Bozeman, N. Y. Med. Journ., xviii. 360. ' Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1879, 323. amputations and resections of bone. Tlie general statement that phlebitis is more common in the super- ficial than in the deep-seated veins is only correct as far as the absolute number of cases observed is con- cerned. When compared with reference to their rela- tive liability to become inflamed, the deep-seated are by far more apt to be selected, either primarily, through their own coats, or, secondarily, by periphle- bitis in the soft connective tissue about them. When the short saphenous enipties into the popli- teal vein, as is the rule, ulcerations along its tract are very rare. When, however, the vein joins the internal saphenous, it becomes more liable to disease, and ulcers are very apt to appear along its course, especially at the outer side of the ankle.^ The long saphenous vein is so commonly the seat of moderate dilatation in females that the terms " Frauenader" and " Rosenader" are of frequent oc- currence in the descriptions of this vein in the writ- ings of German clinicians and anatomists. THE COMMOX ILIAC VEIN. The Common Iliac Vein is associated with the com- mon iliac artery of its own side. Each vein is formed by the convergence of the corresponding internal and external iliac veins. The left is longer and more oblique than the right. Each vein terminates in the inferior vena cava opposite the interval between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The left receives from the hollow of the sacrum a small vein known as the median sacral. The relations of the iliac vein are of importance in the operation of Hgating the common iliac artery. The left vein lies to the inner side of its artery and passes beneath the right common iliac artery to gain the inferior vena cava. The right vein lies at its origin behind the corresponding artery, but soon gets to its outer side. Tlie two iliac veins may remain distinct until they receive the renal veins. THE INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. The Internal Iliac Vein is a short thick trunk directed inward and backward, in front of the sacral plexus and the Pyriformis muscle, but on a plane be- hind that of the corresponding artery. The internal iliac vein is without valves, though its tributaries are rich in them. It receives blood from parietal and from visceral branches. The blood supplied by the parietal branches of the internal iliac artery is returned through the double veins (vena3 comites) of the ilio-lumbar, the superior and inferior gluteal, the lateral sacral, the obtui'ator, the internal pudic, and the sciatic arteries. The visceral branches, comprising those derived from the pelvic organs, are plexiform. They form usually close-meshed and intricate networks within the walls of the bladder, genital organs, and rectum, and finally terminate in the internal iliac vein. Ex- ceedingly free anastomosis exists between the several networks. The veins joining them are the lateral sacral, the pudic, and the dorsal vein of the penis; while the networks themselves are called the sacral^ the heemor- rhoidal, and tlie vesical plexuses. The female has a special plexus, the iitero-vayinal^ and the male another, the prostatic. The lateral sacral vein on either side anastomoses with branches of the median sacral, and forms a dif- fuse plexus lying upon the anterior surface of the sacrum. A portion of this plexus joins the common iliac through the median sacral vein; the remaining vessels join the internal iliac vein; they may empty into the ascending lumbar. The pudic vein is smaller than the artery of the same name. It collects blood from the parts about the perineum and the base of the penis. The dorsal veins of the penis tend to be symmetri- cal, though there may be but one. When two exist, they lie to the outer side of the dorsal arteries. The vein receives distinct branches from the spongy and cavernous bodies; those from the former join it from behind the corona glandis, while the others emerge from the under border of the cavernous body, and pass upward around the sides of the penis to termi- nate in the main trunk. The dorsal vein pierces the sub-pubic ligament, and divides into two branches, one on either side of tlie prostate gland, to join the prostatic plexus. The veins of the clitoris are analogous to those of the penis, and are received by the utero-vayinal plexus. J. Gray* concluded, from a careful study of the veins in a case of gangrene of the cavernous and spongy bodies where the integuments remained intact, that the venous currents from the deep structures of the penis have no outflow towards the heart save through the deeper veins ; so that obstruction in these is fatal to the body of the penis but not to its tegu- mentary covering- The lisernorrlioidal plexus lies beneath the mucous membrane of the rectum, and is best developed at its lower portion. It gives origin to the superior.^ middle.^435 THE INFEEIOE VENA CAVA. of the mesentery, the horizontal portion of the duode- Trans. Path. Snc. Lond., 1865, 92. »OO^OOo and inferior hsemorrhoidal veins, which accompany the arteries of the same name. The superior htemor- rhoidal is tributary to the inferior mesenteric vein, to the middle, to the inferior, and to the internal iliac vein. The plexus effects anastomosis with the vesical, with the utero-vaginal, and with the prostatic plexus. At the anus the veins are arranged in three sets, namely, about the External Sphincter (peri-sphinc- teric), beneath the skin, and beneath the mucous membrane. (See Plate LXXIY.) The vesical plexus embraces the veins of the blad- der. It anastomoses with the hfemorrhoidal and the prostatic plexus in the male, and with the utero- vaginal plexus in the female. The xUero-vayinal plexus surrounds the vagina and uterus, and passes thence along the broad ligament of the uterus toward the ovarj^, where it anastomoses with the ovarian veins. The veins of this plexus, being connected with the uterine sinuses, become enormously dilated during pregnancy. The prostatic plexus is situated at the sides and base of the prostate body, at the neck of the bladder, and along the membranous portion of the urethra. It receives the dorsal veins of the penis at the sides, and anastomoses with the veins from the vesical plexus and with the veins of the vesiculas seminales. Remakks.—The branches of the internal iliac vein aid indirectly in supporting the pelvic viscera. They are apt to be varicose in the aged, particularly in females. The blood of a pelvic htematocele is de- rived from these veins. THE INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The Inferior or Ascending Vena Cava (Plate LXVI.) is formed by the confluence of the primitive iliac veins. It extends from a point between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae to the ninth dorsal vertebra. At the posterior border of the liver be- tween the Spigelian and right lobes, the vessel lies within a groove in the hepatic substance known as the hepatic groove. Beyond this groove it passes through the Diaphragm by a special opening, and, penetrating the pericardium, empties into the right auricle. It is convenient to name that portion of the ascending cava above the Diaphragm the thoracic, and that below the Diaphragm the abdominal por- tion. The inferior vena cava lies at first upon the verte- bral column, and rests then upon the right crus of the Diaphragm, having the aorta to the left; the base num, and the pancreas being in front. At its origin, it is in contact with the aorta; above, it lies to the right side; and in the epigastric region a considerable interval is defined between it and the aorta; in this interval are seen the thoracic duct, the right azygos vein, the right crus of the Diaphragm, and the Spi- gelian lobe of the liver. It is covered in front by the peritoneum within the abdomen, and by the serous layer of the pericardium in the thorax. While within the groove in the liver the inferior vena cava is almost surrounded by the hepatic sub- stance, and is firmly held to the parenchyma by connective tissue. The inferior vena cava, besides the common iliac veins, receives the lumbar, renal, right supra-renal, right spermatic, ovarian, inferior diaphragmatic, and hepatic veins. The luvibar veins are derived from the veins of the back and walls of the abdomen. They have for the most part a loose plexiform arrangement (lumbar plexus) in the region of the loin. One of the largest vessels {ciscending lumlar) ascends vertically beneath the Psoas Magnus muscle to empty into the right azygos or the left azygos vein. The renal veins (emulgent veins) are two in num- ber, the right and the left. They are large, but short trunks, and lie, as a rule, in front of the arteries of the same name. The left is slightly h'gher than the right, and receives the blood not only from the left kidney, bat from the left spermatic and supra-renal veins. It crosses the aorta in front to join the cava, but lies behind the superior mesenteric artery. Each ve.n, as a rule, is protected by a valve at its orifice. The left renal vein was found to be imper- vious in a case reported by Andrew.'^ The blood was returned in part by the lumbo-sacral veins, and in part by the left supra-renal vein. Thrombosis may occur here and involve the whole length of the vessel. The I'enal vein occasionally receives minute branches from the capsule and the surrounding fat. The left renal frequently anastomoses with the left azygos, and may be double, when one will be found behind and the other in front of the aorta. At times the single left vein will pass behind the aorta. To this occurrence may be attributed the greater fre- quency of hypertemia of the left kidney. When the inferior vena cava is absent, the renal vein joins the right azygos or the left azygos vein. The renal vein in rare instances receives an abnormal mesenteric436 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS. :X>C'§§0'^>^^ vein. Infrequently the veins are occup'ed by coagala in renal disease. The supra-renal veins are relatively large. They pass obliquely downward, the right emptying into the vena cava, the left into the left renal. The siierraaiic veins arise from the body of the tes- ticle and the epididymis. At first having the form of a plexus {plexus pampinifornnis), the spermatic veins from each testicle converge to form four vessels, which, as they reach the external inguinal canal, decrease to two or three, and finally within the abdomen all the blood is collected by one vein. The vein on the right side empties into the inferior vena cava; that on the left into the left renal vein. The fact that varicocele is almost invariably confined to the left side indicates the presence of a local cause. Dr. Jno. H. Brinton,^ of Philadelphia, has suggested that it lies in the frequent absence of the valve at the orifice of the left renal vein. According to W. Rivington,'' valves ordinarily exist at the orifices of both spermatic veins. When the orifice of the left vein is without a valve, one is often found at the orifice of the left renal within a quarter of an inch of the orifice of the spermatic. In the opinion of Luschka, the sigmoid flexure, when loaded with hardened feces, may exert so much pressure upon the vein as to induce vari- cosity independently of other causes. Rarely the spermatic veins empty into the left azygos vein, or even into the ex- ternal iliac. The ovarian veins are the representatives in the female of the spermatic veins. They may end either in the vena cava or in the renal vein. They derive blood from the ovary, and are in intimate communi- cation with the uterine plexus. In pelvic phlebitis, the ovarian veins may be inflamed their entire length, and be occupied by coagula or detritus. Some of the English writers include the ovarian veins under the same head as the spermatic. The inferior cliaphraymatic veins are generally two in number, and are associated with the arteries of the same name. They open directly into the cava, or rarely into the hepatic or the suprarenal vein. 1 Am. Journ. of Med. Sci., xxxii. 1856, 111. 2 Jouni. of Anat. and Phys., vii., 1873, 1G3. The hepatic vein joins the cava at an acute angle, iminediately before that vessel enters the thorax. It is a short but important trunk, which receives the blood from the liver. • It is without valves. The flow of blood from the vein to the cava is influenced by the movements of the Diaphragm, the descent of this muscle tending to constrict the opening through which the vein passes. While a valve at the orifice of the hepatic vein is absent in the adult, it commonly exists in the human foetus and in many animals. Tiie vein is subject to but few variations. It has been known to join tlie right azygos vein, the common trunk entering the right auricle, and the inferior vena cava being absent.' Remarks.—The inferior vena cava can be studied with advantage from the following points of view :— (1) The establishment of a collateral circulation after occlusion of the vessel. (2) Localization of diseased action as determined by the reception of the blood from the renal veins. (8) The same as determined by the reception of blood from the hepatic portion of the trunk. (4) The same as determined by diseases of the kidneys. (5) The congenital variations of the vessel and its tributaries. (6) The localization of morbid growths and injuries. (1) When the inferior vena cava is occluded, as by pressure from an aneurism or other tumor, or by inflammation, the blood from the extremities and from the pelvic and abdominal organs may reach the heart in a variety of ways. The following examples are given in illustration of this subject:— In a case reported by Gely,^ tiie blood from the super- ficies of the right lower extremity passed along the super- ficial abdominal veins and the external mammary vein to the superior cava. The blood from the deeper portions of the same limb passed into the abdomen by a large vein accom- ' Wistar's Human Anat., ii. 320 ; also W. Horner, Journ. of the Acad. Nat. Sci. of Phila., i. 1818, 401; and J. Abernetliy, Phil. ' Trans., xvii. 296, 1809. 2 ttaz. Med. de Paris, Nov. 7, 1841. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXIV. Fig. 1. A diagrammatic representation of the arrangemetit I Fig. 2. The anterior aspect of a frontal section of the pelvis, of the haemorrhoidal veins and of the rectal and the showing the rectum, the bladder, the pelvic arteries and anal mucous membrane. ' veins.PLATE' LXXIV.437 THE INFEEIOEVENA CAVA. ooc^O'Cx: panying the crural nerve. It then entered the lumbo- vertebral veins, thereby reaching the inferior cava above the constriction. The blood of the superficies of the left lower extremity was returned as in the right. That of the deeper parts, however, passed upward by way of tiie deep epigastric vein, and thence to the portal vein and inferior cava at the upper portion of the abdomen by an open umbilical vein. In a second case, recorded by M. Raynaud,' tlie inferior cava was obliterated for three inches from its termination, as were also the hepatic and the right branch of the portal vein. In a case of occlusion, described by James Wilson,^ several vessels passed from the liver to the rigiit auricle. The superficial abdominal and axillary veins were enor- mously enlarged, and emptied into tlie right azygos vein. The cava was occluded from the I'enal veins to a point just below the hepatic vein, as a result of acute inflammation. The renal, spermatic, and primitive iliac veins were imper- vious. Anastomosis occuri'ed between the sapiicnous vein and the veins accompanying the muscular twigs of the femoral artery ; tlie blood thus reaching the obturator vein was carried tlirougli the obturator foramen, and thence by the lumbo-vertebral veins to the azygos, and tlius to the superior cava. A second anastomosis existed which con- nected the pudic veins with the inferior mesenteric, and thus with the portal vein. In a case of Haller's,' the vena cava was obliterated between the renal and iliac veins. The right spermatic vein was enormously enlarged, and received blood from the ureteric vein of the same side. In a case of Baillie's,* in which tiie inferior cava was ob- literated from the renal vein to the right auricle, the renal and diaphragmatic veins o[)ened into tiie lumbar and azygos, by means of which communication the blood of the abdomen gained the superior cava. Both tlie umbilical and urachal veins may remain open, and a varicose tumor may form about the umbilicus in obstruction of the deeper venous trunks.^ (2) Thrombosis may extend throughout the en- tire length, or may be limited to a portion only of the vesseh In the latter instance the clot may ex- tend from the renal vein to the auricle, as in the cases of Wilson and Baillie above cited, or it may extend from the iliac vein to the line of the orifices of the renal veins, as in the cases of Haller and Thompson. In a case reported by Coyne and Trosier^ the vessel ' Nouv. Diet, de Med. et de Chir. prat., ir. 385. 2 Trans, of Soc. for Imp. of Med. and Chir. Knowledge, iii. 1812, 65. ^ Loc. cit., iii. 70. 4 Loc. cit., i. 1793, 125. 5 Xavier Gouraud, Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1863. 6 Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1871, t. 46, 239. For additional cases of obliteration, and literature to 1845, see T. B. Peacock, Med.- Chir Trans., xxviii. p. 1. was compres.sed by a cancerous mass springing from the left kidney. The left renal vein and the inferior cava from this point to the auricle were occupied by a recent soft clot, while below the orifice of the left renal the vessel was filled and obliterated by an old and firm clot. It would appear from these and from analogous cases that the formation of a thrombus in the inferior vena cava is modified by the blood flowing from the kidney into the cava. Blood drawn from the renal vein is poor in fibrin, and coagulates imperfectly. Hence, a stream of renal blood pouring into the cava may modify, under favoring conditions, the process of coagulation going on there. (3) The cava as it passes along the hepatic groove may easily be influenced V^y morbid processes originat- ing in or about the liver. The vessel may be obliter- ated by a hydatid cyst or hy a carcinomatous growth. An instance of such occlusion has been recorded by Dr. Wm. Gull.^ The venous blood from points below the constriction had been returned by the azygos vein to the right side of the heart. Fibrous growths origi- nating in the liver may compress the hepatic vein and the vena cava as they pass in the hepatic groove. In a specimen described by S. Wilks,^ while the lower part of the cava Avas of usual size, it was encroached upon as it lay in contact with the liver, and much diminished in calibre. Intruding into its interior was a hard fibrous nodule. ISTear this, two contracted hepatic veins were seen. Luschka men- tions an instance in which a hydatid cyst lodged within the liver near the hepatic vein had burst, and in which the echino-cysts, passing into the cava at its hepatic portion, were carried to the right side of the heart, and thence to the pulmonary artery, where they caused obstruction and death. In a case of hepatic hydatid cyst pressing against the cava, not only was the trunk occluded, but ulceration of its coats ensued.^—Rapture of the liver from external injury may involve the inferior cava.—In thrombosis of the cava the clot may be firmer as the vessel lies within the hepatic groove. (4) In all cases of thrombosis of the cava the con- dition of the kidney should be ascertained. The case of Luschka^ in which a constricted cava was associated with Bright's disease, and numerous in- stances in which infarction of the parenchyma of the ' Lancet, 1864, 379. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1863, xiii. 124. 3 Bull, de la Soc. Anatomique, 1855, 254. See also Frerich's Diseases of the Liver. 4 See p. 438.438 THE HEART AND THE BLOODVESSELS, c-OO^OOo kidney has been found associated with inflammation or thrombosis of the cava, might be mentioned in relation to this subject. (5) The congenital variations of the inferior cava include the follovving: The vessel may incline to the left of the aorta at the lower part of its course, but may enter the Diaphragm to the right. It may arise opposite to the kidneys, or just beyond them, an arrangement due to the fact that the iliac veins remain ununited until they have reached this point. In a case described by James Jeff'ray,' the inferior cava was absent. The left azj'gos vein continued upward in the thorax to join the superior cava a short distance above its termination. It received the lumbar and intercostal veins. The hepatic vein opened into the right auricle. The hemiazygos vein passed from the left side of the inferior cava below the heart to the left subclavian vein. The right innominate vein was smaller than the left. Eothe^ describes an instance in which one of the hepatic veins entered the right ventricle, its orifice being supplied with valves.^ Since the inferior cava does not appear until the inferior extremities have developed, some correlation between anomalous conditions of the external iliac vein and inferior cava, and the variations in the struc- ture of the limb, might be expected. No such relations, however, have hitherto been observed by anatomists, nor has any connection been traced between the varia- tions in the course of the cava and the vessels of the lower limbs.—The internal iliac vein in the embryo forms part of the system of cardinal veins, and changes its point of termination only after the development of the extremity. As a rare anomaly, the internal iliac retains its connection with the cardinal veins by emptying into the azygos or the hemiazygos vein, when the external iliac and the inferior cava form a single trunk. As a rule, it may be said that, when any of the tributaries of the inferior cava fail to join the main vessel, they will be found to join the azygos vein, or, in the case of the hepatic vein, the right auricle. When the cava is congenitally absent, the azygos vein takes its place. But, when the vessel is obstructed or obliterated by acquired conditions, the connection with the azygos is not reopened; still, as seen in the 1 Glasgow Med. Journ., i. 1828, 1, figs. 2 Act. Acad. Joseph. Med.-Chir. Vindobonensis, i. 1788, 233, fig. ^ For an elaborate account of the variations of the inferior cava. the reader may consult W. Krause, Heule's Anat., iii. Bd. 380. above cases, the radicles of communication between the epigastric and mammary veins are enlarged, and seem to convey the blood from below the obstructed point to the heart. The venous blood passing from the renal vein into the vena cava evidentlj^ exerts considerable influence over the variations of that vessel. Anomalies may be restricted to the cava from its origin to the orifices of the renals, or may be confined to the cava from the orifice of the renals to the Diaphragm, or from the same point to the termination of the cava in the right auricle. Dr. W. Ogle^ dissected a subject in which the lumen of the cava from the renal veins to the Diaphragm was obliterated. The blood was returned chiefly by the azygos veins and the portal vein. (6) In a man thirty-three years of age, a ball-like phlebolith was found growing from the inner wall of the right auricle at its junction with the inferior vena cava. A portion of it projected into the auricle and a portion into the cava, reducing the calibre of the vessel to a narrow crescentic slit. Luschka^ at- tributed the occurrence of Bright's disease in this subject to the resulting interruption of the return of blood from the kidneys. Thrombosis of the inferior cava has been noticed as a result of compression from a misplaced kidney.^ H. Thompson'' records the case of a young girl who suffered from the lodgment of a needle in the inferior cava. Thrombosis existed from the orifices of the renal veins to the lower extremity of the vessel. Phlegmasia dolens of the left lower extremity ensued on the fourteenth day after the appearance of con- stitutional symptoms. A short time before death, which occurred on the fifty-third day, phlegmasia appeared in the right lower extremity. The selection of the left side for the first invasion of the phlegmasia may have been caused by the peculiar relation exist- ing between the left internal iliac artery and the external iliac vein {q. v.). From the fact that cedema does not necessarily ensue in these cases, and that no collateral trunks are found to be established, it is likely that a thrombosis may after death present the appearance of having occluded the vessel, although the obstruction may not have been absolute during life. 1 .Journ. of Anat. and Phys., xiii. 291. 2 Virchov?. Archiv, vol. Ivi. 1872, 176, fig. See the researches of Frerich and Robinson ; also R. McDonnell, Brown-Sequard's Journ. de la Physiologie, ii. 1859, 300. 3 Delafield, Handbook of Post-Mortem Examinations, 207. * Trans. Clinical Soc. of London, viii. 1874, 23.THE POKTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. coO^CXC^o The inferior cava is infrequently the seat of direct lesion. It may be raptured by external violence, and more frequently as it lies in the hepatic groove than elsewhere. From the proximity of the vessel to the right Psoas muscle, it is not surprising that the fatal issue in advanced stages of psoas abscess may be precipitated by ulceration in the walk of the vessel. Butcher^ mentions this result as having occurred in a girl aged six years, who suffered from psoas abscess of the right side. It is evident that a similar condition would be unlikely to occur on the left side. In a child aged twelve years, rupture of the infe- rior cava was caused by a wagon passing over the body. The rupture was small. Blood was found in the retro-peritoneal space, but none in the abdominal cavity.^ THE PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. The Portal System of Veins (fig. 3, Plate LXXIIT.) includes— I. The Portal Vein (before it is received within the Liver) and the Tributaries of the Vein. II. The Subdivisions of the Portal Vein within the Liver (see account of the Liver). I. The Portal Vein, before it is received within the liver, conveys blood from the alimentary canal and related appendages below the Diaphragm, as well as from the spleen. The main branches or tributaries are as follows:— Superior Mesenteric. Inferior Mesenteric. Gastric. Splenic. Cystic. The superior and inferior mesenteric veins accom- pany the arteries of the same name. The trunk of the superior mesenteric vein ascends, with a slight inclination to the right side, between the duodenum and the pancreas.—The inferior mesenteric vein anas- tomoses freely below with the superior hasmorrhoidal veins, and through these with the subcutaneous veins at the anus. The main trunk is formed at the sigmoid flexure, and usually lies in a falciform fold of perito- neum, which extends from the duodenum to the jeju- num, and terminates in the trunk of the portal vein, near the point of entrance of the splenic vein. Luschka describes this vein as a tributary of the splenic vein. ' Essays and Reports on Operative and Consi;rvative Surgery, Dul.lin, 1865. - Wharton, DuVi. Quart. Journ., xlix. 1870, ,501. The inferior mesenteric vein lies in front of the renal vessels, and, at its termination, behind the pancreas. The gastric veins are two in number: the coronary vein, which extends from the cardiac to the pyloric end of the stomach; and the right yastro-epiploic vein, which is associated with the artery of the same name. The splenic vein derives its blood from the spleen, in part from the cardiac end of the stomach through the veins accompanying the vasa brevia and the left gastro-epiploic vein, and from the pancreatic veins. The splenic vein crosses the superior mesenteric artery at its origin, and as it lies between the spleen and the left end of the pancreas is in association with the splenic artery, being invested with the same fold of peritoneum. Clinical writers have occasionally ap- plied the term "splenic cord"'to this fold and-its contents. In hypertrophy of the spleen, and in tumors of the pancreas, the "splenic cord" mav be compressed, the artery contorted, and stasis of the return blood from the spleen induced.^ The splenic vein joins the superior mesenteric vein at a right angle, being less curved than the splenic artery, below which it lies. Earely, it is doubled near its end. The vessel lies immediately behind the pancreas, and is parallel with its axis. Luschka describes a 'pancreatico-duodenal vein which, deriving blood from the pancreas and the greater part of the duodenum, passes along the concavity of the duode- num, and either empties into the main trunk inde- pendently, or joins the superior mesenteric vein. In mammals, it generally opens into the main trunk at the transverse fissure. To the above tributaries of the portal vein may be added a small vessel, the cystic vein, coming from the gall-bladder. The main trunk of the portal vein measures about three inches in length, and extends somewhat ob- liquely upward to the right, from the head of the pancreas to the transverse fissure of the liver, which it enters. Immediately prior to its termination, it expands slightly, constituting the siims of the portal vein. Within the liver the vein breaks up into numerous branches, which are lost within the paren- chyma (see Liver). The vessel lies between the two layers of the lesser omentum, at its right border. It lies behind the pancreas, and behind and between the hepatic artery and the common bile-duct, the latter being to the ' See, in connection with this, Aled. Times and riaz., 1S.';9, 18.440 THE IIEAET AND rilE BLOODVESSELS. right side. About it are numerous lymphatic gh^nds and filaments of the hepatic plexus. Baccelli suggested the theory that, at times of gastric repletion, the splenic vein is compressed by the stom- ach and temporarily occluded. The flow of the return blood from the spleen is, under such circumstances, impeded; the organ becomes turgescent, and the blood is forced to pass through the small veins accompany- ing the vasa brevia to the veins in the walls of the stomach. It is supposed both by this observer and by Schiff that the spleen, while thus turgescent, elimi- nates a special substance (peptogen of Schifl) which furnishes to the peptic gland the material from which ])epsin is secreted. Baccelli further traces the con- nection existing between the above conditions of the spleen and the states of health of malarial subjects. Variations The most variable veins of tlie ))ortal system are those connected with the spleen. When accessory spleens exist, each spleen is apt to return its blood by a separate vein which is tributary to the splenic. Tlie infe- rior mesenteric vein may join either the splenic near its ter- mination, or the superior mesenteric vein ; it may receive the utero-vaginal vein. In the examination ol" subjects known to have exhibited clinical relations between condi- tions of the rectum, the spleen, and gastric digestion, it would be rationul to search for variations in tlie inferior mesenteric vein, with respect to the place at wliich the splenic and the inferior mesenteric veins may have joined. The portal vein in rare cases opens directly into the vena cava, near the level of the renal vein, without enter- ing the liver. This peculiarity may coexist with trans- position of the viscera.^ Dr. Robert McDonnell^ describes a valve composed of two segments in tlie vena cava at tlie orifice of the renal vein. Attention was directed by Dr. John H. Brinton^ to the presence of this valve at the orifice of the right renal, and to its absence at the orifice of the left. Wiien no valves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein, they are generally present in the renal, within a quarter of an inch of tlie orifice of the spermatic. Tiie ovarian vein has been found to present a similar pecu- liarity.* ' John Abernethy, Pbilosoph. Transactions, xvii. 1809, 296, figs. 2 Glasgow Med. Journ., ii. 1854, 285. 8 American Journ. of the Med. Sci., xxxii. 1856, 111, figs. * W. Kivington, Journ. Anat. and Phys., vol. vii. 1873, 163. The portal vein may retain its anastomoses with a persistent umbilical vein,' and with the epigastric vein at the umbilicus. When tlie last-named commu- nication exists, the enlargement of the veins about the umbilicus and in the hypogastric region enables the observer to detect the condition in the living subject. The veins may be seen in the healthy individual forming clusters about the umbilicus (caput Mednsse), or extending from the umbilicus to the eroin. AVhen ! the portal circulation is obstructed by cirrhosis or by analogous conditions of the liver, the enlargement of a small and previously unrecognized epigastric vein may create pronounced varicosities. Eemarks.—The relations of the portal vein and its tributaries to practical medicine can be conveni- ently included under the following heads, viz.:— (1) Occlusion of the trunk. (2) The establishment of a collateral circulation. (3) Lesions of the vein. (1) The portal vein may be occluded either by pressure from without, or by a thrombus. Pressure from without may be produced by enlarged lymphatic glands about the aorta, when the common bile-duct may also be involved,^ or it may arise from the pre- sence of concretions in the gall-bladder.—In a well- marked example of this morbid condition, A. S. Don- kins* found that the posterior extremity of the gall- bladder rested in the transverse fissure, over the portal vein at its entrance into the liver, causing partial obliteration of the vessel. The tributaries of the portal vein were found distended, the spleen was engorged, and extravasations of blood existed between the great omentum and the ascending meso-colon. The gall-bladder contained a number of calculi, but no bile. Occlusion of the portal vein and its tributaries from ihr'ombosis is a frequent accompanying condition of diseased action in the abdomen.^ Usually the result ' See p. 414. J. A. Russel (Jouru. of Anat. and Phys., 1873, 149) describes two cases. 2 M. Pozzi, Bull, de la Soc. Anat., 1870, t. 45, 277. 3 Med. Times and Gaz., 1868, 396. * See Fenwick on the Stomach and the Duodenum ; also R. Virchow, Trans. Wiirzburg. Phys. Med. Soc, 1857, vii. 21. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXV. Fig. 1. The veins and lym"phatics of the upper extremity. Fig. 2. Tlie veins and lymphatics of the foot and the leg. Fig. 3. The veins and lymphatics of the upper portion of tiie leg, the thigh, and the external genitals.PLATE LXXV Fig 1 T. SincT^iir & 5oii,Litii.THE CARDIAC VEINS. -XX^^OCx^ 4-il of idiopathic inflammation, occlusion may be caused by calcification of tlie vein. A projecting portion of such deposit will serve as the exciting cause for the formation of a clot.—A thrombus may extend from the umbilical into the portal vein. All the hepatic branches of the portal vein may be obliterated. Such a condition may ensue upon cancerous infiltra- tion of one of the abdominal organs, under which circumstances it is reasonable to assume that the hepatic branches of the vein have been plugged by emboli detached from the seat of diseased action.^ The extraneous sources of occlusion of the branches of the portal vein passing througli the liver embrace, besides pressure, as from tumors, the causes which con- tract the parencliyma; so that all forms of atrophy and interstitial hyperplasia may be accepted as factors in occluding the portal branches, giving rise to stag- nation of the blood-stream and to the consequent establishment of a collateral circulation. The formation of hepatic abscess dependent upon dysentery or upon other acute inflammatory process of high grade is probably determined by the plug- ging of the hepatic branches of the portal vein with thrombi. (2) In the study of the collateral circulation^ it is necessary to remember that the portal vein does not return all its blood through the liver. Even should the ductus venosus be no longer patulous, a few unimportant branches about the cardiac orifice of the stomach anastomose with the inferior oeso- phageal and the inferior diaphragmatic veins.^ Oc- casionally a few small vessels will pass directly to the inferior vena cava without entering the liver. Three cases have been recorded in which none of the portal blood entered the liver, but passed directly into the cava. — Schift' and Sappey show that a small vein, formed on the anterior abdominal wall by union of the epigastric and other veins, ascends parallel with the remains of the umbilical vein, and, deriving blood from the abdominal muscles and the peritoneum, joins the portal vein near its termi- nation. Luschka found that this vein aft'ects more particularly the division of the portal vein going to the left lobe of the liver. In cirrhosis of the liver, the portal blood is returned in part by the cutaneous veins of the abdomen.—When the liver is abnormally adherent to the Diaphragm, the diaphrag- matic veins may carry some of the portal blood to the azygos vein. In cases of enlargement of the ' For an admirable r^suriu' of the symptoms of portal phlebitis, see W. C. Roberts. New York Jourii. of Med., 1849, vol. ii. 318. 2 Retzius, Allegemein. Med. Zeituiig., Feb. 1834, 21. 5U azygos vein, it would be of great interest to observe the changes effected in the diaphragmatic and oesoph- ageal veins in regard to their supplementary action as carriers of portal blood. (3) The lesions of the portal vein are infrequent. The following interesting case, recorded by Lambron,^ in relation to this subject, may be given. In a man sixtv- nine years of age, a fish-bone had penetrated the head of the pancreas from the stomach, and had entered the anterior wall of the superior mesenteric vein ob- liquely from above downward and from before back- ward. It passed across the interior of the vessel, and was found lodged in its posterior thickened wall. The mesenteric vein at this point was filled with a grayish thrombus, which was continued into the portal vein and its hepatic branches, and was for the most part firm. The portal vein was narrowed, and its walls were thickened. Mr. Markhain^ records a case in which hepatic ab- scess opened into the portal vein by ulceration. The opening was about an inch in length. Laceration of the veins of the rectum may occur in two situations,—one beneath the mucous membrane, and tlie other between the muscular coats of the bowel. Laceration of the submucous veins, when situated near or at the Sphincter Ani, forms small circumscribed haematomata which by the practi- tioner are commonly designated external hiemorrho/Js. A similar lesion of the intermuscular veins above the region of the Sphincter Ani causes diffuse clots to form in the walls of the rectum, which induce second- ary degenerative changes in its coats, and predispose the rectum to various phases of diseased action, and even to rupture. E. Qudnu^ wrote an elaborate essay on the rare lesion last named, accompanied by an original observation and th'' study of seven recorded cases. THE CARDIAC VEINS, The Cardiac Veins, or the veins of the heart, re- ceive blood from the walls of the heart, and convey it to the right auricle. They are without valves for the most part; near the mouth of the larger vessels one or two small unpaired valves may be seen, They are three in number, as follows:^ Great Cardiac, or Coronary, Posterior Cardiac. Anterior Cardiac. 1 Gazette Med. de I'aris, 1842, G20. 2 Trans. Path. Soo. Lond., iv. 1854, ICS. 3 Rev. de Chir., Mar. 1882, literature; see also abstract, N. Y. Med. .lourn., 1882, vol. xxxvi. 55(1.442 THE HEART AND T liE BLOODVESSELS. The Great Cardiac or Coronary Vein arises from tlie apex within the interventricular groove in front. It passes upward to the transverse groove and inclines to the left, between the left auricle and left ventricle, to reach the posterior surface of the heart, where it empties into the lower border of the right auricle near the interauricular septum. Within an inch of its termination it has received the name of the coronary sinus and is surrounded by muscular fibres. The vein receives blood from the anterior and posterior surfaces of the heart and from the septum between the ventricles. The right auriculo-ventricular groove is occupied by a small vein which empties into the coronary sinus. The Posterior Cardiac Vein lies on the posterior surface of the heart within the interventricular groove, its radicles anastomosing freely with the preceding. It passes directly upward to join the great cardiac vein at the coronary sinus. The Anterior Cardiac Veins are from five to six in number. They derive their blood from the walls of the right ventricle, and, uniting finally into two or three trunks, empty into the right auricle at the in- ferior border of the anterior wall. One of these veins is larger than the I'est. Their orifices have been called the Thebesian foramina, although the same name has been given to minute depressions of the endocardium received within pockets on the auri- cular walls. Through the minute network vvliich surrounds the roots of the great arterial trunks, the cardiac veins are continuous in part with the diaiiluagmatic veins. Very rarely the great cardiac veiu empties into the left innominate vein. J. W. Meckel records an instance in vvliich the vein opened into the right auricle. The circular sinus, a small auricular vein, and a small oblique vein, vestigial vein, opening into it, are survivals of the foetal lel't supej-ior vena cava. A DESCRIPTION OF THE FCETAL CIRCULATION AS OBSERVED AT ABOUT THE SEVENTH MONTH OF DEVELOPMENT. (Fig. 1, Plate LXIII.) In many points of structure and relation, the foetal heart and the great vessels in its immediate neigh- borhood differ- from the same parts in the adult. Thus the auricles are proportionately more capacious, and, the right side of the heart being as robust as the left, the entire organ is relatively larger. The interauricular septum is defective, and presents at the lower and back part an opening called the foramen ovale, which is protected by a valve in the left auricle. Lying to the right side of the ori- fice of the inferior vena cava is an oblique ridge of membrane directed upward and to the left, called the Eustachian valve. Continuous with the pulmo- nary artery, and in the line of its trunk, is the ductus arteriosus, a short vessel which communicates with the aortic arch just beyond the origin of the great arteries of the head and neck. These peculiarities are necessary in an organ which, while adapted to the necessities of an air-breathing creature, is temporarily in the position of the heart of an aquatic animal, or, to speak accurately, of an animal sustaining external respiration by means of a fluid medium., The placenta is the source of the respiratory interchange and of nourishment, the um- bilical vein carrying the revivified blood to the foetus, and the two umbdical arteries returning the blood to the placenta. The umbilical vein passes along the edge of the suspensory ligament to the liver, and enters the longi- tudinal fissure of that organ, following it as far as the transverse fissure. It here divides into three or four branches, one inosculating with the portal vein (or, as represented in the figure, this may be said to be the branch to the right lobe which receives the portal vein), one going to the left lobe of the liver, one to the right lobe, another to the quadrate and Spigelian lobes, and a fourth which forms the ductus venosus, and which may be considered as the continuation of the main trunk, joining the inferior vena cava near the entrance of the hepatic vein. Dr. Jno. Reid^ gives the umbilical vein a termination in the left branch of the portal vain. From this branch the ductus venosus arises as a distinct structure. The blood of the inferior vena cava enters the right auricle. The current is directed by means of the Eustachian valve upward and inward to the foramen ovale, and through it to the left auricle, thence to the left ventricle, and, by way of the aorta, to the innominate, carotid, and subclavian arteries. It is a remarkable fact that all or nearly all of this blood goes directly to the head, neck, and superior extremities, notwithstanding the fact that no structural peculiarity in the aorta prevents its passage downward past the orifice of the ductus arteriosus. The venous blood descending by the superior vena cava enters the right auricle, and is directed down- ward in front and to the right of the orifice of the inferior vena cava to the right ventricle, a small ' Edin. Med. and Surg. Jonni., 1835, xliii. 310.FCETAL CIECULATION. 443 quantity of blood only being swept away into the current toward the foramen ovale. Thence it passes through the pulmonary artery to the ductus arteriosus^ which lies in such a position as to be in the axial line of the main trunk of the pulmonary artery, and to cause the blood to be deflected along the descend- ing aorta. The descending aorta divides into the right and left common iliac arteries, and, arising from the anterior aspects of the internal iliac arteries, are the large liypo'jastric arteries—one on either side of the body.^ Through these the venous blood from the foetus is returned to the placenta. Each ascends the anterior wall of the abdomen by the side of the bladder, and escapes at the umbilicus, after passing which orifice the two hypogastric arteries^ become the umbilical arteries and twist together around the um- bilical vein, to form with this vessel the vessels of the umbilical cord. The umbilical arteries present a number of annu- lose constrictions, with intervening sinus-like expan- sions. In some examples the constriction between a pair of expansions is of a diameter admitting a small bristle only.^ Changes af(er liirtU.—The ductus arteriosus begins to close immediately after air has been received into the lung. By the third or fourth day, the flow of blood is materially interrupted, and by the eighth or tenth is entirely stopped. Within three weeks the canal is absolutely impervious. The foramen ovale is usually closed by the seventh or tenth day. It is not always so completely obliterated as is the ductus arteri- osus, since a small persistent valvular opening can often be demonstrated even in the adult. The vascular con- nection between the iliac arteiies and the umbilicus is obliterated from the second to the fifth day. According to authorities collected by Dr. S. Smith,* the umbilical vein is patulous for two or three weeks after birth, and canals have been traced in it even at the sixth week. The position of the hypogastric arteries can be detected in the adult subject by means of two con- 1 The hypogastric arteries, as described by some writers, arise from the common iliac arteries. 2 In Plate LXIIL, the words "umbilical ai-tery" liave unfor- tunately been engraved alongside of the hypogastric. 3 J. C. Ewart, Journ. Anat. and Phys., 1878, 229 ; also Berger (Archiv. de Phys., 1872, 551). 4 N. Y. Jouru. of Med., 1855, xv. 73. verging folds of peritoneum, which start from the sides of the fundus of the bladder, to meet at the umbilicus. Between these is a median fold which indicates the site of the former uraclius. Eemarks.—The foramen ovale is patulous, it is thought, in one in every five or six subjects. There need be no mixture of blood in either auricle from this cause, owing to the obliquity of the orifice to the plane of the fossa ovalis; though the opening may permit the over-distended right auiicle to pour blood into the left. The post-natal closure of both the foramen ovale and the ductus arteriosus is generally thought to be due to the effect upon the heart and the adjacent vessels of the blood returned from the lungs to the heart, aided by the action of muscular fibres derived from the fasciculi in the walls of the left auricle. To these Dr. W. S. Forbes^ would add, in the instance of closure of the ductus arteriosus, the traction exerted by the descent of the Diaphragm upon the fibrous bands extending from the tendinous centre of this muscle to the aortic arch. In newly-born infants, ligation of the umbilical vein, instead of producing a firm thrombus and obliterating the vessel, sometimes produces a soft puriform throm- bus which extends into the ijortal vein.^ Cirrhosis of the liver often leads to a peculiar dila- tation of the superficial veins about the umbilicus. This may give a dusky coloration to the integument at that point, or it may advance so far as to produce a varicose condition of the larger veins. In the latter variety it has been supposed that the umbilical vein has reopened, and that the circuit between the deep epigastric and the umbilical vein, usually characteristic of the foetal circulation, is relieving the portal system. Sappey believes that the true explanation of such a condition of the superficial veins lies in the tact that a small vein accompanying the ligamentum teres becomes enlarged, the remnant of the umbilical vein remaining unchanged. By umbilical hernia is meant a protrusion of some of the abdominal contents through an opening in the relaxed structures at the umbilicus or through the abdominal parietes in its immediate neighborhood. ' Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., 1880, Ixxx. 88. 2 Francis Delafield, a Iland-Book of Post-mortem Examinations, etc., 1872, 188.THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, 4:U THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. General Considerations. The Lymphatic System embraces an assemblage of structures designed to accommodate a colorless liquid containing corpuscles, termed lympli (see p. 90). The following structures will be separately de- scribed :— Lymphatic Vessels. Lymphatic Glands. Lymph Spaces and Lacuna. Lymph-Interstices or Juice-Canals. The larger hjm.jjhatic vessels are distributed through- out the body in association with the bloodvessels and nerves, while the smaller ones form coarse networks in the regions occupied by the capillaries of the blood- vessel system. The lymph-canals of the mesentery, from the fact that they convey the chyle from the small intestine to the thoracic duct, are sometimes called the chylous vessels or lacteals. In the intervals between the absorption of chyle, these vessels are filled with lymph. The lymphatic vessels are more numerous in some parts of the body than in others. Thus, they are sparsely distributed on the outer sides of limbs, but are abundantly present upon the inner sides, and also at the lines of junction of the limbs with the trunk. They favor the tracts occupied by the arteries and veins, and are best developed in the thoracic and abdominal cavities. They are often disposed in a superficial and a deep set. Tlie lymphatic vessels are furnished for the most part with great numbers of valves, which are arranged after the manner of the valves of the veins. Nodule- like swellings of each lymph-vessel answer to the positions at which the valves are located. In many instances the valves are so numerous as to give to the vessel the appearance of a string of beads. Since the valves both of the lymphatic vessels and of the systemic veins are directed toward the heart, the lines of inflammatory invasion in both sets of vessels pass from the peripheral toward the cardiac extremities. When the lymphatic vessels are ob- structed, they may become enlarged to an extent un- known to the veins. The ly7nphatic glands are round or elliptical flat solid bodies developed about the walls of the lymph-vessels and traversed by minute lymph-canals. The lymph- vessels approaching the gland are said to be afferent, and those leaving the gland efferent.—The afferent ves- sels divide into two or more branches before enterine a gland ; the efferent, while fewer in number than the afferent, are often of larger size. A group of lymph- atic glands with their associated vessels is called a plexus. It follows that, in a system of lymphatic glands with their plexuses, a group of efferent ves- sels of a distally placed gland may be the afferent vessels of the next proximal group. Lymphatic glands are more numerous in the thorax and in the abdomen than in the head and the neck; they are sparsely distributed in the limbs and at the regions of the groin and the axilla, and are absent within the brain-case. Lymphatic glands are, as a rule, so disposed as to exert, in their normal condition, no pressure upon adjacent parts. In the limbs, the more deeply seated glands lie along the course of the arte- ries, and the more superficial glands along the course of the veins. Diseased action very rarely, if ever, originates in the lymphatic glands. As a result of secondarv causes, especially from transmitted irritative influ- ences, the glands frequently become the seat of hy- perplasia, which will often persist after the original irritation has ceased to exist. In illustration of this tendency it may be said that in syphilis the lymph- atic glands of the groin remain engorged long after the chancre has disappeared. By lyraph-spaces and lynipjh-lacunse are meant those irregularly shaped spaces of varying size which are lodged about important viscera or around the larger bloodvessels and nerves of the head and trunk. In the former instance they constitute the great serous chambers, namely, the pericardium, the pleura^, the peri- toneum, the tunica vaginalis testis, and the arachnoid sac. In the latter instance they form the perivascular sheaths of the arteries of the pia mater, and the peri- neural sheaths of the optic, auditory, and other nerves. The lymphatic fluid, notably in the lymph-spaces, has considerable mechanical use. The brain may be said to be floated in part within the sub-arachnoid lymph-space, and the dangers arising from pressureCLINICAL TABLE OF THE L Y M P H - S TR E A M S. =>oc>^ooo 445 against the arterie« of the base of the brain are thereby in a measure averted. (See Membranes of the Brain.) The spinal cord is aided in resisting concussion and in sustaining a central position in the vertebral canal by a similar arrangement. Perivascular spaces must in like manner facilitate the dilatation and contrac- tion of the vessels, and aid in resisting injurious compression from adjacent parts. Lymph spaces are thought to convey the lymph from the tissues formerly described as without lymphatics. Among these may be mentioned the central nervous system, the eyeball, the labyrinth of the ear, and the placenta and its membranes. The perineural l^'mph-space about the optic nerve communicates freely with the subarachnoid lymph- space. Disease of the eye associated with central lesion, especially with pressure upon the base of the brain, interferes with the flow of the lymph from the orbit to the interior of the skull, thus causino- second- ary lesions in the eye which are easily recognized by the ophthalmologist.' The lympli-interstices or juice-canals are the begin- nings of the lymphatic system. They serve to dis- tribute a nutritive fluid in and among the ultimate elements of the tissues. In common parlance, a tissue is said to be vascular only when it is occupied by blood capillaries. In a more exact sense, all tissues are vascular, since the juice-canals can be demon- strated penetrating them. In some tissues, such as those of the cornea, and the epithelial structures generally, no blood-capillaries exist, and in some others, as cartilage, there are few or none. Such structures are sustained entirely by the lymph flow- ing; through the iuice-canals. The beginnings of the lymphatic vessels are better defined in the walls of the small intestine than in those localities where tiiey lead from large and irregular lymph-spaces. The lymph is propelled forward by the movement of muscular and other masses adjacent to the spaces and vessels as well as by the muscular fibres in the walls of the larger trunks. The act is aided in some animals, as batrachians and birds, by muscular cham- bers (lymphatic hearts) moving rliythmically. Remakks.—Diseases in which dilatation and ob- struction of the lymphatic vessels occur, are either local, and are the effects limited to the afferent vessels of a single group of glands, or they are general and ' W. F. Norris, Trans. Amer. Ophthalmolog. Soc. 1874, 163 ; and Phila. Med. Times, 1879, ix. 565. For detailed accounts of the large lymph-.spaces and lacunse, see tlie organs about which they are lodged. involve the entire lymphatic system. The diseases of the latter group are apt to be associated with morbid action of the ajipendages of the bloodvessel system. The colorless corpuscles of the blood are increased in number, the heart is hypertrophied, and the disposition to cancerous and tubercular disease pronounced. The lymphatic system has important clinical rela- tions with the spleen, the tonsil, and the adenoid bodies of the base of the tongue and the roof of the pharynx. Together with other ductless glands, these structures assist in adding white blood-corpuscles to the blood-stream. They are most active at the period between the disappearance of the thymus body and the completion of the medullary spaces of the long bones. This period practically includes infancy and adolescence. The practitioner notes that during this time the tonsils, the adenoid bodies of the phai-ynx, and the lymphatic glands of the neck and chest are more frequently enlarged than at any subsequent period.—Strumous, cancerous, and syphilitic disease are all prone to cause engorgement and hypertrophy of the lymphatic glands. Dr. Stephen Smith' calls attention to a danger attending the use of Esmarch's bandage in cases where septic matter exists in the tissues. He reports a case of fatal diffuse cellulitis which was supposed to have had its origin in the enforced transit of pec- cant matter upward along the larger vessels from the lymph-spaces lodged with the area which had been compressed by the bandage. For clinical purposes, the following table may prove of use in tracing the source of any inflammation, dilatation, or other change in the character of the normal lymphatic vessels or glands. A CLINICAL TABLE OF THE LYMPH-STEEAMS. Tliose of the right side of the head. Those of the right side of the neck. Those of the right side of the upper extremity. Those of the right thoracic wall and, in part, of the liver. Those of the right lung. Those of the right side of the heart. Lymph-streams pour- ing into the venous i stream at the right subclavian vein. .Archives of Clin. Surg. 1877, ii. 70.446 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. ^OO^OOo Ljmph-streams pour- | ing into the venous J stream at the left ' subclavian vein. Those of the left side of the head and neck. Those of the left upper extremity. Those of the inferior ex- tremities. Those of the pelvic and abdominal oi'gans(in part only of the liver). Those of the external geni- tals. Tiiose of the left thoracic wall. Those of tlie left lunar. Those of the left side of the heart. Of all classifications of lymphatic vessels the one just presented is the most inviting; but, inasmuch as such a grouping would demand a separate descrip- tion of the lymphatics on the right and left sides of the head, the neck, the upper extremities, the thoracic wall and thoracic contents, it' has been thought best to retain the regional classification which is herewith given. A CLASSIFICATION OF THE LYMPHATIC VE.SSELS. The lymphatics of the body are arranged for topo- graphicalpurposes as follows:— I. Lymphatics of the Head and Neck. II. " " Upper Extremity, including the Eight Lymphatic Duct. III. " " Lower Extremity, the Pelvis, and the External Genitals. lY. " " Abdomen, including the Left Thoracic Duct. Y. " " Thorax. I. The Lymphatics of the Head and Neck. The lymphatic vessels of the face lie for the most part along the junction of the cheek with the nose. They are received here from the central portions of the forehead, and pass downward over the face, and thence into the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The Lymphatic Glands-of the head and neck are disposed in the following order:— First, a group of small glands, two to three in number, lie upon the parotid gland in front of the external auditory meatus. It is exceptional to find glands upon the face above the line of the mouth. Infreqnently a small one is seen at the side of the root of the nose, and another about the size of a pea may be sometimes recognized below the symphysis, in cases of syphilis. Yelpeau is of the opinion that the median parts of the forehead and eyebrow are drained by a set of vessels distinct from those belonging to the lateral portion. The natural deduc- tion from these premises is that morbid processes excited in the region of the temple would be apt to involve the lymphatic glands at the angle of the jaw, while diseased action in the median portion of the forehead would involve the glands lying about the chin and the suprahyoid space. Second, a group of three or four is placed behind the auricle at the insertion of the Sterno-Clcido- Mastoideus. Both the first and second group derive their afl'er- ent vessels from the external soft parts of the skull. Third, a group of deep facial glands, six to eight in number, lies in the spheno-maxillary space, and upon the lateral wall of the pharynx. These glands collect the lymph from the orbit, the nasal cavities, the pharynx, and the parts about the spheno-maxillary space. According to Arnold, a number of the lym- phatics of the brain-case jom this series through the oval and spinous foramina of the sphenoid bone. Fourth, a group of the submaxillary glands is situated superficially beneath the horizontal ramus of the lower jaw, is covered in by the superficial layer of the fascia. One of the largest of this group over- lies the submaxillary salivary gland. These glands receive from the superficies of the face the lymph which is conducted downward along the course of the anterior facial vein. Other vessels are received from the tongue and the base of the mouth. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXVI. Fig. 1. The superficial lympliatics of the head and neck. Fig. 2. The deep lympliatics of tiie head and neck, together with the lymphatics of the side of the thorax and the heart. The tributary to the internal jugular vein must be considered anomalous. The transverse vessel is a large submental vein, continuous with the external jugular, wliich joins the internal jugular.PLATE LXXA/i T. Sinclair 3cn,LatL-THE LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTEEMITIES. 447 Fifth, a group of superficial cervical glands lies upon the lateral parts of the neck, in front of and upon the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus and below the parotid gland. They receive superficial lymphatic vessels both from behind and in front. Small glands are often seen in the middle of the neck, lying on the Sterno-Hyoid muscles, but rarely on the Platysma Myoidcs. Sixth, a set of deep lymphatics accompanies the course of tiie internal carotid and the common carotid arteries. They receive vessels from the brain-case through the posterior lacerated foramen, from the pharynx, the tongue, the larynx, and the thyroid body. The glands at the base of the neck have received the name of the supra-clavicular glands. In addition to those from adjacent parts, these receive vessels from the vertebral canal. Remarks.—The superficial gland at the angle of the jaw is frequently enlarged in pharyngitis. En- largement of the gland over the submaxillary salivary gland may be mistaken for disease of the latter struc ture. It is easy to distinguish the two conditions by the fact that the salivary gland is fixed, while the lymphatic gland is niovable. In cancerous involve- ment, however, this gland soon becomes fixed to the lower jaw. Allan Burns' invites attention to the liability of the lobulated edges of a bronchocele being mistaken for enlarged Ij^iiphatic glands.—Enlargement of lym- phatic glands at the base of the neck is of exceptional interest apart from the importance of anatomical relations. Paget alludes to the importance of the enlargement of the glands in old persons who are the subjects of cancer and scrofula.^ The cervical glands are capable of assuming enor- mous proportions in strumous subjects, and may act as exciting causes of dyspnoea and dysphagia, either by direct pressure upon the trachea and the oesophagus or by interference with the pneumogastric nerve. The removal of enlarged cervical glands which are found to maintain injurious pressure should never be inconsiderately undertaken. The following state- ments will have practical interest in connection with this subject. The lymphatic glands along the course of the in- ternal jugular vein have been known to excite ulcer- ation of the walls of the vein, and to cause death by subsequent losses of blood. After operation for their removal the vein may ulcerate, as it lies in the wound of incision. Suppuration excited in or about the ' Surgical Anatomy of Neck, 225. 2 St. Bartliolomew's Hosp. Rep., iii. 412. glands may involve the common carotid (see p. 356) and the internal carotid arteries (see p. 366). D. W. Cheever,! in removing a large lymphatic tumor from the basal portion of the neck, probably Avounded the thoracic duct and the subclavian vein. Death followed in thirty-six hours. An attempt, reported by Moxon, to remove a can- cerous lymphatic gland of the neck excited oedema of the glottis. Death ensued within twenty-four hours.2—In the case of a girl of thirteen years, a cervical lymphatic gland, the seat of sarcomatous deposit, was found by the same writer'' to occlude the internal jugular vein, and to cause death by the exten- sion of inflammation to the pleura of the correspond- ing side.—The lymphatic glands at the nape of the neck are frequently found engorged in syphilis and in various forms of disease of the scalp.—For other com- ments on the cervical lymphatic glands, see pp. 261, 264, and 366. II. The Lymphatics of the Upper Extremities AND THE Thoracic Wall. Under this head are embraced— (a) The Lymphatics of both Upper Extremities and the adjacent portions of the Thoracic Wall. (/>) The Right Lymphatic Duct. («) The lymphatics of the upper extremity and the adjacent portion of the thoracic wall converge toward the axilla, in the abundant connective tissue of which from eight to ten glands are situated. Small isolated glands are here and there seen, as at the inferior border of the Pectoralis Major, and in the interval between the same muscle and the Deltoid. The lymphatic vessels of the arm accompany the superficial and deep veins. The superficial set collect the vessels from the fingers in a palmar arch, which, together with others from the inner border of the palm, ascend the arm. They are more numerous on the inner than on the outer side of the arm. One or two glands are found near the elbow, viz., at the position of the basilic vein a short distance above the internal condyle. The lymphatic vessels on the back of the hand and forearm gradually join the preceding by winding around the margins of the forearm, notably the ulnar. The deep lymphatics of the hand are much less numerous than the superficial, which they join at the carpus. They extend in the direction of • Boston Med. and Surg. Jonrn. 1875, N. S., xv. 424. 8 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond. 18.39, xx. 3B9. 8 Ibid. 1869, XX. 400.448 the deep veins. From two to five glands are found in the forearm, and one to two in the arm. The lymphatics of the chest are su))erficial and deep. The superficial lie in the interval between the Pectoralis Major and Deltoid muscles, and also along the inferior border of the former muscle. With this set of vessels may be included a small gland lying- in the epigastric region. These lymphatics anasto- mose with the deep set, with the lymphatics about the umbilicus, and with those coming thence to the inguinal regions.—-K separate set of vessels drains the dorsal surface of the liver. The deep lyniphatics follow the thoracic veins, and receive the vessels from the mammee, anastomosing with the intercostal lym- phatics. They receive some filaments from the in- ternal thoxacic lymphatics. The lymphatic vessels of the back converge to the shoulder from the neck, back, and loins. The superficial vessels wind round the borders of the superficial muscles to join the deep vessels, which lie for the most part along the line of the axillary artery. Eosary-like dilatations are occasionally met with about the elbow. The lymphatic gland above the elbow is often enlarged in secondary syphilis, as are those in the axilla in cancer of the mammary gland. {b) The Right Lymphatic Duct is much shorter than the thoracic duct, measuring but an inch in length. It receives the lymphatic vessels from the right side of the thorax, the right lung, the right side of the heart, a part of the Diaphragm, the right superior extremity, the right side of the head and neck, and a portion of the upper surface of the liver. It joins the venous system at the angle between the right subclavian and the right jugular veins. III. The Lymphatics of the Inferior Extremities and of the Pelvis. The lymphatics of the inferior extremity comprise, like those of the superior extremity, a superficial and a deep set.—The superficial set arise in part from the dorsum and sole of the foot, towards its inner side, and follow the course of the long saphenous vein. Others ascend from the back and sole, and Fig. 88. Lymphatics of the Thigh. pass along the posterior or short saphenous vein. The vessels are most numerous along the inner side of the thigh, toward which the outer vessels converge in the neighborhood of the knee, and finally termi- nate above at the groin in the superficial lymphatic glands. Some of the vessels, however, terminate in a set of glands, lodged deeply in the popliteal space —the popliteal lymphatic glands—which are four or EXPLANATION OF PLATP: LXXVII. The lymphatics of the trunk, including the thoracic duct. For Left Azygos Vein, read left intercostal vein. Tlie leader to Receptaculum Cliyli is placed three lines too high.PLATE LXXVllexist with a chancre. In cases of neglected chancre, 3 F. Lente, New York .four, of Med., 1S50, 169 THE LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN. — OOO^OOO-— 449 five in number, and surround the artery of the same name.—The c?ee^j lymphatics are relatively few. Many of them end iu the popliteal glands. The lymphatics of the hypogastric region drain the region in which they are located, and anastomose with the epigastric lymphatics. They terminate in the superficial lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh and the gluteal region pass into the pelvis through the openings by which the obturator and sciatic arteries escape. They joni the vessels situated about the internal iliac artery. The lymphatic vessels of the external genitals form a superficial and a deep set The superficial set con- sists of a group of three vessels, one on either side and one on the dorsum of the penis. In the female, analogous vessels are found upon the clitoris, pass- ing thence upward through the mons veneris. The superficial vessels are received by the inguinal lym- phatics. The deep vessels pass into the pelvis along the course of the internal iliac artery. The lym- phatics from the scrotum and the labia inajora pass upward and outward along the course of the external pudic arteries. The superficial lymphatic glonds vary from six to twelve in number, and are divided into an oblique and a vertical set The glands of the oblique set are situated along the line of Poupart's ligament. The vertical set are arranged about the terminal portion of the long saphenous vein The position of the saphenous opening is occupied by a gland, which sends branches of communication downward through the opening to join the deep lymphatics. The deep lymphatic glands are from two to three in number, and are located upon the femoral artery and vein. A small gland is sometimes found on the interos- seous membrane at about the middle of the leg. Remarks.—The application of a knowledge of the Ivmphatics of the lower extremity emljraces the fol- lowing considerations — (a) The lymphatic vessels may be inflamed with- out involvement of the veins, when the course of some of the mam vessels can be distinctly traced under the skin. When chronically inflamed, and obstruction exists at the nearest lymphatic gland, the vessels may become thickened, dilated, and tortu- ous. The lymphati-3 vessels of the sheath of the penis arc, perhaps, more frequently involved in dis- eased action than those of any other portion of the skin surface. Inflamed lymphatic vessels often co- 57 associated with an indurated condition of the lym- phatic glands of the groin, they may even form bulla- like swellings which sometimes rupture and permit the lymph to escape externally. Rarely dilatation of the lymphatic vessels occurs without apparent cause. (h) The lymphatic vessels and the peri-vascular lymph-spaces are involved in elephantiasis. (c) The lymphatic ves.sels may, from causes imper- fectly understood, become filled with chylous fluid. In a case reported by Petters,^ remarkable dilatation of the lymphatics existed in the right groin and in the abdomen, in a patient the subject of valvular heart disease. The glands were converted into cyst- like cavities filled with a yellow fluid. Rosary-like dilatations, similar to those seen at the elbow, occur infrequently below the groin. T. Carr Jackson^ describes a case of dilatation of the femoral lymphatics, which occurred in a lad of seventeen. The vessels burst externally. (J) The Ij'-mphatic glands in the popliteal space may be confounded with bursal sacs communicating with the knee-joint. The glands can be distinguished from such sacs by the fact that they are the more deeply situated, and are nearer the median line. They may, when enlarged, give the impression that the popliteal artery is the seat of an aneurismal swelling. The inguinal lymphatic glands are the common seat of diseased action dependent upon the trans- mission of the virus of syphilis, or of any other irrita- tion wliose point of entrance is through the external genitals. They frequently suppurate or excite sup- }Hirative cellulitis in the parts aVjout them. Acute inflammatorv engorgement of one of them has been known to induce fatal peritonitis by direct continuity through the lymphatic vessels of the abdominal wall.^ IV. The Lymphatics of the AbdOiMen. The Lymphatics of the Abdomen include— The Lymphatics of the Viscera and of the Abdo- minal Walls. The Thoracic Duct. The Lymphatics of the Vi.scera and of the Abdomi- nal Walls are contributory to the thoracic duct in great part, and are arranged in groups as follows:— ' Prag. Vierteljahrsschi-ift, 1861, Ixxii liiicliHr, cxv. 183. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Loud. 1866, xvii. 287. also Schmidt's Jahr-THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 450 OOO^CXX: riC GLANO Lymphatics of the Small Intestine axd the Mesbxtert. The lumbar plexus. This is situated in the lumbar region, and receives lymphatics from the Quadratus Lumborum and Psoas muscles, and from the verte- bral column. To it converge lymphatics along the course of the external iliac artery, of the remains of the hypogastric artery, as well as the vessels from the internal organs of generation, the kidneys, and the suprarenal capsules, the lateral walls of tbe abdo- men, and, on the left side, those from the sigmoid flexure and the rectum. The coeliac group of glands. This is not sharply separated from the preceding. It surrounds the aorta, the coeliac axis, and the superior mesenteric artery, as well as the portal vein; extends behind the head of the pancreas, and is composed of from sixteen to twenty glands which receive lymphatics from the stomach, small intestine, large intestine, spleen and pancreas, and from the liver. The gastric group. From the stomach proceed three groups of vessels—from the left, the upper, and the lower surfaces respectively. The lymphatics of the left group accompany the vasa brevia, and are in association with the lymphatics of the spleen. The vessels of the upper group lie within the folds of the gastro-hepatic omentum, in company with the coro- nary vessels. Those of the lower group lie upon the greater curvature in company with the right gastro- epiploic vessels. Some of the lymphatic vessels lie beneath the peritoneal coat, while others lie between the muscular and mucous coats. The lymphatic vessels from the small intestine, here called the lacteals, lie between the two layers of the mesentery. Hence, the glands which accompany them are called the mesenteric glands. Each gland presents an average length of six to seven lines, and is four to five lines in width. Three rows of these glands are recognized: the first, nearest the intestine, is composed of small and widely dispersed glands; the second are somewhat larger and more approximate; while the third row lies at the root of the mesentery. The entire number of . glands is estimated to range from one hundred and thirty to one hundred and fifty. They are more numerous toward the upper portion of the mesentery than at the lower. The minute lymphatics within the walls of the intestine are arranged as in the stomach, viz., one layer beneath the peritoneum, the other between the muscular and mucous coats. The former are arranged along the axis of the intestine, the latter transversely. Several small lymphatic glands are seen lying in the fold of peritoneum at the lower border of the spleen. The lymphatics of the large intestine. These closely resemble those of the small intestine. The glands, however, are smaller, fewer in number, and are arranged in one or two rows. Those from the sigmoid flexure and rectum are directed to the left lumbar plexus; the remaining ones join the coeliac plexus, either directly or indirectly through the last row of mesenteric glands. The lymphatics of the spleen and the pancreas. These follow the course of the splenic veins, and join the upper cceliac glands. The lymphatics of the liver. The lymphatics are here superficial and deep. The siqjcrficial lie on the convex surface of the liver, in great part, and form a lateral and a median network on the right lobe, and, passing within the suspensory ligament of the liver, finally join the internal mammary plexus, as already described. But others, namely, those situated over the left lobe, in part, pursue a different course. These are collected upon the left lateral ligament of the liver, and enter the upper part of the coeliac group in company with the lymphatics from the spleen and the pancreas. Hyrtl mentions a third group of vessels from the posterior border of the right lobe, which join the posterior mediastinal glands. The superficial vessels of the concave surface join the deep at the transverse fissure.—The deej) lymphatics enter the transverse fissure with the portal vein. As« T. Thuniam, Med.-Cliir. Trans. 1840, xiii. 334. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 18G6, xvii. 1G3. THE LYMPHATICS already seen, they unite with the superficial, and, after joining those of the stomach, they are received into the coeliac group of glands. The glands that are seen along the interval Ijetween the liver and the coeliac region are called the he])atic glands. Remarks.—According to Murchison,' an enlarged lyinphatic gland lying in the transverse fissure of the liver is apt to press against the common bile-duct and the portal vein. Such pressure is often seen in cancerous and waxy changes in the liver.—Eetro- peritoneal lymphatic glands may assume enormous proportions, especially when cancerous or tubercu- lous. When such masses project forward, they may surround the pyloric end of the stomach, and com- press the common bile-duct. When they project to one side, they may involve the inferior vena cava and the aorta. In aneurism of the aorta, the glands may become imbedded in the walls of the vessel, and in this way form part of the surface of the morbid mass.^ The Thoracic Duct (left l^ymph-trunk) receives the lymph from the intestine (both from the villi and the coats of the bowel) and the greater portion of its appendages, from the kidney, the parietes of the ab- domen, the lower extremities, the right lung, and the right side of the heart. That portion of the dorsal surface of the liver pertaining to the right lobe is drained by the right thoracic duct. The duct is formed by the union of three vessels: a right and a left branch from the lumbar plexuses, and a central branch from the intestine. The point of confluence is situated in front of the second and third dorsal vertebrte. Tlie thoracic duct extends thence upward along the vertebral column, either behind or to the right of the aorta, enters the aortic orifice of the Diaphragm, and, lying in the space between the aorta and the az_ygos vein, keeps to the right side as far as the fourth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses obliquely to the left of the vertebral column over the azygos vein, and ascends along the median border of the as- cending portion of the vertebral artery to the base of the neck. From its deep position at the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, it curves forward, down- ward, and outward at the inner border of the Scalenus Medius, ov^r the apex of the pleura, and terminates at the angle of junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side. The duct is from fifteen to eighteen inches in length, and has an average diameter of two lines. • Diseases of tlie Liver, 340. OF THE ABDOMEN. 451 At its origin it is dilated into an irregularly triangu- lar figure termed the receptaculum chyli (reservoir of Pecquet); at its termination the duct is again slightly expanded. Its outlet into the subclavian vein is guarded by a distinct valve. Variations.—The tlioracic duct sometimes em|)ties into the jugular, tlie azygos, or the left innominate vein. As an exceedingly iut'requent occurrence, the duct may be double, or even multiple, as many as six separate terminal vessels being present, which are received into the subclavian, in- ternal jugular, vertebral, and axillary veins. From five to twelve vessels may converge to form the receptaculum} Associated with transposition of the viscera, the right and left duets may be transposed ; but they may be thus ar- ranged independently of mal-arrangeraent of other ])arts. The duct may be deflected by an exostosis, or obliterated, when a collateral trunk, running up along the right side of the vertebral column, may be established.^ In addition to the thoracic duct, and, in a measure, taking its place, lymph- vessels may be found opening into the renal veins, the inferior vena cava, the portal, and the azygos and the hemi- azygos veins. Remarks.—The thoracic duct, as it passes through the chest, may be pressed upon and obliterated by tumors, or by a hypertrophied heart. In cases of chylous dropsy, or other diseases associated with ob- struction of the lymph-return, the thoracic organs should be carefully examined. In like manner, all conditions which maintain states of distension of the laree veins of the neck and thorax should be studied in connection with the lymph-return, for the difficul- ties attending such return must be thus inevitably increased. Thrombosis of the left internal jugular vein at its junction with the subclavian vein or of the left subclavian vein will obstruct the lymph- return from the thoracic duct. A case of obstruction of the thoracic duct at the point of its junction with the subclavian vein, with subsequent perforation of the receptaci'Ium chyli and infiltration of neighbor- ing lymphatic glands, is described by W. Cayley.^ The pus of a psoas abscess may pass into a radicle of the thoracic duct, and similar invasions may ensue upon inflammatory and gangrenous states of the mesentery. In chylous dropsy, a disease character- ized by the presence of a chyle-like liquid in the peri- toneal cavity, it is assumed that sufficient pressure has been exerted against the thoracic duct, at or near its origin, or upon tiie chyle bearing vessels of the ' For anomalies of the lympliatic system, see (r. Breschet, Le Systeme Lymphatique, Paris, 1836, 238. 2 W. Kranse. Heiile's Aiiatomie.452 THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. >OO^C>oo mesentery, to force the chyle back through the lymph-spaces of the peritoneum or central tendon of the Diaphragm, and thence into the cavity of the peritoneum. Under these circumstances the superfi- cial lymphatic vessels at the umbilicus may be dis- tended. The following interesting case of probable rupture of the thoracic duct within the chest is re- ported by Quincke A man, aged fifty, was run over by a wagon, and incurred fracture of the seventh and ninth ribs on the right side. Chylous empyema followed, while the lymphatic vessels of the right side of the trunk and of the thigh were dilated. At the autopsy, the thoracic duct at the base of the neck was found obliterated by a clot, while in the chest the course of the duct was lost in the products of inflammation about the right pleural sac. In some cases of morbid growth in the testis, the lymphatic vessels passing thence to the abdomen have been found enormously enlarged.^ In a case reported by Prof. D. Hayes Agnew,^ the thoracic duct was found compressed by a cancerous growth originating in the pancreas. In rare instances the thoracic duct is found greatly enlarged and contorted without apparent cause. V. The Lymphatics of the Thoracic Cavity. The Lymphatics of the Thoracic Cavity comprise the following :—- The intercostals, which accompany the intercostal veins. They are derived from the lateral abdominal and thoracic walls, the pleura, the Diaphragm, the dorsal muscles, and the vertebral column, and are a.ssociated with the intercostal glands, which vary from sixteen to twenty in number, and lie on either side of the spine in the neighborhood of the heads of the ribs. The posterior mediastinal lymph-vessels, which arise from the posterior wall of the pericardium, the oesophagus, and the walls of the posterior medi- astinum. The glands are from eight to twelve in number. Their efferent vessels on the right side ' Deutsche Arcliiv fiir kliu. Medecin, 1875, ii. 121. 2 For case and elaborate figure of dilatation of the thoracic duct, see Gr. Breschet, loc. cit., 286, plate 3. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Phila. 1858, i. 8. empty into the thoracic duct, but on the left join the bronchial glands. Quain states that in the oesophagus the lymphatics lie in a single layer, internal to the muscular layer. The internal mammary lymphatics, so called from th eir relation to the internal mammary veins, origi- nate from the abdominal wall in the epigastric region, and receive the vessels from the upper surface of the liver in part, and from adjacent parts of the inter- costal spaces. From six to eight sternal glands lie behind the sternum. The lymphatics from the pericardium, and in part from the great vessels and, the thymus, pass into a group of glands, ten to twelve in number, lying at the base of the pericardium, and at the origin of the aorta. These, together with the internal mammary lymphatics, join the right thoracic duct on the right side; while those of the left join the left thoracic duct. The pulmonary lymphatics are superficial and deep. They unite at the root of the lung, and enter, for the most part, the bronchial glands, which are from ten to fifteen in number on each side. The largest of these occupy the interval between the right and left bronchus; the remainder are lodged chiefly in the angles of divergence of the smaller tubes. The vessels on the left side empty into the thoracic duct, and those of the right side join those of the posterior mediastinum in entering the right tho- racic duct. Remarks.—The bronchial lymphatic glands may, when engorged, compress the bronchial tubes at their origin, or the trachea immediately above. Golding Bird^ reports a case in which death was attributed to such pressure. An enlarged bronchial gland may be associated with disease in the oesophagus, as occurred in a case reported by O. Ward,^ in which the oesophagus was dilated opposite the bifurcation of the trachea, at which point a longitudinal ulcer was seen one and a half inches long, communicating with an enlarged and suppurating bronch'al gland, which filled up the in- terval between the bronchial tubes. In another case, ' London Medical Gazette, 1843, N. S. i. 218 ; also Amer. Journ. Med. Sci. 1843, vi. 209. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., ii. 208. EXPLANATION OF PLATE LXXVIIL Fig. 1. The veins and lymphatics of tlie upper extremity. Fig. 2. The veins and lymphatics of the fool and tiie leg. Fig. 3. Tlie veins and lymphatics of the upper portion of the leg, the thigh, and the external genitals.PLATE LXXVlll X Sinclair Sr. Son,LnL_4Pelvis. Coccygeal Body. IX. ^ Lancet, 1878, i. 778 ; also Clin. Leotures by Gueneau d<; Jlussy. J GENEEAL REMARKS ON THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. ooog^OOc 453 reported hy Dr. Lewis/ a stricture of the o3Sophagus was associated with engorgement of the bronchial lymphatics. The presence of enlarged bronchial glands can be diagnosed during life, according to B. Yeo/ who finds that the position occupied by them corresponds to an area of dulness situated below the level of the fourth dorsal verte/bra. The pressure of the glands may induce tracheal stenosis, and even perforation of the trachea. This lesion was detected by Sidney Copeland,^ who found, in a boy four years of age, scrofulous degeneration of these glands, followed by occlusion of the trachea just above the point of bifurcation. The aperture in the trachea permitted the entrance of the diseased gland, and measured nearly half an inch along the axis of the tube, while for more than an equal dis- tance above the calibre of the trachea was narrowed by the pressure of the gland from without. The bronchial lymphatic glands may aid the left bronchus in making injurious pressure against the oesophagus (see Trachea). THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. The Ductless Glands are special vascular structures found in the head, neck, and trunk. They include the pituitary, the thyroid, the intercarotic, the thy- mus, and the coccygeal bodies ; the adenoid structures of the alimentary canal; the spleen, and the supra- renal capsules. The place these structures should occupy in an anatomical system is subject to dispute. From the data furnished by embryology, the spleen, the solitary and agminated bodies of the small intes- tine, the toiisil, and other adenoid structures of the alimentary canal, are shown to be closely related to the lymphatic system, while the pituitary body, in part, the thyroid body, the thymus body, the inter- carotic body, and the coccygeal body are developed from the hypoblast of the embryo in association with the primitive alimentary tract, and, while presenting some features in common with the lymphatic system, form a distinct group. The suprarenal capsules, the intercarotic body, and the coccygeal bodies are abundantly supplied with branches of the sympathetic nerve, and are included by Luschka in a group of appendarjes to the 7iervous system. The suprarenal capsules are developed in intimate association with the sympathetic ganglia, and each retains a medullary substance rich in nerve-cells. The ductless glands are all very vascular, and, from the circumstance that they bear functional relations to the composition of the blood-corpuscles, both red and white, as well as in some instances (e. y. the spleen and the thyroid body) holding secondary positions as ' Med. Timt-s and Gaz. 1861, i. 332. 3 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond. 1874, xxv. 30. blood-diverticula or reservoirs, are named by some observers appendages to the blood-vessel system, or hlood-vessel glands. With the exception of the intercarotic and the coccygeal body, the ductless glands are abundantly supplied with lymphatics. Some of the ductless glands, as the spleen, the thyroid body, the thymus body, the suprarenal cap- sules, the intercarotic body, and the coccygeal body, exhibit a tendency to divide or to form supplemental mas.ses. The functions of the ductless glands are in a measure supplemented in the foetus by the liver, and in the adult by the medulla of bone. The lymphatic glands, together with the ductless glands, are most active during infancy and adolescence. The best arrangement of the ductless glands for practical purposes is that based upon the regions in which they occur. A Classification of the Ductless Glands. Head, Neck, and Thorax. r I. Pituitary Body, IL Thyroid Body. 1 IIL Intercarotic Body. IV. Thymus Body. I V. Adenoid Bodies of the Pharynx. r VI. Spleen. VII. Adenoid Bodies of the Intes- : tine. I VIII. Suprarenal Capsules.45i THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. The pituitary body will be described in counection with the base of the Cerebrum, the adenoid bodies of the pharynx with the Pharynx, and the adenoid bodies of the intestines with the Intestines. THE THYROID BODY. The Thyroid Body is a sjnnmetrical structure situated in the front of the neck, between the thy- roid cartilage and the first six tracheal rings. It presents two lateral lobes connected at their lower portions by an isthmus. Each lateral portion is about two inches long and nine lines wide, and is prolonged above into a conical point, but is thick and rounded below. The general figure, the result of the union of the two halves and the isthmus, is thus widely notched at its upper border, but nearly straight at its lower. The body is convex in front, and con- cave behind. Its general surface is smooth. The isthmus is six lines in breadth by six lines in depth, and usually lies over the second and third tracheal rings. The thyroid body is composed of a dense stroma of a dusky red color, through which are interspersed numbers of rounded spaces, each measuring one-eiglit- hundred-and-fil\ieth of an inch in diameter, lined with epithelium, and filled with a clear fluid.' It receives its blood from the superior and inferior thyroid arteries which gain its peripliery. Its nerves are branches of the sympathetic system, and accompany the arteries within the body of the gland. Tlie varieties in the shape of the thyro'd are nume- rous. Thus the extremities may be absent; or the body may be represented by one-half only. The isth- mus may be.absent, when two separate thyroid bodies will exist. A process (pyramid of Lalouette) occa- sionally extends upward from one of the isolated bodies to the hyoid bone. According to Cruveilliier, the pyramid may reach to the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, only or simply to the middle of the thyroid cartilage. In some cases it arises from the median surface of either of the lateral lobes, notably that of the left side. Sometimes a small muscle, the Levator Anguli Thyro!de:fi, occupies the place of this process. Accessory thyroid bodies are rarely found in the neck, and may be mistaken for the lymphatic glands. They are placed at the sides of and behind the oeso- phagus. When large, they may excite difficulty in ' For bibliography of the thyroid body, see A. C. Cole, Studies in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 25, p. 18.3., breathing and swallowing, and may even be a cause of death.' Henle describes the following ligaments in connec- tion with the thyroid gland: (1) Slips of fibrous tissue extending to it from the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. (2) Slips connecting the gland with the trachea; these are to be seen opposite the second tracheal ring. (3) A median ligament extending from the anterior surface of the thyroid and cricoid carti- lages to the posterior surface of the gland. For account of bloodvessel supply, see p. 366. Development.—The thyroid body arises from the hypoblast, first as a diverticulum of the alimentary canal; it afterward exists separately. Remarks.—The vesicles of the thyroid body be- come enormously enlarged in bronchocele. In ad- vanced age, the thyroid body may become the seat of calcification. For extirpation of the thyroid body, see p. 378. For compression of internal jugular vein by the thyroid body, see p. 428. Hyrtl mentions a case in which the gland had been destroyed by suppuration. Suicides have in- flicted fatal wounds by opening the vessels which supply it. THE IXTERCAROTIC BODY. The Intercarolic body lies behind the common carotid artery, where this vessel divides into the external and internal carotid branches. Variable in size and form, it is commonly oval, and measures about two lines in length by one line in width. At times two rounded masses occupy its place, and less commonly four or five. It is of a yellowish-red color, and yields a parenchyma composed of rounded nerve- cells, fat, and connective tissue. Notwithstanding its small size, the intercarotic body is supplied by several distinct, relatively large vessels arising from the com- mon carotid artery, and it is abundantly supplied by branches of the sympathetic nerve.^ THE THYMUS BODY. The Thymus Body or gland is peculiar to the fcetus and the period of childhood and adolescence. It is best developed about the second year. It gradu- ally disappears after this time, and at puberty has dwindled away to a mere trace. It will be here de- ' Madelung, Archiv fiir klinische Chirurg., xxiv. 71. 2 The intercarotic body was discovered by C. S. Anderscli in 1797; for an extended account, witli figure and literature, see Luschka, Hals, 423.in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 27, p. 200. ' St. Thomas's Hosp. Rep. 1875, 23. scribed as it appears in the infant gland is of an elongated pyriform figure, its base being directed downward, and presents a minutely lobulated structure, more or less concealed by an envelope of connective tissue. It lies in the anterior mediastinum, extending thence into the lower part of the neck, and, when well developed, may reach the lower border of the thyroid body. Within the thorax it rests upon the upper portion of the peri- cardium, the ascending portion of the aorta, the left innominate vein, and the trachea. It is slightly con- vex anteriorly, but flat or concave posteriorly. It is two inches in length by oue-aud a-half inch in width, two to three lines in thickness, and weighs about half an ounce. It is inclined to be symmetrical, although the right side is commonly the larger. The two parts present rounded borders toward each other, but thin borders laterally. A connecting lobe may occasion- ally be seen between them. Henle describes associ- ated thymic lobules situated Bear the main mass at the sides, or lodged upon the nutritive artery. The thymus bears a superficial resemblance to a salivary gland. It presents, like it, a loosely lobulated struc- ture, although its color is more of a pinkish tinge, and its structure is much less compact. The thymus body is composed of a number of small, compressed lobes (primary lobules of Quain) which are arranged around a central stem or space, extending spirally through the length of the gland. The connective-tissue element is abundant about the lobes, holding them together. Each lobule is made up of from seven to eight rounded masses (secondary lobules of Quain), each of which in turn receives a lateral diverticulum from the main hollow stem. These lobules are cellular, and permit the entrance of capillary bloodvessels. According to Henle, the milk-like fluid which exudes from the thj^mus after section is held within these lobule.-^, which gradually become converted into cyst-like bodies, having thick- ened walls. Authorities differ as to the relations of the lobules to the central stem. The presence of a central spiral hollow stem with lateral diverticula is, however, commonly conceded.' The arteries of the tlij^mus gland are derived from the internal mammary and the inferior thyroid. The veins empty into the mammary, into the left innomi- nate veins, and at times into the inferior thyroid veins. The vessels for the most part do not lie upon the surface, but are received within the axis of the THE SPLEEN. 455 ^O-C-^OCo The thymus gland. The nerves are derived from the pneumogas- tric and sympathetic nerves. Development.—The thymus body develops from the hypoblast about the region of the visceral arches of the embryo. Remarks.—The thymus body, while often classi- fied as an appendage of the bloodvessel system, is more closely related to the lymphatic system than is any other of the ductless glands. Gulliver has deter- mined that the corpuscles of the parenchyma of the thymus are identical with those found in the chyle. G. Rainey' believes that the thymus is a true lym- phatic gland. The lymphatic vessels passing from it are numerous, and either join the lymphatics of the pericardium and the thoracic lymphatic glands, or empty into the jugular veins at the base of the neck. The morbid conditions of the thymus body cannot be studied separately from those of the lymphatic sys- tem, and engorgement of the thoracic lymphatic glands is to be expected when the thymus is primarily affected. Disease of the body is, however, rare. Tu- mors of the thymus exhibit a tendency to invade the thoracic space from before backward, and may even distort the thoracic walls. Out of forty-two cases col- lected by E. Riegel, thirty-three were examples of cancer and sarcoma, four were fibrous in character, and five were dermoid. The diagnosis of tumor of the thymus necessitates the exclusion of aneurism of the aorta, and of engorgement of the thoracic lym- phatic glands, THE SPLEEN. The Spleen is that ductless gland found in the abdomen in the left hypochondriac region. Its form may be compared to that of a grain of colfee, one side being convex, the other nearly flat, and divided by a longitudinal depression, called the hilum, into two nearly equal surfaces. The hilum is perforated by a number of openings, ranging from ten to fifteen, and is designed for the transit of the splenic vessels and nerves. The spleen is inclosed by an elastic capsule, and is everywhere covered with peritoneum except at the hilum. The spleen is the most inconstant in form of the abdominal viscera. Its average length may be stated to be five inches, its width three inches, and its thick- ness one-and-a-half inch. In the same individual it varies in size, which is dependent upon conditions of the systemic circulation. Its weight is about eight ' For bibliography of the thymus body, see A. C. Cole, Stiidies456 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS determinate size, termed the cellules of Malpighi, 2 Lond. Med. Gaz. 1846, 3d ser. iii. 1053. ounces. Its color is externally a dull red, and inter- nally a deep reddish-brown. As seen after death, the organ has a macerated look, its surface being marked by numerous wrinkles. The spleen presents for examination three surfaces and four borders. The dorsal surface is convex, and lies directly be- neath the left half of the arch of the Diaphragm, to which it is united by a fold of peritoneum. The ventral or gastric surface is concave, and adapted to the posterior aspect of the convexity of the cardiac end of the stomach. The inferior or renal surface^ especiall}' that part posterior to the hilum, is in contact with the upper portion of the left kidney, the suprarenal capsule, and the left crus of the Dia- phragm. The anterior larder is thin and notched; the notches are often pronounced, and, as a rule, multi- ple. The posterior larder is obtuse, smooth, and with- out notches, save at its upper portion, where a deep fissare may extend from the border to the hilum. The upper lorder of the spleen is in contact with the Diaphragm in the adult, and with the under sur- face of the left lobe of the liver in the foetus, and sometimes in the 3'oung infant. The loiver lorder is held within a fold of peritoneum, derived from the great omental sac, and lies upon the transverse meso- colon. In addition to the above, a small fold of peritoneum unites the organ to the left extremity of the pancreas. The spleen is accommodated more or less accurately to the hollow of the Diaphragm, between the ninth and the eleventh dorsal vertebra;, and to the curves of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs. Beyond it laterally, lie the slips of the costal origins of the Dia- phragm, the pleural cavity with the lower portion of the left lung, and the wall of the thorax. The position of the spleen is modified by the move- ments of the stomach. Thus, when the latter organ is contracted, the longest diameter of the spleen is vertical; but, when it is distended, the longest diameter of the spleen is nearly horizontal. In inspiration it is depressed about an inch, and in ex- piration it is raised the same distance. Minute Stkucture.—The elastic covering of the spleen sends down numerous processes, termed the trabeculse, which penetrate through every portion of the organ, and are continuous with the sheaths of the bloodvessels. The intervals between the intricate interlacings of the splenic bloodvessels and their as- sociated terminal trabeculse form openings of an in- which are tilled by the splenic pulp. Passing within the pulp are minute branches of the splenic arteries, which bear berry-like or bead-like appendages termed the Malpighian corpuscles. These corpuscles present an average diameter of from three to four millimetres. They are of an opaque gray color, and of a semifluid consistence. Their walls are ordinarily derived from the sheath of the artery to which they are attached. They are more distinct in early life than in the adult. The pulp is soft, and of a dark, cherry-red color, passing to a mahogany brown, and constitutes the bulk of the organ. In the normal state, the pulp breaks when the spleen is firmly grasped, but in many morbid conditions it liquefies, so that the same manipulation will cause it to flow out like water from a sponge. It contains both colored and colorless elements, which, according to Sappey, may be classed as follows: free nuclei, cells with large granular nuclei,. bodies resembling- white blood-corpuscles, corpuscles from which the pulp derives its color, and blood-corpuscles in a stale of decomposition.^ The arteries of the spleen are large and numerous compared with the size of the organ. Each artery follows the trabeculge, as already described. A note- Avorthy feature, and one indicating the composite character of the organ, is that the capillaries of the several terminal branches of the splenic artery do not anastomose. Variations Supernumerary spleens (spleniculi), in the form of rounded cherry-like masses, have been not infre- quently found inclosed in the peritoneum below the main organ, either free from it or attached by delicate peduncles. As many as twenty-three spleniculi have been met with in the same subject. Tliey may in some instances be found in the mesocolon or the great omentum. In the last-named position they may be mistaken for enlarged lympliatic glands. W. H. Bainbridge^ found a super- numeraiy spleen within the omentum winch was lodged in the pelvis, where it had exerted pressure upon the upper portion of the rectum, and di-agged down the great omentum. It is tenable to assume that tiie spleen is composed of numbers of united spleniculi. Tlie notches on its borders may be viewed as imperfect attempts at their resolution, and the limitation of the capillary network of each division of the splenic artery as a practical isolation of the different segments of tlie spleen from one another. In multiple spleens it would appear that each division of the splenic artery had been simply more completely separated from its fellows than is usual. ' For bibliography of the spleen see A. C. Cole, Studies in Microscopical Science, 1882, i. No. 35, p. 238.Jouni. Med. Sci. 1842, ii. s. iv. 369. Literature. 2 (iny's Hosp. Rep. 1838, iii. 425. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. '>00^<>00 457 Remarks.—Clinical points in connection with the spleen relate to the area of dulness as compared to other areas with which it may be confounded, to ab- scess, to wounds, and to rapture. The area of splenic dulness is confined to a space defined above by the ninth or the tenth rib, and below by the eleventh or the twelfth. A line drawn from the free end, of the eleventh rib to the nipple or to the borders of the axilla, would divide this area in its greatest length. The dulness is continuous behind with that of the left kidney. The spleen is subject to hypertrophy, a condition which, when due to malarial disease, has received the name of " ague-cake." Ague-cake may extend into the pelvis. When found in association with a gravid uterus, it may be violently compressed and give rise to marked local distress and even peritonitis. Not only does the dulness extend as far as the epigastric and right iliac regions, but the notched border may be felt beneath the integument at the umbilicus, and, if the patient be a female, the spleen may be deter- mined ^je/- vayinam lying in front of the uterus.' Sappey refers to a case in which the spleen extended to the groin, where it had the appearance of a hernia. The spleen, when malplaced or liypertrophied, may be confounded witli tlie left lobe of the liver. The lobulated anterior border serves to distinguish the splenic tumor. The left hepatic lobe is not apt to be enlarged unless the right is also. The enlarge- ment of the left lobe may thus be indirectly de- termined.—It may be necessary carefully to dis- criminate between the area of splenic dulness and that of scirrhous thickening of the stomach, of dis- eased omentum, of feculent accumulation in the cas- cum, of diseased kidney, and of ovarian tumor or hydatids. Abscess of the spleen may open in one of five differ- ent directions, viz., into the peritoneal cavity, which is the most frequent; into the left pleural cavity; into the large intestine ; externally through the skin ; or through the kidney. Bright- records an example of rupture into the transverse colon. The lesion occurred in a female of twenty-five years. The spleen was found enlarged and firmly adherent to the transverse colon, and had formed adhesions likewise to the Diaphragm. Tlie abscess had involved one- half of the spleen, and had ulcerated into the trans- verse colon at the place of adhesion. 1 Spencer Wells, Med. Times and Gaz. 1866, i. 2. 58 Wovnds of the spleen are not liable to occur except from without, when, as a rule, both the Diaphragm and the lower part of the left pleural cavity are perforated. Li rupture of the spleen the parenchyma may suffer without laceration of the elastic coat; in fatal cases, an appreciable interval—in a case reported by Mr. Partridge,' five daj's—has elapsed between the time of the initial lesion and the rupture of the elastic capsule. Spontaneous rupture can occur only in advanced hypertrophy accompanied with softening of the parenchyma. Dr. J. B. Potter^ records a case in which half a gallon of blood and pultaceous pulp escaped into the cavity of the peritoneum. THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. The Suprarenal Capsule (adrenal) is a flattened triangular body situated, as the name implies, above the kidney, and held to it by connective tissue at the inner and anterior portion of the superior border. It is not, however, supported by the kidney, but is held in position by its own bloodvessels and nerves; thus in displacement of the kidney the suiifarenal capsule remains undisturbed. Its lower border is broad and concave for the reception of the convex border of the kidney. Its u[)per portion is narrow and convex or straight. Both anterior and posterior surfaces are broad and nearlv flat, the latter being slightly convex, and ordinarily exhibiting a groove for one of the capsular veins. Both organs rest upon the crura of the Diaphragm. The anterior surface of tlie left suprarenal capsule lies behind the spleen and fundus of the stomach, and occasionally retains also a relation with the tail of the pancreas. The anterior surface of the right capsule is in contact with the liver, and lies beliind the first portion of tUe duodenum. The superior border of the capsule of the right side is near the inferior cava, while that of the left is near the semi- lunar ganglion. The anterior surface is distinguished bv a groove named the hilum, extending from within outward, and presenting rounded borders. It trans- mits the capsular vein. The capsule measui'es one-and-a-fourth to one-and- three-fourths of an inch in length, one-and-a quartei- inch in width, and from two to three lines in thick- ness. Its weight is from one to two drachms. These measurements and weights are subject to si ght varia- ' Med. Times and Gaz. 1866, i. 350. 2 Western Lancet, 1845, iii. 412 ; see, also, Dr. J. Neill, Anier.458 THE DUCTLESS GLANDS. 1 tion in different individuals and upon opposite sides of the body. Minute Structure.—The organ is surrounded bj a tliin fibrous capsule from the inner surface of which delicate trabeculas extend into the parenchyma. This is divided into two portions, an outer or cortical, and an inner or medullary. The outer or cortical portion presents on section a yellowish-brown color, and is of firm consistence. Upon microscopic section it is seen to be composed of fasciculated groups of cells arranged in a columnar manner from without inward. At either end of this arrangement of cells are groups of others smaller and rounded. The cells contain yellowish pigment-matter and oil-globules. The inner or medullary portion is of a blackish or liver-brown color, and of soft consistence. A¥hen examined in a perfectly fresh condition, it is seen to be solid, but it soon undergoes decomposition in the centre, as a result of which a cavity forms which has been described by some writers as normally existing. The medullary portion differs from the cortical in the fact that it presents rounded cells only, and in the fact that these cells contain blackish pigment-matter, though no oil-globules. These cells are loosely im- bedded in a delicate connective-tissue stroma. The suprarenal capsule is very vascular. The arteries are derived from branches of the inferior phrenic and renal arteries, and often, in addition, di- rectly from the aorta. The veins are numerous and disproportionately large. They are collected in a single trunk which escapes from the hilum. The right vein joins the inferior vena cava, the left the corresponding renal vein. A capillary network is established in the cortical portion. The nerves, which are present in greater number than in any other of the ductless glands, are derived from the solar and renal plexuses of the sympathetic system, though distinct accessions have been seen passing from the pneumogastric nerve. These, to- gether with the vessels, serve to keep the organ in position. The connective tissue of the medulla is believed by some writers to be in continuity with the nerves, and it is claimed that nerve-cells are seen intermingled with the cells of the medulla. The capsule is, in relation to the kidney, larger in the foetus. Variations in form are frequent. Rarely the capsule is rounded or elliptical instead of triangular. It has been known, when enlarged by disease, to compress the thoracic duct. Accessory bodies of a small size and rounded form are occasionally seen. The suprarenal capsule probably has more essential rela- tions with the nervous than with the bloodvessel vsystem. In Addison's disease, morbid changes are in some cases recognized in these bodies. These changes, however, are by no means constant. THE COCCYGEAL BODY. The Coccygeal Body is a gland-like structure ap- pended to branches of the median sacral and lateral sacral arteries, and lodged in an interspace between the fibres of the Levator Ani and the Sphincter Ani muscles, directly in front of the tip of the coccyx. It is of the size of a split pea, of a grayish-red color, and firmly held down by connective tissue, which, besides enveloping it, penetrates the body in all directions to form a network of coarse fibres. The parenchyma is lodged in these meshes of connec- tive tissue, and is composed of epithelial cells ar- ranged in little clumps, in the centre of each of which lies a minute arteriole. The vessels of the body are relatively large and numerous, and effect many anastomoses. The nerves are also remarkable for their number and size, and are derived from the sympathetic. The coccygeal body is thus seen to be closely allied with the intercarotic body. Luschka, who discovered it, calls it a " nerve-gland," and believes that this gland forms with the intercarotic body and the suprarenal capsule, a natural group of structures. Remarks.—J. Y. Simpson' detected morbid con- ditions in and about the coccygeal body which he included under the clinical term coccygodynia. The condition is supposed to represent the results of inju- ries received at the region of the coccygeal body and of the nerve and osseous structures in its neighbor- hood (see p. 119). R. IleschP found the coccygeal body to be the seat of a variety of cystic degeneration in congenital malformation of the pelvis and its contents. 1 Clinical Lectures, 202. 2 (Est. Zeit. fur prakt. Heilkuiide, 1860.DUNGLISON, ROBLEY, M. D. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA. MEDICAL LEXICON; A DICTIONARY OF MEDICAL SCIENCE. Containing a concise explanation of the various subjects and terms of Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, Hygiene, Therapeutics, Piiarmacology, Pharmacy, Surgery, Obstetrics, Medical Jurisprudence and Dentistry; Notices of Climate and of Mineral Waters; Formulte for Officinal, Empirical and Dietetic Preparations; with the accentuation and etymology of the terms, and the French and other synonymes, so as to constitute a French as well as an English Medical Lexicon. A new edition. Thoroughly revised and very greatly modified aud augmented. By Richard J. Dunolison, M. D. In one very large and handsome royal octavo volume of 1139 pages. Cloth, 116.50; leather, raised bands, $7.50; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, ^8. STILLE, ALFRED, M. D., LL. D., and MAISCH, JOHN M., Phar. D. THE NATIONAL DISPENSATORY, CONTAINING TFIE NATURAL HISTORY, CHEMISTRY, PHAR- MACY, ACTIONS AND USES OF MEDICINES, including those recognized in the Pharmacopoeias of the United States, Great Britain and Germany, with numerous references to the French Codex. Second edition, thoroughly revised, with numerous additions. In one very handsome octavo volume of 1692 pages, with 239 illustrations. Extra cloth, ^6.75; leather, raised bands, ^7.50; very handsome half Russia, raised bands and open back, $8.25. FLINT, AUSTIN, M. D. A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF MEDICINE. Designed for the use of Students and Practitioners. Fifth edition, thoroughly revised and much improved. In one large and closely- printed octavo volume of ii53pages. Cloth,$5.50; leather, ;^6.50; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, ^7. THOMAS, T. GAILLARD, M. D. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF WOMEN. Fifth edition, thoroughly revised and rewritten. In one large and handsome octavo volume of 810 pages, with 266 illustrations. Cloth, $5 ; leather, $6; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, $6.50. PLAYFAIR, W. S., M. D., F. R. C. P. A TREATISE ON THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF MIDWIFERY. Third American edition, specially revised by the Author. Edited with additions by Robert P. Harris, M. D. In one handsome octavo volume of 655 pages, with 183 illustrations. Cloth, $4; leather, $5; half Russia, raised bands, $5.50. SMITH, J. LEWIS, M. D. A COMPLETE PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE DISEASES OF CHILDREN. Fifth edition, thor- oughly revised and rewritten. In one handsome octavo volume of 836 pages, with illustrations. Cloth, ;^4.5o; leather, $5.50; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, ^6. CORNIL, v., and RANVIER, L. A MANUAL OF PATHOLOGICAL HISTOLOGY. Translated with Notes and Additions, by E. O. Shakespeare, M. D., Pathologist and Ophthalmic Surgeon to the Philadelphia Hospital, and J. Henry C. SiMES, M. D., Demonstrator of Pathological Histology in the University of Pennsylvania. In one very hand- some octavo volume of 800 pages, with 360 illustrations.- Cloth, $5.50; leather, §6.50; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, $7. DALTON, JOHN C, M.D. A TREATISE ON HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY. Designed for the use of Students and Practitioners of Medi- cine. Seventh edition, thoroughly revised and rewritten. In one very beautiful octavo volume of 722 pages, with 252 elaborate illustrations. Cloth, $5; leather, $6; very handsome half Russia, raised bands, $6.50. GRAY, HENRY, F. R. S. ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. The Drawings by H. Y. Carter, M. D., and Dr. West- macott. The Dissections jointly by the Author and Dr. Carter. With an Introduction on General Anatomy and Development by T. Holmes, M. A., Surgeon to St. George's Hospital. A new American from the eighth enlarged and improved London edition. To which is added Landmarks, Medical and Surgical. By Luther Holden, F. R. C. S. In one magnificent imperial octavo volume of 993 pages, with 523 large and elaborate engravings on wood. Cloth, $6; leather, $j] half Russia, raised bands, ^7.50.FOR SALE BY SUBSCRIPTION ONLY. REYNOLDS' SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Revised Edition. Now Ready. A SYSTEM OF MEDICINE. Edited by J. Russell Reynolds, M. D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine in University College, London. With notes and additions by Henry Hartshorne, M. D., late Professor of Hygiene in the University of Pennsylvania. In three large and handsome royal octavo volumes, containing 3056 double-columned pages, with ■317 illustrations. Per volume, cloth, ^5; leather, $6; half Russia, ^6.50. Per set, cloth, ^15; leather, ^18; half Russia, $19.50. The labors of the American editor, Dr. Hartshorne, have been very conscientiously performed, and his judicious notes distributed throughout, afford abundant evidence of the thoroughness of the revision at his luinds. In conclusion, we take pleasure in commending this work to our readers, feeling coulident that it will not only become standard, hut from its containing just that information which the busy practitioner frequently finds himself in need of, from its completeness, its fulness of det.ail, and its excellence, it will bo justly ap- preciated by the entire profession on this continent.—Soiilheni Pracliliuiier, April, 1880. For conciseness and coniiireheusiveness in the treatment of all tlic subjects embraced under the head of "Practice of IMcdicine," there is no work in the English language, or in any other language, for that matter, which equals, much less e.xcels, Keynolds' System. Each volume contains a complete inde.K, a feature wliicli those wlio may have eneyclopicdio works of medicine not containing this index can fully appreciate.—ilichigan Medical Kews, June 10, 1880. AVe regard this the finest work on the practice of medicine in tlie English language. In fact, we do not think it has its superior in any language in tlie world. Combining, as it does, a complete history of dis: ases, a thorough account of their patliolo^,'y, a full description of therapeutics, and a minute detail of tieatnient, etc., it cuibodies all tlu>t a pracliliouer can wish.—Cincinnati Medical Times, August 1880. HOLMES' SYSTEM OF SURGERY. Americanized. Just Ready. A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL. In Treatises by Various Authors. Edited by Timothy Holmes, M. A., Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery at St. George's Hospital, London. American edition, thoroughly revised and much enlarged, by John H. Packard, M. D., Surgeon to the Episcopal and St. Joseph's Hospitals, Philadelphia, assisted by a corps of thirty-three of the most eminent surgeons of America. In three large and very handsome royal octavo volumes containing 3137 double-columned pages, with 979 illustrations on wood, and 13 lithographic plates, beautifully colored. Per volume, cloth, $6; leather, $']; half Russia, raised bands, $7.50. Per set, cloth, $18; leather, $21; half Russia, raised bands, $22.50. Representing originally the most advanced school of British surgery, it has been supple- ; sufficient guarantee that the work has not only been brought fully up to date, but also that mented, through tlie labors of its editor, by what is latest and best in the surgery of America. It may therefore lie regarded as embodying whatever is of established value in this depart- ment of our art. No surgeon wlio proposes to keep abreast with his rivals can afford to be without it.—American Practitioner, April, 1882. It is a subject for congratulation that the idea of an American edition, incorporating all recently acquired knowledge and experience, should have been conceived and its execution entrusted to such able hands as Packard's. The names of coadjutors afford a it has been accomplished in this large, thorough and scientific spirit, wliich characterizes the contributions to the original edition.—Gmarfa Journal of Medical Science, Nov. 1881. The elegant American revi.sion of this justly celebrated work, will give to the Anu'rican practitioners, a corresponding collaboration of surgical lore, to tliat tliey already have in possessing the volumes of Reynolds' System of Jledicinc, and with the two works, the fortunate possessor has a most complete library on Practical Medicine and Surgery.— Brailhwaite's Retrospect and Quarterly Epitome of Pract. Med. and Surg., Sept. 1881. PERIODICALS. SUBSCRIPTION RATES, POSTAGE PAID. The Medical News (pulilished every Saturday) in advance SS-OO The American Journai, w the Medical .Sciences (quarterly) in advance ............... ^5.00 COMMUTATION RATES. The Medical News The Aiwerican Journal ok the Medical Sciences in advance, $n.oo THE AMERICAN JOURNAL OF THE MEDICAL SCIENCES. I. MINIS HAYS, A. M., M. D., EDITOR. For sixty-two years the American Journal has maintained its position in the front rank of medical literature, and to-day it stands alone as the only periodical in the English language capable of presenting extended and elaborate articles on every branch of medical science, the very class of contributions, in fact, in which nearly all the important discoveries in the science have been communicated to the profession. During the year the Journal will present, in its original department, a continuation of elaborate articles from the pens of the most eminent members of the profession throughout the country. The review department will contain extended reviews of prominent new works, by competent writers, together with numerous analytical and bibliographical notices, giving a full survey of medical literature. The quarterly su.MMARY of. improvements and discoveries in the medical sciences, classified and arranged under various heads, will furnish a digest of medical progress at home and abroad. With the issue for January, 1882, the size of the Journal was permanently increased by the addition of 16 to 20 pages. It is still furiiished, free of postage, for FIVE DOLLAR.S per annum, in advance. THE MEDICAL NEWS. A NATIONAL WEEKLY MEDICAL PERIODICAL, PUBLISHED EVERY SATURDAY, EACH NUMBER CONTAINING 28 DOUBLE-COLUMNED QUARTO PAGES, EXCLUSIVE OF ADVERTISEMENTS. The Medical News aims to satisfy the demand of the profession for the most rapid possible conveyance of intelligence, in short, to be a professional news^ paper. To this end it comprises the following departments: ist. Clinical Lectures, by the ablest teachers of the day. 2nd. Oricinal articles, of a brief and practical nature. 3rd. Hospital Notes, gleaned from the leading hospitals on both continents. 4th. The Progress of Medical Science, being extracts from the medical and scientific journals in all quarters of the globe, showing the advances made in medicine. 5th. The EDITORIAL Department, conducted by a large and able Editorial Staff. 6th. Proceedings of the meetings of prominent medical societies. 7th. News items and correspondence from the pens of medical men in the leading cities of the United States, Canada, Great Britain, the Continent of Europe, Asia, South America and Cuba. 8th. Notices of new publications, new instruments, and new pharmaceutical preparations, and a column of Notes and Queries. A feature characteristic of the News will be a liberal use of the telegraph. The News is printed by the finest Hoe presses, on handsome paper, from beautiful type cast expressly for its use. The price, FIVE DOLLARS a year, in advance, places it within the means of every physician to subscribe to a medical newspaper, which represents the most enlightened thought, and ])ossc.s.scs the most progressive spirit of the age. The American Journal and the Medical News together contain an amount of the choicest medical literature equal to 4000 large octavo pages, in which duplication of matter is prevented by .special arrangement. They will be furnished for NINE DOLLARS per annum, in advance, an offer unparalleled in the history of medical journalism. HENRY C. LEA'S SON & CO., PHILADELPHIA.